894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., January 8, 1947 - July 9, 1948 (File 1645), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.00-1645-1   Pages: 532   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-28/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20January%208%2C%201947%20-%20July%209%2C%201948%201645-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.90)
L WED STATES PC
CAL
FOR JAPAN
DIVISJON OF FR
121
Tokyo, January 8, 1947.
 JAN 20 PM 12 24
R8-1947
CONFIDEITMAIL ROOM
No. 803
E
20
SUBJECT: Transmitting Report "The Anti-Government Movement".
工E
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to transmit
soa
2ESP
copies of a report on "The Anti-Goverrulent Movement" prepared by
Lt. Colonel P. K. Roest, Chief of the Political Affairs Division,
1C/G
Governument Section of General Headqu rters, Supreme Commander for
1FC
the Allied Fowers.
894.00/1-847
3.06e
xK740.00119 (.1( aa)
PR    A
50
3
18
ECNED
Enclesure:
1.opy
Report, as stated.
0
947 JAN
Original and hectograh to Department.
CS/A
800
GAAbbey: vr
MAR 3-1947
FILED
DOF NF UP
n

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
Englosure No. 1
to Tokyo's 803
January 8, 1947
SUPRELE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLLED POWERS
Government Section
Political Affairs Division
18 December 1946
MEMORANDU: TO THE CHIEF, GOVERNLENT SECTION
SUBJECT: THE ANTI-GOVERN EIT MOVELENT
1. The Opposition's Resolution of 17 December
The Social Democratic Party of Japan owes a real debt to the
Co-operative Democrats for originating the resolution asking for dis-
solution of the Diet. Without this aid the Socialists would probably
have been forced by pressure fro.. their ovm left wing (backed by a
powerful organization of workin people of all types) to introduce a
motion of non-confidence. Such a direct assault on the government
would lave alienated not only the govermment parties but also the
niddle-of-the-road parties in the Diet, and, last but not least, those
present Cabinut me..bers with whom they hope to be able to cooperate in
the future. For the Socialists are not  uite ready to take over the
full responsibility of government, and vould be satisfied with a
coalition Cabinet of which they would form the economic core. This
would give them only part of the responsibility, and would afford ex-
cellent in-service-trainin for the assumytion of the full load later on.
In asl:ing for dissolution, creover, they achieved three im-
portant political gains:
a. They solidified their po.ular support.
b. They greatly increased t eir chances for future
unity of action among all non-govern. ent  arties ("Yato Renmei") in
the Diet.
c. They put a ressure on the Yoshida government which
the latter cannot igmore, yet so di lomatically presented that its
strong men were not alienated to the point of akin- future collaboration
impossible.
2. Cabinet change possible.
Althou_h the Opposition's motion wis roundly defeated (236
to 160), the government cannot inore the censure implied in this mass-
supported Diet action. Therefore its o onents confidently expect it
to respond not only with a better economic  rogram, but with complete
internal reorganization. A Kyodo-Minshu-to leader lists the following
now names for jport nt Cubinet posts:
Home Ministry
UEHARA Etsujiro (Liberal)
Agriculture
HIRANC, Rikizo (Socialist) or
SAITO Takao (Progressive)
Education
SASAMORI JunZyO (People's Party)
Justice
KATAYAMA Tetsu (Socialist)
Finance
WIKAWA Tadao (Co-operative Democrat) or
SUZUKI Mosaburo (Socialist)
Welfare
NISHIO Suehiro (Socialist)
Stabilisation Board:
MIZUTANI Chozaburo (Socialist) or
MIKI Takeo (Co-operative Democrat)

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's 803
January 8, 1947
-2-
The Commerce-and-Industry and the Transportation Ministries
would probably also be demanded by the Socialists. They would not, how-
ever, insist on the Premiership, but would accept either Yoshida or
Shidehara for that post, preferably the latter.
This dream-list includes 5-7 Socialists, 1 or 2 Co-operative
Democrats and 1 People's Party representative. The remainder would be
Liberals and Progressives, but the non-party members of the present
Cabinet (llome, Education, Justice and Agriculture) would have been re-
placed by party men. This is the National Coalition Cabinet envisaged
by some to be necessary (and. robable) before the Socialists are to
take full control.
3. Developments in Diet parties' line-up.
There are indications that the shaller centrist parties in
the House of Re, resentatives may coalesce in the near future. The Co-
operative Democrats ure now quietly negotiating vith the People's Party
for a merger. The purging of the former's nominal leader, YAMAMOTo
Sanehiko, is looked upon as cood riddance by several members, and will
bring the actual leaders (e.g. IKAVA, ATSUMOTO, IKI) to the front.
These are anxious to unite all middle-of-the-roaders into one party big
enough to hold the balance of power in the Diet. The People's Party
seems receptive to the idea. Its leader, SASA CRI Junzyo, has a campaign
manager who is Chairman of the Aomori branch of the Co-operative Demo-
cratic Party (r. OSAilAI). About 16 or 17 People's Party Diet members
are said to favor a erger under any name, but the other half of the
party dislikes the "mural" implications of the word "Kyodo" (Co-operative)
which
the Co-operative Democrats insist on retaining. A compromise
which cages the flavor of that word is sought in a name such as "kokumin-
Kyodo-tai" (People's Co-operative Body). Suggesting "co-operating masses"
rather than "Far aer's Co-operative Societies," this name is expected to
have the broader appeal needed to lure not only the remaining reluctant
Kokunin-to members, but the undecided among the voters, the progressive
malcontents in the Liberal and Progressive Parties, and even a few right-
wing Socialists who resent their left-wing colleagues more than they care
for party unity.
The Comunists are significantly excluded from this smaller
parties get-together. The Independent Club is to be wooed later. If
the initial merger succeeds, eacih of the two parties may lose a few un-
willing members, but the reiw group would count between 70 and 8C Diet
members--a bloc not to be ignored by any ajor party. The question is:
Can those engineering these transactions rovide leadership capable
enough to hold together such a mass of political odds-and-ends as these
parties represent? The answer of the prime mover of the negotietions,
Mr. WIKAWA, is that already those who were added to the originally small
Kyodo-to nucleus have become enthusiastic believers in the co-operative
ideas and methods. He believes that his .arty's .rinciples are right,
and that true acquaintance with them will convince the fair-minded and
set them to work for 'those principles.
P. K. ROEST
Chief, Political Affairs Division
Noted: CLX

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DIVISICY OF FR
Tokyo, Jahuary 27, 1947.
27 FEB 6
SECRET
13-6
No. 836
Wait nand
S3
2/11:47
SUBJECT:
Control of Social Democratic Party of Japan.
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to refer to
the Intelligence Summary of January 20, 1947, issued by the Military
Intelligence Section of General Headquarters, Far East Command (a
copy of which was forwarded to the Department), and with reference
894.00/1-2747
to the recent negotiations between Premier Yoshida to achieve an
agreement with the Social Democratic Party concerning a three-party
coalition Cabinet, to quote from page four of the Summary, as follows:
"During the negotiations, doubts about the eligibility
of Nishio (Suehiro) and Hirano (Rikizo) to hold office
under the present scrutiny of qualifications developed, and
this further weakened the Government's position. If these
two leaders lose their seets in the Diet, the Right Wing of
the Social-Democratic Party will be seriously impaired and
the Left Wing elements may be able to take over control of
the party. Party policy is expected to veer to the Left.
"These developments have caused a revival of the dis-
cussion regarding the merger of the Liberal and Progressive
Parties. Left Wing Social-Democrats believe, however, that
the prestige of the Yoshids Government has been so weakened
by the failure of this maneuver that the Cabinet will have
to resign. They predict the dissolution of the Diet end a
7C
new general election."
yon
C
S
A
251947
Original end hectograph to Department.
800
WJSebaid:1h
FACI

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
FE: Mr. Penfield
DATE:January 31, 1947
TO
JA: Mr. Borton; Mr. Allison; Mr. Emmerson
FROM : JA: R. Fearey
suBJECT: Current Japanese Political Situation
FEB 1- 1947
With political developments in Japan apparently approach-
ing a head, it may be useful to recapitulate the essential
elements of the situation. Very little interpretive political
material comes in from SCAP, except occasional Government
Section reports weeks after the event.
Fundamental to ell the agitation, likely in a day or so
to lead to the Cabinet's reorganization or resignation or to
a Diet dissolution, is the country's economic plight. Pro-
duction and employment are not increasing, and with the
workers' war accumulated savings exhausted, funds are lacking
to buy even the limited volume of necessities available. A
returned SCAP official states that the sverage working family's
wages fall short by a third or e helf of minimum necessary
6
expenditures, end that workers ere subsisting by borrowing
and selling personal belongings.
A strike by 2 million government workers and private
utility employees has been plenned for February.1, the date
of the Diet's scheduled opening. The Covernment's January 24
offer of a 43 percent everage pay raise, and increase of
the monthly individual expenditure limit from 500 to 700 yen,
were refused as insdequate. There can bo no doubt, however,
that the refusal was dictated in part by labor's conviction
力
that material improvement of Japen's basic economic situation,
7
of which wage problems are but one feature, could not be ex-
pected of the present government, nd that its only real hope
lay in political remedies. The recent FE0 Labor Policy state-
ment providing that Japanese unions should be allowed to
"eupport political parties" has been seized upon as authority
for labor to use almost any method in its power to bring the
Government down. In the face of informal but express SCAP
advice that a government workers' strike would not be tolerated
labor leaders have taken the unprecedented course of sppealing
to members of the Allied Council "over SCAP's head". There is
still e strong possibility that the strike will be called off,
perhaps after one day's token stoppage, because of SCAP oppo-
sition. Last yeer at the time of the seamen's strike SCAP
informed the Japenese Government thet "strikes, walkouts, and
other work stoppages which are inimical to the objectives
of the occupation ere prohibited", but it is not known how
the recent

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
the recent FEC policy statement and SCAP's inoreased re-
luctance to issue speeifie orders to the Japanese will lead
him to act in this case.
pblee
Labor's political hopes are fairly well concentrated
on the Social Democratic Party. This perty, which came out
third in the April 1946 elections, hes always been confident
that the inability of Liberel-Progressive governments to
reverse worsening economic conditions, due to unwillingness
to adopt sufficiently drestic measures and lack of working
class confidence and support, would inevitsbly bring them
to power in time. They have accordingly refused to enter
any government whose economic policies they did not control,
not wishing to associete themselves with a program only half
their own, which if it failed would damage their reputation,
and if it succeeded might merely serve to pull their rivals
chestnuts out of the fire.
Events have in lerge degree confirmed the Socialists
in thie policy. The Shidehara and Yoehida Governments have
patently feiled to act effectively in the face of the
nation's worsening economic situstion, and it is doubtful
whether the Liberals and Progressives, though probably still,
between them, contr lling a comfortable majority of the
nationel vote, could cerry out even the best considered plan
in the absence of Socialist support. While refusing, thus
far, to resign en bloc or to dissolve the Diet and hold a
new election, the Yoshida Government, accordingly, has en-
deavored throughout January to form a coalition cabinet in
which Socialists would hold the three or four principal
economic posts.
Reports conflict as to why these efforts have not yet
succeeded. The Socialis ts on January 20 reportedly turned
down an offer of one State Ministership end the Commerce and
Industry, Labor and Construction vortfolios, demanding in
addition Agriculture and Forestry and the Directorship of
the Economic Stabilization Board. The most hotly contested
post, however, appears to have been the Finance Ministry,
with the Liberels refusing to replace Ishibashi and the
Socialists adament thet he must be replaced if their program
is not to be entirely thwerted. One correspondent, in attempt-
ing to account for the continuing stalemate, hes the very
practical explenetion that the recently extended purge program,
reportedly elimineting leeding Socialists Hirano and Matsuoka,
has left the Socialists without sufficient men of ministerial
caliber to fill the posts offered them! Another possible
explanation

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
explanation may have been the inability of the Socialist
right and left wings to agree on tactics or ministerial
candidates. The prinoipal stumbling block, however, appears
to be the Finance Ministry, because of the great importanee
which Yoshida's backers attach to a continuation of Ishibashi'
conservative policies in this field.
If this obstacle can be overcome, possibilities of a
coalition Liberal-Progressive-(Right Wing)Socialist-
government unpreceded by an en bloc cabinet resignation are
fairly good. Socialist head Katayama reportedly stated on
January 23 that he had personally decided to enter a coalition
government, but that he had no intention of including left-
wing Socialists, whose popularity, he stated, "has waned
recently" due to growing public opposition to disruptive labor
disputes. There has been nothing to indicate, however, that
the Socialists have or will alter their established policy
not to participete in any government whose economic policies
they ao not control, so that if a coalition government 1s
formed, plans for the eradication of black markets, producer-
consumer cooperation, nationalization of basic industries and
financial institutions, and other announced Socialist programs
are likely soon to be put forward.
JA:RAFearey:mls

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
JNCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEB17
2373
BARTENT 
LONDON
DATED February 5, 1947
UHRESTRICTED
RECD Feb. 13, 10:02 a.m.
2.
ACTION:EUR
EUROPEAN
INFO:
DC/R
Secpetary of State
OFFICF
FE
FEB 1 4 1947
DC/L
Weshiraton
OCD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CIG
A-244, February 5, 1047
ESP
TRC
Following questions ond anawers in regard to develop-
FC
ments in Japan took ulaco in House of Commons on February 3.
OFS
1947:
/2-547
1. Local Government
Mr. Rees-Williame (Labor H.P. for Croydon, South)
asked tho Soorotary of St: se for Foreign Afreirs whsther he
will wake a statemsnt with reforenoe to the elimination of
undesireble persons from looal govoremont bodies now pro-
coeding in Japan, and when it is sntlcipatod that this
na
prooess will be coneluded.
Mr. Mayhew (Purliamontery Uragr-Secretary of State
for Foreign Affairs): "accordlng to the United States Chair-
man of the Alliod Counoil for Japan, the process of oliminat-
1ng undesirable parsons fron Japuneso local coverrment
bodies is sxpected to bo completed towards the middle of
April next."
2. iunicipel Eloctions
Mr. Recs-villiams asked the Secretary of State for
Foreign Affaire whethor, in vlew of the many postporements
by the Japunese Goverrment of the dato of the munioipal
Glectione in Japan, ho will instruct our rapresentative on
the Allied Counoil to press for the flxing of a dofinite
unalterablo date for these eléctions.
E
B
2
Mr. Mayhew: "A Japanese Government ordinance, dataa
muat possese a certificate showing that they have been

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
A-244
Feb. 5, 1947
From London
screened and do not fall under the provisions of the purgo
directives. The screening of candidates must, therefore,
bo completad before the-olections can take place, but it 1s
intonded that those shwuld be held as soon as possible
aftor the middle of April."
Ir. Roes-Willlams: "In viow of the ropeated post-
ponoments by the Japanese Governmont, will the Minister
instruot our ropresentativs to hasten this elimination
process?"
Lr. Mayhew: "ve aro anxious for it to bo carried
through as soon as possible, but thore are 60,00o people
involvod, and it muet take somo. timo."
Mr. Rees-Williams: "Are the 60,000 all election
candidates?"
lir. Mayhew: I could not eay for certain. I
bulieve so."
3. Ownoreh in cnd Control of Broadoasting
Mr. Reos-Williams asked tha Secrotary of State for
Forein Affairs whether, in viow of tho desirability of State
ovnership and control of broadeasting stations and services
in Jepan, he will instruct our reprosontetive on tho Allied
Counoll to press for such ownership and control in opposition
to ths proposal to ostoblish privately-owned and controlled
systems.
Ir. Mayhew: "Tho Commonwealth represantative on the
Allied Council was instructod in Decomber, 1946, to pross for
tho continued state monopoly of ths Japanese Broadcasting
Corperation. He hss, in fact, done so in subsequent Allied
Council moutings."
Mr. Roos-Williamo: "Can tho inister say whether his
represontations have had eny success?"
Mr. Mayhow: "It is still unier considoration by the
Allied Council, and our roprusontative still takes the same
view."
GALLMAN
UNRESTRICTED
EFDrumright/ejg
Copy to Political Adviser,
SCAP, Tokyo.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
DC/R ROUTING SLIP
FROM
519
NO
ACTION:
COPIES TC
5
D
11F1
I FE/R
 FEC ERD
3War
1 Nary

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.87)
FE
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONDANDREBORBS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
FAR EASTEN AFFANS
UNCLASS FIFEB 251947
DISTRI
DIRECTOR
A RA Dapateast ef u
FEB 2 4 1947
3830
2
川
DEPARTMENT OF
ACTICH:EUR
OsCO
STATE
INFO:
FC/R
Febrary 7,
A…B
101
STATE
SA/M
RCD:
DS/L
CHCLASS HDLD
Pabror3 21, 1947
ITe
3:25 pom.
OCD
CIG
Secrctar oi state
FC
a811 ton
OIO
PA
A-157, r, 7
89
Konsonol Fravda
euar" a curries article "raprese
4.00
sions of Japan"
suedarized by Jolnt Prese leudin Service
as follows:
Deseribing meetincs that toolk place in Iokye on day
12
Constltution was proclaimed, riter tells of visit to
meetlny of factory mion end to Fomsomol vat erin
1
another factory.
in
74
Japanese Lonsomol,  e sa s, is lea ue o new pro res-
7
sive and demoeratic voutr of countr , still very youn', as
it was only in wutmm of leeo shat cormmiste, or anizers
of workers" cane out of pplson waver "peeparabory con-
ittee" meete in Dece bor lb ore was ete flpss Son-
stitlent sesslon follootns decruar in 'okggo. pst
number of sousomol newspaper " anuer or fousr" a poorod at
same bine. Tu  uy and sosbembor toca con tonl so sbtce
prov tovsly cleebed drew ue ore rav e low pass aeoperenda
and educabional vork anmoa youry reople.
Si.ce thee ranks
of Kon somol heve steadily  Pown aed bl ey have been able to
collaborate with ouher denooreste crmsnlsu bions, yonth
branehes of brade mlohs ud poasat leaguos, Coumeil of
stmoeratle foub rous sosu of oc lal et vapty ste
Phere are now ll boo Nossomol  embsrs in cagamob many
but oryanlzts to same se  ve art ln pusl le a d pelitical
Life and to fi o for smetr ri kbs
Aubhor doser os so  or your leadern ou somsomo
and quotes enbraets frow orsenol paper sc. shew sone of
orgaeization's acbivitien
os m plo da nokke ido
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY. This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.89)
UNÇLASSIFIED
-2- A-157, February 7, from Nopeov
werkers had beon dismissed from factory, but toolk e
of production. Young mentbers of fascist "Loaguo of
of How Japan" and "Youth Party of Japan" then burst Into
lant with dc's but wore driven out by Komsomol mombor
defeodin wor ors' intorests. Another exa ple was their
vork in listrlct of Tokyo where twice a weel thoy held
lecturss and talkts on questions of Japanese history, drama.
cine a and current policy, pach lecture being attonded by
100-160 pe0p1c.
Two phetoreprs whtch accompany article show worker
in Osnka factory, and hve youn Japanese school girls.
3. 12m
ALirtlc:1yH
ce: Tokyo

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
SAVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
JNCOMING TELEGRAM
FEB 151947
PLAIW
1-x
Action: PE
Inro:
FEBR1947
'd February 14, 1947
U
U-E
3:35 p.m.
A-B
FROM:
HOSCOU
A-
SA/M
So retary :f Stere
EUR
OCD
NO:
407, Fourteenth
DCL
894.00/2-1447
ITP
TRW) Februery 13 carrie: article by. A. Sibiryakov on
ESP
"situation in Japan" acclaiming movement for retirement
OFD
or Yoshida Cabinet is spreading not only in trade
FC
unions, but also among intelligentsia and peasants.
OIC
Article laims Government's unwillingness to demooratize
PA
country caused O~t ber strikes, that in Docember comittee
EUR/X
was rormed including representatives of all great trede
DC/R
unions to demand Government's overthrow, and bas sinoe
CIG
organized mass meetings, that a general trike was
announced for Feb:ua y  unless Government rotired.
Quoting Asahi criti ism of Bocialist Party, article
assailn right Socialists for forming coalition with
conser ative partiey while lefr Sonialists insist on
cooperation with Cammunists At Socialist Party session
in September, right gained cantrol of party and opposed
general strike. By willinguess to form coalition govern-
ment, right Socialists approved reactionary line of
Yoshida Government which, according to Minpo editorial,
poped to place responsibility for economic crisis on
Socialista.
Toshide would not agree to inclusion of Socialists in
Cabinet, and had subceeded in making Government more
reaationary. MecArthur's order forbidding general strike
was used by Japanese reantion to prevent any future strike
und had resulted in campaign of terror aguinst trade union
Leaders, and in protest of Kanagawa workers to MaaArthur.
Artiole
FED 26 1947
PLAIN
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
2-#407, Fourteenth, from Moseow
Article concludea nev cabinet vili
reconstruction of country.
Departwent repeat to Tokyo.
SMITH
Repeated   o 6  ., 14/47  0-
DES:RJM
PLAIN

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNIGAITONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
( o1
o4
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB.211947
Depariment of State
PLAIN
N
Control 6280
Action:
F8
Info
Rec'd February 20, 1947
i
11:23 a.m.
U
C E
C
A H
SA/M
"ar or tats
SP
OCD
CIG
ITP
ESP
P  VRNAA SA PRAZIN "On intornal
894.00/2-2047
OFD
oulcieel  tuatjo Jerun cieirs policies proposed by
OIC
Yoa idr cou ot "vith surpore s ocoupatlon authorities"
EUR/X
hov aroasd dtgouto Lap mesos
DC/R
Lne Depceratio Agcariso reform  as nct hetped solve
food probl  sudoucers aed pemt Foulal relations are
stiil rotas led mea: srr res aod com nstrations jrdicate
popular diceontsat purseucrasic mechine la hindering
growth dekccratic rorees as van soe, in prohibition
gonerel eurike "real lowceratle cee ustruction Japan
ts only possle  besis formrper of popular democratic
governmert
Crisis in eovoram.s slioes Yoslice had no intention
res gaing r uhaoging pol c ca crisls ceiled out of
oppooltion from Jup NcJo. Jap Corigress of Labor demanded
formation now cabinet composed representatives from all
opposition perties inc iading Commeniats.
Right Wing Socialists have been force demand inclusion
representatives otner parties.
Yoshids limited
F
ri
ci
HH
22
8
1947
APLAIN
ERMANENT RECORD COPY:ATO
COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.91)
PLAIN
-2- #474, Twontieth, from Mosoow
Yoohida limited himself to changes within Cabinet and
to leaving vacanr two minlsterial posts apparently
rockoning on subsequent agrooment with Socialists or
other parties. Ivents in country show policy of Us
autnorities rogqliros alteration to conform with Potsdam
decisions.
Dopartmens repea. t, Toxye.
Note:
Repeatca lo Toky 2 3o p. m.
2-20-17 [000-NPI)
RB :MS
PLAIN

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
COMMITTEE FOR
V
A CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY IN JAPAN
Constituted by
THOBURN T. BRUMBAUGH
Room 1124
Executive Director
156 Fifth Avenue
THE FEDERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES
New York 10, N. Y.
OF CHRIST IN AMERICA
CHelsea 2-3230
THE FOREIGN MISSIONS CONFERENCE
OF NORTH AMERICA
A IATE
March 4, 1947
o AR
Mr. Hugn Borton, Chief
Division of Japanese Affairs
Department of State
Wasnington, D. C.
894.00/3-447
Dear Mr. Borton:
Under separate cover I am sending several
copies of a report on my recent trip to Japan and "Con-
aitions and Recommenaations' as I ave stated them for those
interested in tne Cnristian university in Japan.
Please
see tnat Mr. Scnuler receives one of these. Mr. Lory already
has one I am sure.
Again let me express ap reciation of your
cooperation in making possitle the trip to Japan.
Very sincerely yours
CS/A
Executive Director
TTB:me
181

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.92)
rapìy refer to
MAD 71947
My dear Dr. Brumbaugh:
In the absense of Mr. Borten who is em a brief
trip to Japan, I have reseived your letter of Mareh 4,
1947 stating you are sending several sopies ef a re-
pert en your resent trip to Japan and "Conditions and
Resommendations". I shall be glad to see that Mr.Sekuler
reseives one set of these doeuments. Thank you for
894.00/3-447
making them svailmble to us.
Sincerely yours,
John M. Allison
Aoting Chier
Divielon of Northemet Asian Affairs
006
CS/A
ElT
894.00
Thoburn T. Brumbaugh, D.D.,
Executive Director, Committee for a
Chrietian Umivereity im Japan.
158 Fifth Avenue,
New York 10, New Yank
ex
NA:JMAllison:mle
3-6-47

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
00 754
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
American Embassy
0.
London, March 6, 1947
AIR MAIL
UNRESTRICTED
No. 4145
Sub ject:
Transmitting Clipping Embodying Times!
Comment cn Jupan.
11-
A
E
The Honorable
1
The Secretary of State,
Washington
894.00/7
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose for the Department's
information a clipping from the March 4th, 1947, issue
of The Times on the subject of Japan.
The essence of the article is a call for the early
treaty is concludsd with Japan, The Times reasons,
pease
Fritain should be ir a better position to exercise her
influence in resha in- the future of Japan.
Respectfully yours,
Por the Chargé d'Afruires ad interim:
FE
Enned. ArnghL
B
012
EverettF. Drumright
0eD
First Secretary of Embassy
FR
Enclosure:
vclipping from
The Times
1 with orng
MIS
March 4,
1947
0N/
(Original, hoctograph und four copios
MAR
to the Department)
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAr, Tokyo
3
6
EFDrumright/wg
MAR

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
eTand.
PAPER:
THE TIMES
NUNBER
CITY:
LONDON
DATE:
4 - MAR 1947
Changing Japan
The speech of Dr. Evatt in the House
of Representatives last week. demon-
strated the increasing readiness of Aus-
tralia to assist Britain by shouldering the
responsibilities which the situation in the
Far East imposes upon the British Com-
monwealth. The extent and nature of
these responsibilities depend in no small
measure upon the future course of events
in Japan, and Australia has as great an
interest as any member of the Common-
wealth in the success of the democratic
experiments now being conducted in that
country under American auspices. Many
people in Britain as well as in Australia
will agree with DR. EvATr in holding that
the time has come to conclude a peace
settlement with Japan. While the civilized
world stands under a heavy obligation to
the United States for the great work of
moral and material reconstruction which
3-647
she has accomplished for the Japanese
people since the armistice, there is much
to be said against the indefinite perpetua-
tion of the present system. There is
some evidence that the Japanese are now
desirous of closer contact with the out-
side world, and particularly with Britain.
The British people, remembering the pre-
dominant part they played in the historic
process of Japan's emergence from isola-
tion, cannot disinterest themselves in the
efforts which the Japanese are making to
adapt the national outlook to the dictates
of international security and to operate a
constitution which closely follows many
of the characteristic features of the British
Cabinet system.
It is interesting to notice that GENERAL
MACARTRUR has recently condemned the
delay in concluding the final peace treaty
an the grounds that Japan's present status
eicourages excessive dependence upon
tie United States and hinders the progress
d democracy. There is ample evidence to
sow that the Japanese people are now
geatly interested in the working of the
emocratic machine they have been
ncouraged to construct. But whether the
doption of democratic forms will lead to
ie acceptance of democratic ideals is still
ncertain. The Japanese are imbued with
traditional reverence for authority; they
Issess little sense of individual civic
:sponsibility as the West understands it;
and they have always been content tc
allow their governmental machine to be
controlled by those whose business it has
been to do so-namely, the official class.
Unless they become aware that the affairs
of the Government are the business of the
citizen, the mere substitution of popular
election for official nomination as a means
to public office will accomplish little.
GENERAL MaCARTHUR hinted at this
danger when he recently exhorted the
members of the Diet to become genuine
legislators, eager to exercise the powers
entrusted to them. If the new institutions
are to strike firm roots, what is now merely
a concession to prevalent political fashion
must acquire the sanction of settled habit.
While a premature termination of the
allied occupation would gravely prejudice
the prospects of democratic thought and
practice in Japan, the early settlement of
peace terms would encourage a sense of
responsibility in the Japanese peonic. and
would stimulate a healthy

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No /. to despatch
PAPER:
THE TIMOES
CITY:
LONDON
DATE
Changing Japan
The speech of Dr. Evarr in the House
of Representatives last week. demon-
strated the increasing readiness of Aus-
tralia to assist Britain by shouldering the
responsibilities which the situation in the
Far East imposes upon the British Com-
monwealth. The extent and nature of
these responsibilities depend in no smal!
measure upon the future course of events
in Japan, and Australia has as great an
interest is any member of the Common-
wealth in the success of the democratic
experiments now being conducted in that
country under American auspices. Many
people in Britain as well as in Australia
will agree with DR. EvaTT in holding that
the time has come to conclude a peace
settlement with Japan. While the civilized
world stands under a heavy obligation to
the United States for the great work of
3-647
moral and material reconstruction which
she has accomplished for the Japanese
people since the armistice, there is much
to be said against the indefinite perpetua-
tion of the present system. There is
some evidence that the Japanese are now
desirous of closer contact with the out-
side world, and particularly with Britain.
The British people, remembering the pre-
dominant part they played in the historic
process of Japan's emergence from isola-
tion, cannot disinterest themselves in the
efforts v/hich the Japanese are making to
adapt the national outlook to the dictates
of international security and to operate a
constitution which closely follows many
of the characteristic features of the British
Cabinet system.
It is interesting to notice that GENERAL
MAcARTHUR has recently condemned the
delay in concluding the final peace treaty
n the grounds that Japan's present status
eicourages excessive dependence upon
tie United States and hinders the progress
d democracy. There is ample evidence to
sow that the Japanese people are now
reatly interested in the working of the
emocratic machine they have been
ncouraged to construct. But whether the
doption of democratic forms will lead to
ie acceptance of democratic ideals is still
ncertain. The Japanese are imbued with
traditional reverence for authority; they
ossess little sense of individual civic
sponsibility as the West understands it;
and they have always been content tc
allow their governmental machine to be
controlled by those whose business it has
been to do so-namely, the official class.
Unless they become aware that the affairs
of the Government are the business of the
citizen, the mere substitution of popular
election for official nomination as a means
to public office will accomplish little.
GENERAL MACARTHUR hinted at this
danger when he recently exhorted the
members of the Diet to become genuine
legislators, eager to exercise the powers
entrusted to them. If the new institutions
are to strike firm roots, what is now merely
a concession to prevalent political fashion
must acquire the sanction of settled habit.
While a premature termination of the
allied occupation would gravely prejudice
the prospects of democratic thought and
practice in Japan, the early settleinent of
peace terms would encourage a sense of
responsibility in the Japanese people, and
comradeship with other demeratio
nations. This sentiment cannoto
so long as the contacts/between pan
and the outside world are subjected to the

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
7 N
NA
Action: FE-
PLAIN
Info:
A
s/3
Control 3387
U-E
A-B
SA/M
Reo'd March 12, 1947
EUR
3:15 a.m.
SPA
OCD
FRON:
Moscow
CIG
DC/L
TC
Secretary of 3tate
FC
1947
OIC
NO
751, Eleventh
PA
DC/R
Press:
PRAVDA March l0 carries urticle "Internal Political
3
Situation in Japen" by M. Merkov, disputing MacArthur's
claim in letter to. Yoshise that time for general election
.00/3-1147
in Japan had come, since enormous changes had ocourred in
euanomic countenance of cuntry
batau are stated to have kept dominant influence.
Condition of tenant farmers has changed little. Politicel
structure of Jepan 1s not destined to serve principles of
democracy. Two-chamber systen.is retained. Liberties
of people are not guarenteed. Strikes are not permitted.
Yoshida Government with cupport of American euthorities
shovs no intention of yiclding to popular demands for
new government.
Department pass to Tokyo.
SMITH
Note: Repeated to Tokye by Dept 7:00 a.m., 3/12/47, CWO-NPL
WMB: PPM
MAR 1 7 1947
FIL

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.93)
001626
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, March 25, 1947.
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 934
SUBJECT: The Anti-Goyernment Movement; Memorandum
Prepared by Chief, Political Affairs Division,
Government Section, GHQ, SCAP
The United States Political Adviser has the
honor to enclose a copy of a memorandum dated
December 18, 1946, which has recently come to
the attention of this Mission, prepared by the
894.00/3-2547
Chief of the Political Affairs Division, Govern-
ment Section of General Headquarters, Supreme
E
Commander for the Allied Powers, regarding the
activities of the various opposition political
parties against the Government of Premier Yoshida.
OCD
SPA
N.4.√s.
DC/R
Enclosure:
Memorandum
as stated above
Original and hectograph to the Department
800
DCBerger:wdh
FILMD
C
L
00
A
3
S.
41
C
9
E
127 A
yu

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
3
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Seotion
Political Affairs Division
18 December 1946
MEMORANDUM TO THE CHIEF, GOVERNMENT SECTION
SUBJECT: THE ANTI-GOVERNMENT MOVEMENT
1. The Opposition's Resolution of 17 December
The Social Democratic Party of Japan owes a real
debt to the Co-operative Democrats for originating the
resolution asking for dissolution of the Diet. Without
this aid the Socialists would probably have been forced
by pressure from their own left wing (backed by a powerful
organization of working people of all types) to introduce
a motion of non-confidence. Such a direct assault on the
government would have alienated not only the government
parties but also the middle-of-the-road parties in the
Diet, and, last but not least, those present Cabinet mem-
bers with whom they hope to be able to cooperate in the
future. For the Socialists are not quite ready to take
over the full responsibility of government, and would be
satisfied with a coalition Cabinet of which they would
form the economie core. This would give them only part
of the responsibility, and would afford excellent in-
service-training for the assumption of the full load later
on.
In asking for dissolution, moreover, they
achieved three important political gains:
a. They solidified their popular support.
b. They greatly increased their chances for
future unity of action among all non-government parties
("Yato Renmei") in the Diet.
c. They put a pressure on the Yoshida govern-
ment which the latter cannot ignore, yet so diplomatically
presented that its strong men were not alienated to the
point of making future collaboration impossible.
2. Cabinet change possible.
Although the Opposition's motion was roundly de-
feated (236 to 160), the government cannot ignore the censure
implied in this mass-supported Diet action. Therefore its
opponents confidently expect it to respond not only with a
better economic program, but with complete internal reorgani-
zation. A Kyodo-Minshu-to leader lists the following new
names for important Cabinet posts:

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
Home Ministry
USHARA Etsujiro (Liberal)
HIRANO Rikizo (Socialist) or
Agriculture
SAITO Takao (Progressive)
Education
SASAMORI Junzyo (People's Party)
Justice
KATAYAMA Tetsu (Socialist)
Finance
WIKAWA Tadao (Co-Operative Democrat) or
SUZUKI Mesaburo (Socialist)
Welfare
MISHIO Suehiro (Socialist)
Stabilization Board:
MIZUTANI Chezaburo (Socialist) or
MIKI Takeo (Co-operative Demoorat)
The Commerce-and-Industry and the Transportation
Ministries would probably also be demanded by the Socialists.
They would not, however, insist on the Premiership, but
would accept either Yoshida or Shidehara for that post, pre-
ferably the latter.
This dream-list includes 5-7 Socialists, 1 or 2
Co-operative Democrats and 1 People's Party representative.
The remainder would be Liberals and Progressives, but the
non-party members of the present Cabinet (Home, Education,
Justice and Agriculture) would have been replaced by party
men. This is the National Coalition Cabinet envisaged by
some to be necessary (and probable) before the Socialists
are to take full control.
3. Developments in Diet parties' line-up
There are indications that the smaller centriat
parties in the House of Representatives may coalesce in the
near future. The Co-Operative Democrats are now quietly
negotiating with the People's Party for a merger. The
purging of the former's nominal leader, YAMAMOTO Sanehiko,
is looked upon as good riddance by several members, and will
bring the actual leaders (e.g. WIKAWA, MATSUMOTO, MIKI) to
the front. These are anxious to unite all middle-of-the
roaders into one party big enough to hold the balance of
power in the Diet. The People's Party seems receptive to
the idea. Its leader, SASAMORI Junzyo, has a campaign
manager who is Chairman of the Aomori branch of the Co-
operative Democratic Party (Mr. OSANAI). About 16 or 17
People's Party Diet members are said to favor a merger
under any name, but the other half of the party dislikes
the"rural" implications of the word "Kyodo" (Co-operative)
which the Co-operative Democrats insist on retaining. A
compromise which changes the flavor of that word is sought
in a name such as "Kokumin-Kyodo-tai" (People's Co-operative
Body). Suggesting "co-operating masses" rather than "Farmer's
Co-operative Societies," this name is expected to have the
broader appeal needed to lure not only the remaining reluc-
tant Kokumin-to members, but the undecided among the voters,
the progressive mal-contents in the Liberal and Progressive
Parties, and even a few right-wing Socialists who resent
-2-

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
their left-wing colledgues more than they care for party
unity.
The Communists are significantly ercluded from
this smaller parties get-together. The Independent Club
is to be wooed later. If the initial merger succeeds, each
of the two parties may lose a few unwilling members, but the
new group would count between 70 and 80 Diet members--a bloo
not to be ignored by any major party. The question is: Can
those engineering these transactions provide leadership
capable enough to hold together such a mass of political
odds-and-end as these parties represent? The answer of the
prime mover of the negotiations, Mr. WIKAwA, is that already
those who were added to the originally small Kyodo-to
nucleus have become enthusiastic believers in the co-opera-
tive ideas and methods. He believes that his party's
principles are right, and that true acquaintance with them
will convince the fair-minded and set them to work for those
principles.
P. K. ROEST
Chief, Political Affairs Division
Noted: CLK
-3-

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 22, 1947
To : bA
JKP
tov
From: JKE
Subject: Interview with NOZAKA Sanzo
The attached memorandum of an inter-
view in Tokyo with NOZAKA, leading Japanese
Comnunist, is worth reading in full.
hatever you may say about Nozaka,
he has remained consistent. He is saying
now to officials of the Government Section
almost exactly the same things he said to
me in Yenan in 1944. In all his conversations
with me, both in China (almost daily for a
period of two months) and in Japan (numerous
occasions in Decerber, 1945 and January, 1946),
he preached the same doctrine for Japan:
"democracy", socialisr, con munism, in conse-
cutive stages.
 doubt that the other leaders of
the Japanese Cormunist Party see eye to eye
with Nozaka. Certainly they are far behind
him in intelligence and perspicacity. A
higl. official in the Government Section
recently in Washington said to me that he
considered Nosaka head and shoulders above
other Jananese noliticians and, except for
wan for the orfice of Prine  inister of
Jepan.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
JKE
150.
Apr11 18.:
Despatod enoloses.
memoranda of two Govern-
ment Section interviews.
the one with INUKAI Ken
and the other with NOZAKA
Sanzo. I recommend glanc-
1ng at least at the marked
passages in the first
(Inuka1) memo, which 1s
somewhat outdated but pro-
vides useful insight into
Inukai's character should
he escape the purge and
achieve new political pro-
minence. The second con-
tains to my mind a highly
interesting and informa-
tive exposition by Nozaka
of current Communist
thinking and plans and I
would recommend at least
nasty reading or the whole.
Q ver, cnleroscic
RAF: pm r.
gma

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
DC
001631
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DIVISION OF
Tokyo, March 25, 1947.
NONTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
UNCLASSIFIED
APR1
No. 936
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
Organization and Plans of the Progressive
and Communist Parties; Memoranda Prepared
by Chief, Political Affairs Division,
Government Section, GHQ, SCAP
The United States Political Adviser has the
honor to refer to this Mission's despatches Nos.
934 and 935 of March 25, 1947, regarding activities
of the various political parties in opposition to
894.00/3-2547
the Government of Premier Yoshida, and to enclose
memoranda dated February 27, 1947 and March 10,
2
1947, regarding interviews between Lt. Col. P. K.
FE
Roest, Chief, Political Affairs Division, Govern-
ment Section of General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, and Ken INUKAI
CCD
of the Progressive Party, and Sanzo NOZAKA, Japan
SPD
Communist Party leader, respectively, regarding
PA
the organization and plans or the Progressive and
Communist Parties.
Dcl
A.14.13.
2 Enclosures:
Copies of Memoranda
as stated above.
Original and hectograph to the Department
800
DCBerger:wdh
CS
C
A
3
FILED
5
1947

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Section
Political Affairs Division
27 February 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR THE CHIEF, GOVERNMENT SECTION
SUBJECT: INTERVIEW WITH INUKAI Ken (Progressive Party)
PRESENT AT INTERVIEW:
INUKAI Ken
Lt. Col. Roest
Capt. Diamantes
Mr. McLean
Miss Kuwaye
The following subjects were discussed with INUKAI Ken:
Party Developments and Personalities
2.
Election Plans
3。
Party Finances
4.
Party Membership
Mr. INUKAI was invited to the Government Section for an
interview at 1100 on 27 February 1947. He spoke very freely
and apparently vithout reservation and revealed current deve-
lopments about the Progressive Party, and about the Liberal
Party besides.
Changes
Concernins the plans to form a new party vith progressive
elements from the Liberal Party joiring the Progressive; INUFAI
said thet he had overestimated the  trength of ASHIDA Hitothi
in the Liberal Party, and the influence of the younger members
vho rebel against the yoke of boss-rule. INUkAI said that
ASHIDA does not have ε strong enough personality to assume
bold leadership, but that his efforts in the interest of the
Progressive Party were appreciated nevertheless.
INUKAI revealed th t he has been adviser to both the young
Progressives' SHINSHINKAI and the CHUROKAI (Middle-aged Society).
The leaders of both groups were listed by him as follows:
SHINSHINKAI; KOZAKA, KAWASAKI and TSUBOKAWA:
CHUROKAI:
CHIZAKI, NAGAO &nd HORI.
INUKAI's being an adviser to both these groups explains
why Baron SHIDEHARA had little difficulty in controlling the
SHINSHINKAI movement, and to replace it with a Progressive-
Liberal merger proposal. When the Liberal Party declined the
merger offer, INUKAI switched to a "change of name" for the
Progressive Partyl This proposal is still under considera-
tion. Baron SHIDEHARA is not in favor of the suggested name
"Democratic Party" since he considers it "tco vulgar."

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
INUKAI states that Baron SHIDEHARA does not always share
the same views with YOSHIDA although he is personally attached
to him. ONo's policies are not relished by theProgressives, and
they feel that the Premier is too much influenced by oNo. The
Progressives were not satisfied with YOSHIDA's cabinet chenges,
and openly showed their dissatisfaction. INUkAI stated that
he personally does not agres with many of the present govern-
ment's policies. "I like ISHIBASHI personally, he is so frank
and simple, yet I do not agree with his policies," he remarked.
"YOSHIDA and KATAYAMA have a great personal regard for each
other, yet they too differ in their major views."
At present ASHIDA and his friends, YANO and KOZINA, are
continuing to build up their movement within the Liberal Party.
There is now but a very small minority wishing to join the
Progressives. INUKAI thought they numbered about fifteen
members. Baron SHIDEHARA expects a union between the Liberal
and Progressive Parties after the election. SHIDEHARA is not
in favor of any drastic changes, recalling public criticism in
the past to radical changes, even when they were definite
improvements.
In regard to the Co-operative Democratic Party and People's
Party merger, INUKAI revealed that MIKI Takeo (a chief of the
former party) still feels that a union with the Progressive
Party would be preferable to a merger of the two small parties
alone. INUKAI stated that MIKI "appreciates" the Progressive
Party's policies.
Election Plans
The Progressive Party will have about 300 candidates for
the Diet, but as all of these will have to be carefully screened
only 250 may actually run. Approximately 26 present Diet mem-
bers will be lost because of the expanded purge. INUKAI gave
the following en swers to questions put forth by It. Col. Roest:
Q. - How will purged candidates be replaced?
A. - We already have successors for these men who
will carry on with their policies.
Q. - Do you mean that each of the affected Members
has recommended someone to run in his place, and the Party
has confirmed these nominees as its candidates?
A. - Yes, exactly.
Q. - And are these new men free to follow a different
policy or are they obligated to continue the policies of their
appointers?
A. -Oh yes, they are bound to maintain the policies
of their predecessors!
- 2 -

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Party Finance
Regarding Party funds, INUKAI revealed that the Party had
not raised money for the election yet, whereas the Liberel Party
had already received huge sums from "new contractors." The now
contractors receive guarantees for big contracts and contribute
both to individual Liberal candidates and to the Party treasury.
INUKAI emphatically denied that the Progressive Party received
such cnntributions. "We are keeping ourselves pure from these
practices," he stated. Mr. Gordon Walker, newspaper correspondent,
had told It. Col. Marcum that INUKAI had been offered Y2O,O00,000
by CHIZAKI Saburo, a wealthy Hokkaido contractor. INUKAI was
asked if this were true. CHIZAKI, he said, had made an offer
to give the Party a large sum of money but INUkAI had definitely
refused, and had demanded that these offers be stopped. He
said that the Party needs Y10,000,000 for election expenses,
and is able to obtain Y7,000,000 from his own backers and Baron
SHIDEHARA's alone, leaving Y3,O0O,O00 yet to be obtained from
Diet members. The candidates would receive Y30,Oo0 each for
campaign expenses and will not be required to contribute to
the Party coffers.
Membership
Rank and file membership of the Progressive Party is
relatively small, but formal and definite, requiring two
sponsors and being certified by a membership diploma. Since
the Party has not yet organized local branches in all prefec-
tures, INUkAI will campaign for the Progressive Party and will
visit Hiroshima, Yamaguchi, Kagawa, Tokushima and Miyazaki
where he expects local branches will be established. As to
platform he pointed out that in May 1946 his ideas were not
popular with the other Party leaders, but that by December 1946
his views were accepted officially. Correspondence indicated
that in this election the Party will gain from SHINYUKAI leader-
ship, but the Party will not change the platform announced in
May 1946.
Evaluation
The Progressive Party is not likely to change in form or
substance in spite of all the merger and New Party talk. It is
still the vehicle for Mr. INUKAI's ambition and Baron SHIDEHARA's
Toryim. By deftly playing both ends against the middle, INUKAI,
"adviser" of both the rebels and the "bosses," sees to it that
the Party remains intact, and will make a bid for an even stronger
Diet position then it hasnow. Chief means for doing so is to
be a Y3o,000 contribution to each Party candidate's campaign--
sixty times what it was in the 1946 election! Whether all this
money will be as "pure" as INUkAI says he desires it to be re-
mains an open question. One thing is sure: selection of candi-
dates is done by the "bosses". The Progressive Party may play
a part in the democratization of Japan, but there is nothing
democratic about its management.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
'GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Section
Political Affairs Division
10 March 1947
MEMORANDUM TO THE CHIEF, GOVERNMENT SECTION
SUBJECT: INTERVIEW WITH SanZO NOZAKA
On 5 March 1947 at 1400, the Political Affairs Division
staff interviewed Mr. NOZAkA Sanzo in regard to his political
views and the Communist Party's plans for the coming elections.
Because of the basic nature of some of the questions discussed,
a brief report of the interview is hereby submitted.
Election Platform
NOZAKA stated that since the April 1946 election the "demo-
cratic revolution" has made great strides. Yet many remnants of
feudal power and conditions still remain. The Communist Party
in Japan desires to carry this democratic revolution through to
its completion. For this reasnn it advocates in its election
program:
1. A more thorough purge of persons tainted with
war-guilt. Men like HIRANo (right-wing Socialist) should not
remain unaffected by the purge. Post-purge activities of men
like HAToYAMA, and appointing of "dummy" candidatesby purges
should be st opped.
2. The whole governmental system must be democratized;
the power of the bureaucrats and cliques should be broken; bills
should come from the Diet not the Government; the central and
local systems of administration should be changed as outlined
in the program prepared by the Union of Government Office Workers.
3. The police system must be democratized. Local
Police Chiefs are to be elected. All ex-Tokko personnel must be
eliminated and revival of the TOkko in any form must be pre-
vented.
4. All feudal remnants, both economic and political,
in the villages are to be eliminated. The tenancy system must
be abolished; all land not tilled by the owner is to be nation-
alized, as well as forests and uncultivated land.
5. All big industries should be nationalized, i.e.
nationally owned and operated.
A sixth point on the program, NoZAkA said, was not to be
made use of in the election campaign; this was "to amend the

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Constitution so as to strip the Emperor completely of all
political power, e.g. the appointment of a Premier.
In connection with point 4, NOZAKA was asked whether
collective farming would not be affected by this proposed
measure of allowing private title only to land tilled by the
owner. He replied that his party advocated collective farm-
ing only on a small cooperative scale, but considered collective
farms of the Russian type unsuited for Japan.
Asked whether he did not think the farmers were pretty well
off now, NOZAkA replied that he thought this to be true for a
small minority only. He admitted that most farmers are still
conservative, and accused the Government of paving the way for
farmer support of the government parties by an increase in the
price of rice.
Basic Policy
The Communist Party's first aim, NOZAKA stated, was to
complete the democratization of Japan, simultaneously taking
one step towards Socialism. For instance, it advocates the
immediate nationalization of all banks and other financial enter-
prises, and of such key industries as coal, mining, transportation,
electric power, and fertilizer. Yet this is not made into an
election issue except as a general principle (See 5 above); the
7
first step only--national control or management--will be advocated
for immediate execution.
The next goal is the change from a semi-competitive democracy
to a fully socialist state. The ultimate objective is the trans-
formation from a socialist to a communist State.
Relation to the Socialists
Since both Communists and Socialists aim at a socialist State,
"What is the difference between them which keeps them apart?" NOZAKA
was asked. "On paper," he replied, "there is no essential differ-
ence, but the activities of the two parties differ widely." E.g.
The Socialists approve of the present Land Reform bill, but the Com-
munists say it is far from perfect. The Socialists approved of
compulsory rice delivery last year; the Communists opposed it.
The Socialists frown on strikes; the Communists support strikes
"if they are necessary."
Right wing Socialists speak loudly of Socialism, but in
practice betray it by repeated compromise with capitalists.
Nevertheless, the two parties should cooperate in the effort
to form a truly "democratic" government.
It was explained to Mr. NOZAKA that in a democracy the
capitalists, being part of the people, are also entitled to
representation; whereas he obviously used the word "democratic"
in the sense of "laboring class only." He seemed a bit startled
at this revelation but admitted that we used the word differently.
- 2 -

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
When asked what he thought of the recent eleotions in Poland
he coyly remarked that he did not know sinoe he had "no reliable
information" on the matter!
Fundamental Differences between Socialiam and Communism
NOZAKA explained that before Japan!s surrender the Communists
advocated armed revolution, while the Socialists chose parliamentary
ways. The Communists had no other course, NOZAkA said, beoause
the government ruthlessly suppressed them.
At present, however, conditions are radically differenti
The power of the militarists is broken, and the police has little
oppressive authority left; the organization of reactionary forces
is relatively weak. The Diet, once a mere debating society, is
now to become the supreme organ of State power. While therefore
in the past there was no chance to carry out a socialist program
through parliamentary means, there is now. Hence the Communists
now favor the parliamentary method of bringing about political,
social and economic change, and in this respect can join the
Socialists. But there is one fundamental difference: the So-
cialists do not recognize the use of mass action outside the
Diet as a proper instrument, while the Communists do. They use
extra-parliamentary mass pressure, NOZAkA said, as a necessary
auxi liary weapon "because the Diet is still weak."
In Europe several countries such as France, Czechoslovakia,
Yugoslavia, etc. had now "democratic" governments. Such "people's
governments" are a new way of achieving a bloodless revolution.
Therefore if such a government can be formed here in Japan,
establishment of a Socialist State in a peaceful way becomes
possible.
This led to a question about British Socialism. HOZAKA
quickly remarked that Britain proves that the way of the
Socialists is a way of compromise and eventual defeat at the
hands of vested interests. In fact, he said, Socialism was not
really carried out in any country where Socialists were in con-
trol. So far only Russia has established a true Socialist State.
Class War?
Since NOZAKA had indicated his disapproval of the "compromis-
ing" attitude of the Socialists, an Australian story was related
to him of labor-bosses deliberately breaking up an industrial
scheme for labor-participation in stockholding, control and
management, and profits on the ground that "it destroyed the
unity of the labor-front." He was asked whether he would have
held the same all-out class-war view, and if so would still
support it now. He replied in the affirmative. He must have,
he stated, a "democratic" front of workers, farmers, intellec-
tuals, small and medium industrialists, and 'some bigger ones,"
against big finance and monopolistic capitalists.
-3 -

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
This plan seemed to include a good deal more than the
usual proletarian masses on the "democratio"side. So NAzakA
was asked whether the front he proposed was not muoh further
to the right than the "struggling masses" generally were sup-
posed to form against the whole employer class. He admitted
this was so. Actually the fight is only against the very top
crust of capitalism: Zaibatsu, high-finance, the "new-yen class"
and the big black-marketeers, he explained. Even the big firm of
HIDACHI, he said, was on the labor side of the battle.
Under these conditions the class-war of "workers" against
"employers" begins to look very abstract and theoretical! It
appears more correct to say that Communists use strife as a means
to gain political power which it would take them a long time to
obtain otherwise.
Communist Relations Abroad
NoZAkA was asked in what respects the Japan Communist Party
differed from the Communist Party in other lands. "The doctrine,
Marxism," he replied, "is everywhere the same. But the applica-
tion in each country is different, due to different conditions."
In Yenan for instance, there is no question of aiming at Socialism
at present. The people are far too backward for that. So Japan
has its own needs which the Japanese Communists try to meet.
"Whet about Russia?" he ves asked. "Isn't Russia helping
the Communist Party everyvhere, including here in Japan?"  The
answer was a definite "No" as far as Japan is concerned. In
the twenties, NOZAKA explained, there vas definite assistance
given. Even as late as 1943 there was some contact, NOZAA
himself being Jaran's Communist representative in Moscow. But
it was weak due to police vatchfulnes, an the distance in-
volved. Since 1943 hovever there has been no contact at all.
Mr. Noble of the Saturday Evenin- Fost says Japanese Conmunists
get advice, money, ete. from Ru. sia; but NCZAkA avows this is
not true. "We receive neither money nor political advice," he
stated, "simply because ve do not need it; we know Japan best."
Thus Communist policy is :polied as ccnditicns require.
For instance: It is impossible to nationalize Japan's medium
and small industries nov;  ce "we want to help them" in their
individual strugele for survival.
Election Funds and Frospects
All Party campeign funds, NozAKA stated, come from in-
dividual contributions. Por the rril elections e drive to
gather Y10,000,000 has just started. Only Y130,000 is at hand
now. Candidates vili be iven financial assistance as needed.
The Party has already 17o candidates for the House of Repre-
sentatives, 12 for the Hovee of Councillors, 7 for Covernor,
and en undetermined number for ther offices. It will con-
centrate its greatest effort on the House of Representatives
election; but local elections vill not be neglected. There is
a scarcity of cendidates, however.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Candidates are selected largely by local recommendation.
Those for more importent offices (Diet, Ken-governors, and
big city executives) are decided on by the Politburo of the
Central Executive Committee; but so far no candidate proposed
by a local branch has been rejected.
The Conmunists will run candidates in all 53 districts
this year. In spite of the Social Democrats' refusal to co-
operate, in several districts local Socialist and Communist
branches are on friendly terms and will help each other regard-
less of Social Democratic Farty headquarters' wishes.
The prefectures where the Communist Party is strongest
v ere listed by NOZAkA as follows, with the number of seats the
Party "expects" to vwin:
Tokyo
10
Hokkaido
9 or 10
Kanagawa
6
Nagano
6
Osaka
5
Kobe
5
Northern Kyushu
5 or 6
Aichi
1
Total in e Ken
47 or 49
P.K. ROEST
Chief, Political Affairs Division
Notes: CIK
- 5-

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
DAILY REPORT - 7 March 1947
Ritsu Ito, member of the Communist Party's central
committee, cherges in the party newspaper AKAHATA that the
government's refusal to raise the purchase price of rice is
responsible for the current delivery delay. "It is unreasonable
to ask farmers to deliver rice at Y550 per koku," he said.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.94)
001572
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Delf
Tokyo, March 25, 1947.
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 935
E
SUBJECT:
Recent Political Davelopments; Memorandum
Prepared by Chief, Political Affairs Division,
Government Section, GHQ, SCAP
The United States Political Adviser has the
honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No.
934 of March 25, 1947, regarding the activities
of various opposition groups in an effort to
upset the Government of Premier Yoshida, and to
enclose a copy of a memorandum dated February
894.00/
14, 1947, prepared by the Chief of the Political
Affairs Division, Government Section, of General
11
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
FE
Powers, regarding recent political developments,
particularly in connection with the activities
of the various political parties in opposition
1
to the Government of Premier Yoshida.
D
0.ct. D3.
SPD
2
5
Enclosure:
547
Copy of Memorandum
as stated above
Original and hectograph to the Department
800
DCBerger:wdh
STATE
5
MAY
FILED
C
1
0.3
6261

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.73)
Govermesst Sestion
Felisical ssfaire Sirilon
14 Petreary 1967
lilo.
2.
Cealltion allure. his eftorneon the owrtalm will fall om she fomrtn
and probatly finil mut cf the play by whieh the Teshids Cabimet tried
to obtain popaler sup crt, y means of inducinx the leeialiste so emter
th gverent.
The celel cheor tic mrty's Central Exeentive Cammittee yester
y decided ssly to abonden all Coalition efforte. msil she
beis wlectls," it wat c led. The mouotletioms this time. Led 
iister of lire el n imancs Minieter lmhii permlly.
sith imhlg s iutanl actind for the Seeimliete, moke dewm em the
ovornmentts insitence ls Jshibaali e reteimed as Fimmme Kimieser.
without yleldins cn tne tellcwing desle chamgee im fimamelal pollays
 t of jtrest r So for
ce yr. or romiee term of all thret cppesition
rtins - tccinl eocretie :arty iteelf wanted
.
o mace for  ro of risteri nd
rls  rsv rmainin ulllto ylld  ll
would ot cet  tler es enced sat eaeh of the pertles repr
seated repert e e sotey vith the cffsclal party leelslen. Slaee tbo
     t   
 e  
cerwery it cemee the laalbamkl
atre bleblocr soud
. Ianiksht he wae wllime so
sehdo on she sth.
ut oa the lith
lthough we
beve e oelte roef  fe  r the .
regressive
deon paid izto
see eral rty soffere fer celee pereee shr  Hr. Lebeeh.
the meey
refisel emormdsly

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.76)
● 2-
from the prescnt taflstica. The flasmcial polsey sdveseted  the
 povr t  asit a e Par delsia e e
Late. the atayame fasstaa,' Lod by hmt the Searetary Gonenale ome
to bave won us azin crer the uats-bors faction ld by Aehida. Brm
t lin r i. ily  Tlly 
the wad of l elr rope if comproulme. It or raselme to te seem hos
th raresive rty lll ale the  Party meet, wh it
coft-pocalie fer the rusc of trie last Coslstiom Sfert.
The c  .t previonoly recore mvt, 
 the shiatakel ltn te /gresnive arty. lor the forlassem
rli cive y"r  lo ld  
hamés of experiexsed pelitical cperutors. ss soon as she mev mems
roe crt vixor, le arty lore he b! at first m "e
tevares is, adopted a friemaly atsimce amd eastared the leaderakip
of the movement by a varty enéeramst. The next day Darom Shidekare
cass out witn s statement that shis wes going "too iar," thet it was
"zot rint to r. Yesni a" and ladicated "lack of trust" la himself as
Party realons.  roquestou the muvemenl  u hei ia abegamee 
ill she crtome as ts now comlitim arfertt, mammwille framtsemlly
Degus  his friund Lal. Suppsedly. filure of ss effort would
re-open the wey for the Thinahinkal movement. But st ls dembsful
whatr shat will o she reaulll it mme boome pratty wlemr mommmile
thas  or perty uf "preesive" iborale " roreusive would 
marels è mture ci nai:  cs iweral arsy by che roreuive lo
ere. d for  fri or ar. toalice u the  Iteral thet would fdomd
bu "golns soo iar." ine Scciallasc, tou. coen eew tomt sais movameme
woul be to ac : vait. to xoopt to the roeremeives, sad so they aad
thair irimude, ths looperative  amccrttic Party and the Peoplete Party.
declured theuselves is cteying cut or this novanent. moreover. ks.
 l Li .y lr. m    i 
anthmeinss for the "Hor trty" for  chichea-heerted stetoment that
be wes "sot lct inck cencerned" and woald keep she iateresse ef làs
Liberal Tarty. to waion ho cwes allagiancs. at hoart.
Thes it uppears stat the fature is mome tos srigke for the re
holllons gromt of cazsarvatires. Cnco more tosn-polities hee domim-
atad - at least tor the tice being.
The sestah pemesate. The rivalry between the right und loft wingere
of the Soalallst Tarty beoame quite bitter curins the Caulitlom mogo-
siatiens. Hishle and kis friaads staked thair all on a ssalllion
whiae wemlde they ho, e, seoure thee thie conservstive farmere' wm
altizanstpart in the mext alectiea. Kate and as mever cessed
to attace thes for bth the las of antaring thle aleeredited" eat
imet, and the mothed y which nagctiations were carrled wmt witheet

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.71)
一3一
mon Sdoala and objoesives. To assist mch mmissentlen, .
meshere of the Teuse of taprsseatatives. Thie sremp will ssak to bring
she Party and 1ts 1donls, aad ask them to fonget thadr dasforenese
firet eppertaaity to perfere thle task of ressselllatien.
5.
Qeaslucien- 106 appeare that the 111-fated aeal1tion movemene hae ram
Ibe osuree and latt - not a ataaged cablaet bas a alaririct piotare
ef the pelssiesl ane cmenemie issmss at stake in Japan. The Sestalsate
will doabelessly bo the gainars, as far as pablle muppert is conerasd.
They have shovm their willsagmess te share the respenatalley la a
orisis, has held fizm ea issmes whdah they coseidered visel fer a
solatten. Thme the Teakida Cabizet atande aloarly revealed ae umálline
aoverament, and ia a belief shat the Sealaltate mighe de bester with
thalz pregram. Thus the latter may have ssiaed in vetins mapert.
change roally is.
Fieter E. Reest. Chet.
Pelitieal Affsirs Bivistes
.5..

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
April 25
Ensloses a detailed
behind the scenes aesount,
based on orrialal poliee
and sourt records, of
officer corpe insurrec-
tionary movements and
attempted coupa d'etats
during the thirties.
More personalized side-
lights than a coherent
historloal acoount. Worth
looking through,depending
on time available.
Aceount of Gen. Mazaki's
dismissal and Gen.
Nagato's subsequent
murder, pages 68 and 69,
an example of material
contained.
NA: RAF:mls

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.91)
UIITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, Larch 26, 1947
RESTRICTED
No. 941
STAE
894.00/3-2647
SUBJC: Special Roport Concerning Japanese Nationalism Issued
10
by the Civil Intelligence Scction of General Headquarters,
EOF
Far East Command.
The United States Political dviser has the honor to forward as
an accompaniment five copies of a special report dated September 23,
194e, entitled "The Brocude Bunner", rublished by the Civil Intel-
ligence section of the ilitory Intelligence section, General Head-
quarters, Fur East Command. This report is & story of Jupanese
nationalism b: sed upon officiel police reccrds, court records of
trials during the decade be inming in l9tc, end other published in-
formetio..
DIVISION OF
Fr rea whe
ite)
MORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
10a
APR 21 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Accompaniment:
give copies of
The Brocade Bunner",
September , 1940.
CS/V
urigital und heetogrtph to the Depertat.
5 006
RHBushner: vr
FILED
2

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.84)
Roc'd DC/L
11,1947
Tokyo, arch 26, 1967
2:44 .
DIVISION OF
RESTRIOTED
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
ON:
onc.
0.41
APR 2 2 1947
onc.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
-onc.
.
Spor lel Roport Concerning Japunese Nutionaliam Issued
by o Civil intelligence scetion of Geuoral Houdquerters,
For Lust Command.
7E
- -0-0
s inite tates political .dviser has the honor to forward as
an :   cs.t five co ies of  speciel report detod epteabor 25.
194t. : leu "Tb" Boctde Hanner", publisled by tho Civil Intel-
lic .: : ti., of the ilitary Intelligenco scction, Gancrel Hoed-
gum: , Fer sat Command. Thi: eport is & utory of Japa:eso
nat:c in t sed upon ofriciel  lice rocords, court records of
ri urin the decede bogiiniue in lo20, tnd cther published in-
for stion.
Fiv: coica of
"Tic Jr.cado Banner".
Se eher 3, 1946.
Grie nil cno hectoruph to tho Departmcnt.
8 000
RdBL ucvr

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.87)
Rac'd DC/L
Tokyo, arch 26, 1947
A. 11, 1947
1:44 am.
RESTPICTED
TON:
0.41
- inc.
8
onc.
-onc.
Ul. CT: Spe.iel Roport Conoerning Jrpcnese Nutionsliam Issued
by tno Civil Intelligenco scction of Geuural Houdquarters,
For Lest Command.
The Un' ci tuter. Political  dviser has the honor to forward as
un :  co: mrjne.t five co les of a specizl report datod septeubor 2s.
194, e t leo "Tn Bmel do Denner", publisied by the civil Intel-
lig(ice . atin of the wilitery Intelligenco scction, Ganeral Hoed-
(um ta Fer sat Command. This erort is a story or Jupa:cso
nat:onclisn . sed upon officiel olico rocords, court records of
trit' uri the docede boginnive in l9Fo, cnd other publishod in-
forti.
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
APR 2 2 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
coc enimout:
ivo colics of
"Tne Breeade Bunuer".
Se,teaber .2, 1946.
Urif inel una hecto ruph to the se,trtmonl.
s Oc)
RHBu hnor: T

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
Form Dé-80s
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
MAG.27.1943
PLAIN
7-D
Control 8328
Action: FE
11F
Reo'd Naroh 24, 1947
Info:
DIVISION
s/s
1:40 a.m
A-B
1947
A-H
SA/M
PROM:
Moscow
EUR
voted-
894.00/3-2647
SPA
TO:
Secretary of State
OCD
File gug
CIG
NO:
1037, Twenty-slxth
DCA
ITP
ESP
IZVESTIA, Maron 2ótn, "Pre-Election Maoninatlons of
FC
Jap Reactlon" by V. Kudryavtsev, states attempt
OIC
Yoshida government to retaln old order relylng on anti-
PA
popular Parlinment and support of occupatlon authorities
EURX
has produced unprecedented growth in demooratic movement.
DC/R
Nevertheless many trump carde stili in hands Jap reac-
tionarles.. Large sums have been collected for pre-
olectlon bribery. Pollttcal purges being eased by
partles to save government's frleuds. Attacks continue
on trade unlons and Communist Party. Although plural
voting system was deoided, old pre-eleotlon triok was
revived on March 20 of altering electlon law. Return
urged to 1925 "arch-reactlonary system" of voting
desplte Communist and Soclaliat protests.
Department please pass to Tokyo.
ASENT OF STATE
SMITH
Note: Repeated to Tokyo March 27, 2 a.m. (CwO-FED)
4-1947
EEC:GEM
MAR 28 1947
FILDD
LRC
PLAIN

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
Apr11
Despatch encloses a
SCAP report prepared in
August 1946 describing in
detail the origin and
development of the IRAA,
IRAPS and the Great Japan
Political Association.
The apoarent purpose of
the report, implied in the
forward, which you may won
to read, is to show that
membership in these organi-
zations was not the ein
some Sections of SCAP in the
early months of occupation
considered it to be.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.92)
ULITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, March 26, 1947
RESTRICTED
HANESEAOREAN
No. 942
147
SUBJECT:
"ar Folities in Japan", a Special Report Issued by the
Civil Intelligcnce sectior of General Headquarters, Far
East Command.
894.00/3-2647
The United States Political aviser hus the honor to forward as
an accompaniment five copics of a epecial roport dated au ust 15, 1946,
published by the Jivil Intellicence scction of the military Intelligence
Section, Generel Head uurters, Far East Comend, entitled "War Politics
in Japen".
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Accompaniment:
APR171947
Tive copies of
"war Folitics in Jomn",
108
august 15, 1946.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Originel cmk hrete r ph to Do ortmost.
0
010
000
Rfbuchner: vr
CS/
FACI
CO

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.82)
U IT D LT  EICI ADVISR VN J
Rec'd DC/L
Tokyo, arch 26. 1947
Apr. 11, 1047
11:4S a.BTRICTD
lio. 942
-enc.
AE
T.PO:
OCP-enc.
TC-onc.
T-enc.
SUJ.CT:
"aar rolitier in n ",  pociet Report Sasued by tho
CTG
vivil ILatellieouce meation of Gorerel de catertere. Eer
cast Comni.
-0-0-0
The ted ssv  l  or hue e mor to ore as
  S    cl   15, 19
published y she vl Intectit,  ccctin of  malitery Iute liger co
Soetion, Consrnl Hor rtee r L et o pee ut itled ar tolitics
in Jupan".
DIVISION OF
ac comen int:
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
071
APR 2 31947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
000
RBushner

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.82)
UIT D TS  II ADVIR YON J
Rec'd DC/L
Tokyo, March 26, 1947
Apr. 11, 1047
11:46 a.RRICTD
LOTI:
No. 942
.-onc.
T.FO:
OCP-enc.
rc-onc.
. 
"sar rolities in Js r". a pocial Report fssued by tho
CIC
ivil Lutellicoucs seebion. of Gencrel Meudguarters, Ner
cast Comraa.
-O-O-0
The alten stetee polllet ser hre tt bonor to forverd sa
un ccomdant sve co o a il p daes ust 15. 1946.
published by the y.l fte lie  cel n or te wtlitery Iutelliger co
Section, Curaral Asur
e o
crsled "ar Folitics
in Japen".
m 
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
APR 2 31947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
000
RBuch

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
DGO/L
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
NAFE
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, March 31, 1947.
DIVISION OF
RESTRICTED
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
ule
No. 952
APR161947
51947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MR. FODERMOTT
SUBJECT:
Special Meeting of Allied Council for Japan concerning
General Election.
1-
工
ii_
The United States Politicel Adviser has the honor to refer to
894.00/3-3147
this Mission's telegram no. 71, March 28, 1947, on the subject of
a press release concerning a special meeting of the Allied Council
for Japan and to enclose a self-exolenatory memorandum dated
February 7, 1947 on the subject "Generel lection in Japan: Letter
of Instruction to the Japenese Frime Kinister", prepared by Mr.
Kax W. Bishop, Chairman pro tempore and Representative of the Member
for the United States on the Allied Council for Japan.
General Machrthur's letter to Prime Minister Yoshida is set
forth in full in the onclosed memorandun. It will be noted that no
objection to the Supreme Commander's. letter and proposal to hold a
general election was raised by eny Kember of the Council.
C
Enclosure:
Memorandun dated
February 7, 1947.
Original and hectograph to Department.
Copies to: American Embassy, London.
American Embassy, Moscow.
5
American Embassy, Canberra.
C
American Embassy, New Delhi.
American Legation, Wellington.
FILED
500 ACJ
WJSebald:1h

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 952 dated March 31, 1947 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Special
Meeting of Allied Council for Japan concerning General Election".
COPY
ALLIED COUNCIL FOR JAPAN
Tokyo
Office of the Member
for
The United States of America
February 7, 1947.
RESTRICTED
MEETING OF GENERAL MACARTHUR WITH MEMBERS OF THE ALLIED COUNCIL
FOR JAPAN
PARTICIPANTS:
General of the Army, Douglas Macarthur.
Members of the Allied Council for Japan.
SUBJECT
General Election in Japan: Letter of
Instruction to the Japanese Prime Minister
General Macarthur called the Members of the Allied Council to
consult with him at his office at 11 a.m. on February 7, 1947. In
addition to General Macarthur, those present were: Max W. Bishop,
Cheirman pro tempore and representative of the Member for the United
States; Lieutenant General Chu Shih-Ming, Member for China; Lieutenant
General Kuzme N. Derevyanko, Member for the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, who weas accompanied by two interpreters; and Mr. E. E. Ward,
who was designated by hr. W. MacMahon Ball, Lember representing jointly
the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and India, as his representative.
General Hacarthur in opening the discussion stated that he had
asked the members to come in order to obtain any comment they might
have on a letter which he proposed to send to the Japanese Prime
Minister. General Machrthur then read the following letter:
"Dear Mr. Prine Minister:
I believe the time has come for a general election.
Momentous changes in internal structure, in economic out-
look, and in the whole fabric and pettern of Japanese life
have occurred since the last general election nearly e year
ago. It is necessary, in the near future, to obtain another
democratic expression of the people's will on the fundamental
issues with which Japanese society is now confronted. In
this way we will once more advance in the process of democracy
which now governs this state. The exact time and details are
matters which I leave to the discretion of the Japanese
Government, but the election should take place as soon as
practicable after the close of the present session of the
diet so that a new legislative body may initiate and
synchronize with the introduction and effectivation of the
new constitution. The past year has been one of accomplish-
ment. I look with equal confidence to the future.
Very sincerely,
DOUGLAS MeCARTHUR."

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Enclosure to
Tokyots No. 952.
March 31, 1947.
After reading the letter General Macarthur called on each of
the members in turn for his comment. Mr. Bishop, General Chu,
Mr. Werd and Generel Derevyanko each in turn expressed views in
full accord with the letter which General MacArthur had read. Thus
there was complete unanimity of agreement that it was desirable to
issue such a directive to the Japanese Government regarding the
holding of a general election.
In discussing the matter with the Members, General MacArthur
pointed out inter alia that this action was an administrative one
made necessary to assure a new diet and a new expression of the will
of the Japanese people in synchronization with the coming into effect
of the Constitution; that the action in no way reflected upon the
present Diet which had done, on the whole, & good job; that the
present Japanese Cabinet had not taken the initiative in calling
such an election; thet the matter of timing had been left flexible
in order to assure a sufficient period for the Japanese people to
acquaint themselves with the problems at issue and to express their
free opinion; that being an administrative action, it was important
once the decision hed been made, that it be carried out promptly in
order that it not interfere with the functioning of Government; and
that he wes glad to have the comments of the Members of the Council.
General Derevyanko after expressing agreement requested some
additional time to consider details. Upon General Macarthur's
explanation of the urgency of the matter, General Derevyanko made
no further request for deley. General Chu expressed his view of the
importance of timing the coming elections and expressed complete
concurrence in General Machrthur's flexible program.
After asking the Members if there were any other matters which
they wished to discuss, General Macarthur cordially invited each
one to call upon him at any time to discuss any matter.
The foregoing record was prepared by the Cheirmen pro tempore
immediately upon conclusion of the meeting.
MAX W. BISHOP
Chairman pro tempore and
Representetive of the
Kember for the United States.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
DeL
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Dk
Tolyo, April 4, 1947=
UNCLASSIFIED
lNo. 958
SUBJECT:
Forwarding Copies of Memoranda of Conversations Regarding
the Japan Farmers' Party, the People's Co-operative Party,
and the Tokyo-to Elections, dated March 18, 1947.
894.00/4-447
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to forward
herewith copies of three memoranda dated March 18, 1947, from the
Chief of the Political affairs Division, Government Section of
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Povers, re-
garding the election plans of the Japanese Farmerst Party and the
People's Co-operative Party, and the Tokyo-To Elections.
Enclosures:
1. Memorandum, "Japan Farmers! Party";
2. Memorandum, "The People's Co-operative Party";
3.Menorandum,
"Tolgyo-To Elections".
CS/V
Original and hectograph to Department.
800
DCBerger/blc
OVSON OF
APR 28 194A
DEPARTMENI DI STATE
FILED
en
6

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
9
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 958, dated April 4, 1947, from the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Forwarding Copies of Memoranda of Conversations Regarding the Japan
Farmers' Party, the People's Co-operative Party, and the Tokyo-to
Elections, dated March 18, 1947".
COPY
GENERAL IHEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POTERS
Government Section
Political Affairs Division
18 March 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECCRD
SUBJECT: JAPAN FARLERS' PARTY (INTERVIEW WITH KITA MaSakiyo)
(Party officially inaugurated on 22 February 1947)
The Diet members who head the Japan Farmers' Party are:
KITA Katsutaro
KITA Masakiyo
ITO Jitsuo
HARAJIRI Tsukasa
NAKANO Shiro
In the general election, Mr. KITa said, only MAllo would be
eligible to run for the liouse of Representatives. The remainder of
the party chiefs with the exception of KITA Masakiyo had been Village
Heads of IRaa and would come under the Japanese Government Purge
Ordinances, and KITa is apprehensive that having been president of
the Z.IGO GUNJII RENGO BUINKI (Veterans Military Crganization) wOuld
also disqualify him.
The following questions were asked Ir. KITa to obtain information
for motivating a cause seemingly lost even befere it started:
 - With the kmowledge that the menbers of the Diet forming
the Japan Farmers' Party would be unable to run for reelection, why
was the party forned?
A. - If we are purged we will be unable to continue in
politics and will therefore be unable to give the farmers political
guidance and assistance. We are, however, try ing to organize the
farmer unions which are numerous and without leaders. e feel that
the farmers are being bitterly suppressed, and are being hindered and
in most cases discouraged from producing their quotas.
 - hat will the purged Diet members be contributing to
the farmers' cause in the future?
A. - He will have no connections with the farmers' unions
but it is our hope that our present work will tive the farners the
incentive to continue on with their cause, vitliout our cuidance.
. - How many farmers are organized noy in this movement?
A. - Since we did not start unt il 20 February 1947 we have
not had time to do very much organizing. There are local farmers'
unions independent of cach other which we hope to combine on a
national basis.
o- Has

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 958,
April 4, 1947
-2-
4. - Has there been any campaigning in this regard?
How long?
A. - Yes. We have been active since 20 February 1947.
. - Has the party stressed Farmers' Unions rather than
political interests?
A. - The party interest is primarily farmers, and politics
comes second.
 - For whom are the farners, in your opinion, going to
vote?
A. - The farners are not unified now and there is no way
of knowing for whom they will vote. The Socialists and Conmunists
are doing most for the far. ers but just for the sate of getting votes.
. - How does your party regard the All Japan Farmers Union?
A. - This was organized by the Socialists and Communists and
not by the farmers. The farmers will not support it for this reason.
Mr. KITa concluded with the statement that the only political
party that could truly represent the farmers would be one in which
its members are actually farmers and who would understand the farmers!
needs and problems, as e.g. the Japan Farmers' Party.
Conclusion:
The KITa brothers might have succeeded in staying in Japan's
politics, und capitalized on the farmerst movenent through their
seats in the House of Representatives, if they were not scheduled
to be purged.
This political party of five doubtful Diet members cannot be
expected to contribute anything vital to Japan, and it is just as
well that the House of Representatives shall soon be rid of it.
P.K.ROEST
Chief, Political ffairs Division

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 958, dated April 4, 1947, from the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Forwarding Copies of Memoranda of Conversations Regarding the Japan
Farmers' Party, the People's Co-operative Party, and the Tokyo-to
Elections, dated March 18, 1947".
COPY
CEIERAL IEAD QUARTERS
SUPREIE COLPMAIDER FCR THE ALLIED POYERS
Government Section
Political affairs Division
18 Larch 1947
LEMORAIDUL: FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: THE PECPLE'S CO-OPERATIVE PARTY
(Inaugurated 8 March 1947)
MIKI Takeo and ATSULIOTO Yakizo provided the Political Affairs
Division with up-to-date information regarding the new People's
Co-operative Party (KOKUIN KYODO TO).
On 6 March 1947 the heads of the Co-operative Democratic and
People's Parties met, ironed out merger problems, and drew up a new
platform. From the first meeting of this kind there existed a common
accord on the co-operative idea, and at the numerous merger confer-
ences the People's Party accepted the platform of the Co-operative
Democratic Party in its entirety.
The new platform therefore does not differ from the old Co-
operative Democratic platform, except that "electrification of all
facilities through utilizatien of Japan's water power" has been added.
The People's Co-operative Party includes 78 Diet members as
follows:
Co-operative Democratic (former) - 12
People's Party (former)
-32
Independent Club (former)
78
The four members fronm the Independent Club are:
Taa Isaji
NUIO Toshiaki
HaKAYAla Eiichi
KIKUCHI Yutaka
Election Plans and Candidates
There are now 41 branch headquarters in the People's Co-operative
Party, of which 3& belonged to the fonmer Kyodo Linshu To, and only 3
to the Kokunin To. These were all consulted prior to the merger and
necessary changes for the election campaign wore initiated.
150 Candidates vill be run for the House of Representatives and
an additional 50 Independent candidates will be solicited to join the
new party. For the House of Councillors, 10 candidates will run.
Of these only 1 candidate is a woman, as compared with 10 women who
will run for the liouse of Representatives.
The

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tokyo's 958,
April 4, 1947
-2-
The recently announced grace period granted to candidates,
extending the deadline for submitting questionnaires to 24 March,
will materially assist the new party in providing valuable solicit-
ing time for recruiting new candidates. It is believed by Mr. MIKI
that 8 candidates belonging to the party will run for governor.
The folloving is the official list of the new party's officers:
Secretary General
MIKI Takeo
Chairman, Central Executive Committee
OKADA Seiichi
Vice-Secretary General
H.YAKA Takashi
Senior Floor Leader
ITO Iwao
Auditors
AlalURa Eiichi
MASUI Keitaro
Central Executive Committee
AKIT. Daisuke
AUR. Eiichi
ITO Kotaro
Information
ISHICAKI Senmatsu
ISIIIDA Iclhimatsu
UDA Ktnie
OGAL. Ippei
OHARA Hiroo
Inter-party Liaison
KAWANO Yoshimitsu
KIOSHITA Sakae
KUBO Takeo
TANAKA Isaji
NOIOTO Shinakichi
HAYASHI Heima
HIRUTA Toshio
FUJDICTO Toraki
HOZUI Shichiro
MATSUMOTO Rolutaro
LARUYALL Shuichiro
MORI Yukio
YONEHURA Tatsuya
Floor

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.91)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tokyo's 958,
April 4, 1947
-3-
Floor Leaders
ANDO Hatsu
ITO Kotaro
OTSU Keiichi
C.TY. Gosaburo
K.G.ILA Fenltichi
L.SHD. Toomu
KIKUCHI Yutaka
KONO Kinsho
KCA1 Tohei
SUZUKI Yugoro
TAKEYAJA Yutaro
TAlaKA Tatsu
TOYOS.A Toyoo
N.KiTA Eitaro
NAK.YAlA Eiichi
IASHDIOTO Jiro
LiRa Kuni
MATOBA Kinomon
YOSHIDA Sei
Chief of
Information and Publicity
IDE Ichitaro
Chief of Public Relations
LATSULICTO Takico
Chief of affairs on Relipion
LHOUY Tokunei
Chief of Social ffirs
IIDa Yonhichige
Chief of Educationnl .ffairs
COHEA Tazoo
Chiof of Momon's Section
OKU Mumeo
Chief of Young Men's Section
KAW.GCE Hiroshi
Chief of the Section of Orgonization
NIRADO Jusm
Chief of the General ffairs
HIRAA .tsuo
Chief

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tokyo's 958,
April 4, 1947
-4-
Chief of Lecture Eureau
FUJII Masao
Chairman of the Caucus
S.S.LMORI Junzo
Chairman of the Folitical Research Comnittee
FUDA 
Vice-Chairman of the Political Research Committee
HIGASII Takashi
IKEGAL.I Tasuku
Political Complexion
The new party's political complexion is less indefinite than
might be expected of such a miscellaneous group, since they are
all middle-of-the-roaders. The party thus takes its place between
the Progressives on the right and the Social Democrats on the left.
There are no clear-cut factions yet, but Co-operatives MIKI,
LATSU:OTO, CLIYA and .Y.SHI may be called its right-wing leaders,
while AZUlia Takashi, Holkaido member of the former Kyodoinshu-To,
and HaYAlil Takashi, Jakayama member of the forner Kolumin-To, are
recognized as leading embers of the left ving which favors close
collaboration with the Socialists. But these differences do not
disturb at present the "co: plete harmony" vhich has led to the
merger.
As might be expccted, the Co-operatives dominate the new com-
bination. They have an idea (co-operative enterprise, and the sub-
stitution of strife by co-operation on the basis of utual interests)
and evidently have had little trouble selliny tis idea first to the
newcomers who formed the Co-operative Demoeratic Farty vith them, and
now to the 32 members of the People's Tarty tnd the 4 Independents who
joined them on 8 Harch. Even the Progressive Farty, they pointed out,
now has a plank encouraging co-operative enterprise in its election
platform.
Election Campaign Plane
MIKI reports that the goal for the party's campaign fund is
set at ¥5,000, Co0, to be collected in both big and little contri-
butions. This is half of what the Progressive and the Soc al
Democratic parties are each planning to get.
Of the new party's candidates, 10% can run without financial
aid, MIKI estimated; about 60% wili need some help, while 30% will
need to be almost completely financed by the party--to the tune of
¥30,000 each.
Number of candidates to run was set at 200, if possible. There
are at most 150 suitable candidates in the party now, but IkI hopes
to induce about 50 now-independent candidaies to run on the People's
Co-operative ticket.
The

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tokyo's 958,
April 4, 1947
-5-
The concrete election platform is to be published by 20 March.
It will stress that in Japan today capitalism has but limited use-
fulness, as is the case with socialism, and that co-operativism
will fill the vital need left by these limitations. MIKI pointed
out how, for example, Marxism with its stark antithesis of exploit-
ers and exploited does not apply to a large section of Japan's
economic life: millions of farmers are small-scale landowners, while
in industry there is a vast number of small-scale employers who share
the work in their ovm shop. Most Japanese are small capitalists,
and they should work together to establish a "socialized" type of
capitalism. Only key industries require national control, but bureau-
crats are the vrong people to exercise such control rightly. Hence
business talent must be engaged, co-operation must become the prin-
ciple in all fields, not merely in that of co-operatives for farmers
and for consumers. Labor and management must collaborate to fight
inflation and renounce class-strife.
IiIKI stated that cach candidate will get a "textbook" with these
ideas for use in his caapaign; so that the voters would know for what
the party stands.
President
The People's Co-operative Party has no president yet. It hopes
to enlist some high-class person to serve in tint capacity. Nego-
tiations with H.lBR, TCLiRa, and SaTo Shobu lave not yielded satis-
factory results so far, but efforts to obtain a brilliant standard-
bearer will continue.
P. K. ROEST
Chief, Political Affairs Division

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 958, dated April 4, 1947, from the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Forwarding Copies of Memoranda of Conversations Regarding the Japan
Farmers' Party, the People's Co-operative Party, and the Tokyo-to
Elections, dated March 18, 1947".
COPY
GEIERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE CCLLANDER FOR THE LLED PO.ERS
Government Section
Tolitical affairs Division
18 March 1947
LEMCRANDUL: FOR TE TECORD
SUBJEOT: TCKYO-TO ELECTICHS
Since all adninistrative bodies below the vard level are
expected to be dissolved before the clections, political activity
will be confined to the election of the Tolyo Tetropolitan District
governor, the ward chiefs, the Letropolitan and ward assemblies,
and headmen and assemblies of cities, torns, and villages. The
number of wards in Tolgyo-shi is being reduced from 35, the present
number, to 22, on 15 March.
as of 10 November 1946, registered voters in Tolyo prefecture
numbered 2,378,359 for Dict elections, 2,424, 506 for the guberna-
torial and Metropolitan assembly elections, and 2,433,813 for city,
ward, town, and village clections, an increase of more than
297,094 over the 1946 number. Registered women voters comprise
nearly one-half the total.
Beginning 18 March and continuing for one week, a special
registration period will allow repatriates and others who have
resided in the Tokyo area six months or longer to register. In
an effort to encourage greater participation in voting, the number
of polling places wil1 be increased from last years 440 to 2,500.
a large number of abstentions occurred in the previous election
because of the crowded conditions that prevailed and the limited
voting facilities.
P. K. ROEST
Chief, Political Affairs Division

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.93)
April 11, 1947
ANSTRLGEER
MEMORANDON FOR TRE GRAINNAN
PAR KABTERN
894.00/4-747
With referenee to the conmaltative message from the
Chairman of the Far Eastern Cemmissien to the Supreme
Commender for the Allied Powere dated Mareh 88, 194?,
relative to the House of Representatives Meotion Lew,
there is enelosed e copy of a message from the suprems
Commander for the Allied Powers dated Aprill2, 1947.
It is requested that the Chairman make this
message available to the members of the Far Bastern
Commission.
J. H. HILLDRING
CS/A
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Seoretary
Znolseure:
P Un
Message from SOAs,
894.00
April 2, 1947
APF 10
RESTRICTED
QlD
NA:ALDunging/pm
747
4/9/47

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.94)
liberal previsions as the Nonse of 
2w.
The franehise for the Heuse er Represestatives 
quasi-iseompetents and these in prisen er those whe hes
reseived a sentenes Savolving penal servitade or som-
finement and have mot yet served their term.
English and Japanese copies of bill fer amendment
of the House of Representatives elestion law were air-
Malled to War Department on l4th Mareh. Japaaese espies
of amendments to bill were airmailed Slst Mareah. Eaglim
translation of amendments as passed by the Diet will be
airmailed on Srd April.
Other substantial shanges in House of Representatives
elestion law inolude:
A. Elestion distriete inereased in number
from 53 to 117 with each distriot returming from
3 to 5 members to the lower house for a total
membership of 466.
B. Bupervision of eleotions has been removed
from the House Ministry and plaoed in the hands of
demoeratically ohosen eleetion administration com-
mittees who will appoint oleetion offielels and
superviee polling and counting.
0. Piling deposite have been raised from
2.000 Yen to 5,000 Yen, and fines for violatione
have generally been inoreased about l0 times.
D. Restrioted plural voting has been replaced
by the gingle ballot.
E. Use of sahool shildren below the age of
20 in oampaigns illegal.
All changee will be applied to the fortheoming
general elections.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
FE
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DC/R
SWN-5291
7 Apr11 1947
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attn: Mr. J. K. Penfield, FE)
Subject: Request for Consultation with Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers Relative
to the House of Representatives Eleotion
Law.
894.00/4-747
At the request of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the
enclosed message from the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, in response to a request by the Far Eastern Com-
mission for consultation with the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers relative to the House of Representatives
Election Law dated 25 March 1947, is forwarded for trans
mittal to the U.S. Representative of the Far Eastern Com-
mission.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
Mems fa fhequmeen FtC
V. W. Moelly
64/9/47
aib
H。W. MOSELEY,
Jile
Secretary
h
Enclosure
CM-IN 394
RESTRLOTED

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
RESTRICTED TOT
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED. HANDLE AS RESTRICTED
CORRRSPONDENCE PER PARAS 51 1 and 60 & (4) AR 380-5
FrOD:
SCAP Tokyo, Japan agd McArthur
To:
War Department for JCS for General MoCoy
Nr:
0 51434
2 April 1947
Fourad AR 94856 March 27th. The Diet on 31st March
passed aaendreente extending the provisions of artiole two of
the additionul provleions of the House of Counoillors election
Lsr to the oloction of the House of Represenatatives. Porth-
coming clection of House of Representetives vill be held under
the shme ibe al provisions as the House of Counoillors sleotion
law.
The franchise for the Fouse of Representatives 1s now
extended to all of voting ege except incompetonts or quasi-.
tmcompetenta and those in prison or those vho have rece1ved
a sentance involving penal servitude or confinoment and have
not yet served their tera.
English and Japanese copies of bill for amondment of
the House of Represontatives slection lau were airmailed to
Wer Departmont on 14th March. Japanese copies of amendments
to bill vere airmailed Blst Haroh. English translation of
amondments as passed by the Diet will be airmailed on 3rd
Apr1l.
Other subatantial changes in House of Representatives
election lav inoludo:
A. Election distriots incrsased in number
from 53 to 117 w1th each district returning from 3
to 5 members to the lover house for a total member-
ship of 466.
CM-IN 394
(2 Apr 47)
RESTRICTED
47
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.94)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
RESTRICTED TOT
Page 2
FrOD:
SCAP Tokyo, Japan sgd MacArthur
NP
C 51:34
2 Apr11 1947
B. Supervision of elections has been removed
Iron the Rouse Miniatry and placed in the hands of
domocratically chosen election administration com-
ntttoes whe vill appolnt election offfcials and
rupervise polling and counting.
C. Filiug deposits have been raised from
  000 len to 5, 000 Yon: end fines for v1olat1ons have
generally been inerseasd about 10 times.
Rostrieted plural voting has been replaced
by the single ballot
E. sa of s hool children belov the age of
20 1n campaigns illoge?
All changes vill be
applisd to the forthcoming
gonoral eleetions
End.
ACTION : JCS
INFO : AAF, Adm Leahy. ASK, CAD, ID, Adm NIm1tz. P&O, CSA
CM-IN 394
(2 Anr 47) DTG 02/07054
ag8
FESTRICTED
47
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
E
Inte
UN
CA
N
PLAIN
NA
Action: FE
Control 4994
Info
SEA
s/s
Roc'd April 17, 1947
A-B
A-H
NORTHEAST ASIAN APFAIRS
31/M
FROM: MOBCOW
EUR
SPA
TO:
Secrotary of Stato
APR 1 7 194797
OCD
010
NO:
1416, Apr1l 17
DEPARTENT OF STATE
=C/L
PC
sin
894.00/4
I?VESIA epr1l 16 "hadow o? Gonoral Tanaka over
OIC
Japaa" by V. Xud yaytoov calls electoral law of Maroh 31
PA
EUR
returr to system existing ucdor ule militarists in
DC/R
Japen. High lights rollow:
"Japanose : uling classos to save oon skins and authority
hartened to lutroduce 'domocratic gloss tc old ro-
actures of roestiocary monarchy. At that cime thoy still
Toof rfrst dirocslvos uo Amoricac occupation authorities
seriously, at ary rate those whicn appoered to proceed
from Potadam do lsious.
"What will to sigxiricance o viotory of Liberal Party
so much hopod for my Yoahida and s nnorters? .... ot
answer to givon by Njralhac: forcmorly socrotary general
to Shidohare cabinot. As far back as Apr1l l946 he
stated in its policy Litoral Party adheros to disossion
of old schuol, that te whict catine: of late Gonoral
Fanaka adhorod'....
It is not hard guoss tha: Yoshi da and his Laboral
arty wouldn't bo avorso to rotupr tc timos of Tanake,
asking his retrograle movewent with crios for need
or comba:ting 'Lort-Wing icoologies', moro sc as this
nds favorable poaction on other sido Pacific.
mondment of olootoral lew at xinoty-soccnd sossict of
Parliamont 1s lov and glaring attompt on Yoshida's part
turn history of Japar back to timos of Janaka. It is
王
uccecessary state
APR 25 194
PLAIN
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.84)
PLAIN
-2-1416, Apri1 17, fror Moacow
unrocecsary stase chat recontly adopted moasuso
Yoshi da Soverimont is in strike (*) which stated 
alia Japeseso sevo: Lvo:t shall romove all obstacles
in way uf pe ivai arl cocsolidation domocratio
exdecies aacg Jararee pocplos'....
"quo. apies: lo to U occupation autlioritios,
vh. mre pleagod  1 actions of Japanose Governmont
oac  slis vil sicl. of rotsdam declaration? Or
Februy. 2 . aciscc rello broadcaol talk or.
home is Jepe. slsnging and in whan diroction
Atcthosc.  coproser arivo . allied council for Japen.
Look e tive p r ar  uesice and loclered pn 1
charg'g and i lrectien of domosracy. in light of
astivity of Tcchl la sc cremere, Atchosor's reply zounde
at leas! like actompt alsloui world publis cpinlon....
"i" I usolesn ©xpeet comcerocizasi on of Japan from
Toshida covernmor ann atoral' Party over which hovere
spirit r co e:al Ta.are-spizis of Japanose militarism....
teper tto..s papoet Sokye.
二M2
(*) O24.as1cr
Note: Rolayed :0 Yokye 10 a.. 4, 17,4 USB
M5:LG
PLAXS

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.73)
Tway 15
..
5
Enclour a bery
good stndy I tte
iwnnit (or rathe
demeriti) J. the
new eletoral syaten.
Sunmariged i lost
vorgrgsh but
recomnend reacling
nifoll

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.95)
DG/R
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
NA
DC/R
Tokyo, Apr11 24, 1947.
RESTRICTED
No. 998
SUBJECT:
Merits of the Electoral System Proposed by Prime
Minister Shigeru YOSHIDA.
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
a copy of a memorandum dated Mar ch 17, 1947, prepared by the Chief
of the Political Affairs Division, Government Section of General
894.00/4-2447
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, regarding
the merits of the electoral system proposed by Prime Minister
Shigeru YOSHIDA.
Enclosure:
Copy of Memorandum
dated March 17, 1947.
p d
LE
FC
Original & hectogfaph to Department.
800
wa.
DCBerger: m
CS
C10
L3

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 998 dated Apri1 24, 1947 fron the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Merits of the Electoral System Proposed by Prime Minister Yoshida
Shigeru".
COPY
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Section
Political Affairs Division
17 March 1947
MEMORANDUM TO THE CHIEF, GOVERNMENT SECTION
SUBJECT: THE MERITS OF THE ELECTCHAL SYSTEM PROPOSED BY MR. YOSHIDA
Instead of the restricted plural vote and the present 53 district
(39 prefectures forming one single district, and the 7 biggest being
divided into two each) the Liberal Party is pressing for 127 smal1
districts with from 2-5 members each, combined with a single vote.
This system was in use before 1945 and notorious for its well-controlled
"machines"; which 1s the chief reason why it is opposed by the hon-
government parties; both the Liberal and the Progressive parties having
inherited most of the MINSEITO and SEIYUKAI traditions and personnel
entrenched in these locel rechines.
Objectively, the following differences in election results are
significant.
1. Candidates
The smaller the district, the smaller the choice of candidates.
It is easier to find qualified persons in a whole prefecture than in
every small subdivision of it. For the same reason the caliber of
candidates is likely to be lower on the average than in the prefectural
size district, since so many have only limited local viewe and interests.
Therefore "the smaller the district the smaller the candidates" 
taking the country as a whole.
2. Voter!s choice
Many a voter will prefer a good candidate from any district in
his prefecture to a poor one from his own small bailiwick. Yet he can
vote only for those running in his own district. Apart from that,
under the restricted plural voting scheme he could select 2 or (where
there are l1-l4 seats to bo filled) 3 candidates to represent his
various interests. In the proposed scheme he has only one choice and
that from a far smaller number of candidates. The proposed scheme
therefore unquestionably reduces the voter's choice of representatives
both in quality end quantity.
3. Minority representation
Secondary parties (Socialists and People's Co-operatives for
instance) ere not evenly suppar ted throughout Japan, like the govern-
ment parties with their long history of entrenchment. They will lose
out in many small districts for lack of support, whereas their support
in a few districts may be far in excess of that needed for election.
Thus they prefer the larger district both for its better choice of
candidates and for its wider support with better chances of election.
Smell

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo", No. 998
April 24, 1947.
-2
Smell districts therefore work against minority representation.
This is greatly aggrevated by the replacement of restricted plural
voting with the singls vote. Many voters who have lingering
loyalties to the old politicians will vote for one, but express
their deeire for a change or for some new blood by voting for a
minority candidate. This is the main reason given by the Liberals
themselves against the present system. By limiting the voter to
one choice only he loses this chance to take a risk with a new-
party man or an independent he likes.
4. Women
The above is particularly true in regard to women. Where parties
choose candidates for 2-5 seat districts they will rarely risk a
woman's name, while they can afford to do so with districts having 10
to 14 seats to be filled. The voter, likewise, will rarely riak his
one-and-only vote on a woman candidate (if there is one in his district)
while many were perfectly willing to do so with their second or third
choice last year.
Mathematically speaking, women will have no chance at all in
small districts even if the vot ing system were kept the same. For 39
women elected last year represent 8.3% of the total number of members
elected. In a district with 10-14 seats such an average percentage
will frequently yield a seat to a woman; but in districts with a
maximum of 5 seats it is almost impossible for a women to get elected.
Small wonder then that women Diet members are dead set against the
proposed return to small districts end the single vote.
5. Summary and Evaluation
Apart from facilitating the machine politics whereby the old
political interests perpetuated their influence, the proposed return
to small districts and the single vote is bound to:
a. Lower the average candidate quality.
.b. Restrict the voter's choice and lower the average
quality of the representatives elected.
c. Reduce minority representation with the overall
effect of increasing the power of the plurality party beyond
propartion to its electoral support.
d. Practically eliminate women from the Diet.
It is argued that if the Socialists expect to become the plurality
party, they should favor the proposed change since it will work to their
advantage. While this may be true from the point of view of numbers of
Socialist representatives only, it is clear that they need the support
of other secondary parties to gain a working majority which they almost
certainly cannot get by themselves this year. They ere therefore con-
sistent in opposing the return to the pre-1945 system.
While there is nothing undemocratic about the proposed system
it is, in comparison to the existing syatem, definitely adventageous
to the parties now in power, and unfavorable to minority repregenta-
tion and to women.
P. K. ROEST
Chief, Political Affairs Division

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.94)
DC/L
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
DC/R
FOR JAPAN
DIVISION OF
Tokyo, April 25, 1947.
ArFAIRS
RESTRICTED
No. 1000
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.00/4-2547
SUBJECT: Political Views of NOZAKA Sanzo and the Communist Party's
Plans for Coming Elections.
The United States Folitical Adviser has the honor to refer to
this Mission's despatch No. 936 of March 25, 1947, and to enclose a
copy of a memorandum dated March 10, 1947 covering an interview
between Lt. Col. P. K. Roest, Chief, Political Affairs Division,
Government Section of Generel Headquar ters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, and Nozaka Sanzo, Japan Communist Party leader, regard-
ing his politicel views and the Communist Party's plans for the coming
elections.
FE
001
Enclosure:
DClA
Copy of memorandum
CS/V
dated March 10, 1947, re
1C
Sanzo Nozaka's Views and
Plans of the Comnunist Party
110
for Coming Elections.
Original & hectogreph to Department.
800
DCBerger: mf

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 1000 dated April 25, 1947, from the
United States Political Adviser for Jepan, Tokyo, on the subjeet
"Political Views of NOZAkA Sanzo and the Communist Perty's Plans for
Coming Elections".
COPY
COPI
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Section
Political Affairs Division
10 March 1947
MEMORANDUM TO TIE CHIEF, GOVERNMENT SECTION
SUBJECT: INTERVIEW WITH NOZAKA
On 5 March 1947 at 1400, the Political Affairs Division staff
interviewed Nr. NOZAkA Sanzo in regard to his political views and
the Communist Party's plans for the coming elections. Because of
the basic nature of some of the questions discussed, a brief report
of the interview is hereby submitted.
Election Platform
NOZAK stated that since the April 1946 elect on the "democratic
revolution" has made great strides. Yet many remnants of feudal
power and conditions still remain. The Communist Party in Japan
desires to carry this denocratic revolution through to its completion.
For this reason it advocates in its election program:
1. A more thorough purge of per sons tainted with war-guilt.
Men like HIRANO (right-wing Socialist) should not remain unaffected
by the purge. Post-purge activities of men like HATOYAMA, and
appointing of "dummy" candidates by purgees should be stopped.
2. The whole governmental system must le democratized; the power
of the bureaucrats and cliques should be broken; bills should come
from the Diet not the Government; the central and local systems of
administretion should be changed as outlined in the program prepered
by the Union of Government Office Worcers.
3. The police system must be democratized. Local Police Chiefe
are to be elected. All ex-TOkkO per sonnel must be eliminated and
revival of the TOKko in any form must be prevented.
4. All fuedal remnants, both economic and political, in the
villages are to be eliminated. The tenancy system must be abolished;
all land not tilled by the owmer is to be nationalized, as well as
forests end uncultivated land.
5. All big industries should be nationalized, i. e. nationally
owned and operated.
A sixth point on the progrem, NozAka said, was not to be made
use of in the election campaign; this was "to amend the Constitution
so as to strip the Emperor completely of all political power, e. g.
the appointment of a Premier.
In connection with point 4, NOzakà was asked whether collective
farming would not be affected by this proposed measure of allowing
private title only to land tilled by the owner. He replied thet his
party

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 1000
April 25, 1947.
-2-
party advocated collective farming only on a small cooperative scale,
but considered collective farms of the Russian type unsuited for
Japan.
Asked whether he did not think the farmers were pretty well off
now. NOzaka replied that he thought this to be true for a small
minority only. He admitted that most farmers were still conservative,
and accused the Government of paving the way for farmer support of the
government parties by an increase in the price of rice.
Besic Policy
The Communist Party's first aim, NOZakA stated, was to complete
the democratization of Japan, sinultaneously taking one step towards
Socialism. For instance, it advocates the immediate nationalization
of all banks and other financial enterprises, and of such key
industries as coal, mining, transportation, electric power and
fertilizer. Yet this is not made into an election issue except as
a general principle (See 5 above); the first step only-national
control or management--will be advocated for immediate execution.
The next goal is the change from a seci-competitive democracy
to a fully socialist State. The ultimate objective is the trans-
formation from a socialist to a communist State.
Relation to the Socialista
Since both Communists and Socialists aim at a socialist State,
hat is the difference between them which keeps them apart," NOZAKA
was asked. "On paper," he replied. " there is no essential difference,
but the activities of the two perties differ widely." E. G. The
Socialists appr ove of the pre sent Land Reform Bill, but the Com-
munists say it is far fron perfect. The Socialists approved of com-
pulsory rice delivery last vear; the Communists opposed it. The
Socialists frown on strikes; the Counists support strikes "if they
are necessary."
Right Wing Socialists speak loudly of Socialism, but in practice
betray it by repeated compromise with capitalists. Nevertheless, the
two parties should cooperate in the effort to form a truly "demo-
cratic" government.
It was explained to r. NOZAka that in a democracy the capitalists,
being part of the people, are elso entitled to representation; whereas
he obviously used the word "democratic" in the sense of "laboring
class only." He seemed a bit startled at this revelation but admitted
that we used the word differently. When asked what he thought of the
necent elections in Poland he coyly remerked that he did not know since
he had "no reliable informeti on" on the matter!
Fundamental Differences between Socialism and Communism
NOZakA explained that before Japan's surrender the Communists
advocated armed revolution, while the Socielists chose parliamentary
ways. The Communists had no other cour se, NOZAkA said, because the
government ruthlessly suppressed them.
At present however, conditions are radically different. The
power of the militarists is broken, and the police has little oppres-
sive authority left; the organization of reactionary forces is rela-
tively weak. The Diet, once a mere debating society, is now to become
the supreme

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 1000
pr 11 25, 1947.
-3-
the supreme organ of State power. While therefore in the past there
was no chence to carry out a socialist program through parliamentary
means, there is now. Hence the Communists now favor the parliamentary
method of bringing about political, social and economic change,
and in this respect can join the Socialists. But there is one funda-
mental difference; the Socialists do not recognize the use of mass
action outside the Diet as a roper instrument, while the Communists
do. They use extra-parliamentary mass pressure, NozakA said, as a
necessary auxiliary weapon "because the Diet is still weak."
In Europe several countries such as France, Czechoslovakia,
Yugoslavia, etc. had now "democratic" governments. Such "people's
governments" are a new way of achieving a bloodless revolution.
Therefare if such a government can be formed here in Japan, establiah-
ment of a Socialist State in a peaceful way becomes possible.
This led to a question bcut Britiah Socialism. NOzAkA quickly
remarked thet Britain roves that the way of the Socialists is a way
of compromise and eventual defeat at the hands of vested interests.
In fact, he said, Socialism was not really carried out in any country
where Socielists were in control. So far only Russia has established
a true Socialist State.
Class Wer?
Since NOzak had indicated his disapproval of the "compromising"
attitude of the Socielists, an Australim story was related to him
of labor-bosses deliberately breaking up an industrial scheme for
labor-participation in stockholding, control and management, and
profits on the ground tlt "it destroyed the unity of the labor-front."
He was asked whether he would have held the same all-out class-war
view, and if so would still support it now. He replied in the
affirmative. We must have, he stated, a "democratic" front of workers.
farmers, intellectuals, small and medium industrialists, and "some
bigger ones." against the big finance and monopolistic capitalists.
This plan seemed to include a good deal more than the usual
proletarian masses on the "democratic" side. So NOZAka was asked
whether the front he proposed was not much farther to the right than the
"struggling masses" generally were supposed to form against the
whole employer class. He admitted this was so. Actually the fight
is only against the very top crust of capitalism: Zaibatsu, high-
finance, the "new-yen class" and the big black-marketeers, he explained.
Even the big firm of HIDACHI, he said, was on the labor side of the
battle.
Under these conditions the class-war of "workers" against "em-
ployers" begins to look very abstre ct and theoretical! It appears
more correct to say that Copmunists use strife as a means to gain
political power which it would take them a long time to obtain other-
wise.
Communist Relations Abroad
NOZAKA was asked in what respects the Japanese Communist Party
differed from the Communist Party in other lends. "The doctrine,
Marxism," he replied, "is everywhere the some. But the application
in each country is different, due to different conditions." In Yenan
for

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo' s No. 1000
Apri1 25, 1947.
-4-
for instance, there is no question of aiming at Sociali at presmt.
The people are far too backward for that. So Japan has its own needs
which the Japanese Communists try to meet.
"What about Russia," he was asked. "Ian't Russia helping the
Communist Party everywhere, including here in Japan," The answer was
a definite "No" as far as Japan is concerned. In the twenties, NozA
explained, there was definite ansistance given. Even as late as 1943
there was some contact, NOzakA himself being Japan's Communist
representative in Moscow. But it was weak due to police watchfulness,
and the distance involved. Since 1943 however there has been no contact
at all. Mr. Noble of the Saturday Evening Poet says Japanese
Communists get advice, money, etc. from Russia; but NozAxA avows thi
is not true. "We receive neither money nor political advice," he
stated, "simply because we do not need it; we know Japan best."
Thus Communist policy is applied as conditions require. For
instance: it is impossible to nationalize Japan's medium and small
industries now; hence "we want to help them" in their individual
struggle for survival.
Election Funde and Prospects
All Party campaign funds, NOZaka stated, come from individual
contributions. For the April elections a arive to ather ¥10,000,000
has just started. Only ¥130, O00 is at hand now. Candidates will be
given financial assistance as needed. The Party has already 170 can-
didates for the House of Representatives, 12 for the House of Councillors,
7 for Governor, and en undetermined number for other offices. It will
concentrate its greatest effort on the Eouse of Representatives election;
but local elections will not be neglected. There is a scarci ty of
candidates, however.
Candidates are sölected lergely by local recommendations. Those
for more important offices (Diet, Ken-governors, and big city executives)
are decided on by the Politburo of the Central Executive Committee; but
so far no candidate proposed by a local branch has been rejected.
The Communists will run candidates in all 53 districts this year.
In spite of the Social Democrats' refusal to cooperate, in several
districts local Socialist and Communist branches are on friendly terms
end will help each other regardless of Sociel Democratic Party Head-
quarter s' wishes.
The prefectures where the Communist Party is strongest were liated
by NOzAkA as follows, with the number of seats the Par ty "expects" to win:
Tokyo
10
Holakai do
9 or 10
Kanagawa
6
Negano
6
Osaka
5
Kobe
5
Northern Kyushu
5 or 6
Aichi
1
Total in 8 Ken
47 or 49
P. K. ROEST
Chief, Political Affairs Division

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
May 19
Encloses memo of inter-
view with Narahashi, atten-
ded by HB and written up
in ris circulated memos
of conversation. Somewhat
overtaken by events but of
interest if Narahashi should
he cleared. hile Chiizaki
and Ishiguro were just
cleared, Narahashi's and
Innkai''s cases are still
pending before the Appeals
Cormittee.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.94)
DCHL
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DC/N
Tokyo, April 25, 1947
RESTRICTED
No. 1001
SUBJECT: Interview with Narahashi Nataru Regarding Plans of Reorganiz-
ing Progressive Party Into the Democratic Party.
894.00/4-2547
1/
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a copy
of a memorandum dated March 31, 1947 prepared by the Chief of the
Political Affairs Division, Government Section of General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, covering an interview with
Narahashi Wataru concerning plans for the reorganization of the Progressive
Party into the Democratic Party.
Enclosure:
Copy of Memorandum, dated Larch
m hecto
31, 1947. concernin Narahashi's
Plans for eorganizing the
Progressive Party.
(10
Criginal and hectograph to Department
800
DCBerger:mm
m
S
V
2
FILED
023

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. l001 dated April 25, 1947 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo. on the subject "Interview with
Narahashi Wataru Regarding Plans of Reorganizing Progressive Party Into
the Democratic Party".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Section
31 March 1947
MEdO FOR: The Chief, Government Section
SUEJECT:
Interview with NARAlASHI Wataru
Introductory: At 10:30 A.M. on 29 March 1947 Mr. NARAHASHI Wataru was in-
terviewed by the writer on his plans in connection with the reorganization
of the Progressive Party into the Democratic Party (MINSHU-TO), scheduled
for today. It will be recalled that NARaHASHI was forced into political
oblivion after the failure of his efforts immediately following the April
ly46 election to form a new party composed of all middle-of-the-road members
in the House of Representatives. On 18 rebruary 1947 he announced his in-
tention to become active again in a new party movement, and on 6 march he
came out of his political "hibernation" (his own word) by joining the
Progressive Party. Immediately the talk of a new party (which had agitated
the Progressive ranks in rebruary but was repressed by Baron Shidehara) was
resumed. Strengthened by ASHIuA's transfer from the Liberal to the
Progressive Party, the latter decided on 26 March to dissolve in order to
make way for the new party which is now being inaugurated. In all this
NARAHASHI has been the driving force and the directing intelligence, by his
own statement.
At the interview NARAHASHI was accompanied by his interpreter HOSHIJ IMA.
Others present were Dr. Eorton from Washington, D. C., Dr. Williams, Miss
Kuwaye, and the writer.
Narahashi Outlines His Purpose: HaRAlLAsiI was his old vigorous, over-
confident self, and talked almost continuously. He began by stating his
purpose in renewing. now, his efforts to organize a party to the right of
the Socialists and to the left of the Liberals, which would act as a
"stabilizing force" in Japanese politics. The Progressive party was handi-
capped by its past, having lost the people's confidence at the outset by
losing most of its original personnel in the January 1946 purge. It could
get no labor support in its existing form, but its antipathy to some of the
recent Liberal policies and its endorsement of various "Socialist" proposals
(for at least emergeney use) made it the most suitable vehicle for the
realization of NARAHASHI's plans. A thorough overhaul and renovation were
required. So "like buying an old run-down building and getting to work on
its transformation," NARAlASHI said, he had joined the Progressive Party.
rekindled the suppressed desire for a change, enlisted ASHIDA's support to
get the most progressive Liberals behind him, enlisted the cooperation of
INUkAI who had long wanted to reneme the Progressive party, and was now
mapping out a program to get a reasonable amount of labor support for the
"new" party. With over a dozen People's Co-operatives and nearly all of the
Independent Ulub members willing to join. the projected "Democratic Party
of Japan," NARAHASHI mentioned, may become the first party even before the
coming election. (NOTE: Confirmed by events. 31 March 1947.)
With amazing aplomb NARAlLASHI recounted how HE had "put YOSHIDA at the
head

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 1001
April 25, 1947
-2-
head of the Progressive Party" last year to achieve a progressively
oriented conservative combination, but how YOSHIDA had succumbed to boss
rule," and SHIDEHARA had been "unable to control his party." so that the
reactionary elements in the conservative camp had become dominant and had
zlienated the working masses. This had led on the left to a dangerous
increase of Communist influence. Hence ASHIDA in the Liberal Party and
INUKAI among the Progressives had tried to bring about the dissolution
of these two parties and the formation of a new Conservative party "with
New Deal policies." Since they did not succeed NARAHASHI had come out
of his political exile and decided to use the Progressive Party as the
center of his activity. He was determined to develop it as the leading
political group in favor of "a modified capitalism," with moderate labor
unions and agricultural unions supporting it. The present government
parties are out of touch with the masses of the people and this dangerous
condition had to be remedied.
All political parties in Japan, NARAHASHI asserted, "lack the full
realization of defeat," which requires concentrated devotion to
REC NSTRUCTION and hence wholehearted cooperation between capital and
labor.
While ASiIDA's change-over from the Liberal to the Progressive Party
had depreived the former of all its attractiveness for liberal thoughtful
Japanese and was "worth many members" to the Progressives, the number of
Diet members was not the main issue, NARAHASHI said. The real question
was: "Can the new party get the support of the Japanese people?"
New Name, or Reorganization? NARAHASHI was asked why the projected "new"
party had not shown any intention to get rid of the "bosses" against which
the younger members had rebelled earlier in this year. He replied that he
fully realized this situation, but planned to "control these bosses" so
they would lose their power over the party. He would do this by bringing
in new party members from all strata of society, thus "making the party
truly a new thing."
He was reminded that so long as the organization of the party remains
oligarchic, bringing in new members would not help. He answered that he
was now drawing up a plan whereby officers of the party will be elected by
the rank and file, thus changing it into a democratic organ. He would
bring pressure to bear on the bosses and let the younger members express
themselves. Outside the party, he would organize many intelligent and
public spirited men to support it. Thus a far more democratic political
organization would be developed.
Within the party therc is opposition to his plans, particularly from
KWAI, HITOTSUMATSU. TAAA, and KIUA. To counter this opposition
NARAHASHI. ASHIDA and INUKAI ill organize the younger members. There was
no doubt in his mind as to who would be the real boss: "I shall come into
full control of the party in the near future, NARAHASHI said.
What to Do With Shidehara? NARAHASHI volunteered the information that the
greatest problem in the Progressive Party was how to control Baron SHIDEHARA.
In the new party he would devote special attention to this problem, because
he is "the only man in Japan who knows how to handle Shidehara." The secret
was "not to anger him, but to bring him around gradually to new ideas and
new

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
4
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 1001
April 25, 1947
-3-
new action." Shidehara's position in the new party had not yet boon.de-
cided. It would probably be settled by a general convention, but
NARAHASHI was in favor of making SHIDEHARA the party's "Senior Adviser"
and settling the ticklish question of the Presidency AFTER the election.
Presidential Possibilities: Apart from Baron SH IDEHARA, others have
been named as presidential possibilities for the new party. NARAHASHI
mentioned well-known candidates like SAITO, ASHIDA and even OZAKI, but
added another, SATo Naotake, one-time foreign minister, Ambessador to
France, and Japan's representative to the League of Nations, and now a
candidate for the House of Councillors. of OZAKI he said that in spite
of his age, this dean of Japanese parliamentarians fully understood him
and stood by him even during the storm of abuse which brcke over
NAPAHASHI last year.
Narahashi's Place in Politics: With NiShIo of the Social Democratic Party
NARAHASHI said he had a full understanding, although there was no complete
agreement on every issue. Although the Socialist Right Wing is in control
of the party, the Left Wing had recently captured control of most of the
local organizations. By seeking to win the support of "enlightened
labor groups, NARiASilI said, the new party would lay the foundation for
co-operation with the Social Democratic Party whose strength is also in
its labor support. The election would give no party a clear majority.
but place the new Democratic Party either first or second, under the re-
vised election scheme. This would necessitate a coalition government
in which the new party would have the balance of power, if not the primary
position. Without mentioning himself as a possible Prime Minister,
NARAHASHI quoted "old-timers" as stating, when he came back from his
political seclusion, that "NARAHASHI will control Japanese politics." So
fer things had gone well, he said. The situation demanded a strong man.
Japan's house had to be set in order before the signing of the peace
treaty. Stable. enlightened government with that task in mind was his
intention, the guiding principle in all his activities.
Conclusion: One cannot escape the impression that MARAHASHI is fully
convinced of being Japan's "man of the hour," the leader whose keen vision
and strength of purpose will being Japan back to an honored place among
the nations of the world. This sense of mission may somewhat explain an
egocentrism and conceit which would otherwise be intolerable. NARAHASHI
is unquestionably Japan's most vigorous political personality today. In
spite of his Lincoln-complex, and maybe because of it, he charges the
atmosphere with his confidence and decisiveness. He has galvanized the
sickly Progressive Party to new life, and within three weeks transformed
it into the most promising political party in Japan. If he can convey
his self-assurance to the Japanese people they will quickly overcome
their present malaise and et to work. His danger lies in over-eagerness
and over-strong self-assertion. Last year's failure taught him some
wisdom. vents will show whether the lesson was enough.
Pieter h. Roest
Chief, Political Affairs Division
Noted: C.L.K.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.80)
2may19
Enclozer recond
a mot very nt
eresting or uscortont
witen held on
2manch 13 regoning
progects for the
local eleitions
the Twonto orea.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DCIR
Tokyo, April 26, 1947
RESTRICTED
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIANAFFAIRS
No. 1004
MAY 111947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUEJECT: Interview Regarding Local Elections.
894.00/4-2647
1/
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a copy
of a memorandum dated March 13. 1947, prepared by the Chief of the
Iolitical Affairs Division, Government Section of General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Fowers, regarding local elections and
elections of Diet candidates from Tokyo Prefecture.
Enclosure:
1. Copy of Memorandum dated Liarch 13,
1947 re: Local lections and
Election of Liet Candidates from
Tokyo Prefecture.
Original and hectograph to Department
800
DuBerger:mm
CO
01
CN
Co
l0r3

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 1004 dated April 25. 1947 from the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeot =mter-
view Regarding Local Elections".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Covernment Section
Political Affairs Division
13 March 1947
LEIORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUEJECT: D.TERVIEW WITH OKUEO Tomejiro
In interview was held on 12 March with OKUBO Tomejiro, Liberal Party
whip and campaign manager for the Liberals in the Kwanto area, concerning
local elections and electicns of Diet candidates from Tokyo Prefecture.
Candidates for the Diet and Prefectural assemblies have not yet been
decided upon, although the names of NAKAJDMA Moritoshi and TAKEUCHI
Shigeo were mentioned in the newspapers last month as candidates for the
House of Representatives. Apparently, there is a great deal of behind-the-
scenes activity at the present time--not only between the Liberal and
Progressive Parties, which are planning close co-operation in the coming
election, but between the boss-dominated clique in the Liberal Party, led
by Secretary-General ON0, and the younger, more progressive-minded new
party faction, represented by SHIDA and YAvC.
Given the strength of the Social Democrats in the last election in
which they received over 900,000 votes compared to 850,000 for the Liberals
and 350,000 for the Progressives, plus the increasing dissatisfaction with
the Liberal regime in this predominantly industrial area, it is quite likely
that the Liberals now find it necessary to make a deal with the Progressives
in order to capture the covcrnorship. as well as to preserve their present
political strength in Tokyo. Evidence of this recognition of the necessity
to work together is the projeeted withdrawal of the three Liberal Party
candidates and the Progressive candidate for governer and the decision to
back YaSuI Seiichiro for re-election. Up to now YASUI, the present governor
and a stronc candidate, who had refused overtures fron the Social Democrats
to run on their party ticket, had indicated that he will run as an
Independent. Mr. HUEo stated, however, that YAsUI will shortly enter the
Liberal Party ranks and run as the Liberal Party candidate with Progressive
support.
Candidates for the Diet and Metropolitan assembly will not be announced
until the end of the month; 50 Liberal members of the Metropolitan assembly
met again on 12 March to continue discussions on this question.
OKUBo believes that the Liberals will not only retain their present
strength of 8 Lower House representatives from Tokyo-to, but will increase
their nunber to 9 to be elected from the 16 candidates who will run for
election to the House of Representatives (No figure vas mentioned for the
candidates to the House of ouncillors). In the case of the Metropolitan
assembly elections, the deal with the Progressives will, in his opinion,
result in e roster of 120 candidates (70 Liberals and 50 Progressives)
which will be supported by both parties. Expected to win are 50 Liberals
and 30 Progressives. which would give the two parties 80 seats out of a
total of 120 seats in the assembly.
Mr. OKUEO

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 1004
April 25, 1947.
-2-
Mr. OKUB0 indicated that ¥500,000 out of the Liberal campaign fund,
which is expected to total W15.00o,000. will be spent in the Tokyo area.
Party strength is said to be strongest in Setagaya, Oji, Koishikawa,
Omori, Kamata, Katsushika, Edogawa, Yodobashi and Kanda wards. It is
obvious that Liberal Party strength is greatest in the business districts,
wealthier residential areas, and in the country areas, such as Kita-tama,
Minami-tama, and Nishi-tama Gun, and islands included within the juris-
diction of Tokyo-to.
Questioned as to the party platform Mr. OiUBo stated that no special
appeals would be made to attract the Tokyo-to vote and that the national
platform based on broad general principles would be used by candidates
for local elections as well..Such slogans as "A free or a fettered economy?".
"Build or Destroy?", "All the people, or classes?" will be used When
pressed for specific details, he mentioned that the party advocated gradual
abolition of controls over the country's economy. With respect to commodi-
ties, controls would be taken off fish and vegetables but allowed to remain
temporarily on rice as well as on gasoline and coal. No special taxes are
contemplated for the "new-yen" classes. When questioned about the popularity
of the present Yoshida regime among Tokyo voters, OKUEo said he believed
that, except for the proletarian and Socialist elements, the mass of citizens
were in favor of the administration policies; that even Finance Minister
ISi IBASHI's policies were endorsed by between 60 and 70% of the Tokyo
population. "In that case," he was asked, "why did Mr. ISHIPASHI choose to
stand for election in Shizuoka Prefecture instead of Tokyo (where he was
defeated last year)? "Because Mr. ISaIEASllI's temple is now in Shizuoka."
Mr. CKUEO replied.
As far as the local elections are concerned, most of the present in-
cumbents who survive the purge will probably run either on the Liberal
Party ticket or with Party support, according to OkUBo. There is only one
possible purgee among the Liberal Party members in the Liet representing
Tokyo, he believes, but many headmen will probably be purged. Those that
remain are well known to the voters however. Smiling broadly, Mr. OKUBO
remarked that after all personalities, not platforms, will decide the
elections. Moreover the strongest asset of the Liberal Party appears to
be the large supply of funds available for use in the Tckyo-to elections.
Success in the elections will also depend to a great extent on how complete
the cooperation will be between the Liberal and the Progressive Parties in
an area where the governorship and many Diet and Metropolitan assembly
seats will probably be very closely contested.
P. K. ROEST
Chief, Political Affairs Division
Prepared by John K. McLean
Noted: CIK

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NCOMINGTELEGRAM
14-D
Action:
APR301947
Control
Info:
8/s
Uepertment of
U-E
Roo 'd
C
NORTHERST ASIAN AFFAIRS
A-3
A-H
APR 3 0 1947
SA/M
FROM:
Mosoov
DUR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OCD
TO:
Secretary of State
CIG
DC/L
NC:
1605, Tuenty-ninth
ITP
ESP
FRAVDA April 26 "or parliamentary elections 1n Japan" by
894.00/4-2947
OFD
M. Narkov reviews April elections, stating under new
C
constitution function of Chanber of Advisors is that of
OIC
brake on Lower Chawber.
PA
BUR/Z
"Preparations for present parliamentary eleotions were
DC/R
held clearly in haste. The elections were announced in
February 1umediately after General MacArthur had forbidden
general strike being prepared by Japanese trade unions. A
posont of special pressure on labor movement was considered
Ipvorable for holding new eleotions * what paths does
#euctionary Liberal Fsrty indioate for solution of oconomio
Grisis? This party is mostly poncerned to preserve Japan's
Industrial war potential. The Japanese Liberals ere strong-
1 campaigning for a rapid esteblishment or "business"
rolaticna with American capital, in order to obtain s loan
, USA for "restoration or Japan's economy" e eleotoral
program of another reactionary party - Demooratio (rocently
ossablished through merger of forwer Prcgressive Party
with several groups of Liberal Party) - differs in nothing
vItal from program of Liberals *** real eoonomic program
of Japanese resntionaries contemplates a further offensive
upon standard of living of Japanese vorkers while retaining
economio positione of tyccons of trade and industry. As
for domestic politioal program, it reduces fundawentally to
a struggle against Communists; they apply label Communist
to members of trade unions and to all democratio organiza-
tions generally *** reaotionery parties underutood that at
perliamentary electione demooratio forces would represent
a far more dangerous opponent than in oleotions of 1946
#** Japanese Communist Party alone has grown ten times as
large and nov has around 70, 000 members; membership of
Socisli
H
LAY 6
PLAIN
3
169
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.95)
PLAIN
-2-, 1605, Twenty-rinth, from Moscov
Socialist Party is around 65,000; and trade un1ons and
peasant unions bave almost 6,000, 000 members vorkers
employees and peasants. Deapite resolute protest of demo-
orntic parties, parliament on eve of its diesolution adopt-
ed amendments to elestoral lev vbioh restored old system
of "average" eleotoral distriots in whioh benobmen of
bourgoois - landlord parties who enjoy age-old politioal
end business ties in locelities and possess enormous funds
to be used for bribery, have more chance of elaotion eee
diasolution of Progressive Party end formation of "Minsyuto"
(Demoorotic) Party wae another maneuver of Japanese reaotion
deliberately saloulated for moat acute mcment in eleotion
campeign *s* Yoatida Government bes in every way assisted
reectionery camp during election campaign. One of forms
of suoh eid vas artiriolally to slow down purge, so Yoshide
bimself should heve been disqualified as a peraon closely
connocted with Japanese imperialistio fcreign polioy.
Jowever, be is looked upon as an extremely "suitable"
political rigure by those American ciroles whiob intend to
consolidate their vontrol over Japan and to use her as tool
in their expensionist plans. And ectually by all bis policy,
with every public speech Yoshida shows the American imperi-
aliet siroles that they have someone on whom to rely in
Japan, that Japgnese reastion is ready for sake of preserv-
ing its position, to transfore country into an Amerioan
proteotorete.
Alongside staging of vholeaale campaign of alander egainet
Communiet Purty ané demoora bio organizations Japanese
reaction hee not been squeewish in using other weans also
in elestion streggle. Thus in s number of prefeotures sots
of cerrer toolkr place against Comauniat candidatee and
egitators portseipe ting in elention cempaign seo clief tool
of demooratle forces against orslaught of resotion is to
atrengthen end broaden united demosretie front. Despite
refusal or Teaders of Bocialist Party to sooperete with
Communiste in election cempaign, in distriots a blos of
demooratis organisstions vas formed, inoluding Comunists,
Sooieliat,
wemcere of National Congreas of Industrial
Trade Union and Peasent Union. Main political slogena of
denocratie
camp vere:
Demoere ti etion of vountry and
eetabliahment
PLAIN

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.96)
PLAIR
-3-, 1605, Twenty-ninth, from Mosoow
esteblishment of peoples government, ummasking of maohine-
tions of resption dragging pountry beckwards to polise
purge of state anā public organizations of fasoist and
militeriut plements *e* demooratio parties, as was oase
also at recent oleotions of administrative organs, upmet
osloulations or reaction for complete victory which bed
been celebrated in advence. Thus in Chamber of Counselors
candidates of demooratic camp obtained 1/3 of all seets
and this in spite of fact that 50% of voters did not
participate in voting.
Department repeat Tokyo.
SNITH
Note: Repeated to Pokyo Apr1l 29, 7 p.m., CWO/FED.
DM:RB
PLAIN

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATT
THE SECRETARY
May 12, 1947
Mr. Secretary:
Mr. Vincent submits for
information a review of the
recent Japanese elections.
Mr. Acheson has seen this.
C. H. Humelsine
Executive Secretariat
CHH;djb
Attachment:

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
(EE)/m
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
m.Vinanl
TO
FE - Mr. Vincent
DATE: Apr1l 29, 1947
FROM NA - Mr. Allison
sUJECT: The Japanese Elections
The elections to the Japanese House of Representatives
894.00/4-2947
on Apr1l 25 returned 132 Liberals, 122 Democrats, 143 Social-
1sts, 4 Communists and 65 minor party representatives and
independents. Although the conservative Liberal and Demo-
cratic Parties, the parliamentary basis of the present
Yoshida Government, thus retain a working majority if they
continue to act together, the moderately leftish Social
Democratic Party has markedly improved its position. The
Communist Party lost two of the six seats it possessed in
the last Diet.
The elections to the new upper house of the Diet, the
House of Councillors, on April 20, returned 35 Liberals and
29 Democrats (out of a total membership of 250), plus 120
successful independent candidates of predominantly conserva-
(w
tive stamp. The Socialists with their increased popular
following achieved a plurality, winning 46 seats. The
Communists elected 4.
The character of the next Japanese government and
future course of Japanese politics would appear to depend
on whether the two conservative parties continue to work
together or whether the Democrats, some of whose leaders
are ideologically closer to the Socialists than to the
Liberals, decide to work with the Socialists. The Demo-
CS/ V
cratic Party holds the balance of power in the current
negotiations for the formation of the new Cabinet.
It is gratifying that the Japanese should have rejected
the extreme left even more decisively than a year ago, while
at the same time moving a step further away from the extreme
right. The Socialist pluralities in both houses of the Diet,
the third ranking position of the new right-centrist Demo-
cratic Party, and the poor Communist shov ng all indicate a
strengthening of the moderate right and leit over the extreme
right and left.
MAY 19 1947
a
C
An
NA:RAFearey:xa

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.92)
N
0NC
EMBASSY OF THE
UCD
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DR
London, May 2, 1947
AIR MAIL
U.CLASSIFIED
NO. 738
Subject:
: Transmittin ews Comnent on Japanese Election
DIVISION OF
OIC EUROPEAN AREA DIVISION
(ADE)
ADFAIRS
mw
JUN 6 - 1947
D0
MAY 11947
The Honorable
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1
Secretary of State,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington
1
Sir:
5-247
I have the honor to enclose copies of editorials
appearing in The Times and the Manchester Cuardian on
the subject of the Japanese elections.
The Times regards the election returns as a
triumph ror Japanese conservatives and as an unhappy
augury for the Future of democracy in Japan. The
Guaraian, on the other hand, interorets the election
thouth leavin: the "conservative parties in power."
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
ureu
C
Everett 
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosures:
1。
Clippiny from The 
Timos, Aoril 29, 1947
2.
Copy of editorial from the Guardian
April 28, 1947
Te dilochl dor DRF-stpan 620-47
(Original and four copies to Department)
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
EFDrumright/wg
B.AT.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
798 May 211947
P:PER:
THL TH
NUMBER:
29 IPR 1947
LO DON
DATE:
Democracy in Japan
April has been a month of elections in
Japan. It began with the choice by
popular vote of the prefectural governors
and heads of towns and villages; it con-
tinued with the polling for the House of
Councillors; and it has ended with the
elections for the House of Ropresentatives.
Broadly speaking, the nature and the
result of these three contests are hardly
reassuring to those who held that the
Japanese people would readily assimilate
western democracy when they were
afforded the opportunity of doing so. In
the election of governors and mayors
about half the total electorate, and more
than half of the newly enfranchised
women, did not trouble to go to the polls.
The left wing or progressive candidates
made a poor showing, and thirty-three of
the former prefectural governors, nomi-
nated officials though they were, obtained
large majorities. Similar apathy, with
comparable results, characterized the elec-
tions for the House of Councillors which
under the new constitution replaces the
old nominated House of Peers. The Social
Democrats made some gains, but on the
whole the conservatives triumphed, and
their control over the first popularly
elected Upper House that Japan has
known will be complete.. For the election
of the House of Representatives there was
a keener contest. The Social Democrats,
who formed the principal opposition to the
present Government, put forward a pro-
gramme of economic reform, including
State control over such key industries as
coal, iron and steel, and fertilizers. They
secured 143 seats, but the Liberals and the
Democrats, who rank as conservatives.
command 259 seats between them, and as
the Prime Minister is elected by a
majority vote in the Lower House of 466
a conservative administration is to be ex-
pected. The Communists have suffered a
decisive defeat all along the line, to which
the frankly critical attitude of the Allied
Command unquestionably contributed.
The result of these elections would no
doubt be taken as a symptom of political
stability in any country familiar with a
system of western democracy. In Japan,
accustomed to a totalitarian régime, the
readiness of the electorate to be content
with minor change is perhaps disquieting.
It confirms the fear expressed recently by
Dr. EvaTt in the foreign affairs debate at
Canberra that the persons responsible for
the past aggressions of Japan may not
have been effectively excluded from politi-
cal and economic infuence. Irrefutable
evidence has lately become available of
the deliberate refusal of the Japanese
Government to carry out allied instruc-
tions ordering a firm control of wages and
prices and an equitable rationing of essen-
tial commodities. There have been
évasions of the orders for ridding the

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
made a poor showing, and thirty-thrdo of
the former prefectural governors,"nomi-
nated officials though they were, obtained
large majorities. Similar apathy, with
comparable results, characterized the clec-
tions for the House of Councillors which
under the new constitution replacss the
old nominated House of Peers. The Social
Democrats made some gains, but on the
whole the conservatives triumphed, and
their control over the first popularly
elected Upper House that Japan has
known will be complete., Por the elzction
of the House of Representatives there was
a koener contest. The Social Democrats,
who formed the principal opposition to the
present Government, put forward a pro-
gramme of economic reform, including
State control over such key industries as
coal, iron and steel, and fertilizers. They
secured 143 seats, but the Liberals and the
Democrats, who rank as conservatives.
command 259 seats between them, and as
the Prime Minister is elected by a
majority vote in the Lower House of 466
a conservative administration is to be ex-
pected. The Communists have suffered a
decisive defeat all along the line, to which
the frankly critical attitude of the Allied
Command unquestionably contributed.
The result of these elections would no
doubt be taken as a symptom of political
stability in any country familiar with a
system of western democracy. In Japan,
accustomed to a totalitarian régime, the
readiness of the electorate to be content
with minor change is perhaps disquieting.
It confirms the fear expressed recently by
DR. EvATT in the foreign affairs debate at
Canberra that the persons responsible for
the past aggressions of Japan may not
have been effectively excluded from politi-
cal and economic influence. Irrefutable
evidence has lately become available of
the deliberate refusal of the Japanese
Government to carry out allied instruc-
tions ordering a firin control of wages and
prices and an equitable rationing of essen-
tial commodities. There have been
evasions of the orders for ridding the
administration of officials identified with
the policy of aggression; and in recent
meetings of the Allied Council the exist-
ence of something resembling a concerted
policy of passive resistance to the allied
occupation has been frankly admitted.
No doubt General. MacÁrthur is right
n believing that the Japanese people
cannot be expected to settle down to work
heir new constitution until a definite peace
s concluded and until their relations with
the outside world have been settled. At
the moment they hardly know where they
stand; and their reluctance, as shown in
the elections, to commit themselves whole-
heartedly to the uncharted waters of
democracy is understandable. The recent
decision to encourage the restoration of
Japan's external trade by invituing some
400 business men from allied countries is
a move in the right direction. If the
Japanese peopie can be convinced that
here is a prospect of restored commercial
relations with the outside world, they may
be encouraged to face the undoubted need
for an effective regulation of their internal
conomy. Equal opportunities must be
given to all allied countries in the restora-
tion of private trade. This requires the
early reopening of British banks. With-
out their facilities there can be no satis-
factory resumption of Anglo-Japanese
commercial relations.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 798 dated May 2, 1947,
from American Embassy, London, England.
Source:
Manchester Guardian
Apr11 29, 1947
JAPAN AT THE POLLS
In the Japanese election on Friday the Social
Democrats increased their strength in the Lower House
from 39 seats to 140. They thus replace the Liberals
as ths largest party, though the Liberals, with 137
seats, and the Democrats, with 124, still represent e
Right-wing majority. This slight shift from Right to
Centre has earned the paternal blessin of General
acarthur, who congratulated the Japanese on choosing
a "moderate course sufficiently centred from either
extreme to ensure the preservation of freedom and the
enhancement or individual liberty." The question is
whether the change will lead to a Government willing
and able to anhance the regeneration of Japan and
save her, in the first place, from social and economic
disaster. According to a correspondent of the "Neue
Zurcher Zeitung," the value of the yen, which was
recently reduced from fourpence to a penny, is now
little more than a farthing. Inflation has greatly
encouraged Japanese exports, but it has naturally also
sent the cost of living soaring. Strikos and general
unrest amon the workers are one result of this, though
one hardly sees their effect in the election results.
General MacArthur may well be relieveo that the Conunist
party, w ich polled a million votes last year, has not
made more round than it has. The covernment of r.
Yoshida has been so lax in maintainin  the firm control
of wages and prices required by the Suoreme Commander's
own directive that even the Supreme Conmander four weeks
ago folt bound to call his protege sharply to order.
The elections have left the Conservative parties in
power. hey will need something more dynamic than a
"moderate course" to deal with the oresent situation.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
798may2.1947
PAPER:
THE TIMES
NUMBER:
2 9 APR 1947
CITY:
LONDON
DATE:
Democracy in Japan
April has been a month of elections in
Japan. It began with the choice by
popular vote of the prefectural governors
and heads of towns and villages; it con-
tinued with the polling for the House of
Councillors; and it has ended with the
elections for the House of Representatives.
Broadly speaking, the nature and the
result of these three contests are hardly
reassuring to those who held that the
Japanese people would readily assimilate
western democracy when they were
afforded the opportunity of doing so. In
the election of governors and mayors
about half the total electorate, and more
than half of the newly enfranchised
women, did not trouble to go to the polls.
The left wing or progressive candidates
made a poor showing, and thirty-three of
the former prefectural governors, nomi-
nated officials though they were, obtained
large majorities. Similar apathy, with
comparable results, characterized the elec-
tions for the House of Councillors which
under the new constitution replaces the
old nominated House of Peers. The Social
Democrats made some gains, but on the
whole the conservatives triumphed, and
their control over the first popularly
elected Upper House that Japan has
known will be complete. For the election
of the House of Representatives there was
a keener contest. The Social Democrats,
who formed the principal opposition to the
present Government, put forward a pro-
gramme of economic reform, including
State control over such key industries as
coal, iron and steel, and fertilizers. They
secured 143 seats, but the Liberals and the
Democrats, who rank as conservatives,
command 259 seats between them, and as
the Prime Minister is elected by a
majority vote in the Lower House of 466
a conservative administration is to be ex-
pected. The Communists have suffered a
decisive defeat all along the line, to which
the frankly critical attitude of the Allied
Command unquestionably contributed.
The result of these elections would no
doubt be taken as a symptom of political
stability in any country familiar with a
system of western democracy. In Japan,
accustomed to a totalitarian régime, the
readiness of the electorate to be content
with minor change is perhaps disquieting.
It confirms the fear expressed recently by
DR. Evatr in the foreign affairs debate at
Canberra that the persons responsible for
the past aggressions of Japan may not
have been effectively excluded from politi-
cal and economic influence. Irrefutable
evidence has lately become available of
the deliberate refusal of the Japanese
Goverament to carry out allied instruc-
tions ordering a firm control of wages and
prices and an equitable rationing of essen-
tial commoditics.
There have been
evasions of the orders for ridding the
administration of officials identified with

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
reassuring to those who held that the
The left wing or progressive candidates
made a poor showing, and thirty-three of
the former prefectural governors, nomi-
nated officials though they were, obtained
large majorities. Similar apathy, with
comparable results, characterized the clec-
tions for the House of Councillors which
under the new constitution replaces the
old nominated House of Peers The Social
Democrats made some gains, but on the
whole the conservatives triumphed, and
their control over the first popularly
elected Upper House that Japan has
known will be complete. For the election
of the House of Representatives there was
a keenei contest. The Social Democrats,
who formed the principal opposition to the
present Government, put forward a pro
gramme of economic reform, including
State control over such key industries as
coal, iron and steel, and fertilizers. They
secured 143 seats, but the Liberals and the
Democrats, who rank as conservatives.
command 259 seats between them, and as
the Prime Minister is elected by a
majority vote in the Lower House of 466
a conservative administration is to be ex-
pected. The Communists have suffered a
decisive defeat all along the line, to which
the frankly critical attitude of the Allied
Command unquestionably contributed.
The result of these elections would no
doubt be taken as a symptom of political
stability in any country familiar with a
system of western democracy. In Japan,
accustomed to a totalitarian régime, the
readiness of the electorate to be content
with minor change is perhaps disquieting.
It confirms the fear expressed recently by
DR. EvArr in the foreign affairs debate at
Canberra that the persons responsible for
the past aggressions of Japan may not
have been effectively excluded from politi-
cal and economic influence. Irrefutable
evidence has lately become available of
the deliberate refusal of the Japanese
Government to carry out allied instruc-
tions ordering a firm control of wages and
prices and an equitable rationing of essen-
tial commodities. There have been
evasions of the orders for ridding the
administration of officials identified with
the policy of aggression; and in recent
meetings of the Allied Council the exist:
ence of something resembling a concerted
policy of passive resistance to the allied
occupation has been frankly admitted.
No doubi General MacArThur is right
in believing that the Japanese people
cannot be expected to settle down to work
their new constitution until a definite peace
is concluded and until their relations with
the outside world have been settled. At
the moment they hardly know where they
stand; and their reluctance, as shown in
the elections, to commit themselves whole-
heartedly to the uncharted waters of
democracy is understandable. The recent
decision to encourage the restoration of
Japan's external trade by inviting some
400 busness men from allied countries is
a move in the right direction. If the
Japanese people can be convinced that
there is a prospect of restored commercial
relations with the outside world, they may
be encouraged to face the undoubted need
for an effective regulation of their internal
economy. Equal opportunities must be
given to all allied countries in the restora-
tion of private trade. This requires the
early reopening of British banks. With-
out their facilities there can be no satis-
factory resumption of Anglo-Japanese
commercial relations.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.67)
? udeatrvy
thant py
for the sdectione
dthe Sovernment
Seton. Tos tald
2.t acful
.
1

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.78)
Jtt
6 May 1947
DIVIION OF
r. John B. Amleton
NORTHEAST ASIA
Pivision of pes areh for Par hest
feparti ent of strte
JUN1 194
Warington  D.G.
Foar :r. A.rleton:
AENT OF STATE
I poouivad today youe lrtter  slhing for tore esecific informal
rorot t  tre xlioit in
            ul
P viatory as vclitiocl libegeliem
t t
 ppested in
ro Cor coh
 n
y for n
C..
8
2
tii
Tde he
cuter-
894
Sorely your,
John ETurner
ohn . vurmer
227 C 8TH AVE SE
MPLS 1+, MINN.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.83)
MAY 15
PERRONAL
094.00/017
by doar . lurer:
I have received your lotser of May 6, in whiok yon out-
limed in more detail your subjeet for your . theaim. It
appears from your letter that yom are familier with all ths
Engliahmlanguege paterials which bear upon your mubjest. I
preaume that you will also comsult the Japam Times and
Advertiser and the Cuaka kaimlanl, bngllmh Káltion, in ad-
AItlen to the Japen Weekly Chromlele. The last is the bost
newopsper sveilable Ia kngllah, but the other papers may supe
plement your materials on specifis points.
The materials available in ngliah mre extremely limited.
and, simee I semume thet you are not coutemplating the use ef
Japemase language matorialo,  en not ineluding any bibliegra-
pky of these materials.
I trust this will moet your needs.
Youse eincorely,
Joho b. Appletco
livision of hesearch
for rsr ost
Ar. Jom i er
227 C 8h vou.3
Mimnoapolis 14.
V8/ fo AE
DRF , JBApPlet 
/15/47

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
NAE
FOR JAPAN
54K
Tokyo, May 14, 1947
xeip ple
CIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAU
NCLASSIFIED
ECUNOMIC AFFAIRS
No. 1037
9947n
SUBJECT:
Hand Book Used by Military Government Teams During Japanese
Diet Elections, April 1947.
894.00/5
1/
The United States Political dviser has the honor to enolose three
copies of a mimeographed pamphlet, entitled "Hand Book and Laws for
yR
Japanese Diet Elections, April 1947", 1ssued by the Government Section
of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
Chapter One of the pamphlet contains an introduction and an ex-
planation of the responsibilities of Military Government Officers and
teams observing national campaigns and elections during April 1947.
Chapter Two contains a brief sunmary of Japanese election machinery.
including qualifications for candidacy and voting, campaign rights
and restrictions, voting and tabulating procedures, supervisory pr
cedures and methods of reporting campaign expenditures.
Attention is invited to Chapter Three of the pamphlet, which
contains an English translation of the texts of the "Law for the
Election of Members of the House of Representatives", and the "Law
for the Election of Members of the House of Councillors". Chapter
Four contains the more important ordinences and instructions per-
taining to national elections.
0 125
Enclosure:
ESP
1。
Three copies of "Hand Book
and Laws for Japanese Diet
A/MJS
Elections, april 1947"
issued by Government Section,
General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers.
G7
Original and ozalid to the Department.
800 Elections
RHBushner:vr
HeR

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.95)
General Headquarters
Supreme Commander For The Allied Powers
Government Section
5 1947
HAUD BOOK AND LAS
for
DIPE LECTIONS
APRIL 1947

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Suggestions for Observers.
.1
Outline of Election Procedures.
Diet Election Laws
.12
House of Representatives Election Law.
.39
Miscellaneous Source Materials
Ordinance Concerning Publicity
on Election Expenses..
。70
Law Concerning Special Registration
Prior to April Elections...
.79
Ordinance Concerning Limitation on
Use of Posters, etc.
.82
Crdinance Concerning Absentee Voting.
86
Excerpts from Ordinance Concerning Publication
of Names of Candidates, etc.
.88
Indexes to Diet Election Laws
House of Councillors Election Law.............
.91
House of Representatives Election Law.......
.94

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
Chapter One
Suggestions for Iilitary Covernrent Officers and
Teans Observing National Car paigns and Elections
As vith the fortheor ing lccal government elections, the
pending elections for Dict nei bers ineugurate a new and high-
ly significant phase ef Japanose political life. These will
be the first elections in Japanese history in which "enbers
of the Upper House will be chosen by the populace, the first
national elections which have been supervised by representa-
tives of the people rather than y the povernnent, the
first post-war elections in which there has been a clear-
cut distinction betwcen the partias in power and a recog-
nized opposition, and, of course, the first elections for
a Dict which under the terns of the nev Jonstitution will
become "the highest organ of state power" and "the sole law-
making orran of the stete."
In view of this historic inportance and of the naterial
influence which such electicns will e ert toward that re-
vival and strenethening of der ocratic tendeneies which forns
a requirenent of the Potsda Decla aticn, it is i perative
that the corins elections be so conducted as to ensure a
free and positive expression of the will of the Japanese
people. Assurance of such elections thus econes a major
resbonsibility of the Cccupation Forces.
Tre Japanese eloction laws erd ordinances provide
adequate nachinery for fair and inpartial electiors and
spring fron many years of eyperienee. Thouch sone prov-
isions may seer inadequate by "e: ten standards and others
may appear to inpose unnocessary restrictions, all have been
carefully worked out and not only ombrace but also regulate
faniliar Japanese custo s and oractices. If Japanese offi-
cials, thorefore, faithfully exacute the provisions of these
lavs, the desired type of eleetion can be assured.
Hovever, in the past, despite efforts to ensure fair
electio s, local ad: inistrotiva officials, rostly in con-
junction with the denires and ishes of the central govern-
ment, have frequently abused their euthority. Frefeetural
governors and police under their control have at tires in-
timidated opposition candidetes, coereed voters, falsified
returns, cornitted or tailed to punish Praudulent and co-
ercive practices, and by there and other devices used their
positions to influence the outcore of elections. In order,
therefore, to fulfill properly his duty of surveillance,
each Military Governnent Officer will need to be especially
watchful of the following coereive prectices.
(1)
Privileces pranted to favored cendidates.
(2)
Unlawful exclusions fron the registration lists.
(3)
Interference by police or governrent officials
with legal campairning.
(4)
Efforts of either najor or petty oolitical nach-
ines to buy votes vith bribes of scarce cormodi-
ties or cash.
(5)
Excessive carpaign expenditures, in cash or kind,
or failure to report campaign cxpenditures. Fail-
ure of officials to publicize carpaign expendi-
tures.
(6)
Excessive contributions by individuals.
(7)
Interference with access to the polls or vith
free and secret voting.
(8)
Denial of legitirate candidac'; illecal candidacy;
evasion of the purge ordinances. Failure of
proper officials to rake purge questionnaires
availablc for public inspection.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
2
(9) Dishonest tabulation or reporting of results.
(10) Failure of authorities to prosecute violators.
(11)
Use of violence, threats of violence, or other
intimidation.
(12) Use by school teachers, school officials and
members of educational associations of students
below the are of twenty who are pre: ently under
the tutelage or influence of the aforementioned.
(The purpose of such a prohibition is to prevent
a candidate fron taking advantage of his special
relationship with school children and using ther.
in a ca pairn).
(13)
Efforts of any individuals or roups--landlords,
labor unicn leadorr, erployers, cte.--to utilize
econonic pressure to influence voters.
To assist officer: and elec ion tears entrusted with
surveillance of the forthcomin political canpeifns and
lections, the followin surrestions have been prepared.
Adherence on your part as i iliter Governrent offiecrs to
these recorrendaticns will eid meesurebly in obteining the
fair and irpartial elections which the overnnents of the
Occupyinr Powers desire.
1. Study end exemine cerefully the provisions of the
two laws which control the election of nerbers of the Diet:
Law for the Election of ombers of the House of Represent-
atives and Lav for the Election of I sbers of the House of
Councillo"s. Fa: iliarizo yonrself vith the provisions of
the ordinances and instructions which irolerent these laws.
Chapter Three of this publication includes the tes ts of the
two pertinent laus and Chapter Four the Lost i oortant of
the applicable ordinanees end instruetions.
Each office" should heve a workinr  nowledre of election
nachine y, qualifica ions for condidacy nd votipg, campairn
rirhts and restrictions, votinr and tabulatin crocedures,
supervisory procedures, rethods of roporting crpenditures,
and punitive provisions. These points ere su rarized brief-
ly in the following chapter.
2. Hold conferenees with the irportant officials of
the prefectures and of as nany cities, towns, and villages
as possihle. There ave two sots of officials cencerned:
a. The Election Ad. inistration Cormittees of the
prefectures, cities, torns, ville es, and Tokyo vards (also
referred to in sonc Japanese transleticus as "Commission for
Overseeing" the clections) have prinary urisdictior over
the campai-ns and the elcctions, the preraetural comrittees
supervising the activitics of all othors.
Recause the con-
nittees have leral co trol of campaigns and elcctions and
because they aro new arencies of "overnmont, it is inpera-
tive that their importance and prestice be developed as rap-
idly as possible. Each I ilitary Covernment officer and team
will therefore be ospecially careful to recornize this new
state of affairs and to indicatc to all executives and to
the committee his clear understanding of and insistance upon
the supremacy of the corrittee in clection affairs.
b. The fovernors, mayors, and chiefs of local en-
tities are the lesal aduinistrators of their areas of govern-
ment and therefore have certain responsibilities with respect
* A national election administration cornittee also sits in
Tokyo, but its powers over prefectural committees extend
only to the electicn of rembers of the House of Councillors
fror the national constituenev

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.95)
to canpaigns and elections. These cxecutives control the
police, have authority to assign minor officials to assist
in various capacities, and possess experience which may be
useful.
At the initial conferences, at least, it is surgested
that the whole corrittee and the overno", rayor, or chief.
(dependinf upon which echelon is bein" contacted) be pre-
sent in order that the sare information can be riven to all
concerned at the :a e ti: e. These officials should be ad-
vised of:
(1) The i po tance attached by the Suprere Com-
nonder to the absolute nocessity of a co plately free and
fair eloction as one of the sirnificant rsthods of achiev-
ing the aims of the Potsdam Declaratien.
(2) The fact that personnel under your command
will cbserve the adr inistration of olection laws from the
inception of the first car pairn until the results of the
last clcctions are rade public and thot you will insist on
conscientious and se upulous enforce ent of the election
lews and ordinances and their punitive provisions.
(3) Your in ention of exercicir- extensive sur-
veillance on clection day in particulax.
(4) Your intention of utilizinr all available
channels of inforntior to ncoure e the Japanese public
to report lirectly to you all violations op ths eloction
laws, as well as all violatious of civil or perconal lib-
erties, whether by candidates or by officials, in which Jap-
anese authorities bove failcd to tako pecessary action.
(5) Your dot uinstion vot to intorfere with the
ad inist ative responsihility of the appropristc officials
and your int ntion of reforring to the for  cir action
all corplaints which er. brorcht to your attention, mean-
while follovin- clorely the final disposition of all such
casCS.
(6) The fact that publicity on the entire prorran
will be stressed to the utr cet both hy re tio and the press.
In this corneetis , it chorld he poted thet the voting
districts as dictincuished fron the elsctien dictricts for
all Japanese eloctions being the se: a, the se. e clection
administration cor ittees nd the seré local chiof exccu-
tives are conearned with all olections, both local and
national, held in any civen cistrint. It is therefore de-
sirable te discuss both local and national sleetiens at the
sane tire.
3. Hold confvrences vith ereentives of olitieal
parties and as many candidates as possible. Instruct ther
carefully in the points suummariz d in porarran: 2 above.
I ake it crystel ciea thet all viol tions vil? be punli-
cized extensively by efficiel siatrrents, neuspeper artieles
and the radio and thet Occup: tion sorees will follow to
their ultimete disposition all cas:s in which Japanese of-
ficials have not fulfilled thcir duties. At such cenferenees
each officer must of necessity be oxtrci ely cautious not to
be put in e position of criticizing or of taking sides with
parties or cendidates cither dircctly or indi cctly.
4. In connection with the abe e hear ell co pleints,
brou ht to your attcntion, record them cer fully, and vefer
valid ones to the app opriats Japaneso authorities for action.
Follow with all precticable speed the final disposition of
such cases. Renort to SCAP by the quickest means aveilable
3

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.94)
4
all serious violetions or otho" malpractices, whether or
not they aro corrected by Japanese officials.
5. In connection with all these issues, pay especial
attention to the at'erpts of covernmental officials to ob-
tain control of political parties, women's orga izations
youth rroups, end the like, cither by geining appointment
as advisors or honorary officers or by oroviding govern-
rental subsicies. Unless they are bona fide I enbers of such
orranizations and have been duly clected to office, fovern-
rent officials shonld not sct as officers or arvisors.
Neither shorld the orranizations be suhsidized in whole or
in part by covernnental entities or offices.
6. lein ain corplete records of your activities in
this surveillanee prorran end report ther ronthly in the
routine Vilitary Occuparion Roport cccording to the head-
inrs listcd below:
2.
Activitics of local officials end police.
O.
ajor parties and candidates.
(1) I eetines and carpairn practices.
(2) Outstending arrumen's and platforrs.
c. Extent of local interest in the carpaign and
the attitudes of  ajor groups and orranizations: labor,
business, "cligious, a ricultural, cooprative or professional.
d. Surrary of areas visited end contacts with Jap-
anese officials.
e. Co plcints nd other evidonce of delincuencies,
ralp actices, and ot r violations of the eleetion levs, in-
cludirs those oroviourly reportad to scap by othe  cans.
Report on the icporition of hese by Japan se officials.
f. Criticisrs o" incicen s cn uf ered by the allied
prorrer of surv illance, ss previously re er ed to SCAP.
The categories listed above will of course be oxpanded
because vach surveillcnce team will casire *o include the
unpredictable items uhich it ill vota. In addition, cor-
olatoe suurary roports for cach elcction by or fectures, de-
tailin- the orogress of the entire car pairn and election,
should he forwarded to SCAP, via norral channels, vithin
two wecks after each election is corpl ted. har le summary
roport fors fo" use in this connection have lready been
7. fear  pp szarien and its a me for contact nd sur-
voillence must be planned, schcduled and coordinated rost
earefully. T.er co. position of ons offic r, an onli: ted nan
and en inteppretar es ured in the ne tionc 1 slections last
Lerch end april wes succer sful and cen le sat up arein. The
tears should perforr as a functienine unit, h nee, cach rust
have instruetions on courses of action and proper co duet
before entering the field. Detailed edv-nce plannins, in-
cludins lea ning and plotting the locntions of pollin places
and ballot countin  st tions, is an cssential prolude to
eleetion day. On olection day obsorvs es many polling sta-
tions es is practicsble. Repeat visits at least twice.
Ballots will be counted in the evomind of alection day and
the followin deys until finisheds stations in which the
countinr t kes place shenld also be obsorv d at least twice.
2. above all, renerber that it is ensentiel that throuch-
out the canpaien a policy of strictest inpartiality must be.
scrupulously raintained. Allied perronnel rust not porticipate
* It should be noted that the national and local elcetions,
added to ther, vill require submission of five sumrary re-
ports, one for cach plection. Tmo fores are involved; one
was distributed with tho cor and ins ructions for local elec-
tions and the other vith the national slections cornend in-
structions.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
in the carpaign. They are obsarvers only. Nothing in
their word or in thoir behaviour should be pe mitted to
indicate prefaronce for or discri ination arainst any party
or candideto no rattor how great nor how lowly the position
involved. Any incident which ray embarrass the Occupation
Forces and any criticisn of the be'aviour of the Occupation
Forces must be reported im: edictely to SCaP. This is a Jap-
anese election under Japanese laws and execution rust be
carried out by Japanesc officials. In no case may you inter-
fere with the administretive authority of the e officials.
Your duties ? c (1) to obse ve '2) to refer violations to
Japanese officisls following action to final cisposition,
and (3) to roport to hicher puthority.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
6
Chapter Two
Outline of National Election Procedures
The forthcoming national elections involve all seats
in the Diet -- 466 in the House of Renresentatives and 250
in the House of Councillors. All members of the House of
Representatives vill be elected from sub-prefectural dis-
tricts,* 150 members from the House of Councillors will
be elected from prefectural districts, and the remaining
100 members of the uprer Fouse will be elected with all
Japan considered as a single electoral district. In all
elections, however, voting districts and ballot counting
districts are the same, anc coincide vith those used in
the local government elections.
The laws, ordinances, and instructions which control
the Diet elections are substantially the sare for both
the House of Councillors and the House of Representatives
elections, variations stemming from differences in the
corporate structure of the two bodies rather than from an
attempt to establish separate stondards. As a matter of
fact, the laws ere so similer that it would have been
entirely possihle to hold the two elections simultaneously,
with the same electorate and using the same election reg-
isters, the same polling stations, the same officials, the
same ballot boxes, etc. In viev of the imnortence of the
present elections, hovever, and of the heavy work load in-
volved in screening the purge uestionnaires of the candi-
dates for the two Wouses, it was decided to serarate the
elections this vear, though in future years, should election
dates again coincide, it may well be that a single election
will be held to elect members of hoth Houses. n Arril 20,
therefore, each Tapanese voter will cast one vote Por a
member of the umnper House from his precec ural constituency
and one vote for a member of the upner "ouse from the
nation at large. On Anril 25 each voter vill cast one vote
for members of the "ouse of Representatives from the
electoral district in which he lives.**
Election aw excerrts (see Chapter Three) contein
detailed inforvation on Diet elections. Priefly, however,
the laws provide as collows:
VO S
ith a few excertions all Jaranese citizens
in the locality in which they have resided for at least
six months.***
In addition, all repetriates othervise
The 46 prefec ures are divided into a grand total of
*
117 election districts: The remaining thirty-nine
form electoral districts in themselves.
**
Although each voter will cast only one vote for a
candidate from the electoral district in which he
lives, the number of candidates to be elected from
each electoral district varies from 3 to 5.
***
In certain instances individuals vho have moved from
their usual domiciles are recognized as having a
residual right to vote in the place of their usual
domicile. Hovever, the individuals are nermitted to
vote in only one of the two districts in which they
possess the right to vote and prior to the election
must indicate their preference.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
eligible to vote are released from the six months require-
ments.* Exceptions in both instances include individuals
who have been declared incompetent or quasi-incompetent or
who are serving jail sentences.
Eligibility for voting, however, is not automatic but
is contingent upon the appearance of an individual's name
on the poll books of his voting district or upon his pre-
sentation, on election day, of a court certificate directing
that his name be added to the list of voters.
Since polling districts are the same for all elections,
national and local, and since voting requirements for all
elections are substantially the same, the same poll books
with minor exceptions, are used for all Japanese elections.
Tapanese law provides that the poll books must be completely
checked once each year, commencing with September, with ad-
ditional registration provided for prior to each election,
to permit recistration of individuals newly meeting such
eligibility reguirements as age, etc. Polling lists are
available for inspection prior to each election to permit
complaints and readjustments, and are therefore considered
as final on election day.** Other than by court order, there-
fore, no individval may vote on election dav if his name does
not appear in the polling list of his election district.***
CANDIDATES. In general, any Tapanese citizen vith the
right to vote who meets age requirements and has been passed
by a purge committee is eligible for candidacy for the Diet.
Hovever, judges, public procurators, governmert auditors,
election and revenue officials, and police officers in active
service must resign before they are eligihle for candidacy.
Officials of rational and local governments, as well as mem-
bers of local assemblies, ray not concurrenfly hold seats
in the Diet. Candidacies for the House of Councillors must
be filed at least 20 days before election -- candidacies
for the House of Renresentatives at least 7 days before
election.****
Candidates may not run for more than one seat in the
same House at a tine: candidates for the House of Council-
lors must be 30 years of age and those for the House of
Representatives 25. No residence requirements are imrosed,
permitting candidates to run from any electoral district
they wish.
*
This provision applies only to elections for members
of the Diet. Six months residence is still required
of all electors in the local elections.
**
For the Anril elections the period of registration
extended from ipril 5 to 10, and the period of in-
spection from pril 14 to April 16. pril 10 served
as the bey date for determination of age, rosidence,
and similar requirements. (2nd Supnlemental Registration).
In certain special instences a provisional ballot may
be cast -- as on the assumntion that he might reccive
the court order later in the day.
****
In case of the death or withdrawal of candidates ater
these dates, new nominations may be filed up to l0 and
2 days prior to the respective elections.
7

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
8
The normal torm of office for membors of the House of
Councillors is 6 yoars, with half of tho seats expiring
every 3 years. However, in the present clection, half of the
seats at stake will bo considered as six year seats and half
as threc. Tho top 50 percont based on total number of votes
of the vinning candidates in cach clectoral district will
thus reccive 3 year terms: the romaining' 50 percent will re-
coive 3 year torms. Stated torm of office for all merbers
of the House of Representatives is 4 years, though the lower
House may be dissolved prior to that time and a new clection
required, as in the present instance.
ELECTION CAMPAIGNS. As rointed out in Chapter One,
Japanese clection lavs provide for stringent rogulation of
clection campairns; the grave problcm is not the substance
of the law but its onforcement. Strict limitations are
placed on the amount of money that may be snent and the ways
in which it may bo spont nor may candidates carry on house
to house canvassos for votos.* Campaigns may not bo oponed
until candidacies have been filed. Limitations are placed
on the usc of camnaign lotters, posters, and the like. Can-
didetes must report at stated intervals during the campaign
on their cxronditures to date -- this information then being
mado public. However, candidates will be pormittod to send
post cards frce of charge to clectors in their constituencios
and may also utilize public schools and other buildings for
their campaign meotings.
:Election bulletins, providing information about the can-
didates, are published by the prefoctures and distributed.
Names of all candidatos vill also bo posted in a conspicuous
place before the election, preferably at the entrance to a
polling place. Dotails of all those roints will be found
in the laws.
SUPERVISION OF ELECTIOF. In the past Japanese clections
have been supervised by local executives: governors, mayors,
and headmen. In the fortheoming olcctions, for the. first
time in history, clcctions will he supervised by speciel com-
mittoes, clected by local logislaturos and responsible for
the supervision of all clcctions, national or local, which
are held in their creas of rosponsibility, which, with rare
excoptions, coincide with the boundries of local entities of
government. In cach local entity an olcction administration
committee has already been chosen, responsible to the public
at .large and chareed vith supervision of all olections con-
ducted in its arce of jurisdiction. Each city, town, villago
and Tokyo ward thus has a committee which exercises, on its
own account, immadiato control over clections in its own
locality, under tho general supervision of prefectural com-
mittoes. Prefoctural committecs hav six mombors, including
a chairman; others have four. ** The method of clecting
Expenses tor mombers of the Houso of
Councillors from the national constituency may
bo
75, 000 yen and 50, 000 yen would bo set as a
limit for candidates Por the House of Councillors from
prefectural constituoncies and for candidntes for the
House of Reprosontatives.
**
A special national committco, sitting in Tokyo, is ros-
ponsible only for the sunorvision of the clection of
members of the Housc of Councillors from the national
.constituency, and will operate through the cxisting pro-
fectural committoes. Tho national committce will con-
sist of ten members of the Uppor House, clocted from
among the mombership of that House.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.92)
committoes perrits bipartisan momborship; a committec must
meet at tho roquest of any momber. All complaints regard-
ing cloctions are normelly mado, in the first instance, to
the committee. These committecs vill have supervised their
first olections on April 5th (in thc voting for local chiof
executives) and by the time of the Diet clections the com-
mittees, althoush still somo that irexporieneod, will have
alrcady gainod a fair amount of experionce in supervision.
EL CTIOM PRocEDans. Bloction procedures on the voto
casting and ballot countirs levols are the sane or cll
Dict cloctions, sinct tho sar voting and counting districts
are uscd for ail clections. It is only at the higher, or
tabulatina lovels, that procedures vary somowhat, in viow of
the varying sizes of the clectoral districts and of the num-
bers of individunls to bo elccted. In is conn etion it
might also bs pointod out proecdures or Dict elections are
substantielly tho s, as for local ol ctiors, so that knov-
ledge of procedue s Cor one class of cloction vill serve as
besic kmovledge Por oll.
Inder th. s marel sur pwisien of the respective clection
administration conmittees, clcctions in ccch local entity
are dir ct-d by a sunorintendent (or chairran) of clections,
chosen by the coeritte. The sunarintondent, in turn, is
assisted by superirtundents of the rolls and polling wit-
nesses, supecint reents of the countine of bellots and br llot
counting witn sses, ond cleetion witnesses.* In goneral,
these officials u roquired to possess the richt to vote
in the particul  loctior which they ar sunervising.
With miner excentions, cach city, tom, villuge, or
ward constitutes a votine distriet, hich may ineludc one
or more polling lnccs.
Each rolliny py e has a sun rint ndent of the poll,
a nurber o? polling mitnras s (vetchers) crnointed by the
candidates.** Eeh   to bas the picht to norinate one
polling witness at cech volling nlec:.
onevee the number
of witnecses pomirateg cor any volliny place xce as tan,
the witnesses se et tun feom weone thear om muoher. If
the number calls balor threu, the suporint ndent may appoint
a registerod voter as vitness.
The suporirtendent and the otfictele ore noutrel: the
polling witnesses  t dir et oprs nteti es or the can-
didates end enjoy the nerral prurorativ s of challunge, ete.
All decisions ere mee by th: sup mrirtondent of  te poll,
with the advico of the polline vitnoss s: challensed baliots,
in respect to vhich no im diat i cisicn is r cch d, are
placed in onyelopes vith the veters name parked thoroon and
later cither countea or disccraed.
*
Alternates are also named for all positions other then
witnosses.
The term "suporintendont of the poll" is elso trans-
lated as "poiling overscer" and the terr "superinten-
dont of the counting of ballots" as "ballot counting
overseor."
9

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.95)
10
Each superintendent of a noll is responsible for the
proper conduct of the clection machinory at his polling
place. This ircludes maint nance of law and ordor,
assurance of sccrecy in votins, conparison of the names of
prospective clectors with polling lists, and the liko.
Procedure at the polls is rolativoly simple; nemes of pro-
spective votors are checked against the polling list, voters
reccive ballot popers and designate their choice
thereupon.  llots of blind votors are jarked by Braille
points. Procedures for absentee voting have also boen ostab-
lished (soc Cr.pt.. 4).
Except in cases in which the suporintondent of the poll
is also e sunerintundent of the countins of votes, et the
close of the clection the sunerintendant of the poll,
accomponicd by at least one itnoss, delivers tho ballot box,
the record of the polls, and the register of lectors to a
superintendent o? the counting of th votes, at the nearest
bailot counting station.
The latter suporintendent is appointed by the clection
administration cormittee end is assisted by a numbor of
witnesses for the counting of th votes, aproint d by the
candidates in th same vey as the witnosses at the polls.
The superintendent and vitnesses are r aronsible for count-
ing the vot s, the superintendent havin the po or to decide
on the validity of allots previously qucstioned or on the
validity of bellots which a impronerly markcd. As vith
polling placcs, a givan lee 1 ntity may have one or moro
ballot couuntins  stations, tis murboer being deterrined by
population. All cl-ctors ave th right to attend the
countine of ballots in thoir respectiy districts. with a
few oxcertions, dve to distences involved, bellots will be
counted cither on clection dey or on the day following.
The final step in eloction procodure is the elcction
moeting. For the Fouse o P prsentatives, pnd the pre-
fecturel constitur ncics of the Hovse of Councillors, moet-
ings will he hels in cach pref cture. For the national con-
stituency of the Fouse of Councillors the neeting will be
hold in Tobye.* The meetines vill bo presided over by the
superintendents of olectiors, assisted by clection vitnesses
aprointed by the cndidates in the same anner as the wit-
nesses et the polls nd the witness s at the countine of
hellots. The ho tines are open to all olecters. Returns
from the various ballot counting stations are reccived,
tabulated according to the clection districts invelved, and
the final roturns th n announeed. For the Youse of Repre-
sentativos this will involve datermining & single candidate
as
 winner. in ooch of the elrctoral istricts into
which the prsfecture is divided. For the prsfcetural
winnurs in the Wouse of Coumcillors (since cach prefecture
is an electoral district in itsolf) this vill require
naming 2, 4, 6, or 8 victors for the pr  cture as a whole.
*
However, an "elactio sub- tine" vill be held in cach
prefccture to tabulay t  eturel vot, for candi-
dates fron the national constituaney.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
In respect to the national constituency of the House of
Councillors, the .committce in Tokyo will determine the l00
candidates from the whole of Japan who received the largest
number of votes. For clection from this national consti-
tuency, a candidato must roceive a minimum of 12 percent
of the valid votes cast for the office in question; for
election from the other constituencics 25 percent of the
votes cast for any vacancy is required.
VALIDITY OF ELECTIONS. Complaints concerning the
validity of olcctions are filed with the appropriate court.
When the legal provisions governing elections are violated,
clections may be voided either in whole or in part, if the
violation is deemed likcly to affcct thc roturns.
RE-ELECTIONS. In the past, Japanose laws have been
designed to avoid re-clcctions whorever possible. In con-
sequence, in case of the denth, purging, disqualification,
or resignation of en office holder, the normal practice has
been to recognize the runner-up in the last previous elect-
ion as entitled to succeed to a position. Certain minimum
standards were established; the runner-up for cxample, needed
to reccive the minimum number of votos required for the
olected candidate. In the prescnt clection, however, these
regulations have been changed and, in general, the period
during which.a runner-up may succced to a vacancy is five
days from the dato of announcement of rosults -- the period
allowed the winning candidate to decide if he wishes to
accopt the position. In all other instances, now clcctions
will eventually be held in the clectoral districts concerned
-- normally when the number of vacancies excecds 25 percent
of the nembers from that district with the same term of
office. Individuals filling vacancies succeed only to the
unexpired term of their prcdecossors.
VIOLATIONS OF ELECTION LA S. Stringont ponaltiCs are
provided for all possible violations of Japanose election
laws, with fines or penal sentonces as punishnent. offenses
includo bribery, forgery, violencc, intinidation, abduction,
neglect of duty or abuse of authority by officials, and the
like. In the event victorious candidates or their authorized
representatives are found guilty of violations of the clect-
ion lay, elections are invalida'od. Corplaints will be filed
with the appropriate court, whie will have tho power to
invalidate en cloction. If such s done, criminal charges
will then be proferred by the public procurator.
11

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
12
Chapter Three
LAV FOR THE ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF
THE HOUSE OF COUNCILLORS
Chapter I.
General Provisions
Article 1. The number of members of the House of Coun-
cillors shall be two hundred and fifty (25o), to be divided
into 150 members from the prefectural constituency and 100
members from the national constituency.
Members from the prefectural constituency shall be
elected in each of the election districts. The election dis-
tricts and the nurher of members to be returned for each of
such districts shall be stipulated in the annex.
Members from the national constituency shall be elected
in a single constituency comprising the Metropolis, the Dis-
trict (Dē) and all the Prefectures.
NOTE: Requirements for candidacy from both national
and prefectural districts are the same and any candidate has
the further right to run from any constituency he desires,
regardless of the location of his residence. The number of
seats (2, 4, 6, or 8) from each of the prefectural constitu-
encies is determined by population and ends in an even num-
ber to permit half of the six year terms from each consti-
tuency to expire every three years.
Article 2. The voting districts and the ballot-counting
districts shall conform rospectively to those districts for.
the election of members of thc House of Representatives.
NOTE: House of Representatives voting and ballot
counting districts conform, in turn, to districts utilized
for the local clections.
Chapter II.
Voting Right and Eligibility
Article 3. Any porson who has the right to vote in the
clection of members of the House of Representativos shall
have the same right in the clection of members of the House
of Councillors.
Article 4. Any Japanese national who is over thirty
(30) years of age shall be cligible for election of the mem-
bers of tho Housc of Councillors.
Article 5. Any person who has been declared incompetent
or quasi-incompetent, or who has boen condemned to penal
servitude or confinement and whose term of punishment has not
been completed or is yet to be cxccuted shall neither be
cligible for election nor possoss the right to vote.
Articlc 6. Commissioners for Oversccing the Election
of members from the national constituency, Commissioners for
Overseeing the Elcction of members of tho etropolitan Assembly,
Commissioners for Ovorsccing th Eloction of mombers of the
District and Prefectural assemblies, Commissioners for Over-
seeing the Election of members of the Municipal, Town and
Village Assemblies, secrctaries of the Commission for Over-
secing the Eloction of Mombers from tho national constituency,
Commission for Oversccing tho Eloction of Tombers of the Met-
ropolitan Assembly, Commissions for Oversccing the Elcction of

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.97)
mombers of the District and Prefectural Assemblies, Com-
missions for Overseeing the Eloction of members of the
Municipal, Town and Village Assemblies, Voting Overseers,
Ballot-Counting Overscers, Chairman of the Election Sub-
meeting. Cheirmen of Election and Government and public
officiais wao are ccnnected witn affairs pertaining to
election shali not be eligible for election within the res-
pective districts with which they are concerned in such
capacitics.
Articlo 7. Judges, Public Procurators, Government
Auditors, rovenuc officials and police officers in active
sorvice shall not be eligible for clection.
Articlo 8. Any porson who holds a post which shall not
be hold concurrently with mombership in the House of Repre-
sontatives shall not become concurrontly a member of the
House of Councillors.
Chapter III
Elcction
Article 9. A rogular clection shall tako place within
thirty (3o) days bofore the dato of oxpiration of the term
of officc for the  mbers.
When the period for a regular clcetion to bo held
according to the nreceding paragraph comes during tho session
of the House of Councillors or vithin thirty (3o) days after
its closc, a regular clcction shall tako placo not carlier
than thirty-one (3l) days and not later than thirty-five
(35) days aftor its closc.
Tho dato of a regular clection shall bo proclaimed not
less than thirty (30) days in advance.
Articlo lo. Eloction shall be conducted by ballot.
Articlo ll. The cloctoral lists for the clcction of
members of the House of Reprosentatives shall be used for
the oloction of mombors of the House of Couneillors.
Articlo l2. Affairs pcrtaining to the clcction of Mem-
bers from the prefectural constitueney shall bo taken charge
of by the Commission for Oversecing tho Elrction of Mombers
of the Motropolitan Assombly and tho Commissions for Over-
sccing the Election of Mcmbers of the District and Prefect-
ural Assomblios. The Commission for Oversceing tho Elcction
of Mombers of tho Motropolitan Assombly and the Commissions
for Oversccing the Election of Members of the District and
Prefoctural Assomblies shall dircct and suporviso the Com-
mission for Ovorsecing the Election of Mombers of the Muni-
cipal, Town and Villago Assomblics, with regard to affairs
pertaining to the clection of Mombors from the prefectural
constituency.
Articlo 13. Thore shall be instituted a Commission for
Oversceing the Eloction of Members from the national con-
stituency to ovorsoc affairs portaining to tho clcction of
Membors from the national constituoncy.
The Commission for Oversccing the Elcetion of Members
from the national constitucncy shall be placed undor the
jurisdiction of tho Minister for Homo Affairs and be composed
of ten (lo) Comnissioners for Oversccing the Elcction of mem-
bers from thc national constituoncy.
13

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
14
Articlo 14. Tho Commissionors for Oversecing the
Elcction of Membors from the national constituoney shall
be clectcd. in tho Houso of Councillors from among the mem-
bcrs of tho Houso of Councillors.
The term of offico: of the Commissionors for Oversoeing
the Election of Membors from the national constituency: shall
bo thrce (3) years. Howover, the term of office of Commiss-
ioners shall be the rcmaining poriod of the term of office of
their predecessors.
Article 15.. The Commission for Oversccing the elcction
of Mombers from thc national constitucncy shall dircct and
supervise tho Commission for tho olcction of Mombers of the
Motropolitan Assombly and thc Commissions for Oversccing the
Elcction of Mombors of thc District and Profectural Assomblies,
with regard to affairs portaining to tho election of Mombers
from thc national constituency.
Tho Commission for Overscoing tho Eloction of Mombers of
the Motropolitan Assembly and the Commissions for Oversccing
the Elcction of membors of tho District and Prefectural
Assomblios shall diroct and suporviso tho Commissions for
Oversccing thc Eloction of "cmbers of the Municipal, Town
and Villago Assomblios, with rogard to affairs portaining
to the clection of Mombers from tho national constituoncy.
Artigle 16. Tho Commission for Oversccing the Election
of Mombers from the national constituency shall clcct onc
Chairman from. among the Commissionors.
The Chairman shall suporintond affairs pcrtaining to
the Commission and represent it.
 Articlc 17. The Commission for Ovorscoing the Election
of Mombors from the national constituency shall not onen its
mecting without the attendance of not Icss then half of the
Commissioners.
All mattcrs at the mosting of the Commission shall be
decided by a majerity of those Commissionors who arc present,
and in case of a tic, the Chairman shall decidc the issue.
NOTT: Meotings may be called at tho request of
any momber of the committeo.
Articlo 18. Thorc shall bo instituted socrctarios in
the Commission for Oversecing the Eloction of Mombers from
the national constituoney, whom the Chairman superintcnds
and who shall be ongaged in the business portaining to the
Commission.
The secrotaries shall bo appointed and dismissed by the
Chairman.
Articlo 19. In addition to the. provisions of this law
and of ordinanccs to bo issued in accordance thcrowith,
necessarymattors porteinins to th. Commission for Over-
socing tho Eloetion of Mombors from the national constit-
uency shall be decided by thc Commission.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
Chapter IV
Voting
Article 20. Each clcctor shall cast only ono ballot
in tho clection of mombers from the prefectural. constituency
and in that of members rom tho national constituency ros-
pectively.
Article 2l. Voting Ovcrscers.shall be selccted and
appointod by tho Commissions for Oversecing the Elcction of
Members of the "unicipal, Town, and Village Assemblics,
from among those who have the right to voto in the clection
of members of the Houso of Councillors.
"hcn the clection of Mombers from the prefectural con-
stituoncy and that of Members from the national constituency
take place at the samo time tho Commissioners for Oversecing
the Elcction of "cmbers of tho Municipal, Town and Village
Assomblios may appoint the Voting Overscers for the Election
of Mombers from the profectural constituency coneurrcntly
to the Voting Overscers for the eloction of Mombers from
the national constituoncy.
Voting oversoors shall takc chargo of affairs pertain-
ing to clcction.
Articlo 22. Candidates for membership may chooso one
(1) porson who will be a Voting Witnoss, rom among thoso
rogistored in the clectoral list of cach voting district,
with his consont, and roport tho choico to the Voting Over-
soor not lator than t vo days before the dato of the clection.
In case tiose reported as provided for in the proceding
paragraph (cxcluding those reportd by candidates for member-
ship who have died or withdravm their candidacy; the same
applics hercinaftor) do not cxcecd ton (1o) in number, they
shall at once be Voting "itnosses, and in case they are more
than ton (l0), ton (10) Voting Wifnesscs shall be clccted
by mutual vote from among those reported.
When the nunber of the Votine  itnesses provided for
in the preccdine paragraph docs not reach throo (3) or has
decreased to loss than three (3), or when the number of the
Voting Vitnesses who have attonded at the polling place has
not reached thrco (3) by the tim, to open it or has decrcased
to less than three (3) after it has been opened, Voting Over-
scors shall solect and aproint such number of Voting Witnesses
as makes their totel number threc (3), from among those
registored in the olectoral list of the clectoral district
coneorned and immodiatoly notify thoso who have been
solected and appointed, to witnoss voting.
Voting "itnesses shall not rosign their offices without
propor reason.
NOTE: Since candidates thomsolves cannot be pre-
sent at all polling stations involved in the olcctions in
which they are interested, they are pormitted to sond one
witnoss to represont them at cach polling place. Candi-
dates are not oblicated to sond witnesscs; this is a right
which they may oxereiso if t'y so desire. The witnesses
aro volunteors who agreo to repr sont the cardidates; onco
they have agreed to serve they may not resien vithout
reason. If there are more than ton witnesses at hny
polling place, they clect ten from among thomselves; if
there are loss than threo the superintendent of the poll
makos such appointments, from among clectors, as are
necessary to bring the number to three. Similar provisions
with rospect to witnosses apply to the counting of ballots
and the election moetings.
15

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
16
Articlc 23. Every cloctor shall. enter:by himsolf tho
full name or ono candidatc. in a ballot at a polling-place
in the clection of Mombors from tho prefectural constitu-
oncy or in the olcction of Mombors from the national con-
stituoncy respuctively and cast it in a ballot-box.
The name of an clcctor shall not be entered in a ballot.
Article 24. Donial of voting shall be dccided by the
Voting Ovorscor, after consulting with Voting witnosses.
When an elector whoso voting has boon subjected to the
dccision provided for in the precoding paragraph is not.
satisficd with it, the Voting Ovorscer shall provisionally
allow him to cast a ballot.
Tho ballot montioned in the prcceding paragraph shall
be scalcd in an envclopo by tho clcctor, who shall cast it,
writing by himsclf his full namo on the cnvelope.
The proccding two paragraphs shall apply to an cloctor
whose voting has becn obj cted to by Voting Witnosscs.
NOTE: It is important to note that (1) the supor-
intendents of tho noll may dcny tho voter the right to voto
only aftcr consultation with voting witnossos; (2) if in
spito of the denial tho voter still considers that he has a
right to votc, ho is pormittcd to cast a so-callcd "pro-
visional" baliot.
Article 2F. If, in thc casc of an island or any
other place without adoquato means of transportation, it
is decmod impossiblo to scnd tho ballot-box on tho day of
voting, the Commission for Oversccing the Eloction of Mom-
bers of tho Motropolitan Assombly or the Commissions for
Oversceing the Eloction of Mombers of tho District and
Profectural Asscmblios may fix a convonicnt dato for voting
in tho locality concorned and causo the ballot-box, minutes
of the voting and ©lectoral list to be sent by the date for
ballot-count.
Articlo 26. When, on account of natural calamity or
other umavoidablo cireums ances, it is impossiblo to carry
out the voting or it is necessary to have tho voting again,
the Voting Ovorscors shall so notify thc Commission for
Oversccing the Elcction of Mombers of the Metropolitan
Assombly or the Commissions for Ovorsccing tho Elcction of
Mombers of the District and Profoctural Assomblies through
the Chairman of Election (Chairman of the Elcction Sub-
Mocting in the case of the olection of Mombers from the
National Constitucncy.) In such a case the Commission con-
corned shall causo the voting to be carried out by fixing a
new date, which shall bo proclaimed not less than five days
beforchand.
Articlo 27. Whon a rogular clcction and the cloction
provided for in Article 62 or Article 68 or Article 71 tako
placc at tho same time, they shall be absorbed into one
cloction for Membors from the profcctural constituency and
for Membors from the national constituoney rospectivoly.
NOTE: This article has in viow bye-clcctions
nedossitated by doaths, withdrawals of members, ctc. If
such byo-clcctions coincido with a gonoral clection, the
two ard combined into onc.
Articlc 28. In addition. to tho provisions of this law
and of ordinanccs to bo issuod in accordanco thorowith, the
voting for mombers of tho Houso of Councillor shall conform
to tho voting for mombors of tho Houso of Ropresentatives.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.96)
Chapter v
Counting of Ballots
Articlo 29. Ballot-Counting Ovorscors shall bo
selccted and appoint d by tho Commissions for Oversccing
the Elcction of Mombers of the Municipal, Town and Villago
Assomblios from among those who have tho right to voto in
the ol-ction of mombers of tho Housc of Councillors.
Whon tho cloction of Members from tho prefoctural con-
stituency and that of members from tho national constituency
take place at thc samo time, the Commission for Oversceing
the loction of Mombers of tho Municipal, Town and Villago
Assemblios may apnoint tho Ballot-Counting Overscors for
the oloction of members from the profectural constitucncy
concurrontly to tho Ballot-Counting Ovcrscors for the
lection of mombers from the national constituoncy.
Pallot-Counting Overscors shall takc chargc of affairs
portaining to thc counting of Bellots.
Articlo 30. Thc provisions of Articlo 22 shall apply
mutatis mutandis to Ballot-Counting Witnesses.
Article 3l. The counting of ballots shall be offected
on the day of voting or on the following day (in cnsc there
is . more than onc voting district within ono ballot-counting
district, on tho day whon all tho ballot-boxos are reecived
or on the following day).
Articlc 32. Tho Ballot-Counting Overscor shall, in the
prosoncc of Ballot-Counting itnesses, opon the ballot-box
and xamine the votes coming undcr the provisions of Article
24, paragraphs 2 and 4, and, aftor consultation with Ballot-
Counting Witncsses, dccide whoth'r or not thoso ballots aro
acceptable.
The Ballot-Counting Ovorsoor, togcther with Ballot-
Counting Witncsses, shail xemine the ballots or ach city,
town or villagc or any other district specificd by the Com-
mission for Oversccing the Election of ombers of the Metro-
politan Ass mbly or the Commissions for Oversecing the
Eluction of Members of the District and Profoctural Assemb-
lics.
As soon as the cxamination of the ballots has hecn
finished, the Ballot-Counting Oversecr shall r port the
rosult to the Chairmen of Eloction (Chairman of tho Election
Sub-Meoting in the case of the cloction of Mombors from the
National constituoncy).
Article 33. The validity of ballots shall bo decided
by the Ballot-Counting Overscer, after consultation with
Ballot-Countirg Witnossos.
Articlc 34. Any of the following votes shall be invalid.
1.
A voto for which a. regular ballot-paper has
not been used.
2.
A vote on which the namo of a porson who is
not a candidnte is entered.
3.
A voto on which tho names of two or more
candidates have becn ontered.
4.
A voto on which the name of a pcrson who is
not oligiblo has beon ontcred.
17

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
18.
A vote on which other matters in addition to
the name of a candidate have beon entered
But the profossion, social status, addross
or a titlo of honour of the candidate may be
written on.
6.
A vote on which the name of a candidate has not
been written by the voter himsclf.
7..
A vote by which it is impossible to asccrtain
the name of the candidate entored.
8.
A vote on which the namc of a norson who is
a member of the House of Councillors has been
ontorod.
The provisions of the item numbered 8 in the preccding
paragraph shall apply to the clcction held in accordance
with tho provisions of Article 62 or Articlo 68 or Articlo
71.
The provision of the itom numbered 8 in the preceding
paragraph shall apply, in the caso of a rogular clcction
also, to a vote on which the name of a Momber of the House
of Councillors who is cither a Member from the prefectural
constitucncy or a Momber from the national constituency,
with a longer term of office, has been ontered.
Article 35. Tho Ballot-Counting Overseer shall koop
minutos of the ballot-countine, in which shall bo rccorded
all matters rolating to the ballot-counting, and affix his
signature thereto together with Ballot-Counting Witnosses.
Articlo 36. Ballots shall bo sorted into lots that
are valid and thoso that are invalid and shall be preserved,
together with the minutes of the voting and the minutes of
the ballot-counting, by the Commissioners for Oversccing the
Eloction of the Municipal, Town and Villago Assemblies during
the term of office of the mombers clected.
Article 37. The provision of. the principal sentence
of Articlo 26 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the counting
of ballots.
Article 38. In addition to the provisions of this law
and of ordinances to be issued in accordance therowith, the
counting of ballots in the olection of mombers of the House
of Councillors shall conform to the counting of ballots in
the oloction of members of the House of Reprosentatives.
Chapter VI
Eloction Mecting and Election Sub-Moeting
Scction 1.
Election Mecting for Members from
the prefcctural constituency
Article 39. The Chairman of Eloction shall be selccted
and appointed by the Commission for Oversocing the Election
of Membors of the Metropolitan Assombly or the Commissions
for Oversecing the Election of Members of the District and
Prefectural Assomblios from among those who have the right
to vote in the olection of members of the House of Council-
lors.
The Chairman of Elcction shall tako chargo of affairs
pertaining to cloction mecting.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
NOTE: It should be noted that the same individual
might conceivably sorve as a superintendent of tho poll
superintendent of the counting of votos and a superintendent
of the clcction, just as a candidate might dosignate the
same witness for cach of these three'steps.
Article 40: The election meeting shall be hold at the
Metropolitan, District or Prefcctural Office or a place
designated by tho Chairman of Elcction.
Articlc 4l. Tho provisions of Article 22 shall apply
mutatis mutandis to Election Witnesscs.
Article 42. The Chairman of Elcction shall hold an
clection meeting on the day when the report provided for
in Article 32, paragraph 3, is reccived from every Ballot-
Counting Overscer or on tho following day and shall examinc
such reports in the prosonce of Election Witnesses.
In case a part of an eloction has bocome invalid and
a néw cloction has been held, the Chairman of Elcction shall,
upon roccipt of tho report provided for in Articlo 32, para-
graph 3, examine such roport anew togother with the report
conccrning the other part of the eloction in accordance with
the provisions of the prcceding paragraph.
Article 43. The Chairman of Elcction shall make
minutes of tho clection, in which shall be recorded all
matters relating to tho clection moeting and affix his
signature thereto together with Election Witnesses.
The minutes of the clection shall be preserved, to-
gether with documents relating to tho roport mentioned in
Articlc 32, paragraph 3, by the Commission for Oversccing
the Election of Mombers of the Mctropolitan Assombly or the
Commissions for Oversccing tho Eloction of Mombors of the
District and Prefectural Assemblios during the torm of
office of the members clccted.
Article 44. The provisions of the principal sentence
of Article 26 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the clection
mecting.
Article 45. In addition to the provisions of this law
and of ordinances to be issued in accordance therewith, the
election moetine in the olection of membcrs of the House of
Councillors shall conform to the election mccting in the
clection of members of the House of Ropresentatives.
Scction II.
Election Sub-Mccting and Election
Moeting for Membors from the national
constituoncy.
Sub-section 1. Eloction Sub-Mecting.
Article 46. The olection sub-mocting shall bo hold
at the Motropolitan, District and Profectural Office or a
placc designated by the Chairman of the Election Sub-mecting.
NOTE: The cloction sub-mectings are held only
for the clection of councillors from the national consti-
tuency; at such moctings the clcction of councillors does
not take place (this is done at the clcction mocting fore-
scen in Articlo 50). Tho only function of such sub-mectings
is to confirm the corroctness of the reports of the superin-
tendents, to bring togother their data and to report this
to tho Chairman of Eloction in Tokyo.
19

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
20
Article 47. As soon as the examination in accordance
with the provisions of Article 42, which are applied mutatis
mutandis in Article 48, has been finished, the Chairman of
the Election Sub-Meeting shall submit a report of the result
to the Chairman of Election, together with a copy of the
minutes of the election.
Article 48. In addition to the provisions of the pre-
ceding two Articles, the provisions of the preceding Section
shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the election sub-meeting.
Article 49. The Chairman of Election shall be selected
and appointed by the Commission for Overseeing the Election
of Members from the national constituency from among those
who have the right to vote in the election of members of the
House of Councillors.
The Chairman of Election shall take charge of affairs
pertaining to election meeting.
Article 50. The election meeting shall be held at a
place designated by the Chairman of Election.
Article 5l. The Chairman of Election shall hold an
election meeting on the day when the report provided for in
Article 47 is received from every Chairman of the Election
Sub-Meeting or on the following day and eramine such reports
in the presence of Election Witnesses.
In case a part of an election has become invalid and a
new election has been held, the Chairman of Election shall,
upon receipt of the report provided for in Article 47, ex-
amine such report anew, together with the report concerning
the other part of the election in accordance with the pro-
visions of the preceding paragraph.
Article 52. The Chairman of Election shall make minutes
of the election, in which shall be recorded all matters re-
lating to the election meeting, and affix his signature
thereto together with Election Witnesses.
The minutes of the election shall be preserved, to-
gether with documents concerning the report provided for in
Article 47, by the Commission for Overseeing the Election
of Members from the national constituency during the term
of office of the members elected.
Article 53. The provisions of Articles 41, 44 and 45
shall apply mutatis mutandis to the election meeting.
Chapter VII
Candidates and Persons Elected
Section I.
Candidates for and Persons Elected
as Members from the prefectural con-
stituency.
Article 54. A person who desires to become a candidate
shall so notify the Chairman of Election between the day on
which the date for election is proclaimed or given public
notice and the twentieth (2oth) day preceding the date for
election.
When a person whose name is registered in the electoral

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
list desires to name another person as a candidate, he may
notify his recommendation with the consent of the person
recommended during the period stipulated in the preceding
paragraph.
In case the number of candidates notified during the
period stipulated in the preceding two paragraphs exceeds
the number of members to be elected, and any of the candi-
dates dies or withdraws his candidacy after the period has
expired, notification of candidacy or recommendation of a
candidate may be made in conformity with the preceding two
paragraphs, up to the tenth (1o) day preceding the date for
election.
A person who has become a candidate in one electoral
district shall not notify his candidacy or approve the
notification recommending him as a candidate in another
electoral district.
A person who has become a candidate for a Member from
the national constituency shall not notify his candidacy,
or approve the notification recommending him as a candidate,
for a Member from the prefectural constituency.
A candidate shall not withdraw his candidacy without
having notified the Chairman of Election.
Upon receipt of the notification provided for in para-
graph 1 to 3 and the preceding paragraph or information of
the death of a candidate, the Chairman of Election shall
1mmediately give public notice of the Tact.
NOTE: According to this article the candidate
would normally file first notice twenty days before the day
of election; in this instance before 1 April. However, the
necessity of iling questionnaires for screening has served
this year to provide a de facto announcement in advance of
the usual date.
The practice of recommendation of candidates, men-
tioned in raragraph 2, is wide-spread in Japan; it should be
noted that the law now demands that the recommended person
give his consent. The purpose of this is (1) to prevent
the advancement of the same candidacy in two or more pre-
fectures; (2) to prevent cases in which a person elected
might rofuse to become a Councillor because he had rever
intended to become one. Also, the law forbids the same
persons' standing as a candidate for the national con-
stituency and prefectural constitnency at the same time.
A candidate may not withdraw his candidacy without
having notified the chairman of elcction. This is required
in order to avoid opening of vacancies on the very day of
the election.
Article 55. A person who desires to notify his can-
didacy or who desires to notify recommendation of a candi-
date shall deposit five thousand (5,00o) yen in cash or
national loan bonds of the same Pace value for each candi-
date.
The deposit provided for in the preceding paragraph
shall belong to the national treasury in case the total
number of votes for a candidate for whom the deposit has
been made does not reach one-tenth of the total number of
valid votes in the electoral district concerned divided by
the number of members to be returned for that distriet in
a regular election.
21

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
22
The provision of the preceding paragraph shall apply
mutatis mutandis in cases where a candidate has withdrawn
his candidacy within ten (lo) days before the date for
election, unless such withdrawel is due to loss of eligi-
bility.
NOTE: The purpose of the deposit required by
this article is to eliminate candidates who have no hope
of being elected; in this way the voters should be less
confused by a great number of candidates and the govern-
ment's expenses for the campaign will be smaller.
Article 56. The candidate who has obtained the great-
est number of valid votes shall be declared elected; pro-
vided, however, that the number of votes obtained shail be
one-fourth or more of the total number of valid votes in
the electoral district concerned divided by the number of
members to be returned for that district in a regular
clection.
In case the elections for the Members of the different
terms of office are combined, the candidates who obtained
the necessary votes under the proviso of Paragrarh I shall
be determined in the order of the number of their respective
votes as the elected, startins from the members with a longer
term of office.
If there are persons who have obtained the same num-
ber of votes, the Chairman of Election shall determine the
person clectod by drawing lots at an election meeting.
In cases where the person olected can be determined
without holding a new election in consequence of tho liti-
gation provided for in Article 73, such a person shall be
determined at an election reeting.
When a person elected has declined election or has
been dead, or vhen his election has become invalid in
accordance with the provisions of Article 57, an election
meeting shall be held immedintely to determine the person
elected from amons those who have obtained such number of
votes as mentioned in the proviso of paragraph 1 but have
not heen eleeted.
When any of the causes montioned in Article 62, para-
graph 1, items numbered 5 and 6, has occurred during the
period stipulated in Article 6l and there are porsons who
have obtained such number of votes as mentioned in the
proviso of paragraph l, or when such a cause has oceurred
after the expiration of that period and there are nersons
who have obtained votes and to whom the provisions of para-
graph 3 are applicable, an election mecting shall be held
to determine the person clected from among the above-men-
tioned persons.
The provisions of paracraph 2 shall apply mutatis
mutandis in cases where the causes mentioned in the pre-
ceding throe raragraphs have occurred simultaneously or
consecutively with rogard to the porsons elected in the
combined election of members with different terms of
office.
In any of the cases montionod in paragraphs 4 to 6,
when a person who has obtained such number of votes as
mentioned in the proviso of paragraph 1 but has not been
elected, becomes ineligible for election after the dato
of the election, he shall not be determined as tho person
elected.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
NOTE: The expression "the candidate who has
obtained the greatest number of valid votes shall be
declared elected" naturally does not mean that only one
candidate will be declared elected: the number will
depend upon the number of seats assigned to the pre-
fecture.
Article 57. hen the person elected becomes ineli-
gible for election after the date of the clection, he
shall forfeit election.
NOTE: This article is not applied to a person
who moves his residence from prefecture to another, because
a Japanesc citizen otherwise eligible, may file his candi-
dacy for councillor in any prefecture. But if he becomes
elected, say, to the position of a governor, or is convicted
of fraud in connection with his clection, he would lose his
seat in thc House of Councillors.
Article 58. In case the number of candidates notified
in accordance vith the provisions of Article 54, paragraphs
1 to 3, does not exceed the number of members to be returned
in the elcction, there shall be no election in the electoral
district concerned.
When there is no voting in accordance with the pro-
visions of the preceding paragraph, the Chairman of Election
shall so notify the Voting Overseer immodiately and at the
same time give public notice of the fact and also roport it
to the Commission for Oversccing the Election of Members of
the Metropolitan Assembly or the Commission for Oversceing
the Election of Members of tho District or Prefectural
Assembly concerned.
Upon reccipt of the report mentioned in the preceding
paragraph, the Voting Overseer shall immediately give pub-
lic notice thereof.
In the case mentioned in paragraph l, the Chairman of
Eleotion shall hold an election meoting within five (5)
days from the date of the clection and determino the candi-
dates as elected.
In case there is a combined clection for the Mombers
with tho different terms of office and the provision of
paragraph 1 is applicable, the candidates shall be doter-
mined by lot as the elected for the mombers with a longer
term of office.
In the cases mentioned in the preceding two paragraphs,
it shall be decided by the Chairman of Elcction, after con-
sultation with Election Witnesses, hother or not the candi-
dates are eligible for olcction.
NOTE: This articlc deals with a highly improbable
case in which the number of candidates is equal to or
smaller than the number of vacancies.
Article 59. When the porson olected has been deter-
mined, the Chairman of Election shall immediately notify
him of his election and at the same time give rublic notice
of his name and also report his name, the number of votes he
has obtained, the total number of valid votes in the elec-
tion and other minutes of the clection to the Commission
for Overseeing the Election of Mombers of tho Metropolitan
Assembly or the Commission for Oversecing the Election of
Members of the District or Profectural Assembly concerned.
23

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
24
When there is no person elected or the number of the
persons elected does not reach tho number of members to be
returned in the cloction the Chairman of Election shall
immediately give public notice of the fact and also report
it to the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members
of the Metropolitan Assombly or the Commission for Over-
seeing the Elcction of Members of the District or Pre-
fectural Assombly concerned.
Article 60. Upon receipt of notification of election,
the person elected shall notify the Commission for Over-
socing the Election of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly
or the Commission for Overseeing the Elcction of Mombers of
the District or Profectural Assembly concerned whether or
not he accepts clection.
Articlo 61. hen a porson elected has feiled to notify
his acceptance of elcction within ten (10) days from the
day he received notification of olection, he shall be con-
sidered to have eclined election.
NOTE: According to Articlos 59, 60, 61, the
candidate should be immediately notified of his elcction
by the clection commission, after which the candidate, in
ten days' time, should inform the commission whether he
accepts his clection or declines. This noint is very
important, because a successful candidate may think that
through the fact of his elcction he becomes a couneillor
and no additional action is needed. Measures must be
taken to inforn the candidates of the necessity of filing
an acceptance. Articlo l0 of the Additional Provisions of
this law reduces this acceptance period to five (5) days
for this presont cloction.
Articlo 62. When, in an oloction of mombors with the
same term of office, any of the cases mentioned in the
following numbered itoms has occurred, the Commission for
Oversecing the Election of Menbers of the Metropolitan
Assembly or tho Commissions for Oversccing the Elcction of
Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblies shall
cause a new clection to be held by fixing its date end
giving public notice thereof at least not later than
thirty (30) deys preceding it, unless the person elccted
can be determined without holding a now cloction: provided,
however, that this does not apply in cases where public
notice of the date or clcetion has been given with rogard
to the same porson on account of causes other than the
following or in accordance with the provisions of Article
71;
1.
When there is no person elected or the num-
ber of persons olected docs not reach the
number of members to be returned in the
election.
2.
When the porson clected has declined election
or has died.
3.
When the porson clected has forfeited elec-
tion in accordanco with the provisions of
Articlc 57.
4.
When, in consequence of tho litigation pro-
vided for in Article 73, there has ceased
to exist a person elected or the number of
persons elected hes ceased to reach the
number of members to bo returned in the
clection.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
5.
When the election of a person has become
invalid because of. the fact that a person
who has superintended the election oampaign
of the person elected has been sentenced to
a punishment on account of a crime related
to election.
6.
When the election of a person has become
invalid because of the fact that he has
been sentenced to a punishment on account
of a crime related to election.
The election provided for in the preceding paragranh
shall not be held during the neriod allowed for filing and
litigation provided for in Article 73. The same shall apply
in cases where such a litigation has been filed and is still
pending.
The date of election mentioned in varagraph 1 shall not
be later than thirty-five (35) days after the date of ex-
piration of the period allowed for filing the litigation pro-
vided for in Article 73, or the Commission for Overseeing
the Election of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly or the
Commission for Overseeing the Election of ember of the Dis-
trict or Prefectural Assembly concerned has received the
notification provided for in Article 75, when the litigation
provided for in Article 73 is filed.
"hen any of the cases mentioned in the numbered items
of paragraph 1 has occurred within six (6) months preceding
the end of the term of office of members, the election pro-
vided for in paragraph 1 shall not be heid.
Article 63. When the person elected has accepted
election, the Commission for Cverseeing the Election of Mem-
bers of the Metropolitan Assembly or the Commission for
Overseeing the Flection of Members of the District or Pre-
fectural Assembly concerned shall immediately furnish him
with a certificat- of election and give public notice of
his name and report it to the Minister of Home Affairs
through the Governor of the Metropolis, District or Pre-
fecture concerned.
Article 64. hen the election in on electoral dis-
trict or the election of a person has become invalid in
consequence of the litigation provided for in Chapter IX
or when the election of a person has become invalid be-
cause of the fact that he has been sentenced to a punish-
ment on account of a crime related to election, the Com-
mission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
Metropolitan Assembly or the Commission for Overseeing
the Election. of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assembly concerned shall immediately give public notice.
Section II. Candidates for and Persons Elected
as Members from the national con-
stituency.
Article 65. A person who has become a candidate for
a Member from the prefectural eonstituency shall not notify
his candidacy, or approve the notification recommending
him as a candidate, for a lember from the national con-
stituency.
Article 66. When the numbered votes for a candidate
does not reach one-tenth of the total number of valid votes
25

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
26
divided by the number of the members to be returned in a
regular election; the deposit made for hin in accordance
with the provisions of Article 55, which are applied mutatis
mutandis by Article 69, shall belong to the national
treasury.
Article 67. A person who has obtained the greatest
number of valid votes shall be declared elected; provided,
however, that the number of votes obtained shali be one-
eighth or more of the total number of valid votes divided
by the number of members to be returned in a regular
election.
NOTE: According to Articlo 56 the candidate from
the prefectural constituency necds a minimum of one-fourth
of the average number of votes por seat (i.e. if the num-
ber of votes cast is two million and the number of coun-
cillors from that prefecture is eight, the minimum needed
in order to be elected is 62,500); yet the minimum needed
for a candidate from the national constituency is only one-
eighth. This was done because of the expectation that in
the election from the national constituency with one
hundred councillors to be elected the votes may be concen-
trated on a fow famous names, so that only a small portion
of the seats would be filled, if the one-quartor provision
were proserved. Thus for the sake of expediency a principle
found in all other clection laws (that a minimum of 25% of
the votes cast for a vacancy should be reccived by a success-
ful candidate) has been altered.
Article 66. "hen, in en olection of mombers with the
same term of office, any of the cases mentioned in the num-
bered items of Article 62, paragraph 1, has occurred, and
if the person elected cannot be detormined without holding
a new clection, or if, with the person elected having been
determined wit out hoiding a now clection, there still
remain a number of vacancies of rorsons olccted which,
added by the number of the vacancies mentioned in Article
71, paragraph 1, oxceeds one-fourth of the number of members
to be returned in a rnvular election, the Commission for
Oversecing tho Election of Mombers fron the national con-
stituency shall cause a now elcction to bo hold by fixing
its date and giving public notic- thereof not later than
thirty (30) days preceding it; provided, hovever, that this
doos not epply in cases where public notice of the date for
election has been given with rogard to the samo person on
account of causes other than the above-mentioned.
When the number of vecancies of norsons eleeted in an
election of members with the same term of office, added by
the number of the vacancies of members montioned in Article
71, Paragraph 1, does not exceed ono-fourth of tho number
of members to be returned in a regular election but an
olection of members with different terms of office has to
be held, such election and a new election shall be hold
simultaneously, regardless of the provisions of paragraph
1; provided, however, that this does not apply in cases
where the case mentioned in the precedins paragraph has
occurred after public notice of the date for the clection
of members with different terms of office was given.
The date for olcction mentioned in the preceding para-
graph shall bo the date for the election of mombors with
different terms of office.
The provisions of Articlo 62, paragraphs 2 to 4, shall
apply mutatis mutandis in the cases mentioned in paragraphs
1 and 2.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.98)
Articlo 69. The provisions of Article 54, paragraphs
1 to 3 and paragraphs 6 and 7, Article 55, paragraphs 1 and
3, Article 56, paragraphs 2 to 8, Articles 57 to 61, Article
63 and 64 shall apply mutatis mutandis to candidatos for
and persons elected as Mombers from the national constitu-
oncy; provided, however, that "preceding paragraphs" in
Article 55, paragraph 3, shall read "Articlo 66," "the
proviso of paragraph 1" in Articlo 56, paragraphs 5, 6, and
8, shal1 read "the proviso of Article 67," "Article 62,
paragraph l, itoms numbered 5 and 6" in the same Article,
paragranh 6, shall read "Articlc 68," and "Commission for
Oversceing the Elcction of Members of the Motropolitan
Assembly or the Commission for Overseeing the Election of
members of the District or Prefectural Assembly concerned"
in Article 58, paragraph 2, Articles 59, 60, 63 and 64 shall
read "Commission for Overseeing the Election of members from
the national constituency."
Chapter VIII
Term of Office for Membors and Filling Vacancios
Article 7o. The term of office for the members shall
be counted as from the dato following the date of expiration
of the term of office for the mombers electod in the pre-
vious rogular election.
Hovever, it shall be counted as from the date of a
regular election in case the rogular election is held after
the date folloving the dato of exniration of the term of
office for the members olected in the previous regular
election.
Articlo 71. In case vecancies of members vith the same
term of office have occurred, no by-olection shall be held
until the number of such vacaneies (to be added by the num-
ber of the vacancies of porsons olected mentioned in Article
68, Paragraph 1, in the case of Mombers from the national
constitueney) oxceeds ono-fourth of the fixed number of
members to be returned for the electoral district concerned
in a reguler election (one-fourth of the fixed number of
members to be returned in a regular clection in the case of
Members from tho national constituency).
When a vacancy of membership has occurred, the Minister
of Home Affairs shall, within five days after reccipt of a
communication to that effect from the President of the House
of Councillors, so notiy the Commission for Oversecing the
the Election of Mombers of the Metropolitan Assembly or the
Commission for Oversecing the Election of Mombers of the
District or Prefcctural Assombly concerned (the Commission
for Oversecing the Election of Members from the national
constituency in the case of mombers from the national con-
stituency) through the Governor of the Motropolis, District
or Prefecture concerned.
The Commission for Ovorsocing the Election of Members
of the Metropolitan Assombly or the Commissions for Over-
seeing the Eiection of Members of the District and Pro-
fectural Assemblies (the Cormission for Oversecing the
Election of Mombers from the national constituoney in the
27

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
28
case of a Member from the national constituency) shall,
upon reccipt of the notification provided for in the pre-
ceding paragraph, immediately notify the Chairman of
Election that a vacancy has occurred, if. the member,
whose office has become vacant, vacated his office during
the pcriod mentioned in Article 61 and there is a candidate
who has obtainod such number of votes as provided for in
the proviso of Articlo 56, paragraph 1 (tho proviso of
Article 67 in the case of a Membor from the national con-
stituency) but has not been clected, of if such a member
vacated his office after thc cxpiration of such period and
there is a candidate to whom the provisions of Article 56,
paragraph 3, have boen applied but who has not been clected.
The Chairman of Election shall within twonty (20) days
aftor reccipt of the notification provided for in the pre-
ceding paragraph, determine a porson clocted by applying
mutatis mutandis the provisions of Articla 56, paragraphs
3 and 5 to 8.
Upon reccint of the notification provided for in para-
grarh 2, the Commission for Overseeing the Elcction of Mom-
bers of the Motropolitan Assembly or the Commission for
Overseeing tho Election of Mombers of the District or Pre-
fectural Assomblios (the Commission for Oversecing tho
Election of Members from the national constituency in the
case of Momber from tho national constituoncy)shall, unless
the provisions of paragraph 3 are anplicable or public
notice of the date for a new clection has been given with
regard to the same porson in sccordanee with the provisions
of Article 82 (Articlo 68 in the case of a Momber from the
national constituency), wait until the numbor of vacencies
of members with the samo term of office (to bo added to the
number of the vacancies of persons eleeted mentioned in
Articlo 68, naragraph 1, in tho caso of Members from the
national constituency) excceds one-fourth of the fixed
number of members to be returned or the oleetoral dis-
trict concerned in a regular clection (onc-fourth of the
fixed number of members to be returned in a regular elcetion
in the case of Membors from the national constituoney) and
then cause a by-elcction to be held within thirty five (35)
days from the day on vhich th notification provided for in
paragraph 2 is last received.
When the number of vacaneies of members vith the same
torm of office (to be added by the number of vacancins of
porsons clectcd mentioned in Article 68, Paragranh 1, in
the case of Mcmbers from the national constitueney) doos
not excced ono-fourth of the fixcd number of mombors to be
returned for the clcctoral district concerned in a rogular
elcction (one-fourth of the fixod number of mombers to be
returned in a regular election in the case of Members from
the national constitueney) but an olection of mombors with
difforent terms of office (including here and hercinafter
the clection mentioned in Articlo 62 in the case of Mombers
from the prefectural constituency) has to be held such an
clection and a by-elcction shall bo held simultaneously,
regardless of the provisions of. paragraph l and the pre-
ceding paragraph, provided, however, thet this shall not
apply in cases where tho Commission for Ovorsccing the
Election of Members of the Metropolitan Asscmbly or the
Commissions for Oversccing the Elcction of Members of the
District or prefectural Assemblies (the Commission for
Oversecing the Election of Mombors from tho natioral con-
stitueney in the case of Mombers from thc national con-
stituency) shall have reccived the notification
provided for in paragraph 2 after public notico of the date
for the election of mombers with different torms of office
has been given.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
The date of a by-clection mentioned in the preccding
paragraph shall bo that of an clcction of members with
different torms of officc.
The date of a by-clection shall be proclaimed not
later than thirty days preceding it bv the Commission
for Oversccing tho Eloction of Mombors of tho Mctropolitan
Assombly or the Commissions for Oversccing tho Elcction of
Membors of tho District and Prefectural Assomblios (the
Commission for Oversccing the Elcction of Members from the
national constituency in the casc of Members from the
national constituency).
The provisions of Articlc 62, paragraphs 2 to 4,
(Articlo 68, paragraph 4, in tho caso of Mombers from tho
national constituoncy) shall apply mutatis mutandis to a
by-clcction.
NOTE: According to this Articlc, if tho number
of vacancies of the samo torm cxcceds ono-fourth of the
total, a bye-clcction will bo hold. This means that if
more than one-quartcr of the scats for the national con-
stituency among those of the same term are vacant, the
wholc country would be in the throes of clection fover,
and not just one profocture: a Pcature unknovm in other
countrios of thc world.
On the other hand, in respect to the prefectural
constituoncios the provision that byc-cloctions are hold
when the number of vacaneies of mombers with the same term
of office oxeccds one-fourth moans that death or withdrawal
of eny member of the prefectural constituoncy (excent in
Tokyo or Hokkaido) would necessitat a byo-clection in the
corresponding prefecture because th largcst number of
vacancios with the same term is less than four (oxcept in
Tokyo and Hokkaido where it is four).
Article 72. A mombor filling a vacancy shall romain
in officc during the romnining period of the torm of office
of his predecessor.
Chaptor IX
Litigation
Articlo 73. A litigation may bo filcd on the validity
of the clection in an cloctoral district or tho clection
of a person in the samo vay as the litigation on such
validity in the clection of mombors of the Housc of Repre-
sontatives; the proviso, with rogards to an clcction for
the members from the national constituency, a person who
filos a litigation on the validity of an lcction or on the
validity of the clected, on the ground that he obtained the
noccssary votes, according to the proviso, Articlo 67, or
that tho provisions of Articlo 56, Paragraph 8, Articlc 57
which are applied mutatis mutandis by Articlc 60, are not
applicablc to him, or that tho docision in Article 58,
Paragraph 6 which is applied mutatis mutandis by Articlo
69, is illcgal, shall have the chairman of the commission
for. Oversooing tho Election of Mombers fron tho national
constituoncy of thc accused.
29

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.97)
30
Articlo 74, An cloctor or a candidato for memborship
who considers the elcction of a porson to be invalid accord-
ing to tho provision of Article 79, Paragraph 3, may filo
a litigation at the Tokyo High Court with tho clccted as
the accused, within thirty (3o) days from tho dato of the
notification under Article 59, Paragraph 1, or Articlc 69,
which is the mutatis mutandis application of Articlo 59,
Paragraph 1.
Whon a person who has suporintended the cloction cam-
paign of a candidato has been sontenced to a punishmont, in
accordancc with the pcnal provisions concerning the cloction
of members of th Houso of Representatives to be applicd
mutatis mutandis and the clcction of tho candidato concerned
is considorcd to have become invalid, the Public Procurator
shall instituto incidontally to the public action, a liti-
gation against tho candidatc olected.
Articlo 75. The litigations rrovided for in the pre-
ceding tvo Articles shall be conducted in the same way as
thc corresponding litigations concerning th clection of
mombers of the House of Representatives; provided, however,
that notification concorning theso litigations shall be
givon to thc Minister for Homo Affairs as well as thc Com-
nission for Oversecing tho Election of torbors from the
national constitucncy in the case of Mombers from the
national constitucncy.
Chapter X
El:ction Campaign
Article 76. The persons who are listed in Articlc 6
shall not bo ongagud in tho clection camnaign within the
district with vhich thoy nre conecrned.
The clcction campaign of a candidate shall not be
started until his candidacy is fil d according to Article
54, Paragraph 1 to 3 or Articl: 69 in which thc provisions
of the above mentioned paragraphs are anplicd nutatis
mutandis.
No pi rson shall rake a visit to a house with the pur-
poso of obtaining a vote for himsolf or others, or of pre-
venting others fron obtaining a vot.
No one shall conduct tho lcction campaign, by making
usc of on 's spccially rolatod position to chiláren, pupils,
and studcnts of schools who are under the ago of tventy (2o).
Articlc 77. Elcction compaign exponses in this Chaptor
shall mean such clection canpnign expenscs in connoction
with the clcction of mombors of th House of Councillors as
correspond to the clcction campeign expenscs provided for
in the Law for the Election of members of the House of
Represontatives.
Incomes in conncction with oloction canpaigns shall in
this Chapter mean such mondy or proporty intorcst as has
been rcceived and ccepted in order to  et the expensos
mentioned in thc preceding paragraph.
The assessmont of the property interes mentioned in
the preceding paragraph shall conform to the assossment of

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
property interost in conncction with the cloction campaign
expenses provided for in the Law for tho Elcction of Mom-
bers of the House of Reprosentatives.
Articlc 78. Any candidate or any person vho has
been notified of his rccommendation as a candidat shall
appoint a porson rosponsiblc for tho disbursomcnt of
clcction campaign cxpenses (to be callcd hercinaftor
"rosponsiblo disbursor"), in the sanc way as the porson
responsible for tho dismissal or rosignation of tho res-
ponsiblc disburser, thc subrogation of his functions and
notification conecrning him and a person who subrogatcs
his functions shall conform to tho corresponding cases in
the cloction of mombers of the House of Roprosontatives;
providcd, however, that in the case of candidates for
Mombers from thc national constitucncy, notification con-
corning tho rosponsiblc disbursor or a person who subro-
gates his functions shall bc givon to tho Commission for
Oversceing tho clection of Membors from tho national con-
stituency.
Articlc 79. Elcction campaign expensos shall not ex-
cood the amount rontioned in the following paragraphs per
candidato:
1. The sum which cquals the nultiplication of
the amount of money fixcd by an ordinance, by the total
number of the clcctors rogistored in the olcctoral list
at thc dato of dccision of tho list, which total number
is divided by the fixed number of the ronbers to be re-
turned from the olection district concorned in the ordi-
nary clection (in case of the mombers from the national
constitueney, by the fixed number of the nombers in the
ordinary cloction).
2. In case a re-clcction is hold owing to the
invalidity of part of an clection, the sum which cquals
the multiplication of the amount of non y fixod by an
Ordinance, by the total number of the cloctors registered
in the clectoral list in the district concerned at the
dato of dccision of the olectoral lists, which total num-
ber is divided by the fixed number of mambers to be re-
turned from tho clection district concerncd in tho ordi-
nary cloction (in case of the members from the national
constitueney by the fixod number of the mombers in the
ordinary clcction).
3. In case the voting is carricd out in accord-
anco with tho provision of Articlo 26, the sum which cquals
the amount of noney, calculated according to tho provision
of the prceeding iter. However, the Commission for Over-
scoing the Elcction of Members of the Motropolitan Assombly
or Commissions for Ovorsecing the Elcction of Monbers of
the District or Prefcctural Assemblios moy reduce the
amount when they deom it necessnry.
Tho Commission for Oversccing the El :ction of Mombers
of the Motropolitan Asscnbly or Conmissions for Overscoing
the Eloction of. Mombers of the. District or Prof ctural
Assomblics (the Conmission for Oversccing the Elcction of
Mombers from the National Constituoncy as far as the
amounts mentioned in Itom 1 and 2 of the prcacding para-
graph rolating to the membors from the national constitu-
oncy are conccrnod) shall give public notice of the amount
fixed by tho proccding paragraph immediately after tho dato
of the clcction has beon proclaimed or given public noticc.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.97)
32
In casc tho clcetion campaign oxponsos disbursed for
a candidatc for memborship oxccod the amount given public
notice according to the provision of. tho prcceding para-
graph, the cloction of tho candidato shall be invalid.
Howover, this provision does not apply in the casc whore
any candidato or porson who has notificd his rocommendation
of a candidate has paid duo attention to tho appointment
and supervision of the rosponsiblo disburser or thc person
who performs the functions of thc disburser in his place
and whore the rosponsible disbursor or tho person who per-
forms the functions of the disburser in his place hns not
committed a fault in the disbursing business of thc clcction
campaign.
Article 80. Thc responsiblc disburser shall, according
to provisions of Ordinancos, submit roports on tho roccipts
conccrning tho cloction carinaign and the clection campaign
oxpenses to thc Commission for Oversccing tho Elcotion of
Mombers of the Motropolitan Assombly or Commissions for
Oversccing the Eloction of thc District or Prefectural
Asscmblics (in case of the mombers from the national con-
stitucncy, the Comnission for Oversccing the El ction of
Mombor's from the National Constituency).
The leader of a political party or any other organiza-
tion which reconnends or supports condidates shall, in
accordance with the provisions of ordinances, r port the
incore in connection with cloction campeigns and expenses
of such campnigns to tho Minist r of Horo Affairs through
the Conmission for Oversccing the Election of Morbors of
the Metropolitan Asscmbly or tho Commission for Ovorsccing
the Election of Mombers of the District or Prefcctural
Asscmbly, as the case may be according to the locality of
its principal office, if it recommonds or supports candi-
dates in two or more Motropolitan, District or Prefcetural
arcas or in an arca outside of th Motropolis, District or
Prefecture where its principal ofcice is locatcd, and, in
other cascs r port to th: Commission for Oversecing th.
Elcction of M nbers of th. Yotropolitan Assembly or the
Comnission for Ov rsceing th: El ction of Monbers of the
District or Prc fectural Assorbly as the case may be accord-
ing to thc locality of its principal office.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall apply
mutatis mutandis to any local branch of a political party
or any other organization which reconmends or supports
candidates.
Article 91. Upon rocoipt of the r port provid d for
in the proccding Article, the Minister for Home Affairs or
the Comnission for oversocing the El ction of Monbers of
the Motropolitan Assembly, thc Comnissions for Oversecing
the Eloction of Members of tho District and Profcetural
Assomblics, or the Commission for Ovorsccing the Elcction
of Monbers from the national constitucney shall mak pub-
lic tho main noints of such roports in nccordance with the
provisions of ordinanccs.
Articlo 82. The Minister for Homo Affeirs, the Con-
mission for Oversecing the Election of Mombers of the Metro-
politan Assombly or tho Connissions for Ovorsccing the
Elcction of thc District and Profcctural Assomblics or Com-
mission for Oversccing the Election of Members from the
national constituency shall presorve the roports providcd
for in Articlc 80 during the torm of office of the members
clceted.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
Any person may domand inspcetion of suchrt
accordaned with the provisions of brdinancos, dury
poriod montioned in the procoding peragraph.
Article 83. The Ministor of Homo Affairs may rostrict
by ordinance literature and picturos, to bo postod or dis
tributed for clcction canpaigns, in tho way of their forn,
number and tho placc whero thoy aro posted.
Chapter XI
Pcnal Provisions
Articlc 84. Any person who has violatod tho provisions
of Articlo 76, Paragraph l, shall bo liablo to imprisonment
for not more than six (6) months or a finc of not more than
thrcc thousand (3,ooo) yon.
Any porson vho has violatcd the provisions of Articlo
76, Paragraph 2 to 4 shall bo liablo to imprisonmont for
not more than one (1) year or a fine of not more than five
thousand (5,00o) yon.
NOTE: It should be noted that rost of the Japa-
nosc ponal provisions contain a clauso of "not moro than,"
lcaving it to tho judgo to dccido what tho actual punishment
shall be, sinco no minimum is montioned.
Articlo 85. Any p rson who hns noglectcd to submit the
roport provided for in Articlc 78, paragraph 2, shell bo
liable to a fine of not noro than ono thousand (1,o00) yen.
The proccding paragraph shall apnly to pcrsons who
violato orders issucd under thc provisions of Articlo 83.
Articlc 86. Any p rson who hos noglocted to submit the
roport providod for in Articl 8o, or mede a falso roport
shall be linblc to imprison nt or not morc than six (6)
months or n fine of not more than thrcc thousand (3,ooo) yen.
Articlo 87. In addition to the provisions of tho pre-
ceding thrcc Articles, the penal provisions coneorning the
clcction of nombers of the House of Representatives shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the cloction of mombors of the
House of Councillors; provided, however, that th: Chairnan
of the clection Sub-Mooting and the place of such a meoting
in the clcction of Mombors from national constituency aro
respectively considored as the Chairman. of Elcction and the
placc of an clcction mecting.
Chaptor XII
Supplenontary Provisions
Articlo 88. "hen a Connissioner for Ovorsccing the
Elcction of Mombors fron the national constituoncy, Voting
Qverscor, Ballot-Counting Overscor, Chairrnn of Elcction
Sub-Moeting or Chairman of Election has lost the right to
votc, ho shall forfcit his office.
Articlo 89. Expcndituros in conn etion vith the
exccution of clcction shall bc provided for by ordinance.
33

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 90. A candidate or a person who han,not
his recommendation f a candidate may, according to
visions o" ordinances, send ordinary posteardsure
campaien to the maximum of ten thousand (10,00o) ah
free of postage, per candidate.
Facilities of schools and other establishments to be.
designated by ordinances shall be permitted to be used for
campaign speeches, in accordance with the provisions of
ordinances.
The caretaker of the establishments mentioned in the
preceding paragraph shall provide facilities necessary for
making camnaign speeches in accordance with the provisions
of ordinances.
The Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members
of the Metropolitan Assembly or the Commissions for Over-
seeing the Election of Members of the District and Pre-
fectural Assemblies.shall, in accordance with the provisions
of ordinances, publish documents in which the names, careers,
etc. of candidates are described.
The Commission for Overseeing the Election of the Mun1-
cipal, Ton and Villnge Assemblies shall nost up a notice
of the names, etc. of candidates in accordance with the
provisions of ordinances.
NCTE: In most of the rural localities the schcols
are the only buildings suitable for mass meetings and the
fair and equitahle use of the schools by the candidates is
of great importance. The caretakers of the schools are ex-
pected to show no partiality in this respect.
Article 91. In this lav the provisions concerning the
Commission and Commissioners for Overseeing the Election
of the members of the City Counoil shall apply to the Com-
mission and Commissioners for Overseeing the Election of
the Members of the Vard (of City) Councils, or the Ward
Óverseeing the
Commission and Ward Commissioners for
Election of the Menbers of the City Council, and also the
provisions concerning cities shall apply to wards in cities,
with regards to the werd areas in Tokyo To and the cities
stipulated in Article  and Article 2, paragraph I, of the
law of the Organizatior of Cities.
In the application of the provisions of this law, the
Commission for Overseeing the Election of the Town or
Village Headman and the Commissioners for the same in the
towns and villages:stipulated in Article 38.of the Law con-
cerning the Organization of Towns and Villages shall be
considered respectively as the Commission for Overseeing the
Election of the member of the Town or Village Assemblies
and the Commissioner for the same.
In the application of this law, such associations of
towns or villages as collectively take charge of the whole
affairs of the towms or villazes or affairs of the towm or
village offices shall be considered as one towm or village
and the Commissioh for Overseeing the Faction of members.
of the Assemblies of the Assdciation of towns or villages
and the Commissionars for the same or the Commission for
Overseeing the Election of Overseers of the towm or village
Association and the Conmissioners-fon the same shall be con-
sidered resrectively as the Commission for Overseeing the
Election of Members of the Tom or Village Assembly and the
Commissioners for the same.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
In places where the Law concerning the Organizatien of
Towns and villages has not yet been enforced, the provisions
in this law concerning the Commission for Overseeing the
Election of Members of the Town or Village Assembly shall
apply to persons who hold a post corresponding to the tom
or village headman; the provisions relating to town or
village shall apply to the body corresponding to tom or
village.
Article 92. ith regard to matters to which the pro-
visions of this law cannot be applied in an island or any
other place vithout adequate means of transportation,
special provisions may be enacted by ordinances.
Article 93. Provisions necessary for the enforcement
of this law shall be enacted by ordinances.
Additional Provisions
Article 1. This lav shall come into force as from the
date of its promulgation.
Article 2. Any person no has been adjudicated bank-
rupt and has not been rehabilitated: any indigent person
who is recciving official or private relief or allowances
for livelihood; any person who has no fixed abode; and any
person whose term of punishment has been completed or shall
be executed no longer but ho is still disqualified for
voting in the election of members of the House of Repre-
sentatives (excluding any person who has been sentenced to
a punishrent on account of a crime relating to election)
shall have for the time being the right to vote in the
election of members of the House of Councillors, regardless
of the provisions of this law.
The head of a family belonging to the Imperial Family
or of a fanily of peerage shall have the right to vote, for
the time being, regardless of the provisions of this law.
With regard to the cloctoral lists necessary for the
persons mentioned in the preceding two paragraphs, pro-
visions shall be enacted by ordinance.
Article 3. The President or judges of the Court of
Administrative Litiga'ion in active service shall, rending
the enforcement of the Constitution, not be eligible for
election, regardless of the provisions of this law.
Article 4. The words "the House of Councillors" in
Article 14 shall read "House of Peers," pending the estab-
lishment of the House of Couneillors.
Article 5. With rogard to the election of Members
from the prefectural constituency, the notification con-
cerning the litigations provided for in Articles 73 and 74
shall for the time being be made to the Commission for
Overseeing the Election of Vembers of the Metropolitan
Assembly or the Commission for Overseeing the Elcction of
Members of the District or Prefectural Assembly oncerned
through the Minister of Home Affairs and the Metropolitan,
Distriet or Prefectural Governor concerned.
35

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
35
In the case of election of the Members from the 
fectural constituency, a person who files a litivation
the validity of en election or on the validity of the
elected provided for in Article 73, on the ground that he
obtained the necessary votes, according to the proviso,
Article 56, Paragraph I, or that Article 56, Paragraph 8,
or Article 57 are not applicable to him, or that the
decision in Article 58, Paragraph 6, is illegal, shall have
the Chairman of the Commission for Overseeing the Election
of Jiembers of the Metropolitan Assembly, or the Chairman
of the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of
the District or Prefecture concerned as the accused, for
the time being, regardless of Article 73.
Article 6. In the case of candidates for Members from
the prefectural constituency, the notification concerning
the responsible disburser and a person who subrogates his
functions provided for in Article 78, paragraph 2, shall
for the time being be made to the Commission for Overseeing
the Election of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly or the
Commission for Overseeing the Elcction of Members of the
District or Preicctural Assembly concerned, regardless of
the provisions of the above-rentioned paragraph.
Article 7. In cases where any elected person or any
person who superintended election campaigns has been punished
in accordance with the provisions of Article 87, the noti-
fication theroof shall for the tire being be nade through
the Minister for Home Affairs and the Governor of the Metro-
polis or the District or Prefecture concerned to the Com-
mission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the Metro-
politan Assembly or the Commission for Overseeing the
Election of Members of the District or Prefectural Assembly
concerned, regardless of the rovisions of the above-men-
tioned Article.
Article 8. In applying mutatis mutandis the penal pro-
visions concerning the election of nombers of the House of
Representatives, the persons listed in Article 6 shall for
the tine being be considered as public officials.
Articlo 9. The right to vote and the eligibility of
any person to Whom the House Registration Law does not
apply shall be suspended for the timo being.
Article 10. Regarding the Cirst ordinary clection of
the Members of the House of Couneillors to be effected by
this Lav, "within ten (10) days" shall read "within five (5)
days" in Article 61.
In the Cirst regular clection of Members of the House
of Councillors to be held under this law the clection of
six year term Members end that of three year term Members
shall be held conjointly on the date to be fixed by an
Imperial Rescript.
Article 1l. With respect to the first regular elect-
ion of Members of the Housc of Councillors to be held under
this law, the phrase "the fixed humber of members to be
returned for the clectoral district concerned in a regular
election" in Article 55, Paragraph 2, and Article 56, Para-
graph 1, Proviso and Article 79, paragraph 1, Items 1 and 2;
shall read "the fixed numbor of members in tho electoral
district concerned" and the phrase "the fixed nurber of mem-
bers to be returned in a regular election" in Article 66,
and Article 67, Proviso and Article 79, Paragraph 1, Items
1 and 2 shall read "the fixed number of members."

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 12. As regards the initial members of the
House of Councillors, in case a regular election takes
place before the enforccment of the Constitution of Tapan,
they will become members of the House from the effective
dete of tho Constitution, and their term of office shall
be calculated as from that date; in case a regular election
takes place after the enforcenent of thc Constitution,
their term of office shall be calculated as from the date
of the said regular election.
(Additional Provision). This Law shall come into
force as from thc date of its promulgation.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
38
Annex
Electoral District
Number of Members
Tokyo Metropolis
8
Kyoto Precccture
464524
Osaka Prefceture
Kanagawa Prefecture
Hyogo Prefecture
Nagasaki Prefecture
Niigata Prefecture
Saitama Prefecture
4
Gunma Prefecture
4
Chiba Prefecture
4
Ibaragi Prefecture
442254
Tochigi Prefecture
Nara Prcfecture
Mie Prcfecture
Aichi Prefecture
Shizuoka Prefecture
Yamanashi Prefecture
2
Shiga Prefecture
2
Gifu Prefecture
24242
Nagano Prefecture
Miyagi Prefecture
Fukushima Prefecture
Iwato Prefecture
Aomori Prefccture
2
Yamagata Prefecture
2
Akita Prefecture
2
Fukui Prefeeture
2
Ishikawa PreCecture
2
Toyama Prefecture
2
Tottori Prefecture
2
Shimane Prefecture
2
Okayana Prefecture
4
Hiroshima Prefceture
4
Yamaguchi Prefecture
2
Wakavama Profeeture
2
Tokushima Prefecture
2
Kagawa Prefecture
2
Ehime Prefoeture
2
Kochi Profacture
Fukuoka Prefeeture
Oita Prefeeture
2
Saga Profecture
2
Kumanoto Prefecture
4.
Miyazaki Prefecture
2
Kagoshima Profecture
4
Hokkaido District
8

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.94)
THE LAW FOR THE ELICTION OF MEMBERS
OF TYT HOUSE OF REPRESENT.TIVES
The Elcction Districts
Articla 1 - The mcbers of the House of Represontatives
shall be clected in sech of the lecticn districts. The
eleetion districts and t nurber of rerbers to be elected
in each district cre set forti in the opperdix to the pre-
sent lav.
Articlc 2 - Thc voting distriets shall be subjeet to
the lirits of citics, towns end villares.
When tu Corrissions for Oversecing the Election of Mem-
burs of the I unieipel, Toun or Villa e Asserblies dcem it
necesse , thore rey he est lished sever 1 voting distriets
for one ciay, town or villace.
In case veting districts a'e of trblished according to
the preceding clanse, the Cor issions for Overseeins the
Election of Nerbers of he I unicipal, Toun or Village As-
enblies must i mcdiately announce the fact.
In case ny rovisions of the present law a e not ap-
plicable to cistricts osteblis'ed accoring to the second
clause os this a ticla, special or oviricns rey bo enacted
by imperisl ordinenco.
NOTE: It is ivreo-tent to appreciate thot the voting
district does uot coincide vit: the slection dictrict: it
is sraller than the clection dist iat cnd is permelly the
territory of a city, a town or a villa ey but, as rey be
seen fror pava. 2 oven the latter ray be broken dnto several
voting districts.
Article 3 - The ballot-countin cietriets shell be sub-
ject to the linits of citius, touns rud villamus.
When the Coanission for Ovorsocins the Plection of Fom-
bers of the Ietropoliten Ass. bly or Commissiens for Over-
seeine the Blectien of Iombers of ths Discrict or Prsfecturel
Asser blics deen that uh pe are s peiel cireurstaneer, there
: ay be cstablished saveral be llot-countine listricts for one
city or o:: bellot-countinr dist iet for severel towns or
villapes.
When the ballot-countinr cistricts are established ac-
codine to the orecediny clauea, the Cormission Por Oversee-
ine the Election of Icnbars f the  etropoliten Asserbly or
Corrissions for Overseeine the Electior of I rbers of the
istrict or Prefecturel Aeserblies must sunounce th, faet
irmediately.
In case eny provisiors of the prosent law are not ap-
plicable to bsllot-countins distriets ustanlished according
to the sucond clause of this article, special provisions way
be enacted by inperial ordinance.
NOTE: The ballet-countin districts norrally coincide
with the voting districts; but not infrequently sevoral vot-
ing districts are joined to forr ons ballot-counting district.
Article 4 - When en slteration tokos plece in an cloction
district in cons quonce of a change in edrinistretive bound-
aries, the rembers actually sittin for such district shall
retain their seats.
39

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
40
Voting Right and Eligibility
Article 5. Any Japanese national vho is over tventy
years of age shall have the right to vote.
Any Japanese national who is over twenty-five years of
age shall be eligible for election.
HoTF. There is a distinction between the "right to vote"
and voting, since the "right to vote" is qualified by the
necessity of being registered, provisions such as those of
Article 6, and so on. Similar restrictions apply to the
"right of election." Cf. Articles 8-ll.
Article 6. Any person who has been declared incompetent
or quasi-incompetent, or who has been condemned to penal servi-
tude or confinement and whose term of punishment has not been
completed or is yet to be executed shail neither have the
right to vote nor be eligible for clection.
NOTE: According to this Article the following categories
shall neither enjoy the franchise nor be eligible for election:
1. Incompetent or quasi-incor etent. An incompetent is
a person "in a habitual state of unsound mind" (Civ.
Code, Art. 7). A quasi-incompetent nerson is a weak-
minded, deaf, duab or blind person or spendthrift
(Art. 12 of the Civil Code) ho is recognized as
such by the Court).
2.
Those in prison or vho have received a sentence
involving renal servityde or confinement and have
not yet served their teer. This status will have
been established by a court decision.
Article 7. Deleted
Article 8. The Commissiorers for Overseeine the Election
of Members of the Hetropolitan Assombly, Commissioners for
Overseeine the Election of orbers of the District or Prefect-
ural Assemblies, and Connissions or Overseeing the Flection
of Municinal Torn or Village Assemblies, Votine Overseers,
Ballot-Counting Overseers and Chairmen or Eloction, and
officers and officials en-ved in the management of affairs
pertaining to election shall not be cligible for election
within the limits of the jurisdiction of their respective
offices.
NoTE: Election officials ray rot e elected in the
district in which they serve in this canacity, but they are
permitted to vote in such districts.
Article 9. Judges, public procurators, sovernment audi-
tors, revenue officials and police officers in active service
shali not be eligible for election.
NoTH: These officials may vote but they may not be
elected because they are supposed to be above the partisan
feeling of the candidates. They may run for election if
they resign trom their positions.
Article l0. Officials and those treated as officials
and effieials of local public entities with the excentions
hereafter listed may not combine their offices with member-
ship in the House of Represontatives:

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.96)
Cabinet ministers.
2.
The Director General of the Cabinet Secretariat.
3.
The Prosident of the Bureau of Legislatien.
4.
Parliamentary undersecrotaries of all ninistrios.
Parliamentary Councillors of all ministries.
Private secvetaries of tho premier.
Private secretaries of all ministries.
8.
Private secrctaries to State Vinisters.
Article 1l. Merbers of the Lotropolitan, District, Pre-
fectural, and I unicipal, Town or Villago Assomblies vay not
hold coner. rent nembership in the House of Representatives.
Electoral Lists
Article 12 - The Cheirman of the Corrissions for Over-
secing the Election of rembers of tho Punicipal, Town or Vil-
lage Assorblies shall investicate ennually, as of the fifteenth
of (epteber, cll qualificd persons who heve been doriciled for
more than six months without intorruptior in their respective
localitius and prcp re e Jist thereof by the thirty-first of
October.
The are of an clecter shall be counted as of the date
when the clectoral list is rade final.
The pensons disqualified under the residence vequirerent
provided in the first and the precedinp clauses of this ert-
icle ray not be resistcred in the olcctoral list.
In the plcctoral list she11 be entered the nare, resi-
dence, end date of birth of each elcctor.
The tor's of residence provided in the first and third
clauses of this article-shall ret be affected by altoretions
of the ad inistrative bounderies.
NOTE: Onco a year, by October 31, Japanese officiels
prepare a re ister of votors, in which are included all adults
who lived in the sone loceli'y for six  onths, end satisfy
other reruirer ants. In vioy of the ti e ler between that date
and the date of the condng clcctions, a specjal Law bas been
passed permittins registration as of 10 April, l047. This vill
rean thet pll porsons who lived in the sa e locnlity since
10 October, 1o46 ray register end vote. lro all ropatrietos,
irresosctive of the length of their residence, rey rerister
on that day. However, although poristretion in  ptember-
October was eutomatic (local officials havinr to ro-ister all
who lived in the locality sinco lerch), in certein instences
the special re istration this Farch will be contingent upon fil-
ins of an applica ion by the voter. Those who were revister-
ed in Septomber-Octobor do not have to refite. It is desirable,
however, that they inquire whether their ner e is on the regis-
tor.
Article 13 - Cormissions for Oversceins the Election of
Members of Iunicipal, Town or Villare Assorblics shall, at
their respective offices or et places they desirnats, oxhibst
the clectoral lists for public inspection for s period of fif-
teen days commeneing on the fifth of Neverber.
They shall announce the place of exhibition at Teast three
days before inspection takes placc.
NOTE: There will be an cxhibit of the electoral lists
for public inspoction from Varch 29 to March 31, and from
April 14 to April 16.
41.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
42
Article 14 - When an elector discovers an omission or wrong
registration in the electoral list, he may demand that a correc-
tion be made by giving to the Commission for Eleeting Members
of the City, Town or Village Assemblies written corroborative
evidence and the reason therefor.
Such a demand may not be made after expiration of the period
of exhibition.
Article 15 - Upon the receipt of a notice set forth in the
preceding articlc, the Commission for Electing Members of the
City, Town, or Viilage Assemblies shall examine the reasons
alleged and evidenco adduced and shall give kts decision within
twenty days from the receipt of such notice. If it finds that
the notice is correct it shall immediately correct the electoral
list, notifying the person who has given the notice and other
persons concerned and notify the public at the same time. When
the notice is found to be incorrect a communication to that effect
shall be made to the person who has given the notice.
Article 16 - When either the person who has given the notice
or other persons concerned are not satisfied with the decision of
the Commissions for Overseeing the Election of Members of Munici-
pal, Town or Village Assemblies made according to the foregoing
article, they may, within seven days from the day on which they
received the communication of the said decision, institute a
suit against the Chairman of Commissions for Overseeing the Elec-
tion of Municipal, Town or Village Assemblies, in a district
court.
No apneal is allowed to apnelate courts against the judgment
of the district court mentioned in the preceding clause but it is
permissible to bring an appeal to the Suoreme Court for revision.
NOTE: The Law of 11 January 1947 prescribing supplementary
registration is silent as to the right of the voter to appeal to
the court, probably, in view of the shortage of time available.
Article 17 - The electoral list shall be considered final
on the 20th of December.
The list shall be kept until the 19th of December of the
following year. When, however, any correction is to be made in
the list in pursuance of the judgment of a court of law, the
Commissions for Overseeing the Election of Members of Municipal,
Town or Village Assemblies shall at once make the s id correction
and shall publish the fact.
A new electoral list shall be compiled whenever a natural
calamity or any other unavoidable circumstance may reguire it.
The compilation of the electoral list according to the fore-
going clause and the date thereof, and the date and duration of
exhibition for public inspection and for final cetermination of
the list shall be determined by Imperial Ordinance.
Election, Votes and Polling Places
Article 18 - The date of a general election shall be the day
following the expiration of a term of members of the Eouse of
Representatives. However, when there are peculiar circumstances
an election may be held within five days after a term has expired.
When a term expires while the National Diet is in session
or within twenty-five days after the closing of the session, the
general election shall take place not less than twenty-six nor
more than thirty days after the close of the session.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
The date of a general election shall be proclaimed at least
twenty-five days beforehand.
Article. 19 -. Election shall be by ballot. Each elector
shall cast one ballot only.
NOTE: This article means that every voter can be registered
and vote only in one locality; otherwise he would cast more. than
one ballot.
Article 19-2 - Affairs pertaining to the election of Members
of the House of Representatives shall be taken charge of by the
Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the Metro-
politan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the Election of
the District or Prefectural Assomblies.
The Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of
the Metropolitan Assembly and Commissions for Overseeing the
Election of Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblies
shall direct and supervise the Commissions for Overseeing the
Election of Members of Municipal, Town or Village Assemblies with
regard to affairs pertaining to the election of members of the
House of Representatives.
NOTE: The Election Administration Commissions mentioned
in this Article are the same as the Commissions in charge of the
Local Elections and thoir organization and functioning are
described in detail in a companion volume "Local Elections in
Japan - 1947". House of Representatives elections in the villages,
towns and cities will be supervised correspondingly by the
village, town and city election administration commissions. All
these, in their turn, will be supervised by the prefectural elec-
tion administration commission. There is no all-national Election
Commission (as in the case of elections for part of the House of
Councillors), because the members of the House of Representatives
are elected from prefectures and not from the all-Japan national
constituency.. The Ministry of Home Affairs will continue to
function as the.clearing house for information.
Article 20 - Voting Overseers shall be selected and appointed
by the Commissions for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
Municipal, Town or Village Assemblies, from among those who have
the right to vote for election.
Voting Overseers shall take charge of affsirs pertaining to
voting.
NOTE: The Election Administration Commission (EAC) is not in
immediate charge of the polling; the direct supervision of the
poll is entrusted to a special superintendent of the poll (or
"voting overseer") appointed by the corresponding EAC.
Article 21 - The polling-place shall be the city, town, or
village office or place designated by the voting overseer.
NOTE: There may be several polling places in the locality.
In 1946 there was approximately one polling place per thousand
voters; this time the number will be onsiderably increased for
the convenience of the voter. This means that in most localities
there will be several polling stations per locality.
Arti le 22 - The voting overseer shall announce the polling-
place at least five days previous to the date of election.
Article 23 - The polls shall be onened at 7 o'clock a.m.
and be closed at 6 o'clock p.m.
43

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
44
Article 24 - Each candidate may appoint a person with his
consent to act as a voting witness from among those registered
in the electoral list of each voting district and report his
choice to the voting overseer at least two days before the date
of election.
When the number of the persons'whose selection has been
reported in accordance with the provisions of the preceding clause
(excluding one whose selection has been reported by a candidate
who subsequently thereto has died or withdrawn his candidacy,
which proviso is hereinafter omitted) does not exceed ten, they
shall ipso facto become voting witnesses. In case their number
exceeds ten, they shall lect ten voting witnesses frcm among
themselves.
The election mentioned in the preceding clause shall be
effected by vote, and persons who have obtained the larger number
of votes shall be voting witnesses. In case an equal number of
votes are obtained the decision shall be made by lot by the
voting overseer.
The election mentioned in the second clause of this article
shall be held on the day preceding the date of election.
The place and date of the election mentioned in the second
clause of this article shall be publicly announced by the voting
overseer beforehand.
When the candidate has died or withdrawn his candidacy, the
voting witness whose selection has been reported by him shail
cease to function as such.
In case the voting witnesses anrointed according to the
second clause of this article are fewer than three in number or
there are fewer than three witnesses present at the time of the
opening of the polls, the voting overseer shall fill the vacan-
cies from among the persons ragistered in the electoral list of
the voting district, notifying the persons so anpointed and cause
them to be present at the polls.
A voting witness shell not vacate his office without valid
reason.
NOTE: Voting watchers (voting witnesses) are representatives
of the candidates; they need not be impartial persons. Their
purpose is to wa ch the voting from the point of view of the
interests of the candidate. The limitation of their number to
ten is caused only by considerations of space. There is nothing
in the law to prevent the same person's being a watcher for
several candidates. As they are personal ropresentatives of the
candidates the death or withdrawal of the candidate causes loss
of position by the watcher. If there are no watchers appointed
by the candidates, the superintendent of the vote can order any
registered person to become a witness.
Article 25 - On the day of election electors shall come in
person to the polling-place and vote, after identifying them-
selves as the persons whose names are on the electoral list.
In case the voting overseer cannot identify a person who is
about to vote he shall require him to declare on path his proper
identity. Unless this declaration is made, such a person shall
not be permitted to vote.
Article 26 - The ballot shall be given to each elector at the
polling-place on the day of voting.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 27. Every elector shall enter by himself the
full name of one candidate in a ballot at a polling place and
cast it into a ballot box.
An elector shall not write his own name on the ballot. (*)
Article 28. Writing upon the ballots with Braille as
specified by Imperial Ordinance is permitted.
Article 29. No person other than those entered on the
electoral list shall be capable of voting. Should, however,
any one come to the voting-place on the day of election bring-
ing with him a writ of decision entitling him to have his
name entered on the electoral list, the voting overseer
shall allow him to vote.
Article 30. Whenever a person registered on the electoral
list does not possess the qualifications for registration or
the right to vote on the day of the election, such person may
not vote.
The foregoing provision shall apply to those persons who
cannot themselves write the names of the candidates they
wish to vote for.
Article 31. The voting overseer after consulting the
voting witnesses decides whether or not to allow a vote to
be cast.
In case an elector is dissatisfied with the decision 
mentioned in the preceding ciause, the voting overseer shall
allow him to vote provisionally.
An elector shall place his ballot in an envelope and
seal it and deposit it in the ballot box after writing his
name on the envelope.
The provisions of the foregoing tvo clauses shall apply
to an elector objected to by any of the election witnesses.
NOTE: This article describes the procedure when the
voter objects to the denial of vote. He votes in such case
provisionally and later, at the time of counting of votes,
his right to vote is examined again and, if denied his ballot
becomes invalid. As in some cases the superintendents of
polling and counting witnesses are the same, the question
may be raised what is the purport of this provision? The
day that may pass between balloting and counting of votes
may give a chance to the voter to present proofs of his right
to vote (a certificate of birth, witnesses proving that he
lived in the same locality for six months on 23 March, etc.)
Article 32. When the time for closing the polls arrives,
the voting overseer shall declare the fact and close the
entrance of the polling-places; he shall close the ballot-box
as soon as electors present in the polling place have finished
voting.
After the closing of the ballot-box no voting shall be
allowed.
*
NoTE: However, absentee voting is permitted. See Article
33 of this law and the excerpts 1rom the absentee voting regula-
tions which appear on pages 86 to 87 herewith.
45

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
46
NOTE: Special provisions in an ordinance prescribe how
many locks the balloting box should have, how the box should
be locked, how it should be guarded, etc. Two senarate locks
are normally used, the keys being kept by different individuals.
Article 33 - For electors who certify the impossibility of
personal attendance at a pulling-place on the day of election
owing to circumstances reccgnized by imperial. ordinance, special
provisions may be enacted by imperial ordinance, notwithstanding
the provisions of Articles 25, 26, the first clause of Article 27,
the proviso of Article 29 and Article 31.
NOTE: For absentee voting provisions see Table of Contents
of this guide.
Article 34 - The voting overscer shall keep minutes in which
all matters relating to the voting shall be entered and which he
and the witnesses shell sign.
Article 35 - The voting overseer, except when he is also a
ballot-counting overseer, shall, in comnany with one or more
witnesses, send on the day of election the ballot-box, the minutes
of the voting, and the electoral lists to the counting overseer.
Article 36 - In the case of an island or other plece where
means of transportation do not permit sending the bailot-box
within the time mentioned in the preceding article, the Commission
for Overseeing the lection of Members of th: Metropolitan Assem-
bly or Comnissions for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
District or Prefectural Assemblies may fix a convenient date for
voting and cause the ballot-box, minutes of the voting and the
electoral lists to be sent by the time of counting the votes.
Article 37 - When, owing to natural calamity or other unavoid-
able circumstances, it is found to bo impossible to carry out
the voting or it is necessary to take a fresh vote, the voting
overseer shall give notice to thet effect to the Commission for
Overseeing the Eiection of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly
or Commissions for Overseeing the leetion of Mmbers of the
District or Prefoctural Assemblies through the chuirman of election.
In such a case thc Commissions shall cause the voting to be
carried out by fixing a new date wbieh shall be preclaimed at
least five days boforeband.
Article 38 - In case elections aro to be held according to
Article 75 or 79 simultaneously, one combined election shal1 take
place.
Article 39 - Wo loctes is under obligation to staterto .
any person the name of the candidate for whom he voted.
Article 40 - The voting ovorseer shall meintain order at
the polling-place and may, in case of necessity, ask the assistance
of the police.
Article 41 - With the exception of eloctors, persons attend-
ing to the business of the polling-place, officials who are
authorized to oversee the polling-piace, and police officials,
no person is allowed to enter the polling-place.
Article 42 - When at the polling-place, any person makes a
speech, engages in discussion, causes an uproar, holds a conference
or uses persuasion as to voting, or otherwise disturbs the order of
the polling-place, the voting overseer shall caution him and if
the caution is disregarded, shall cause hin to leave the polling-
place.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 43 - A person who has been compelled to leave a
polling-place in accordance with the foregoing article, may
be allowed to vote either at the end of the voting or
earlier if it is deemed by the voting overseer that there is
no danger of the polling-place being disturbed thereby.
NOTE: It is important to note that a person removed
from the nolling station is allowed to vote when it is likely
that his presence will not disturb order.
Counting of Ballots and Counting-Office
Article 44 - Ballot-counting Overseers shall be selected
and appointed by the Commissions for Overseeing the Election
of Members of the Municipal, Town or Village Assemblies from
among those who have the richt to vote for election.
Ballot-counting Overseers shall take charge of affairs
pertaining to the counting of ballots.
Article 45 - The counting-office shall be established in
the city, town or village office or at the place apnointed by
the counting overseer.
Article 46 - The counting overseer shal1 announce the
date of the counting beforehand.
Article 47 - The pro-isions of Article 24 shall be applied
to the counting witnesses of the countirg-office.
Article 49 - The counting of ballots shall be effected on
the day of voting or on the day immediately fallowing (in case
more than one voting district exist vithin one vote-counting
district, on the day when all the bellot-hoves have been re-
ceived or on the day immediately following).
Article 49 - The countins overseer shell, in the presence
of the counting witnosses, examine the votes coming under
sections 2 and 4 of Article 31 and shall decide as to their
acceptability after consulting the counting witnesses.
The counting overseer, with the counting vitnesses, shall
examine the hallots for each polling district.
As soon as the examination of the ballots has been fin-
ished, the counting overseer shall report the result immedi-
ately to the chairman of election.
Article 50 - The electors are enti+led to request per-
mission to inspect tho counting at the resnective offices.
Article 51 - The validity of hallots shall be decided by
the counting overseer after consulting the counting vitnesses.
NOTE: This means that the decision rests vith the superin-
tendent of counting, but the vatchers can present their objec-
tions.
Article 52 - The votes mentioned below shall be invalid:
1。
Those for which a regular ballot has not been used.
2.
Those on which the name of a nerson other than a
candidate is inscribed.
3.
Those on which the nares of two or more candidates
are inscribed.
47

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
48
4.
Those on which the name of a person disqualified
for election is inscribed.
5.
Those on which other matters in addition to the
name of a candidate are inscribed. But this rule
does not apply to those on which the profession,
status, residence, or honorifics are entered.
6.
Those on which the name of the candidate is not
written by the voter himself.
7.
Those by which it is impossible to ascertain which
candidate is meant.
8.
Those cn which the name of a per: on who is a member
of the House of Representatives is inscribed.
The preceding 8th item is applicable only to
an election held in accordance with the provisions of
Article 75 or 79 of the present law.
Article 52-2. Dolotc.
Article 52-3. Delete
NOTE: Articles 52-2 and 52-3 made provision for re-
stricted plural voting -- the system of voting used in the
last general election for the Houso of Representatives.
This system provided for a grand total of 53 electoral dis-
tricts throughout Japan, of which 39 coincided with prefec-
tural boundaries and 14 were formed by dividing the most
populous prefectures in half. Mumber of seats at stake in
the various districts varied from 4 to 14; voters cast two
votes in those districts which wore to elect from 4 to 10
representatives and threo votes in districts which were to
elect 1l to 14 representatives. Plural votes had to be
distributed among separate candidates; no voter could cast
more than one vote for the sane candidate.
It will be recalled that the proposal to change the
former system of plural voting to the present system of
voting evoked a sharp clash in the Diet between the Liberals
and Progressives on one side and all other parties on the
other. The minority parties have always felt that the system
of plural balloting worked to their advantage; the majorty
parties have preferred the small constituency and a single
ballot.
As natters now stand, even the present system is not
fully in accord with the expressed ultimate osires of the
Liberal Party, whichas called for division of Japan into
466 electoral districts with one representative in the House
of Representatives elected from each district.
Article 53. Ballots shall be sorted into lots that are
valid and those that are void and shall be preserved by the
Commissions for Oversecing the Election of Members of the
Municipal, Town or Village Assemblies.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 54 - The counting overseer shall make the eounting
minutes, in which all matters releting to the ballot-counting
shall be recorded, and shall affix his signature threto together
with ballot-counting witnesses.
The counting minutes nd voting minutes shall be preserved
during the term of office of the members elected, by the Commis-
sions for Overseeing the Municipal, Town or Village Assemblies.
Article 55 - In the counting of ballots of a new election
held in case a part of an election is declared invalid, the
validity of ballots shall be ascertained.
4
Article 56 - The provisions of Article 37 shall, with the
exception of the proviso, be applied mutatis mutandis in the
counting.
NoTE: This means that when because of a natural calamity,
ballot counting cannot take place on the appointed day, another
day will be fixed for it.
Article 57 - For the control of counting-offices the provis-
ions of Articles 40 to 42 shall be applied mutatis mutandis.
Election Meeting
Article 58 - The Chairman of Election shall be selected and
appointed by the Co sior for Oversecing the Election of Members
of. the Metrept liba Asso  co the Conmis: ion For Overseeing the
FTection of Mesors of r astrict or Prefciral Assemblies.
The Chnirnar slection shall take charge of affairs relatin
to the eleecion-nectine.
Article 59 - Tre ciection meeting shall be held at the Metro-
politen or prefoctur ffice or at a city office or a place
designated by the chairman or election.
Article 60 - The chairman of election shall announce the
place and date of th: rlaction meeting beforehand.
Article 61 - The provisions of Article 24 shall be applied
correspondingly to the election witnesses.
Article 62 - The chairman of election shall hold the election
meeting in the presence of the election witnesses on the day when
or the next day after the reports provided for in the third
section of Article 49 are received from all counting overseers
and shall examine the reports.
In case a part of an election was invalid and a new election
has been held, the chairman of election, on receipt of the report
under the third section of Article 49, shall hold an election
meeting and examine it together with other reports.
NOTE: Art. 49, para 3, mentioned here, demands that the
superintendent of baliot counting report immediately to the chair-
man of election the results of the counting.
Article 63 - The electors are entitled to request admission
to the election meeting of their respective districts.
Article 64 - The Chairman of clection shall make the election
minutes, in which all matters relating to the election meeting
shall be recorded and shell affix his signature thereto together
with election witnesses.
49

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
50
The election minutes, together with the documents relating
to the reports made under Article 49, Para 3, shall be preserved
by the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
Metropolitan Asserbly or Commissions for Overseeing the Election
of Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblies, during the
term of office of the members elected.
Article 65 - The provisions of Article 37 shall, with the
exception of the proviso, be applied correspondingly to the
election meeting.
Article 66 - For the control of the election meeting the
provisions of Articles 40 to 42 shall be applied correspondingly.
NOTE: Arts. 40-42 deal with the maintenance of order at the
polling station.
Candidates & Persons Elected
Article 67 - A person who desires to be a candidate shall so
notify the chairman of election between the date when the date of
election is proclaimed and the seventh day before the date of
election.
When a person whose neme is registered in the electoral list
desires to name a candidate other than himrelf, he. may make the
recom endation with the consent of the candidate during the
period set forth in the preceding clause.
In case the number of cansidates named during the period
stated in the two preceding clauses exceeds the number of members
to be elected, when candidates die after the period stated or
withdraw candidacy, notice or recowmendation of candidates may
be made according to the two preceding clauses by the second
day previous to the date of election.
A person who hes become a candidate in one election district
shall not notify his candidacy or approve the notification recom-
mending him as a candidate in another election district.
A candidate nay not vithdrar his candid:cy without notifica-
tion to the chairman of election.
On receint of notice under the third paragraph and the
preceding paragraph of this article or on the death of a candi-
date the chairman of election must immediately publish the facts.
Article.68 - The person who desires to enter for candidacy
or who desires to recommend a candidate shall deposit 5,000 yen
in cash or national bonds of the same face value for each
candidate.
The deposit made in accordance with t e preceding clause
shall belong to the government in case the total votes for the
candidate are less than one-tenth of the number of the valid
votes obtained by respect ve candidates divided by the number
of members to be elected in that -lection district.
The provisions of the preceding clause shall be applied to
candidates who withdraw within ten days of the date of election,
unless such withdrawal is due to loss of eligibility.
Article 69 - The candidate who has obtained
the greatest number of valid votes shall be declared elected.
However, the number of votes obtained shall not be less than one-
fourth of the total number of the votes, obtained by respective
candidates, divided by the number of members to be elected from
the district.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
In determining the person elected, in case the number of
ballots obtained by the candidates is the same; and the choice
is determined by lot, the chairman of election shall hold a
drawing at the election meeting.
In case the person elected may be determined without holding
a new election in consequence of a suit instituted under Articles
81 or 83, the person elected shall be determined at an election
meeting.
When a person elected either declines the election or dies
or when his election has been invalidated according to the pro-
visions of Article 70, the person elected shall be determined
immediately at an election meeting from among those persons who
have obtained the quota mentioned in the proviso of the first
section of this article but have not been elected.
Then any of the causes mentioned in Article 75, Para. 1,
Items 5 and 6, has occurred during the period stipulated in
Article 74 and there are persons who have obtained such number
of votes as mentioned in the proviso of Para. 1, or when such a
case has occurred after the expiration of the neriod and, there
are persons who have obtained votes and to whom the provisions of
Para. 2 are applicable, an election meeting shall be held to
determine the person elected from among the above mentioned persons
In applying the foregoing three sections, a person voted for
who comes under the first clause and was not elected shall not be
declared elected in case he has been disqualified for election
after the date of the election.
NOTE: Only a r-lative majority of votes is necessary in
order to be elected; but this majority must be a minimum 25% of
the total votes cast.
If the total number of votes cast was 3, 300,000, the number
of vacancies 10, and the leading candidate received 70,000 votes,
he would retain his deposit, but he would not be elected to the
Diet, because tho requisite minimum is 3,300, 000 divided by 10
divided by 4 = 82,500. If the number of candidates, as compared
with vacancies, is very large and the vote widely scattered among
the candidates, it might happen that none would be elected and
a new election would bo needed.
Article 70 - An olectior shall be invalidated when the person
elected is disqualified for election after the date thereof.
Article 7l - In case the number of candiaates notified accord-
ing to the provisions of sections one to three of Artiele 67 does
not exceed the number of members to be elected from a district, no
election shall be held.
When it is unnecessary to hold an election according to the
provisions of the preceding clause the chairman of election shall
so notify the voting overseer, the Commission for Overseeing the
Election of Members of the Metropolitan Assemblies or Commissions
for Overseeing the Election of members of the District or Prefec-
tural Assemblies and the electors.
On receipt of such notice the voting overseer shall publish
the fact immediately.
In the circumstances indicated in the first clause of this
article, the chairman of election shall hold an election meeting
within five days previous to the date of election and determine
the candidates as elected.
51

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
52
In such cases the chairman of elcction shall determine the
validity of the qualifications of the candidates after consulting
the election witnesses.
Article 72 - When a candidates election has been determined,
the chairman of election shall at once inform the person elected
and at the same time shall publish the names of the persons
elected and also shall report the minutes of, the election, such
as the names of and the number of votes obtained by the persons
elected, and the total number of votes for each person, etc.
to the Commission for Overseeing the Election of members of the
Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the Election
of Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblies.
The chairman of election shall immediately publish and give
notice of the fact to the Commission for Overseeing the Election
of members of the Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Over-
seeing the Election of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assemblies when there is no person elected or the number of persons
electod is less than the number to be elected.
Article 73 - Upon receipt of notice of election, every person
elected shall notify the Commission for Overseeing the Election
of Mombers of the Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Over-
seeing the Election of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assemblies whether or not he accepts.
Article 74 - Those persons elected who have failed to give
notice of acceptence within ten days from the day on which they
received notice of lection shal? be considered to have declined
election.
NOTE: It is important to note th:t according to law, the
successful candidate must notify the EAC of his acceptance of
election, otherwise he will be considered to have declined the
election.
Article 75 - In any of the following circumstances the Com-
mission for Overseeing tho Election of Members of the Metropolitan
Assembly or Commissions for Oversecing the Election of Members
of the District or Prefectural Assemblies shall fix a date and
hold a new election, announcing the dato thereof at least twenty
five days before th dato of electior except vhen the persons
elected can be determined without carrying out a nev election.
This provision is not applicable when tho date of election is
announced owing to circumstances other than th following or in
accordance with the provisions of the eighth section of Article 79
concerning one and the same person:
In case there is no person elected or the number of
persons elected is less than the number to be elected.
2.
When the porson elected declines the election or is dead.
3.
When the person cleeted loses the eloction according to
provisions of Article 70.
4。
When there is no person olected or the number of persons
elected does not come up to the r quired number in
consequence of a suit instituted according to the pro-
visions of Articles 81 or 83.
5.
When an clection is invalidated as the result of a suit
instituted according to Article 84.
6.
When an election is invalidated according to the provis-
ions of Article 136.
An election mentioned in the preceding clause may not be held
during the period allowed for filing a suit under the provisions
of Article 81 or 83, or until the settloment of judgment in a
case in which a. suit has been filed.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
The date of election to be held in accordance with the rir
section of this article shall be within thirty (3o) days after
the final day of the period allowed for filing a suit under the
provisions of Article 81 or 83; in case a suit has been brought,
it shall be within twenty (2o) days after the day on which the
Commission for Overseuing the Election of Members of the Metro-
politan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the Election of
embers of the District or Prefectural Assembly received the
communication from the Chief Judge of the Supreme Court to the
offect that the suit is terminated or the communication made in
conformity with the second clause of Article 86 or Article 143.
When any one of the circumstances mentioned in thc first
section of this article has arisen within six months prior to the
end of the torm of a reoresontative, no election is held under
the first section of this article.
Article 76 - When a porson elected has accepted election
the Commission for overseeing the Election of Members of the Metro-
politan Assembly or Cormissions for Overseeing the Election of
Members of the District or Prefectural Assomblies shall at once
give him a certificate of election and publish his name, at the
same time reporting thereon to the Minister of Home Affairs
through the Governor.
Article 77 - When an election has bee" invalidated owin: to
a suit instituted under Chapter 9 or tn tho application of
Article 136, the Commission for Oversecing the Election of Members
of the Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the
Election of fembers of the District or Prefocturel Assemblies
shall publish the fact immediately.
Term of Membership end Substitutional Election
Article 78 - The term of membership shall be from the date
of a general election.
Article 79 - A substitutional election shall not be held even
when a vacaney occurs among nembers until the nurber of vacaneies
comes up to two in the same clection district. In the olcction dis
trict, however, in which the fixed number of memb rs to be clected
is two (2) the substanticl oleetion shall be heli when a venancy
has occurred.
In case a vacaney occurs among mombers the Minister of Home
Affairs shall notify the Commission for Overseeing the Election
of Members of the Metropoliten Assombly or Commissions for Over-
seeing the Election of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assemblies concerned within five days from the det of his receipt
of the notification thoreon from the President of the House of
Representatives.
On receipt of such notification the Cormission for Ovorsecing
the Elcction of Members of the Yotropolitan Assembly or Commissions
for Overseeing the Election of Members of the District or Prefec-
tural Assemblies shall communicate it immediatoly to the chairman
of election when a candidate who obtained the guota required under
the proviso of the first paregraph of Article 69 but wasenot elect-
ed is available, in the case of a vaoancy which occurs during the
period mentioned in Article 74; or when there is a candidate to
whom the second paragraph of Article 69 has been applied but was
not elected, in the caso of a vacancy which takes place after the
period has elapsed.
The chairman of election Fhall determine the person elected,
applying the provisions of secticns four to six of Article 69,
within twenty (2o) days from the Acte of notification undor the
preceding section.
53

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
54
On receipt of notification under section two of this artiel
the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the Election
of Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblies unless the
third section herein of this article is applied or the date of
the election has been published according to the provisions of
Article 75 concerning one and the same person, shall wait until
the number of vacancies reaches one-fourth of the number of
members to be elected in the election. district concerned; it
shall hold a substitutional election within thirty (3o) days of
receipt of the final notification under section two of this
article.
In case an election prescribed in Paragraph 75 is. held in
the election district in which the fixed number of members to be
elected is two, or in case the number of vacancies is two in
another election district, but an election is to be held under
Article 75, a substitutional election shall, in spite of the
provisions of the first and fifth clauses of this article, be
held in parallel with the said election, unless the Commission
for Overseeing the Election of Members of the District or Pre-
fectural Assemblics have received the notification under the
second clause of this article after the date of election was
announced in accordance with the provisions of Article 75.
The date of the substitutional elcction mentioned in the
preceding clause shall be fixed in accordance with the rules of
the date of election under Article 75.
The date cf a substitutional elcction shell be announced at
least twenty-five (25) days before the election by the Commissions
for Overseeing the Election of Members of the Metropolitan
Assembly or Commissicns for Overseeing the Election of Members
of the District or Prefectural Assemblies.
The provisions of sections two to four of Article 75 shall
be applied to a substitutional electicn.
Articlc 80 - A member elected by substitutional election
shall serve out the term of his predecessor.
Law-Suits Arising Out of Elcctions.
Articlc 81 - An clector or a candidate vho entertains an
objection to the validity of an election may institute a suit
against the Chairman of the Commission for Oversceing the Election
of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly or of the Commission for
Overseeing the Election of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assemblies in the High Court within thirty days after the date of
election.
Article 82 - When the legal provisions govorning elections
are violated, the court shall declare the clection void either
in whole or in part if such violation is judged likely to affect
the returns.
In a suit instituted under Article 83, when the election is
adjudged to fall under the preceding section, the court shall
declare the election void either in whole or in part.
Article 83 - When a candidate who has failcd of election
questions the validity of the clection of a porson elected in
the same election district, he may institute a suit in the High
Court against the person elected within thirty days from the date
of publication of the name of the person elected under sections one
and two of Article 72. But a suit shall be instituted against the
Chairman of the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members
of the Metropolitan Assembly or of the Commission for Overseeing

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
the Flection. of Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblie
on the ground that the requirement imposed in the proviso of
section one of Article 49 has been obtained or on the ground that
the election does not abide by section s1x of Article 49 or by
Article 70, or on the ground thet the decision made under section
five of Article 71 is illegal.
When a suit is instituted according to the preceding section
and the person clected dies before the decision is made, such
suit shall be reinstituted against the public procurators.
Article 84 - An clcctor or a candidate who claims that an
election is invalid under Article llo may institute a suit against
the person elected in the High Court within thirty days after
notification under section one of Article 72.
Article 24-2 - hen a public rocurator deems an elction
to be invalid under the provisions of Article 136 on the ground
of the person accused for the of ences under Article 112 or 113
having been the election manager or the person who was not the
lection manager but actually managed election campaigns, he shall
in parallel vith tho public action, bring a lawsuit against the
person elected.
Article 85 - In th trial of election cases instituted under
the provisions of Article 81, 83 or the first section of the
preceding article tho court shall require the public procurator
to attend the procoedings.
Article 86 - Wh n a suit is instituted under the provisions
of Article 81 or 33 the Chief Judge of the High Court shall
inform the Hinistor of Home Affairs and the Commission for Over-
seoing the Election of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assemblies concorned through the Governors concorned, as well as
when the suit is terminated.
When a litigation has come not to be attonded to under the
first clause of Article 84 or vhon a judgrent passed comes into
force of the suit instituted under ths socond clause of the same
article, the president of the law court shell notify the fact to
the Minister of Home Affeirs and the Commission for Overseeing the
Election of Members of the Motropolitan Assembly or Commissions
for Overseeing thoe Election of Members of the District or
Prefectural Assomblies concerned through tho Governors concerned.
When a judgment is given to th: suit instituted under
Article 81 or 83 or the first section of Article 84 or when a
judgment passed comes into offect of the suit instituted under
the second clause of Article 84, the prosident of the law court
shall send a certified copy of the judgment to the Minister
of Home Affairs. In case the Netional Diet is in session, another
copy shall bo sent to the chairman of the House of Representatives.
Article 87 - The plaintiff vho instituted a suit under the
provisions of Article 81 or 83 or the first section of Article
84 shall deposit as security in the court 3o0 yen in cash or
national bonds of equal face value.
In case the judgmont is given against the plaintiff and
should he fail to pay the whole amount of the legal costs, within
seven days from the day on which the judgment was settled, the
security money shall be appropriated for the purpose and should
there still remain any deficieney ths reguired amount shall be
charged to the plaintiff.
55

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
56
The Election Campaign
Article 88 - Deleted.
Article 89 - No election office may be established by
persons other than a candidate or the person who recommends
a candidate (in case several persons recommend a person, their
representative).
When the person mentioned in the preceding clause has
established an election office, he shall immediately notify
the fact to the Commission for Overseeing the Election of
Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblies, as well
as when there is any change in the clection office.
Article 90 - Only one election office may be established
for each candidate, but five or less election offices may be
established in accordance with Imperial ordinance.
Article 91 - The election offices shall not be established
within three cho (about 360 yards) from voting places.
Article 92 - Resting-places or places of like character
shall not be established for the purpose of an election campaign.
Article 93 - Deleted.
Article 93-2 - Deleted.
Article 94 - When election offices are found to be estab-
lished contrary to the provisions of section one of Article 89,
the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Mombers of the
Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the Election
of the District or Prefectural Assemblies shall immeciately order
such offices to close: this regulaticn is applicable similarly
when election offices are found to be established in excess of
the number authorized under Article 90.
Article 95 - No election campaign shall be conducted
until the notice of recommendation of candidates under
Sections one to three of Article 67 has been made.
Article 96 - No persons shall conduct the election
campaign by making use of their positions specially related
to children, pupils or students of schools under the age of
twenty (20).
Article 97 - Deleted.
Article 98 - No person shall carry on house-to-house
visiting for the purpose of obtaining votes or of siding
or preventing the obtaining of votes.
Article 98-2 - Deleted.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 99 - None of those mentioned in Article 8 shall
carry on an election campaign in the districts in which his
office is located.
Article 100 - The Minister of Home Affairs may establish
limitations by ordinance upon letters and pictures to be distri-
buted or posted in an election campaign.
Article 100-2 - The Minister of Home Affairs may establish
limitations by ordinance upon such acts to be made with the object
of greeting electors, after the day of electicn, in connection
of candicates' success or failure in the election.
Election Expenses
Art cle 10l - A candidate shall appoint a person responsible
for the disburscment of election eampaign expenses (hereinafter
referred to as "responsible disburser"), providing however, that
this does not prevent a candidate from himself becoming a respon-
sible disburser, nor a person who has recommended a candidate
(in case there are several such persons, their representative)
from appointing with approval of the said cand:date a respens-
ible disburser or from himself beooming a responsible disburser.
Article 101, Para 2 shall. be delet-d.
A candidate may relieve a responsi le disburser of his
office by notice in writing. This rule shall apply in case a
person who has recomrended a candidate end who has appointed a
responsible disburser, obtains the cand:cate's approval.
A responsible disburser may resign by notise in writing to
the candidate and the person who anpointec him.
One who has appointed a rosponsible disburser (including
one who has hir self become a responsible disburser) shall immed-
iately report the fect of appointrert to the Commission for
Overseeing the Election of Menbers of the Metropolitan Asserbly
or Commissions for Overseeing the Election of Fembers of the
District or Prefectural Asserblies, to whieh the report under
the second section of Article 89 was made. The same rule shall
apply when a responsible disburser has changed.
One who acts for a responsible disburser in accordarce
with the prov'sions of Article lol-? shall make a report in
pursuance of the instance mentioned n the preceding clause.
The same rule shall apply when one hes resisned.
Article Ml-? - When a responsible cisburser is prevented
from discharg-ng his duties, one whe has appointed hir shall
act for him.
When one who has recommended a cn sadate and who has ap-
pointed a responsible disburser (includins one who has himself
become a responsible disburser) s also prevented fron discharg-
ing his duties, the candidate shcll act for him.
Article lol-3 - The expenses of the election campaign shell
not be paid out by any person other than the responsible disburser
except the expenses involved in the preparation for cancidacy and
those paid out without any understanding of the candidates or
the responsible disburser; however this rule shall not epply to
those who have obtained the written anproval of the responsible
disburser.
Article 1ol-4 - Any person who, not boing the responsible
disburser, has received or accepted any receints relating to the
election campaign for a candidate for membership, shall immediate-
ly inform the responsible disburser of the amounts, the kinds
and other items of the receipts; receipts relatins to
the election campaign reccived or accopted prior to the
57

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
58
notification of standing as a candidate shall be reported to
the responsible disiurser immediately after the notification
of standing as a candidate has been made.
Article 102 - The expenses of the election ca: pairn for
each candidate shall not exceed th? amounts specified in the
followinf items:
1. The amount obtained when the total number of elect-
ors registered on the final clectoral list, divided
by the numbcr of members to he elected in the elec-
tion district, is multiplied by the amount of money
fixed by ordinencc.
2.
In case a pert of an election is declered invalid
and : new election is held, +he emount obtoined
when the number of electors registered on the final
electoral list of the district ccncerned, divided
ry the number of  mbers to be elected in the elec-
tion district concerned, is multiplied by the a-
mount of more fixed by ordinance.
3.
In case an clection is held under Article 37, the
amount shall be celculated in acco dance vith the
preceding iter; howeyer, this amcunt may be reduced
by the Comnission for Oversceing the Election of
Lembers of the l'etropolitan Asserbly cr Commissions
for Ove seeing the Tiection of Iembors of the Dis-
trict or Profectural Asserl lies when they deem it
necessary.
The Commission for Cveroceing the Election of I embers of
the Metropolitan Assembly or Com issions for Oversecing the
Election of Ferhers of the District or Profoctur-1 Assemblies
shall publish the emount determined uoon under the preceding
section as soon as the da'e of clecticn is proclaimed or not-
ified.
Article 103 - In case moteriul oblirations for an elec-
tion camnaign have been reco nized or r-tayjal henefits from
the use of bu'  dines, ships, horses and vehicles, printed
matte, food and drink, etc., other than cesh, haw been re-
ceived, the oblirations or benefits sholl be co si ered ex-
penses of clection at their market velues.
Article l04 - Amounts paid ou" for eny of the following
purposes shall pot he considered expenses of elcetion:
1.
Fer ships, horces, and velhicles used by a candidate.
2.
For the adjustment of th remaining business of an
election carpaign afier he dato of election.
3.
Exponses other thin those which ere beid out by or
wiih the understanliug of the candidate for whom
notice has beun given under seetions ore to three
of Article 67 or the respo sible disburser.
4。
For the prepration of tho candidate otrer than
those paid out by or with the understanding of
the pe son who hes become ths candidate or res-
sponsible disburser.
Articlo lo4-2 - Receipts relating to the election campaign
shall mean such money as has been received and accepted in or-
dor to meet the uxpenses for the olection campeign.
In the case whcre property oblirations have been exempt-
ed in order to peet the expenres for the election campaign
or where buildinrs, ships, carf, printing matters, foodrtuffs,
• other property intere'ts except money have beon obtained,
the obligations or interests, being cstinated in current
prices, shall be regarded :s receipts releting to the elec-
tion campaign.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 105 - The responsible disburser shall,
vided for by an Ordinance, submit reports on the expenses
for the electicn campaign and the receipts relating to the
election campaign to the Commission for Overseeing the Elec-
tion of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions
for Overseeing the Election of the District or Prefectural
Assemblies.
Article l06 - The representative or leader of a political
party or any other organization which recommends or supports
candidates shall in accordance with the provisions of ordin-
ance, report the expenses of the election campaign and re-
ceipts relating to the election campaign to the Minister of
Home Affairs through the Commission for Overseeing the Elec-
tion of Merbers of the Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions
for Overseeing the Election of Members of the District or
Prefectural Assembly, as the case may be, according to the
locality of its principal office, if it recommends or sup-
ports candidates in tvo or mere Metropolitan, District or
Prefectural areas or in an area outside of the Metropolis,
District or Profccture where its principal cffico is locatod,
and, in other cases r pert to the Comrissior for Oversccing
tho Election cf Yerbers cf the Vetropolitan Assorbly or Con-
rinsions fer Oversocing the Election f Morbers of tho Dis-
trict r Prefoctural 'sscrbly as the case may be according
to the locality of its principal office.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall apply
mutatis mutandis to any local branch of a political party or
any other organization which recomrends or supports candidates.
Article 107 - Upon receipt of the report provided for in
the preceding two paragraphs, the Minister of Home Affairs or
the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
Metropolitan Asserbly or Commissions for Overseeing the Elec-
tion of Merbers of the District or Prefectural Assemblies,
shall make public the main points of such reports in accord-
ance with the provisions of ordinances.
Article 108 - The reports under rticles 105 and 106 shall
be preserved during the term of office of the nembers by the
Minister of Home Affairs, the Conmission for Overseeing the
Election of Mombers of the  etropolitan Assembly or Commissions
for (verseeing the Electior of Merbers for the District or Pre-
fectural Assemblies who have received the reports.
Any person may denand inspection of such reports, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of ordinances, during the period
mentioned ir the preceding paragraph.
Article 108-2 - The responsible disburser shall, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of ordinances, keep note-books,
in which expenses for tho election carpaign and receipts re-
lating to the election campaign shall be recorded.
The responsible disburser shall preserve the books under
the preceding paragraph and the docunents as provided for in
Ordinances in regard to expenses for clection campaign and re-
ceipts relating to election campaign, during the tern of office
of the member.
Article 109 - In case the responsible disburser resigns
or is dismissed, he rust prepare an account of the expenses
for election campa gn and receipts relating to election cam-
paign without delay for a new responsible disburser or for the
person who takes over the duties of the responsible disburser
appointed under Article 10l-2 when there is no new respons-
ibie disburser, and he shall transfer it to him. This is ap-
plicable in case a new responsible disturser is elected after
the duties have been transferred to a person who has taken
59

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.95)
60
charge thereof undor Article 101-2.
Article llo - In case the expensos of the election paid
out for a cendidare excecd the smount specified in seetion
two of Article l02, the clection of. the candidate shall be in-
valid exccot when the candidate and the oenson who has made
the recom endotion heve paid due attention to the appointment
and supervision of the responsible disburser or the person who
takes over tho duties of ths responsibls dishurser and there
con he found no fault in the oxpenditure of carpaisn funds on
the part of the responsible disburser or the person who takes
over bis duties.
Chapter XII - Punitive Rules
Article lll - Any porson who has effected by fraudulent
process the insertion of is meme in the clectoral list or
Who has made a false decl. ration under the second clause
of Artiele 25 shall bo liable to a fine of not mors than
1,00 yen.
Article 112 - Any percon who has committed en act falling
under any of the following hesds shell be liable to confine-
ment or pnal servitud for not more than three years or to
pay a fine of not ro e than 20,000 yen.
1. hin, vith the object of being alected, causing a
candida r be clseted, or preventing him from be-
inp cl e od, voney, pocds, or other pre ents or pub-
lic or private smalo mcut has heen siven to an elec-
tor or to a cenvasser or when sneh pifts have been
proposed or promised or when en tertainment bes been
p ovided.
2.
When, wiih th: chjact of teins cleeted, causing a
candidste to bo elee ed, or preven ing him fror be-
ing clected, jrrig tion,  cnency, credit, contribu-
tions, or other pattors of diveet interest to an
elector or convesser o to  sh ine, t mple, school,
corp ny, uild, or civic corperstion in which en
clector'c canvasser ir intorer ted have been teken
adventore of in persuadiny n cleetor or canvasser.
Whon, in conrsctio vith n loc ic, nything men-
tioned in th first head of thin ar fele has heen
corried to un oleoter or p cony sser for the purpose
of co pons ion for yotins or carrying on on election
corpaign or For  elininr to co ci her or for canvas-
sing or paraneding o there.
4。
when, in connection with en wlec ier, e voter has re-
ceived or denended offers, or secepted proposals of
pres ents or n' ertainrente mentioned in the first or
the preceding clause of this a ticle or yielded to
porruesicn or sked for such forms of assirtence as
are mntien in he secend iter.
5.
When, with the object of indueing the acts mentioned
in Itens pne to three, e pe son has made, proposed
or promis a offers of money or goods to election can-
vessers: or then an slection canvasser has received,
demande4 or accepted such offers.
6.
When in connection with an election, a person has act-
ed to p:rsuade or mediate between others concerning
the ac s vontimed in the p cceding items.
fuch public officer or official as mentioned in Article.8
en aced in matters pertaining to an olection who has committed
a crime felling in one of the itoms of the precedine clause in
connection with the election in question shill be li ble to
confinement or penal servitude for not more than four years or
to pey a fine of mot more than 30,o00 yen. T is rule shall ap-
pty to the police officer who hes committed siniler crimes in
connection with he election in the Metropolis or prefecture
concerned.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.95)
Article 112-2 - A porson who has committed one of the fol-
lowing acts shall be liable to corfinemont or penal servitude.
for not more than five years.
1.
Whan, with the object of obtaining matorial bene-
fits, a porcon has, on behalf of e candidate, com-
mitted against e large number of voters or vlcction
canvassers, or caused ther: to commit one of the acts
montionoed in Items one to th ce, five or six of the
first clouse of the preceding article.
2.
When, with the object of geinint material benefits,
a person has, on behalf of a candidate, underteken
to commit egainst  large number of electors or e-
lection canvassers, caused th m to undertake to
conmi, or mede proposals therefor, one of the
acts mentioncd in Items ono to three, five or six
of the first clause of the preceding article.
This rule shall eppl: in case a parson, who has committed
one of the offenses rontioned in Items one to three, five or
six, is a pbitual offender.
Article 1l3 - Those ho come under ony of the following
heads shall be lieble to co finement or penel servitude for
not more than four yee's or to pay : fine of not more then
30,000 yen.
Those who have offe ed the adventae s mantioned in
the first and seeond iters of the first section of
article 1l2 to a candidate or to  person, who con-
templates becominr a candide e, or he purpose of
dissuading him fror canlidacy; or to an clected per-
son for the purpone of po suading hir to decline the
lection.
2.
These who heve acted as montiored in the first iten,
of the firet section of Article 112 for the purpose
of compensa ing  cendidute for hovins withdrown
his candidcey or cco inp a c ndidnte or  pe son
olacted for heving declined election, or for having
mediat d or orsuaded with he sore cbjects.
3.
Those  o have received or derended oftors or
intertoinments under the to prec dinf sections or
heve ac'cpted a proposal under the second section
or heve spreed to or soucht persussion under the
first section.
4。
Those vho have petee to modiate hetueen er persuade
others in relstien to the cets mentioned in the pre-
ceding sections.
An officer or official as mentioned in  aticle 8 in charge
of matters peuteininy to on clectien who hos com itted one of
the c imes mentioned in ths p eccdins clause in connce don
with the wlcction in quastior is lisble to co finement or
penal servitude for not rore t an five yeers or to a fine
of not rore then 40, ooo yen. The same rule shell appl to
those police officere vho have com itted cimil r crimes in
conneetion vith the alection in the I tropelis or prefecture
concouned.
Article ll4 - Any crticles or be efits reccived in consc-
quence of cetions enumorated in the three preceding erticles
shall he coufise ted; if confiscation in whole or in part is
impossitle, supolementary corpensetion sh:ll be collectrd.
Artiele ll5 - Thosc vho fall under any cf the following
heads shell be lieble to confiporent or penal servitude for
not more then four yeers or to pay a fire of tot ore than
30,000 yen:
61

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.90)
62
1. Thoso who, in connection with an elcction, subject
to en act of violencs or to intimidntior:or abduct
n clector,  candidste, a vould-be candidn e, a
canvasser, o" cn olected person.
2.
Those whe ohatruet fr dom of ovement, mectin's
or speeches or who by reudulent or other unfair
means obstruct the crercise of the ri ht of elec-
tion.
2.
Those whe, in connection with en elcction, take
advantare of ir ire ion, tonancy, c edit, contri-
butio is or other inte osts of n alector, candid-
atc, vould-be c ndice e, convesser, or clected
person: or of a chrine, tomple, school, company,
vild, o" civic corporation in vhich such persons
are inv ested, nd thrcat n an electo", candidate,
would-be c  dide*e, cnvesser, or elected pe son.
Article ll6 - vhen in conn ction with an elrction a gov-
exnmont o" public entiny, cfticial or thoce mertioned in Art-
jele 8 have wilfully nerlected to disch rre their duty or have
obetrue ed the erercise of the  icht of clection by the abuse
of their prtheriuy, trecing c adidotes or cleetion canvassers,
o" intruding into th ir houses or election cffices without
any justifiohle reccon, they sir 1 be lic'le to co firement
for not more thun four years.
A povernment or ublic matity efficial or those rontioned
in article & the recuests an eleeter to peveal the rome of the
candid e for whom he in nas to vete or bas veted shell be
sontenced to miner corfinenent for ot vore than six , onths
or to pay a fire of tet ore thon 3,ooo en.
Article 117 -  hen e officer or officiol es mertioned
in Article , vitness or ovarscer connected wirh he clection
has reveeled the mme of c air ses voted for r eleetors, he
shall he Ji ble to wiror coofe coont for  ot ore than tro
years or to pay  Fine of not ro e  on 10, coo yen. The same
penet ties srhlt asoly in o svr ef falce represectetion of
votes cas.
article lls - on, wi tbout py untifiable cruse, my
person bus cihher t : bo tinc-plece o" couutirs-plece, in-
terfered vith he votirs of an eleeter or has put into prac-
tice ny devics to ciscover the mare of a e on voted for,
be shall be limvle to miner comriuement for pe vor than ene
year, or to pay a care of : ot ore than 5,coo yon.
Any porsor who, con'roy e l nd  euerie , has op-
ened a h llot-box or hes reuoved ballots the cfrom phaln be
lis le to minor confir ment o pon 1 sarvitude for pot pvore
than three vuors or to pay  fine of oo  ore th n 2o,Ooo yen.
snticle 1l9 - hoeve ks corritted vielence  inst or
threatened e vetine overscer, countins overseor, chei man of
elcction, withess, or sleesie everseer, or es dis phed on
election reotins, couatire-plcce or votio-pircn, o" has de-
tcined, damased, or plundered bollots or bellot-boxes or el-
ection documents sbell be li hle to miror coofinement or
penal servi-ude for not ore than four years.
Article l2o - heever has comnitted an offence me atiored
in the first section of Article ll5 or in the precedine crticle
by essemblins  c ovd shall be liuble to be pet lized es fol-
lows:
1. The prinoipal leedere shall be licble to c afine-
ment or penal servitude for not  ess than one year
and not :ore than soven years.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.95)
2. The leade s shall be liable to confinement or
servitude for not less than six montha and not more
than five yesrs.
3.
Whoever has knowinely joined snch a crowd to add t
its influence shall he liable to pay a fine of not
mora than 1,c0o yen.
Whoever h s knowingly formed a crowd on joined it in off-
ense asain't any p"ovision of the fir:t section of Artiole 115
or ar in't the prececing a ticle and has disobeyed more than
three timos the orders of the officers or officials of the el-
cction dispeing the crowd, shall be liable to pay a fine of
not ore than loe yen and the leader shall be liable to minor
confinement for not ore than two years.
Article 121 - When, in connectior with an clection, who-
ever uses a firearn, sword, drrfer, bludgeon, or other weapon
copable of cousins deeth or injury, he shs ll be liable to min-
o confinemant for not rore than two years or to pay a fine of
not more than 10,000 yen.
A police offici 1 may, whenover it is judeed necessary,
seize any of the wenpons man tioned in the preceding clause.
Article 122 - ihoeve" onters e place of election meeting,
countirs-place carrying ny of the weapons mantioned in the
precedinr article sholi be liable to minor confinement for not
ore than threo yerrs or to  fine of cot rore then 20,000 yen.
Article 123 - In c:se pny person has offended against the
provisions me tioned in the tio preceding a-ticles, the wea-
pons carried by him shall b: er fiscated.
Article l24 - Whoever, in connection with en elcction,
makes s disuley, such as assembling a crowd, conducting a pro-
cession or paade, meking use of firewarks, bonfires or torch-
lichts, beatins bells or drums or sounding conches or bugles
or raising flafs, atc., and disrerares the varning of police
offcials to ctob, sheil be liable to minor confinement for
not more than six months or to a fine of not more than 3,0oo
yen.
Article 125 - Whoever, with the o ject of induciis other
perscns te commit any of the scts mentioned in Articles l12,
113, 115, 11s-l22, or the precedinr anticle, incites them by
means of speeches, newspepors, ma azines, circulars, placsrds,
etc., shali  linble "o minor co firoment for net rore than
one year or to a fine of not more th n 5, ooo ver. Provided
that in cese a nowspaper or marezine is found suilty of such
cets, the pe son reriste ed as the editer or whe has taken
the Slace of on cditor shel? be liable to the foresaid punish-
ment.
article 126 - Whee or commits an offense under any of the
following iters by meens of speeches, newspapers, merazines,
circulers, placaras, ste., shall bo lia le to minor confine-
ment fo" not more than hwo years or to a fine of not more than
10,o0o yen. In cases involvirs newspapers or macazines the
proviso of "he praceding article sheil spply:
1. Whoever, with the object of being elected or caus-
ins a cnndidate to be elected hes published false
informotion cbout his rank, position, occupation,
or career.
2.
Whoever his published f lse informstion about a
candidate with the object of preventing his clec-
tion.
63

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 127 - Any person, not an elector, who hea
shall be liable to minor confinement for not more than omy
year or to a fine of not more than 5,000 yen.
Any person who has voted by fraudulently assuming the
name of another person or by other unfair means shall be
liable to minor confinement for not more than two years
or to a fine of not more than 10,000 yen.
Any person'who has forged votes or manipulated votes
to affect their number shall be liable to minor confine-
ment or penal servitude for not more than three years or
to a fine of not more than 20,000 yen.
In case any officer; official as mentioned in Article
8 witness, or scrutineer has offended against the preceding
section, he shall be liable to minor confinement or penal
servitude for not more than five years or to a fine of not
more than 20,000 yen.
Article'128 - Should a witness fail to discharge any
of the duties provided in the present law without any just-
ifiable reason, he shall he liatle to a fine of not more
than 1,000 yen.
Article 129 - Any person who has offended against the
provisions of Article 95, 96 and 98 or has disobeyed the or-
ders made in accordance with the provisions of Article 94 is
liable to minor confinement for not more than one year or
to a fine of not more than 5,000 yen.
Article l30 - Any person who has established election
offices in excess of the number authorized in Article 90,
or who has offended against the provisions of Article 91
or has established resting-places or places of like charac-
ter, as described in Article 92, shall be liable to a fine
of not more than 3,000 yen.
Article 13l - A person who has offsnded against the
provisions of the first elause of Article 89, Article 99
or Article 101-4, 105, 106 or 109 shal1 be liable to minor
confinement for not more then six menths or to a fine of not
moro than 3,000 yen.
Article 132 - A person who has neglected to make re-
ports or to give notices in accordance with the second sec-
ond section of Article 89 or the fcurth or fifth clause of
Article l0l shall be liable to a fine of not more than
1,000 yen.
Similar punishment shall be applied to a person who has
offended against orders issued in accordance with the pro-
visions of Articlc 100.
Article 133 - Deleted.
Article l34 - A person who has paid out expenses of
election contrary to Item three of Article lOl shall bè
liable to minor confinement for not more than one year or
to a fine of not more than 5,000 yen.
Article 135 - Any person who commits an offense under
any of the following heads shall be liarle to minor confine-
ment for not more than six months or to a fine of not more
than 3,000 yen.
1: One who has neglected to prepare or keop the books
provided for in Article 108-2, Para. 1 or has enter-
ed a falee statement or false account in the books.
2.
One who, contrary to the first section of Article
l08-2, Para. 2, hes failed to preserve books or
documents.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
3. One who has entered a false statement in the books
or documents to be preserved under the first clause
of Article 108-2, Para 2.
Article 136 - An elcction shall be irvalid when, in connec-
tion the ewith, a condidate has offended arainst the orovisions
of this chepter and been punished, or the person who controlled.
and manaped election ca paigns has heen punished for offending
arainst the n ovisions of Articles 112 or 113 except when tho
person elected h's taken proper care in the selection and super-
vision of the pe son who controlled and managed the election
campeigns, did not know the person as such, or the person in
quertion, in spite of refusal by the electad, did control and
manare the clection campaign.
Article 137 - Any person who has been punished for offend-
inp ageinst any of the provisions of this chapter, (except
thore of e ticles 130 and 132) shell be forbidden to exercise
the risht to vote and the ri it to be elected in an election
to which the provisions of this Chapter apply mutatis rutandis,
for a period of five years aftor the decision of the court, in
case he was sentenced to pay a fine; or in case he was sentenc-
ed to co finement or more revere punishment, for the peried
from the time when the decision of the court was riven until
his torr of punishment has expired, or until he has been ex-
empted from oxecution of the sentence (except in cese of a
sentence extinguished by preserintion) and another period of
five years imnedi tely toilovi g. This rule shall also apply
for the period in case he was sentenced to confinement or
more severe punishment, from the time when the decision ef
the court was given until the time when he is no lonper lia-
blc to execution of any sentence.
In the case of a purson who bas been punished for en offens
arainst any of tho provisions of Article l12 or l13, or any of-
fense to which these provisions are corres ondingly applied,
and who is a in to be punished for cn offense under Article
112 or 113, the erm of five years rentioned in the preced-
ing section shall be extended to ten years.
The court of law, in extenuatins circurstances, may,
while rivin sentence to a person whose offonse falis under
the provisions of the first clause of the article, declare
that the provisions of the same cla use disqualifving hir for
votine or eligibility for five yeers shall net he ap lied, or
that the term be raduced, or, in the case of a pe ron whose
offense falls under the provisions of the preceding clause,
that the term of ten yeaks provided for in the same clause
be reduced.
Article 138 - For an offense punisheble acco ding to the
hird and fourth sections of Articio 127 one year shall be con-
idered as the terr of prescription.
For an offonse punishahle according to the provisions of
this chapter, other than those nentioned in the p cceding sec-
tion, six months shall be considered es the term of prescription,
excent when the offender has absconded, in which case one year
shall he considered as the term.
Article 138-2 - When Voting-Overscers, Ballot-Counting
Overseers or Chairmen of Elcction have co é to lose their
right to vote, thcy shall not remain in such positions.
Chapter XIII - Supplementery ules
Article 139 - Eloction cxpenditures shall b fixed by
rdinance.
6

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.97)
66
Article 140 - A candidate or the person who has recom-
mended a candidato may send ten thousand (10,Oo0) ordinary
postcards for election campaipn per cendidate freo of charge
as provided by ordinance.
In accordance with ordinance, schools or other bui?dings
which are designafed by ordinance may be used for campaign
speeches.
The ca etaker of the buildings mentioned in thc preced-
inp section shall provide squipment necessary for meetings
of speeches in acco dance with ordinance.
The Commission for Overseeing the Election of Mombers of
the Fotropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the
Election of I cmbers of the District or Prefectural Assomblios
shall as provided for in Ordinance issue pemphlets in which
nemes of candidates, thcir personal historius or other items
a e given.
The Commission for Oversecinr the Election of Nembers of
the Municipal Town, or Villafe Assemblies shall post up a
notice of the nares of the candidates in accordance with ord-
inance.
Article 14l - In lawsuits under tho provisions of Article
16, 31 or 83, or the first section of A ticle 84, the example
of civil cases shell be folloved with the exceptions provided
in this prosent law.
Articlo 14l-2 - With regard to the lawsnits under the
provisions of the second cleuse of Article 84 of the presont
law, the provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the
private lawsuits shall be applieable, excepting the provisions
of Items tuo, thrce, five to cight and on to thirteen of
Articlc 572, A ticlo 574, 582, 589, 589, 591, 605-610 and
612, proviled th t "the Code of Civil Procedure" and "the
Civil Departmont" shall read "the Co e of Criminal Procodure"
and "the Criminal Department" respectively.
A judgment invelidatig on olcction, vhich has been pas-
sed for a suit brought under the provisions of the second
clause of Article 84, shall not cone into force, unless a
sentence of guiltiness hes heen decl red for the public action
on the same case.
Article 14l-3 - 7 en a lawsuit h's been instituted on an
olection, the court of law shall immedictely sit in judgment
notwithstending the order of lawsuits on hand.
Article 142 - In respect of crimins! cases enumerated in
Chapter XII of the present lay, the court of rovision sh 1l
not be bound by the term provided in the first cleuse of Art-
icle 422 of the code of criminal procedure.
Article 143 - When, in connection with on clcction, en
clected pe son has been puniched fo" offenses onumerated in
Chapter XII or the porson who controlled and monoged clection
car paigns has been punished fo" offonding cgeinst the provi-
sions of Article 112 or 113, the president of the court of
law shall notify the Hinist r of Hore Affairs nd the Commis-
sion for Oversccing the Election of Fembers of the Iotropoli-
tan Assembly or Commissions for Ovorsceing the Election of
Members of the Distriet or Prefectural Assopblies concerned
through the governor of the Fetropolis, District or Prefocture
concerned.
Article 144 - In the ppplic tion of the present law, a
corporation of towns or villages vhich takes charge of the en-
tire office of towns or villeges or conducts affairs of the
town or villare, the Commission for Oversecing the Flection
of Members of the Corporation und Commissioners for the same

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.95)
or the Comission for Oversecins tho Election of Overseer
of the Co"poration or the Commissioners for the same, as
the Commission for Oversecing the Electio. of Ierber I of
the Town or Villere Assomblies or the Com issioners :or the
same and the corporation office as the town or villare office.
The Commissions for Oversueinf the Election of Town or
Villare Heads under A ticle 38 of the Town or Village System
Re ula tions and the Commissioners for the same shall te re-
rarded as the Commissions for Ov rseeing the Elcction of Mem-
bers of Town or Ville o A semblies or the Comnissioners for
the same in the applicatien of this Lew.
Articlo 145 - For the areas of wards of the Tokyo Netro
polis and the ciri s enumerated in Article 6 and the fir-t
clause cf Articlc 8? cf the Law on Vunicipslities, the pro-
visions concernin the cities, To Conmission for Oversecing
the Flection of I onb rs of the Municipal Assomblies and the
Commissioners fer the sane and city offices in the present
law : e epplicd to vards, the Conmissions for Oversccing tho
Eloction of Lembers of the Ward Assemblies and the Commissions
for the same, or the W-rd Cormission for Oversceing the Elee-
tion of Lrr bers of the Municipol Asrcmblics ond the Commissions
for the ser chd a offices vospeetively. Heuever, in ap-
pl ing the provicions of A ticlo i2, the "persons who havo
been domicilcd for o th:n six months vithout interruption
in their respcctive localiti a" shell be understood as the
persons who have been domiciled for more than six I onths with-
out interrution in the a n vhare the vo ds of tho Tokyo vet-
"opolis exist, c" in th citics of the letropolis, end who are
domicilcd in the verds on that dey.
In a place where there is no town or villare system, the
provisions of the proont Law reletinr to the Commission for
Overseeins th: Elcc   of Pembers of Town or Village Assem-
blies, town or villace hecdr, h. toun o villaro offices are
applicable to the correspomai s ors  iz tions, pe sons, and
offices respcctively.
Article 146 - hun, in n island or cth  placc where con-
municntionr e  r difficult, he provicions of he present
law a e heraly applicahls, cpccial rovicions may be enacted
by imperinl oainance.
Article 147 - When the vetiny is condueted in accordanco
with a ticle 33, o cor who takes chrge of the voting is
recognized as  ve i  overscer, the plecs where the votes
are oco ded as  pollinr-place and vitncsses pre ent at the
veting as votine itnesses, and the provirions of Chapter XII
sh:ll bo apolicd.
Article 14? - Delotcd.
A ticle 149 - The provisieus of Scctier , rticle IV,
Pant II of criminal 1ov, no. 36 of 1880 sho11 not be pplied
to the cloetion of mambers of the House of e resentarives.
A-ticle 150 - T present 1om shall not be onforced fer
the time being in the islands of Ogasamara in Tokyo Netropolis
or in the countrics of Shu ushu, Niichi, and Emu, under the
Nemuro branch office in the Hekkaido.
67

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.95)
67 A
Annex
List of Electoral Districts With Quotas of Members
Electoral District
Number of Members
Tokyo-To
No. ? District
4
Chiyoda-ku
Chuo-ku
Minato-ku
Shinjiku-ku
Ew.yo-ku
Daito-ku
No. 2 District
3
Shinagawa-ku
ota-ku
Area under the iurisdiction of
Oshima-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Miyake-shicho
irea under the iurisdiction of
Hachiicjima-shicho
No. 3 District
3
Heguro-ku
Setagaya-ku
No. 4 District
3
Chibuya-ku
Pakano-ku
Suginami- u
No. 5 District
4
Toshima-ku
Kita-ku
Itabashi-Yu
No. 6 Distriet
5
Arakewe-ku
taoobi- ou
ateushika-ku
Edoga a-ku
No. 7 District
5
Hachicii-shi
Tachikawa-chi
Nishitame-gun
Hinaritama-gun
"itatama-gun
Kyoto-Fu
No. 1 District
5
Kamikyo-ku
Naltakyo-ku
Sakyo-ku
Rigashiyama-ku
Shinckyo-ku
No. 2 District
5
Ukyo-ku
Fushimi-ku
Otaki-ku
Kadono-ku
Otowani-ku
Uji-gun
Kyze-gun
Tsuzuki-gun
Sr -gun

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
Fukuchiyama-shi
Maizuru-shi
Minamikuwata-gun
Kitakuwata-vun
Funai-gun
Amada-gun
Ikaruta-gun
Kasa-gun
Yosa-gun
Noka-gun
Takeno-gun
Kumano-gun
Osaka-Fu
No. l District
4
Nishi-ku
Minato-ku
Taisho-ku
Tenoji-ku
Minami-ku
Naniwa-ku
Ikuno-ku
Abeno-ku
Sumiyoshi-ku
Higashisumiyoshi-ku
Nishinari-ku
No. 2 District
4
Kita-ku
Miyakojima-ku
Fukushima-ku
Konohana-ku
Higashi-ku
Oyodo-ku
Nishiyodogawa-ku
Higashiyodogawa-ku
Hirashinari-ku
Asahi-ku
Joto-ku
No. 3 District
4
Toyonaka-shi
Ikeda-shi
Suita-shi
Tekateuki-shi
Morikuchi-shi
Vishima-gun
Toyono-gun
Kitakawachi-gun
No. 4 District
4
Fuse-shi
Minamikawachi-gun
Nakakawachi-gun
No. 5 Disirict
3
Sakai-shi
Kishiwada-shi
Izumiotsu-shi
Kaizuka-shi
Izukita-gun
Izunami-gun
Kanagawa-Ken .No. 1 District
4
Yotohama-shi
67B

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
670
No. 2 District
4
Yokosuka-shi
Kawasaki-shi
Kamakura-shi
Miura-gun
Kamakura-gun
No. 3 District
5
Hiratsuka-shi
Fujisawa-shi
Odawara-shi
Koza-gun
Naka-gun
Ashigarakami-gun
Ashigarashimo-gun
Aiko-gun
Tsukui-gun
Hyogo-Ken No. 1 District
3
Kobe-shi
No. 2 District
5
Amagasaki-shi
Nishinomiya-shi
Sumoto-shi
Ashiya-shi
Itami-shi
Muko-gun
Kawabe-gun
Arima-gun
Tsuna-gun
Mihara-gun
No. 3 District
3
Akashi-shi
Akashi-gun
Mino-gun
Kato-gun
Taka-gun
Kasai-gun
Kako-gun
Innami-gun
No. 4 District
4
Himeji-shi
So-shi
Shikama-gun
Kanzaki-gun
Iho-gun
Akao-gun
Sayo-gun
Shiso-gun
No. 5 District
3
Kinosaki-gun
Izushi-gun
Yabu-gun
Asago-gun
Mikata-gun
Higami-gun
Taki-gun
Nagasaki-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Nagasaki-shi
Shimabare-shi
Isahaya-shi

=== Page 176 === (confidence 1.00)
Nishisonogi-gun
Kitatakaki-gun
Minamitakaki-gun
Area under the jurisdiction of
Tsushima-shicho (Local Government
Office)
No. 2 District
4
Sasebo-shi
Omura-shi
Higashisonogi-gun
Kitamatsuura-gun
Minamimatsuura-gun
Iki-gun
Niigata-Ken
No. 1. District
3
Niigata-shi
Nishikanbara-gun
Sado-gun
No. 2 District
4
Shibata-shi
Kitakanbara-gun
Nakakanbara-gun
Higashikanbara-gun
Iwafune-gun
No. 3 District
5
Nagaoka-shi
Sanjo-shi
Kashiwazaki-shi
Minamikanbara-gun
Mishima-gun
Koshi-gun
Kitauonuma-gun
Minamiuonuma-gun
Kariha-gun
No. 4 District
3
Takada-shi
Nakauonuma-gun
Higashikubiki-gun
Nakakubiki-gun
Nishikubiki-gun
Saitama-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Kawaguchi-shi
Urawa-shi
Omiya-shi
Kitaadachi-gun
No. 2 District
3
Kawagoe-sh1
Iruma-gun
Hiki-gun
No. 3 District
3
Kumagaya-shi
Chichibu-gun
Kodama-gun
Osato-gun
No. 4 District
3
Kitasaitama-gun
Minamisaitama-gun
Kitakatsushika-gun
67 D

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
67 E
Gumma-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Maebashi-shi
Isezaki-shi
Seta-gun
Ione-gun
Saha-gun
No. 2 District
3
Kiriu-shi
Nitta-gun
Yamada-gun
Ora-gun
No. 3 District
Takasaki-shi
4
Gumma-gun
Tano-gun
Kitakama-gun
Usui-gun
Akatsuma-gun
Chiba-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Chiba-shi
Ichikawa-shi
Funabashi-shi
Matsudo-shi
Chiba-gun
Ichihara-gun
Higashikatsushika-gun
No. 2 District
4
Choshi-shi
Inba-gun
Unakami-gun
Sosa-gun
Katori-gun
No. 3 District
5
Tateyama-shi
Kisarazu-shi
Chosei-gun
Sanbu-gun
Kimitsu-gun
Isumi-gun
Awa-gun
Ibaraki-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Mito-shi
Higashi-ibaraki-gun
Nishi-ibaraki-gun
Kashima-gun
Yukue-gun
Inashiki-gun
Kitasoma-gun
No. 2 District
3
Hitachi-shi
Naka-gun
Kuji-gun
Taga-gun
No. 3 District
Tsuchiura-shi
Niiji-gun
Chikuba-gun
Makabe-gun
Sarushima-gun
Yuki-gun

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
Tochigi-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Utsunomiya-shi
Kawachi-gun
Kamizuka-gun
Shioya-gun
Nasu-gun
No. 2 District
5
Ashikaga-shi
Tochigi-shi
Sano-shi
Haga-gun
Shimotsuka-gun
Aso-gun
Ashikaga-gun
Nara-Ken
5
Mie-Ken
No. l District
5
Tsu-shi
Yokkaichi-shi
Kuwana-shi
Ueno-shi
Suzuka-shi
Kuvana-gun
Inabe-gun
Mei-gun
Suzuka-gun
Kawage-gun
Ano-Pun
Ichishi-gun
Ayama-gun
Naga-gun
No. 2 District
4
Ujiyamada-shi
Matsuzeka-shi
Iina-gun
Take-gun
Watarai-gun
Shima-gun
Kitamuro-gun
Minamimuro-gun
Aichi-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Nagoya-shi
No. 2 District
4
Seto-shi
Handa-shi
Kasugai-shi
Aichi-gun
Higashikasugai-gun
Nishikasugai-gun
Chita-gun
3
67 F

=== Page 179 === (confidence 1.00)
67G
No. 3 District
Ichinomiya-shi
Tsushima-shi
Niwa-gun
Haguri-gun
Nakajima-gun
Kaibu-gun
No. 4 District
4
Okazaki-shi
Hekikai-gun
Hazu-gun
Nukata-gun
Nishikamo-gun
Higashikamo-gun
No. 5 District
3
Toyohashi-shi
Toyokawa-shi
Kitashidara-gun
Minamishidara-gun
Hoi-gun
Atsumi-gun
Yana-gun
Shizuoka-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Shizuoka-shi
Shimizu-shi
Ihara-gun
Abe-gun
Shita-gun
Haibara-gun
Ogasa-gun
No. 2 District
5
Numazu-shi
Atami-shi
Mishima-shi
Fujimiya-shi
Kamo-gun
Tagata-gun
Sunto-gun
Fuji-gun
No. 3 District
4
Hamamatsu-shi
Iwata-gun
Suchi-gun
Hamna-gun
Inasa-gun
Yamanashi-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Shiga-Ken
No. l District
5
Gifu-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Cifu-shi
Ogaki-shi
Inaba-gun
Hashima-gun
Yoro-gun
Fuha-gun
Anbachi-gun
Ibi-gun
Motosu-gun
Yamagata-gun
Mugi-gun

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 2 District
4
Takaya-shi
Tajimi-shi
Kunjo-gun
Kamo-gun
Kani-gun
Toki-gun
Ena-gun
Mashita-gun
Ono-gun
Yoshiki-gun
Nagano-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Nagano-shi
Sarashina-gun
Kamitakai-gun
Khimotakai-gun
Kamiminochi-gun
Shimominochi-gun
No. 2 District
3
Ueda-shi
Minamisaku-gun
Kitasaku-gun
Chisagata-gun
Hanishina-gun
No. 3 District
4
Okaya-shi
Iida-shi
Suwa-shi
Suva-gun
Kamiina-gun
Shimoina-gun
No. 4 District
3
Matsumoto-shi
Hishichikuma-gun
Higashichikuma-gun
Minamiazuni-gun
Kitaazumi-gun
Hiyagi-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Condai-shi
Shiogama-shi
Katta-gun
Shibata-gun
Igu-gun
"atari-gun
Natori-gun
Miyagi-gun
Kurokawa-gun
Kami-gun
Shide-gun
Toda-gun
Fo. 2 District
4
Ishinomaki-shi
Taratsukuri-sun
Kurihara-gun
Tome-gun
Mono-gun
Oshika-gun
Motoyoshi-gun
67 H

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
67 I
Fukushima-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Fukushima-shi
Koriyama-shi
Shinobu-gun
Date-gun
Adachi-gun
Asaka-gun
No. 2 District
5
Wakamatsu-shi
Iwase-gun
Minamiaizu-gun
Kitaaizu-gun
Yama-gun
Kawanuma-gun
Onuma-gun
Higashishirakawa-gun
Nishishirakawa-gun
Ishikawa-gun
Tamura-gun
No. 3 District
3
maira-shi
Iwaki-gun
Futaba-gun
Soma-gun
Ivate-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Morioka-shi
Kamaishi-shi
Miyako-shi
Iwate-gun
Shiba-gun
Kamihei-gun
Shimokei-gun
Kunoe-gun
Ninoe-gun
No. 2 District
4
Hienuki-shi
aka-gun
Hisawa-gun
Esashi-gun
Fishiiwai-gun
Higashiiwai-gun
Kisen-gun
Aomori-Ken
No. 1 District
4.
Aomori-shi
Hachinoe-shi
Hiyashitsugaru-gun
Kamikita-gun
Shimokita-gun
Sannoe-gun
No. 2 District
3
Hirosaki-shi
Nishitsugaru-gun
Nakatsugaru-gun
Minamitsugaru-gun
Kitatsugaru-gun
Yamagata-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Yamagata-shi
Yonezawa-shi
Minamimurayama-gun
Higashimurayama-gun

=== Page 182 === (confidence 1.00)
Nishimurayama-gun
Minamiokitama-gun
Higashiokitama-gun
Nishiokitama-gun
No. 2 District
4
Tsuruoka-shi
Sakata-shi
Kitamurayama-gun
Mogami-gun
Higashitagawa-gun
Nishitagawa-gun
Atsumi-gun
Akita-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Akita-shi
Noshiro-shi
Kazuno-gun
Kitaakita-gun
Yamamoto-gun
Minamiakita-gun
Kawabe-gun
No. 2 District
4
Yuri-gun
Senkoku-gun
Hiraka-gun
Okachi-gun
Fukui-Ken
No. l District
4
Ishikawa-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Kanazawa-shi
Komatsu-shi
Enuma-gun
Nomi-gun
Ishikawa-gun
No. 2 District
3
Nanao-shi
Kakoku-gun
Hagui-gun
Kashima-gun
Fugeshi-gun
Suzu-gun
Toyama-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Toyama-shi
Kaminikawa-gun
Nakaniikawa-gun
Shimoniikawa-gun
Nei-gun
No. 2 District
3
Takaoka-shi
Imizu-gun
Himi-gun
Higashitonami-gun
Nishitonami-gun
Tottori-Ken
No. 1 District
4
5
Shimane-Ken
No. 1 District
67 J

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
67 K
Okayama-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Okayama-shi
Tsuyama-shi
Mitsu-gun
Akaiwa-gun
Wake-gun
Oku-gun
Jodo-gun
Maniwa-gun
Tomata-gun
Katsuta-gun
Aida-gun
Kume-gun
No. 2 District
5
Kurashiki-shi
Tamono-shi
Kojima-gun
Tsukubo-gun
Asakuchi-gun
oda-gun
Shitsuki-gun
Kibi-gun
Kamibo-gun
Kawaltami-gun
Atetsu-gun
Hiroshima-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Hiroshima-shi
Sahelti-gun
Asa-gun
Yamagata-gun
Takata-gun
No. 2 District
4
Kure-shi
Alti-gun
Kamo-gun
Toyota-gun
No. 3 District
5
Onomichi-shi
Fukuyama-shi
Mihara-shi
Mitsugi-gun
Sera-gun
Numakuma-gun
Fukayasu-gun
Ashina-gun
Jinseki-gun
Konu-gun
Futami-gun
Hiba-gun
Yamaguchi-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Shimonoseki-sbi
Ube-shi
Hagi-shi
Onota-shi
Asa-gun
Toyora-gun
Mine-gun
Otsu-gun
Abu-gun

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 2 Distriot
Tokuyama-shi
Bofu-shi
Shitamatsu-shi
Iwakuni-shi
Hikari-shi
Oshima-gun
Kuka-gun
Kumage-gun
Tsuno-gun
Saba-gun
Yoshiki-gun
Wakayama-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Takayama-shi
Kainan-shi
Kaiso-gun
Naka-gun
Ito-gun
No. 2 District
3
Shingu-shi
Tenabe-shi
Arita-gun
Hitaka-gun
Nishimuro-gun
Higashimuro-gun
Tokushima-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Kagawa-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Takamatsu-shi
Okawa-gun
Kida-gun
Shozu-gun
Kagawa-gun
No. 2 District
3
Marugame-shi
Sakaide-shi
Ayauta-gun
Nakatado-gun
Mitoyo-gun
Ehime-Ken
No. l District
3
Matsuyama-shi
Onsen-gun
Iyo-gun
Kamdukeana-gun
No. 2 District
3
Imaharu-shi
Niihama-shi
Saijo-shi
Ochi-gun
Shuso-gun
Nihi-gun
Uma-gun
No. 3 District
3
Uwajima-shi
Yawatahama-shi
Kita-gun
Nishiuwa-gun
Higashiuwa-gun
Kitauwa-gun
Minamiuwa-gun
67 L

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
Kochi-Ken
No. 1 District
Fukuoka-Ken
No. 1 District
Fukuoka-shi
Kasuya-gun
Munakata-gun
Asakura-gun
Tsukushi-gun
Sawara-gun
Itoshima-gun
No. 2 District
5
Yawata-shi
Tobata-shi
Nogata-shi
Iizuka-shi
Onga-gun
Furate-gun
Kaho-gun
No. 3 District
5
Kurume-shi
Omuta-shi
Ukiha-gun
Mitsui-gun
Mitsuma-gun
Yame-gun
Yamato-gun
Miike-gun
No. 4 District
4
Kokura-shi
Moji-shi
Kagawa-shi
Kiku-gun
Tagawa-gun
Miyako-gun
Chikujo-gun
Oita-Ken
No.
1 District
4
Oita-shi
Hida-shi
Saeki-shi
Oita-gun
Kitaamabe-gun
Minamiamabe-gun
Ono-gun
Naoiri-gun
Hide-gun
No. 2 District
3
Beppu-shi
Nakatsu-shi
Nishikunisaki-gun
Higashikunisaki-gun
Hayami-gun
Shimonoge-gun
Usa-gun
Saga-Ken No. 1 District
5
5
Kumamoto-Ken
No. 1.District
Xumamoto-shi
Arao-shi
Hotaku-gun
Tamana-gun
Shikamoto-gun
Kikuchi-gun
Aso-gun

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 2 District
5
Yatsushiro-shi
Hitoyoshi-shi
Udo-gun
Kami Masushiro-gun
Shimo Masushiro-gun
Yatsushiro-gun
Ashikita-gun
Kyuma-gun
Miyazaki-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Miuazaki-shi
Fobeoka-shi
Miyaza'ti-gun
Konoyu-gun
Higashi Sonoki-gun
Nishi Sonoki-gun
No. 2 District
3
Miyakonojo-shi
Minemi Naka-gun
Kita Morogata-gun
Hishi Morogata-gun
Higashi Morogeta-gun
Kagoshima-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Kagoshima-shi
Yagoshima-gun
Ibusuki-gun
mebe-gun
Hioti-gun
No. 2 District
3
Sendai-shi
Catsuma-gun
Izumi-gun
Isa-gun
Aire-gun
No. 3 District
3
Tenaya-shi
Fimotsuki-gun
Soo-gun
Kumage-gun
Aren under the jurisdiction of
Oshima-shicho
Hokkaido
No. 1 District
5
Sapporo-shi
Otaru-shi
Area under the jurisdiction of
Ishitari-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Shiribeshi-shicho
No. 2 District
4
Asahigava-shi
Area inder the jurisdiction of
Yamikawa-shicho
undor jurisdiction of
Soya-shicto
Area under juricdiction of
Rumoi-shicho
No. 3 District
3
Hakodate-shi
Area under the jurisdiction of
Hiyama-shicho
Aren under the jurisdiction of
Toshima-shicho
67 N

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
67:0
No: 4 District
5
Muroran-shi
Yubari-shi
Iwamizawa-shi
Area under the jurisdiction of
Sorachi-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Ibari-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Hidaka-shicho
No. 5. District
5
Kushiro-shi
Obihiro-shi
Kitami-shi
Abashiri-shi
Area under the jurisdiction of
Tokachi-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Kushiro-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Nemuro-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of.
Abashiri-shicho

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
68
SUPPLEMENTARY RULES
Article 1 - This lav shall como into forco so thet tho
coming genoral clection may bo effected according thereto.
Hovever Articlos 10 and 1l of supplementary provisions shall
be applied to the coming election for members of assemblies of
city, town and village, or chiof exocutives of city, town and
village.
Vhon members of assemblies of public entities or chief
oxecutives thereof are elected, amended provisions for the law
of election for the House of Representatives shall be considered
enforced, in the case of these provisions being applied mutatis
mutandis, if the amended provisions above mentioned are not yet
onforced.
Article 2 - The President of the Court of Administrative
Litigation and judges of the same in active sorvice shall not
be eligible until the Japanese Constittion comes into force in
spite of the provisions of this Law.
Article 3 - In Article 10 of this revised Law for the Elec-
tion of Mombers of the House of Representatives, "the director-
gencral of the cabinet secrcteriate" shall read "the Chief Secre-
tary of the Cabinet", till the coming into force of the Japanese
Constitution.
Article 4 - In Article 16, Para 2, of this revised Law
for the Election of M mbers of tho House of Representatives,
"the Supreme Court" and in Article 81, Article 83, Para 1, and
Article 84, Pere 1, "the High Court" shall read "The Supreme
Court", that is "Daishin-in", till the coning into force of
the Japanese Constitution.
Article 5 - Bofore thc coming into force of tho Japanese
Constitution, the dete of a general clection shall be determined
and proclaimed by an Imperiel Ordinance in spite of the provisions
of revised Article 18, Para 4, of this revised Law for the
Elcction of Mombors of the House of Roprosontetives.
Article 6 - In the coming goneral cloetion, "vithin ton (10)
days" in Article 7 of tho Law for Election of Mombers of the
House of Representetives shall be regarded as five (5) days.
Articlo 7 - Partial amendments shall be nado to the Law
for Election of Horibors of the House of Councillors as follows:
Article 2 in Additional Rules shall be amonded as follows -
Article 2. Deleted.
Articlos 5 to 8 in Additional Rulos shall be amended as
follows -
Articles 5 to 8 - Deleted.
Article 8 - Partial amendment shall be made to tho Law for
the Tokyo Netropolis System as follows:
In Article 93-20 (of the said Law), the following shall
be added -
": names, personal historios etc. in Articlo 140, Para 4
of the said Law shall read political opinions."
Article 9 - Partial amendment shall be made to tho Law for
the District and Prefectures System as follows:

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
In Article 74 - 20 (of the said Law), the following shall
be added -
"; names, personal histories etc. in Article 140 Para 4
of the said Law shall read political opinions."
Article 1o - Following amendments shall be made to the law
concerning organization of city:
In Articlc 39, proviso, "officials are commissioners for
oversceing clection, werd commissioners for oversecing election,
secretaries of commission for overseeing election and of ward
commission for overseeing election, chairman of clection, cheir-
man of subcommittees for voting and chairman of subcommittec for
ballot counting" shall read "those montioned in Article 8 aro
cheirman of subcormittee for voting and chairman for ballot
counting".
Article 40, proviso shall read as follows -
However, those mentioned in Article 8 which is quoted in
Article 112, Para 2, Article 113, Para 2, Article 116, Article
117 and Article 127, Para 4, the law of clcction for the House of
Ropresentatives, sholl include chairmen of sub-committee for
voting and chairnan of sub-committee for ballot counting.
Article 1l - Folloving amendment shall be mado to law con-
cerning the organization of town or village.
In Article 36-2 of the said law, "Articlo 96" shall be
added next to "Article 95" and also Article 100-2 shall be deleted.
Article 36 proviso shall read as follovs:
Ho ever those mentioned in Article 8 hich is quoted in
Article 99 of the said law shall includo chairman of subcommitteo
for voting and chcirman of subcormittae for ballot counting.
Article 37 proviso shall read as follows -
Hovever those mentioned in Article 8 which is quoted in
Article 112, Para 2, Article 116 Article 117 and Article 127,
Pora 4 of the law of election for the House of Representatives
shall include chairman of subcormitteo for voting and chairman
of subcommittee for bellot counting..

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
70
CHAPTER FOUR
Ordinance Concerning Publicity on Election Expenses
(Ministry of Home Affairs Ordinance No. 1 of 1947 as amended by
Ministry of Home Affairs Ordinanca No. 16 of 1947).
Matters concerning the Publicity of the Expenditures of
Election Campaigns and tho Receipts in respect of Election
Campaigns relating to the Elections of Members of the House of
Represontatives, Members of Local Assemblies, etc. shall, in
pursuance of the Imperial Ordinance No. 542 of the twentieth
your of Showa, Matters concerning the Ordinance issued in con-
sequence of the Acceptance of the Potsdem Declaration,. be
provided s follows:
Minister of Home Affairs
OMURA Seiichi
Ministorial Ordinance
Article 1. This inistorial Ordinance shall be applied to those
clections vhich are set up by the use. of the electors'
registor. for the Flection of the Members of the House of
Represontatives.*
Article 2. Th clcction campaign expenses contemplated in this
ordinance shall mean the Ir ction campaign expenses of
those clectiens described in the preceding Article and
correspond to clection camnaign oxpenses prescribed in
the Low for the clection of the Mombors of the House of
Representetives. The rcccipts pertcining to eleetion cam-
paigns contemplated in this Crdinance shall mean money or
financial assets received for tho purpose of allocating
them to the cxponsas d scribed in the preceding paregraph.
In tho estimatior  financial assets contomplated in
the preceding paragraph, the exarple of the ostimation of
the financinl assets port:ining to election campaign
expenscs prescribed in the Law for the Flcction of the
Hombers of the House of Representatives shell be followed.
Article 3. The responsible disburser contemplated in this
Ordinance, shell mean the respensible person concerning
the disburserent of clection canpeign oxpenses in the Law
for the Eloction of the Hembers of the House of Represen-
tatives or in provisions to which the latter law is applied
mutetis mutendis (ineluding any porson who cxecutes such
funetion in his behalf) end th, responsiblc person concern-
ing the disbursenont of election cannaign expenses conten-
plated in paragranh 2.
A candidate or a recornender of candidate for the
clection of, member of town or villagc assembly, member
of the association assembly of the town and villcge
ussocietion of rcncral business as woll as the supervision
of associntion of town and villago associntion of general
or village business, shal? in accordance with the example
of appointment and roport of a rosponsible person in respect
of the disbursement of clection carpaign expenses in the
House of Roprosentativcs, ppoint a responsible person in
respoct of the disbursement of clection campaign expenses
of such election and rake a report thoreof to the electoral
administration conmittee which controls such clections. The
*
This applies to. all clcctions to be hcld in April, 1947

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
same shall apply when a candidate or a recommender
becomes himself the rosponsible disburser.
Article 4. The responsible disburser shall report election
campaign eypenses and receipts relating to clection cam-
paigns to the electoral administration committee which
controls the said election according to the form prescribed
in Arnex Forn No. 1.
Article 5. The principal officers of any party or other organiza-
tion which recommonds or supports a candidate shall report
lcction campaign oxponses and receints relating to election
campaigns to tho clcctoral administration committee which
controls the said election according to the form prescribed
in Annex Forr No. 2, providod that in the case of any or-
ganization which rocommends or supports a candidate over
the areas of two or more district, urban or rural prefcctures,
they sho'l report this fact to the Minister for Home Affairs
through the mombors of the clectoral administration committee
of the metropolitan assombly of tho metropolis, district or
prefoctures or thc clectoral administration committee for
the loction of tho menbers of the motropolitan, district
or prefcctural assembly and in tho case of any organization
which recomrends or supports a candidate in the elections
which pertein to tvo cr more cities, wards, towns or villages,
(including those which corresnond to towns and villages) of
one and the samo district or urban or rural prefocture, they
shall report this fact to tho clectoral administration committ-
co for the clection of the rombers of the metropolitan
assombly of the motropolis, listrict or nrefectures or the
electoral administration com ittee for the election of the
members of the retropolitan, district or prefectural assembly.
The provisions of thc precoding paragraph shall be applied
mutatis mutandis to any brench of a party or organization
which rocormends or supports a candidnte.
Articlo 6. The renort es previded for in Article 4, which per-
tains to clection carpaign oxpons s and receipts prior to
the date of olections prescribed under cach of the following
respective itoms s' all b: rade within the respective time
lirits.
1. In resp et to expenses and receipts prior to filing
of candidacy vithin three days fror the date of filing of
candilacy (in the case of lection contemplated in Article 3,
peregroph 2, two drys).
2. Excluding the ©lection contomplated in Article 3,
paragraph 2, in respect to expenses and receipts subsequent
to the filing of candidacy, for those from the day of the
filing of candidacy up to the loventh day bcfore the date
of clection within three days. and for those from the tenth
day befor the election .to the fourth day before the election
within two days from that day.
3. In respect to exponsos and receipts subsequent to
the filing of candidacy in the lection contemplated in
Article 3, paragraph 2 for thoso from the day of the filing
of candidacy up to the third day before the election within
two days from that day.
71

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
72
Any roport which is made in occordance with the
provisions of the preceding Article in respect of
election campaign expenses or election campaign re-
coipts prior to the date of election end which relates
to sxpenses and receipts before the date of the pro-
mulgation or announcement of the date of election,
shall be made within ton days (in the election con-
templated in Article 2, parap aph 3, within five days)
from the day on which the date of the election is
promulgated or announced, and in the case of expenses
an receipts after the date of the promulgation or
announcement of the date of clection they shall be
calculated every ten deys (in the election contem-
platod in Article 2, paragraph 3, within five days)
within such period and reoorted within five days (in
the election contemplated in Article 2, pararraph 3,
two days) counting from that day. Provided, however,
that report releting to expensos and receipts in the
final period may be substituted for by the report
mentioned in pararraph 3.
In rerard to any report made in accordance with
the provisions of the precedinr two Articles and
which pertain to those expenscs of election campaigns
and incomes of elcction campaigns which occur after
the date of the slection, they shall ho calculated
torether with expenses and incomes which occurred
prior to the date of election and shall be reported
within fifteen days from the date of the glection.
Article 7. In regard to those elections prescribed in
Article 93-13, paragraph 1 of the Lai for the Organi-
zation of Tokyo Vetropolis, Article 74-13, pararraph
1 of the Law for the Orranization of Distict and
Urban or Rural Prefectures, Articlo 73-9, paragraph 1
of the Law for the Organization of Cities, or Article
61-8, varagranh 1 of the Law for the Organization of
Towns and Villages (ineluding those provisions to
which the above provisions are applied mutatis
mutendis) or of Article 78-10, peragraph 1 of the
Ordinence for the Enforcement of the Law for the
Orranization of Tokyo  stropolis, the report con-
tomplated in Article 4 shali be made, notwithstanding
the provisions of pararraphs 1 and 3 of the preceding
Article in respect of eloction cempaign oxpenses end
receipts which occurred prior to the date of election
and which come under the expenses and receipts which
occurred' prior to the date of announcement in accord-
ance with Article 93-13, parasraph 2 of the Law fer
the Organization of Tokyo Letropolis, Article 74-13,
paragraph 2 of the Law for the Organization of District
and Urban or Rural Prefectures, Article 73-9, para-
graph 2 of the Law for the Orgenization of Cities or
in Article 61-8, paragreph 2 of the Law for the Organ-
ization of Towns end Villares or Article 78-10, para-
praph 1 of the Ordinance for the Enforcement of the
Law for the Orgenization of Tokyo Ietropolis, and
in respect to expenses and reccipts which occurred
subsequent to the date of ennouncement in accordence
with those provisions and from the day following the
date of announcement up to threc days prior to the
date of election (in the lcction prescribed in
Article 61, paragraph 1 of the Law for the Organization
of Towns and Villages, two days) shall be made on the
day following that day (in clection prescribed in
Article 61, paragraph 1 of the Towns and Village Laws
on the following day) and fer those which occur after

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
that time up to the date of election, these shalr be
calculated together with those expenses or incores
which occurred subsequent to the election date as
well as those which occurred prior to the same and
shall be made within 15 days from the date of election.
In regard to the report prescribed in
Article 5, the election campaion expenses and incomes
of the election contemplated in the preceding para-
graph shall bo deemed to be the election camnaign ex-
penses and incomes which occurred after the date of
election of the Governor.of Tokyo Tetropolis, Pre-
ectural Governor, Mayor of city, town or village,
Supervisor of association and the Chief of ard of
Tokyo Metropolis, which made such elections necessary
and the provisions of naragrarh 3 of the same Article
shall be applied, provided that, such report shell be
made within fifteen days from the date of elections con-
templated in the preceding paragraph.
Article 8. In case two or more elections are to be held
and it is difficult to differentiate the election cam-
paign expenses and the election camraign receipts,
the report mentioned in Article 5 shall be made by
combining such expenses and receints in accordance
with the example of Article 3, paragranhs 2 and 3 and
paragraph 2 of the preceding Árticle, provided that
in this renort the period of election shall be deemed
to be between the first date of promulgation or
announcement of date of election and the date of the
final election.
Article 9. Deleted
Article 10. On receint of the renort prescribed in the
3 preceding Articles the Minister for Home Affairs,
Electoral Administration Committee for the Election
of the members of the Metropolitan Assembly, the
Electoral Administration Committee for the Election
of the members of the Prefeetural Assembly, or the
election administration committees for members of the
Municinal,  ard, Town, and Village Assemblies or other
election administration committees of a similer char-
acter, shall immediately make a rublic announcement of
the main outline of the renort in their respective
competent districts.
Article ll. The documents rertaining to the renort men-
tioned in Article 4 to Article  inclusive shall be
preserved in custody of the "inister or Home
Affairs, Electoral Administration Committee for the
Election of the embers o" the etronolitan Assembly,
the Electoral Administration Committee for the
Election of the Tembers of the Prefectural Assembly,
or the election administration committees for members
of the "unicipal, "ard, Town and Village Assemblies
or other election administration committees of a
similar character as from the day in vhich such report
vas filed up to the date of the next election of the
members or the date of the eleetion of the Governor
73

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
74
of Tokyo Metropolis, Prefectural Governor, Mayor of
city, town or village, Supervisor of town or village
association of general or village business or the
head of a ward in Tokyo Metropolis.
Any person shall be entitled to demand the
inspection of the report prescribed in the preceding
paragraph within the period prescribed in the pre-
ceding paragranh.
Article 12. Any person who neglects to make a report or
makes a false report which is prescribed in Article
4, or Article , shall be subject to imprisonment not
exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding 3,0oo
yen.
Supplementary Rule:
The present ordinance shall come into effect on the
date of promulgation.
(NOTE: In general the above law provides for the
following chronology in reporting election expenses
and receipts of individual candidates:
Date of Expense or Receipt
Date of Filing
Prior to filing candidacy
Within 3 days of filing
candidacy
Day of filing to llth day
By 8th Day before
before election
election
l0th day before election to
By 2nd day before
4th day before election
election
Total Exponditures and Receints
Within 15 days after
election
In respect to expenses and receipts of parties, the
law provides that a report on receipts end expenses prior
to the announcement of an election shall be made within
ten days of that announcement and that further reports
shall cover successive ten day periods and shall be made
within five days of the end of any such period. A final
report is due within 15 days after an eloction. In all
instances, reports of expenses and receipts should be
made public by elcction administration committces shortly
after receipt.)

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Annex Jorm No. 1
Teport of Estimate of Incomes and Disbursements of Election
Campaign Expenses
Name of Election (Electoral District)
Name of Candidate
A report concerning Incomes and Disbursements perteining to Election
Campaign in accordance with the provisions of I ome Ministry Ordinance
No. 1, Article 4, of 1947 is submitted as follows.
Date
T.esponsible Disburser
(Name) Seal
To
Chairman of Election Administration Committee
75
1. Section of Incomes
From
(or prior to filing of candi-
To
dacy or after date of election
Date
Amount
Kind of Incomes
From where disbursed
Address
Name or Name of Organiza-
tion
Total
Grand Total

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
2. Sestion of Disbursement
From
(or prior to filing of candi-
To
dacy or after date of election
llount
Date
Money Disbursement
Other than money
Outline of Use
Name of Disburser
Total
Grand Total
76
Note:
1. In the Section of Incomes, for those exceeding l00 yen enter
separately and for these not exceeding 100 yen enter the total
sum showing kinds of incomes.
2. In the column for kinds of incomes, distinctions of donations, loans
etc. shall be entered.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Annex Form No. 2
Report of Estimate of Incomes and Disbursements of
Expenses of Parties, Associations and other Organizations.
Name of Organization (or name of branch of
organization)
A report concerning Incomes and Disbursements pertaining to election campaigns
ef (such and such) party of (such and such) election in accordance with the
provisions of Mome inistry Ordinance No. 1, article 5, of 1947, is submitted
as follows.
Date
Name of Organization (Hame of Branch of Organization)
Principal officer (Name) Seal
77
To: Minister for Home Affairs (or Chairman of Election Administration committee)
1. Section of Incomes
From
(Frior to promulgation or an-
To
nouncement of date of elec-
tion or after date of election)
Date
Amount
Kinds of Incomes
Irom where disbursed
Address
Nare or Name of Organization
Total
Grand Total

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.98)
2. Section of Disbursement
From
(Frior to promulgafion or announcement
To
of date of election or after date of
election
Amount
Date
Money Disbursement
Otl er than Money
Outline of Use
Total
Grand Total
28
Note:
1. In the Section of Incomes for those exceeding 100 yen enter separately
and for those not exceeding 100 yen enter the total sum showing !inds of
incomes.
2. In the column of kinds of incomes, subscription fees, donations, loans,
enterprise incomes etc, a:e to be entered in detail.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
LAW CONCERNING SPECIAL REGISTRATION PRIOR TO ELECTION
Law for Exceptions to Article 12 of the
House of Pepresentatives Election Law
(Law No. 2 of 1947)
Article 1. hen an election is held using the Electors'
Register for the election of Members of the House of Re-
presentatives in accordance with the provisions of Article
1 of Law No. 30, 1946 (Exception to the Flectors' Register
for the Election of Members of the House of Representatives)*
and there is any person who is not registered in the Electors'
Register for the members of the House of Rerresentatives but
who nossesses the right to vote at the election of the
Members of the House of Representatives, the Electoral
Administration Committee for the election of the Members
of the city, ward, town or village assembly or any agency
concerned vith the making of the register, shall, in accord-
ance with the arplication of the person concerned, temp-
orarily make an Elector's register for the Election of the.
Members of the House of Rerresentatives which will have such
person or persons registered therein.
Ary repatriate who resides within the area of a city,
ward, town or village, (including any corresponding organ-
ization, hereinafter the same) may be registored in the
electors: register rentioned in the preceding paragraph even
if such person has not resided continually for over six
months thereat.
The clectors' register mentioned in paragraph 1 shall
be valid for the reriod of validity of the basic electors!
register.
The provisions of Article 1 shall not anply to the
election contemplated under the provisions of Article
93-(13) paragraih 1 of the La, for the Organization of
Tokyo Metropolis, Article 74-(13), paragreph 1 of the Law
for the Organiz tion o? District and Urban or Rural Pre-
fectures, Article 73-(9), paragranh 1 of the Law for the
Organization of Cities, Article 61-(9), paragraph 1 and
Article 136 of the Law for the Organization of Towms and
Villages and Article 78-(lo) paragraph 1 of the Imperial
Ordinance for the Enforcement of the Law for the Organi-
zation of Tokyo Metropolis.**
With the excention of those provided for under three
preceding paregraphs, necessary matters in the case con-
templated in paragraph 1 shall be determined by Ordinance.
*
This includes all lections to be held in April, 1947.
However, see footnote belor.
**
This would apnly to the run-off elections for chief
executives, which vill be held on Anril 15 in those
entities in which no candidate received 37t rercent of
the votes in the April 5 elections.
79

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
80
Article 2. In regard to the apnlication of the provtaid
of frticle 15 - (1l), paragraph 1 of the lav for the orem
zation of Tokyo Metropolis, Article 20 - (2), paraeranh 1
the Law for the Organization of Cities, Article 17 - (2)
paragraph 1 of the Law for the Organization of Towns and
villages, in the case of an election of a head of a local
government or of the members of the assembly thereof by tho
use of the electors' register for the election of the mem-
bers of the House of Representatives vhich contains the
registration of those nersons mentioned in paragranh 2 of the
precedine Article, that part concerning those persons who
possess the right to vote at the election of members of the
assembly of a local government at the date of. the making of
the electors! register (to be called the relevant part of the
Electors' Register for the election of the Hembers of Pouse
of Representatives) shall be regarded as the Electors' Reg-
ister for the election of the Members of the House of Repre-
sentatives.
"ecessary provisions concerning the relevant part of the
Electors' Register for the election of the House of Repre-
sentatives shall be provided for by Ordinance.
Article 3. "hen there is eny nerson vho has the rigit to vote
at the election of the members of the assembly of a local.
government, and who is not registored in the relevant part
of the Electors' Tceister or the election of the Members of
the House of Representatives or in the Supplementary Electors'
Register in the case of an electlon held by the use of the
Supplementary Electors' Register in accordance with the pro-
visions of Article 3 of Law No. 30 of 1o45, the Electoral
Administration committee for the election of members of city,
ward, town or village assembly or any other agency concerned
with the making of Electors' egister shall, in accordence
with the application of the person concerned, temporarily
make a Supplementary Electors'  gister with such person reg-
istered therein.
The provisions of Article 1, paragraphs 3 to 5 inclusive
shall apply vith necessary modi ication to the case described
in the precedine parazraph. Supplementary Provisions:
The present Law shall come into force as from the day.
of its promulgation.
Law No. 84 of 1o38 is hereby sbrosated, provided that in
respect of eny Electors' Pasister Cor the election of the Mem-
bers of the House of  presentetives of Supplementary Electors
Register as provided for in the ssme Lew which is valid or
whioh is in the process of ma'ting at the 'ime of the enforce-
ment of this Law and in respect of any meeber of an assembly
of a local government vho having lost his office due to being
called up but who has been discharged durine the period of
the remainder of his term of office, the same Law shall con-
tinue to apply.
Law No. 42 of 1o45 (Law concerning the rartial amendrtent
of the Law for the Election of the Yembers of the House of
Ropresentatives) shall be amended as ollows:
Paragraph 2 of the Supplementary Provisions shall be
deleted.
(NoTE: The net effect of this lav is to provide or
special registration,'prior to the April elections, of all
individuals newly eligible for voting, and to provide for the
waiver of the normeI six montns rasidence requirement in the
case of repatriates desiring to vote in the Diet elections.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
required of all individuala desiri
elections. The Enforcoment Ordina
that, for all elections, registration will beyh
March 18 to 24 and that registration lists will be ops
inspection and complaint from March 29 to 31. March 23 1s
the day set to be used in determining age, residence, etc.
The Ordinance follows:
Home Ministry Ordinance No. 15
Details concerning the exceptions mentioned in Article
1 of Home Ministry Ordinance No. 2, 1947 (Special exceptions
re electors' registers for the House of Representatives
members) shall be provided for as follows:
Etsujiro Uehara
Minister for Home Affairs
15 March, 1947
As regards elections of the Metropolitan governor, pre-
fectural governors, the heads of cities, wards, towns,
villages and other communities corresponding thereto, and
the general elections of the members of the assemblies of
all these communities, which will be conducted for the
first time after the enforcement of the present Ordinance,
the date and period of preparation of special elector's
registers for the House of Representatives members pre-
scribed under Article 1 of Iaw No. 2, 1947 (Exceptions in
Article 12 of the House of Representatives Members Election
Law), or of special supplementary electors' registers pre-
scribed under Article 3, the date of inspection of such
registers, the period of decision of objections, the date
of confirmation thereof, and the period of application
prescribed under these provisions, shall be as follows,
irrespective of the provisions of Article 1, of Home
Ministry Ordinance No. 2, 1947 (Special exceptions concern-
ing electors' registers for the House of Representatives
members). However, when special circumstances necessitate
it in islands or other districts where comrunication is
difficult, the Election Management Committee for the Metro-
politan Assembly Members or the Election Management Com-
mittee for Prefectural Assembly Members may determine these
dates and periods separately.
Date or preparation
23 March 1947
Period of application
for registration
7 days from 18 March 1947
Period of preparation
4 days from 25 March 1947
Period of inspection
3 days from 29 March 1947
Period of decision on
Vithin 2 days from appli-
objections
cation for amendment
Date of confirmation of
objections
3 April 1947
Supplementary Provisions
The present Ordinance shall come into force as from
the day of promulgation.
*
(But see Page 8lA for supplementary Home Ministry Crdinance
which extends the above dates for national clections only).
81

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
Home Linistry Ordinance No.
The followinc rules shall be stipulated wiud
regard to exceptions to Article I, Hone linistrs
Ordinance No. 2, 1947
(Temporary exceptions of electors' rerister for
the members of the House of Representatives)
31 March, 1947
linister of Home Affairs
ETSUJIRO UEHARA
With respect to the first general election for the mem-
bers of the House of Representatives end the first ordinary
election for the members of the House of Councillors to be
held after the enforcement of this Ordinance, corpilation,
application for, inspection, settlement of objections and con-
firration of electors' provisional register for the members
of the House of Representatives to be compiled according to
Article I, Law No. 2, 147 (concerning exceptions to Art-
icle 12 of the Law of election for the nembers of the House
of Representatives) shall be ade in the followinf date and
period, notwithstandinp the provision of Article I of Home
ministry Ordinance No. 2, 147 (Temporary exceptions to
electors' repister for the rembers of the House of Represent-
atives), provided, however, that the commissions for oversee-
ing election for the members of the Ietropolitan Assembly or
District and Prefectural Asserblies ray, if necessary, set
different dates and period where there is lack of cormunica-
tions or transport.
Dete of corpilation
10th, April, 1947
Application for repistration
Fron 5th, April to 10th
April, 1947,
Period of conpilation
Fron 10th, April to
13th, April, 1947
Inspection
Fror 14th, April, to
16th, Apri1, 1c47
Settlement of objections
Within 2 days after
objection is filed.
Date of confir ation
19th, April, 147
Supplementary Provisions
This Ordinance shall be enforced from the date of its
prorulration.
In case electors' provisional recgister for the rembers
ef the House of Representatives is corpiled acco-ding to
this Ordinance, applications filed according to Parafraph I,
Article I, Law No. 2 under the provisions of Hore Jinistry
Ordinance No. 15, 1947, when these applicants are reristered
in the supplementary rerister temporarily corpiled according
to pararraph I, Article 3, Law No. 2, shall be considered the
sare in this Ordinance.
The following anendrent shall be made to Home linistry
Ordinance No. 15, dated 15th, Larch, 1047 (concernin- excep-
tions to Article I, Ho e Iinistry Ordinance No. 15, 1047)
"a general election for the nenbers of the House of Rep-
resentatives and an ordinary election for the rembers of the
House of Councillors and" shall be omitted.
81-A

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
82
LA COFCE INING LIMITATIC N SE CF POSNS
(Law for Exceptions concerning Writings,
Drawines and Others for Election Camraigns.)
Artiele 1. "ith the purpose of making the elections which
are to be held under the present extremely straitened economic
circumstances resulting from the shortage of parer and other
materials, most legitimate and fair ones, this law shall be.
aprlicable to the distribution or notification of vritings,
drawings and others intended for election camraigns in the
l947 elections of members of the House of Representatives,
House of Councillors and local assemblies as well as the heads
of local public entities.
Article 2. No vritings or drawings shall be distributed
primarily for election campaigns, except ree post cards pro-
vided for by the folloving items:
1. Tventy thousand (20,o00) post cards rer candidate
for members of the House of Representatives or or members
of the House of Councillors to be elected from the prefect-
ural constituency.
2. Thirty thousand (30,Ooo) post cards per canaidate
for members of the House of Councillors to be elected from
the national constituency.
3. Ten thousand (10,ooo) post caras por candidate for
heads of the etropolis, prerectures or Wolkaido.
The free rost cards provided or by each item of
the prece ing paragraph shall be aprroved and sealed by a
post office which is desisnated by an Flection Control Com-
mission which is resronsible for the control of the election,
excert the numbers of post car's as provided for by other
laws. (As regards candidates for members of the Houso of
Councillors to be clected from tho national constituency,
seals shall be set by the election Control Commission or
"ombers to he elected from the "ational Constituency or by
an Election Control Commission of the  etropolis, a pre-
fecture or Hokkaido es approved according to their appli-
cation.)
Article 3. It shall be revaraed as the distrihution mon-
tioned in the preceding  rticle to circulate among rany
people a circular and other writings, drawines, sign-boards
(including placards) vhich are intended for en election
campaign.
Article 4. No writings or dravinas or election camraigns
shall be put up for nublic notice, oxcept those which
correspond to any of the folloving items:
1. Election posters authorized under this law.
2. Posters, notice-boards, lanterns, a sign-board and
others to be used at the place of a campaign meeting.
3. Posters, notice-boards, lanterns, a sign-board
and others to be used at the site of an election office
for its indication.
The use of the rosters provided or in Item 1 of
the preceding peragraph shall not be permitted in the eleet-
ions of members of town and village councils and others
oorrosponding thereto, and the heads of towms and villages.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.96)
Article 5. The clection posters authorized under this law
shall not cxceed the numbers provided for in the following
itoms:
1. One thousand (1,O0o) sheets per candidate as
regards the election of members of the House of Repre-
sentatives and the House of Councillors as well as tho
heads of tho metropolis, prefectures, Hokkaido and those
cities as are provided for in Article 6 ana Article 82,
reragraph 1, of the Law concorning the organization of
cities.
2. Three hundred (3oo) shects por candidate as re-
gards the oloction of membors of the assemblios of the
metronclis, rofecturos, Hokkaido and the cities (ineluding
the wards of Tokyo etropolis) as vell as the hends of the
cities other than thoso nrovided Cor in Articlo 6 and Article
82, naragranh 1 of the Law or the Organization of Cities
(including th: vurds of Tolyo Hetronolis).
As pegards carcidetes Cor mambers of the House of
Councillors to bo clec'ad rom the natioral constituency,
the number of nosters shall ho limited to ten thousand
(10,000) shects r.r nerson, and the usc thoreo? shall not ox-
coed one thonsand (1,ooo) sheets in the metropolis, a pre-
focture or Hokkaido.
The posters in the proccdine two paragraphs must be
approved and scaled by an Flection Control Commission which
is res"onsible Por th: control of the olection. (As regards
candidatos for mombors of the Pouso of Couneillors to be
clected from the national constitueney, soals shall be set
by the Election Control Commission Cor Vombers to bo Elected
from the National Constituoney or by an Elcction Control Com-
mission of the metropolis, a profocture or Hokkeido es appr-
oved according to their application.)
Posters used by any merson other than candidates on
behalf of a candidate, shall be ineluded within the number
provided in ecch item of porngrach I.
Article 5. The cloetion resters euthorized under this law
sholl not be lereer han the tabloid form (4l centimetres
long by 28 vide).
Articlo 7. Any porson vho vants to mut un clcction nosters
authorizod under this lay shell mite his ramo and address
on their surfece.
Article 8. Any person, when he puts up election porters
authorized undor this lew, shall be subieet to the res-
triction of the following itoms:
1. Not more than one poster shell be put up on one
structure for one candidato.
2. No posters shall bo put un on any objocts which
are owned or controlled by the covernmont or local rublic
entitios.
3. Fo postors shall bo nut uo vithin nolling placos
on the dato of clection.
4. ithout the consent of the omer or custodien, no
poster shell be put up on any structure bolonging to another
person.
5. Fo poster shall be printed in more than two colors.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.96)
84
Articlo 9. During tho tern of en clection campaign, it
shell bo nrohibited to distribute or put up, as an aot to
ovade bans in Articles 2 and 4, any writine or drawing
which, under the name of an advertisement for a book or
performance or of any other things, exhibits chictly the
name of a candidat, a rolitical association which rocommonds
im or any other orgonization.
Any writing or dravinz, which vas rut up before the
term of an clcction campaion fogins, shall be romoved cr
ordered removed, then it is considered to fall within the
purviow of the proccling paragraph by the Election Control
Commission of the "etropolis, n profecturo or Hokkaido.
Article 10. A candidate or the roprosontative for e poli-
tical associction mey ive en advortisoment concornine
clcction in any one novspeper, for once only, in the size as
fixad by poch Fl-ction Control Commission of the metropolis,
a prefectur or Hraido.
The newspaper printirg such advertisoment may be
distributed, despito thc provisions of Article 2, by nows-
sollers in an ordinary way.
Articlc 1l. A candiaate for momber of the Housc of Coun-
cillors to be olacted from the national constituoncy ay.
speak over the radic on clection matters for threo times at
no exponse to himself as nrovidod Cor by tho El-ction Con-
trol Commission Tor Mombors of th: House of Couneillors to
be clected from tho National Constituency.
The cxnerae for the vreceding paragraph shall be
defrayed by the Notional Treasury.
Article 12. Tho bullctins or clection, olection postors,
free post cards rnd ravspaner advertiscmonts authorized
under this law shall contain cuch matters in conncction
with his candidecy that orch candidate may desire.
Articlo 13. In case a r rort vas not made of the candidacy
or reconmendation, or the candidacy vas given up after mak-
ing such report, a porson who had obt ined some paper for
an clcction canoaign through the medintion of the Home
Hinistry, tho etropolis, a pretecture or Hokkaido, must
return all of the paper to the Home Winistor or the Motro-
polis, pref eture or Hokkaido aftor the expiration of the
term of report on candidacy or recommendation.
Article 14: hen any porson distributes or nuts up a writing
or draving in violation of Articlo 2, 4 to 6 inclusive and
9, he shall be sontcnced to a fine not oxcceding five thous-
and (5,000) yen.
When any succcssful candidato has violated tho pre-
ceding paragrarh, he shall be sentenced to a fine not ex-
ceeding fifty thousand (50,00c) yen.
Article 15. When any porson puts up a writing or draving
in violation of Articles 7 and 8, he shall be sontenced to
a fine not exceeding thrce thousand (3,o0o) yen.
When e successful candidato has viol ted the pre-
coding paragranh, he shall be sentonced to a fino not ox-
occding thirty thousand (30,000) yen.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.96)
Articlc 16. The crimes of Articlo 14 and 15 shal1 bo pre-
scribed in six (5) months.
Hovever, when the offender runs swey, the period
of proscription shall be oxtonded to one (1) ycar.
Supplemontory Provisions
This lav shall be put into forco on the dato of pro-
mulgation.
Regarding the Regulaticns or the Control of El etion
Cempaigns for Mombers of the House o? Roprosentatives, the
Regulations for the Cortrol of Eloction Campaigns for Mem-
bers of the Houso of Councillors, end the Rogulations for
the Control of Elcction Camppigns for Mombers of Local
Assemblies, and the like, those provisions thich do not agrec
with this law shell suspond their force from the date of on-
forcoment of this lew until Decomber 31st, 1047.
85

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
86
Exterpts From Ordinance Concerning Absentee Voting
(From Enforcement Ordinance No. 707 For The
House of Representatives Election Law)
Article 26. The circumstances mentioned in Article 33
of the House of Representatives Election Law are designed to
be as follows:
1. When the crews of Japanese vessels (including
those registered at a port outside Japan proper; so in all
cases here under) excenting the vessels (of less than 20
gross tons) which navigate on lakes and rivers, or harbors
and bays only, or lighters or other craft operated with oar,
or principally with rudder or oar; or persons habitually
employed on such vessels, are on duty on board the vessels.
2. When the crews of Jepanese vessels, excepting
those mentioned in the preceding raragranh, which exceed 5
gross tons, or persons habitually employed on such vessels,
are on duty on board the vessels.
3. "hen railway employees, mail clerks and other
persons, who are habitually employed on railway trains, are
on duty on railway trains.
4. When persons engaged in handling election
affairs, surveillance of voting places, supervising of
election, or in any other occupation relating to elections,
are on duty in areas outside their own voting precincts.
5. When persons who are habitually engaged in work
or duties for more than ten (lo) consecutive days outside the
county or city to which their votinz precinct belongs, are
engaged in work or duties outside the country or city to
which their voting precinct belongs.
6. Then the persons who have removed their resi-
dence outside the county or city to which their voting pre-
cinet belongs, after the date of the compilation of the
voters' list, are engaged in work or duties outside the
country or city to which their voting precinct belongs.
Article 27. In case a votor by reason of the circum-
stances falling under Nos. 1, 5, or 6 of the preceding
Article, is unable to vote by going to the voting place on
the day of Election, he may apply to the ballot controller
of his voting precinct after the day on which the date of
Election has been promulgated or announced and before the
day preceding the election day, personally or by mail, for
ballot paper and envelore, by giving proof of his circum-
stances.
In case a person, making the above-mentioned
applications in connection with the circumstances falling
under 5 or 6 of the preceding Article, desires to cast his
vote outside his own voting precinct, he shall simultaneously
with the application state the same to ballot controller of
his voting preeinct.
In case a person who by reason of the circumstances
falling under 2-4 of the preceding Article is unable to vote
by going to the voting place on the day of election, he may
apply within ten days of the election day and before the day
preceding the election day, personally to the ballot controller
of his voting procinet, for voting paper and envelope by giv-
ing proof of his circumstances.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
A voter desiring to vote by Braille shall, simul-
taneously with making the application under Paragraph 1, or
the preceding Paragraph, state the same to the ballot con-
trolier.
Article 28. In case a voter makes an application under
the preceding Article, he shall simultaneously present a
certificate concerning the matter requiring proof issued by
one of the following persons:
1. In case of seaman falling under the circum-
stances mentioned in Article 26, 1; the government office
having jurisdiction over the sea area, (or any office with
similar authority), consulate, or captain (or a person per-
forming the duties of captain; so in all cases hereunder).
In case of all others: the heads of their respective govern-
ment offices or their business enterprises.
2. Concerning the circumstance mentioned in Article
26, 2; the heads of respective government offices or business
enterprises.
3. Concerning the circumstance mentioned in Article
26,3; the chiefs of conductors districts, the chief of a
locomotive district, and the chief of a street car district
(corresponding persons in case of local railways), in case
of railway employees: postmasters of respective post offices,
in case of mail clerks; and the heads of respective govern-
ment offices and business enterprises, in case of all the
others.
4. Concerning the circumstance mentioned in Article
25, 4; heads of respective government or public offices.
5. Concerning the circumstance mentioned in Article
26,5; heads of respective government or puhlic offices or of
the houses of the Diet, or of respec ive business enterprises.
6. Concerning the circumstance mentiored in Article
26,6; heads of respective city, town or village, in case of
removal of residence; heads o respective government or pub-
lic offices, or heads of the houses of the Diet, or of res-
pective business enterprises, in case of inability to vote
by going to the polling station on the day of election.
A person, who is to iusue certificates as pro-
vided for in the preceding paragraphs, shell upon receint
of an application for such a certificate, immediately issue
the same in case he recognizes the case as falling within
the purview of the law.
A voter, in case for any proper reason he is
unable to present a certificate as under Paragraph 1, shall
give an explanation thereof to the ballot controller.
87

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
88
Exccrpts from Ordinance Concerning Publication
of Names of Candidates, ctc.
Japanese election laws provide that the names of all can-
didates for public offices be posted several days prior to
an election and that short biographies of candidates for
major offices also be distributed among the electorate. The
foilowing excerpts from the nforcement Ordinance for the
House of Councillors Election Law provide typical illustra-
tion of this procedure:
Chapter IX. Publication of Public Bulletins
Article 42 - A document proscribed in the provisions
of Article eo, Paragraph 3, of the Law Concerning the Elec-
tion of the I e bers of the House of Councillors (it shall be
referred to as a public bulletin of careers) shall, once in
each case where an election (exccpt an election which shall
further be held in cases where a part of en election has be-
come void) is held, be published.
Article 43 - A public hulletin of careers shall, for
each clectoral division (with respect to the members of the
House of Councillors to be elected from the whole area of
the country, throuchout the whole area of all the prefectures)
be published.
With respect to such areas as are placed under special
circumstances, the publication of a public bulletin of car-
eers shall be dispensed with.
The areas in which the publication of a public bulletin
of careers shall be dispensed with in accordance with the
provisions of the last preceding paragraph shall be desig-
neted by the ! inister of Home Affairs.
Article 44 - In casos where he intends to have his full
nare, career, etc. published in a public bulletin of careers,
a candidate for the office of mumber of the House of Council-
lors shall, on or before the twontieth day prior to the day
of elcction, file with the electoral administ ative committee
for the members of the metropoliton assembly or the clectoral
administrative committae for the .embers of a prefectural as-
sembly (with respect to the members of the House of Couineil-
lors to be olected from the whole area of the country, the
electoral adminis rative committee for the members of the
House of Councillors to be elected from the whole area of the
country) on application in writing accompanied by the text
which he intends to be published.
The number of the words which shell be containod in such
text to be published as is contemplated in the preceding para-
praph shall not exceed two hundred.
Article 45 - In ceses where an application contomplated
in Paragraph 1 of the last preceding article has been filed with
respect to a member of the House of Councillors to be elected
from the whole area of the country, the clectoral administra-
tion committee for the : cmbers of the House of Couneillors to
be elected from the whole area of the country shall, on or be-
fore the tenth day prior to the d y of clection, send forward
two copies of such text to be publi hed (in cases where the
nurber of the words contained in such text to be published
exceeds the limit conterplated in Pararraph 2 of the same
Article, such text s shall be wi'hin such limit) to the e-
lectoral administration committee for the mombers of the
metropolitan assembly or the clectoral adminisiration com-
nittee for the members of a district, urban, or rural pre-
fectural assembly.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.97)
Article 46 - In cases where an application contempi
in Article 44, Paragraph 1 has been filed or a covy of th
text contemplated in the last preceding Article ham bepware
ceived, the elcctoral edministrative committee for a prefect
ure, district, or mctropolis shall publish in a public bulle-
tin of carecrs the text to be published or a copy of the text
as it stands.
In cases where the number of words contained in the text
contemplated in Article 44, Paragraph 1, exceeds the limit
conterplated in Paragraph 3 of the same Article, the clect-
oral administ ation committee shall not publish in a public
bulletin of careers such portion of the text as exceeds such
1init.
Article 47 - A public bullctin of careers in respect to
the members of the House of Councillors to be elected from
the local division of tho country end a public bull tin of
carcers in respect to the tembers of the House of Couneillors
to be elected from the whole area of the country shall be pub-
lished by merns of separato sheets of paper.
In ceses where the full names, carecrs, etc. of two or
rore candidates for the office of menber of the House of Coun-
cillors to be electad from the local constituency or two or
more candidates for the office of romber of the House of Coun-
cillors to he clected fron tho natienal constituency are pub-
lished on one and the samc sheet of paper, the electoral ad-
ministration conmittee shell dete mine the order of publish-
ing in such sheet of psper by the drawing of lots.
Such candid ts for the office of : cmber of the House of
Couneillors as h-s filed anmpplication conte: plated in Art-
icle 44, Paragraph I, or his deputy, may, as an inspector,
be present at the dr wing of lots contarplated in the last
precedinr paracraph.
Article 48 - u lic bullctins of carcors shall, in con-
formity to the dosi uation of the electoral administration
cormittee of the aroa concerned, be distributed among the
households to which the per: ons on ored in the register of
electors of the corcern d prefecture belong.
Article 4? - If, in accordance with the provisions of
Article 58, Paragra th 1, of the Law Concerring the Election
of the Iombors of the House of Councillors and of Article 69
of the same Law in which the pplication with the necessary
modificotions of the abovemantioned Article 58, Paragraph 1,
is prescribed, it hns core to be unnecesaary to take the poll,
the proceeding of the publication of a public bulle*in of car-
eers shall be susponded.
Article 50 - In cases whcre, on account of an Act of God,
an omergene or eny othar unevoidable aecident, the sending-
forward of a copy of the tert to  puhlished has not been ef-
feeted, until aftur the fixed  ime murcribed in Article 45,
Parapraph 1 or in cesas whe e tharo oxists any other special
circumstance, the publicatior of such public hulletin of cer-
cers in the whole arer or a part of the area of the coneerned
metropolis, district, or urhin or rural prafecture as relates
to such events mentioned ahove shell be suspended.
Article 51 - Subject to the provisions of th: present
Chapter, any matter neccssary for the publicstion of a public
bulletin of careers may be p ovided by the elactoral admini-
stration committee for the prefecture concerned (with respect
to the members of the House of Councillors to be elected from
the whole ares of the country, the electoral administration
committee for the mombers of the House of Councillors to be
elected fron the whole area of the country.)
89

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.97)
Chaptor X. Posting of Names of Condidates
Article 52 - The posting of full names, etc., of
ates for tho office of member of the House of Councillors pre
scribed in Article 90, Paragraph 4 of tho Law Conccrning the
Election of the Members of the House of Councillors (it shall
hereinafter be roforred to as the posting) shall, upon choos-
ing the entrance of a polling station or any other place easy
for the public to see, be effected at one or more places for
ench polling division.
Article 53 - The matters to be entered on the posting shall
be rostrictod to the full names and the political parties of
candidates for the office of momber of the House of Councillors.
Article 54 - The posting shall be effocted from the tenth
day prior to the d y of olection to the day on which an elec-
tion is held.*
The order of entries on the posting shall, with respect
to the cendidates for the offico of momber of the Houre of
Courcillors in respect to whom the rotices prescribed in the
provisions of Article 24, Paragraph 1 or 2 have been piven on
or before the cleventh day prior to the day of election, be
determined by the dravinr of lots by the electoral administra-
tion committee for th: mombers of e city, town, or villafe as-
sembly, and shall, vith respect to the candidetes for the office
of member of the liouse of Councillors in respect to whom the
notices prescribed in the provisions of A ticle 24, Paragraph
1 or 2, have been siven on or after the tenth day prior to
the day of election, sct upon the order of arrival of such
notices and be determincd by the drewing of lots in cases
where such notices have arrived at the sere time.
A condidate for the office of member of the Houso of Coun-
cillors or his deputy may, as an inspector, be present at the
drawing of lots contempleted in the last precading campaign.
Article 55 - If it has, fter it hos offected the position,
received a notico prescrihed in the provisicns of Article 24,
Paregraph 4, the oi ctoral aarinistration comrittee for the
members of a city, town, or villart assembly, sholl strike out
such parts in th postinr as relate o such candidate for the
offico of perber of th. House of Ccuneille s as coneerns that
notico.
Article 56 - fubjuct to the previsions of the present
Chapter, any matter moceserry tor the postine may be provided
by the electoral cdrinistretion cor ittce for the nembers of
the metropolitan assenbly or the cleetion adrinistration com-
mittee for the mombers of  distriet, urban, or prefectural
assenbly.
*In other laws, of course, the stated date of posting will vary,
depondent upon the final date for filing of candidacy.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.97)
ra
CHAPTER FIVE
Index to House of Councillors Election Law
Ballot Counting Districts
Art. 2
Overseers
Art. 29
Procedure of
Art. 20ff
Witnesses
Art. 30
Ballots, Preserved
Art. 36
Bankrupt Vay Vote
Art. 2 (Add.Prov)
By-elections
Art. 71
Campairn Expenses, definition
Art. 77
Candidate, Elected and Notified
Art. 59
Files Acceptance
Art. 60, 61
Files Notice
Art. 54, 65
For Natioral Co.stituency
Art. 65ff
For Prefectural Constituency
Art. 54ff
Recommon'ed
Art. 54, 65
Certificate of Elcction
Art. 63
Cheirman of Election
Art. 39ff
Art. 49ff
Commissioners for Elections
Art. 6
Constituency, Na ional
Art. 1
Prefectural
Art. 1, Annex.
Councillo, Are
Art. 4
Non-elicibility
Art. 5-8
Councillors, Nurber of
Art. 2, Annex.
Counting of Vetes, Dy of
Art. 31
Procedure of
Art. 29ff
Donial of the Vote
Art. 24
Deposit of a Candide e
Art. 55
Disburser, Responsible
Art. 78
Slection Corpaign
Arts: 76-83
Commissions
Art. 12ff
Dato of
Art. 9
Elicibility for
Art. 4-8
Expenses
A t. 76-83
Invalid
Arts. 42, 51
Keeting
Art. 39ff
At. 49ff
Sub-meeting
Art. 46ff
91

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
CHAPTER PIVE
Index to House of Councillors Election Lw
Ballot Counting. Districts
Art. 2
Overseers
Art, 29
Proccdure of
Art. 29ff
Witnesses
Art. 30
Ballots, Preserved
Ant. 36
Bankrupt ay Vote
Art. 2 (Add.Prov)
By-elections
Art. 71
Campairn Expenses, definition
Art. 77
Condidate, Elected and Notified
Art. 59
Files Acceptance
Art. 60, 61
Files Notice
Art. 54, 65
For Natiorrl Co.stituency
Art. 65ff
For Prefectur-l Constituency
Art. 54ff
Recommen'ed
Art. 54, 65
Certificate of Elcction
Art. 63
Chrirman of Election
Art. 39ff
Art. 49ff
Commissioners for Elections
Art. 6
Constituency, Na ional
Art. 1
Prefecturl
Art. 1, Annex.
Councillo , Are
Art. 4
Non-elicibility
Art. 5-8
Councillors, Nurber of
At. 2, Annex.
Counting of Voteu, Dy of
Art. 31
Procedure of
Art. 29ff
Donial of the Vote
Art. 24
Deposit of a Candide
Art. 55
Disburser, Responsible
Art. 78
Election Compairn
Arts: 76-83
Commissions
Art. 12ff
Date of
Art. 9
Eliribility for
Art. 4-8
Expenses
A t. 76-83
Invalid
Arts. 42, 51
Meeting
Art. 39ff
Art. 49rr

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
92
Elections Held at the Sare Time
Art. 27
Expenditures of l'unicipalitics
and National Government
Art. 89
Forfeiture of Election
Art. 57
Incompatibilit
Art. 8
Indigents May Vote
Art. 2 (Add Pr.)
Judge
Art. 7
Judges of the Ad -Court Not Elirible
Art. 3 (Add Prov.)
Litications
Arts. 73-75
Minutes of Election Preserved
Arts. 43, 52
National Commission for Election of
Councillors
Art. 13-19
Penal Provicions
Arts. 84-97
Police Officers
Art. 7
Provi:ional Ballot
Art. 24
Public Procurators
Art. 7
Reriste"s of Electors
Art. 11
Re istration, Procedure of
Art. 11
Report on Incore ond Exp. of the
Election Ca pairn
Art. 79
Revenue Officials
t.7
Schools to be Us d for Co pirns
Art. 90
Superintendents of Countin: of Ballots
See Ballot Count~
ing Overseers
Of Election
See Chairman of
Election
Of Voting
See Voting Over-
scers
Term of Councillor Elected in By-clection
Art. 72
Torms of Office
Art. 70
Voter Limited
 to One Brllot for each
Cons ti tuency
Art. 20
Votes, Invalid
Art. 34
Minimum for Elcction
Art. 56
Art. 67
Voting;Districts
Art. 2
Franchise
A t. 3
Impossible on the Fixed Dy
Art. 26
In Remot: Places
Art. 25

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
Voting Districts (continued)
Overseers
Art. 21
Frocedure of
Art. 20ff
Witness
Art. 22
Wetchers of Ballot Counting
See Ballot
Counting Witness
Of Voting
Sec Voting
Witness
93

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.96)
94
Index to House of Reprer entatives Election Law
Absentee Voting
Art. 33
Ballot Box Sent to Counting Overseer
Art. 35
Ballot Counting:
Acceptability of Ballots
Art. 49, 51, 52
Ballots Invalid, Enumeration
Art. 52
Date of
Art. 46, 48
Districts for
Art. 3
Minutes of
Art. 54
Natural Calamity Prevents
Art. 56
Overscer for
Art. 44
Procedure of
Ant. 44ff
Picht of Voters to Iispect
Art. 50
Wetchers (Witnecses)
Art. 47
Ballots, Preserved
At. 5
Banqucts - Grectinrs efter Election
4rt. 100-2
Broille, Use of
At. 28
Bribery, Various Forns of
Art. 112
By-clection, Cesas of
Art. 79
Candidate
Advencement of One'r Own Cendidacy
Art. 67
A e of
Art. 5
Deposit for
Apt. 68
Elcction Invalid
t.70
Number of C ndidates Less
Than
the Number of Vac neies
int. 71
Recommend tion of
Art. 67
Candidate, Successful
Cartificate
Art. 76
Nane to be Published
Art. 72
Relative Pejority Needed for Elcction Art. 69
To Notify Aocop nce
Art. 73-74
Questions Validity of Election
.83-84
Commission for Oversccing the Election
(Sec Election Administration Conmission)
art. 10-2
Counting of Votes
Sec Bollot
Countinr

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
Counting Overseer
Art: 44
Crimes Arainst Election Officials
Art. 119
Disburser, Responsible
Art. 101
Report by
Art. 105
Elcction Adrinistration Cormission
Art. 19-2
Election Districts
Art. 1, 2
Election, Date of
Art. 18
Expenses of
Art. 102,107,
139.
In Case of Diet's Dissolution
Art. 18
Election Mocting, Admission
Art. 63
Announcement of Dato and Place
Art. 60
Chai man of
Art. 58
Election Watchers
Art. 61
Election Witnesses
Art. 61
Eligibility for
Art. 5ff
l aintenance
of Order at
Art. 66
Hinutes of
Art. 64
Place of
Art. 59
Procedure of
Art. 62
Election Offices,
Distence fron Pollirg St tions
Art. 91
Number of
A-t. 90
Election Officials
Art. 8
Election Pamphlets
Art. 98-2
Elcction Voiced by Court
Art. 82
Elections, Cor bined
Art. 38
Expenses of Election, Amount Perritted
Art. 102
Fixed by Immeriel Ordinnce
At.139
Information Made Public
Art. 107
Paid by Responsible Disbursor
t. 101-3
Fraudulent Registration
Art. 111
Fraudulent Voting
Art. 127
Government uditors
Art. 9
House-to-House Canpaign
Art. 98
95

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
Intimidation at the Election
Art. 115
Judges
.Art. 9
Letters, Pictures, Limitations
Art. 100
Mail Sent to Voters
Art. 140
Ninutes of the Poll
Art. 34
Officials Failing In Their Duty
Art. 116
Party's Raport on Expenditures
Art. 106
Police Officors
Art. 9
Poll, Closing of the
Art. 32
Impossible to Take
Art. 37
Pollin, Procedure of
Art. 25
Polling Station
Art. 21
Announced
Art. 22
Co. duct at
Art. 42
Hou's Open
Art. 23
Order et
Art. 40
Persons Authorized to Enter
Art. 41
Removal From
Art. 42
Voting by those Removed
Art. 43
Prisoners
Art. 6
Provisional Ballot
Art. 31
Public Procurator
Art. 9
Brincs  Leusuit
Art. 84-2
Recciots, Defined
At. 104-2
Repister, Appeal to the Court Copcerning
Art. 16
Correction of
Art. 15
Finality of
Art. 17
New Rerister Compiled
At. 17
Omission in thc Registor
Art. 14
Preservetion of
Art. 17
Public Exhibition of
Art. 13
Registration
Art. 12
Resting Places
At. 92
Restric*ed Ballot
A1. 27
Revealing For Whom Ono Voted
Art. 117
Revenue Officials
Art. 9

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
Secrecy of Balloting Proserved
Surt By A Voter
Art. 81
Superintendent of Counting
Art. 44
Of Eloctions
Art. 58
of the Poll
Art. 20
Violence at the Election
Art. 115
Voters, A of
Art. 5
Incligible to be
Art. 6
Vo tes, Counting of
Sea Ballot
Counting
Voting Districts
Art. 2
Voting Overseers
Soe Superinten-
dent of the Poll
Voting, Procedure of
Art. 25
Warnings of Police, Disreg rd of
Art. 124
Watcher (Witness)
Rellot Counting
Art. 47
Election
Art. 61
Voting
Art. 24
Punishment of
Art. 128
of
Art. 121, 122,
123
Soo Wa tchors
128

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.92)
à
2
FILE
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM!
NO。
R E C O R D C O P Y
894.00/5-2647
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
DESP
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING,
2
54 FROM SHANGHA
--000--

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.90)
2254
Rec'd DO/L
June 6, 1947
Sh. y 26, 1967
JUN 23 1947
TRIC
ACTION:
OOD
SUBJECT: Artiele "Japen Purges First Femilles"
INO1
BC
THE HONORABLE
D03
OIC
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
TUR
WASHINGTON, D.C.
HAR
YYY
CIG
SIR:
Pol-
A-OTO-O
I have the honor to mubmit the following informatiom im
remponse to the Department'a request for more detalls om the
use of the article, "Japem Purpes Pirst Families," carried in
Chinese Newaletter No. 131.
Usis recorde show that this artiele was earrled by 22
newepapers in Chins. This igure may not be complete, siaee
It is disf oult to make a thorough aheak an an artiale isened
meveral mon ths ago. Teere is no recore of the mmber of reeders
reeched by Loce newspapera, but sinoe the papers remged frem
894.
publicstiono in Shanghai zith fairly largo cirouiationm to a
mall "bi-woeikly" at Tainan in Porzoea, a conservative estimate
of 5,000 roadors per pa ar would re a fre omebet mbove
100,000.
The arttcle in ired the "Porward Daily" in mdalen to carry
0
in alitorial ontitled "Problem of Peace roaty Toward Japem,"
strongly strescing the urgenoy of purcing the Japenese government
of all remmants of Japanese xilituristic influence. There was no
other direet alitorlal comment om the artiele, although the Is
Kang Fao in Hankem earried an ed'torinl antitled "There ust be
a Demooratio Japan" tmo daye after the Usis article wao raleamed.
This oditorial, a oo  of whiah is atteched, wes mot favorable to
the oacupstiom paliey. usis Formose reports that "edtnrial coment
on the U.8. cccupation of Japem is conaiatently oritionl of U.s.
polimy in Javan, alcinin: that the U.S. is resarving Jananese
conservatives uower the ui of demnereey. ditoriale on the
Japemess alectiom follow she some line." A publie opiniom poll
condusted by the inflwential Te Kuny Poo in Shanghal, remilts of
whaiah were publiahed an tny 20, ahowed that 667 of 780 permons quee-
tioned, or r-mevenths of the people, believed that Japen will
invade China again. The majority of those ansmering balimred the
aggresston worild come withim tem yeurs.
Typioal of the newe reporte appearing im the Chinese press
1s the enclosed lengthy roport by the Telye correspondent of the
arrleial Chinese Central Hewe Agemcy that the pesce treaty will
peore the wny for Japen to remume her former dominatiny position
as ti:e hb of Far Eastern coonomy wdthin an eatimated five years.
Ln viem of the foregoine, suah artieles as tise eme entitled
"Pramemork for Demoeracy Set in Japen" , mont via SMgpal Corpe
 aprll 25, are of amomaly doubtrul valum, sine they fail

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.88)
- 2 -
1256
to meet Chimese press cr'ticims of proposals for an early pease
treaty with Japan and for restoring that country's standard of
living to the 1934 level. This artiele mas not 1smved by JSIs
Lliangtiai in the tallef that : ts naive appreach to the question
of denooracy in Japan woul' tand to do more hana than good.
Statewants mosh us the one :ssued by dmiral Denfield in
Hewaii saying Jat be balieved ninoty porecnt of the Japanese
people, if  iven r cipice, would prafer to beoome part of the
United Statos, Sall into this paro category. illo stetement,
while not aarriud by usls, was tranmitted by the other prems
survioes atal diaplayed proinently in Shanghai newepapers.
The need fer volia material on the ocoupatlon of Japen
contimes. rankow usis reported recentlys antiming d
aallafection of the press over the occuyation of japan makes
Usis ite on hio, e pec ally erican prees opinion, uch
in decand."
!eajectu:ly youre,
For the Conil aneral
Frad ey Connors
Chfublic ffaire frioer
BC1.S
To the Jopartoent in original and osalid
Enclosuress
I. Tranalation of alitorial from Hankow "Ta Funy Pac".
2. Centrel lews Report from Tokyo
. Copies of Eiuht nawmpa ers cerrying rtiale
"Japen Purees Pirot Pamtlies". (attaobed to crigtnal only).
Copy st the tlcay

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.89)
COPY
Emmlemure 1 to Dempatcls Ao.1256
Tn Kang Pno (CC Organ), Hanixow, Jenuary 30, 1947.
"There muet le a dacngratie danen"
O the three xis countrles, Japan oday nhould be oonaidered the
most fortumate. The fascist control ory n'sc ions in Japan may be dee
eribed as ontirely untouched. anornl Suesrthar's love for Japen'
reactiomeries In comparalle to ri:!sh mmport of (kruary after Morld
ar I. Yns rthur has not con ined his love for Japan to his mm thinilng.
but hs oven publicly opressed  senticents during ta ke with other
The Bri tish support of Cormany in Jie triment of Frenee after World
Ror I was one  the reaonns why Prance vae overrum by Geruany im World
Har II, but Br tain narrowly veoupod the wene fate as Prnneo.
Today, anyone wiahint to res'st Russis by reens of aiding Japan
will surely taste the see experience as a "man who keeps a tiger is
finally wounded by it."
The danger in the  ture is even more torrible thar that
1llustrated above. t ls uue to one factor, the aistence of Chine
between Nuasla and Japeng we can rever armit another usso-Ja anese
war on China's moil. China is now a reat und mpluxdid cowntry, and
 cannot allow anyono  .se our torritory for wiair oun pr!vate
purposos.
Al Wough Chinn haa litle no to devote to other thing  he
is facin wany internal difficultie, any  her ducated and fr
 hted people regard Japan's present situetion cd ier future telemey
as a potential danaur to this country.  c y upookin, tho Japase
have repeetedly disalnsed teir uregd  nd intertional ne eet of
thie countrys industrtally sealin i t Ch'n io goin to phare
in Japanese wer reparations ahe will hardly njoy py priortty. From
the point of vio  international trace, any  e re atill talking
about inusustrial Japan ond c. Tiu tural China".  chduee pople,
who have suffered frow jupaneme nggreasion in the paat 50 years, canmot
afford to be retlcont.
s Chine has nover alicwn any active attitude, the puniaront moted
out to Japanese wer cri inals has centored  ainly on crininals wgo
committed war crires since Porr? Haror. oreoever, in n Japonese
war crinen trials cooucted in J: pan we Court diu not accord proper
reapect to the Chinese witrosacs. This sliuation has  vided a chance
for tho mr arinials now aldi: ummont onts . rare oppar
tumity te court the feror of te me:icans, thus ensoring the palitieal
arene sgain. These ale.ents are chesting the Allied countries on the
ane hand and conecaling the crines of their felluw cs iinula on the cther.
The mo-called Yoahido Cabiret is in the s. me toat with them.
Momever, the ver, easence of fascim is aggress: on in other countries
and exmeralse of preasure at home. The fascist practices of the Yoshida
Babinet, although aleverly camouflaged, fore the sorrow of the Allied
sountries and do net represent the W!ngn the Japanese people like. Im
the past ovaral nonthu, voicer of oppos. tion to tho Yuahide Cubinet
wore beard not only ron every corner of Jupan itoelr but even Yomhide
falt higily parplexed. To cive his ahow a better outlook, Yoshide hes
been busy inaluding in his oubinet meveral politiaiens mho thirst for
higher puadtions and divera fled interests, attapting to organise 
so-sulled ocalition cablmet whieh, in affect, is but a collestion of
fasc'nt romnants. Therefore, the coal: Mon caiinet sponscred ty Yosbida,
whiah appears te be rather liberal in form, hes beoome the nain target
of atteek ty the Japanese peeple. The Japanese people are uawi lling te
be sald out agaims a demanstrution by 400,o00 af them brougtit this fest
to the fis.

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.90)
maleure 1 t Dat  124
-2-
Wien the demonstrestion roke out, Liu Yoahide aabimet redgeed
en masse but he was immediately ordered to organ'se a now cakinet.
Genudne denocraoy carmot bo consumated im any country within a short
peried of lem. Yoshida wiil eontimae lils agio arts despite publie
oriticism aainst him, unloss General Haoarthur abondons his mhim 
mapportirg Jayan's resotlonay furees and if the Chinese people de
not inwist en justice. But it is almost certain thes the Japamese
people's movement for wi:uin: democratie ini tiative dll mot end in
the immed.ate fuure.
The Chinose peopie ave murfared creatly from Jaxnese invaslons.
In the pant 50 :Bars, we bave all tasted bitter aperienees and shed
too winy bloody teare. iot ono bit of our lenis and not one tomb af
our forefuthers has esoapel frou apans ravuee ad enolitloms,
alther direc'ly or indirectly. How few of our familios, relatives
aund fri ande have kopt teir properties Intneth At a time wien com-
elliation nong cur elven has not yot been worked out - and oven
if we can patlantly f riet for a moment the deep hatred - we cannot
help entortrting a sugcion that a no danger may app soh at am
time.
miy a oocrctic irran cen live peacefully dth China. Only
domparatle Japan cun fore tall ina cation of an tior unt war. To
speak for china hermell, w reguire pestancit pence. it is true alse
of the wiole world. The aintwsce of our intorn'l pouce and the
peace of the worlu s our duty mhich we carrot shun.
The preotieel purpose in controlling Japan is  forestall h
reourrence of another war. it is simply sulf-oheatin; alk to say
that we can stop war by allowdny fasalst remnantt to hold he reins
of Japanome goverment. if w would rorlise a peacuful worid, chere
must be a denocratic Japan.

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.84)
Enalemre 2 te Damaah Ne. 126
CENTR AL TFWS AENCY
SH.UNGHAI,
ENOLH BETVICE
MAY 22, 1947
J   URI R PLACE AB HUB
AGLAS Y ATT SGENO  PRACE PACT
Tokyo, "ay 2? (Centrui): T aoo treety for Japan dll pave
the muy for  an to rcm e or former doniting polslom o the bb
of P,r storn economy. ithin a estimated five yeurs, Japan'
econoedo sttntlon uon: the ale io nation ill le little dirferent
from ler prior ituation.
in tis yea of s  oconomid officials, Japen is envisioned as
an industrial heart f the Crient. As before, Chineme coal and salt,
Indiam and 'urmose cotton, Philippine hemp, Lalayan and Innonemiem
rubber and Simmese tin will foed tir Japaneve wills, which will
procoss iee rew aater:aln l:to cheep ttiles a tier wamufaotured
urticlon to be wold Leak . tiieso oowtries.
The United Stato  roudy been furni mhing Japan vith re
cotton on creuit  this ymer. Auerlomn all has been shipped into
a an to op e Jaese idusry oing mhile the coal hortn
as  roc ion as ucn, in wia Japn, w magd
a wnr to saiso rad muterlal sourees and narket outlete in Ada will
be logally axd saterln'ly assistd tn roin: reinatat cs a eading
industrial pomer in she Far et by the lics,inly the Und
Statas, who fou ut co frustrrte ws oririnul jupnese vims.
The scf conomle plicy, in e poat briafest fm,  to
reorientate Jpeneso ndustr ul c..pacity and "xnow how" for re-
building he  a ne ecsory. n plainer wrde, Japan is boing
reconstruoted, acc rui to the plins and conceptione, mhich vimualise
thin cowiiry as  corneratone of Asia's econouy again. This is
aotly wist the Japanese have been hoping for.
Individuale und rou, a nese in privato und ofriolal
capeities have bren  duct n quiet lut widespread propanda
toward thi chjec ive sllco die pooupation bagen.
All Japunese roulize the: their country dll have pracciaally
nmthine to say chou: the peace torms. Howevor, they have all falt
that it is their p riotic duty o do their bit in maxing theme
toras lese harsh.
To bogin with, they heve eauluted the Gerean tuctias, used
after the First Norld War, in tryint to paint n picture or pratwar
Japan us one of utter dejectiom in defeat against & baakground of
mtwery and porvertw.
This early effort did not Loprese Presddent Harry Trumam's
Beperations ambessador Edwin Prauley, who wrote a Letter to the
hite Hease acoompeyins his interim raport am the reparatioms that
the "altuatiom im Jepem is not as bad as our papars have pletured
it. People are not starving".
Stotiee have been mede to date om the food atatiom in Japem
to indisate that the Japamene propagande that tthe Japanese are
etarrag" La mithost romadatiome The Japanase peeple are batter fed
at preeast tee the peepe ns aay mataen, aainat miah Japan has
end teed asgrenslen. Qrrielal atutes by Coneral Keasrtiers's

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.82)
CUPY
ineloue 2 to opash se 1256
-2-
Divimion of Heal th und tealth present poeltive ovidanee that there
Ls not seriuus or wumul mulmutition in Japan. "It is interesting
that iot leas ciwan fuur porcunt of rico urop and possibly as muah a
eighit rcont are still peraittou  go into o mtmoture of
aivoholio beverages". : auley wrote whie in secomver l94s, in wisish
year Japan's rioe crop was che worst in t yuurs, acuordin, to Japamem
statialies.
Equaily porsistent sn probaily moro wffeutive hme been the
propesande Wiat japan' decroumxi wrr tory curot produee sufficient
food to feed bor incroumou populatlou, ani hat considerable industrial
revival will be necessary to produce axporte w ua which to pay for
die llecossary foou impore. ihie m  ally hs been scopted by
 a a fact und the  coio pali i hamd on thie proi
Tue volo of ll mir   m lrel muthorlti and
imiurtraliour, who luaist thas uupan  ractioally ad, in uture,
can be wolf-suir ciene in foou, tas bean dromd in the atrony me
of the e propagand mhich  ua t te moun c to justi
Jupamse eansion.
Al thouch Jepan tuaporarily i uaatle  maintain her represente-
tive ubroau, who foimerly cowaunicacd this line oi rfictrl propegaade
to other nation, o roent  ent i oven re coovenlent,
beceuse te roprese ives or  suy rorem povere ere lere in Tokgt.
The advanleee of hi pooitlon was uemonstretsd clonrl ty the fact
tat the Jrpanese have boen arly puccosaul in csantiny her case
to the autioriules ato have Wio power  decide on nes econosle future.
The peave tawe drewi up in dasil on are  se: on the L ures and
facte taken.incipaiy from e urce. it is naurl, chraore,
that tie coomasio ace serss iil be clone to mut the unpanese the
maives iope. Frum wis viowp int, vapan, in erfect, diotating her
om. Lorns for peuce.
e suce of th s snttial propenda is d
princlpally to te fat that he   or istion is insuiaiently
at. ur re, ert  ily ore ouphas on itry
thm on ar cuiture. Thw  mitairial Jiviaion lu.s out 100
riown nn, dle  riiural Diviion haniy 2. t
is alearly iossibl to cheak nore tus a f fras the mowituls of
figure turns over to  by the Japam ovurmont consisly.
riean ofricial frankly udmit tht vy feel that the Jo,puneme
figures are unreliable, iut not anough workers are avail-ble to
verify the japanese stacistice.
Figuree on the aricultural situation om the basie of which
Sci must nake li wulemutal ds slons rogarding plae for Jupen's
economie ruture are especimlly untrustmorthy. sca Aricultural
Divi mion Chief F. H. Davia cold Contral News that nobedy knowe
metwally bow muat land has bean oulivaleu n in ay sive villag.
Be said he believed that Japanese Par-ers sro reportine wuah
less ield them motually comee from the lun so swt they cnn sall
food on the tlaak-market.
The scap Aprioultural Divialon mecepte "gantly" the figuree
frem the Agrieulture and Forestry inistry to the affect that Japan
eem produee a meadmm of 85 peroant of foud requlrements and thurafore
must impers the halance.
A mall hn Japamse agrioal tual expert, who maintnim thas
aen can ily bs sais-mttsient in foed, diovered that the

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.85)
COP
212
-3-
and facte for soveral years.
In a recer:tlye!rculatec ruport by the Soclety for Sennemie
Heconstrustion of Japan snieh is mssoaiated with a group of progreasdve
young industral: sis axd businesann under the nane of Heise! rake
yokai, the conc udint aragrephe warn Wst "there is a coned derable
maber of cases where it in ratior inmmrleable to use the hitherte
available figres, because f nok of reliablity. One of such
exemples was found in a volure an egrioul cural arope".
The uoe of statiav cp from the jast prem, yomr of l929 and
1930 as the buais ci calculatine the jnpaneee peoplm's peccetime
neods hus siven the statisiical proyagandiste wple roum for
manipulatiny the figures. The requiroments of he Japenese people
and coammption of ras raterials b. the Japenose :ntentry Juring
these yeare inoluded much that vout into the ui tanance if not
pansdon of the Jnee urmai forcr.
Under the now consti tutiom and as long ns Allied coutr?
remnine in Japan, it will not have the tilitary orce o nartial
intustrle, to auly and upport. Thie dvanta rct b xdar
ctl ntedn d noues the econarc. oatdli cory.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
D
American Embassy
London, June 3yiv
AIR MAIL
ASIAN AFLAIRS
941
U CLASS IFIED
No. 1310
F&-/u-Subject: Transmitting Clipping from Te
Times on Japan
Fc-lau
ONC ESDOPEAN ABGA DN
(8E)
JUL1 1947
26
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
Secretary of State,
Washington
yR
Sir:
CV
I have the honor to transmit a clipping of an
Ca..to
editorial article frcm the 'ay 27, 1947, 1ssue of The
Times on the subject "Japan New and Old."
The essence of the article is that the changes
introduced into Japan by the United States have scaroely
done "more than touch the surface of Japanese life",
and that it necessarily follows that It will he essen-
tial for the allies to retain effective control over
many aspects of Japanese national life for some time to
come."
EPAHQMENT OF STATE
Respectrully yours,
INTELLIGENDE REFERENCE DDISION
RECENVEDU
For the Ambassador:
JUL7-1947
at.
Everett F. Drumright
First Secretary of Embassy
Clipping, as stated
AU.181947
FILED
(Original and four copies to Department)
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
EFDrumright/wg
Or
JUL 2 1947

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
to despatch No13/01
EwYassy at London. Forlond.
PAPER:
THE TIHES
NUMBER:
2 7 MAY 1947
CITY:
LONDON
DATE:
Japan New and Old
The Japanese Diet has made its first
use of the power secured to it under the
new constitution by selecting Mr. Tersu
KATAYAMA as Prime Minister. On Sunday
he was formally invested with his office
by the EMPEROR and is now trying to
form a Government. This will not be easy.
The Social Democratic Party, of which
Mr. KATAYAMA is the leader, gained
forty-five seats in the last elections, and
with a total strength of 143 ranks as the
largest group in the House of Representa-
tives. But its programme of moderate
Fabianism in economic as well as in
political matters is opposed by the
Liberals, who hold 135 seats, and by the
Democrats, who hold 126--both these
parties, in spite of their titles, being
staunchly right-wing in their views. The
Democrats are apparently ready to sup-
port a coalition Government on certain
conditions, but the Liberals are not; and
unless MR. KATAYAMA conciliates the
Democrats by abandoning some of the
more advanced ideas advocated by his
party he may have to be content to form
a minority administration which could be
thrown out at any time by a motion of
no confidence. Thus, by selecting the
leader of the largest party as Prime
Minister, and at the same time ensuring
that the reformist ideas he holds be kept
under control, the politicians of Japan
have again illustrated the national genius
for holding on a chosen course while
trimming all sails to the prevailing breeze.
There can be little doubt that the present
balance of parties in the Diet reflects with
reasonable accuracy the mood of the
Japanese people. The result of the clec-
tions plainly shows that the general
dissatisfaction manifested against the
Yoshida Cabinet was due rather to its
failure to deal firmly with the economic
crisis than to its predominantly conserva-
tive character. The mass of the popula-
tion, long accustomed to totalitarian rule,
still seeks, and indeed desires, clear in-
structions from the governing classes, and
though these classes are adopting the
terminology and experimenting with the
institutions of Western democracy, which
the victory of the allies and the policy of
GeneraL MacArthur have made fashion-
able, there is little indication that they
have modified any of their traditional
ideas. It would be rash to assume that the
political changes introduced so recently
by the Americans have done more than
touch the surface of Japanese life.
Beneath that surface the old habits of
mind remain virtually unaltered. At the
moment the desire of most Japanese,
rulers and ruled alike, is to be left alone
to reconstruct their national life in their
own way—which means in accordance
with their traditional ideas. Their main
purpose, therefore, is to give the minimum
trouble to the American occupation forces,
to convince the allies that the peace treaty
can safely be signed, and to regain for
Japan something at least of the political
and economic initiative she enjoyed before
the war.
The Japanese sentiment in favour of the
early conclusion of a peace treaty is in-
creasingly endorsed by the allies. The
policy directives dealing with reparations
recently sent to GenerAL MacArthur by
the Far Ba

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
CITY:
LONDON
DATE:
Japan New and Old
The Japanese Diet has made its first
use of the power secured to it under the
new constitution by selecting Mir. Tersu
KaTaYamA as Prime Minister. On Sunday
he was formally invested with his office
by the EmperoR and is now trying to
form a Government. This will not be easy.
The Socia! Democratic Party, of which
Mr. KaTAYAMA is the leader, gained
forty-five seats in the last elections, and
with a total strength of 143 ranks as the
largest group in the House of Representa-
tives. But its programme of moderate
Fabianism in economic as well as in
political matters is opposed by the
Liberals, who hold 135 seats, and by the
Democrats, who hold 126both these
parties, in spite of their titles, being
staunchly right-wing in their views. The
Democrats are apparently ready to sup-
port a coalition Government on certain
conditious, but the Liberals are not; and
unless MR. KAlAYAmA conciliates the
Democrats by abandoning some of the
more advanced ideas advocated by his
party he may have to be content to form
a minority administration which could be
thrown out at any time by a motion of
no confidence. Thus. by selecting the
leader of the largest party as Prime
Minister, and at the same time ensuring
that the reformist ideas he holds be kept
under control, the politicians of Japan
have again illustrated the national genius
for holding on a chosen course while
trimming all sails to the prevailing breeze
There can be little doubt that the present
balance of parties in the Diet reflects with
reasonable accuracy the mood of the
Japanese people. The result of the elec-
tions plainly shous that the general
dissitistaction manifested against the
Yoshida (abinet wa due rather to its
faslure to deal firmly with the economic
erisis than to its predominantly conserva-
tive character. The mass of the popula-
tion. long accustomed to totalitarian rule.
still seeks, and indeed destres, clear in-
structions from the governing classes, and
though these classes are adopting the
terminology and experimenting with the
institutions of Western demoeracy, which
the victory of the allies and the policy of
GI NLRAL MA ArTHUR have made fashion-
able, there is little indication that they
have modified any of their traditional
ideas. It would be rash to assume that the
political changes introduced so recently
by the Amencans have done more than
touch the surtace of Japanese life.
Beneath that surface the old habits of
mind remain virtually unaltered. At the
moment the desre of most Japanese.
rulers and ruled abke, is to be left alone
to reconstruct their national life in their
own way which means in accordance
with their traditional ideas. Their main
purpose, therefore, is to give the minimum
trouble to the Amencan occupation forces,
to convince the allies that the peace treaty
can safely be signed, and to regain for
Japan something at least of the political
and economie initiative she enjoyed before
the war.
The lapanese sentiment in favour of the
early conclusion of a peace treaty is in-
creasingly endorsed by the allies. The
policy directives dealing with reparations
recently sent to Guneral Ma Arthur by
the Far Eastern Commission, and the sug-
gestion of the Australian Government re
ported by our Canberra Correspondent for
amonwealth conference to consider
the petce terms, indicate that the consider-
ation of the details of a settlement is un-
likely to be long delayed. While it seems
clear that it will be in the general interest
to allow the Japanese to work out their
national saivation without imposing on
them such crippling burdens as may
deprive them of the means of existence, it
will also be essential for the allies to retain
effective control over many aspects of
Japanese national life for some time to
come. So long as democracy in Japan
remains only skin deep, so long will
national rehabilitation hold the threat of
renewed aggression in one form or another
under the leadership of an unrepentant
governing class.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
13109
Enclosure No.  to despatch No.
fromes
NUMBER:
PAPER:
THE TIIES
27MAY 1947
CITY:
LONDON
DATE:
Japan New and Old
The Japanese Diet has made its first
use of the power secured to it under the
new constitution by selecting, Mr. Tersu
KaTAYAmA as Prime Minister. On Sunday
he was formally invested with his office
by the EMPEROR and is now trying to
form a Government. This will not be easy.
The Social Democratic Party, of which
MR. KATAYAMA is the leader, gained
forty-five seats in the last elections, and
with a total strength of 143 ranks as the
largest group in the House of Representa-
tives. But its programme of moderate
Fabianism in economic as well as in
political matters is opposed by the
Liberals, who hold 135 seats, and by the
Democrats, who hold 126—both these
parties, in spite of their titles, being
staunchly right-wing in their views. The
Democrats are apparently ready to sup-
port a coalition Government on certain
conditions, but the Liberals are not; and
unless MR. KATAYAMA conciliates the
Democrats by abandoning some of the
more advanced ideas advocated by his
party he may have to be content to form
a minority administration which could be
thrown out at any time by a motion of
no confidence. Thus, by selecting the
leader of the largest party as Prime
Minister, and at the same time ensuring
that the reformist ideas he holds be kept
under control, the politicians of Japan
have again illustrated the national genius
for holding on a chosen course while
trimming all sails to the prevailing breeze.
There can be little doubt that the present
balance of parties in the Diet reflects with
reasonable accuracy the mood of the
Japanese people. The result of the elec-
tions plainly shows that the general
dissatisfaction manifested against the
Yoshida Cabinet was due rather to its
failure to deal firmly with the economic
crisis than to its predominantly conserva-
tive character. The mass of the popula-
tion, long accustomed to totalitarian rule,
still seeks, and indeed desires, clear in-
structions from the governing classes, and
though these classes are adopting the
terminology and experimenting with the
institutions of Western democracy, which
the victory of the allies and the policy of
GENerAL MacArTHUr have made fashion-
able, there is little indication that they
have modified any of their traditional
ideas. It would be rash to assume that the
political changes introduced so recently
by the Americans have done more than
touch the surface of Japanese life.
Beneath that surface the old habits of
mind remain virtually unaltered. At the
moment the desire of most Japanese,
rulers and ruled alike, is to be left alone
to reconstruct their national life in their
own way—which means in accordance
with their traditional ideas. Their main
purpose, therefore, is to give the minimum
trouble to the American occupation forces,
to convince the allies that the peace treaty
can safely be signed, and to regain for
Japan something at least of the political
and economic initiative she enjoyed before
the war.
The Japanese sentiment in favour of the
early conclusion of a peace treaty is in-
creasingly endorsed by the allies. The
policy directives dealing with reparations
recently sent to General MacArthur by
the Far Eastern Commission, and the sug-

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No
fromethe Eabas
PAPER:
THE TMES
NUMBER:
CITY:
LONDON
DATE:
Japan New and Old
The Japanese Diet has made its first
use of the power secured to it under the
new constitution by selecting Mr. Tersu
KATAYAMA as Prime Minister. On Sunday
he was formally invested with his office
by the EMPEROR and is now trying to
form a Government. This will not be easy.
The Social Democratic Party, of which
MR. KaTAYAMA is the leader, gained
forty-five seats in the last elections, and
with a total strength of 143 ranks as the
largest group in the House of Representa-
tives. But its programme of moderate
Fabianism in economic as well as in
political matters is opposed by the
Liberals, who hold 135 seats, and by the
Democrats, who hold 126—both these
parties, in spite of their titles, being
staunchly right-wing in their views. The
Democrats are apparently ready to sup-
port a coalition Government on certain
conditions, but the Liberals are not; and
unless MR. KATAYAMA conciliates the
Democrats by abandoning some of the
more advanced ideas advocated by his
party he may have to be content to form
a minority administration which could be
thrown out at any time by a motion of
no confidence. Thus, by selecting the
leader of the largest party as Prime
Minister, and at the same time ensuring
that the reformist ideas he holds be kept
under control, the politicians of Japan
have again illustrated the national genius
for holding on a chosen course while
trimming all sails to the prevailing breeze.
There can be little doubt that the present
balance of parties in the Diet reflects with
reasonable accuracy the mood of the
Japanese people. The result of the elec-
tions plainly shows that the general
dissatisfaction manifested against the
Yoshida Cabinet was due rather to its
failure to deal firmly with the economic
crisis than to its predominantly conserva-
tive character. The mass of the popula-
tion, long accustomed to totalitarian rule,
still seeks, and indeed desires, clear in-
structions from the governing classes, and
though these classes are adopting the
terminology and experimenting with the
institutions of Western democracy, which
the victory of the allies and the policy of
GeneraL MacArtHur have made fashion-
able, there is little indication that they
have modified any of their traditional
ideas. It would be rash to assume that the
political changes introduced so recently
by the Americans have done more than
touch the surface of Japanese life.
Beneath that surface the old habits of
mind remain virtually unaltered. At the
moment the desire of most Japanese,
rulers and ruled alike, is to be left alone
to reconstruct their national life in their
own way—which means in accordance
with their traditional ideas. Their main
purpose, therefore, is to give the minimum
trouble to the American occupation forces,
to convince the allies that the peace treaty
can safely be signed, and to regain for
Japan something at least of the political
and economic initiative she enjoyed before
the war.
The Japanese sentiment in favour of the
early conclusion of a peace treaty is in-
creasingly endorsed by the allies. The
policy directives dealing with reparations
recently sent to GEnerAL MACARTHUR by
the Far Eastern Commission, and the sug-
gestion of the Australian Government
ported by our C
a Commonw
the peace to

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclonmure No. .to deapatch No/310
at Loodon, Engl
PAPER:
THE TIIES
NUMBER:
27 MAY 1947
CITY:
LONDON
DATE:
Japan New and Old
The Japanese. Diet has made its first
use of the power secured to it under the
new constitution by selecting Mr. TersU
KATAYAMA as Prime Minister. On Sunday
he was formally invested with his office
by the EMPEROR and is now trying to
form a Government. This will not be easy.
The Social Democratic Party, of which
MR. KaTAYAMA is the leader, gained
forty-five seats in the last elections, and
with a total strength of 143 ranks as the
largest group in the House of Representa-
tives. But its programme of moderate
Fabianism in economic as well as in
political matters is opposed by the
Liberals, who hold 135 seats, and by the
Democrats, who hold 126—both these
parties, in spite of their titles, being
staunchly right-wing in their views. The
Democrats are apparently ready to sup-
port a coalition Government on certain
conditions, but the Liberals are not; and
unless MR. KATAYAMA conciliates the
Democrats by abandoning some of the
more advanced ideas advocated by his
party he may have to be content to form
a minority administration which could be
thrown out at any time by a motion of
no confidence. Thus, by selecting the
leader of the largest party as Prime
Minister, and at the same time ensuring
that the reformist ideas he holds be kept
under control, the politicians of Japan
have again illustrated the national genius
for holding on a chosen course while
trimming all sails to the prevailing breeze.
There can be little doubt that the present
balance of parties in the Diet reflects with
reasonable accuracy the mood of the
Japanese people. The result of the clec-
tions plainly shows that the general
dissatisfaction manifested against the
Yoshida Cabinet was due rather to its
failure to deal firmly with the economic
crisis than to its predominantly conserva-
tive character. The mass of the popula-
tion, long accustomed to totalitarian rule,
still seeks, and indeed desires, clear in-
structions from the governing classes, and
though these classes are adopting the
terminology and experimenting with the
institutions of Western democracy, which
the victory of the allies and the policy of
GenerAL MacArthur have made fashion-
able, there is little indication that they
have modified any of their traditional
ideas. It would be rash to assume that the
political changes introduced so recently
by the Americans have done more than
touch the surface of Japanese life.
Beneath that surface the old habits of
mind remain virtually unaltered. At the
moment the desire of most Japanese,
rulers and ruled alike, is to be left alone
to reconstruct their national life in their
own way—which means in accordance
with their traditional ideas. Their main
purpose, therefore, is to give the minimun
trouble to the American occupation forces
to convince the allies that the peace treaty
can safely be signed, and to regain for
Japan something at least of the political
and economic initiative she enjoyed before
the war.
The Japanese sentiment in favour of the
early conclusion of a peace treaty is in-
creasingly endorsed by the allies. The
policy directives dealing with reparations
cecentlu sen

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
Tmbossy at London. Eogla
PAPER:
THE TIES
NUMBER:
27 MAY 1947
CITY:
LONDON
DATE:
Japan New and Old
The Japanese, Diet has made its first
use of the power secured to it under the
new constitution by selecting Mr. TETSU
KaTAYAMA as Prime Minister. On Sunday
he was formally invested with his office
by the EMPERoR and is now trying to
form a Government. This will not be easy.
The Social Democratic Party, of which
MR. KaTAYAMA is the leader, gained
forty-five seats in the last elections, and
with a total strength of 143 ranks as the
largest group in the House of Representa-
tives. But its programme of moderate
Fabianism in economic as well as in
political matters is opposed by the
Liberals, who hold 135 seats, and by the
Democrats, who hold 126—both these
parties, in spite of their titles, being
staunchly right-wing in their views. The
Democrats are apparently ready to sup-
port a coalition Government on certain
conditions, but the Liberals are not; and
unless MR. KATAYAMA conciliates the
Democrats by abandoning some of the
more advanced ideas advocated by his
party he may have to be content to form
a minority administration which could be
thrown out at any time by a motion of
no confidence. Thus, by selecting the
leader of the largest party as Prime
Minister, and at the same time ensuring
that the reformist ideas he holds be kept
under control, the politicians of Japan
have again illustrated the national genius
for holding on a chosen course while
trimming all sails to the prevailing breeze.
There can be little doubt that the present
balance of parties in the Diet reflects with
reasonable accuracy the mood of the
Japanese people. The result of the clec-
tions plainly shows that the general
dissatisfaction manifested against the
Yoshida Cabinet was due rather to its
failure to deal firmly with the economic
crisis than to its predominantly conserva-
tive character. The mass of the popula-
tion, long accustomed to totalitarian rule,
still seeks, and indeed desires, clear in-
structions from the governing classes, and
though these classes are adopting the
terminology and experimenting with the
institutions of Western democracy, which
the victory of the allies and the policy of
GenerAL MacArthur have made fashion-
able, there is little indication that they
have modified any of their traditional
ideas. It would be rash to assume that the
political changes introduced so recently
by the Americans have done more than
touch the surface of Japanese life.
Beneath that surface the old habits of
mind remain virtually unaltered. At the
moment the desire of most Japanese,
rulers and ruled alike, is to be left alone
to reconstruct their national life in their
own way—which means in accordance
with their traditional ideas. Their main
purpose, therefore, is to give the minimun
trouble to the American occupation forces
to convince the allies that the peace treaty
can safely be signed, and to regain for
Japan something at least of the political
and economic initiative she enjoyed before
the war.
The Japanese sentiment in favour of the
early conclusion of a peace treaty is in-
creasingly endorsed by the allies. The
policy directives dealing with reparations
recently sent to GenerAL MacArTHUR by
the Far Eastern Commission, and the sug-
gestion of the Australian Government re-
ported by our Canberr?
nweal

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM!
m
NO.
R E C O R D C O P Y
894.00/6-547
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
DESP.1093 FROM TOKYO
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
--000--
17 1948

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIR
POR JAPAN
JUL
Tokyo, June 5, 1947
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 1023
RECD DCL
June 19, 1947
ACTION:
FE
SuPJEeT: Trar sriting Suemary Transla on of Tenorandum Submitted
YFO:
I r. Tetsrw Hashioto, Fresitent of ro "Shiunso"
OCD
DCR
EUR
OFD
ITP
The Uhi ed States Tolitical Adviser has he honor to enelose
ESB
1/
a copy of a s uttary tra.slat. on of  nomorandun propared and sut-
LE
mitted to this Sssion 'y Ir. Tetswma lHashimoto, Prosilet of the
"Biunso" (Purple loud Society., osether with a copy of lr. Ha-
WAR
2/
shimoto's covering letter dated lare! 4, 194? explaining that he
894.00/6-547
NAVY
is presenting his views on tho present situation in Japan, with a
CIG
view to adzancin. demoeracy in Japar and estallishing Jaunnese-
American arity on an eviurin asis. There is also exlosed a
1010103/
copy of a report on Hr. Hasitimoto datod April 25, 1947, obtained
from the Metropolitan Police Eureau of Tokyo.
It is felt that te enclosed sumar translation is of inter-
qot as it contains tie opinions of a well-knom: Japanese publicist
concerming. problens raised ly the inpleuentation of Allied and
American policics in Japan.
Enclosures:
L. Co of ary Translation.
2. Cop of letter fron Ir. Tetsuma
Hashimoto, Varch 4, 1947.
3.
Copy of report froa Lietropolitan
Police Pureau of Tokyo.
Original and ozalid to iepartmont
800
LRHarrison:lh:dph

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 1093, dated June 5, 1947 from the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the mubject
"Transmitting Summary Translation of Memorandum Submitted by Mr.
Tetsuma Hashimoto, President of the 'Shiunso'".
A Summary
(Translation)
"Amemorudum respectfully presented to
Honoralle Ueor e Atcheson, Jr.
etuma HASHro
PART I.
Preface
For one and half vears leiure the war I m de efforts to avert a
Japanese-American clash nder constar: intimidat on by the Gendar erie.
Ly activities are related in a loo: entitled "Untold Story of Japan-
American Nc otiations".
I fully realize whe a: mreasonat le war Japan was plun ed into
and the enormous cri res she committed a ainst luman society. I, there-
fore, appreciate the ercif  titude with whicn the Occupation Army
is treatin, a dereated nation. The trou le of goin, into an elal orate
trial of the war cri inals is also aporeciated. Thoug my wris may
be impolite comin :ron a defeated people, it is hoped thet you will
excuse me, as 1 an writin, this statement with. the firm conviction
that we must not fail tlis iie in estal lishin: permanent peace in
the world.
I. About America's responsililil. for war
I. admi: Japan's responsibilit for  e war, but I decline to
conclude that the United States is co pletely innocent of the war.
Americans accuse Japa: eca use  her attack on Pearl Harhor. Tis
attack, however, wes caused iy a severe note which the U. s. handed
to Japan on Nov. o, 1941. This note, of course, was lased pen the
Japanese advance into Manchuria, China and Indo-China. The Japanese
invasion was not exercised without relationship to past events.
Lin Yu Tan., famous Crinese wriler, says in his "Eetween Tears
and Life" that the real cause of the Chinese incident lies in the
Vashington Conference of 1??2, when the naval ratio was fixed at
5.5.3. for Great Britain, United Staces and Japan. Necdless to say,
this ratio was not fixed without reference to te international situa-
tion of the past.
2. German responsilility for the war
The case of Germany is similar. Though Hitler's actions were
not excusable, his ascent to power was prompted by the international
dituation. In fact, World War II was caused by World War I, which,
in turn, originated from the past international situation, especially
British policy of expansionism. This is considered to be the reason
why Germin war criminals died believing in their cause.
A neutral

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
3
Page No. 2
Enclosure No. 1 of Tokyo's Despatch No. 1093
June 5, 1947
A neutral observer has said that war trials can be made fair
only when the trials are conducted hy a third party.
3. Causes and effocts of hunan tragedy
The causes and effects of the human tragedy will not be terminat-
ed merely by punishing Hitler, Tojo, and their parties. The important
point which the peace makers shoild keep in mind is that an historical
survey should ic made, wit a view to locating the reasons for and re-
mults of human strut le in an offort to exterminate this evil.
After the renaissance, the atiention of te people was directed
to material ains through the development of science. They discover-
ed laws of the visiile world, but for ot to discover laws of invisible
reality. They learned parts, but not the whole. Thhere wore sectional
conflicts, but not global harmony. The material conception of life as
fostered by the progress of sclence is the cause of hurman tragedy.
4. Science does not teach the way to peace
.Nodern science gave birt t, he population theory by Maltmus,
survival of the fittest ly Darwin, and t'e theory of Communism by Marx.
These scientisis observed tho wniverse fron the material point of view
alone, and forgot the existence of God, narmony, and the reality of
the universe. Thus, the Euroneans, wio believe in Christianity, and
the Japanese were driven to external a gression and internal class
stru le. Science teaches what the world is, and not what the world
should le. All efforts to cstablis: peace on a material basis and not
on a moral and religious foundation will fail. The lible and the old
Chinese teachings are full f lessons in this vein.
5. Moral observation of the universe
I believe t! at the niverse, including our earth, is an orderly
living evistence, as the late Dr. Alexis Carol (Nobel prize winner) of
the Roclefaller Foundation said. Thus all countries of the world must
cooperate with eacn other, as the human or ans function harmoniously,
to maintain humar. life. Postwer problens must le solved on this prin-
ciple.
6. Both the victors and the defeated reptire self-reflection
Retaliation will never rin: true peace. Peace comes only when
both the victors and the defeated render self-reflection. Mutual to-
lerance and understanding is the basis of peace.
7. Policy for eternal peace
Please te generous and listen to my words which may sound intoler-
able to the ears of a victorious poople. If a defeated nation alone is
considered responsible for the war, as traditionally interpreted, real
peace will never be realized. To try to put the full responsibility of
war upen the defeated will be to place the same turden upon the victors.
In short, permanent peace will be established only when both the victors
and the vanquished feel a common responsibility for war, and demonstrate
this feeling in the Oocupation Policy.
PART II

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
Pago No. 3
Enclosure No. 1 of Tokyo's Despatch No. 1093
June 5, 1947
PART II
1. Remove the idea of punishment
The Oocupation Army is ruling Japan for the purpose of punishing
the persons responsible for the war, ty making the defeated feel in-
ferior, destroying important industries, earmarking many factories for
reparations, destroying Japanese traditions, and placing Japan in a
position below fourth grade nations. This makes the Japanese people
feel gloomy, no matter how generously they are treated.
If, however, the victor nations change their conception of war
as already stated, their attitude towards the Japanese will be truly
friendly, and the Japanese will reciprocate with friendship.
2. Correction of the dilemma of the occupation policy
The Occupation authorities arc working for the economic rehabili-
tation of Japan, as this wi ll alleviave their burden and is a humani-
tarian factor. On the ther hand, they are thinking of punishing the
people and keeping Japan small, inferior to any victor nation. The
Occupation policy, therefore, faces a dilema, often resulting in the
execution of conflictin: policies. This is especially felt in the
economic field.
Few persons in Glu are reported to ive competent on economic
matters, and those persons appear to be pursuing economic policies
contradictory to each other. Certain informed quarters opine that
economic policies adopted by GHe seem to have brought about results
contrary to what General MacArthur expected to achieve.
If the victor nations stand on a new conception of war, as stat-
ed above, they will no lon er fall into a dilemma.  They will help
Japan to achieve rehabilitation to such an extont that she will prove
hereself a peaceful and democratic nation and contrihute to the peace
and prosperity of the world.
It is suggested tlat the United States send to Japan a competent
economist,such as Young or Dawes, who were sent to Germany after World
War I. Such & person would save Japan from oconomic destruction, and
correct the contradictory economic policies followed by GHQ. The econo-
mic collapse of Japan not only means an extra burden upon the U. S.,
but also may develop anti-American feeling among the people.
3. Control over Japanese mar potentialities
Armaments in Japan have been thoroughly destroyed. Noreover,
Japan has adopted a Constitution renouncing war as an instrment of
national policy. As Japan is an island country with extremely poor
natural resources, control over the production and importation of
iron and oil will be sufficient to restrict her war potentialities.
Yet salt, which is extremely short in Japan, now is under strict
control, for fear that it may be used in the production of poison gas.
Preduotion of hemp in Tochici Ken is restricted as it may serve for the
manufacture of narootics. We do not understand why the textile indus-
try in Japan is restricted, while keen shortage of cotton goods is felt
not enly in Japan, but also in all Far Eastern countries.
4. Reparations

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
Page No. 4
Inolosure No. 1 of Tokyo's Despatoh No. 1093
June 5, 1947
4. Reparations
The most important issue before the victors at present should
not be the question of takin; reparations from the defeatod, but of
restoring the world after the ravages of war. A give and take polioy
throughout the world would le the most advantageous policy to adopt.
The removal t certain industrial installations from Japan to
China or the Thilippines, if execu:ed not as reparations but on a give
and take basis wo d caise an entirel different attitude on the part
of the Japanese.
It is a tradition in japan trat, whenever two or more enemies
make peace, the party that inflicied more damage indennifies the
other. As the victor usually inflicts eavier damage, he indemni-
fies the defeated. In this way, alone, both parties come to real
understanding, with the defeated respecting the victor wholehearted-
1y. Is it too selfisn to propose that the traditionai. idea of a
victor taking reparations fro the defeated le modified in tno
light of civilization? Takin, reparations is not the way to end
human tragedy, tit the way to continue this evil circumstance.
5. Remove restrictions on forei n trade and foreign investment
Restrictions on foroin trade and foreign investment should be
imposed in so far as they are a cause of international war. The demo-
cratic American covernment kmows well that such restrictions serve no
useful purposes and are harmful to uunan society. Such restrictions
have been iuposed on Japan as a means of punisiment. Should such re-
strictions be ronoved by a new conception  war, as I nave said be-
fore, it will facilitate the economic recovery of Japan and hence the
rehabilitation of the world, causing hardships to no country of the
world.
6. Evils accompanyin, the pur e directive
Instead of applying purge directives to such an extensive de-
gree and in such a mechanical manner, the purge directives should
have been issued in an outline form, witlh details to be worked out
by the Japanese themselves.
(1) The purge directives are worded so nechanically that many
undesirable persons have escaped from pur es, and many desirable per-
sons have beon ousted from public office and business life. For in-
stance, certain persons who were opposed to the militarists before
and during the war are barred from public offices, as their names ap-
pear as directors of certain national policy corporations. Others,
whe were deprived of their positions during the war bacause they were
opposed to the Tripartite Pact, were ousted from public positions
after the war, as they happened to be in responsitle positions. Still
others who were placed in certain positions for the purpose of resist-
ing the pro-German-Italian group were removed from puhlic office as
they were in the same positions after the war. These porsons resent
the purge polioy as being mechanically applied.
On the other hand, many who actively supported the war remain unaf-
feeted because they are not in positions coming within the purge di-
restives.
(2) The purke

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
Page No. 5
Enclosure No. 1 of Tokyo's Despatch No. 1093
June 5, 1947
(2) The purge of lusinessmen is so sweeping that inexperienoed
men are placed in responsihle positions, a factor which will delay the
economic recovery of Japan.
(3) Many sound middle-of-the-road persons are being displaced
as a result of tho purres.
(4) The process of purin, with: no prospect of ending, gives
a stron w apon to the leftists, who uss this weapon to discredit per-
sons objecsioralle in thedr eyes. Attention is invited to the fact
t at vhe pur e directives, toret er with the approaching economic
crisis and tle renoval f industrial epipment as reparations, may
cause anti-American feelin: to rise among the people.
7. Due revard for Ja vanese +raditions am! nattonal heritage
A hasty ntroduction of American demoeracy to Japan, without
due regard to national traditions, cultural level of the people and
their environment, to ether with te e couravenent of Communism, are
likely to lead t people to confused thinkins mich will stir up
lalor disputes, an thus hamper economic recover f he country.
So long as the ultirate pose of e Occupation is the promotion
of peace, the Japanese herita e shouid o tolerated and econonic
confusion averted.
As long as Cccupa ion oliey continies wichan ed, the despotic
left lator leaders will take the place i he 'ormer pro-üerman-Italian
elements who led the country to muin. The presont situation in Japan
reminds me of the rowth of Fascisn and Naziism after World War I. If
the Occupation Forces are withdrawn leaving Japan as it is, it is evi-
dent that Japan will le turned into a hattleground retween two oppos-
in: forces, viz., Fascists and Cominists.
I an of the opinion that a more effective control over thede-
structive leftists, and aid and uidance to the patrictic democrats
under the leadership of strong pacifiets, will be the rest means for
checking the recurrence of Fascism and a militaristic tendency in
the future. I an afraid, however, that the Occupation officials who
support the left labor movement in the past will not rasp this si-
tuation.
8. Let the Japanese have faith in Jod
I believe that American democracy is sound, being synonymous
with humaniam, as it is based upon faith in God. The Oocupation po-
lioy, however, deprives the Japanese of their faith in the Emperor,
rejects mysticism, without teachin true universalisn and a real un-
derstanding of life. Instead, a  asty introduction of American de-
mocracy and Soviet Communiam is being sought. Continuance of this
course will lead the Japanese away from faith in God and turn the peo-
ple to materialism, hedonism, and demoralization.
9. Return the lory of victory to God
We believe that Japan lost the war throu h lack of Divine pro-
teotion because of the unreasonable nature of the war. In like manner,
the United

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
Page No. 6
Enclosure No. 1 of Tokyo's Despatch No. 1093
June 5, 1947
the United States won the war under Divine favor, her cause being more
justiriahle than Japan's. Then is it not just to say that the glory
of victory be returned to God? Such a humble way of thinking will
chane the victors' attitude toward the defeated.
The victors are in a position to impose anything on the defeat-
ed, who must accept everythin under the circumstances. Permanent
peace, however, will not he stahlished without capturing the minds
of the people, defeated as they might be.
10. Do not impose a peace treaty unilaterally
If the victors entered World Nar II with just motives, and if
they wish to establish permanent peace, why do they not allow the de-
feated to cxpress their viows to the world? hy do they not try to
find conditions for peace accepta le to the victors, the dofoated,
and to the world as a whole? The views of the defeated will in any
event be discarded if they are not wo thy of attention.
Italy si phed a peace treaty sa, in that "this is the saddest day,
never to le forgotten by the Italiar people". The existence of such
resentment dll not mear. success on the part f the victors. It is
hoped that such resentmer:t will not re repeated when Japan and Germany
sin peace treaties.
11. Should tie defeated alone renouncs war?
Japan's renunciation o war is welconed by the victors. If the
victors are pleased wdth this decision lecause they are relleved of
Japanese vengeance, they will invite ven eance from countries other
than Japan. I believe that the victors are pleased wit Japan's re-
nunciation of war from the standpoint of tringin, about permanont
peace in the world. If so, why is the sane principle not discussed
by all countries under the leaderahip o the United States?
As I stated at the outset, I an payin f ll resyect, to the gen-
Grous attitude of the Allied Pomers toward Ja an. Japan is infinitely
grateful to be ruled Iy the Unitod States w ose moral standard is the
highest in the world.
The victore, however, conmitted tarac major mistakes originating
from their attitude of punis ment and discrimination against the de-
feated. Firstly, they pursued a contradictory policy of preventing
conomic recovery by the defeateu nations, contrary to their desire
for speedy economio rehabilitation of these countries. Secondly, they
punished the German war criminals without making then repent for their
orimes. Thirdly, an unilateral peace treaty was imposed on Italy.
The fourth and fifth mistakes may follow.
Such a way of handlin: the postwar prol lems will not only fail
to end the causes and effects of human tragody, but also will sow seeds
for World War III. Even if Japan and ormany arc completely deprived
of their war potentialities other nations may cause troulle.
Former Seoretary

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.95)
Pago No. 7
Enelosure No. 1 of Tokyo's Despatch No. 1093
June 5, 1947
Former Secretar: of State Cordell Hull is reported to have re-
lated reniniscently that the Allies made mistekes in their coonomie
policy aiter the World ar I, in that they had too little understand-
in of the "have-rot" countries. It is hoped that such mistakes will
not bo rapeated this time. Personally, I rave confidence that the
Uni tei states wil? handle postwar problems with lofty eims for the
ultimato purpose f estallislhin: permanent peace in the world. I
an opually confident that Japas wil become a thoroughly peaceful
country so thet she may contribute to this peace.
The fore cin statecent contains the ideas of e person writing
with a fervent desire to lay a forndation for pernanent universal
peece, which is the only hope of a country, dofeated by war, yet de-
termined to walk the path  eace w t the renrciation of war pro-
vided for in its Constitutim.
 apolojze for y lunt nanner of expression, and urcently ap-
peal to the American people throuph The Honorarle Georce Atcheson, Jr.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch No. 1093, dated June 5, 1947 fro th
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the mubject
"Transmittin: Summary Tranalation of Hemorandum Submitted by Mr.
Tetsuma Hashimoto, President of the 'Shiunso'".
Cops
Toko, March 4, 1947
Honorable Ambassador Geor e Atcheso, .r.,
Office of the United States Political
Adviser, Tolco.
Honorable Sir:
 a one o the Japanese citirens who exerted a reat
effort to find means wherchy a Pacific war wight be averted. Be-
fore the war, I had the privile e of exchanging views with former
Anlassador Grew and lis staff on this question, and went to lash-
ington in January-February, l24l. I p lished a book last Septem-
ber entitled "A secret story or Japanese American diplomacy", e
copy of which was forwarded to you.
I have now writter down ny view on the present situation
in Japan, with a view to advancinr denocracy in Japan and firaly
•stablishing Japan-American amity on the enduring basis for the pur-
pose of promotin world peace. I slail la ost happy and feel
honored if you will take a lance at it.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ (Jananese charasters)
/t/ Tetsuma Hashimoto
President of Shiunso Society.
318 Kitashinakawa 3-chome,
Shinakawa Ku, Tokyo.
Telephone 49-40-40

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3 to despatch No. 1093, dated Jume 5, 1917 Srom th
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeot
*Transmitting Summary Translation of Memorandum Submitted by Mr.
Tetsuma llashimoto, President of the 'Shiunso'".
Copy
April 24, 1947.
Tetsuma HASHIlJOT) of "Shiunso"
Information received from Mr. Tsuneichi Katariri, Chief of the
Second Section, Crininal Investigation Department, Netronolitan Po-
lice Bureau, Toko, indicated that the official record or lr. Tet-
uma Hashimoto coniains the following:
Hr. Tetsuma Hashimoto, head of tho Shiunso Society, was born
in Saijo City, Ehine Prefecture, in l339. After graduating fron
Waseda College, where he majored in political economics, Mr. Hashi-
moto became interested in p litical movenent. Through his efforts
and those of Kanju Kato, the Young Men's Constitutional Party was
or anized; also, durin: this period, his book "Japan of the orld"
was published. Later, he or ani. ed wi t the aid of Takejiro Nishi-
oka, the Young Len's Keconstriction Party, and devoted his efforts
to universal suffrage. Followin: these activities, lr. Hashimoto
made a tour of the world.
The Sniunso (Purple Cloud Society) of which 'r. Hashinoto is
presently the principal fi ure, was orjanized 1y him in 1923.
Through this Society strong support of thhe emperor system was ad-
vocated along wit the national polity. o:munism and class strug-
glewere opposod. These doctrines were advertised, hoth in news-
papers and in the society's organ entitled "Shiun". The Society
was dissolved durin, the war but is now active alain advocatin
the follomin three principles:
1. Support of the emperor system and protection of the
national polity.
2. Establishment of a pacific Japan.
3. Complete pro-Americanism.
Financial backing, for this Society seems to come fron economic
organizations.
Irmediately before the outtreak of war, Mr. Hashimoto worked
tirelessly for amicable Japanese-American relations, keeping in touch
with the Japanese Government and te American Embassy in Tokyo. Tarly
in l94l, he went to Washington to continue his efforts for peace be-
tween the two countries.
Mr. Hashimoto has published a nunver of books, among then
"Leisury Talks of Shiunso"; "Hundred Talks of Shiunso"; "American
Sentiment Towards Japan"; "Untold Story of Japan-Anerican Ne otia-
Mr. Tsuneichi

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.94)
Page # 2
Enclosure No. 3 of Tokyo's Despatch No. 1093
June , 134?
Ir. Tsunoi hi Kava iri, Cri-inal Investi ation Department, re-
"ealed furtter that wihen extremist or anizat ons were lein: dissolved
after te war t orders from General Feadpuarters, the Shiunso Society
was thorourhly examined and nc fault coild le found with its organiza-
tion or doctrines. All of the advertisin done by this orgarization
lefore the war was lased on moral teachin s and denanded reflection
ly the vational leaders wio were selfishly clamoring for power at the
expense of the Japanese peoplo. Advertisements appeared in the Tokvo
Nichi Nicli on Decemier 17, 1939, in te Asahi on March 30, 1947, In
Te Mainichi on May 12, 1940, and in Hochi on la, 23, 1941, all of
which dealt wit. moral pri ciples and Indicated an effort to improve
Japanese-Amorica relations. r. Hashi poto's books also reveal that
he worked tirelessly for Japannse-Americar. friendship. is seems in-
clined toward the right, bein an ilealist, patriotic, a pacifist
and a man of action. He stands fir in his support of t'r emperor
system, arti-Conmmunism and anti-materialism, and slhowed hi solf to
te definitely pro-Anerican when the liniled States was a tacked ly
Japan.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.93)
70と6
Fil
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM!
n
NO。
R E C O R D C O P Y
894.00/6-947
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
DESP
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
11OO FROM TOKYO
--000--
6 1940

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.92)
RESTRICTED
UTTD ST.TS PCLTIC.L DVISIR
Tolsro, June 9, 1947.
CD DCL
RESTRICTED
231947
28 p.m.
No. 1100
JUN301947
TION:
FO:
D
R
SJ.CT: Trans itting Lenor nd  of Conversation ith Former mbasmador
P
Saburo KURU  egurdi; Current Politicel Situation and
Peracn.lities.
VY
G
68
L
The Unitcd St tes Politic 1 .dviser has tho honor to onclose copy
0-010
of a menorandu of convorsation betueen r. aburo KJ.Ust, forner Jupanese
diplonwt, and   dar of tio sff of this. ission, hich took place on
Juno 6 in ioiyc.
Surury. r. lust utlined the pos tion of former Irime
: inister Yo D. in regr. to the refusl of te Liboral Party to
join to progent 3-xrty  lition overment. r. Kunusu believes,
follovine he roclisution  at purge for.er pregidont Ichiro
P.ToY.:. cunot lo reinst ted, that :r. Yo.:D.. vill stage a come-
back as nctual ruther tha is nominal hend of tho láboral Party and
later rec.cor ul lic office his position reatly enhncod by the
politioal education e vi 1 reccive in tho ontine. Lr. KUnUsu
described the position of iborals tovard Forcin Linister Hitoshi
.lD. and predictod a mu er of chares in the personnel of the
Contral Liaison Office of  e Jepanese Covorumont. End of Surary.
hile his abilities .s a iplaat are vell lmon; tho politionl
uoumen of ir. KU Ust, tho is no. member of ny rty, is diffioult to
evaluate sccurately. Ithovgh  lives in seri-rotiraipnt in Kuruizava,
he is in closo touch with the more inportant politiciane and :aikos frequent
trips to Tokyo to seo lhen as veil as industrial figures. He is a very
clome pereonal friend of Ir. YC : D.. und probubly reflects Ir. YOs!D.'s
thinking to a considerable degres. . gradu to of a conmoroial university,
ir. KUausu has a vide aaquaintance among industrial loadore and is in alose
touch with their cconaic as meil as political viowpoints. hile he would
Like to serve in sone governmantal capacity, r. XU UsU ims stated thut he
will not do so, at least until the end of the current vtr crimme triale.
He does not vish to risk an adverse decision at tiis tine which would eli-
minute him permanently from public. life because of his activities at the
time of the Pearl arbor attack. he is constantly visited by high-ranking
SC. and Eighth my officials o seek his opinions on a mumber of subjeots
oonoerning the Ocoupution.
nclosure:
DECLASSIFIED
RESTRICIED

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.87)
RESTRICTED
Poigo'd' 1.,
Juno 9, 1947.
ncloscre:
Copy of  c or.: . of
convors tion  ted
Sure 7, 1947.
 nd octoto ont.
cmrett/40o
Stak ltr. 7/15/75
DECLASSIFIED
82 NARS, Date 7/23/79
RESTRICTED

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.91)
RESTRICTED
tutes rolitionl dviser for Japan, Tokyo, on tho mabjoet
KUil' Ngardiny urront Political Situation and Perconalisiee".
Cux
LCRDUF COVLRS.TIOH
Tolsyo, June 7, 1947.
P.ICL.T: Lr. aburo U. UU, formor Japn .baador
Ir. jurnott.
SUBLCT:
Rocont Liboral Party . .otivities; Puture of
Lr. Shigoru YC.SllDn; Foreign Linistor ..iD...
During the courge of a conversation lnsting an hour and a half at
Lunchoon on June 6, 1947, ir. LUiwsu made the follordng rorarks concern-
ing tic currurt political sdtuation and certain ersonalities concorned
thereith:
Liberal Larty'a locent Tctice. In comonting on the delay (in
public announcenent) of tho dccision of the Libaral rarty not to join
the Social Dorocrato and Jo crats in foinc a coalition covommont,
Er, kUiwiU suid that imodiately followiny: tho clcction diich estab
13.hed the Cocicl Donocratic Farty as the major purty, ir. Shigoru
Yru:Iun, the then Frime Tinistor and Frosidont of the Liberal Party,
ifarmed hin that ic hnd no intontion of allowing the Iiboruls to join
rith tho othor two iajor purtios in forting a coolition cabinet; that
it was out cf the uostion for tho Liberals to cooperato rdth the
Socialists as lon: as the lutter alloved cortain left:ingors to remain
vithin the larty. !r. YosiI). suid that he had boon ildly opposed in
tho fomulation of tiis decision by certain  e:bors of is onm xurty
vho vishod to join any pvernment, regardless of its malko-up, in order
to roocivo cabinet :osts for thenoolves. ir. YCl Iu..'s decisdon had
provailod, hovever, and the rrty was solidly behind hin. Tho factors
had led Ir. TCii:IDA to dolny nnounoarpnt of t.e decdaion of the
Liborals to placo tho party in oppoaition: (1) tix: foalinc that publio
opinion would not suppert, ao soon aftor tio eloction, a decision to
oppose the party vhich hud co.p into poror is : rosult of the elootions;
und (2) Lr. Yos::ID.'a pereonal feelinge toward ir. Riuro Dlid,
former Prime : irister and Ircsident of te Domooratio rarty.
Ir. slmLht. lhad bean broutt out of retirament from politics prin-
alpally through the efforts of ir. Yos:Ivn, tho had praieed his full
cooporation in any of r. Jill.R's undortukingo; r. Y:D. had
served ae Vice-inistor in the L! It. Cabinot  nd r. iWülLa had
served as inister ..ithout rortfolio in tis recently disolved Yvlilun
Cabinet. r. !Il!. mas strongly in favor of a 3- or 4-party poali-
tion following tho election and sought desperately to onliot lr. YCdiIl:'s
suppart, which tho lattor cauld not give.
Puture of r. YlID. r. YosHIvn, uccording to i. XUnUsU, has
toon biding his time ad Trosidant of tho Liberal larty until purged
Iohiro H..ToY , foror Prouddont, could bo reinatatod. Low that
li.ror' chanoes of aleuring himeelf hove all but taniabed,
is. YCuil. is taling crout intorost in political affairs and in the
development of tho Liboral Farty. lis forthooning tour of tho provinces
is supposedly for tho purpono of uniting all fuotions of tho pcrty. lle
is etromly popular in tio rural areas. r. Itla. io said to be "fed
DECLASSIFIED
ByNARS, Date 7/279
RESTRICTED

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.92)
RESTRICTED
linél. to
Tolyo's 1100,
 9, 1947.
-2-
up" with Socialist and loit-ring clarges of "ronotionary" and
intende to fight back. s aotual rather than nominal lesder of
Iiberal Party, ho is in  better position to do this outeide the
covernnent. ir: KURUSU bolioves that tr. rO!M will stag
strong comeback, thust hi: popularity mll inoreaso, and that she
political oducation he will recsive as an active party head wdll
be valuable to lim then io reentore public affice.
Foreiem Linister lit ochi AsHIDn. Lr. KUusU ratos the now
Foreign Linister very hi h personally but has littlo use for him
politioally. SHDn is not popular with the YosHMi group or
other membere of tho Liberul Party. . SHIill mas vory unhappy
in the Iiberal Party, denrted it just prior to the aleotions, and
teamsd up with the Democ ate. A group of younger Liborals was
expested to follow him out, of the purty but failed to do oo. laben
ho loft uie Liboral Part he did so with a flourish, stating that
he was "bming his brid: behind him". Liberals told him he would
"havo to wim back" ns tisy do not soem to doubt that he will event-
ually ret an to tho lart. Hie unpopularity amony tho Liberale.
even whils he us in tho arty, is axplained by tro factors: (1)
They reont his uttitude ward the purged iL.Tox i. The latter is
said to havo brought him up and to have boen of considorable help
to hin n his diplonatic nd political careors; and yet, when
It.ToY.l, mms purged, 3I!on mas the firot to decort tho fortor's
camp, (2) Liberale are btter tonard SiDs for his having allowed
the paasage, while sorving in the SlIJEH. Ra Cabinet as alfare
Linist:r, of a bill vhici. legalized unions of covornment officials.
Libere..e consider unions of government aployoos vorthmhile but
decry the: dovolopnent of vuch organisations anong officials, at
loc.st for the present.
s. SlDn is expoc d to make  number of changes in the
Cor.tral Liaieon Offico,  vhich he is concurrently President.
Hi: (hanges will affoct ons the career diplonto tho ccoupy looy
pouiion than Lr. Y!L).'a friends. Lir. Jiro l., Vio
Prunidant of tho Central Liaison Offico and principal liaison
figure between Japanese Governnent and this floadgtartors, sems
oertin to bo roplacod.
J.D.
800
rnett/blo
Stak Itr.
5y8m
7/23177
RESTRICTED

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.80)
Eualozer
fairly nitererbing
oxcoent by a Jont.
Recteion lfer 
a three - tweeks'
Giall tip throngh
A yueku. I hove
worked some o lhe
wore intresting
posoger.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.95)
D
TICAL ADVISER
FE
Tokyo, June 10, 1947
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 1101
Ece
SUBJMCT: Memorand n. Regerding Local Folitics in Japan
Dc
894.00/6-1047
DIVISION OF
PROTECTIVE SERVICES
AUG 2 9 1947
The United States roliticatraRTmeNraeft KeArmor to trensmit
a memorandum prepared by Kr. John I. MeLean of the Government Section
of General Headquarters, Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powers.
regarding his ot servstions duming e field trip of three weeks'
duration under teker dur ing harch and Apil, 1947, on the island of
Ayushu. The study contrasts current conditions in predominately
agricultural and fishing communities with those in communities more
highly developed industrially, with resultant differences in
political vicws. The agricultural and fishing communities were found
FE-1
to be more prosperois and, po: sibly as a result, more conservative
politically.
TK
The author also notes the influence of communications and trans-
portation facilities, or the lack of them, on the political views of
ED
the inhabitants, conservatism being more strongly entrenched in
CP
conmunities lacking such facilities.
Enclosure:
Section, Gilq. SCAP, cated April 14,
CS/A
1947. (Five copies)
AUG 3 0 19470
Original & ozalia to Department.
800
DCBerger : mf

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME CCLMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Section
Political Affairs Division
14 April 1947
LEMORANDUM TO THE CHIEF, GOVERNMENT SECTION
SUBJECT:
LOCAL POLITICS IN KYUSHJ
I. INTRODUCTION
A three weeks' field trip was undertaken in March and April, 1947,
to SUYEMURA in KULAMUTO Prefecture (17 to 24 March), HIRADO-MACHI on
HIRADO Island, NAGASAKI Prefecture (25 March to 30 March), and to
IIZUKA-SHI in FUKUOKA Frefecture (31 arch to 3 April) for the purpose
of investigating and analyzing the basic political structure of repre-
sentative agricultural, fishing, and nining areas respectively. At
the same time, it was possible to study the differences in basic
character between a Japanese village (SUYE-MURA, pop. 2,156), town
(HIRADO-1ACHI, pop. 14,842), and city (IIZUKA-SHI, pop. 42,113).
These three areas were ch sen for,yarious reasons: 1) hecause of
the relative economic, social, and political backwardness oi the
areas involved. KYUSdU has clung more tenaciously to remnants of
feudalism than any other are. in Japan and has been in the past a
stronghold of militarism, owing to the inadequacy of transportation
facilities and means of communication which has retarded the intro-
duction of new ideas. Only IIZUkA is served directly by railroad,
a spur line connecting with the main line from MOJI to HAKATA and
NAGASAKI, while HlftADO must be reached by means of a rail spur run-
ning northward from SASEBO to the coast, and thence by ferry boat
to the island of HIRAD0. Roads there are narrow and in poor condi-
tion. SUYE is reached by means of a spur line from YATSUSHIRO (on
the main line between KUMAMOTO and KAGOSHIMA) to HITOYOSHI, requiring
an additional hour's ride by bus over rough roads from there to SUVE.
2) The inaccessibility of these areas has operated to restrict direct
contact between the inhabitants and the occupation forces to occasional
inspection trips, and sUYE has never seen occupation troops, Thus,
all political changes in the direction of democracy must depend on
the good faith of the Japanese authorities in transmitting orders
through government channels to these localtreas, plus such informa-
tion as reaches the inhabitants by newspaper and radio. 3) As far
as direct contact with the war is concerned, the areas were completely
untouched, the only incidents being an occasional fornation of planes
flying overhead on the way to attack some distant target. 4) In the
case of SUYE-MURA, this village was the subject of a book by John F.
Embree, entitled "SUYE MURA," (University of Chicago Iress, 1943), a
study of a "typical" Japanese village written some ten years ago.
It was considered a valuable text both for the purpose of providing
background material on village society in general, and also as a
basis of comparison with conditions as they exist today.

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
II. BACKGROUND OF LOCAL POLITICS
1.
Local Covernment Structure
Political activity in preparation for the coming general elections,
the local public elections being the first in Jupanese history, was.
just beginnin to get underway, and the people were becoming aware of
the new changes permitting democratic elections from the village level
up. Local elections are of greatest interest in rural areas, because
of the close daily contact between the local governmental bodics and
the ordinary citizen. During wartime, controls vwere established to
organize and regiment all phases of life to an even greater degree
than previously. Even in peacetime there existed the closest of rela-
tions between the people and their governnent, orders being handed
down via the prefectural government (with its branehes in every town),
the town or village office, the BUlAkU Council, and finally to the
TONARI-GUmI or Neighborhood Associations for transmittal to the family
heads. The traditional family system has vested complete authority
in the head of the family over its members. Heads of families have
all been members not only of the TOARI-GUI, but also of the BURAKU
Council, and although they have been allowed a certain degree of lati-
tude in selecting democratically their representatives to the town or
village councils, the bureaucracy in the town and village ofrices has
always possessed the right to reject "unqualified" BURAkU representa-
tives. In the same manner, the town or village coucil, or the city
assembly has generally exercised its prero atives of selecting the
mayor, but subject always to the aprroval of the Prefectural governor.
2.
Co-operatives and Quasi-goverimental organs
For the purpose of coordinating the Japanese eccnomy with the war
effort, a number of consolidations oi existing cooperative associa-
tions were efiected during the war. gricultural organizutions were
all amalgamated in karch, 1944, to form Agricultural Associations
(NOCYOKAI) in cach city, town, and village, and hierarchical organi-
zations paralleling the governmental structure provided a medium for
transmitting crders fron the national Agricultural Association under
the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture down to the BURAkU and
TONARI-GUMI levels. In small predominantly agricultural comaunities
the local Aricultural .ssociation is fully as important as its
governmental counterpart, perhaps more so. It receives orders from
above concerning the type and amount of farm products requirea of
each commuiity and then proceeds to plan with the aid of the subordi-
nate organizations concerned the quotas to be required of each in-
dividual farmer. Cily after these initial requirements have beon met
is the farmer peraitted to decide how the remainder of his crop will
be planted.
The Agricultural Association sells tools, fertilizer, and farming
equipment to faruers, sales being deternined on the basis of necessity
by a council similar to the city, town, and village assemblies. It
also acts as a cooperative in buying and selling agricultural products,
2

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
hiring office employees, collecting. dues, and the like, In addition,
it performs important fiscal functions, actina as a banking institu-
tion in handling deposits and making loans at interest. Decisions
on financial policy are dotermined by the Council in smaller organi-
zations, and by special Agricultural Credit Committees in larger ones;
all financial activities bein supervised by a Board of Auditors.
Town and village finance is carried on largely by these institutions,
since bank branches are non-exisient at the village level, and even
in the towns the people utilize these facilities much more than they
do the banks.
In fishing villages the Fishing Association (GYOnYOKAI) takes the
place of the Agriculbural .ssociation and performs idontical functions.
Thus, the tremendous in portance of these organizations which con-
trol completely the cconomic pulse of the community can be readily sur-
mised. membership is compulsory and the officials havo all been subject
to the approval of hi her authorities to insure that they are "quali-
fied" men. Since wealthy ren are felt to be more rosistant to the
tempuation of financial manipulation and prominent citizens to be more
qualified, ne one would dream of proposin a man for such a post who
did not measure up to tlese specifications.
There is close liuison between these associutions and the local
administrative unit, in some cases the mayor or headman of a conmunity
holdir concurrently the post of head of the Aricultural or Fishing
Association.
Special co-operatives
In adaition to these organizations, there are also cooperatives
for specific purposes, such as silk-raising, livestock-raising,
health insurance, teachers' associatio.is, consw.ers' unions, mutual
benefit associations, and the like, to vhich only inicrostad parties
belong. It is interesting to note, however, that no villa: er would
even think of not participating. in a health insurance cooperative,
or, i! he were enga ed in sericulture, in the silk-raissrst co-
op rative, etc. Here again the officials are often prominent of-
ficials in the town or village offices and Agricultural or Fishing
Associations, anu they are able to dominate the cconomic life of
every citizen, which gives them a position of prestige and power in
local politics as well.
Since the war, the fooo collection system has operated in such
a way as to continue regimentation of the people's lives. Arbitrary
quotas are decided upon from above and carried out by inspection
teams consisting of the ofiicials of the A riculturtl Association,
the head of the BURAkU Council, and agricultural experts from the
branch office of the prefeetural +overnment. They survey the fields
in October, and after mutual consultation, decide upon quotas to be
required of every farmer. In case of disa reement the decision of
the prefectural officials is final, and in no case is there any means
3

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.97)
of appeal once a decision has been reached.
As if this formidable array of associations and cooperatives
were not enough to satisfy the Japanese appetite for organizations
in every phase or life, still another war-born institution called
the NOJI JIKKO KUMIAI, or Agricultural Practises Cooperative, was
set up to provide closer liaison between the farmers and the city,
town, or village government. Just exactly how its functions diffor
from tiose of the A ricultural Association remains somewhat of a
mystery. It is pparently a vehicle ior direct popular expression
and criticism regarcin quot allotments, and a move to work out
more harmoniously the agricultural guotas required c: each individual
farmer, subject always of ccurse to supervision from above.
4. Local Economic Conditions
Pre-war text pooks on ecenomic conditions in Japan have aiways
emphasized the dcplorable state of the farmer, lhis grim strut le for
existence under a heavy burden of taxes and high rents, while, cn uhe
other hand, the city afforded a higher standard of living. wartire
and post-war food shorta, es together with the complete a sence of
physical property danage have, however, placed the farmers in a very
favorable finncial position relative to that or the city dweller.
It is an interestin, fact that while debts to individuels in SuYE
have increaseu less than three-fold in the last ten years, savings
and bank deposits have increased over  aundred-fola. In HTitaDo, a
fishin, town which also includes a large farming, area within the town
limits, total assets have increasei three hundred times, while total
liabilities are estimated to have increased less tnan firty times in
the last eight years. The lurger nunser of shop-aeepers probably acccunts
for the relatively large increase in liabilities as compared to SUYE,
sut it is obvious that, on the whols, iRaDo is likewise enjoying an
inflationary paper prosperity which is enabling the farmers in both
places to pay off in a rew years heavy deuts contracted over a period
oi many decads.
It is only natural, therefore, tt the farmers  nd fishermen of
SUYE- IRA and HIRADO-MACHI should continue to support  conservative
regime which believes in free enterprise and which allows them to
profit by sales of gricultural produce at high prices, net only of-
ficial prices which represent moderate enoun increeses, tut unofiiciel
ones, which yield enormous profits in black market sales. It is read -
ly admitted tnat they sell in the plack market, but their position is
explained as follows: In levying t xes in the old days the proverb
ran, "the farmer is like a sesame seed--the more you squceze, the nore
you tet." It is felt that hrd times will come a ain in a few years,
so why ot squeeze the city dwellers now for all they are worth? The
less materialistic rarmers and fishermen ar ne thit they produce food
for the city but get no gocds in return, eaceyt at black market prices.
since they are forced to patronize the black murket 1or fertilizer
and manufactured oods, they reel iapelled by necessity allso to se:l
in the black market, Hence, for economic reasons, they support the
4

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
Liberal and Democratic Parties, and to a certain axtent, the Peoplo's
Co-operatives, while they look with jaundiced eye on the Social Lemo-
crats, the Communists, and other left-wing elements which they feel
represent only the urban point of view.
By contrast with SUYE and HIRANO, much of IIZUkA's population,
with the notable exception of the New Yen classes, is strugglin with
a rising cost of living which has outstripped rising wages and salaries.
Total savings and deposits have risen only four-fold, while liabilities
have increased more than five-fold in the last five years.
Thus, it is apparent that agricultural and fishing communities
have an economic stake in the present YOSHIDA overnment, while IIZUKA,
though better off financially than perhaps the bi cities, looks to the
Social Democrats to improve their lot by controlling inflation, eradi-
cating the black market, and laying the burden of taxation on the New
Yen classes. On the other hand they are not yet so desperate econoi-
cally as to turn to Conmunism for a solution, which seems to be one
explanation for the apparent failure of the Comnunists to make any real
headway in the IIZUKA area.
III. NATURE OF LOCAL POLITICS
A.
Influence of Democratic Changes in the Old Folitical Structure.
1. Transportation and communication as democratizing influences.
Democratic influences seeped down to the people of sUYs, HIRADO
and IIzUKA chiefly through legislative cranges and through the medium
of the radio and newspaper; the latter two influences being severely
limited, not only because of the relacively small number of radios
and newspapers available but becuuse of the shortage of newsprint,
which necessarily curtails ne.s of political interest. For example,
only one out of every ten fanilies possess a radio, and tctal nevs-
paper subscri tions are in the ratio of one to every rour families
in SUYE-MURA. HIRADO-LACHI and IIZUI.A-SHI have proportionately about
twice as many radios and rour times as many newspapers as SUYE; so
that although the radio would appear to be less effective in reaching
the people in these areas, newspaper influence should compare rather
favorably with our own, were it not for their reduced size.
The inaccessibility of SUYE and HI ADO means that political
tempests of national interest in Tokyo, and even prefectural politi-
cal campai ns that rage in the larger cities throughout Japan would
cause scarcely a ri ple were it not for radios und neuspapers, since
candidates to the Liet and prefectural assemblies and for the pre-
fectural overnorship seldom put in an appearance there. None of
these candidates will speak in Suy: this year, and only a limited
number of people will be willing to take the two crowded buses to
HIfoYosHI, an hour's ride away, to hear speakers for Diet and pre-
fectural posts. One candidate for governor of NAGASAKI Prefecture,
5

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
a Social Democrat, will make the trip to HIRADO, and perhaps also
three or four candidates for the Prefectural Assembly from KITA-
ATSUURA-GUN in which HIRADO is located. Two possible viet candi-
dates who reside in HIRD0 would of course campaign there also; but
in general the period of political campaigning is too short to allow
for campaign speeches in such backward areas.
IIZUKA is large enough to be politically important, and as it is
both the lar est city in KAHO-GUN and part of the second Mloctoral
District of FUkUOkA Prefecture, candidates will probably make an at-
tempt to campaign there. However, three or four prcspective Diet candi-
dates and some candidates to prefectural assemblies will probably pro-
vide the major campaign activity in IIzUkA. Again, the shortness of
the periodier campaigning precludes any but the briefest appearanocs
from outside KAHO-GU:.
2. Democratization Phrouch Legisli tive Change.
Democratic influences throun legislative changes in the overn-
mental structure are makin a definite ipression on the inhabitants,
and there seems to be every indication thut the local authorities are
carrying them out, regardless of their feeTings in the matter. The
fact tnat local oifices are to become elective from no: on, the Land
Reform bill, and the anticipated dissolution of such organizations as
the BURAKU-KAI (CHOMAI-KAI in the city) and the TOWARI-GUI, have at
least shocked the local inhabitants into a realization that politics
is striking close to home. Sines it is apparent that this thing called
democlacy will have to be lived with from now on, there seems to be a
very sincere desire on the pirt of the people to find out what it is.
3. Influences brought about by the vwar.
The beliei that democracy is a system that had something to do
with our winning of the war has also impressed the Jacanese with a
desire to see what it can do for them, and this  seling, togethor with
the hard times brought on by defeat in war, the dominetring attitude
of the bureaucracy, fear of post-war radical movemuts, dissatisfaction
with the quota syetem, ete., have all combineu to jolt the people out
of their past indifference towards politics. In fact, all the Japanese
in these areas seem to be so preoccupied with the specter of Communism
that the first quest.on ast ed un American invariably concerns itself
with our attitude toward Conuism and the Conmunist Party.
4. Democratization of Post-War Co-operative Oranisations.
An example of the dissstisfaction with the system of orders from
above and the desire for self-government is the formation in most com-
munities in late 1946 of the Farmers' Union (NOiIN KUmIAI). Its
announced purpose is to set up a farners' organization excluuin, all
bureaudrats and people not actually engaged themselves in farming.
Its structure is similar to that of the Agricultural Association,
with branches also in the various BURAkU, and ite duties are practi-
cally identical with those of the latter organization, the main

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.92)
fundamental difference lying in the fact that not oily property owners
but all men and women members participte in diroct eluctions of the
cflicers. ccordinyly, the NOIN KU TAI has seen aicin the gri
cultural Asscciation and local overnment bodies in the aliotmont of
agricultural quotas to individual farmars on a more demccratic basis,
its functions here resembling those or its autocratic counterpart, the
Agricultural Practices Association ('OJI JIKKO KUMIAI). In addition,
it possessus in SUYE-kURA a truck to help the marke ine of producc in
neighboring towns on a cooperative basis.
pparently, the farmers' Union was first organized by tenant farmers
as a mfans of cff.ctively presenting their rievances, and in certain
localities it is said to be redical in character, the nationai crgann-
zation being definitely under left-win in:luence. Though the intention
at first was to exclnde all landlords, the latt ir  roup, together witn
the conservative lements amon the yeomenry, vielded their pewer nd
prestie to de.end me pership in the oryanization, with the assertion
t at it was unfe ir mo undenceratic to make it a class organizaticn.
As a result, in mally comunities they untercd the organization, capcured
the prineipal offices, and vere soon in a position to control any possibl
radical tendencis. In cther ar mas as in UY, and HIRADC, the con-
servative elements, gettin, wind or whit was afoot, beat the tenant
farmers to the punch by organizing their own MOaI KUyTAI and then in-
viting, the tenant Pirmers to participate. For examaple, the presid nt
of the HIRaDo pranc. is  tmomoer or the Poople's to-operative Party
and a cundicats for mayor. in many instances th. local branchcs have
refused to oin the national or prefectural ory anizutiurs eithor because
of thcir deteri ination to exclue all outside i flue ces, or bpcause
they feel then to be too rudical in character. as a result, conserva-
tive elaents held : firm grip on the activities ci the Faraers' iion
in KYuSlu, and altiourth thoy are cfcen includ d as  mbers of the ational
orcarization, in reality they are co.plctely indoppnont.
Resentrent over oureaueratic dictation, plus anevied e of the in-
pondine dissolution of the A ricultural Assoun tion, minylcd witn fears
or rruical movemeonts in ti. futur have prompted t censervative groups
to contumplate a revision o. th s etup o. th- Anrical turel Asocia tion.
The name is to be cnan ed to Atrieuiturul to-op ra aiv  rion (MucYo
KioDo kulAI), uut the old structur wiil be preserved int ct. It is
said that the cne fundamensal chunm wili be to demoerutize the system
by abolishing the system of ord rs frou above. If this project e re-
vision takes paee, th. "raison d'ctre" oi the HokIn KUkIxI vill coas
to exist, and many looal oranches may b dissolved. I. any case,
thouh there way be reliel from vureauc. asie aictation from th rationel
and preavccurel 1 vels, at tn town and viilaye tevel directicn cf the
affairs of the organization will probatly re ain in the hands o the
upper class farmers (or fishermen in tire ovent of a similar rocganiza-
tion of the cvCnYolAl).
5. Land Reform
A definite factor limitin the conomic po or, nd thus t.
？

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
politicel power of the landlords, is the Land Reform Bill of last year
under which large land holdings were dissolved and offered to the tenant
farmers. At the same time, Agricultural Land Comnittees (NOCHI IINKAI)
were established to settle disputes between tenant and landlord. In
SUYE the members consist of a fixed ratio of three landlords, two yeomen
(farmers who cultivate all of their own land), and five tenant farmers;
and the landlords ccmplain that the yeomen invariably side with the ton-
ants. In fact, th: landlords say bitterly that they are unable to secure
the return of land which they lent out to tenants during wartime when
they did not have suf icient labor from their own household to cultivate
it themselves. Hence, because of the unfavorable decisions of the Aeri-
cultural Land Comaittees, they are unaolc to recover even up to the lcgal
limit of three CHO (about 7.5 acres). Thus, the power of the landlords
is further diminislied.
o. Labor Unions
Democratic influences appear to be strongest in the industrial are s
of KYUSHU, if IIZUKA can be said to be a representative city. Out of a
total population of 42,000 in I1ZUkA 16,000 are coal miners, and most of
these belong to labor unions. Thcy appear to be organized democratically
and are well informed as to their ri hts and duties as citizens as well.
Some minerst unions are affiliated with the Japanese deration of Lavor
or the Japan Congress of Industrial Unions, but tlio lar est, consisting
of more than 70, 000 out of a total of 170,000 in the CHIKUH0 area, is an
independent union which split cff last year from a Communist-dominated
organization. It is determined to remain a regional union independent
of all direction fron national crganizations and confinin itself to
economic objectives. It supports no candiuates and engages in no politi-
cal activity whatsoever, tnouch it doss take measures to exclude all
Co..munist influence from the 1: adership throughout its local branches.
The second largest union in the CHIkun0 area consisting oi some 30,000
members, is airiliated with the JF of L and has a "rolitical Division"
which maintains liaison with the Sccial Democratic Farty. It is allowed
actually to recommend a certain percenta, e of the party's candidates.
Frequent inspections of the local branches are made to ko: p out Con-
munist influence, which is admitted by the chief of the IZUkA branch
of the Communist Farty to be less than one percent. There is only one
other major coal miners' union said to contain Comaunist influence, and
here the Communist branch representative claims no more than five percent
Communist sympathizers out of a total of 20,Ooc members.
In addition to miners' unions there is an IIZUKA City Hall Employees
Union which enga es in no political activity, and a local branch of the
ducators' Democratic Alliance, a national organization registered as a
political party which plans to put up candidates.
In general, all these deocratic influences are making perceptible
headway in KYUSHU and represent a real dent in the traditionally auto-
cratic pattern of local government.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
B.
Vestiges of Traditional Autocratic Influences.
In spite of political, social, and economic changes designed to
undermine the power and iniluence of local administrative and police
officials and the large landowners, prestige, relative wealth, and the
traditional respect for authority still exist in sufiicient degree to
allow these groups to control and in some cases take over completely
the new, more democratic organizations. While the mayor may at times
deplore the growing laxity in courtesy anc respect due a man of his
position, still the people as a whole bow and scrape whenever they
greet government officials and the policoman is still a man to be
treated with kid £loves. Criticism of continued bureaucratic ar-
rogance here is often voiced.
In addition, ignorance, lack of adequate means for the communica-
tion of democratic ideas, food shortages, other postwar problems which
preoccupy the average Japanese to the virtual exclusion of political
interest, and downright indiiference are still widespread. uch of chis
indifference is explained by the historical corruption and cynicism of
political parties before the war and their lack of real political pcver,
which made the people skeptical of their professed principles and aims.
This feeling rersists today with respect to the new post-war political
parties.
A typically oriental feature of local politics in KYUSliU demon-
strating immaturity in the people's political thinking is the tendency
to vote for "JIaiUrsU" - personalities as such - rather than for the
principles they represent. The average voter will cross party lines
repeatedly to vote for a familiar name or a man long in the public eyc.
Except for glaring instances, it matters little whether a reputation
has been gained through wealth, hereditary political influence, posi-
tion as a member of the buruaucracy, or through other means scrupulous
or unscrupulous; the voter will enerally vote for the familiar person-
ality. It is this political psychology which allows the influential
candidate considerable leeway in allying himself with the party that
bids highest for his services, or even to run as an independent, secure
in the knowledge that ne wili win in any case. Consequent ly, pre-
election activity in selectin. candidates consists of behind-the-scenes
maneuvers, the successful party in the election being that one which
has made the smartest political deals. Once the party line-up has
been decided and an innocuous platform drakn up, canmpaign speeches
are utilized to show a candiuate's face and inform the pu lic what
ofrice he is running for. It is true that the social Democrats and the
Comaunists have concrete platforms which they elaborate upon in their
speeches; but even they realize that their ci.ances of success depend
necessarily on these additional political strategems, and they too
often fail to contest seats when there are no "big names" vailable
as candidaies. The purginy of a large number of influential perso.-
alities his, however, forced the partics somewhet to modiiy their
tactics and put up a much larger proportion of "SHINJIN" or "new men"
in this election as compared with past elections.
9

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
C.
The SODAN in Politics.
Foreign ohservers have long noted the tendency of the Japanese
to substitute rule by political cliques for one-man boss rule. Even
the mayer or the head of a co-operative rarely makes any decision
without rirst consultin his colleagues whose collective advice he
always follows. It would be a mistake to assume, however, that the
SoDAil, or discussion, is necessarily in conformance with democracic
methods. Jsually, it represents eontrol of local affairs by the
bureaucracy and a few influential citizens. In each BuRAkU of a
Japanese town or villag, they pick the "suitatle" candidates for
headman, for the local assemblies, and for posts in the various
associations and co-operatives. To be "suitable" a man should be
wealthy, so as to be above corruption and financial temptation, and
he should also be "qualiried" for the position. ho, it is argued,
is more qualiried than those who huve held those posts in the past --
i.e. the bureaucrats and the influential citizens! In a city the
size of IIzUkA and at the prefectural and national levels party
cliques take the place of the town and village cliques, but the syster
of selecting andiuates by means of the party SODAN remains the sane.
D.
Face and Japanese Politics.
Although candicates are selected y means of the Soiki methed,
consideration of face determines to a major degree the nunber of seats
to be contested amongst those to be filled and whether or not a candi-
date, once he is selected, will accept the party nomination. This is
often the underlying reason why many men who have intendeu to run for
office have suddenly cancelled their plans for announcing their candi-
dacy. Frequently a man vho is already a declared candicate will sud-
donly withdraw for the same reason. Aprarently, the appearance of a
popular candicate as an opponent cr the drift or public sentiment con-
vinces a party or an individual that they are apt to los. face by
makin, a poor shovin in the election. In KYus.iu even the Social Demo-
crats and the Comnunists, Tho more than any other political groups
seem to realime the desirability of at least puttin up a ficht,
usually voved te the neccssity of savin the candidate's face wien
it appeared ho would fare badly.
as an example of the importance of face in pelities, the mayoreluy
race in IZUkA is interesting, in that out of five candidates figured
to run for mayor thrve uro  ed out suddenly "for family reasons." so
others (one a former mayer) dropped cut less than ten days before
election with the kplanation that they "fclt their law practices
would suffer" and "for family reasons." The last to drep our ¿ave
as an additional reason for refusing, to run against tho present
incumbent the desirasility of "presorvin peace in the city."
Accorainy to friends, thx real reason for his withdrawal vas the
virtual certainty of re- loction of his opponent, who is very popular
with the people.
10

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.96)
E.
Group Consciousness and Political Importance of xtra-
Covernmental Organizations.
The importance of th Agricultural and Fishing Associations and
the various co-operatives, Where the membership often includes the
vhole comnunity, has been discussed previously. fheir political in-
fluence is thersfore tremendous, and thou h candiuates are seldom
backed openly, an official of sucn an organization when runin for
public ofrice receives the t.cit support of the extremely roup-
conscious Japanese who regard him as their represontative. In HInADO
the head of the local branch of the Non IN KU IAI, who is also running
for mayor, said he would receive the backing or the whol membership.
Labor unions are, of course, lined up solidly behind cancidates i.-
dorsed by the union leadership.
Group-consciousness is often stron er than p.rty ties and extonds
down as far as the lURak'y vhere inhabitants will band together to voto
for canuidates from their on BuRAkU rather than for men from the vhele
town or village community wno s em most qualificd or who might better
represent their particular political or economic inter sts. Farty lin's
are also often crossed in the grefectural elcctions. Accoruin. to tho
Progressive Farty branch head in HIRADo, he would support his Peopl 's
Co-operative Party opponent for the prafectural assenbly, since he is
the only representative from iIiADo. Yet party interosts would cause
him to su port the cistrict Iro ressive Farty candidate in the Diot
lections, whetner or not he resided in. iRADe.
F. Local Imporualice of 1olitical Partios.
Phere is apperently a total toseneo of party activity in the
lections of the town and vi la levels.  ost of the votcrs ure
entirely unaware of the party afiiliations or these local candidates
as expressed in prerectural and national lections, and althcugh in-
torested local cliques ar. bound to know thcir political convictions,
it is questionable whether ven th.y P mara it as important at this
level. However, for prefectur-l and national clections parties funetion
within the seop: already described. There is usually a party branch
headquarters in th. largur towns aru citi s but in the small'r towns
and villages there is no fornal or anization. Here the mest prominont,
politically-minded menibser custonarily acts as the party's repr sunta-
tive and mainta ins liaison with the nee rest branch hecdeuarters for
the purpose oi arrangin speeches and carrying on caapaign activity.
At times, though, party activity seoms to be rather haphazard and
disorganizcd even in seme larger areas such as IIZukA where neither
the Progressive nor Liberal Parties nave branehes as yet. The ia-
portance of personalities is clearly brought out by the fact thct the
Liberals had a fonmal branch organization in IIzukA until last year
wh n the branch head died, whereupon the branch dissolved completoly.
othing will be done to re-establish another until after the oleetions.
The Sociel Democrats ar an  xeeption to  he rule, hou vor, in
that they are attempting to set up formal branches in every populated
11

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
area of town size in kYUsHU, regardless of the numerical.weakness of
the party in the country. Their aim is to break dowm rural conserva-
tism gradually, and then buila up their party strength.
The Communists are also active in establishing branch headquarters,
though they confine their efforts to the industrial areas, such as
IIZUKA, with party cells in smaller minin, communities.
In many conservative rural areas, such as SUYE-LURA, the Liberal
and Democratic rarties are strong, while in others, as HIRADO, the
People's Co-operatives are the major party. The former two derive
their strength from the fact that it is comnonly supposed the Liberals
represent the old 3EIYUKAI while the Progressives are mostly former
members of the INSITO.
The strength of the People's Co-operatives in certain small but
locally powerrul parties seems to vary according to the number of in-
fluential personalities that form the leadership. The latter are con-
stantly switching party affiliations, dissolving minor parties, or
forming new ones, according to personality conilicts and even mere whim
or caprice, so that it is extreiely difficult to gauge local party
strength from one aay to the next. An example is the KUMIN KYOCHI TO,
or Limited Monarchy Party, which was a very strong third in HIRADO-
MACHI in the Diet elections of 1946, but which was recently dissolved.
Its most influential member is a good friend of the Democratic Farty
Representative in HIRADO, and a deal was made by which the former
would enter and swing his support to the Democratic Party. Thus,
overnight the political picture changed, and the Democratic party's
local position is now said to be greatly improved.
In an industrial area such as IIZUKA the Social Lemocrats are the
strongest party, the sole candidate for mayor being an independent who
is a Social Democratic sympathizer. In spite of the fact that the
Liberals and Democrats are individually far weaker, together they are
probably superior numerically, and although personal antagonisms more than
any real differences in political philosophy keep them divided into
separate camps, they have stated plainly that if they are able to
gain a majority in the city assembly, they expect to work to ether
when necessary to block any possible "radical" moves by the mayor.
Comnunist influence is practically non-existent in such rural
areas as SUYE and HIRADO, and was only about three to four per cent
in IIZUKA in the 194ó Diet elections. The Communist Farty branch
chief in IIzUkA admits the party is still weak in the city proper,
though mining comnunities within the'city limits are said to be more
receptive to Marxism. He predicts in the IIZUKA area a four fold
increase in votes cast for Communist candidates in the April elections
this year.
12

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.97)
4
CONCLUSION:
In general, the Japanese in backward arcas of KYUSHU rate local
elections as the most important. Village and town elections are
arousing considerable interest, with less atucntion paid to the pre-
fectural elections, and least interest shown in the Diet elections,
the reason being that local elections affect them more directly.
dowever, abstentions in last yeai's Diet elections numbered twenty-
three per cent in II2UKA-SI, nineteen per cent in IHaDO-ifCHI, and
only sixteen per cent in SUYE-I URA -- the lar,er the community, the
greater the number of abstentions -- indicating greater over-all in-
terest in politics in the snaller rural comnunities.
With regard to political parties, many a person ignorant or the
differences in party principlcs and platforms votes as he ano is
forbears did in the past, with the Liberals representing to hin the
SDIYUKAI ana the emocrats the MINSEITO. Cthers vote for minor
parties set up to represent a particular local proressional cr politi-
cal interest, the local iaportance of the party depending prinarily
on the nuabcr of iniluential personalities in the party. There is,
however, a dofinite cleavage between parties of the left and parties
of the right, the Social Jumocrats and Commulists being considered the
principul left-wing el ments and the Liberals, ic nocrats, and People's
Co-operatives the prineipal parties of the right. Hence although
party activity is netligible at the town and village levels and thoug.
voters frequently cross party lines in profectural and national cam-
pai ns to vote for well-known personalities, the conservative voter
vill rarely go so far as to vote for a leftist (with the possible
eception of a ri ht-wing social pomocrat). Phe cap in political
ideoiogies between left and right is too wide to be brid, ed by nere
persenalities, r aroless of their  ower and prestige. A similar
cleavage exists between the sccial emecrts and the Coamunists in
most areas of kYusliu, with the former refusing to co-operate in any
way with the latter. On th. other hand, in the lar, r cities in
FUKJOkA Fr fecture, it is charg a that the tic parties are actually
co-operatina in ihe present lcetions.
aphasis on pirsonalities rather than platrorns and principles,
the SoDAN or consultation mothod or seleecing, candiaates, experience
in carrying, on th. daily business of overnment ete., the importance
of fece, and the otratep ic position of associations and cc-operatives --
all these factors mold the character of local politics in most of
RYUSHU; whil: the relativ ly favorable economic position of the farmer
and fisherman n lps to p res rve its traditional conservative colorin .
In an industrial area such as IlzUka, how ver, the cost of living,
while not generally so high as to render the numerically large vhite-
collar and latorins classes susceptibl to Comnunien, nevertheless is
high enou h to make the Social bemocrats the most popular political
party in the area.
A coabination of circuastances -- the psyenelogical shock brought
13

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.96)
about by defeat in war which destroyed old political ideas and values,
legislative changes in the structure of ¿overnment, and fuar of left-
wins movements (Conmunism in particular) - ave acted to stimulate
political thinkin everywhere, so that in KYUSHU democratic ch n os
do exist in reality as well as on puper. There seems tb be a very
real desire on the part of the people to become demccratic, but so
lon as radios, newspapers and other mediums for the communication of
democratic ideas remain inadequate, real pro ress alony tiese linis
will continue o be a relatively slow process.
JCIN A. ACLEAN
Folitical Affairs Divasion
Approved: Pk?
Passed : CLh
1

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.90)
Form Da-3es
(7-2-66)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COI
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
CA
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FE
AUB131947
DIRECTOR
1.5
PLAIN
Depattment of State
Action: FE
Info
s/s
P1
Control 3585
U-E
SER
A-B
Rec'd August 12, 1947
SA/M
11:37 a.m.
OOD
IG
PROM
Muen
3.90
894.00
ITP
701
Se retary of State
JSP
9:00an
70
06, Pwet
0 10
FA
TUNG PET CHTEN FENG H PAO (CO rgen) Mutden editorial
JO/R
Auguas 9 expressea conrern rsemergence atreng Jepen
and riti izes United Stntes tor Tenient poliey toward
8
jps.
Cautlons Cuins be eatcurul when making Jap
1
yeace termo.
2
Edit cial same paper August 10 sdvosates reorganize-
4
tion mortbeest government strueture, with aboliahment
aupe Juous bureaus end personnel, eliminetion duplice-
tio. m:tione, emd introduetion greeter erficiency.
Dort eesterners should be giren more responsibility
end  vtive partivipatirn HE government.
HUEo YAN J PAo (KMT orgen) Fukden editoriel August 10
Prowns n teede with Jepen unless definitely in intereat
chin end even intimatee meoption anti-trade poliey.
Bont Nakkng, Tepeeted Dept 206, Dairen 91.
494.0031
CS
RD
A
2
0
C
PA
f
PERMANENT
RECORD
COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAREN.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclos ne t desp. ta244
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SECTION. GENERAL STAPT
CIVIL INTELLICENCE SECTION
8
SPECIAL REPORT
F
LEFT WING-RIGHT WING
JAPANESE PROLETARIAN POLITICS
1
2
RESTRICTED
an Sacunty Reoutat on Inside Cover

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, August 13, 1947.
RESTRIC TED
No. 1224
SUBJECT:
Report Concerning Japanese Proletarian Politics
Prepared by the Civil Intelligence Section, Gen-
eral Headquarters, Far East Command.
894.00/8-1347
The Political Adviser for Japan has the honor to
forward under separate cover five co ies of a special report
published recently by the Civil Intelligence Section of
General Headquarters, Far East Command, entitled "Left Wing-
Right Wing". The report contains an historical analysis of.
Japanese proletarian political movements from 1882 to the
present, together with appendices providing additional inrorma-
tion concerning important labor and agrarian groups and cer-
tain political parties in Japan.
Enclosure:
Five copies of report, "Left
Wing-Right Wing", prepared by
CS/A
Civil Intelligence, G.H.Q., Far
East Com ard, forwarded under
separate cover.
Original and ozalid to Department.
800
RHBushner:hp

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SECTION, GENERAL STAFF
CIVIL INTELIIGENCE SECTION
LFT WING RIGHT WING
Japanese Proletarian Politics

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PLGE
TIBLE OF CONPENTS
1
SOURCE
2
PREMBLE
4
PART
I.
JAP.NESE PROLET RIN POLITICS
6
CHATER I.
EARLY S0CIILIS4 1882 - 1912
7
CHAPTER II.
THE LEFT WING SHEDS ITS PIN FELTHERS
1918 - 1923
14
CH.FTER III.
THE SCCLALISTS ND THE COWIUNISTS SHOE THEIR
COLORS 1922 - 1932
19
CL.FTER IV.
THE COVMUNIST PARPY ND THE COVINTERN.
1928 - 1935
28
CHFTER V.
LEFT WING CQ. PROVISES 1931 - 1933
37
CILPTER VI.
HANER ND PLOUGH 1932 - 1940
46
CHLPTER VII.
THE W.TER-LEVEL HORITY
53
CH.PTER VIII.
THE PREW R DEC.DE 1932 -.1940
63
CHLPTER IX.
THE FOUR FREEDS 1945 
73
P.RT II.
APIENDICES
HISTORIES OF IMPORTENT P RTIES ND
UNI ONS
78
∴PPENDIX I.
PROLETARI.N 1OLITIC.L PARTIES ND GROUES
.79
APFENDIX II.
NATIONALIST AND NATIONAL SCIALIST POLITICAL
PARTIES
112
APPENDIX III.
IMPORTNT L BOR UNI ONS
148
APPENDIX IV.
IvPORTANT AGRARIAN UNI ONS
161
AFPENDIX V.
JAPAN CQNUNIST PARTY
169
APPENDIX VI.
PROLETARIAN GAINS IN SUCCESSIVE ELECTIONS
1928-1946
174
CHLRTS
IDEOLOGICAL POLITICAL PARTIES
177
LABOR UNIONS
178
AGRIPIAN UNI ONS
179
INDEX
180
1

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
LEFT WING RIGHT WING
SOURCES
1. Yearbooks:
4IKOKU UNDO NENKN (Patriotic Movement Yearbook), 1938-1939 editions.
S4HI NENKN (Asahi Yearbook). 1926-1946 editions.
D.I NIPPON SEIJI NEMPO (Great Japan Political Yearbook), 1942-1943
editions.
Japan Yearbook, 1933-1945 editions.
JIJI NENKN (Jiji YearbooK), 1926-1944, 1947 editions.
MiINICHI NENKN (Mainichi Yearbook), 1926-1946 editions.
NIHON BUNKA DaNTAI NENKAN (Japan Cultural Group Yearbook), 1943
edition.
SEITO NENKAN (Political Parties Yearbook), 1943.
Newspapers:
AKAHATA (Red Fleg). 1945-1947.
AS.HI SHIMBUN (Asahi Newspaper), 1923-1947.
Japan Times and Mail, 1936-1940.
Japan Times and Advertiser, 1940-1941.
NIPPON TIMES, 1942-1947
Japan Weekly Chronicle, 1923-1941
MAINICHI SHIMBUN (Mainichi Newspaper), 1924-1947
YOMIURI SHIMBUI: (Yomiuri Newspaper), 1924-1947.
3.
Magazines:
CHUO KORON (Central Review), 1935-1942.
Contemporary Japan, 1932-1945.
KAIZO (Reform), 1931-1940
KOA (Rise-Asia), Published by DI NIHON KOA DOMEI
KOKUHON (National Foundation), 1924-1935.
KOKU:IN SHISO (National Thought). 1932-1935.
NIHON OYOBI NIHONJIN (Japan and the Japane se), 1929-1939.
NIHON SHUHO (Japan Weekly), 1945-1946.
SEKI SHUHO (Wor1d Weekly), 1945-1946.
YOKUSAN SEIJI (Imperial Rule Assistance), published by the IRA.
4.
Official Records:
Trial records of the Supreme Court of the Ministry of Justice:
KOTOKU SHUSUI JIKN (Kotoku Shusui Incident)
Trial Records of Army and Mavy Courts Martial:
2-26 Incident (26 February Incident)
5. Official Publications:
SHIKiI UNDO NO JOKYO (Report on Social Movements), restricted
official publication of the Police Bureau of the Home
Ministry, 1931-1943 editions.
KOKK KIZO RONS.KU SHU (Collection of Essays and Programs of
Reformation in Japan), compiled by the Peace Preservation
Bureau of the Home Ministry, 1935.
6. Directories:
2

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.97)
JINJI KOSHIN ROKU (Japanese: Who's Who), 1937-1943.
The Orient Yearbook, 1942.
Who's Who in Japan, 1933-1945.
7. Books:
KINDAI NIHON SEIJI SHIKI SHISO SHI T.IKEI (Outline of Political
and Social Thought in Modern Japan) by NaUR. Shigeomi, 1941.
MUS/N SEITO RON (Essays on Proletarian Parties) by ROY.M
Masamichi (Seido), 1930.
NIiON KOK SHUGI UNDO SHI (History of the Japanese National-
Socialist Liovement) by KINOSHIT... Hanji, 1939.
SHiKiI UNDO NO JOSEI (Situation of Social Movements) published
by the KYOcHo KiI (oonoilfation Society), 1933.
8. Pamphlots:
Summary History of the Japanese Conmunist Party, mimeographed
notes of Procurator H.EG Kiyoshi, undated.
3

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
PREAMBLE
There is a strong tendency for those who are not well acquainted
with Japanese social and political history to believe that political
circles in the country are and always have been sharply divided into
leftist and rightist camps which have become analogous in the minds of
many with communist and ultra-nationalist cliques. There is a tenden-
cy to consign the old-line parties such as the SEIYUKI and the MINSEI
To, as well as the Imperial Rule Assistance organizations which flourish-
ed during the Pacific War, to the ultra-nationalist or rightist camp,
and to relegate the whole proletarian movement to the communist side of
the fence.
4 proper understanding of proletarian politics in Japan is necessary
for proper understanding of the present-day political situation, and in-
deed is of vital importance in judging possibilities for the future. This
is becauso for the past thirty years the influence of the proletariat has
been growing stronger than a casual observation of modorn Japanese history
would lead one to belicve, and becauso "government of the people. by the
peoplo and for the people" should be the very basis on which the "demo-
cratization" of Japan must stand. It would be foolish indeed to endeavor
to encourage a new "democratic" order vi thout an understend ing of the
efforts which have been made by the Japanese masses themselves to in-
crease thoir voice in government.
Japanese proletarian politics have always been replete with faction-
alism ranging from the deep red of the Japanese Communist Party to the
reverent purple of the national socialists. The factions, based funda-
montally on labor and agricultural unions and groups thereof, have
rallied to tlo support of groups of leaders who have in many instances
drawn their followings with them in their maneuvers to the right and to
tho left bctwoon the pure-socialist and national-socialist camps. Sect-
arian rivalrics and jealousios have had almost as much influcnce in the
divisions and realignments of the prolotarian partios as in the case of
the nationalist societies.
Fure socialism has been divided roughly into left-wing, right-ving,
and center factions, plus a stoadfast group based on tho Japan Federation
of Labor, whose modurate activities over a period of some thirty-fivo
yoars labels it as noorly democretic as any cligue in the country. The
difforence betwoen the various popular parties has been not so much in
their platforms as in the extent of their denands and the manner in which
they havo attempted to imploment them. The main lines of dommrcetion
have alvays been betwoen the communists and the socialists on the luft
hand, and between the socialists and the nationalists on the right. The
primary difforence between the communists end the socialists has been one
of allegianee; whoreas the communists, a subversive party before the war,
have always acknouledged the control of the Comintern and have reccived
all of thoir policios from Russia, the socialists, a group of porfectly
legal, registered parties, have maintained their allogianco to the Em-
peror, have refused all connection with the communists at home or with
the Comintern abroad, and have carefully kept vithin the bounds of Japan-
ose law by adhering to parliamentary methods. The primary difforenco bo-
tween the socialists and the nationalists has been that the socialists
cried loudly against the waging of "imperialistic war" whilo the national-
ists called for an offonsive expansion of Japanoso rights and territories.
No group in the Japanese prolotarian movement has eyer trusted any
other group to the right or to the lcft of its own stand; honce the bitter
charges of leftism or rightism botween broadly similar factions in the
socialist cump. This mistrust is particularly true of the communists ond
tho socialists. Historically it is as apparent that the legal left-wing
partics made e clean and irreparable break with the communists in 1925
as that the communists have always maintained a close relationship with
4

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
the Comintern quite regardless of international boundaries except as
the haunts of immigration officials and water-police.
This study, based primarily on official documents end records, is
an attompt to explain tho history and colorations of Japanese proletar-
ianism as an aid to the study of the post-war political picture in Japan
The first part consists of an historical running account of the devolop
ment of the popular groupings, while the second part givos the histor-
ics of the important parties and unions for ready referonce. It is
dangerous to label individuals by idcological categories on the basis
of transient affiliation with specific parties or unions; for proper
understanding the individual's carper should be studied as a whole.
Noto to Recders:
Similarities in the namos and organizations of the political parties
and unions has made it impossible to d ifferentiate as clearly as
could be wished between the various bodies mentioned in tho historical
text of Part I. Hence it is suggested thet Readers rofer for clari-
fication to the histories of the various organizations in Part II as
nev namos appoar.
5

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.90)
LEFT WING RIGHT WING
PART
工
JAPANESE PROLITARLAN POLITICS
6

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
CHAPTER I
EARLY SOCIALISM
1882-1912
Socialism in Japan was born as early as May, 1882, in Shimabara,
Nagasaki Ken, where the first socialist party, the TOYO SHAKAI TO (Ori-
ental Socialist Party) was formed under the leadership of TARUI Tokichi
end LiilTSU Taisuke. These loaders stated as their simple purpose,
"Our principle is equality and our objective the greatest happinoss of
the people." Because the party was a shocking new departure in the
politics of the Empire it was soon ordered to disband by the police,
having apparently accomplished nothing. That the foetus of proletar-
ianism had been engendered, however, was evidenced by the fact that the
first Japanose labor union vas formed about the samo time by OKUiTYA
Takeyuki, a 24-year-old extremist crusader who twenty-nine years leter
was to be executed as an enarchist for his part in the l9lo reformist
conspiracy of KOTOKU Den jiro, better known by his psoudonym Shusui.
OKUliTYA's objective was to aid the lowly rikisha man, whose livelihood
was threatened by the horse-drawn coach. It was a clever play upon
the goneric word for socialism (SHAKiI SHUGI) to call his union the
SH.KiI To (車界 觉 --Vehicle World Party).
The socialist and labor movoments gained no serious headvey until
after the Sino-Japanese war of 1894-1895, because until that time the
country remained almost complctely agricultural. With success in China
camo industrialization, and vith industrialization organization of
labor. To meet concomitant unrest the CHIN KEISATSU HO (Peace Police
Law) vas prohulgated in March, 1900, with the inevitable result that
the labor novement vent underground and the socialists resorted to study
circles and political activity instead of labor agitation.
Tho first of the study groups was the SHAKAI SHUGI KENKYU KiI
(Socialism Research Society), organized in 1898 by social-minded mem-
bers of tho Unitarian Church, ABE Isoo, KIT..Y.Al Son"I, SUGILUR Ko-
taro, and KoTokU Shusui. Theso mon held monthly meetings for s tudy
and discussion for two years beforo they split into two groups, one of
Which accepted the principles of socialism and one of which did not.
After the withdrawal of the conservative dissenters the remaining mem-
bers reassembled as the SH.KiI SHUGI KYOK.I (Socialist Society), of
which the chairman was BE Isoo and the directors NISHIKiW.. Kojiro and
S..ITo Kanejiro and of which the mombership of about forty included
KTYMi Son, KAKAMI Kiyoshi, KINOSHIT. Shoko, KOTOKU Shusui and
MiTSUZiKI Gonkichi. This society, which published the magazino SHKiI
SHUGI (Socialism), lasted until November, 1904, when it was disbanded
by the police.
Moanwhile, in Mey, 190l, the year after the foundation of the SH. K
HUGI KYOKI, B Iso, KTY.. Sen, K.KI Kiyoshi. KINOSHIT.. Shoko,
KOTOKU Shusui and NISHIKW.. Kojiro, all prominent members of the study
group, turned their cyes tovard politics. They planned a new political
party to implement their ideas, the SHiKiI MINSHU To (Social Democratic
Party). It was obvious that the group was under official observation,
for its application for rogistration as a party with the Home Ministry
was promptly re jected on the day it vas submitted. nother application
by the same men in the name of the NIHOl HEIMIN TO (Japan Commoners'
Party) met with the seme reception in June, 1901, despite Prince KTsURi
Taro's succcssion to Prince ITo Hirobumi as premier. Discouraged for
1
KiTiYM Sen later became a pure and simple communist and died in
Russie as Japanese representative on the Central Executive of the
Conintorn in 1933.
7

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.96)
the time being. BE and his colleagues made no further effort to set
up a political party, but devoted their energy to the theoretioal
HEIMIN SHA (Commoners' Society). formed in 1903 by KOTOKU Shusui and
SAKAI Toshihiko with the help of KaTo Toki jiro and KOJIMA Ryutaro.
KOTOKU and his friends were soon joined by ISHIKAWA Sanshiro and NISHIKA7
Kojiro, who were likewise members of the SHAKAI SHUGI KYOKAI. The HETMIN
SI'A published the HEIMIN SHIBUN (Commoners' Paper). which devoted itself
to anti-war propeganda in the face of growing hostility toward Russia.
ContributorB included ABE Isoo. K.T.YA Sen, KINOSHIT. Shoko, KOIZI
Sakutaro, OISHI Seinosuke, SHIBA Teikichi, SUGIulRA Kotaro and many
others. In due course the headquarters of the SLaKI SHUGI KYOKAI emal-
gamated with the HEIkIN SH.. thus making it the center of proletarian
activity in Japan.
On 12 October 1903 KOTOKU Shusui and S KAI Toshihiko published
their opposition to war in the newspaper wCHO HO (Ten Thousand Dawns
News) by which they were employed; since the paper's policy had veered
to support the hostile feeling toward Russia, they were forced to re-
sign from its steff. On 17 January 1904. two weeks before the 10 Feb-
ruary declaration of war, the HEIiliy SHImBUN published a leader en-
titled We Object Categorically to War. When this wee followed on 27
March by an editorial entitled "Alas! laore Taxation", the edition was
suppressed by censorship. On 13 November 1904, the anniversary of the
foundation of the HELmIN S., the paper was again banned because it
translated the platform of the Russian Communist Party. Oddly enough.
the SHifI SHUGI KYoK I. not the Huilil. SH. was ardered by the police
to disband. The HEImIN Sil gontinued to exist until 9 October 1905
when it expired, not because of offici&l pressure but b cause of a
lack of funds and a clash of idoas between the materialistic KoroKU
Shusui and S I Toshihiko on the one hand and the humanitarian
ISHIKAW Sanshiro and KINoSHIT. Shoko on the other. The last number
of the HEILIN SLBUN
was printed entirely in red ink on 9 October
1905.
While Slur Toshihiko attempted unsuccessfully to issue anothor
magazine, the SHK I SHUGI NKTU (Study of Socialism). KUTOKU Shusui
took a trip to merica in tho autumn of 1905. Upon his return it was
obvious that he had turned pure anarchist, for vithin five deys of dis-
embarkation at Yokohama he made a public address entitled "The Tide of
World Revolution" in which ho openly denied the parliamontary form of
government and advocated tho kind of "direct action" which was to do-
liver him to the hempen gerret*1 five years later.
In January. 1906, Prince K.TURn Taro, who had beon premier for
almost five years, was succecded by Prince SaIunJI Kimmochi. Vho was
considered much mare democretic. As a tost case, HIGUCiI Den and
NISHIKiM-- Kojiro applied for registration of a new politicrl party, the
NIHON HeIMLI To (Japan Commoners" Party). which uroclaimed univorsal
suffrege as its most important objective. To the surprise of all con-
cerned the application was accepted. This turn of ovents encouraged
BWI Toshihiko to apply for registr tion of another perty, the NIHON
SHKI To (Japan Socialist Perty). vhich aspired to effect the practical
application of sxialism in government. S.I's applicntion likewise
was accepted. The two now perties held a joint general meeting in
Tokyo on 24 February 1906, at vhich the attendanco numberod about 200.
Considering the many socioties allied to the NIHON SHK.I To from Nomori
to Kagoshima, however, the Motropolitan Polics investigation shovod
*1 KorokU and his frionds died by the old Japanose mothod of axocuting
commonors,--throttling with a hempen cord.
8

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.96)
about twonty-five thousand socialists throughout Japan at this tis
This spiritual union of the NIHON HEIMIN TO and the NON SH 
resulted in January, 1907, in the joint publication of the NIkn
HEIMIN SHIMBUN (Daily Commoners' Newspaper), which was promoted by
KOTOKU Shusui, NISHIK W Kojiro and SiKI Toshihiko and which received
literary contributions from such rising figures on the proletarian
front as ABE Isoo, KiTAYMA Son. OKUIY.: Takeyuki and OSUGI Sakae.
The graduation of tints and shades in the Japaneso proletarian
movoment began to show more clearly at the second goneral meeting of
the NIHON SHiK4I T0, held on 17 February 1907. at which a heated
ideological discussion cut the party into three distinct factions.
Tizo Tetsuji advocated promulgation of socialist roforms sololy by
parliamentary legislation. SkiI Toshihiko advocated promotion by
parliamontary mothods supplemented by direct action", Koroku Shusui
advocatod "dircct action" only, going evon so far as to roject univer-
sal manhood suffrage as a means toward the party's ends. Here in em-
bryo lay thc basic difforences botwoen left-wing, center and. right wing
proletarianism as they doveloped thenceforth through the yoars. When
a vote was taken, T.z had two supporters, SikiI twenty-oight and
KOTOKU twenty-two. The NIHON SH.JLI TO was ordered to dissolve. The
cdition of the NIKKCN HEIMIN SHIMBUN which published KOTOKJ's speech
was suppressed, but the newspaper continued despite official pressure
and financial difficulties. However, it too folded its tent in April,
two months after it had lost the party support.
After the domise of the NIKKN HEIMTN SHILBUN. the left-ving ideo-
logies wore perpetuated by the OS.KI HEIMIN SHIMBUN (Ósaka Commoners'
NeWspapor), later renamed the NIHON HEIMIN SHIMBUN (Japan Commoners'
Newspaper), Which was edited by MORICHIKi Umpoi*1 with tho assistance
of MiYiT Gaikotsu, and which received contributions from such left-
Wingers as KOTOKU Shusui, S.KiI Toshihiko and Y.M GUCHI Gizo. The
parlicmentarians KiTAY.Mi Sen, NISHIKWA Kojiro and TAZOE Totsuji in
turn voiced thoir ideas in the publication SHKiI SHIMBUN (Socialist
Nowspcpur).
Not to be forgotten in connection with the NIHaN SH. KiI TO was
the famous AKiHiTA JIKEN (Red Flag Incident) of 1908, because it is
cited today by the elephant-memoried loftists as one of tho early in-
justices perpetrated upon the proletarian movement. lthough the in-
cident occurred more than a year after the suppression of the party.
it had its beginning in a party-inspired demonstration against a riso
in Tokyo tram fares, in which Y M.GuChI Gizo was arrested for rabble-
rousing. Upon Y.MiGUCHI's relense from gaol on 22 June 1908 a welcome
perty was held by some of his frionds at the KINKI KiN (Glittering
Brocado Hotel) in Kanda. When the mecting dispersed e number of the
group marchod noisily through the stroets of Tokyo vaving rod flags.
In the cnsuing clash with the police tun men including RiH.T Katsuzo,
OSUGI Sakce, SKI Toshihiko and YMiR Hitoshi were arrested.
Placod on trial, the mon wore sontonced to twelve to cightoen months'
imprisonont. This incident had a direct bearing upon the immediate
devolopmont of oxtremist socialism in that it was cited by KOTOKU
Shusui and his collcagues as the prime incentive for their abortive
coup a' etat of 1910, vhich is commonly known as the KOTOKU JIKEN
(KOTOKU Incidont).
The ff air of KoTokU and his fello: conspirators, designated offi-
cially as tho D.IGY. KU JIKEN (The High Treason Case), was carefully
*1 MORICHIC. Umpoi was to bo executed with KOTOKU Shusui in January.
1911.
9

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.97)
hushod up because the nature of the plot was deemed detrimental to the
maintonance of public peace. The trials were secret and the facts of
the case beyond the names of the culprits and the sentences imposed upon
them have never been made public. Tho announoements rovealed that twenty-
five men and one woman had been arrested on a charge of high treason, that
the extreme ponalty had been deoreed for twenty-four including the women.
but that twelve of the doath sentences had by spocial disponsetion been
converted to life imprisonment. Public interpretation of tho incidont has
beon stated briefly by Morgan Young*1 in his book, Japan Under Taisho
Tonno, 1912-1926", published in 1928:
"Lator somo more extreme idoas came in from Russia, and in 1911
KOTOKU Shusui and elevon othors were executed, after a secret trial.
Thoy are supposed to have been guilty of a plot against the life of the
Emporor. The Russian extromists always thprenfter heted the Japenese
bureaucracy for thoso exocutions, oxhibiting, then that vondotta hatrod
which they adopted in their war against royalty. Royalty killod them
when it could; they killed royalty when they could. Authority rogerded
the anarchist as a vononous reptile; the anarchist rogarded authority as
a blood-thirsty tyrant."
The secrot trial records of "The High Treason Case," rosurrected
now for the first timo from the dusty dossiers of the Japanoso Ministry
of Justice, give- the official account of the affair. KoTOIU Shusui, had
been allicd with practically cvery proloterian political devclopnont since
the turn of the contury when ho was connocted with the SHAKAI SHUGI KENKYU
KAI (Socialism R scarch Socicty). After his roturn from a visit to the
Unitod Statos in 1906 ho turned rabidly against the parlianentary systom
as a moans to offcct governnontal reform and became an advocate of an-
archist "dircct action". It was KOTOkU's argument at tho 17 Fobruary
1907 meeting of the NIHoN SHaKaI TO (Japan Socialist Party) which vas
prinarily responsible for the supprossion of the party. He was in the
habit of declaring that somm day the "ccmrades of revolution" vould
rualizo by "dircct action" tho "anarchist ideals". Ho was particularly
indignant over the measures taken by the authoritics with respect to the
Rod Flag Incidont of 1908 and declared that the socialists must find some
moans of roprisal.
Returning to Tokyo from his ancestrial home in Kochi Kon. KOTOKU
passed through Shingu in Wakayama Ken, where he met OISHI Seinosuke,
NvUISHI Heishiro, SAKTKUBO Soiichi. TAKAGI Kemmyo end MINEO Setsudo,
a doctor, a storekeopor, a farmer and two priests respectively whose
ideas were sympathetic with his ovm. Continuing on toward Tokyo, he met
at Hakono, Kanagava Kon, UCHIy vi Gudo, a Buddhist priest with whon ho
discussed the Rod Flag Incident and to vhom he declared that plans must
bo mado to avenge. It is recorded that KoToiU told his confoderates in
Soptomber, 1909, that in order to effect a revolution he necded only about
fifty men to attack the Imperial Palace in Tokyo. drive off tho guards
and forco the Emperor to sign a rescript inplomenting his ideas,--exactly,
it will be notod, the plan of the Merch, 1931. progran for a rightist
coup d' ctat as described by TiaNiKi Kiyoshi. Yet it is doubtful if
KoToKU hinsolf intendcd to carry out any such plan, for he was slowly
dying of tuberculosis, and his fri ends were anxious that he should retiro
from all political activity to dovote hinself to the compilation of a
roformist history. Ho actually went into seclusion at Yugawera, Kanagawa
Ken, in March, 1910. when tho chief conspirators, FUHUKM Rikisaku,
MIY.SHITA Takichi, NIIAUR Tadao and the woman SUG.NO Suga, docided to
oxcludo hin fron the conspiracy.
Morgan Young was tho most knowledgoablo liberal forcign newsman that
Japan has over known. His Japen experience covered tho years 1912 to
1940. His "Kobe Chronicle" was the most censored paper in tho country.
Ho was a great man.
10

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
SUGNO Suga, the only woman conneoted with the plot, was a social-
ist of several years' standing. She had been arrested at the time of
the Red Flag Incident. Although acquitted of all charges, she had re-
tained her red-hot indignation at the treatment meted out to her friende
and had sworn revenge. It was tharefore understandable that she should
become attached to KoTokU and his group, who cried to avenge the Red Fle
Incident arrests. In due course she became KorokU's common-law wife.
MTYASHITA Takichi was a mechanic who became interested in social-
ism through reading the OSAKA HEIMIN SHIMBUN (Osaka Commoners' Newspaper
When he received several copies of the pamphlet NYUGOKU KINEN MUSEIFU
KYOSAN (In Remembrance of Imprisonment; Anarchiam and Communiam) by the
priest UCHIYAMA Gudo. he took them to Obu station of the Tokaido Rail-
wey Line and distributed them in a crowd gathered to watch the imperial
train pass by. Waxing ardent, he addressed the gathering on the subject
of anarchism. So long as he discussed his theme in the abstract the
crowd appeared to be interested, but when he narrowed his sub ject to an
attack on the imperial family his audience scattered. This apparontly
trivial incident causod MIYiHITh to decide that the first step toward
realization of communist ideals was the removal of the Emperor. Hence
he procceded to learn from an acquaintance how to manufacturo an ex-
plosive, and with NIIlURA Tadao, a twenty-three-year-old farmer whom ho
had met at KoTokU's homo, he made some bombs from two pounds of potassiw
chloride, three pounds of realgar and some crude tin containers. After
MIYASHIT and NIIMRA had admired the officacy of their product in the
mountein fastnesses of Nagano Ken, they reported their readinoss for
action to their confodorates in Tokyo in January. 1910.
UCHIYAA Gudo the priest was at first averso to violence. He plan-
ned a procram of mass education by secret publication of revolutionary
literaturc. His panphlet NYUGOKU KINEN MUSEIFU KYOSAN (In Remembrance
of Imprisonment; Ancrchism and Communism) was widely distributed. It
would seom that ho practicod whet ho preached in the minutiae of daily
life; when asked during trial why he had pasted a portrait of the im-
perial family on the wall of the rivy in his homo ho roplied. That was
dono through carclessness. It had no special significanco. Later he
appoared to chango his vie:s; when he heard of the KoTokU plot, he ad-
vised tho assassination of the Cron Prince instead of the Emperor in
order to kill two birds with one stone: "When the 'oyaji' (the father)
hears of the death of tho 'segere' (the son)", he said, "the 'oyaji'
will die of shock"*1.
It was docided to attack the imperial coach in tho autumn when the
Emperor should proceod to his annual inspection of the Imperial Guards
Rogiment. With this in view MIYASHITi prepared a map of tho routo which
Would be followed by the Imperial Cortege. But the plot was discovered
in the summer. The twenty-six conspirators wore arrested ond a soarch
of thoir quartors revealed twenty-four empty soup tins and ono-third of
a pound of the oxplosive mixture.
Tho actual plot to assassinate the Emperor or the Crown Prince was
mado by only four peoplo. FURUKAWA Rikisaku, MIY. SHITA Takichi. NIIMURA
Tadao and suGiNo Suga. The other conspirators were all associatod with
KOTOKU Shusui and his ideology. cither parsonally or simply as readors
of the anarchist ppor OSAK! HEDIN SHIMBUN odited by OKUMIYA Takeyuki.
Most of thom could hardly be callod conspirators. Thoy came from all
valks of life, including a doctor, three Buddhist priests and OKUMIY
Takeyuki, vho had published the OSiKA HEIMIN SHIMBUN. The reason given
unanimously by tho accusod for thoir actions was that superstitious wor-
ship of tho Emperor must bo dostroyed beforo Japen could hope to attain
*1 This language alone was sufricient to conviet UChIYiMA.
11

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
a rational political life. The trials were held in secret. Judgements
were pronounced on 18 January 19ll, but some of the sentences were im-
mediately converted. The eventual sentences were:
Name
Age Profession
Original
Sentence
Sentense
Imposed
FURUKAWA Rikisaku
26
Horticulturist
Death
Strangulation
KOTOKU Shusui
39
Writer
Death
Strangulation
ILATSUO Uichita
31
Farmer
Death
Strangulation
MIYASHITA Takichi
35
Mechanic
Death
Strangulation
MORICHIKA Umpei
29
Farmer
Death
Strangulation
NARUISHI Heishiro
28
Storekeeper
Death
Strangulation
NIIMI Uichiro
31
Unemployed
Death
Strangulation
NIIMURA Tadao
23
Farmer
Death
Strangulation
OISHI Seinosuke
43
Medical Doctor
Death
Strangulation
OKU.IY Takeyuki
52
Unemployed
Death
Strangulation
SUGANO Suga
29
Common-law wife
Death
Strangulation
of KOTOKU
UCHIYAMA Gudo
36
Buddhist Priest
Death
Strangulation
KOMATSU Ushimatsu
34
Poultry man
Death
Life
LIINEO Setsudo
25
Buddhist Priest
Death
Life
NTURA Yasutaro
22
Tinsmith
Death
Life
NARUISHI Kanzaburo
30
Druggist and
Death
Life
Farmer
CKABAYASHI Toramatsu*1 34
Hospital
Death
Life
employce
OKAMOTO Eiichiro
30
Electric Com-
Death
Life
pany employee
SASAKI Dogen
21
Unemployed
Death
Life
SAkoo Soima*1
25
Typesotter
Death
Life
SAKIKUBO Seiichi
25
Farmer
Death
Life
TAK/GI Kemmyo
47
Buddhist Priest
Death
Life
TAKED. Kuhei
35
Motal engraver
Death
Life
TOBDTSU Yojiro
21
Unomployed
Death
Life
NIIMURA Zembei
29
Farmor
8 yoars
5: years
NITTA Yuzuru
30
Mechanic
11 years
62 years
This was the first high troason case in molern Japanese histcry
and was therefore important. Although the sentences cannot be said to
have been unusually severe in terms of the letter of the law, they were
a great shock to the country, which recalled that no violence had ac-
tually taken place. Thoroughly frightened, the left-wing socialists re-
tired temporarily from active duty, to operate subversively as members
of the BiIBUN SH (Vendors of Letters Society), led by R. HiT Katsuzo.
OSUGI Sakae, SAKI Toshihiko, TK.B.TAKE Motoyuki and YAM.KWA Hitoshi.
On the other hand, in November, 19ll, the right-wing socialists,
who had r mained very much in the background of the political agitation,
formed the JINJI SOD.N SHO (PersonaI Froblems: Consultation Office) under
the auspices of tho Unitarian Church of Tokyo, of which BE Isoo was
president. This "consultation office", supervised by SUZUKI Bunji, was.
as its name implied, a place where the working man could ask advice with
regard to his personal affairs. The JINJI SOD.N SHO in turn developed
into the YUI KI (Friendly Society)*2. This YUI KI was inaugurated
*1
SAKMOTO Seima (62) and OKBiYASHI Toramatsu (71), the only surviv-
ing members of KoTOkU's group, were reinstated to full civil rights
on 24 February 1947. The YOMIURI SHIMBUN. with tongue in choek, de-
clared that they were just in time to run for the 1947 elections.
*2
The YU.I KiI was highly important because it developed into the
NIHON RODO SODO.EI (Japan Federation of Labor).
12

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
CHAPIER II
THE LEFT WING SHEDS ITS PIN-FEATHERS
1918-1923
The first World War and Japan's alignment with the Allied Powers
gave impetus to democratic and proletarian ideologies. The magazines
and newspapers of the day competed with one another to print the writ-
ings of liberal professors" such as YOSHINO Sakuzo, FUKUDA Tokuzo,
OYAMA Ikuo and MORITO Tatsuo, and of figures like NITOBE Inazo, later
Under-Secretary-General of the League of Nations, and HasEGAWA Manjiro,
editorial writer of the OSΛkA ASAHI better known by his pen-name
NYOZEKiN (The-Easy-Going-Fellow). This democratic tendency. plus the
uneasy forebodings of economic difficulties aroused by the rice riots
of 1918, greatly assisted the YUI KiI (Friendly Society) in increas-
ing its membership.
On the other hand the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the German
Revolution of 1918 focused world attention on "anarchism" or "communism",
which to all appearances had disappeared from the Japanese political
sceno after the KOTOKU Shusui Incident of 1910. Marxism was formally
introduced to the country by KiliKa.I Hajime, professor at Kyoto Im-
perial University, in his SH.KiI MONDiI KENKYU (Study of Social Prob-
lems) of l919. This revival of leftist extremism spurred the govern-
ment to counter action and the conservative groups to opposition. The
nationalistic societies and leagues which spearheaded this opposition
varied in intensity of purpose from the comparatively mild introvert
societios which devoted thomselves to orientel studies in the hope of
building up the culture of the East against imported radical idess to
the revolutionary extrovert groups which adopted a policy of aggressive
oxpansionist reform. Some of the nationclists vere mere ultra-conserva-
tives who did not wish to see the old order change and who worked for
social improvements under the old forms of Japanese society while others
set up fanatically anti-comnunist organizations. Still others, enam-
ored of the possibilitios of soçialism or communism as a panacca for
the agrarian and industrial cvils of the country but unable to break
with the past. tried to combine the two ideologies. i fourth catogory
played upon the discontent of the masses to plot revolutionary reforms
by "direct action".
The SEIYUKAI Cabinet of H.RA Kei, formed on 29 September 1916, was
lauded by the liberals of the day as the first political party govern-
ment after the long series of peers, gencrals, adairals and senior
statesmen in the premior's chair. This attitude immediately drew fire
from the dyed-in-the-vool conservative nationalists. An cditorial in
the ASAHI SHIiBUN (Asahi Newspaper) which praised the democratic policy
of appointing a promier from the ranks of the ma jority party in tho
Diet raised the particular ire of the GENYo SH. (Dark Sea Socicty) of
TOYALA Mitsuru and of the KOKURYU KAI (mur River Society) of UCHIDA
Ryohei. These societies held meetings in Tokyo and Osaka to impeach
the SHI newspaper. MURY.M Ryuhei, the president of the SHI, was
attacked by mombers of the KOKURYU K.I, who tied him to e telegraph polo
in Nakanoshima Park, Osaka.
YOsHINO Sakuzo, professor at Tokyo Imperial University, proceeded
to criticize the actions of the KOKURYU KiI in the CHUO KORON (Central
Review) and thereby further incensed the nationalists. Tho GENYo SH.
and the KOKURYU KI thereupon joined forces to form the RONIN KiI (Ronin
Society) and challenged YOSHINO to an open debate on nationalist and
proletarian idoologies. That the challenge was accepted and that the
debate onded in the completo defeat of the RONIN KiI groups is still a
chorished momory in the minds of the gray-haired liberals and socialists
of today.
14

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.97)
As an outcome of the debate the ReIkI KaI (New Dawn Society)
and the SHINJIN KAI (New Man Society) were established in December.
1918. The members of the RII KI included:
NEZAKI Masaharu, professor at Tokyo Imperial University
FUKUD Tokuzo, professor at Keio University
MRITO Tatsuo, professor at Tokyo Imperial University
NITOBE Inazo, later Under-Secretary-General of the League of Nations
SODA Kiichiro, professor at Waseda University
TAKAHASAI Seiichiro, professor at Keio University
URABE Momotaro, professor at Keio University
WATaNABE Tetsuzo, professor at Tokyo Imperial University
YOSHINO Sakuzo, professor at Tokyo Imperiel University
The SHINJIN KAI was composed of YOSHINU's students. including ASO
Hisashi, AKAMATSU Katsumaro, IY.KI Ryusuke and many others who came
to play leading parts in the right wing of socialiam.
About the same time the L INJIN DuEI (Citizens' League) was pro-
moted at Waseda University by AS.NUMA Ine jiro, KITAZAA Shinjiro. KONDO
Eizo. OYMA Ikuo, T.KTSU Seido (Masamichi). and others who were like-
wise to become important in the proletarian movement. This league soon
split into two groups, the KENSETSU S DQEI (Constructors' League)
led by ASANU. Ine jiro and KIT.WA Shinjiro. and the GYOLIII K.I (Citi-
zens of Dawn Society) led by KOnDO Eizo and T.K.TSU Seido. This separa-
tion was a typioal parting of the ways toward the right and the left.
As the GYOMIN KAI veered more and more strongly toward communism, many
of its members were apprehended, in 192l. This first large-scale appre-
hension became known as the GYOmIN KYUS.N TO JInEN (Citizens of Dawn
Commuunist Perty Incident).
In 1919 S0 Hisashi and T.N.H.HI Kotora. both members of the SHIN.
JIN K.I. joined the seven-year-old YU.I K.I (Friendly Society) to take
part in its reorganization. So Hisashi end T-av..H SiI Kotora were fol-
lowed into the Yu..I KaI group by a number of young men eager to partake
in labor movomonte. At the society's generel meeting of 31 August 1919
it was renemed the D.I NIHON RODO SODEI YU.I K.I (Great Japan Federa-
tion of Labor Friendly Society). This title was again changed to NIHON
RUDO SODOEI YUAI K.I (Japan Federation of Labor Friendly Society) by
dropping the "DaI" (Greet) in 1920. ! third change in the name of this
group was to take place in 1923 when the "YUI KiI" was eliminated and
the association became a full-fledged power on the labor front. The
NIHON RODO SUDOLEI (Japan Federation of Labor) was to last as the most
influential union until its dissolution by police order in 1940. and was
to be reborn after the war. It was to be a constant target of the extrem
right as well as the extreme left because it always advocated cooperation
between capital and labor. lthough the YU.I KI was perhaps the most ac.
tive of the labor groups at this time, it was by no meens the only one,
for other associations were likewise inereasing their membership, and new
societies were forming. notably the extremely radical SHINYU K.I (Faithfu
Friends Society) of SUGIZAKI Kunitaro. MIZUNUM! Tatsuo and the anarchist
OsUGI Sakae, e reorganization of a union of Roman alphabet typesetters whi
had been operating since 1907.
In 1919. under the SEIYUKI cabinet of H.R.. Kei, many factions in
Japanese politics felt that the time was ripe for Japan to adopt univer-
sal manhood suffrage. Suffrage bills were introduced both by the KENSEI
KI (Constitutional Government Society), predecessor to the LMINSEITo,
and by the KOKUMIN TO (People's Party). an offshoot of the SEIYUK I
under the leadership of INuk I Tsuyoshi. Although both bills were de-
feated in the Diet, the movement for universal suffrege became the
fashion of the day. Labor unions throughout the country participated in
the agitation until the activities of the extremists beceme so boisterous
15

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.96)
that many conservative organizations, like the YUal KaI, decided to
withdraw from politics altogether for the time being.
After the first Japanese May Day demonstration, which took place
in 1920, the RODO KULIAI DOMEI KAI (Labor Unions League) was organized
by nine of the most influential labor unions:
DAISHIN KAI (Great Progress Association)
HWRO KAI (Universal Labor Association), a union of Tokyo Arsenal
vorkers
KIlEI KI (Enlightenment issociation), a union of primary school
teachers promoted by SHIMONAK Yasaburo
KOJIN K.I (Workers Society), a union of naval arsenal workers
KOYU KI (Workers' Friends Association)
NIHON KOTSU RODO KU.I.I (Japan Transport Workers Union)
SHINYU KI (Faithful Friends Society), a type-setters' guild
SHOSHIN K.I (Straight Progress Association), a union of printers
NIHOI RODO SODOi.EI YU..I K.I (Japan Federation of Labor Friendly
Society)
It soon transpired that the objoct of the extremists in permitting the
two unions under their control, the SHINYU X.I and the SHOSHIN KI, to
join this league of conservative factions was to draw the strongest of
the unions, the NIHON RODO SODOMEI YU.I K.I, into their camp. NIHON
RODO SODOI.EI YU.I K.I promptly withdrew from the congress in 1921.
gain, in September, 1920, another amalgamation, the NIHON SHKI
SHUGI DOMEI (Japan Socialist League), was proposed to present a united
proletarian front by:
Promoter
Socicty or Union Represented
AKILTSU Katsumaro
SHINJIN K.I (NeW Man Society)
RiFT.. Katsuzo
S0 Hisashi
NIHON RODO SODOMEI YU..I K.I (Japan
Federation of Labor Friendly Socioty)
FURUKW.. Katsura
SHOSHIN KI (Straight Progress Associa-
tion)
ESHTUR.. Tokio
HOKKO JICHI KI (North City Self-
Covernment Society)
HITTORI Hame ji
RODO KUMI.,I KENKYU KI (Labor Union
Reseerch Association)
ISi Sakutaro
HOKUFU K.I (North Wind Society)
K.TO Kazuo
KTO Kan ju
NIHON RODO SODEI YU.I KI (Japan
Federation of Labor Friendly Society)
KONDO Kon ji
TOICYO RODO UNDO DONEI (Tokyo Labor
Movement League)
KYOT NI Shuichi
KOFU SODOLEI (Minors' Federation)
M.EG... Nitoi
KOTSU RODO KU I I (Transport Vorkers'
Union)
LZUNUM. Tatsuo
TOKYO RODO KUNLLI DOHEI K:I (Tokyo
Labor Unions League)
NOBUSHIM, Eiichi
SHINYU K..I (Faithful Friends Society)
OB: Kako
CHOS KUK. KUML.I (uthors' Union)
OK: Chiyohiko
QSUGI Sakae
SHILLN.Ki Yuzo
BUNK: G.KU KI (Cultural Stndy Associa-
tion)
T..B..KE Motoyuki
T.ISHU SH.. (Masses Society)
TKPSU Scido
GYOMIN KI (Citizens of Dawm Society)
T. MUR., Daishu
FUSHIN Kai (Holp the Faith Socicty of
UED. Kotaro
Hosei University)
16

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
WADA Iwao
KENSETSU SHA DOMEI (Construotor's
League of Waseda. Úniversity)
WATANABE Mitsuzo
TOKEI KO KUMIAI (Watchmakers' Union)
YAMAKAWA Hitoshi
YALAZAKI Kesaya
YOSHIDA Tada ji
YOKOHAMA AKAHATA KAI (Red Flag
YOSHIKWA LMorikuni
Society of Yokohama)
Three thousand applications for membership were received. The inaugur-
al meeting took place on 9 December 1920. After the second general
meeting in May,l92l, the league was ordered to disband because its left-
wing elements were becoming too obstreperous. After the dissolution
the division between the anarchists and communists on the one hand and
the conservatives on the other became more pronounced.
On 30 September 1922 a third attempt was made to reconcile the
various factions in the proletarian movement when the NIHON RODO KULILI
SORENGO SORITSU TIKI (Inaugural Mecting of the General Alliance of
the Labor Unions of Japan) was convened with an attendance of represen-
tatives from some sixty unions including the left-wing GYOmmN KiI
(Citizens of Dawn Society), the right-wing SHINJIN KiI (New lian Society)
and the left-wing ZENEI SH. (Front Line Society). The meeting witness-
ed the usual quarrel. The RODO KUMLAI DOMEI KiI (Labor Unions League)
insisted officiously that the NIHON RODO SODOMEI (Japan Federation of
Labor) should undergo a fundamental reorganization to make each com-
ponont union en autonomous body. The NIHON RODO SODO.EI retorted that
it would brook no such meddling on the part of an outside organization
and that its member unions must remain as branches of its national
headquarters.
This quostion of roorganization of the NIHON RODO SODOMEI, however.
was not the only point of disagreement between the two factions. Liore
fundamental, important and typical were their attitudes toward the suf-
frage and the International Labor Conference at Geneva. Since the anar-
chistic left recognized no weapon except direct economic action,it de-
niod both tho desirability of increasing the electorate and the possi-
bilities of international labor arbitration. The right wing, represonted
by the NIHON RODO SODOMI, which had risen from the school of Unitarian
social sorvice, however, stood for legal parliamentarianism, wes a pil-
lar of strength in the fight for the suffrage law, and indeed supplied
most of the Japanese represontatives to the International Labor Confer-
ences throughout the years.
In the wake of the Great Earthquake of 1 September 1923 came the
climination of the last great anarchist onemy of conservative proletar-
ianism in Japan, OSUGI Sakac. The story of bare-handed strangulation
and body-snatching horrified the nation and titillated the ideological
imaginations of the netionalists. OsuGI had been a leader of the ex-
treme left fron theearly days, having first goined prominence as a
literary contributor to the NIKCN HEIMIN HIABUN (Daily Commonors'
Newspaper) in 1907. Morgan Young aptly doscribes him as " a man of
poworful mind, profoundly road in all rovolutionary literature and with
a fanetical devotion to individual liverty." After breaking diplomatic
relations with a mistress*1 who hed attempted to murder him in jealous
rago, he had takon as his common-law wifo ITo Noo, a fiory damsol whoso
political convictions matched his own and who had deserted her lavful
mate to join him. During the groat firo which followed tho Septombor
1923 quake a large crowd surged toward the Imperial Palace park in en
 OSUGI Sakae's murdorous mistress, KMICHIK) Ichiko, who served two
years in prison for her attempt to cut him up, threw her hat into
the political ring in 194? when she ran for the Diet.
17

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.97)
effort to escape the flames. When the police and the paleee guards at-
tempted. to hold back the mob, many people wore arrested. Although OBUGI
was not among tho number, an cver-zeajous gendarmerie captain named
AllaKASU Masahiko ncted tho omission, sought OSUGI out on 15 Septembor
and arrested him, his wife and Noe's seven-year-old nophow who was liv-
ing with the family. At the Kojimachi gendarmerie station AMAkASU,
accompenied by two non-commissioned military policemen, visited the OSUGI
family in their cells, strangled all three with his naked hands, and
threw their bodios into an unused well. During iAkasU's court-martial
the defonce counsel emphasized the patriotic motive of the orime and
the extremist lifc histories of the victims, but to no avail in the
light of evidence of cold-blooded sadistic murder. MikAsU*1 recoived
a sentence of ten years' imprisonment.
As if to prolong OSUGI's hectic career, he and his family were not
allowed to go quietly to their graves. After the bodies had been dis-
covored, cromatod and delivered to thoir friends, a funeral was plannod
at tho headquarters of tho RODO UNDO SH.: (Labor Movoment Society) in
Hongo, Tokyo. During preparations, IW.T Fumio and members of his
ultra-nationalist T.IK. KiI (Great Chango Society) invaded the premisos
and made off with the common urn. Although tho polico cventually re-
triovod the ashos and saw to it that the asUGI remains were properly
intorred, the ovent proved an exciting topic of the day.
Tho disappcarance of the "anarchists" from the political scene did
not mean that the NIHON RODO SODoiiEI and other conservative elemonts in
tho proletarian front were left unmolested. Tho attack from the anar-
chist camp was followed by doublo attack from the newly idontifiod com-
munist caap r prcsonted by the subversivo NIHON KYOS.N TO (Japan Com-
munist Party) incugurated in July, 1922, and by nationalist roform
groups, of which the number was steadily growing year by year. Moreover,
when manhood suffrage becamo a cortainty in 1923, this signal victory
meant that the proletarian movomont in Japan had attainod political
maturity and must henceforth fight its battles on an oqual footing with
the old-line political parties, the SEIYU KI and the MINSEI TO.
What has never been pointed out to the public is that hLiK.sU was
quiotly relocsod from prison in a very short time. In 1927 he was
seen aboard the "Hakusan Maru" traveling incognito from London to
Marseillos, a strunge purformanco in itsolf since few poople choose
to go by water from Britain to Southern Europo. In 1932 he was
diroctor of tho Police ffairs Bureau of the Public Poace Department
of Manchukuo. In 1936 ho was Chiof of the Coneral ffairs and Plon-
ning Bureau of the L NCHUKOKU KYOW: KAI (Manchukuo Concordia Associa-
tion). In 1939 he was Managing Diroctor of tho Manchukuo Liotion
Picture Corporation. Although he was never shown in any Japanese
official record or "Who's Who" after the murders, the Ihnchukuo
Yearbook of 1942 listed his career in some detail, corefully avoid-
ing all reference to the OSuGI incident. After the 1945 Japanese
surrender, et a final meeting of the MNCHUKOKU KYOW K.I, MAKASU
appeared as a speaker. Placing a revolver against his tomple, ho
cried, "Let me show you how to die!" and blow out his brains before
tho eyes of his audiencc.
18

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.97)
CHAPTER III
THE COMMINISTS AND THE SOCIALISTS SHOW THEIR COLORS
1922 - 1932
Meanwhile preparations for the organization of a Japanese commu-
nist political party as a branch of the Third International were initia-
ted in April, 1922, by ARAHaTA Katsuzo, HASHIURA Tokio, KONDO Eizo,
TAKiTSU Seido and YAliAKWA Hitoshi, all well-known figures on the pro-
letarian front.  KOvDo Eizo, TAKASE Kiyoshi and TOkUDA Kyuichi under-
took to obtain funds and instructions from the Far Eastern Bureau of
the Comintern in Shanghai. Thus the first NIHON KYOSAN TO (Japan
Communist Party) was convened on 15 July 1922 with four planks in its
platfcrm:
Abolition of the Tenno System.
2.
Adoption of universal suffrage.
3.
Freedom of speech, press, assembly and association; abolition
of anti-labor laws; and'liberty to organize labor unions.
4.
Confiscation of land belonging to the Imperial Household,
temples and large owners.
While the list of officials of the new party was in itself an
interesting grouping of names, the offices held provided a key to the
manner in which the organization proposed to set about its business:
SHIKKO IIN CHO (Executive Committee Chairman):- SAKiI Toshihiko
SHIKKO IIN HISHO (Executive Committee Secretary):- NiKiZONE Genwa
KOKUSI GIKO IIN (International Liaison Member):-SANO Manabu
SEIJI BU IIN (Political Section Member):- HiSHIUR Tokio
GUNTI BU IIN (Army Section Member):- ICHIK.WA Yoshio
RODO BU IIH (Labor Section Member):- WATANiBE Masanosuke
NOSOr BU ID (gricultural Village Section Member):- URiT Takeo
G.KUSEI BU II (Student Section Member):- INOM T Tsunao
OS.K.: SHIBU CHO (Osaka Branch Chief):- KOIW..I Kiyoshi
KYOTO SHIBU CHO (Kyoto Branch Chief):- TSUJII Taminosuke
In other words the party intended to concentrate its efforts upon army,
farm and student groups in general and upon the metropolitan populations
of Tokyo, Osaka and Kyoto in particular, a pattern typical of extremism
the world over. This pattern was further developed by the formation
of the first labor movement directed from Moscow, the RiFUTo (Left) in
March, 1922, and by the organization of the NIHON KYOS N SEINEN DOMEI
(Japan Comnunist Youth League)*1 in pril, 1923.
*工
The NIHON KYOS.N SEINEN DOEI (Japan Communist Youth League) was
first organizod in April, 1923, but died out five months later vhen
its leader KiW..I Yoshitora was killed in the September earthquake.
It was revived in July, 1925 after KITiUR. Sontaro, vho had been in
Russia since 1922, roturncd with ordors from the International Comnu-
nist Youth League(familiarly known as KIM) to organize a branch in
Tokyo. Promoters vore KIT.URi. TOKUD.. Kyuichi and WAT.N..BE Masa-
nosuke; tho Contral Conmittee was composed of KITURA, K.T.YiM. Mine-
to and KISHINo Shigeharu. Successive attempts to promulgate the
League in Japan were unsuccessful because of arrest of would-be
leaders, but contacts with KIM were well maintained. S.iNO Hiroshi
became a member of the Orient Soction of KIM vhon he vent to Russia
in May, 1926. NiKi0 Katsuo intorviewed the Orient Section Chief be-
fore his roturn from Moscow in July, 1927. SNo Hiroshi and Yil-
MOTO Konzo attended the 5th General Meeting of KIM in Jugust and
Soptomber, 1928. When the Japan Communist Party was reorganized in
1931, KoN0 Yojiro, in charge of the Youth Section, reestablished
tho league under the leadership of MIY.GW Torao and GENGOROMRU
19

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
In September, 1922, TAKasE Kiyoshi wont to Russia to present the
"provisional rules" of the Japan Communist Party to the Fourth World
General Meeting of the Comintern. These "rules" were formally approved,
and the Japan Communist Party was duly accepted as a branch of the
Third International. In November, 1922, the Comintern developed the
party program into a detailed declaration of aims which incorporated.
sometimes twice or thrice for emphasis, practically every demand which
has been made by the Japanese masses from that day to this:
1. Political Objectives:
a.
Abolition of the monarchy
b.
Abolition of the House of Peers
C.
Universal suffrage for men and women over 18 years of age
d.
Freedan to organize labor unions, political parties,
workers' clubs, et cetera
0.
Freedom of speech, press and association
f.
Freedom of assembly in and out of doors
g.
Freedom to hold demonstrations
h.
Freedom to strike
i.
Abolition of the army, the police, the gendarmerio, the
secret police and all such police authoritios
2. Economic objectives:
a.
Enforcement of an eight-hour working dey
b.
Esteblishment of labor insurance, including unemployment
insurance
C.
Establishment of a minimum vage and a minimum standard of
living
d.
Control of production by factory committees
C.
Recognition of labor unions as public organizations by the
nation in general and by the capitalists in particular
3. Agrarian and financial objectives:
a.
Transfer of ounership of land held by the emperor, by
temples and by great land-holders to the state
bo
Issuance of bonds to aid impoverished farmers
C.
Promulgation of a graduated income tax
d.
Establishment of speciel luxury taxes
The first general meeting of the Japan Communist Party*l was held
on 4 February 1923 at Ichikawa, Chiba Ken. The second general meeting.
held on 15 March 1923 at Shakujii, Tokyo Fu, was attended by all who
(continued from previous page)
Yoshiharu and sent GEvGOROMi RU to Russia for orders. ISHII Teruo
took GENGOROi RU's place when the latter was errested on 1 December
1932. after returning to Japen in April.
*1
The first general meeting of the Communist Party of Japan was
attended by ARAH.TA Katsuzo, H.SHIUR. Tokio. KW/UCHI Tadahiko.
KONDO Eizo. N.K..ZONE Genwa. S.K.I Toshihiko, S.NO Manabu.
TDOKORO Tokiaki, T K.SE Shigeki, T..KTSU Seido. TSUJII Taminosuke,
URAT Takeo, WT NBE Mitsuzo and YOSHIKW Morikuni.
20

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.96)
had been present at the first meeting plus several new names*1. Po-
lice records show that at this period the party was composed of ten
cells and fifty-eight members. But in June, 1923. the party as such
was practicelly exterminated by the general arrest of its leaders in
what is known as the first communist mass arrest. So in March, 1924,
ARAHAT4 Katsuzo, ICHIKAWA Shoichi, NOZAKA Sanzo. TOkUDA Kyuiohi and
WATANBE Masanosuke, who had been released from prison on parole, de-
cided that the time was not yet ripe for formal political activity.
They dissolved the party forthwith and formed a bureau2 in prepara-
tion for a second coming.
In August, 1925, at a meeting he1d in the home of S.N0 Manabu.
at tended by RH.T.. Katsuzo, KIT.UR.. Sentaro, LLNIW Suekichi. SNO
Manabu, TOkUD. Kyuichi and W.T.N..BE Masanosuke, a break in the party
resulted in the withdrewal of a number of former communist leaders,
including RiH.T.. Katsuzo, SKiI Toshihiko and Y.IWkiW.. Hitoshi. to
form the RONO L. (Labor-Farmer Group). The Communist Bureau was forth-
with abolished and was replaced by the so-called KYOSiN SHUGI DN
(Communist Group), with a definite political organization similar to
that of the first Communist Party:
CHUO IIN CHO (Central Committee Chariman): TOKUD: Kyuichi
SEIJI BU CHO (Political Section Chief) and Editor of the
MUS.N SH. SHILIBUN (Proletarian Paper): S.NO Manabu
KUM.I BU CHO (Unions Section Chief): W.T.N..BE Masanosuke
SEINEN BU CHO (Youth Section Chief): KITUR Sentaro
K NS.I CHIHO SHIKKO IIN CHO (Kansai District Executive
Committee Chairman): RiHiT Katsuzo
is a result of the secessions from the party, TokuD Kyuichi was sent
to Moscor in Decembor, 1925, to obtain instructions for reorganization.
Upon his return in June, 1926, the instructions were accepted at a
moeting in the bed of the Usui River near Isobe, Gumma Ken, attended
by ICHIK.W.. Shoichi, K.W.D.. Konji, N.KiO Katsuo, S.NO Fumio and
ToIUD.. Kyuichi. It was decided to hold tho inaugural meeting of the
second Japan Communist Farty in Fobruary, 1927, but orders from Moscow
to organize immediately hastencd the plans. ftor a quick series of
meetings on the part of the usual small group of egitators, the new
party was inaugurated on 4 December 1926 at Goshiki Hot Spring. Yama-
gata Ken*3, where the Central Committee*4 set up its duties in the
*1 The second general meeting of the Japan Communist Party was attonded
by R.H. T.. Katsuzo. HiSHIUR. Tokio, K.W.UCHI Tadahiko, KONDO Eizo,
N.K.ZONE Genwa, S.KI Toshihiko. S. NO Nanabu, T.DOKORO Tokiaki,
T.K.SE Shigeki, T.K.TSU Seido, TSU JII Taminosuke, UR.T. Takoo,
WiT.N.BE Mitsuzo, YOSHIKW Morikuni, ICHIKMA Yoshio. NISHI Masao.
NOZ KI Sanzo, T.KNO Take ji. WT.N.BE Masanosuke and Y.MLMOTO Kenzo.
*2
Mombers of this Communist Bureau vere Noz Ki Sanzo, SiNo Manabu
and To UD. Tyuichi. It should be noted that two of the three great
figures of post-war Japanose Conmunisn had already established then-
solvos in the party history in the earliest days of the movement,
NOZK Sanzo and ToIUD. Kyuichi. SNO later recanted.
*3
Present at Goshiki were FUKUmOTO Kazuo, FUJII Tetsuo. KADOY Hiroshi,
KTAYM Mincto, KIIRI Toratoro, KIKUD. Zengoro, KOKURYO Goichiro,
KUSKiBE Chiyoichi, M.TSUO Naoyoshi, HITUR. Shiro, MIZUNO Hisao,
NNO Hisao. NAKiO Katsuo, S.ITO Hisao, SNO Funio, TOYOD. Naoshi
and WiT.NiBE Masanosuke.
*4
Police records of this period ake the first montion of Koho Shi
(Candidates), e gr up of resorve londers duly slected to fill the
shoes of monbers of the Centr^! Committee in case of arrests. This
beccno an ostablished custon of the Japan Conmunist Party which was
readopted whon the party came legaily into tho open after the 1945
surronder.
21

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
usual patterni-
Chairman of Central Committee, Chairman of Agrarian Seotion:
SANO Funio
Chairman of Political Section, Propaganda Section, Political
Party Section, Intelligentsia Section: FUKUMOrO Kazuo
Chairman of Organization Section, Unions Section:
WATANABE Masanosuke
Editor of MUSAN SHA SHIMBUN (Proletarian Paper). Chairman of
Farty Paper Saction: SANO Manabu
Representative in Japan of Comintern: ToKUDA Xyuichi
The presence on the committee of FUKUMOTO Kazuo, who had resigned his
post as rofessor at Yamaguchi Commercial College to enter the party.
is interesting because he was the central figure in the struggle with
the Ravo Ha. This struggle was considered of sufficient inportance to
warrant dispatch of NAKAO Katsuo, KAWAI Etsuzo, FUKUMOTO Kazuo.
WaTAvABE Masanosuke and SANO Manabu to Moscow during December, 1926.
and early l92? in successive attempts to find a solution to the argu-
ment and to draw the recalcitrant leaders back into the fold.
The members of the former Communist Bureau who had turned their
red coats inside out and paraded in pretty pink linings advocated a
moderation of the party's policies which would make the group accept-
able as a legal political party to the authorities and to the country
at large. Whereas the communist regulars held to their theory that the
root of all social evils lay in the Tenno system as the backbone of
feudalism and looked to the overthrow of the Emperor, YALsKWA Hitoshi
and his friends proclaimed that the system of empire was a hand-maiden
to capitalism and emphasized the necessity for an economic revolution.
The scarlet extremism of FUKliiOTo Kazuo, SNO Kanabu and the far-
leftists ceme to be known as "FUKUMOTO SHUGI" (Fukumoto-ism), whilo
the platform of the conservatives was called "YiliAKW) SHUGI" (Yamakawa-
ism) or RONO SHUGI (Labor-Farmer Doctrine). s YLKiWA's ideology
faded to flush-pink socialism, the clique of which he was the leader
became known as the RONO H. (Labor-Farmer Group).
Comintern representatives in Japan attempted mediation between the
FUKULIOTO group and the YAAKAWA group but without success. In July,
1927, a special Japan Communist Party comaission was established to
investigate the quarrel and to decide what attitude the Party should
assume towerd it. The commission decreed. "It is essential for the
Communist Party to develop as an independent organization. On this
point YAAKAWA's mistake must be corrected. On the other hand FUIU OTO's
theory would divorce the party from the masses. In future the party
must strive for a foothold among the people". This was obviously an
attempt to. persuade the two factions to kiss and make up. but neither
sido was mollified. FUKJliOTo and his friends continued their attack on
the secessionists in the Communist Party organs "Marxism" end "MUSAN
SHA SHIMBUN" (Froletarian Paper), while YAMaKAWA and his people pub-
lished their counter-assult in their magazine the "Rono" (Labor-
Farner)*1.
By withdrawal from tho Japan Communist Party the secessionists
severed all connections with the Comintern International. The group,
as such, was never a political party but rather an ideological clique
1
The "RONO", established in October, 1927, had as its oditoriel staff
ADACHI Katsuaki, ΛONO Suekichi, ARAHATA Katsuzo, INOATA Tsunao,
KOBORI Jinji. KURODA Hisao. OMORI Yoshitero, SAKI Toshihiko and
SUZUKI Mosaburo, to whom were later added HiSHIURA Tokio. IN.MUR
Junzo, ITO Yoshimichi, KITUR.. Sentaro, NONKA Seishi, OGIWR Atsuo,
OKD Soji. TKNO Minoru, TORIUKI tsusuke and YOSHIKIW Morikuni.
22

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.97)
of social evangelists who sought to bring about political and social
reforms by education of the masses. The principles and objectives of
the RONO HA, voiced by YAliakaWA and published in the first issue of
the RONO, were quoted in the 1938 SHAKAI UNDO NO JOKYO (Report on
Social Movements) of the Police Bureau of the Home Ministry:
That the target of our political war is the political power
which rests in the hands of the bourgeoisie is so clear that
it needs little comment . The capitalistic development of
our country has reached a state in which power is a mono-
poly of the great capitalists. It is a mistake to adopt
any other political objective. Japan today should not be
likened to the Russia of 1905 or indeed the Russia of 1917.
“2.
How was this bourgeois government established? The Restora-
tion of MEIJI marked a change in the nature of political
power in our country from absolute despotism to capitalism.
The chief factors in this revolution were the lower-class
'samurai', not the bourgeoisie. Because the 'samurai' hed
no economic backing, however, they came to depend upon the
new-born bourgeoisie and later to represent its interests.
Thus the government passed into the hands of reactionary
leaders, not into the hands of the people.
“3.
What is the situation today? The power of the old feudal
hierarchy is still extant. It is represented by the peers,
the burcaucrats and the military cliques. These groups have
been absorbed into the bourgeoisie and have thus consolidated
their power. The influence of the bourgeoisie has been ex-
tended to encompass and subjugate the land-owners."
The group dissèminated its ideas in the RONO and later in the ZENSHIN
(Forward March) and in the SENkU (Forerunner), and in the writings of
its members such as YAliakAWA Hitoshi and SAKaI Toshihiko in non-party
magazines like the KAIZO (Reform), the CHUO KORON (Central Review)
and the SHAKAI HYORON (Social Review). The group was always careful
to keep within the bounds of the law. lthough the Rono Ha was never
a political party. some of its politically minded members liko SUZUKI
Mosaburo, KURODA Hisao and SUGIY l Motojiro sponsored political
parties as the years went by and indeed became tent-poles in the so-
cialist camp. Others, oscheving politics altogother, became active
in the sociological field by supporting labor unions. Certain idea-
listic sympathizers such as RIS.WA Hiromi, MINOBE Ryokichi,
TiK HiSHI Masao and W. KIMURi Yoshi taro who devoted themselves to t he
promulgation of their ideas through their position as teachers in the
universities becamo known as the RONO H: KYOJU GURUFU (Labor-Farmer
Professors Group).
This communist-RoNO H. dispute accentuated tho differences be-
tween the prolctarian factions as the disorganized anarchists nover
had been ablo to do. In 1923 Marx-inspired young men from Kyoto
Imperial University and other seats of learning infiltrated into the
NIHON RODO SODOMEI and in due courso the leftist sympathizers with-
dreW from the union to form the NIHON RODO KUMLI HYOGI KI (Japan
Labor Unions Conference). The dovelopment of the NIHON RODO KUMII
HYOGI KiI*1 vas of lasting importance because an offspring of this
工
That the NIHON RODO KUMLiI HYOGI K.I and its successors were commu-
nist is affirmed by thc statomonts of KOKURYO Goichiro and by the
fact that 8 reprosentatives wero sont to the 5th Profintern World
Meoting in ugust, 1930. The first communist labor movement had
been formed in March, 1922, at the direction of tho International
23

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.96)
labor group sponsored the SANGYO BETSU RODO KUMIAI (Labor Unions for
Edch Industry) which became the far-left feature of the labor front
after the 1945 surrender.
In December, 1923. AKALMATSU Katsumaro. AONO Suekichi, SHIMANAKA
Yuzo, SUZUKI Mosaburo, TAKAHASHI Kamekichi and other intellectuals
gathered togsther to form the SEIJI MOIMAI KENKYU KAI (Political Prob-
lems Investigation Society). By April, 1925. when the first general
meeting of this society was held, the association had fifty-three bran-
ches with four thousand members and published a monthly magazine, the
MINSHU SEIJI (Democratic Government). The general meeting elected a
central committee composed of FUJII Tei. FUSE Tatsuji. KURODA Hisao,
MATSUSHITA Kichio. MIWA Juso. ILKZWA Benjiro. OIKE YOshio. OKU Umeo
(a woman), OYAMA Ikuo, SANO Kesami, SHIM  Yuzo, SUZUKI Moseburo,
TAH SHI Kamekichi, T.VETO Goro, and YLIZKI Kazuo, whose varying
ideologies showed that the group was a composite one representing all
factions of the socialist camp. But in May extremists of the NIHON
RODO KUlLIAI HYOGI .I (Japan Labor Unions Conference) had infiltrated
and began to gain the upper hand over the conservatives in the SEIJI
MOND.I KENKYU K.I. At the second genoral meeting in October, 1925, the
moderates wcre ousted completely, and the new central committee clectcd
at thc moeting, composed of FUSE Tatsuji, KURODA Hisao, NISHIMURA
Soiichi. OH.SII Harufusa. OY. MA Ikuo, SANO Fumio, SANO Kesami. SUZUKI
Mosaburo, and UED. Otoichi, proved that leadorship of thc socicty had
pessod protty voll into the hands of thc left-wing.
Tho same left-wing right-wing strugele was taking placc in egrer-
ian circles. The first union of Japanese tcnant farmers had been or-
ganized as carly as 1875 in Gifu Kon to promoto friondly relations bc-
tween land-owners and tonants and to improvo farming in goncral. NOMUR
Shigcomi, in his NIHON SEIJI SHCI SIISO SHI TAIKEI (Outlino History
of Political and Social Thought of Modorn Japan). says that some sixty
tonant-farmer unions wcrc organizcd betvcen 1875 and 1907, that the
number increased more rapidly thereafter until therc were thrcc hundred
soventy-thrcc in 1921. In 1921, when thc proposal of KiG. 7. Toyohiko
and SuGIy.M. Motojiro to form a nation--widc agrarian union was publi-
cized in the OS. K. M. INICHI SHIMBUN (Osaka Daily Newspapcr). thero was
a rush of applications to join the new organization. The inaugural
mceting of thc resultant NIHON NOMI KUIAI (Japan Farmers' Union) on
9 April 1922 was attended by one hundred forty rcpr.sontetives from
thirty-thre: prefectures. The roscmblanco of this union to thc YU.I
K.I and its succcssor NIiON RODO SODOMEI lay not only in thc fact that
its promotors, KiG.WA and SUGIY.MM, wero Christian rcformists like
SUZUIKI Bunji and .BE Isoo, but in thc fact that it was joincd by young
men from Wascda and other universities who vere intcrested in Marxian
(continued from previous page)
Labor Congrcss (Profintorn) and was callcd by the simplc, cxplicit tcrm
REFUTo (Loft). It was reorganizcd as a branch of the Comintorn in
Suptember. 1926, but dissolved in Dccember oi thc samc ycar when the
sccond Japan Communist Party was organizcd.  group from tho REFUro
assumcd tho lcadorship of thc NLiON RODO KUMI:I HYOGI K.I upon its form-
ation in May, 1925. When KOKuRYo Goichiro raprcscntcd Japan at tho
Fourth Profintcrn World Conforoncc in Mbscow in 1928 and when KOKURYO
and NBEY.L. Sadachiku werc clcetcd to the Profintern Contral Conmittoc,
the NIHON RODO KUML.I HYOGI K.I was rocognized as a branch of tho Pro-
fintern and wes immediatcly supprcsscd by the policc. In June. 1928,
ITO Tamotsu. MIT.UR.. Shiro, NISAUR. Saiki and ZENNoo Zonshiro organ-
izcd thc NIHON RODO KUMI.I ZENKOKU KYOGI IC.I (Japan Iabor Unions
National Congress) to tako its place on thc communist front, thus ox-
tcrminating the loft-wing socialists. It was this body which sponsored
the S.NGYO BLTSU RODO KUMI.I about 1930.
24

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
ideals and who succeeded for a time in coloring its palicies
In l926 the various socialist oliques showed their coloration
clearly andunmistakably by forming four distinct political parties
representing the left wing. the center and the right wing. Early in
the year a number of RoNO HA leaders confirmed their withdrawal from
the Communist party by announcing:
"A new party must be organized to the exclusion of the communist
group. All labor unions which may cause difficulties in the establish-
ment of this new political party shall be summarily rejected. Thus
the RODO NOMiIN TO (Labor-Farmer Party) was established on 5 March 1926
under the leaders ip of SUGIYAMA Motojiro. LIWA Juso, ABE Isoo and
KaGailA Toyohiko and with the support of ten prominent labor and agrar-
ian unions, most prominent of which were the NIHON RODO SODOMEI (Japan
Federation of Labor) and the NIHON NOMIN KUKIAI (Japan Farmers' Union).
The party had hardly been formed when a disagreement arose as to whether
the original resolution to exclude the "communist group" would permit
the acceptance for membership of men who belonged to the NIHON RODO
KUMLAI HYOGI KiI (Japan Labor Unions Conference) and other communist-
tinged" cliques. The NIHON RODO SODOMEI adamantly insisted upon the
exclusion of such members while the NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI claimed that the
exclusion policy held good only during the initial stages of the or-
ganization of the party. The dispute ended with the withdrawal of the
NIHON RODO SODOMEI and other sympathetic groups in October, 1926, leav-
ing only the NIHON NOLIN KUMIAI and a union of ceramic workers to
support the party. This dispute in turn caused the right wing of the
NIHON NO.IN KUMIAI led by HIRNO Rikizo to withdraw from the union at
its fifth general meet ing in Larch, 1926. and to organize the ZEN NIHON
NOIN KU.IAI DOMEI (Ali→Japan Farmers' Unions League). The ZEN NIHON
NOLIN KU TAI DOEI proceeded to promulgate a second political party.
the NIHON NO.IN TO (Japan Farmer Party), on 17 October 1926, with the
slogan "A Farmers' Party for the Farmers". That this party represented
the extreme right wing of the agrarian movement can be deduced from its
statement "The NIHON NO.iIN TO has been created to give-lustre to the
three thousand years of Japanese history".
When the NIHON RODO SODOLEI WithdreW from the RODO NOMIN TO in
October, l926, some of the labor unions affiliated with the party dis-
agreod equally with the NIHON RODO SODOIEI's decision to secede and
With the RoDO NOMTN TO's extremism. A number of the momber groups of
the NIHON No IN KUraI likewise took issue in the squabble and fori
the ZEN NIHON NO IN KUMLAI (All-Japan Farmers' Union). These facti 3
joined forces to establish the NIHoN RONO TO (Japan Labor Farmer Party)
on 9 December 1926. The activity of this element in the RODO NOMIN TO
dispute and the character of its leaders such as ASo Hisashi, MIWA Juso.
and SUNiGi Ko placcd the party in the conservative center of the social-
ist movement of the day.
As if the proletarian political front were not yet sufficiently
confused, the intelligontsia who had withdrawm from the SEIJI MONDiI
KENKYU KI (Political Problems Investigation Society) upon its abrupt
turn to the left formed the DOKURITSU RODO KYOKII (Independent Labor
Association)*1. When BE Isoo. YOSHINO Sakuzo and HORIE Kiichi. a Keio
University professor, proposed to form a "social-demoerat party", this
*1 This interesting group included BE Isoo, BBi Tsunego. FUJI
Tatsuma, FUJII Tei, HiR Hyo, H.YASAKi Jiro, KiGiWh Toyohiko,
KITAYAMI Tetsu, KW.R. Jikichiro, KITAZAWA Shin jiro, MTSUSHITA
Kichie, MIY.ZKI Ryusuke, N.K.ZW. Benjiro, SW.Di Ken. SHLMNK.
Yuzo, SHIMON.Ki Yasaburo, and T.K.H.SHI Kamokichi.
25

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.97)
DOKURITSU RODO KYOKAI and the NIHON RODO SODONEI rallied to supPOrt.
Thus the SHAkaI LINSaU TO (Social Democratic Party) was organized on
5 December 1926 with the backing of:
NIHON RODO SODOLEI (Japan Federation of Labor)
NIHON KAIIN KUF LAI (Japan Seamen's Union)
NIHON KOJIN KURABU (Japan Factory Workers' Club)
NIHON KAIIN KYOKAI (Japan Seamen's Association)
KANGYO RODO SODOLEI (Federation of Government Workers)
KAIGUN RODO KUAI RMiEI (Naval Labar Unions League)
to which in 1927 was added the NIHON NOMIN KIAI SODOIEI (Japan Federa-
tion of Farmers' Unions). A peculiar feature of the organization of
this party was that BE Isoo, one of the promoters, was a duly elected
member of the central executive comittee of the RODO NO.IN TO. The
party declared:
"We believe the establishment of political and economic systems
based upon the principles of the working classes to be the primary means
of achieving a hualthy national life. We pledge ourselves to the reali-
zation of this project.
We consider capitalist methods of production and distribution
hurmful to the national life. We pledge ourselves to reforn these
methods by lawful means.
"We reject both the old-line political parties which represent the
privileged classes end the radical parties which ignore the natural
stops in social progress."
So in 1927 the proletarian parties and the important labor and
agrarian unions were clearly divided into camps. The left-wing RoDO
NGIN TO was supported by the leftist agrarian NIHON NOMIN KU TAI. The
right-wing NIHOn RONO TO was supported by the right-wing agrarian ZEN
NIHON NOMIN KUIILAI. The right-wing NIHON NO IN TO was supported by the
right-wing agrarian ZEN NIHON NO.IN KUIIAI DONEI. On the labor front
another socialist party, the SLAKiI LiINSHU TO, was supported by various
labor unions as a democratic amalgamation of labor interests, left, right
and center.
That the pr letarian front was gaining pover and recognition was
proved by the fact that eight socialist candidates were elected to the
Diet in the election of 16 February 1928, the first election after the
promulgation of universal manhood suffrage.
Party
Candidate
SHAKAI  INSHU TO (Social Democratic Party)
ABE Isoo
KAlEI Kanichiro
NISHIO Suehiro
SUZUKI Bun ji
RODO NOLIN To (Labor-Farmer Party)
LIZUTANI Chozaburo
YAMAMOTO Sen ji
NIHON RONO TO (Japan Labor-Farmer Farty)
KAWAKMI Jotaro
IYUSHU MINKEN TO (People's Constitution Party
ASAHRA Konzo
of Kyushu)
Proletarian votes totaled 476,000, about 4.6% of all votes polled.
That the proletarian front was gaining enemies in the nationalist
26

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
camp was likowise proved on 2 March 1929 when Y.imoto Senji1 was
brutally stabbed to desth by an ex-policeman, in a Tokyo hotel. Al-
though the murderer was an unimportant ex-policeman, one of three
members of a newly-formed reaotionary society, the political motive
was cloar.
On 15 March 1928 the second round-up of communists by the police
took place. This became known as the 3.15 JIkEN (March 15 Incident).
Into the dragnet were drawn leaders of the RODO NOMIN TO (Labor Farmer
Party) and its supporting unions. The Ministry of Justice explained
that this action had been taken because the RODO NOLIN TO maintained
principles similar to those of the communists, because certain leaders
such as ToKUD Kyuichi, SiNO Manabu and N. BEY.M. Sadachika were common
to the two groups and because the RODO NOMIN TO put into practice
directives issued by the Comintorn. in attempt by the unarrestod
leaders of the RODO NOMIN TO to form another party in December, 1928,
was immediately discouraged by the Home Ministry. No further political
offort was made by the left-wing until November, 1929, when it succeed-
od in organizing the RuvO To (Labor-Farmer Party).
Moanwhile the slogan of the right-wing on the proletarian front.
rupresented by the NIHON RONO TO (Japan Labor-Farmer Party) was "unifi-
cation of the proletariat in one great party". For a time it found
supporters in both the left-wing and right-wing cliques. Indeed the
NIHON RONO TO seriously considered the possibility of amalgamation with
the SHiKiI MINSHU TO (Social Democratic Party). The result of this
effort to unify, however, was not a juncture With the SHiKiI MINSHU
TO but a fusion vith the agricultural NIHON NOMIN TO (Japan Farmer
Party) and five minor parties to form the NIHON TISHU TO (Japan Masses
Party) on 20 December 1928. This NIHON TiISHU TO in turn united with
several unimportant right-wing parties in May, 1930, to form the
ZENKOKU T.ISHU To (All-Japan Masses Party) and finally drew in the
RONO TO to cstablish the ZENKOKU RONO T.ISHU TO (All-Japan Labor-Farmer
Masses Party) in July, 1931, The final unification of the proletarian
political front was at last achieved in July, 1932, when the ZENKOKU
RONO T. ISHU TO and the SHAKI MINSHU TO united in the SH. KI T..ISHU TO
(Social Iassos Party).
This consolidation was in large part motivated by the outbreak
of tho anchurian Incident. which was reflected in the set-back ex-
perienced by the proletarian candidates in the election of February,
1932. Whereas the socialist parties had polled 504,000 votes in 1930,
they achieved only 299,000 in 1932. The Manchurian debacle had had a
drastic offect upon the psychology of the country.
1
In June, 1928, when YliMoTO's friends attempted to eroct a tomb-
stone bearing a quotation from one of his speeches, the police
forbade the memorial on the grounds that the stone was a monu-
mont, not a tomb, and that the erection of monuments was subject
to spccial permission.
27

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
CHLLPTER IV
THE COMMUNIST PARTY AND THE COMINTERN
1928 - 1935
During the election campaign of February. 1928, pamphlets bear-
ing the stamp of the Japan Communist Party arouseá the authorities to
action and led to the "discovery" of the "seoret" NIHON KYOSAN TO
(Japan Communist Party). At dawn on 15 March 1928 more than one thou-
sand men and women were arrested throughout the country. Publication
of the facts concerning this round-up was forbidden until 10 April
1928 when the Mini stry of Justice announced:
"The Communist Party in Japan was established in 1922 as a branch
of the Third International. It was practically exterminated in May.
1923, when its members were imprisoned. In 1924 preparations were
made for reestablishment, and in December, 1926, a number of men who
followed the doctrines of FUKUOTO Kazuo met in secret at a hot-
spring in Yamagata Ken, where the general principles and regulations
of the party were decided. In February, 1927, FUKUliOTo Kazuo, WaTaNa-
BE Masanosuke, SaNO Manabu and TOKUDA Kyuichi went to Russia to re-
ceive criticisms and instructions. It was decided that the party's
past strategy had been fundamentelly wrong. After the return of the
emissaries to Japan the instructions of the Third International were
closely followed. Instead of forming 'cells' of five members each
as therotofore, the basis of activity became groups of factory work-
ers. The party started to publish a paper, the AKhHaTA (Red Flag).
and to dissominate pamphlets. Moreover, the principles of the party
were so. constitutod that a member could continue his activity as a
cormunist even though he became affiliated with other organizations.
Thus the party was able to increase its membership to several hundred
throughout the country. Efforts wore made to gain adherents among
young men, especially the youth of the army.
"The Communist Party of Japan. as e branch of the Third Interna-
tional. has tried to draw our empire into the whirlpool of world revol-
ution. It has tried to rock our national constitution from its founde-
tions by establishing a dictatorship of the laboring and farming classes
along communist lines of reasoning. To achieve the first stage in the
development of its plan the Japanese Communist Party tried to destroy
our parliamentary system of government from within by infiltrating its
mombers into the Die t. In the recent election there were about ton
candidates officially recognized by the Communist Party*1."
An intoresting remindor of the Justice Ministry's accusation that
tho Communist Farty was striving to ga in adhorents among the youth of
the army was given vight years later during the February 26 Inoident
trials of 1936 vhen Captain KODa Kiyosada, one of. the defendants, testi-
fied:
"During my second year at the Military Academy, I came under the
influence of demccratic thought and communism. I was unablo to come
to any decision between them. Even after I entered the cadet school,
I could not decide about communism. I felt that I must solve this
problem. There was a timo when I thought I could never become a
soldier. but before I could make up my mind what to do I graduated.
Lator whon I became attached to my rogiment, I came into contact with
enlisted mon; it was they who taught me that all men are subjects of
*1 The authoritios were referring to the candidates of the various
proletarian parties.
28

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.97)
one emperer, After that I felt I could be an officer.
"I became interested in politics whon I became aware of the great
differences between the rich and the poor in Japan. Until that time
I had tried to think out these problems alone. I felt that unless the
cause of the difficulties were removed there would be no remedy, be-
cause every year vhen new men were mustered into tho unit there were
always two or threo among them who had come under the communist influ-
ence and becauso the number of men who reccived military charity from
the War Ministry increased overy year. These men had no fighting spirit
I thought that unless we had soldiers with more fighting spirit we could
not meet the national crisis whioh had been brought about by the London
Troaty.
"I came into touch with other officers about the time of the Octo-
ber Incident when the first and second lieutenants of the First Rogi-
ment met and heard about the affair from KURIHaRA. Then a day or two
later I was taken to mect Captain SUGANAMI. That as my first moeting
vith officers who had the samo ideas as I.
Rotired from active duty by the March 1928 arrests were TOKUD4
Kyuichi, FUKUIiOTO Kazuo*1. SANO Manabu. S/NO Fumio and KOKURYO Goichiro.
In August and October a number of other leaders were apprehended, in-
cluding W.T.N. BE Masanosuke, who was captured in Formosa and promptly
committed suicide*2. On 16 pril 1929 another general apprehension of
comaunists disposed of ICHIKAWA Shoichi, MIT MUR. Shiro, NiBEYAM.
Sadachika and others.  few remaining old timers mado an attempt to
reorganize the party under the leadership of T.Nik. Seigen, but they
too vore arrested in July, 1930.
The Soventh World Congress of the Comintern*3 held in August,
1930, announced cortain changes in communist world policy. It decided
to combine agitation against fascism with agitation against imperial-
istic wer. lioro significantly, it scrapped the old slogan Uniform
Internationalism" in favor of a new policy to make different plans to
correspond vith requirements in different countries. It proposed a con-
solidated "front populairo" which would attempt to unite all proletariar
organizations, including socialist and democratic ones. It would attemp
to further communism through infiltration into "lawful movements".
fter the Seventh World Congross the Comintern began to sond to Japan
propagenda literature printod in Japanose by the merican Communist Part
bout January, 1931, the Japan Communist Party again became active
under the leadership of K.Zili, Jokichi, an iron worker who had gono to
Ibsco: in September, 1925, for training and who had returned home in
November. 1930. K.Mi was assisted by IWiT Yoshimichi, a graduate of
Tokyo Imporial University, and KONNO Yojiro. The publishing departmont
was particularly busy producing the KiHT (Red Fleg). an anti-mili-
1
FUKUMOTO Kazuo and his group had boen eliminated from the Central
Executive Committee of tho NIHON KYOSN TO in December during the
ondecvor to reconcile the RoNo Hi (Labor-Farmer Group).
2
Tho police recorde declared that W.T.NBE committed suicido. Tho
Japanese communists affirmed thet he was murdered by tho police,
"canonized" him as a "saint" and ever after celebrated 7 October.
the anniversary of his demise, as a day of remombrance.
3
t the Seventh World Congress of the Comintern, IIzUk Hiroshi re-
presented Japan.
29

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.97)
tarist paper called the HEISHI NO TOMO (The Soldiers' Friend), the TO
KENSETSU SHA (Party Crganizers), end e host of pamphlets. leaflets
and handbills. Much effort was directed toward the proselytizing of
young men in schools, in agricultural villages, in munitions factories,
in the army and in the navy. At the same time, for the purpose of
collecting funds, providing hide-outs and engaging in other miscellan-
eous enterprises which could not safely be undertaken by those actively
affiliated with the party, the party organized a network of "sympathi-
zers", unregistered fellow-travelers whom the police declared to in-
clude professors, lawyers, pressmen and indeed the sons and daughters
of substantial families.
On 30 October 1932 occurred another communist mass apprehension,
the so-called ATlI JIKiN (atami Incident). in which about one hundred
twenty police officers and guides" surrounded a hotel in Atami where
eleven representatives of local branches of the party were holding a
meeting. Sixty of the attackers wore bullet-proof vests and helmets.
The communists fought back with revolvers. Three policemen were wound-
ed in the fray, but all eleven representatives were arrested. This was
followed by other apprehensions throughout the country, with the re-
sult that every member of the party's central committee was arrested,
including GENGOROMARU Yoshiharu, HASEGAWA Shigeru, ISHIDA Wakizo,
IWATA Yoshimichi*I, KAZAA Jokichi, KODAMA Shizuko ( a woman), KONNO
Yojiro, MIMURA Ryoichi, MIYaGAWA Torao, MOTANI Koichiro, T.I Tameshichi
and WATANABE Sakichi. When IWAT. died suddenly on 3 November, the
police announced that he had been suffering from advanced tuberculosis
of the lungs and beriberi, that he had died of over-exertion while
fighting off arrest; the communists, on the other hand, martyred hin
and designated 3 November as one of their "saint days". After the
Atami arrests another reorganization of the Communist Party was offected
by YAliAMoro Masayoshi, who had returned from Moscow in December, 1932,
after a six-year stay in Russia. After his arrest in November, 1933,
his placo was temporarily taken by NoRO Eitaro, who was followed by
MIYAMOTO Kenji and then by a triumvirate composed of HE.I Shigeo,
AKIZASA Masanosuke and HiKD Satomi, while the Comintern tried dos-
perately to get roprosentatives into the country without losing them
to the Japanese gaols.
The communist trials throw the spotlight upon a nev phase of loft-
ism, the implications of which became historically important becauso
the outcome has alvays been cited as one of the prime examples of po-
lice suppression of liberty in Japan. This was the arrest and indict-
ment botween October, 1933, and March, 1934, of fifteen lawyers vho had
been active in the communist trials*2. In June, 1926, when TOKUD
On 18 pril 1931 ITh Yoshimichi's eight-ycar-old daughter Misago
left for Moscow as companion and screen of SEkI Matsu, tho morgan-
atic wife of YlmioTo Konzo, Japanese representative on the Inter-
national Labor Congross (Profintern). At the age of twenty-five she
returned to Tokyo as companion of Mrs. NOZ:K: Sanzo on 22 January
1947.
*2 Tho fifteen lawyors arrested vere:
AOYAGI Morio
KUBOT. Teizaburo
FUSE Tatsu ji
LUR Jiro
ITO Yoshio
NaSHIKI Sakujiro
KKIMI Shuzui
OMORI kio
K.KUD. Morihei
(a Conmunist Party
SHIB.T Sueharu
member)
SHINDO Kan ji
KAMIMR Susumu
TSUCHIY.. Hideo
KiWI Atsushi
YOMOGIDI Takeshi
30

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.96)
Eyuichi returned from Aussia, he carried among his instructions a plan
to organize a society for tho relief of communists who encountered
diffioulty with the law. TokuDa set up a preparatory committee and
awaited his chance. The chance was provided by the organization of the
K.IHO UNDO GISFISH. KYUEN K.I (Emancipation Movement Viotims' Relief
Society) in 1928. This relief society, promoted by MJIM Kan, a medi-
cal man friendly with various factions of the proletarien movement, and
KINOSHIT.. Otoichi, secretary of the TOKYO KISHÀ REMEI (Tokyo Pressmen's
Loague), announced that its aim was to aid with spiritual and legal
assistance the victims of any sort of anti-proletarian pressure, regard-
less of thoir political inclinations. Its roster of officials1, com-
posed of right-wingers, left-wingers and liberals was sufficient proof
that it vas not a communist organ. Formation of the relief society was
specifically motivated by desiro to give assistance to people involved
in a labor dispute in a shoyu factory at Noda, Chiba Ken. But attention
was soon diverted to the communists who had been arrested en masse on
15 Mhrch 1928 and who continucd to be apprehended as time wont on. Pre-
occupation with these comunist "victims" made the society a handy tool
in the hands of tho extromists. The center and right-wing groups wore
gradually pushed into the background. Tho SHiKI MINSHU TO (Social
Democratic Party) renounced all affiliation with the association. In
Decembor, 1928, MiJIM. resigned in a huff. Tho SHiKI UNDO NO JOKYO
reported that the socioty was dofinitely affiliated with the "KOkUSI
SEKISHOKU KYUEN KI" (Intornational Rolief to the Reds Society)*2. And
after tho socicty's second genural mocting in pril, 1930, the namo was
changod to NIHON SEKISHOKU KYUEN KiI (Japan Roliof to tho Reds Society).
In pril, 1934, the NIHON SEKISHOKU KYUEN KI organized the KIHO
UNDO GISEISH, KYUEN BNGOSHI D.N (Emancipation Movemont Victims' Reliof
Lavyers Group), which vàs shortly renamed RONO BNGOSHI D.N (Labor-
Farmer Laryers Group), to handlo the dofenso at the mass comminist
trials. The gaoled dofondants formed a committoe behind the bars, with
ICHIKW.. Shoichi. KOKURYO Goichiro, MITA UR. Shiro. S.NO Manabu, SHIG
Yoshio, SUGIUR. Koiichi end TOKUD. Kyuichi as members. Defendants out
of prison formed a sccond committce with K.NEkO Konta, KoREED Kyoji.
MITSUO Shigeki, MIN.TO Shichiro, SLIKE Toshizumi, SEKINE Etsuro and
SHIG. Taeko as members. Theso two committees collaborated with tho law-
yers to plan dofonce tactics such as filling the courtroom with loft-
wing olements during sessions, taking short-hand notos and distributing
copics to tho public. holding mootings of protost, printing and distri-
*1 Officials of the KIHO UNDO GISEISH. KYUEN KI Woro:
K.ICHO (Chairnan): ABE Isoo
HYOGIIN (Consultants):
EGUCHI Kan
KOM.KI Chikao
H.SEG.W.. Man jiro
KURIH.R. Ro1 ji
HOSOS.KO Kanemitsu
M.. Kn
ICHIK.W.. Fusae
IL.TSUT.NI Yojiro
IWAUCHI Tomio
MIW.. Juso
KMEI Kanichiro
MIYIZKI Ryusuko
KMTUR Susumu
MIZUTNI Chozaburo
K.S.W.R Chizu
NISHIO Suohiro
KW Jotaro
S.AS.KI Takamaru
KWASAKI Natsuko
SUZUKI Bun ji
KINOSHITA Otoichi
T.KT. Tamotsu
YAMAMOTO Sonji
KAIKEI (Treasurer): ISHIJI Haruji
KIKEI KNTOKU (uditors): FUSE Tatsuji
YMZKI Kosaya
*2 Tho international Roliaf to tho Reds Society was established in
November, 1922, by a resolution ussed at tho 4th World Congross of
the Third International.
31

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.97)
buting the "gaol correspondence" of the accused. And so in due course
the lawyers too found themselves in trouble.
Analysis of the history of the Japan Communist Party shows a well-
defined pattern of control by the Comintern. In the first place, a
Japanese member sat permanently on the Central Committee in Moscow as
representative of the Jepan Communist Party. That member was KATAYAMA
Sen from 1924 until the day of his death, 5 November 1933; he was
succeeded by NOZaKA Sanzo, who held the post until his return to Japan
after the war. Moreover, YaikimOro Kenzo, who went to Russia in 1924.
was the permanent Japanese member of the International Labor Congress
(Profintern) until 1932.
In the second place, the head of the Communist Party in Japan was
the designated representative of the Comintern in Tokyo. Apparently
every effort was made to keep in this chair someone trained in Russia
and in recent touch with Moscoy. Whether replacement of arrested party
chairmen by men out of the Russian headguarters was due to malice of
forethought or because men at home qualified to wear the mantle were in
gaol, the result was the sane. lore than half of the successive chief-
tains and prospective heads were fresh out of Moscow:
Period
Neme
In Russia
of office
Date Arrested
SAKAI Toshihiko
Jul '22-Jun '23
Jun 1923
TOKUDA Kyuichi
Dec '25-Jun :26
Aug '25-Mar '28
Mar 1928
Jan '27-Jul '27
WATANBE Masanosuke
Jan '27-Ju1 '27
Apr '28-0ct '28
Oct 1928
ICHIKAW Shoichi
Jul '28-Sep '28
Dec '28-4pr 129
Apr 1929
K.GIWAR.. Kugo
-Jan '30
May '30-Jul '30
Jul 1930
IWAO Iesada
-1 '30
May '30-Ju1 '30
Jul 1930
T.NKA Seigon
Jul '29-Jul '30
Jul 1930
KAZ.ii Jokichi
Sept'25-Nov '30
Nov '30-0ct '32
Oct 1932
YMMOTO Masayoshi
Jun 26-Dec '32
Feb '33-May '33
May 1933
T.D Katsuji
Dec '32-May '33
May 1933
NORO Eitaro
May '33-Nov '33
Nov 1933
MYAMOTO Ken ji
Dec '33-Jan '34
Jan 1934
KAND.CHI Hachiro
'31-Fob '34
ug 1934
IIZUK.. Hiroshi
Dec '29-Sept'34
Nov 1934
HEMI Shigeo
Feb 1934
KIZASi Masanosuke
Jan '34-Feb '34
Apr 1934
AKD. Satomi
pr '34-Jan '35
T.K.Y.. Kakuzo
-Jul '34
May 1935
KOB..YASHI Isenu
-1936
1936
It will be noted that men without training abroad apparontly took
office only after the failure of attempts to import replacoments or
at such times as successive arrests outran the Trans-Siberian Railway
and the vessels of the Nippon Yusen Kaishe.
In addition, there was a constant flov of mossongers, sub-rose
communications and reports betweon Comintern hoadquarters and the purty
in Japan. Prior to 1931 this liaison was apparently effected primarily
through the Far Eastern Bureau of the Comintern in Shanghai by ans of
complicated arrangements designed to elude the watchfulness of the
Japanese police and illustrated by the last set of messages which passed
back and forth by way of China. In Februery, 1931, a Chinese messenger
from the Far Eastern Bureau arrived in Tokyo under covor of the Japanese
alias HiT. Toiichi. He contacted the Japanese Central Co.mittee through
a YOlURI SHBUN cartoonist, YLiSE Shoroku by name. Ho met a man
named M.TSUiUR. to whom he gave eleven hundred yen and instructions that
a representative of the committee be sent promptly to Shanghai. KONNO
Yojiro, who was chosen for the task, left Tokyo on 15 March 1931 end re-
turned on 18 April with instructions that tho head of the party proceed
32

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
immediately to Shanghai. K.2. Jokichi departed on 5 May 1931 and re-
turned on 24 May with instruotions that:
1. All liaison be maintained with Shanghai direct.
2.
At least one member of the Central Committee always absent
himself from meetings in crder to assure the continuity of
the party in case of mass arrests.
3. Two members of the committee reside in Shanghai. for safety
as well 'as for the sake of liaison.
4. The organization of "cells" in factories be carried out with
caution.
5.
A designaed member of the Central Committee maintain a roster
of all members of the party and pay surprise visits from time
to time in order to guarantee against back-slidings.
6. The carrying of weapons be strictly forbidden.
According to these instructions, the Central Comnittee decided to dele-
gate KAZAiA Jokichi or IWaT Yoshimichi to Shanghei, but before this
plan could be carried out the Far Eastern Bureau was dissolved by the
arrest of its members on 15 June 1931.
For some time after the dissolution of the Far Eastern Bureau in
Shanghai, the liaison, particularly with respect to labor communications
of the International Labor Congress (Profintern), was maintained through
Vladivostk. For exaaple. in March, 1932, tho Pan-Pacific Bureau of
Labor Unions eittrusted a message to YAsimoro Kenzo, who was returning
to Japen via Siberia from Russia. These instructions illustrated not
only one method by which contact was maintained between Moscow and Tokyo
but also the extent of the Profintern's control:
"l. Plans to organize a Fishermen's Union will be disseminated by
pamphlets.
2。
Five representatives will be dispatched to the preparatory
conference to be held at Vladivostok in May in connection
with the formation of the new union.
“3。
All future co.munications will be routed through the Chair
Club (?). Vladivostok, using copies of the TOYO KEIZAI
SHI. PO (Oriental Economic News) and a simple cypher based
on the iroha syllabary.*1"
As official pre ssure on communism in Japan became more and more
severe, offorts to maintain communications between the Comintern and
tho Japan Comaunist Party became more and more complicated. In June,
1934, KANDACHI Hachiro, who was returning to Japan to reorganize the
party after five years in Rus ia, was told to receive instructions on
*1 The TOYO KEIZAI SHI PO was ISHIBASHI Tanzan's magazine! ISHIBASHI
bocame Financo Minister in the YOSHIDA Cabinet in 1946. In the
cypher 101 signified "i"; 102. "ro"; 103, "ha"; down through the
sonant syllables which began with 149, "ga". Numbers were indi-
ceted in the stock exchange quotations on page eleven of the paper
by underlining with milk. The underlines could be made visible to
the recipient of the message by applying tinoture of iodine.
33

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.97)
the 10th, 20th and 30th of each month through an American whom he
would meet on the beach by the Haihin Hotel in Kamakura. fter
KiNDaCHI's arrest on the boat between Shanghai and Nagaseki on 9
August, the police investigated a man found loitering at the appoint-
ed spot with a large sum of money in his pockets. but released him be-
cause of insufficient evidence. In July, 1934. after HAKAMaDa Satomi
hed endeavored desperately and vainly to send some couriers to Losoow.
TKiYA Kakuzo returned vith instructionsl that:
1. His arrival in Tokyo be communicated to Moscow tirough the
advertising columns of the Tokyo .ShI SHiBUN.
2.
"Printed matter" from Tokyo sent to a certain addross-in
Paris.*2
3.
"Lavful printed matter" be sent to a certain address in
Moscow.
4.
Emergency messages be sent to a certán address in Brooklyn.
New York.
The closure of the Far Eastern Bureau of the Comintern in Shang-
hai, which had provided the Japan Communist Party vith funds. thren
tho Japanose party into financial straits. The increasing pressure
of the Japanese police curtailed the activity of the viser leaders
and gradually threw the manageaent into the hands of hot-heads and
thugs. Monotary difficulties led to robberies, embezzlements and
other malpractices. On 6 October 1932 communist gangsters robbed the
Kawasaki 100th Bank at Omori of ¥30, 000 in broad daylight. Other arm-
ed attompts wore made to rob banks in Tokyo, Okayamm and other cities.
"Sympathizors", sons and daughters of good families, wore in certain
instances porsuaded to make off ith parentel moncy, sccuritios and
valuables.
Whereas party members vho turned statols evidence or cormitted
other acts against the interests of the party were punished by ex-
pulsion or other disciplinary measures so long s the Central Committeo
was well organized, the collapse of the centr-1 euthority marked the
beginning of a series of lynchings and torturings as horrifying in
their small way as the political murders of the nationalists. On 14
August 1932 MURAKilI Takio, member of a sub-section of the Central
Committee, shot to death a Korean member IN Ki-kyo in Ueno Park. On
14 September 1932 KaiaD Shiro and two companions attempted to strenglo
and stab Hlks- Tsunetaka. And on 23 December 1933 the Centre1 Com-
*1 TiKiYi's itinerary is interesting:
15 Mhr
Doperted Moscow with Chinose student's passport, 40
marks and 1500 francs.
17 Mhr
In front of Amorican Express Company, vonue Seribe,
Paris, net an American woman, vho introduccd him to a
German, vho in turn introduced him to a Russian, from
whom he received money and the passport of a certain
native of Kagoshima Ken. Rennined in Paris 50 days.
3 May
Left Faris for Tokyo via Marseilles and Shanghai, vhere
he received more money from an merican woman on Nanking
Road and a Frenchman in the Fronch Sottlemont.
5 July rrived in Tokyo via Shimonoseki, Tsingtao, Dairen and
scoul.
*2
T.KiY actually sent some "printed mattor" to this address in
July, 1934.
34

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
mittee itself tried to settle its differences by sadistio murder.
After the arrest of NORO Eitero on 28 November 1933, MTYAMOTO
Kenji stepped into hie place as head of the NIHON KYOSai TO, with
AKIZASA Masanosuke, HAKAADA Satomi. HEI Shigeo, OBATA Tatsuo and
OIZUuI Kenzo on his Central Committee. NORO's arrest fanned the flames
of discord in the Committee between the so-celled "intelligentsia".
group consisting of MIYAwIOTO, AKIZASa. HK MADand HEMI, which had
a certain amount of eduoation, and the labor group consisting of
OBiT and OIZU.I. which had risen from the plebeian ranks. The in-
telligentsia" accused OBaT and C. ZULI of betraying NURO to the police.
And so MiIY.OTO, AKIS., H.K. and HEMI, together with four othera,
KIJIMLi Takaaki, KLvi.T) Suzuko (a waman). RIN Sho-nan (a Korean) and
YOKOY.. Misao. summoned the two suspects and OIZU.I's common-law wife
KUZiW Mitsuko to KIZS's home on 23 December on the pretext f
holding a committee meeting. There in an upstairs room HKil Di,
KJI and KIZ. threatened these comrades with a pistol, a hatchet,
and a knife in an attempt to force confessions of treason, Failing
with OB.T., they bound him with wire, stuffed his mouth and ears with
cooked rice, blindfolded him, bound him a second time with rope, and
then proceeded to beat and torture him until he was dead. They buried
him under the floor.
From O.ZUMI and the KUi.ZiWlady they succoeded in obtaining
writton confessions of guilt, but these did not save the couple from
further brutalities. The murderers set about to plan the "shinju"
(lovers' suicide) of the couple and in pursuit of this conspiracy
spirited them away to KIJIM's home on 14 January 1934. On the follow-
ing day, while YOKOY. is was on guard alone, OIZuMI and his madame over-
powered him end screamed for help. Their cries were heard by a police-
man who wes passing on his beat. nd so they wer saved from the
Budahist purgatory reserved for suicides. ll of the lynchers were
arrested immediately except KIZS.. and H.K.MW.. KIZ. S. was appre-
hended on 2 April 1934, and H.Kull.D.. on 4 March 1935. The culprits
were found guilty and sentenced. The heaviest penalties were paid by
HKilMDA and MIY.MOTO*1, 13 years and life imprisonment respectively.
Nor were these the only instances of berserk brutality in the
final years of semi-overt comaunist agitation. On 21 December 1933
ABE Katsuko, NISHIZ Ryuji. T.K.H.SHI Zen jiro and T.N.K. Saiko, ell
members of the Party Printing Burcau, tried unsuccessfully to assassin-
ate their comrade OGUSiI Masami. When OGUSHI escaped from the print-
ing plant basement where he had been hog-tied, T.KiHsSHI was accused
of aiding hin in his flight; SuzukI Masaji was assigned to murder him
but was arrested before he could accomplish the task. From 12 January
to 17 February 1934. FUJIY.. Shinnosuke, KIJIM Takaaki and N.MB.. kira
of tho Party Finance Bureau held their fellow-worker OZW Takeo in
NiBi's houso, binding him with rope and threatening him vith knives,
hammers and a gun; they roleased him only after he had signed a con-
fession that ho had cooperated with the police. From 17 January to 17
February 1934, K.T0 Ryo, KIJI4 Takaaki, KIN Ri-shaku (a Korean) and
NISHIMUR Mariko tortured HiT. Shikaru for expressing sympathy for the
murdered OB~T Tatsuo until he confessed and wrote an apology for trea-
son to the party. nd when KIZ S Masannsuke, IY.MOTO Ken ji and
others of the OBiT. murder party come to suspect that KIJIM. had re-
vealed thoir deed to the police, they planned to kill him. While
MTY.liOrO was being detainedat the Kojimachi Police Station after his
*1
HMiD and MIY.MOTO were released by the Justice Ministry under
the generel amnesty of political prisoners sponsored by the llied
Occupation in Ootober, 1945. Both became members of the Central
Committeo of the legalized post-ver Japan Communist Party.
35

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
arrest on 25 December 1933. NISHIZAWA Ryuji; SUZUKI Masaji, SUZUKI
Masashi, YOKOYAMA Shinichi and YAMaGOk Ryu conspired to shoot and
bomb their way to his rescue. All in all. between December, 1933.
and February, 1934. the police arrested seven hundrod thirty six
people, including one hundred thirty-four women, in connection with
communist murder attempts. Fifty-three of the arrestees were in-
dicted and sentenced.
Although the Comintern attempted to send treined organizers into
Japan in 1936, the effort failed; KOBAYASHI Isanu and two Koreans were
arrested in Kwantung and Korea. With leaders in gaol and with the
police on the alert to implement the Peace Preservation Iaw and other
restrictive legislation down to the ground. activity went completely
undercover. There was no more sensational communist news until the
arrest of the SORGE spy-ring in the autumn of 1941, which was an in-
ternational espionage oase with no connection whatsoever with the
Cowmunist Party in Japan.
36

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.97)
CHAPTER V
LEFT - WING COMPROMISES
1931-1933
Suppression of the Communist Party by the SEIYUKaI government
of the late t enties was in many ways the turning point in the short
democratic period of Japanese political development. Govermmental
pressure on the proletarian parties, particularly upon the groups
supported by the agrarian unions, was ruthless because the SEIyUkAI
constitucncies wero composed importantly of landed gentry in the
rural districts, who feared tho land reforms and agrarian programa
of thc socialists as woll as the excesses of the communists. As a
result of thc promulgation of universal manhood suffrage in 1924,
the agrarien and labor clemonts in the populace bcgan to encroach
upon the old-established sphere of influence of the SEIYUKAI and
other old-line parties.
Prcssure upon tho proletarian groups was not limited to official
channels, for reactionary clements were tacitly encouraged in thcir
Violcncc. When OYAiiA Ikuo. tho lcader of thc RODO NOMIN TO (Labor-
Farmor Party), hoard of thc dissolution of his party and rcturned in
hastc to thc capital from a canvassing trip to tho Sanin District
on 11 April 1928. hc was attackcd by a band of ruffians at Tokyo
Station and suffcred scrious injury. Whon pross reportors qucried
tho Chicf of thc Hibiya Policc conccrning thc incident. they wcre
told that tho lubor lcador's policc cscort had failed to obacrvc any
such gungstcrs. Thilc the Dict was in scssion on 5 March 1929.
YAMAMOrO Sonji, another RODO NOMIN TO Icader, was stabbed to death
in his hotel room by KURoDΛ Hokuji, an cx-policcman who was a mom-
ber of the SHICHISEI GIDAl (Scven Lives Rightoous Group), a sclf-
constitutcd rcactionary body of thrco unimportant members.
Prior to this timc the conscrvative clcmonts on tho Japanose
proletarian front, roprcscntod primarily by tho SL KAI MINSHU TO
(Social Domocratic Party) aftcr 1926, had cncountcrcd thcir chicf
opposition in tho communists and thc far-lcft labor and agrarian
factions of the socialist camp. As govornmontal prcssurc olim-
inatod thc communists and thc far-lcft clomcnts from thc political
arena, thc dircction of attack shiftcd to tho right. Encouragod by
tho "scand lous factional strugglcs" of thc old-lino partics and
goaded by the patriotic fervor ongondcred by the Manchurian Incident.
tho nationalist partics took up tho cudgels laid down by tho com-
munists vhon they wont to gaol.
KOKKA SHAKAI SHUGI (National Socialism) had its birth in Japan
in 1919 whon TAKBaTAKE Motoyuki, originally a communist, cstablish-
cd tho KoKK SlAI To (National Socialist Party). Actually a pro-
vious KOKK. SHiKk.I TO (National Socialist Party) had bocn founded
in 19Ol by NAKIURA Daihachiro, YAMANE Goichiro and SHIBA Teikichi,
who cvolved a thcory thut social rerorm saould be cvolved through
aid from tho Impcrial Family, which "in anciont timcs was in a cor-
tain scnso socialist". TAKB'T.KE's party, howcver, was tho first
national-socialist party in the modcrn Japanosc sonsc. Although his
attompt proved ubortive, TikAB.TiE was intorcsting as an examplo
of a typical Icftist who donncd a crocn hat and walkcd into tho
nationalist camp. From 1914 to 1918 a group of idcological roform-
ists lcd by OKA Shumci, MITSUK Kametaro, MIYAGAWA Ikkan. OKA
Toiji, KA Morizo*1. YMD. Ushitaro and HIRiG Isojiro had boon
holding mcotings for tho discussion of current problcms. Thcy callcd
K. Morizo's namo piqucs the ontomological intorest bocauso tho
surnomo is purc Korcen. His family has livcd for ccnturics in a
Kngoshima town whoso population is prodominantly of Korcan
anccstry.
37

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.96)
thoir informal group tho SNGo KI (3-5 Socicty). In Octobor. 1918.
the group foundod tho ROSo KI (Old-Young Socioty) with the 'objoctivo
of assombling a hotcrogonoous nucleus of mon and women from various
walks of lifo to oxchange idcas. This socicty invitod TiKiB.TiKE to
looturo on such subjccts as "The World Situation s Viowod By Tho
Soc ialista" and "What Is Socialism?" Whilc SAkI Toshihiko and TiKAO
Hoibei, likowisc loft-wing members of the Roso KI, stood firm by
their prolotarian gund, TiKB.TAKE's association with OKAA and his
ilk marked the turning point in his carcer tovard nationaliem. In
1918 TK.E.TIKE ostablished thc TISHU SH! (Masscs Socicty), whose
mombcrship1 and publication. thc KOKK. SHiKAI SHUGI (National
Socialism), clcarly denoted its nationalist chir ctcr. In 1919
T.KB.TAKE promoted tho KEIRIN GAKUMEI (Statocraft Scholars' Loaguc)
in collaboration with UESUGI Shinkichi and IWiTi Fumio. While this
combination of a socialist, a revorc-thc-cmperor imperialist and a
tcrrorist rcformer may at first blush appoar quccr, tho throo mon
symbolizcd thc basic ingrcdicnts of Japancso national socialism vhich
later offcctively bridged tho political gp bctvocn prolctarian so-
cialism and nationalism.
Thut somc of thc socialists found intcrests in common with tho
nationalists is not strangc. TiKB.T.KE opcnly dcclarcd in tho so-
cialist organ SHIN SLKI (New World) that hc had becn rofused on-
trancc to thc liber l-socialist RELEI KI (Now Dawn Society) of
Profcssors UkUDA Tokuzo and YOSHINO Sakuzo, that ho had beon wel-
comed royally by thc ROso KiI and thit he found much sympathy with
the national socialists who were propared to cerry out revolution
under thc banner of thc Empcror. Nationalism diffored hasically
from libcral socialism in that its program of rcforms vas cloaked in
a dcep reverence for tho Empcror and the Japancse imperial systcm of
government and in a fonatical belligcronce tovard the reduction of im-
perial powers, which werc declared or implicd as objectives by tho
communists on the onc hand and by thc socialists on the other. How-
over, thc basic similarity of tho two idoclogics is well illustrated
by a comparison of the programs of KIT. Ikki, thc nationalist writor
who, it vill bo remombored, had spont his carlier years in the Chinesc
rovolutionary camp, and of the Japan Communist Party:
Communist Procram 1922-1927
KITA Program 1919 --
I。
Political
I. Politicul
Abolition of tho monarchy.
1. The Emp eror is the sole repre-
sontative of the pcople and symbbl-
izes the fundamental principles of
the national constitution.
2. Abolition of the Housc of
2. The Houso of Pecrs, Which coper-
Pcors.
atcs the Emperor from the people.
shall bo abolished in order that the
spirit of the Mciji Rcstoration may
be clarified. s a foundation for
national reform, the Emperor shall
suspond tho constitution, dissolve
both houscs of the Dict and proclaim
a thrcc-yc r period of martial lav.
Membcrship of tho TaISHU SH. consistcd of: ISHIK Junjuro,
IATA Fumio, KMINiG. Bunzo. MTSUNOBU Shigo ji, MOGI Iyuhei,
OGURI Keitaro, OKI Yuzo, OZMI Shiro, TSUKUI Tatsuo and YBE Shu.
Tho publication livcd for only five issucs in 1919.
38

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.97)
Communist Program 1922-1927
KITA Program 1919
During the period of martial law
a National Reformation Cebinot shall
bo convened. This Roformation Cab-
inet shall excludo from membership
the militery cliquo, tho finanoial
cliquo, party politicians and bureau-
crats. Thoro shall be production
ministrics without portfolio in tho
Cabinct to carry out tho roformation
program. All profoctural governors
shall bo replaacd.
3. Suffrage for men and women
3. 11 malcs over 25 ycars of ago
over 18 years of cgo.
shall have suffrago and right of
clcction to thc House of Roprosenta-
tives as voll as to local govorn-
ment assemblics. Womcn shall not
havo thc right to votc.
4. ibolition of thc army, the
4. Tho country shall maintain for-
policc, the gondarmcric, tho
cver tho prcsent conscription systom
scerct polico and the likc.
for thc safcty of thc nation.
Enforcement :of tho Reform laws
and maintenanoo of the peace during
thc pcriod of martial law shall be
in the hands of tho ZAIGO GUNJIN
D.N (Roservists' Group).
II. Econonic and Social
II. Economic and Social
1. Abolition of owncrship of
1. The Empcror shall set an cxample
land by the Eaperor. templos
by donating his lands, forosts and
and largc holdors. Land to be
securitics to tho Statc. Imperial
owned by thc Statc.
oxpenscs shall not cxeocd ¥30,000,
000 annually.
Privato property shall bc limitod
to tho valuc of 1,000,000 por family.
No man shall be permittcd to transfor
property to a blood rolativo in or-
der to circunvent this law. Proper-
ty in cxecss of ,000,000 shall be
donated to the Statc without com-
pensation.
Posscssion of land shall bo
linited to thc valuo of 100,000
pcr family. Holdings in oxcess of
this valuc shall be donatcd to tho
Statc.
Holdings of privatc cntcrpriscs
shall bo limitcd to the value of
¥10.000,000. Holdings in oxcess of
this limit shall bc nationalizcd,
with compensation in 3% bonds to the
stockholdcrs within tho 1,000,000
limit.
Contraventions of thoso property
laws shell bo punishablc by dcath.
Enforcoment shall be in the hands of
the ZiIGO GUNGIN DN.
2. Frecdon of spccch, assem-
2. Laws which have supprosscd pub-
bly, pross and association.
lic frccdom such as the Civil Scr-
Froodom to hold domonstra-
vicc Appointment Ordinanoc, tho Peaco
tions.
Polico Lav. tho Nowspaper Law and tho
Froodon to strike..
Pross Lav shall be abolishcd.
39

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.97)
Communist Program 1922-1927
KITA Program 1919 -
Frcodom to organizo labor
Employcos in private ontor-
unions, political partics,
priscs shall chooso roprosontativos
workmen's clubs, etc.
to take part in administration
Rocognition of labor unions
thoreof. Employees in public entor-
as public institutions by tho
prisc shall havo voice in the man-
nation at largc and by the
agomont through roprosontation in
capitalists in particular.
tho Dict. Employces in corporations
Control of production by
shall havo tho right to bccomo sharo-
factory committoos.
holdors.
À Ministry of Labor shall bc
cstablished in thc Cabinet to pro-
tect tho rights of tho omployoos in
national and privato cntorprises.
Labor disputcs vill bo arbitratod
by this Ministry.
Tho following industrial minis-
trics shall bo cstablished in the
Cabinet:
Ministry of Banking - capital-
izcd by confiscated property.
Ministry of Mining
Ministry of griculture
Ministry of Industry
Ministry of Commorce
Ministry of Railways
Profits of thcsc industrics shall
bc paid into thc National Troasury.
3. Enforcement of an 8-hour
3. Enforccment of an 8-hour working
working day.
day.
4. Establishment of minimua
4. is a rulc vagcs will be accided
wagos and a mininum standard
by fre. contract. Disputcs as to
of living
wagos will be arbitratcd by the Min-
istry of Labor.
mployccs in privete unterpriso.
ongagcd in manual or intollce tual
activity: shall reccive onc-half of
the net profit in the form of shares
proportionate to wagos. Farm labor
shall rcccivo overtime pay during
the rush scasons.
Employcos in national onter-
prises shall rcccive soni-annual
bencfits in licu of distribution of
profits.
5. Establishnent of a systom
of labor and uncmployment in-
surancc.
6. Flotation of land bonds to
6.  law shall be cstablished to
aid impoverished farmers.
protect tenant farncrs from land-
oncrs.
7. Establishment of a progross-
ive income tax.
8. Establishnont of luxury
taxcs.
III. Misccllancous
1. Fomalc labor shall be on an
40

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.97)
Communist Program 1922-1927
KITA Program 1919
equal basis with male. fter the
Reformation, national policy will
permit abolition of female labor.
2. Employment of mimors undor 16
shall be prohibited. Violations
shall bo punishcd with penal sorvi-
tude.
3. Fatherless childron .undor 15
shall rcccivo govornmental support
and oducation through paymonts. to
their guardians.
4. Thc old and disabled who have
no mcans of support shall bo sup-
portod by the governmont.
5. Boys and girls shall, roccive
oducation for a pcriod of 10 ycars,
botwoon tho agos of 6 to 16.
6. Women's rights shall bo pro-
toctod.
7. Pcrsonal rights shall bo safo-
guardod.
8. Spocial privilcges shall bo
granted mon distinguished in pub-
lic scrvicc.
9. Proporty rights shall bo guar-
antecd.
10. Husbands may inherit thoir wives!
proporty. In tho absonco of a will
all childron vill inhcrit cqually
11. Tho policics of the Roformation
shall oxtend to Korca and to all
prosent and futuro torritorios.
Thoro vore other carly oxamples of mon who transforred their
allogianco from tho socialist camp, or cvon from thc far loft, to
nationalism. notably AKiO Bin who had founded tho KENKOKU KAI (Na-
tional Construction Socicty) in 1926, but noticcablo migration did
not start until shortly bcforo the outbroak of the Manchurian In-
cidont in 1931. The initiative Was taken by AKAMATSU Katsumaro
after hc bocamc familiar with OKAWA Shumei in tho spring of 1931.
This extreordinary mccting of the minds is vouched for by tho NIHON
AIKOKU UNDO SO RAN (Genoral Survoy of Japanoso Patriotic Movemonts),
which statos that tho introduction was mado by MuTSUNOBU Shigo ji, a
mombor of AKAMATSU's TETSUDO JUGYOIN KUMIAI (Railway Worker's Union)
as woll es chicf of tho labor soction of OKiVA's GYOCHI SH) (Act-on-
Earth Socicty). KAMiTSU proccodod to dolivor a patriotic Iccturo
41

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.95)
at Wasoda Univorsity on 16 Juno and in Septomber became a sharter
momber of -thc NIHON SHAKAI SHUGI KENKYU JO (Japan Social1am Re-
scarch Institute)*1 which as organizod by MATSUNOBU Shigoji, TSUKUI
Tatsuo, OKAl Shumoi and ISHIKW Junjuro and whoso policios doclar-
cd:
Wo considor thc Tonno System tho most suitablo form of govorn-
ment for thc Japanosc pcoplc. Wo oxpoct to carry out all administra-
tion in accordanco with this systom
"Wo hold that all Japancso should havo cqual rights and cqual
dutics. Wc dcmand that no onc scck to furthcr his privatc intcrosts
to thc dctrimont of public intorosts. iny ono who &isobcys this
principlc shall be dccmod & traitor.
"Wo bolicvo that all nations should onjoy righis to natural ro-
sourccs in proportion to thcir populations and in c antitics sufficicnt
to support thoso populations. Wo thorcforo domand hat all nations
having surplus lands and natural rcsources opon thcir door to inmi-
gration.
"Wo consider thc prosont supprcssion of the colorcd rucos by
tho whitcs to bo intolorablc. Honec, wo plcdgo oursolvos to cstab-
lish a lcaguc of all colorcd r ccs to omancipatc thcir kind throughout
the vorld."
Thc NIHON SHKI SHUGI KENKYU JO publishcd an articlc by
AMTSU ontitlcd KOK. SHUGI TO SiKAI SHUGI (National Socialism
and Puro Socialism) in vhich hc dcclarcd his allcgiancc to thc former.
Indccd, KhiSU had come a long way from his carlicr bclicfs.
In NoVcml cr, 1931. SHMONAK. Yasaburo of tho SLAK.I MINSHU TO
(Social Democratic Party) formcd tho KEIZAI MOND..I KENKYU KAI
(Economic Problons Roscarch Socicty) with MITSUKAYA Kanc taro, SUGIT
Shogo and S.S.I Itcho. Ho ontcrod into consultation vith somc mom-
bors of tho ZENKOKU RONO T.ISIU TO (All-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses
Party). tho AIKOKU KINRO TO (Patriotic Labor Party). and tho NIION
SHK.I SHUGI KENKYU JO (Japan Socialism Rcscarch Instituto) as Woll
as with somo mombers of his own party. By 17 Deccmbor 1931 the
group2 was roady to promote a new socialist party. Likewiso in
Deccmber, 1931, S.LMOTO Kozaburo, Icader of thc NIION RODO KUMIAI
SORENGO (Japan Iabor Unions General Associetion), dccided to thro
in his lot with the new group, declaring that his labor congross
*I Tho NIHON SHKI SIUGI KENKYU JO, organizod in Soptember, 1931,
published thc NIHON SHIKiI SHUGI (Japan Socialism) and vas ab-
sorbcd into tho HHON KOKK SLI SHUGI GAKUMI (Japan National
Socialism Students' League) in November. 1932. The institute bore
the same rclationship to OKiWi's JIMU KI (Jimmu Socicty) as did
the SHLK.I IOIKU KENIYU JO (Social Education Rcsoarch Instituto)
to tho GYOCHI SH..
*2
SHIMONK. Yasaburo's croup consisted of:
KM.TSU Katsumaro
S..SAI Itcho
K.NDA Hyozo :
SHMNAkA Yuzo
KONDO Eizo
SHIMONAKA Yasaburo
MATSUSHIT.. Yoshio
YAMMOTO Kamo jiro
MORI Eiichi
YAMiZiKI Kosaya
YOSH IKEV.. Suc jiro
42

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.95)
would divoree the ZNKOKU RONO TALSHU TO and marry the new party-
Many other small regional political parties followed suit.
The NIHON KOKUMIN SHAKAI TO JUMEI KAI (Japan People's Socialist
Party Preparatory Society) sponsored by SHIMoNakA and his friends met
on 17 January 1932 and set the day for inauguration of the new party
as ll February*l. But the jealous indecisions of the principal pro-
moters predicted failure. The inauguration was postponed awaiting
AKAMLITSU's withdrawal from the SHAKAI MINSHU TO. AKAMATSU. finding
himself supported by the ZENKOKU RONO TAISIU TO group of IMAMURA
Hitoshi and not always in agreement with SHIMONΛk1. first tried to
draw the SHK.I LINSHU TO en bloc into national socialism; voted down
at a general meeting of 15 April 1932, AKiMiTSU seceded from the
SH.KC.I MINSHU TO and on the same day organized the KOKK SHAKI SHUGI
SHINTO JUMBI K.I (National Socialist New Party Preparatory Committee),
with a view to setting up his own shop. SHIoNikA persuaded him to
desist, however, and the joint effort was to be launched on 29 May as
the KOKUAIN NIHON TO (Poople's Japan Party). The final disruption
occurred on the chosen day, when SHIMONAk's group organized the SHIN
NIHON KOKUMIN DOMEI (Ne Japan Peoplc's Loaguo). and AKAMATSU and
ILMUR joined hands to set up the NIHON KOKK: SHAKI TO (Japan Na-
tional Socialist Party).
In October, 1931, after the outbroak of tho Manchurian Incident,
M TSUTANI Yojiro, at that time a momber of the ZENKOKU RONO TAISHU
To. mado an inspcction trip to Manchuria with soveral other members
of tho Houso of Representatives. Ho returncd with the conviction that
the moasurcs takon by tho Jepaneso army had beon nccessary to protect
Japanese sottlcrs and Japaneso intorosts in Manchuria and that tho
dispatch of additional troops was unavoidablc. Ho became opposod to
his party's slogan, "Opposc Impcrialistic Wars". Sulking in his tent,
hc absonted himsolf from the party goncral mocting. in Decomber and
wroto an articlc ontitlod "My Opinion With Rcgard to tho Sonding of
Troops to Manchuria and Mongolia". in which hc strossed the following
points:
"1。
Japancso intorosts in Manchuria and Mongolia must bo
protoctcd.
"2。
Japancsc intcrosts in Manchuria and Moneolia should be
stripped of capitalist control and placed in tho hands
of laborers and farmers.
"3.
The two million unemploycd in Japan should bo sont to
Manchuria and Mongolia to tako over Japanoso intorosts
thero.
"4”
The ZENKOKU RONO TAISHU TO must fight to the last ditch
for the achievoment of theso objectivos."
While the songation causod by this statcment kept MATSUTiNI away from
all ZENKOKU RONO TAISHU TO meotings, it did rot provent his nomination
as a KOMON (dviser) of tho SKiI TAISHU TO (Sociel Mnsscs Party)
whon the new perty was formed in July, 1932. He rofused tho appoint-
mont and on 1 August 1932 vithdrow from tho SHKI TAISHU T0 with tho
statcment, "Tho insistont adheronco of tho party to social-domocratic
idcas and its opposition to imperialistic war aro against my convictio
Huroaftor I shall follow my idcal, which is national socialism." On
12 Soptomber 1932 ho sont out a prospoctus for a new political party,
*1 1l Fobruary is Kigcnsotsusai, annual holiday cclebrating acccss-
ion of the Emporor JIMMU to the Japancsc throne.
43

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.95)
tho SHIN NIHON KENSETSU DOMEI (New Japan Construction Loaguc)•1, of
which tho incugural mcoting was held on 16 October. fter consulta-
tion with OTiKE Kanichi of AD.:CHI Konzo 's KOKUMIN DOMEI (Pooplo's
Loaguc), M.TsuT:NI found thet thc principlcs of tho two partics egreed.
The tvo groups bccamo closcly affiliatod. Eventually in April, 1934.
tho SHIN NIHON KENSETSU DOLEI amalgamatod with KONDO Eizo and othor
Soceders from tho SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DOMEI (NoW Japan Pooplo's Loaguc)
to form tho KINRO NIHON TO (Labor Japan Party).
Farther to thc lcft, SNO Manabu and NBEY.k Sadac hika, commu-
nists who had bcon sontoncod on 30 October 1932 to lifc imprisonmont,
startled thoir fellow trevelors and tho country by issuing a joint
statomont of rccantation, which was publishod in thc 10 Junc 1933
newspapers. Sincc October, 1932, thc two mcn had shown signs of a
chango in attitudo, which th Superintcndont of Ichigaya Prison cn-
couraged by handing them pon and paper. Their statcmont suggested
that if they had been free to do so they would hay: marchcd with
KIM.TSU, MTSUTANI and thoir liko straight into tho nationalist
camp
"1.
In the first placc, wo bolicvo that thc Communist Party
has driftod away from the struggles of the Prolctariat.
We bolievo that today the Party stands aloof from pro-
1ctarian conccrns.
"In the sccond pluce. o boliove that thc Comintern
Intcrnational has abandoncd its intcrost in prolctarian
lifc and prolctarian struggles in thc various countrics
of tho world and that intcrnationalism is a lost causc.
"In the third placc, vo belicvo that thc defoatism
Which the Comintern has saddled upon the Japenosc Com-
munist Party is harmful to tho Japanoso pooplc and to
tho laboring classos of Japan.
"For thesc threc reasons we advocatc withdrawal from
the Comintorn.
"20
Although thc nation as a whole approachos a crisis both
intcrnal and cxtcrnal, tho Communist Party has bccome
disassociated with thc practicalitics of cvery day lifc
and has becomc tho organ of an axtrcmist nctite bourgcois-
ic. Despito tho dcsperato individual offorts of our com-
rades tho Party has fallon into dismal soctionalism. This
stato of affairs is dircctly attributablc to tho Party's
affiliation with the Comintorn and thc Comintcrn's mis-
taken lcadership.
"3.
The Comintern has lost its original spirit and has bc-
como contralizcd and buroaueratic. Regardlcss of timo
or placc, omphasis is laid upon thc importanco of tho
Russian Rovolution. The intcrnationalism of thc Com-
intern has in reality bccomc but an instrument in thc
hands of tho Sovict Union. Thc Comintern is rcplctc with
contradictions and should dissolve upon the outbreak of
*1
Thc SHIN NIHON KENSETSU DOLEI was formod by somc fivo hundrod
sucodcrs from tho SLiK.I T..ISHU TO, Icd by:
INOUE Toshimeru
M:TSUTANI Yojiro
KOMATSUB.R. Mitsutaro
TAWARA Tsugio
TSURUOK. Sadayuki
44

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.96)
the inovitable ncw world war. Wo as individuals have
dovotod oursclves to tho causo for olovon yeara but we
find that wo can no loligor continuo to do so and at the
samo time romain loyal to the causo of the proletariat
of Japan.
"4.
Wo arc opposcd to tho anarchic dofeatist attitudo of the
Comintorn toward war. Japan's war gainst Chinoso mili-
tarism and imorican capitaliam is an ovolutionary wer;
thc prolctariat must support control of production and
mobilization becausc both aro inovitablc in timc of war.
War against tho Sovict Union and tho Chineso Communist
Government, however; vould bo noithor evolutionary nor
advisablc bocauso vars must be won.
50
Wo must cndoavor to materializo a socialism whose basis
is national, not in ternational. We believe in the ability
of thc Japanese poople to achicve an original :and appro-
priate typo of socialism because they have a long tradition
of united national life, because their labor hes a high
productivity, becauso thoy have accumul ated oricntal cul-
turc, and becauso nevor in thcir long national life havo
they been hcld in bondage.
n6.
Wo belicvo that tho Communist Party is wrong in viewing
Japancso monarchism and Russian czarism in the samo
light. For propor understanding it is neccssary to grasp
the natural feeling of the masses toward the monarchy.
The Japanose monarchy is a symbol of racial unity. This
Japancsc racial unity is a strong assuranco of the na-
tienal power which has its basis in tho pcoplc. Japaneso
labor docs not belicvo that this racial unity is necessar-
ily incompatiblc with monarchy as it was in Russia.
n7o
Tho Comintern's policy to soparatc tho Japancse colonics
from the mother country is crroncous. Wo opposo capital-
ist oxploitation of the colonics; wo considor that wo
should ondoavor to cstablish a great socialist stato to
unitc the prolctarict of Japan, Manchuria. Formosa and
Koren.
"8,
All components of left-ving l bor should be divorecd from
the influcnee of tho Comintorn. Aftcr a thorough purgo
of all bourgcois idcas the labor movomont should bo re-
constructed on thc basis of national socialism. The com-
munist Party should abandon its opposition to racial dis-
crimination and bccome a party to unito thc prolctarian
front in Jepan, Manchurin, Formosa and Korca. The most
prossing problcms or today ore the gricultural qucstion
and tho solution of thc China war.
"Wc hercby make public to all prolctarians our new
conviction, with a spocial appcal to our camradcs in the
party and in thc NIHON RO DO KUMLAI ZENKOKU KYOGI KAI (Ja-
pan Labor Unions National Congross)".
This dcclaration of S NO and NaBEYAMA, is a lucid and typical cx-
amplo of tho psychological rationalization which, for many socialists
and lcftists, bridged the gap betwoon socialism and nationelism. Tho
turn-coat socialists. who did not haye so for to travel to the national.
socialist gatc, justifiod their actions in a similer vcin, minus tho
rcfcronces to Russia and tho Comintorn.
45

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
CHAPTER VI
HAER AND PLOUGH
1932 - 1940
Labor organizations in Japan may roughly be divided into three
groups, social-democratic, communist and nationalist. As in the cass
of the proletarian politioal parties there were constant divisions.
sub-divisions and realignments of the legal, non-communist groups.
but the different factions could never agree. Their divisions and
realignments followed roughly the splits and reorganizations of the
proletarian political parties. The unions became politically import-
ant in the early 1920's when liberelism, exemplified most concretely
in the passage of the 1924 universel suffrage bill, became the fashion
of the day. Their importence grew through the twenties and the thirties
with the increasing proletarian vote. The labor organizations lost
their nominal identity with the abolition of political parties and
unions in 1940 and 1941 when the T.ISEI YOKUSAN KAI (Imperial Rule
Assistance Association) and the HOKoKU UNDO (Serve-the-Country
Movement) eclipsed all independent political and social thought be-
hind the shadow of cooperative patriotism. But the stresses and
strains continued behind the curtain, to reappear unchanged in their
seperate ideologies after the war.
The most stable and durable of the factions was the conservative
social-democratic one, which based its activity on conservative trade-
unionism and which aimed to improve the living of the proletariat in
general and the conditions of labor in particular through arbitration
with capitalist interests and through parliamentary legislation of
labor laws. The most important single factor in this conservative
social-demooratic labor front was the NIHON RODO SUDUMEI (Japan Federa-
tion of Labor), which lasted under one title or another until it was dis-
solved in 1940. This federation was the back-bone of the movement
which oarried the banner of conservative socialism and fought both
extreme leftism and extreme rightism through the years.
In September, 1932, labor unions belonging to this conservative
group organized the NIHON RODO KUMIAI KAIGI (Japan Labor Unions Con-
ference) with the motto "Sound Trade Unionism". This league, whose
chief concrete features were anti-communism and support of the Inter-
national Labor Conference at Geneva, started with a membership of
more than 220,000 and with the support of most of the important labor
unions such as
KAIIN KYOKAI (Seamen's Association)
KNGYO RODO SUDUMEI (Federation of Government Workers)
NIHON KIIN KUMIAI (Japan Seamen's Union)
NIHON RODO KUMIAI SORENGO (Japan Labor Unions General League)
NIHON RODO SOREMMEI (Japan LabOr General League)
NIHON RODO SODOmI (Japan Federation of Labor)
1 The name YULI KAI calls to mind an outburst of TOKUTOMI Iichiro
published in his monthly magazine. the KOKUmIN NO TOmo (Friend of
the People) way back in September, 1890, while he was still a
Christian and a Soaialist. "Ah", he cried, "where is the man who
would help the working man! The only hope for the working men is
that they form a mutual aid society to help one enother in times
of siskness, misfortune and disaster. Perhaps such a society
should be celled the YUAI KYOKI (Friendly Association). If
necessary to enforce their wishes, men of the same trade could
unite and refuse to work."
46

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.95)
ZENKOKU RODO KUML.I DOMGI (ll-Japan Labor Unións Lcague)
But gradunlly somc of tho affiliato unions, liko tho NIHON RODo kMIAI
SO uNco in 1932, bocamc nationalistic in idoology nd withdrow. Others,
liko tho KiNGYO RODO SODOIEI, worc forccd to s ccodo becauso of the Army
policy forbidding its workers to bclong to unions. s tho patriotic ten-
or of tho nation accolcratcd, thc withdrauals incroascd, until by 1939
only four organizations continucd to support: thc NIHON RODO KUMIAI KiIGI,
nomplys
NIHON KOWN JUGYOIN KMI..I (Japan HarbOr Workcrs Union)
NIHON RODO SODCMEI (Japan Fcdoration of Labor)
NIHON SEITO RODO KUML I DOMEI (Japan Ccramic Labor Unions Lecgue)
TOKYO G SUKO KUML.I (Tokyo Gas Jorker's Union)
and thc COnferonce had only 45.480 members. The NIHON ROD0 KUMIAI KIGI
did not opposo tho S.NGYO HOKOKU UNDO (Production Sorve-tho-Country
Novoment) per se in thc late thirties, but it did maintain'that the move-
mont lcft room for the parallol cxistcncc of labor unions bocauso the pro-
poscd S.GYO HOKOKU KiI (Production Serve-the-Country Socicties) could
not properly represont tho intorests of tho working man. When the SHikiI
T.ISHU To (Social Masses Party), which hud alvays had thc support of the
NIHON RODO KUMIAI K IGI, expellcd its membors vho supported SIITO Takao
in his famous 1940 spocch in thc Dict, tho K.IGI took the rocalcitrant
mombors' part and announccd its readincss to support the new political
party which they proposcd to promulgato. Then tho now party was for-
bidden. tho KiIGI end its affiliated unions wore forced to disband.
On thc Icft wing the oldcat organization was tho NIHON RODO KUMIΛI
HYOGI KiI, inau uratod by Icftist scccdors from tho NIHON RODO SODOMEI
in 1925. hin this body vas dissolved by the polico in pril, 1928,
following thc sccond goncral apprchension of communists on 15 March, the
NIHON RODC KUIL.I ZENKOKU KYOGI K.I (Japan Labor Unions NatiOnal CongresS
was sponsored ubve sively by thc Japen Communist Party and indeod by
the Profinturn in June, 1928. This organization succccdod in sctting
up "cclls" in factorics throughout thc country and in propagating sub-
sidiary rogional congressis in almost all prcfectures. Whcn it was
recognized as a branch of thc Profintorn its lcadors werc arrestod one
after another, and its central or anization was svontually destroyed
in 1934.
To thc right of this cxtremist Russian-controllod KYOGI K.I, the
NI.OI RODO KUMIAI SOHYOGI KI (Japan Labor Unions Gencral Conferonce)
was sct up in pril, l93i, as a concord of lcgal unions which supportcd
the loft-wing RoNo To (Labor-Farmer Party). In July, 1932, when tho
RONO TO Joined tho ZEUKOKU RONO T.ISHU TO (All-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses
Party), tho NHON RODO KUMILI SOHYOGI KI was divided as to whether it
would support the new political party. When the ZENKOKU RONo TAISíU TO
joined the SHJI T..ISHU TO (Social MassCs Party). the NIHON RODO KUMIAI
SOHYOGI KAI vithdrew from polities becausc it would not go along with
the center-of-tho-road cloments in the new political combine. Kto
Kanju, TiKNO Minoru, Y.SuHIRA Shikaichi and other politically minded
left-wing laboritos shovod their di@satisfaction by organizing the ZENRo
TOITGU ZENKOKU K.IGI (All-Labor Unification National Counc il) in March,
1933, with a rosolution to destroy thc NIHON RODO KIMIAI K.IGI. In
Fobruery, 1934, thirtcen 1caders of the ZENRO TOITSU ZENKOKU KAIGI vero
arrostod, and in thc following November the tvo lcft-wing labor organ-
izations, the ZENRO TOITSU ZENKOKU KIGI and tho NIHON RODO KUMIAI
SOHYOGI KAI, amalgamated to form tho. NIHON RODO KUMI.I ZENKOKU HYOGI
I (Japan Labor Unions National Co.nfcronce), tho last of the formal
left-wing labor organizations until after tho var, which was dissolved
by the policc in Doccmber, 1937, af tor its chief expononts had beon
arrested with some four hundred sixty leftist icadors.
On tho right wing. such ultra- nationalist political perties as tho
47

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
DAI NIHON SEISAN TO (Great Japan Produotion Party) and tho AIKOKU
KINKO To (Patriotic Labor Party) claimed that they had the backing
of the proletarian masses, but this support was ectually insignificant.
The national-socialist political parties, in contrast with the nation-
alist parties, were for the most part organized by men who had the
backing of lebor unions and who drew those labor unions into the
nationel sccialist camp. The NIHON RODO KUMIAI SO RENGO (Japan Labor
Unions General League) was one of the first unions to make public its
change of heart when it withdrew its allegiance to the ZENkoku RONO
TAISHU TO (All-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses Party) in 1932 to follow
SAKAMOTO Kozaburo, MORI Eiichi and their group intO SHIMONAKA Yasa-
buro's SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DOIEI (New Japan People's League). In the
seme category may be placed the TEIYU DOSHI KAI (Communication
Worker's Comrades Society), an affiliate of the NIHON RODO SODOMEI
which in 1932 accompanied AKAMATSU Katsumaro into his new NIHON KOKKA SHA
KAI To (Japan National Socialist Party). A third examplo was tho NIHON
RODO DOIL.EI (Japan Lavor League), formed in May, 1932, by IMAMURA
Hitoshi. OYi Shozo, SiIR..TORI Hirochika and others who left the
ZENKOKU RODO KUMIAI DOMEI (All-Japan Labor Unions League) to join
AKAMTSU in his new political endeavor.
At first these groups stood squarely behind the national-socialist
program advocating a socialist Japan under the Emperor which would
eventually become the foundation stone of a union of all the people in
sia. Gradually they forgot the socialist part of their platforms
until they bec:me patr iotic labor groups ripe to partake in the SiNGYO
HOKOKU UNDO (Production Scrvc-the-Country Movement) of the late 1930's.
By May. 1933, AKMiTSU Katsumaro and his close associates had so far
out-stripped thc TEIYU DOSHI K.I in thc advance tovard nationalism
that they withdrew to set up the NIHON TEISHIN JUGYOIN KUMIAI (Japan
Communications Jorkers' Union). This caused the NIHON KOKKA SHAKI
TO and its affiliatcd NIION RODO DOMEI to divide into national-socialist
and nationalist camps. While the national socialists rcjoincd the
ZENKOKU RODO KUMI.I DOLLI and the NIHON RODO SODO EI, the nationelists
inaugurated thc NIHON S. NGYO GUN (Japan Production Corps). which even-
tually in 1937 amalgamated with the agrarian AIKOKU RODO NOMIN DOSHI
K4I (Patriotic Labor Farmer Comrades Society).
The NIHON S.NGYO RODO KUR.BU (Japan Production Labor Club) was
organized in December, 1932, by a number of nationalistically inclined
unions to contribute aireraft to the Anmy and the Navy. When this in-
itial purposo was accomplishcd it devcloped strone opposition to the
middle-of-the-road NIHON RODO KUMLI K.IGI. In pril, 936. it joined
hands with tho NIHON RODO KUMIAI SORENGO and eleven oth unions to
form thc .IKOKU RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU KONW. KII (Patriotic Labor Unions
Al-Japan Discussion Society). Since the NIHON SNGYO RODO KUR.BU re-
fused to participatc in politics, it withdrew, lccving the leaguo
entirely under the control of the NIHON RODO KUMIAI SORENGO, which in
November, 1938, changed its name to NIHON KINRO HOKO RMMEI (Japan
Labor Service Leaguc) and advocated patriotic cooperation of capital
and labor for increased production, the basic principle of the SiNGYO
HOKOKU UNDO.
is the China Inc ident dragged on with no end in prospoct. it was
decided in various quarters that some sort of ad justment of labor son-
ditions was neccssary. Tho KYoCHo KaI (Conc iliation Socicty). doscrib-
cd by Morgan Young as an organization founded in 1918 which "fritterod
away time and money on the publication of a magazine, which nobody
read, and tho collection of futile statistics", convoked in Fobruary,
1938, a committco composed of labor spccialists, governmont officials
and others with K.W. RiD. Kakichi as chairman, to which were invited men
reprosonting various interests, to plan a coord inetion of capital and
labor. Tho four men invited were:
48

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.97)
MATSUOkh Komakichi, representing the ZENKOKU RODO KUBLAI MAMI,
The democratic labor unions council.
MORITA Yoshio, repreSenting the ZENKOKU S.NGYO DANTAI RENGO KAI.
(All-Japan Production Organizations League), an employers!
organization.
NISHIYAMA NisaburO, repreSenting the NIHON SANGYO RODO KURABU.
the nationalist labor union.
T.KiYAMA Kyuzo, representing the NIHOn KINRO HOKO REMMEI, the pa-
triotic labor union.
The product of this committee was the SANGYO HOKOKU REMMEI (Production
Serve-the-Country Loague) inaugurated on 30 June 1938, inwhioh govern-
mont, capital and labor were ropresented. The patriotic and national-
istic unions all eagerly supported thc new league; in deference to its
solidarity, however, most of them dissolved to form regional SiNGyo
HOKOKU KAI (Production Serve-the-Country Societies). The NIHCN RODO
SODOMEI and thc NIHON RODO KUMIAI KAIGI refused to disband and held out
as long as they could, protesting that labor unions could exist along-
side thc lcague end must do so in order to afford proper representation
to tho working classes, but thoy too were finally forced to dissolve in
July. 1940, after the SAITo Takao debacle in the Diet. By the middlo of
1940, thore were no longer any representative labor unions in Japan.
The final step toward nationalization of labor took place on 23 November
1940 with thc establishment of the DAI NIHON S. NGYO HOKOKU KΛI (Great
Japan Serve-the-Country association). a drawing together and expansion
of the regional S.NGYO HOKOKU K.I vhich would attempt, in vain, to
supplant the prolctarian orgonization of labor.
Like the labor movement, the organization of the agrarian groups
flowered after the first world war as a result of the farmer-landlord
tenancy dispu es, vhich became frequent around 1920 and reached a
climax of tio thousand two hundred cases in 1925. is in tho case of
the labor unions, the groups nover could agrse; frecture after fracture
resultcd in a melange of agrarian leagues with titles so similar or
indecd idcntical that the greatest care must be exercised not to con-
fuse communist, left-win, right-wing and center groups with like or
identical numes.
The initial nation-wide f rmers' leaguc was the center-of-the-road
first NIHON NOMIN KUMLAI (Japan Farmers' Union) of SUGIYAMA Motojiro and
K.Gki Toyohiko, which must not be confused with the right-wing agrarian
union of exactly the same name promoted later by HIRANo Rikizo. Left-
wins clemonts in the organization gradually ocquired the control. So
in 4pril, 1926, the right wing withdrc: to form the ZEN NIHON NOMIN
KULLI DOMEI (All Japan Farmers' Unions League) under HIRANO Rikizo.
The middle-road sot of SUGIYiM. Motojiro and KAGAWA Toyohiko retired
in March, 1927. to forn the ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI (Al1 Japan Farmers'
Union), which in turn should not be confused vith the second ZEN NIHON
NOMIN KUMLI of NAKZWA Benjiro and HIRANO Rikizo. About the same time
the NIHON NOMIN KUMLAI SODOMEI (Japan Federation of Farmers' Unions)
was organized as an affiliate of the NIHON RODO SODOMEI (Japan Fcdera-
tion of Labor) under SUZUKI Bunji, KATAYAMA Tetsu, M TSUN.GA Yoshio and
BE Isoo. Thus in 1927 there were four national agricul tural unions
NIHON NOMIN KUMLAI, supporting the left-wing RODO NOMIN TO (Labor
Farmer Party)
ZEN NIHON NOILIN KUMIAI DOMEI supporting the ri ht-Wing NIHON NOMIN
To (Japan Farmer Party)
ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI supporting the domocratic SHAKAI MINSHU TO
(Social Democratic Party)
NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI SODOMEI supporting the damocratic SHAKAI MINSHU
TO
Toward tho ond of 1927 it was suggested that tho four be fused into
49

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.96)
one great agrarian league, but again the right-wing and left-wing
differences would not be reconciled.. So the ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI
amalgamated with the parental NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI in May. 1928, to
becOme the ZENKOKU NOMIN KUMIAI (All-Japan Farmers; Union), and in
July, 1928, the ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI DOMEI swallowed up local
agrarian unions in Kagawa Ken and Niigata Ken to become the secand
ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI (All-Japan Farmera' Union), not to be con-
fused with the left-wing outfit of the same name which had been in-
corporated into the ZENKOKU NOMIN KUMIAI two months before. Thus
from 1928 to 1931 there were three national ngricultural unions:
ZENKOKU NOMIN KUMIAI, whoso nembers included advocatçs of the
extreme left as vell as of the RONO To (Labor-Farmor Party)
and the ZENKOKU TAISHU TO (All-Japan Masses Party)
NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI SODOMEI, supPOrting the demOcratic SHAKAI
MINSHU TO (Social Democratic Party)
ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI, supporting the loft-wing RONO TO (Labor-
Farmer Party).
An indication of the relative strength of the parties is given by
figures showing that the NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI had 52, 0oo members to
the ZENOKU NOMIN KUMIAI's 20,000.
In January, 1931, the ZEN NIHON NOMIN KULIIAI joincd tho NIHON
NOMIN KUMIAI SODOLEI to form the sccond NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI (Japan
Farmers' Union), Which gave political support to the SHL.KlI MINSHU
To. This combination was shortlivod, however, becausc right-wing
clcmonts ropresonted by HIluivo Rikizo got control end adopted a
national-socialist policy to Which the NIHON NOMIN. KUMLAI SODOMEI
Eroup would not gree. Honcc thc NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI SODOMEI returned
to indopondcnt organization in April, 1932, supporting the SHik.I
TAISHU To. In August, 1931, the far-left group in the ZENLDKU NOMIN
KUML.I declarcd its independence as the ZEN NO ZENKOKU K IGI (Lll
Farmers' All-Japan Congress), and in December, 1933, a politically
unimportant group set up the nationalist KOKOKU NOMIN DOMEI (Imporial
Farmers' League). Thus from 1933 to 1936 there wore five agricultural
unions on a national scalo
ZENKOKU NOMIN KUILAI, SuPPOrting the SHAKAI TAISHU TO
NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI, supporting tho KODO KAI (Impcrial Way Socicty)
NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI SODOIEI, SUpPOrting thG SHKAI TAISHU TO
KOKOKU NOMIN DOMEI, Without political connections.
ZEN NO ZENKOKU K.IGI, supporting the subversive Japan Conmunist
Party
The lcgal headquarters of the ZEN NO ZENKOKU IGI, came to an
end in March, 1933. when the majority of its lcaders wore arrosted;
the remaining lcadors, who wero loss oxtreme, devotcd their primary
offorts to the orgunization of local unions, which one by one becnmo
disaffectod and joined the ZENKOKU NOMIN KUMI.I. Tho last of theso
local unions, in Saga and Fukuoka, scvcred the conncction in August,
1936, leaving the heudquarters holplcss. The coup-de-graco came to
tho ZENKOKU NOMIN KUML I as WolI as to tho ZEN NO ZENKOKU K IGI in
1938 after mass arrests had deprived the two unions of their lcaders.
Romaining oxponents of tho ZENKOKU NOMIN KUL.I ondcavored to
reorganize by uniting with the NIHON NOMIN KUMLI SODOMEI, but the
NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI SODOMEI declined the honor; hence tho ZENKOKU
NOMIN KUMI.I remnants established the DAI NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI (Great
Japan Farmera' Union) in February, 1938. On tho other sido of tho
fence, a national-socialist group from tho ZENKOKU NOMIN KUAIAI joinod
the NIHON NOMIN REMvEI (Japan Fermcrs' Loaguo), organized in January,
1938, to support NACiNo Seigo's TOHO KI (Eastern Socicty). In
50

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.97)
farmor class.
NIHON NOMIN KUMLA and tho NIHON NOMIN REMMEI disbanded in tho summer
and fall of 1940 in order that thoir leaders might devote their efforts
to tho NOCHI SEIDO KAIKAKU DOMEI. Tho ineffectual KOKOKU NOMIN DOMEI
lasted inactively until 194l. Tho NOCHI SEIDO KAIKAKU DOMEI continued
to carry tho agrariannational-socialist banner, but it too was dissolved
in March, 1942, on tho grounds that its land reform activities were
dctrimontal to the public poaco.
Another phase of the agrarian movement which must not be ovorlooked
Was the NOSON KYODO TAI ENSETSU DOLEI (Agricultural Village Cooperative
Structure Construction Loague), Wuich wus pronotod by ARIMA Yoriyesu.
femiliarly known to his oppononts as tho "socialist count". ARIMs
Wes prosident of tho NIHON S. NGYO KUMLAI (Japan Production Cooperative
Union), originally a government-sponsorod movemont which was greatly
influenccd by liberal ideals after the first World War. In 1940 whon
ARIMA was drawn into the planning of the TAISEI YOKUS:N KLI (Imperial
Rule ssistance Association) by Promicr Prince KONOYE, he dec idod that
he could coordinato the NIHON SANGYO KUMIAI's youth group into the new
movement by using it to ostablish village ccoperatives hich would.
practice concrete ugrarian rcforms. The result was the NOSON KYODO TAI
IENSETSU DOLEI. Membors of thc SHOWA KENKYU KI (Showa Rosearch Soci-
ety) of GOTO Ryunosuke and of the SHIRAKiWA KI (Shirakawa Society)*1
of Kyoto Iperial University bccamo interested and had a voice in
deciding the loague's policios.
Although tho NOSON KYODO TAI KENSETSU DOMEI cooporated with tho
Impcrial Rule ssistance Association, it was considerod by the author-
itics to be too libcral and democratic. on the ground that cooperative
villagos werc a danger to the national constitution ad contrary to
covornmontal policy. Unofficial pressuro lcd to the resignation of
RIMiA Yoriyasu, GoTo Ryunosuke and thoir group from their Imporial Rulo
Assistance Association posts in March, 1941. Thosc factors, howover,
did not causo any apprcciablo decrease in the popularity of tho co-
oporative movcment. By the end of 1941 the NOSON KYODO T.I KENSETSU
DOMEI had 1377 branches in thirty-six profectures and a membership of
27,500。
But the movement was doomed. The leaguc was linkod in the minds
of the authoritics with the SHOWA KENIYU KAI and the SiIRiKiWA KAI.
The polico had looked down their noses at the SHOWA KENkYU KiI and its
SHOW JUKU (Showa Academy) since the cstablishmont of the organizations;
in 1938 the SHlI UNDO NO JOKYO reported, "Some of the nationalist
look upon the SHOV JUKU as a patriotic academy patterned after the
modol of YOSHID. Shoin's*2 privato school of the Moiji Rostoration
*1 The SHIRKiWi KI was namod for a district of Kyoto.
*2
YOSHID. Shoin (1831-1860) was a zcalous promoter of the imperial
ceuse. He ran a patriotic academy to instruct youths in his idoo-
logy. Ho vas eventually executed for attompting to murder tho cmis-
sary'sont to Kyoto to obtain the impcrial consont for the oponing
up of Japan to foreign camerce.
51

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
poriod. Yot others regard it as a poignant danger to truo nationalism
and say that it must be dostroyed bocause many of its contrel figurés
havc been connected with tho comunist or the socialist movoments
The arrest of members of the SHOWA KENKYU KAI and the SHIRAKEA KAI
for ongaging in left-wing activities addod to tho difficultios. The
apprehension of OZiKI Hozumi, a loading light in tho SHOWA JUKU, in
October, 1941, for collaborating vith Richard Sorge, tho communist
spy. was a crowning blow. From December, 1941, to March, 1942, sever-
al Nagano and Miyagi leadors of the NOSON KYODO TΛI KENSETSU DOMEI
werc arrested, as were KiTSUMiT.. Soiichi and INlBA Hidezo at the head-
quarters, - all membors of the SHIRiKil .I. The Home Ministry was
about to ban tho lcague when it dissolved voluntarily in March, 1942.
At last all agrarian and labor organizations had been successfully
channeled into the HOKOKU UNDO (Serve-the-Country Movement) under the
Imperial Rule Assistance Association. The various HOKOkU organizations
thonceforth stood unchallenged in the field.
52

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.97)
CHPTER VII
THE VITER-LEVEL MINORITY
No survoy of tho Japanesc prolctarian front would bo completo with-
out somo montion of the ETA bocause thc "new cormoners" have always
boon so loudly vocal in their isolation as to attract more attention
than they would seen at first blush to deserve. Although those peoplo
as a matter of pridc carofully avoid identifying themsolves by the
highly opprobrious torn ETA or indocd as SHINHEIMIN (New Commoners)
or SUIHEISHA (Water Lcvelcrs) cxcept in thcir organizational activi-
ties, their plaints, protosts and petitions aro so stylized as to be
onsily recognized.
In thirtcenth century Japan thero were four classes of society,
the KUGE (court nobles), tho BUIE (varriors), the BONGE or CHIGE
(commoners), and the SLMIN (basc people). The lowest of these class-
cs, tho SElkiIN, vas in turn divided into two groups, the HININ (out-
casts) and tho ET. (polluted masscs). Whoreas the HININ was composed
of men and women who engaged in boggary, entertainnent and other
ostrecized vocations and whose stigna vas not hereditary, tho ETA wes
a congenital group which performed such functions as burial of the
dead, slaughtor of animals, tanning of hides, ct cctora, - trades
which contravcned the tonots of Budahism because of their affiliation
With death. The Japan Weckly Chroniclo of 10 May 1923 diseussed the
orign and status of tho ETi as follovs:
"Frequent refercnecs havo beon made in theso columns to the
movement started by the ET against the social discrimination to which
they have long boen subjected at the hands of their fellow-citizens.
In their manifestoos and specches they are reitcrating that they were
once outc sts but that they are now the clect. They also boast of
a 'spirit which has been temperod in the course of one thousand ycars
(of opprcssion and maltreatment)'. Water-level' is the name by
which their organization and novenont go; but it is rather doubtful
what the oxprossion exactly ncans---vhiother it refers to their aspira-
tion to como up to the water-level themselves or to the more ambiti-
ous objoct they may possibly be cntcrtaining of reduc ing all sorts
and kinds of peoplc to the samc social lcvele Perhaps it rofors to
toth, or is destined to do so. This is what makes their movement of
particular intorest. Ir. Sano*1, writing in thc current number of
the KiIno (Emancipation), refers to the intense feoling, almost of re-
ligious fervour, by which the movemont is actuated, and also the great
power of cohosion which characterized the ETh, for it is said that,
started as it was last year, the authorities of tho SUIHEISlA expect
to unite all tho ETh in the country in one goneral f ederation before
the autim of this year. One result of the movement has been an agi-
tation for tho abolition of the title of SHIzokU (knights) above that
of HEIMIN (cononers) which has boon taken up by an influential men-
ber of the SEIYumI, though it is hard to imagine how this will serve
the cause of the ETA, for tho ETA have beon HEIMIN to all Icgal in-
tents and purposcs sincc 1871. The torm ETA is now entircly unrocog-
nized in law, and let it be said to the kcnour of the Japanese Pross
that it is a .ord which is carofully avoided in tho vernacular papers.
If the word is used in the CHRONICLE it is s imply because it is more
familiar to foroign readors and it is hoped that if there are any
ET: anong its readors, they vill be liberal cnough to allow that it
is uscd for no other reason and without any implication of deprecie-
tion or discrimination.
"The word TA is more or less faniliar to foreign readors, of
*1 SNO Manabu tho communist.
53

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.97)
courso, chiofly becauso of the story of "The ET. Maidon and the Hata-
moto' includod in Mitford's ever dulightful Tolos of Old Japan. In
tho noto to tho story it is written that t sakusa, in Yodo, there
livcs a man called Danzayamon, the chiof of the ET. This nn tracce
his podigrec back to Minamoto no Yoritono, who foundod tho Shogunato
in the year A. D. 1192. Tho whole of the ETA in Japan are undor his
jurisdiction...The occupation of the ET is to kill and flay horses,
oxen, and othor beasts, to stretch drums and make shoos; and if they
are very poor, they vandor from house to house, working as cobblcrs,
monding old shoes and leather, and so carn a scanty livolihood. Bo-
sidos this their daughters and young married wonon gain a triflc as
vandering minstrols, called Torioi, playing on tho ganison. a sort of
banjo, and singing ballads. They nover narry out of their orn'fra-
tornity, but remain apart. a despisod and shunned race.
"'t execution by crucifixion it is the duty of the ETi to trans-
fix the victins vith spcars; and, besidos this, they have to perform
all sorts of dograding officcs about criminals, such as carrying sick
prisoners from their colls to tho hall of justicc. and burying the
bodics of those that havo beon cxecuted. Thus thoir race is polluted
and accursed, and thcy aro hated accordingly.
"Whatover truth thcro was in Mitford's days in thc rather sweoping
remark about tho whole of the cta in Japan being under tho jurisdic-
tion of the man called Danzayenon, such is corteinly no longor the
case now. In then there doos not seen to oxist any senso of whot may
be called masonic fraternity amone thom, the only sontinont that is
conmon to then and unites than being the intonso resentmont they foel
at the contempt in which they are held by the other sections of socie-
ty, for in point of blood thoy aro as much Japancso as other Japenose.
But as to their bcing 'a despised and shunned race' Lord Rodcsdale is
ontircly rig t. Ord inary Japanese would have no great objeotion to
admitting lorcans to their houscholds as scrvants, but most of then
would not liston to the idca of sitting on the seme floor and slceping
under the samo roof as stn in whatover capacity, to say nothing of
intormarrying with then.
"Dr. Kita, Profossor of Japanese history at the Tyoto Imperial
University, who is the grcatost authority on thc sub ject, s ays, in
the courso of a longthy article he has contributed to the May number
of Enane ination, that fron the careful investigations hc has mado into
the matter, he is convinced that the ata are ot of a differont ruce
fron the ordinary Japancso and the contempt in whach they are social-
ly held is due cntirely to thc misconecption that their person is
polluted on account of their occupations. The word cta is now repro-
sonted by tho Chineso charactors meaning 'much polluticn,' but there
are many instanccs of Chinoso characters of kindred sound and meaning
being used in order to oxpross foreign words which really havo no
conncetion with then, ond those cro grievous traps for the ctymologist.
For instance, charactors meaning 'foreigners' slave' are used for
guide, characters meanin, 'common cnjoymont place' for club, cheract-
ors meaning 'rich knight' or 'peerless' for (Mount) Fuji, vhich is
supposed to rc dcrived fron thc Ainu word for 'fire'. the mountain
having becn an active volcano in ancient tines. But tho word eta is
a transformation of ctori (catchers of food--for falcons and dogs)
who were attuched to chicf falconers and whose business it was to pro-
cure food (flesh) for the falcons and dogs kopt by thcir masters. The
name gradually oxtended to butchers in general until in tho Hoian
period (794-1184) butchers and meat oators were known as ctori. waich
in thc Kanakura period (1185-1332) was changed to cta.
"In carliost times in this country, no public stigme was attached
to butchorine and meat cating. Animal flosh was offcred even to the
54

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
gods. Boars' meat and venison wore servcd even at the Imperor's table
at least until about tho beginning of the tenth century Owing to the
prevalence of Buddhisn, hovover, the custon was devolopod of rogarding
life-taking as cvil, and moat-cating as polluting. The beliof thon
came into existence that the gods did not liko butchers and moat-
Gators to come near them. At the tine of Oyo no Tadafusa, who died
in the yoar llll, it becane obligatory for persons who partook of
boars' or dcor's flesh to rofrain from attonding Court for threo sub-
scquont days. In the Kanakura period. the nane eta extended to other
poople in the samo social position as the ota proper, even cleanors
and scavongers and the like boing includod in the category and the ob-
noxious characters moaning 'much pollution' camo to be omployed for
dosignating the word ota. In tho Muromachi period (1392-1603), loef-
ors and vagabonds who. being unable to mako thoir livelihood in their
nativo places, drifted to great citios and carned thoir living by
rendering miscelleneous scrvices to the citizen, and who lived in huts
built at such places as the dry bed of the Kamo-gawa and the slopes of
Higashiyana in Kyoto--that is, on the outskirts of towns--wero also
callcd ota or hinin (litorally 'non-human').
"Hunters and fishermen vore also regarded as no better than eta.
bocause thcy mado lifetaking their pursuit. Nichiron, the famous
Buddhist saint, called hinself tho son of an eta, bocause he was the
son of a fisherman
"Chiefs of eta, who were cvolved in 'course of tino, found their
principal occupation in looking ofter the polico affairs of the towns
and villages to which they belonged, and thoy woro in receipt of good
pay for thoir servicos and had also various privileges conforred upon
thon, the lcather businoss boing ono of thori. But thc gonorality of
ota wero day-labourers and, in somo cases, wandering minstrels.
"Until the boginning of the Tokugawa poriod, cta and hinin vero
oxchangocblc terms, and there was no distinetion between them, but as
tho peoplc coming under tho category of eta or hinin grew in number,
hinin wore divided fron sta, tho latter name being exclusively re-
servod for those who actually madc it their business to guard against
thieves in towns and villagos, and who nonopolized the leather busi-
ness, their bodies boing rogarded as polluted becausc of their habit
of handling leather and oating animal flesh, it being rulod that they
and their desecndants should always remain ota. During the sano
period, the opprossion of the military gontry was such that the farn-
ing and trading population hardly showed any incrense, whcreas tho
number of eta inercased at a rapid rato owing to tho eood incomes made
and the easy life thoy lod. The result was that living became more
difficult vith then as time wont on, until thcy became the poor and
congestcd cormunitics, which thcy now are. Coopcd up as thoy wero in
tho limitod areas, many of then tried to'mako their living outside
thoir own cormunitios by passing thensolves off as ordinary people,
but tho cutsidors would havo nothing to do with then becauso of the
pollution that contact with them was supposed to produce.
"The hinin, who wont to swoll tho ranks of cta, wore, proceeds
Dr. Kita, social stragglors who for various reasons could not onjoy
the priviloges of full citizons. They probably included descendants
of provious inhabitants who had not had an opportunity to participate
in the benofit of Imperial Rulo, and doscendants of criminals vho had
slippod through tho meshes of the law. But most of them woro peoplo
who, unablo to stand the naladministration of local governors in the
Hoian period, abandoned civil rights of their own ccord and wont out
of tho fanily registries in the guiso of shave-pated priosts. Referr-
ing to tho oxistonce of a large nunber of such poople in tho Engi
poriod (9ol-923), Miyoshi Kiyotsura, a notod scholar in thoso days,
55

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
said that two-thirds of the whole population of this country were now
shave-pated fellows, and also thet they had wives and children at
home and took flesh in their mouths, that they were like priests in
shape but were eta (butchers) at heart. There is no doubt that some
of those hinin (non-citizens) attached themselves as warriors to local
chieftcins, temples and shrines and stalked haughtily in society, but
not a few of them wandered to big towns and became gta.
"The Doctor laughs at the absence of a clear idea of the origin
of the eta even on the part of the educated classcs, and even of these
people who, like administrators, polico officers and school tcachers,
aro found to come in direct contact with thcm in the dischargc of
thcir official functions. They labour, he says, under totally mis-
taken ideas of thc eta, such as that thoy aro descendants of natural-
ized Koreans, or that they aro dcscendants of prisoners of war. Their
lack of understanding in this respect is reflected in the little real
sympathy which cven administrative officials and cducationists have
with the cta. For instancc, when at a small gathering of officials
and oducationists reccntly hcld near Osaka, thc qucstion was asked
by the Doctor whcther they were propared to eat and drink with cta
in thcir homes, nearly half of thom hcsitated to answor in tho affirm-
ative. Ccrtainly the majority of thc cta are poor, but they are not
worsc off than the ordinary citizons living in slum quartcrs. But the
cta whether rich or poor, are not casy to associate with and their
manncrs and customs arc somewhat differont from those obtaining out-
sidc thcir own circlcs. All this is duc to thc pressuro and isola-
tion to which thcy havc beon condemned for many ycars. The fault
doos not lie with them, but rather with tho outsido public.
"According to thc samc authority, those vho arc known as hinin
in thc Tokugawa regimc havo practically merged with common people in
the course of tho half-ccntury clapsing after the abolition of the
namo cta in 1871, when all cta-hinin bccame commoners. But the eta
mostly rcmain in fact, shin-heimin (ncw commoners) being the name by
which they wore popularly cullcd for a long time afterwards. But as
this was no Icss objectionablc than thc word ota many words have beon
devised to call them by moro agrecable names such as tokushu buraku
(spccial communitics), koshin buraku (junior or loss advanccd com-
munitics), saimin buraku (poor communitics), misshu buraku (congosted
communities), but buraku-min, that is, mombers of (spccial) com-
munities scems to be the name by which the cta arc oftcnost callcd,
it is not known vith what satisfaction to the cta thomsclves. The
Doctor oneo questioned the authorities of the Home Office whe are in-
terosted in the welfare of the spccial communitics as to how thcy
refcrrcd to the ota, nd clicited the answer thet they had no parti-
cular name to call them by, but tat when it was absolutcly neccssary
to rofer to them they used tho exprossion 'those peoplc.' How in-
convenient and awkward! oxelaims the Doctor, but this is all tho re-
sult of thcir having long becn diseriminated against.
"It is not discriminating terms, but discriminating facts and,
morc cspoccially, discrimin ting sentiments, that matter most to the
pcoplc affcctcd. And it is oxactly thoso diseriminating sentimcnts
that aro most difficult for the Suihcisha pcoplo to fight egainst."
In short. in olden times thc TA lived in spocial arons commonly
referred to as TOKUSHU BURAKU (spec ial villeges), married and hed
their being in their own special social class, and were scgregated by
a spccial lcgal status. This spccial lcgal status, was abolished
in 1871 whon tho Emp cror Meiji passed a law which plcccd tho ETA in
the ordinary HEIMIN (commoner) class with legal rights and opportun-
itics cqual to those of other commoners. For a time thc outcasts
Wero callcd SHIN HEIMIN (new commoners), but this torm soon becamo
as distasteful as "ETA", to tho cxtont that it too wes never uscd in
56

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.96)
public. Tho ETA adopted the name SUTHELSHA (Water-Level SOciety)
presumably in reference to their struggles for equality. Despite
the chango in thoir legal status the ETA continucd to live a segre-
gated existonce, plying their heroditary tradcs and storing up social
disc ontent. The social projudice continued.
After tho firat World War liboration" of the ETA becamo the
basis for a social movoment, the SUIHEI UNDO (Wator-Levol Mbvement),
which was promoted and encouraged by brcadminded individuals outsido
the palo*1 as well a by members of tho outcast group. This SUIHEI
UNDO was originatcd by tho TSUBAME KAI (Swallow Society). which was
organizcd in Nara Kon by S. KAMOTO Sciichiro and SAIKO Mankichi*2 in
January, 1920, and which aimed to frco the ET class from the trammels
of social ostracism by action within thc group itsolf and without de-
ponding upon aid from govornmontal and public welfare organizations.
By Linrch, 1922, the movcment had sproad to such an extont that tho
nation-widc ZENKOKU SUIHEISHA (All-Japan Watcr-Level Socicty) could
be formed on 3 March at an inaugural meeting attonded by moro than
two thousand roprescnt tives fron Hyogo. Kyoto, Mic, Nara, Okayama, Osaks
Shiga, Tokyo and Wakayama Prefecturcs. This became the strongost of
all ETA organizations, lasting through thc years until the present
day.
In November, 1923. an cxtremist group in the ZENKOKU SUIHEISHA
lcd by TiCH.SHI Sadaki. classcd by the police ns a communist. set
up tho ZENKOKU SUIHEISL. SEIIEN DOMEI (All-Japan Water-Level Socioty
Youth Leaguo). This soc icty bec amo the ZENKOKU SUIHEISHA MUSAN-SHA
DOMEI (All-Japan Water-Level Socicty Prolctarian Loague) in September,
1925, hon its loadorship fell into thc hands of communist-minded
Icaders. It maneuvcred closo conncctions with tho NIHON RODo KUMII
HYOGI K.1 (Japan Labor Unions Confcrence), the lcft-wing oloment
which had  cedod from the NIHON RODO SODOMEI (Japan Fedcration of
Labor) in Mny, 19 25, and with tho NIHON NOMIN KUML1I (Japan Farmers!
Union), which cast out its own right-wing in March. 1926. It gave
its political support to tho RODO NOMIN TO (Labor Farmer Party). In
April, 1933, KITHAR Taisaku, a momber of the Standing Executivo
Committce of the ZENKOKU SUIH ISHA, joined the Japan Communist Party
and attompts wore mado to sct up communist "cclls" in tho "spocial
villagos.3
To OPPOse the activitics of the ZENKOKU SUIHEISHi SEINEN DOMEI
and tho Icftists a reactionary group in the ZENKOKU SUIHEISHA in-
augurated tho ZENKOKU SUIHEISHA JIYU SEINEN REMMEI (All-Japan Water-
Lovel Socicty Froc Youth Leaguc), vhich procceded to forec TAKAHaSHI
Sadaki to withdraw fron the SUIHEI UNDO on the grounds that ho was
not an ET by birth. In 1927 the NIHON SUIHEISHA (Japan Wator-Lovol
Socicty) was organized in Kyoto by MINAMI Umckichi. who was rabidly
anti-communist. Althouch this group lrsted nominally until Novomber,
1
The ZENKOKU YUW. DOLEI REMMEI (All-Japan Coneiliation Loague)
and the DOAI KiI (Brotherly Love Socicty) for improving tho
status of tho T werc formed by Count ARIM Yoriyasu.
*2
SΛIKO Mankichi has uscd the name SATO Santaro during cortain
pcriods of his lifc.
*3
Other ccnmunist members Were MIY/MOTO Hidoo of tho ZENKOKU SUI-
HEISH. KYUSHU RENGO KI (All-Japan Water-Lovel Socicty Kyushu
Loaguo) and IWAS4 Juichi of tho ZENKOKU SUIHEISH. HIROSHIM. KEN
RENGO KAI (All-Japan Watcr-Lovel Socioty Hiroshima Ken Leaguo).
57

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
1942, it had few members and attained little influence. Although the
general arrests of the late twenties and sarly thirties foreed the
underground, the police records of 1935 reported that there was still
a group of ETA, especially in Kyushu, whioh held that liberation could
be attained only with proleterian help but which was prevented by its
communist sympathizers from disbanding and joining agrarian and labor
unions because the solidarity of the SUIHEISHA based on class pre-
judice could be put to good use. Hence the continuing opposition of
the right wing.
The SUIriEISh endeavored to take part in politics from the out-
set of their movement. In 1923 when the ROD0 NO.Iv TO (Labor Farmer
Perty) was formed, the left wing of the Water-Levelers supported it.
In 1926 the left-wingers set up the RONO. T0 SHIJI RilkEI (Labor-Ferner
Party Supporters' League) to back the vIHON RONO To (Japan Labor-
Earmer Party), and many of its leaders were arrested on 15 March 1928
and 16 April 1929 with other left-wing politicians and laborites.
Despite this left-wing activity the chief force of the SUIHEISHA
aligned itself behind the ShaI TaIunU To (Social Masses Party), on
whose ticket two ETa were elected to the Diet in 1937. As with the
country at large the Manchurian Incident and subsequent hostilities
influenced many SUIISHA to the right, end in 1940 the YAATO HOKOKU
K.I (Yanato Serve-the-Country Society) was inaugurated with many
SUIHEISHA leaders on its roster of officers even though the inherent
discontent of the ETA made them by fer and large more susceptible to
left-wing socielism than to the extreme right.
Perhaps the most typical phobia of the ETA is its historic hatred
of the ToKuGl family, based on recollection of the restrictions
placed upon the class during the years of the ToKUG.WA Shogunate
(1603-1868). Domands that TokUG.W.1 lands and properties be trans-
ferred to the "oppressed villagers", that shrines dedicated to the
TOKUGfamily be burned, that members of the TOKUG be purged
from public life ere almost certain proof of ET! origin. Other demands
range from normal pleas for ruform which might emanate from any social-
ist faction in the land to exhorbitant crcck-pot clains for special
treatment of the ETA such as govornmental aid to their special trades,
abolition of discriminatory treatment, and reparations for traditional
social injuries.
Whether discriminatory words and actions were intentional or un-
premeditated, the SUIHLIsHi tempest in the social teapot has always
boiled. The ETA have always  ade it a point to take up each and every
case with protest loud and long. The protests have taken different
forns but have often been riotous enough to invite police interference.
The trouble reached its climax in 19:4 and 1925 when there were more
than one thousand cases of SuIHLIsH disturbances on the police blotter.
Later, as the movement became less riotous the  became satisfied
with apologies from their defamors, but the unrest continued, as
evidenced by figures from the books of the Welfare Ministry's Social
Bureau:
Year
Number of
Settlements
Others
Inoidents
Apology
Law Suits
1933
741
556
16
179
1934
824
630
19
175
1935
715
515
28
172
1936
676
533
27
116
1937
486
397
12
77
1938
503
416
14
73
58

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.97)
the type of commotion caused by the ETA:
In November, 1926, MATSUMOTO Jiichiro and STO Santaro were
of the House of Peers.
In June, 1927, members of the Fukuoka SUIHEISHA threatened to
blow up the army barrecks in that city in reteliation for dis-
criminatory treatment in the army. MiTSuMoto Jiichiro was again
involved and sentenced to thrce and one half yeers' imprisonment.
In 193l vihen Kurashiki City. in Okayama Ken planned to build a
crematorium in a section of the town whero there were twenty-four
ETA homes, a huc and cry of discrimination was raised. A minority
of the offcnded houscholders was prepared to compromise for a so-
latiun of onc thousand yen, whereupon the others attacked them with
bamboo pikes and cluls. The riot was quelled by the police, and the
incidcnt was cventually settled by a present of one thousand yen from
the city government, relief to thc "victims" by remission of the fines
which they could not pay, and a public lccturc on abolition of dis-
crimination against the TA.
The best remembcred SUIAEISIL incident of recent ycars was the
Takamatsu Lan Court case which bogan vith the arrangemont of a
marriege. In making the match two ETi second-hand dealers of Kagawa
Kcn ho acted as go-betweons failed to disclose the fact that the
bridcgroom was a SUIHEISH.. They wro acc used by Procurator SHIRA
MIZU Katsuoki of participation in a marringe by abduction. This in-
furirte the vholo SUTHEISHa population, and developed into a nation-
wido demonstration in 1933
SUIHEISH! hcadquarters investigated tho case, held a central
committce mooting and passcd a resolution domanding cancellation of
the judgement cgainst the match-makers. release of the two second-
hend doalcrs and punishment of the judicial officers concern d. A
mceting of reprosontatives of prefeetural branchcs was held on 28
Lugust at Osaka, attended by ono hundrcd thirty-thrce men from twenty-
four profectures with IlTSUmOTO Jiichiro ns chairman. Rogional
committccs vere formed to gitatc throughout the country. Mass moet-
ings and strcet parades were hcld everywhere. Plans were formulated
for a proccssion of four hundred men to march on foot from Fukuoka
to Tokyo to proscnt protests to the Minister of Justicc and the
Procurator Goneràl, but the police porsuaded thc promoters to go by
train nd the nuinber of the marchers cvontually was diminished to
forty. The SUIHEISH. as a wholc adop ted a policy of passive re-
sistance by rcsortin to non-payment of taxes, truancy from schools,
evasion of conscription into thc armed forces and noglect of othor
public duties. In the coursc of the agitation many violent intra-
mural quarrols took place, which in ono case resulted in murder. The
police had a thoroughly bad timo of it becauso intcrvention was
intorpreted as a form of diseriminatory supprossion and scrved to
fan the flomes of indignation. Even ofter Procurator SHIRAMIZU,
the littlc acorn from which the oak tree grow, had been transferred
from Takamatsu, the malcontents worc not s:tisficd. Membors of
the SUIHEISHA ccntrel committoe such as M TSUMOTO Jiichiro, IMOTO
Rinshi. FUJIWaR Gontaro and YAMiMOTO Bonji followed him to his now
post at Fukuchiyama, Kyoto Fu, with demands that he resign. It was
a long time before governmental disregard of the demonstrations con-
vinecd the Er.. that they might as woll consigno the ineident to
59

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.98)
limbo*l.
In 1934 Lieutonant Goncral STo Kiyokatau wrote an opon letter
to tho YOROZU CHOHO newspaper criticizing the attitude of formor
Railway Ministcr OGWú Hoikichi in tho famous Railway Scandal as
"worse than that of tho ETA". gain the entiro SUIHEISH was in an
uproar. Whon General S. To apologized, tho ETA demanded that an
apology be printed in the YOROZU CHOHO, that an explanation of the
incidcnt bo inserted in the SENYU (Army Fricnd) organ of the Re-
servists' ssociation, and that Goneral SiTo give suitable instruot-
ions to the Army regarding troatment of the SUIHEISHi. HiSEGWA
Zenji, the president of the YOROZU CHOHO, printed the apology end
offered the management of the paper to SUIHEISH for a period of
onc month free of charge for propaganda purposcs. Tho offer was
refuscd; the furore died down; but this vas the fororunner of many
small SUIHEISH incidents in the Army*2. /gitation dicd down only
When the ET.. dissolved their organization ut tho beginning of the
war.
Althouch thc SUIHEISHi dissolved thcir fornal organization in
January, 1942, they reorganizcd after tho var and aro hencc a
presont-day problem.
Latcst figurcs on ETi population compiled b thc Welforo Minis-
try arc ns of 1 July 1946:
Prefecturo
No. of Citics
No. of
No. of
No. of
and To:ns Hav-
Comunitics
Houscholds
Individuals
ing Communitics
ichi
18
22
2,196
10,081
Chiba
26
32
697
3.762
Ehimo
238
463
16,039
81,332
Fukui
6
6
559
2,892
Fukuoka
180
542
17,071
75,826
Gifu
10
11
887
4,474
Guima
68
148
4,016
23,177
Hiroshime
249
426
8,232
38.434
Hyogo
222
341
24,043
128,963
Ibaragi
41
41
1,131
7,246
Ishikawa
11
16
517
2,311
Ka_awa
43
45
1,698
8.545
Kagoshima
43
54
1,908
9,934
Kochi
55
69
7,206
37,709
Kumamoto
13
21
1.543
8:348
Kyoto
93
155
11,499
55,654
Mic
86
167
8,604
42.197
Nagano
215
331
4.299
22,221
Nagasaki
13
15
205
1,065
The ill-mated bride and groom had, long sinec been lost from
sight in thc shuffle.
*2
During a physical exumination a soldier in thc Kurune rogiment
held out four fingers, the insulting four-footcd eninal sign of
the SUIHEISHA, and renarked to a follow-recruit "You have flat
foet like thosc people". The object of his keon observation,
who happened to be one of those poople, repoi ted the ranark to
SUIHEISH headquarters. gain the fat vas in the fire.
60

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.98)
Prefecture
No. of Cities
No. of
No. of
Nb. of
and Towns Hav-
Communities
Houscholds
Individuals
ing Communities
Nara
49
77
7,399
37.444
Niigata
30
33
991
5.783
Oita
44
62
1,964
10,197
Okayama
241
332
11,294
52.650
Osaka
44
58
12,649
61,583
Saga
19
20
454
2,366
Saitama
128
263
5.402
32,875
Shiga
53
68
8.537
36,605
Shimane
91
136
1,660
7.896
Shizuoka
44
47
3,130
18.478
Tochigi
47
73
2,805
17,491
Tokushima
58
68
7.619
38.094
Tokyo
21
21
1,225
6,240
Tottori
66
98
4.685
25,250
Toyama
120
228
1,434
7,052
Wakayama
55
76
11,578
50,520
Yamaguchi
59
86
3,573
16.597
Yamanashi
18
36
449
2,451
Total
2,840
4.709
200,233
1,000,087
A survey published by the Welfare Ministry in Mhrch, 1946,
showed distribution of TA families by industries:
Prefecture
E. rming
Vanufacturing
Commerce
Fishing
Others
Total
Aiichi
549
961
316
13
893
2,732
Akita
0
16
0
0
0
16
Chiba
300
13
129
26
91
559
Ehime
7,270
17
840
841
815
9.783
Fukui
466
18
0
0
75
559
Fukuoka
13,917
509
212
0
.1,136
15,774
Fukushima
1
23
133
0
16
173
Gifu
225
11
496
0
178
910
Gu.una
4,782
170
172
3
129
5,256
Hiroshima
4.510
891
1.921
1.443
257
9,022
Hyogo
17,046
1,229
14℃
0
5,628
24,043
Ibaragi
846
28
1
1
1
877
Ishikawe
80
18
2
22
441
565
Kagava
390
33
510
60
695
1,701
Kagoshima
1,795
17
22
74
0
1.908
Kanagua
533
49
153
0
198
933
Kochi
3.442
594
0
2,885
285
7,206
Kumamoto
2,150
111
429
0
0
2,690
Kyoto
4,088
0
20
0
5,875
9.893
Mié
6,179
698
130
0
1,296
8,303
Miyuzaki
92
8
36
0
25
211
Nagano
3,956
0
0
0
0
3.956
Nagosaki
387
0
0
0
1,261
1.648
Nara
5,218
0
1,745
0
427
7,399
Niigata
338
47
0
0
402
787
Oita
1.447
44
279
0
0
1,770
Okayama
9.456
40
43
3
230
9.772
Osaka
2,986
7,644
1.496
0
9.439
19,565
Saga
85
235
78
0
56
454
Saitoma
4.902
453
1
0
46
5,402
62

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
Prefecture
Farming Manufacturing Commerce
Fishing Otherg Total
Shiga
3,560
0
101
27
2,174
5,862
Shimane
698
274
382
141
232
1,727
Shizuoka
973
1,378
21
80
203
2.655
Tochigi
2.526
0
55
0
0
2,581
Tokushima
3,030
110
423
21
1,342
4,926
Tokyo
274
1,104
0
0
0
1,378
Tottori
3.216
6
5
0
608
5,835
Toyama
664
226
178
13
520
1,601
Wakayama
7,483.
1,818
0
414
9,685
Yamngata
7
94
0
0
156
257
Yomaguc hi
3.425
90
460
88
411
4.484
Yamanashi
245
96
0
0
0
341
Total
192,197
These statistics are obviously ineanpletc beceuse there cre certainly
SUIHEISH: families in unlisted prefectures like Miyagi and the Hok-
keido. Figures for c.rtain prefectures are unavailable; figures for
others are incomplcte because of the post-war confusion; and cer-
tainly many ETA fanilies have crossed the social bundary and have
been absorbed in thc conmon citizenry. I4TSUMOTO Jiichiro and
TAHRA Haruji cstimato prcsent ZENKOKU SUIHEISL membership at thrce
million. T.uLR beliovcs the total EIa population of Japan to be
about five million.
Although the status of this minority is a social rather than
a logislative problem because the legal stigia was removed by the
1871 law, end although improvement of the status of the ETA must in
the last umalysis cane through social education---of the class it-
self in cleunliness, solf-rcspcct and personal ambition and of other
classes in tolcration and cooperation, the SuIHEISHA have always
considered their problem a political one. Maladjustment of the ETA
socicty at lerge has always nurtured their inforiority complcx and
has made them peculiarly menable to persuasion on the part of their
own malcontent leaders as well as on the part of other discontcnted
groups. The importance of the solidarity of this minority in poli-
ties was to be clearly indicated by the clection of MTSUMOTo Jiichiro
to the new S.iNGIIN (House of Councillors) of the Dict in April, 1947,
with the third largest votc in the country.
62

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
CHAPTER VIII
THE PRE WAR DEC ADE
1932-1941
While the labor and agrarian groups were undergoing their series of
divisions, upheavals and readjustments throughout the troublous thirties,
the nationalists proceeded to utilize the military activity on the con-
tinent to their advantage in fanning the flames of popular patriotism.
Yet the Manchurian Inoident, - and later the China Incident, - while the
nost obvious factor in promoting nationalism, could not be called the
only phenomenon which advanced the nationalist cause. More basic was
the reaction to the left-wing activity of the twenties, as attested by
the platforms of the many rightist societies and associations dating
back well beyond the outbreak of hostilities and by the statements of
the extremist participants in the various violent incidenis such as the
Blood Brotherhood Incident. the 5:15 Incident, the Gods' Troop Incident
and the 2:26 Incident. Nearer to the heart of the nation were the econo-
mic depression and the distressed condition of the egricultural villages.
For the deplorable state of the nation the nationalists blamed the mal-
administration and corruption of government officials and the political
parties, citing as proof the so-called GIGOKU JIKEN (Scandal Incidents).
of 1929 such as the Decorations Scandal which involved Decorations
Board Chief AMaOKA Naoyoshi, the Railway Scandal which involved Rail-
way Minister OGAA Heikichi and Education Minister KOBSHI Ichita. and
the Korean Government Scandal which involved Governor General YAMaNasHI
Hanzo.
The nationalist and national-socialist societies organized at this
time, such as the D.I NIHON S. IS.N To (Great Japan Production Party), the
JIU KAI (Jinmu Society) and the KUDO KI (Imperial Way Society),
adopted platforins which incorporated socialist reform programs blatant-
ly opposed to capitalistic economy. They pledged themsolves to the
overthrow of the old political parties. In fact the only basic differ-
ence between the left-wing and nationalist progrems was the lattor's
adherence to imperialistic expansion and its noisy "Revere the Emperor"
slogan. Thus the nationalist parties, like the socialist groups, were
dosigned to extend a popular appeal to the malcontont lower classes.
From 1931 and 1932 the nationalist and national-socialist groups
took a definite stend in politics by organizing dufinitely political
groups such es:
D.I NIHON ISN To (Great Japan Production Party), June, 1931
NIHON KOKKA H KAI T0 (Japan National Socialist Party). May, 1932
SHIN NIHON KUKUiI DOI (New Japan People's League), May, 1932
SHIN NIHON KNSTU Do.EI (New Japan Construction League). August,
1932
KODO KAI (Imperial Way Society), April, 1933
KOKUIN KYOXI (People's Association). August, 1933
Behind this political front wore the countless ideological societies.
of every degree of importance and rabidity from petty pedagogical cults
to murderous bands of conspirators who shot to kill, but all programmes
were ostensibly carried out in the name of the Emperor. Despite the
petty jealousies and differences which caused rifts, adjustments and
amalgamations, the overall movement had the ideological backing of the
Army, and various groups in the military were openly involved in the
various arguments, abortive coups-d'etat and political assassinations
from the Maroh Inoident of 1931 through the impeachment of Professor
MINOBE Tatsukichi in 1935 to the February Incident of 1936. What has
been frequently overlookes is the fact that the nationalist advance
acquired increasing popular support for the simple reason that it pro-
mised utopian social reforms.
The overall activity of the nationalists was typified in an.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.95)
axaggeratod form in tho history of tho DaI NIHON SBISN To (Great Japan
Production Party), whose long life and whose dual role in polities and
extremism involved it in every phase of the movement. Fermed in June,
1931 by UOHID.. Ryohei and other members of his KOKURYU KAI (Amr River
Society), this perty adopted a platform which stated clearly and con-
cisely all of tho basic principles of political and social natfonaliam:
"Politicals-
"1. Annihilation of all politicians vho do not rocognize the
importance of the national constitution.
2.
Dostruction of capitalistic industrial monopoly.
"3.
Abolition of the MINSEITO and SEIYUKLI as parasites of
plutocracy.
"4.
Encouragement of political activities which will lead
the poople to prosperity.
5. Mintenance of a positive foreign policy in accordance
With D..I NIHON SHUGI (Great Japanism).
*6.
Encourogement of Manchurian and Mongolian indopondonce.
"7.
Aid in developing China.
"8.
Expulsion of the aggressive white powers fron the Far
East, and establishmont of a new order in isia.
"9.
Reinforcement of the national dofonse.
"Economic:-
1.
Fundamental roform of tho nation's capitalistic econony.
"2.
National monopoly of production.
"3。
Nctional monopoly of finance.
n
National monopoly of industry.
Improvoment of living conditions of the laboring classes.
n6。
Security of omployment, farm lands end housing.
"7.
Abolition-of taxes on common necossities.
n8.
Roduction of levics on tho proletariat.
9.
Guaranty of gas, heat and vator supply."
Within a few months cighteen Kanto Sociotios had joined tho party, thus
making it one of the strongest rightist organizations in the country.
Branches were formod everywhere and soon achieved wide notoricty for
their anti-libural activities.
As carly as Novomber, 1931, a clash occurred in Tochigi Kon betveon
the local branches of the I NIHON SEIS.N TO and of tho ZENKOKU ONO
T.IsHU To (All-Japen Labor-Farmer Mnssos Party) when the former dosnnded
that the latter drop its slogan "Opposition to Imperialistic War." This
clash betweon tho right and the loft rosulted in the decth of four DiI
NIHON EIS.N TO mombers and in the severe injury of ten moro.
In May. 1932, the D.I NIHON SIS.N To emphasizod its inturest in
the Mhnchurian que stion by dispatching TaUkUI Tatsuo and DoMaE Mago-
saburo to tho sceno to "console" the occup tion troops. When ISHIB..SHI
Chokichiro vas appointod to cover tho annual military manouvors for the
Osaka MINICHI, the D.I NIHON SEISN TO accused him of communism. chorged
the mper with leso majecte and domanded that all pross ceverage of the
maneuvers be prohibited. The publication of a writton apology by the
L INICHI was tantamount to an opon acknowleigmont of the growing powor
of the D.I NIHON SaIS.N TO. gain, in June. 1932, the party joinud forcos
With the JIMMU KI (Jimmu Society), the KINNO IHIN DOMEI (Loyalist Res-
toration Alliance) and tho NIHoN Kokk. SH.K.I TO (Japan National Social-
ist Party) in a coalition called the KOKUN N D.KI RENGO KYOGI K.I
(issociated Council for the Solution of tho National Crisis). This coun-
cil domanded immediato recognition of Manchukuo, improvoment of living
conditions of the masses and roform of the cabinet. In July the council
64

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.96)
held a joint meeting With the KoKUnYU K.I (mur River Society) to re-
iterate the demand for recognition of Wanohurian independence, and in
August the DaI NIHON ISaN TO protested the appointment of Vice-Admiral
NOimURA Kichisaburo as Special Envoy to the United States, on the pre-
text that the appointment in view of existing relations between the two
countries belittled the Japanese national dignity. And in the summer
of 1932 the party became embroiled in a general strike of employees of
the Tokyo Bay Stoamship Company in which the company came away the
loser.
In 1933 the involvement of SUZUKI Zenichi, head of the DI NIHON
SEISaN To Youth Corps, and other membors of the party in the SHIMELITAI
JIKEN (Gods' Troops Incidont) caused the disbanding of the youth corps.
The DAI NIHON SISAN TO led a comparatively quiet existence until the
culprits were rcleased in March, 1935, in time to lead the society in
tho na tionalist protest against TNOBE Tatsukichi's "Organic Theory
of the Emperor."
In 1936 YOSHID., Masuzo, managing diroctor of tho DI NIHON SEISN
To, brought the party's activities ag in to a boil by offe ing to co-
operato closoly with the conspirators of the 2:26 Inoident in order to
strongthen tho relationship with the IKOKU HODO NOIN DOSHI KI
(Patriotic Labor-Farmer Comrades Socicty). At this point UCHID.. Ryohei be
came an advisor of the labor-farmer loague hilo KOBaYASHI Junichiro in
return became an advisor of thc DaI NIHON SISAN TO. KaGEYl Masaharu
and other young members of the DaI NIHON SEISAN TO wore particularly.
acgressive in the 2:26 Ineident. When friction doveloped between
YOSHID Masuzo and these younger members, some of the youngsters with-
drew from the party. The desth of UCHIDA Ryohei and YOSHIDA's succession
to the prusidoney in the carly summer did not servo to lessen these in-
tornal difficultios.
On 27 Fubruary 1937 when OZ.AKT Yu'tio made his famous speech in the
Dict in opposition to the militaristic policy of the Japanose govern-
mont, the DAI NIHON SEIS. TO declared thet his speech branded Japan as
an aggrossor nation and demanded OZKI's imxdiate resignation from
parliamont. Upon publication of OZ.KI's articlc "Politicians and Assas-
sins" in the nagazine Yuben, the DI NIHON SEIS.N TO again demanded his
head.
At a goneral mueting in March, 1938, the D.I NIiON SEIS.N T0 passed
the follo.ing resolutions:
"1。
Clarification of tho nationel constitution is in accordance
with national mobilization. We dumand an immodiato chango
in the government's attitude toward this clarification, and
the arrest of all adhoronts to the 'Organic Theory of theles
JEmporor'.
"2.
The MINSLITO. SEIYUK I and SHAK I T.IOHU TO must be imacdiate-
ly dissolved. The baneful influence of the MINSEITo and the
SaIYUKI can no longer be tolerated, since their lcaders are
obviously belicvers in the 'Organic Theory'. Leaders of the
SHK.I T.THU TO should be similarly punished.
"3e
Wo demand educational reforms, Farmers' childron are flocking
to the universities where thoy are being porverted by city-
oducated peoplo, who aro mainly adherents to the 'Organic
Thoory'. We therefore demand dismissal of all liberal pro-
fessors from the universities and a roturn to the truc princi-
ples of tho national constitution.
"4. We domand a reform of the governmental burcaucracy.
65

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.98)
"5. Ve domand passage of the National Mobilization ct. and give
wholo-hoartod support to this bill whioh is now boing doliber-
ated in the Dict. The political parties and the capitalists
provo their guilt by opposing this eot, tho only means of ro-
inforcing our national defensc.
"6. We demand a reorganization of the national finances by means
of a moratorium or other effective procedure.
7
We demand a change in foreign policy. It has always been said
that Japan wins in war and loses in diplomacy. It is most
important to adopt a positive attitude toward Britain and
Russia, and to watch carefully the policy of Foreign Minister
HIkOTa, who is a liberal and an internationalist.
In August, 1939, when Germany and Russia signed their neutrality
pact and HIRaNU: Kiichiro resigned as Japa nese Premier, CHIBA Tomo-
jiro and two other D.I NIHON EISaN TO members called on General BE
Nobuyuki and delivered the following resolutions:
"1. Establishment of the Showa Restoration must be expedited.
"2. The Cabinet mu st assume responsibility for all political
policies.
"3. Japan must stend firm against Britain and Russia."
After the outbreak of the war in Europe in September. the DaI NIHON
SEIS.N TO again sent a petition to the Cabinet, demanding that Japan
remain aloof from the conflict and th t it devote all effort to solv-
ing the China Incident by ignoring the existence of the CHIANG govern-
ment. In October the party leaders called a meeting to rebuke a "pre-
Russian attitude" emong certain members. In October the society's anti-
foreign stand was again illustrated when some of its members broke up
a party held by British mbassador Crcigie at the Osaka Hotel to which
had been invited prominent industrial and financial leaders of the
Kansai district.
In 1940 Chief Secretary KaGYaviA Masaharu, always an im.ature
hothead, and several other party members were involved in the July 5
plot to kill Premier YoNaI Litsumasa and former Imperial Houschold
Minister YUaSa Kurahei. President YosHID.: imnediately called a meet-
ing at which he rebuked the culprits for their lawlessness and acknowl-
edged the party's responsibility for the actions of its members. To
avoid a recurrence of direct action, he demanded political, economic
and educational reforms and a purge of political parties.
Although the generally obnoxious activity of the extreme national-
ists was detested by many, no open protest could be made because theso
nationalists justified their deeds by alling upon the name of the
Emperor. However, the opposition was clearly evident in the results
of the general elections of 1936 and 1937. Although a majority of the
extreme rightists denied the parliamentary form of government and ad-
vocated non-participation in elections, some of the extreme-right
parties aspired to promulgate their programs through control of the
Diet. This latter group, which included such societies as the TiNko
KI (Limpid Friendship Society) of ETO Genkuro, the KOKUMIN KYOK.I
(People 's Association) of K.L:TSU Katsumaro and TSUKUI Tatsuo, the
IKOKU SEIJI DOMEI (Patriotio Political League) of KOIK Shiro and the
D.I NIHON SINEN To (Great Japan Youth Party) of SUYlL: Tokutaro, band-
ed together in February, 1937, to form the NIHON SHUGI SEIJI K. KUSHIN
KYOGI KI (Japanism Political Reform Council) in the hope thet their
united strength might win them at least an audible minority in the Diet.
66

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.97)
Of the twenty-five candidates proposed by this union only five*i were
elected. The less extreme TOHO KI (Eestern Society) nominated nims-
teen candidates of whom only eleven were electod. Other candidates
submitted independently by societies which the police olossed as nation-
alist were unsuccessful almost to.a man. On tho other hand the SHakiI
T..ISHU TO (Social Masses Party), classed by the police as the other ex-
treme, succeeded in seating thirty-six of its sixty-six candidates, an
increase of eighteen seats over tho olection of the previous year.
Moanwhile the RONO H. (Labor-Farmor Group) leadors, the left-wing
clements of the proletarian camp and the liberal intelligontsia who
were not communists or commnists sympathizers but who dared openly to
criticizo the ightists, had been left unmolested. Howovor, in March.
1936, several of the loft-wing labor and farmers' unions established
the RONO MUSN KYOGI KI (Labor-Farmer Proletarian Congress) hoaded by
K.To Kanju, which set up a platform diametrically and blatantly apposed
to tho political and oxpansionist tronds of nationalism:
1. Oppose fascism and defend parliamentary politics.
2.
Support a funda.ental reform of election laws, severe punish-
ment of corruption, and oxtonsion of the suffrage.
3.
Reform or abolish the Houso of Peers.
4.
Outlaw political barguining betreen the govurnment and the
bourgoois parties.
50
Provent inflation and stabilize the livelihood of the pople.
6.
Reduce the enormous military expenditure.
7.
Promulgate fundamental tax reforms including special taxes
on unitions industrios.
8.
Enact a law to li.nit dividends.
9.. Innrove the banking system for small trado and industry.
10.
Est blish a simple banking system for the fermers.
11.
Support enactment of e labor union law and a tenancy lav.
12.
Support enactment of a law to protoct shop employes and
apprenticus.
13.
Establish a law to provide governmental defrayment of nedical
oxpensos.
14.
Reform or abolish the national pension system.
15。
Provide special relief for the poor in gricultural and
fishing villages.
16。
Support postponement of the pay ent of debts on the part of
egricultural villages.
On 20 March 1937 this group became the NIHON MUS. aN TO (Japan Prolctarian
Farty), hich in due course protested the outbreak of the China Incident
along with its demands for social and political reforms. In the faco of
the China affair such outspoken non-cooperation with national policy
could no longur be countenanced even on the part of the mild Rovo Ha.
ind so on 15 Docomber 1937 occurred the nation-wido roundup of some four
hundred individuals believed to be connected with tho RONO Hl. including
the leadors of the NIHON MUS.N TO and numbers of liberal professors in
the sohools and universities.
The Japn Weekly Chroniclc of 30 Docember 1937 quoted tho "official
statoment" concerning the n ss arrests as follows:
"The so-called Labor and Farmors' Party (the RONo TO of 1929-
1931)*2, a communist group. was controlled by such on as Kin (Hitoshi)
*1 The five mon olocted from the NIHON SHUGI SIJI K KUSHIN KYOGI KI
Wore K.M.TSU Katsumaro, ETO Genkuro, KOIKE Shiro. N.K.H.R. Kinji
and Y.JZI Taunekichi.
*2
Parenthetical translations, detes and altornate readings of nars
havo been inserted for clarification.
67

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.97)
Y, Kanson (Katsuzo) A and Sido TKU, who were the =
ganizers of the first Communist Party in this country. Later, homever.
such men as Kan ju KATO, Gitaro (Yoshitaro) QviORI, Toshio KUROD and
Itsuro SaKISaKA joined the Party. All these men belonged to a unit with-
in the Japan Communist Party, but inasmuch as their methods wer- apparent-
ly lawful and.quiet, compared with those of the orthodox party, the
authorities had hitherto been obliged to restrict themselves to the
arrest of the orthodox Communist Party. However, since the Comintern
headquarters began to take positive steps towards the realization of a
world revolution following the Seventh World Congress of the Comintern
in the sum.er three years ago (1935), the activities of the Labor and
Farmers' Party, whose principles are akin to those of the Comintern,
rapidly gained in strength. Shortly after the Seventh Congress. the
Proletarian Counoil of the Labor and Farmers' Party (RONO USAN KYOGI
KAI) attempted to form a united front against fascism by amalgarating
With the SHAKAI TAISHU TO, the Labor Party. Since the SHKI TISHU TO
declined to join in, the Labor and Farmers' Party organized the above
. mentioned Proletarian Council of the Labor and Farmers' Party, which
nene was altered in April this year to the Japan Proletarian Party
(NIHON US.N TO)."
"Since the outbreak of the China ffair in July this year, the
(Japan Proletarian) Party, using methods similar to those used by the
Cominten, did its best to propagate 'anti-war thoughts' in this coun-
try, apparently in the hope of expanding th so-called 'people's front
movement' when the hostilitics in Chine drew to a close by laying stress
on political, economic, and social issues despite the fact that Japan
is now faced with a grave national ccisis.
"At a tinx when the whole nation should unite in overcoming the
hardships and difficulties of the prevailing national crisis, the ex-
istence end a tivity of such organizations (as the National Council of
the Japan Labor Union and the Japan Prolutarian Party) will have a
serious bearing both on th. domestic and international situations, es-
pecially as their object is to alter the nctional constitution and to
abolish private ownership. This is why the authoritics effected the
large-scale round-up and put a stop to the further expansion of these
parties. The authorities declare th t since the Comintern established
the so-called 'peoplcs front' against faseism and stautud a 'within-
the-law movemnt'. Communist agents insinuated themsolves into vuri-
ous social and denocratic associations or libcral orgenizations, with
the intontion of utilizing thom for th propagation of communistic
ideas. Under the circumstances, the authorities feer thct there is a
groat danger of theso organizations being turned into nurseries for
the produetion of radic ls such as those who have been arrested."
The implication of this statomont, which ushers the AONo Ha group
straight from the first Communist Farty. of 1922 into tho NIHON MUS.AN TO
without rogard for the ideological changes of the intervening yoars, is
cloar that the on arrsted wore and always would be conmunists. Out
of fairness to the AUNO Hà people as a vhole and to such mun as KATO
Kenju and SUzUKI Mosaburo, who are prominent in post-var socialist
politics, howevor, it must bo omphasized that the implication wes not
a direct accusation, but an indirect drawing of an nclogy botwoon
cortain policios of tho Communist Party cnd of the NIHON MUS.N TO,
principelly their opposition to war. It must bo emphasized that ovidonco
indicntes that tho Rono HA m de a cloan and irreparablo break with the
68

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.97)
com uniets in 1925, and that such men as KAT0 and SUZUKT have never
been called communists in the official records. Nevertheless the mass
arrests of 1937 and 1938 obliterated the left wing of Japanese social-
ism so completely that it could not revive until after the war. Not
only vas the NIHuN US N To disbanded. but a group which hed seceded
about that time from the SHaKAI TaISHU To was forbidden to organize a
new political party for fear of leftist leanings.
On 2 February 1940 SaITO Takao, INSITO Member of the Diet, posed
his famous qucstion concerning the govennment's responsibility to bring
the China Incident to an end. The government has made all manner of
abstract statements as to its policy." he said, "but the nation remains
in the dark as to its dofinite plans. The People are anxious to know
hov long the Incident will last and what will be the outcome. I wish
to esk ho: far the governmental policy goes and what the import of the
Incident will be. The affair was caused by lack of understonding of
China on the part of Jepan and by lack of understanding of Japan on the
part of China. Japan as well as Chins is at fault in allowing the
affair to continue so long. The sacrifices of the Japanese people are
incomparably Greater th n those made in the Sino-Japanese and Russo-
Japanese Wars. If the burdon on the nation is forgotton, the Indicent
vill nover be concluded. I ish to know what is going to happen.
"My second question has to do with the meaning of the 'ostablish-
mont of a now orde in East Asia', of vhich so much is heard nowadays.
According to the KQvoY and WaNG statements, this 'new order' means
friendly relations, a united-front against communism, and economic
cooperation. Dous the govornnent as a wholo mean these things by the
torm? Why is it nccossury to creato a special committee to investigate
the fundamcnt I principles and the spiritual maning of this new order'?'
The remaindur of the speech was erused from the shorthand record by
a docision of the LIITo leaders.
SaITo's speech threw the Diet into in uproar. 4 resolution was
proposed for his cxpulsion from parliament. The SHLK.I T.ISHU To do-
cided at a party meoting to support th. rosolution. Thercupon the former
Sh.K.I AILNSHU TO (Social Democratic Party) group of the SH K.AI T.I.HU TO
opposed the decision and absunted itcelf from the Dict session at vhich
the resolution was passod. Theso men oro in turn struck from the
roster of the Si K i TISHU TO. When these dissunters endeavored to
ostablish a new political party. the Home Ministry refused pormission
on the grounds that they held to the prineiples of social democracy in
opposition to the SH.K.I T..IuHU TO. which. the Home Ministry declared.
had demonstrated its amenability to national socialism--by an abortive
attempt to emclgamate vith the TOHo KI (Eastern Socicty) six years
carlier in 1934. Such democracy could not be allowed under oxisting
conditions.
It was obvious evon before S.ITo's tirade and the excommunication
of his supporters that the nationalists woro gotting entiroly out of
control and that suparatist party politics could not resist the onslaught.
Honce Princo KONOYLTs timely proposal of e SHIiT..ISEI (New Structure)
singl, party met little or no opposition, and was indced welcomed by
many non-nationclist clemonts in the nation, ho hoped that the Prince
could draw the bickering liberal groups tog ther in a common front.
KuNOY stated among other things that no good could be oxpocted if his
"Now Structuro " vore to truckle to tho Army in everything.
In an article ontitled "The New National Structuro" printed in the
October issuo of "Contemporary Japan", OZ.KI Hozumi, newspeporman, sino-
Logue, advisor to KoNOYE and the drafter of tho originel plan, who was
69

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
aubversively a communist of the Comintern variety, gave his opinicn of
the new deal as follows:-
"In the formation of the present KoNoY Cabinet there was practi-
cally nothing to show that sufficient consideration had been given to
the establishment of a new political structure, but within one month
the people saw the appointment of twenty-eight members to the preparetory
committee for the creation of a new structure, alang with the appointment
of eight standing secretaries. Its first meeting was held on dugust 28.
At this meeting Prince KavOY outlined his conception of the new structure,
stressing that it was to be in conformity with the national polity of
Japan. In brief, his principle points may be enumerated as follews:
"1. The basis of the proposed new national structure is the
reorg :nization of the people with the object of the whole
nation assisting the Throne in the conduct of State affairs.
2。
There must be both a vertical and horizontal unification of
economy and culture on a nation-wide scale.
"3.
There must be provision for the people to participate in
the establishmont of national policies.
"4.
The movement for the proposed national reorganization cannot
be a so-called political movement, and it must, therefore,
not attempt to find expression in a single party for the
nation.
nature.
"In this address the Premier outlined the duties of the prepara-
tory committee. First, it must draft plans for a general structure
for the new political organization; second, organize a nerve centre for
the national movement; and finally reconcile the new national organi-
zation with the existing parties end the present form of government."
"There are a number of points which have not been made clear in the
proposed reorganization. For instance, while it has been enphasized that
the Feoples' Co-operative Council for accelerating the creation of the
proposed new national structure is not a politisal party, th- exact re-
lationship between the Central Headguarters, or the so-called nerve
contre, and the Feoples' Co-operative Council is not clearly defined.
As a matter of fact, somo of the members of the preparatory committee
pointed to the uselessness of the Feoples' Co-operative Council, while
others were of the opinion that the Central Headquarters do not seem
to have a very solid appearance. Furthermore, in what relation the
new national structure as a whole stends vith the high military command
is another serious quostion left unanswered. In this connection, the
Army has clarificd its position of not participating in tho Central
Headquartors.
"With Japan facing a great turning point in world history, Japanese
political leaders have sought to accomplish an important structural re-
organization of the national life, a vital necessity for the construction
of the new order in East Asia as a step toward tho creation of a new
world order. But to realize this proposed new national s tructure, the
people, who have hitherto been left outside the domain of politics, must
now bo included within the ner framework, and at the same timo it is
obvious that the Central Headquarters, or the guiding machinery must
be a powerful organization. Even though it should not be a political
70

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.98)
party in the sense it hs been interpreted in the pest. it would
necessarily have to be tinged with a political colour.  first aight,
the new organization as it is emerging today has the appoarance af
being a loosely arranged household, and the only way to give it the
necessary strength is to translate courageously into action those poli-
cies that are considered to be relevant to the actual life of the people
with their earnest and enthusiastio support. And only those vwho are
competent and enthusiastic enough to carry out what they oonsider to be
right should remain in the nerve centre to accomplish the desired end.
IsHIKA Tatsuzo, the novelist, commented, "The country is weary
of thu old political parties. In the new organization everyone must
start from scratch. Thero should be no ACHID, no KUH, no NAKJLL1
Even Prince Ko. OY must not be allowed to act for the sake of his own
face and his own personal intorest. I expect more from RIM Yoriyasu
because of his rebellious cheracter."
K. TO Kan ju uxprossed tho half-hearted support of the deactivated
left-ving of socialism when he stated that ho was unable to predict
Wiother the "new structure" would form a strong enough party to lead
tho nation in the struggle of the la tter half of. the twenticth contury
which secmed to bo hoadod for totalitarian controls. He continued that
what vas needed was an honest ner political structure fitted to give
the nation a desire to live.
However, the proposed "nev party" dre: sporadic fire. FUJIMORI
Scikichi, the left-ving novelist, doclared, "If it wore only possiblo to
form a new party bised on tho life and culture of tho people and un-
afraid of any power! But we have becn decuived too many times and have
beco c too scoptical ond indifferent." Iw. BuChI Tatsuo, journalist and
friond of Princo KO.OY, declardd, "The most important implicntion of
the new st ucture is that point in KOnOYE's talk in which he said that
it is uscless if the rmy's plensuro is blindly folloved in overything."
Indeed it was useless, for even at this point, in August, 1940, be-
fore the "new structure" had crystallized intc the TAISEI YOKUSAN KAI
(Imperial Rule Assistance Association) there were strong signs that the
nationalists were planning to take over the active management of the
organization. Even at this early date ToURA Shoji of the TEIKOkU NOKhI
(Imperial Agricultural Association) cried, "The propelling power behind
tno present political situation is the Army. Honce the Army must take
up its responsibility. This is inevitak . Thereiore I consider that
any new political party can come off only econd best." And HASHIy OTO
Kingoro pointed up the issue in abstract terms, "The new party must not
be a mere combination of the old bureaucrats and the Army. It must be
prepared immediately to carry out the SHOWa Revolution."
After the dissolution of the political parties and the establish-
ment of the Imp rial Fule Assistance Association in October, 1940, the
nationalis ts organized their attack on the liberal elements in the
scciety. A group of societies such as the alkokU SH (Love-Country
Society), tne DaI NIHON SEISAN TO ( Great Japan Production Party). the
KENKOKU KaI (National Construction Society), the KOKURYU KaI (Amur River
Society). the MEIRIN KAI (Enlightened Way Society) and the NIHON SHUGI
SEINEN KaIGI (Japan Doctrine Youth Council), wnich called themselves the
KOKUTAI MEICHO H (Constitutional Clarification Group). proceeded to
spearhead the assault by the criticism that many officers of Imperial
Rule ssistance Aasociation had participated in socialist movements, and
*1
MCHID. Chuji was president of the MI.SEITO. KUH.R. Fusanosuke
and Nak.JIM. Chikunei were the bickering rivals for leadership
of the SEIYUK.I.
71

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.97)
by charges that the association'a policy was based on socialim, or even
communiam. The basis of this criticism was easy to understand because
the original group which KANOYE appointed to plan the IRi in Lugust,
1940, inc luded such men as RIM. Yoriyasu, GOTO Ryunosuke, M.TSUMOTO
Shigeharu, OZ.KI Hozumi and YBE Teiji, all old friends of the Premier
and all considered anything but pro-military. RIM. Yoriyasu and GoTO
Ryunosuke proceeded to consolidate their positions in the IR. by be-
coming secretary-general and chief of the organization bureau of the
"new structure. RiM had long been prominent in social welfare work
as president of the NIHON S.GYO KUML.I (Japan Production Cooperative
Union), which had been greatly influenced by democratio ideals after
the first World War. GUTO ad founded tne SHOW. KENKYU K.I (Showa
Research Society), which in turn had had a predaminant influence in the
founding of the NUSON KYODU TI KLNSLTSU DOMEI (gricultural Village
Cooperative Structure Construction League) by RIM. and the NIHON SiNGYO
kUMI..I in the autumn of 1940. Tne police nad teken a pale view of tne
SHOW.. KENKYU K.I from the beginning. OZaKI and Y.BE were leading lights
in the SHOW. KENKYU K.I.
The arrest of twenty-four regional leaders of the NIHON SNGYO
KUML.I in December, 1940, on suspicion of left-wing activity put tecth
into the nationalist criticism of .Rii. and his group. On 1l January,
194l two hundred fifty nationalists neaded by IW.T. inosuke, KiGMI
Ryojo, TERD. Inejiro and T.v.bE Munenide, all definitely excluded
from IR activity, neld a mass meeting and passed a resolution to eject
.RiML., GoTo and their clique from the association. They proceeded to
organize a committee of seven men, Wno called upon the Home Minister,
the Justice Minister, the War Minister and tne Navy Minister vith a
demand that strong measures be taken to sweep the IRa. household clean.
By this ti e certain constitutionalist elements in the Diet nad
become dissatisfied with the i.creasing interference of the IR. in
parliamentery affairs. t the opening of the Diet in February, 1941,
the subject of the "new structure" became the center of a heated
debate led by K.w.SKI Katsu. MI SLITO member of the House of Repre-
sentatives, who declared:
"1. Tne Diet is the only organization with constitutional authori-
ty to assist the Imperial Rule.
”2。
If the Dict is found inadequate in the performance of its
duties, it should be dissolved, and an adequate successor
shoula be elected.
"3。
The functions of the IRu. can and should be performed by
the Diet."
unintentionally these constitutionalistsiby raising tnese futile object-
ions to the IR. as a whole, were playing directly into the hands of the
nationalists, who took the opportunity to oust the prominently liberal
elemeuts fron positions of authority in the organization at the end of
Marcn, 1941.
Thus, in the final months before the outbreak of tne Pacific War
the ∞untry was outwardly politically united in one party behind the
government. The nationalist juggernaut could advance unnindered toward
the suicidal attack.
72

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
Chapter IX
THE FOUR FREEDOMS
1945-
During the war years, after the dissolution of the SHAKAI TAISHU TO
(Social Masses Party) and after the "voluntary" dissolution of the NIHON
RODO SODOMEI (Japan Federation of Labor) in July, 1940, there were no
more proletarian politics, and there were no more labor umions. Poli-
tically, the country was, to all intents and purposes, dedicated to the
high-sounding patriotic unity.of the TAISEI YOKUSAN KAI (Imperial Rule
Assistance Association), and to its political successor the YOKUSAN SEIJI
KAI (Imperial Rule Assistance Political Society). The regimentation of
labor on a national scale was effected by the promulgation of an imperial
ordinance, the KOKUMIN CHOYO REI (Popular Mobilization Order), on 19 Octo-
ber 1940, and on 8 November 1940 the Cabinet issued an expansive decision
called the KINRO SHIN TAISEI KAKURITSU YOKO (Essential Plan For Establish-
ment of Labor Under the New Order) on the basis of this imperial ordin-
ance. To implement the ordinance and the Cabinet decision the Welfare
Ministry established the so-called HOkOKU (Serve-the-Country) organizations
most important of which was the SANGYO HOKOKU KAI (Production Serve-the-
Country Association), which set up subsidiaries in all important factor-
ies. These HOKOKU bodies, placed under the aegis of the Imperial Rule
Assistance Association and officered primarily by bureaucrats on the basis
of concurrent governmental jobs, endeavored to replace the outlawed unions
as the Impcrial Rule Assistance Association tried to succeed party poli-
tics.
The Impcrial Rule Assistance Association and the Impcrial Rule Assis-
tance Political Society, which failed miserably in their attempts to hold
popular support in the face of catastrophic reverses in tho war, dis-
solved in June, 1945. And with them died the HOkoKU bodies. An abortive
effort was made to establish the DAI NIHON SEIJI KAI (Great Japan Politi-
cal Association) to follow in the footsteps of the "New Order", and there
was much talk of a KOKUMIN GIYU TAI (National Volunteer Corps) to handle
the labor problem on a national scale. But thc peoplo of Japan were
restive after years of control, and the proletarian lcaders foresaw a
chanco to makc a new start.
In the beginning of August, 1945, beforc the surrcnder, the lcaders
of the old SHAKAI MINSHU TO (Social Domocratic Party), KATAYAMA Tetsu.
HiRA Hyo, SUZUKI Bunji and MiTSUSHIT! Yoshio, were already mecting and
planning the revival of a socialist political party. It is roported that
they had arrangcd a mecting with their old collcague YoNEkUBo Michisuke
for the 15th of August. which had to be postponcd one day becauso of tho
confusion of tho surrender. On the night of 15 August NISHI0 Suchiro
visited IIZUT.NI Chozaburo in Kyoto, and these two old hands of tho SHAKAI
MINSHU TO, in the Kansai, made contact with HIRINO Rikizo. Meanwhilc, the
loft-wing of the socialist camp, represented by K To Kanju, TiKiTSU Scido
and SUZUKI Mosaburo, and thc old NIHON RONO TO (Japan Labor-Farmer Party),
represented by K.V.KI Jotaro, KONO Mitsu and MIYAKE Shoichi, were like-
wisc making plans.
On 4 October 1945 a dircctive was issucd to the Japanoso Government
over the signature of the Supreme Commander for the occupying Alliod Pov-
ors, which cstablished the tasis for a now political frccdom. This dir-
octive road in substancca.
"1. In order to romove restrictions on political, civil and religi-
ous libcrties and discrimination on grounds of racc, nationality, croed
or political opinion, the Imperial Japanesc Government will:
a. brogatc and immodiately suspond the opcration of all proi-
sions of all laws, docrces, ordcrs. ordinances and regulations which:
73

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.96)
(1) Establish or maintain restrictions on freedom of
thought, or roligion, of asscmbly and of spcech, including tho un-
restricted discussion of tho Empcror, thc Impcrial Institution and the
Imperial Japanose Government.
(2) Establish or maintain restrictions on tho collcction
und dissomination of information.
(3) By the terms of thoir application, operato uncqually
in favor of or ugainst any pcrson by rcason of rccc, nationolity, crced
or political opinion.
This diroctive. lifted tho bans on political activity and unionism. The
politicians and labor lcaders were quick to take advantage of tho now
liberty and stopped forth into the post-war arcna in ll of thcir pre-
var ideological finc feathers.
Hard upon the issuanco of the October dircctivo tho ringloaders in
the socialist camp issued invitations to all men of former prominence
in the movement, over thc signatures of BE Isoo, K G..VA Toyohiko and
T.K.No Iwasaburo. Invitations wore addrcssod to all groups, including
M.TSUMOTo Jiichiro's SULHEISHA (Water-Level Socicty). Tho proparatory
committoe for the new party hcld its first mecting on 22 Octobor, and
the inaugural meoting. at which the title NIHON SHKI TO (Japan So-
cialist Party) nas adopted, vas held on 2 November. Thus the socialist
party, composod of three groups 1 from the former SHiKAI MINSHU TO
(Right), NIHON MUS.N TO (Japan Prolctarian Party) (Loft) and SUIHEISH.
got a hcad-start on thc other partics such as the JIYU TO (Libcral
Party) and the SHIvPO TO (Procrossive Party).*2
The directive of 4 October 1945. in addition to cstablishing thc
abstract principles of frecdom, ordercd the release from the gaols of
all political prisoners who had beon incarccratcd by roason of the
rescinded lavs and ordinanecs. Hence the Japancse Govcrnment set at
largc tho old-time communist leadcrs, TOKUDA Kyuichi and SHIG. Yoshio,
with all of their croni-s, including HKIM:Ds Satomi and MIY.MOTO
Kenji, who had committed political murder in 1932. On 7 October,
immediatoly ftor their rolonse, TOKUDA. SHIGA, H.KL.D. and MIYALMOTO,
plus KIATYM. Shigco, KIN Ten-kai and KUROKI Shigcnori, made a new
start to rovivo the Japan Communist Party. No inaugural m:oting was
hcld because the communists considered that their party had continucd
to cxist. although illcgally, all through tho ycars. On 20 October
the party organ. the .KiH.Th (Red Flag), was resurrected after oleven
years of supprcssion, Thc first numher of the new serics corricd a
foreword which road in part:
"Japancso Laborers, Farmers, Employes and All Membors of the Japan-
csc Prolctari t!
"The K H.T... organ of the Japan Communist Party, Which for many
yoars has struagled in your vanguard, is now being revived.
*1 In January, 1946, mombers of tho NIHON RONO TO group, which had
joined tho NIHON SH.JiI TO, werc declared incligiblc for public
officc becauso of their affiliation with thc ephomcral anti-IR..PS
GOKOKU DOSHI K.I (National Defoncc Comrades Association) latc in
the war. Honee they left the party.
2
The JIYU TO (Liberal Party) and the SHUPO TO (Progressive. Party),
founded later in November, were as much the respective deseendants
of the pre-War SEIYUKAI and MINSEITO as was the NIHON SLI TO
the child of the SHiKiI T:ISHU TO. Tho JIYU TO clccted as its
president HiToYu&. Ich iro, who, it will be remembered. had vied
with KUlliR Fusamsuko and NKdMIM Chikuhoi for leadership of the
SEIYUKII after thc retirement of SUZUKI Kisaburo in 1939. Tho
SHIMPO TO rallied to the support of soventytwo-ycar-old LCHID
Chuji, cx-prcsidont of tho iMNSEITO.
74

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.97)
"The Tennoiam vhich wo have so long fought is suddonly in proceas of
losing its right of tyranny in dcforenco to-the Allicd Pooples and their
military might, and in doferenco to our intcrnal opposition. Tho Tonno-
ists, howover, are monopolizing positions in government as herctoforo,
aro scdulously ondeavoring to protect thoir selfish interosts, and aro
taking no offcctivo stops whatsocver to ward off the hunger and destruotion
which presscs upon thc populace.
"We. tho pcoplc of Japan, cannot stand idle in empty expoctation
that thcy will do something to better our lot. Thero is no other way but
for us to organize labor unions, farmcrs' unions and other associations
which, by their powcr, can save the lifo of the People.
That tho communists were somohat unsure of their newfound liberty was
shown by the fact that the last sentence of tho foreword read:
"Finally, it is requcstcd that you take care, in your various en-
deavors, that this papor not fall into the hands of our enomies."
Quickly recovoring fron their hesitancy, howcver, they obliterated this
scntencc with India ink beforc distributing the paper, and came forth bold-
ly with their old slogan "Down With Thc Emperor", for him who runs to
read. Thc party had becn fully organized by the timc of its fourth gencr-
al mecting. held for four days, 1-4 Deccmber. All that romained to com-
plcto tho picture was for NoZAKi Sanzo*1 to return and join the party in
January, 1946, after sixtccn ycars in Moscow and Yenan. Tho Japan Commu-
nist Party was back at the old stand with its charter leadcrs and its old
platform, but vith a shiny ncw lcgal placard on its door.
Bchind the prolctarian parties, there was, as might be expccted. a
rovival of labor unionism. On 10 October 1945 leaders of the pre-war
legal unions, tno NIHON RODO SODOMEI (Japan Fedcration of Labor), the
NIHON RODO KUMII DOMEI (Japan Labor Unions Leaguc) and the NIHON RODO
KUML.I ZENKOKU HYOGI KAI (Japan Labor Unions National Conference), met at
the invitation of MaTSuoK. Komakichi to form an amalgamated union. The
namo NIHOIN RODO KUAIAI SODOMEI (Japan Foderation of Labor Unions), was
adopted at the first cxecutive meeting in January, 1946, in memory of the
pro-war organization. This foderation set up its subsidiarics chicfly
along the old line of prefectural organizations, but it took a leaf out
of tho lcft-wing book in sanetioning the cstablishment of unions uccording
to industrics, most importantly in thc transport, tobacco, textile and
mining ficlds. Politically, the NIHON RODO KUMIAI SODOMEI supported the
NIHON SLK.I TO, with which it shared its leaders. Tho NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI
(Japan Farmers' Union) reappearcd in a coat of many colors in February,
1946。
When the Japan Communist Party fell into its stridc, it advocatcd
"one union for cach industry", in tho pattern supported in the carly days
by tho illegal NIHON RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU KYOGI KII (Japan Labor Unions
National Congress) of 1928, The overall control of theso unions apcd the
carlior organization in its name. ZEN NIHON S.NGYO BETSU RODO KUMLII K.IGI
(ll Japan Industrial Labor Uniona Congress), generally abbreviated to
SNEETSU KAIGI. Nominally tho labor unions of this group vere supposed to
bo froo of political coloration.
*1
Now it can bo told because the facts are known. Everything happened
to N02iK1 in March. Hc was arrested on 15 March 1928. In March, 1930
he was relcascd on parolo in order that he might obtain medical care
for his failing cyesight. In March 1931 hc slipped away from Japan
with his wife and procccded to Russia via Manchuria and Sibcria. Ho
adoptod the alias OK NO Susuau after his arrival in IMoscow. He vent
to Yonan in March 1940.
75

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
Belatodly, in October, 1946. labor members of the old R0NO HA
(Labor Farmer Group). who called thomselves the conter" of the labor
movement, rallied bohind YAMAkAWA Hitoshi, MIT/MURA Shiro and KOBORI
Jinji to form the NIHON RODO KUML'I K'IGI (Japan Labor Unions Council).
These pooplc woro willing to recognizo subsidiary unions organized
according to individual industries as well as geographic aroas, but de-
clarod their ultimato purposo to unite all labor throughout Japan. This
group too disclaimod any political allogienco.
In tho 1920's no group in the prolotarian movement fully trusted
any othor group to the right or to the left of its own stand. Hence the
bittor charges of lcftism or rightism among the various factions. However.
the farmers and the laborers, who had always had so little, scemed to be
roaching for the moon. They asked for more than thoy could reasonably
expect from the society of the day. The differences betwocn the various
cliqucs wore therofore less apparent in thcir platforms than in tho cxtent
of their domands and in the manner in which they sought to implement them.
--depending to a greater or lesser degroo on regular parliamentary reform.
In tho final analysis, tho differonce botwocn the socialist partios lay
intrinsicaliy in the divisions betwocn the supporting umions, labor and
agrarian, and in adh rence to groups of labor loadors. That was neoded
was a clearcut, practical statement of objectives compatible with current
problems, not far-future idcals. Tho SHiKI MINSHU TO stated the problem
clcarly and conciscly in 1926 when it said:
"We roject both thc old-line partics, which reprosent tho privileged
classes, and the radical partics, which ignoro tho natural stcps in
social progress."
In the 1930's, as pressure from tho lcft and from the right inereased.
the socialist roups consolidated thcir front in a singlo party, tho
SHK.I T.ISHU TO. The charges of leftism and rightism wore still bitter,
but except for occasional outcroppings of extrcmist groups such as tho
NIHON MUSAN TO (Japan Prolctarian Party), the unity was maintained.
Historically, it was as apparent that the left-ving socialist lcaders had
made a clcan and irreparable broak with thc communists in 1925 and main-
tained their allegiance to the Enperor as that the Communists werc closcly
affiliated with their brethren in Russia. Thc demands of tho socialists
worc still incompatible with the timcs, but tho unificd front was gaining
strength through thc years, as was proved by the succcssive clcction
rosul ts.
The NIHON SLiKiI TO emerged in the pattern of the old SHkI TiISHU
To, an amalgamation of left and right wings backed by cónservative unions
in the SANBETSU KAIGI and by thc liberal NIHON RODO KUMIAI SODOIEI, be-
cause the strcsscs and strains aftor the war were similar to thoso which
the socialists encountored during the 1930's Despite the fact that the
socialists werc stronger than ever, tho same sort of double pressure de-
veloped from the communists to the left and from the consorvative JIYU TO
and SHIMPo To to the right. The socialists realized that in union there
was strength.
The "democratization" of Japan since the war has fulfillcd many of
the more important basic domands of the socialists, such as redistribution
of land. legalization of unionism. cstablishment of an cight-hour working
day, universal suffrage and abolition of the House of Pcors, The social-
ists, in thoir adherenco to the ono-party NIHON SH K.I TO despite lcft.
wing right-wing differonccs, apparently realize the unity of their de-
sires and thc futility of division. But the social confusion of the post-
war era provides a for more fertile field for propagation of oxtremist
thought than the comperatively stablo pre-war decade.
76

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.98)
The strcascs and strains which wrack the country are apt to force
various groups in labor to the left or to the right along the lines of
least resistance or of most golden promise. It remains to be seen
whether in the long run the Japanese proletariat, enc ouragod by succoss,
yct harrassed by idoological attacks and by the cconomic controls which
the nation must endure for a long period to como, may be forced into
political factionalism which may lead the country into one form or other
of totalitarian extreme, to stiflc individual ambition and democratic
enterprise.
In thc last analysis, basic leftism and rightism umong the people
lio in the way the ma jority vote and talk. Therein lic the wIvation
of and the dangor to the "democratization" of Japan. It is all-important
that social and political reform go slowly hand in hand with social and
political re-cducation. As tho SHAKAI MINSHU TO said in 1926, it is
nccessary that the natural steps in social progress be not ignored.
Timo will tell whether Japan can become a well-halanced damocratic entity
in the comity of nations which will provido the greatest possible amount
of comfort for all classes of peoplc or will in duc courso be forced
slowly toward totalitarian nationalism or communisme
77

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.97)
LFT WING RIGHT ING
PART II
APPENDICES: ISTORIES OF LLPORTANT PARTIES ND UNIONS
78

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.96)
APPNDIX I
PROLETARIN POLITIC. PRTIAS
and GROUPS
MUSAN T.ISHU TO (Proletarian Masses Party)
NIHON MUSAN TO (Japan Proletarian Party)
NIHON NOMIN TO (Japan Farmer Party)
NOLIN RODO TO (Farmer Labor Party)
NIHON nONO TO (Japan Labor-Farmer Party)
NIHON TaISHU TO (Jepan Masses Party)
RODO NOIN TO (Labor Farmer Party)
RONO H. (Labor-Farmer Group)
RONO uUS.N KYOGIK I (Labor-Farmer Froletarian Congress)
RONO T.ISHU To (Labor-Farmer Masses Party)
RONO TO (Labor-Farmer Party)
SHAKAI INS.U TO (Social Democratic Party)
SHKI TAISAU TO (Social Masses Party)
ENKOKU MINHU To (All-Japan Democratio Party)
¿ENKOKU RONO T.ISAU TO (Al-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses Party)
KKU T. ISHU To (All-Japan Masses Party)
79

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.97)
MUSAN T.ISHU TO
Center
(Proleterian Masses Party)
July, 1928 - December, 1928
Following the arrest of communist leaders on 15 March 1928 end
the dissolution of the RODO NOLIN TO (Labor Farmer Party) on 10 April
1928, the USaN T.ISHU To (Proletarian Masses Party) was orgenized on
22 July 1928 by a group led by D.IDO Kenji, KUROD4 Hisao and SUZUKI
Mosaburo, who were strongly opposed to the extreme attitude of the
former RODO NOLMIN TO. The party was supported by the following socie-
ties and unions:
BUNGI SeNSN SH (Literary Battle-Line Society)
EIG▲ JUGYOIN KUIAI (Motion Picture Workers' Union)
K.T.. ROYU I (Kamata Friends of Labor Society)
RONO SHA (Labor-Farmer Society)
SHKUYANIN DUI (Tenants' League)
In a short time the party gcined country-wide influence by cooperation
with local proletarian parties in Akita, Hyogo, and Nageno Prefectures
such as the:
KIT.. RONO TO (kita Labor-Farmer Party)
HYOGO KEN MUS.N T..ISHU TO (Hyogo Ken Proletarian Masses Party) .
K.NS..I T.ISHU TO (Kansai Masses Party)
SHINSHU T..ISHU TO (Shinshu Masses Party)
On 20 December 1928, the party amalgamated with the
Party
Representative
KYUSHU MINKEN TO (People's Constitution Party
ASHR Kenzo
of Kyushu)
L.INSHU TO (Democratic Party)
N.K.ZW. Benjiro
NIHON NOMIN TO (Japan Farm-r Party)
HIRANO Rikizo
NIHON RONO TO (Japan Labor-Farmer Party)
MIW.. Juso
SHIM NE JIYU MINSHU TO (Shimane Lileral
Democratic Party)
SHINSHU T..ISHU TO (Shinshu Masses Party)
to form the NIHON T.ISHU TO (Japan Masses Party). The short-lived LUS.N
T..IsHU To took part in no election, but it warrents attention in thet it
was the earliest important consolidation of the center-of-the-road ele-
ments which in 1932 amalgamated with the SH.KI MINSHU TO (Social Domo-
cratic Party) to form the SikuI T..ISHU To (Social Massos Party), the
flower of all pre-war soci list partios and the father of the post-war
NIHON SHKI TO (Japan Social Domocratic Party).
NIHON MUS.N TO
Loft-wing
(Japan Proletarian Party)
March, 1937 - Decomber, 1937
On 20 March 1937 the RONO MUS.N KYoGIKiI (Labor-Farmer Proletarian
Congross) registored itself officially as tho NIHON MUS.N TO (Japan
Proletarian Party), with no change of platform. 
Officers of the party
were:
IIN CHO (Committee Chairman):
K.TO Kan ju
SHOKI CHO (Chief Secrotery):
SU UKI Mosaburo
K.IKEI (Treasurer):
MKINO Matsutero
80

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.97)
KAIKEI KANSA (Audit Supervisor): KURITa Fujitaro
CHUO SHIKKO IIN (Central Executive Committee):
IRISAWA Kozaburo
OGIWARA Yoshinori
KIT..DA Ichiro
OKAMOTO Ushisaburo
KOBOHI Jinji
OWAKI Matsutaro
MIWA Morikichi
S. S4KI Se1zo
MUROI Atsushi
TaK.TSU Seido (Masamichi)
N.K.JIMA Kisaburo
UEHARA Kurazo
N.KANISHI Inosuke
YABUSHIT.. Daikichi
NaB Toraichi
YANOUCHI Fusakichi
YASUHIR Shikaichi
The party made advances to the SH.KAI TAISHU To (Social Masses Party)
for amalgamation, but these advances were refused.
This was the last of the political parties which may be seid to
have been sponsored by the RONO Hi (Labor-Farmer Group). The SHKAI
UNDO NO JOKYO of 1938 quotes the party declaration as follows:
Are we to support the Communist Party? We say 'no' because there
can be only one proletarian party. It is necessary that it be the
people's party. It will be a great mistake for the labor unions to
declare that they support the Communist Party."
When the China Incident occurred the leaders agreed to:
1.
Aid soldiers' families.
2e
Insist upon payment of civilian salaries to soldiers with-
out reduction.
3.
.Fight for reduction of rents on farms tenanted by the
families of soldiers.
4.
Plan meens for relief of families of party members who have
beon called to the colors.
5.
Appeal to the general public at every opportunity for a
peaceful solution of the Incident and a shortening of the war.
For these declarations the party was declared subversive in that it had
criticized government policy as "fascist". In December, 1937, four
hundred sixty leaders of the NIHoN US..N TO and of the supporting NIHON
RODO KUI I ZNKOKU HYUGI KI (Japan Labor Unions National Conference)
were arrested and the party itself wes dissolved by government order.
NIHON NO..IN TO
Right-wing
(Japan Farmor Party)
October, 1926 - December, 1928
The NIhoN NOlIN TO (Japan Farmer Party) was established on 17 Octo-
ber 1926, with the support of the ZN NIhON NOmIN KU.I. I DomI (ll-Japan
Farmers' Union Loaguo), which was the most conventional and right-wing
of all the fermers' unions. The platform of the party emphasized the
need for egricultural reform, particularly the reform of land-tenency.
In his "MUS.N SLITO RON" (Essays on Prolotarian Parties) ROY.M Masemichi
comments on the perty as follows: -- "The party was organizod by the
men who seceded from tho NIHoN NOmIN KUmI..I (Japan Farmers' Union) at
the 5th General Meeting of the union in March, 1926, declaring that
the union policy reg rding politics was too radical. The slogen of the
party was 'A farmers' party for tho farmers'. That the party represents
the extreme right-wing of the proletarian movement cn be deduced from
its general policy which says. 'The NIHON NOMIN TO was created to give
lustre to the 3,000 yeers of Japanese history."
81

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.96)
Officials of the Party were:
SOU IIN (Directorate):
BE Otokichi
MORI Giichi
IINUM. Ichitaro
SUGAI Kniton
KOON (Advisors):
GORI Kinzo
TAK.B. T. KE Motoyuki
KIT.ZAWA Shinjiro
TAKAH SHI Kamekichi
KANJI CHO (Chief Seoretary):
HIR.NO Rik1zo
K NJI (Secretaries):
HANLABUSA Kameaki
QFUDE Eita
H.R.. Hirokichi
T.MURA Kenji
INATI Ayato
TANAKi LMnsanori
KINOSHIT.. Gengo
TERY.M Zenkichi
KIT.Y. IyoZO
YOKOTA Koichi
K.IKEI (Treasurer):
NIWA Kazuo
On 20 December 1928 this party amalgamated with the
KYUSHU MINKEN TO (Peoples' Constitution Party of Kyushu)
MINSHU To (Democratic Party)
NIHON NOMIN TO (Japan Farmer Perty)
NIHON RONO TO (Japan Labor-Farmer Party)
SIIL.NE JIYU MINSHU TO (Shimane Liberal Democratic Perty)
SHINSHU TISHU TO (Shinshu Masses Party)
to form the NIHON T.ISHU TO (Japan Masses Party).
NOMIN RODO TO
Left-wing
(Farmer Labor Party)
1 December 1925
The NOMIN RODO TO (Former Labor Party). which was dissolved by po-
lice order after only three hours of its inaugurel meeting on 1 December
1925, is important as the first effort of the politically minded Japan-
ese labor cnd farmer unions to consolidate their efforts behind a prole-
terian political party. It was the firet formal attompt of the social-
ists to entor the political orena.
According to the SHI SHI BUN of 2 December 1925, the proposed
party was supported by about thirty-five unions with a totel membership
of about 142, 000, of which the more importent elements were:
OHUBU NIHON NOMLN KUMIAI (Central Japan Farmers' Union)
KNGYO RODO SODOMEI (Federation of Government Workers)
KIKI RODO RLNGOKI (Mechanics' Lobor Leegue)
N.GOY NIHON SEITO RODO KUMLI (Nagoya Union of Japanese
Ceramics Workers)
NIHON NOMIN KUMI.I (Japan Farmers' Union) vith some 67, 000
members
NIHON RODO KUMLI RENGOKI (Japan Labor Unions Loague)
NIHON SHICHU DUEI (Japan Ships' Stowards' League)
OS.K. SHIDEN JIJOKAI (Osnke Tram Workers' Self-Aid Society)
TOKYO SHIDEN JIOHIKI (Tokyo Tram WorkorS' Self-government
Society)
82

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.96)
The NIHON RODO SODOEI (Japan Federation of Labar) withdrew in
the initial stages of preparation because it objected to the
inclusion of leftist elements.
The officials elected vere representatives of the verioue supporting
unions:
SHOXI CHO (Chief Searetary): ASANUMA Ine jiro
KAIKEI (Treasurer): HOSONO Michio
CHUO IIN (Central Committee):
RYA Soji
MORITA Seigoro
KAWAURA Yaautaro
URATSU Shintaro
KOIWAI Kiyoshi
SKOTO Kozaburo
MG Shoichi
SUNAG KO
MORI Giichi
TSUBOI Senjiro
UEDA Kotoichi
In addition, the party was supported by many well-known socialists such
as KaG Toyohiko. OY. Ikuo and SKaI Toshihiko. The party's plat-
form was announced as:
1. Abolition of the Peace Preservation Lavs, the Peace Police
Laws and other suppressive laws.
Government compensetion for abuse of juridical power.
3.
Suffrege for men and women over 20 yeers of age.
4.
Drastic reduction of ermament.
5.
Shortening of military service to one year, end economic
relief for families of conscripts by governmont.
6.
Opposition to all policies which aimed at militarization of
the people.
7.
Abolition of racial discrimination in the colonies.
6。
Abolition of taxes on necessary commodities and of import
duty.
9. Progressive taxation on lands, houses, une rned income,
inheritance, et cetera.
10. . Creation of & property tcx.
11. Recognition of cultivation rights.
12. Democratic control of the distribution of fertilizer and
farming implements.
13。
Government subsidies for poor harvests, fishing catches,
et cetera.
14。
Price control of staple foods.
15。
Recognition of the right to organize and to strike.
16。
Recognition of colloctive bargaining.
17.
An eight-hour working day.
18.
Prohibition of employment of vomen and minors in night work
and at hazardous labor.
19.
Enactent of e minimum wage lew.
20。
Equal pay for equal work, without discrimination of sex, race.
or ago.
21. Abolition of the apprentice, the labor-contrect and other
feudalistic systems.
22.
Measures to prevont accidents and sickness, and relief for
victims thereof.
23。
Unemployment relief by the government.
24。
Administration of employment agencies by the labor unions.
25。
Revision of tho Factory, Mining, Maritime Laws.
26.
Government relief for the aged. for mothers, and for orphans.
27.
Medical and sanitery facilities for the prolotariat.
28.
Government supply of houses to tho proletariat and administra-
tion thereof by the people.
83

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.96)
29. Prohibition of the traffio in womon.
30. Reform of the capitalistio system of compuleory educetion.
31. Compulsory education of the proletarian et governnent expense.
32.
Abolition of secret foreign policies.
33.
Abolition of unequal tresties with weaker nations and opposi-
tion to all aggressive policies.
In ordering the dissolution of the party, the Home Ministry steted
its objection to items, 1, 12, 14, 28, 30 cnd 33 as smacking of co munisn.
NIHON RONO TO
Center
(Japan Labor-Farmer Party)
December, 1926 - December, 1928
When the NIHON RODO SODO.EI (Japan Foderation of Labor) withdrow
from the RODO NOIN TO (Labor Farmer Party) in October. 1926, some of
the labor unions affiliated with the perty disagreed equally with the
NIHON RODO SUDOLLEI's decision to secede and vith the RODO NOMIN TO's
extremism. Some of the member-groups of the NIHON NOMIN KUMII (Japan
Fermers' Union) which hed forced the vithdrawal by insisting thet members
of the NIHON RODO KUMI.I nYOGI K.I (Japan Labor Unions Conference) and
other "communist-tinged" groups be allowed to join the perty likewise
objected to the party's extremism. These groups, comprised of the:
NIHON KOTSU RODO LODOEI (Jepen Fedoration of Trensport Workers)
NIHON ODO KULI DomI (Jopan Labor Union League)
NIHON ODO KUI.I SORENGO (Japan Labor Unions General League)
NIHON SHI U DomwI (Japcn Ships' Stewards' Leegue)
NIHON YUGYO HODO SUDOEI (Japan Federotion of Ceramic Workers)
joined to organize the NIHON RONO T0 on 9 December 1926, with a platforn
simdlar to the b sic eims of the RODO NOMIN TO:
1.
Political, economic nd social liberation of the proletariat.
2.
Reform by lewful merns of land tonure, production and. conmodity
distribution.
3。
Abolition of the old-line politic: l parties which represent
the interests of the priviloged classes, and a fundonontal
reforn of the niet.
and with the following officers:
CHUO SHIKKO IIN (Central Executive Committee):
ASO Hisashi
SUN.G.. Ko
IY.KE Shoichi
YimiN. Yoshitsuru
RURLTSU Shintaro
YOSHID.. Kenichi
SHOKI CHO (Chief Secretery):
MWA Juso
K.IKEI (Treasurer):
HOSONO Michio
K.IKI K.NTOKU (Auditors):
M.TSUT. NI Yo jiro
Y.MZ.KI Kesya
CHUO IIN (Central Committee):
FUJIOKI Bunroku
M Choji
HORK W Ko jin
LL TSUZAKA Ei jiro
I U- Hitoshi
MOCHIUKI Gen ji
INOUE Asajiro
OKI Seikichi
InIFUNe Shingo
SAKMOTO Kozaburo
ISHIBSHI Genshiro
SEIIY.. Hiroshi
84

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.96)
ISHIYAMA Torakich1
TANAHASHI Kotora
IWAUCHI Zensaku
T Sciohiro
KURU KozO
YaNE Gonzaburo
KYOIKU BUCHO (Chief of Training Section):
KAMIJO Aiichi
SHUPPAN BUCHO (Chief of Publication Section):KLURA Takeshi
NSHU BUCHO (Chief of Editorial Section)
HIaNO Manabu
ZAISEI BUCHO (Chief of Economies Section):
MATSUTNI Yojiro
CHoS. BUCHO (Chief of Research Section)
KONO Mitsu
S.EN BUCHO (Chief of Propaganda Section): ISHIYAA Torakichi
SOSHIKI BUCHO (Chief of Organizations Section): MIYAKE Shoichi
KANSaI HOluBUCHO (Chief of Kansai Headquarters): YAN Yoshitsuru
The activity of this political element in the RODO No.IN TO dispute and
the character of its leaders marks it as in the conservative center of
the socialist movement of the day.
The NIHON RONO TO amalgamated with other groups to form the NIHON
TaISHU To (Japan Masses Party) on 20 December 1928. It died on the
vine after having elected one candidate, KAWKI Jotaro, to the Diet
in Februery. 1928.
NIHON T.ISHU TO
Center
(Japan Masses Party)
December, 1928 - Nay, 1930
On 20 December 1928 the NIHON T.ISHU To (Japan Masses Party) was
formed by amalgamation of the
KYUSHU NKEN To (People's Constitution Party of Kyushu)
MINSHU To (Democratic Party)
MUSAN T.ISHU To (Proletarian Masses Party)
NIHON NO.IN TO (Japan Farmer Party)
NIHON ONO TO (Japan Labor-Farmer Party)
SHL..NE JIYU MINSHU TO (S imane Liberal Democratic Party)
SHINSHU TAISHU TO (Shinshu Masses Party)
The platform of the perty embodied most of the demands which had been
voiced by its ancestral groups:
1.
Universal suffrage.
2.
Abolition of suppressive laws.
3.
Freedom of speech, assembly and association.
40
Reduction of armament, shortening of the term of compulsory
military service, and improvement in the treatment of
conscripts.
5. Abolition of military treining of students, of youth training
centors and of other policies designed to militerize the
nation.
6。
Relief legislstion in favor of the familios of conscripts,
disabled soldiers and war dead.
7。
Abolition of racial discrimination in the colonies.
8.
Abolition of secrecy in foreign policy.
9.
Governmental payment of damoges for false accusations, un-
lawful detention and other unlawful infringements of
individual rights.
10. Reform of the lew courts, revision of the jury system and
defrayment by tho government of the legal exponses of
the proleteriat.
ll. Logisl tion for compensation of damages caused by air pollution
and smoke in mines and by other unhealthful or hazardous
industrial conditions.
85

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.97)
12. Demooratization of local governmont.
13. Creation of a property tex, a graduated inoome tax, end an
incroase in the inhoritance tariffs.
14. Repeal of taxation on necessities, of import duties and of
other texes born by the masses.
15.
Revision of local texos.
16.
Establishment of. the rigit to organizo labor unions and to
conduot strikes.
17.
Abolition of the landlords' right to provent cultivation and
hervosting during tenency disputes.
18.
Establishment of minimum wagos.
19.
Estcblishment of an eight-hour working day for ordinary
workers, a six-hour day for miners.
20.
Outlaw of employment of womon and of boys under 16 yoars of
age at night work, aboard ships. in mines or at other
hazardous work.
21. Revision of the Factory Laws, the Mining Laws and the Secmen's
Laws and logislation of rogulations to protect transport
workers and causual labocers.
22.
Repecl or revision of the Se men's Laws, Marine Laws, etc.
23.
Nationalization of the fertilizer industry.
24.
N tionalization of sericulture, nd governmental protection
for other small-farm industries.
25.
Democratic utilization of funds in tho Deposit Section of the
Finnce Ministry for welfare purposes, reform of the production
cooperatives, cnd establishment of other finencial benefits
in favor of the proletoriat.
26. Governmental monopoly of sales of important agricultural
products.
27. Goveriruntal control of the prices of importont foodstuffs.
28.
Equal legal, social and occupational status for mon and women.
29.
Prohibition of traffio in women.
30.
Extirpation of feudelistic idens and customs.
31.
Demoeratization of omployment agencies.
32.
Establishment of health insurence, se men's insuranco and
other forms of social insurance.
33。
Payment by the government of all expenses incurred by the
individual during compulsory or vecational education.
34.
Abolition of the right of eviction by land-owmers, revision
of the lonse laws, and construction of st-te-owned
domiciles.
35。
Nationalization of hospitals, clinics end other medical
agencies.
36. Provision for cultural fecilities in rurel districts.
Officers of the porty were:
CHUO SHIKKO IINCHO (Contral Executivo Committee
Chairman):
AS0 Hisashi
SHOKICHO (Chiof Sccretary):
KONO Mitsu
KOMON (visor):
SUGIYAMA Motojiro
MTSUT.NI Yojiro
T.K.H.SHI Kamokichi
TOSEI IINCHO (Control Committee Chairman):
SUN..G.. Ko
CHUO SHIKKO IIN (Central Exccutivo Committco):
KI Soi
KTO Kanju
S.NUM Ine jiro
K.W.MT.. Kiyooto (Soion)
FUJIOK Bunroku
MIN.G.W Rikichi
H.MINO Suotcro
LIWA Juso
Ta.NO Manabu
MOCHI.UKI Gen ji
HR.Y Isao
MORI Elichi
86

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.94)
HOSOD.. Tsunakichi
NISHIMUR. Kikujiro
HOSONO Michio
NOGUCHI Ryu20
IMI Bukichi
SHINOZ.KI Kazumori
II Yoshiji
T.DOKORO Teruaki
DhL hUR Hitoshi
TAKAHASHI Chotaro
ISHIY.Mi Torakichi
Y Take
ITNI Shokichi
Y.liWi Yoshitsuru
ITO Kiichi
Y.N.K kimitsu
YOSHID Kenichi
TOSEI IIN: (Control Committoe):
HISTOME Kozo
SAK. OTO Kozaburo
T.N.H.SHI Kotore.
Disagreoment arose elmost at once botwoen the groups which had
constituted the NIHON NOMIN TO (Japan Fermer Party) nd MUS.I T..ISHU
TO (Proletarian Masses Party), when FUKUD.. Kyoji accused HIR.NO Rikizo
and so Hisashi as traitors to the socielist cause. Although FUKUD!
was struck from the rolls, tho incident resulted immediately in the
withdrawal of HIR.NO Rikizo and his conservative ZEN NIHON NOLIN KUMI.I
(All-Japan Farmers' Union) and NIHON NOMIN TO (Japan Fermer Party)
group, and later in the oxpulsion of INOMT. Tsunao, KuROD Hisao,
SUZUKI Moscburo, NAK.ZAWA Benjiro and their MUSAN T.ISHU To (Froleterian
Masses Party) clique. This left only the former NIHON RONO TO (Japan
Labor-Former Party) group to corry on until Moy, 1930, when the party
was dissolved by cmalgamation with the RONO T. ISHU To (Labor-Farner Masse:
Party) nd tho ZENK9KU MINSHU TO (All-Japon Democratic Party) to form
the ZENIOKU TISHU TO (.l-Japan Masses Party).
In Februory, prior to the dissolution, LuTSUT.NI Yajiro vas elected
to the Diet on the porty ticket.
RODO NOMIN TO
Loft-wing
(Labor Fermer Perty)
March, 1926 - April, 1928
Early in 1926 a number of RONO Hi (Labor-Farmer Group) lecders de-
cided that " new proletarion porty must be organizod to the exclusion
of the communist group. ll labor unions which may ccuse difficulties
in the esteblishmont of the now politicel party shall be ro jocted."
The ne perty was established on 5 March 1926 as the RODO NOMIIN TO
(Labor-Fermer Perty), with the support of the following labor lengues:
KIIN SiSSHIN KI (Seemen's Reform Society)
KANGYO RODO SODOMEI (Federetion of Government Workers)
NIHON HOKYU SEIK.TSUSHA KUI.I REL LEI (Japen Salarymon's Union
Leaguo)
NIHON KOTSU RODO SODOMEI (Japen Fodoration of Transport Workers)
NIHON NOMIN KUI.I (Japan Formers' Union)
NIHON RODO KUaLI HYOGI K.I (Japan Labor Unions Conference)
NIHON HODO SODOILEI (Japan Foderation of Labor)
SH.KUY.NIN DOLEI (TenonTS' Loague)
SEITO MODO SODOMEI (FoderaTion of Cer mic Workers)
SUIHEISHI RODO NOMIN TO SHIJI REEI (Le gue of Water-Lovel Socicty
Supporters of tho Labor Fermer Party)
Chairnan of tho Central Standing Connittee was SUGIY Mi Motojiro.
MIW? Juso was Chief Secrotery. The Contral Stending Committeo was con-
posed of one representative fron each of the supporting labor leagues
87

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.97)
plus  Isoo and K.G Toyohiko. The platforn of the party was
1. Politioal, economic and social liberation of the proletariat.
2. Reform by lawful means of land tenure, produotion and comrodity
distribution.
3. Abolition of the old-line political parties which represent.
the interests of the priviledged classes, and a fundamental
reform of the Diet.
This platforn was developed in detail to rond
1. Establishnent of universal suffrage.
2.
Rescission of lavs deoned oppressive to the proletariat.
3.
Abolition of racial discrinination in the colonies.
4. Reduction of crnnmont and inprovement of trectment of onlistees
in tho arred forces.
5. Governnental coapensation to wounded soldiers and to the be-
reaved fanilies of on killed in war.
6.  fundamental reforn of taxation to enbody a gradusting soale
of property taxes, and the abolition of iaport tariffs and
consu er thxes on daily necessities.
7. Democratic foreign policy in accordance with the will of the
people.
8. Establishnent of the rights of collective bargaining and
contract as well as the right to cultivate l nd under tenure
dispute.
9.
Rovision of land-cultivation rights.
10.
Est plishment of a ninimun wego law.
11.
Prohibition of omployment of wonon and minors at night work.
in ines and at other hazardous labor.
12.
Establishnont of a mnximun eight-hour working day.
13.
Roforn of the Faotory Laws, the Mining Lovs and the Seamen's
Laws.
140
ibolition of discriminetion against wonon under public and
private law.
15。
Prohibition of the slave-traffic and the trede in woen.
16.
Outlaw of discrinination against women with respect to educa-
tion and occupation.
17.
Establishment of unemployment, disability, old-age nd accident
insurence.
18。
Governnent compensation for unlewful crrost nd dotention.
19.
Government compensation for all expenses incurred during
compulsory education.
20. Abolition of the right of eviction from tenancy.
After the organization of the party, a disagreement arose as to
whether the original resolution to exclude the communist group would
permit the acceptance for membership of men who belonged to the NIHON
RODO KUsI.I HYUGI KAI (Japan Labor Unions Conference) and other "communist-
tinged" groups. The NIHON RODO SODumEI (Japan Federation of Labor)
ademantly insisted upon the exclusion of such members. while the NIHON
NOMIN KUMI.I (Japan Farmers' Union) claimed thst the exclusion policy held
good only during the initial stages of the organization of the party.
The dispute ended with the v ithdrawel of the NIHON RODO SODOiEI (Japan
Federation of Lebor) end other groups in October, 1926, leaving only
the NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI (Japan Farmers! Union) end the SEITO RODO SODOMEI
(Federation of Ceramic Workers) to support the HODO NOmIN TO. After the
split, officers of the RODO NOMIN TO were:
88

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.96)
CHUO SHIKKO IINCHO (Central Executive
Committee Chairman):
OYAMA Ikuo
OAUO JONIN IIN (Central Standing Committee):
KIWA Matsugoro
MAEGAWA Shoioh1
DaIDO Ken ji
MATSUD. Matsutaro
KAURA Susumu
NAMBA Hideo
SHOKICHD KN K.IKEI (Chief of Secretariat
and Treasurer):
HOSOSAKO Kanemitsu
KIKEI KANTOKU (Auditors):
HAYASHID: Tetsuo
ONISHI Ryotaro
KOMON (Adviser):
FUSE Tatsuji
CHUO SHIKKO IIN (Central Executive Committee):
CHIK.UCHI Kanemitsu
NIIZU Tatsuzo
FUKUYAMA Sho ji
OH SHI Koichi
HOnI Yoshijiro
OKAZAKI Kazuo
KUBOT Yuichi
SAKMOTO Seiichiro
AATSUMOTO Jiichiro
TAKANO Seiichi
MYMKI Kuninei
T.KEDA Kaku jiro
MUR.KI Kichizo
TNAHASHI Sadao
N.G.O Yu
TSURU Kazuo
W.K.TSUKI Seisaku
SOSHIKI SENDENBUCHO (Organization and
Propaganda Bureau Chief):
KIW Matsugoro
SHUNIN (Official in Charge):
HRA Masao
KYOIKU CHOS.BUCHO (Training and
Research Bureau Chief):
DAIDO Ken ji
SHUNIN (Official in Charge):
MASUD.. Toyohiko
ZAISIBUCHO (Finance Bureau Chief):
M.TSUD.. Matsutaro
SHUNIN (Official in Charge):
KUROD. Hisao
KIK NSiT. BUCHO (Party Organ Bureau Chief):
N.B.. Hideo
SHUIN (Officiel in Cherge):
HOSOS.KO Kanemitsu
SEIJIBUCHO (Political Bureau Chief):
K.MUR Susumu
Leaders of the RODO NO IN TO end its supporting labor unions were
arrested in the wholesale round-up of communists on 15 March 1938.
As a result, the Japanese authorities idontified the perty with the
left-wing movement and ordered its dissolution on 10 April 1928. In
the first general election after the adoption of universal suffrege, on
16 February 1928, two leaders of the ROD0 NOmIN TO, .I UT.NI Chozaburo
and YalLimoTo Senji were elected to the diet, but the main service of
the party to the proleterian cause was as a mouthpiece for the cgite-
tion of its supporting unions and as a link betweon the cbortive NOMIN
RODO TO (Farmer-Labor Party) of December, 1925. and the RONO TO (Labor-
Farmer Party) founded in November, 1929.
RONO H
Loft-wing
(Labor-Farmer Group)
1925--
From ubout the time of the organizntion of the second Communist
Party of Japan in April, 1925, some of its members, including Y.MLK.W
Hitoshi, SkI Toshihiko end RaH.T Katsuzo. began to advocate 
moderation of its policies vhich would make the group acceptable to
the uthorities and to the country at large as a legel politicel party.
Wherens the communist regulars held to their theory th t the root of
social evils lay in the Tenno system as the backbone of feudclism and
looked to the overthrow of the Emperor, Y.K.W. nd his frionds pro-
clcimed the system of Empire subsidiary to capitalism, and emphasized
the necessity for an economic revolution. The scarlet extremism of
FUKUROTO Kazuo, SNO Manabu and the fer-leftists come to be known as
89

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.97)
"FUKUMOTO SHUGI" (Fukumoto-ism) while the doctrine of the conservatives
was called "YAAKAW SHUGI" (Yamakawa-iam) or, more commonly. RONO SHUGI
(The Labor-Farmer Doctrine). As YAMAKAWA's ideology faded to flush-
pink socialism, the cligue of which he was the leader became known es
the RONO HA (Labor-Farmer Group).
Comintern representatives in Japan attempted mediation between the
FUKUOTO Group and the YAAKAW Group but without success. In July, 1927.
a special Communist Party commission was established to investigate the
quarrel and issue instructions as to the attitude which the Party would
assume toward it. The commission decreed, "It is essential for the
(communist) party to develop as an independent organization. On this
point YKAWA's mistake must be corrected. On the other hand FUKUOTO's
theory would divorce the party from the masses. In future the party
nust strive for a foothold among the people." This was obviously an
attempt to persuade the two factions to kiss and make up, but neither
side was mollified. FUkUmOfO and his friends continued their attack
on the secessionists in the Communist Party organs, "Marxism" and
"MUSAN SiL. SHIMBUN" (Proletarian Paper), while YAL KAWA and his people
pulbished their counter-assault in their magazine, the "Rono" (Labor-
Farmer). The "RonO", established in October, 1927, had as its editorial
staff D. CHI Katsuaki, AONO Suekichi, AR.HiT Katsuzo, INO.T.. Tsunao,
KOBORI Jinji, KUROD.. Hisao, QMORI Yoshitaro, SAKAI Toshihiko and SUZUKI
Mosaburo, to whom were later added H SHIURA Tokio, IN.JaUR.. Junzo, ITO
Yoshimichi, KIT..UR.. Sentaro, NONLKA Seishi, OGIWAR& Atsuo, OK. D. Soji,
TAK.NO Minoru. ToRIUMI Atsusuke and YOSHIK W Morikuni.
By withdrawal from the Japanese Conmunist Party the secessionists
severed all connection with the Comintern International. The group
as such. was novr a political party but rather an ideological olique
of sociel etangclists who sought to bring about political and social
reforms by educstion of the masses. Hence they escaped arrest at the
time of the tholesale apprehension of Communists in March, 1928, (the
3.15 Incident) end in pril, 1929 (the 4.16 Incident).
The prineiples and ob jectives of the RONO H., voiced by Y.M:K.W
and published in the first issue of the group's orgen, the Rov0 (Labor-
Farmer), are quoted in the 1938 SrL.K I UND0 NO JOKYO (Report on Social
Lovements) of the Police Bureau of the Home Ministry:
Thet the target of our political war is the politicel power
which rests in the hands of the bourgeoisie is so clear that
it needs little comment. The capitalistio development of our
country hes reeched a state in which power is a monopoly of
the grect capitolists. It is a mistske to atteck eny other.
political objective. Japan todey should not be likened to
the Russia of 1905 or indeed the Russia of 1917.
2。
How wes this bourgeois governient established? The restora-
tion of IJI marked e change in the nature of politicel power
in our country from absolute despotism to capitalism. The
chief factors in this revolution vere the lower-cless "samurai",
not the bourgeoisie. Because the sanurai had no economic
backing, however. they came to depend upon the nov-born
bourgeoisie and later to represent its interests. Thus the
government passed into the hands of reactionary leadors, not
into the hands of the people.
3。
What is the situation today? The power of the old feudal
hierarchy is still extant. It is ropresented by the peers,
the burecuer ts cnd the military cliques. These groups heve
90

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.95)
"been absorbed into the bourgocisie and hove thus consolidated
their pover. The influence of the bourgeoisie has been ox-
tended to encompass and subjugate the land-owners.
The group disseminated its ideals in its RONO (Labor-Farmer) cnd later
in its ZENSHIN (Forward March) and its SäNKU (Forerunner) and in the
writings of its membors such as Y.akW Hitoshi and SkiI Toshihiko
in non-party magazines like the KIZO (Reform), the CHUO KORON (Centrel
Roview) and the SraK.I HYORON (Social Review). The group was alvays
careful to keep rithin the bounds of the law.
Although the RONO H: per se was not a politioal party. some of its
politically minded members sponsored political parties such as the LUS.N
T. ISHU TO (Prolotarion Masses Party) of SUZUKI Mosaburo and KUROD.. Hisco
in 1928, the RODO NOMIN TO (Labor-Fermer Party) of SUGIY.M: Motojiro in
1926 - 1928, nd the NIrd0N US.N To (Japan Proleterian Party) in 1937.
which by a series of splits and cmalgamations with other groups became
the SHikI T.ISHU T0 (Social Mnssos Party) of 1932 - 1940 end indeed the
NIHON SH.K.I TO (Japon Sociel Democratic Party) of the yeer of thc pence,
1945.
Some of the RONO At sympathizers such s RIS.WA Hiromi, MINOBE
Ryokichi, T.K HASHI Masco end WAKIUR.. Yoshitoro continued to eschen
politics cnd devoted themselves to the promulgation of thoir idecs throug?
their position as tenchers in the universities. This little brnd of
theorists became known as the ROmo H. KYOJU GÜRUPU (Labor-Farmer Profes-
sors' Group).
Other mombers of tho RONO H. continued to oschew politics but bectmo.
active in the social field by supporting labor unions such ns the NIHON
RODO KUI.I SUHYOGI K.I (Japan Labor Unions Generr1 Conference) in 1931,
the ZENKoKU RUDO KUlI.I DOEI (A11-Japan Labor Unions League) in 1930,
ond the ZEaNRO TOITSU ZaNKOKU K IGI (All-Labor Unificntion National Coun-
cil) in 1933, which cmalg mated in 1934 to form the NIHON RODO KU.I.I
ZENKOKU HYOGI KI (Japan Labor Unions Netional Conference). In September
1932, the NIHON RODO KUML I SOHYOGI I reiterated the RONO H. opposi-
tion to Communism by declcring:
"1.
The high price of commodities hrs been caused by excessive
militory exponditures.
20
The excessive militery expenditures threaten the st-bility
of our national life. Therefore  pe co policy must be
established without delay.
"3.
It is ospecially urgent that a pecceful rel-tionship be es-
toblished with the USSR and China.
“4。
It is necosscry to control cny speech or action on tho port
of the peoplo which may incite wer or intern-tionol crisis.
5。
i national control of the prices of cssential commodities is
requircd."
The last political perty which may be srid to have been definitedy
Sponsored by the RONO Hi Was the NIHON MUS.N TO (Japan Proletarien Pirty).
Whose platform is reported in the SHnKI UNDO NO JOKYO of 1928 as:
"Aro we to support the Communist Party? We say 'no' beccuse there
can be only one proletarian party. It is necessary that it be the pooplo
91

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.97)
party. It will be a great mistake for the labor unions to declare that
they support the Communist Party.
When the China Incident ocourred the leaders agreed to:
1. Aid soldiers' families.
2. Insist upon peyment of civilian salaries to soldiers without
reduction.
3. Fight for reduction of rents on ferms tenanted by the families
of soldiers.
4. Plan means for relief of families of party members who have
been colled to the colors.
5. Appeal to the general public at every opportunity for a peace-
ful solution of the Inoident and a shortening of the war.
For these declarations the party was declared subversive in that it had
criticized governent policy as "fascist". The leaders of the perty were
arrested in December, l937, and the party itself was dissolved by govern-
ment order. Among the officers arrested were:
Committee Chairman:
KATO Kan ju
Chief Secretary:
SUKI Mosaburo
Treasurer:
MAKINO Matsutaro
Standing Committee:
XITADA Ichiro
NAB Toraichi
KOBORI Jinji
SASI Seizo
IWA Morikichi
T.K.TSU Seido
N..JLA Kisaburo
YA.NOUCHI Fusakichi
N..K.NISHI Inosuke
Y.SUHIR.. Shikeichi
Whether the nunO d: actually abandoned all sympathy for the Comin-
tern at the ti..e of its bresk with the Communist Party is difficult to
prove in the face of the indisoriminate classification of ell left-wing
groups as leftist in the Japenese official records. However, the
4
distinotion seems very clecr. t the time of the vholesale arrests in
1928 and 1929 no ROn0 .. members were apprehended or accused. The at-
t cks of the orthodox Communists upon the RONO HA and the RONO Hi's
rebuttals were so bitter that any sympathy between the groups seemed
impossible. Aocording to the 1938 SK.I UNDO NO JOKYO, YA KWAs
name was definitely struck off the rolls of the Communist Party at the
Party's second organization conference (SOSHIKI K.IGI) in February, 1928,
when the prineiple members of the group were:
ADAOHI Katsuaki
KUROD.. Hi sao
ONO Suekichi
O.OnI Yoshitaro
AR.H.T. Katsuso
S.KAI Toshihiko
INO.L.T.. Tsunao (deceased)
SU UKI Mosaburo
KIT.UR.. Senterd
T.NO minoru
Y.. Hitoshi
That RON0 H. 1eaders were arrested in 1937 and 1938 does not prove them
to have been comnunists because enti-leftism in Japan had becone hysteri-
cal after the outbreak of the China Incident. Lastly, and perheps most
important, none of the RONO H.. members joined the Co. munist Party in 1945
when the legalizetion of communist activity by the defe:t and the occupa-
tion made it possible to do so openly.
A list of prominent members of the RONO H. and of the RONO H. KYOJU
GURUPU (Labor-Farmer Professors' Group) is important in the post-wer
political picture because the affiliation explains why some of the rembers
have refused to take pert in the government of the Liberal-Progressive
YOSHID.. Cabinet. The list is importent in an overall study of the prole-
tarian movement in Japan because it provides the key to the character
of later groupings:
92

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.95)
ADACHI Katsuaki
INAMURA Junzo
KITAURA Sentero
AOKI Soichiro
INOMATA Taunao
KOBORI Jinji
AONO Suekic hi
ITAGAKI Takeo
KOSAKA Itsuo
ARAHTA KB tsuzo
ITO Minoru
KURDA Hsao
FUGONO Shi nzo
ITO Yoshimichi
KURCDA Morikuni
HGIWARA Kosei
KATO Kanju
MAKINO Matautaro
H&SHIURA Tokio
KITADA Ichiro
W Morikichi
MUR.I Kazuo
OSHINODA. Te tsuo
TSUBAKI Shigeo
NKAJIMA Kisaburo
SAKII Toshi hiko
TSUJII Taninosuke
NAKANISHI Inosuke
SASAKI KOZO
TSUKAwOTO Sankichi
NABA Toraichi
SASAKI Seizo
WATANABE SOZO
NITTA Saburo
SATAKE Shinichi
YAMAKAWA Hi tos hi
NONAKA Masayuki
SUZUKI Mosaburo
YAMANOUCHI Fusekichi
OKADA Soji
TAKAHASHI MaSao
YASUHIR. Shikaichi
OWICHI Taketoshi
TAKANO Mi noru
YOKOT: Yos his hige
OMORI Yoshitero
TIKITSU Seido
YOSHIKAW Morikuni
ONISHI Tetsuo
TORIUMI tsusuke
RONO H KYOJU GURUPU (Labor-Farner Profess ors' Group)
Advis or:
OUCHI Hy oe
Committee Chairman: RISAll Hiromi
Chief Secretary:
LBE Isamu
Members:
KASAGA Ki ns ek u
SERIZ Hy ce
MINI Kinji
SUGIMORI Jiro
MINOBE Ryokichi
T.KHSHI Masao
SiKIS.KL Itsuro
TOYOKAWL Eitaro
OMORI Yoshitero
UNO Hirozo
W.KIMUR. Yos hitaro
RONO MUSAN KYOGIKAI
Left-wing
(Labor-Farmer Proletarian Congress)
March, 1936 - March: 1937
The lest left-wing political perty of sufficient importance to
place a representative in the Diet was the RoNo To (Labor-Farmer Party).
which Was fused into the ZENKOKU RONO TAISHU TO (All-Japan Labor-Farmer
Masses Party) in 1931. When the socialist politicel front veered farther
to the right by combining into one great party, the SHikI TAISHU TO
(Social Messes Party), in July, 1932, the dissatisfied left-wing with-
drew from political activity and busied itself with labor and farmers'
unions. It wes not until 1934 when the NI HON RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU HYOGI-
KAI (Japan Labor Unions Netional Conference), the TCKYO KOrSU RWO
KUTI (Tokyo Transport Labor Union), the TCKYO SHI JUGYOIN KUMII
(Tokyo Minicipel Workers' Union) and the ZNKOKU NOMIN KUVIAI (ll-
Japen Farmers' Union) held & mass neeting to demand a labor union law,
a land-tenancy law snd the dissolution of the Diet, thet the group de-
cided that the time was eggin ripe for political action.
The eventual result was the RONO MUSAN KYOGI KAI (Labor-Farmer Pro-
leterien Congress) which was convened on 4 March 1936.
Its officials were:
JONIN IINCHO (Cheirman of the Standing Comnittee):
KTO Kanju
JONIN IIN (Standing Committee):
ENDO Chu ji
MORI OK Kamon ji
KOBORI Jinji
ONO Shoso
MTNI Kiichi
Y.MB.N. Hideo
93

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.97)
KITADA Iohire
JONIN SHOKI (Standing Secretary)
OKADA So j1
RRU IIN (Liaison Momber):
Its platform was:
1. Oppose Fascism and defend parliamentary politics.
2. Support fundamental reform of election laws, severe punish-
ment of corruption and extension of the suffrage.
3.
Reform or abolish the House of Peers.
4.
Outlew political bargeining between the government and the
bourgeois parties.
5.
Prevent inflation and stabilize the livelihood of the people.
6.
Reduce the enormous military expenditure.
7。
Promulgate fundamental tax reforms and create speoial taxes
on munition factories.
8.
Enect a law to limit dividends.
9.
Improve the banking system for small trade and industry.
10.
Establish a simple banking system for the farmers.
11.
Support enactiment of a labor union law and a tenanoy law.
12.
Support enactment of a law to protect shop employees, ap-
prentices, etc.
13. Establish a lav to provide governmental defrayment of  edical
expenses.
14. Reform or abolish the national pension system.
15. Provide special relief for the poor in agricultursl and
fishing villages.
16. Support postponement of payment of debts on the part of
agricultural villages.
This group registered itself on 20 March 1937 as the NIHON MUSAN
To (Jepan Proletarian Party).
RONO TAIGHU TO
Center
(Labor-Farmer Masses Party)
January, 1929 - May, 1930
After the dissolution of the RODO NO..N TO (Labor-Farmer Party)
as a result or the comnunist rests of 15 March 1928, MIZUT.NI
Chozaburo, who hed been electe to the Diet in February on the RODO
NO.IN TO ticket, and Ku.Da Hyozo separated from the group, with plans
to organize a lawful proletarian party of their own. Eventuelly on
17 January 1929 they established a local party in Kyoto. the RONO
TiISHU To (Labor-Former Masses Party), with the following platform:
1. Acquisition and protection of politiccl, economic cnd social
rights for the Ichorer, the fcrmer, the small tradesman
and other proleterian groups. Revision of the land tenancy
and production systems.
2. Political freedom of the proleteriat. Destruction of estab-
lished political parties represonting the privileged
classes. Reform of the Diet and the local governmont system.
3. Unification of cll proletorian parties.
The perty remained a regional one until its amalgamtion with other
elements into the ZENKOKU T.ISHU TO (All-Japen Mosses Party) in May, 1930.
Its importance lies in the influence of its lender MI.UTANI Chozaburo,
whose roknown was incrensing on the labor front.
94

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.97)
RONO TO
Loft-wing
(Labor-Farmor Party)
November, 1929 - July, 1931
On 22 December 1928. following upon the pril dissolution of the
RODO NOIN TO (Labor Farmer Party) by government arder, leadors such ns
HOSOSAKO Kanomitsu, NAKAMURA Takaiohi, OY MA Ikuo and TABEI Konji at-
tompted to organize a new party. the Rono To (Labar-Farmer Party), but
this was dissolved by police orders threo days later. Undcunted, the
leaders immedintoly organized a preparatory committee to form another
party. tho SEIJI TEKI JIYU KAKUTOKU RONO DOEI (Political FreedoM ACqui-
sition Labon-Fermer League), which was in turn dissolved by tho autho-
ritios on 28 December 1928. Roalizing the futility of further consoli-
drted effort. many of tho leaders then withdrew to form politionl groups
of thoir own, of which the only one which could olaim ny success cs
tho RONO TAISHU TO (Labor-Farmor Masses Party) of MIZTANI Chozaburo.
Further activity on the part of the group as a whole was postponed by
the murder of YAisAiioTo Senji. a member of the House of Representatives on
of tho RoDO NOMIN To group, during the Diet session of March, 1929. and
by the general apprehension of leftists on 16 April 1929.
In ugust. 1929, HOSOSAKO Kcnemitsu, KAML UR4 Susumu, OKUMURA Jinno-
suko. SU UKI Gon ji and OYAMA Ikuo. with the approval of KAWAKAMI Hajime
and KOIWI Kiyoshi.--all prominent members of the RODO NOLIN TO (Labor-
Farmer Porty),--proposed to est blish a "lavful" left-wing politioal
party. Tho inaugural mooting of the resultant party, the Rono To (Labor-
Farmer Party), often referred to as the SHIN RoNo To (New Labor-Fermer
Party) to distinguish it from the Decenber, 1928. failure, wns held on
1 November 1929 when the platform was cnnounoed:
1. Protection and expansion of the interests of laborers, farmers
nd other oppressed groups.
2.
Development of labor and formors' unions.
3.
Unifioation of the proletericn front.
4。
cquisition of politionl freedom for the oppressod proleter-
iat.
This platform wes doveloped into a detailed statement of objoctivos
which aimed to correct practically every social complaint which had
been voiced since the MEIJI Restoration:
1. Freedom of speech, press, assembly and association.
2. Revision of the Election Laws to feature suffrege for men
and women of 18 years of age and above.
Complete autonomy of looal government with popular election
of prefectural governors, mayors and other local public
servants.
4.
Abolition of the Peace Preservation Law, the Peace Police Law
and other legislation deemed oppressive to the proletariat.
5. Outlaw of punishment without trial, of unlewful arrest. of
unlawful detention and of forced entry without proper writ
or authority.
6. Severe penalties for abuse of authority and for the exercise
of unlawful detention, violence, insult or bribery.
7。
Right of publio trial.
Election of juries by popular vote.
Delegation of increased power and authority to such popularly
elected juries.
8. Improvement of conditions in houses of detention and prisons.
with freedom of reading, correspondence, interview and
95

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
exerciso. Immediate parole of arrestees efter preliminary
exemination and pending trial.
Abolition of bail.
9. Abolition of police funds, political funds and other secret
budgets.
10. Establishment of a property tax, an absentee-ownership tax
and a luxury tax.
Elevation of exemption limits on inheritance, income, land
and business taxes, and imposition of those taxes on a
graduating scale.
11. Rescission of such taxation of the proletariat as rent, horse
and vehicle levies.
12. Repeal of oonsumer commodity taxes and tariffs.
13.
Establishment of the rights of labor organization, walk-out
and collective bargaining.
14.
Enforcement of on eight-hour day for ordinary workers and a
six-hour day for laborers in hazardous industries.
15.
Establishment of a minimum wage system.
16.
Enactment of unemployment relief.
17.
Governmental guarantee of a proper stendard of living to the
sick, the injured end the aged as well as to low-salaried
workers and to bereaved families.
18. Drastic revision of the factory. m'ritime. seemen's insurence
end health insurance laws.
19. Enactment of special herlth insurance laws for protoction of
dey-laborers, miners and employees in srlt fields, electric
power stotions, tronsport tion, shipping, construction and
public worke.
20. Form security embodying repe-1 of the right of foreclosure of
mort ges on cocoons and other farm products as well as re-
vision of land-tenancy laws.
21. Abolition of compulsory governmental inspection of rice,
wheat and other farm produce.
22. Socialization of the farming industry to embody free govern-
mental loans of fertilizer, farm implements and seed as
well as security legislation to provide aid to farmers
in case of femine, sericultural depression or confiscation
of land.
23. Fre-dom of use by farmers of governmental or public lands,
forests, rivers and lakes.
240
Abolition of agricultural associations, production coopera-
tives and fishery guilds together with a drastic reform of
the Farm Land Ad justment.Law and the Fisheries Lew.
25. Reduction of compulsory military service to one year in all
branches in the ermed forces, with guarantee of employment
after discharge.
26.
Better treatment of soldiers with full recognition of their
individual rights.
27。
Enactment of a security law guaranteeing the livelihood of
militery conscripts.
28.
Outlaw of the epprentice system and guarantee of special
treatment for female and juvenile laborers.
29.
Increase in the number of public schools and training
centers with payment of school expenses by the government.
30。
Froedom of the individual in choice of studies in the schools.
31。
Abolition of official youth associations, youth training
institutes and reservists' association and establishment
of speciel schools to supplement the regular public schools.
32。
Abolition of social. legel and economic discriminution agcinst
women.
96

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.97)
33. Prohibition of traffic in women and minors on endenture or
straight payment.
34.
Enforcement of limitations on house-rents and increase in
the number of government-owned homes for the poor vith
management in the hands of the inmates.
35.
Abolition of racial and feudal (class) discrimination.
36.
Emancipation of the natives of the Japanese colonies.
37.
Prohibition of secrecy with respect to foreign policy.
38.
Opposition to interference in Chinese affairs.
39.
Opposition to imperialistio expansionism.
40.
Rescission of the Labor Disputes Arbitration Law.
41.
Rescission of the Small Property Holdings Law.
42.
Government management of free lodging houses and free medical
clinics.
43.
Drastic revision of the House-Rent Law and the Land-Lease Law.
44.
Establishment of a system of weekly payment of salaries by
enployers.
The party wes allowed to continue by the comparatively liberal
HamaGUCHI Cabinet. which had succeeded the reactionary government of
T. NAKA Giichi on 2 July 1929. However, difficulties arose within the
ranks of the RONO T0 itself when a group of leaders in Osaka including
AK MATSU IwoMaro, HATTORI Minetaro, KAY AURA Jiro, KOIW4I Kiyoshi.
KONO Tesshi and NISHINO Kusutaro proposed dissolution on the basis that
a legal political party could not help the proletcrian causo. The pro-
posal was approved by HuSOS. KO Kanemitsu. mIR.. Susumu, KWAK.MI
Hajime, und SHINDO Kanji, but was strongly opposed by OYAL! Ikuo. OYAMA
won the dey nd the dissonters were expelled from the party. The majorit
of the reinining membors joined the ZENKOKU RONO T. ISHU TO (All Japen
Labor-Farmer Massos Party) on 5 July 1941.
The RONO TO elocted one candidate to the Dict in Februery, 1930,--
OYi Ikuo. The only important concrote accomplishment to its credit
Was the formation under its aegis of tho NIHON RODO KUMI I SOHYOGI KAI
(Japan Labor Unions General Conference) on 18 pril 1931.
SHAKII MINSHU TO
Domooretic
(Social Democratic Prrty)
Docember, 1926 - July, 1932
In Decembor, 1923. Ki TSU Katsumero. ONO Suekichi, SHILN. K Yuzc
SUZUKI Mosaburo, T.KiHiSHI Knmekichi ond other intellectuals joinod to-
gethor to form the SaIJI mOND I KENKYUKiI (Political Quostions Inves-
tigation Socicty), By April, 1925, whon the first generol meeting wos
held. the associntion hnd fifty-three bronches with four thousand
mombers and published a monthly mrgazine, the MINSHU SEIJI (Demooretic
Government). The genorrl meeting elected  contral committee composed
of FUJII Tei. FUSE Tctsuji, KUROD. Hisao, LL TSUSHIT. Kichic. MIW.. Juso.
NiK.Z.W.i Ben jiro, OIKE Yoshio. OKU Umeo (n Womon), OY.Mal Ikuo, S.NO
Kescmi, SHI N. K Yuzo, SUzUKI Mosaburo, T.K.HASHI Komekichi, T.METO
Goro and YwilZKI Kazuo, whose varying idoologies showed that the group
was a composite one representing cll factions of the socialist comp.
SODOlEI (Japan Fedoration of Lobor) to form the NIHON RODO KULI.I HYOGI-
K.I (Japan Labor Unions Conferonce) began to gain the upper hand over
tho conaervatives in the SEIJI MoND I KENKYUk I. At the second generel
moeting in October, 1925, the moderates wore ousted altogether.
97

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.96)
It was this group which formed the DOKURRTSU RODO. KYOKAI (Independent
Lebor ssociation) and in due course, under the lendership of BE Isoo.
YOSHINO Sakuzo and HORIE Kiichi, a Keio University professor. proposed
to establish c "socicl demooratic party."
As a result of this proposal, the SHAKAI MINSHU TO (Social Democratio
Party) was farmed on 5 December 1926, with the backing of:
KaIGUN RODo KUmIAI RI (Navel Labor Unions League)
KaNGYO nODO SODOmEI (Federation of Government Workors)
NInON KaIIN KUmIAI (Japan Seemen's Union)
NIHON KaIIN KYUIKaI (Japan Seamen's Workers' Club)
NIHON KOJIN KURBU (Jepan Factory Workers' Club
NIHON RODO SODOmEI (Japan Federation of Labor)
Officers elected weres
Chairman:
BE Isoo
Vice-Chairman:
SUZUKI Bunji
Chief Secretary:
K.TYMA Tetsu
Advisers:
HORIE Kiichi
YOSHINO Sakuzo
Central
KTSU Katsumaro
NISHIO Suehiro
Committee:
LTSUOKA Komakichi
SHIRYANAGI Shuko
L.IY.Z. KI Ryuauke
TMAN Kiyoomi
The most interesting feature about this group is that here for the
first time were affiliated politically the principal figures who stood
for "social-dc ocratic" principles throughout the pre-wer years and
came to the fore again after the war in the NIHON SHiKAI TO (Japen
Socialist Party).
The party announced as its platform:
"We believe establishment of political and economic systems based
upon the principles of the working classes to be the primery means of
achieving a healthy national life. We pledge ourselvos to the realiza-
tion of this project.
"We consider oapitalistic methods of production ond distribution
harmful to the national life. We pledge ourselvos to reform these
methods by lawful moons.
"We reject both the old-line .parties which represont the privileged
classes and the radiccl parties which ignore the naturel steps in social
progross."
By the ond of 1928 this platform had flowered into an oncyclope-
dio set of principlos:
1. Essential Election Reforms.
Lowering of the ge limit for suffrrge to 20 yenrs.
b.
Esteblishmont of tho right for womon to participate
in politics.
c. doption of c system of political ropresontation in
proportion to population.
d。
Establishment of tho principles wheroby election oxpenses
shall be defrnyeå by the government.
Abolition of restrictions on the est-blishmont of legal
rosidence.
98

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.96)
f. Abolition of the guarented of funds system with respoct
to elections.
g. Declaration of election days cs public holidcys.
h. Protection of suffrcge rights upon chango of rosidence.
2. Reforms concerning freedom of speech, assembly and orgcnization.
a. Abolition of the Pence Preservation Laws.
b. Abolition of reform of the Peace Police Laws.
c. Abolition of cll control laws.
d. Revision of the newspaper and publicetion laws.
3. Parlicmentary Roforms.
a. bolition of tho Houso of Peers' priviloge to mend or
veto the national budgot.
b. Prolongation of the sessions of tho Diet.
4. Foreign Policy Reforms.
a.
Emancipation of suppressed peoples.
b。
Opposition to tho aggressive policies of the copitalists.
C.
Opposition to a reactionary policy against China.
d.
Esteblishment of freedom of emigration throughout the
world.
5. Militery Reforms.
2.
Reduction of ermoment.
b.
Increcse of soldiers' pay.
c. Relief for f-milies of conscripted men.
dministretive Reforms.
n. Abolition of govornmentel utilization of politic l poli-
cies.
b. Estoblishment of cutonomous local governments.
7. Financial and Tax Roforms.
C.
Defrayments nd reductions.
(1)
Abolition of t xes on the leboring classes.
(2)
bolition of cnpital subsidies.
(3)
Reduction of ormy approprintions.
(4)
Utilization of monies in the Deposit Bureau of the
Finance Ministry for the benefit of the laboring
classes.
Toxotion Reforms:
(1) National Tox Roforms:
(a) Creation of a property tex.
(b) Increase of tho land sclos tax.
(c) Imposition of honvy texes on capit-l interost
and inheritances on a gr duated serlo.
(a) Imposition of taxes on unearned income.
(e) Abolition of the sugar consumption tex.
(f) Abolition of tariffs on necessary commodities.
(2)
Regional Tax Reforms:
(a) Abolition of special land taxes.
(b) Abolition of prefectural business taxes on
bath-houses, barber shops, etc.
carts, etc.
(a) Establishment of a minimum tax limit on small
real estate holdings.
(e) Increased tax rates on property and incone.
99

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.93)
(r) Abolition of house. texes.
8. Industrial Reforma.
a. Public management of public utilities such as transporta-
tion, communication, electric, gas and water facilities.
b.
Public management of wholesale mar'ets.
C.
Creation of & central national bank.
d. Establishment of public managed people's banks.
9. Land Reforms.
a. Nationalization of metropolitan residential districts.
b. Prevention of the sale of public lands.
10. Labor Legislation.
Enforcement of an eight-hour working day.
b. Establishment of the right to organize and strike.
C.
Establishment of a minimum wage law.
d.
Reform of the health insurance, factory, mining and mari-
time laws.
e.
Establishmont of laws for the protection of laborers in
public works, construction. fishing. transportation
and other out-of-door industries.
f. Negotiation of on intornational labor treaty.
11. Agrarian Reforms.
a。
Est blishment of a tenancy law.
b. Est blishment of a lnw covering cultivation rights which
vill outlnw illegal ejection of land-owners, nd fore-
closure on ronts, lonns, etc. b: confiscation of crops.
C。
Esteblishment on a maximum rent law.
d.
Establishment of the farmers: right to dispute lond tennnoy.
0.
Establishment of tho formers' right to org nize.
f.
Improvemont of c brnking systom for the formors.
go
Roform of the production cooperatives nd the gricultural
associntions.
h。
Estoblishmont of on griculturel insurance system.
i。
Nationalization of the fertilizor and frrm implements
industrics.
ju
Electrificction of cgriculturrl villages.
12. Reforms beneficial to the saleried man.
Esteblishment of on cight-hour work day.
b.
Establishmont of rotiring lloyance at fixed rates.
c. Guerantco of civil rights.
13. Educational Roforms.
a
Esteblishment of a systom for government paymont of 1l
expenses incurred during compulsory educction.
Establishment of a governmentr1 eystem of cgricultur l
and labor schools.
Co
Expansion of tho government 1 systom of night schools.
da
Incronsed salorics for primary school tcachers.
e.
Participation of reprosentatives of tho peoplo in con-
ferenccs for improvoment of school textbooks.
100

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.95)
14. Social Reforms.
a. Establishment of social insurance for the sick, the aged
and the injured.
b. Improvement of sanitary and health facilities in slum
areas.
c. Establishment of public nurseries for children.
d. Establishment of public medical clinics.
e. Divorce of the medical and pharmaceutical professions.
15. Unemployment Reforms.
a. Prootion of public works suoh as construction, cultiva-
tion of lands, reforestation, eto.
b.
Establishment of an unemployment insurance system.
C.
Establishment of employment agencies under labor anage-
ment.
16. Court Reforms.
Recognition of national compensation for false accusation.
b.
Abolition of the qualification limiting selection of jury-
men to tax payers.
C.
Abolition of the death penalty.
d.
Abolition of secret preliminery exeminations.
θ.
Establishment of a system to aid members of the proletcriat
in law suits.
17. Economic and Legal Reforms for Women.
a.
Establishment of an equal wage scale for men and vomen.
b.
Establishment of laws to benefit mothers of minor
children.
C.
Abolition of the traffic in women.
do
Abolition of night-work end the dormitory system with
respect to female labor.
θ。
Reformation of the family and inheritance laws.
f. Establishment of the right of inheritence for wives.
18. Residential Reforms.
a.
Establishment of restrictions on rents.
b。
Increase of public managed residences for laborers.
C.
Abolition of the deposit system.
d.
Establishment of a tenants' union law.
In the election of 16 February 1928 the SHaKAI LINSHU T0 seated
four of its candidates in the lower house of the Diet, NISiIo Suehiro.
SUZUKI Bunji, ARE Isoo and KAmEI Kanichiro. It was significant of the
influence of the NIHON RODO SODOI (Japan Federation of Labor) behind
tho party as well as in the broadening prolotarian front that all four
candidates were supported by the Federation.
The first split in the SHAKAI MINSHU T0 took place in 1929 when
MIYAZAKI Ryusuke and his group, including FURUNO Shuzo, IZEKI Takao,
TAlaN Kiyoomi and YAmaDA Tetsukichi. withdrew to organize the ZENKOKU
LINSHU To (all-Japan Democratic Party) in 1930. Porhaps as a rosult of
this weakening of the party, only two candidates wore returned to tho
Diet in the olection of 20 February 1930, despito tho fact thct the
101

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.96)
total number of proletarian votes subetantially inoreased. It was the
Manchurian Incident which brought about the second split in the party
and indirectly caused the dissolution of the SHAKAI INSHU TO. AKAMATSU
Katsumaro met OKaWA Shumei, the nationalist publicist, in 1931 and came
under his influence. After a patriotic lecture at Waseda University he
withdrew from the party, taking with him HIRANO Rikizo, KOIkE Shiro.
S.AIAVAKA Yuzo, YAMAaOTO Kame jiro and about one-third of the perty's
members. These people formed the NIHON KOKKA SHAKAI TO (Japan National
Socialist Party) in May, 1932. At the same time the only other prole-
tarian party of the day. the ZNKOKU RONO TaISHU TO (All-Japan Labor-
Farmer Masses Party) underwent a similar schism and lost about one-
third of its members. In July, l932. the remainder of the two parties
amalgamated to form the SHAKAI T.ISHU TO (Social Masses Party).
SHAKAI T.ISHU TO
Democratic
(Social Masses Party)
July, 1932 - July, 1940
The SH.iKAI T.ISHU To (Social Masses Party) was established on 24
July 1932 by amalgamation of the Sr.I MINSiU T0 (Social Democratic Party)
and the ZENKOKU RONO T ISHU TO (All-Japen Labor-Farmer Masses Party).
Officials elected at the inaugural meeting were:
CHUO IINCHO (Central Committee Chairman):
ABE Isoo
SHOKI CHO (Chief Secretary)
ASO Hisashi
CHUO SHIKKO IIN (Central Executive Committee):
AB Shigeo
MIWA Juso
ASAiNUiA Ine jiro
MIYAKE Shoichi
H.R.. Toraichi
MIZUT.NI Chozaburo
HIR.NO Manabu
NAKURA Takaichi
HOSONO Michio
OKAZAKI Ken
KAKUT Tozaburo
SUNAGA Ko
KAEI Kanichiro
TN Kiyoomi
KT Y.A Tetsu
TAMETO Goro
K Jotaro
W.DA Misao
KIKUGWA Tadao
WAT.N.BE Sen
KONO Mitsu
W.T.NABE Toshinosuke
MTSUMOTO Junzo
YAMKAWA Sohin
SUN Yoshio
YOSHIKWA Morikuni
YOSHIKAW Sue jiro
KOMON (Advisers):
B.BA Tsunego
SUGIY.MA Motojiro
HORIUCHI Choei
SUZUKI Bun ji
K Toyohiko
T.KANO Iwasaburo
SAKI Toshihiko
YAMAZAKI Kesaya
Basically, the party announced that it would oppose capitalism,
communism and fascism. The general principles of the party were:
"1。
Our party fights to protect the livelihood of the laborers,
the farmers and the working masses in general.
"2.
Our party pledges itself to crush capitalism and emancipate
the proletariat."
The party proposed to implement these principles by a detailed program
of reforms:
102

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.97)
General Platform
1. Establishment of government control of major industries and
banking institutions; establishment of a labor aystein en-
suring control of produots by labor and the livelihood of the
producer; establishment of a social security system..
2.
Establishment of a tenancy systen ensuring cultivation rights
to resident farmers and national ownership of land; administre-
tion of farm lands by independent cooperatives; machiniza-
tion of farming; national control of importent egricultural
products.
3.
Establishment of an economic congress; establishment of an
agricultural public school system; public administration of
housing and medical facilities.
4.
Coordination of industry and agriculture; establishment of
public utilities in farm villages comparable to those avail-
able in the municipal areas.
5. ssurance of world racial e uality and universal peace.
General Policies
1. Abolition of the political police system and establishment
of local self-government; establishment of universal suffrage
end public management of election; abolition of laws and
regulations oppressive to the proleteriat and severe punish-
ment of government officials who mey abuse their authority
or accept bribes.
2。
Esteblishment of taxation on a progressive soale, including
taxes on property, inheritances, capitel and land; abolition
of duties on necessery commodities; exemption from taxation
of annual income up to ¥2.oo0; reduction of rail transporta-
tion, mail, telegram and tobacco prices.
3.
Reduction of arnaments; abolition of copitalist and imperial-
ist eggressive policies; abolition of world customs barriers.
40
Improvement of treatment of soldiers; notional relief for
conseripts, disabled soldiers, war cesuelties end their
families; establishment of pensions of the agod, widowed
and the orphaned; governmental payment of all expenses
incurred during compulsory education.
5。
Abolition of feudalistic idcologies and custons; abolition
of the peerage.
Labor Policios
1。
Establishment of a seven-hour working dey and proper living
wages; legislation of a labor union law recognizing the
right to. organize and strike.
2.
Legislation of unemployment insurance und unemployment com-
pensations; expansion and control of euployment egencies by
labor unions; establishment of disabled soldiers insurance;
revision of health insurance laws.
103

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
3. Prohibition of night labor for women end children and state
protection of mothers.
4.
Establishment of a minimum wage for salarymen, store em-
ployees and fishermen.
5.
Abolition of the apprentice and labor-contract dormitory
systems.
9
Farm and Village Policies
1.
Establishment of a tenancy system hich will insuro the cul-
tivation rights of resident farmers; prohibition of seizuro
of crops and land by absentee owners; legislation of laws to
allow reclamation and cultivation of waste lands by the pro-
letcriat; release of government-owned forests, rivers, lakes.
etc. to the proletariats.
2.
Govern.ent distribution of fertilizors, seeds end farm equip-
ment; establishment of an agricultural banking system; estab-
lishment of governmental loans to fermers without mortgages.
3。
Governmental guarentees against crop failurus and poor silk-
worm. productions; governmental compensation for farm prices
due to low prices.
4.
Higher taxation of absentee land owners and reduction of farn
workers' taxes.
5.
Establishment of self-government in villages by independent
fariers.
In 1933 two prominent leaders MIYAZuKI Ryusuke and WATANABE Yoshi-
hisa withdrew not only from the party but from political life altogether.
About the same time a third man, YOSHID4 Kenichi, transferred his af-
fections to the nationalist union KOKOKU NO IN Do.I (Imperial Farmers
League). Others. too, were influenced somewhat by the nationalistic
patriotism which swept the country after the outbreak of the Manchurian
Affair. When the army distributed so-called "National Defence Pal-
phlets," ASo Hisashi, the party's Chief Secretsry. published articles
in popular megazines which gave the impression that the SHAKAI T.ISHU
TO had abandoned democratic ideals. ASo's attitude was heavily criti-
cized by the SHAKLI LINSHU TO and RONO TO factions of the party, but
since ASO's NIHON RONO TO faction was in the majority, it carried the
day and the SHAKAI TAISnU To over-all policy gradually veered to con-
form with the policies of the government. t one time the party was
accused even of collaborating with the Army.
In 1934. indeed, the SHAKAI TAISHU TO joined the nationalist TOHO
KI (Eastern Society) of NAKANO Seigo in an attempt to amalgamate all
minor political parties in the Diet in a single party to oppose the
KOKU.IN DOMEI (People's League) refused the invitation and because ABE
Isoo and his group would not cooperate without the KOKUMIN DOMEI. In
1934 the slogan "Absolute opposition to imperialistic war" was changed
to "Absolute opposition to capitalistic war."
The SHLKLI T. ISHU To presented a unified front in the 1936 end
1937 elections and was increasingly successful in its successive cam-
paigns but the schism of ideologies, which remained to the end, was
apparent in the background of the candidates which it elected:
104

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.94)
Election of 20 February 1936:
NIHON RODO SDOMEI (Japan Federation of Labor)
BE I800
KONO Mitau
ASANUMA Ine jiro
SUZUKI Bunji*1
KAWAKAMI Jotaro
TAMAN Kiyoomi
TSUKAMOTO JuSO
ZENKOKU NOMIN KUMIAI (All-Japen Farmers Union)
KAWAMATA Kiyooto (Seion)
SATAKE Haruki
MTYAKE Shoichi
SUGIYAMA Motojiro
YAMAZAKI Kenji
NIHON NOIN KUWIAI SODQEI (Jεpan Federa-
tion of Farmers Unions)
KATLYAMA Te tsu
KANGYO RDO S@QVEI (Federetion of
Government Workers)
KAWAMURA Yasutaro
NIHON KOAN JUGYOIN KUMII (Japan Harbor
OKAZAKI Ken
Workers' Union)
None
AS0 Hisas hi
KAWEI Kanichiro
MIZUTANI Chozaburo
Election of 30 April 1937
ZN NIHON RDO SDOMEI (All-Japan Federation of Labor)
ABE Isoo
NAGAE Kazuo
ASANM. Ine jiro
NISHIO Suehiro
INOUE Ryoji
SUZUKI Bunji*1
KAWAKAMI Jotaro
TiMAN Kiyoomi
TSUKAMOTO JusO
ZENKOKU NOMIN KUMIAI (ll-Jepan Farmers Union)
ISHIYAMA Torekichi
N/.KMRA. Takeichi
KwAI Giichi
NOMTZO Masaru
KWAMLTA Kiyooto (Seion)
S:TAKE Haruki
KIKUCHI Yonosuke
SUGIYAMA Motojiro
KURCD. Hisao
SUNGA Ko
MEGiN Shoichi
T..HR. Haruji
 Y Shoic hi
TQMIYOSHI Ei ji
N'GAE Kazuo
Y. ML ZAKI Ken ji
NIHON NOIN KUMI.I SOD Q EI (Japan Federa-
KiT.YM. Tetsu
tion of Farmers Unions)
M TSUN G. Yos hio
*1
SUZUKI Bunji was supported both by the NI HON RC O SDOMEI and
by the NI HON NOMIN KUMLI Sω QVEI.
105

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.95)
KNGYO RODO SODEI (Federation of
K.W.R. Yasutaro
Government Workers)
NIHON KOWAN JUGYOIN KULII (Japan Harbor
OKAZKI Ken
Workers Union)
NIHON K IIN KUmII (Japan Seamon's Union)
YONaKUBO Michisuke
ZENKOKU SUIHISH. (All-Japan Water-Level
M.TSUMOTO Jiichiro
Society)
NOSON KOSEI REMEI (Agricultural Village
KOY R
Reform League)
SITO RODO KUMI.I (Ceramic Workers Union)
KTO Ryozo
None :
ABE Shigeo
KI Kanichiro
ASO Hisashi
MW Juso
MIZUTANI Chozaburo
The breach between the right wing and the left wing grsdually
widened until it finally ccme to a complete rupture over the question
of S IT0 Takao s speech in the Diet on 2 February 1940. S. IT0. a
MINSEITO member, openly questioned the import and the extent of the
management of the China Incidont. The Diet proposed a resolution
for S.ITo's expulsion. This resolution was opposed by the SHskiI
AINSAU TO faction of the SH.KI T ISHU TO, which pointedly absented
itself from the session at which the resolution was passed. The
SHAKII T..ISHU TO held en emergenoy committee meeting at which the
ten absentee Dict mombers*1 were struok off the rolls.
These expelled men endeavored to form a separate perty but were
refused permission by the Home Ministry. On 6 July 1940 the SHikiI
T.ISiU To volunterily disbanded in deference to the plan for establish-
ment of the T.ISEI YOKUS.N KI (Imperial Rule Assistance Association).
ENKOKU NSHU TO
Center
(All-Japan Democretic Party)
January. 1930 - May, 1930
The short-lived NfOKU INSaU TO (All-Japan Democratic Party) wes
formed in January, 1930. by a right-wing group of secedors from the
SL.I LINSAU TO (Social Democratic Perty) such as FURUNO Shuzo, IEKI
Takao,i
MIY.KI Ryusuke, T. Kiyoomi and Y.D. Totsukichi, with
T.K.NO
Iwasaburo as advisor. Its broad objectives were:
Tho party is formed to efford political reprosentation to
the interests of laborers. farmers, small merchonts, small
industrialists and wage-earners in general.
"2。
The party plodgos itself to reform the political, economic
and cultural structure of the country on the basis of pro-
letarian interests.
*1
The expelled men were ABE Isoo. KTY.Mi Totsu, SUmOTo Jiichiro,
LTSUNIG. Yoshio, MIZUT NI ChoZaburo. NISHIO Suehiro, OK.  KI Kon.
SUZUKI Bunji. TOMIIOSHI Eiji and YONKUBO Michisuke.
106

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.95)
"3. The party will strive to attain its objeotives by lawful
eans based on the organized power of the proletariat .
On May, 1930, the party amalgamated with the NIHON TALSHU TO (Japan
letarian Political Parties Unification Congress), which was composed of
ten regional proleterian parties, to form the ZNKOKU TAISHU To (All-
Japan Masses Party).
ZNKOKU nONO TAISHU TO
Center
(All-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses Party)
July, 1931 - July, 1932
When the ZENKOKU NONO TAISHU TO (All-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses
Party) was formed on 5 July 1931 by amalgamation of the ZENKOKU TaISHU
T0 (All-Japan Masses Party), the RolvO TO (Labor-Farmer Party) and a
small segment of the SraKaI mINSnU To (Sociel Democratic Party) led by
LOROBUSI Takanobu, the NKOKU TAISHU To group under the leedership
of ASo Hisashi claimed a membership of about 50, 000; the RONo T0 group
claimed a roster of some 4.700 members; the group which followed IURO.
BUSHI frou the SHAKAI LaLNSHU TO consisted of about 2.00o only.
The party announced as its objectives:
”I。
As a group of far ners, laborers and other proletarian citi-
zens, the party will fight for the extension and protection
of all rights of the oppressed classes.
"2.
The party pledges itself to reform the capitalistic system
and to liberate the proletariat.
"3。
The party will endeavor to expand and strengthen the labor
unions, the farmers' unions and similar crganizations."
Officers elected at the inauguration were:
SHOKICHO (Chief Secretary):
ASO Hisashi
KOMON (Advisers):
∴BE Shigeo
JONIN CHUO SHIKKO IIN (Standing Central Executive Committee):
ASANUMA Ine jiro
NAKAMURA Takaichi
HIRANO Yutcka
SAKAI Toshihiko 
ISHIWARA Yoshiyuki
SUGIYAMA Motojiro
KONO Mitsu
SUZUKI Mosaburo
MATSUTANA Yo jiro
TABEI Kenji
MIWA Juso
TADAKORO Teruaki
LITYAZAKI Ryusuke
TAANO Iwasaburo
MORITA Kiichiro
VAJAZAKI Kenji
MUROBUSHI Takanobu
YAMAZAKI Kesaya
Dissention in the ranks was apperent even at the inaugural meet-
ing, from vhich the RoNO To leader OYAm Ikuo was conspiciously absent.
The history of the party was a series of secessions. On 29 Suptember
1931 a split over the Manchurian question caused the withdrawal of
HANGAI Tamazo, HASHIMOTO Torataro, KANDA Hyozo and YAMAMOTO Naojiro.
In December, 1931. MATSUTANI Yojiro resigned. In March, 1932, KI Sei
(Shigeru). FUJIOK Bunroku. MAMURA Hitoshi. IWAUCHI Zensaku and
MOCHIoKI Genji sent in their papers.
107

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.95)
To (Social Masses Party), which was, with unimportant, short-lived
exceptions, the only socialist party in existenoe from that time until
the war.
ZENKOKU TISHU TO
Center
(ll-Japan Masses Party)
May. 1930 - Ju1y. 1931
On 20 Mey 1930 the ZENKOKU T ISHU T0 (A11-Japan Masses Party) was
formed as an amalgamation of the right wing ZElKokU mINSHU To (ll-Japan
Japan Proletarian Political Parties Unifioation Congress), which in
turn was composed of ten regional purties. Officers were:
CHUO SHIKKO IINCHO (Chairmen of the Central Executive
Conmittee):
0 Hisashi
SHOKICHD (Chief Secretary):
MIW.. Juso
CHUO SHIKKO IIN (Contral Executive Committee):
ASANUM. Ine jiro
KONO Mitsu
KTO Kanju
KURODA Hisao
KONDO Eizo
MIY.Z.KI Ryusuke
KOMCN (dvisers):
KG.W Toyohiko
S.KI Toshihiko
MTSUT.NI Yojiro
SUGIY.MA Motojiro
OY Shozo
T.K.HSHI Kamekichi
T.K.NO Iwasaburo
The party's general principles were:
"1。
Our party works for the benefit of laborors, farmers, city
proletarians and all other oppressed people.
"2
Our party strives for the reformation of political, social.
oconomic and cultural systems monopolized by the bourgeois
class and for the emencipetion of the proletarians.
"3e
Our party fights for these principles with lavfully organ-
izational pover of the proleteriat."
The party's detailed program was:
1. Politics
Establishment of universal suffroge for both sexes over
18 yours of ago.
b.
Freodom of specch, assembly, associction and press.
C e
Abolition of the Pecce Proservation Lew, Peace Police
Law, laws for control of violence and prevention of
crime, and ell other laws and regulations which oppress
the proleteriat.
d.
Abolition of political discrimination in the colonies.
e. Absolute opposition to i.perialistic wer.
2. Foreign Policy
. bolition of secret foreign policies.
b. Absolute opposition to imperialistio ngressive policies.
108

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.96)
c. Right of laborers and farmers to enter and esteblish resi-
dence in all foreign countries.
d. Freedom to participate in international proletarien move-
ments.
3. Administration
a. Redical reformation of the central administrative system.
b.
Public election of governors and mayors of cities, towns,
and villages by popular vote.
c.
bolition of the right of governors and mayors of cities,
towns, and villages to execute policies introduced by
themselves.
d. Extension of the euthority of district assemblies.
4. Military dministration
a.
Reduction of armament.
b。
Reduction of terms of military service and improvement of
treatment of soldiers.
C.
Assistance to families of soldiers in ective service nd
guarantee of employment after their discharge.
d.
Esteblishment of a system whereby civil officiels may
become War and Navy Ministers in the Cabinet.
5. Court System
8.
Popularization of the judicial systen.
b.
Establishment of government compensation for illegal
accusation and illegal arrest.
C.
Severe punishment of government officials guilty of
malversation, illegal arrest, violence, snd sccaptance
of bribes.
d.
Abolition of secret trials.
e。
Defrayment of legal expenses of proletarians by the
national treasury.
f. Revision of the Jury Law.
6. Centrel Tax System
Establishment of & tax on capitel and increased land
values.
b.
Establishaent of a progressive taxation on capital
interest, inheritances personal income, land, end
business income.
c. Abolition of consumer taxes and customs duties.
7. Regional Tax System
Abolition of the prefectural business tax.
b。
Abolition of the house tax.
C.
Abolition or revision of miscellaneous taxes.
d.
Establishment of an absentee La nd-owner tax, a vacant
lot tax, and a garden tax.
e。
Establishnent of a depertment store tax and a bank-
check tax.
8. Education
defreyment by the national treasury of primary, midule
school, and other educationel expenses.
109

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.95)
b. Opposition to military training md youth training
schools.
0.
Participation of proletarian representatives in text-
book compilation committee meetings.
d.
Abolition of censorship of text-books.
e.
Establishment of free researoh at schools.
f.
Establishment of state-administered labor schools and
agricultural schoola.
9. Labor
a.
Enactment of a labor union law establishing the right
to organize, strike, and bargain.
b.
Establishment of a minimum wage system.
00
Establishment of en eight-hour work day system (six hours
for minors).
d.
Prohibition of employment of women and minors at night
work, under-ground work and other dangerous labor.
e.
Revision of factory laws. mining industry laws, and
miners' assistance regulations.
f..
Enactment of protective laws for transportation.
laborers, casual l: borers, and fishery labcrers.
g.
Revision of seamen's laws, maritime lews, and other laws
and regulations relating to seamen.
h。
Enact.ent of a salary-men's protection law and a store-
employee's protection law.
i.
Revision of health insurance laws and enectment of a
seamen's insurance law.
j。
Est blishment of unemployment insurence and other labor
insurance laws to provide that expenses be borne by em-
ployers and the national treasury
k.
Increase of employment and participation by labor unions
in management.
10. Farm Villages
a.
Prohibition of the restriotion of entrance and the seizure
of cocoons on the part of land owners, and enactment of
a tenancy law guaranteeing cultivation rights.
b.
Enactment of a meximum farm-rent system.
C.
Establishment of a legal price ceiling on importent ferm
products.
d.
Government management of distribution of fertilizers.
form equipment and seeds.
e。
Encctment of an agricultural insurance law for seri-
culture and farming. expenses to be psid by land-
owners and the national treasury.
f.
Establishment of a special financial organ for tenants.
g.
Extension of cultural facilities to fcrm villages.
11. Society
Equalization of legal and social rigits and of opportunity
for men and women.
b.
Prohibition of traffic in womon and children.
C.
Abolition of feudalistic ideologies.
do
Abolition of the peerage system.
0.
Abolition of pension law and establishments of an
old-age pension system.
f.
Establishment of en accident insurance law.
110

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.96)
g.
Enactment of regulations providing aid for enlistees.
disabled soldiers, their families and the families
of war dead.
h.
Establishment of a system of compensetion for injuries
due to mine pollution, smoke poison, cave-ins, and
other ining conditions.
i.
Establishment of residence rights, drastio revision of
the lease laws. and public management of housing.
j.
Establishment of clinics operated at cost, free hospi-
tals, free public nurseries and conversion of other
medical facilities to public management.
k.
Popular utilization of Deposit Bureau funds and estcb-
lishment of a proletarian benking system.
1.
Abolition of the company subsidy system.
m。
Abolition of monopolies and subsidies in the tronsporta-
tion, electricity, and gas industries.
The party was short-lived in that it joined the RONo To (Labor-
Farmer Party) of OYaia Ikuo and a small group of seceders from the
SHAKAI MINSHU To (Social Democrotic Party) to form the ENKOKU RONO
TIsHU To (All-Japan Labor-Far er Masses Party) in July. 1931. Despite
the brevity of its life, the party had two representatives in the Diet;
AutTsUT NI Yo jiro and SAHaR Kenzo had been elected on the RONO T.ISHU
To ond KYUSHU mIivKeN To ticket before the emalgantion of their parties
in the ZENKOKU T.ISHU TO.
111

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.96)
APPENDIX II
NATIONALIST AND NATIONAL SOCIALIST PRTLES
AIKOKU KINRO TO (Patriotio Labor Party)
AIKOKU RODO NOLIN DOSHI KAI (PatriOTic Lebor Farmer Comrades Society)
IKOKU SEIJI DOLEI (Patriotic Political League)
D.AI NIHON KOKKA SHAK I TO (Great Japan National Socialist Party)
D.I NIHON SEINEN To (Great Japan Youth Perty)
DI NIHON SEISAN TO (Great Japan Production Party)
D.I NIHON SEKISEI KI (Great Japan Sincerity Society)
D.I NIHON TO (Great Japan Party)
KINRO NIHON Tò (Labor Japan Party)
KODO KAI (Imperial Way Society)
KOKUMIN KYOKAI (People's Association)
LEIRIN KI (Enlightened Way Society)
NIHON K.KUSHIN TO (Japan Reform Party)
NIHON KOkK. SH KAI TO (Japan National Socialist Party)
S. NROKU KUR.BU (3-6 Club) - MI UHO KUR BU (Fresh Rice Plant Club)
SHIN NIHON KaNSETSU DOMEI (New Japan Construotion League)
SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DOmEI (New Japan People's Lecgue)
TOHO KI (Eastern Society)
Y.MATO MUSUBI (Yomato Knot)
112

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.97)
AIKOKU KINRO TO
Nationalist
(Patriotio Labor Party)
1919 -1945
The AIKUKU KINnO TO (Patriotio Labor Party) was originally form-
ed in 1919 by AAN0 Tatsuo, e pupil of Professor UESUGI Shinkichi of
the KEIRIN GaKUli I (Stateoraft Soholars' League), loud exponent of the
"personal government by the Emperor" theory, as the unregistered poli-
tical front for his NIHON SHUGI RONO DOSHI KAI (JapanieM Labor-Farmer
Comrades Society) in Shizuoka Ken. It was not registered, however.
until 1930. The tone of the perty was publicly advertised in 1925
swords strikers at the Hamamatsu Musical Instruments Co. Ltd...of which
AANo:s father was president. Principles of the party at time of
registration were:
1.
Establishment of a non-profiteering national econcmy.
2.
National control of all industries by industrial laws and
regulations.
3.
Adjustment of wages for all labor.
4.
Subjugation of privileged as well as communist political
parties,
5.
Racial eguality and establishmont of international justice
based on equal distribution of resources.
Promoters of the society as a political party were:
NO Tatsuo
NKAT.NI Takeyo
 Take ji
OGURI Keitaro
KNG: Bunzo
TSUKUI Tatsuo
KUCHID.. Yasunobu
YABE Shu
O was registered es the representative. Other officials were:
KOMION (Advisers):
KavOKOGI Kazunobu
KIT.. Reikichi
OK.WA Shumei
CHUO IIN (Central Committee):
G Ryo jo
MIZUMORI Kamenosuke
N..G.NO Akira
Soon after registration ToUKUI Tatsuo, KUCHID.. Yasunobu and
Y.Gii Takeji left the perty; thenceforth the society was controlled
entirely by the so-celled UsUGI
group led by No Tatsuo and NK
T.uI Takeyo.
In 1932 the IKOKU KINR0 T0 formed a subsidiary study group call-
ed the KOKUMIN SHISO KENKYU JO (National Thought Research Institute)
and in 1933 a subsidiary egricultural union celled the KOKOKU NOL.IN
DOMEI (Imperial Farmors' League). And in 1933 iNO and a number of
his party followers staged the SHImPEIT.I JIKEN (God's Troops Incident).
were tried and were absolved of guilt in March, 1934.
Although the IKoKU KINRo To never ran a candidate for election
end was in fact politioally inactive save for its direct attempt at re-
volution in 1933. it was important as e fer-right grouping of such men
as NO Tatsuo. N. TI Takeyo and KNOKOGI Kazunobu. who becme its
representative in the latter yesra. The.perty lasted as an inactive non-
political olique into the wer yeats.
113

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.95)
AIKOKU RODO NO.IN DOSHI KAI
Nationalist
(Patriotio Labor Farmer Comredes Society)
December, 1933 - June, 1940
The AIKOKU RODO NOIN DOSHI KI (Patriotic Labor Farmer Comrades
Society) was established in December. 1933. by KUB Y.HI Junichiro.
retired colonel, es a small local party fin Kawaguchi. Saitame Ken,
with only about two hundred members. It remained a looal affair un-
til the 2.26 Incident of 1936 urged it to expand its activities through-
out the nation. Upon its expansion M TSUmoro Yuhei. a retired major
general, end a director of KOB Y SHI S S. NROKU KUR BU (3-6 Club)
became chairman, but KOB.Y. SHI continued as actual director of poli-
cies. t this time the officers of the group were:
K.ICHO (Chairman):
M.TSUOTO Yuhei
KOMON (Avisors):
H.Y4SHI Gyo
T.TEK W Yoshitsugu
KIKUCHI Takeo
TODOROKI Mor1zo
KOB... SHI Junichiro
UEnL.TSU Remma
SOD.N Y.KU (Consultants):
KINO Naozo
MTSUMOTO Tokumei (Noriaki)
OISHI Hiroshi
SOMU IIN (Directorates):
BE Kiyozo
IUR.. Hitoshi
KONDO Eizo
NK.Z.. Benjiro
Principles as of 1933 were announced as:
"1。
The white collar workers. manual laborers and farmers
shell be incirded in our organization.
"2.
On the assumption thot our ideals, our activities, our
diligence or our negligence will determine the rise
or fall of our nation, we teke gre t and grave respon-
sibility therefor.
"3.
The Imperial Stete, inoomparable to any other in the
vorld expresses the true femily spirit of one Emperor
With all the people of his nation as his children. In
accordance with this spirit, we shall reject all mate-
rialistic struggle within the country and effect the
true realization of Imperial Japan.
"4。
With the patriotism of Imporial Japan as our basis, we
shall worship the gods, love our fellow men, emphasize
truthfulness end propriety, and bring about a reformed
socialized state never before realized. We firmly
believe that if we oan make the r est of the world
unde stand these principles thore will be no vorld
strife.
"5。
We will promote p triotism. strengthen Japen, end make
our country the nucleus of this glorious socialistic
state.
”6。
We shall cbide by our national constitution and sup-
press any other governmentel theary such as Marxism.
We shall be the nucleus of the runovntion of New Japan."
In 1936, after the expansion. the principles were:
1。
We must realize the importance of our movement, our
attitude nd our thoughts, which are an essentiel
clement of our national development.
"2。
Our empire, unchellenged in the world. is ruled by a
divine sovereign. We must show our reclization of
this fect by unswerving loyalty to the Emperor.
114

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.97)
"3. We must abide by the grest prinoiples of our country.
reverence for the gods, love for the people, and
respect for duty, in order to build a happy and pros-
perous society.
"4.
We swear to serve our oountry, and to strengthen the.
national defence through self-saorifice.
"5.
We swear to combat the communist movement as totally
incompatible with the national constitution.
n6.
We must unite to reform the nation and lead it to
suocess."
The group also made the following deolaration:
"When we study ancient history we must realize that the civili-
zation of the Eest surpasses that of the West. The natural resources
of the world are predominantly in the Orient, but the major shere
thereof has fallen under the control of the European races, leeving
our great empire hara put to resist occidental aggression. In an
effort to further their eggression the white races are trying to
thwart us in our effort to solve eastern problems which should be
determined by the Asiatic peoples without outside interference. If
our ompire yields to the invading powers. the Asiatic races will
face destruction. We must realize that the whole of Asia depends
entirely on the future development of Japan. An eastern savior will
be the savior of the Orient. The upright policy of the nation
will not fail to contribute to the happiness of the world. Let us
never forget the holy mission of our country. Let us always remain
loyal to our emperor, for every drop of our blood derives from the
fatriotic blood of our ancestors. Let us not be ashamed of our
lack of educ tion but let us be proud of our patriotic hearts fu'l
of precious virtues. Let us flock to them under the banner of Petriot-
ism. Let us realize the importance of solving all problems in the
spirit of our holy empire."
KOBAYASHI began his expansionist activities by negotiating with
the KOKOKU NOMLy DOkmI (Imperial Farmers' Loague) of the Kansai area
to join his labor-faraer group and form a united egrarian front.
However, the Kansai faction soon promised to usurp the leadership
of the movoment; so KOBaYASHI withdrew his original following and con-
centrated upon winning the favor of agrarian organizations in the Kanto
area instoad. In July, 1936, his group successively absorbed such
Societies as KARaAWA Toshikiyo's KOKOKU NOMIN REMEI (Imperial Fara-
ors! League) in Niigata Prefecture, MATSULLOTO Sasayoshi's TOHOKU
KOKOKU NOMIN REMmI (Tohoku Imperial Fermers? Loague) in Yamagata Pre-
fecture, and IWAUCHI Ryuhei's AIOHI KOKOKU RODO NOIN KUMLI DOMEI
(Aichi Prefectire League of Labor-Farmer Unions). KOBAYAsHI also
strengthened his group by gaining as a. member KonDo Eizo. an important
momber of the KIHON RODO DOlEI (Japan Labor League).
The AIKOKU nUDO NOMIN DOSHI KAI was one of the first socioties
to rally to the JIKYOKU KYOGIK.I (Current Affairs Council) in the
formation of a united nationalist front, and becamo a major sub-
sidiery of the Oouncil. It took the initiative in opposing the
inclusion of UG KI in the HAYASHI Cabinet in 1937. nd remained
critical of tho Cabinet until its resignation in May, 1937. Soon
after the formation of the KONOYE Cabinet, KOB YaSHI arranged n amalgn-
mation of his group with the NIHON SANGYO GUN (Japan Production Corps.)
In 1938 the group proposed to the KOKUMIN SEISHIN SODOIN (Nation-
al Spirit Mobilizetion Movemont) that tho two societies combine
their rospective annual festivals, the Patriotic Lebor-Farmer Festival
and the National Foundation Festival. Friction arose whithin the ranks
of the group, and its Fresident. MrSulioro Ywhei turned his efforts
toward the SNGYO HOKoKU Hs.MEI (Froduction Serve-the-Country League).
115

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.98)
which supported e movement toward government control of eleotric
power. As IAMlRA Hitoshi, one of the group's leaders, continued
to involve the group's headquarters more and more deeply in poli-
tics, the more socially-minded factions within the group besame dis-
turbed. As MATSUwOTO continued to devote his energies to the growing
industrial patriotic movement of 1939, the IMAMURA group became dis-
satisfied with MaTSUMOTO's politicel conservatism. and withdrew to form
the AIKOKU SEIJI DOSHI KAI (Patriotic Politioal Comrades Society) and
invited the retired Lt. Col. LrTsUI Sakiohi. of 2-26 Incident fame, to
be maneging director of the new society.
Finally. in June, 1940, the AIKOKU RODO NOMIN DOSHI KAI dis-
solved, urging its members to join either the SANGYO HOKOKU KAI (Serve-
the-Country Production Association), or the DAI NIHON NODO KYOKAI
(Great Japan Agricultural Way Association).
AIKOKU SEIJI DOMEI
National-Socialist
(Patriotic Political League)
February, 1934 - November, 1936
On 24 February 1934 the NIHON KOKKA SHAKAI TO (Japan National
Socialist Party) of KOIKs Shiro changed its name to AIKOKU SEIJI
DOMEI (Patriotic Political League) because the party had discarded
all interest in pure socialism. Officials were:
SOMU IIN CHO (Directorate Chairman): KOIKE Shiro
SOMU IIN (Directorates):
FUJIOKA Bunroku
MATSUSHITA Hikoichi
HAGIWARA Katsujiro
MORI Naoji
IMAMURA Hitoshi
OTSUKI Masaaki
ISHIBASHI Tsutomu
YAAMOTO Kame jiro
The party published a paper called the ISHIN NIHON (Reformation
Japan). As a nucleus for the new league the ISHIN SEINEN TAI
(Reformation Youth Corps) was organized on 15 April 1934 at a meeting
attended by ninety-three young men in uniform.
The party pledge, composed by the committee, was so extreme
that the police forbade its use. Members of the party continued to
defy the authorities by organizing an attack on a department store
and by agitating on behalf of Lieutanant Colonel AIZWa Saburo vho
was being tried for his murder of Lieutenant General NiGaTA Tetsu-
zan in 1935. One member, KIMIJIMs Shigeru, wrote a threatening
letter to War Minister TERaUCHI in which he declared, "Lieutenant
Colonel AIZAW must not be executed. for execution will leed to civil
War and attacks upon the Emperor " KoIkE Shiro ran for the Diet in
1936 but was defeated. Finally SUYAMA Tokutaro, one of the main-
stays of the perty, thrust it aside and joined the DiI NIHON SEINEN
To (Great Japan Youth Party).
As a result of this gradual weakening of the party, the IKOKU
SEIJI DOMEI was dissolved on 30 November 1936.
116

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.97)
DAI NIHON KOKKA SHKAI TO
National-Sooialist
(Great Japan National Socialist Party)
March. 1934 -
In Ootober, 1933, the NIHON KOKKA SHAKAI SHUGI ZINKOKU HYOGI
KAI (Japen Netional Socialist All-Japan Council) was organized as
an amalgamatibn of ISHIKAWA Jun juro's NIHON KOKKA SHKAI SHUGI G.KU.
MEI (Japan National Socialism Studentst League) and KUNDO Eizo's NIHON
RUDO DOEI (Japan Labor League), preparatory to the formation of a
national socialist political party. Early in l934 the group was join-
ed by MATSUTANI Yo jiro of the KOKUMIN DUEI (People's League). who
recommended himself to be president. The council was renamed NIHON
KOKK SHK.I TO JUMBI KAI (Japan National Socialist Party Preperetory
Association) in February, 1934. Quarrels immediately broke out be-
tween various groups led by ISHIK.WA Junjuro and KONDO Eizo. As a
result of these quarrels JSHIK.WA's group withdrew and formed the DI
NIHON KOKK. SH KII TO (Great Japan National Socialist Party) on 10
March 1934 after dissolving the NIHON KOKKA SH.KAI SHUGI G. KUMEI.
The declared principles of the new party were:
1. Support of imperialism.
2. Reform of the capitalistic system of the nation's esonomy.
3. Centralization of economic control.
4. Equal distribution of land and natural resources.
5. Emancipation of the colored races.
Officials elected were:
SORI (Fresident): ISHIK WA Junjuro
TOMU IIK (Party Affairs Committee):
BePPU Shinsuke
OH.SHI Harufusa
K.TSUY.. Tametomo
S.G.R. Masayuki
MY. Sennosuke
SAITO Neomiki
1.IZUH.R. Tomo jiro
W.SHINO Hayataro
KOMON (Adviaer):
KANEKO Chukichi
The party never ettained importance because ISHIKaWA was an
ideologist and not a practical man and because the group had no pro-
loterian support. It ren no candidate but supported TiShIMa Goki of
the SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DI (New Japen People's Leegue) in the
general election of 1936, after whioh the organization petered out
and was hea of no more.
DAI NIHON SEINEN TO
Nationalist
(Great Japan Youth Party)
October, 1936 - November, 1940
When Colonel HAShlauTo Kingoro, who had long been an active
nationalist in the army and extremist circles, was placed in the army
reserve in August, 1936, he made His bow to civilian nationalism in
a public announcement which he entitled, "The Naticnal Organization
of a Progressive Japan." in which he made it clear that he would con-
tinue his activity in nationalist movements despite his retirement.
On 17 October 1936 he proceeded to found the DI NIHON SEINEN TO
(Great Japan Youth Party) at a simple inaugural ceremony, dignified
by a party flag* end party uniform* which suggested pointodly that he
The uniforms were black. The flag wes a white circle on a red
background.
117

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.96)
was taking German naziam as his model. In the baginning he is report-
ed to have had only seven followers, IMamakI Yoshio, who was arrested
in 1932 for planning to murder Premier SAITO Makoto, KIZAKI Katsu.
NISHIMioTo Takashi, MarSUNOBU Shige ji who had been associated with
OKAWA Shume1 in the GYOCHI SHA. the YUZON SH& and the JIMMU KAI, OKAWA
Kenichi, SUY M Tokutaro and YABUsOTO Masayoshi, but it was expected
that other nationalists would unite under HASHIMOTO's leadership.
With this in view a well-known group of men were elected to lead the
party:
TORYO (President):
HASHIMOTO Kingoro
KO.ON (Advisor):
TATEKAWA Yoshitusgu
RIJI (Directors):
AMATANI Kikuo
KURONUMA Toshiharu
HASHIMOTO Otoyuki
KURUMA Kyo (Yasushi)
IKEDA Sosen
MATSUNOBU Shige ji
IMAAII Yoshio
OKW Kenichi
ITO Nagamitsu
SUYAA Tokutaro
KIZAKI Katsu
Y SHINA Bin
YOSHLMOTO Masayoshi
This party was pelitically an offspring of the IKOKU SEIJI DOMEI
(Patriotic Political League) in that SUY.Mi Tokutaro. OK Wa Kenichi
and YABUlioTo Masayoshi, headliners of the League, joined up.
In its initial stages the society was very inactive. In November,
1936, it inaugurated its publication. the T.IYO D.I NIHON (The Sun of
Japan), and in April, 1937, SUYAM Tokutaro ran unsuccessfully for
the Diet under the aegis of the Party. Then when HiSHIvioTO was re-
called to active service in ugust, 1937, T.Tk.W Yoshitsugu took his
place at the helm. it this time a subsidiary, the D.I NIHON SANGYO
RoDO D.N (Great Japan Production Labor Group) was formed.
On 3 November 1937 the DI NIHON SINN TO held its first gene-
ral meeting. at which it was announced:
"The world is deadlocked by materialistic liberalism and sorely
needs a historic revolution. It is time for our nation to carry
out its great mission. to lead all other nations to better
circumstances through the divinity of our Emperor."
The meeting set up the following principles:
"1。
The spiritual program of our national constitution cannot
fail to bring about a natural unity of all nations under
the sun.
20
Our economic program oan be achieved by utilization of
mechanical power and by striving for maximum efficiency in
labor.
“3
Improvement in foreign relations can be attained by en-
couraging the characteristios and elevating the stondards
of the various races.
40
Reinforcement of Japan's armament is absolutely essential
for her protection from the powers which oppose her. The
greatest effort must be concentrated upon perfection of air
power. Our confidence in airoraft shouid be liko our faith
in our Japanese swords.
"5.
Political unity must be achieved in order that we may
attain success in our mission of conveying our imperial
righteousness to all nations."
118

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.96)
In the spring of 1938 IKEDA Sosen and IT0 Nagamitsu wrote a
pamphlet. SEINEN TO SHIDO GENRI ZUs (Chart of the Fundamontal Theo-
ry of the Youth Party), whioh caused them to be expelled from the
perty. In due course MarSUNOBU Shige ji, who was responsible for
their expulsion, was likewise ousted. As a rasult, the DAI NIHON
SINN TO lapsed into inactivity, contenting itself with a florid
public announcement delivered at a general meeting in Ootober in
support of the China war:
"The continental policy of our empire is the natural result of the
Sino-Japanese War, the Russo-Japanese War and the inorease in
the Yamato race. It must not be likened to the aggressive poli-
cies of other nations. We regret that our relations with China
have been disrupted by the white races, We regard the China con-
flict as our profound mission for the establishment of order in
Asia and the promulgation of an Asiatic civilization. We de-
mand the perfection of our national defense as the only possible
solution of our present difficulties."
In 1939 further trouble was oaused when OK.WA Kenichi was
accused of appropriating funds donated for support of the family
of Lieutenant Colonel LITsUI Sakichi, who had been imprisoned for
his part in the 2.26 affair. A number of officials of the society
protested by sending in their resignations to T.TEKald. Contrary to
expectations, TaTEKeW& approved their retirement and was promptly
accused of ousting them to further his own selfish plans.
On 15 April 1939 HaSHTiOTO Kingoro was again retired from the
ermy and returned just in time to save the situation. He called
AMAT.NI KikuO. IMALAKI Yoshio. KIKUCHI TakeO, KURONUMA Toshiharu.
KURUMA Kyo cnd SHIMON.AK  Yasaburo into consultation and invited IDA
Iwakusu, ETo Genkuro and M TSUI Iwane to join up in the hope that
these promineni names might bolster the party's prestige.
The set of officers eppointed after this reorganization was:
TORYO (President):
HASHmOTO Kingoro
KOMON (Adviser):
T.T Yoshitsugu
RIJI (Directors):
MT.NI Kikuo
HAMA Yuji
MASUDA Kan
HYOGIIN (Consultants):
HiRUNO Bin
KURONUMLI Toshiharu
DD Ken
KURU Kyo
IMM. KI Yoshio
N.K TANI Takeyo
INOUE Haruyoshi
OG Kiichi
ITOK.WA Kinya
SHIMONAK. Yasaburo
UTSUNOMIY.. Yoshihisa
The DAI NIHON SINEN To seemed well on its way toward renewed
activity when au unimportant society called the KO.. DOsHI KiI (Rise
Asia Comrades Soviety) distributed posters bearing the words, "Des-
troy all socialist parties disguised as patriotic organizations."
pointing up the DI NIHON SEINEN TO among other societies as an ex-
ample of such pseudo-patriotic groups.
In September, 1939, a goneral meeting promulgated the folloving
platform:
1. Annihilate Great Britain.
20
Solve the China conflict and encourage a united national
policy to convey freedom to all Asiatic races.
3。
djust relctions with Russin to further the campaign.
against Great Britain.
119

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.97)
In support of these policies, the DAI NIHON SHIN&N TO mede blatant
protest over the British inspeotion of the S WaRU on the high
seas, and even went so fer as to plan the consoription of an army
division on the continent to aid in the China war. When the police
disapproved of this activity, the organization compromised by sponsor-
ing the TAIRIKU KOKA SEINEN DAN (Continental Imperialization Youth
Group) in Nanking and Shanghai.
In 1940 the DAI NIHON SEINEN TO wholeheartedly supported the
organization of the T ISEI YOKUS N KAI (Imperial Rule Assistance Asso-
ciation). HASHIMOTO Kingoro became a JONIN SOMU (Standing Director)
of the new society. In October. 1940. the DAI NIHON SEINEN TO dis-
banded to form the "non-political" DAI NIHON SEKISEI KaI (Great Japan
Sincerity Society).
DAI NIHON SEISN TO
Nationalist
(Great Japan Production Party)
June. 1931 - January, 1946
The DAI NIHON SEISAN TO (Great Japan Production Party), the
most important of the nationalist political parties because of its
long life, was founded on 28 June 1931 in Osaka by UCHID Ryohei and
other members of the KOKURYU KI (Amur River Society) with the slogan:
"Government of the nation in accordance with the principles of Great
Japanism."
Officers of the perty at inception were:
TORYO (President): UCHID Ryohei
CHUO SHIKKO IIN (Central Executive Committee):
HAYASHI. Itsuro
OKUDO Taric
IJICHI Tatsuo
SHIOYA Keiichiro
IKED Koji
SUZUKI Zenichi
K.TSUO Shukichi
T.KUNO Dempu
KOB.TA Torataro
TSUKUI Tatsuo
OG.TA Eizo
Y.W.AT.. Hakudo
It divided its platform into two parts, political and economic:
Politioal:
1。
Annihilation of all politicians who do not recognize the
importance of the national constitution.
2.
Destruction of capitalistic industrial monopoly.
3.
Abolition of the MINSEITO and SEIYUKI (Political parties).
as parasites of plutocracy.
40
Opposition to leftist elements in the country.
5。
Encouregensut of political activities which will lead the
people to prosperity.
6.
Maintenance of a positive foreign policy in accordance with
DaI NIHON SHUGI (Great Japan Theory).
7.
Encouragement of Manchurian and Mongolian independence.
8.
Aid in developing China.
9. Expulsion of the aggressive white powers from the Far East.
10. Reinforcement of national defence.
Economic:
1.
Fundamental reform of the nation's capitelistic economy.
2
National monopoly of production.
3.
National monopoly of finance.
4.
National monopoly of industry.
5.
Improvement of laboring classes' living conditions.
6.
Security of employment, farm lands and housing.
120

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.98)
7. Abolition of taxes on common neccessities.
8. Reduction of levies on the prolotariat.
9. Guaranty of gas, heat and water supply.
After a few months of existence a mass meeting was held in Tokyo.
at which eighteen Kanto distriot organizations joined the group to
form a strong rightist association and as a result of which the
headquarters of the party was moved to the capital. Branches were
formed all over the country and soon eohieved wide notoriety for
their anti-liberal activities. As early as November, 193l, a olash
occurred between the Tochigi Prefecture branch and the ZENKOKU RONO
TAISHU To (All-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses Party), the former demand-
ing that the latter withdraw from its platform the "Opposition to
Imperialistic War" clause, This clash between rightists and left-
ists resulted in the death of four DSI NIHON SEISAN TO members and
in the severe injury of ten more.
In May, 1932, the D.I NIHON SEISAN TO emphasized its interest
in the Manchuria-Mongolia question by sending TSUKUI Tatsuo and
DOviAE Magosaburo to Manchuria to "console." the occupation troops.
When ISHIBASHI Chokichiro, Osaka Mainichi reporter, was appointed
to cover that year's militery maneuvers, the D.I NIHON SEISAN TO
accused him of communism, charged the Mainiohi with lese majeste
and demanded that all press coverage of the maneuvers be prchibited,
The publication of a written apology by the. Mainichi was tantamount
to open recognition of the growing power of the DI NIHON SEISAN TO.
In June, 1932, the D.I NIHON SEIS.N TO joined forces with the
JIMMU KAI (JTMMU SocieTy), the KINNO ISHIN DOEI (Loyalist Restora-
tion Allianco) and the NIHON KOKK SHaKAI TO (Japan National Sooial-
ist Party) in a coalition Called the KOKUnaN D.KI RENGO KYOGI KAI
(Associated Council for the Solution of the National Crisis). This
council demanded immediate recognition of Manchukuo, along with im-
provement of living conditions of the masses and reform of the Cabinet.
In July this same new Council held a joint meeting with the KOKURYU
KiI (amur River Society) to demand recognition of Manchurian inde-
pendence. In ugust. the D. I NIHON SaIS.v TO publicly protested the
appointment of Vice Admiral NOMUR.: Kichisaburo 'as special envoy to
the United States, on the grounds that the appointment under existing
conditions belittled Japanese national dignity.
The D.I NIHON SEISAN TO we further embroiled, in that summer
of 1932, when SUzUKI Kitero, a captain of the Tokyo Bay Steemship
Company and the Chairmmn of the Tokyo Bay Seamen's Association. vas
discharged by the steamship company. He at once formed the Tokyo
Seamen's Union, under the aegis of the D.I NIHON SEIS.N TO, The
company forthwith fired twenty-five more employees. all members of
the D.I NIHON SEIS.N TO, thereby provoking a general strike. gain
the DI NIHON SISN TO: s power was publicly acknowledged, with the
steamship company boing forced to capitulate.
In 1933. the D.I NIHON SEISN TO encountered internal difficul-
ties. First, a difference of opinion between the KOKURYU KiI (Amur
River Society) faction and a group reprosenting the NIHON KOKMIN
TO (Japan People9s Party). The DaI NIHON SEINEN DOiEI (Great Japan Youth
League) and the KYUSHIN IKOKU TO (Radical Patriotic Party). led to
the resignation of TSUKUI Tatsuo and DOLE Mogosaburo. Next. the
involvoment of SUZUKI Zenichi. head of the D.I NIHON SEIS N TO's
Youth Corps, and other party me abers in tho SHIMPEITAI Inoident.
Saused the temporary disbandment of tho Youth Corps. Until the re-
lease of the SHIMPEIT I culprits in 1935. the D.I NIHON SEIS.N TO led
a comparetively quict existence.
121

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.96)
In 1936, the roster of DAI NIHON SEISAN TO officers was s
follows:
SOSAI (President):
UCHIDA Ryohei
KOLON (Advisors):
KUZUU Yoshihia
TOYAMA Mitsuru
SOMU IIN CHO (Managing Director):
YUSHIDA Masuzo
SOMU (Directors):
INOUE Shiro
KT0KA Shun
SAIGO Takahide
SHIBAYAMA Mitsuru
SUZUKI Zenichi
TOKUDA Seichiro
YAO Senichi
YWTA Hakudo
SHOKI KYOKU SHUNIN (Chief SecreTary): SUZUKI Zenichi
SHOKI (Secretaries):
KAGEYAA Masaharu
KUNO Kazuo
OB Hideo
YOSHIDA Masuzo. the Managing Director, brought the DAI NIHON SEISAN
To's activities to a boil again in l936, by offering to cooperate
closely with the conspirators of the 2-26 Incident, his aim being
to reinforce the D.I NIHON SEIS.N TO's relationship with the AIKOKU
RODO NO.IN DOSHI KAI (Patriotic Labor-Farmer Comrades Society). At
this point KOB. Y.HI Junichiro was invited to become an advisor of
the party. and UCHID. Ryohei was offered in return as an advisor
of the AIKOKU RODO NOMIN DOSHI KI. K.GEY. Masaharu and other
younger members of the D.I NIHON SIS.N TO were particularly aggres-
sive in connection with the 2-26 Incident. In relatively short or-
der. friction developed between YoSHID., Masuzo and the younger group.
some of whom (K.I..OK) Shun. OKUDO Tarimo. N.KAMUR.. Takeshi. LL CHID..
Senzo, TSUB KI Yoshio, UueY.Ma.. Mitsuo and MORO Kiyoteru) withdrew
from the party. The death of UCHID. Ryohei and YOSHID's succes-
sion to the presidency of the party in July, 1936, increased the fric-
tion.
On 27 February 1937, OZ.KI Yukio made his famous speech in the
Diet on the militaristic policy of the Japanese government. The
D.I NIHON SIS.N TO declared that this speech branded Japan as an
aggressor, and demanded OZ KI's immediate resignation. Upon the
publication of OZ KI's article "Politicians and Assassins" in the
magazine YUBEN. the D. I NIHON SEIS.N TO
again demanded his head, The
party officers at this time included:
SQSI D. IKo & SoU IIN CHO (Acting President and llanaging
Director): YOSHiD.. Masuzo
KO..ON (Advisors):
KOB. Y.SAI Junichiro
KUZUU Yoshihisa
SOMU (Directors):
KUNO Kazuo
S..H.SHI Naomasa
SUZUKI Zenichi
TOKUDA Soichiro
Y.W.T Hakudo
At its general meeting in March 1938, the D.I NIHON SEIS.N TO
adopted the following slogans:
1。
Annihilation of CHLNG Kai-shek's government.
2.
Occupation of Canton and Hangchow.
3.
Establishment of an Imperial Commonwealth throughout great-
er Asia.
4.
Immediate dissolution of the SEIYUKI, MINSEITO end SHAKI
T.ISHU TO (Social Masses Party) political parties.
122

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.97)
5. Lotive support of the National Mobilization lot.
6. Fundamental solution of the agrarian problem.
7. Aid to agrarians to perfect national defense.
8. Agrarian support of the SHoWA Restoration Movement.
The meeting also passed the following resolutions:
"l.. Clarification of the national constitutión is in accor-
dance with national mobilization. We demand an immediate change in
the government's attitude toward this olerifioetion, and the arrest
of adherents of the :Organic Theory of the Emperor
"2. The MINSEITO. SEIYUKAI and SHAKAI T ISHU TO must be dis-
solved immediately. The baneful influence of the MINSEITO and BEI.
YUKAI should no longer be tolerated, since their leaders tre obvious-
ly believers in the 'Organic Theory'. Leaders of the SHAK I T.ISHU
To should be similarly punished.
"3. We deinand educstional reform. Farmers' children have
flocked to the universities, and as a result are being perverted by
city-educated people who are mainly adherents of the 'Organic Theory'.
We therefore demand dismissal of liberal professors from the uni-
versities and a return to the true principles of the national con-
stitution.
"4. We demand reform of government bureaucracy.
"5. We demand passage of the National Mobilization Act, and
give whole-hearted support to this bill which is now being deliber-
atod in the Diet. Tho political parties and the capitalists prove
their guilt by opposing this Aot, the only means of reinforcing our
'national defense.
6. We demand a reorganization of national finances by means
of a moratoriun or other necessary procedure.
"7. We du.mand a chango in foreign policy. It has always been
said that Japan wins in war and loses in diplomedy. It is most im-
portent to adopt a positive attitude toward Britcin nnd Russia, and
to watch oarefully the policy of Foreign Ministor HLxoT.. who is a
liberal and an internationalist."
In ugust. 1939, when Germany and Russia signed their neutra-
lity pact and HIR. NU resigned as Japaneso Premior. CHIBa Tomojiro
and two other members of the D.I NIHON SEISiN TO called on Goneral
ABE Nobuyuki end delivered the following resolutions:
"I。
Establishment of the SHoWA Restoration must be expeditod.
"2.
The Cabinet must assume respunsibility for ll political
policies.
"3. Japan must stand firm against Britain and Russia."
After the outbreak of wor in Europe in September, 1939. the
D.I NIHON SeIaa TO demanded by petition that the government remain
aloof from the conflict, and that it solve the China Incidont by
ignoring the existence of the CHLANG government. In October, 1939,
DAI NIHON SaISN TO leaders cnlled a meeting to rebuke. a "pro-
Russion tendency" among certain party members. The anti-foroign
stand of the DAI NIHON SaIS w To was also illustrated by the action
in October, 1939. of somo of its members in brocking up a party
held by British mbassador Craigie at the Oscka Hotel to which had
been invited prominent industrial and financiel londers of the Kansci
district.
On 5 July 1940. Chief Socrotary KiGaYil Masaharu and sovoral
other D. NIHON SEIS.w To members were involved in the 7-5 plot to
assassinate Premier YONaI Mitsumcsa end former Imporial Household
Minister YUs. Kurchei. President YOSHIDA immediately called a
123

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
party meeting at which he rebuked the culprits for their lawless-
ness and acknowledged the party's responsibility for the eotions of
its members. To avoid a recurrenoe of direet action on the part of
the youth of the nation, he demanded political, economic and education-
al reforms and a purge of political parties. Further, as a DAI
NIHON SEISaN To measure directed toward the youth of the country.
the party's Youth Corps was reconstituted in December, 1940, under
KAWaKaI Toshiharu. The Corps farmed out its own members for train-
ing to such nationalistic organizations as KAGEYAvA Masaharu's DAITO
JUKU (Great East Academy) in Tokyo, TOKUDA Seichiro's SENSHIN JUKU
(Heart Purification Aoademy) in Osaka. SAHASHI Naomasa's SEISEI JUKU
(Life Academy) in Saitama Prefeoture and KWAKuI Toshiheru's own
D.IDO JUKU(Great Way Aoademy) in Kyoto. ll of these schools were
sponsored by the D.I NIHON SEIS.N TO.
1941 was a vooal year for the DaI NIHON SEIS.N TO. In January.
it voiced its objections to the Imperial Rule Assistance Association,.
on the grounds that I Yoriyasu. Managing Director of IRil, was
following a weak policy disrespectful to the constitution and
tainted by communism. In March the party cried out again for poli-
tical and financial reforms. In a diatribe against capitalists.
liberals and communists, it demanded the punishment of such people,
so that Japan might carry out her holy mission in sia. On 28 June.
the Youth Corps issued the following announcement:
"In accordance with our long expectation Germany has declared
war against Russia. The fundamental principle of the Axis campaign
is to combat communism as a menace to the world. To our greet regret,
Foreign Minister M.TsUOK.. concluded a neutrality pact with Russia.
This was not only a transgression of the national constitution, but
also an irreveronce to the Emperor. In doing this Tsuok.. vas dis-
loyal to his country.
"We need argue no further for the punishment of the Anglo-
Saxon peoples, but we wish to stress here end now that any nation
which hinders the holy mission of our divine land must at all costs
be oastigated. If the pro-British and leftist persons in our midst
are allowed to carry on, the consequent peril to our constitution
vill be fatal to the national existence.
"Thorefore the KONOYE Cabinot should immediately arrest all
leftists in Manchuria and Korea as well as in the homeland. We
must never forget the precious blood which tints the steppes of
Nomonhan. We appeal to national patriotism to prevent the commu-
nists from carrying out their heinous plans."
On 15 June 1942. President YOSHID.. of the D.I NIHON SEIS.N TO
called together a Far Eastern Nations Meeting attended by Chandra
BOSE of Indie and delegates from Manchukuo, China. Mongolia, Siam
and nnam. at which he urged united action in the conflict with
Britain and .merica. This meeting was the swan song of the D.I
NIHON SEIS.N TO. On 28 June 1942, the party decided to disbend and
to establish a new organization. the D.I NIHON ISSHIN K.I (Grect
Japan Renovation Society). In ringing down the curtain, the D.I
NIHON SEIS.N TO uttered the following dramatic speech:
"It is not without mixed feelings that we look back upon the
twelve long years of our party's history. for we ere now com-
polled to reorganize. The doctrines of our founder UCHID.
were informal end their essence should be passed from soul to
soul. He ordered us to carry out our mission by deed as well
124

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.96)
as in mame. He expressed his patriotism in poetry: 'Yor
fifty years I have wandered in the wilderness and have wept
and wept for the future of the land.t It is for us to chooss
TaKaYAluA Hikokuro, not II Kamon no Kami, SAIGO Takamori. not
OKUBO Toshimichi; for our heroes.
"Look at the attitude of the: DAI NIHON SEKISEI KAI (Great
Japan Sincerity Sooiety). the KanKOKU KAI (National Construc-
tion Society), the KOKUSUI T. ISHU TO (National Essence Masses
Party), the DAI NIHON TO (Great Japan Party). and the TOHO
KI (Eastern Society). which have ohosen the easy road and
have allowed themselves to be absorbed by the Imperial Rule
Assistance Association. We will not consent to absorption of
our party by the Imperial Rule Assistance Association but will
stend alone and individually in carrying out our mission."
That the D.I NIHUN SISAN TO aid not pass out of existence
entirely. but was merely reactivated under e new name, is attested
by the roster of the new society's officers:
SOSAI (President):
YOSHIDA MaSuzO
KOMON (Advisors):
KOB.Y SHI Junichiro
TOYA Mitsuru
SOI.U IIN CHO (Managing Director):
KAGEY M Masaharu
SOMU (Directors):
CHIB. Tomo jiro
KONO Iwao
FUN.U Toshishige
ONOBE Hi deo
HOSHII Shincho (Masumi)
OT.: Iwao
KW.KAMI Toshiharu
SHIB.YA Mitsuru
KOIKE Gin jiro
SHIRAI Tameo
ZnKUKU SeINEN T.I CHO (.ul-Japan Youth Corps Leader):
K.W.KI Toshiharu
The D.I NTHON SaIS.N TO was one of the worst of the Japanese
ultra-nationalist organizations. In the eleven years of its existence
it stood squcrely behind every ultra-nationalist political move-
ment, however petty. Among its officers and membors were numbered
many of the most unscrupulous ultra-nationalists in the land; cmong
them were several who were involved more than once in the murder
incidents which oharacterized the nineteen-thirtees.
D.AI NIHON SEKISEI KI
Nationalist
(Great Japan Sincerity Socioty)
November, 1940
On 20 October 1940 the D.I NIHON SEINaN To (Grest Japan Youth
Party) of HlshluoTo Kingoro decided to disband in ordor to avoid
political interforence With the T. ISEI YOKUS.N K.I (Imperial Rulo
Assistance Association) which had just been formed primarily to
replacc the political parties. In its steed it was docided to or-
ganize the D.I NIHON SEKISEI KAI (Grcat Japan Sinccrity Socicty) es
a "theorotical, non-political, cultural body." At the inaugurel
meoting of the new organization. hold before the Meiji Shrine on
T.KiY.m end S IGO disapproved the oponing of Japan at the timo
of the Meiji Restoration whereas II and OKUBO.stood out against
the importation of occidental ideas.
125

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.96)
3 November and attended by fifty members, the party declared, "The
present situation of the Empire inspires us to rise We hereby
pledge that by establishing the DAI NIHON SEKISEI KAI we devote our-
selves to the performance of the wills of the gods. Gods help us,"
and set up the following redundatory principles:
1.
Ne shall train our will. our devotion and our sincerity
to the accomplishrent of the Imperial Restoration.
"2.
We shall strengthen the vitality of the Jepanese race in
a positive way.
“3.
We sh all endeavor to expand our racial oulture.
4。
We shall devote ourselves to the establishment of national
defense organizations in our respective professionsl
fields.
5.
We shall devote ourselves to the preparation of national
defense."
It is reported that this group was one of those which brought pros-
sure on Prince KOnOY, during the last weeks of his premiership.
to declare war against the United States, because nothing was to bo
gained from "hostile Americans." When TOJO succeeded KONOYE the
DAI NIHON SEKISEI KAI joined a group of societies to petition him
for wer.
The old DI NIHON SINN TO crowd filled the offici al positions.
and thore was little change during the following years:
Officors in 1940:
KAICHO (Prosident): HaSHLmOTO Kingoro
SHINGI IINK.I GICHO (Chief Councillor): OGAWA Kiichi
KUNREN KYUKU CHO (Training Burcau Chief): KURONUMA Toshiharu
SHOMU KYOKU CHO (Administration Bureau Chief): MASUDA Kon
SHUPPAN KYOKU CHO (Publication Bureau Chiof): KURUMA Kyo
KUNREN BUCHO (Training Section Chief): HMA Yuji
SOSHIKI BUCHO (Organization Section Chiof): TAKATSUGI Noboru
G. IKUSEIDAN BUCHO (Studont Group Section Chief): AWEMIYA Kikuo
Officers in 1941:
KAICHO (President):
HASHIMOTO Kingoro
SHINGI IINKAI GICHO (Chief Councillor):
OG.WA Kiichi
JIMU SOCHO (Secretary): AD.CHI Juroku
KUNREN KYOKU CHO (Training Bureau Chief): KURONUMA Toshiharu
KUNREN BUCHO (Training Section Chiof): HMA Yuji
SOSHIKI BUCHO (Organization Section Chief): TAKaTSUGI Noboru
SHOMU KYOKU CHO (Administration Bureuu Chief): MiSUDA Ken
SHUPPAN KYOKU CHO (Publication Bureau Chief): KURUMI Kyo
KOEN BUCHO (Locture Section Chief): KONDO Yoshiharu
Officors in 1942
KAICHO (Presidont): HiSHLmOTO Kingoro
KUNREN BUCHO (Training Section Chief): AMEMIY Kikuo
SHOMU BUCHO (Administration Seotion Chiof): HaSHIMOTO Otoyuki
SHINGI IN (Councillors):
AD.CHI Juroku
KURONUMi Toshihoru
Hw Yuji
KURUM. Kyo
KIDO Kohei
OG.WA Kiichi
KONDO Yoshiharu
T.KTSUGI Noboru
HASHIMOTO KENKYU JO IN (HISHIMOTO Resocroh Instituto Staff):
HOSHINO Noboru
126

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.95)
HOMBU KANJI (Headquarters Seoretaries):
MAOKA Masuyoshi
NaRUKI Fumiyo
OHASHI Saburo
SEKIYA Ko j1
YOSHIZAWA Gen
Although the DaI NIHON SEKISEI KAI was supposed to be non-
politicel, police records list the society as one of the groups which
strove to assume leadership of the Imperial Rule Assistance Move-
ment. They suoceeded badly in their aspirations to paint a politi-
cal picture because HaSHIMOrO and his followers became a dissent-
ing element in the TISEI YOKUSAN KAI (Imperial Rule Assistance
Association) by early l941. However, they were happier in their
effort to infiltrate the DAI NIHON YOKUSAN SONEN DAN (Great
Japan Assistance Manhood Group) beoause as soon as February, 1942,
the Ishikawa Ken branch of the Manhood Group reported that it had
admitted a large number of members of the D.I NIHON SEKISEI KAI.
whom it considered "eminently suitable" for membership. In August,
1944. a reorgenization of the Manhood Group plaoed HiSHIM0T0 Kingoro
as Headquarters Chiof and a preponderance of DaI NIHON SEKISEI KAI
men as officers.
It would appear that HiSHIMOTO and his group devoted them-
selves more ond more to their outside political interusts and let
the D.I NIHON SEKISEI KaI gradually weaken and die.
D.I NIHON TO
Nationclist
(Great Japan Party)
July, 1940 - May, 1942
In July. 1940, tho NIHON KAKUSHIN TO (Japan Reform Porty) dis-
solved in order that some of its leadors undor KiTSU Ketsumaro
might join KONOYE's new party. while others led by S.S..I Itcho
organized the DiI NIHoN To (Groet Japan Porty). Principles devolop-
od by the party in 1941 were
1。
Strengthen tho Axis rolationship of Jopan, Gormany and
Italy.
2.
Promote n underst nding with Russia as to future inter-
national policy.
3。
loquiro c strong sphore of influence in tho Dutch East
Indies.
4e
Establish a mighty national defonse.
5。
Amalgrmte all Ko (Rise Asia) bodies.
6.
Establish tho Grent Enst Asia Coprospority Sphore.
7。
Defeat by force all bosoiging powors of tho BCD line.
8.
Prohibit ny cooperation with the CHLvG governmont of
China.
9.
Turn over Hong Kong. moy and other foreign sottlements
in Chine to the Nonking government.
10. Render the Dutch Enst Indies independont.
11. Obtain acknowlodgmont of Jopan's world locdorship.
12. Discrm the British and Amoricen forces in the For East.
Officials in 1940 vere:
SOSI (President): S.SI Itcho
127

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.96)
SOMU (Direotors):
HANGAI Tamazo
ISHIWTA Santatsu
KANDA Masahiko
KOGA Takeshi
MORI Eiiohi
SUGIT▲ Shogo
CHUO KNJI (Central Secretaries):
ARAI Yoshitaro
KOBAYASHI Furutoshi
ATOBE Akira
MATSUMURO Takanori
HARAY MA Haruyuki
MIYAGAKI Kiichiro
HASHImOTO Torataro
NKaHAMA Hironobu
IDO Kiichi
NAKAJIMA Sei1chi
ISHII Mitsunaga
UNAMI Tasaburo
IS0 Suketoma
WATNABE Kiiohi
YOSHIKAWA Bumpei
CHUO IIN (Central Cxmittee):
AKIYAMA Kotaro
OKAMURA Kura jiro
OKUD Zenichi
NMOTO Kusakichi
TKISHI Sei jiro
This was one of the societies which in the autumn of 1941
petitioned the new Premier TOJO to declare wer on the United States
and Great Britain.
It is reported that the party supported ten candidates not
recommended by the government in the 1942 Diet election and that
four of these candidates were elected. It is intimated that al-
though SS.iI and his group opposed the policies of the YOKUSAN
SEIJI KI (Imperial Rule Assistanoe Political Society) they found
it necessary to conform after the election and hence dissolved the
DAI NIHON TO to form the non-political YMi TO MUSUBI (Yamato Knot).
KINRO NIHON TO
National-Socialist
(Labor Japan Party)
April, 1934 -
The KINRO NIHON TO (Labor Japan Party) was established on
29 April 1934 by amalgamation of the SHIN NIHON KENSETSU DOMEI
(New Japan Construction League) with the NIHON RODO DOMEI (Japan
Labor Lengue) group which seceded from the NIHON KOKKi SH.K I TO
JUMBI KiI (Japan National Socialist Party Freparatory Association).
Officials of the party were:
SORI (President): MTsUT NI Yojiro
TOMU CHO (Party Affairs Chier): KONDO Eizo
CHUO JONIN SHIKKO IIN (Central Standing Executive Committce):
FUK DA Gin jiro
IGAR.SHI Takashi
K.DE Yujiro
KULMOTO Yoichi
S.ITO Takeya
USMI Ketsu ji
KOMON (dvisors):
FURUNO Shuzo
OY Shozo
KG.M Toyohiko
SHIMNK Yuzo
MiJIM Kan
YAMZKI Kesaya
128

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.94)
The NIHON RODO DOiEI (Japan Labor Leagus) Joined the NIHON
SODOlEI (Japan Federation of Labor) in November, 1934. In Marem
1934. KONDO Eizo'e group seceded. MATSUTANI Yojiro ran unsuocesm
full in the general election of 1936 and died in February, 1937.
In the Diet election of 1937 FUKADA Ginjiro ran from MATSUT.NI's
former constituency but likewise failed to be elected. Henco, the
party lost all influence and died a natural death.
KODO KAI
National-Socialist
(Imperial Way Socicty)
April, 1933-April, 1942
The KODO KI (Imperial Way Socicty) was establishcd on 5 April
1933 by a group of army rcservists in Tokyo in cooperation with
the NIHON NOLMIN KUMIAI (Japan Farmers' Union) of HIRANO Rikizo. It
advocated tho overthrow of thc old politicel partics. the rcorgani-
zation of thc capitalist systom, and the cstablishmcnt of a state-
controllcd cconomy. Whon first organized, the society was controllcd
largcly by ox-military personnel who hcld tho important offices at
headquarters cnd whosc influence was apparcnt in the association's
activity on bohalf of the nationalists in the KOKUTI IMEICHO UNDO
(National Constitution Clarification Movcment) in 1935. Officials
in this carly poriod wcro old roservist officcrs such as TODOROII
Morizo, T.KiDA Toyoki, KUROS.WA Shinichiro, and TOMIYA Masaichi.
Later the rcscrvists bogan to losc intorcst, cnd the control
of the pcrty shifted to the NIHON NOILIN KUALI group 1cd by HIRINO
Rikizo. In 1936 tho bankruptey of HIRiNO'a brother Masukichi, a
dircctor of thc Hishu Lumber Co. Ltd. who had provided a large aharo
of thc fin ice, threw thc orgenization into financial difficultics.
The reservist roup paid littlc hcod to this prcdicament and indoed
opposcd the cctivitics of HIRaNO and his farmers in soliciting funds
to savc the porty. The broach betwecn the tio groups, poservist and
agrarian, graduelly widcned until financial straits practically put
tho party out of business in July, 1936. s e result of disputes
within the NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI many branches vere dissolved.
In 1937, HIRNO Rikizo and IN.TOMI Aato ran for the lower
houso of thc Dict on a KODO KI ticket supportcd by NIHON NOMIN
KUMIAI; HLRNO was clected.
Officicls of tho KODO K.I vero
K.ICHO (Presidcnt): KUROSV Shinichiro
ENJI CHO (Chief Dircctor): YMSIT. Kihnc hiro
JONIN KNJI (Standing Dircctors):
HIR.NO Rikizo
OKUNO Kotaro
ICHIk.W. Sctauturo
SA.MOTO Teizo
Kaath Hiroshi
SH. Yuzo
KITAY.M. Ishizo
SOD: Shinkichi
N..BEKUR. Hojime
SUDO Junji
N.KUR. Nakao
T.H SHI Tokokichi
OB TA Kinichiro
TSUKKO HI Sho
TSUNITSUGU Toyoo
After tho KODo KuI was tnken over by the f rner group, its
influencc was strongest in HIRiNO's home profecture, Yamanashi Kon.
This influence declined greatly due to such ineidcnts as policc
opposition to attompts to distributc le flcts criticizing forccd salc
of ricc to the government. Thc socicty remained cctive in a small
129

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.95)
way in support of tenancy, fortilizor-distribution and othor reforms.
In 1939 HIRiNO threw the weight of the party bohind tho NOCHI SEIDO
K.IKiKU DOMEI (gricultural Land System Reform Lenguo) with such
well-known socialists as SUGIYAMA Motojiro, MIYAKE Shoichi, SUZUCI
Bunji and KTYiMi Tetsu, and such seocders from the TOHo KI (Eastorn
Socicty) as YOSHIT.NI Yoshiji, MTSUUR. Kanco and OISHI Hiroshi.
At the 76th sossion of the Diet in February, 1941, HIuN0 pro-
sonted the National dministration of gricultural Lands Biil, with
tho objective of nationalizing lands not cultivatod by their owners.
The bill was held ovor for tho naxt sossion "bccauso of its in-
portance."
Although HIR.NO vas roelocted to thc Dict in 1942 as a KODo KI
candidate without IR. PS reconmend tion, tho intcrcsts of tho KODO
K.I and tho NOCHI SEIDO K4IK KU DOKEI Werc causing troublc. The
NOCHI SEIDO K.IKAKU DOMEI was disbanded in March, 1942, by order of
the policc, for participating in class struggle in time of war. The
strong mcasuros taken by thc governmont were approved, cspecially by
the land ouners, who considcred thnt "thc loague, by uniting tonant
farmers and ignoring tho right of privatc ownership, had attompted
to cause confusion in tho agrarian population" and that "such class
strugglcs colored by domocratic thought should not be alloved in
timo of war." HIR. NO's KODO KiI branchcs in Yamanashi Ken, Fukuoka
Kon and Osaka Fu werc ordcrcd closcd on 2 -priI. 1942. Other branch-
cs, which had taken no part in the political agitation. wore allowed
to continuc, but thcy too pctorod out in duc courso.
KOKUMIN KYOKAI
National-Socialist
(Pooplo's Association)
July, 1933-July, 1937
fter his soccssion fran the NLHON WOKKi SH KI TO (Japan Nation-
al Socialist Party) in May, 1933, Ki.TSU Katsumaro joined forces
with TSUKUI Tatsuo, vho had bCen cxpcllcd fron the DAI NIHON SEIS/N
To (Great Japan Production Party). Togother they organized tho KOKU-
MIN KYOK.I (Pooplc's ssociation) on 22 July 1933. stating in their
prospectus that the organization was noither politic 1 nor culturel
but a national cultural movemont. Officials of the group werc:
1933:
1936
K.ICHO (President):
AKM.TSU Katsunaro
AKETSU Kntsumaro
SOMU CHO (General Mannger):
TSUKUI Tatsuo
TSUKUI Tatsuo
JOMU RIJI (Standing Director):
KUR.T.. Momozo
KURATA Momozo
KNJI (Dircctors):
MORI Kiyooto (Seion)
ISH IZUK. Ko jiro
OKI Yuzo
MORMOTO Ko
TSURUSHDE. Saburo
In Soptomber, 1933. the KOKUMIN KYOKiI and tho DI NIHON SEINEN
4
DOKEI, former youth corps of tho D.I NIHON SEIS..N TO which had
seccded with TSUKUI. joincd functionally to forn thc SEINEN NIHON
DOMEI (Youth of Jnpan Loague) but organizationnlly rotaincd thcir
scparato idontitics.
In 1936 the KOKUiIN KYOKI was registcrcd as a political party
in order that AKM TSU and TSUkUI might run for thc Dict in Febru ry
130

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.94)
of thet ycar. Since both failcd to be oloctod, tho party wae dis-
solved in Novambor, 1936, to proparc for amalg mation with othor
groups into tho NIHON KiKUsHIN To (Japan Roforin Party) in July. 1937.
MEIRIN KI
Nationalist
(Enlightencd Way Socicty)
May, 1933-1943
Tho MEIRIN KAI was formed on 16 May 1933 after ISHIHARA Ko-
ichiro withdrew his finane ial support from the JIMU KI and broke
avay from OK.Wi Shumci's group. TiN. kA Kunishigo, tha presidont,
mado tho folloving announcement at the opening necting:
is a rosult of the acknovledgenent of Manchurian indcpondenco
our nation has bcon compollod to vithdraw from thc Icague of Nations.
The only way in which o may mcet this critical situction is to
unito bohind a poverful governmont. Corruption in the present poli-
tical partios is lcading tho country to destruction, Hence the
sacrificc of the prccious blood of our hcroos in Manchuria and Mon-
colin may be in min. We rcgard it as our profound duty to riso
at this timc and appoal to the pntriotism of tho peoplo for support.
it the same time, the principlcs of the society wero announced
as follows:
1.
Loyalty to the soveroign, reverenco tovard tho oternal
nutional constitution, and promulgation of patriotic idcas
bascd on the oraclos of Eapcror JIMU.
2.
bolishment of cxisting political partics and formation of
a singlc nationalistic party.
3.
Realization of the Grenter East Asia theory, enhanccment
of national prestige and roforn of the forcign policics
of the govornment.
40
Equality of arnnment vith other nations, for nntional de-
fonso end for support of the Iupcrial authority.
50
Reform of cconomic and industrial policics, xedjustment
of taxation, onc our gomont of forcign trade.
Officers vere:
SoI (Prcsident): TN Kunishige
RIJI (Dircctors):
XI Sus umu
N..Y. n
SHIZV Kc isuko
NKZU Shinzaanon
FUTAGOISHI Kontaro
NINOMIY. Konichi
FUT.II Jinkyo
OKUDAIR. Shunzo
HASHDTO Saisuke
OY: Uno jire
D Nobuo
S.:ITo Kiyoshi (Ryu)
INOUE Kntsuyoshi
SHIMNOUCHI Kunihiko
ISHIH.R. Koichiro
SoS. Tanctsugu
KTO So jiro
TDA Toyoki
KUDO Gokichi
TODA Tedayasu
ISUDA Otsusaburo
WA  Ryozo
ETSUO Chujiro
YDA Guntero
N.GAWA Kinzo
YD.. Hidco
N.K.MUR. Shirota
Y..SUI Yoshinosuko
SOD YAU (Consultants): HORIGUCHI Kunaichi
ISHIMITSU Masnomi
TAY.M. Hironichi
TO:O Kichitaro
TOKUA. Yoshic hika
131

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.94)
INOUE Soi jun, KO Masatako and SUGIYAM. Shigonaru joincd the con-
sultants in 1935.
TAN.KA opposcd involving the socicty in politics. ISHIHiRA
favorcd cooperation with other socicties such as the KODO K.I (Im-
perial Way Socicty) and tho SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DOMEI (Now Japan
Pcoplc's Icaguc) on political issucs. In February, 1935, TANK4
callcd a spocial nccting at which ho announcod that thoneoforth
the IEIRIN I would avoid politics. That TAVK was poworlcss to
stccr the association clear of the problems of tho day, ho ovor,
is shoim by tho records of tho second general meoting on 21 pril
1935', which concernod itself primarily with the qucstions of clarifi-
cation of thc national constitution and thc prcfectural govornnent
clcctions and vhich dcclared:
"Nogotiations for tho transfcr of tho Nbrth China Railway
have beon completed. Sino-Japancso relations havo beon neutralizod.
Thc South Sea Mandato qucstion has subsidcd. As a rosult thcre is
a tendency to consider all national problens solvcd. Thc actual
situation, hovever, is not irprovcd.
"Many problems rcmain curront. China has not yct rccognizcd
our sinccrity. whilc imerica, Britain and Russin rc as intcrested
as over in fulfilling their anbitions in China. Tho unfair arna-
ment ratio forced upon us at thc Disernement Confcrence and the
unlawful boycotting of our merenandisc, coupled with such intornal
problens as ccrruption in tho political partics, incampctent govern-
mont policy, agrarian difficultics and the hcrctical 'Organic
Theory of thc Emperor,' plcc the nation in such a precarious stato
that we must not enly maintain but cxpand the present national
power."
This ycer 1935 proved a very active onc for thc socicty in that
it procccdcd to addrcss a nunber of pctitions to thc Princ Minister,
The War Minister and the Navy Manister urging pronpt aetion rogard-
ing the 'Organic Theory'.
On 21 pril 1935, a Youth Dep rtrent was cstablished within
the socicty. with the folloving officors:
BU CHO (Department Chiof):
TO Sojiro
SOD.N Y.KU (Consultants):
NO Ryuji
MORITA Jiro
GOTO rihiro
N.K.G.A Yasusaku
MATSUMOTO Tonitare TORIYA Yochitake
WEKI Kansho
RJI (Diroctors): ENOmOTO Hiscichi
ISHIZUE, Masonari
ESHDA Hiroshi
KIJ. Ko
HAS GA. Yoshio
TN.I Lesayoshi
TOKURO Takuo
HYOGIIN (Councillors): 
H.SHDNO Ryuji
HIIJH Shigcichi
HOJO Motoo
ONO Teruyuki
KUBODER Soi ji
TAI Hiroshi
KUGDMIYA Sugao
TO Shinichiro
MIZUTANI Kiyoto
TER. MOTO Lhso
NAG.SATO Funio
YAILMOTO Shinzo
NNo Yorinitsu
YOSHINO Ioijigoro
Its pl atform was:
1.
Pronotion of the National Spirit and thc dostruction of
hercsics concerning the national constitution.
2.
Fornation of a nore poworful govornnent.
132

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.96)
3.
Encouragcnent of foroign trado.
4.
Establishront of a strong foundation in the Orient by
positivo forcign policy.
5.
Fulfillmont of Japan's originel ains at thć Disarmamont
Conforonco and properedness for thc future in cnso of
friluro.
Thc Youth Dopartment announced:
"This Youth Dopartrent has bcon established in accordanec with the
divino oraclc of Emperor JDaU in order that wo may bost scrvo our
country and be loyal to our Sovereign. It is our groat duty to con-
bat herctical doctrincs which confuse our nation's constitution.
In 1936 S..IT0 Kiyoshi and ISHIH. Koichire worc arrostod for
their implication in the 2-26 Incident. s a rosult ISHIHRA, finan-
cier of tho EIRIN KiI, decidod to withdraw fron all rightist activi-
tics. His rosignation fron the society wes folloved by withdrawals
on thc part of INOUE Katsuyoshi and TOKUG.W.. Yoshichika. Presidont
T.N.K. in consult tion with Lioutanont General WiT.NBE Ryozo and
othcr directors, dctermincd to hush up the affair for the sake of
the associcticn's prestigc. On 13 Dcccnmber, however, the OSi
Iu.INIGII headlincd a roport, "Disturbancc in the MEIRIN I caused by
IShIhR.'s resignation," which was all but futal dcspito the socicty's
protost that the report wms a libelous lie. is a result of the 2-26
affair thc MIRIN K.I lay low and all but dicd on tho vine, During
1936 it raiscd its voice only once to dcmand a firm stand toward
China in conncction vith tho SEITO JLiEN (Chengtu Incidont). the nur-
dor of Japancsc rosidents at Chengtu.
In 1937 tho appointment of the H.Y..SHI Cabinet to succcod the
HIROTi govornnent pronptcd thc society to rcenter thc political sccno
to the cxtent of supporting its ncmbers IMLiI Shinzo and H. SHDOTo
Saisuke for clcction to tho lower houso of thc Dict. DiI was succcs-
sful.
In 1938, as the conflict in China intonsifiod. the MEIRIN I
called for a diligont military cumpaign in order that thc China prob-
lon might bc sottlcd quickly and lest Japan's national rosourccs bo
dissipated. It urgcd that Japan ignore the protosts of Britain and
France in tho occupation of Hainan Island
In 1939 ISHIiR. Koichiro 's return to 1cadorship in the group re-
coverod sone of its lost influcnec oven though the man ns at th t
poriod moro active in the TO.. KNSETSU KOKUMT DOMEI (East Asia Estab-
lisnent People's Ioaguo)e t the general mccting of 30 lierch 1939 tho
sccicty declared thet the Now Ordor in Greater East Asia would fail
unlcss thc CHI.NG government be destroyed, unless Japan clly herself
imediatoly with the Axis pevirs and unless she al ter her compromising
attitude to: ard third-power support of CHL.NG. This resolution was
sont to the Prcnier and to tho Japancso anbossadors in Berlin and Rome.
On 4 July the MEIRIN .I's Yokohena branch managor SoNon. Shizuo call-
cd on the British nbassy in Tokyo to doliver a sharp rebuke conecrn-
ing the British Conccssion in Tientsin.
In Januery, 1940, the socicty ndmonished thc covcrnncnt for its
attitude toward Great Britain with rcgard to the scarch of the S.l
MRU on thc high scas and urged military occupation of the Dutch Jest
Indics, Fronch Indo-Ghina, Hong Kong and Sing porc, intorferonce in
the Eurepean war and (agein) thc signing of an alliance with Gormany
and Italy.
After Prosidont TiNiic's demise on 19 February 1941, opinion in
the IRIN I was divided on the qu stion of continuing the socioty.
133

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.95)
Onc group under tho leadership of W.TN.BE Ryozo advocnted
dissolution, while a sccond party fevored continuanco under a new
chicf, for winich post ISiIHR.. was considered most suitable. After
carcful consideration it was decided to dissolvo the associntion
and cstablish a new society, the LEIRIN RENGO .I (Enlightoned May
liancc), Which in November, 1942, resolved to establish a medical
school in Java.
The MEIRIN K.I published the magazine MEIRIN (Enlightened Way)
and the newspaper MEIRIN SHIMPO (Enlightened Way News). Its momber-
ship, lergely concentratod in Tokyo, roso fron 16, 147 in 1933 to
more than 50,000 in 1939, according to policc rccords.
This socicty as inportant es a medium for the political machina-
tions of the wealthy ISHIH.R. Koichiro, whose supposed financial
support of the 2-26 insurrcction brought hin to trial and whose
invcstments in the South Seas and clsewhere gave hin a nore than
casual intcrest in foreign affairs.
NIHON KKUSHIN TO
Naticnalist
(Japan Reforn Party)
July, 1937-July, 1940
In February, 1937, just bofore the gencral elcction, liTSU
Katsunaro, ETo Genkuro and S SaI Itcho organizcd a joint cffort on
the part of various candid tcs and their supporting right-wing
groups as a united front in the clection cempaign. The resul tant
organization known as the SEIJI KKUSHIN KYOGI KAI (Pelitical Rcforn
Council) ran twclve candidates:
.TSU Katsumaro
SUGIY.. Okijiro
LTO Genkuro
SUY.: Tokutaro
DLJUR.. Hitoshi
TOT KI Takeshi
KODKE Shiro
TSUKUI Tatsuo
I.TY..SHIT.. Llanabu
TSUNODA Tanotsu
N. KAH.R.. Kinji
YZI Tsunckichi
of whon five were cleeted:
TSU Katsunaro
ETO Genkuro
KOIKE Shiro
N.  Kinji
Y.J.ZI Tsunckichi
fter the elcction in July. 1937, the NIION KKUsiI TO (Japan
Roforn Party) was organizod by amulgamation of groups from the
SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DOMEI (NoW Japan Peoplc 's Loaguc) of S..SAI
Itcho. the KOKUMIN KYOK.I (Pcople's ssociation) of KaTSU Katsu-
maro, the IKOKU SEIJI DOFLI (Patriotic Political Leaguc) of KOLM
Shiro and the IKOKU K KUSiIN REM EI (Patriotic Refom Ieaguc) of
IrO Shinji. Principlcs of tho party vero:
1.
Rojection of all political forms of govcrnment b scd on
individualism and socialisn, and establishment of a con-
stitutional govcrment peculicrly Jepancsc.
2。
Reform of the capitalistic economic structurc and cstablish-
nent of a nationally planncd econony with the national in-
terost and thc livolihood of the people as its objcctives.
134

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.94)
3.
Creation of a peaceful new world order based on the prinei-
ples of raciel concord and equal distribution of resouroes.
4.
Increase of armaments sufficient to maintain the nstional
safety and to carry out the national policies.
5.
Exalation of the Japanese spirit and promotion of a vigor-
ous national culture.
Officers of the society were:
SOMU IINCHO (Chairman of the Directorate): ETO Genkuro
TOMU CAO (Party Affairs Chief): AKallATSU Katsumaro
TOLU II. (Party Affeirs Committee):
AIDA Jinsaku
KURU Kozo
AKAZAKI Torazo
MaTSUSHITA Hikoichi
HAGI /ARA Katsujiro
MLKI Suketaka
ILa GaI Tamazo
ORDÃOTO Ko
IS IIBASII Tsutonu
NaKAJMa Arajiro
ISAIZUKA Kojiro
NISHDMOTO Takashi
ITO Shinji
OTSUKI Masaaki
KANDA Hyozo
SASAI Itcho
KOLE Shiro
TAKYAA Kyuzo
KUR..TA Momozo
TSUKUI Tatsuo
YAZAKI Tsunekichi
In l939, when the possibility of a new political party under
the leadership of Prince KONcYE Funimaro began to be discussed.
KuTSU Katsumaro becane interested in the new movement. This
interest resulted in his cstrangement from To Genkuro. In Decem-
ber, 1939, ETO withdrew from the NIHON KAYUHIN TO to join the DAI
NLiO.. SEI N To (Great Japan Youth Party). taking with him the party
youth corps, the NDHcL KKUSHIN SEIEN T..I (Japan Reform Youth
Corps).
In July, 1940, the NIHON KKUSHIN TO was dissolved in order
that CLTSU might join KONOYE's new party and in order that SASAI
Itcho micht organize the D.I NliON To (Great Japan Party).
N KOK S I TO
Mational-Socialist
(Japan National Socialist Party)
May, 1932-February, 1934
The NIion KOK S.K.I TO (Japan National Socialist Party) was
established on 29 May 1932, under the leadership of AKaLiTSU Katsu-
maro Who had been endeavoring to change the SIL:I MINSIU To (Social
Democratic Party) into a national socialist party. AKLTSU took
with him into the nationalist comp his TEIYU DOSI KAI (Communica-
tions Workers' Comrades Society), and attracted to his banner other
right-wing clements of the SLKiI MINSHU To such as HIR..NO Rikizo
and his NO OLIN KUMIAI (Japan Farmers' Union), nd DR
Hitoshi and his NTION RODo DOiEI (Japan Labor League). Officials
clocted were:
ToMU CHO (Party fairs Chairman): KullTSU Katsumaro
JONIN CHUO SHIGIO IIN (Standing
Central Executive Cormittee):
 Sei
MOHIZUKI Gomji
HIR..O Rikizo.
NOGUCHI Ei. ji
 Hitoshi
SUY.M. Tokutaro
KO Shiro
YM OTO Kme ix
 Kan
YAMiN: Yoshitsu
135

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.95)
CHUO SHIKKO IIN (Central
Executive Committee): 3.. Konosuke
LIZUHR. Tomojiro
S.I Ke 1go
MIZUTNI Kakichi
FUJIOX Bunroku
MORI Takamori
HIR.I Yoshito
NISHI Kenichiro
HOIGO Otsuchi
SHIR..TCRI Hirochika
IN.TOMI .yato
T.K TSUGI Noboru
IRIL.JIRI Yoshiyasu
T.KIG. Sueichi
I/OTO Kenichi
TRA Hidekichi
KMK.VN. Takeo
T.N.K. Masanori
KN Shunei
TO Kiyoshi
KIT..YAMA IyoZo
UDANO Kisaburo
KUBOT.. Kuninatsu
UEZU Jisaku
LMITSUYOSHI Etsushin
YAMMOTO Ryusuke
1. TUR: Toranosuke
YONEI UR: Chotaro
is its general policy the party announced, "Thc party plcdgcs itself
to establish a new Japan in which thcre will be no exploitation of
the people and which will be based on the national spirit of one
sovereign ovcr all.
Dcclared objectives were:
"1.
The party plodges itself to abolish capitalistic governmont
and to cstablish government by tho Emperor, through popu-
ler movcments.
"2.
The party pledgcs itsclf to abolish the capitalistic sys-
tom by lawful means and to s'feguard the livelihood of the
people by mcans of a controlled cconomy.
"3.
Thc party pledges itself to cmancipate the siatic peoplcs
on the basis of rucial equality and an equal sharing of
resources."
Thc ncv party had hardly becn formed beforc disputcs divided
its ranks. First, ii TSU's own TEIYU DOSHI KiI acc uscd him of
forgetting his socialist principles in advising the union to aben-
don cl ss strugglc nd to adopt a nationalistic platform; tac union's
Central Comaittoc excommunicated him on 30 May 1933. Next, HIR NO
Rikizo's NIHON NOMIN KUMI..I, which h..d plcdged cqual support to the
NIHON KOKC. SH.K.I TO and to thc KODO K I (Impcrial Way Soci ty),
objectcd to tho former party's inercasing n tionalism and pessed a
unanimous resolution on 24 Juno 1933 to withdraw its support. On
22 July 1933. the day before a Centrul Committce Mecting, K MTSU
and eleven of his collengucs* sent in thcir resignations.
t the Contral Comnittee mecting of 23 July 1933, SHIR TuRI Hiro-
chika movcd that the interpretetion of the guiding prineiples of
thc party be fully diseussed because "whilc it was undcrstood at in-
augur tion that our party was to be a ational-sociclist onc, vith-
in one ycer it has fostcrcd a roup hich foracts socialism and
advocatcs nationelism only." fter heated deb te the part split
KliTSU's group of scceders includcd:
 TSU Iwomro
KOCHI Tomoyoshi
KTSU Katsumero
KODE Kunitero
K.MIK.V.N. Takco
MORDMOTO Ko
KN Shunci
S.TO Moriyoshi
TOY.M. Mnsaichi
136

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.95)
asundor into two groups, one of national-socialists and ono of pure
socialists. Whon a bellot was takcn, the national-socialists won
by a votc of 19 to 13. Tho puro socialists withdrew, leeving only
tho KOIKE Shiro cliquc to support what was thenceforth a nationalist
party.
After thc July, 1933, internal combubtion officials of the
party vere:
TOMU CHO (Party ffairs Chairman): SUYLL: Tokutaro
SOSHIKI BU CIO (Organization Soction Chief): OTSUKI Masaaki
ZiILMU BU CHO (Finance Scction Chief): KOIIKE Shiro
SEDMU BU CHO (Political Scction ChieP): KOIKE Shiro
S.NGYO BU CHO (Production Scction Chief): MMURA Hitoshi
it a goneral mceting on 24 February 1934 the party changed its
namo to AIKOKU SEIJI DOL.EI (Patriotic Political League) and adop ted
slogans vhich clcarly significd its nationalistic chaructor:
Smash party politics und tho capitalistic cliqucs.
Carry out Imperial Reforms
SANROKU KURBU
Nationalist
(3 - 6 C1ub)
November, 1933-January, 1938
MIZHO KUR.BU
(Fresh Ricc Plant Club)
January, 1938--
Thc S.NROKU KURABU (3-6 Club), ostablishod on 18 November 1933.
was not overtly political. but was important in political circles
becauso of tho influcncc of its lcading mcmbors such as KOB.Y:SHI
Junichiro and because a number of its lcsser members were seccders
from the 4IKOKU SEIJI DOMEI in 1936. Its platform was social as
well as political:
1.
Purification of the political vorld through promotion of
the Imperial Way.
2。
Advancement of the nutional interests through union of
the populace and the military.
3.
Promotion of village communities under ideal local con-
ditions.
The resolutions published at inauguration were grandiosely ideo-
logical:
"1。
The S. ROXU KURiBU shall be the nucleus of various partics
to be formed throughout the country.
"2.
The prosent situation is deemed conducive to the formation
of a poverful organization.
"3。
People will be called upon to form branches throughout
tho country.
“4=
Subsidiary organizations shall abidc by the same princi-
plcs as tho parent body and shall be appropriately named
after completion of the S:NROKU KUR:BU's organization.
"5。
For the time being activity shall be limited to discussion
of national problems from the spiritual point of view."
137

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.97)
Officials of the new society were:
JONIN RIJI (Standing Directors):
IDA Iwakusu
KOBAYASHI Junichiro
LTSUE Toyoki
SAEKI Shotei
RIJI (Directors):
ANDO Ryootsu
LL.TSUOKA Yosuke
ARIMA Shigesuke
MIYASHITA Zenkichi
S.DA Ryoitsu
NANGO Jiro
FUTAGOISHI Kantaro
OHARA Masatada
HORIGUCHI Kumaichi
OI Narimoto
INOUE Sei jun
ROKKAKU Saburo
KGAWA Sakurao
SHIGi. Naokata
KIKUCHI Takeo
SHIODEI Nobutaka
M.RUNO Tatsuyoshi
TODORCKI Morizo
LTSUMOTO Yuhei
WAT.NABE Tei
YOSHIMI Ruyji
The society published a magazine, the "1936". each month, and a
paper called the "S. NROKU JOHO" (3-6 News) every ten days.
In l935, when clarification of the national constitution be-
came a favorite plank in the nationalist platform, the SilROKU KUR BU
particip ted vigorously in the campaign against Professor MINOBE
Tatsukichi, the exponent of the "Organic Theory of the Emperor",
among other things financing the activities of the TEIKOKU ZAIGO GUN-
JIN K.I (Imperial Military Reservists' issociation) in its cam-
paign against the MIiOBE Theory.
In 1936 when the 2-26 affair took placc, KOB..Y:SHI Junichiro
was traveling in Manchuria, but other lcaders such as Iro Kanji,
M.TSUMOTO Yuhei. NOD. Yutaka and SHIODEN Nobutaka were said to have
represented the socicty in sympathizing with the rebels and kcep-
ing them posted as to the trend of events. Realizing the serious-
ness of the situation KOB..Y.SHI rushed back from abroad and called
a mceting at Kawasaki at which he praised the spirit of thc recalci-
trant troops before a group of thirty-thrcc socicty members assembled
from all parts of Japan. As a result KOB..YSHI, SIIODEN, MiTSUMOTO,
NOD, ITO, and YOSHIMI Ryuji were all thoroughly investigated by
the police, YOSHIMI was charged vith violation of the military
penel codo and the press law. Tho SANROKU KURABU was ordered dis-
solved by the police and the TEIKOKU ZAIGO GUNJIN KiI publicly re-
nounced all connection with the association. KOBiY.SHI barcly saved
the day by denying that thc club had any political intentions, and
by persuading the reservists to withdraw their declaration of inde-
pendence.
In January. 1938, tho SANROKU KUR. BU changed its namc to MIZUHO
KUR. BU (Fresh Rice Plant Club), a poetical name for Japan. The
publication departmont altered its titlc from SANROKU SH. (3-6 Socicty)
to JIEI SH. (Sclf-Defensc Society).
At a genoral meeting in Docember, 1939, KOBiYiSII omphasized
the dangor latent in tho relationship betueen merica and Japan,
after which the society petored out.
Although tho SANROKU KUR BU and the MIZUHO KUR BU were never
large, with a membership of about thr e hundred in 1933 and about
two hundrod in 1942, they wero influential in their hoyday because
138

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.96)
of the widely deployed activities of KOB YASHI and his like and be-
cause of the group's intorest in such important questions as the
MINOBE affair and the 2-26 Incident.
SHIN NIHON KENSETSU DOLEI
National-Socialist
(New Japan Construction League)
August, 1932-April, 1934
When MATSUTANI Yojiro returned from an inspection tour of
Manchuria and China in November, 1931, he declared that the measures
taken by the Japanese army to protcct Japanese interests had been
nocessary and that the dispatch of troops had been unavoidable. In
due course MATSUTANI withdreW from the ZENKOKU RONO TAISIU TO (All-
Japan Labor-Farmer Masses Party) group whon it amalgamated with the
SHAK.I MINSHU TO (Social Democratic Party) in July, 1932, to form
the SHAKiI TAISHU TO (Sociel Masses Party). In August, 1932. MATSU-
TANI organizcd the SHIN NIHON KNSETSU DOIEI (NeW Japan Construction
League).
The general policy of the party, cstablishment of a Japan in
which thero would be no capitalist exploitation of labor, showed
its nationalistic color in thc doclared principlcs:
1.
Establishment of a stato-controllcd economic structure.
2.
Fundamontal rcform of parliamentary politics.
3.
Establishment of an conomic bloc to include Japan, China,
and Manchuria.
4
Foundation of an oriental nation governed by a single
sovereign.
5。
Establishment of labor-farmer unions bascd on nationalism.
Officials of the perty were:
K.ICHO (Chairman): M.TSUTI Yojiro
KAIKEI (Treasurer):
EBINE Hitoshi
RIJI (Dircctors):
FUKUDA Iseshiro
INOUE Toshimaru
KOMATSUPARA Mitsutaro
TAWARA Tsugio
TSURUOK. Sadayuki
The Icaguc organized a youth corps called the SHI NHON N
SETSU KODO TAI (NeW Japan Construction Action Corps) whose rulcs
roade
"1。
We men of one mind plcdge ourselves to stand in the front
line of a popular movement based on socialism and devoted
to the construction of a New Japan.
“2。
We pledge ourselves to a program which will abolish all
things which exist without reason and to build a socict
in whic: thcre w ill be no exploitation of labor.
“3。
We plcdge ourselves to take pert in practical action as
ordered by our commandant.
"40
The basis of our comradeship is blood brotherhood."
The original version of the third clauso of the rules contained
the phrase "in defiance of death," which was ordered erased by the
polico.
139

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.94)
In December, l932, the party bocame closely affiliated with
the KOKIN DOMEI (People's Loaguc) of DCHI Kenzo. Evcntually
in pril, 1934. the SHIN NIHON KENSETSU DOMEI amalgamated with a
group of seceders from the KOKUMIN DOMEI to form the KINRON NIHON
To (Labor Japan Party).
SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DOMEI
National-Socialist
(Now Japan People's League)
May, 1932-July, 1937
The SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DOMEI (New Japan People's League) was
organized in May, 1932 by SHDMONLiKA Yasaburo. prcsident of the
publishing company, HEIBON SHA, who dreemed of a great political
party uniting all national socialists. SiIiorlk.'s first move
Was to organizo an economic research society. the KEIZiI MOND:I
KIrKYU K.I (Economic Problems Resoarch Society). in November, 1931,
with the cooperation of SiSAI Itoho, SUGITA Shogo and TAKLiSHI
Chusaku. On 17 Deccmber 1931 ho organized e meeting to which he
invited AKil.TSU Katsumaro, leader of the national-socialist group
of the SLKI MINSHU TO (Social Domocratic Party), SHIMN KA Yuzo
and YM MOTO Kame jiro, who had seceded from the ZENKOKU RONO TAISHU
To (All Japan Labor Farmer Masses Party), SAKOTO Kozaburo, KONDO
Eizo. T.K.Y.M. Kyuzo and MORI Eiichi, ropresentativos of the ∴IKOKU
IRO To (Patriotic Labor Party). JNO Tatsuo, KINiG Bunzo and
NKIT.NI TakeYo. representativCS of the NIION SLK.I SHUGI KENKYU
JO (Japan Socialism Rescarch Institute). ISHIKWA Junjuro ond MTSU-
NOBU Shige ji. On 17 January 1932 the NIHON KOKUMIN SHKLI TO JUMBI
K.I (Jopan People's Socialist Party Proparatory Association) was
formed. However, the HIHON KOKUMIN SHI TO (Japan. Peoplel?
Socialist Party) as envisioned was not realizod becauso KTSU
Katsumaro withdrow to form his own party in opposition to which
SHIONK Yasaburo and his group organizod tho SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN
DOMEI (New Japan People's Leaguc).
SHI.DNK's party was formed on 29 May 1932 with the following
officials:
CUO IIN CHO (Contral Committee Chairman): SHDIONKA Yasaburo
SHOKI CHO (Chief Secretary): S.SAI Itcho
CHUO JONIN IIN (Central Standing Conmittoe):
MLNO Tatsuo
MITSUKGAIA Kametaro
HD Tojiro
MORI Eiichi
KMNG. Bunzo
N.KATANI Takeo
KND: Hyozo
SAKMMOTO Kozaburo
KONDO Eizo
SAO Yoshio
.. Kyuzo
ROMON (dviser):
GONDO Seikyo
KNOKOGI Kazunobu
KISHI Yo jiro
ONO Takeo
SIDNKA Yuzo
Tho oath of tho party was "Ve shall build a now Japan in accordance
with the principles of the foundation of the country, in which thero
will be no exploitation of labor." Principlos of tho party were
declared as:
1. Realization by lawful means of complctc control of tho
140

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.96)
govornmont by the Emporor and dostrustion of aapitalist
control.
2.
Destruction of capitaliam and guarantoe of the liveli-
hood of the people by realization of a nationally con-
trolled oconomic sys tem.
3.
Establishment of a new world order based on oquality of
the races and equal distribution of natural resources.
The party published a paper called the SHIN NIHON SHIBUN (Now
Japan Nowspaper) and a magazine callcd the KINKI (Brocnde Banner).
As usual factional quarrels soon decimated the ranks of the
SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DOIEI. In October, 1932, NKGTANI Takoyo and
his IKOKU KINRO TO group seceded because thoy were "unable to co-
operate with the national-socialists led by KONDo Eizo whose ideas
were tinged by pure socialism and communism. "* In July, 1933, when
S.SiI Itcho declared that tho party's financial difficulties would
bc solved if KONDO Eizo retired from the central committee. KONDO
withdrew to join ISIIKA Junjuro's NIHON KOKKA SHiKI G.KUMEI
(Japan National Socialist Students League). Mhen SAKMoTO Kozaburo,
a member of the central committec, was appointed labor delegate to
the International Labor Conference in Genova in 1933, the party
advised him to refuse the appointment; S. K.MOTo scceded with tho
result that the party bocamo cntirely nationalistic under the loador-
ship of SiSiI Itcho.
In November, 1933, after the seccssions, party officors were:
CHUO SOMU IIN CHO (Central Directorate Chairman): SASAI Itcho
CHUO JONIN SOMU IIN (Contral Standing Diroctors):
HGI Tamazo
LIINAGAVA Rikichi
KIIINiGA Bunzo
MITSUKAWA Kametaro
KANDA Hyozo
NOMOTO Yoshimatsu
KIJDM. Matayuki
T:JDA Masakuni
TAKHASHI Chusaku
In December, 1933, tho purty organizcd a youth subsidiary callcd
the KINKI SEINEN IV.I (Brocado Banner Youth Corps).
In 1936 the 1caguo practically expired after the arrcst of
SiSI Itcho and somo of its other leaders in connection with tho
2-26 Incident and after the death of MITSUkiw Kamotaro. fter
his release from custody SASAI Itcho organized the NIHON KKUSIIN
TO (Japan Reform Party) in July, 1937, in collaboration with AKA-
M.TSU Katsumaro and ETO Genkuro.
TOHO KAI
Nationalist
(Eastorn Socioty)
March, 1936, - 1944
The TOHo KAI (Eastern Socicty) vas organized in Tokyo in Octo-
ber, 1932. It was not originally a political party but a dis-
cussion roup. It did not become political until 1937 when it re-
gistered to promote candidates for the Dict clcction of that ycar.
*
It will be remembored that KONDo Eizo was a leeder of tho origin-
al Japan Communist Party in 1922.
141

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.96)
Early in 1936 NAKaNO Seigo. SUGIURA Takso. MIURA Torao. BABA
Motoharu, OIsiI Hiroshi and TilakA Yotatsu joined in a discussion
group which paid more than passing attention to political, diplo-
matio and economic affairs and which publicized its opinions in
a periodical called G.KaN (Our Views). later called the HIGASHI
TAIRIKU (Eastern Continent). The discussions were rudely inter-
rupted by the 26 February affair which roused the' group to more
definite action. On 16 March 1936 they organized the ToH0 KAI
(Eastern Society).
At the outset, the TOHO KAI made a broad appeel to the agra-
rian population of Japan by stating that its objective was to im-
prove the lot of the fermer. To the rural voters it probably owed
its suocess in the April, 1937, election. when eleven out of its
nineteen candidates* were successful. On 12 May 1937, it broaden-
ed its principles by the following announcement!
"The mission of the ToHO KAI, a righteous and just society,
founded in the spirit of Jnpan from time immemorial. is to establish
justice in all problems. By justice is meant the promulgation of
internal and external reforms by a unity of spirit and tradition
and by a mobilization of materials. It is our profound duty to
contribute to the benefit of humanity by lighting the road of oivi-
lization in the East.
The right-wing nationalist character of the society was equally
apm rent in its choice of officers in 1937:
KANJI CIO (Chief Secretary): MIURA Torao
KANJI (Secretaries): IWATA Kiyoshi
SEKINE Shigetaro
SHINDO Kazuma
TERAOK Daisuke
WT. NABE Yasukuni
RIJI (Directors): HORI Rokutaro
KURADA Shinichiro
ISOBE Shizuo
KURAMOCHI Chusuke
KEMMOCHI Tadanori
MURAI Kyutaro
KIKKAVA Koshi
CGASAWARA Yoshimatsu
KIMURA Tei
TKIZV Ippei
SODAN YAKU (Consultants): MORI Minoichi
TODA Yoshimi
YAMANOUCHI Ryo
GIIN SO K.ICHO (Diet Mombers Association Chairman): OISHI Hiroshi
GIIN FUKU K. ICHO (Diet Members Association Vice-Chairman):
KODERA Ke ni chi
Elected in April. 1937. on the ToHO KI ticket were:
AOKI Sakuo
MIUR. Torao
SIGIURA Takeo
B Motoharu
N.KANO Seigo
TANAKA Yotatsu
KMUR.. Takeo
OISHI Hiroshi
WAT NABE Yasukuni
MIAMURA Takeo
ONO Kenichi
Unsuocessful were:
HANΛOK, Ainosuko
SATSUM. Yuji
KIKK Koshi
WATANABE Kishimatsu
NIINA Shinzo
WAT NABE Tadao
OISII Toshinori
YOSHIT..NI Yoshi ji
142

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.93)
YUZEI BUCHO (Canvassing Section Chief): RANAKA Yotatsu
YUZEI FUKU BUGHO (Canvassing Section Vice-Chief): MITAMURA Takeo
JOHO BUCHD (Information Section Chief): SUGIUR. Takeo
JOHO FUKU BUCHO.(Information Section Vice-Chief): SATSUMA Yuji
K.IKEI BUCHO (ccounting Section Chief): SUGIUR Takeo
SOSHIKI BUCHO (Organization Section Chief): WiTAN. BE Yasukuni
G..IKO BUCHO (Foreign Policy Section Chief): NAKANO Seigo
ZiISEI BUCHD (Finance Section Chief): WTN/BE Yasukuni
ZISEI FUKU BUCHO (Finance Section Vice-Chief): OISHI Toshinori
KEIZAI BUCHO (Economics Section Chicf): ONO Kenic hi
KEIZAI FUKU BUCHO (Economics Section Vice-Chief):
WAT. JVEE Kishimatsu
SiOKO BUCHO (Commerce and Industry Soction Chief):
BiBi. Motoharu
SIOKO FUKU BUCHO (Commerce and Industry SecTion Vice-Chief):
W.TAUBE Tadao
KOKUBO BUCHO (National Defense Section Chief): SAITO Dokan
KOKUBO FUKU BUCHO (National Defense Section Vice-Chief):
W.DA Bentaro
NOSEI BUCHO (gricultural Policy Soction Chief): KTMUR. Takco
NOSEI FUKU BUCHO (gricultural Policy Section Vico-Chief):
NIINA Shinzo
N.KavO Se igo assumed the chairmanship of the ToIo KI upon his re-
turn fram a good will trip to Germany and Italy in 1937-1938.
officers in 1939 were:
K.ICHO (Chairman): NiKND Se igo
KJJI (Sccretary): SIINDo Kazuma
ZEMT..I K.IGI CHO (General Meeting Chairman): OISHI Hiroshi
NOSON BUCAO (Agricultural Village Section Chicf): OSHDI Eiji
TOS  BUCHO (Urban Section Chief): AOKI Sakuo
SEIMU CIOS.. BUCIO (Political ffairs Investigation Section C. ief).
MITAMUR. Takeo
SOSHIKI SENDEN BUCO (Organization and Propaganda Seetion Chiof):
KIMURA Takeo
SEINEN BUCHO (Youth Section Chief): HO.RYO Shinjiro
KOHN (dvisers): HONDA Kumataro
MIYA Yujiro
NAK. MURA Ryozo
TOKUPONI Iichiro
TOYAM. Mitsuru
IIYOGIII (Consultants):
KiTO Minco
SATSUL. Yuji
KOJM Seiichi
SEKI Gumpci
KURAT. Momozo
S. IDMNAK. Yuzo
MIY.ZAKI Ryusuke
SiHuIZU Yoshitaro
HORI Mineichi
SUGIURA Takeo
. Yu
T Yotatsu
ONO Kenichi
TOD: Yoshimi
S..ITO Dokan
WTA.HE Yasukuni
YOSHIT.NI-Yoshi ji
On 25 May 1938 the Toi0 KiI hc1d a meeting at vhich it vas de-
cided to back tho HIHOiI NOMI REMEI (Japan Farmers' Lcegue), then
in proccss of formation. MITiMUR Takeo attended the first meeting
of the new league on 28 August 1938 and as the ToH0 KiI representa-
tive callcd attention to tho neccssity of uniting the people on
totalitarian principics. In 1938 the socicty organized its youth
corps.
143

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.97)
In 1939 the TOHo KiI made an abortive attempt to cajole tho
SHL'KI T..ISHU To (Social Masses Party) and other prolotarian poli-
tical parties to support its Diet members. When NikiNo went with
IN MUR. Ryuichi on a good will trip to China. his absenco from the
Diet gavo rise to intramural disputes in the party which almost
caused its dissolution. The party outlived its difficulties, how-
ever, to bocomo ono of the loading political groups in the anti-
British movement which aroso over the Tientsin foreign concessions
dispute.
In 1940 the TCH0 KI stood squarely bohind thc single political
party movement of Prince KONOYE Fumimaro. In ugust, NAKANO announc-
ed the foundation of the SHINTO JUKU (Shake the East cadomy) for
tho mental and physical training of students according to Tono KI
principles. There was no voice of criticiem with regard to NAkivO's
prohibition of any opposition to KONOYE's new political party, but
when ho offered his personal support to the TOA REMMEI KYOKAI (East
sia League) of ISH IH/R Kanji and the TOA GAKUSEI REMMEI (East
Asia Students League), his action was pronounced contrary to ToHo
K.I principles. Hence he announced the dissolution of the ToHo K.I
and the formation of the SHINTo SH. (Shake the East Society) as a
cultural organization "frce of all political color."
Early in 1941 NiK4NO renamed thc organization TOHO KAI. reitera-
ting that it was non-political and purel cultural in order to avoid
any suspicion that he and his cohorts wero carrying on political
activity outside thc T.ISEI YOKUS N KiI (Imperial Rule Assistanco
issocietion). He contradicted himself in short order, however, when
hc re-registered the ToHo KiI as a political party and resigned his
post as a SOIMU (Director) of the IRi, ith the announcement:
"War has spread throughout the world. Our country has under-
gone five long :ears of fighting in China. It is our holy miss ion
to promulgate a now order in sia and to expel other powers from
the Orient. It is the duty of the TOHO I to deliver the world
from injusticc and to light the way of civilization in the Far East."
About the same time MIT.MUR Takeo. chief of the society 's propa-
ganda departmont, was arrested and held for several days by the police
because of his announcement that Japan must abandon her dependence
upon the United States for the solution of the China conflict since
such dependence was contrary to the principles of the Japan-Germany-
Italy ixis. It was apparent to those in the know that the TOHo K.I
strongly opposed KONoYE's efforts to ensure peace.
Later, in May. 1941, NiNO held a meeting with ADiCHI Kenzo,
ANo Tatsuo, HASHIlOTO Kingoro, HiYSHI Senjuro. KOlLI Tokuzo, NikA
MUR Ryozo and SUETSUGU Nobumasa. He invited also TOKUTOMI Iichiro
and ToYll Mitsuru, but they ∞uld not attend. In its discuss ion
the group dccided that Japan must concentrate hor cfforts on a pene-
tration to the south. On 28 May the group sent a resolution to this
effect to Prince KONoYE. Luter in the sumner, when it was rumored
that KONOYE was negotiating With the United States, the TOHO KAI
endeavored to have the resolution made public. On 13 Soptember Ni-
NO attacked the government's "woak-knoed foreign policy" in a speech
entitled A Report to the People in Answer to Roosevelt and Churchill."
When the TOJO Cabinet was formed in October, 1941, the TOHO KLI
backed it publicly in the expectation that a move would imnediatel y
144

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.93)
be made to the south. In November. 1941. however, the society spon-
sored the formation of tho.NimPo KI (Southern Phoenix Society) as a
campaign move against the IRih. On 2 December NikiNO urgod publicly
that Japan abandon negotietions with merica and launch an attack
against her southorn enomies. He announced the slogan, "Wo shall
rise to the occasion if the Tojo Cab inet will not.
In 1942 the TOHo KAI supported forty-seven candidates in the
government-engineered Diet election, but only six were successful
bec ause the government-supported men carried the day.* Although NAk
NO had stubbornly opposed the formation of the YOKUSAN SEIJI KAI (Im-
perial Rule Assistance Political Society) hc capitulated to join in
May. Thereupon the TOHO KAI theoretically renounced all political
connections with the following naive announcement
"1.
In order to fulfil the mission of the present war it is
necessary to avoid all domestic friction. Hence we must
not criticize national policy lest such criticism lead
to disorganization.
"2:
As a theorotical organization the TOHO KAI will avoid all
political ctivity, especially with respect to the RA."
On 19 June 1942 the TOHO I was renanod the TOHO DOSHI KAI (Eastorn
Comrades Society).
Despite Nakivo's apparent burying of the hatchet, he sontinued
a rebellious attitude toward covernmental policy despite froguent
warnings from the police concerning his spceches against Finance
Minister KiYA Okinori and other members of the Cabinct. He had
事
Candidatos were:
ABE Mantaro
KONO Kinsho
S.ATO Yoshikuma
AOKI Sakuo
KUS.NO Ich irobei
SEKIYAMA Shigotaro
AOYAMA Masahiko
MATSULE Akiyoshi
SUGIURA Takeo
FUCHI Michiyoshi
MITAR. Takeo
T.NABE Osamu
FURUKVA Tsukan
LY ZI Ryusuke
TN Yoshio
FURUZ MA Aya
MUR.LATSU Mich i ji
TANK. Yotatsu
H..Y. SHI Shusei
NAGAI Kenzo
TOG.ANU Takesh i
HONRYO Shinjiro
N.GAO Yu
UJIWARA Ichiro
IIJIMA Kichinosuke
NAKAMURA Matashichiro USUKI Hoju
IN.MUR.. Ryuichi
NKANO Seigo
W.I Ro jin
IN MI o
OISII Hiroshi
Wt..BE Kishimatst
ISOD. Masanori
OK. Masami
WAT.N. BE Shusaku
KNAI Yoshiji
OKNO Ryuichi
W.TAHL BE Tadao
I.TSUD.. Hosaku
ONO Kenichi
YAVZUI Shinichi
KMIDA Shigeru
S..ITo Hideo
YUKI Conichi
KITR.. Ke itaro
SATO Matazo
Successful candiates wore:
HONRYO Shinjiro
NEANO Scigo
 .MR. Takeo
OISHI Hiroshi
N.MMUR.. Matashichiro
W.KUGAJ.I Ro jin
WtG.I was forbidden to sit in the Dict because of campeign
bribery. SUZUKI Shogo was adopted by the TOHO K.I after cloo-
tion.
145

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.97)
seemingly made up his mind as carly as February, 1942, that, the
TOJO Cabinet must be overthrown. fter the 1942 election tho TOHO
KiI continued to hold political meetings in the Hibiya Public Hall,
the sakusa ssembly Hall and other prominent places of public as-
sembly. When ToJo introduced emergency regulations further prohi-
biting frecdom of press, speech, assembly and association. NikiNO
strengthened his opposition. The police reports of 1942 declared.
Sinco Toío KiI speeches are generally opposed to governmental policy
and are apt to undermino tho people's trust in the governmont, we
have decided to take strict measure with regard to ToHo KiI-sponsored
meetings.
On 21 January 1943 thc group held a mceting at thc SHINTO JUKU
at which MIT.MUR. Takeo declared the TOHO DOSHI KAI policy as follows:
"Under prosont conditions it is hopeless to expect victory.
The atmosphere of the Diet substantiates my prediction. The govern-
montal deadlock does not ncossarily mean that Japan as a wholo is
corrupt but a political revival is urgcntly nccded."
it thc same time the socicty made tho following spocific accusations:
"The government has suspended several of our publications, such
as an article in the 1 January S.HI by prosident N.liNO entitled.
'SENJI S..ISHO RON' (The Qucstion of a Vartime Premier) and an articlo
in the January issue of. HIG. SHI T..IRIKU (Eastern Continent) by presi-
dent N. KiNo entitled, 'One in a Thousand Can Save the Nation'. This
attitude on the part of the government is not only unreasonable but
it threatens our freedom of spcech." N KiNo himself claborated on
the issue, "If our speeches encouraging the people to pursue the
war be suppressed, we must fight for frecdom of utterance. We must
sacrifice our lives for the country's good. Just as precious inccnsc
is valued for its fragrance. so all men are esteomed for their courage
and the honor exprossed in the praise of their follow men."
N'KNO concluded his specch by quoting Hitler. "Strife is the
law of our being. Those who deny us the right to fight in this
vorld of oternal struggle do not deserve to live."
From the spring of 1943 a number of organizations including
the TOHO DOSHI K.I joined together to plot the downfall of the
ToJo Cabinot because they said the war situation was going from bad
to worse and that signs of defeat could bo seen everywhere. They
declared that the TO Jo Cabinet must resign if the country were to
be save. Some of their spokesmen went oven so far as to advocate
d irect action in the pattern of the abortive coup a'etat of the 3o's.
When the Metropolitan Police becamo aware of the intriguc they made
weeping. mass orrests. On 30 Septomber 1943, 53 members of tho
KODO YOKUS.N EINEN REMEI were apprehonded. On 21 October. 39 ex-
ponents of the KIINO MiKOTO MUSUBI K.I (Work for the Emperor Sincer-
ity Knot Socicty) and 25 members of the DiI NIHON KINNO DOSHI K1I
(Great Japan Work for the Emperor Comrades Society) were arrested
throughout the country from Iwato Ken and Yamagata Ken to Kagoshima
Ken. The arrestees included NKANO Seigo of the TOHO K.I, MANO
Tatsuo of the KINNO MAKOTO MUSUBI KI as well as K.TOK. Shun, NiKi-
MURA Takoshi, KUTAGAl Jiro, KUROE Naomitsu and others who had taken
part in the SHIMPEITiI Incident. Thc arrests wero in part motivated
by tho fact that on 15 October N.KNo had testified for six hours in
dcfense of NISHIYMA Naoshi who was on trial for his attempt to as-
sassinate the Minister of Home Affairs HIRiNUM. Kiichiro on 15 August
1941; in his tostimony NiKiNO had declared that HIR/NUM: was the
146

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.97)
central figure of pro-British and pro-American influence in Japan
On 18 Octobor SHIRiTORI Toshio had beon called to the stand and on
22 October AMANO Tatsuo was scheduled to tostify.
On 27 October NAkiNo ccmmitted suicide while on temporary parole
to attend the Diet session.
NiKANO's death put an end to the political clique which the
TOHO KAI group primarily sponsored in the Dict. tho YOK. KAI (Eighth
Day Club), a grouping of some eighty mombors of tho lower house con-
stituting almost a completo roster of men who had beon clected in
1942 without government support. Although the TOHO DOSHI KAI linger-
ed on it had lost its political importance with its leader.
YAMATO MUSUBI
Nationalist
(Yamato Knot)
(1ny, 1942-January. 1946)
Tho YiMATo Musubi (Yamato Knot) was a thcorctical society orga-
nized on 16 May 1942 to replace the DI NIHON T0 (Great Japan Party)
after SSAI Itcho and his group found it expedient to join the YOKU-
SN SEIJI KI (Imperial Rule Assistance Political Socicty) subsequont
to the 1942 Dict clection. Principles of the movement wore all-out
goneral mobilization of thc country, immcdiato establishment of a
war-time constitution in preparation far a long war and promulga-
tion of the ideals of a Greater East Asia. Officials of the society
woroi
SOMU IIN CHO (Managing Dircctor): SASAI Itcho
SOLU (Dircctors): HIIGAI Tamazo
ISHIWATA Santatsu
KANDA Hyozo
MORI Eiichi
Although tho socicty lasted nominally throughout the war, it
lay dormant aftor the first flush of cnthusiasm.
147

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.97)
APPENDIX III
IMPORTANT LABOR UNIONS
AIKOKU RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU KONWA KAI (Patriotio Labor Unions All-
Japan Discussion Society)
NIHON RODO DOMEI (Japan Labor League)
NIHON RODO KUMIAI HYOGI KΛI (Japan Labor Unions Conferonco)
NIHON RODO KUMIAI KAIGI (Japan Labor Unions Council)
NIHON RODO KUMLAI SOHYOGI KAI (Japan Labor Unions Goneral Conforencc)
NIHON RODO KUMIAI SORENGO (Japan Labor Unions Goneral Loague)
NIHON RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU HYOGI KI (Japan Labor UnionS National
.Conference)
NIHON RODO KUMLI ZENKOKU KYOGI KI (Japan Labor Unions National
Congress)
NIHON RODO SODOMEI (Japan Federation of Labor)
NIHON SANGYO RODO KUR. BU (Japan Production Labor Club)
SANGYO HOKOKU KUR.BU (Production Serve-the-Country Club)
SANGYO HOKOKU REMMEI (Production Sefvo-tho-Country Loague)
ZENKOKU RODO KUMIAI DOMEI (All-Japan Labor Unions Loague)
ZENRO TOITSU ZENKOKU K.IGI (All-Labor Unification National Council)
148

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.95)
AIKOKU RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU KONWA KAI
Nationalist
(Patriotic Labor Unions All-Japan Discussion Society)
Apri1, 1936 - August, 1940
The AIKOKU RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU KONVA KAI (Patriotic Labor Unions
All-Japan Discussion Society) was promoted in April, 1936, with a mem-
bership of above 48,000 by twelve labor unions, of which the most im-
portant were the NIHON SANGYO RODO KURaBU (Japan Production Iabor Club)
and the NIHON RODO KUMIAI SORENGO (Japan Labor Unions General Asso-
ciation). Since the NIHON SANGYO RODO KURABU refused to participate in
politics, the latter union ran the show. Hence the AIKOKU RODO KUiLAI
ZEIKOKU KONWA KAI may be called a forerunner of the DLI NIHON SANGYO
HOKCKU KI (Great Japan Production Serve-the-Country Association). It
dissolved in August, 1940, in deference to the foundation of the SANGYO
HOMOKU REMMEI (Production Serve-the-Country League).
NTHON RODO DONEI
National-Socialist
(Japan Labor League)
May, 1932 - 1934
The NIHON RODO DOIEI (Japan Labor League) was organized in May.
1932, by groups from the ZNKOKU RODO KUMIAI DOIEI (Al-Japan Labor
Unions League) and the NIHON RODO GODOiEI (Japan Federation of Labor)
Which had turned national-socialist. It supported the NIiON KOkKA
SiLlI TO (Japan National Socialist Party). Officers were:
KAICHO (Chairman):
IMAMUR. Hitoshi
SHUJI (Kanager):
SHLATORI Hirochika
CIUC IIN (Central Committee):
.I Sei (Shigeru)
NOGUCHI Otomatsu
FUJIOC. Bunroku
OYA Shozo
KIUC.iI Shiceji
SEKINE Ki shiro
RU.OTO Yoichi
SUYAMMA Tokutaro
ILTSUO Kuniichi
YMSIITA Eiji
MOCHIZUKI Genji
YA LSHITA Ryusuke
MORI Takamori
YAO Kisaburo
SODN YAAU (Consultants):
ISHIGNA Jinshiro
KOLE Shiro
YAM.NA Yoshibsuru
KOMON (dvisors):
IL.Y.SHI Kimio
TATSUI Sriro
HORITSU KOMON (Letal .dviSors):
IGR.SII Harutaka
UTSUNOMIYA Yoshihisa
In Au ust, 1933, the NIHON RO20 DOMEI was divided over the ques-
tion of support of the NIHON KOKu. SLK.I TO because Kha TSU Matsu-
maro, the chief exponent of the party, had gone all the way to na-
tionalism and wished to change the party policy from national social-
ism to pure nationalism. t the central comnittee meeting of 3 August
1933 it was decided that those who had gone along with Tsu's
extremism should leave the NIHON RODO DOIEI and adhere to the NIHON
KOKC. SL.K.I TO while those who still clung to national-socialist
ideologies should remain in the NDIoN RODO DOMEI but resign from the
NEioN KOKK. SH K.I To. The first group consisted of:
FUJIOK. Bunroku
MORI Takamori
IMMUR. Hitoshi
SUY.M. Tokutaro
MITSUYOSHI Etsushin
YAMMOTO Ryusuke
YAMMOTO Tatsujiro
149

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.94)
while the second feetiqn was comprised of:
AKI Sei (Shigeru)
OY. Shozo
HONDA Shigo ji
SE INE Kishiro
KUMOTO Yoichi
SHTRATORI Hirochika
MTSuo Kuniichi
Y.MMOTo Tomoyoshi
NOGUCIII Otomatsu
YiO Kisaburo
The first group organized tho NIHON SNGYO GUN (Japan Production Corps)
which in 1937 amalgamated with the primarily agricultural AIKoku RODO
NOMIN DOSHI K.I (Patr iotic Labor-Farmcr Comrades Socicty). Thc remain-
ing second group divided again in l934 in order that some of its mem-
bers might rejoin the NIION RODO SODQI while others roentered the
ZENKOKU RODO KUMLI DOLEI.
NEION RODO KUML.I HYOGI KAI
Left-wing
(Japan Labor Unions Confcronce)
1925 - 1928
The NIION RODO KUIILI HYOGI K.I (Japan Labor Unions Conferoncc)
was organized in May, 1925. by left-ving RoNo . (Labor-Farmer Group)
loaders guided by ITO Tanptsu, SUGIY.MA Mbtojiro and NISHDMURA Saiki
who seceded from tho NIHON RODO SOnOIEI (Japan Federation of Labor).
4 meoting on 25 Decombor 1925 wes attended by about 2,500 members.
That a Comintern-inspired group infiltrated from tho REFuro (Loft) in
short order. hovever, is shown by the rostor of tho Ccntral Committee
in carly 1928:
CHUO III C.ICHO (Contral Committoc Chairman): NOD: Ritsuta
CHUC IIN (Contral Committco):
AOGAKI Zenichiro
N.KJURA Yoshiaki
FUJINUIL. Ryoichi
Nto Katsuo
HIR.MORI Misao
OKUD. Soturo
KOKURYO Goic hiro
OTA Hiroshi
MATSUB. Kiyotsugu
OZE:I Hisamatsu
M.TSUO Naoyoshi
SUZUKI Genju (Motoshigc)
MINJI Kiichi
T. Yukimatsu
LOTOZAWA Ko nji
TAKMUR. Koichi
N.BEYAMA Sadachika
TOKUDA Eiji
N.G.K.GE Tamonosuke
YORITA Haruo
In March, 1928, KOKURYO Goichiro and N.BEY.L1 Sadachika attondcd
the Fourth World Congress of tho Profintern and woro elected to tho
Profintorn Central Committeo. No less an authority than KOKURyo him-
solf declared that the NIHON RODO KUMLII YOGI MI was accdpted as a
branch of the Profintern by the Congress.
Whilc tho Congross was in soasion in Mbscow, tho 15 March 1928
arrests of Communist lcaders, ineluding many oxponents of tho lubor
orgonization, took placc. Thc NIION RODO KUMIAI HYOGI KAI, with an
estimatod membership of 21,ooo, vas ordered by the police to disband.
KCKURYo roturned to Japan in June, 1928, with orders to roorganize
the NIHON RODO KUMII HYOGI KI. Ho found new Icaders in KVAS.KI
Tateo, SiTO Hideichi and ZENNoo Zonshiro, and set about the formation
of thc secret NIHON RODO KUILAI ZENMOKU IYOGI E.I (Japan Labor Unions
National Congress).
150

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.96)
NIHON RODO KUMIAI K.IGI
Domocratic
(Japan Labor Unions Counc il)
Septomber, 1932 - 1940
In Soptomber, 1932, labor unions belonging to tho domocratic
group, which based thoir activity on sound "trade unionism" and simed
at goneral improvement of proletarian interest in gonoral and labor
c onditions in particular. cooporated to form thc NIHON RODO KUMII
IL.IGI (Japan Labor Unions Council) with the motto  sound trade union-
ism.." This labor congrcss bogan its life with more than 220.000 mem
bers belonging to most of the important unions such as:
KLIIN KYOKI (Seamen's Association)
ILIGYO RODO SODOMEI (Foderation of Govornment Workors)
NIHON K.IIN KUMIAI (Japan Soamen's Union)
INIHON KOWAN JUGYOIN KUMLAI REMMEI (Japan Harbor /orkers' Unions
League)
NIHON RODO KULLI SORENGO (Japan LabOr Unions Goncral Assoclation)
NIHON RODO SOREMEI (Japan Labor Genoral Loague)
NIHON RODO SODOMEI (Japan Federation of Labor)
ZENKOKU RODO KUMI..I DOMEI (All-Japan Labor Unions Loaguc)
Chief features of the NIiON RODO KUMIAI K.IGI were anti-communism and
support of the International Labor Conferencc at Genova, Officers
wero:
L.ICHD (Chairman):
SUZUKI Bunji
GICIO (Spcaker):
MTSUOK Komakichi
FUIU GICHO (ViCe-Speaker):
YONEKUBO Michi suke
S.OKICHO (Chiof Secretary):
KMIJO Aiichi
Gradually somo of the affiliate unions like tho NIHOI RODO KUMII
SORENGO withdrew their support because they became more nationalistic
in ideology than the league would permit. Others were forced to re-
tire because in 1936 the Army forbade its workers to join unions. By
1939 thero were only 45,480 members and only four organizations re-
mained in the lcague:
NIHON KOWAN JUGYOIN KUMIAI (Japan Harbor Jorkers: Union)
NIHION RODO SODOMEI (Japan LabOr General League)
NIHON SEITO RODO KUMLAI DOI.EI (Japan Ceranic Workers' Union
League)
TOKYO G SUKO KUMLAI (okyo Gas Workers  Union)
Although the NIHON RODO KUMIAI .IGI was not opposed to the popular
SANGYO HOKOKU UNDO (Production Serve-the-Country Movomont), it main-
tained that there was still a necessity for unions becauso the spirit
of the movement did not sufficiently represont the interests of the
prolctariat,
When the SHI TISHU TO (Social Masses Party) expellcd its
members who supported S.ITo Takao's anti-arny speech in the 1940
Diet, the unions belonging to tho NIHON RODO KUMInI KiIGI sidcd with
theo absentoes and were roady to support tho nev political party which
they proposed to form. When the party as forbiddon by the authoritics
tho labor organizations were forccd to disband, thus bringing to an
end tho KMIGI.
151

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.95)
NLHON ROD KUML.I SOHYOGI KAI
Left-wing
(Japan Labor Unions General Conference)
Lpril, 1931 - November, 1934
The NIHON RODO KUMIAI SOHYOGI KAI (Japan Labor Unions General
Conference) was the legitimate child of the NIHON RODO KUMIAI HYOGI
KiI (Japan Labor Unions Conference) in that it was organized in April,
1931, by the left-wing socialist clique which had founded and controlled
the parent organization prior to the infiltration of the cammunists.
Its ideology was that of the RoNO HA (Labor-Farmer Group). as expressed
at the inaugural meeting of 18 April 1931:
"1.
The NIHON RODO KUMIAI SOHYOCI KI fights for the maintenance
of proper living conditions for all workers.
"2.
The NIIOI RODO KUMLAI SOHYOGI KΛI fights for the emancipa-
tion of the working man and for the establishment of a socie-
ty in which there shall be no exploitation of labor.
"3.
The NLłON RODO KULIAI SOHYOGI K.I supports the movement for
improved agrerian conditions, the movement for racial emanci-
pation and similar platforms. It pledges itself to the reali-
zation of an international union of prolctariats.
"4.
The IIION RODO KUMLI SOHYOGI K.I rejccts social-democratic
leadership and declares that it will fight to the last for
proletarian principles."
Officials of the organization wore:
SHIIKO IIN CHO (Executive Canmittec Chairman): KIMURA Jokichi
SHOKI CHO (Chicf Secrotary): T.BEI Kenji
CHUO S.IKO IIN (Central Executive Committee):
 TSU Isamu
MLKI Kazuo
KNEJIMA Eiki
YAMABANA Hideo
KONDO Shinichi
YAMAZ KI Tsunckichi
Y SUJDM. Takayuki
In July. 1931, when the RONO TO Joined the ZENKOKU RONO TAISHU TO
(ll-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses Party). the NLHON RODO KUMLiI SOHYOGI
K.I vas divided as to whether or not it should support the new party.
At a general meeting in July, 1932, it decided to withdraw from poli-
tics because it would not go along with the ZEIIKOKU RONO T.IS U TO in its
proposal to unite with the SHL.K.I MINSHU TO (Social Domocratic Party)
in ono big socialist party. tho SH.I T.ISHU To (Social Masses Party).
The NHON RODO KUMLAI SOHYOGI KTI, noVer strong. bocame tho NIHON RODO
KUFIAI ZENKOKU HYOGI KAI (Japan Labor Unions National Conference) in
November, 1934. by amalgamation with several other left-wing labor
groups.
NIHON RODO KULMLAI SORENGO
National-Socialist
(Japan Labor Unions General League)
1926 -1940
When tho NIHON RODO KUMIAI SORENGO (Japan Labor Unions Goneral
League) was first organized in 1926, it vas camposed of a center
group on tho proletarian front, as shown by its officors:
K.ICHO (Chairman): FUSE Tatsuji
SHUJI (Manager): S KMOTO Kozaburo
152

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.95)
CHUO IIN (Contral Committee):
SAND Yoshio
TkaYΑ Kyuzo
SUENAKΔ Kanzaburo
TANAKA Toikichi
TSUBOI Senjiro
In its early daya, however, it gradually lcaned toward the left. Whon
tho ZENKOKU RONO TAISHU TO (All-Japan Labor-Farmer Massos Party) ceme
into boing in l93l, tho association gave tho now party its support.
Ifter tho outbreak of the Manchurian Ine ident, lcadcrs of the
NIHON RODO KUMIAI SORENGO Joincd SHIMONAKA YasaburO's SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN
DOlMEI (Now Japan Poople's Loaguc) and withdrew tho association's support
from tho ZENKOKU RONO TISHU TO. At this poriod top officials of the
association were:
SHIKKO IINCHO (Executivo Committco Chairman): SKAMOTO Kozaburo
SHIIKO IIN (Exccutivc Committce):
HiSHIMOTO Sadakichi
MORI Eiic hi
MINGAVA Rikichi
SAND Yoshio
TAKAYAMA Kyuz0
In 4pril, 1936. when tho AIKOKU RODO KUMIΛI ZENKOKU KONWA KAI
(Patriotic Labor Unions All-Japan Discussion Socioty) was organizod by
twelvo unions of nationalistic complcxion, the NIHON RODO KUMIAI SO-
RENGO was among the number: supporting thc discussion socicty's advo-
cacy of a union of capital and labor and of scrvicc to the country by
production. In 1937, dissatisfied with tho comparatively mild poli-
cics of the SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DOMEI it shiftod its allegiance to the
NIHON KKUSHIN TO (Japan Reform Party). and in Novomber, 1938. the
NIHON RODO KUALAI SORENGO changed its namo to NIHON KINRO HOKO REMMEI
(Japan Labor Servico Loaguc), of which the officers woro&
KLICHO (Chairman):
TAKAYAMA Kyuzo
FUKU KICHO (Vice-Chairman):
IMMI Bukichi
SHUJI (Manager):
MORI Eiichi
K.IKEI (Treasurer):
MINAGAWA Rikichi
Meanwhilc, when tho S.NGYO HOKOKU REMEI (Production Serve-the-
Country Leagu), a prodccessor of tho DAI NIHON SAlGYO HOKOKU KAI
(Groat Japan Production Sorve-the-Country ssociation) was organized
in July. 1938, Chairman TikAYMi was on its preparatory committeo.
The NIHON KINRO HOKO REMEI was ono of the ohief carly supportors of
tho SANGYO HOKOKU UNDO (Production Sorve-the-Country MOVement).
Tho NIHON KINRO HOKO REMMEI vas dissolved in 1940 in proparation
for the DAI NIHON SANCYO HOKOKU K1I.
NIHON RODO KUMLAI ZENKOKU HYOGI KAI
Loft-wing
(Japan Labor Unions National Conforonce)
November. 1934 - Docember, 1937
Whon tho ZENKOKU RONO TAISHU TO (All-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses
Party) joined tho SHAKAI MINSHU TO (Sccial Domocratic Party) to form
the SHKiI TAISHU TO (Social Masses Party) in July, 1932. KUTO Kanju.
T.KNO Minoru and YASUHIRA Shikaichi disapproved. Honco in March.
1933 thoy organizod tho ZENRO TOITSU ZENKOKU K1IGI (Al1-Labor Unifi-
cation National Council) in opposition to another cphcmeral body, the
NIHON RODO KUMLAI KiIGI (Japan Labor Unions Council) composed of centor
153

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.96)
of-tho-road consorvative labor unions. In Pebruary. 1934, thirteen of
tho ZENRO TOITSU ZENKOKU KIGI loaders woro arrosted undor tho Poase
Proservation Law. Homo in Novomber, 1934, its romaining expononts
malgamated the ZENRO TOITSU ZENKOKU KAIGI With tho. NIHON RODO KUMIAI
SOHYOGI KAI (Japan abor Unions General Conference) and several other
left-wing bodics to form the NIHON RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU HYOGI KÁI (Japan
Labor Unions National Conferenco). Officials of the new lenguo were:
CHUO SHIKO IINCHO (Central Exocutive Committce Chairman):
KaTo Kanju
SHOKICHO (Chiof Secretary).
TBEI Kenji
SHIKKO IIN (Exoc utive Comitteo):
NAMBA Toraichi
YAMABANA Hideo
TAKANO Minoru
YiSUHIRA Shikaichi
Lcadors of tho NIHON RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU HYOGI KI such as KATO
Kanju and SUZUKI Mosaburo organized tho NIHON MUSAII TO (Japan Proletar
ian Party) in March. 1937. In December, 1937, whon the new party vaa
ordered disbanded and when many of its leaders wero arrested. the
NIHON RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU HYOGI KAI was likewise officially dispersed.
NIHON RODO KUMLAI ZENKOKU KYOGI KAI
Communist
(Japan Labor Unions National Congross)
Juno, 1928 - Decembor. 1946
After the goneral apprehension of communists in March, 1928. KOKU
RYo Goichiro, vho had escaped apprehonsion because ho was attonding the
Fourth World Congress of tho Profintorn in Moscov. roturneo to Japan
with instructions to reorganizo the disbanded NIHON RODO KUMIAI HYOGI
K.I (Japan Labor Unions Confornce) as a branch of the Profintern. Hc
found new leaders in such mon às ITo Tamotsu. MITAMURA Shiro, NISHIMURA
Saiki and ZEnvo Zenshiro. With theso new icaders and such old col-
loagucs as N.BEYMA Sadachika and WTANARE Masanosuke. hc founded tho
sccret NIHON RODO KUILI ZENKOKU KYOGI KAI (Japan. Labor Unions National
Congress) in Juno, 1928.
In spito of official suppreSsion tho NEION ROPO KUMI.I ZENKOKU
YOGI KAI succceded in publishing a union organ callcd the RODO SHIMBUN
(Labor News), in the sotting up of branch and arca congresscs through-
out tho country, and through tho cstablishment of "cells" in factories.
in the cstablishnont of ff iliated unions by industrics, the so-cnlled
SANGYO BETSU RODO KUMLAI (Labor Unions for Each Industry). which wero
to become tho backbone of the far-left labor movement in post-war Japan.
Police reports as of Docember, 193l. indicated that membership at that
time vas 19.452.
The progran drawn up in April, 1932, clearly statcd that the NIHON
RODO KUMIAI ZTKOKU KYOGI K.I was tho Japan Branch of the Profintern
and that one of its primc objectives was the abolition of the Tenno
systom of government. After a sories of apprehensions in 1933 end
1934 tho council all but expired. Attompts to reorganize wero finally
brought to an ond by the arrost of more than six hundred communist and
left-wing labor leaders on 5 Docember 1936. after which no further
activity was roported by tho police records.
154

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.97)
NIHON RODO SODOMEI
Demoorntio
(Japan Fedoration of Labor)
November, 1911 --
In November, 19ll. tho right-wing socialists, who had remained
very much in the background of political agitation formed the JINJI
SODAN SHO (Personal Problems Consultation Office) under tho auspices
of the TOKYO UNITARIAN KYOK.I (Unitarian Church of Tokyo). of which
ABE Isoo was president. This "consultation office." supervised by
SUZUKI Bunji. was, as its name implied, a place where the vorking man
could ask advice with regard to his porsonal affairs. On 1 August
1912 BE Isoo and SUZUKI Bunji reorganized the JINJI SODAN SHO into tho
YUI KAI (Friendly Society), an association of working men to promote
the labor movement after the English model. which". said SUZUKI,
"according to my mind is the rational line of devolopment for Japanese
labor."
The socicty ns comparatively inactive politically until it re-
ceived an infusion of young blood in 1919 when AS0 Hisashi. TANAlLASHI
Kotora and a number of youngsters interested in promoting labor for-
sook the SHINJIN KiI (New Man Soc iety). a group of YOSHINO Sakuzo's
Tokyo Imperial University students, to partake in the YUAI KlI's re-
juvenation. s a result tho socicty was renamed DAI NIHON RODO SODOMEI
YUAI KI (Great Japan Federation of Labor Friendly Socicty). This titl
Was again changed to NIHON RODO SODOIEI YUAI KAI (Japan Federation of
Labor Friendly Society) by dropping the "DAI" (Great) in 1920, and be-
came the NIHON RODO SODOEI (Japan Federation of Labor) in 1923 when
the "YUaI K.I" (Friendly Society) vas eliminated and the association
became a full-fledged power on the labor front.
Idoologically the Federation has been oqually harassed by the
extreme right and the extreme left, but has alvays stood its ground.
Politically it has supported the SLAKiI LINSHU TO (Social Democratic
Party - 1926 - 1932) and the SL KAI T.ISHU TO (Social Masses Party -
1932 - 1940) through the years and in the post-surrender present pays
all egiancc to the right wing of the NIiON SHaKiI To (Japan Socialist
Party). However, the middle of the road has been beset with difficul-
tics.
The first serious internal disturbance in the NTHON RODO SODOIEI
took placo over the question of political allegiance in 1925 when the
loft Wing of the Federation seccded to form the NIHON RODO KUMIAI HYOGT
KI (Japan Labor Unions Conference) and to support the RODO NOMIN TO
(Iabor Farmer Party). The ∞cond split came in Docember, 1926, vhen
the center group withdrew to organizo tho NIHON RODO KUML:I DOIEI
(Japan Labor Unions League) and to support the NIHON RONO TO (Japan
Labor-Farmer Party). In September, 1929. thero was yet another divisic
whon a group decamped to set up the short-lived RODO KUIAI ZENKOKU
DOMEI (Labor Unions All-Japan League).
In June, 1930, the two groups vhich had formed the NIHON RODO
KUML.I DOIEI and the RODO KUAII LENKOIKU DOLEI at the second and third
splits of the Federation united to form the ZENKOKU RODO KUMIAI DOIEI
(All-Japan Labor Unions League). In May, 1932. some of the NIHON RODO
SODOI EI's affiliated unions such as AWMATSU Katsumaro 's TEIYU DOSHI
KaI (Communications Workers' Comrades Society) withdrew to form the
KOKKA SH KAI TO, where upon the right wing group of the ZENKOKU RODO
KILIIAI DOIEI including AKI Sei (Shigeru), FUJIOKA Bunroku, IMMALMURA
Hitoshi, MOCHIZUKI Gonji, OYA Shozo and SHIRiTORI Hirochika formed the
NIHON RODO DOLEI (Japan Labor League) to support AK MATSU. Thoso who
romained in the ZENTOKU RODO KUMLI DOIEI gradually becamo loss extrom
until in January, 1937, they amalgamated with the NIHON RODO SODOMEI t
form the ZEN NIHON RODO SODOMEI (AlI Japan Federation of Labor).
155

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.96)
This ZEN NIHON RODO SODOMEI was unable to fuse into a single-
minded body. however, and the differonces of tho component groups wero
accentuated by the idoological trond of the country toward nationaliam.
particularly the so-callod SANGYO HOKOKU UNDO (Sorvo-the-Country Pro-
duction Movemont) fostered by the wer in China. The consorvative
NIHON RODO SODOMEI group. whilo not unwilling to coopcrate with tho
governmont, damandod that labor unions bo permitted to continuo. Tho
ZENKOKU RODO KUMIAI DOMEI group. on tho other hand, maintainod thet
since the S.NGYO HOKOKU UNDO was a national policy, thero was no room
for labor unions in the national sot-up and that the labor unions
should therofore be dissolved in order that thoir mombers might support
tho new movement with undivided allegiance. Tho latter group. with
somo tuenty-one thousand members, withdro: from tho Faderation in
July. 1939. and on 3 November organizod the SANGYO HOKOKU KURABU
(Servo-tho-Country Production Club). Those who remained in tho ZEN
NIHON RODO SODOMEI roturned to the old name NIHON RODO SODOMEI. of
which the officers woro!
KAICHD (Chairman):
MATSUOKA Komakichi
FUKU KAICHO (VicO-Chairman):
NISHIO Suohiro
SO SHUJI (Gonoral Manager):
HARA Toraichi
KAIKEI (Treasurer):
HD Λsαji
CHUO IIN (Contral Committoo).
DOI Naosaku
KIN Kohei
DKE Zonji
MIKI Jiro
DMAZU Kikumatsu
OYA S1020
KANEMASA Yonckichi
TOKUNAGA Shoho
HORITSU BUCHO (Legal Section Chicf):
KTAYAMA Totsu
FUJIN BUCHO (Women's Section Chief):
AKAMATSU Tsunoko
KOMON (dvisors).
ABE Isoo SUZUKI BunJi
TAKANO Iwasaburo
The split in the ranks of the ZEN NIHON RODO SODONEI naturally
affoctod the SHaKAI TAISHU TO (Social Masses Party) which it supportod
politically. Since the secoders from tho Federation ropresontod a
majority of the leaders of the political party. it was to bo expocted
that tho NIHON RODO SODOMEI might bo forced to withdraw its support
from the SHAKAI TΛISHU TO. However. a compromiso was roached vhich
forostalled political division until the following year when the
differences camo to a head over tho quostion of S ITo Takao's inter-
pallation at the 68th scssion of the Diot.
On 2 February 1940 SAITO Takao, a Minseito member of thc Dict,
oponly quostioned the import and the oxtont of the managenent of the
China Incidont. Tho Diet proposed a rosolution for SaITo's expulsion.
This rosolution was opposed by tho NIHON RODO SODOMEI, ex-SHAKAI MIN-
SHU To faction of the party. which pointedly absonted itself from the
Diet on the day the resolution was passed. As a result the SHAkAI
TAISHU To held an omergeney cormittee meeting at which the ton absenteo
Diet members wero struck off the rolls.
Loaders of the SANGYO HOKOKU KURABU were:
CHINO Shinko
NAGAE Kazuo
INOUE Ryoji
OMORI Tanoichi
KIKUGNA Tadao
SHIRITORI Hirochika
KONO Mitsu
SUZUKI Etsujiro
MITANI Buntaro
T.AHASHI Wataru
YAMAGUCHI Tsuno jiro
156

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.96)
The NIHON RODO SODOkEI dissolved on 8 July 1940. Although it vas
publicly announced that the dissolution was voluntary. thc police ro-
ports stated:
"MATSUOKA Komakichi, chairman of the NIHON RODO SODOMEI, has been
striving in every way to continue the Federation. However, it is the
policy of the Home Ministry and the Welfare Ministry to dissolve the
Federation because its leaders are identicel with the leaders of the
SHINTO JUMBI KAI (New Party Preparatory Committee) formed by the se-
ceders from the SHAKAI TAISHU TO and forbidden by the authorities.
The Welfare Ministry considers the NIHON RODO SODOMEI incompatible witl
the Serve-the-Country Production Movement. Hence, in the interests of
public peace the Federation cannot be allowed to continue. In considor
ation of the long history of the organization and of the offect which
its dissolution may have upon the minds of the masscs, tho Home Minis-
try and the Welfare Ministry havc advised the leaders to disband of
their own free will. If this advice is unhoeded the Home Ministry
is prepared to takc decisive action."
When this policy was mado known to the NIHON RODO SODOMEI leadors
thoy held an cmergency mecting on 6 July 1940. The Foderation dis-
solved two days later.
After the 1945 surrender the NLiON RODO SODOMEI was revived as
the NIHON RODO KUMIAI SODOMEI (Japan Labor Unions Federation) on 1
ugust 1946. That the present-day Federation is a continuance of the
activities of the pro-war group is attested by its rostor of officers:
KAICHO (Chairman):
MATSUOKA Komakichi
FURU K.IUIO (Vic-Chairman):
ITO Ushiro
KANEMASA Yonokichi
SHIGEMORI Hiseji
KAII (Troasurer):
MIKI Jiro
SO SHUJI (Goneral Manager):
HRA Toraichi
KAIKEI KNSA (Auditors)
KONO He iji
OYA Shozo
SUZUSI Gen ju (Motoshige)
SUSHIKI BUCHO (Organization Section Chiof):
WATANAEE Toshinosuke
SEIJI BUCHO (Political Section Chief):
YAMABAN. Hideo
CHOSA BUCHO (Investigation Section Chief)
TAKANO Minoru
SENDEN BUCHO (Propaganda Soction Chief):
SHIMAG.MI Zengoro
SHUPPAN KIKNSHI BUCHO (Party Paper Publication Soction
Chicf):
SAITO Isamu
SOGI BUCHO (Disputcs Scetion Chief):
AKTSU Tsuncko
SEINEN BUCHO (Youth Section Chiof):
DAMON Yoshio
KOKUSAI BUCHO (Intornational Section Chi f): MITSUOKA Komakishi
JIGYO BUCHO (Projccts Section Chief):
HATADA Asaji
GIJUPSU BUCHO (Technical Scction Chief):
WATAE Toshinosuke
JIGYO FUIKO UNDO BUCHO (Projects Revival Movement Section
Chicf):
TAGNo Minoru
CHUO JONIN IIN (Standing Contral Committoo):
DOI Naosaku
S.IMAG.JMI Zengoro
H.YASHI Takcichi
TAKANO Minoru
IBORI Shigeo
TAN.KA Toshikatsu
KULMOTO Torazo
TERAS LIM. Shinzo
NG Kazuo
TOKUN.GA Shoho
NAGASE Shigotaro
TOMITA Keizo
NISHIO Suchiro
Yu ANA Hideo
YASUHIRA Shikaichi
157

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.95)
Tho NTHON RODO SODOMEI dissolved on 8 July 1940. Although it was
publicly announced that the dissolution wes voluntary, the police ro-
ports stated:
"MATSUOKA Komakichi, chairman of the NIHN RODO SODOMEI, has been
striving in every way to continue the Federation. However, it is the
policy of the Home Ministry and the Welfare Ministry to dissolve the
Federation because its leadere are identicel with the leaders of the
SHINTO JUMBI KAI (New Party Preparatory Committee) formed by the se-
ceders from the SHAKAI TAISIU TO and forbidden by the authorities.
The Welfare Ministry considers the NIHON RODO SODOMEI incompatible witl
the Serve-the-Country Production Movement. Hence, in the interests of
public peace the Fcderation cannot be allowed to continue. In considor
ation of the long history of the organization and of the offect which
its dissolution may have upon the minds of the masscs, tho Home Minis-
try and the Welfare Ministry havc advised the leadors to disband of
their own frec will. If this advice is unhoeded the Home Ministry
is prepared to takc decisive action."
When this policy was made known to the NIHON RODO SODOMEI leadors
thoy held an cmergency mecting on 6 July 1940. The Foderation dis-
solved two days later.
After the 1945 surrender the NLiON RODO SODOMEI was revived as
the NIHON RODO KUMIAI SODOMEI (Japan Labor Unions Federation) on 1
August 1946. That the present-day Federation is a continuance of the
activities of the pro-war group is attested by its rostor of officers:
KAICHO (Chairman):
MATSUOKA Komakichi
FUU K.IOIO (VicC-Chairman):
ITO Ushiro
KANEMASA Yonokichi
SHIGE:ORI Hisaji
KAIKMI (Troasurer):
MIKI Jiro
SO SHUJI (Goneral Manager):
LRA Toraichi
KAIKEI KNSn (Auditors):.
KONO Heiji
OYA Shozo
SUZUKI Gen ju (Motoshige)
SOSHIKI BUCHO (Organization Section Chiof):
WATANE Toshinosuke
SEIJI BUCHO (Political Section Chiof):
YAMABAN. Hideo
CHOSA BUCHO (Investigation Section Chief):
TAKANO Minoru
SENDEN BUCHO (Propaganda Soction Chief):
SHMAGMI Zengoro
SHUPPAN KIKNSHI BUCHO (Party Paper Publication Soction
Chicf):
SAITO Isamu
SOGI EUCHO (Disputes Scction Chief):
AKMTSU Tsuneko
SEINEN BUCHO (Youth Section Chiof):
DAIMON Yoshio
KOKUSAI BUCHO (Intornational Section Chief): MITSUOKA Komakishi
JIGYO BUCHO (Projccts Section Chief):
RTADA Asaji
GIJUTSU BUCHO (Technical Section Chief):
WATAHE Toshinosuke
JIGYO FUICKO UNDO BUCHO (Projects Revival Movement Section
Chicf):
TAGNo Minoru
CHUO JONIN IIN (Standing Contral Conmittce):
DOI Noosaku
S.IMAG.MI Zengoro
H.YASHI Takcichi
TAKANO Minoru
IBORI Shigoo
TANAKA Toshikatsu
KULLMOTO Torazo
TERAS LIM. Shinzo
N.GE Kazuo
TOKUN..GA Shoho
N.GASE Shigotaro
TOMITA Koizo
NISHIO Suchiro
YLBANa Hideo
YASUHIRA Shikaichi
157

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.97)
NIHON SANGYO RODO KURBU
Natiomlist
(Japan Production Labor Club)
Docombcr, 1932 --
The NIHON SANGYO RODO KURABU (Japan Production Labor Club) was
formed in Doccmber, 1932, by nationalistic labor unions to opposo the
democratic NIHON RODO KMIAI K.IGI (Japan Labor Unions Council) which
had beon organizod three months boforo. The initial concrete aim of
the club was to donate some airplanes to the Army and Navy. Aftor this
objcctive had been ccomplished in May, 1933. the club continucd but
stated specifioally that it would not engago in politics. It was ono
of the two important organizations which promoted the AIKOKU RODO KUMI-
AI ZENKOKU KONWA KiI (Patriotic Labor Unions All-Japan Disoussion
Society) in 1936, but it never gained importance because it adhered to
its decision to abstain from politics. It dissolved in August, 1940,
upon ostablishment of tho S.:NGYO HOKOKU REMMEI (Production Sorvo-the-
Country Lenguo).
SANGYO HOKOKU KURABU
National-Socialist
(Production Serve-the-Country Club)
1939 - 1940
In 1939 a difference of opinion occurred in the ZEN NIHON RODO
SODOMEI (All-Japan Foderation of Labor). The group which had derived
from tho ZENKOKU RODO KUMLAI DOMEI (All-Japan Labor Unions Leaguo) be-
gan to organize regional S/NGYO HOKOKU KLI (Production Serve-tho-
Country Societies) in support of tho popular SANGYO HOKOKU UNDO (Pro-
duction Scrvc.the-Country Movement) on the basis of labor unions which
withdrew frem tho ZEN NIHON RODO SODOIEI and were dissolved. The group
which had omanated from the NIHON RODO SODOMEI (Japan Fedcration of
Labor) objected on the grounds that the nationalist-minded SNGYo
HOKOkU KI were unable to give proper consideration to proletarian
problems. The ZENKOKU RODO KUMLAI DOMEI faction was oxpellcd from the
ZEN NIHON RODO SODOMEI and formed the SANGYO HOKOKU KURABU (Production
Sorve-the-Country Club). of which the leaders were:
CHINO Naoyoshi
NiGAE Knzuo
INOUE Ryoji
OMORI Taneichi
KIKKAVA Tadao
SHIRATORI Hirochika
KONO Mitsu
SUZUKI Etsujiro
MITANI Buntaro
TAKAH4SHI Wataru
YALGUCHI Tsune jiro
The c lub was disbanded in 1940 when the D&I NIHON SNGYO HOKOKU
KI (Great Japan Production Servo-the-Country Association) was formed.
SANGYO HOKOKU REMET
Nationalist
(Production Serve-the-Country League)
July, 1938 - November, 1940
Ifter the China Incident of 1937, tho nationalists in industrial
as well as political circles set in motion a program to climinato
class strugeles and to promoto cooporation botween capital and labor
to ineroaso production. In February. 1938, the KYOCHo KΛI (Concilia-
158

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.97)
tion Society)* formed a special committeo composed of labor special-
ists, government officials and others with KiviRina Kakichi as ehair-
man, to which were invited:
M. TSUOK: Komakichi. representative of the ZEN NIHON RODO SODOLEI
(4ll-Japan Federation of Labor)
MORITA Yoshio. representative of the ZENKOKU SANGYO DANTLI RENGO
KAI (All-Japan Production Organizations Loague)
NISHIYAMA Nisaburo, representative of the NIHON S.NGYO RODO
KURABU (Japan Production Labor Club)
TiYAMA Kyuzo. representative of the NIHON KINRO HOKO REMEI
(Japan Labor Service League)
On 30 April 1938 this committee submitted its plans to the government.
and on 30 July of the same year the plans were activated as the SANGYO
HOKOKU REMEI (Production Serve-tho-Country League). a semi-government-
al organization with the following officials
RIJICHO (Chairman):
KWARAD4 Kakichi. Chairman of the KYOCHO KI
RIJI (Directors):
IL.CHIDA Tatsujiro, a director of the KYOCHO
KaI
MLiTSUMOTO Yuhei, cnairman of the AIKOKU
RODO NOLLIN DOSHI KI (Patriotic Labor
Farmer Comrades Society)
iI./A Juso, chief of the Labor Unions Sections
of the SILAKAI TAISHU TO (Social Masses
Party)
N.G.OKA Yasutaro, a director of the KYOCHO
KAI
NARITA Ichiro, chief of the Labor Bureau of
the Welfare Ministry
ZN Keinosuke, a director of the ZENKOKU
SANGYO DANTAI RENGO KI (All-Japan Pro-
duction Organizations League)
The ZEN NIHON RODO SODOIEI (All Japan Federat ion of Labor) which was
represcnted by ITSuoml Komakichi on the preparatory committee, re-
fused to countenance the proposal that all labor unions be abolished.
Hence LIWA Juso was appointed director in IMTSUOK's stead.
Mbst of the nationalist labor unions cagerly supported the new
orgunization and its SANGYO HOKOKU UNDO (Production Serve-the-Country
Movement). By the summer of 1940 most of these nationalist labor
unions had voluntarily dissol ved to make way for tho DI NHON S. NGYO
HOKOKU KI (Great Japan Serve-the-Country Association).
The KYOCIO KI (Conciliation Society) was an association formed in
1918 by Visccunt SHIBUSMA Eiichi for discussions betueen capital
and labor. Lorgan Young in his "Japan Undor Taisho Tonno" says,
"Generously capitalized it vas totally uninteresting to labor.
It might have made militant trade unionism both unnecossary and
impossible; but it never even began to axploit its magnificient
opportunities. It frittercd avay time and money on the publi-
cation of a magazine, which nobody read, and the collcction of
futile statistics."
159

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.96)
ZENKOKU RODO KUMIAI DOMEI
Conter
(Ll1-Japen Labor Unions League)
June 1930 - 1936
In December, 1926, the center group of the NIHON RODO SODOMEI
(Japan Federation of Labor) withdrew to organizo the NIHON RODO KUMLI
DOMEI (Japan Labor Unions Leaguo) and support the NIHON RONO TO (Japan
Labor-Farmer Party). In September, 1929. another group withdrew from
the NIHON RODO SODOLEI to form the short-lived RODO ZENKOKU DOIEI
(Labor Unions All-Japan League). In June, 1930. theso two groups
Joined forces to form the ZENKOKU RODO KUMLAI DOMEI (All-Japan Labor
Unions League) in support of the ZENKOKU RONO TAISHU TO (All-Japan
Labor-Farmer Masses Party), of which the officials were:
CHUO SHIKKO IINCHO (Central Executive Committce Chairman):
KONO Mitsu
SIUJI (Llanager):
KIKKAW4 Tadao
JONIN SIOKI (Standing Sccrotary):. UCHIDA Sakuro
TOSEI IIN (Control Committee):
ARKWA Jingo
INOUE Ryoji
SHIB.T. Torataro
KINSAI JIMUKYOKUCHO (Kansai Bureau Chief): SUZUKI Etsujiro
KOMON (Adviser):
T.N.H.SHI Kotora
In 1932 there was a split when some of the union leaders such as
KI Sei (Shigeru), FUJIOK: Bunroku, ILMURA Hitoshi. OYA Shozo and
SHIRATORI Hirochika soceded to sot up the NDiON RODO DOMEI in support
of the newly established NIHON KOKKA SILKAI TO (Japan National Social-
ist Party) of MiTSU Katsumaro. In March. 1933, the left wing 1cd
by KTo Kanju and TAKiNO Minoru withdrew to organize the ZENRO TOITSU
ZENKOKU K.IGI (All-Labor Unification National Council).
In 1936 the ZENKOKU RODO KUILAI DOLMI amal gamated with the NIHON
RODO SODOIEI to form the ZEN NIHON RODO SODOLEI (All-Japan Federation
of Labor).
ZENRO TOITSU ZENKOKU K.IGI
Left-wing
(ll-Labor Unification National Council)
lMnrch, 1933 - November, 1934
Dissatisfied with the amalgamation of the ZENKOkU RONO TAISHU TO
(All-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses Party) and the SHLKAI MINSHU TO (Social
Democratic Party) to form the SHAI TiISHU TO (Social Massos Party).
KATO Kanju. TAGiNO Linoru. Y.SUHDRA Shikaichi nd other left-wing
laboritos formed tho ZEINRO TOITSU ZENKOKU KiIGI (All-Labor Unification
National Council) in March. 1933. in opposition to the conter-of-the-
road NIHON RODO KUILAI K.IGI (Japan Labor Unions Counc il). In Febru-
ary. 1934. thirteen loadors of the organization were arrested under
the Pcace Preservation Law. In November. 1934, the congress united
With the NIHON RODO KUMLAI SOHYOGIAI (Japan Labor Unions General
Confcrence) to form the NIHON RODO KUALAI ZENKOKU HYOGIKI (Japan
Labor Unions National Conference).
160

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.96)
APPENDIX IV
IMPORTANT .GRARLAN UNIONS
DAI NIHON NOMIN KUMILI (Great Japan Farmors' Union)
KOKOKU NOMIN DOMEI (Imperial Farmers! Leaguo)
NIHON NOMIN KUMLAI (Japan Farmers' Union) I
NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI (Japan Farmers' Union) II
NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI SODOMEI (Japan Fedcration of Farmers' Unions)
NIHON NOMIN REMMEI (Japan Farmors' Loague)
NOCHI SEIDO K.KAKU DOIEI (AgriculturaI Land Systom Reform League)
NOSON KYODO T.I KENSETSU DOMEI (Agric ultural Village Cooperative
Structure Construction Lcaguc)
ZENKOKU NOMIN KUMIAI (All-Japan Farmors' Union)
ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI (All Japan Farmers' Union) I
ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI (All Japan Farmors' Union) II
ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI DOLEI (All Japan Farmers Unions Lenguc)
ZENNO ZENKOKU KAIGI (All Farmcrs All-Japan Congross)
161

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.96)
DAÍ NIHON NOMIN KIMIAI
Contor
(Great Japan Parmors' Union)
Fobruary, 1938 - 4ugust, 1940
Aftor the gonoral apprehension of the RoNo HA (Labor-Farmer Group)
leaders in 1937 and 1938 many of the more prominent in the ZENKOKU
NOMIN KIMIAI (All-Japan Farmera' Union) were involved. A committee
meeting was held on 6 February 1938 at which EDA Saburo. INAMURA
Ryuichi. ITABASHI Hideo, ITO Minoru. KIKUCHI Jusaku. KURODA Hisao.
OKADA Soji, OMIYA Tomoji. ONISHI Tosuo and SASAKI Kozo were expelled
because they had seceded from the SHAKAI TAISHU TO (Social Masses
Party) to join the TOHO KAI (Eastern Society) of NAKANO Seigo. Hence.
the ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMLAI was diesolved and the remaining loaders, who
were less extreme, formed the D4I NIHON NOMIN KUMIAL. Officials were:
KUMIAICHO (Union Chairman):
SUGIYAMA Motojiro
SHUJI (Manager)
MIYAKE Shoichi
Ki.IKEI (Acc cun tant):
HOSONO Michio
KOMON (Advisers):
ABE Isoo
4S0 Hisashi
K.GAW4 Toyohiko
MATSUMOTO Jiichiro
MEIYO RIJI (Honorary Directors):
ANDO Kunimatsu
MIZUTANI Chozaburo
4S4NUMA Ino jiro
SATAKE Haruki
HIRANO Manabu
T.NiHASHI Kotora
ISHIDA Yuzen
TOMIYOSHI Eiji
KTO Ryozo
WATNABE Son
MATSUMOTO Sokizon
YUKIMSA ChOzo
RIJI (Diroctors):
HINO Yoshio
NAKMURA Takaichi
HOSODA Tsunakichi
NOMIZO Masaru
MI Ichiro
SUNAGA KO
KKUTA Tozaburo
TAHARA Haruji
KW.JTA Kiyooto (Seion)
TANAKA Yoshio
MEGAWA Shoichi
YZAkI Kenji
MIYAMUKAI Kunihoi
YΛOITA Tadashi
The union was dissolved on 18 October 1940.
KOKOKU NOMIN DOLEI
National.Socialist
(Imporial Farmers' Loeguc)
December, 1933 - January, 1941
The KOKOKU NOMIN DOMEI (Imperial Farmers' Leaguo) was established
in December. 1933. at Osaka, by TERiJIMi Soichiro and YOSHIDA Kenichi
who had withdrawn from the ZENKOKU NOMIN KUMLAI (All-Japan Farmers'
Leaguo) of SUGIY.M Motojiro to organize a "cooperative farmers union
basod on Japanism" with the purpose of creating agricultural villages
free of tonancy disputos and organizing an idoal Japan without exploi-
tation of the prolctariat. Officials of the league were:
RIJICHO (Chief Director):
YOSHIDA Kenichi
RIJI (Diroctors):
KIYOHARA Kazutaka*
MORIMOTO Kazuichi
KIYOHiRA Kazutaka was a SUIHEISHA man who was also known as SAIKO
Mankichi.
162

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.95)
RIJI (Directors):
NOGUCHI Ryuzo
YAMANΔKA Takeo
YOSHIOKA Yasuichi
The league had no political connections and nover became strong. It
was dissolved in January. 1941.
NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI I
All inclusive
(Japan Farmers' Union)
4pril, 1922 - May, 1928
This NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI (Japan Farmers' Loague)--not to be con-
fused with the middlo-of-the road organization of the same nome os-
tablished in 1931--was promoted in 1922 by SUGIYAMA Motojiro and
KiGil Toyohiko. As it swung gradually to tho left the conservative
clements bocame dissatisfied. In April, 1926. the right wing withdrew
to organizo tho ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI DOMEI (All Japan Farmors!
Loaguc). In March, 1927. the centor group seceded to form the ZEN
NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI (All Japan Farmers? Union) under the leadership of
SUGIYMA and KAGAWA. In May, 1928, the parent NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI
cmalgcmated with tho ZEN NIION NOMIN KUMLAI to form the ZENKOKU NOMIN
KUI (All-Japan Farmers' Union).
NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI II
Center-National Socialist
(Japan Farmors' Union)
January, 1931 - 1941
This NIHON NOMIN KUMLAI (Japan Farmerst Union) must not be con-
fused with the first NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI formed by SUGIYAM Motojiro
and KuG/Wa Toyohiko. It was set up in January. 1931, as an amalgama-
tion of a group from the NIION NOMIN KUMIAI SODOIEI (Japan Federation
of Farmers' Unions) and the ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMLAI (All Japan Farmers'
Union). Original officials of tho union werc:
É.ICHO (Chairman):
KTAY Totsu
SHUJI (Manager):
INTOMI Ayato
KOMON (Advisors):
BE Is∞
KIT.ZAWA Shinjiro
KAGAVA Toyohiko NAKAZAVA Benjiro
SUZUKI Bunji
The tio clomonts which formed the union soparated in April, 1932,
when the NIHON HOMIN KUMIAI SODOMEI group withdrew to roorcanize the
NHION NOMIN KUMAI SODOIEI. After the separation officials wore:
SHUJI (Manager): HIRANO Rikizo
CHUOIIN (Central Committee):
BE Otokichi
KIKUCHI Kazuo
INAOMI Ayato
KITAYALI. Iyozo
KMEDA Ic hiro
MISII Kenichiro
KavADa Hiromu
SATO Yoshikuma
TAKA Masanori
In 1933 HIRANO Rikizo decamped to join KODO KI (Imperial Way Society)
whose policies wero pretty much the same as thoso of the NIHON NOMIN
KUMLAI, and the NDION NOMIN KUMLAI was dissolved in 1941.
163

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.95)
NIHON NOMIN KULLAI SODOMEI
Domocratic
(Japan Fodoration of Farmers' Unions)
March. 1927 - 1940
The NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI SODOLEI (Japan Fodoration of Farmers 
Unions) was established in March, 1927. as an agricultural affiliato
of the NIHON RODO SODOMEI (Japan Federation of Labor). Officials vore
KICHO (Chairman):
SUZUKI Bunji
CHUO IINCHO (Central Committee Chairman): KATAYALLA Tetsu
SHUJI (Manager):
MATSUNAGA Yozo
KOMON (Advisor):
ABE Is00
Politically it supported the SHI MINSHU TO (Social Democratic Party).
or a time between January, 1931. and pril; 1932, it joined the ZEN
NIHON NOMIN KUML.I (All Japan Farmers  Union) to form the sccond NIHON
NOMIN KUMLI (Japan Farmers' Union) but withdrew when the Central
Committee decided to dopt a national socialist policy. Tho NIHON
NOMIN KMTLAI SODOREI group retired deolaring that they could not hold
vith Fascism and with Communism.
fter the break officials were:
KAIGIO (Chairman):
SUZUI Bunji
FUKU K ICHO (Vice-Chairman).
KAYA Tetsu
KOMON (Advisor):
ABE Isoo
CHUO IIN (Central Committoe):
ABE Onchi
MAGOSHI Osuke
ABE Senkichi
SHODA Hideo
FURUSAA Aya
YURA Taichiro
Politically the neW party supported the SHAKAI TAISHU TO (Social
Masses Party). ilowever the organization nevor beceme strong. It vas
eventually dissolved in 1940.
NIHON NOMIN REMEI
National Socialist
(Japan Farmers' Lengue)
January. 1938 - 0ctober, 1940
The NIHON NOLIIN REMEI (Japan Farmers' League) was osteblished in
January. 1938, by TOYAMA Ryo and NAKuLiR4 Kenji who were joined in
February by the right-wing elements of the disbanded ZENKOKU NOIN
KUMIAI. Officials were:
JONIN IIN (Standing Committee):
 Yuji
DMAI Shinzo
INAMURA Ryuichi
WATA Kiyoshi
KMURA Takeo
KONOHRA Katsuo
OY Ro
NRA Konji
SATO Yoshikuma
Politically the league supported the TOHo KiI (Eastern Society) of
NAKCANO Soigo.
The NIHON NOMIN REMMEI Was dissolved in Octobcr, 1940.
164

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.96)
NOCHI SEIDO KAIKAKU DOMEI
Center
(Agricultural Land System Reform League)
November, 1939 - March, 1943
The NOCHI SEIDO KAIKAKU DOMEI (Agricultural Land System Reform
League) vas organized in November, 1939, as a joint political affort
on the part of:
Union
Representative
D.I NIHON NOMIN KUMLAI
SUGIYAM Motojiro
(Great Japan Farmers' Union)
NIHON NOMIN KUMLAI
HIRNO Rikizo
(Japan Farmers' Union)
NIHON NOMIN KUMLAI SODOMEI
SUZUKI Bunji
(Japan Federation of Farmers' Unions)
HION NOMIN REMMEI
YOSHIT.NI Yoshiji
(Japan Farmers' Lengue)
However. the NIHON NOMIN KULILAI SODOLEI and the NIHON NOMIN
RdiEI soon withdrew. Leaders after the withdrawal were HIRANO
Rikizo. KWAMATA Kiyooto (Seion). KIKUCHI Yonosuke, NAKAMURA Takaichi,
NOMIZO Masaru. SUNAGA Ko. and TAHARA Haruji.
The purpose of the league was a national reform of the egri-
cultural land system. It advocated:
1.
iationalization of tenent lands.
2.
National administration of agricultural lands.
3.
Establishment of landed furmers.
With this in view the leugue drew up a bill for national administra-
tion of gricultural land which it endeavored to present at the 75th
and 76th sessions of the Dict in 1940 and 1941 and eventually suc-
ceeded in plac ing before the House at the 77th session in 1942 with
sixty-two sponsors. As a restlt the leaguc was considored incom-
patible with national policy und dungorous to the wartime national
mobilization. Hence it was ordered to disband by tho police in
March, 1942.
NOSON KYODO TAI IENSETSU DOMEI
Cooperatives
(gricultural Village Cooperative Structure Construction League)
October. 1940 - Mnrch, 1942
The NOSON KYODO TAI KENSETSU DOIEI (Agricultural Villngo COoper-
ative Structure Construction Loague) established in October, 1940.
spreng from the SEINEN RELMEI (Youth Loague) of the NIHON SANGYO
KULIAI (Japan Production Cooperative Union) vhich was originally a
government-sponsored movement but which was greatly influenced by the
democratic idealism after the first World War. Many of the young
intelligentsia from Tokyo and Kyoto Imperial University had found the
SEINEN REMEI fertile field for the promulgation of their social
ideals. When ARIMA Yoriyasu who was. presidont of the SANGYo KUI
was invited by Prince KOnoYE Fumimaro to be one of the first lea ors 
of his new TAISEI YOKUS.N KI (Imperial Rule Assis tance Association)
in 1940, he saw the possibility of coordinating the SEINEr REI EI of
165

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.96)
his ccoperative organization into the new movement. Hence, the NOSoN
were the democratization of the NIHON SANGYO KUmIaI and the promulgation
of agrarian reforms by rational development of cooperative villages.
Members of GOTO Ryunosuke's SHOWA KENKYU KAI (Showa Research Society)
gave edvice in the formation of policy.
Even after the original group of RIA Yoriyasu and GoTo Ryunosuke
had been ousted from the Imperial Rule Assistance Association, the
NOSON KYODO T.I KENSETSU DOKEI continued their activity. This activity
was considered by the authorities "too liberel. too democratic, incom-
patible to the government and a danger to the national constitution."
In December, 1941. leaders in Nagano end Miyagi Prefectures were arrested.
In March. 1942, INABA Hidezo, K TSUMATA Seiichi and MATSUMOTO Masao of
the Tokyo headguarters followed them to gaol, charged with membership
in the SHIRAKAWA KAI (Shirakawa Society) of Kyoto Imperial University
whose leaders were said to have been involved in left-wing activities
at one time or another.
Despite difficulties with the police the NUSON KYODO TAI KNSETSU
DosEI had by the end of 1941 formed 1.377 branches in 36 prefectures
with a membership of 37,555. The Home Ministry was about to prohibit
its continuity when the league voluntarily dissolved in 1942.
Officers of the league were:
SOSAI (President):
ARIA Yoriyasu
RIJI CHO (Chairman of Directors):
YOKOO Saburo
RIJI (Directors):
AYUBA Saburo
KOIZUI Taku
CHIBA Yozan
MURATA Yoshi ji
EJ Hideo
SATO Tetsunosuke
FUCHI KO
SHIBATA Kazuo
TAKAHASHI
Hideo
KANJI (Secretaries):
KONO Michihiko
SUIK AWA Hideo
MUR. SE Masayoshi
SULIYAMA Shiro
OKADA Uhei
YA.DA Ko ji
YOSHIDA Hideo
ZENKOKU NOMIN KUMII
Center
(ll-Japan Farmers' Union)
May. 1928 ~ 1938
ZENKOKU NOmIN KUI I (All-Japan Farmers' Union) Was established in
May, 1928, by the fusion of the first NIHON NOmIN KUIAI (Japan Farmers
Union) and the first ZN NIHON NOMIN KUMII (All Japan Farmers? Union).
Officials were:
IINCHO (Committee Chairman):
SUGIYAMA Motojiro
CHUO IIN (Central Committee):
AS.NU Ine jiro
KOIWAI Kiyoshi
KURODA Hisao
MAEGAWA Shoichi
Y.GI Takeo
Y. Z.KI Ken ji
166

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.96)
The union inoluded the extreme left as well as supporters of the left-
wing RONO TO (Labor-Farmer Party) and the left-wing-center ZENkOKU
RONO TLISHU TO (.ll-Japan Labor-Farmer Masses Party) but the extreme
leftist elements formed within the union tho ZENvO ZENKOKU K.IGI
(All-Farmers All-Japan Congress) which withdrew in ngust, 193l, to
become a separate organization. the ZvNO ZaNKOKU KIGI.
The ZENKOKU NOWIN KUMI.I continued to be the strongest of the
unions until 1937 when its RONo Ha (Labor-Farmer Group) leaders were
arrested. In February. 1938, it was reorganizod to become the DI NIHON
NOMIN KUMLI (Great Japan Farmers' Union) when its national-socialist
components joined the NIHON NOmIN RimiEI (Japan Farmera' League).
ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUI.I I
Center
(All Japan Farmers' Union)
March, 1927 - May, 1928
This first ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMI.I (li Japan Farmers' Union) was
a temporary organization promoted in March, 1927, by K.iG W Toyohiko,
MIY.KE Shoichi and SUGIY. Motojiro. Upon their secession from the
first NIHON NO.IN KUMLsI (Japan Farmers' Union) it re joined the parent
organization NIHON NO. IN KUIAI in May, 1928, to form the ZENKOKU NOMIN
KULLI (ll-Japan Farmers' Union).
ZEN NIHON NO.IN KUL.I II
Center
(ll Japan Farmers' Union)
July, 1928 - January, 1931
This second ZN NIHON NOmIN KUMI.I (ll Japan Farmers' Union) was
established in July, 1928, by amalgamation of the N NIHON NOIN KUMTAI
DO.EI (All Japan Farmers Unions League) with local unions in Kegawa
end Niigata prefectures. Principle officials were:
IINCHO (Committee Chairman):
N.  Ben jiro
SHUJI (Manager):
HR.NO Rikizo
In January, 1931, it became the second NIHON NO. IN KUMI I (Japan Farmers
Union) With amalganation with the NIHON NOMIN KUI.I SODOMEI (Japan
Federation of Farmers Unions).
ZEN NIHON NOMIN KULI.I DOLI
Center
(All Japan Farmers Unions League)
pril, 1926 - July, 1928
ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMI.I DOmEI (Al1 Japan Farmers Unions League)
promoted in pril, 1926, by HIRNO Rikizo was strong in HIRNO's home
province, Yamanashi Ken and in Fukuoka Ken. In July, 1928, it amalga-
mated with local unions in Kegewa and Niigata prefectures to form the
second ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUMI. I (all Japan Farmers' Union).
167

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.96)
ZENNO ZLNKOKU K.IGI
Left wing
(ll Farmers All-Japan Congress)
ugust. 1931 - ugust, 1936
The extreme left-wing element in the ZENKUKU NOIN KUMI.I (11
Jepan Farmérs? Union). which had formed the ZENNO ZENKOKU K IGI (.1
Farmers ll-Jepan Congress) within the mother society, withdrew in
gust, l93l, and established itself as an independent organization of
about 20,000 members. While there were factions within the congress
which disapproved unlewful a tivity. the comminist influence was strong.
According to police reports the league as a vhole was an external of
the Japan Communist Party vhose overall policy advocated confiscation
of land vithout compensation, destruction of thc Tenno System and es-
tablishment of a labor-farmer government. To escape police surveil-
lance they resorted to a dual organization, one lawful under RONO Hi
leadership, one unlawful in chargo of the communist, OIzuMI Kenzo.
The legal headquartors came to an end in March, 1933, when the
loaders were arrested and the subsidiary local unions rejoined, the
ZENKOKU NOMIN KUML.I. Although illogal aotivities of some of the
unapprehended leaders continued until about 1938, the ZENKOKU KiIGI.
as a group, died when the last remaining unions in Fukuoka and Sega
prefectures joined the ZENKOKU NOIN AUI.I in ugust, 1936.
168

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
AIPENDIX V
JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY
1922 - 1937
Note: Since the Communist Party considered
its organization to continue despite
disruptions by arrests so long as any
single member of its centrel committee
remained at large, it is extremely diffi-
cult to give exact dates of office for
the various men. Dates given are those
shown by the SHAKAI UNDO NO JOKYO (Folice
Report of Social Movements).
169

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.95)
FIRST COMMUNIST PARTY
July, 1922 - June, 1923
CHUO IIN (Gentral Committee), July, 1922 - June, 1923
Chairmani
SAkAI Toshihiko
HASHIURA Tokio
NAKAZONE Ge wa
ICHIKAWA Yoshio
SANO nabu
INOMATA Tsunao
TSWII Taminosuke
KOIWAI Kiyoshi
URATA Takeo
WATANABE Masanosuke
COMUNIST BUREAU
March, 1924 - ., 1925
BUREAU IN (Bureau Members):
ARAHATA Ketsuzo
SANO Manebu
NOZAK. Sanzo
TOKUDA Kyuichi
COMMUNIST GROUP
ug., 1925 - Dec., 1926
CHUO IIN (Central Committee): ug., 1925 - June, 1926
Chairman:
TOKUDA Kyuichi
ARAHATA Katsuzo
KITAURA Sentaro
FUKUMOTO K3ZuO
SANO Ma nabu
WATANABE Masanosuke
CHUO IIN (Central Committee): June, 1926
ICHIKAWA Shoichi
NAkAO Katsuo
KAAD Kenji
SANO Fumio
TOKUD Kyuichi
SECOND COMUNIST PARTY
Dec., 1926 - pril, 1929
CHUO IIN (Central Committee): Dec., 1926 - Dec., 1927
170

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.94)
FUKmOro Kazuo
SANO Fundo
ICHIKANA Shoichi
SANO Mnabu
NABEYAMA Sadachika
TOKUDA Kyuichi
WATANLBE Masanosuke
Candidates:
KAWAI Etauzo
MITAMURL Shiro
KOKURYO Goichiro
NákAO Katsuo
SUGIURA Keiiohi
Cheirman of Control Committee:
LRAHTA Katsuzo
CHUO IIN (Central Committee): Dec., 1927 - March, 1928
ARHATA Katsuzo
NBEYiM. Sadachike
ICHIKAWA Shoichi
SANO Me nabu
KOKURYO Goichiro
NkO Katsuo
MSTSUO Na oy os hi
SUGIUR& Keiichi
WiTAN.BE Masanosuke
Candidates:
K Etsuzo
SQM Ichiro
CHUO IIN (Central Committee): April - Dec., 1928
Chairman:
TANBE Masanosuke
K Etsuzo
N.BEY. Sadac hika
KOKURYO Goichiro
NKE Jinsei
MIT MUR. Shiro
SQM Ic hiro
CHUO IIN (Central Committee): Dec., 1928 - April, 1929
Chairman:
ICHIKAWA Shoichi
MaNIWA Suekichi
MITAMURA Shiro
SUNM Ic hiro
RECONSTRUCTED COMMUNIST PARTY
June, 1929 - July, 1930
CHUO BURE.U (Central Bureau): June, 1929 - July, 1930
Chairman:
TANK Seigen
SiNO Hiroshi
ZENNO Zens hiro
Candidate:
KON.KA Toranosuke
171

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.94)
NEW-BORN COMMUNIST PARTY
Nor., 1930 - July, 1937
CHUO IIN (Central Committee):
Chairman:
KAZ Jokichi (alias TOkUGW)
IWT Yoshimichi (alias TOB)
KONNO Yojiro (alies HMD4)
MIYAGAWA Torao (alias MAKI)
TI Tameshichi (alias SUGIY)
RINJI CHJO IINKI (Temporary Central Committee), Nov., 1932 - Deo., 1932
GENGOROLRU Yos hi heru (alias MIYAT )
KOD Shizuko (alias TSUKIKT)
MTSUO Shigeji
MIYAGAWA Torao (alias MAkI)
MIZUNO Hideo
TAI Tameshichi (alies SUGIYA)
TAKEUCHI Bunji
YAMAGUCHI Shinji
Candidates for the Committee:
OIZUMI Kenzo (alias KATANO)
WATANABE Sosuke
YAvASHITA Hei ji (alies WiTANBE)
CHUO IIN (Central Committee): Jan. - pril. 1933
Chairman: . NORO Eitaro (alias CHI)
OIZUMI Kenzo (alias KITANO)
SAHARi Yasuji (alias KAGAWA)
TANIGCHI Naohei (alias NU)
YAMMOTO Mesayoshi (alias YOSHII)
Candidates for Chairman of the Comnittee:
MIYAMOTO Kenji (alies MOPOD)
YAASHIT. Hei ji (alies WATANABE)
CHUO IINKI (Central Committee): Msy - Nov., 1933
HEm Shigeo (alias ISHIDi)
MIYAOTO Kenji (alias MOTCD)
NORO Eitaro (alies CHI)
OBATA Tatsuo (eliss FURUKW4)
OIZMI Kenzo (alias KTLNO)
CHUO IINK:I (Central Committee): Nov. - Dec., 1933
KIZAS Masanosuke (alias H YISHI)
HAKAMAD& Satomi (alies MTNE)
HEMMI Shigeo (alies ISHID)
MIYMOTO Kenji (aliae MOTO)
OBLTA Tatsuo (elies FURUK)
OIZUMI Kenzo (elics KATANO)
Y¿SUI Kiyotak (alias MTSUDA)
172

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.94)
CHUO IINKI (Central Committee): Dec., 1933 - pril, 1934
KIZS Mesanosuke (alias HYSHI)
HKMDA Satomi (alias MINE)
HEMMI Shigeo (alias ISHID)
KIJIM Takaaki (alias SKM)
MIYMOTO Kenji (alies MOTOD)
CHUO BU (Central Section): Jan., - Dec., 1935
HKD Satomi
TKY Kakuzo
KOBAYSHI Yasuhiko
TAKAYAMA Chieko
OZWMichi
TOYOHRA Uta
SHLIZU Shoichi
TSUTSUM Midori
SUG. H R Ka ts umi
WAKMTSU Rei
CHUO S IKEN JUIBI IINKI (Central Reconstruction Preparatory
Committee): June, 1936
FUJII Hideo (alias MTSUMOTO)
H'SEGW Taminosu ke
MIY Masaichi
OKUMUR: Hidematsu
WD Yosa ji (alias KINOSHITi)
CHUO SAIKEN IINKiI (Central Reconstruction Comnittee): July, 1937
Orgenizers: FUJII Hideo
MIYAMOTO Kikuo
KUWHR Rokuro
OKUMUR Hi dema tsu
D Yosa ji
Leading Section:
MIYMOTO Kikuo
OKUMUR Hidematsu
D Yosaji
173

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX VI
PROLETARIAN GAINS IN SUCCESSIVE
ELECTIONS
1928 - 1946
174

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.91)
APPLNDIX
PROLTARlAN GAINS LA SUULSSIVE DLoTIICT LACTHONS (SeSte)
20 Feb 1928
20 Feb .930
20 Feb 1932
20 Feb 1936
30 Apr 1937
30 apr 1942
10 Apr 1546
ShakaI INoHU To
14
2
3
ShAlAl
TAISHU TO
16
36
(3)1
RODO
HOLIN TO
2
NIHON
RONC TO
KYUSHU
L.INKEN TO
ZENKCKU
TAISHU TO
1
RONO TO
ZENKORU
HCNC
TA1SHU TC
1
IhON
Che K.I
TC
56
NlHON I.YOOAN TO
6
175
Total Proletarian
Candidetes Elected
ε
5
18
3℃
(3)
102
Total Iroletarian
Votes
476,000
504,313
287,865
518,867
953,560
Socialist 9,85&,40t
Communist 2,135,757
Ferceniae of Froletarian
Votes to Total Votes
4.5
4.9
2.0
4.7
10.8
Socialist
16.
Communist
3.8
c0s
1
Two Proletarians were clected as independents without Iaperial hule Assistance Folitical Society recommendation in 1942.
A third, Thaum Liyooni, releived Imperial hule Assistance Foliticel Society recommendetion. Of the 15 ex-Shahal TalsHU
To candidates for election, only three were electec.

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.98)
CHARTS
Ideological Palitical Parties
Jepanese Labor Unions.
Importent Japanese grarian Unions
176

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.97)
THIS
CHART
REPRESENTS
OPPOSITION PARTIES TO
MINSEITO, SEIYUKAI
AND
I. R.A.A.
PROLETARIAN
PARTIES
1925
NOMIN
RODO-TO
DEC
1915
1926
DISSOLVED ON
SAME CAY
RODO
NOMIN-TO
1927
MAR M-
DISSOLVE'D
JUL HSS-BEC 1B
1928
1929
RONO
TAISHU-TO
RONO-TO
JAN 1829-MAY 1950
1930
NOV 1919-J 
ZENKOKU
TAISHU-TO
1931
JUL 1931-JUL 1532
MANY   1931
ZENKOKU
RONO
1932
TAISHU-TO
SH
1933
TAISHL
1934
1935
MAY 1936-MAR 1937
1936
RONO MUSAN
KYOCIKAI
1937
NIHON
MUSAN-TO
MAR 1937- DEC 1037
1938
DISSOLVED BY ORDER
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.93)
IDEOLOGICAL
POLITICAL
PARTIES
1925 - 1946
RTIES
NATI
HON
N-TO
SHAKAI
MINSHU-TO
-DEC1928
B-SFC 1628
DEC 1928- JUL 1932
JAN 1930-MAY 1550
ZENKOKU
MINSHU-TO
NIHON KOKKA
ytha
SHAKAI-TO
KODO-KAI
MAY 93-JAN 1934
APR 1933-MAY 1942
AIKOKU
SEINI DOMEI
FEB 1934-NOV 1936
3-6 CLUB
DAI NIPPON
SEINEN-TO
SEPT 1936-JAN 1958
SEPT 193S-O6T 1910
DAI NIPPON
SEKISEI-KAI
OCT 1040  194

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.97)
COMMUNIST GROUP
LEFT WING GROUP
CENTER GROUP
DEMOCRATIC GROUP
NATIONALIST GROUP
NATIONALIST
PARTIES
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
DAI NIPPON
SEISAN-TO
1932
SHIN
SHIN NIPPON
J01 1931-2A11145
KEN
KOKUMIN
DOMEI
1933
AUS 1252-42 1934
MAY H052-JUL 1957
1934
KINRO
DAI NIPPON
NIPPON-TO
KOKKA
SHAKAI-TO
APR 1934
1935
MAR 9934
1936
1937
KAKHINTO
1938
J 1987- 1940
1939
1940
1941
40-MAY 1942
1942
YAMATO
MUSUSI
1943
1944
1945
1946

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.97)
JAPANESE LABOR
UNIONS
COMMUNIST
LEFT WING
1912-1946
thwws
CENTER
ER
DEMOCRATIC
NATIONALIST
1910
1910
YUAI
KA1
1915
1912-
1922
1915
1920
1920
1925
1925
1925-1929
RODO
HYOGIKAI
NIHON
KUMIAI
NIHON
1922-1936
SODOMEI
RODO
NIHON
KUMIAI
1925
DOME1
1930
RODO
NINON RODO
1930
KUMIAI ZENKOKU
1920
KYOGIKAI
IZENKOKU
RODO
DOMEI
KUMIAI
1930
1930
RODO
1931-1934
SOHYOGIKAI
NIHON
KUMIAI
1932-1934
DOSHIKAI
TEIYU
RODO
1932 - 1934
NIHON
DOMEI
ZENKOKU
KUMIAI
1930
1936
DOMEI
RODO
RODO KUMMAI
1926 1938
SORENGO
NIHON
1935
KUMIAI ZENKOKU
1954-19371
NIHON RODO
HYOGIKAI
RCDD SODOMEI
ZEN
NIHON
SANGYO
1934
NIHON
1937
GUN
NOMIN DOSHIKAI
AIKOKU
1933-1940
RODO
1935
1936
-1039
NIHON
1940
NHON
1939-1940
SODOMEI
RODO
SANGYO HOKOKU
1939
KURABU
1940
HOKO
1940
1940
1945
1945
SANGYOBETSU
ZEN
NIHON
KUMIAI
NIHON
RODO
KAIGI
KUMAI SCDOMEI
NIHON
19.46-
RODO
RODO KUMIAI
KAIGI
1946

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.98)
IMPORTANT
JAPANESE
AGRARIAN
UNIONS
COMMUNIST
LEFT
WING
1922 - 1946
CENTER
DEMOCRATIC
NATIONALIST
1920
1920
NIHON
NOMIN
KUMIA
(1)
1925
1925
1922-1928
ZEN
NIHON
(1) ZEN
NOMIN
KUMIAI
NOMIN KUMIAI
1927-1928
1926-192A
DOMEI
NOMIN
NIHON
SODOMEI
KUMIAI
1930
1930
(11) ZEN
NOMIN
KUMIAI
NIHON
1926-1931
1920-1931
ZENKOKU
NCMIN KUMA
ZEN NO
1928-1938
NIHON NOMIN
NIHON
ZENKOKU
KUMIAI {11}
NOMIN KUMIAI
KAIGI
1931-1941
SODOMEI
J935
1935
1932-1936
1932-1940
KOKOKU
NOMIN DOMEI
1933-1941
RIHON HOMIN
NOMIN
DA
NIHON
KUMIAI
1938-1940
REMMEI
1940
1940
1938-1940
NOCHI
SEIDO
KAIKAKU
DOMEI
1239-1942
1945
1945
NIHON
NOMIN
KUNIAI
1946-

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
Peorle and Crganizations
180

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.96)
INDEX OF PERSONAL NAMES AND ORGANIZATIONS
NAME
PAGE
ABE Isamu.
93
ABE Isoo
7，8, 9, 12,24， 25, 26，31.49.
74, 88, 97, 98, 101, 102, 104.
105, 106, 155, 156, 162, 163, 164
ABE Katsuko.
35
ABE Kiyozo
114
ABE Mantaro.
145
ABE Nobuyuki
66,123
ABE Onchi.
164
ABE Otokichi
82,163
ABE Senkichi
164
ABE Shigeo
102,107
ADACHI Juroku.
126
ADACHI Katsuaki.
22,90, 92. 93
AD CHI Kenzo
44, 104, 140, 144
AICHI KOKOKU RODO NOLIN KULAI DOI EI
115
AIDA Jinsaku
135
AIKOKU K.KUSHIN REMMEI
134
AIKOKU KINRO TO.
42, 48, 112, 113, 140, 141.
AIKOKU RODO KUIΛI ZENKOKU KONVA KAI
48, 148, 149, 153, 158
AIKOKU RODO NOLIIN DOSHI KAI.
48, 65, 112, 114, 115, 116, 122,
150, 159
AIKOKU SEIJI DOMEI
66, 112, 116, 118, 134, 137
AIKOKU SEIJI DOSHI KAI
116
LIKOKU SHA
71
AIZAW: Saburo.
116
ΛKAGAMI Ryo jo.
72, 113
AK.HAT
28.29.74
AKAHIT JIKEN.
9, 10, 11
AKAMMATSU Isamu
152
KAMATSU Iwomar
97,136
AKAMATSU Katsumaro
15, 16, 24, 41, 42, 43, 44. 48,
66, 67, 97, 98, 102, 127, 130,
134, 135, 140, 141, 149, 155, 160
AKAILITSU Taisuke
7
AKALATSU Tsuneko
156, 157
AK10 Bin.
41
KAZ KI Torazo
135
AKI Sei (Shigeru).
86, 107, 135, 149, 150, 155, 160
AKI Susumu
131
AKITA RONO TO.
80
AKIWA Mat sugorc
89
AKIYAMA Kotaro
128
AKIZAS1 Masanosuke
30, 32, 35, 173
AKUTAG.AWA Jiro
146
NLAKASU MaSahiko
18
AMANO Ryuji.
132
AIANO Tatsuo
113, 140, 144, 146, 147
AMAOKA Naoyoshi.
63
MAT.NI Kikuo.
118, 119
VAEMIYA Kikuo
126
NDO Kunimatsu
162
ANDO Ryoitsu
138
NEZ.KI Masaharu
15
AOG.KI Zeniohiro
150
1OKI Sakuo
142,.143, 145
181

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.96)
AOKI Soichiro.
93
AONO Suekichi..
22, 24. 90. 92, 93, 97
AOYAGI Morio. ....
30
AOYA Masahiko.
145
April 16 Inoident.
90
ARAHTA Katsuzo (Kanson)
9, 12, 16. 19, 20, 21, 22, 68. 89.
90, 92, 93, 170, 171
ARAI Yoshitaro
128
AR.KAW: Jingo.
160
R. YA So ji.
83
RMÁ Shigesuke
138
ARIMA Yoriyasu
51, 57; 71, 72, 124, 165, 166
ARIS.WA Hiromi
23, 91.93
Si Konosuke.
136
ASADA Ryoitsu.
138
ASAHAR1 Kenzo.
26. 80, 111
ASHI Shimbun.
14. 82, 146
ASI Keigo.
136
ASANUMA Ine jiro.
15, 83, 86, 102, 105, 107, 108,
162,166
ASHIZUA Keisuke
131
S0 Hisashi.
15; 16, 25, 84, 86, 87. 102, 104.
105, 107, 108, 162
IT.MI JIKEN (ATANI Incident)
30
ATOBE Akira.
128
AYAG WA Takaji
113
AYUB.1 Saburo
166
B
B.B.: Motoharu.
142.143
BABA Tsunego
25; 102
BAIBUN SHA
12, 13
BEPPU Shinsuke
117
Blood Brotherhood Incident
63
124
Bose, Chandra.
BUNGEI SENSEN SHA
80
BUNKA G.KU KAI
16
Chengtu Incident (See SEITO JIKEN)
CHIANG(Government)...
66, 122, 123; 127, 133
CHIBA Tomo jiro
66,123。 125
CHIBA Yozan.
166
CHIKAUCHI Kenemitsu.
89
China Affair (see China Incideht).
China Incident
63,66,67,68, 69,92.106，123.
156.158
CHINO Naoyoshi
158
CHINO Shinko
156
CHOSAKUKA KUMIAI
16
Chronicle.
53
CHUBU NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI
82
CHUO KORON
23.91
Churchill.
144
Comintern.
4: 5, 7, 19, 20, 22, 24, 27, 28.
29， 30，32，33，34，36，44，45，
63.66,67.68. 69,90， 92, 106。
150
Communist Bureau
170
Communist Group.
171
Contemporary Japan
69
182

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.97)
Craigie, Ambassador.
66,123
DAIDO JUKU
124
DAIDO Kenji.
80,89
DAIGYaKU JIKEN (The High Treason-Case), 9. -10
DAIMON Yoshio.
157
D.AI NIHON ISSHIN KAI
124
DAI NIHON KINNO DOSHI KAI.
146
DAI NIHON KOKKA SHAKAI TO.
112, 117
DAI NIHON NODO KYOKAI.
116
DAI NIHON NOMIN KUMIAI
5051, 161. 162, 167
DAI NIHON RODO SODOMEI YUAT K.AI...
15155
DAI NIHON SANGYO HOKOKU KAT.
49.73, 116; 149, 153, 158, 159
DAI NIHON SANGYO RODO DAN.
118
DAI NIHON SEIJI K.I.
73
DAI NIHON SEINEN DOEI
121:130
DAI NIHON SEINEN TO.
·66, 112, 116, 117. 118, 119, 120,
126;135
DAI NIHON SEISAN TO.
47.63, 64,65, 66, 71, 112, 120,
121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 130
DAI NIHON SLEKISEI KAI.
112, 120, 125, 126, 127
D.I NIHON SHUGI.
64.120
D.AI NIHON TO
112, 125, 127, 128, 135, 147
DAI NIHON YOKUSAN SONEN DAN.
127
D. ISHIN KAI.
16
D. ITO JUKU
124
D. ANZAYEMON
54
DOAI KAI
57
DOI Naosaku.
156, 157
DOKURITSU RODO KYOK.I.
25，26，98
DOME Magosaburo
64, 121
-E~
EBINE Hitoshi.
139
ED.: Saburo
162
EGUCHI Kan
31
EIG: JUGYOIN KUMLNI.
80
EJIMA Hideo.
166
ENDO Chuji
93
ENOMOTO Hisaichi
132
ESHIA Hiroshi
132
ETO Genkuro.
66, 67. 119, 134, 135, 141
February Incident.
63, 65。 116,122, 133,134,138,
199
FUCHI KO
166
FUCHI Michiyoshi
145
FUGONO Shinzo.
93
FUJI Tatsuma
25
FUJII Hideo (alias MATSUMOTO).
173
FUJII Tei...
24.2397
FUJII Tetsuo
21
FUJIMORI Seikichi
71
FUJINUMA Ryoichi
150
183

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.97)
FUJIOKA Bunroku.
84, 86, 107, 126, 196, 149, 155
160
FUJIWARA Gontaro
59
FUJIYA Shinnosuke
35
FUKADA Gin jiro
128, 129
FUKUDA Iseshirc
139
FUKUDA Kyo ji
87
FUKUDA Tokuzo.
14. 15. 38
FUKUMOTO Group
90
FUKUMOTO KazuO
21: 22, 28, 29. 89. 170, 171
FUKUMOTO SHUGI
22.90
FUKUYAMA Sho ji
89
FUNAU Toshishige
125
FURUKAWA Katsura
16
FURUKAWA Rikisaku.
10, 11, 12
FURUK Tsukan.
145
FURUNO Shuzo
101, 106, 128
FURUSAA Aa
145, 164
FUSE Tatsu ji
24, 30, 31, 89, 97, 152
FUSHIN KAI
16
FUTAGOISHI Kantaro
131, 138
FUT.MI Jinkyo.
131
- G -
GKN.
142
GENGOROMRU Yoshiharu.
19,20，30
GENYO SHA.
14
GIGOKU JIKEN (Political Scondals).
63
Gods? Troop Incident (see SHIPEI TAI
JIKEN)
GOKOKU DOSHI KAI
74
GONDO Seikyo
140
GORI Kinzo
82
GOTO Arihire
132
GOTO Ryunosuke
51, 72, 166
GYOCHI SHA
41, 118
GYOMIN KAI
15, 16, 17
GYOLIN KYOSAN TO JIKEN
15
- H ~
HAGIWARA Katsujiro
116,135
HAGIWARA Kosei
93
HAKAMADA Satomi (Alias MINE)
30：32，34，35，74.173
HAMA Yuji.....
119, 126, 164
HAMADA Tojiro.
140
HAMAGUCHI YukO (Cabinet)
97
HMLANO Suetaro .
86
HANABUSA Keme aki
82
HANAOKA Ainosuke
142
HANGAI Tamazo.
107, 128, 135, 141, 147
HANRO KAI.
1.6
HARA Hirokichi
82
HARA RyO (Akira)
25.73
14, 15
HARA Masao
89
HARA Toraichi.
102, 156, 157
HAR.AYAMA Haruyuki.
128
H.RUNO Bin
119
184

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.96)
HASEGAWA Manjiro (Nyozekan).
14.31
HASEGAWA Masaichi
173
HISEGANA Shigeru
30
HASEGAWA Yoshio.
132
HaSEGAWa Zon j1
60
HASHILMOTO Kingoro.
71, 117, 148, 119, 120, 125,
126127:144
HASHIMOTO Otoyuki.
118,126
HASHILiOTO Sadakichi
153
HASHIMOTO Saisuke
131, 133
HASHIMOTO Torataro
107, 128
HASHINO Ryu ji.
132
HASHIURA Tokio
16,19.20.21.22.90.93,170
HATA Shikaru
35
HATA Teiichi
32
HT.D Λi
156.157
HATOYAMA Ichiro
74
HATTORI Hama ji
16
HATTORI Minetaro
97
HAYASAKA Jiro.
25
HAY.ASHI Cabinet.
115
HAYASHI Gyo..
114
HAY.SHI Itsuro
120
H.YASHI Kimio.
140
H.Y. SHI Sen juro.
133, 144
H.Y. SH Shusei
145
HAYASHI Takeichi
157
HYASHIDA Tetsuo
89
HEIBON SHA
149
HEIMIN SHA
8
HEILIN SHO BUN
8
HEMMI Shigeo (alias ISHIDA).
30，32，35，172，173
HEISHI NO TOMO
30
HIGASHI TAIRIKU.
142, 146
HIGUCHI Den.
8
HINO Yoshio.
162
HIRAANA Tsunetaka.
34
HIRAGA Isojiro
37
HIRAI Yoshito.
136
HIRAMORI Misao
150
HIR.NO Manabu.
85.86,102,162
HIR.ANO Masukichi
129
HTR.ANO Rikizo.
49,50; 73,80. 82,87,102,129.
130, 135, 136, 163, 165, 167
HTR. NO Yutaka.
107
HIR NUM) Kiichiro.
66，123147
HIR AYAMA Isao.
86
HIROTA Koki.
66.123,133
HISATOME KOzO.
87
Hitler
146
HOJO Motoo
132
HOO  .
16
HOKOKU UNDO.
46.52
HOKUFU KAI
16
HONDA Kumataro
143
HONDA Shige ji.
150
HONGO Otsuchi.
136
HONRYO Shinjiro.
143145
HORI Rokutaro.
142
HORI Yoshi jiro
89
HORIE Kiichi
25:98
HORIKAWA Ko jin
84
185

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.97)
HORIGUCHI Kumaichi
131, 138
HORIUCHI Cho01
102
HOSHII Shincho (Masumi).
125
HOSHINO Noboru
126
HOSODA Tsunakichi.
87.162
HOSONO Michio.
83, 84. 87, 102, 162
HOSOSAKO Kanemitsu
31. 89，95.97
HYOGO KEN MUSAN TAISHU TO.
80
- I-
IBORI·Shigeo .
157
ICHIKAWA Fusae
31
ICHIKAWA Setsutaro
129
ICHIKAWA Shoichi
21, 29, 31, 32, 171
ICHIKAWA Yoshio.
19, 21
IDA Iwakusu.
119, 138
IDO Kiichi
128
IGARASHI Harutaka.
149
IG R SHI Takashi
128
IIJIM: Kichinosuke
145
II Kamon no Kami
125
IJICHI Tatsuo.
120
IINUMA Ichitaro
82
IIZUKA Hiroshi
29,32
IKE Zenji.
156
IKEDA Ko ji
120
IKED.1 Sosen.
118, 119
IMAD.A Ken.
119
IMAI Bukichi
153
IMAI Ichiro.
162
IMAI Nobuo
131
IMAI Shinzo.
133,164
IMAI Yoshi ji
87
IMAMAKI Yoshio
118, 119
IMAMURA Hitoshi.
43, 48, 84, 87, 107, 114, 116,
134, 135, 137, 149, 155, 160
IMAZU Kikumatsu.
156
IMOTO Rinshi
59
IN Ki-kyo.
34
INABA Hidezo
52, 166
INAMUR. Junzo.
22, 90,93
INAMUR: Ryuichi
144, 145, 162, 164
INATOMI Ayato.
82, 129, 136, 145, 163
INOMATA Tsunao
19, 22, 87, 90, 92, 92
INOUE Asajiro.
84
INOUE Haruyoshi.
119
INOUE Katsuyoshi
131, 133
INOUE Ryoji.
105, 156, 158, 160
INOUE Sei jun
132, 138
INOUE Shiro.
122
INOUE Toshimaru.
44, 149
INUKAI Tsuyoshi.
15
IRAA (See TAISEI YOKUS. IN KAI).
IR.APS (See YOKUSAN SEIJI KAI).
IRIFUNE Shingo
84
IRDM!JIRI Yoshiyasu.
136
IRIS.WA Kozaburo
81
ISHIBASHI Chokichiro
64. 121
ISHIB SHI Genshiro
84
ISHIBASHI Tanzan
33
186

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.96)
ISHIBASHI Tsutom
116.135
ISH DA Wakizo
30
ISHIDA Yuzen
162.
ISHIHARA Kan j1
144
IsHIHAR; Koichiro
131, 132., 133, 134
ISHII Mitsunaga.
128
ISHII Teruo.
20
ISHIJDMA Haruji.
31
ISHIKAWA Jinshiro.
249
ISHIKAWA Jun juro
38. 42. 117, 140, 141
ISHIKAWA Sanshiro.
8
ISHIKAWA Tatsuzo
71.
ISHIMITSU Masaomi
131
ISHIN NIHON.
116
ISHIN SEINEN TAI
116
ISHI/ARA Yoshiyuki
107
ISHIWATA Santatsu.
128,.147
ISHIY MA Torakichi
85.87.105
ISHIZUKA Ko jiro.
130，135
ISHIZUKA Masanari
132
ISO Sulketomo
128
ISOBE Shizuo
142
ISOD.1 Masanori
145
IT.B :SHI Hideo
162
ITAGAKI Takeo.
93.
ITANI Shokichi
87.
ITO Hirobuai
7
ITO Kanji.
138
ITO Kiichi
87.
ITO Minoru
93,162
ITO Negamitsu.
118..119
ITO Noe..
17, 18
ITO Shinji
134..135
ITO Tamotsu.
24, 150..154.
ITO Ushiro
257
ITO Yoshimichi
22，90，93
ITO Yoshio
30
ITOK W Kinya.
119
IWABUCHI Tatsuc
71
IWAMOTO Kenichi
136
WAO Iesada.
32
IWASA Juichi
57
IWASA Sakutaro
16.
IWAT: Ainosuke
72
IWATA Fumio.
18,38
IW.TA Kiyoshi.
1420164
IW.IT.A Misego
30
IWAT! Yoshimichi (alias TOBA).
29. 30， 33, 172
IWAUCHI Tomie.
31
IWAUCHI Ryuhci
11.5
IN..UCII Zensaku
85, 107
IZEKI Takao.
101.106
Japan Communist Party (see NIHON KYOSAN TO.. 90. 141, 169
Japan Weekly Chronicle
67.
JIEI SHA
138
JIKYOKU KYOGIKAI
115
JIMMU (Emperor).
-43, 131. 133
JIMMU KAI.
.42, 63, 64, 118, 121, 131
JINJI SODAN SHO.
.12, 155
JIYU TO.
74.76
JULY 5 Plot.
66
187

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.96)
- K -
KA Morizo.
37
KADOYA Hiroshi
21
KAG.AWA Sakurao
138
KAGAWA Toyohiko.
24. 25, 49, 74, 83, 88, 102, 128.
162, 163. 167
KAGEY MA Masaheru.
65, 66. 122, 123, 124. 125
KAIGUN RODO KULII REMEI.
26.98
KAIHO.
53
KAIHO UNDO GISEISHA KYUEN BENGOSHI BAN
31
KAIHO UNDO GISEISHA KYUEN KAI.
31
KAIIN KYOKAI
46,151
KAIIN SASSHIN KAI.
87
KAIZO.
23.91
KAKII Shuzui.
30
KAKUDA Morihei
30
KAKUTA Tozaburo.
102, 162
KMADA Shiro.
34
K.MATA ROYU KAI.
80
K.UEDA Ichiro.
163
KAMEI Kanichiro.
26, 31, 101, 102, 105, 106
K MICHIKA Ichiko
17
KAMIHAGIWARA Kagec
32
KAMIJO Aiichi.
85,151
KAMIKAWANA Takeo
136
KAMIMURA Susumu.
30，31，89，95，97
KAMINAGA Bunzo
38. 113, 140, 141
KAMIYAMA Shigeo
74
KAN Shunei
136
KANAI Yoshi ji.
145
KANDA Hyozo.
42, 94, 107, 135, 140, 141, 147
KANDA Masahiko
128
KANDACHI Hachiro
32,33,34
KANEJILA Eiki.
152
KANEKO Chukichi.
117
KANEKO Kenta.
31
KANEMASA Yonekichi
156. 157
KANGYC RODO SODONEI.
26.46.47，82，87。98，105，
106, 151
KiNOKOGI Kazunobu.
113,140
KANSAI TAISHU TO
80
KARASAWA Toshikiyo
115
K4SAGWA Kinsaku
93
KISAW.R: Chizo
31
KAT AOKA Shun
122,146
KATAYAMA Sen
7.8，9，32
KAT AYAMA Mineto.
19.21
KAT AYAMA Tetsu
25, 40, 73,98， 102, 105, 106,
130, 156, 163, 164
KATO Kanju
16, 47, 67, 68, 69, 71, 73, 80,
86, 92, 93, 108, 153, 154, 160
KATO Kazuo
16
KATO Masatake
132
KATO Mineo
143
KATO Ryo
35
KATO Ryozo
106. 162
KATO Sojiro.
131, 132
KATO Toki jiro.
8
KATSUDA Hosaku
145
KAT UMAT 1 Seiichi
52. 166
KATSUO Shukichi.
120
188

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.97)
KATSURA Taro
7
KTSUYA Tanetomo
117
KAWADA Hirom.
163
KAWADA Kenji
21.170
KAWAI Atsushi.
30
KAWAI Etsuzo
22.171
KAVAI Giichi
105
KI Yoshitaro
19
KAWAIDE Yujiro
128
KAW AKAMI Ha jime
149597
K.WAKAMI Jotaro.
26.31.73.85.102,105
K1W.K4MI Kiyoshi
7
K.W.KAMI Toshiharu
124.125
KW.MAT.: Kiyooto (Seion)
86, 105, .162, 165
KAMURA Yasutaro
83. 105， 106
KAWARA Jikichiro
25
KAV.RADA Kakichi
48,159
KIWASIKI Katsu
72
K.W. SAKI Natsuko
31
KAWAS.KI Takeo
150
KAWATA Hiroshi
129
KAWAUCHI Tadahiko.
20,21
KAY'Okinori
145
KAYAMURA Jiro.
97
KAZMA Jokichi
29.30.32,33，172
KEIDA Shigeru.
145
KEIMEI KAI
16
KEMOCHI Tadanori.
142
KETRIN GAKULEI
38.113
KEIZAI MONDAI ENKYU KAI
42,140
KEIKOKU KAI.
41, 71, 125
KENSEI KAI
15
KENSETSU SHA DOLET
15,17
KIDO Kohei
126
KIIRI Torataro
21
KIJ Ko.
132
KIJIMI Takaaki (alias SAKUN)
35:173
KIJIMI Matayuki.
142
KIKAI RODO RENGOKAI.
82
KIKKWA Koshi.
142
KIKUCHI Jusaku
162
KIKUCHI Kazuo.
163
KIKUCHI Takeo.
114, 119, 138
KIKUCHI Yonosuke
105;165
KIKUDA Zengoro
21
KIKUG.AWA Tadao
102,156,158, 160
KIM.
19
KIM T: Suzuko.
35
: Shigeru
116
KTMUR.: Jokichi
152
KIMURA Pakeo
143, 164
KIMURA Takeshi
85
KIMURA Tei
142
KIN Kohei.
156
KIN Ri-Shaku
35
KIN Ten-Kai.
74
KINKI (Magazine)
141
KINKI SEINEN KAI
141
KINNO ISHIN DOMEI.
64
KINNO MAKOTO MUSUBI KAI.
146
KINOSHITA Gengo.
82
KINOSHITA Otoichi
31
KINOSHIT: Shoko.
7.8
189

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.97)
KINRO NIHON TO
44. 112, 128, 140
KINRO SHIN TAISEI KAKURITSU YOKO
79
KISHI Yojiro
140
KISHINO Shigeharu.
19
KTT: Dr. ..
54
KITA Ikki.
38
KITA Reikichi.
113
KITADA Ichiro.
81.92，9394
KITAHARA Taisaku
57
KIT MURA Keitaro
145
KIT AURA Sentaro.
19, 21, 22, 90, 92, 93, 170
KIT AYALIA Iyozo
82, 136， 163
KIT AYAMA Ishizo.
129
KITAZAWA Shinjiro.
15,25.82，163
KIUCHI Shigeji
149
KIYOH.R.1 Kazutaka (alias SAIKO Mankichi)57. 162
KIZKI Katsu
118
KOA DOSHI KAI.
119
KOB SHI Ichita
63
KOB.T: Torataro.
120
KOB. YASHI Furutoshi.
128
KOB. YASHI Isamu.
32，36
KOBAYASHI Junichiro
65, 114, 115, 122, 125, 137, 138
KOBYASHI Yasuhiko
173
KOBE Chronicle
10
KOBORI Jinji
22, 76, 81, 90, 92, 93
KOCHI Tomoyoshi.
136
KODA Kiyosada.
28
KODAMA Shizuko
30
KODERA Kenichi
142
KODO KAI
50, 63, 112, 129, 130, 132, 136,
163
KODO YOKUS AN SEINEN REMMEI
146
KOFU SODOMEI
16
KOGA Takeshi
128
KOHOSHA (Candidates)
21
KOIKE Ginjiro.
125
KOIKE Kunitaro
136
KOIKE Shiro.
66, 67, 102, 116, 134, 135, 137,
149
KOIWAI Kiyoshi
19, 83, 95, 97, 166, 170
KOIZULI Taku
166
KOIZUI Sakutar
8
KOJIM: Ryutaro
8
KOJIMA Seiichi
143
KOJIN K.I.
16
KOKKA SHAKAI SHUGI
37, 38
KOKKA SHAKAI SHUGI SHINTO JUMBIKAI
43
KOKK. SHAKAI TO.
37, 155
KOKK: SHUGI TO SHAKI SHUGI.
42
KOKOKU NOMIN DOLEI
50, 51, 104, 113, 115, 161, 162
KOKOKU NOMIN REMMEI
115
KOKU IN CHOYOREI
73
KOKUMIN DOMEI.
44, 104, 117, 140
KOKUMIN GIYUT I.
73
KOKUMIN KYOKAI
63,66,112,130,134
KOKUMIN NIHON TO
43
KOKUIN NO TOMO.
46
KOKUMIN SEISHIN SODOIN
115
KOKUNIN SHISO KENKYU JO.
113
KOK TO
15
KOKUN.N DAKI RENGO KYOGI KAI.
64.121
KOKURYO Goichiro
21, 23, 24, 29, 31, 150, 154, 171
KOKURYU KAI.
14, 64, 65, 71, 120, 121
190

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.97)
KOKUSAI SEKISHOKU KYUEN KAI.
31
KOKUSUI TAISHU TO.
125
KOKUTAI MEICHO HA.
71
KOKUTAI MEICHO UNDO.
129
KOMAI Tokuzo
144
KOMAKI Chikae.
31
KOMATSU Uchimatsu.
12
KOMATSUBAR1 Mitsutaro.
44.139
KONAKA Tor anosuke
171
KONDO Eizo
15. 19, 21, 42, 44, 108, 114.
115, 117, 128, 129, 140, 141
KONDO Kenji.
16
KONDO Shinichi
152
KONDO Yoshiharu.
126
KONNO Yojiro (alias HAMADA).
19, 29, 30, 32, 172
KONO Hei ji
157
KONO Iwao.
125
KONO Kinsho
145
KONO Michihiko
166
KONO Mitsu
73, 85, 86, 102; 105, 107, 108,
156, 158, 160
KONO Tesshi.
97
KONOHARA Katsuo.
164
KONOYE Cabinet
115.124
KONOYE Fumimaro, Prince.
51, 69, 70, 71, 72, 126, 127.
135, 144, 165
KOREEDA Kyoji.
31
KOTOKU Denjiro (Shusui).
7., 8, 9. 10, 11, 12
KOTOKU JIKEN
9.14
KOTSU RODO KULIAI.
16
KOY.AM! Ryo
106.164
KOYU KAI
16
KUBODERA Sei ji
132
KUBOTA Kunimatsu
136
KUBOTA Teizaburo
30
KUBOTA Yuichi.
30..89
KUCHIDA Yasunobu
113
KUDO Gokichi
131
KUGIMIYA Sugao
132
KUHIRA Fusenosuke.
71.74.
KUM HOTO Torazo.
157
KUMAMOTO Yoichi.
128,.149..150
KUMAZAA Mitsuko
35.
KUNO Kazuo
122
KUNOHARA Rokuro.
173
KUR D.! Shinichiro.
142
KURAMOCHI Chusuke.
.142
KURATA Momozo.
130, 135, 143
KURIHAR.A Rei ji
.31
KURITA Fujitaro.
.81
KURODA Hisao
22,.23,24.80,89.90. 91,92,
.93,.97,105,108. 162, 166
KURODA Hoku ji.
37
KURODA Morikuni.
93
KURODA Toshio.
68
KUROE Naomitsu
146.
KUROKI Shigenori
74
KURONUMA Toshiheru
118, 119, 126
XUROSAWA Shinichiro.
129.
KURU KozO. .
85.135
KURUM Kyo (Yasushi)
118, 119, 126
KUSAKABE Chiyoichi
21
KUS NO Ichirobei
1.45
191

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.95)
KUZUU Yoshihisa.
122
KYOCHO K.I
48..158, 159
KYOS.N SHUGI DN
21
KYOT.NI Shuichi.
16
KYUSHIN ..IKOKU TO.
121
KYUSHU MINKEN TO
26, 80, 82, 85, 111, 175
- L -
Loaguo of Nationa.
131
- 11-
NL.CHID. Chuji.
71.74
.CHID. Sonzo.
122
M.CHID. Tatsujiro.
159
IM. EG. Nitoi.
16
MGL. Shoichi.
83. 89, 105, 162, 166
M. GOSHI Osuke.
164
M.J. Kn.
31, 128, 135
M.I Choji
84
LLINo latsutaro
80,92,93
M.INO Naozo
114
ML..CAO HO
8
MNCHUKOKU KYO. I
18
Manchurian ffair (sce Manchurian
Incident)
Manchurian Inc idonte
58, 63, 101, 104, 107, 153
MNI  Suckichi.
21, 171
M.OK. Masuyoshi.
127
Mnrch 15 Incident.
27.63，90
MRUNo Tatsuyoshi.
138
"Larxism".
22
M.SUDA Ken.
119, 126
M.SUDA Otsusaburo.
131
M.SUD. Toyohiko.
89
IA.TSUE.. Kiyotsugu.
150
M.TSUD. Latsutaro.
89
M.TSu Toyoki.
138
LLTSUI Iwane
119
M.TSUE Akiyoshi.
145
LETSUMOTO Jiichiro
59, 60, 74, 89, 106, 162
FLTSUMOTO Junzo.
102
M.TSUL.OTO Hasao.
166
LLTSUIOTO Sasayoshi.
115
MiTSU oTO Sekizen.
162
LE.TSUl oTO Shigeheru.
72
M.TSUMioTO Tokumci (Noriaki).
114
ML.TSUMOTO Tomitaro
132
M.TSUMOTO Yuhci.
114, 115, 116, 138, 159
LL.TSUMUR...
32
M.TSUMURO Takanori
128
8
M.TSUNAGA. Yoshio
49, 102, 105, 106
M.TSUN.GA YoZo.
164
M.TSUNOBU Shige ji.
38, 41, 42, 118, 119,140
MTSUC Chujiro.
131
M.TSUO Kunidchi.
149
IL.TSUo Naoyoshi.
21, 150, 171
M.TSUO Shigoki
31
M.TSUO Uichita .
12
M.TSUOK. Komakichi
49. 75, 98, 151, 156, 157, 159
M.TSUOK. Yosuke.
124, 138
L.TSUSHITA Hikoichi.
116, 135
M.TSUSHIT.. Kichic.
24，25
192

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.95)
MATSUSHITA Yoshio.
42,73
MATSUTANI Yojiro
31.49. 44. 84.85, 86, 87..107.
111, 117, 128, 129, 139
MATSUURA Kaneo
130
NáTSUZAKa Ei jiro
.84.
MaTSUZAKI Genkiohi
MEIRIN (Magazine).
134
MEIRIN KAI
.71, 112, 131, 132, 133, 134
MEIRIN RENGO KAI
134
MEIRIN SHIMPO.
.134
MIKI Jiro.
.156, 157
MTKI Kazuo
.152
MIKI Suketaka.
135
MILURA Ryoichi
.30
MINAGAWA Rikichi
.86. 141, 153
MINMI Kiichi.
93.150
MINAII Kinji
.93
MINAI Umekichi.
57.
MINAMOTO NO YORITOMO
54
MINATO Shichiro.
31.
MINEO Setsudo.
10, 12.
MINJIN DOIEI
15.
MINOBE Ryokichi
23.63，65,91，93
MINOBE Tatsukichi
63, 65, 138， 199
MINSEITO
4, 15, 18, 64. 65, 69, 72. 74.
104, 106, 120, 122, 123, 156
MINSHU SEIJI
24.97.
MINSHU TO.
4.15, 18, 64, 65. 69, 72, 74. 80,
82.85.
MIT MURA Shiro
21。24。29,31. 76,154，171
LT MURA Takeo
142, 143. 144, 145. 146
MIT. NI Buntaro
156, 158
Mitford.
54.
MITSUI Sakichi
116. 119
AITSUKW Kametaro
37.42,. 140， 141
LITSUYOSHI Etsushin.
136.149
MIUR.: Jiro
30
MIURA Toranosuke
136.
IURA Torao.
142
MIURA Yasutaro
12
LTWA Juso.
24，25，31.80，84,87,97,102,
106, 107, 108, 159
LIWA Kazuo
82
MIWA Morikichi
81, 92， 93
MIYAGAKI Kiichiro.
128
L.IY.AGAW Ikkan
37
MIYAGA Sennosuke
117
MTYAG WA Torao (alias MKI).
19,30。172
MIYIKE Shoichi
73。 84, 85, 102, 105, 130, 162,
167.
MIYAKE Yujiro.
143
MIYAMOTO Hideo
57
MTYMOTO Kenji (aliaS MOTODA).
30., 32, 34, 35, 74, 172, 173
MTYA IOTO KikuO
173
MYKI Kunihei.
89.162
MIYASHIT. Manabu
134.
MTYASHITA Takichi.
10, 11, 12
LIY.SHITA Zenkichi
138
I.IY.T.KE Gaikotsu.
9
MIYAZAKI Ryusuke
15, 25, 31, 98, 101, 104, 106,
107, 108, 143, 145
MIYOSHI Kiyotsura.
55.
MIZUHLRA Tomojiro.
117. 136
MIZUHO KUR.BU.
(Bee S NROKU KUR.IBU)
193

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.97)
MIZUMORI Kamenosuke.
113
MIZUNO Hisao
21
MIZUNUM Tat suo.
15.16
MIZUTANI Chozaburo
26, 31, 73, 89, 94. 95, 102,
105, 106, 162
MIZUTANI Kakichi
136
MIZUTANI Kiyoto.
132
MOCHIZUKI Gen ji.
84, 86, 107, 135, 149, 155
MOGI Kyuhei.
38
MORI Eiichi.
42. 48. 86, 128, 140, 147. 153
MORI Giichi.
82,83
MORI Kiyooto (Seion)
130
MORI Mineichi.
142, 143
MORI Nao ji
116
MORI Takamori. . .
136,149
MORICHIKA Umpei.
9,12
MORIMOTO Kazuichi.
162
MORIMOTO KO. ..
130,135.136
MORIOKA Kamon ji.
93
MORITA Jiro.
132
MORITA Kiichiro.
107
MORITA Seigoro
83
MORITA Tatsuo.
14:15
MORITA Yoshio.
49.159
MORO Kiyoteru.
122
MOTANI Koichiro.
30
MOTOZAWA Ken ji
150
MURAI Kazuo...
93
MURAI Kyutaro.
142
LURAKAMI Kic! i20
89
LURAKALI Takio
34
LURA ATSU Michi ji,
145
MURAMATSU Shintaro
83.84
MURASE Masayoshi
166
MURATA Ycshi ji
166
MURAYAMA Ryuhei.
14
MUROBUSHI Tekanobu
107
MUROI Atsushi..
81
MISAN SEITO RON.
81
MUS AN SEITO TOITSU ZENKOKU KYOGI KAI
107, 108
MUSANSHA SHILBUN
22。90
MUS.N T.AISHU TO.
70,80. 85, 87,91
- N-
N.:BEKUR.! Ha jime.
129
N:BEY.VLi Sadachika
24, 27, 29, 44, 45, 150, 154, 171
NABUKI Fumio
127
NAG.E Kazuo....
105, 156, 157, 158
NAGAI Kenzo.
145
NAG KAGE Tamenosuke.
150
NAG.NO Akira
113
NAGAO Yu..
89.145
N.IG. OKA Yasutaro
159
NAG.S.ATO Kunio
132
NAG.ISE Shigetaro
157
NLG.TA Tetsuzan.
116
NAGOY: NIHON SEITO RODO KULLLI
82
NAKAE Jinsei
171
194

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.94)
NákAgAA Kinzo.
131
NKiGAWA Yasusaku
132
NAkAHAMA Hironobu
128
NAkAhRA Kenji.
164
NkHRA Kinji.
67.134
N jiro.
135
NAKiJDMA Chikuhei
71.74
NKJIMA Kisaburo
81. 92. 93
NAKJDMA Seiichi.
128
NMR Daihachiro
37
NAKAMURA Matashichiro
145
NAK.URA Nakao.
129
NaKMURA Ryozo.
143, 144
N.KMURA Shirota.
131
NAKMURA Takaichi
95, 102, 105, 107. 162, 165
NAK MURA Takeshi.
146
N.KMUR. Yoshiaki
150
N.KNISHI Inosuke
81.92，93
NNO Hisao.
21
NALNO Soigo.
50, 104, 142, 143, 144,
145, 146, 147, 162, 164
NKANO Yorimitsu.
132
N.KiO Katsuo.
19, 21, 22, 150, 170, 171
NNI Take yo
113, 119, 140, 141
NAKAYAMA Ken.
131
NKYMA Yu
143
N Benjiro.
24，25，49，80.87.97。
114, 163, 167
NAKAZONE Genwa.
19, 20, 21, 170
NiVZU Shinzaemon
131
NAI B. Akira
35
N. Hidco
89
N.PA Toraichi.
81, 92. 93. 154
NAMPO K1I
145
NANGO Jiro.
138
NARITA Ic hiro
159
NARUISHI Heishiro
10,12
N.RUISHI Kanzaburo
12
NRUKI Fumiyo.
127
N.SHIKI Sakujiro.
30
IEMOTO Kusakichi.
128
NIHON AIKOKU UNDO SOR.N
41
NIHON HEIMIN SHIABUN
9
NHON HMN TO
7,8,9
NHON HOKYU SEIKTSU SL. KUMLAI REMEI
87
NIHON K.IIN KMLI.
26,46。98,106，151
NIHOI KAIIN KYOKI.
26.98
NEION KKUSIIN SEINEN TAI
135
NIHON KKUSIIN TO
112, 127, 131, 134, 135.
141. 153
NIHON KINRO HOKO RELEI.
48, 49, 153, 159
NIHON KOJIN KURABU.
26,98
NIHON KOKK. SH.K.I GAKUI EI.
141
NIHON KOKIG SHL KAI STUGI GAKUMEI.
42,117
NIHON KOKKA SLK.I SHUGI ZENKOKU HYOGI
KAI .
117
NIHON KOKKA SHAK.I TO
43, 48,63, 64，102，112,
116, 121, 130, 135, 136, 149
NIHON KOIA SH KAI TO JUMBI KAI..
117, 128
NIHON KOKUMIN SLKAI TO
140, 160
NIHON KOKUMIN S.LKAI TO JUMBI KII
43, 140
NIHON KOKUMIN TO.
121
NHON KOTSU RODO KUMLAI
16
195

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.92)
NHON KOTSU RODO BODOLEI..
47, 84. 87, 105, 106, 151
NIHON KOWAN JOGYOIN KUMLAI .
47, 105, 106, 151
NIHON KO.LN JUGY IN KUMLI REMMEI..
151
NIHON KYOSN SELN DOMEI.
19
INTHON KYOSAN TO.
18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 28. 29.
32. 33, 34. 35. 38, 44, 68.
74. 75,168. 175
NIHON MUSAN TO .
67，68，69. 74.76，79.80.
81. 91, 93. 154
NN NOMN I (I)..
24, 25. 26, 49, 50, 51, 57.
81, 82, 84, 87,88, 161,
163. 166, 167
NIHON NOLIN KMIAI (II)....
50, 129, 135, 136, 161, 167
NIHON NOLIIN KUMLAI Post-War..
75
NIHON NOLIN KUMLAI SODOMEI...
26, 49, 50， 51. 161. 163.
164. 165. 167
NLION NOMIN REMEI....
51, 143, 161, 164, 165, 167
NIHON NOMIN TO
25.27,49,79,80，81.82.
85.87
NIHON RODO DOL.EI.
48, 115, 117, 128, 129, 135.
148. 149. 160
NIHON RODO KULLAI DOLEI...
75. 84， 155， 160
NIHON RODO KULLAI HYOGI K.I.
23，24，25，47，57，84，87.
88, '97, 148, 150. 152, 155
NIHON RODO KUMLAI K.IGI..
46，47.48，49.76.148.
151; 153, 158, 160
NIHON RODO KUML.I RENGO KAI.
82
NIHON RODO KUMLAI SODOMEI.
15,76,157,164
NIHON RODO KULL.I SOHYOGI K.I.
47, 91, 97, 148, 152. 160
NIHON RODO KUMLE SORENGO.
46。47.48.84.148.149.
151. 152, 153
NIHON RODO KUML.I SORENGO SORITSU
TIKAI..
17.48
NIHON RODO KUM..I ZEIJKOKU HYOGI KI.
47, 75,81, 91. 93, 148,
152. 153, 154. 160
NIHON RODO KUMIAI ZENKOKU KYOGI I.
24.45，47，75，148，150
NIHON RODO SODOMEI.....
12,15,17, 18. 23, 24, 25.
26，46，47，48，49，51，57，73.
75；83:84，87，88，97.98，
101, 105, 129, 148, 149, 150,
151, 155, 156, 157, 158, 160
NIHON RODO SODOMEI YU.I KI.
15; 16, 155
NIHON RODO SOREEI.
46;151
NIHON RONO TO.
25，26。27，58，73，74，79，
80;82;84.85,87,104,155.
160,175
NIHON SNGYO GUN....
48; 115, 150
NEION S.NGYO KUML.I...
51。 72, 165, 166
NIHCN SANGYO KUMLAI SEINEN RE MEI.
165.166
NIHON S.NGYO RODO KURABU
48. 49. 148, 149. 158, 159
NIHON SEIJI SHAKLI SHISO SII TAIKEI. 24
NIHON SEITO RODO KULL.I DOLEI.
47。151
NIHON SEKISHOKU KYUEN I.
31
NON S.I SHUGI..
42
NITON SLKAI SHUGI DOMEI
16
NIHON SLK.I SHUGI KENIYU JO...
42,140
NIHON SHLK.I TO...
8, 9, 10, 11, 80, 91, 155
NIHON I TO Post-war
74.75.76，98
NIHON SHICHU DOLEI..
82.84
NIHON SHUGI RONO DOSHI KI
113
NIHON SHUGI SEIJI KUSHIN KYOGI I 66, 67
NHON SHUGI SEINEN KLIGI
NIHON SUTHEISH.
NIHON TISHU TO.....
27，79。80，82，85，107
196

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.97)
NTHON TETSHIN JUGYOIN KUMIAI
48
NIHON YOGYO RODO SODOMET
84
NIHON YOKUSAN SONEN DAN.
127
NIIJIM Shigeichi.
132
NIIMI Uichiro.
12
NIILURA Tadao.
10, 11. 12
NIIMURA Zenbei
12
NIINA Shinzo
142, 143
NIIZU Tatsuzo.
89
NIKKAN HEIMIN SHIMBUN.
9,17
NINOMIYA Kenichi
131
NISHI Kenichiro.
136.163
NISHI Masao.
21
NISHIKAWA Kojiro
7.8.9
NISHHMOTO Takashi,
118, 135
NISHIMRA Kiku jiro
87
NISHIMURA Mariko
35
NISHIMURA Saiki.
24. 150， 154
NISHIMURA Seiichi,
24
NISHINO Kusutaro
97
NISHIO Suehiro
26, 31. 73, 98, 101, 105, 106,
156. 157
NISHIYAMA Naoshi
146
NISHIYAA Nisaburo
49. 159
NISHIZAWA Ryuji.
35.36
NITOBE Inazo
14, 15
NITTA Saburo
93
NITTA Yuzuru
12
NOBUSHIMA Eiichi
16
NOCHI SEIDO K IKAKU DOLEI.
51, 130, 161, 165
NODA Ritsuta
150
NODA Yutaka.
138
NOGUCHI Ei ji
135
NOGUCHI Otomatsu
149:150
NOGUCHI Ryuzo.
87,163
NOLIN RODO TO.
79, 82, 89
NOMIZO Masaru.
105, 162, 165
NOMOTO Yoshimatsu.
147
NOMUR Kichisaburo
64, 121
NOMURA Shigeomi.
24
NONAKA Seishi.
22，90，93
NORO Eitaro (alias OCHI)
30,32.3，170,172
NOSON KOSEI RELLEI
106, 166
NOSON KYODOTAI KENSETSU DOI EI.
51, 52, 72, 161, 165, 166
NOZAK! Sanzo (alias OKANO Susumu).
21，30，32，75，170
NYOZEKAN (see HASEGAW: Man jiro).
NYUGOKU KINEN LIUSEIFU KYOSAN
11
-0-
OB.1 Kako
16
OB T Kinichiro.
129
OBAT/ Tatsuo (alias FURUKA).
35,172
OBE Hideo....
122
OFUDE Eita
82
OG S W.RA Yoshimatsu
142
OGATA Eizo
120
OGAWA Heikichi
60:63
OGAWA Kiichi
119。 126
OGIWARA Atsuo.
22,90
OGIW.RA Yoshinori.
81
197

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.97)
OGURI Keitare.
113
OGUSHI Masami.
35.
OHARA Masatada
238
OHASHI Harufusa.
24,117
OHASHI Koichi.
89
OHASHI Saburo.
127
OI Narimoto.
138
OIKE Yoshio.
24.97
OISHI Hiroshi.
114, 130, 142, 143, 145
OISHI Seinosuke
8. 10. 12
OISHI Toshinori
142, 143.
OIZUMI Kenzo (alias KIT ANO).
55, 168, 172
OKA Chiyohiko.
16
OK: Masami
145
OKA Tei ji.
37
OKABAYASHI Taramatsu
12
OKADA Masao.
93
OKADA SoJ1
22，90.94.162
OKADA Uhei
166
OKAMOTO Eiichiro
12
OKAMOTO Ushisaburo
81
OK MURA Kura jiro
128
OKANO Ryuichi.
145
OKANO Suzumu (see NOZAKA Sanzo).
OKAWA Kenichi.
118, 119
OKAWA Shunei
37. 38. 41, 42. 102, 113, 118, 131
OKAZAKI Kazuo.
89
OKAZAKI Ken.
102, 105, 106
OKI Yuzo
38
OKU Umeo
24.97
OKUBO Toshimichi
125.
OKUDA Sotaro
150
OKUDA Zenichi.
128.
OKUDAIRA Shunzo
131.
OKUDO Tario.
120,122
OKUMYA Takeyuki
7. 9, 11. 12
OKULURA Hidematsu
173
OKUMURA Jinnosuke
.95
OKUNO Kotaro
129
OMICHI Taketoshi
93
OLITYA Tomo ji
162
OMORI Akio
30
OMORI Taneichi
156,158
OMORI Yoshitero (Gitaro)
.22，68，90，92，93
ONISHI Ryotaro
89
ONISHI Tetsuo.
93
ONISHI Tosuo
162
ONO Kenichi.
142, 143, 145
ONO Shozo.
93
ONO Takeo.
140
ONO Teruyuki
132
ONOBE Hideo.
125
OSAKA HEIMIN SHIMBUN
90.11
OSAKA MAINICHI SHILMBUN
(see OS.KA Daily Newspaper).
24, 64。 121, 133
OSAKA SHIDEN JIJO KAI.
82.
OSHMA Ei ji.
3.43
OSHINODA Tetsuo.
93
OSUGI Sakae.
9. 12，15. 16, 17, 18
OTA Hiroshi.
150
OTA Iwao
125
OT KE Kanichi.
44.
198

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.96)
OTSUKI Masaaki
116. 135. 137
OUCHI Hyoe
93
OWAKI Matsutaro
81
OYA Shozo.
48, 128, 149. 150, 155, 156,
157, 160
OYAMA Ikuo
14， 15. 24， 37. 83. 89. 95. 97.
107, 111
OYAMA Unojiro.
131
OYE NO TAD.FUSA.
55
OZAKI Hozumi
52,69. 72
OZAKI Seikichi
84
OZAKI Shiro.
38
OZAKI Yukio.
65. 122
OZAWA Michi.
173
OZAVA Takeo.
35
OZEKI Hisanatsu.
150
- P-
Profintern
23, 24，30，32. 33，47. 150. 154
- R -
Redesdale, Lord.
54
Reconstructed Communist Party
171
REIMEI KAI
15.38
RIN Shonan
35
RODO KUILIAI DOI EI KAI.
16, 17
RODO KUMIAI NKYU KAI
16
RODO KULILAI ZE KOKU DOIEI.
155
RODO NOMIN TO.
25，26，27，37，49.57，58，80,
84,85,87.88,89.91,94，95，
155, 175
RODO SHIMBUN
154
RODO UNDO SHA.
18
RODO ZENKOKU DOLEI
160
ROKKAKU Saburo
138
RONIN KAI.
14
RONO
22, 23, 90， 91
RONO BENGOSHI D.AN.
31
RONO H
21, 22, 23, 25, 29, 67, 68, 76,
79, 81, 87, 89, 90, 91, 92, 150,
152, 162, 167, 168
RONO HA KYOJU GURUPU
23, 91, 92
RONO LUS. N KYOGI K I
67，68，79。80，93
RONO SHA
80
RONO SHUGI
22.90
RONO TAISHU TO
79, 87, 94, 95, 111
RONO TO.
27,47,50,79，89，93，94,95.
97, 104, 107, 111, 152, 167, 175
RONO TO SHIJI REMEI
58
Roosevelt.
144
ROSO KI
38
ROY.M: Masamichi
.81
SAEKI Shotei
138
199

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.95)
S.G. RA Masayuki.
117
SHR: Yasuji (alias KGWA)
172
S.H.SI Naomas.
122.124
SuIGO Takahide
122
S..IGO Takamori
125
S. IKO Mankichi
(see KIYOH R. Kazutaka).
S.IONJI Kimmochi. Prince
8
S.ITO Dokan
143
S.ITO Hideo....
145
S.ITO Hisao.
21
S.ITO Isamu.
157
SAITO Kane jiro
S.ITo Kiyoshi.
131, 133
S.ITO Makoto
118
SAITo Naomiki.
117
S.ITO Takao.
47, 49, 69, 106, 151, 156
S..ITO Takeya
128
SAK.I Toshihiko.
8, 9, 12, 19, 20,21, 22, 23,
32，38,83，89.90，91.92,
93, 102. 107. 108, 170
SAKKIBO Seitchi
10, 12
S.KOTO Kozaburo.
42, 48,83,84,87, 140, 141,
152, 153
S.KMOTO Seiichiro
89
SAK MOTO Seima
12
S.KIS.KA Itsuro.
68.93
S. INBETSU KLIGI (See ZEN NIION SANGYO
BETSU RODO KUML:I K.IGI)
SANGO K.I.
38
SANGYO BETSU RODO KULL.I
24.154
SANGYO HOKOKU I.
47.49，158
SANGYO HOKOKU KAI (SeO DAI NIHON
SANGYO HOKOKU KI)
S.NGYO HOKOKU KUR.BU
148， 156, 158
SANGYO HOKOKU REMMEI
49. 115, 148, 149, 153, 158,
159
SANG YO HOKOKU UNDO
41, 48， 151, 153, 156。 158.
159
SANO Fumio
21,22,24.29,170,171
SANO Hiroshi
19, 171
S0 Kesami.
24,97
SANO Manabu.
19，20，21，22,27，28，29，
31. 44. 45.53.89. 170.171
SANO Yoshio.
140. 153
SANROKU JOHO
138
SANROKU KUR.BU
112, 114, 137, 138
SANROKU SHA
138
SAS.I Itcho.
42, 127。 128, 134, 135, 140.
141147
S.SIKI Dogen
12
SASAKI KOzo.
93.162
SiSAKI Seizo
81.92.93
S.SiKI Takamary
31
SATAKE Haruki.
1050162
S.TAKE Shinichi.
S.TO Hideichi.
150
SATO Kiyokatsu (Lt.
60
SiTO Matazo.
145
S/TO Moriyoshi
136
SiTO Santaro
57. 59
S.TO Tetsunosuke
166
STO Yoshikume
145, 163, 164
200

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.96)
S.TSUMA Yuji.
142. 143
SLWADi. Ken.
25
Second Communist Party.
170
SEIJI KKUGHIN KYOGI K.I.
134
SEIJI MONDAI KENKYU KAI
24.25.97
SEIJITEKI JIYU KKUTOKU RONO DOMEI.
95
SEIKE Toshizumi
31
SEINEN NIHON DOMEI.
130
SEINEN TO SIIDO GENRI ZU.
119
SEISEI JUKU
124
SEISHIN JUKU.
124
SEITO JIKEN
133
SEITO RODO KUMLI
106
SEITO RODO SODOMEI.
87.88
SEIYUKAI.
4. 15, 18， 37， 53, 64， 65.
71, 74, 104, 120, 122, 123
SEIYUK.I Cabinet.
14. 15
SEKI Matsu.
30
SEKINE Etsuro
31
SEKINE Gumpei
143
SEKIE Kishiro.
149,150
SEKINE Shigetaro.
142
SEKIYA Hiroshi.
84
SEKIYA Ko ji
127
SEKIYAMA Shigetaro
145
SENKU
23. 91
SENYU
60
SERIZAA Hyo
93
SHL.K.I HYORON
23, 91
SHJAI KYO IKU KENKYU JO
42
SHAKI MINSHU TO.
7,26, 27, 31, 37, 42, 43,
49.50，73，74。76，77.79，
80,97, 98, 101, 102, 104,
106, 107, 108, 111, 135, 139,
140,152,153,155,156,160,
164,175
SHLAKAI MOND.I KENKYU.
14
SiL.KAI SHIMBUN.
9
Sak.I SHUGI.
SHK.I SHUGI KEIKYU
8
SHIAI SHUGI KENKYU KA
7, 10, 11
SHL.I SHUGI KYOKAI
7.8
SH.KAI T.ISHU TO
27. 43. 44, 47, 49, 50, 51。
58, 65, 67, 68, 69, 73, 74。
76， 79, 80, 81, 91， 93， 102,
104, 106, 108, 122, 123, 139.
144, 151, 152, 153, 155, 156,
157, 159, 160, 162, 164。 175
SAK.I TO.
7
SHLKUYANIN DOLME
80,87
SH/MOTO Teizo
129
SHIB.. Teikichi
8,37
SiIB.TA Kazuo
166
SIIB.TA Sueharu
30
SHIBATA Toratar
160
SHIB..YAM Mitsur
122, 125
SHIBUSAWA Eiichi
159
SHICHISEI GIDAN
37
SHIGA Naokuta
138
SilIGa Taeko.
31
SHIGA. Yoshio.
31。74
SHIGEMORI Hisaji.
157
SHIMGAI Zengoro
157
201

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.97)
SHIMANAKA Yuzo
16, 24. 25. 42, 97, 102, 126.
129..140. 143
SHIMANE JTYU MLNSHU TO
80.82.85
SHIMANOUCHD. Kunthiko
131
SHIMIZU Sncichi,
173
SHIMIZU Yoshitaro.
143
SHIVONAKA Yasaburo
25, 42. 43. 48. 119, 140
SHIMPEIT AI JIKEN
63, 65. 113, 146
SHEMPO TO.
74.76
SHINDO Kan ji
97
SHINDO Kazuma.
30,142143
SHINHEIMIN
53 56.
SHINJIN KAI.
15, 16, 17. 155
SHIN NIHON KENSETSU DOMEI
44, 63, 112, 128, 139, 140
SHIN NIHON KENSETSU KODO TAI.
139
SHIN NIHON KOKUMIN DOMEI
43, 44, 48, 63, 112， 117. 132, 134,
140, 141, 153
SHIN NIHON SHIMBUN
141
SHINOZAKI Kazumori
87.
SHIN RONO TO
95
SHIN SHAKAI
38
SHINSHU TAISHU TO.
8082.85
SHIN TAISEI.
69.72
SHNTO .
1440-146.
SHINTO JUMBI KT
157
SHINTO SHA
344
SHINYU KAI
15.16
SHIODEN Nobutaka
138
SHIOYA Keiichiro
120
SHIRAI Tameo
325
SHIR-KAWA KAI.
5152166
SHIRAMIZU Katsuoki.
59
SHIRMTORI Hirochika.
48, 136, 149, 150, 155, 156,
158, 160
SHIR.TORI Toshio
146
SHIRAYANAGI Shuko.
98
SHODA Hideo.
164
SHOSHIN KAI.
16
SHOWA JUKU
51,52
SHOWA KENKYU KAI
51:52,72.166
SODA Kiichiro.
15
SODA Shinkichi
129
SOMA Ichiro.
171
SONODA Shizuo.
133
SORGE, Richerd
36
SOSA Tanet sugu
131
SUDO Junji
129
SUENAKA Kanzaburo.
153
SUETSUGU Nobumasa....
144
SUGAI Kaiten
82
SUG. NAI, Capt..
29
SUGANO Suga.
10. 11, 12
SUGIHARA Katsumi
173
SUGIMORI Jiro.
93
SUGRA Kotaro.
7.8
SUGITA Shogo
42, 128, 140
SUGIUR: Keiichi.
31, 171
SUGIURA Takeo.
142143:145
SUGIYAMA Motojiro.
23 24; 25: 49， 86, 87.91.102,
105, 107, 108, 130, 150, 162, 163,
165166167
SUGIYALIA Oki jiro .
134
202

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.95)
SUGIYAMA Shigemaru
133
SUGIZAKI Kunitaro.
15
SUIHEISHA.
.53. 56. 58. 60, 74
SUIHEISHA RODO NOMIN TO SHIJI REMEI .
SUIHEI UNDO.
57
SUMIKAVA Hideo
166
SULTYAMA Shiro
166
SUNAGA KO.
25.89, 84, 86,102. 105, 162, 165
SUNAMA Ichiro.
171
SUYAMA Tokutaro.
.66.116, 118. 134, 135, 137, 149
SUZUKI Bun ji
12。 13.. 24, 26, 31. 49, 73. 98.
101, 102, 105, 106, 130, 151.
155€ 156, 163 164, 165
SUZUKI Et su jiro.
156，158.160
SU UKI Genju (Motoshige)
.95..150. 157
SUZUKI Kisaburo.
74
SUZUKI Kitaro.
121
SUZUKI Masa ji.
35.36
SUZUKI Masashi (Shoshi).
36
SUZUKI Mosaburo.
23，-23，24.68.69,73.80,87.
90. 91. 92, 93, 97. 107. 154
SUZUKI Shogo
145.
SUZUKI Zenichi
65. 120, 121, 122
-T-
TABI Kenji.
95, 107, 152, 153, 154
TAD.1 Katsuji
32
TADOKORO Teruaki
87.107
TADOKORO Tokiki
2021
THARA Haruji.
60。105.162,165
TAI Hiroshi
132
TAI Tameshichi (alias SUGIYAMA).
30,172
TAIKA KAI.
1.8
TAIRIKU KOKA SEINEN DAN.
120
TLISEI YOKUSAN KAI
46. 51, 62, 71, 72, 73, 106, 120,
124, 125, 127. 144, 145, 165, 166
T.LISHU SHA
16.38
T.IYO DAI NIHON.
118
T..JIMA Masakuni.
141
T KAB.T.KE Motoyuki.
1216，3738.82
T. KADA Toyoki.
129, 131
TAKAD& Yukimatsu
150
TAKAGI Kemnyo.
10..12
TAKAHASHI Chotaro
87
TAKAH:SHI Chusaku.
140,141
TAKAHASHI Hideo.
166.
TAKAHASHI Kamekichi
24，25.32,86，97.108
T.KAHASHI Masao.
.23.91.93
TAK4HASHI Sadaki
57
T.KAHASHI Seiichiro.
.15
T.KAHASHI Sei jiro.
128
TAKAHASHI Tokikichi
129
TAK.HISHI Wataru
156.158
T.KAHASHI Zenjiro.
35
T. K. MURA Koichi.
150
T. KANO Iwasaburo
74:102, 106,107,108, 156
TAkANO Minoru.
22, 47, 90， 92, 93, 153， 154.
157160
T.K.NO Seiichi
89
T.K.NO Take ji.
21.
203

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.97)
TAKAO Heibei
38
TAKASE Kiyoshi
19, 20
TKASE Shigeki
20,21
TAKATA Tamotsu
31
TAKATSU Seido (Masamichi).
15. 16, 19, 20, 21, 68, 73, 81,
92,93
TAKATSUGI Noboru
126.136
TAKAYA Kakuzo.
334.173
TAKAYMA Chieko.
173
TAKAYAMA Hikokuro
125
TAKAYAMA Hiromichi
131
TAKAYAMA KyuZo
49. 135, 140, 153, 159
TAKEDA Kakujiro
89
TAKEDA Kuhei
12
TAKENAMI Masayoshi
132
TAKEUCHI Gungi
172
TAKIGAWA Sueichi
136
TAKIZaWA Ippei
142
TAKO Shinichiro.
132
TAKUNO Dempu
120
TAMAN Kiyoomi.
98, 101, 102, 105, 106, 175
TAMETO Goro.
24. 97, 102
TAMURA Daishu.
16
TAIURA Hidekichi
136
TAMURA Kan ji
82
TAN. BE Munehide.
72
TANABE Osamu
145
TAN AHASHI Kotora
15, 65, 87, 155, 160, 162
TAN.HASHI Sadao.
89
TANAKA Giichi.
97
TANAKA Kiyoshi
10
TANAKA Kunishige
131, 132, 133
TANkA Saiko
35
TANAKA Seigen.
29，32，171
TANAK Teikichi.
153
T.N.K: Toshikatsu.
157
TANAK Yoshio.
145, 162
T.NAKA Yotatsu
142, 143, 145
TANIGUCHI Neohei (alias NUMA).
172
TANKO KAI.
66
TARUI Tokichi.
7
TATEKAWA Yoshitsugu.
114, 118, 119
TATSUI Shiro .
149
TAWARA Tsugio.
44，139
TAZOE Tetsu ji.
9
TEIKOKU NOKAI.
71
TEIKOKU ZAIGO GUNJIN KAI
138
TEIYU DOSHI KAI.
135,136,155
TER AD.A Ine jiro .
72
TERAJIMA Soichiro.
85.162
TERAMOTO Masao
132
TERAOKA Daisuke
142
TERASHILMA Shinzo
157
TERAUCHI
116
TERAYAMA Zenkichi.
82
TESHIMA Goki
117
TETSUDO JUGYOIN KUMIAI
41
TOA GAKUSEI REIMEI
144
TOA KENSETSU KOKUMIN DOMEI
133
TOA REMMEI KYOKAI.
144
TOBIMATSU Yojiro
12
TODA Tadayasu.
131
204

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.95)
TODA Yoshimi.
142. 143
TODOROKI Marizo
114, 129. 198
TOGANAU Takeshi
245
TOGO Kichitaro.
131.
TOHO DOSHI KAI.
145, 146, 147
TOHO KAI.
50, 51, 67, 69, 104. 112, 125,
130, 141, 142, 143, 144. 145.
146. 147, 162, 164
TOHOKU KOKOKU NOLIN REIMEI.
115
TOJO Cabinet.
144. 145..146.
TOJO Hideki
126146
TOKEI KO KUAI
17
TO KCNSETSU SHA
30
To Kiyoshi.
136
TOKORO Takuo.
132.
TOKUDA Eiji
150.
TOKUDA Kyuichi.
19..21,22.27,28.29.30.
31.. 32, 74, 170. 171
TOKUDA Soichiro
122.124
TOKUGAA.
56..58
TOMGAA Yoshichika
59..131, 133
TOKUNAGA Shoho.
156, 157
TOKUSHU BURAKU.
56
TOKUTCMI Tichiro.
46. 143, 144
TCKYO Bay Seamen's Association.
121
ToKYO Bay Steamship Company
121
TOKYO GASUKO KUILAI
47, 151
TOKYO KISHA RELEI.
31
TOÍYO KOTSU RODO KULLAI
93
TOKYO RODO KULLAI DOI EI KAI
16
TOKYO RODO UNDO DOMEI
16
TORYO Seanan's Union.
121
TORYO SHIDN JICHI AI.
82
TOYO SHI JUGYON KULLAI.
93
TORYO UNIT RIAN KYOKAI.
155
TOl. Keizo..
157
TOMIYA Masaichi
129
TOLIYOSHI Eiji.
105.106. 162
TORIUI Atsusuke.
22.90，93
TORIY.MA Yoshitake.
132
TOTAKI Takeshi.
134
TOURA Shoji .
71
TOYA Masaichi
136.
TOYA Mitsuru.
14,. 122, 125,. 143, 144
TO . 
164
TOYOD. Naoshi
21
TOYOHR. Uta.
173
TOYORMMA itaro
93
TOYO KE I S. PO.
33
TOYO SHI TO.
7.
TSUPAKI Shigeo.
93
TSUF.I Yoshio.
122
TSUBALE KI
57
TSUBOI Senjiro.
83.153
TSUCAIYA Hideo.
3.0
TSUJII Taminosuke
19. 20. 21, 93, 170
TSUKL KOSHI Sho.
129
TSUKTO Juso.
105.
TSUK MOTO Sankichi.
93
TSUKUI Tatsuo
38. 42. 64, 66, 113, 120, 121,
130, 134, 135
TSUNETSUGU Toyoo.
129
TSUNOD. Tamotsu
134
TSURU Kazuo
89
205

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.97)
44.139
TSURUOKA Sadayuki.
TSURUSHIMA Saburo.
130
TSUTSUMI Midori
173
- U -
14, 63, 65, 120, 122
UCHIDA Ryohei.
UCHIDA Sakuro.
16
DCHIYAMA Gudo.
10, 11, 12
UDANO Kisaburo
136
UEDA Kotaro.
16
UEDA Kotoichi.
83
UEDA Otoichi
24
UEHARA Kurazo.
81
UEKI Kansho.
132
UEMATSU Remna
114
UESUGI Shinkichi
38, 113
UGAKI.
115
UJIWARA Ichiro
145
UMEYAMA Mitsuo
122
UMEZU Jisaku
136
UINAMI Tasaburo
128
UNO Hirozo .
93
URABE Mototaro
15
URATA Takeo.
19, 20, 21, 170
USAMI Katsu ji.
128
USUKI Ho ju
145
UTSUNOMIYA Yoshihisa
119, 149
WADA Bentaro
143
WADA Iweo.
17
WADA Misao
102
WADA YoSaji (alias KINOSHITA).
173
WAK.MATSU Rei.
173
WAKATSUKI Seisaku.
89
W.AKDMURA Yoshitaro
23, 91，93
W.KUG. MI Ro jin
145
WANG
69
W.ASHINO Hayataro
117
WATANABE Kiichi.
128
WATANABE Kishimatsu.
142, 143, 145
WATANABE Masanosuke.
19, 21, 22, 28, 29, 32, 154,
170,171
WAT NABE Mitsuzo
17,20。21
WAT NABE Ryozo
131, 133, 134
WATANABE Sakichi
30
WATANABE Sen
102, 162
WAT.NABE Sosuke.
172
WATANAB Shusaku
145
WATANABE SOZO.
93
WATANARE Tadeo
142:143
WAT NAE Tei....
138
WAT AN.ABE Tetsuzo
15
WAT.ANABE Toshinosuke
102, 157
WAT. NABE Yasukuni.
142.143
WATANABE Yoshihisa
104
206

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.95)
- Y-
YABE Shu .
38, 113
YABE Teiji
72
YABUMOTO Masayoshi
118
YABUSHITA Daikichi
81
YAMABANA Hideo
93, 152, 154, 157
YAMADA Guntaro
131
YAMADA Hideo
131
YAMADA Koji
166
YAMADA Tetsukichi.
101, 106
YAMADA Ushitaro.
37
YAMAGAMI Takeo
87.166
YAMAGOE Ryu. . .
36
YAMAGUCHI Gizo 
9
YAMAGUCHI Shinji
172
YAMAGUCHI Tsune jiro.
156, 158
YAMLAKAWA Group 
90
YAMA KWA Hitoshi.
9. 12, 17, 19, 21, 22, 23.
67, 76.89，91，92，93
YAMAKAW.. Shugi
22,90
YAM KWA Sohin
102
Y.OTO Bonji
59
YAMMOTO Kamejiro.
42, 102, 116, 135, 140
YALMOTO KenZO
19,21.30.32.33
Y.MMOTo Masaoshi
30.32
YAMAMOTO Nao jiro
107
Y.MMOTO Naoyoshi (alias YOSHII)
172
YALMOTO Ryusuke
136。149
YMOTO Senichi
122
YMAMOTO Senji
26，27，31，37，89，95
YAMAMOTO SinZo.
132
YAMAMOTO Tatsujiro
149
 Tomooshi
150
YAMNA Yoshitsuru.
84，85，87，135，149
YN K Akimitsu.
87
YAM.N.K4 Takeo
163
YN.SHI Hanzo.
63
YAMNE Goichiro.
37
YE Gonzaburo
85
YNOUCHI Fusakichi
81，92，93
YAMANOUCHI Ryo
142
YAMSHIN Bin.
118
YAMASHIT. Ei ji
149
YAMSHIT. Heiji (alias 7.T.N..PE)
172
YAMSHITA Kihachiro.
129
YM SHITA Ryusuke.
149
YAMATO HOKOKU K.I.
58
YALATO LUSUBI.
112, 128, 147
YA.Z/KI Kazuo
24,97
YM.ZnKI Kenji
105, 107, 162, 166
Y.MZAKI Kesaya.
17. 31, 42, 84,102,107, 128
YAMAZ.KI Tsunekichi
67, 134， 135, 152
YMZUAI Shinichi.
145
YANASE Shoroku
32
YiO Kisaburo
149,150
YAOITA Tadashi
162
Y.SUHIRA Shikaichi
47, 81， 92, 93, 153, 154, 157.
160
YASUI Kiyotáka (alias MTSUDA)
172
Y.SUI Yoshinosuke.
131
YSUJIM. Takayuki.
152
YAWAT Hakudo.
120,122
207

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.95)
YOK& KAI
147
YOKO/A A/ATA 
17
YOKOO Saburo
166
YOKOTA Koichi.
82
YOKOTA Yoshishige.
93
YOKOYA: M sao
35
YOKOYAM Shinichi.
36
YOKUSAN SEIJI KAL
73; 74; 128, 130, 145, 147.
175
YOMIURI SHIMBUN.
12
YOMOGID. Takeshi
30
YONAI Mitsumasa.
66123
YONEKUBO Mic hisuke
73:151
YONEMUR4 Chotaro
136
YORITA Haruo
150
YOROZU CHOHO Newspaper
60
YOSIIDA Cabinet.
92
YOSHIDA. Hideo.
166
YOSHID Kenichi.
84.87,162
YOSHIDA Masuzo
65, 66, 122, 123, 125
YOSHIDA Shoin.
51
YOSHIDA Tada ji
17
YOSHIKAA Bumpei
128
YOSH IKWA Morikuni
17.20, 21, 22, 90,93. 102
YOSHIKAWA Sue Jiro.
42
YOSHI Ryuji.
138
YOSHIMOTO Masayoshi.
118
YOSHINO Meijigoro.
132
YOSHINO Sakuzo
14.15,25.38，98
YOSHIOKA Yasuichi.
163
YOSHITINI Yoshiji.
130, 142, 143. 165
YOSHIZWA. Gen,
127
Young, Morgan.
10, 17. 48, 159
YUAI KΛI
120 13. 14. 15. 16， 24. 46
YULI KYOKL
46
YUASA Kurahe i.
66。123
YUBEN.
65。122
YUI Genichi
145
YUKIM.SA Chozo
162
YURA Taichiro.
164
YUZON SHA
118
ZAIGO GUNJIN DAN
39
ZEN EI SA.
17
ZEN Ke inosuke.
159
ZENKOKU LINSHU TO.
79，87，101，106，108
ZENKOKU NOMIN KUMLAI
49, 50, 93, 161, 162, 164。
166,.167.168
ZENKOKU RODO KUMLI DOIMEI.
47. 48, 91, 148， 149, 150.
151, 155, 158, 160
ZENKOKU RODO KUMLAI K.IGI.
49
ZENKOKU RONO T.ISHU TO
27，42，43。47，48，64，79。
93. 97, 102, 108, 111, 121,
139, 140, 152. 153, 160, 167.
175
ZENKOKU SAGYO DANT.I RENGO KAI.
49, 159
ZENKOKU SUIHEISH..
57, 60， 106
ZENKOKU SUTHEISH. HIROSHIMKEN RENGO.
KI.
ZENKOKU SULHEISHA. JIYU SEINEN RE MEI . . 57
208

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.96)
ZENKOKU SUIHEISHA KYUSHU RENGO KAI. 57
ZENKOKU SUIHEISHA MUSANSHA DOMEI. 57
ZENKOKU SUIHEISHA SEINEN DOMEI...
57
ZENKOKU TAISHU TO.
27, 50, 79, 87, 94, 107. 108.
111, 175
ZENKOKU YUWA DOLEI RELMEI.
57
ZEN NIHON NOMIN KUIAI (I)
25, 49, 50, 161, 162, 164, 166,
167
ZN NHON NOMIN KUMAI (II).
49, 50, 87, 161, 164, 167
ZEN NIHON NOLIIN KUNIAI DOLEI
25, 26, 49, 50, 81, 161, 167
ZEN NIHON RODO SODOMEI.
105, 155, 156, 158, 159, 160
ZEN NIHON SANGYO BETSU RODO KUMIAI
KAIGI. 75. 76
ZENNO ZENKOKU KAIGI.
50, 161, 167, 168
ZENNOO Zenshirc.
24. 150, 154, 171
ZENRO TOITSU ZENKOKU KAIGI
47, 91, 148, 153. 154, 160
ZENSHIN (Forward March).
23.91
209

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
DISTRIBUTION
War Department
15
Commander-in-Chief
C/S
D/C/S SCAP
D/C/S FEC
1
AC/S, G-2
5
G-2 Theater Intell Coordinator
3
G-2, W.D. Intell Coordinator
3
G-2, CIS
10
F/S Section
2
Government Section
1
Civil Information & Education
12
Diplomatic Section
10
Int'l Prosecution Section
10
Legal Section
10
Natural Resources Section
1
COMNAVFE
2
FEAF
2
Central Intelligence Group
10
CG STAFF College
5
War College
4
Infantry School
4
G-2, CIS, File
14

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.86)
Form DS-302
(7-2-46)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
Office of
INCOMING TELEGRAM
FAR EACTERN AFFAIRS
Asiisa
NA
1947
FE
Dapartment  Stata
Inta
UN
PLAIN
GA
HA
Contrel 4548
Ac
P1
InYor
92
SEA
Roc d Juce 13, 1947
1046m.
A-B
SA/
LUR
BROM: MOSCOW
SPA
OOD
To  Seceatery of state
CIG
DC/1
w27 2134. Tha seeath
FC
010
"ZvesfiA  so le se interatlonel shomee by obeereer
PF.
"eudeclcun elly  sp miliserists" attacks Japanese
894.00/
DO/R
FoRmiw Aahide fer suggesting Kuriles be returned to
Jepas sad that Japes sheuld meictein cwn armed forces.
Summary Pollowe
Thare is mcthing surprisiug is fect Ashide for long
moathpiece yapanese wili erisn, sheula have remeined
true to has opint sae
c y people whe wlsh decoive
world pubats opintee can  mi itartsts whe have
cot bsen aisarmed.
"de accruts
Audecloue cally fshide ss logtcel consequenco vieletlon
5
of Potsdem Decleresics  gical corsequecce polley
which le being pursued by cssupeties suthoritiee in
Japan smd whieh me wee o posaible tar Ashide osd hia
aike to make deel evetsrs wh eh ere hssti to te Alalee.
Dept rapent Tokye
Pawsea by Deyt
AB
FILED
(X)
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THISTOTYAMUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WIT
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.94)
A
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DIVISION OF
NORTHLET ASIAN AFFARS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
FROI
830
5.
LONDOI.
DATED July 28, 2947
COTFIDENTIAL
RECD.
Ang. 7, 1947
1:44 P
3
894.00/7-2847
LAF
Seoretary of State
ACTION EUR
INFO
DO/R
Washington
8/3
A一
A-1655, July 28, 1947
BA/M
OOD
1. Tomlinson, who has besn aoting Head,, Japaneze
and Paoifio Department, the Foreign Office for the
A-A
past two weeks, has informed us that atepe are in prep-
FO
aration for the despatoh of a further Parliamentary
ESP
Mission to Japan during the Parliamentary reoess vhich
is soheduled to begin August 9th. Presont plans on-
visage the despatch of a five-man miusion somposod of
members of tho House of Commons to inveetigate condi-
tions in Japan. The mission, it appears, is to leave
74
Britain in the latter part of August Names of pros-
peotive members of the mission mentioned by Tomlinson
were those of the Reverend G. Lang. Labor i.P. for
Stalybridge and Hyde, and John Paton, Labor M.P. for
I.orwich.
2. According to Tomlineon, the decision to des-
patch the miasion steme in largo part from a suggestion
made by Goneral LacArthur to Gascoigno, the chief Brit-
ish diplomatic representative in Japan.
3. Pomlinson stated to us that a statement may
be made in Parliament on the subject prior to adjourn-
ment.
4. In view of the woeful lack of information
usually displayed by M.P.s in Parliamentary debates
on Jepan, and in view of the nunoroue unfounded attacke
made
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of áction taken.
CONFIDEITIAL

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.92)
COEFIDTIAL
Page B.
A-1665
July 28, 1947
from London
umde on Amerioan polioy in Japan (ueually staming from
an uninformed or a dootrinnaire Socialist approsch) in
reeant monthe, we are atrongly of the view that the
United Sta les Government would be well advieed to wel-
come the vis't of the proposed Britiah Parliamentary
Liasion to Japan, For, if it does nothing olse, the
visit of the M.F.s to Japan is likely to oontribute
to more enlightened discussion of Japanose probloma
in the Conmmons, and in that way contribute to the en-
lightenment of the British press and public.
CLARK
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tókyo
EFDrUmFRSht/Wg
COEFIDE.TTAL

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.94)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE -DIVISION OF CONMUNCATIONS AND
OFFICE
OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
HESSAGE CENTR
40
CLASSIFILD
AIRGRAL
2404
DEPARTMENI CF STATE
2
FROF: :
:OBCOW
2
ACTION:XUR
DATD:
August 5, 1947
INFO:
DC/R
RC'D: August 19, 10:47
U-E
3ecretary of State
A-A
Jashington
894.00/8-547
A-H
FE
A-760, August.5
DC/L
ITP
Red leet of August 2, "Intornal rolisical isution
OCD
CIG
in Japan" by . Idus, states Japanese economy 1s caotic
FC
oving to sabotage of bi business. qually responsible
are shidehara and Yos ide covermonts and J occupation
authoritles. .ata a a over...ent asked  olp of  ritish
Labor Tarty ln  il:i. secilis:. but is dore din cap-
VB
Ital and atto ptic" o pestore  urilcs to Japan ith
approval of : acArthur.
894.52
SI ITU
FSTATE
S ICE
Copy to Tokyo
ALittlo:lyk
AUG 2 8 1947
FILD
SE
PERSRAENT RECORD COPY.—This eegy mest bo returaed to DC/R eontral Mes with netlen of aedlen takon.

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT'OF STATH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
PLATW
7-N
Actic
Offioeof
Control 5027
Info:
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
s/8
AUG 161947
Roc'd August 16,19
A-B
DIRECTOR
A-H
SA/M
EUR
FROM 3
Changohun
OD
AUG 1 6 1947
CIG
TO3
Secretary of State
OE
UNNUMBERED
NTMENT OF STATE
PC
NOx
Fifteonth
OTE
PA
Editorie? conwopt CHNG YANG JDI PAO (Kuomintang organ)
DO/R
fifteenth. Tragedy of Jaren caused by imperielism.
Ramsins to be seen whether Japan really repents. Japen
still betreys te past ambiulon and Just---does Japan
Porget the tragic facts? Russia embarking on same
imperielistic road whish roughs tragedy to Japan. Has
ete pot leerhed free hiatory?
Editorial comment Hsn SHiNG PAo (army organ) fifteenth
Amoricen reinstalli g sgrassive, reactionary, ex-cepitalistio.
elomenss in power in Vapsn. Same elements whioh led
Jepeu in aggression now rormulasing end controlling gower
mint. Advise to Anericuny---change control policy. Do
not try help Japenese end use them for cortain designs.
AdvLee to Japanese -lears lesson or history. Do not
allow yourself be usod as cats pew. Don's dream of
next worid wer in which apan will agein rise to firet
rank as.Aslatlc power. Advice to Chinese---do not hold
gruage ageinet the Americans for pro-Japan policy. Amorican
attitude during resistence period, after Mukdon incident
and with reference to contixuetion of supply of war
matorials to Japen during Japenese aggression against
Chine only evidence thet self-interest and not Friond-
ship motiveting Unived States Chine policy. China should
help itself rather then seek help eisewhere. Threat fron
Jepen growlng daily. Pecple must swake.
Sent Department, Nanking, Mukden, Dairen.
AUG 22
C
SIEBENS
FILED
EEC 8CH
1947
PLAIN

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.92)
DO NOT DETACH FROM WHITE COPY
R E C O R D C O P Y
THE ATTACHED VHTTE CORY CF A TELEGRAM OR AIRGRAM
894.00/9-1747
HAS BN DSGATED THE REORD COPT O REPLACE THE YEL-
LOW ACTION COPY WHICH WAS LOT RETUTNED TO THE CENTRAL
RECCRDS BY THE ACTTON OFFICE.
THE COPY LUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
LONDON
8
--00000--
1940

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.99)
INCÓMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION-OE COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
PARTMENT OF
2797
FROM
LONDON
1
A
DATED September 17, 1947
ACTION-EUR
INFO:
RESTRICTED
RECD: Sept. 23, 1947
DC/R
2:30 p.m.
A-A
SA/M
Secretary of State
FE
OCD
Washington
CIG
FC
A-1941, September 17, 1947
OIE
1. Following item from its special correspondent
appeared in today's issue of the Manchester Guardian
under Tokyo date line of September 16, 1947:-
"Great indignation has been aroused in official
British quarters in Tokio by the publication in the
United States Army newspaper 'Stars and Stripes' of
an interview hetween the Japanese Prime Minister, Iir.
Tetsu Ratayama, and Associated Press representatives
hore.
"According to the published account of the inter-
view, r. Katayama states that 'Japan in defeat has
better chance of surviving than victorious Britain,
because the Japanese long ago learned how to tighten
their belts.' Britain, Mr. Katayama said, had begun
her campaign of austerity too late. The tone of r.
Katayama 's remarks as printed was strongly reminiscent
of those Japanese militarists before the war who never
failed to ingist upon tho softness and luxury loving
propensities of the British.
"Japan as opposed to Britain was, Mr. Katayama
said, endeavouring to rebuild her economy without
raising for the time being the living standards of
her people. The Japanese had carried out in 1940
many of tho measures which Britain was now trying
to enforce. Britain's victory was costly and the
country was unable to maintain her standards of
living--'Britain will find it hard to regain ground.'
While Britain was seeking to reduce her standards
Japan was able to concentr te on general economio
rehabilitation.
RESTRICTED
This/

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Page 2.
A-1941
September 17, 147
from London
"This afternoon Ir. Katayama denied that he had
made the statements in question, or at least that he
had drawn comparisons between Britain and Japan, but
his denials are considered as being on a par with
those of the Minister Mr. Ashida last June over the
Japanese desire for the return of the Ryukyu Islands
and Kuriles. It is believed that the Britishauthori-
ties will shortly make representations to Allied
headquarters over the publication of the interview."
2. Substantially same item (with few minor dele-
tions) appeared in fairly prominent position in today's
issue of The Times. (Loth newspapers are serviced by
same correspondent in Tokyo.) Thus far there has been
no editorial comnent on above-quo ed item.
3. In view of the implication that could be read
into above-quoted item to effect that SCAp authorities
were remiss in parmitting publication of r. Katayama's
remarks in Stars end Suripes, we have thought it advis-
able to discuss the matter informally with the Japan
and Pacific Department of the Foreign Office. We have
accordingly discussed he issue with acDermot, Head
of that Department. LiacDermot hes toid us that the
Foreign Office's information on the subject is limited
to the account that ap saree in The T mes: but that, if
the item corroctly refiects Brit sh orficial opinion in
Tokyo, the Foreign Office will doubtloss receive e
cabled report in due course. MacDormot has also told
ua that it is Gascoigne's usual practice to take up
controversial question of this rature direct with Gen-
eral MacArthur, and thes Gascoigns will doubtless follow
that practice in this  ase if he feel that represente-
tions are warranted.
DOUGIAS
Copy to U.S. Political Advimar, SoAP. Tokyo
EFDrumright/wg
RESTRICTED

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
DHABTDIPNFCORY
CENTRAL SERVICES
TELEGRAPH SECTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
NA
INCOMING TELEGRAM
EPARTMEREOF STATE
le
PLAIN
Control 5562
Action:
FE
Rec:d Septowber 18, 1947
Info
s/s
8:29 a.m.
A-B
SA/M
FROM:
Moscow
EUR
TO
Seoretary of State
LE
OCD
6
RO
2868, Eighteenth
CIG
4
DO/L
.C
RED STAR September 7 ou Themee of Day by observer
CIE
0
"strongthening of reaction in Japan" stresses failure
PA
F0/R
of Amerioan cccupation authorities , domocratize
6
Jopan. Reaotion aims at gaining control over workers
1
organizetions. Osoupation authorities recently liberated
23 Class A war crimixals. Japaneso reaotion 1s taking
8
edvantage or weak socielist gevormment vo postpono
7
legislation on coal induetry, on insuranae and holp to
7
unemployed. Liberal party organized demonstretiose
against government. Activity of iberals and right
wing demoorats to form pew party end rise of domocratic
mational peasant uniop are evidenee of a tempts to
aplit demoeratio organizations apanese workers re-
gard ney government as wader snuab ef Zaabetsu.
Dopartment pess Tolryo.
EHITH
Relayed
e okye 98/4 9 .(088)
NCB :ME
PLAYM
工

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST SIAN AFFAIRS
Tokyo, Soptembeng49, 1947
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 1288
SUBJECT:
Report by Government Section, GHQ, SCAP
concerning Japanese Ele ctions of April 1947.
The Counselor of Mission has the honor to transmit
under separate cover five copies of a report dated June
20, 1947 prepared by the Government Section of this
Headouarters, concerning the Japanese elections of
April 1947.
894.00/9-1947
It is regretted that the report was not available
at an earlier date.
rE
Enclosures:
Five copies of Government
Section Report, June 20
1947 (by separate cover).
Original and ozalid to Department.
1047 SEP 26 AM 10
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
800
RHBushner:mm
RECEIVED
0
8
A/DE
29

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.99)
THE JAPANESE ELECTIONS
C
April, 1947.
Government Seotion
General Headquarters
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
20 June, 1947

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chap.
Page
I
Introduction.
1
II
Precautions to Insure Demooratio Eleotions.
13
III
Measures to Publicize Elections
45
IV
Political and Campaign Issues
57
V
The Local Elections
69
VI
The National Elections.
74
VII
Women and the Elections
87
VIII
Conclusion
93

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.98)
INTRODUCTION
Signifioanoe of the Eloctions
The New House of Ropresentativos
The New Houso of Couneillors
First Publio Election of Local Executives
First Popular Eleotion of Looal Assomblies
First Publicly Administored Elcctions
Basic Faotors Involved in tho Elootions
Timing of the Eleotions
Publio Intérest in tho Eloctions
Political Battle over the House of
Represontatives Election Law
Mechanios of Elcotions

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.99)
2
INTRODUCTION
The inalienable right to choose and dismiss their public officials
one of the principal guarantees afforded the people of Japan by the new
Constitution.
In anticipation of the enforcement of the Constitution on May 3, 
series of elections was hold in Japan throughout April in which every elee-
tive public office in the land was at stake: local and national, legisla-
tive and executive. Seldom in history have the people of any nation hed
the opportunity, in such brief compass of time and by such a peaceful
process as election, to choose or dismiss the whole of their elective
officials. Certainly never before in Japan---not even at the time of the
Meiji Restoration---had such an opportunity been presented; indeed, never
before had the people even voted for their local executives or for the
Upper House of the Diet.
No elections held to select the first public officials to serve under
a new Constitution could be without deep and abiding interest and signifi-
cance. History is not that forgetful. Above and beyond this, however, at
least five other reasons combined to augment the significance of the April
elections, a series, incidentally, which could not again be held until
1959, if then, in view of the varying terms of the many offices at stake.
These were the first elections for a House of Representatives newly become
"the highest organ of the state"; the first elections for the House of
Councillors; the first popular elections for looal chief executives; the
first popular elections for strong local assemblies; and the first elections
of any type supervised by representatives of the electorate rather than by
the goverrment itself.
The Significance of the Elections
The New House of Representatives
It is indisputable that the Japanese Diet, under the meiji Constitution,
was never comparable in power or influencc with the executive branch of the
government. Even during the 1920's, when there appeared to be a trend
toward the establishment of parliamentary government as it was known in
the Western world, the Diet was nevertheless faced with the reality that
a strong visible and invisible executive branch, uling in the mystio
shadows surrounding the throne, could alvays set at naught any actions
of the Diet. The Diet in effect merely advised and assisted. It did not
initiate policy; it was competent only to apply minor checks.
Within the Diet itself the House of Representatives vas normally con-
sidered the less important of the two Houses. This was emphasized in many
ways. It was provided, for example, that whenever the Emperor appeared
before the Dict the accompanying ceremonies would be held in the chamber
of the House of Peers, with the president of thut body specifically desig-
nated as the presiding officer on such occasions. Furthermore, the House
of Peers was a body the bulk of whose mombers enjoyed the prestige of
either being drawn from the ranks of nobility or of having been appointed
directly by the Emperor. It was, as Prince Ito frunkly charactcrized it,
an assembly of "the higher grades of society," Members of the House of
Representatives, on the other hand, had a court rank even lover than
bureau chiefs in the executive brunch of the government.
Under the new Constitution, the Diet hus now become the "highest organ
of state power" and the "sole lav-making crgan of the State." The cabinet,
in the exercise of executive power, is collectively responsible to the Diet.
Further, through its selection of the Prime Minister, the Diet not only
determines those who are to exercise executive power in the government but
also possesses the power of dismissal over them. The strong position of
the Diet in relation to the judiciary is emphasized by the Constitutional
provision that the Diet "shall set up an impeachment court from among the
members of both Houses for the purpose of trying thoso judges against whom
removal proceotings have been instituted."
Under the new Constitution the House of Representatives has now
emerged as the stronger of the two souses; when the two disagree on a
disputed point, for exmple, specific methods are provided

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.99)
In anticipation of the enf
series of elections was held in Jepan
tive public africe in the land was at stake: looal and
tive and exsoutive. Seldos in history have the
the opportunity, in such brief compass of time and by such
process as election, to choose or diamiss the whole of their el
officials. Certainly never before in Japan---not even at the tis
Meiji Restoration---had such an opportunity been presented; indes
before had the people even voted for their local executives or for th
Upper House of the Diet.
No elections held to select the first public officials to serve under
a new Constitution could be without deep and abiding interest and signifi-
cance. History is not that forgetful.. Above and beyond this, however, at
least five other reasons combined to augment the significance of the April
elections, à series, incidentally, which could not again be held until
1959, if then, in view of the varying terms of the many offices at stake.
These were the first elections for a House of Representetives newly become
"the highest organ of the state"; the first elections for the House of
Councillors; the first popular elections for looal chief executives; the
first popular elections for strong local assemblies; and the firat elections
of any type supervised by representatives of the electorate rather than by
the government itself.
The Significance of the Elections
The New House of Representatives
It is indisputable that the Japanese Diet, under the Meiji Constitution,
was never comparable in power or influence with the executive branch of the
government. Even during the 1920's, when there appeared to be a trend
toward the establishment of parliamentary government as it was known in
the Western world, the Diet was nevertheless faced with the reality that
a strong visible and invisible executive branch, ruling in the mystie
shadows surrounding the throne, could alvays set at naught any actions
of the Diet. The Diet in effect merely advised and assisted. It did not
initiate policy; it was competent only to apply minor checks.
Within the Diet itself the House of Representatives was normally con-
sidered the less important of the two Houses. This was emphasized in many
ways. It was provided, for example, that whenever the Emperor appeared
before the Dict the accompanying ceremonies would be held in the chamber
of the House of Peers, with the president of that body specifically desig-
nated as the presiding officer on such occasions. Furthermore, the House
of Peers was a body the bulk of whose members enjoyed the prestige of
either being drawn from the ranks of nobility or of having been appointed
directly by the Emperor. It was, as Prince Ito frankly characterized it,
an assembly of "the higher grades of society." Members of the House of
Representatives, on the other hand, had a court rank even lover than
bureau chiefs in the executive branch of the government.
Under the new Constitution, the Diet has now become the "highest organ
of state power" and the "sole lav-making organ of the State." The cabinet,
in the exercise of executive power, is collectively responsible to the Diet.
Further, through its selection of the Prime Minister, the Diet not only
determines those who are to exercise executive power in the government but
also possesses the power of dismissal over them. The strong position of.
the Diet in relation to the judiciary is emphasized by the Constitutional
provision that the Diet "shall set up an impeachment court from among the
members of both Houses for the purpose of trying those judges against whom
removal proceedings have been instituted."
Under the new Constitution the House of Representatives has now
emerged as the stronger of the two Souses; when the two disagree on a
disputed point, for example, specific methods are provided whereby the
dedision of the House of Representatives may be ome the decision of the

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.99)
Diet; in no instance, however, may the will of the House of Gou
verse that of the House of Representatives. Other proviviom
this dominance.
all in all, such are these powers in the aggregute that they serve to
raise the House of Representatives to a position of.eminence in Japan whtcn
eventually must compare with that enjoyed by any national representative
body in the world. Election of charter members of this strong new House
thus could not fail to evoke maximum interest among the Japanese electorate
The Ney House of Councillore
Although the former predominance of the House of Peers has been reversed
in the new Diet, the House of Councillors is yet charged with extremely
important responsibilities in the legislative process. It will undoubtedly
exercise a stabilizing influence in the Diet as well as check what other-
wise might constitute impetuous or immature action on the part of the
Representatives. It will be, as Washington saw a second House, "the saucer
under the teacup." Even though the House of Councillors may be overriden
on legislation by a two-thirds vote, it nevertheloss shares equally in the
responsibility of initiating and enacting the nation's laws; in those cases
in which party lines in the House of Hepresentatives cause a fairly even
split on an issue, the House of Councillors will actually assume the role
of the determining body.
In the minds of the Japanese clectorate, furthermore, tho mantle of the
House of Peers as representative of scholarship and learning has now de-
scended on the House of Councillors. Though the House of Councillors will
be representative of all the people and no longer confined to representa-
tion of special interests or chosen occupational or professional fields,
its smaller sise and special character have led to its acceptance as a
body of senior statesmen. This is to be anticipated in an Oriental coun-
try, in which respect for age is ingrained, and especially in Japan, where
the electorate may also seek to invest the House of Councillors with the
prestige formerly attaching to the dissolved Privy Council and other groups
of elder statesmen. Thus it was not unexpected, in March, to find JIJI
SHIMBUN (Tokyo) calling for the clectien to the House of Councillors of nen
who were "mature in experience, noble in character, and thoughtful in
judgment", whose delibcrations would be conducted vith "graceful gravity."
During the same month, SHIN NIPPON (Kycto) urged voters to back "cool
and level headed Councillors who can evaluate politics from a lofty view
point" and who will "not fail to act...whenever they perceive rashness or
excesses in the Lower House."
The dual constituency feature of the House of Councillors, by which
100 members were elected from the nation at large and 150 from the 46
prefectures, was designed to encourage the olection both of individuals
who were well-known locally and of well qualified nationally famous leaders
from all fields of endeavor. In addition, as HOKKaIDO SHIMBUN (Sapporo)
pointed out, the national constituency avoided "much of the danger of
local pressure."
The direct election dual constituency feuture of the House of Council-
lors is a bold experimental venture, decided upon after months of careful
study. It is a system of democratic election for the second House of a
bicameral legislature which is unusual in the field of political science.
The first election for this House was therefore of interest not only to
the Japanese people but as well to scholars and statesmen throughout the
world--for here is a plan which, if workable, might well be transplanted
to other democracies.
First Public Election of Local Exccutives
The April elections provided the Japanese people with their first
opportunity in history to choose local chief executives: 46 governors,
209 city mayors, 10,210 hoads of towns and villages, and 22 heads of Tokyo
wards. In the past all had been chosen by methods which made no proviso
for popular selection or desires; governors were appointed by the Home
Minister; city mayors and town and village heeds were chosen by local
assemblies from lists approved by prefectural governors, and beads of
Tokyo wards were appointed by the governor of Tokyo.

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.99)
The inovitable remut or such a aystem had bem
executives remarkably indifferent to the desires and neede or the people
whom'they sorved.
Governors, for exomple, owed allegiance only to the Home Ministays
trained in blind obedience to Tokyo, their primary duty was to gunrantee
that their prefectures conformed with standards eatablished by the cen
tral government; deviations from the norm were not acceptable.
The practice of requiring continuing approval by governors for chief
exeoutives of towns and villages naturally served to ensure that such
officials would hew to the line in so far as instructions from above were
concerned. In addition, dependent for elections upon local assemblies
which represented an electorate comprising only a segment of the popula-
tion, these executives too frequently developed their own cliques and
machines for patronage and control of local governments. Destitute of
any sense of public service, indiffcrent to the desires of the populace,
such executives in many cases used their positions to becomo minor tyrants
and despots. Instances of mayors who had perpetuated themselves in power
for 20, 30, or 40 consecutive years were not rare in pre-war Japan.
Local government legislation which provided for the popular election
of local chief executives thus marked a sharp break from the past, pro-
viding the Japanese people not only vith their first opportunity in history
to select their local chief executives, but also vith their first oppor-
tunity to establish local governments which would be other than pale re-
fleoticns of centralized authority and over which the voters themselves
could exercise continuing and effective control. Both press and voters
were fully avare of the implications of the election; MaINICHI, for ex-
ample, pointed out that local governments constituted "the foundation of
the central government," that "democratic politics should.be started in
a small way" and that "the reconstruction of Japan will depend on how
our prefectures, cities, towns and villages rise from the ashes."
Popular Election of Local Assemblies
The April elections also represented Jupan's first elections for local
assemblies on the basis of universal sufferage and the first election for
local assemblies in which membership had been much more than an honorary
position. Voting in previous elections was based on linited manhood suf-
ferage with the consequent result that the assemblies normally represented
the most conservative elements of the Japanese people. Membership, however,
meant little in the way of exercise of legislative powers, for ussemblies
met infrequently and were completely dominated by local chief executives.
In effect, therefore, assemblies served merely to provide the fiction of
popular control of legialation.
Recent local government legislation applied vith equal effect to pre-
fectural, city, town, village, and Tokyo ward assemblies. Qualifications
for voting or election were reduced to the simplest common denominator:
20 years of age and 6 months residence in a given locality. Powera of
assemblies were increased sufficiently to guarantee that the executive
and legialative branches of local gcvernments vould be on a plane of
equality and that local legislation would be free fron domination by the
Central Government. No longer would local chief executives be enabled
to count on approval of their wishes by complaisant local assemblies.
No longer would the national government be enabled to revoke the acts of
local assemblies or to require their dissolution. So crsat. therefore,
was the interest generated by this first experiment in local self govern-
ment that it was fully anticipated the rate of abstention fron this elec-
tion would not only be the lowest for any election since universal suf-
frage was instituted in Japan but also one of the lowest for any election
in Japanese history. As MaINICHI pointed out, this represented "the perfect
conclusion" to the month of elections.
First Publicly Administered Elections
Of primary importance was the fact that these were Japan's firat pub-
licly administered elections. In the paet all elections were supervised
in detail by government officials, with the Home Ministry exerclsing con-

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.99)
executives remarkebly indifferent to the desires and neede ot th
whom' they served.
Covernors, for emmple, cwed allegianes only to the Home mint
trained in blind obedience to Tokyo, their primary duty mes to gue
that their prefectures conformed with standards established by the
tral government; deviations from the norm were not acceptable.
The practice of requiring continuing approval by govermors for phiof
executives of towns and villages naturally served to eneure that sush
officials would hew to the line in so far as instructions from abovs were
concerned. In addition, dependent for elections upon local assemblies
which represented an electorate comprising only a segment of the popula-
tion, these executives too frequently developed their own cliques and
machines for patronage and control of local governnents. Destitute of
any sense of public service, indifferent to the desires of the populace,
such executives in many cases used their positions to become minor tyrauts
and despots. Instances of mayors who had perpetuated themselves in power
for 20, 30, or 40 consecutive years wore not rare in pre-war Japan.
Local government legislation which provided for the popular election
of local chief executives thus marked a sharp break from tho past, pro-
viding the Japanese people not only with their first opportunity in history
to select their local chief executives, but also vith their first oppor-
tunity to establish local governments which would be other than pale re-
flections of centralized authority and over which the voters themselves
could exercise continuing and effective control. Both press and voters
were fully avare of the implications of the election; MaINICHI, for ex-
ample, pointed out that local governments constituted "the foundation of
the central government," thut "democratic politics should.be started in
a small way" and that "the reconstruction of Japan will depend on how
our prefectures, cities, towns und villages rise from the ashes."
Popular Election of Local Assemblies
The April elections also represented Japan's first elections for local
assemblies on the basis of universal sufferage and the first election for
local assemblies in which memberahip had been much more than an honorary
position. Voting in previous elections was based on linited manhood suf-
ferage with the consequent result that the assemhlies nornally represented
the most conservative elements of the Japanese people. Membership, however,
meant little in the way of exercise of legislative powers, for assemblies
met infrequently and were completely dominated by local chief executives.
In effect, therefore, assemblies served merely to provide the fiction of
popular control of legislation.
Recent local government legislation applied vith equal effect to pre-
fectural, city, town, village, and Tokyo ward assemblies. Qualifications
for voting or election were reduced t the simplest common denominator:
20 years of age and 6 months residence in a given locality. Powers of
assemblies were increased sufficiently to guarantee that the executive
and legialative branohes of local gcvernments vould be on a plane of
equality and that local legislation would be free from domination by the
Central Government. No longer would local chief executives be enabled
to count on approval of their wishes by complaisant local assemblies.
No longer would the national government be enabled to revoke the acts of
local assemblies or to require their dissolution. So great, therefore,
was the interest generated by this first experiment in local self govern-
ment that it was fully anticipated the rate of abstention fron this elec-
tion would not only be the lowest for any election since universal suf-
frage was instituted in Japan but also one of the lowest for any olection
in Japanese history. As MaINIcHI pointed out, this represented "the perfect
conclusion" to the month of elections.
First Publicly Administered Elections
Of primary importance was the fact that these were Japan's first pub-
licly administered elections. In the past all clections were supervised
in detail by government officials, with the Home Ministry exercising con-
trol on behalf of the Government. The system normally insured faniliarity
with election laws on the part of officials but was subject to criticism
in that election officials frequently showed bureaucratic indifference to
just complaints on the part of tie plecters and in that governnent suner-

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.98)
istration of elections, were chosen b
mittees by the corresponding prefectural essemblie
the corresponding village assemblies, etc. Inmamuch as each
local assembly cast but a single vote in the assembly's election ar
mittee members, committeeswere thus roughly representative of the
complexion of local assemblies and thus of loeal electorates as 
Legislation provided fer separate committees for each eobelon or loeal
government: prefectures, cities, towns, villages, apd Tokyo wards, ith
the prefectural committees exercising general supervision over lesser com-
mittees. Except in the election of members of the House of Councillers.
from the national constituency, where a central committee sits in Tokyo,
no national supervision is exercised over the"prefectural committees,
which are thus subject only to the election laws and the courts.
This essentially local character is further stressed by legal require-
ments that members of any given local committee have the zight to vote in
the specific.local area served by that committee.
All in all, approximately 10,500 election administration committees
were established throughout Japan: prefectural committees had 6 members
each; city, town, village, and ward committees 4 each; and the committee
representing the national constituency of the House of Councillors had
ten. In essence, therefore, with the April elections, control and super-
vision of all Japanese elections was transferred for the first time from
one man--the Home Minister--to approximately 50,000---citizens represent-
ing all shades of political opinion and ell strata of society and all
elected by a free and democratic process.
Basic Factors Involved
Timing of the Elections
Two basio factors influenced the timing of the April elections: the
Constitution and the purge ordinances. In view of the desire of the Japanese
Government to complete all elections prior to the enforcement of the Con-
stitution (May 3rd) this became the limiting date for the termination of
the elections. Further, since enforcement of the purge ordinance indi-
cated the desirability of screening as many candidates as pcssible prier
to elections, the earliest date and order of elections were thus dependent
upon the speed with which screening could be completed. A third, although
minor, complication, was introduced by the Local Government lews, which
required that where elections of local assemblies and of local chief execu-
tives were to be held, those of chief executives should precede and,
further, that neither of these two elections might be combined with that
of the House of Representatives.
Since previous Japanese elections had never involved candidates ror
more than one office at a time, the Home Ministry had originally proposed
separete elections for governors; for mayors and chiefs; for prefectural
assemblies; for town, village, and ward assemblies; for the House of.
Representatives; and for the House of Councillors. When, however, it be-
came apparent that this would then require a total of 8 elections in some
localities, (including run-off elections where leading candidates for
local chief executives failed to receive a required minimum percentage
of all votes cast (37t%)) it was decided to carry: out such doubling up
of elections as was possible according to law. In consequence, decision
was made to combine all elections for local chief executives (whether fer
prefectures, cities, towns, villages, or warde) into one and to do the
same with respeet to local assemblies. Thus the total of regularly
scheduled elections was reduced to four (House of Representatives, House
of Gouncillors, local chief executives, and local assemblies) with a
fifth election day neceseary in those localities in which candidates for
local chief executive failed to obtain the requisite minimum number ef
votos

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.99)
istration
mittess by the correspe
the corresponding villag
local assembly cast but a single vo
mittee members, committeesrere
complexion of local assemblies and
Legislation provided fer separate committees for each eobelon
government: prefectures, cities, towns, villages, and Tokyo wards
the prefectural committees exercising general supervisien over le
mittees. Except in the election of mombers of the House of Counodllare
from the national constitusnoy, where a central committee sits in Tokyo,
no national supervision is exercised over the prefectural committees,
which are thus subject only to the eleotion laws and the gourts.
This essentially local character is further stressed by legal require-
ments that members of any given local committee have the ight to vote in
the specific.local area served by that committee.
All in all, approximately 10,500 election administration committees
were established throughout Japan: prefectural committees had 6 members
each; city, town, village, and ward committees 4 each; and the committee
representing the national constituency of the House of Councillors had
ten. In essence, therefore, with the April elections, control and super-
vision of all Japanese elections was transferred for the first time from
one man--the Home Minister--to approximately 50,O00---citizens represent-
ing all shades of political opinion and all strata of society and all
elected by a free and democratic process.
Basic Factors Involved
Timing of the Elections
Two basio factors influenced the timing of the April elections: the
Constitution and the purge ordinances. In view of the desire of the Japanese
Government to complete all elections prior to the enforcement of the Con-
stitution (May 3rd) this became the limiting date for the termination of
the elections. Further, since enforcement of the purge ordinance indi-
cated the desirability of screening as many candidates as pcssible prior
to elections, the earliest date and order of elections were thus dependent
upon the speed with which screening could be completed. A third, although
minor, complication, was introduced by the Local Government laws, which
required that where elections of local assemblies and of local chief execu-
tives were to be held, those of chief executives should precede and,
further, that neither of these two elections might be combined with that
of the House of Representatives.
Since previous Japanese elections had never involved candidates for
more than ome office at a time, the Home Ministry had originally proposed
separate elections for governors; for mayors and chiefs; for prefectural
assemblies; for town, village, and ward assemblies; for the House of.
Representatives; and for the House of Councillors. When, however, it be-
came apparent that this would then require a total of 8 elections in scme
localities, (including run-off elections where leading candidates for
local chief executives failed to receive a required minimum percentage
of all votes cast (37t%)) it was decided to carry out such doubling up
of elections as was possible according to law. In consequence, decision
was made to combine all elections for local chief executives (whether fer
prefectures, cities, towms, villages, or vards) into one and to do the
same with respect to local assemblies. Thus the total of regularly
scheduled elections was reduced to four (House of Representatives, House
of Councillors, local chief executives, and local assemblies) vith a
fifth election day necessary in those localities in vhich candidates for
local chief executive failed to obtain the requisite minimum number ef
votes
A voter would-thus cast one yote in the election for the House of
Representatives (for a candidate from the district in which he resided);
two votes in the election for the House of Councillors (one for a candidate

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.99)
large); te votes in the eleetion fe
prefectural governor and one, dependent upen wha
town, village, ar ward head), and two votes in the slootd
assemblies (one for a prefectural assemblymen and one fer
for the city, town, village, or ward in which he lived.)
From the outset it was apparent that screening of candidates fer
local assemblies could not be carried out prier to May 3, sinoe approx-
imately a half a millinn purge questionnaires would be involved. It was
therefore decided to hold this election last to make possible prior soreen-
ing for all other elections and then to ensure that all victorious candi-
dates for local assemblies be soreened before the assemblies actually met.
Imperial Ordinance Number 1 of 1947, which applied the principles of
the national purge to local public offices, was issued on January 4, 1947.
As soon as possible thereafter the machinery for enforcement and the
schedule of electiens were prepared. This schedule was as follows:
Local Chief Executives
5 April
Local Chief Executives
(Runoff where
necessary)
15 April
House of Councillors
20 April
House of Representatives
25 April
Local Assemblies
30 April
It was recognized that the program had certain inherent flaws-—-it
called for a concentration of elections which might lead to apathy before
the month was over and it provided not only for the new experience of
voting for previously appointive offices but for the new and probably
confusing experience of voting for two offices at the same time.
As opposed, however, to the overriding limitations imposed by the
enforcement of the Constitution as one fixed date and that of the comple-
tion or near completion of the purge as another, it was felt that these
were essentially minor points. Neither is inherently undemocratic, and
the only possible alternative in avoiding confusion would have been to
have 8 separate election days during the 25 day period. This alternative
was not only undesirable in view of the problem of continued excusable
absence from work which so many elections vould have posed for Japanese
industry and agriculture, but might well have decreased the problem of
confusion for the voters only at the expense of increasing the problem
of apathy as the result of such a large number of clections.
Public Interest in Elections
The far-rcaching historical significance of the April elections has
already been noted from the standpoint of the number of "firsts" involved;
all naturally served to create deep and videspread interest on the part
of the electorate.
Above and beyond these, however, so many other political issues were
at stake that the elections could not have failed to excite wide interest
oven had none of the "firsts" been involved. Tnis exceptional interest
stemmed from a wide variety of sources: the deep public interest in whether
the Social Democrats and Communists would be strong enough to oust the
Liberals and Democrats from power, as had been suggested by a year-long
series of demonstrations and strikes; the uncertain political leanings of
over 4,000,000 enfranchised repatriates, some of whom had undergone politi-
cal indoctrination while avaiting return to Japun; uncertainty as to the
true strength of the Communist party; the fact that these were the first
post-war local elections; and realization that. the elections would be viewed
internatienally as a yardstick of progress toward that revival and strengthen-
ing of democratic tendencies vhich is. a requirement of the Potsdam Declara-
tion.
Demonstrations and strikes throughout 1946 and early 1947, vhich had
culminated in the proposed general strike of February 1, had indicated sub-
stantial dissatisfaction with the Yoshida Cabinet, particularly in respect
to its financial and foodetuffs policies. Although it had long been obvious
that most demonstrations were carefully staged to suggest a degree of

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.99)
that the Cabinet had lost heavily an popular
opinion survey conducted in January by the newspaper
that 45.3 percent of those questioned favored the opposition Social
Democrat Party, more than supported the two government parties combine
To enable repatriates to be integrated as speedily as possible into
Japanese life special provision was made to permit all repatriates ta
vute in national elections without reference to the usual six months remi-
dence requirement. Since many repatriates had undergone political indne-
trination while avaiting embarkation for Japan, and since many had voiced
dissatisfaction with the meagre aid the government bad been able to give
then on their return to Japan, there was some reason to belieye many of
their votes would go to opposition parties. ith approximately 4,000,000
reputriates eligible to vote, out of a total electorate of approximately
40,000,000, it was thus apparent that a close clection could be markedly
influenced by the votes of the repatriates,.
The true strength of the Communist party tas very much a matter of
interest. Hunger and strife make good growing.weather for Communism; since
the inception of the Occupation, vhen thousands of its adherents were freed
from prison cells, the philosophy and its leaders had been given the full-
est liberty and freedom of action in open and fair competition with demo-
cratic forces and beliefs. So certain were the party's leaders of their
crescent strength, for example, that they had freely and confidently pre-
dicted an increase in the number of their Diet seats from 6. to 50.
As the first post-war local government elections, the elcctions on
the 5th and 30th of April were naturally of marked interest as a barometer
cf the extent to vhich liberal tendencies, already evident in the national
arena, had ponetrated into the field of local government. The last major
local gevernment elections had been held in 1939; local assemblies there-
fore still remained strongholds of conservatism in respect to both parties
and tendencies.
The Jupanese press und citizenry were portentously aware of the im-
portance of free and fair elections us one of the significant methods of
achieving the aims of the Potsdam Declaration. It was recognized throughout
Japan that the elections provided such an opportunity as would but rarely
be available for illustrating with dramatic emphasis the emergence in Japan
of at least one of the distinguishing qualities of a democratic state: the
guaranty of fair and impartial electoral processes and procedures. As
MIYaKO NEWS commented on April 28th: "The local assembly elections (April
30) vill close the curtain on a drama which the world has been waiting tc
sce...whether or not Japan is becoming democratic."
Political Battle over H.R. Election Law
Of the several major laws which govern Japanese elections, the most
important is the House of Representatives Election Law, many of whose pro-
visions are applied mutatis mutandis to all other elections for public
office. Any change in the House of Representatives Law thus exercises a
far-reaching effect on all other national and local electiens.
The extent of this influence was well illustrated late in March, when
amendments to the law were under consideration. So bitter was the struggle
which raged in the Diet over the passage of certain amendments that the
April elections were publicized as might otherwise hardly have been possible.
Further, so long did the parliamentary discussions continue, that for a
while it was quèstionable as to whether the law would be passed in time to
insure that texts of the revised law could be forwarded to all election
administration ccmmittees prior to April 5th, the date of the first election
which would be affected by the amended law. Distribution was actually com-
pleted in time, but members of many election administration committees had
all too little time to familiarize themselves with the new legislation.
This, coupled with the fact that this was the first election which the.
Committees had ever supervised, undoubtedly contributed to some uncertainty
on the part of committee members with respect to various legal peints and
to increased reliance upon assistance from governmental officials whe had
a
sorved én previous elections.
7

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.99)
8
The Bill fer Partial Amendment of the House of Representel
Law had been scheduled for passage by a plenary session of the Lower 
on 23 March. Criginal proposed amendments, concerned with such teahni
calities as election administration committees and lifting. of franshi
restrictions, had the support of all political parties. Nevertheless, the
Social Demoorats, the People's Cooperatives, the Communists, and the
Independents held in committee the bill, which had been placed first on
the House of Representatives. agenda, and thus prevented the. House from con-
sessions on the 24th, 25th and 26th, with the same result. The House
Representatives Negotiating Conference (whose decisions required unanimity)
refused to alter the agenda so as to permit other important bills to be
acted upon-separately by the House, and the non-Government parties stead-
fastly refused to allow the Electien Law Bill to be reperted out of com-
mittee. The underlying cause of this impasse was the fact that the Liberal
and Progressive parties had on foot a plan to introduce in the plenary
session of the House a special. amendment of their own which would radically
alter the substance of the Election Law. Specifically, the scheme of the
majority parties was to win committee approval of the uncontested technical
amendments and, following the committee chairman's report to the plenary
session, to introduce and pass, without committee deliberation, an addi-
tional amendment providing for the substitution of the single ballot and
medium-size electoral district for the restricted plural ballot and large
constitutency. These amendments would have increased the number of elec-
toral districts for the House of Representatives from 53. to 117 and would
have limited the number of votes cast by any elector to one, as opposed
to two to three permitted by the old system. The Opposition parties
strenuously objected to these changes, not only because they felt the ma-
jority parties manifested a lack of sincerity by refusing to reveal and
to submit their projected amendments to the committee for discussion, but
also because earlier in the session, when the subject had arisen, the
Government parties had pledged not to propose important alterations in the
Election Law Bill until such time as the House could deliberate them
thoroughly. Both sides appreciated, of course, that the change as such
involved no-contravention of democratic principles, involving merely a
selection between two democratic alternatives.
Having a majority of the votes, plus the strong backing of Prime
Minister Yoshida, Home Minister Uehara and State Minister Shidehara, the
Government parties finally made no secret of their intentions. With no
less determination, the non-Government parties announced that they would
employ every possible parliamentary device to thwart "the trickery and
underhandedness" of the majority parties. If the business of the House
could be held up through 27 March, they reasoned, the session would end
and their purpose would be accomplished.
In the Election Law Committee of 18 members, the minor parties proved
that they werc skilled parliamentarians as well as rough-and-tumble
artists. They consumed 2 days debating their motion to increase the size
of the committee from 18 to 45. At the same time, they introduced and
debated for hours a motion of nonconfidence in the committee chairman,
who had cut short an interpellation being made by a Social Democrat member.
They notified the House that they would introduce a resolution of non-
confidence in the Speaker unless the opposition came out in the open with
the details of its amendment. They announced that they would embarrass
the Government by scheduling lengthy interpellations on all bills placed
on the House. of Representatives agenda and would also introduce and dis-
cuss amendments to all bills. They debated at length on such nonessen-
tials as moving the committee hearings to a larger room and calling for
recesses for lunch, dinner, and party conferences.
.On 27 March, the Cabinet extended the 92nd Diet for 4 days. Simul-
taneously, upon the insistence cf the Speaker, the 5-day deadlock ended
when the Government parties agreed to the Social Democrat demand to de-
liberate in committee all. amendments proposed to the Election Law Bill,
and the Social Democrats in turn, agreed to give up their obstructionist
program and carry on "with sincerity." All factions introduced their
amendments in. plenary session, after which they were fully discussed by.
a new committee of 30 membera.. By a vote of 16 to 14 in the committee,
the Government parties' amendments carried and the amendments of the

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.99)
The Bill for Partial Amendment of tize
Law had been schaduled for passage by a plenmry
on 23 Maroh.eriginal proposed asendment
calities as elaction administration committees and lirti
restrictions, had the support of all political parties.
Social Democrats, the People's Cooperatives, the Commmists, and th
Independents beld in committee the bill, which had been plaoed first on
the House of Representatives. agenda, and thus prevented the. House from:oo
ducting business: on that day. The same agenda was soheduled fer planet
sessions on the 24th, 25th and 26th, with the same result. The House
Representatives Negotiating Conference (whese decisions required unanimity)
refused to alter the agenda so as to permit other important bills to be
acted upon-separately by the House, and the non-Government parties stead-
fastly refused to allow the Eleotien Law Bill to be reperted out of com-
mittees The underlying cause of this impasse was the fact that the Liberai
and Progressive parties had on foet a plan to introduce in the plenary
session of the House a special. amendment of their own which would radically
alter the substance of the Election Law. Specifically, the scheme of the
majority parties was to win committee approval of the uncontested technical
amendments and, folloving the committee chairman's report to the plenary
session, to introduce and pass, vithout committee deliberation, an addi-
tional amendment providing for the substitution of the single bailot and
medium-size electoral district for the restricted plural ballot and large
constitutency. These amendments would have increased the number of elec-
toral districts for the House of Representatives from 53. to 117 and would
have limited the number of votes cast by any elector to one, as opposed
to two to three permitted by the old system. The Opposition parties
strenuously objeoted to these changes, not only because they felt the ma-
jority parties manifested a lack of sincerity by refusing to reveal and
to submit their projected amendments to the committee for discussion, but
also because earlier in the session, when the subjec's had arisen, the
Government parties had pledged not to propose important alterations in the
Election Law Bill until such time as the House could deliberate them
thoroughly. Both sides appreciated, of course, that the change as such
involved no-contravention of democratic principles, involving merely a
selection between two democratic alternatives.
Having a majority of the votes, plus the strong backing of Prime
Minister Yoshida, Home Minister Uehara and State Minister Shidehara, the
Government parties finally made no secret of their intentions. With no
less determination, the non-Government parties announced that they would
employ every possible parliamentary device to thwart "the trickery and
underhandedness" of the majority parties. If the business of the House
could be held up through 27 March, they reasoned, the session would end
and their purpose would be accomplished.
In the Election Law Committee of 18 members, the minor parties proved
that thoy werc skilled parliamentarians as well as rough-and-tumble
artists. They consumed 2 days debating their motion to increase the size
of the committee from 18 to 45. At the same time, they introduced and
debated for hours a motion of nonconfidence in the committee chairman,
who had cut short an interpellation being made by a Social Democrat menber.
They notified the House that they would introduce a resolution of non-
confidence in the Speaker unless the opposition came out in the open with
the details of its amendment. They announced that they would embarrass
the Government by scheduling lengthy interpellations on all bills placed
on the House, of Representatives agenda and would also introduce and dis-
cuss amendments to all bills. They debated at length on such nonessen-
tials as moving the committee hearings to a larger room and calling for
recesses for lunch, dinner, and party conferences.
On 27 March, the Cabinet extended the 92nd Diet for 4 days. Simul-
taneously, upon the insistence of the Speaker, the 5-day deadlock ended
when the Government parties agreed to the Social Democrat demand to de-
liberate in committee all amendments proposed to the Election Law Bill,
and the Social Democrats in turn, agreed to give up their obstructionist
program and carry on "with sincerity." All factions introduced their
amendments in. plenary session, after which they were fully discussed by.
a new committeo of 30 members.. By a vote of 16 to 14 in the committee,
the Government parties' amendments carried end the amendments of the
minor parties were lost. The Election Law Bill, as amended in committee,
was passed by the House of Representatives on 30 March, and by the House
of Peers on the following day.

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.99)
Thus ended one of the bitterest fights in Japanese leglalat
a fight which, perhaps as no other method could, succeeded in rivet
public attention on the forthcoming elections.
Mechanice 'of lections
The phrase "democratic elections" doès not lend itself readily to hird
and fast definition; democracy itself implies a degree of freedom of action
which defies all but the broadest of classifications. There are, never-
theless, certain characteristios which might be called typical of demo-
cratic elections; these would include the following:
1. Universal adult sufferage, limited only by illiteracy or legal
incompetence.
2. Universal right of candidacy, limited only by minor restric-
tions on age, residence, illiteracy or legal incompetence.
3. Reasonable frequency of registration for voting.
4. Ease of organization of political parties.
5. Equal opportunities in campaigning; candidates', parties'
and voters' freedom from fear of reprisals.
6. Secret ballot.
7. Right of candidates or representatives of parties to witness
counting and tabulation of votes.
8. Adequate and impartially applied election laws, providing
penalties for all acts designed to favor one candidate or party at the
expense of another.
9. Administration of elections by committees truly representa-
tive of the general electorate.
Since at least the form of parliamentary government had existed in
Japan for over 50 years, the opening of the post war period found Japan
with election lavs modeled upon those of the Western democracies. A
limited number of amendments were made late in 1945; the ensuing elections
for the House of Representatives had indicated that these revised laws,
if properly enforced, could ensure fair and democratic elections.
Prior to the april, 1947 elections, a few additional changes were
made (see below); by April it could fairly be said that the laws which
would govern the month's elections would not only withstand every demo-
cratic test which could be devised, but that in some instances they were
even more liberal than the laws of many of the western democracies from
whence they had originally sprung. In last analysis, therefore, super-
vision of the 1947 elections involved not so much changes in context of
Japanese laws as insurance that the laws vere applied and enforced with
consistency and impartiality.
Once the dates of election had been set, necessary schedules for screen-
ing and the opening of elcction campaighs were established and screening
commeneed. The schedule follows:
1 - 15 February: Screening of local screening committee members.
5 Feb - 11 March: Collection of questionnaires of candidates and for-
warding to the Cabinet for members of House of Councillors, prefec-
tural governors. and mayors of five principal cities.
10 Feb - 11 March: Collection of questionnaires of mayors, (excluding
five principal cities) ward, town and. village chiefs, superintendents
of pollstand ballot opening stations and.presiding officers of elec-
tions.

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.99)
Thus ended one of the bitt
a fight which, perhaps as no other me
publio attention on the forthooming electio
Machanice of Blections
and fast definition; democracy itself implies a degree of freedom ar asti
which defies all but the brbadest of classifications. There are, never-
theless, certain characteristios which might be called typical of demo-
cratic elections; these would include the following:
1. Universal adult sufferage, limited only by illiteracy or legal
incompetence.
2. Universal right of candidacy, limited only by minor restric-
tions on age, residence, illiteracy or legal incompetence.
3. Reasonable frequency of registration for voting.
4. Ease of organization of political parties.
5. Equal opportunities in campaigning; candidates', parties!
and voters' freedom from fear of reprisals.
6. Secret ballot.
7. Right of candidates or representatives of parties to witness
counting and tabulation of votes.
8. Adequate and impartially applied election laws, providing
penalties for all acts designed to favor one candidate or party at the
expense of another.
9. Administration of elections by committees truly representa-
tive of the general electorate.
Since at least the form of parliamentary government had existed in
Japan for over 50 years, the opening of the post war period found Japan
with election lavs modeled upon those of the Western democracies. A
limited number of amendments were made late in 1945; the ensuing elections
fcr the House of Representatives had indicated that these revised laws,
if properly enforced, could ensure fair and democratic elections.
Prier to the April, 1947 elections, a few additional changes were
made (see below); by April it could fairly be said that the laws which
would govern the month's elections would not only withstand every demo-
cratic test which could be devised, but that in some instances they were
even more liberal than the laws of many of the western democracies from
whence they had originally sprung. In last analysis, therefore, super-
vision of the 1947 elections involved not so much changes in context of
Japanese laws as insurance that the laws were applied and enforced with
consistency and impartiality.
Once the dates of election had been set, necessary schedules for screen-
ing and the opening of elcction campaighs were established and screening
commonced. The schedule follows:
1 - 15 February: Sereening of local screening committee members.
5 Feb - 11 March: Collection of questionnaires of candidates and for-
warding to the Cabinet for members of House of Councillors, prefec-
tural governors. and mayors of five principal cities.
10 Feb - 11 March: Collection of questionnaires of mayors, (excluding
five principal cities) ward, town and. village chiefs, superintendents
of pollstand ballot opening stations and.presiding officers of elec-
tions.
16 Fed -. 25 Feb: Screening of holders of principal public offices.
9

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.99)
10
20 - 25 Feb: Soreening of electoral cormittee members and holders r
public offices in local public organizations.
25 Feb - 21 April: Collection of questionnaires for candidates for House
of Representatives.
28 Feb - 2 March: Screening of candidates for members of House of Coun-
cillors, prefectural governors and mayors of five principal cities.
8 - 17 March: Screening of candidates for mayors (exoluding five prin-
cipal cities), ward, tovm or village chiefs, superintendents of polls
and ballot opening stations, and presiding officers of election.
12 - 14 April: Issuance of certificates of eligibility to candidates
for members of House of Councillors, prefectural governors and mayors
of five principal cities.
15 March: Opening of campaign for election of governors.
16 March - 23 April: Screening of candidates for members of House of
Representatives.
18 - 20 March: Issuance of certificates of eligibility to candidates
for mayors, and ward, towm and village chiefs.
20 March: Opening of canpaign for House of Councillors, mayors of cities
and chiefs of Tokyo wards.
25 March - 14 April: Collection of questionnaires of candidates for pre-
fectural assemblymen and five principal cities assemblymen.
26 March: Opening of campaign for chiefs of toun and.villages.
26 March - 23 April: Issuance of certificate of eligibility to candidates
for House of Representatives.
26 March - 30 April: Screening of present principal public office holders
of public information media, political parties and economic organiza-
tions.
29 March - 7 April: Collection of questionnaires of municipal and ward
assembly candidates.
31 March: Opening of campaign for House of Representatives.
5 April: Election of prefectural gevernors, meyors, and ward, town and
village Ohiefs
9 April: Opening of campaign for run-off election of prefectural governors,
mayors, and ward, town or village Chiefs..
10 April: Opening of campaign for assemblies of prefectures, cities and
Tokyo vards.
11 - 20 April: Collection of questionnaires of candidates for town and
village assemblymen.
15 April: Run-off election of prefectural governors, mayors, and ward,
tovm or village Chiefs.
20 April: Election of members of House of Councillors.
23 April: Opening of campaign for election of town and village assemblies.
25 April: Election of. members of House of Representatives.
30 April: Election of prefectural assemblymen and assemblymen of cities,
towns, villages, and wards.
7 - 27 May: Screening of successful candidates for prefectural, municipal,
word town and village assemblymen.

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.98)
Since the House of Ropresentatives election lan establiahes standard
procedures which are applied directly to other local and national elee-
tions, all Japaneso elections follow substantially the same pattarn.
The sune committees supervise all elections; the same polling places,
voting districts, and ballot counting stations are used; the same penal
provisions are applied and so on. By late in l946, therefore, it bed
been possible fcr local assemblies to select the election administration
committees which would supervise all of the april elections; by Maroh
committees had conpleted most of the neohanical aspects of their duties:
designation of polling places, selection of officials, etc.
The laws which the conmittees were then ready to apply may be sum-
rarized briefly as follovs:
Suffrage: With a few exceptions, all Japanese citizens, 20 years or
clder, regardless of sex, were cligible to vote in localities in which
they had resided for at lcust six montha.* In addition, all repatriates
cthervise eligible to vote were released from the six months requirement
insofar as Diet elections were concerned. Exceptions in all instances
included individuals who had been declared incompetent or quasi-inconpe-
tent or vh pere serving jail sentences.
Eligibility for voting, however, was not automatic but was contingent
upon the appeurance of an individual's name on the poll books of his
v ting district or upon his presentation, on election day, of a court
certificate directing that his name be added to the list of voters.
Since p lling disticts were the same for all (lections, national and
local, and since basic voting requirements for all elections were sub-
stantiully the same, the same poll books, with minor exceptions, were
used f r all elections. Japunese law provides that poll books must be
completely checked once cach year, commencing with September, with addi-
ti nal registration previded for prier to each election, to permit reg-
istration of individuals nevly meeting such cligibility requirements
as age. Polling lists are available for inapection and correction prior
to each election and are therefere considered final on election day. For
the April elections supplcmentary registration periods were held from
March 18 to 24 and fron Apri1 5 t. 10, with inspecticn and complaint periods
fron March 29 tc 31 and from April 14 t. 16.
Cundidates: In general, any Japanese citizen who met age requirements
and had been passed by a purge committee was eligible for candidacy for
the Diet or for mujor local offices; candidates for minor local offices
were also required to meet a six months residencc requirement. Exceptions
from the above included certain public officials, such as judges and re-
venue officers, whe were required t resign their positions before they
vere eligible fer candidacy.
Electien campaigns: Japanese clection lavs provided for stringent
regulation f election campaigns. Cundidates were not permitted to
announce their candidacy bef re the official cp ning of a campuign
(generally 20 days before an election.) Strict limitations were placed
on the anount of noney which might be spent und the way in which it night
be spent. Candidutes were required to report at stated intervals during
their campaigns on their expenditures to date---this infermaticn then
being mnde public. In vien of the sh rtage f paper, comparable limita-
tions were placed on the use f campaign letters, pesters, and the like.
Candidates, hovever, were permitted to send a limited number of postcards
free of charge to voters in their constituencics nd were also permitted
to utilize public scheols and  ther buiidings for their campaign meetings.
Elcction bulletins, providing biographical information about all candi-
dutes for major offices were also published by each prefecture.
Supervision: 7ith rare exceptions all Japinese voting districts
coincide with the boundaries of local entities of government. Each
*In certain instances individuals who had been forced to move fron their
usual domiciles beoause of cirounstances beyond th ir contrcl (such as des-
tructien of homes by b mbing) were recognized as having a residual right
to vote in the place of their usual domicile. However suon individuuls
vere permitted to vote in only one of the two diatriets

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.99)
Singe the House of Representatives election law
procsdures which are applied directly to other local and
tions, all Japaneso elections follow substantially the
The same committecs supervise all elections; the same pollis
voting distriots, and ballct counting stations are used; the semep
provisions are applied and so on. By Iate in 1946, therefore, it
comnittees which would supervise all of the April elections; by March
committees had completed most of the nechanical aspects of their duties:
designation of polling places, selection of officials, eto,
The laws which the committees were then ready to apply may be sum-
rarized briefly as follows:
Suffrage: With a few exceptions, all Japanese citisena, 20 years or
older, regardless of sex, were eligible to vote in localities in which
they had resided for at least six months.* In addition, all repatriates
othervise eligible to vote were released from the six months requirement
insofar as Diet elections were concerned. Exceptions in all instances
included individuals who had been declared incompetent or quasi-inconpe-
tent or vho were serving jail sentences.
Eligibility for voting, however, was not autonatic but was contingent
upon the appearance of an individual's name on the poll books of his
veting district or upon his presentation, on election day, of a court
certificate directing that his name be added to the list of voters.
Since polling districts were the same for all clections, national and
local, and since basic voting requirements for all elections were sub-
stantially the sane, the same poll books, with minor exceptions, were
used for all elections. Japanese law provides that poll books must be
completely checked once each year, commencing with September, with addi-
tional registration provided for prior to each election, to permit reg-
istration of individuals newly meeting such eligibility requirements
as age. Polling lists are available for inspection and correction prior
to each election and are therefore considered final on election day. For
the April elections supplementary registration periods were held from
March 18 to 24 and from April 5 to 10, with inspection and complaint periods
from March 29 to 31 and from April 14 to 16.
Candidates: In general, any Japanese citizen who met age requirements
and had been passed by a purge committee was eligible for candidacy for
the Diet or for major local offices; candidates for minor local offices
were also required to meet a six months residence requirement. Exceptions
from the above included certain public officials, such as judges and re-
venue officers, who were required to resign their positions before they
were eligible fcr candidacy.
Election campaigns: Japanese election laws provided for stringent
regulation of election campaigns. Candidates were not permitted to
announce their candidacy before the official opening of a campaign
(generally 20 days before an election.) Strict limitations were placed
on the amount of money which might be spent and the way in which it might
be spent. Candidates were required to report at stated intervals during
their campaigns on their expenditures to date---this information then
being made public. In view of the shortage of paper, comparable limita-
tions were placed on the use of campaign letters, posters, and the like.
Candidates, hovever, were permitted to send a limited number of postcards
free of charge to voters in their constituencies and were also permitted
to utilize public schcols and other buildings for their campaign meetings.
Election bulletins, providing biographical information about all candi-
dates for major offices were also published by each prefecture.
Supervision: With rare exceptions all Japanese voting districts
coincide with the boundaries of local entities of government. Each
*In certain instances individuals who had been forced to move from their
usual domiciles because of cireunstances beyond th-ir control (such as des-
truction of homes by bombing) were recognized as having a residual right
to vote in the place of their usual domicile. However such individuals
were permitted to vote in only one of the two districts in which they pos-
Bessed the right to vote and prior to the election had to indicate their
prefereñce.
11

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.99)
prefeature, city, toun, village, and Tokyo ward thés
mittoe responsible to the public at large and charge
for all elections held in the corresponding voting distriot.
committees have six members; others have four. The method of
comnittec nembers provided for representative menbership; committees were
required to neet at the request of any tienibbr.
Election procedures on the vote casting and ballot counting levels wore
the sane for all April electionsl, Under the general supervision of the
respective election administration dotiittees, elections in eaoh local
ontity were directed by a superintendent of elections, chosen by the com-
nittee. The superintendent, in turn, was assisted by superintendents of
the polls and polling witnesses, superintendents of the counting of ballots
and ballot counting witnesses, and election vitnesses. In general these
officials were required to possess the right to vote in the particular
election they were supervising.
Each city, town, village, or ward, constituting a voting district,
included. one or more polling places. Each polling place had a super-
intendent of the poll, appointed by the chairnan of election, minor
officials, and a number of polling witnesses, appointed by the candidates.
Each candidate had the right to nominate one polling witness at each
polling place; whenever the number of witnesses noninated exceeded ten
the witnesses chose ten from among their own number.
Tne superintendent and officials vere neutral; the polling witnesses
were the direot representatives of the candidates and enjoyed the norral
prerogatives of challenge, etc. Each superintendent was responsible for
the proper conduct of the election machinery at his polling place. This
inoluded maintenance of law and order, assurance of secrecy in voting,
comparison of the names of prospective electors vith polling lists, and
the like. Procedure at the polis was relatively sinple; names of pro-
spective voters were checked against the polling lists, voters received
their ballot papers and designated their choice thereupon, the necessity
of writing the candidate's name serving as a type of literacy test.
Except in cases in which the superintendent of the poll was also a
superintendent of the counting of votes, at the close of the election
the superintendent of the poll, accompanied by at least one witness,
delivered the ballot box, the record of the poll, and the register of
olectors to a superintendent of the counting of the votes, at the nearest
ballot counting station.
The latter superintendent was appointed by the election administration
committee and was assisted by a number of witnesses for the counting of
the votes, appointed by the candidates in the same way as the witnesses
at the polls. as with polling places, a given local cntity might have
one or more ballot counting stations, the number being determined by
population. all electors had the right to attend the counting cf ballots
in their respective districts.
The final step in clection procedure was the election neeting, the
final tabulation of all votes cast in any given clection, as received
from the ballot counting stations. Dependent upon the election in ques-
tion, such meetings were held in prefeetural capitals, cities, towms,
villages, or wards, or in the case of the national constituency of the
House of Councillors, in Tokyo itself. The meetings were presided over
by superintendents of elections, assisted by election vitnesses appointed
by the candidates in the same manner as the witnesses at the polls and
the witnesses at the counting of ballots.
Meetings were open to all
electors.
Validity of elections: Complaints concerning the validity of elec-
tions were filed with election administration committees cr the appropriate
courts. When the legal provisions governing elections were violated, the
elections could be voided either in whole or in part, if the violation was
deemed likely to affect returns. Other stringent penalties were provided
for all possible violations of the election lnws, vith fines or penal
sentences as punishment.

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.98)
PRECAUTIONS TO INSURE DMOCRATIC ELECTIONS
New Legislation
National Eleotion Laws
House of Ropresentatives Elootion Law
Houso of Ccunoillors Eleotion Law
Local Government Reform Logislation
Supporting Measuros
Broadoning of the Franchiso
The Purge
Sorcening of Candidates
Political Roporoussions
Non-Intorferonce by Polico
Surveillanoo by Occupation Forces
GHQ, SCAP
January Conforonce
Command Lotters
Observing and Roporting in tho Fiold
Surveillance Rosponsibility
Organization of Surveillanco Toums
Obsorving and Roporting
Rolos of U.S. Army, BCOF, and U.S. Navy
13

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.99)
14
PRECAUTIONS TO ENSURE DEMOCRATIC ELEOPIONS
Especial precautions to ensure the democratic nature of the April elee
ticns may be groupod into four categorics: ncasurcs takon to (1) strengthen
election laws; (2) screen candidates; (3) ensure non-interference by palice
and (4) provide for surveillance by Oocupation Forces.
New Legislation
As noted above, by the fall of 1946 Japan was posseased of a full and
well rounded body of election law. The bulk of the law had been developed
over the 50 years preceding World War II; what had actually been at fault
in Japanese elections during this period was not so maoh the structuro of
the law as the manner of its application. Only a few additional amendments
had therefore been deemed necessary in the early days of the Occupation to
prepare for the Diet election in 1946.
The 1947 elections, however, presented a somewhat more complioated
picture, in view of the very mumber of elections; the novelty of those
which had never been beld before; the electoral status to be accorded the
tremerdous number of repatriates, who had newly returned to Japan; the
problem of limiting election expenditures despite the rampant inflation;
and the difficultice engendered by the paper shortage, which made adequate
publicity for candidates and platforms almost impossible. Several amend-
ments, beyond thosge made to election laws in 1946, were thus deemed negessary
prior to the 1947 elections.
National Election Laws
House of Representatives Election Law
Changes made early in 1947 in the House of Representatives election
law fell in two general categorics: those designed specifically to strength-
en the democratic character of the legislation and those technical changes
deemed necessary by the Government but in respect to which the question of
democratic character was not in issue.
Of the first type, perhaps the most important was the proviso that
aupervision of the elections be transforred from the Government to the
election administration committees. As notcd above, separate committecs,
elected by local assemblies, were constituted for every prefecture, city,
town, village, and Tokyo ward. In so far as the House of Represontatives
election was concorred, prefectural committees assumed full responsibility
for supervision of ciections in their own prefectures; there was, therefore,
no national supervisicn of elections; each of the 46 separate prefectural
committees was autonomous in its owm right and had no responsibility to
the Central Government beyond that of reporting the names of winning
candidates in the prefectural districts.
As wili be noted below, a determined effort vas made prior to the
April elections to achieve the ideal of universal adult suffrage in so
far as the ideal was conpatible with nocessary restrictions on individuals
who were incompetent, quasi-incompetent, or serving jail sentences. Special
provisions were thua made to provide franchise and the right to run for
office to individuals in the folloving categories, who had previously been
denied the right to vote or to run for public office:
Those who had been declared bankrupt and had not yet liquidated
their obligations;
Those who were poor and received public or private aid or relief;
Those who had no definite domiciles;
Those who had permanently lost their franchise by virtue of a sentence
of confinement or penal servitude for more than six years;
Those who had been condemned to confinement or penal servitude for

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.99)
14
PRECAUTIONS TO ENSURE DEMOCRATIO ELEOTIOMS
Especial precautions to ensure the demooratic nature of the
tiens may be groupod into four categorics: measurcs takon to (1)
election laws; (2) screen candidates; (3) eneure non-interference by pal
and (4) provide for surveillance by Oooupation Foroes.
New Legisletion
As noted above, by the fall of 1946 Japan was possessed of a full and
well rounded body of election law. The bulk of the law had been developed
over the 50 years preceding World War II; what had actually been at fault
in Japanese elections during this period was not so maoh the structuro of
the law as the manner of its application. Only a few additional amendments
had therefore been deemed necessary in the early days of the Occupation to
prepare for the Diet election in 1946.
The 1947 elections, however, presented a somewhat more complioated
picture, in view of the very mumber of elections; the novelty of those
which had never been held before; the electoral status to be accorded the
tremendous number of repatriates, who had newly returned to Japan; the
problem of limiting election expenditures despite the rampant inflation;
and the difficultise engendered by the paper shortage, which made adequate
publicity for candidates and platforms almost impossible. Several amend-
ments, beyond thosge made to election laws in 1946, were thus deemed neaessary
prior to the 1947 elections.
National Election Laws
House of Representatives Election Law
Changes made early in 1947 in the House of Representatives election
law fell in two general categorics: those designed specifically to strength-
en the democratic character of the legislation and those technical changes
deemed necessary by the Government but in respect to which the question of
democratic character wns not in issue.
Of'the first type, perhaps the most important was the proviso that
supervision of the elections be transferred from the Government to the
election administration committees. As notcd above, separate committecs,
elected by local assemblies, were constituted for every prefecture, city,
town, village, and Tokyo ward. In so far as the House of Represontatives
election was concorred, prefectural committees assumed full responsibility
for supervision of pisctions in their own prefectures; there was, therefore,
no national supervisicn of elections; cach of the 46 separate prefectural
sommittees was autonomous in its own right and had no responsibility to
the Central Government beyond that of reporting the names of winning
candidates in the prefectural districts.
As wili be noted belov, a determined effort vas made prior to the
April elections to achieve the ideal of universal adult suffrage in so
far as the ideal was compatible with necessary restrictions on individuals
who were incompetent, quasi-incompetent, or serving jail sentencee. Special
provisions were thus made to provide franchise and the right to run for
office to individuals in the folloving categories, who had previously been
denied the right to vote or to run for public office:
Those who had been declared bankrupt and had not yet liquidated
their obligations;
Those who were poor and received public or private aid or relief;
Those who had no definite domiciles;
Those who had permanently ldst their franchise by virtue of a sentence
of confinement or penal servitude for more than six years;
Those who had been condemned to confinement or penal servitude for
less than six years and had not yet served a period of probation twice
the length of their original penal sentence.

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.99)
Further provisions to enmure brondening of the franohise dr
special periods of registration immediately prior to the electione and
temporary suspension of the 6 months residence requirement to permit
repatriates to vote in the national election. For these see Brosdeni
of the Franchise" below.
Respect for age in Japan had led to a provision in the House of
Representatives election laws that in case of a tie the elder candidate
should be declared elected. This article was altered to provide for de-
termination by drawing of lots, if a recheck of ballots still confirmed
the exietence of a tie.
Another proviso in the law permitted a candidate for the House to run
for election simultaneously in as many districts as he desired, on the
assumption that if he did not win in one district he might in another.
This, of course, not only benefited a wealthy candidate who could afford
several candidacies, but also raised the problem of a candidate's winning
in two or more districts and then leaving one or more of them without a
representative, since he was permitted to choose the one district he wished
to represent. This article was altered to permit candidacy from only one
district at a time, although candidates could still run from any district
they wished without regard to their own residence.
In previous elections candidates had been required to report the
location of their campaign office to the nearest police station. This
provision, suggestive of old time police surveillance, was altered to
make the local election administration committee the recipient of the
report.
In earlier elections considcrable criticism had been voiced of the
tendency of teachers to utilize their students in their campaigns, either
as general assistants or by directing students to solicit their parents'
votes. The following article was therefore inserted in the law:
"No persons shall conduct their election campaign by
making use of their positions speoially related to children, pupils,
or students of schools under the age of twenty."
In view of the relative unimportance of most local offices, previous
legislation had permitted Diet members to hold certain local offices con-
currently with membership in the Diet. With increased responsibilities
given to local officials in line with the spirit of local autonomy, it
appeared inadvisable to permit continuance of this dual role and officials
of local public entities were therefore prohibited from combining their
offices with membership in the House of Representatives.
In the past, Japanese laws had been designed to avoid elections to
fill vacancies wherever possible. In consequence, in case of the death,
purging, disqualification, or resignation of an office holder, the
normal practice had been to recognize the runner-up in the last previous
election as entitled to succeed to a position, provided he had received
the minimum number of votes required for the elected candidate (25%).
This practice, of course, was far simpler than holding a special election
and had a spacious reasonableness about it, since it merely permitted a
runner-up to succeed a victor, a practice common enough in many walks of
life. Insofar as elections were concerned, however, it had been criticized,
for it meant that the new appointee could never represent the majority of
the electors in his district and indeed, was generally of a political
tinge completely opposite to the original choice of the electorate. In
the present election, therefore, these regulations were changed and the
period during which a runner-up might succeed to a vacancy was limited to
a period of five days from the date of announcement of results--the period
allowed the winning candidate to decide if he wished to accept the position.
Technical changes in the law provided for the previously noted in-
crease in election districts from 53 to 117, for a tenfold increase in
fines assessed for violations of the election law, and for an upper
limit of 20, 000 on the number of postcards which could be sent to electors
by candidates. Previously a candidate had been permiteed to send free of
charge one piece of mail matter to each elector in his district.
15

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.99)
16
House of Councillors Election Law
Since popular election of members of the House of Councillors was ine
augurated in Japan only with the April elections, the House of Councillors
election law was necessarily a new law. In all of its major provisions,
however, 'it was based entiroly on the House of Representatives Election Law,
variations stemming from differences in the corporate structure of the two
Houses rather than fron an attempt to establish separate standards. In
actuality, the lans are so sinilar that it would have been entirely poe-
sible to hold the two elections simultaneously, vith the sane electorgte
and using the sane election registers, the sane polling stations, the
same officials, the sane ballot boxes, etc. In view of the inportance
of the April clections, however; and of the heavy work load involved in
screening the purge questionnaires of the candidates, it was decided to
separate the elections in 1947, although in future years, ahould election
dates again coincide, a singlo election could bo held to elect members
of both houses.
In its technical aspects, the bill provided for the election of 150
members of the House of Councillors from the prefectural constituencies
and l00 from the national constituency, the.entire nation comprising
one electoral district for this latter election. In the April elections,
therefore, each voter cast two votes, on separate ballots, one for a pre-
fectural constituency candidate and one for a national constituency candi-
date. Fixed period of office is 6 years, with half the members of the
House being elected every three years. In this first election, however,
the 50 percent of the candidates who polled the greatest number of votes
in each of the prefectural and national constituencies qualified for six
year terms and the remaining 50 percent for three year terms.
Individuals were permitted to file from only one of the two types of
constituencies; in order to be elected a prefectural constituency candidate
needed to poll at least one fourth and a national constituency candidate
at least one eighth of the totel number of valid votes cast in the district
concerned, divided by the number of members to be olected from that district.
Lccal Government Reform Legislation
Local government reform legislation, passed in 1946, was incorporated
in four laws, one applying to prefectures, another to cities, a third to
towns and villages, and a fourth to Tokyo Metropolis. In so far as elections
were concerned, however, the four may be considered as a unit since they are
parallel in all respects.
The bills were notably important, of course, in that they introduced
the principle of popular election of local chief executives and paved the
way for strong local assemblies. With reference to the processes of elec-
tion, however, the bills were correlated with the House of Representatives
election law, so that the same fundamental guarantees of democratic elec-
tions which appeared in the House of Representatives election law were applied
to the local elections.
Two additional provisions in the local government laws were also note-
worthy as far as elections were concerned. For the first time in Japanese
history provision was made for a wide variety of methods by which the popu-
lace might exercise continuing control over elected officials: recall, by
which chief executives, legislators, members of election administration com-
mittees, and inspectors could be removed from office; initiative, by which
voters might request the passage of legislation; and reform, by which they
might cancel legislation of which they disapproved. These provisions appear
in no other Japanese laws. Another reform of great interest abolished pro-
visions which in the past had prevented public school teachers, as govern-
ment officials, from serving in locel assemblies. Inasmuch as teachers,
in amall communities, normally vere among the most intelligent and most
articulate of the citizenry, it appeared highly undesirable to deprive
local assemblies of such members. Revised legislation therefore permitted
teachsers to be elected to local assemblies without the necessity of first
resigning from their positions and thus depriving themselves of their
principal meana of livelihood.

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.98)
Supporting Heasures
The election laws noted above, which dealt in general with the April
elections, were further strengthened by a series of laws and ordinanoem pre
viding for limitation of election expenses, for limitations on ths use of
paper, and for supplementary registration immediately prior to elections to
ensure the registration of all those eligible to'vote.
The election expense ordinance was designed both to limit expenses and
to ensure that full publicity was given to all contributions and expenditures.
The following limitations were established for campaign expenditures:
House of Councillors (National Constituency)
Y75,000
House of Councillors (Prefectural Constituency)
50,000
House of Representatives
50,000
Governors of Prefectures (Depending on Population) 25,000/50,000
Mayors of Cities
H
5,000/20,000
Chiefs of Tokyo Wards
n
5,000/20,000
Mayors of Towns and Villages
No Provision
Prefectural Assemblies
12,000
City and Tokyo Ward Assemblies
1,200
Town and Village Assemblies
No Provision
Comparison of these amounts with expenditures for comparable Western
elections is not possible because of the lack of yen exchange standards.
Assuming, however, that a figure of Y1o0 to $1 might represent equivalent
purchasing power, it will be apparent that these figures are extremely low;
the highest permissible expenditure vould thus be $750 while a $12 maximm
would be placed upon expenditures for candidates for city and Tokyo ward
assemblies.
In general the law provided for the following chronology in reporting
election expenses and receipts of individual candidates:
Date of Expense or Receipt
Date of Filing
Prior to filing candidacy
Within 3 days of filing candidacy
Date of filing to llth day
By 8th day before election
before election
10th day before election to
By 2nd day before election
4th day before election
Total expenditures and receipts
Within 15 days after election
In respect to expenses and receipts of parties, the law provided that
a report on receipts and expenses prior to the announcement of an election
should be made within ten days of that announcement and that further reports
should cover successive ten day periods and should be made vithin five days
of the end of any such period. A final report was due within 15 days after
an election. In all instances, reports of expenses and receipts were made
public by election administration committees shortly after receipt.
By the early spring of 1947, the great shortage of paper in Japan had
created a serious problem in so far as elections vere concerned. Only small
quantities of paper could be procured at fixed prices, the bulk of the stocks
being available only on the black market. In addition, the preparation of
paste for posters involved black market purchase of starch mede from foodstuffs.
It soon became apparent, therefore, that unless draconian limitations were
placed on the amount of paper and number of posters which could be used by
any candidate that the wealthier candidates would have the field to them-
selves as far as publicity was concerned. A special law therefore provided
that election posters should be limited in size to 11 by 16 inches and in
number as follows:
Candidates for the House of Councillors from the
National Constituency (not more than 1,000 posters
to be used in any one prefecture)
10,000
Candidates for the House of Councillors from the
Prefectural Constituencies, for the House of
Representatives, for Governor, and for Mayor

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.98)
The election laws noted above, which dealt in
elections, were further strengthened by e series of lawe
viding for limitation of election expenses, for limitations on th
paper, and for supplementary registration immediately prior to elee
ensure the registration of ell those eligible to'vote.
The election expense ordinance was designed both to limit expenses and
to ensure that full publicity was given to all contributions and expendituros.
The following limitations were established for campaign expenditures!
House of Councillors (National Constituency)
175g000
House of Councillors (Prefectural Constituency)
50,000
House of Representatives
50,000
Governors of Prefectures (Depending on Population) 25,000/50,000
Mayors of Cities
n
5,000/20,000
Chiefs of Tokyo Wards
n
5,000/20,000
Mayors of Towns and Villages
No Provision
Prefectural Assemblies
12,000
City and Tokyo Ward Assemblies
1,200
Town and Village Assemblies
No Provision
Comparison of these amounts with expenditures for comparable Western
elections is not possible because of the lack of yen exchange standards.
Assuming, however, that a figure of Y1o0 to $1 might represent equivalent
purchasing power, it will be apparent that these figures are extremely low;
the highest permissible expenditure would thus be $750 while a $12 maximm
would be placed upon expenditures for candidates for city and Tokyo ward
assemblies.
In general the law provided for the following chronology in reporting
election expenses and receipts of individual candidates:
Date of Expense or Receipt
Date of Filing
Prior to filing candidacy
Within 3 days of filing candidacy
Date of filing to llth day
By 8th day before election
before election
10th day before election to
By 2nd day before election
4th day before election
Total expenditures and receipts
Within 15 days after election
In respect to expenses and receipts of parties, the law provided that
a report on receipts and expenses prior to the announcement of an election
should be made within ten days of that announcement and that further reports
should cover successive ten day periods and should be made vwithin five days
of the end of any such period. A final report was due within 15 days after
an election. In all instances, reports of expenses and receipts were made
public by election administration committees shortly after receipt.
By the early spring of 1947, the great shortage of paper in Japan had
created a serious problem in so far as elections were concerned. Only small
quantities of paper could be procured at fixed prices, the bulk of the stocks
being available only on the black market. In addition, the preparation of
paste for posters involved black market purchase of starch made from foodstuffs.
It soon became apparent, therefore, that unless draconian limitations were
placed on the amount of paper and nurber of posters which could be used by
any candidate that the wealthier candidates would have the field to them-
selves as far as publicity was concerned. A special law therefore provided
that election posters should be limited in size to 11 by 16 inches and in
number as follows:
Candidates for the House of Councillors from the
National Constituency (nct more than 1,O00 posters
to be used in any one prefecture)
10,000
Candidates for the House of Councillors from the
Prefectural Constituencies, for the House of
Representatives, for Governor, and for Mayor
of the Five Principal Cities
1,000
17

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.99)
18
Candidates for Prefoctural Assemblies and
Municipal Assemblies and For Mayor of Cities
300
other than the principal five
As opposed to previous legislation, which had provided each eandidate
with one free postal card for each elector in his distriot, the following
limitations on postcards were established:
Candidates for House of Councillors from the
30,000
National Constituency
Candidates for House of Councillors from the
Prefectural Constituencies and for the House
20,000
of Representatives
10,000
Candidates for Governor
Each candidate was further prohibited, during the entire course of
the campeign, from purchasing more than 1 newepaper advertigement, of a
standard size specified by a local election administration committee. No
other types of publicity involving use of paper were permitted.
Although no bill on the matter was necessary, a further measure designed
to strengthen elections was the doubling of the number of polling places
throughout the country. For the April elections the number totaled 42,617
as contrasted to 21,089 during the election of april, 1946, and 14,480 in
the 1942 election for the House of Representatives.
Broadening of the Franchise
Broadening of the franchise went hand in hand with the strengthening
of the election laws; demooratic elections naturally require not only fair
and impartial procedures but also the participation of the greatest possible
number of adult citizenry.
Revision of the House of Representatives election law prior to the
April, 1946, elections had been marked by the greatest possible single
step toward universal adult suffrage: the enfranchisement of women, which
in a single move had more than doubled the mumber of those eligible to
vote. The same law had also reduced the voting age from 25 to 20.
In preparation for the 1947 elections, therefore, it was felt that
only three changes in the laws needed to be made to ensure the broadest
possible extension of the franchise:
1.  Granting of the franchise to certain minor groups previously
denied the right to vote: individuals who were bankrupt, those who had
no definite domiciles, those who vere receiving public relief, and the like.
2. Holding special registration days immediately prior to the April
elections to insure registration of all those neuly eligible to vote.
3. Extension to repatriates of the franchise in national elections
without reference to normal six months residence requirements.
In respect to the first point, as previously noted, election laws
were revised so as to permit exclusion from the voter's roll only of those
adult citizens who were actually serving jail sentences or who were legally
classed as incompetent or quasi-incompetent.
With respect to the second point, previous Japanese lew had pro-
vided for a single annual registration of all voters, vith a date in
the late fall used as a fixed day for determining age, pericd of residence,
etc. Such an arbitrary system was quito unfair insofar as elections. held
in the following spring or eummer were concorned, for. it meant that an
individual's eligibility for the franchise was determined not by his age
or residence at the time of election but by his age or residence status
on an arbitrary date which could have fallen nearly a year prior to the
election in question. Especial precautions. were therefore taken prior
to the april eleotione: e firet supplementary registration wes held from
March 18 to 24, to provide for all voters newly meeting voting requirements

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.99)
by March 23; a second aupplementary registration was hold from April 3 to 
for those meeting requirements as of April l0th.
With reference to repatriates, a clear line was drawn between lodal
and national elections. In view of the general desire to integrate repat-
riates as speedily as possible into the national life, it was felt that
as many as possible should be given the opportunity to vote in April, par-
ticularly in that no further countrywide elections were scheduled until
1950, when half of the House of Councillors will be chosen. On the other
hand, local elections rndoubtedly required at least a modicum of readjust-
ment to community life, particularly in. that many repatriates had not been
able to roturn to their former homes, in view of destruction by bombing,
lack of surviving relatives, and the like. The problem was solved by per-
mitting repatriates to vote in the national elections without reference to
the normal residence requirements, but keeping the requirements in effect
in so far as local elections were concerned.
A comparison of eligible electors in the recent House of.Representatives
election well indicates the extent to which the recent legislation has suc-
ceeded in broadening the franchisc in Japan:
Year
Men
Women
Total
1938
14,075,010
14,075,010
1942
14,594,287
14,594,287
1946
16,278,926
20,557,564
36,836,490
1947
19,569,839
21,326,483
40,896,322
The Purge
Screening of Cundidates
The Potsdam Declaration called for tho elimination for all time of
"the authority and influence of those who have deceived and misled the
people of Japan into embarking on world conquest." The process of remov-
ing and barring from major public offices those individuals deemed to fall
in the above categories connenced in Japan early in 1946 and was accelerated
in January of 1947 by Imperial Ordinances which extended the provisions of
the purge to all elective public offices, local as well as national.
In so far as the April elections were concerned, this meant that all
successful candidates as well as all election officials would need to be
screened and approved before they took office. Screening standards, of
course, were those used in all instances of the application of the purge.
In addition all individuals
subject to the purge, whether candidates or
not, were fcrbidden to engage in any forn of political activity in connection
with the campaigns, other than voting.
With over 205, 000 elective offices at stake, it had early been apparent
that it would be impossible to scrcen all candidates prior to the election;
decision was thus reached to require that candidates for all offices but
local assemblies receive clearance before filing for candidacy but to permit
candidates for local assemblies to run without final clearance but with the
understanding that they would need to be fully cleared before they could
accept office. In all cases, of course, candidates were required to submit.
purge questionnaires prior to filing candidacy; the questionnaires were then
placed on public display at the offices of the local election administration
committees and screening committees concerned. These screening conmittees
were those normally charged with the application of the purge ordinances.
The following figures sunmarize the scope of the screening as it
applied to the April elections:
19

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.99)
Number of Questionnaires Submitted
Number of Candidates
Number of Offices
Filing*
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Total
N
233
N
13
N
246
N
100
Member of House of
1,371
35
1,406
L
324
L
7
L
331
L
150
Councillors
Member of House of
3,315
115
3,430
1,515
84
1,599
466
Representatives
463
3
466
210
2
212
46
Governor
Mayor
1,212
1
1,213
635
2
637
209
Member of Frefectural
Assembly
12,555
185
12,740
7,004
111
7,115
2,490
Chief of Town and Village
46,330
51
46,381
19,945
12
19,957
10,210
Member of City Assembly
23,082
460
23,542
17,607
346
17,953
7,272
Member of Ward Assembly
(Tokyo-to)
2,489
29
2,518
2,145
37
2,182
895
Member of Town and
338,540
3,606
342,146
229,337
1,784
231,121
183,224
Village Assembly
Total
429,357
4y485
433,842
278,955
2,398
281,353
205,062
* Does not include subsequent withdrawals.
CAMIDACIES FOR FIL, 1947 ELECTIONS.

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.99)
190, 590 individuals were screened by the various publio asfiow
Preliminary screenimg fcr principal elective positions resulted as.
1406
Soreened for House of Councillors
31
Barred
3430
Soreened for House of Representatives
138
Barred
466
Screened for Prefectural Governor
20
Barred
43
Screened for Mayor of the Five Principal Cities
1
Barred
of the 185,245 individuals screened on the minor level, 483 were con-
sidered unfit to hold public office.
The trenendous discrepanoy between the number of individuals investi-
gated and the number actually found subject to the. purge stems, of course,
from the fact that the only individuals who filed were those who believed
that their records would entitle them to clearance.
Candidates with even slightly questionable records were chary hecause:
a. Capies of all purge questionaaires weso available for public
scrutiny at appropriate election administration and screening com-
mittee offices, and.
b. Screening committees were required to post on designated
billboards current reports on all applicants for screening who had
been passed, purged, or whose applications were pending.
The net result of such extensive publicity was naturally to limit
candidacies to those individuals who had no fear of the result of close
public scrutiny of their questionnaires.
Among tho prominent figures in Japanese politics found subject to the
purge during April were:
Kawai Yoshinari, Minister of Welfare
Narahashi Wataru, Member Executive Committee Democratic Party
Inukai Ken, Executive Committee Democratic Party
Ishiguro Takeshige, Secretary General Democratic Party
Zen Keinosuke, Member Elect of the House of Councillors,
former head Economic Stabilization Board
Imamura Hitoshi, Member House of Representatives from
Social Democratic Party
Matsuoka Matsuhei, Liberal Party
Chizaki Usaburo, Campaign Manager Democratic Party.
In some instances candidates who were screened by local committees
were considered doubtful and final decision was referred to the central
committee for interpretation of the scope of the purge ordinances as they
applied to these individual cases. Since final decision in some cases
could not be reached until after elections were held, a small number of
candidates were granted temporary clearance certificates with the under-
standing that final decision in their case would need to await action by
the central committee. This, in a few instances, led to later purging
of individuals successful in the elections.
Political Repercussions
all of the major political parties were affected to some degree by the
loss of members and candidates. The order in which the political parties
were numerically most severely affected was, Liberal, Democratic, Social
Democratic, People's Co-operative and Communist.
The Liberal Party lost the largest number of candidates for the Diet,
21

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.98)
22
4 total of 41 (6 additional purgcd as of 20 Lay 1947). Tho Domora
was the next highest loser in cundidatos for cloction rith a totat af
but vas the greatest losor in prominent leaders.
The Social Demooratio Furty had 25 of its cundidates for the Diet purged.
Although this number is relatively high in comparison vith the tro formerly
montioned parties, nono of its prominent leaders ves uffected.
The Peoplc's Co-operative Party lost 7 candidates for tho Diet. In
this party also its top leadership reuained unaffected but the loss of
these candidates vus strongly folt, coming as an additional blo: to the
loss of 15 Diet nenbcrs who joined the Domooratic Party, on 31 Larch 1947.
The Communist Farty lost one candidate for tho House of Represen-
tatives and of all the political pertics vas the least affected by the
purgo.
Eighty-two Independent candidates out of a total of 2,350 were barred
from the Diet elections.
In thc gubernatorial eloction of 5 april the Liberal and Social Domo-
cratic Fartics each lost four candidates to the purgo. The Denocratic
Farty lost none and the Feople's Co-opcrative Party, one. The Communist
l'arty had thrce of its candidates removed. mught of the Independent
candidetes were barred from the elcctions.
of the cundidates for mayor of tho five largest cities of Japan
(Yokohana, Nagoya, Xyoto, Kobe, and Osaka) one Independent candidate vas
barred from the elcctions. In this regard none of the political parties
as materially affected as evidenccd by the very lon number purged.
In summary then, in the national elections, the Liberal Party lost
the largest number of candidates in the purge but its party loadorship
remaincd unaffected. The Derocratic Farty lost both a considerable
numcer of candidates for offics and a considorablo number of party lcaders.
Tho Social Denocratic Party vhich cmergcd as thc plurality Dict party, lost
not quite as heavily as the conservative parties as a rosult of the purge.
In comparisón with the Liberal and Democratic Parties, however, the Social
Denocratic rarty remaincd a solidified political unit.
Non Interferonco by Police
The problem of police and clections is an uncient one, no loss in
Japan than in the cstern .orld. rolice, cnorcing clection laws, guarding
ballot boxcs, forestallin violence, nd the like, porform a host of cssen-
tial functions in conncction "ith elections. In vicu, howover, of the tre-
mendous discretionary povers vit! which they are vested, tho police cun
also be a poverful veanon in the hands of an unscrupulous government,
creating opportunitics to cmbarruss or crush thc opposition, ovorlcoking
viciatieno by the purty in peotor, thcir prcsonco at the polis on clection
day being utilizcd to inauce a general apprehension on the part of the voters.
With care, however, the good features can be retained and the bad elimi-.
nated; the 1946 election had been a case in point. Several months prior to
the 1947 elections, therefore, special instructions, enjoining the strict~
est impartiality in elections, were sent by the Home Ministry to all police
districts. Among other instructions, local police forces were directed not
only to ensure implicit and impartial compliance with election lavs, but
were also warned to guard against over-precipitous acts such as arresting
candidates merely on suspicion immediately prior to an election. Particular
stress was laid on the fact that on election day police were not to be in
evidence at the polls although they might be held in readiness in nearby
stations for any calls for aid in suppression of violence. Excerpts from
these instructions follow:
"It goes without saying that impartiality in elections is requisite.
In view, however, of the historical importance and special nature of con-
ditions at this time, it is doubly imperative thataimpartiality be especially
observed and that careful attention be paid not to give rise to the slight-
cst suggestion of interference (in elections)..You are required to fulfil
your duty with firm determination and...to live up to expectations both at
home and abroad.

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.99)
"No reports to this Ministry are required oiher than thos
not collect any so-called election information other than thst wh
election crimes...
"as several elcctions, governed by different sets of laws, are to be
run off, it is highly important that these laws be fully understood. It
is especially necessary to avoid any incidents arising from misunderstanding..
"Other than in a case where a request has been made by a promoter or
where his presence is necessary, no police officer shall be dispatched to.
a campaign meeting. When such an officer is dispatched, he must be careful
to remain incons icuous...
"In the arrests of violaters of the election laws, emphasis should be
laid on vicious offenses, such as buying up votes, disturbing elections,
ctc...Detention of a person should be conducted according to legal proceed-
ings and instances of administrative detention must not occur...Except in
important or urgent cases, detention of a person or candidate or an impor-
tant campaigner should be carried out after the election date...
"No policemen should be dispatched to polling plaoss or ballot counting
stations except in cases of urgent necessity...However, police may guard
ballot boxes when the stations are closed."
Reports for all elections from surveillance personnel in all prefec-
tures indicate that the performance of the Japanese police in the April
elections was commendable. No complaints against their activities were
lodged with military government teams; no criticisms against their activities
were voiced by surveillance teams. Laws were fairly and impartially enforced;
with a single exception the only police reported in polls on election day
turned out to be those who were cesting their own votes.
Surveillance by Occupation Forces
GHQSCAP
One of the major objectives of he Cccupation is the establishment of
a peaceful and responsible government, conforming closely to principles of
denocratic self-government and supported by the freely expressed will of
the people. By definition, therefore, the ensurance of fair and impartial
elections for Japan becomes one of the principal tasks of the Occupation
forces.
The task of surveillance of any election is necessarily a delicate one,
a modern threading of the seaway between Scylla and Charybdis. It requires,
firstly, that surveillance teams not only be impartial but that the elec-
torate accept them as such, and, secondly, that teans, whilst ensuring that
the administration of elections be left entirely to officials entrusted with
such responsibility, be ever vigilant that such officials be not derelict
in their duty.
The procedures of clection surveillance tried and tested in the 1946
elections having proved highly satisfactory, it was decided to adopt simi-
lar procedures for the 1947 elections. This called for assignment of re-
sponsibility for pre-clection and post-election surveillance in each pre-
fecture to the prefectural military government teams and for augmented
surveillance on electicn day proper by roving teams comprised of representa-
tives of both military government teams and tactical troops. Throughout
the four campaigns and elections the senior military government officer in
each prefecture assumed full responsibility for surveillance.
The program of general surveillance called for insurance that all elec-
tions and campaigns were conducted in strict accordance with applicable laws
and ordinances; the populace as a whole was encouraged to bring to the atten.
tion of military government teams any infractions of election laws in which
corrective action was not taken immediately by appropriate Japanese
authorities.
23

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.99)
24
Election day standards of surveillance were designed to on
vance at each election of the greatest possible mmber of pollir
and bellot counting stations:
The January Conferenoe
First steps toward preparations for surveillance of the 1947 elections
were taken by SCAP in January, when approximately 75 officers representing
army, corps. and regional military government headquarters, British
Commonwealth Occupation Forces, corps and division G-2, and all prefectural
military government teams attended a 4 day conference at Government Section
SCAP. Officers who attended were those who were to be directly responsible
for surveillance of the elections.
Technical aspects of election laws and methods of surveillance and re-
porting were discussed and copies of a handbook containing principal elec
tion laws were distributed.
Command Lotters
Command instructions, directing Commanding General Eighth Army to exer-
cise surveillance over the April elections, were dispatched on January 28.
(Local Elections) and February 21 (National Elections.) Typical of these
instructions were the following, issued in connection with the national
elections:
"As with the forthcoming local government elections, the pending elec-
tions for Diet members inaugurate a new and highly significant phase of
Japanese political life. These will be the first elections in Jupanese
history in which members of the Upper House will be chosen by the populace,
the first national elections which have been supervised by representatives
of the people rather than by the government, the first post-war elections
in which there has been a clearcut distinction between the parties in power
and a recognized opposition, and, of course, the first elections for a Diet
which under the terms of the new Constitution will become "the highest
organ of state power" and "the sole larmaking organ of the state."
"In view of this historic importance and of the material influence
which such elections will exert toward that revival and strengthening of
democratic tendencies which forms a requirement of the Potsdam Declaration,
it is imperative that the coming elections be so conducted as to ensure a
free and positive expression of the will of the Japanese people. Assurance
of such ele cdtions thus becomes a major responsibility of the, Occupation
Forces.
"The Japanese election laws and ordinances provide adequate machinery
for fair and impartial elections and spring from many years of experience.
Through some provisions may seem inadequate by Western standards and others
may appear to impose unnecessary restrictions, all have been carefully
worked out and not only embrace but also regulate familiar Japanese custons
and practices. If Japanese officials, therefore, faithfully execute the
provisions of these laws, the desired type of election can be assured.
"However, in the past, despite efforts to ensure fair elections, local
administrative officials, mostly in conjunction with the desires and wishes
of the central government, have frequently abused their authority. Prefec-
tural governors and police under their. control have at times intimidated
opposition candidates, coerced voters, falsified returns, committed or failed
to punish fraudulent and coercive practices, and by these and other devices
used their positions to influence the outcome of elections. In order,
therefore, to fulfill properly his duty of surveillance, each Military
Government Officer will need to be especially watchful of the folloving
coercive practices:
(1) Privileges granted to favored candidates.
(2) Unlawful exclusions from the registration lists.
(3) Interference by police or government officials with legal
campaigning.

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.99)
(4) Efforts of either major or petty political machines to
votes with bribes of scarce commodities or cash.
(5)
Excessive campaign expenditures, in cash or kind, or failur
to report campaign expenditures. Failure of officials to
publicize campaign expenditures.
(6) Excessive contributions by individuals.
(7)
Interference with access to the polls or with free and secret
voting.
(8)
Denial of legitimate candidacy; illegal candidacy; evasion
of the purge ordinances. Failure of proper officials to
make purge questionnaires available for public inspection.
(9)
Dishonest tabulation cr reporting of results.
(10)
Failure of authorities to prosecute violators.
(11) Use of violence, threats of violence, or other intimidation.
(12)
Use by school teachers, school officials and members of educa-
tional associations of students below the age of twenty who
are presently under the tutelage or influence of the aforemen-
tioned. (The purpose of such a prohibition is to prevent a
candidate from taking advantage of his special relationship
with school children and using them in a campaign).
(13)
Efforts of any individuals or groups--landlords, labor union
leaders, employers, etc.--to utilize economic pressure to
influence voters.
"To assist officers and election teams entrusted with surveillance
of the forthcoming political campaigns and elections, the following sug-
gestions have been prepared. Adherence on your part as Military Government
officers to these recommendations will aid measurably in obtaining the fair
and impartial elections which the governments of the Occupying Poers desire.
"1. Study and examine carefully the provisions of the two laws vhich
control the election of members of the Diet: Law for the Election of
Members of the House of Representatives and Law for the Election of Members
of the House of Councillors. Familiarize yourself with the provisions of
the ordimances and instructions which implement these laws. Chapter Three
of this publication includes the texts of the two pertinent laws and Chapter
Four the most important of the applicable ordinances and instructions.
"Each officer should have a working knovledge of election machinery,
qualifications for candidacy and voting, campaign rights and restrictions,
voting and tabulating procedures, supervisory procedures, methods of re-
porting expenditures, and punitive provisions. These points are summarized
briefly in the following chapter.
"2. Hold conferences with the important officials of the prefectures
and of as many cities, towms and villages as possible. There are two sets
of officials concerned:
"a. The Election Administration Committees of the prefectures,
cities, towms, villages, and Tokyo wards (also referred to in some Japanese
translations as "Commissions for Overseeing" the elections) have primary
jurisdiction over the campaigns and the elections, the prefectural commit-
tees supervising the activities of all others.* Because the committees
have legal control of campaigns and elections and because they are new
agencies of government, it is imperative that their importance and prestige
* A national election administration committee also sits in Tokyo, but its
powers over prefectural committees extend only to the election of members
of the House of Councillors from the national constituency.
25

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.99)
"b. The governore, mayora, aht chiefs of lobal ebt
legal administrators of their areas of government and therefore
responsibilities with respect to campaigns and elections
control the police, have authority to assign minor officlals to assist' in
various capacities, and possess experience which may be useful.
"At the initial conferences, at least, it is suggested that the whole.
committee and the governor, mayor, or chief (depending upon which echelon
is being contacted) be present in order that the same information can be
given to all concerned at the same time. These officials should be advised
of:
"(1) The importance attached by the Supreme Commander to the
absolute necessity of a completely free and fair election as one of the
significant methods of achieving the aims of the Potsdam Declaration.
"(2) The fact that personnel under your command will observe
the administration of election laws from the inception of the first cam-
paign until the results of the last elections are made public and that you
will insist on conscientious and scrupulous enforcement of the election
laws and ordinances and their punitive provisions.
"(3) Your intention of exercising extensive surveillance on
election day in particular.
"(4) Your intention of utilizing all available channels of infor-
mation to encourage the Japanese public to report directly to you all viola-
tions of the election laws, as well as all violations of civil or personal
liberties, whether by candidates or by officials, in which Japanese authori-
ties heve failed to take necessary action.
"(5) Your determination not to interfere with the administrative
responsibility of the appropriate officials and your intention of referring
to them for their action all complaints which are brought to your attention,
meanwhile following closely the final disposition of all such cases.
"(6) The fact that publicity on the entire program will be stressed
to the utmost both by radio and the press.
"In this connection, it should be noted that the voting districts,
as distinguished from the election districts, for all Japanese elections
being the same, the same clection administration committees and the same
local chief executives are concerned with all elcctions, both local and
national, held in any given district. It is therefore desirable to dis-
cuss both local and national clections at the same time.
3. Hold conferences with executives of political parties and as
many candidates as possible. Instruct them carefully in the points sum-
marized in paragraph 2 above. Make it crystal clear that all violations
will be publicized extensively by official statements, newspaper articles
and the radio and that Occupation Forces vill follow to their ultimate
disposition all cases in which Japanese officials have not fulfilled their
duties. At such conferences each officer must of necessity bo extremely
cautious not to be put in a position of criticizing or of taking sides with
parties or candidates either directly or indirectly.
"4. In connection with the above hear all complaints brought
to your attention, record them carefully, and refer valid ones to the
appropriate Japanese authorities for action. Follow with all practicable
apeed the final disposition of such cases. Report to SCAP by the quickest
means available all serious violations or other malpractices, whether or
not they are corrected by Japanese officiala.

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.98)
"5. In conmection with all these isanes
to the attempts of governmental offigie
governmental subsidies. Unless 
not act as officers or advisors. Neither bbould
sidized in whole or in part by governmental entities or offides.
"6. Maintain complete records of your activities in this sume
veillance program and report tham monthly in the routine Military Cooupe-
tion Report according to the headings listed below:
a. Activities of local officials and police.
b. Major Parties and candidates.
(1) Meetings and campaign practices.
(2) Outstanding arguments and platforms.
c. Extent of local interest in the campaign and the attitudes of
major groups and organizations: labor, business, religious, agricultural,
cooperative, professional, etc.
d. Summary of areas visited and contacts with Japanese officials.
e. Complaints and other evidence of delinquencies, malpractices,
and other violations of the election laws, including those previously reported
to SCAp by other means. Report on the disposition of these by Japanese
officials.
f. Criticiems or incidents engendered by the Allied program of
surveillance, as previously reported to SCAP.
"The categories listed above will of course be expanded because each
surveillance team will desire to include the unpredictable items which it
will note. In eddition, complete summary reports for each election by pre-
fectures detailing the progress of the entire campaign and election, should
be forwarded to SCaP, via normal channels, within two weeks after each elec-
tion is completed. Sample summary report forms for use in this connection
have already been distributed to all concerned.
"7. Team organization and its area for contact and surveillance
must be planned, scheduled and coocdinated most carofully. Team composition
of one officer, an enlisted man and an interpreter as used in the national
elections last year was successful and can bo set up again. The teams should
perform as a functioning unit, hence, each must have instructions on courses
of action and proper conduct before entering the field. Detailed advance
planning, including learning and plotting the locations of polling places
and ballot counting stations, is an essential prclude to election day. On
election day observe as many polling stations as is practicable. Repeat
visits at least twice. Ballots will be counted in the evening of election
day and the following days until finished; stations in which the counting
takes. place should also be observed at least twice.
"8. Above'all, remember that it is essential that throughout the
campaign a policy of strictest impartiality must be scrupulously maintained.
Allied personnel must not participate in the campaign. They are observers
only. Nothing in their word or in their behaviour should be permitted to
indicate preference for or discrimination against any party or candidate
no matter how great nor how lowly the position involved. Any incident
which may embarrass the Oecupation Forces and any criticism of the behaviour
of the Occupation Forces must be reported immediatoly to SCaP. This is a
Japanese election under Japanese lavs and execution must be carried out by
Japanese officials. In no case may you interfere with the administrative
authority of these officials. Your duties are (1) to observe (2) to refer
violations to Japanese officials following action to final disposition, and
(3) to report to higher authority."
Those instructions were accompanied by three handbooks of election laws,
which included verbatim and annotated texts of all laws and ordinances perti-
nent to the national and local clections.
27

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.99)
28
Observing and Reporting in the Field
Since general responsibility for surveillance of the April elootions
had been delegated by SCAP to Commanding General Eighth Army, the role of
SCaP during the campaigns and elections was essentially an advisory one.
Continuous contact with military government teams was maintained by
representatives of Government Section from the time of the January Conferenice
until the termination of the electione. Three members of Local Government
Division visited teans throughout Japan in the weeks before the first elee-
tion, to ensure that teams were familiar with election laws and ordinances
and to ensure uniform compliance throughout Japan with SCAP 'instructions
on surveillance. In addition, on each election day, approximately twenty
representatives from SCAP were assigned to assist military government teams
on election surveillance.. Thus, on each election day, SCAP representatives
were stationed in the majority of the principal cities and prefectures
throughout Japan to lend such technical assistançe and advice as might be
desired.
Throughout the campaigns Government Section remained the principal
point of contact with the central government in respect to election matters.
Military Government teams had been authorized to report directly to SCAP
any serious breaches in the clection laws as well as any criticism of acti-
vities of Occupation personnel in connection with the elections. All reported
breaches of the laws were called immediately to the attention of the Govern-
 ent. No criticism of the activities of Occupation personnel was received.
Military Government
Surveillance Responsibility
As noted above, surveillance responsibilities of military government
teams were essentially limited to obscrving, referring violations of Japanese
laws to Japanese authorities, and reporting to higher headquarters. These
activities were normally divided into pre-election, election day, and post
clection periods.
Pre-clection activities of military government teams normally opened
with an initial conference with the prefectural election administration
committee, major prefectural officials, principal candidates, and party
officials. At the conference, as noted above, participants were advised of
(1) the importance attached by the Supreme Commander to a fair and impartial
scries of eloctions; (2) the intent of the prefectural military government
team to exercise surveillance over all elections, although intorfering in
no wey witl. the execution of their duties by Japanese officials; (3) the
intent of the team to encourage the Japanese public to report all cases
of violation of election laws or civil liberties where Japanese officials
failed to take action; and (4) the intention of the team to follow to final
disposition by Japanese authorities all such cases as were reported to them.
 In ensuing weeks Military Government teams made extensive use of all
channels of information to ensure that the public was aware of the fact that
the eloctions would be obscrved by the Occupying Powers and that instances
of failure to act on the part of Japanese officials should be brought without
delay to the attention of Occupation authorities. Newspaper stories, radio
announcements, and posters were all utilized to emphasize this fact and
special conferences were held in cities outside of the prefectural capitals
to ensure that municipal, town and village committecs, candidates, officials,
and parties were apprised. During this period special attention was also
focused on endeavors to remind electors that candidates' purge questionnaires
were on public display in appropriate local government offices.
In addition candidates and parties were encouraged to hold as many
campaign rallies as they desired. No prior notifications to military
government were required for any such rallies and no restrictions were placed
on election speeches.
Election day activities wero concentreted on surveillance of polling
and ballot counting stations and are discussed below.
