894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., January 8, 1947 - July 9, 1948 (File 1645), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.00-1645-2   Pages: 685   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-28/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20January%208%2C%201947%20-%20July%209%2C%201948%201645-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
Post election activities were characterized by following to fimm
position all cases referred to Japanese officials. In this-connectio
final check on election violations has been instituted by Government
designed to ensure that all reported violations are carried to final copal
sion, whether originally reported to Occupation authorities or direotly to.
the Japanese government.
Complete election reports for all prefectures and all cities of greater
than 100,000 population were prepared for all elections by prefectural teams.
The following report from, used for local electione, is typical:
REPORT FORM ON SURVEILLANCE OF ELECTIONS
(Skeleton Outline Only)
1. Nane of Prefecture......
(Add separate reports for each city over 100,000,
answering only applicable questions)
(Men
2. Number of Registered Voters
(Women
(Total
(Men
3. Nuaber Actually Voting
(Women
(Total
(Men
4.
Number ersons Claiming Registration but not
(Women
Registered
(Total
5. Number of Surveillance Teams
6. Number of Polling Flaces
7. Nuaber of Polling Places Visited
8. Number of Ballot Counting Stations
9.
11
in
11
I1
Visited
10。
Availability of Candidates purge ques-
tionnaires at Election Administration
Committee's Offices and at Sereening
Committee's Offices
COOGU
11.
Amount of publicity given to the fact
that candidates purge questionnaires
Political
are available at Election Administra-
Press
Radio
Gatherings
tion Committee's Offices and at Screen-
ing Committee's Offices
12.
Number of people examining candidates
questionnaires:
At Election Administration Offices
At Screening Conmitteo Offices
13. Number of Seats in Prefectural Assombly
Number of Candidates by Parties
Number of Independents
Number actually elected by Parties
Number of Independents elected
29

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
30
14. mber of Seats in City Assemblies
(For Tokyo give Ward Assemblies)
Number of Candidates by Párties
Number of Independents
Number Actually Elected by Parties
Number of Independents Elected
15. Number of Seats in Town and Village Assemblies
Number of Candidates by Parties
Number of Independents
Number actually Elected by Parties
Mumber of Independents elected
16. Number of Candidates for Governor by Parties
Number of Independents
Winning Candidate: Name
Party
17. Number of Candidates for Mayors of Cities by
Parties (For Tokyo give Chiefs of Wards)
Number of Independents
Number actually elected by Partics
Number of Independents elected
18。
Number of Candidates for Chiefs of Toums
and Villages by Partios
Number of Independents
Number actually elected by Parties
Number of Independents elected
19. Any Women Elected:
Yes
No
Number
Governors
Mayors of Cities (In Tokyo, Wards)
Chiefs of Towns & Villeges
Prefectural Asaemblymen
City or Tokyo Ward Assemblymen
Towm or Village Assemblymen
20. Number of pre-election campaign meetings
Party
No.Meetings Total Att.
held throughout prefecture by each party:
Independent Meetings

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
21. Were there an adequate mumber of polling plas
(If not, explain)
22. Are four elcction bilfetins enelokaat Four
required from each Prefecture! (Ir hot, explain)
23. No. of Prè-election meetings held by MG Team:
With Election Administration Committee
" Officials
" Candidates
24 Report generally on extent of local publicity given to election
(e.g. newspaper stories, advertisements, radio time, placards
postcards, handbills). How did MG Teams contribute to publicising
elections?
25. Number of violations reported to you:
Coèrcion
Soliciting for votes
Interference with free & secret voting
Interference with access to polls
Privileges granted favored candidates
Dishonest tabulation in reporting of
votes
Buying of votes
Excessive expenditures
Police interference of any type
Riots or other disorders
Improper disqualification of voters
Violation of purge directives
Others
26. Disposition of above violations:
Reported to Japanese Officials only
Reported to SCAP
27. Campaign expenditures of candidates for
Name
Party
Amount
governors and mayors of major cities:
(List separately)
28. Military Government Team's comments and evaluations:
a. Any criticism voiced in regard to activities of
Occupation Forces? If so, explain in detail.
b. Comments on activities of local election adminis-
tration committees.
c. How may election laws be strengthened?
d. Other suggestions in regard to election.
31

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
32
Organization of Surveillance Teams
Experience in the April, 1946 elections, had indicated that surveillance
team organization of one officer, one enlisted man, and one interpreter was
eminently satisfactory; this pattern was therefore duplicated during April,
1947, with personnel being drawn from military government teams, 8th Army
tactical troops, FEaF units, British Commonwealth Occupation Forces. and. the
U.S. Navy military government component in Yokosuka.
 Although prefectures varied considerably in size and population, the
average prefecture had between 800 and 900 polling places, with about 1 in
overy 4 polling places designated as a ballot counting station. The opti-
mum survcillance would have covered every polling station every election,
but it was apparent from the outset that this would be impossible, in view
of the extreme isolation of many stations, the blanket of snow which through-
out April made many towms and villages in Hokkaido, northern Honshu, and
other mountainous areas inaccessible by jeep, and the large number of polling
places situated on islands separated from the mainland by up to an eight hour
boat trip. Conditions naturally varied from prefecture to prefecture but the
law of diminishing returns indicated that approximately 50 percent coverage
of polling places throughout the country was about the most that could be ex-
pected at any election without assigning a considerable number of teams which
at best could cover only two to three polling places. It was anticipated,
however, that by varying assignments from election to election nearly every
one of the 42,000 polling places throughout the country could be reached at
lcast once during the course of the elections.
Election day surveillance in each prefecture was under the direct super-
vision of the prefectural military government officer, but though methods
varied from prefecture to prefecture the general pattern was the same. On
the average each prefectural team had available about 25 surveillance teams,
each consisting of three men, a driver, and a jeep. Prefectures were usually
divided into 20-25 surveillance districts, and one or more teams assigned to
each, with full responsibility for surveillance of polling and ballot counting
stations. Insofar as possible teams were assigned to the same district for
cach of the several elections.
Several days prior to the elcction, team captains were briefed at
military government headquarters and in turn were responsible for briefing
their owm teams and for determining the order in which stations would be
visited. Throughout the period of elections surveillance teams remained in
constant touch by telephone with election offices established in prefectural
capitals and were able to refer directly to the prefectural teams any prob
lem arising from their surveillance.
An example of surveillance organization is provided by Figure I,
"Standard Surveillance Plan for Fukui Prefecture."
The following is a typical pre-surveillance check list, prepared for
Military Government teams on the island of Kyushu:

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
KYUSHU MILITARY GOVERNMENT REGION
HEADQUARTERS AND HEADQUARTERS DETACHMENT
Fukuoka, Kyushu, Japan
APO 929
24 March 1947
CHECK LIST
1. Have you allotted your observation Teams specific Polling and
Counting places?
2. Have you oriented your observation Teams?
3. Do you have the allotted number of Teams?
4. How many interpreters will be available?
5. Do you have the name of each Team Captain?
6. Are your teams numbered, and vehicles so marked?
7. Have you fully oriented your orm organization?
8. Do you know the head of the election administration committee?
9. Do you know how to reach him both by phone or locations?
10. Are you familiar vith D 22, 25, and "Local Eiections in Japan, 1947"?
11. Have observation Teams made a reconnaissance?
12. Have you disseminated information for publicity, as set forth in
Par 4 a, b, c, d, of OD 22, Eighth Army?
13. Do all observation Team members know that they will be unarmed?
14。
Do tactical observation Teams knov they will be in their assigned
areas twelve hours in advance of opening of polls?
15。
Do tactical observation Teams know they will cover same locations
at each clection?
16. Do you fully understand your requirements for reports:
(a) Major cities (over l00,000) on separate report.
(b) Prefectural Report (based on observers' reports).
(c) Submission of 4 copies of election bulletins on
those running on National Ticket.
17. Do you understand that all complaints received will be recorded by
you and then the complainant referred to Japanese authorities for
correction?.
18.
SCAP phones for election use are Jockey 25347, 22728, 22352;
Region phone, Japanose, 36041
I Corps phone, Jackson 26494

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
FIGURE ONE
25
27
Hq Office Fukui
(22)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
27
29
29
28
21
10
34
28
10
Takefu Office
26
110
(6)
24
Tsuruga Office
(9)
24
30°
Obama Office (10)
STANDARD SURVEILLANCE PLAN FOR FUKUI PREFECTURE
A typical election surveillance plan. Fukui Prefecture was divided into 25
Election Surveillance Districts and one or more teams assigned to each. District
boundaries were based on population and the existing road net. Numbers indicate
number of polling places in each district. Dots indicate polling places examined
by surveillance teams on 25 Apr. 526 polling places were examined out of a total of 548.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Excerpts from the British Commonwealth Occupation Force Operation
for the April Election are typical of prelininary surveillance tean arrang
ments throughout all prefectures:
BRITISH COMMONWEALTH OCCUP.TION FORCE
Headquarters
18 March 1947
INTENTION
The British Commonwealth Occupation Force will assist US Military
Governnent in the observation and supervision of the Japanese elections
within the BCOF area of responsibility.
METHOD
General Outline
(a) The coverage of each clection will be phased as follows 
PHaSE 1 - Pre-election coverage
PH.SE 2 - Election Day coverage
PHASE 3 - Post-election coverage
These phases will of necessity overlap from one election
to the next.
(b)
Army formations are responsible for the coordination of the
coverage plan within their own areas of responsibility, except
in the island of SHIKOKU.
(c)
Army formations and BCAIR will provide Observer Teams to assist Mil-
itary Government upon each phase of election. These teems vill op-
erate over the videst possible area. inaluding outlying islands.
Coordination of coverage plan
(a)
CHUGOKU Region
(i)
Army formations are'responsible for the coordination of
the coverage plan for each prefecture within their areas
of responsibility, in conjunction vith US Military Govern-
ment
(ii)
For the purpose of Election Coverage, the Base area will
be included in the area of responsibility of 34 ust Inf
Bde. 34 Aust Inf Bde will arrange mutually with Brit Com
Base for the provision of any Observer Teams required.
(iii)
Special Overprint Election Maps are being issued separately
showing the special areus to be covered by Observer Teams
containing European interpreters.
(iv)
Close liaison vill be established throughout with US
Military Government Teans, who will advise as to the
allotment of all Observer Teams to areas, and will brief
Formation representatives, who will in turn brief their
own Observer Teams.
(b)
SHIKOKU Region
(i)
HQ SHIKOKU Mil Gov Region is responsible for the coordina-
tion of the coverage plan for the island of SHIKOKU, in
conjunotion with 34 Aust Inf Bde.
(ii)
34 Aust Inf Bde will assist by the provision of Interpreter
Observer Teams.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Excerpts from the British Commomwealth Cocupation Fore
for the April Eloction are typical of prelininary surveillance tean
ments throughout all prefectures:
BRITISH COMMONWEALTH OCOUP.TION FORCE
Headquarters
18 March 1947
INTENTION
The British Commonwealth Occupation Force will assist US Military
Governnent in the observation and supervision of the Japanese elections
within the BCOF area of responsibility.
METHOD
General Outline
(a) The coverage of each clection will be phased as follows 
PHaSE 1 - Pre-election coverage
PH.SE 2 - Election Day coverage
PHASE 3 - Post-election coverage
These phases will of necessity overlap from one election
to the next.
(b)
Army formations are responsible for the coordination of the
coverage plan within their own areas of responsibility, except
in the island of SHIKOKU.
(c)
Army formations and BCAIR will provide Observer Teams to assist Mil-
itary Government upon each phase of election. These teams will op-
erate over the videst possible area. inaluding outlying islands.
Coordination of coverage plan
(a)
CHUGOKU Region
(i)
Army formations are'responsiblo for the coordination of
the coverage plan for each prefecture within their areas
of responsibility, in conjunction with US Military Govern-
ment
(ii)
For the purpose of Election Coverage, the Base rea will
be included in the aren of responsibility of 34 ust Inf
Bde. 34 Aust Inf Bde will arrangc mutually with Brit Com
Base for the provision of any Obscrver Teams required.
(iii)
Special Overprint Election Maps are being issued separately
showing the special areus to be covered by Observer Teams
containing European interpreters.
(iv)
Close liaison will be established throughout with US
Military Government Teans, who will advise as to the
allotment of all Observer Teams to areas, and will brief
Formation representatives, who will in turn brief their
own Observer Teams.
(b)
SHIKOKU Region
(i)
HQ SHIKOKU Mil Gov Region is responsible for the coordina-
tion of the coverage plan for the island of SHIKOKU, in
canjunction with 34 Aust Inf Bde.
(ii)
34 Aust Inf Bde will assist by the provision of Interpreter
Observer Teams.
(11i)
HQ SHIKOkU Mil Gov Region vill issue maps to and brief all
Observer Teams for SHIKOKU island.
35

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
36
Frovigion and Types of Obeerver Teama
(a) General
(i) To ensure the maximum practicable coverage, Formations will
provide as many Observer Teams as possible.
(ii) Brit and Ind Div and 2 NZEF (Japan) will arrange mutually
with BCaIR for the employment of Air Force Observer Teams
provided from the Air Stations within their respective
areas of responsibility.
(iii) Observer Teans will consist of :-
Interpreter Observer Teams
Non-Interpreter Observer Teams.
(b) Interpreter Observer Teams
(1) An Interpreter Observer Team is ono which contains an
interpreter, who may be either British or Japanese.
(11)
It will consist of a minimum of one European interpreter,
or one Japanese interpreter accompanied by a British
person.
(iii) Interpreter Observer Teams will take part in Phases
1, 2 and 3.
(iv) Attached at Appendix A is a list showing the allotment to
Army Formation of.: -
CSDIC personnel.
FS personnel
For the purpose of overall election coverage, some CSDIC
personnel at present allotted to Formations are being.re-
allotted under instructions issued separately. Personnel
at present with the BCdIR will be included in this re-
allotment, but as far as possible they will operate with
BCAIR Observer Teams. Formations will inform HQ BCOF by
25 Mar 47 when and where these personnel should report.
(v)
From within the resources made available to then, and
from their own Japanese speaking troops, Formations will
provide as many Interpreter Observer Teans as possible.
(vi) Teams containing British interpreters will be specially
allotted as follows :
HIROSHIMA • 30 Teans (includes Base area)
YaMIGUCHI - 18
f1
OK.YAMA
-18
51
TOTTORI
-12
11
SHIMANE
-12
KAGWA
EHIME
25
KOCHI
TOKUSHIMA -)

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
(c) Non-Interpreter Observer Teame
(1) A Non-Interpreter Observer Team is one whioh contains
NO Japanese language speaker.
(11)
It will consist of two or more personnel, and will
operate only on Phase 2 (Election Day).
(111)
Its activities will be confined to observation of the
conduct of the elections at the polling booths.
(iv)
Formations will provide the maximum number of Non-
Interpreter Observer Teams necessary to supplement
the Interpreter Teams
Tasks of Observer Teams
(a)
General
Observer Teams will :-
(i) Cover their allotted areas in accordance with sub-paras
(b) - (d) below.
(ii)
Refer for correction to the proper local Japanese authorities
all violations or delinquencies in the administration laws
which may come to their notice .
(iii) Render reports in accordance vith instructions below.
(1v)
Wear on the left arn an arm band, which will be issued
separately, inscribed in Japanese "SENKYO KuNSHI-IN"
(ELECTION EXMINER).
(v)
Particularly refrain from displaying any arms, sticks,
or other weapons which might be considered as being
weapons of intimidation.
(b)
Phase 1 - Pre-clection Coverage
(i) Pre-clection coverage will begin on 1 4pr 47
(ii)
Interpreter Observer Teams will cover the areas allotted
to them and carry out the tasks outlined in the panphlet
"Local Elections in JhPAN (1947)", Chapter 1, (4ttached
as Appendix B), and in "Pre-election Check List" (attached
as Appendix C)
(c)
Phase 2 - Eloction Day Coverage
(i)
Interpreter Observer Teams will visit at loast twice
daily on each Election Day as many polling places as
practicable, and will carry out the tasks outlined in
the pamphlet "Lccal Elections in Japan (1947)" Chapter
1 (attached as Appendix B), and in "Election Day Check
List" (httached as Appendix D).
(ii)
Non-Interproter Observer Toans will observe the conduct
of the election at as many polling places as possible.
(iii) The approximate number of polling places is as follows : -
(Omitted).
The exact location of polling places vill be notified
by US Mil Gov Toams to Army Formations ten days prior
to the first election.
37

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
38
(iv) Formations will allot a serial number to each polling place
within their areas for subsequent reference and identifica-
tion in reports, and will inform US Mil Gov Teams, with
copy to HQ BCOF, the serial mumbers of the polling places
allotted to each named Observer Team.
(a)
Phase 3 - Post Election Coverage
Separate instructions will be issued later.
ADMINISTR.TION
(a)
Fornations are responsible for the maintenance of their own
Observer Teans, including those allotted to SHIkOkU. Teans
will be provided with transport, and carry necessary rations,
water, POL, bedding etc.
(b) Jcep transport will be provided as far as possible.
(c)
Formations will subnit denands to HQ BCOF for any additional
watercraft required.
Acconnodation will be arranged where necessary in accordance with
4ppendix D to HQ BCOF Q/707/Maint of 10 Feb 47.
INTERCOMMUNICATION
Reports
(a) General
(i) The following profornae are attached as -ppendices :-
Appendix E - Pre-election/Election Day Report
Appendix F - Post Election Roport Forn
(To be issued later)
Attention is particularly directed to para 1 (b) of the
instructions on the reverse of the Report Form. Reports
will show clearly, by use of the correct block of nunbers,
the composition of the Team originating the Report.
(ii)
Reports will be rendcred by the fastest possible means
in accordance with the following subparas. Where
practicable, reports will be submitted daily.
(b)
CHUGOKU Region
(i)
Interpreter Observer Teams will subnit reports to the
Formation HQ concerned. Formations will consolidate
all reports for each prefccture and forward then to
the appropriate US Mii Gov Team, with copy to HO BCOF.
Brit and Ind Div may delegate responsibility for the
consolidation of reports for the prefectures of
TOTTORI and SHIMANE to battalions, if desired.
(ii)
US Mil Gov Observer Teams will submit one copy of
their reports to the Formation concerned for information.
(c)
SHIKOKU Region
Interpreter Observer Teams will submit reports to HQ SHIKOKU
Mil Gov Region who will forward copies of consolidated reports
to the HQ 34 Auat Inf Bde and HQ BCOF.
(d)
Any breach in the administration of the election laws and any
corrective action taken will be renorted

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
38
(iv) Formations will allot a serial mumber to each polling place
within their areas for subsequent reference and identifice-
tion in reports, and will inform US Mil Gov Toams, with
copy to HQ BCOF, the serial mumbers of the polling places
allotted to each named Observer Team.
(d)
) Phase 3 - Post Election Coverage
Separate instructions will be issued later.
4DMINISTR.TION
(a)
Foruations are responsible for the maintenance of their own
Observer Teans, including those allotted to SHIkOkU. Teans
will be provided with transport, and carry necessary rations,
water, POL, bedding etc.
(b) Jeep transport will be provided as far as possible.
(c)
Formations will subnit denands to HQ BCOF for any additional
watercraft required.
Acconmodation will be arranged where necessary in accordance with
4ppendix D to HQ BCOF Q/707/Maint of 10 Feb 47.
INTERCOMMUNICATION
Reports
(a) General
(1) The following profornae are attached as --ppendices :-
Appendix E - Pre-election/Election Day Report
Appendix F - Post Election Roport Forn
(To be issued later)
Attention is particularly directed to para 1 (b) of the
instructions on the reverse of the Report Form. Reports
will show clearly, by use of the correct block of nunbers,
the composition of the Team originating the Report.
(ii)
Reports will be rendcred by the fastest possible means
in accordance with the following subparas. Where
practicable, reports will be submitted daily.
(b)
CHUGOKU Region
(i)
Interpreter Observer Teams will subnit reports to the
Formation HQ concerned. Formations will consolidate
all reports for each prefccture and forward then to
the appropriate US Mil Gov Team, with copy to HQ BCOF.
Brit and Ind Div may delegate responsibility for the
consolidaticn of reports for the prefectures of
TOTTORI and SHIMANE to battalions, if desired.
(ii)
US Mil Gov Observer Teams vill submit one copy of
their reports to the Formation concerned for information.
(c)
SHIKOKU Region
Interpreter Observer Teams will submit reports to HQ SHIKOKU
Mil Gov Region who will forward copies of consolidated reports
to the HQ 34 Aust Inf Bde and HQ BCOF.
(d)
Any breach in the administration of the election laws and any
corrective action taken will be reported to HQ BCOF by the
most rapid means available, with copy to the local US Military
Government Teame

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
Obeerving and Reporting
Three factors combined to nake election day surveillance in 1947 moro
difficult than in 1946: (1) doubling of the mumber of polling places; (2)
decrease in the number of Allied personnel available for surveiilance duties;
and (3) the great increase in the mmber of elections.
The average mumber of polling places in 1947 totaled 42,617 as contrasted
to 21,089 in 1946.
In 1946 a total of five American divisions, in addition to the British
Comnonvealth Occupation Forpes, were drawn upon for surveillance duties: in
1947 only four divisions. plus the B00F. were available, tha 2nd Marine
Division having returned to the United States.
Only one election had been held in 1946; four and in some prefectures
five were held this year. Where it had been possible to spare large num-
bers of personnel for two or three days last year, an entirely different
problem was created by the necessity of utilizing surveillance teams through-
out most of the month of April.
Despite these problems, however, average election surveillance in
1947 nearly doubled that of 1946, from the standpoint of the number of
separate polling places visited. As opposed to coverage of approximately
12,000 out of 21,089 polling places in 1946, 1947 totals were as follows.
Both years, of course, many of tho stations listed were covered twice in
oach election and some three times.
Average No.
Number of
No. Polling
Pct. Polling
Election
Polling Places
Teams
Places Surveyed Places Surveyed
April 5
42,617
1,399
20,972
49.2
April 20
42,617
1,390
22,005
51.6
April 25
42,617
1,388
22,237
52.1
April 30
42,617
1,354
21,166
49.6
As contrasted to the surveillance each election in 1947 of approximately
half of all the polling places in Japan surveillance of ballot counting sta-
tions averaged 54 percent for each election:
Average No. Ballot
Number of
No. Ballot
Pet, Ballot
Counting Stations
Teams
Counting Stations
Counting
Election
Visited
Stations Visited
April 5
11,063
1,399
5,942
53.7
April 20
11,063
1,390
6,023
54.4
April 25
11,063
1,388
5,905
53.3
April 30
11,063
1,354
6,059
54.7
In all instances surveillance included net cnly inspection of procedures
but also affordence of opportunities for citizens to apprise elcction teams
of any conplaints they had with respect to the conduct of the stations.
Inasnuch as election laws permitted each candidate to be represented at
each polling place and each ballot counting station by one representative,
ample opportunity was thus afforded all candidates to bring any election
irregularity immediately to the attention of Occupation personnel.
The check sheets which follov indicate the actual scope of coverage
required at each voting and ballot counting station. It will be noted
that visits were not perfunctory but included an examination of arrange-
ments and procedures as well as contact with election officials and re-
presentatives of the candidates.
39

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.82)
FIGURE THC
Comparative Number and Disposition of Polling Places
in Sapporo, Hokkaido, in 1946 and 1947 Elections.
6
9
O
C
C
C
0
O
0
O
0
40
O
O
C
C
C
O
0
0
O
O
O
0
O
C
C
GAAAPPPO
O
C
O
0
C
O
O
O
C
AORO
O
O
O
O
O
0
0
Z

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
POLLING STATION CHECK LIST
Surveillance Team
Prefecture
District
Polling Place
Date
Number of Visits
Time of Visits
(Excellent
1. General arrangement of polling places
(Fair
(Poor
(Excellent
2. General management of polling place
(Fair
(Poor
3. Number of registered voters
4. Number of officials
5. Number of watchers
6. Any appreciable delays in voting
(Yes
(NO
7. Number of Police in immediate vicinity
of polling place
8. Any violations of election laws noted?
Yeg
No
Improper disqualification of voters
Coercion
Soliciting for votes
Failure to post list of candidates in front of
poll
Improper handling of marked ballots by officials
Interference with free or secret voting
Interference with access to polls
Failure to maintain minutes
Others (explain)
9. Any complaints made to surveillance team
(Yes
(NO
10.
If answers to either 8 or 9 are affirmative,
describe action taken.......
21.
General comments
Signature of reporting officer.
Rank
41

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
42
BALLOT COUNTING STATION CHECK LIST
Surveillance Team #
PrefectureDistrict
Polling Place
Date Number of Visits Time of Visits
(Excellent
1. General arrangement of station
(Fair
(Poor
(Excellent
2. General Management of station
(Fair
(Poor
3. Number of officials
4. Number of watchers
5. Number of spectators
6. Number of police in immediate vicinity
7. Any violation of election laws noted
Yes
No
Impreper methods of counting
Spoctators excluded from counting
Failure to maintain ninutes
Others (Explain)
(Yes
8. 4ny complaints made to surveillance team
(NO
9. If answers to either 7 or 8 are affirnative, describe
action taken:
10.
Commients
Signature of reporting officer
Rank

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
Rolos of U.S. Army, BCeF.and U.S. Havy.
Since responsibility for surveillance of elections was delegated to
Commanding General Eighth Army, and through him to senior military government
officers in each prefecture, the principal burden of surveillance fell on U.S.
Army units: Eighth Army Military Government and assigned teams from lst
Cavalry Division, the llth Airborne Division, the 24th Infantry Division,
and the 25th Infantry Division, assisted in some prefectures by units of
the Far East Air Forces. In Western Honshu and the city of Yokosuka,
principal assistance in surveillance was provided, respectively, by British
Commonwealth Occupation Forces and by the United States Navy.
To all these units, which, for from four to eight weeks assumed in
addition to their normal duties all those associated with election surveil-
lance, high commendation is due. Particularly noteworthy is the fact that
although upwards of 4500 Occupation personnel participated in the extended
progran of surveillance, not a single criticism of the action of such per-
sonnel has been received from any source whatsoever.
British Commonwealth Occupation Forces.
The British Commonwealth Uccupation Forces have an area of respons-
ibility covering nine prefectures, Hiroshima, Yamaguchi, Okayama, Tottori,
Shimane, Kagawa, Ehime, Kochi and Tokushima. However the military govern-
ment activities within the BCoF area are uniformly the same as for other
parts of Japan. Responsibilitics are centered (1) in the Shikoku Regional
Team at Takamatsu which superviscs the four prefectural toams in Shikoku,
and (2) in the Chugoku Regional Tean at Kure which supervises the five pre-
fectural teams in soutlern Honshu. These two regional teams, because of
being in tho British area, report directly to Headquartcrs, Eighth Army as
does BCOF Headquarters itself.
The BCOF Forces assisted the Military Government teams in observation
and supervision of the Japanese elections. Work of coverage was divided
into pre-election surveys, election day observations and post-election sur-
veys. For the prefectures of Hiroshima, Ehime, Kagawa, Kochi and Tokushima
observer teams were staffed with the 34th Australian Infantry Brigade,
Yamaguchi Prefecture with the 2nd New Zealand Expeditionary Forces (JAPAN)
and Okayama, Tottori and Shimane with the 268th Infantry Brigade Group.
British Commonwealth Air Forces were given the responsibility of forming
observer teams for surveillance of areas in the vicinity of BC.IR stations
at Iwakuni and Bofu in Yamaguchi Prefecture and Miho in Toutori Prefecture.
These BCaIR observer teams forwarded their reports to the regular Army Forma-
tion Teams. The actual number of observer teams from Army Formation exceeded
the numbers required in an early operation order and were as follows:
Hiroshina
32
Okayama
18
Tottori
12
Shimane
12
Yamaguchi
39
Ehime
Kagawa
25
Kochi
Tokushima)
The real work of surveillance and surveying was carried on by these
teams from Army Formation but on clection days over 500 non-interpreter
observer teams were employed. These consisted of two or more British
personnel whose activities were confined to observance of the conduct of
the elections at the polling booths. Because of transportation difficulties
in general and conditions in the outlying mountainous regions in particular,
the majority of observer teams were transported by jeep. Their continuous
traveling gave great coverage to all cities and towns and most all villages
in the outlying areas. The cbserver teams operated for approximately 35
days. Most reported violations were corrected on the spot because they
were of minor importance and were caused through ignorance on the part of
the candidates and voters and not through wilful violation of the election
lawse

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
44
It was apparent fron the observer teans' comments that in the majority
of districts outside the main cities and towns, the Japanese people mani-
fested most interest in the election of their own chiefs and assenblymen.
Thus the evidence in the BCOF area demonstrated as did other parts in Japan
that the people were mainly concerned with the candidates who would become
officials to influence their everyday activities directly.
The United States Navy.
Yokosuka was one of the principal bases of the Japanese Navy; after the
surrender it was occupied by the United States Navy and is at present the
principal base for fleet activities in Japan. Along with its other responsi-
bilities the Navy also exercises military government authority over a small
area which corresponds roughly to the city of Yckosuka.
Navy Military Government jurisdiction applies to a population of about
225,000. Both the population and area being relatively small, military
government officers have been uble consistently to maintain an intimacy of
contact with the community.
There were 40 polling places in the area and all were visited on each
of the election days at least once and many of them two or three times.
No untoward incidents marked any of the elections, nor were any
irregularities observed at any of the polls or ballot counting stations.
Interest in the various elections paralleled that reported in other parts
of Jayan, with greatest interest being manifest in the elections for local
assemblies and chief executives and the least in the election of members
of the House of Councillors.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
MEASURES TO PUBLICIZE ELECTIONS
Ccoupation Foroos
Japanoso
Radio
Motion Pioturos
Govornmont Agoncios
Press
45

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
46
LEASURES TO PUBLICIZE ELECTIONS
Occupation Foroes
An intensive program of pclitical eduoation, designed to aohieve the
twin objectives of helping electors to cast their ballots intelligently and
to stimulate participation by all eligible voters, was launohed in February.
a. A series of sixteen, press conferenoes was conduoted during the. per
1od from mid-February to 25 April. During the first month SCAP spokosmen dis-
oussed suoh subjects as the people's sovereignty, voting as a primary res-
ponsibility of the people, the people's responsibility for good government,
the imperative need for an informed electorate and for independent voting,
and essential qualifications of candidates for eleotive office. Later,
inmediately prior to the various elections, headquarters officials spoke
concerning the duties end responsibilities of prefeotural and local govern-
ment executives and assemblymen, funotions of the House of Representatives
and of the House of Councillors. Voting teohniques were also di seussed.
A supplemental conference series helped to explain the objectives and
the methods of the purge program, which was directly related to preparations
for the eleotions.
Dospite the severe paper shortage the press devoted extensive space to
these conferences and also commented frequently and with considerable dis-
cernment on the subjects and principles under discussion.
Similar press conferences, many of them informal, were conduoted by
Military Government units throughout the country as part of an over-all
program to stimulate intelligent voting. Military Government also used the
newspapers to publish "open letters" and day to day notioes, all designed to
encourage serious and thoughtful consideration of election issues.
Typical of these were the following statements, issued prior to the
elections by the Commanding Officer of the Saitama Military Government Team:
SAITAMA MILITARY GOVERNMENT TEAN
APO 201
SUBJECT: Democratic Elcctions.
TO
: The People of Seitama.
1. In rocent olections during which Land Reform Commissions were
elected in the Machi and Mura of Saitame, it was disappointing to find that
in the great majority of cases, no elections were held becauso agreement had
been reached by the various groups before the elections were ever held.
2. One explanation of this phenomenon is a well kiown characteristic
of the Japanese people, that of "Saving Face". It is reported that individ-
uals do not want to bo known as unsuccessful candidates and will not run
for an election unloss assured of success in the eloction.
3. This "Face Saving" has no place in a democratic eloction. For one
thing, oach election is a school in which potentisl politicians learn thoir
lessons. If there are no schools, thore are no lessons. Another objection
is the fuot thet unless the people at large elect their candidates, they
cannot hold those candidates responsible for thoir post-eloction activities.
4. It was recently brought to my attention that in one of tho major
cities of the prefecture tll tho political parties were trying to agree on
a single candidate before the election. This is foolish. The place for the
seleotion of an executive to be made is at the polls by the people at large,
not by a small group of persons who take it upon themselves to pick and chooso
for the people. What promise does such a candidate have to make to the
peoplo et large, and what blame can those people place upon him if he fails
to live up to thoir expeotations? Furthermore what training does suoh an

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
eleotion give to the going and promising men in these politioal parties fos
to givo their rights away so carelessly.
5. The govornment of a domooratio nation is for, by and of the people.
The voters have no right to dolegate their power of soleotion to any small
group. If they do this, they are failing to meet their obligations and
deserve whet may befell them, non-representative government. Let every man
and women who has the vote, exercise that right and make the coming oleotion
a truly demooratio one.
TIMOTHY J. RYAN
Lt. Col., Infantry
Commanding
SUBJECT: Election Law Violations.
TO
The People of Saitama Prefecture.
1. It is essential that in the ooming elections every voter make
himself responsible for seeing that the eleotion is conduoted in a free
and fair manner.
2. Any voter who observes violations of the oleotion laws should
immediately refer the inoident with a full statement of faots to his
local eleotion administration committeo. These committees are your
representatives, thoir duty is to insure thet violators of the election
laws are punished. They can only do this if they have the cooperation of
all citizens.
3. The following is a list of common election law violations which
unscrupulous oandidates may be expectod to commit. Be alert for any of
these violations and report them to your eleotion administration commit e:
a. Privileges granted to favored candidates.
b. Unlawful exclusions from the registration lists.
0.
Police interferenco with legal campeign activity.
d.
Efforts of oither established or petty political machinos
to buy votes by bribes cf scaroe commoditios or cash.
e.
Exoessive campaign expenditures, in oash or in kind, or
feilure to roport campaign expensos. Excessive contribu-
tions by individuals.
f. Denials of rightful candidacies; improper candidacies.
g.
Dishonest tabulation or reporting of results.
h. Failure of authorities to prosecute violators.
4. As a means of democratic training for both the citizens and offioials
involved, all olection law violntions should be reforred at onoo to the
Japanese eleotion edministration .committeo. Lilitary Govornmont is going to
observe the elections very closely from the beginning of tho campaign until
the final votes are counted. If aftor reporting a viclation, you aro sure
that nothing is being done against & violator by Japanese officials, do not
hesitate to report the inoident to Military Governnent.
5. I have ropeatedly asked the people of Saitama not to uso the anonymous
letter in reporting law violations to Military Govornment. It is particularly
important when reporting election law violations that you give the complete
facts regarding the violation, the time, place, persons involved, money
involved, eto., and that you be willing to sign your name to your report.
47

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
48
It is your duty, if it becomes necessary, to aot as a witness against those
who ero attempting to prevent the election from being a free and fair
expression of the will of the people.
TIMOTHY J. RYAN
Lt. Col., Infantry
Commanding
In every case, howover, SCAP and Military Government teams were concerned
with impressing electors with the importance of their responsibilities as
citizens. Every care was taken to maintain strict neutrality conoorning
election issues or political personalities.
b. One of the SCAP pross conferonoes was filmed by a mejor movie
producer. The resulting twonty minute film, which omphasized the responsibility
of oitizens to participatc in all tho elections, vms shown in most movie
theeters throughout the country immediately prior to the elections.
c. SCAP also gave assistanco to the Broadcasting Company of Japan
in dovoloping a series of daily radio progrems, likewiso dosigned to educate
voters and to stimulete widesproad participation in the olootions.
These general educationel programs wore designed to roach listeners of
all interest groups: farmers, fishermen, women, shut-ins and hospital patients,
repatriates, the newly-enfranchised, rank-and-file voters.
Speakers inoluded the Prime Minister, the President of the House of Peers,
the Speaker of the House of Representatives, labor leadors, representativos
of farm unions, of the Fishernen's Association, Japan Rod Cross, YWCh, political
leaders, prominent women, the Procurator General, profossors and cabinet
ministers.
In the case of radio, too, a special attempt was made to explain the pur-
poses and the methods of the purge, to emphasize that the way was being pre-
pared for the emergence of new leadership truly representative of the people's
will.
d. GlQ also published a Political Affairs Bulletin, for distribution
twice monthly to military government units in the field, in which major atten-
tion was given to the eloctions. The Bulletin's purpose was dual, to inform
Militery Govornmont personnel and to serve as tho basis for local education
programs. Most Bulletin materiel was furnishod in both English and Japanese,
so that it might be made immediately available by military governmont teams
to local newspapors, radio stations, schools, or community groups. Roports
from the field indicate that most of the material was widoly and offeotively
dissominated.
Militery government teams also conducted pre-clection meotings during
whioh reprosentatives of women's clubs and civic groups were urged to devote
their energies to getting out the votos of such electors as had indicated only
slight interest in their duties as citizens.
Arrangements were made for public gatherings during which Election Admin-
istration Committees explained election procedures.
Public meetings were also soheduled to afford candidates - of all polit-
ical persuasions - an opportunity to discuss olection issues. Care was taken
to avoid any suggestion of favoritism by Military Government.
Military government units also made use of hundreds of Civil Information
and Education bulletin boards throughout the country to post public notices
concerning the elections. In many instances loudspeakers at railway stations
were used to urge the people to cast their votes.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Japanese Publioity
The Japanese radio, motion piotures, government agenoies and press gav
the April elections more intensive publicity than had been aooorded any
previous eleotion in Japan's histcry.
Radio
The Broadoasting Corporation of Japan made radio time available to all
candidates participating in the April eleotions. SCAP advised BCJ ooncerning
program soheduling, but the basio time allooation formula was recommended by
the inter-party Negotiating Conferonce of the House of Representatives. An
objeotive decision was required since BCJ, as a non-profit publio service
corporation, was committed to a policy of complete neutrality and non-
preference. No time was available for sale to political parties or individuals,
All candidates for posts as prefeotural governors, whether independents
or party candidates, were given opportunity to broadoast three times to their
rospective constituencies. The time available in each prefeoture varied
slightly, depending on the number running for election, but all oandidates
for the seme post were accorded equal broadoast privileges. Eaoh oandidate
used an average of about 30 minutes of broadoast time.
Radio time was also assigned to candidates ruming for offioo as mayors
of cities of l00, O0o or more population. The limited time available made it
impossible to expand this servioe to include mayoralty candidates of all oities.
The provision of the election law regiring thet a candidato for
executive position must receive a minimum of threo-eighths of the total vote
cast necessitated a number of run-off aloctions on 15 April. hll gubernatorial
oandidates and all large city mayoralty candidates in these eleotions were
granted 23 minutes of supplementary broadcast time.
Each candidate for the national constituency of the House of Councillors
was allowed time for two broadcasts over a netion-wide station network.
Equal time, on a prefectural basis, was allotted to prefectural distriot
candidates.
Similar time allocations were made in behalf of all candidates for the
House of Representatives. Since, however, election districts were relatively
small these broadcasts were directed only to the respeotive constituencies of
the various candidates.
Additional time, however, was allotted to political parties on a national
basis. During the period prior to the Diet elections eaoh of the five parties
(Liberal, Damooratic, Social Democratic, Poople's Cooperative, and Communist)
utilized seven 15 minute periods for presentation and disoussion of party
platforms. This arrangement was made specifically in compliance with the
recommendation of the Negotieting Conference.
The enormous number of candidates for local and prefeotural assemblies
precluded the possibility of making broadoast time available to all. However,
most prefectural assembly cendidates and those running as large city assembly
representatives (10o, 0oo population or over) wore each granted time for a
single five minute broadoast. (Not all took advantage of the opportunity,
but the time was set aside for them.) In the fow oities or prefectures in
whioh time limitations made suoh allocations impossible (Tokyo's JOAk,
for example, serves five prefeotures which had hundreds of candidates) it was
necessary to resort to a mere listing of candidates with brief biographical
information conoerning each.
In addition to these political broadcasts by candidates BCJ sponsored a
number of general eduoation broadcasts such as a sories to aoquaint voters
with voting procedures, based on material provided by the Home Ministry.
Throughout the eleotion period broadoasters also presented a daily
average of seven brief announcements reminding voters of their duty to go
to the polls eaoh election day, end the imperative need for responsible and
intelligont voting-
49

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
50
BCJ also broadoast a number of daily announcements warning voters to
guard against possible fraud or illegal attempts to influence oleotions that
might be perpetrated by suoh agonoies as the tonari-gumi, whioh had been
stripped of all bureauoratic authority.
In the huge task of developing and soheduling those eleotion radio
progrems Millitary Governnent peraonnel throughout the country gave all
possible assistance whonever required by BCJ. In partioular, oare was taken
to ensure that no preferential treatment, whether by mistake or oversight,
was accorded any individual or political group.
BCJ earned special commendation for its high sense of publio responsibility
when, immediately following the elections, it rejected a proposed Diet appro-
priation of Y8, O00,O00, offered in payment for radio time devoted to eleotion
broadonsts, on the ground that it was merely fulfilling its obligationa to
owmers of radio roceivers, who by payment of annual license fees, subsidize
an indopendont agenoy devoted to publio sorvioe. By its action BCJ established
the prinoiple of its direct responsibility to the Japanese people free of'
government direotion or politioal influence.
Motion Piotures
News reel companies released n numbor of films in whioh attention was
given to general alection coverage and to the campaigning of prominent
candidates. Of special interest was a movie made of a "man-of-the Street"
broadcast, during which then State Minister Tokujiro Kananori addressed a
street gathering to explain the purgo program as an essential preliminary to
the emergence of new political leadership. This film was noteworthy sinoe it
depioted, for the first time in Japan's history, a cabinet minister discussing
government policies directly with the people.
From 15 Maroh to 30 April, a total of 1, 537, 510 feot of film was dis-
tributed to theaters as newsroels of which a total of 532, 917 feet covered
the subjects of elections end purge. In other words, during this period,
approximately one-third of the newsreel footage was dovoted to election topics.
The Nippon Motion Pioture Company produced a two-reel dooumontary on
elections entitled "For Whom Would You Cast Your Voto?". This picture was
acolaimed by the political parties and was oxhibited by many local organiza-
tions as well as in regular commeroial chain and indepondent theeters. It
is estimated to have been seen by & total audience of two million persons.
The four major motion picture companios placod "top titlos" (motion
pioture titles preceding the main title pioture) on overy Japanese picture,
whother old or new, to be released after 15 Larch until 30 April. Theso top
titles read as follows:
"It is the priviloge and duty of every citizen in a democratic nation
to vote".
"Study your candidates and their platforms, and vote without fail."
"Election dates are: 5 April - for Governors, Enyors, and Hoadman;
20 April - for House of Counoillors, 25 April - for Housg of Representatives;
30 April - for Assemblymen. Vote without fail!"
Comprehensive surveys undertaken by the motion picture industry indicate
that the eleotion titlos end the newsreels wore seen by approximetely
50,000,000 persons.
Governmont Agoncies
The Home Ministry prepared a series of posters graphically emphasizing
the voter's responsibility for independent and intelligent partioipation in
the eleotions. Eight hundred thousend wore placed in railroad strtions, in
publio buildings and on community bulletin boards throughout the country. In
addition, the Manistry issued a series of press releases tined to preoede each
of tho olections. containing detailod information relating to eleotion proced-
ures end administration, with a speoial effort made to indioate to voters

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
where they might have aocess.to detailed information on all candidates.
Bulletin boards also carried listings of all persons affeoted by the
purge and therefore ineligible to hold public offioe. This means of acquaint-
ing the people of Japan conoerning the soope of the purge program served also
to point up the duty of the eleotorate to seleot responsible leadership.
worthy and qualified to participato in tho re-oreation of Japan as a demooratio
nation.
To reduoe abstention election edministrative officials placed signboards
on public conveyances urging voters to go to the polls. In many communities
sirens and bells were rung at pecified intorvals to attract voters. Extensive
uso was also made of loudspeakers in railroad stations, at street intersections,
on trucks.
Press
The Japanese press devoted an extreordinary amount of attontion to the
four elections; for a period of two months the eloctions constituted the
number one news story in Japan's pross.
Not only did the entire Tokyo press, followed by many prefeotural papers,
stross the importanoe and the revolutionary naturo of the April balloting, but
on the eve of every election the pross unanimously insisted upon the essential
need for every Japanese citizen to cast his frse and independent ballot.
When it seemed likoly that popular intorost in the House of Counoillors
might bo less than the intorost in the House of Representatives, the press,
ospecially YOMIURI (16 April) and AKHTA (15 Lpril), called for special
efforts to bo made to vote for can idatos who would properly represent the
voters.
This attontion wes, at timos, exprossod at tho sacrifice of what might
othorwise have been regarded as pressing news, and in spite of the great
shortage of newsprint.
During the last week of February, for instance, the profectural press,
far in advance of olection day or even of the formal opening of the campaign,
stressod the regional olections as Japen's first opportunity to establish
local self-governmont.
Later, during the last ten days of March, tho presontation of the now
oleotion law, vith the consequont filibustor of the Socialists in the Diet,
and the dramatio incidonts of the closing of the Diot sossions, offered topics
that attracted widespread editorial and news attention with the press con-
tinuing in its livited space, to emphasize tho importance of the elections.
Comparisonswith past periods of Japenese political history were unavoid-
able. One of the bost editorials on this subject appoared in ASAHI 1 March
which pointed out that in the past, bocause of inadoquato locul autonomy,
Japanese democratic tendencios, whenever allowod to exist by militarist auth-
orities, had been moroly nominal and that, in consequence, the peoplo had
never onjoyod an opportunity to display even rudinontary political aptitude.
The paper procoeded to point out that, under SC∧P guidance, Japan had
achieved comploto freedom to choose its officials and to conduct open, fair
and honest eloctions.
SHIN HOCHI, on the same day, asserted that the rosults of the elections
would virtually determine the fundemental oharacter of future Japanese
domocracy.
This was a popular appeal. Japonese papers, as a wholc, wero fully
conscious of the epooh-making nature of the olootions in which voters wore
to participate. Some, like WAKI.YiM. SHIMBUN (23 February), and NANSHIN
NICHI NICHI (1 Maroh), saw an opportwnity for Japan to demonstrate its
ontire freedom from ancient feudalistic concepts. Others, as for instance,
51

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
52
NAGASAKI MINYU (26 Maroh), hailed the opportunity to convert government
officials, hitherto appointed, into public servants ohosen-by and respons-
ible to the peoyle. YiG TA SHIMBUN (1O: Karoh) went so far as to say thet
the eleotions would heve "a historioal signifioance greater than that of the
Meiji Restoration", while YOMIURI (19 March) said "The April eleotions will
decide the fate of our country."
Every major Tokyo nawspaper devoted a large amount of valuable space
prior to each election to urge citizens to vote.
Often these appeals were based upon the plea that all the world was
watohing the progress of demooraoy in Japan. According to HOKKOKU SHIMBUN
(3 Larch), failure to take part in a democratic eleotion would shama Japan.
OITA GODO SHIMBUN (23 Maroh) added that argument, later taken up by many
other papers, that "In early peace conference deponds upon Japan's quick
rebirth as a democratic nation as evidenced by tho creation of an ideal
administration in the oaming balloting". OKAYAMA GODO SHIMBUN and SHIMANE
SHIMBUN, (both 2 erch), desoribed the eleotions as corner stones' in Japan's
peaceful revolution.
Newspapers devoted much space to the problem of the absentee vote.
During the totalitarian regime, great stress had been placed upon the partioi-
pation of eaoh citizen in the balloting process, since by this means a
supposed popular support might be alleged for tho militaristio and ultra-
nationalistic factions. Under a system of free voting, some newspapors
feared, voters might refrain from visiting the polls.
The press showed great conoern about the possibility that, due to the
multiplioity of eleotions, the need for tending farms or for working in the
office or factory, or for any othor cause, some voters might negleot their
oivio privileges.
any reasons wore given why abstention might occur.
Early in the oampaign some journals, notably IBARAGI SHIuBUN (2 February),
HYUCU NICHI NICHI, SHIKOKU SHIMBUN and SHIN IVIATE (al1 24 FebruarY) warned
that holding all the eloctions in a single month might rosult in progressive
loss of interest. This argument was not repeated later and, in point of fact,
proved unimporttnt when actual results showod that the last election in the
series was, in reality, better attended than any other.
Two small papers, HOKKAI NICHI NICHI (25 My), snd JIa IN (9 and 11 Apri1),
advanced arguments peculiar to thonselves. The formor alleged that Japanese
lacked zeal for demooratio reconstruction -- a statement countered by the
unanimous testimony of other journals -- while the lattor termed abstention
"a kind of revolt against democracy".
Lore realistic reasons were advanced by editorial writors. A paper
shortago that restricted the issuance of olection bulletins seomed important
to NLGASAKI N(CHI NICHI (25 Apri1), to GIFU TIRES and OSAKI. SHINBUN (both
23 April), to ASAHI (1o April) and to numerous other journals. This made it
difficult for voters to obtain information conoerning candidates and issues,
JIJI SHILIPO (1O Apri1) said.
Preoooupation with focd problons was mentioned by JIJI SHI! PO (1O pril)
by WAkAY SHIMBUN (27 March) and by SHI. EHIME (26 Larch) as contributing
factors, a statement that many other papors echoed both before and after
eleotion.
Confusion erising out of a new elootion system, ospocially one involving
the uso of dual ballots as required in three elections, undoubtodly disoouraged
a oertain number of oleotors, particularly thoso who this yoar voted for the
first time. This reason was advanced by NAGOYA TIrS (17 April), CHIB. SHI BUN
(20 Apri1), SHINANO :IINICHI and SHIN IWATE (both 23 Apri1), among others.
Japanese political immaturity, a somewhat vegue accusation never expressly
defined, was an oxplanation advaneed by SHII HOCHI (6 April), JIJI SHI PO
(11 April) FUKUI SHIBUN (28 .aroh), a paper which seemed to feel that the

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
Government had been at fault in not personally notifying each famdly orr
exactly who the candidates were and for what they stood -- and by Jrnm
April). SEIJI SHI BUN, a political organ, (9 April) plaoed responsibility for
abstention upon the city intelligentsia, while WAINIchI (6 April) ochoed the
earlier complaint of SHI: ANE SHIMBUN (23 February) that women showed too
little interest in political affairs.
Nevertheless, as the press did not forget to point out, abstentions from
voting, while higher in one instance than the average of reoent Japanese
eleotions, were in every case much less than the usual abstention rate in the
United States or in other demooratio nations.
Prior to the elections fears wore frequently expressed that exoessive
campaign exponses would be required of a successful candidate. IBARiGI
SHI BUN (7 arch) and JOO SHI BUN (9 Larch) published artioles stating
that big business interests, semi-official industries and banks which in
the past had financed candidates in prewar years would be replaoed, as
sources of campaign funds, by now yen millionairs, blaok marketeers and other
undesirable bosses. KYOTO SHI.BUN (7 Larch) and KOBE SHI.BUN (8 March) both
dubbed the pril elections "black market elections", while Y/GiTA SHIBUN
(28 :arch) and SiGI. SHI BUN (2 pril) declarod that election brokers and
bosses were still active.
YO.IURI declared (23 arch) that the new denocratic Japan was a name only
and that Diet members must be slaves of either the capitalists or of the
party bosses. SEIJI SHI BUN (1 April) said that bosses and bribery would
decide the elections.
It is interesting in this connecticn that in none of these cases was
any specific individuel ever mentioned nor any definite instance ever cited.
Nothing but vague rumor was reported and even this. found no currency after
election.
Neither AK/HiTA, which (15 arch) cherged that the Liberals had a 100
million yen campaign fund nor JIiiIl which said (30 March) thet the Liberal
fund was twice as ruch, produced evidence, nor mentioned the matters following
the elections. Rumored illegal use of funds was never presented in such
complete detail as to be used as a basis for prosecution.
Similarly, while NIPPON YORON SHI BUN (12 werch) charged that many "war
criminel bureaucrats" were running for eleotion, it gave neither names nor
lcoalities where this wes being done, The same vagueness characterized alleged
"purgoe ativity" mentionod by SHLTSUKE SHI BUN (2 April) and SHIiNE SHI BUN
(30 larch).
It is doubtless true, as is evidenced by the fact that the Central
Screening Committee later uncovered cases of purgeable candidates that un-
reoognized purgeos did, in sporadio instances, campaign for election prior
to their being disoovered and barred, but it is equally true that blind
assortions, dovoid of specific detail and without either citod authority or
adoquate proof, were far more frequently crroneous than correct.
A notable feature of tho press treatment of the campaign was the constant
reiteration, beginning with DAI ICIII SHIMBUN'S editorial of 4 .arch, that
voters should cast their ballots for parties rather than for individual can-
didates. This advice had its origin in the prosence of a large proportion of
minor party men and of Independents in the 1946 Diet and was intendod to
develop a feeling of rosponsibility among political parties themselves for
the aotivities of their members holding office.
Anong the newspapers joining this movement were NiGOYA TT ES (22 and 26
Harch). YUKAN KYOTO and HOKKOKU  AINICHI (both 22 March) NGASAKI INYU (1 April)
HOKKAI TILES, OITA GODO SHILBUN and TOO NIPPO (alI 2 APril).
JIJI SHIiPO (29 April) dissented from the chorus by urging voters in
prefectural and municipal assembly elections to choose candidates of ability
and character rather than party men.
53
9

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
54
TOKYO SHIKBUN, SEIJI SHIMBUN and ASAHI (all 25 April) varied the appoal
by attacking Independents es opposed to the prinoiple of the party government
system.
The acute shortage of newsprint made it impossible for newspapers to do
more than a bare minimum to inform eleotors of the records of oandidates for
various offices. Many newspapers, howover, did list the names of candidates,
with brief biographioal data, prior to eaoh oleotion.
The eleotion for chief exeoutives, first of the series of four, cocurred
immediately following a SCiP spokesman's statement that "demooraoy faced its
greatest orisis". L1l the Tokyo press, and particularly (SAHI (27 Laroh),
pointed out thet espooial rosponsibility rested upon the shoulders of young
people.
Folloving the oloction DAI ICHI SHI BUN (9 April) which had campaigned .
vigorously for the defeat of incumbent governors on the ground that they
represented bureauoratio influences, oommented that the results indicated
that "irresponsible promises are powerless in politios".
The House of Counoillors election received special press attention. This
may have boen, in part, because some papers, suoh as TOKYO SHIBUN, (5 aroh)
feared that labor unions end other special interest bodies were more interested
in this eleotion then in that for the House of Representatives, a sentiment
eohoed by INICHI (20 March), or bocause, as ASLHI complained (19 aroh)
voters were showing too little interest in the Councillors contest.
Eany papors, suoh as JIJI SHIIPO (11 April), TOKYC SHI..BUN (21 pri1),
HOKKOKU MAINICHI and YUKN KYOTO (bOth 15 APri1) and CHUKOKU SHI BUN, SHINANO
.IlIICHI and KHOKU SHI. BUN (all 17 April) expressed great concern about this
matter. All these, and many moro, pleaded earnestly for careful attontion to
the personnel elected to the House of Councillors.
AKAHATA, Communist party organ, made a special ploa to its roaders to
vote for proper candidates. Sanzo Nosaka, Comaunist leader, predicted that
more Communi sts would be choson for the Upper House than the Lower House.
YO IURI played a particularly notoworthy role in this conneotion. Igain
and agaih virtually daily for the ten days prior to the Councillor election,
YOMIURI insisted upon the vital importenoe of the House of Councillors. On
17 April, it pleaded for the elootion of scholars, a call also published on
the same day by MAINICHI and CHUKOKU SHI BUN and by ASIHI the day before
election.
Failure of lectors to sppear in sufficient numbers, YO:IURI said 13 pril,
ASAHI (19 April) and AKAHiTA in its pre-eleotion issue, would rosult in gains
for Conservative candidates, but SHIN HCCHI, (18 April) predicted that the
Councillors would have a unionist and leftist tint. This, TOKYO TOllIN SHIMBUN
said, the next day, would be desirable since it would make the Councillors
"the most democratic parliamentary group in the world."
The actual outoomo of the olection pleased many papers. ToKAI YUKAN
(Gifu, 26 April), expressed delight because "The Upper House has mado sudden
end revolutionary strides in comparison with the defunct House of Peers".
NAGOYi TLiES (25 April) perocived "the beginning of a new politioal direotion
in the eloction of so many progressivos". ASAHI and DAI ICHI SHI BUN (23
April and 24 pril) rejoiced thet ovon tho consorvatives were liberal-minded
representativos. INICHI commaontod (23 April) on tho role played by labor
and cultural organizations in procuring tho success of so many Socialists and
commented fevorably.on the rising political consciousnoss of urban voters.
Only TOYi SHIBUN (24 April) expressod a contrary viow, holding that
the returns showed no change from the traditional pre-war standing of
political foroos.
Following the amendment of tho eleotion laws at the close of arch,
virtually every Japaneso newspaper predioted that the result would bo to
inorease Liboral and Democratic strength and to hampor the activities of

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
Sooialists, Communists and Indepondents. Evon before the revisien
NIñON KEIZAI (14 Merch) anticipatod a Liberal plurality. LS/I (18 Lpril)
repeated this prediotion as it also did five days lctor, while, on elootion
day morning both YO IURI and SHIN HOCHI foreoast a Liberal viotory.
The elootion outcome obviously took oditorial writors by surpriso. On
the day aftor oleotion, all newspapors oxprossed satisfaotion at the relatively
low abstention rate, whioh they intorpretod as a sign of heightoned publio
interost in the seloction of Diot mombers.
YO:IURI declared that the oleotion "reveals progress in tho demooratio
revolution", and said that tho rosult roved Japan's onthusiasm for the
domocratic proccss. It was satisfiod that "Japan has pursued politioal
democraoy to the prosont lovol dospito tho abundanoe of adverso conditions."
Tho KU OTO NICHI NICHI (27 Lpril) suggostod that henooforth "politioal
parties will loso their popular support unloss thoy alter thoir programs to
moet changing conditions".
Without important oxooption tho Japanoso pross hailod the elootion results
as an indication that Japanose had shown & gratifying loyalty to domcoratio
prinoiples. INICHI (23 April) declared that Japen was devoloping politioal
consciousnoss. TOKYO TI. ES and SEIJI SHIaBUN (both 24 pril) romarked that
while conservatives had beon roturnod to tho House of Counoillors, tho mon
olectod were, as the former said, "new mon of eduoation and experience, rather
than old-lino land-owners and bureauorats". SEIJI SHI :BUN oxpressed pleasure
thet tho consorvetivo Ccunoillors wero nembers with doep cpprociation of pre-
vailing social conditions.
NAGOYh TI ES (25 ipril) doclared that tho elootions showed the beginning
of a now politioal diroction in tho seluction of so meny progrossives, whilo
YolIURI, on the following day, commonted thet progross had boon made toward
a democratic rovolution. Implifying YO. IURI's stetomont that the pooplo had
shown enthusinsm for the domocratic spirit, CHUBU NIPPON (Nagoya 28 April),
assorted that popular political consciousnoss hed roached tho stago of
Sccialism.
TOKYO TO:IN SHI BUN (2 :ay) congratulatod Japan cn its onancipation from
domination by political bosses and said that tho rosults showod that elootions
hud beon held in a froe atmesphero in which voters could expross thoir froe
will.
CHUGOKU SHI..BUN (Hiroshima, 1 ny) oohood those ronmrks and approved the
"golden mean" choson by tho nation. Tho papor dosoribed tho oleotions as
showing that Japan hud gained "a peacofully inolined and rosponsiblo gevernment
ostablished in accordenco with tho frooly oxprossod will of the poople."
Throughout the oloction oampaign tho Conmunist pross oxprossod optimisn
at thoir prospects and satisfaotion over tho rosults obtainod.
Dosiro cf HINPo (13 Maroh), . KiiVTi (4 ipril) nd othor loftist journals
for a Communist-Socialist United Front (despite IKuLiTi's statomont, 18 Haroh,
that tho latter were puroly opportunistio), was in no wey danpod by the
failure of the Socialists to win moro than four govornorships, whilo the
Comnunists olootod nono.
AKAHiTi, 13 ipril, pointed out that whilo tho nctual olocticn statistics
indicated that Communists had pollod about ono poroont of the voto, tho total
should mero noarly bo ostimatod nt 16 poroont, "bocauso ho.lf tho Social
Domooratio voto and a largo nuabor of the Indopendont votos woro renlly moant
for us".
MINPO (27 April), as woll as YO: IURI, voicod surpriso aftor the Roproson-
tatives' eloction at tho oxtont of Socialist succoss "despito last minuto
adoption of the modium distriot, singlo ballot syston which had been expooted
INICHI roported (28 April) that Communists "woro not disappointod.
55

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
56
SHI ANE SHI.BUN (atsue) and OKI.YLI. GODO SHI BUN (both 2 ay) desoribed
the eleotion results as "a o rner stono in Japan's peaoeful revolution".
They warned votors, howover, that they "must oxercise vigilanoe over the
performance of tho successful candidates." SHL/NO IINICHI (2 ay) voioed
the sano thene by writing "If tho pooplo aro unooncerned with administration
after eloction, it con be said thct they aro oxoroising only half thoir
rights and dutios".
A most roassuring featuro of tho elections wes thet, fcllowing tho
election, the Japanose press contcined virtually no reforonoo whatovor to
ovils such as had been provalont in pro-war olection oampaigns.
Nono but rare and isolatod chargos appeared conoerning disfranchisoment
(accidontal or intontional) of voters qualifiod to cast their ballots, of
the inefficionoy or inoapability of oloction officials, of fraud, irrogular-
itios, miscounting or bcllot box stuffing.
4 cortain amount of vote buying and oorruption, although far less than
in provious eloctions, was, of ccurse, reportod, but tho totel number of
incidents was loss and the oxtont of tho orime moro rostriotod than in
previous yoars.
Fow, if any, charges wero allogod that campaign oxponses had violated
tho official coilings or that menoy interosts had playod any inportant part
in tho dotermination of results.
Boss activity, whioh had beon predictod by TOKYO TI.ES (12 pril) and
di shonest praotices, which EHI.E SHI. BUN and WITE SHI.BUN (both 24 April)
foared might affoct the House of Roprosontativos balloting tho following
day, were not egain nentionod in tho press following the close of tho
campaign period.
This situation stood in sharp ccntrast to tho oxporionoo of formor yeers
when accusations of cloction law violctions, ospecially bribory cnd corruption,
had boen common phonomona of tho pross.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
POLITICAL AND CAMPAIGN ISSUES
Politioal Alignmonts Bofore Election
Campaign Issuos
Party Platforms
57

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
58
POLITICAL AND CAMPAIGN ISSUES.
Politioal Alignments Before Eloction.
The course of Japanese politios since the eleotion of 1946 had been
one of flexible cheraoter, reflecting an effort to meet the existing
national emergenoy. The political parties were grouped as follows:
Conservative
Opposition
Liberal Party
Social Demooratic Party
Progressivo Party
Co-operative Demooratio Party
People's Party
Communist Party
The Liberal Party, controlling the government through its Liberal
Premier, majority in the Cabinet, end the largest number of seats in the
House of Representatives, together with the Progrossive Party, second in
Diot strength, formed the coalition oabinet and established the policies
of the government. During the period between the election of l946 and
Merch 1947, the Progrossive Perty closely aligned itsolf with the Liberal
Party.
In opposing the conservative parties, the Social Democratio Perty
led the Co-operative Democratic Party and the Peoplo's Party and together
these three partios formed a comon front. The Communist Party, the
smallest in Diet representation, normally voted with the other opposition
parties.
On 31 March 1947, the alignment of the parties changed with the morger
of the Co-operative Democratic and People's Parties, and the renaming of
tho Progressive Party as the Democratic Party vith a change in its policios
and platform.
At the close of the 92nd Diet thorefore, the politiccl parties were.
grouped as follows:
Conservative
Middle-of-the-Rond
Opposition
Radical
Liberal
Democratic
Social Donocratic
Cormunist
People's Cooporative
The Diet strength of the parties had changed considorebly with the
Democratic Party holding the largost nwaber of seats in the House of
Representatives, thanks to the new members acquired at exponse of the Liberel
Party, People's Cooperativo Party and tho Independent Club. On the evo
of the l947 olections, the Diet representation of the major political
parties had changed to the following:
Democratio Party
145
Liberal Party
140
Social Democratio Party
98
Peoplo's Cooporative Party
63
Communist Party
6
The Democratic Party on 31 march 1947, in an offort to becone tho middlo-
of the road party in Japen, advooatod policios that closely rosembled the
platform of the Social Demooratic Party. This greatly diffored from the
party's former stand and alliance with the Liberal Party. and appoared to be
the breaking point of their relations. As a rosult of pre-election soroening
however, the Domooratio Party lost some of tho leaders who tried to steer away
from the Liberal Party, during tho period immadiately preceding tho l947
eleotions. Consequently, the Japanese elootorate found & Democratic Party that
had been greetly affeoted by tho purge, and was torn with internal dissonsion.
Tho Social Domooratic Party led the opposition throughout the historic 92nd
Diet session. Existence of right wing and left wing factions end the strong
influence of the latter became manifest during the unsuccessful coclition attompts
of January 1947. The Sociel Demooratio Party refused to join tho Yoshide Cabinet
at the time of the Cebinet's strongest critioism by the Japanose poople, and
thereby strengthened its position.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
The Poople's Cooperative Party became a powerful ally of the Soels
Democratic Party upon completion of the merger of the Cooperative
Democratic Party and People's Party. It lost 15 Diet members to the
Democratio Party in March shortly after the merger, however, and
entered the election campaign considerably weakened.
The Communist Party unsuccessfully attempted to align itself with
the Social Democratic Party for the election campaign.. In February 1947,
a sharp break had taken place in the relations between these two parties.
The Social Democratic Party denounced the general strike which it felt
the Communists had instigated and rejected the offers of the Chief
Secretary of the Communist Party to enter the election campaign together.
The numerous Independent candidates vho ran for both local and
national seats were with but few exceptions strongly backed by the Liberal
and Democratic Parties. In many cases, these candidates agreed to join
the parties if successfully elected. Several candidates, especially
Councillors, received complete support of the Social Democratic and
opposition parties because the parties were unable to provide a more
suitable candidate. In general, however, over 75% of the Independent
candidates were supported by the conservative parties.
CAMPAIGN ISSUES:
Liberal Party.
The main campaign issues as seen by the Liberal Party were as follows:
Socialism vs. Capitalism
Preparation for the Peace Treaty
Stabilization of the People's Livelihood
Candidates of the Liberal Party strongly attacked Socialism in Japan
by using, as examples of government control, the present railway and
communications systems. The rise in prices and apparent loss of profit
existing in these systems were explained as inevitable results of
government ownership and control. Nationalization of coal mines and the
chemical fertilizer industries were attacked by the same argument. An
improved rationing system insteud, was advocated as the solution to
existing shortages in the nation.
As further arguments the Liberal candidates pointed out that under
Socialism the government officials would become virtual owmers and the
people salaried help. This would not differ from the rigid control
exercised by the ruling cliques prior to the surrender.
In preparation for the Peace Treaty, the thorough democratization of
Japan was urged. The unsuccessful General Strike of 1 February 1947 was
cited as an internal quarrel indicative of unpreparedness for a peace
treaty. The people were urged to bring harmony to the nation and stop
quarrelling among themselves. Economic recovery was urged through the
efforts of the people themselves. They wero urged to elevate their moral
standards, and to faithfully accomplish whatever was required by the
Occupation. They were told to be "good losers."
The Social Democratic Party was attacked on the issue of stabilizing
the people's livelihood.
It was argued that the Social Democrats planned to freeze the new
yen currency, thus jeopardizing individual savings. Through this action
the people would be justified in becoming suspicious of the government.
As a result savings would drop. It was further pointed out that interest
on war bonds would have to be paid and that the people alone were to
suffer if interest on war bonds were suspended.
The Liberal Party candidates in addition pointed out that by request
of the Supreme Commander, wages were being raised and efforts continued
to lower prices. Many candidates emphasized the need for the people to
strive for economic improvement by diligent work and wholehearted coopera-
tion. The candidates added, however, that help from America was
necessary for complete economic recovery. Two campaign slogans ased were:
59

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
60
"Ways of Capitalism Lead to America".
"Ways of Socialimm Lead to USSR".
Democratic Party.
The main campaign issucs according to the Democratic Party were:
Solidarity of the Japanese People
Scarcity of Connoditios
Inflation
Candidates of the Democratic Party emphasized the need for equal
participation of labor and management to bring about solidarity in the
nation. Stringent economic controls (in contrast to free economy as
advocated by the Liberal Party, and State control over all key industries
as favored by the Social. Democratic Party) were advocated to be placed
temporarily over key industries. Government control in this case. was
to insure the procurement of scarce commodities. On economic issues the
Democratic Party held a middle-of-the-road course vhich its members believed
fitting to the needs of Japan.
Regarding inflation, the main approach to the solution of rising
prices was held to be a balanced finencial economy in contrast to the
policies of the incumbent Finance Minister. The Democratic Party argued
against registration of the new yen currency, and advocated a fixed.
price system.
On all three of the main issues the candidates stressed the middle-
of-the-road policies of the Dcnocratic Party and attempted to show the
need for moderate policies in contrast to those of the Liberal and.
Social Democratic Parties.
Social Democratic Party
The main campaign issues as seen by the Social Democratic Party were:
The Breaking of the Bottleneck of Production
and Distribution of Coal and Fertilizer
Reformation of the Taxation Systen
Improvement of Government Officials
Candidates reiterated the party platform advocating state control of
the coal industry and nationalization of the fertilizer industry. It was
argued that there was no other wuy to increase the output of food, lower
prices and check the black market and inflation.
The attack against the Liberal and Democratic Parties on the issue
of the taxation system and the solution advocated by the Social Demo-
cratic Party, was the chief source of securing votes, according to
Social Democratic representatives. The reforms pledged by the party
during the election campaign were to raise the tax exemption point of
salaries from ¥5, 000 to 12,000, and to tax the "nev yen class" holding
property and assets in excess of 200,000.
On the issue of the calibre of government officials, the campaigners
pointed out that the Social Democratic Farty had been least affected by
the purge and had maintained the highest standards in its membership.
People!s Co-operative Party
The main campaign issues as seen by the People's Co-operative Party
were:
To reconstruct Japan'a economy by the prinoiples of co-operatives.
To contribute to peace and civilization of the world acting
.on the principle of. humanism.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
The candidates running on the People's Co-operative Party tioket were
pledged to work for the realization of a society where people wholeheartedly
cooperate with each other in the spirit of brotherhood. Generally the
party as a whole followed the platforms of the Social Democratic Party.
The public showed great interest in the cooperative principle, especially
in devastated areas such as Hiroshima.
The Japan Communist Party
The main campaign issues as seen by the Communist Party were:
1. The overthrow of the Yoshida Cabinet, together with all reaction-
ary and conservative influences.
2. The imposition of progressive taxes on the profiteers, with the
highest taxation on the profiteers in black marketing.
3. People's ontrol over the Zaibatsu - owmed enterprises and the
key industries.
The Communist party sent a proposal to the Social Democratic Party
on 27 February 1947, requesting a close common struggle of the two
parties. It asked for cooperation from the Social Democratic Party and
the disregarding of party interests. This proposal was refused.
In the 1946 election tho Communist Party had strongly advocated the
overthrow of the Emperor. Significantly, in the 1947 elections, the
party did not mention the Erperor and in addition supported the
Constitution of Japan.
PARTY PLATFORMS:
A general classification of the platforms of the five political parties
for overall policies may be made as follows:
Liberal Party
Laissez-faire
Democratic Party
1
Modified capitalism
(Stringent government controls)
Social Democratic Party
State control as a preliminary to
governnent ownership (Key industries,
coal, iron, steel, fertilizer)
People's Co-operative
Co-operative unionism
Communist Party
People's control of Zaibatsu-owned
entcrprises and the key industries.
Platforms may be summarized as follows:
Economy and Industry:
The Liberal Party advocated measures for increasing production
through priority to key industries and participation in world trade
relations. The Democratic Party also propounded the necessity for
granting priorities, and in addition advocated strengthening of State
control for the purpose of industrial reconstruction. The Social Democratic
Party proposed state nanagement of key industries; the People's
Co-operative Party, co-operative unionism (basic policies similar to
Social Democratic Party) and the Conmunist Party, state management and
popular control of key industries.
Political:
All parties stressed the need for improving the existing adminis-
tration. The Liberal and Democratic Parties advocated reforms of the
civil service, and local self-government system; the Social Democratic
Party stressed the democratization of administrative machines by
destroying bureaucracy; the People's Co-operative Party asked for the
improvement of the funetioning of local self-government and the transfer
of a substantial portion of state affairs from the central to the local
government The Comnunist Party ady

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
The candidates running on the People's Co-operative
party as a whole followed the platforms of the Social Democratio 
The public showed great interest in the cooperetive prineiple, espeofaiay
in devastated areas such as Hiroshima.
The Japan Communist Party
The main campaign issues as seen by the Cormunist Party were:
1. The overthrow of the Yoshida Cabinet, together with all reaction-
ary and conservative influences.
2. The imposition of progressive taxes on the profiteers, with the
highest taxation on the profiteers in black markoting.
3. People's control over the Zaibatsu - owmed enterprises and the
key industries.
The Communist party sent a proposal to the Social Democratic Party
on 27 February 1947, requesting a close common struggle of the two
parties. It asked for cooperation from the Social Democratic Party and
the disregarding of party interests. This proposal was refused.
In the 1946 election the Communist Party had strongly advocated the
overthrow of the Emperor. Significantly, in the 1947 elections, the
party did not mention the Erperor and in addition supported the
Constitution of Japan.
PARTY PLATFORMS:
A general classification of the platforms of the five political parties
for overall policies may be made as follows:
Laissez-faire
Liberal Party
Modified capitalism
Democratic Party
(Stringent government controls)
Social Democratic Party
State control as a preliminary to
governnent ownership (Key industries,
conl, iron, steel, fertilizer)
Co-operative unionism
People's Co-operative
People's control of Zaibatsu-owned
Communist Party
entcrprises and the key industries.
Platforms may be sunmarized as follows:
Economy and Industry:
The Liberal Party advocated measures for increasing production
through priority to key industries and participation in world trade
relations. The Democratic Party also propounded the necessity for
granting priorities, and in addition advocated strengthening of State
control for the purpose of industrial reconstruction. The Social Democratic
Party proposed state management of key industries; the Poople's
Co-operative Party, co-operative unionism (basic policies similar to
Social Democratic Party) and the Conmunist Party, state management and
popular control of key industries.
Political:
All parties stressed the need for improving the existing adminis-
tration. The Liberal and Democratic Parties advocated reforms of the
civil service, and local self-government system; the Social Democratic
Party stressed the democratization of administrative machines by
destroying bureaucracy; the People's Co-operative Party asked for the
improvement of the functioning of local self-government and the transfer
of a substantial portion of state affairs from the central to the local
government. The Communist Party advocated the overthrow of the Yoshida
Cabinet, together with all reactionary and conservative influences. 
62

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
62
Finance:
All political. partics agreed on the need for effecting governmental
controls. The Liberal Party advoceted the adoption of a priority system
for according loans to industries, the granting of free industrial loans,
and the reform of the taxation system. The Democratic Party held generally
the same views and urged stabilizing national finance through the
enforcement of, a fixed price system. The conservative parties opposed
the Social Democratic Party's policy of suspending interest payment on
war bonds. The latter party urged the nationalization of the Bank of Japan
and the establishment of an Economic Rehabilitation Bank. The People's
Co-operative Party agréed vith the policies of the Social Democratic
Party and urged curtailing administrative expenditures. The Communist
Party advocated progressive taxes, redemption of war bonds and the
nationalization of banking institutions with control by the people.
Agriculture:
All parties stressed the need for increasing production of food and
improving the rationing system. The Liberal Party and the Social Demo-
cratic differed in free deliveries of rice after fulfillnent of rice
quotas and removal of official controls over perishables, as specified
by the former. The Social Democratic Party urged decisions on quota and
execution of rice delivery to be entrusted to repres ntutives of the
farmers, a policy to establish the rationing system on foods and fuels,
and the continuance of official controls on perishables.
Labor:
On labor policies, all parties agreed to the realization of close
co-operation between capital and labor through participation of labor
in management and the establishment of the rights of'labor. The parties
advocated the establishment of a minimum wage system and reforms to improve
conditions of the workers. The Social Democratic Party urged the enlarge-
ment and sound development of labor organizations. The Liberal Party ad-
vocated the enhancement of the laboring spirit and the Democratic Farty
urged specding up industrial rehabilitation with emphasis on the workers.
Specific platform planke follow:

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
THE PLATFORMS OF THE FIVE MAJOR PARTIES.
FOLITICAL
DEMOCRATIC
LIBERAL
SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC
PEOPLE'S CO-OPERATIVE
COMMUNIST
1. Basic refom of exis-
l. Establishment of a
1. The democratization of
1. The amalgamation of
1. The overthrow of
ting administration,
democratic and respons-
administrative machines by
political elements which
the Yoshida Cabinet,
civil service and local
ible government.
destroying bureaucracy.
stand against capitalist
together with all
self-government systen
parties based on class
reactionary and con-
antagonism.
servative influences.
2. Public management of
2. The adjustment and
2. The accomplishment of
elections.
renovation of the admin-
a peaceful democratic re-
2. The breaking down of
istrative organizations.
volution through parlia-
political centralizations.
3. The fostering of young
mentary procedure.
officials.
3. The extirpation cf
3. The improvement of the
bureaucracy.
3. Large scale improvement
functioning of local self-
4. Imprarement in the
of the treatment of govern-
government and the trans-
treatment of Government
4. The renovation of
ment officials and employ-
fer of a substantial por-
63
officials and employees.
local self-government.
ees.
tion of state affairs from
the central to the local
5. The improvement in
government.
treatment of government
officials and employees.
FINANCIAL
1. Curbing the vicious
1. The adoption of the
I. The curtailment of
1. The establishment of
1. The imposition of
inflative spiral through
priority system as regards budget expenditures and
sound national finance by
progressive texes on
stabilization of national
the according of loans to
the imposition of the
curtailing administrative
the big profiteers,
finance and encouraging
industries, and the elim-
heaviest taxes on the
expendi tures.
with highest taxation
production.
ination of unnecessary
new yen class.
2. The establishment of
on the profiteers in
black marketing.
2. The enforcement of
restrictions on the pro-
2. The suspension of in-
effective rationing
the fixed price system
viding of loans.
terest payment on wartime
systems which will guaran-
2. The redemption of
for the purpose of stab-
2. Free industrial loans. bonds for a period of one
tee regular distribution
national bonds.
ilizing currency
year.
of essentials at the
official price.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
(FINANCE - Continuod)
DEJOCRATIC
LIBERAL
SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC
PEOPLE'S CO-OPERATIVE
COMMUNIST
3. The establishment cf
3. The reform of the
3. The establishment of
3. The prohibition of
3. The collection of on-
the composite taxation
taxation system.
the Económic Rehabilita-
underwriting of deficit
terprise evaluation
system and the renovation
tion Bank.
bonds by the Bank of Japan
differential.
of the taxation adminis-
and the prevention of the
tration.
onormous isannce of notes
4. The cancellation of
by means of a Currenéy
4. The curbing of the
4. The adoption of appro-
indemnitios for assets
Deliberation Council.
inflationary trend by
priate measures to seize 4. The adoption of a
in overseas areas.
absorbing all surplus
the incomes of the new
ceiling on tho notes
5. The nationalization of
profits.
yon profiteers.
issued by tho Bank of
the benking institutions
Japan.
and their control by the
5. The building up of the
5. The raising of the
pcoplo.
now prico structure.
basic deduction point in 5. The nationalization
income tax.
of the Bank of Japan.
64
6. The checking of
6. The raising of interest
inflation through (a)
rate on free deposits.
absorption of currency
through small-lot dispos-7. The removal of restrie-
als of government enter- tions on blocked accounts
prises. (b) public sub- after the collection of the
scription of public loansproperty tax.
and (c) restricting the
number of notes issued by
the Bank of Japan.
8. The partieipation of
the employees and the ro-
presentatives of the de-
positors in the managoment
of the banking onterprises.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
ECONOMY AND INDUSTRY
2
DEMOCRATIC
LIBERAL
SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC
PEOPLE'S CO-OPERATIVE
COMMUNIST
1. The rehabilitation of
1。
Giving priority to
1. Concentrated effort on
1. The development of
1. People's control ovor.
economy on a strict prior-
key industries.
the increase in production
medium and small indus-
the Zaibatsu-o:med onter-
ity basis.
of coal, iron and steel,
tries by means of improv-
prises and the key indus-.
2. The development of
and chemical fertilizer;
ing raw materials.
trics.
2. The strengthening of
specialty products enter-
and the exorcise of stute
state control for the pur-
prises with the accent on
control over the key in-
2. Increase of industrial
2. The abolition of tho
pose of industrial
light industries.
dustries as a preliminary
officiency by putting
systen vhich favors the
reconstruction.
step toward their nation-
government enterprises;
big capitalists, and the
3. The eradication of
alization.
such as telophons, tele-
full utilization of -
3. Preparation of plans
black marketing merehants
gram and tobacco, into
torials by uncovering
for the early resumption
and the luxury restaurants.
2. The enforcement of a
private hands.
hoarded goods and popu-
of foreign trade and
rationing systen for the
lar control of special
foreign exchange.
4. Reducing the number
supply of state-controlled
3. Coal-mines to be
commodi tios.
of government-controlled
materials, ith the prior-
given priority in the
4. The adjustment of
goods.
ity principle as its basis.
supply of materials and
65
existing controls and the
funds, with the goal of
democratizing of the
5. The participation in
3. The establishment of
producing 30,000,000 tons
rationing system.
world trade rolations.
the managing council in
a year to be attained
every industrial unit.
by the enhancemont of
5. The full utilization
6. The exploitation of
working spirit.
of hydro-electric
water power resources of
4. The encouragement of
resources.
the country.
modium and small industrial
enterprises and their modern-
7. Realizing the goal of
ization by means of co-opera-
producing 2,000, 000 tons
tive organization.
of nitrogen fertilizer
per year.
5. The nationalization or
popular management of
8. The advancement of
public works.
agricultural technique.
6. The imposition of the
9. Concentrate efforts
second property tax.
of getting permission to
fish in northern seas.
7. The alleviation of
the tax burden of the
laboring classes.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
DIPLOMACY
LIBERAL
SOCI AL DEMOCRATIC
PEOPLE'S CO-OPERATIVE
COMMUNIST
DEMOCRATIC
1. The promotion of the
1. The promotion of the
1. Hasten the conclusion
L. The opposition of diplo-
l. The engineering of a
concluding of the peace
of the peace treaty end
macy which is partial to one
reform movement in political, concluding of the peace
economic and cultural fields
treaty.
treaty.
the joining in the United
Nations and the Bretton-
country and hostile to an-
other or which seeks to ex-
in preparation for the con-
2. The taking of appro-
2. The establishment of
Woods Agreement.
ploit or stimilate disputes
clusicn of the peace treaty.
priate steps for parti-
a Social Democratic gov-
between other countries.
2. Participation in the
cipation in the United
Nations.
ernment to meet the
peace conference.
2. Encouragement of ex-
change of culturo, sports
2. To prevont mich diploma-
United Nations.
and religion with other
tic policy as tends to em-
3. The participation in
nations.
broil Japan in án inter
national strife.
the United Nations and the
World Federation of Trade
3.. To endeavor for speedy
Unions.
participation in the Inter-
national Labor Union Confer-
ence and The United Nations.
FOODS
rice with the price of
necessary agricultural
I. Balancing the price of
1. The rationalization
of the system on quota
and delivery.
1. Decisions on the quota
very to be entrusted to
and execution of rice deli-
methods for increasing
1. The establishment of
the production of fertil-
1. The determining of the
quota by the farmers them-
selves.
representatives of the far-.. izer by securing 2, 000,00b
implements.
tons of ammoniun sulphate
2. People's control over
2. Permission to fermers
mers.
2. The industrialization
to dispose of their rice
2. A thoroughgoing policy
- per year.
staple foods.
of agricultural areas and
freely after the fulfill-
to establish the rationing
2. The eradication of
3. The raising of the
the construction of new
ment of the quota.
system on foode and fuels.
delay in distribution by : official price of rice to:
agricultural villages
on the basis of the com-
3. The renoval of of-
3. Official control on
improving the food policy.
1,500 yen per koku.
bination of agriculture and
ficial control over
perishables should be
3. The abolition of of-
4. The distribution of
 industry.
perishables.
continued in the main.
ficial controls on perish-
fertilizer, farming imple
ables excepting in urban
ments and clothing at
3. The distribution of
4. The encouragement
4. The rationalization
areas.
official prices.
state-owned forests and
of powdered foods.
of the reward system for
the farmer.
public management of
forestry.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
FOODS (Continued)
DEMOCRATIC
LIBERAL
SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC
PEOPLE'S CO-OPERITIVE
COMMUNIST
4. The establishment of
5. The import of staple
5. The analganation of
5. The abolition of the
a national policy for
food.
officers in charge of ship-
bureaucrats control of
agriculture.
ment and distribution of
food.
food.
5.. The development of the
fishing and aquatic pro-
6. Severe punishnent for
ducts industry.
profossional brokors of
foods.
6. The establishment of
a national policy for the
marine products industry.
LBOR
1. Speeding up of indus-
1. The enhancement of
1. The enlargement and
1. The introduction of a
1. The prevention of
trial rehabilitation with
the laboring spirit,
sound development of labor
producers' co-operative
unemployment and the
emphasis on the vorkers.
together with realiza-
organizations.
systen into tho labor
attainment of full
67
tion of the right to
unions which now stand on
employment.
2. Respect for the rights
work.
2. The imediate establish- a class basis, and tho
of management and labor.
ment of the mininun wage
joint rosponsibility of
2. The supplying of
2. The establishment
syston.
capital and labor for
materials and funds to.
production.
the middle and snall
3. The establishmet and
of the mininum wage
entorprisos.
development of a council
systom.
3. The increase of wages
for labor and capital and
to neet the emergoncy
2. Guaranteo of mininum
the complete soparation
3. The improvement of
situation.
standard of living for
of capital end nanagement.
the position of laborers
laborers.
in an enterprise and
4. The encouragoment of
4o A sciontific systen
their sharing in profit.
collective bargaining in
3. The creation of a bonus
for ages.
overy ficld of industry.
for efficioncy on the basis
of turn-out, in addition to
4. Protection of vomen
tho livelihood bonus.
5. The enhancement of
and juvenile laborers.
5. The enhancenent of the
the laborers' culture.
authority of the Central
Labor Committee.
4. Raising of the exemption
point of tax on workers'
6. The establishment of
incono.
the unenployment insuranco
systen.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
SOCIL POLICY
DEMOCRAT
LIBERAL
SOCIAL DEMOCRTIC
PEOPLE'S CO-OPERATIVE
COMMUNIST
A
1. The strongthening of I. The enlargument and
1. The enforcement of the
1. The institution of a
1. Tho state owmership
the Livelihood Protection adjustment of the social
social insurance syston.
no.w life culture to on-
of tenant land and the
Law.
insurance syston.
hance social oducation,
recognition of the right
2. The socialization of
social sorvices and medical
to cultivate the state-
2. Emergoncy measures to 2. Fopularization of
modical facilities.
and welfare facilities by
owned lands.
moans of co-operative
neet the housing shortage.the medical facilities.
3. The enactment of the
society.
2. The improvement of
3. The adoption of a far-3. Spood up repatria-
children's welfare law.
farmers' lif through tho
reaching social policy
tion and strengthen the
2. The cquality of op-
co-operativo nethod in
welfare facilitius for
4. The fundamental revi-
portunity of education.
faming.
4. The enforcement of
the repatriated.
sion of the Livelihood
social insurance for the
Protection Lav.
3. The equality of
3. The mansions which
unemployed and the
4. Inmediato solution of
opportunity for both
are in possession of war
disabled.
the housing problen
5. The establishment of
sexes in laber and the
criminals, big capitalists
the Clothing Rationing
protection of matornity.
and high officials, the
CO
5. Equality of oppor-
Deliberation Council.
disguised hotels, fomer
6
tunity in cducation for
4. The inprovement of
military barracks, and the
both sexes.
6. The mass construction
material life and the
luxurious restaurants should
of houses for laborers by
introduction of co-opera-
bo made available for tho
6. Rovision of the sys-
an official corporation.
tive nothod into home
use of honeless pcople,
labor.
and the building of housos
ten of laws on the basis
for war-victins and ro-
of oqual right of both
7. The priority distri-
patriates at the oxpenso
SoXOs.
bution of ossentials to the
of the state rust be carriod
war victims.
out.
7. Increasing the polit-
ical oducation of vomen.
8. The promotion of a
cultural movement vith
the young intolloctuals
as the leading influence.
9. The improvoment of the
social status of oducators.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
THE LOCAL ELECTIONS
Eleotion of lMayors of Cities, and Chiefs of
Towns, Villages, and Wards
Election of Gevernors
Eleotion of Local Assemblies
69

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
70
LOCAL ELECTIONS
Mayors of Cities; Chiefs of Towns, Villages and Tokyo Wards
On 5 April the Japanese electorate went to the polls to elect mayore of
cities and chiefs of towns, villages, and Tokyo wards by direct popular vote.
Hithertofore city, town, and village heads had been elected indireotly through
the local assemblies with subsequent approval by the Ministry of Home Affairs,
and chiefs of Tokyo wards had been appointed by the Governor of Tokyo.
The mumber of persons vho filed questionnaires with intention to edvance
their candidacies for these office  reached a grand total of 47,594. However.
as the day of election approached this number dwindled to 20,594 or less than
half.
Among the 20,594 contestants for the 10,419 mayoralty positions were 14
women, of whom 3 were elected, the first women in Japanese history thus selected'
es locel chief executives.
In 3,374 municipalities of Japan no elections took place because there
was only one candidate in the field. This condition illustrates the fact of
wide general agreement on the candidate before elections take plece. It is
further indicative of historic pattern in rural small communities.
The party affiliations of the new executives are as follows:
Liberals Demer. Social.
Cooper. Commun.
Minor
Indepen- Total
Demer.
Parties dents
Mayors of Cities
19
23
11
1
9
146
20
Chiefs of Tovns,
Villages and
Tokyo Wards
360
316
253
63
11
96
9111
1021
379
339
264
64
11
105
9257
1041
The same as peroentages of the total:
Liberals Demer. Social. Cooper. Commun. Minor Indepen- Totel
Demcr.
Parties dents
3.6
3.3
2.5
0.6
0.1
1.0
88.9
100
Thus nearly ninety percent of the mayors ere non-party men. Inference is
not to be drawn, however, that all of these 9,257 mayors are "independent"
because in many villages, towns and cities these independent cendidates were
either approved by the right or the left. Inference may be drawn thet in Japen
the questions of municipal government are less political in their charaeter
than are the all national issues. In one prefeeture, Fukui, all the elected
mayors were non-party men. Morcover, in all probability these newly elected
mayors are more conservative than members of the Diet.
Governors of Prefectures
One of the most significant changes made by the Diet in the re-organiza-
tion of local government was thet of requiring the governor of the prefecture
to be an elected official and no longer to be a career civil servant aprointed
(and moved about at will) by the Ministor of Home Affairs. Thc decision to
have populerly elected executives for prefectures was a sharp break from
contralisation in government.
The elections of the governors took place on the same day as that of
mayors. Contesting for the 46 governorships, there were 207 candidates or
approximately four persons per office. In most prefectures the campaigning
was spiritcd and exciting. The 207 oandidates were divided as follows:

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
Liberels Demor. Social. Cooper. Commun.
Minor. Indepen- Total
Parties dent
Candidates
14
10
33
9
20
114
206
lected
4
4
4
0
0
3
31
46
ct. of Farty. Candi-
lates who succeeded 28.6
40.0
12.1
0
15.0
27.2 22.3
Again, as was true in the case of mayors, the phrase  independent candi-
datc" did not mcan that the candidato was not given some support by parties.
In almost all cases the independent candidate was supported by this or that
political party. Again most of these groups were conservative.
Competition was so koen in eight prefectures, Chiba, Hokkcido, Ibaragi,
Nara, Miyazaki, Kochi, Niigata and Wakayama in the first election thct no can-
didcte received the 37è per cent required minimum vote and hence no governor
was elected. Run-off elections were necessery. as noted below.
Among the 207 candidates there were 32 former governors, of whom 26 were
elected, including those who were victorious in the run-off elections; only
six were defeated end of these two were defeated by other former governors.
Six other candidates were high officials of the government.
Some segments of the press asserted that these' particular electiolis were
under bureeucratic influence. The facts renain nevertheless that all ctndidacies
were open to anyone, that the elections were by universal suffrage and popular
vote and that most successful cendidates roceived large majorities; the
governor of Saitama Prefecture received almost three times as many votes as
his next rival, a Social Democrat.
As was mentioned above, competition in eight prefectures did not allow the
leading candidates in the 5 April elections to obtain the required minimum 372
per cent vote, as prescribed in the Law for the Organization of Urban and Rural
Prefectures. However, in both Nara and Miyazaki prefectures one of the two
candidates was purged just prior to the run-off elections. Because of the
Imperial ordinance concerning the purge vhich stated that if a candidate were
purged the action was to te treated or considered as a withdrawal, the local
government laws took effect; hence no election was needed and the other can-
didate automatically became governor.
As was anticipated, smaller numbers of voters participated in the run-off
elections. Voting in these elections on 15 April compared with that of 5 April
is given below:
5 April
15 April
Decreese es per
cent of 5 April
Chiba
667;166
536,186
19.5
Hokkaido
1,203,077
1,043,816
13.5
Ibaragi
753.406
671;617
10.6
Kochi
346,245
307,691
11.4
Niigata
874.643
817,665
605
Wakayama
375,465
347,085
7.5
This table shovs that there vere 6 to 20 per cent fewer voters at the
run-off elections, as could be expected. Yet the purpose of the elcctions
was achieved: in most cases the rivals received much larger percentagis of
the vote then in the first election, and thus the winning ctndidate was in a
position to be cble to command a much greater respect as governor than other-
wise would be the case.
The vote received by the elected governors in the run-off elections is
as follows:
71

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
72
Prefecture
Name
Party
Vote on
Vote on
5April
15 April
Chiba
Kawaguchi
Liberal
198,399
284.321
Hokkaido
Tanaka
S. D.
384.830
555.862
Ibaragi
Tomosue
Ind.
207.765
352.399
Kochi
Kawamure
Ind.
89,159
171.876
Niigata
Kada
Ind.
312,945
515,394
Wakayame
Ona
Liberel
98.350
219,318
Moreover, the experience of conducting run-off elections wes informative
and beneficial. Again this wes the first time in Jepan that the praetice wes
introduced.
All in all the fact that 32 of the 46 newly elected governors ere experien-
ced officials assures a smoother transition from the old to the new order than
otherwise might have transpired.
Prefectural and Municipal Assembly Elections:
The prefecturel and municipal assemblies under the new laws passed by the
Diet have new and increased powers and responsibilities. In comparison with
the rights and duties under the old laws, their position today is altered
materially.
Because of the deep public interest in the local assemblies, a precedent
was established for Japan as 32, 824,953 voters turned out for the polling.
actually 8l.7 per cent of the registered voters. This figure crowned that
of the approximate 80 per cent obtained under the Tojo clections in 1942, when
the people were ordered to votel In many prefectures the numbers of men end
women exceeded ninety per cent. Women elso established records. Voting for
the second time in local clections, women turned out in unusuelly large numbers;
16,671,081 cast their ballots or 80% of registered women.
The Municipal assembly elections were meinly on e non-party basis and
even for the prefectural assemblies independent candidates led in actual
numbers. The party vote in prefectural eleetions was es follows:
Indepen. Liberal
Democra-
Social
Coopera-
Commu-
Minor
Total
tic
Democrat
tive
nist
Parties
vote8 9.686.347 5,733, 280 6,092,169 5,482, 627 1,187, 627 556,473 2.520,428 31,258.646
? of
Totel
31.0
18.3
1905
17.5
3.8
1.8
8.1
100.0
Votes for Independent candidates made 31 per cent of the total, and the
vote for Liberals, Democrats, end Social Democ ats ves almoct equally dis-
tributed. The vote for the Minor Parties amounted to only 8.1 per cent of
the total.
The distribution of elected assemblymen by parties is as followss
Liberal
Demer.
S.Demer.
Cooper. Comaun. Minor
Indep.
Total
Perties
Prefectural
491
488
411
116
4
177
803
2.490
City Assemblies
656
647
672
32
36
312
46917
7.272
Tokyo Ward Ass.
245
132
3
15
5
355
895
Village & Town
Assemblies
3,956
4,124
4.701
577
365
1.577 167,924
183,224
Total
5.348
5.391
5,924
728
420
2.071 173,999
193,881
The same in percenteges
Prefectures
19.7
19.6
16.5
4.7
0.1
7.1
32.3
100.0
Cities
9.0
8.9
9.2
0e4
0.5
4e3
6707
100.0
Tokyo Wards
27.1
14.8
15.7
0.3
1.7
0.6
39.8
100.0
Village-Towns
2.2
22
2.6
0.3
0.2
0.9
91.6
100.0
Total
2.7
207
3.0
0.4
0.2
1.1
89.9
100.0

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
As may be observed from the table, the indopendent assemblymon obtained
a total of 32.3 per cent in the prefeotural assemblies, 67.7 pór cent in
the oity assemblies, 39.8 per "oent in the ward assemblios and 91.6 per oent
in the village and town assomblies. In the small rural communitios munioipal
matters aro almost entiroly of non-party complexion. Moreover, when a
oandidato in those looalities uses the labol "Independent", muoh significenoe
can bo attached to the declaration for in most situations he is standing on
his own morits and asks that his neighbors voto on that basis.
73

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
74
THE NATIONAL ELECTIONS
House of Representatives Elections
House of Counoillors Elcctions

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
THE NATIONAL ELECTIONS
The elections for the House of Souncillors and House of Representatives
which took place on 20 and 25. April, respectively, demonstrated an apparent
paradox in the political thinking of the Japanese peoples In the preceding
elections for governors, mayors, and town and village chiefs a distinstly
conservative trend misled some observers to. predict a victory for either the
Liberals or Demoorats in the national elections as well. Such misconceptions
arose from a leck of understanding of the superior importance in the eyes of
the Japanese people of well-known personalities as opposed to political per-
ties and principles. The average Japanese tends to vote for prominent men
in a local community, even though their views may be diametrically opposed to
his own. Usually these men are conservatives, owing to their past positions
of power and prestige end, in many cases, their intimate connections with the
bureaucracy and ruling castes. Often, they are former government officials
themselves
This tendency persisted to a certain extent in the elections to the House
of Counoillors, since it wes assumed that the Upper House should preserve its
traditional conservative character as opposed to the Lower House. This attitude
accounts for the election of a large number of independents, most of whom are
said to be conservatives. However, progressive influence did make a greet deal
more headway than in the local elections. and the Social Democrats emerged as
the plurality party.
In the House of Representetives election the voters showed a surprising
preference for parties as against personelities, and very few independents or
minor party candidates were elected. Again, it was the Social Democrats tho
gained a plurality in the Lower House, with not quite a third of the seats, a
complete contrast in the political picture as it appeared earlier in April
after the first elections.
The House of Representatives Elections
Summary and Results - House of Representatives Election
#No. of
Percentage
*No. of candi- Percen- **Member- Loss
Valid Votes of total
dates clected
tage: of ship in
or
Cast
votes east
member- Old Diet
Gain
ship
1947 1946
Social
Democrats
7,168,888
26.2% 17.8%
144
30.9%
98
46
Liberals
7.295.242
26.6%
2404%
131
28.1%
040
-9
Democrats
6,857.480
25.1%
18.7%
121
26.0%
145
-24
People's Coop.1,862,753
6.8%
3.2%
29
6.2%
63
-34
Communists
1,002,889
3.7%
3.8%
4
9%
6
-2
Minor Partiee 1.560,070
507%
11.7%
24
5.1%
4
20
Independents 1.614,295
509% 20.4%
13
2.8%
9
 4
27.361,611
100.0% 100.0%
1466
100.0%
465
Much greater interest was shown in the elections for the House of Repre-
sentetives than for the House of Councillors: 67.% of the registered voters
participated in the elections for Representatives. out of a total registra-
tion of 19.569,839 men and 21.326,483 women, 14.658,264 men and 13,137,620
women voted. 74.9% of the eligible men went to the polls, and 61. 6% of the
eligible women voters. The three largest cities, as in the House of Council-
lors elections, showed much higher abstention rates than the averege, the
rates bedng 34.2% in Osaka, 35:8% in Kyoto, and 39.6% in the city.of
of these there were purged as of 5 May: 2 Social Democrats, 2 Democrats.
1 Liberal.
1 vacanoy.
Fixurea are affieial HomoMrtt

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
THE NATIONAL ELEOTIONS
which took place on 20 and 25 April, respectively, damonstrated an appmrant
elections for governors, mayors, and town and village chiers a distinstly
conservative trend misled some observers to predict a victory for either the
Liberals or Demoorats in the national eleotions as well. Such misconceptions
arose from a lack of understanding of the superior importance in the eyes or
the Japanese people of well-known personalities as opposed to politicel par-
ties and principles. The average Japenese tends to vote for prominent men
in a local community, even though their views may be diametrically opposed to
his own. Usually these men are conservatives, owing to their past positions
of power and prestige and, in many cases, their intimate connections with the
bureaucracy and ruling castes. Often, they are former government officials
themselves
This tendency persisted to a certain extent in the elections to the House
of Counoillors, since it wes assumed that the Upper House should preserve its
traditional conservative character as opposed to the Lower House. This attitude
accounts for the election of a large number of independents, most of whom are
said to be conservatives. However, progressive influence did make a greet deal
more headway then in the local elections. end the Social Democrats emerged as
the plurality party.
In the House of Representetives election the voters showed a surprising
preference for parties as against personalities, and very few independents or
minor party candidates were elected. Again, it was the Social Democrats tho
gained a plurality in the Lower House, with not quite a third of the seats, a
complete contrast in the political picture as it appeared earlier in April
after the first elections.
The House of Representatives Elections
Summary and Results - House of Representatives Election
#No. of
Percentage
*No. of candi- Percen- **Member- Loss
Valid Votes or total
dates clected tage: of ship in
or
Cast
votes sast
member- Old Diet
Gain
ship
1947 1946
Social
Democrats
7,168,888
26.2% 17.8%
244
30.9%
98
+46
Liberals
7.295.242
26.6%
2404%
131
28.1%
240
-9
Democrats
6.857.480
25.1%
18.7%
121
26.0%
145
-24
People's Coop.1,862,753
6.8%
3.2%
29
6.2%
63
-34
Communists
1,002,889
3.7%
3.8%
4
9%
6
-2
Minor Parties 1.560,070
5.7%
11.7%
24
5.1%
4
+ 20
Independents 1.614:295
5.9% 20.14%
13
2.8%
9
4
27.361,611
100.0% 100.0%
466
100.0%
465
Much greater interest was shown in the clections for the House of Repre-
sentetives than for the House of Councillors. 67.% of the registered voters
participated in the elections for-Representatives. Out of a total registra-
tion of 19.569,839 men and 21,326,483 women, 14,658,264 men and 13.137,620
women voted. 74. 9% of the eligible men went to the polls, and 61. 6% of the
eligible women voters. The three largest cities, as in the House of Council-
lors elections, showed much higher abstention rates than the averege, the
rates bedng 34.2% in Osaka, 35.8% in Kyoto, and 39.6% in the city.of
Of these there were purged as of 5 Mey: 2 Soeial Democrats, 2 Democrats.
1 Liberal.
1 vacency.
#
Figures are official Home Ministry reports.
75

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
76
Tokyo. On the other hand, such industrial erees as Aichi (Nagoya). Fulkuoke
(Fukuoka), and Kanagawa (Yokohama) Prefectures were in the category or
lowest abstention rates, with 22.6%, 29.7%, and 24.2% respectively. Lowest.
interest in the elections was shown by Hokkaido, with 58-7% perticipation.
A further indication of the greater interest shown in this election
was the low percentage of invalid ballots, emounting to only 435 229, or
1.56% throughout the nation. Highest mumber of invalid votes in the pre-
fectures were Kagoshima, with 2.94%, Shimane, with 2.40%, and Fukushima.
with 2.30%. A factor which might also have had e bearing on the low mum-
ber of wested ballots is the fact that there vere only 1,599 candidates.
compared with ne arly 1,200 more in last year's elections, thus meking the
situetion less confusing to the voter. Yet it is still rather surprising
that there were not considerably more spoiled ballots, since over 1.232
of the 1, 600 candidates were "new faces" running for the Diet for the
first time and taking the places of the relatively large number of purged
old-line politicians.
The election was highlighted by the emergence of the Social Democrats
as the leading party in the lower House, the party displacing the Liberals
and showing a spectacular ge in in strength, despite its failure to win even
as much as one-third of the total number of seats. At the same time. a
striking contrast was offered to the results of the House of Councillors
elections, in that minor parties and independents were unable to win more
than a combined total of il. 6% of the popular vote and only 37 out of the
466 seats in the House. Although voters tended to vote for personalities
rather than parties in the Upper House elections, they shoved a decided
preference for the me jor parties in the Lower House elections, with "new
faces" vinning 220 seats.
Another noteworthy result was the conspicuous failure of women can-
didates to capture more than 15 seats, al though the total number of
candidates was nearly the same as for last year's elections, at which
time 39 vomen vere elected.
The Communists suffered a compara ble setback electing less than 1%
of the House membership, al though their popular vote was 3.7% and their
vote-getting strength showed little change from last year's election re-
sults.
It was at first thought that the change in the electoral law to pro-
vide for a medium constituency, single entry balloting system would
definitely favor the Liberals and the Democrats, owing to their supposed
possession of powerful local political machines and that the Social Demo-
crats, along with minor parties and inde pendents, would suffer a reduction
in proportional represent tion. However, the Social Democrats were not in
the least adversely affected. On the contrary, their election strategy
was decidedly superior to that of both the Liberal and Demmcratic Parties.
since they put up considerably less candidates but elected more, oving to
split party votes within the other two me jor parties. At the time the
Diet decision was made for adoption of changes in the size of electorel
districts, which the party had vehemently opposed, the Social Democrats
determined to restrict the number of "recognized candidates" to a figure
within 2oo and absolutely not to racognize candidates not already officially
sanctioned. They even ent so far as to expel unrecognized candidates.
With this decision the party carried out its intcntions to push the cam-
paign with the objective of putting up one sure winner in each constituency.
In spite of this policy, a mumber of "unrecognized" candidates appeared,
which prompted campaign chairman Hirano to underestimate his party's chances.
Before the election he remarked that "ve have some 80 candidates too many.
We shall probably secure 125 seats and become the second party (the first party
honors going to the Liberals)." The Social Democrats ran only 18% of the
total mumber of candidates. compared to 20% for the Liberals and 21% for the
Democrats. Thus, although the Liberal Party receiwed the largest popular
vote. the Social Democrats elected 13 more members, or 30.9% of the House
membership. The Liberals vere not as

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
able to controi the large mmber of unrecognized candidates who apparently
fought for votes among themselves.
The People's Cooperatives fared less well than expeoted, with only 29
successful candidates, although party spokesmen had predicted 46 or 47 seats
and 40 at worst. The party's campaign was hampered considerably by the ab-
sence of leaders in the Tokyo constituency and by the fact that the party had
only been formed a few weeks before, just prior to the dissolution of the Diet.
Most observers, nevertheless, had predicted 35 seats for them.
All prefectures except three, Aomori, Fukui, and Ishikawa, have Sociel
Democrat representatives in the House of Representatives. No Liberals were
elected in Fukui, Ishikewa, Kagawa, Shimane, and Miyazeki. Democrats failed
to win seats in Nara, Wakayame, Tottori, Tokushime, and Miyazaki.
Personalitiee .led the list of top vote-getters. All 11 members of the
Yoshida Cabinet who ran for election to the House were elected, as was Chief
Cebinet Secretery Hayashi Joji. Ozaki Yukio, vho has served in every Diet since
the esteblishment of the parliamentary system in Japan, was re-elected by a de-
cisive mergin. Yamezaki Takeshi, Liberal end ex-speaker of the House, was
elected from the Second District of Ibaraki Prefecture. Tagawa Daikichiro, who
lost to Yasui Seiichiro in the Tokyo-to gubernatoriel election, won by a large
margin. Fifty-seven year old Mrs. Neknyeme Masa, Liberal candidate from the
Second District of Osake, is one of the women elected to the Lower House.
although her husband, Kazuo, also a Liberal candidate from the same district,
wes defeated.
Prominent Social Democrats elected included the new Prime Minister Katayama
Tetsu, Speaker of the House Matsuoke Komakichi, Mizutani Choseburo. Nishio
Suchiro, Kato Kanju. and his wife Shizue.
The four Communists elected are Nosaka Sanzo, Tokudn Kyuichi, Kimure Sakae,
a 28-year old express company employee from Shimane, end Hayashi Hyakuro, a
lawyer from Negano. Feilure of Shiga Yoshio to win election in Oscke is re-
garded as a severe blow to the Party, as was the defeat of Mrs. Nosaka.
In the key election areas, the Social Democrats ceptured 12 out of 27 seats
in Tokyo Metropolitan District, compered to 8 for the Liberals, 4 for the Demo-
crats, 2 for the Communists. and 1 for the People's Cooperatives. Nosaka and
Tokuda placed last among the winners in thcir respective districts. In Osaka.
the Social Democrats won 9 out of 19 seats, followed by 5 for the democrats, 4
for the Liberals, and 1 Independent. Two Communists placed as runner-up in
the First and Third Districts of Osaka Prefecture. In Fukuoka, the Social Demo-
crats secured 7 out of 19 seets, the Democrats 6, and the Libercls 3. In
Hokkaido the Social Democrats also won a plurality, vith 8 out of the 22 seats,
followed by 7 for the Liberals, 3 for the Democrats, 1 for the People's Coop-
eratives; and 3 for minor parties. In Hyogo the Democrats ceptured half of the
20 seets, followed by 5 for the Social Democrats. 2 for the Liberals, and 1 for
the People's Cooperetives. of Aichi's 19 sents, 6 each went to the Democrets
and Social Democrats, 4 to the Liberals. 2 to the People's Cooperatives, and 1
to a member of a minor party.
The Diet includes 220 "new faces," 237 former Dict members, and 9 one-
time members, according to JIJI PRESS.
The new House contains the folloving vocational groupings: 14 members of
agrioultural associations, 16 teachers, 24 fommer government officials, 44
lawyers. 6 former Cabinet ministers, 19 labor leaders, 10 newspapermen, 6
religious workers, 23 writers, 3 doctors, and a large number of businessmen
and industrialists.
77

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
Rouse of Representatives Election Results - April 25. 1947
Elect-
orate
L
D
So D，
P. C.
C
M
I
Total
Hokkaido
1
68,697
34,014
52.946
15,165
4,821
21,592
28;373
225:608
2
66,867
9,903
21,537
23,241
5,271
56,753
3;012
186584
3
59,254
8.933
45,804
6;501
545
12;807
133,844
4
23,059
1,461
110,016
30,909
11,759:
71,085
23.047
271:336
5
45.724
32,125
75;857
26,594
8,004
40;150
228:454
Total
263,601
86.436
306,160
95,909
36.356
190.125
67,239 1,045,826
Aomori
1
75:792
77,061
18,336
16,927
2,859
11;666
202.641
2
34.909
30,554
16,827
44.431
8,155
16,918
13:068
164:862
Total
110,701
107.615
35,163
61.358
11,014
16,918
24.734
367.503
Iwate
1
62,135
34,041
71,810
6.034
4.951
32:548
2,257
213:776
2
97.676
71,472
33.591
4,082
2.023
208;844
Totel
159,811
105.513
105.401
6,034
9,033
34.571
2,257
422.620
78
Miyagi
1
89,246
81,737
93,694
20,377
6,385
25,218
1,409
318,066
2
95,173
44.594
39,351
3.419
6;096
352
188,975
Total
184.419
126,331
133.045
20,377
9,794
31,314
1,761
507,011
Akita
1
43.823
57,540
9.246
10;261
72,498
ε,100
202;068
2
25,215
30,211
31,472
27,661
8794
51.696
23,214
197:263
Total
69,038
30,211
89,012
37,507
19,055
223.194
31,314
399.371
Yemagata
1
122,091
60.731
46,940
4774
17,009
14,193
265:738
2
66.574
72,362
50,579
5,691
4,520
12;636
212:362
Totel
188,665
133,093
97.519
5,691
9,294
17,009
26,829
478,100
Fukushima
1
69;680
29,835
93,539
4:206
7:318
204:578
2
105.455
75.206
58.053
5.739
6,683
2;616
19,809
273-561
3
55,279
46340
32.943
3,244
32796
7:062
177;664
Total
230.414
151,381
184.535
5,739
14.133
35,412
34,189
655,803

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
Elect-
orate
D
S.D.
P.C.
C
M
工
Total
Ibaragi
1
107,624
63.409
30,238
5.221
2.553
28,049
357
237,451
2
72,971
1,285
60,810
8,479
3.848
13,960
10,595
171;948
3
58,128
93,736
39,747
40.565
6,546
19,945
258,667
Total
238,723
158,430
130,795
54,265
12,947
42,009
30,897
668,066
Tochigi
1
30,751
91,608
81,861
29.702
4,822
33,955
272,699
2
83.599
99.348
58,621
7.456
5.913
5.499
260:436
Total
114.350
190.956
140.482
37,158
10.735
39,454
533,135
Gumme
1
8,879
115.673
64;889
4,874
1.972
196;287
2
14.733
43,724
58,202
23.167
4.101
2,816
9.472
156,215
3
88.699
86,859
53,753
9,549
15,682
254.542
Total
112,311
246,256
176,8144
23,167
18,524
2,816
27,126
607,044
Saitama
1
71.395
33,039
95,203
6,981
2.554
209:173
2
94,084
33,968
31,026
4,024
7.493
208
6,752
177.554
3
42,401
97.244
30,161
17.652
187,458
79
4
118,000
18,890
40,655
4.773
5.559
993
2,711
191,581
Totel
325,886
183.141
197.045
8,797
37,685
3,755
9.463
765.766
Chiba
1
94,920
66,793
47.751
6,432
1,508
1;802
219,206
2
95,079
60,532
18,481
3.259
525
4,811
182;687
3
127,244
91,262
15,466
4.632
30;708
269:312
Total
317,243
218.587
81,698
14,323
2,033
37,371
671,205
Tokyo
1
65,919
59,285
76,323
28;628
17:885
16;857
264;887
2
66.554
15,450
78,794
2.767
15,150
3.849
1;550
183:514
3
47.716
12,312
63,734
1,284
20,615
4.418
7;235
157;314
4
64.768
18.794
60,647
20,525
3,666
8,618
177;018
5
59,440
20,666
64,784
29,254
18,093
1;111
14,285
207,613
6
107:595
59,656
122,959
3,148
16,769
9,894
9,709
329:730
7
69,072
60.442
1C1,302
1,645
14:865
6,469
463
254270
Total
481,060
246,611
568.523
37.498
134.645
47,292
58,717 1.574.246

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
Elect
orate
D
S.D.
PoCo
C
M
I
Totel
Kanagawa
1
43.937
57.545
97.439
16.633
13.386
1,676
10;260
240,876
2
59,086
14.296
76.364
7.562
16,158
15,843
18,282
208,091
3
74.749
29.586
108,936
42:517
9:061
8,101
4.973
272,923
Total
177,772
101,427
277739
66,712
38,605
25.520
34,155
721,891
Niigate
1
68.453
33.147
26,942
4.491
4,117
11,889
14,773
163,813
2
42,164
79,807
58,408
2.177
9.964
5;242
197;762
3
62,009
88,393
97,120
8,282
11,721
8,052
275:577
4
65.975
420175
55,002
3.355
1,921
168.428
Total
238.601
243,522
237.472
6.668
25.718
25,531
28,068
805.580
Toyama
1
37,481
63,385
62,866
30,852
3,201
1,816
205:707
2
42,375
64,054
26,371
40,194
2,511
12:573
188,078
Total
79.856
127,539
95.237
71,052
5.712
14.589
393,785
Ishikawa
1
8,354
68,599
63,650
19:452
33,672
193;727
2
39.855
72.372
10,563
3,866
15,104
5:293
147.051
80
Total
48,209
140,969
74,213
23,312
15,104
38.965
340.778
Fukui
1
31,492
148,592
76,195
4.325
30.777
6,995
298,376
Yamanashi
1
77,442
87,525
102,563
2,662
11,133
29,082
562
310,969
Nagano
1
80,251
50,929
44.365
13.396
13,023
2,159
690
204,813
2
30,856
32,099
31,000
77.847
16,785
2,758
2,273
193;618
3
10,356
43,421
58,656
34.404
25,934
27:033
14,316
214:120
4
96,582
34,276
23;038
10,956
8,237
9,208
182,297
Total
218,045
160,725
157.059
136,603
63.979
41,158
17,279
794,848
Gifu
1
118.957
56,148
75,192
3;115
5,910
18,969
15,009
293:300
2
68,493
90,073
64,837
15,497
3.010
9196
251;106
Total
187.450
146,221
140,029
18,612
8,920
18,969
24,205
544.406

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.96)
Elect-
Shizuoka
orate
1
152,659
133.641
42,429
65,109
D
93,871
67,773
S.D.
14351
P.C.
15;212
6:902
C
M
21,758
I
341,202
272.503
Total
2.
66,220
68,678
30,803
77,686
6.660
3.311
16.510
269;868
Total
3:
352.520
176,216
192.447
92.037
28.774
3,311
38,268
883.573
Aichi
2.
1:
32,311
60,902
101,257
99,399
71:114
83.480
12,969
13,847
16:212
10,142
11,388
5.951
254:526
264,446
3.
60,722
64.718
36.342
47.625
5.323
214:730
4
58,391
78.907
42266
31,005
7.787
45,011
11.124
274,491
5
86,182
45.682
40,317
7.131
27.187
206.499
Total
298,508
389.963
273.519
105.446
46.595
83.586
17,075 1,214,692
Mie
1
55.646
130,200
54,828
14,010
41,941
26,641
323,266
2.
31.355
44.750
41,883
8.078
83,317
209,383
Total
80.505
174.950
96.711
22,088
41,941
109,958
532,649
Shiga
1
129,627
38.104
102,827
53,195
6,653
9,615
4,505
344.526
82
Kyoto
1.
35,878
69.607
119,703
9,180
10.427
10,151
6,277
261,223
2
53.670
147.557
124,628
40855
5;118
1,505
4,442
341,775
Total
89,548
217,164
244.331
14.035
15.545
11,656
10,719
602.998
Osaka
1
67,716
45.985
69,802
13,842
27.762
44;169
6:521
273,797
2
46,412
47469
97.829
3.436
11,476
14.771
1,575
227,968
3
29:723
69:788
85.300
11,377
12.409
11;125
220,022
4
42.963
77,110
72,741
8;348
25.115
226,307
5
63,376
17.981
48,568
10,025
17,164
58:690
215;804
Totel
248.190
258.333
374.540
33.655
70,020
76,104
103,056 1,163,898
Hyogo
1
26.538
58,292
76,196
7,830
9,202
1;647
179;705
2
25.168
129;136
114.200
11.945
11,114
7.199
3.190
301.982
3
32.482
74,042
62515
32,319
4,888
706;240
4
39:011
99;617
40,830
39:374
10,531
13.460
242,823
5
27,194
110,370
26,122
9,058
3,382
2;075
178;201
Totel
150.393
471,457
319.863
92,696
37.775
16,401
20,372 1,108.957

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
Elect-
oreto
D
SoDe
P.C.
C
M
工
Totel
Nara
1
81,183
37.427
51.948
12,992
34,990
110,088
328,628
Wakayama
1
75,046
6,161
54,193
3,339
4.744
29,139
172,622
2
65,459
43,900
46,122
4,780
8,042
168,303
Total
140.505
6,161
98,093
46.122
8,119
4.744
37.181
340,925
Tottori
1
66.576
72.343
13,596
11,751
60,279
224.545
Shimane
1
31,950
155.243
126,436
17,532
20,597
20,597
372,076
Okayama
1
99,810
68.048
63,408
33,145
13.549
3.452
381,412
2
111,046
57,674
81,595
34.563
15,985
677
301,540
Total
210,856
125.722
145,003
67.708
29,534
4,129
582,952
Hiroshima
1
23,151
77,158
66,135
4.592
37,534
7.374
215,944
2
105,138
35,636
47,476
27,254
6,182
25,617
763
248,066
3
82:075
76,991
110,616
8,655
25,883
304.220
82
Total
187,213
135.778
235,250
93,389
19,429
63,151
340,020
768,230
Yamaguchi
1
106,461
28,525
70.794
15,872
8;370
1,091
14;199
245;318
2
49:436
29.714
61,465
17,939
14:205
44,554
40,878
258,191
Total
155.897
58,239
132,259
33,817
22,575
45.645
55.077
503.509
62,666
12,699
55,605
118,606
3,230
24.613
3.697
281,116
Tokushima
1
Kagawa
1
18,588
28,413
67,582
4,813
41,761
2,990
164,147
2
25,521
78,270
46,926
38,587
3,760
2,923
195.987
Total
44,109
106,683
114,508
38,587
8,573
41.761
5,913
360,134
Ehime
1
46,003
65.691
26,352
4,780
2,166
2,591
147.583
2
24,174
90.457
71.997
4:830
472
191,930
Totel
3
156,038
85,261
197,994
41,846
131,900
33,551
13,305
13,305
15,677
6;067
5,132
2,966
5,353
2,290
525,399
185;886
Kochi
1
148,102
46,055
64,235
8,721
26,729
40,172
334,014

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
Elect-
orate
SoDe
P.C.
C
M
I
Total
Fukuoke
1
40,907
55,647
78.343
8,012
47,904
41,703
272,516
2
36;497
85.446
145.441
19,920
18,742
306.046
3
75.608
84.018
59:926
11,357
7,717
31,982
37.730
308,338
4
32,900
54.514
123.384
6,768
21;247
238,813
Totel
185.912
279.625
407.094
31,277.
41,239
79,886
100,680
1,125,713
Saga
1
122,564
85.784
27,746
52,444
10,889
65,617
365,044
Nagasaki
1
103:141
34.202
52,413
16,014
4,928
20,233
10,555
241,486
2
50,123
76,341
64,144
6.311
31.422
228;341
Total
153,264
110,543
116,557
16,014
11,239
51,655
10,555
469.827
Kumamoto
1
61,969
104:904
96,855
21,578
4.457
7,253
9.638
306;654
2
107,780
111,259
59,030
19,421
2,652
7,581
20,655
328:378
Total
169.749
216,163
155.885
40,999
9,109
14,834
30,293
635.032
Oita
1
56,742
77,013
28,610
15.612
7.895
8;771
62:417
257;060
83
2
33,078
49.699
46,203
23.590
6:005
3,701
26;693
188,969
Total
89,820
126,712
813
39,202
13,900
12,472
89,110
446.029
Miyazaki
1
31.071
30,001
28,553
41,620
4.338
62;234
197;817
2
13.632
53.537
81,956
2,895
8,791
160;811
Total
44.703
30,001
82,090
123,576
7,233
71.025
358,628
Kagoshime
1
51,466
97.170
20,963
18,222
1,496
8;099
19,319
216;735
2
90.603
39.539
18.657
1,225
38:301
16;193
211;151
3.
42,878
47,143
12,705
46,021
677
2:563
2,272
154:259
Total
94,344
241.549
73,207
82,900
3.398
48.963
37.784
582,145

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
84
The House of Councillors Election
Summary end Results - House of Councillors Election
% of
#National No of
Prefect-
No. of
Total
Constitu- Velid
ural Con-
Valid Votes
Member-
eney
Votes Cest stituency
Cast
Total#
ship
Social
Democrats
17 (11)* 3.479,814 30
(16) 4,847.188(22)
47 (27)
18
Liberals
8
(2)
1.360,456 29
(14):3.822.767 (17)
37 (16)
15
Democrats
6
(5)
1,908,087 22
(12) 3,117,202 (14)
28 (17)
21
People's
Cooperatives 3 (2)
549,916
(3)
1.038,271(5)
9 (5)
4
Communists
3
(0)
610,948
809,177(4)
4 (0)
2
Minor Parties 5
(1)
1,039,819
(2)
1,026.178((5)12(3)
5
Independents 58
(29)
12.462.073 55
(28) 7.235.693 (33)
113 (57)
45
100
(50)
21.411,113 150
(75) 21.896.476
250 (125)
100
The elections to the House of Councillors on 20 April resulted in an ab-
normally high abstention rate compared to the 1946 House of Representatives
elections, this year's 5 April elections and the subsequent elections of 25
and 30 April. The average abstention rate throughout the nation vas 39 per
cent though on: the whole it was much higher in the cities than in the rural
areas, reaching 41 per cent in OSaki, 43 per cent in KYoTo, 47 per cent in
TOKYO. On the other hand, over 70 per cent voted in AICHI, NARA, SHIMNE.
and over 80 per cent in SiGi. The only prefecture vith an abstention rate
higher than 50 per cent was CHIPA, with 67.6 per cent.
For. the national constituency, official returns from the Home Ministry
gave the total votes cast as 24.546,494. The figure includes 13,189, 443 male
voters and 11,357, 051 women voters.
Independents captured 45 per cent of the seats in the House of Councillors,
more than the total amount mustered by the Social Democrats, the Liberals and
the Democrats, who eonstitute Japan's three majer parties. The najority of the
Independents are of conservative leanings.
In the prefectural electorel group also conservatives won an overwhelm-
ing ma jority over the "progressives" and are said to number as high as 64
per cent of the successful candidates, owing to the election of a large num-
ber of conservative independents.
The number of womancandidates standing for election to the House of
Councillors totaled 19. 8 out of 13 candidates in the national constituency
and 2 out of 6 in the prefectural constituencies were elected. One of the
latter is HIRANo Shigeko, wife of HIRAno Rikizo, who is a member of the
House of Representatives and right-wing leader of the Social Democrats. The
other is FUKAGAWA Tamae. elected from the TOKYO constituency.
Numbers in parenthesès indicate number of representatives who will have
6 year terms. The rest will have 3 year terms.
# Figures are official Home Ministry reports.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
The House of Councillors averages more than 10 years younger than the
former House of Peers. A JIJI Press analysis of the ages of the Comsillors
elected from the National Constituency follows:
From 1st to
From 5lst to
50th Place
100th Place
(1) Conservatives
56.0 years
54.0 years
Democrete
55.2
47.5
Liberals
65.0
55.3
Peoples Cooperatives
54.5
50.0
Minor Parties
75.0
46.2
Independents
55.1
54.0
(2) Progressives
48.9
47.9
Social Democrats
50.0
51.6
Communists
47.0
Independents
44.5
44.6
Most of the former members of the House of Peers who were candidates
for election to the House of Councillors were successfully returned. The 33
elected include such descendents of feudal lords as Count MURAkAMI Giichi of
SHIGA. Marquis TOKUGAWA Yorisada of W.K.Y.M., Count HIS. M.TSU Sadatake of
EHIME, Baron D'N Ino of FUKUOK. and Larquis SIGO Kichinosuke and Baron
SHIMZU Tadahiko, both of KAGOSHIM.
Suocessful candidates for the prefectural electorate include 12 out of
the 18 members of the House of Represent tives who stood for elcction. In
addition 20 former members of locel legislatures and 12 former prefectural
governors and mayors also von. Thrce cereer diplomats, S.To Naotake of
AOMORI, former mbassador to Russia, L.TSUN.IR. Tsuneo of FUKUSHIM., former
Ambassador to England, and DEBUCHI Katsuji of Iw..TE, former imbassador to the
United States, were chosen in the prefcctural constituencics.
Many representatives of economic groups, especially those baeked by
national organizations such as the agricultural, forestry, fishing associa-
tions, mining and other industrial assosiations, and nation-wide business
enterprises made impressive showings. HosI Hajime, head of a large chain
of drug stores centered in the FUkUSHI'A area, sho wed top vote-getting
strength in the national electorate with 487, 612 votes, while YANAGAWA
Sozaemon, president of the National Agriculture Association, gained the num-
ber two spot with 480,927 votes. Third highest muaber of votes, 435, 679 was
received by HAYAKAWA, Shinichi, businessman, followed by MATSUMOTO Jiichiro
influentiel left-wing leader of the Social Democratic Farty with 415.494.
TAkAHASHI, Ryutaro, president of the Japanese Chamber of Commerce and
Industry and former member of the House of Peers who received 37c, 934 votes
and Dr. TANaK Kotaro, Democrat and former Minister of Education, with
361,904 votes.
Labor and farmers organizations succeeded in electing 8 out of a total
of 21 candidates in the prefectural constitueneies and 10 out of 24 labor-
supported candidetes in the national constituency. Elected by more then
330,000 votes was SASiKI Ryosaku, secr tary-general of the Japan Power
Generation and Tranemission Company. tho received the support of the 200,000
workers affiliated with the Electrical Workers Union, the All-Japan Coal
Miners Union and the Housing Corporation. SuZUKI Seiichi, chairman of the
National Federation of Government Railway Labor Unions, and NaKiMuRA Masao,
cheirman of the Executive Committee of the OSik: chapter of the Government
Railway Workers Union, received a total of 227.210 and 148,819 votes re-
speetively, owing to the support of the more than 530, 000 members. Also
leeted with a high number of votes were MIZuUH SHI Tosaku, member of the
Central Exacutive Committee of the All Japan Communications Workers Union.
whieh claims a total of 350,000 mambers; OkiDi Soji, member of the Central
Committee of the Japan Farmers Union, an organization consisting of more
then 1,400,000 farmers. and IMM. Masao. chairman of the National Council
of Temchers Unions, which claims a memberahip of over 3.500,000

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
86
KIKUNKT Katsumi, executive chairman of the Netional Congress of Indus-
trial Workers organizations, lagged far behind, ranging berely within the
first l00 at first and then finally dropping out of the running to l04th place
with only 65,o00 votes despite the nation-wide organization he leads. Candi-
dates backed by tto rival National Fedoration of Labor, such es H'R& Toraichi
and Mrs. AKiM:TSU Tsuneko, ranked far higher. receiving 200,000 and 252.000
votes respectively.
Vocational grouping of the 250 successful candidates is as follons, 52
industrialists were elected, 33 former members of the House of Peers, 24 Farmer's
Assn. officials, and 22 teachers, 7 former cabinet ministers, three ambassadors,
15 held other government positions. Lator leaders totaled 20, newspapermen 5.
religious workers 8, vriters 8, doetors 5, social workers 6, lavyers 7, business-
men 25.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
WOMEN AND THE ELECTIONS
Highlights
Goneral Commonts
Speoific Comments
Factors Limiting Eleotion of Women
Conclusions
87

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
88
WOMEN AND THE ELECTIONS
The participation of women in politicel effaire as measured by the reaults
of the April 1947 elections for national end local public offices, and by com
parative analysis of the abstention rates for men and women in both the 1946
and l947 general elections, is summarized in the following tables:
Partioipation of Women in April 1947 Election
Soo.
People's
Minor
Dem.
Dem.
Lib
Cooperat.
Comme
Part.
Ind.
Totala
Q* E*
C
E
C. E
E
C
E
a
C
E
House of
Councillors
4
2
2
1
0
2
1
1
3
19. 10
House of
Represent.
15
22
3
9
3 4
0
8
04
0 22
0
84
15
Governor
2.
0
Meyor
2
0
Chief, Town
& Village
12
3
Member Pref.
Assembly
(Official Perty affiliation breakdowm
not available)
111
23
Member City
Assembly
346
74
Member Ward
Assembly
37
16
Member Town &
Village Assembly
1784
707
Comparative Rates of Abstention for Men and Women
ELECTTONS 1946 and 1947
Registered
Abstention
Elected
Candidates
Voters
Votes Cast
Rete
H Of R (1946)
Women
38
79
20.557;564
13,780,369
33.9
Men
428
2770
16,278,926
12.778,242
21.5
H of R (1947)
Women
15
84
21.326,483
13,137,620
38.4
Men
451
1515
19.569.839
14.658.264
25.1
H of c (1947)
Women
10
20
21,340,621
11.526.474
46.0
Men
240
557
19.591.594
13.412.323
31.5
Gov & Mayors .&
Chiofs
(1947)
Women
3(1)
15 20,960.655
13.938.427 (2)
33.5
Men
10,462
20,790
19,185.911
14.905.756 (2)
22.3
Pref, City, Town
& Vil Assm (1947)
Women
820
2,278 20,820,636
16,671,081 (3)
20.0
Men
193,061
256,093 19.339,671
16.153.872 (3)
16.5
Average Rate
of Abstention
1946
1247
Women
33.9
34.5
Men
21.5
23.8
C - Candidates, E-Elected
(1)
Village Chiefs only
(2)
Vote sast for Governors
(3)
Vote cast for Prefectural Assemblymen

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
Comparative Ratios of Women Candidates
To Total Number of Candidates, and Mumber of Women Elested
To Number of Women Candidates
Percentage of Women Candidates
Percentage of Male Candidates
to Total Number of Candidates
to Total Mumber of Candidates
April 1947
April 1947
House of Representatives
5.2
House of Representatives
94.8
House of Councillors
3.5
House of Councillors
96.5
Governors & Mayors
0.1
Governors & Mayors
99.9
Pref., City, Town and
Pref., City, Town and
Village Assemblies
0.9.
Village Assemblies
99.1
Average of all 1947
Average of all 1947
Elections
2.4
Elections
97.6
April 1946
April 1946
Election for House of
Election for House of
Representatives
2.8
Representetives
97.2
Percentage of Women Elected to
Percentage of Males Elected to
Total Number of Women Jandidates
Total Number of Male Candidates
ipril 1947
4pril 1947
House of Representatives
17.9
House of Representatives 29.8
Hou se of Councillors
50.0
House of Councillors
43.0
Governors & Mayors
18.7
Governors & Mayors
50.5
Pref., City, Town and
Pref., City. Town and
Village Assemblies
36.0
Village Assemtlies
75.5
Average of all 1947
Average of all 1947
Elections
30.5
Elections
49.7
April 1946
4pril 1946
Election for House of
Election for House of
Representatives
48.1
Representatives
15.4
Highlights
a. Women ran for and were elected to legislative posts at all levels of
Government. , No women were elected governor of a prefecture, mayor of a city,
or chief of a town, but three women were elected as village chiefs.
b. More vomen registored and qualified to vote in 1947 than in 1946.
C.
More men registered and qualified to vote in 1947 than in 1946.
d.
More women than men registered and qualified to vote in 1946 and 1947.
e.
More women voted in 1947 than in 1946.
f。
More men voted in 1947 than in 1946.
g.
More women then men votcd in 1947.
h. Fever women were elected to the House of Representatives in 1947
than in 1946.
i. Men demonstrated their greatest interest in the Diet and in the
election of prefectural governors, where they outvoted the women.
f. Women demonstrated their greatest interest in the election of pre-
fectural assemblymen, there they outvoted the men.
89

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
90
k. The absolute mumber and percentage of women candidates for pubias
office in relation to the number of registered women voters and the mmber of
votes cast by women is abmormally lower than that of men.
1. The percentage of men candidates was overwhelmingly greater than that
of women: 97.6 to 2.4. The range for men varied from 94.8 for the House of
Representetives to 99.9 for local governors and for women from 0.1 for prefec-
tural chief executives to 5.2 for the House of Representatives.
m. The percentage of men elected in Proportion to the number of men
candidates was greater than that of women elected in proportion to the number
of women candidates: 49.7 to 30.5. The range for men varied from 29.8 for
the House of Representetives to 75.5 for the local assemblies and for women
from 17.9 for the House of Representatives to 50.0 for the House of Councillors.
n. The percentage of eligible women who failed to exercise their voting
rights was higher than that of men - 34.5 to 23.8 in the 1947 elections for
all public offices as compared to the 1946 ratio for the House of Representa-
tives 33.9 for women to 21.5 for men. The range for women varied from 20.0 for
the local assemblies to 46.0 for the House of Councillors and for men from
16.5 for the local assemblies to 31.5 for the House of Councillors.
o. The number of votes cast was higher and the rate of abstention was
lower in the election for local assemblies for both men and women than for any
other mejor category of public offices.
P. The rate of abstention for both men and women was higher in the elcc-
tion for the House of Councillors than for any other ma jor category of public
offices.
General Comments
The extension of suffrage rights to women before the general election for
the House of Representatives last April inaugurated a year of unprecedented
freedom which fostered the growth of political consciousness among Japanese
Women. Quantitative indices of political consciousness are the number of
registered voters, the number of votes cast, the number of candidates for pub-
lic office and the number elected. The 1946 election disclosed the existence
of women's political interest and potentiality and the l947 elections revealed
increased political activity and acquisition of influence at all levcls of
government. Women took advantage of their first opportunity in history to
participate as candidates and electors in the clections for the House of
Councillors and for local legislative bodies and executive posts.
Specific Comments
House of Representatives 1946-1947
In the House of Reprosentatives election of 1947, the only 1947 elcction
directly comparable to the 1946 election, the number of women elected to the
lower house shoved a considerable decrease. In 1946, 39 out of 79 candidates
were elected, but in 1947 only 15 out of 8! candidates were successful. 12 of
these were former Diet members.
Two factors, election law revision and mediocre records, seem responsible
for this drop.
The system of limited plural voting in effect in 1946, permitting electors
to cast their votes for two or three candidates, made it more possible that a
woman would be included in their choice.
Decrease in popularity was no doubt attributable to the feminine members'
failure to create a favorable impression in the Diet. However, regardless of
personal qualifications or ability, the feminine Diet members were handicapped
by their inability to cope with old fashioned politicel bargaining as practiced
by the veteran members and frozen out more completely than ordinary freshmen
legislators. Furthermore, the general leck of insight end understanding of
publie affairs and of Diet procedures, coupled with the traditional over-valua-
tion of the virtues of modcsty and retioence are considered contributory causes

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
to thoir poor showing.
No woman was assignad to the powerful had
committee, although women sorvod on other House of Ropresentative standing
committees. A majority of the women membors snid there was no disoriminetion
in the Diet and only a few deolared that they laoked the opportunity to serve
in important committees or to speak in the Diet.
House of Councillors - 1947
Thirteen feminine candidates from the national and six from the pre-
fectural constituencies ran for the House of Councillors. Only one of these
was a former member of the Diet and she failed to be eleoted. Ten newcomers,
however, were eleoted to the House of Counoillors. Seven of these will serve
for six years.
The feminine ccndidate reoeiving the largest vote was AKAmATSU Tsune,
who polled 252, 369 votes, securing seventeenth place among the 100 sucoessful
candidates from the national constituenoy. Miss AKAmATSU is now direotor of
the Women's Sections of the Social Democratic Party and the Japan Federation
of Labor. As a faotory worker she was a pioneer in Japan's labor movement in
which she still retains en active role.
The top ranking feminine candidate froa the prefectural constituenoy was
HIRANO Shigeko with 90, 366 votes. She is the wife of HIR/NC Rikizo, prominent
Social Demooratio leeder. While working with her husband, she beoame conneoted
with Japan's grarian movement with which he has long been assooiated.
Local Assomblies
Women representatives wore elected to town and village assomblies in all
46 prefectures, to city assomblies in 32 prefecturos, and to prefectural
assemblios in 17 prefectures. Only one woman was olected to the Tokyo metro-
politan assembly and only 16 women were eleoted to ward assewblias (Tokyo), as
against 879 men.
Exccutive Posts
No woman was alectod governor, mayor of a city, or hoadman of a tovm.
Only 3 women were olected villego chief.
Summary of Factors Limiting the Eloction of Vomen
a. Tho smell number of women candidates in comperison with the number
of rogistored women voters and the nuaber of men cendidates.
b. Laok of prestige and publicity.
c. Lack of experience in public office or in responsible privato
entorprise.
d: Limitod educational background.
o. Lack of organized political and financial support.
f. Projudice agrinst women in public office.
g. Voluntary observance by womon oandidates and elected and appointed
offioials of oustoms and manners which tond to subordinate then in their
reletions with mon.
h. Preoccupation of women with domestio dutios cnd obligations or un-
willingness to participate in political nffairs.
i. Mediocre rocord and goneral ineffectivoness of women clected to the
House of Represontativos in 1946.
Conclusion
The politioal potential of womon as rovocled by an analysis of the 1946
and 1947 eleotions is not only amazingly in excess of expeotations, but in
excess of reasonable hope and portends woll for tho future of Japan.
91

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
92
Granted that thoir interost far exoeeds their present demonatrated
capacity, it is nevertheless a werranted prosumption that a continuation
of their present interest in conjunotion with further emanoipation from
stultifying social mores, extension of oduoational opportunitios and exposure
to theoretical and praoticcl politioai considerations will undoubtedly
facilitate tho devolopment of domooracy in Japen.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
CONCLUSION
Campaign Finanoing
Individual Campaigns
Party Campaigns
Election Law Violations
Other Problems
Neighborhood Associations
Abstentions
Spoiled Ballots
Remedial Action
Analysis of Elections
Fair and Democratic Elections
Improvement of Elections
Political Implications of Elections
Statement by the Supreme Commander
93

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
10
94
CONCLUS ION
The rocord of pre-war elections in Japan was a notorious one: officials
and police frequently abused their power in order to ensure that eleotions
turned out as the government desired while competing politioal parties them-
selves were not above fraud, coeroion, and bribery.
Tightening of eleotion laws and eleotion day surveillance succeeded in
1946 in wiping out fraudulent practioes on election and ballot oounting days
and materially reduced the. bribery and exoessive expenditures whioh normally
characterized campaign periods. As noted above, further improvements in
eloction laws were made prior to the 1947 election.
Campaign Finanoing
Individual Campaigns
In sharp contrast with the pre-election period when certain seotions of
tho press wrote unrestrainedly and often without regard to fact about the
certainty that Diet candidates must, because of huge campaign expenditures,
beoome subservient to new yen millionaires, black marketeers and party bosses,
only four allegations have yet been filed of any violation of the limitations
on campaign expenditures.
A typical cross section of finanoing is afforded by tho reports of the
first 88 candidates to file their returns for the national constituenoy of
the House of Councillors.
Of those reporting, 43 paid all their campaign expensos (limited to
¥75,O00) out of their own pockets. Only 45 roported having received contri-
butions, while 28 aoknowledged heving contracted debts of more than the same
amount. (Those figures includo 15 counoillors who reported both loans and
contributions.)
No candidate ruportod having exooedod tho 75,Ooo yen ceiling. Fifty four
of tho 88 reports show oxpendituros of botwoon 50,000 and 75,000 yen, whilo
thre0 spont lèss than 20, 000 yon.
These latter wero Ozaki Yukitaro, Indopendent, (son of votoran parliamen-
tarian Ozaki Yukio) 10, 304, Oyuma Yasushi, Green Wind, 10, 396, and Kosuge
Inc, Independent, Paoifist, 16,464.
All 88 Counoillors cmergod from tho campaign with a surplus. Sixteon
showed a profit solely from contributions, Nishida Tenko, Indepondent, cleared
52, 600 yon as a result of a subsidy from tho Ito En, a Kyoto religious
orgenization.
The top campuign fund was that of Kawano Masao, who had 151, 0o0 yen, of
which 46, 500 yon was a gift from the Teachers Union. Hozuni Shinrokuro,
Indopendent, ropatriate, with 106, 280, had tho socond richest fund. Both
mon spent loss than tho ceiling.
The roports show tho following distribution:
Yen
Spont
Roooivod
10,000-19,999
3
2
20,000-29,999
7
5
30,000-39,999
6
2
40,000-49,999
18
9
50,000-59,999
21
18
60,000-69,999
19
10
70,000-79,999
14
25
80,000-89,999
13
90,000-99,999
2
100,000
2
Total
88
88

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
Bocause contributions are, for the most part, listed as coming from
individuals rather than from corporations, it is somowhat diffioult to
idontify the souroe of oampaign funds.
Labor unions, espooially teachers unions, gave their assistance chiefly
in tho form of loens:
Genoral Teachors Union, 46, 569 yen gift plus a loan of 18, 800 yen
to Kawano Masao, Indopendent. These sums onabled Kawano to emerge
with a cloar surplus of 80,000 yen.
Oita Teachors Union, 20,O00 yen loan to Abe Sadamu, Green Wind, vioe-
ohairman of tho Union.
Finanoe Ministry Labor Union lent 30, O00 yon to Kawakami Yoshi, Inde-
pondent, Chairman of the Union.
Goneral Federation of Railway Workers, 20, O00 gift to Suzuki Seiiohi,
Social Dem., their national chairman.
Railway Mail Workers Union gave 5, 500 yen to Mizuhashi Tosaku, Sooial Dem.
who is NCIo representative of the National Counoil of Trade Unions
General Struggle Committee and Comunioation Union Chairman.
Hokkaido Press Workers Union lent 16,199 yen to Kimura Kihaohiro,
Social Dem Chiof editor of "Ronsetsu".
Kumamoto Trade Union contributed 62,O00 yen to Uchimura Seiji,
Social.Dem, chairman of the Railway Workers.
Among business firms contributing wes Japan Gas Teohnioal Asscciation,
which lent 6,Ooo yen to Toyoshima Aimei, who lost. Tho Hashiki Tabi Company
gave 20, O00 and the Ikuta Tabi Company 3, C00 to Arai Hachiro. Seibu Shoko
Company lent 52,O00 yen to Suzuki iaoto, Independont, former govornor of
Kumamoto. The Empire Automobile Company and the Union Transport Company gave
30, 000 and 5,00o rospeotively to Hayakawa Shiniohi, Green Wind, president of
the Japan Expross Company. The Niitsu Automobile Company gave 4,Oo0 and the
Aichi Automobilo Company 1,Ooo to Matsumoto Jiiohiro, Social Dsm,Vico Speaker
of the House.
Tokyo Headquarters Shrine gave 11,Ooo yon to Tenaka Kotaro, Green Wind,
former Education Minister. The Ito En of Kyoto gave 76,O0o yon to Nishida
ouko, Indopondont, a sooial sorvico worker. The Seiohono-Ke, a religious
group, gave 7, 0oo yen to Yano Torio, Green Wind, head of their education
dopartment.
The Home Ministry Co-oporative Sooiety lent 50, O00 yon to Kaneiwa Deniohi
Indopondent, director of tho Demooratic Teohnioians Society and a Home
Ministry engineer.
The Japan Potato Management Company, gave 20, O00, the Farm Villago Co-op-
orative Union 2,O00 and the Japan Pickle Commission 20, O00 yen to Higashiura
Shoji, Groen Wind, managing direotor of the All-Japan Agricultural Asscciation.
Party Campaigns
As recordod by the Offioial Gazette, as well as by reports forwarded
diroctly by party hendquartors, the Social Demoorats, during the period between
24 Fobruary and 3 May collooted 110, 800 yen. Nearly all this, exoepting a
loan of 2l,00o yon from Hirano Rikizo, derived from "recognition feos" paid by
oandidates who ran on tho Sooial Demooratic ticket.
The party paid out 102, 309 yon, of which 29, 010 yen went for advortising.
26, 420 to propaganda and advortising oxpense, 25, 322 for expenses connooted
with studonts' oampaign spenkers' groups and 13, 650 for printing and paper.
No othor oxpenso group amounted to moro than 5,Oo0 yen eaoh. No appropriations
woro made as aids to candidatos.
95

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
4
Not inoluded in the above figuros sent by party headquarters as an
authentic statement of expenses are certain other items listed in the Orricial
Gazetto as heving been collected during tho poriod 24 Fobruary to 3 April.
Thess ere three contributions totalling 48, 838 yon, of whioh 5,138 came from
the Tolyo Teachors' Youth Association and the rest from two Social Demooratio
Counoilmen.
The Liberal Party listed income of 1, 615,406 during March and 2,900,000
during April, a total of 4, 515, 406 yen during the campaign poriod.
Tho party spent, during the samo period, 1, 274,070 yun during Maroh and
5,086, 330 during 4pril, as wol1 as 163, 677 yen in May. Of thie a grand total
of 3, 300, 000 yon was given as "Lids to Candidates." In additional 955,000
vas paid to local branchos, 121, 000 yon for meetings and 92, 500 yen as "soaial
oxpp nscs Por tho Chief Socretary". The Liberal Party communications bill ran
to 78, 500 yon, travs1ling to 75,000 yen cnd printing to 33,000 yen.
In a report, submitted by party hoadquartors and covering the period 31
Harch to 3o April, the Domocrats announcod a total income of 2, 362,198 yen,
the bulk of vhich was derived from contributions. The party listod fourtoon
coutributers who, it said, had subsoribod this total.
The list vms led by Chizaki Usaburo, former chief secretary of tho party,
whe cave c million yen. Other major contributors were Tsubokawa Shinichi and
To higi Yeshiro, oaoh 20c, Ooc, Shidehara Kijuro, Tanake Menitsu, Sato Shigokichi,
Inageki Hoitaro cnd irime Eiji, each 100, 000 and Sujuki Akiro 50, 000 yen.
Rocoipts and Expondituros of Pooplo's Co-oporative and Conmunist
Perty, Respectivoly, were as Follows:
Inoome
Expenditure
Poopla's Co-opèrative
495,331.00
487,891.50
Communist Perty
393,052.81
336,044.00
Gubornatorial Eloctions
Data frem tho first 17 profeotures to report indicate that in 7 cases
the victorious candidate spont moro money than his unsuccossful rival but that
in 8 other cases the dofeated man oxcooded the winnor's expensos. In tho
remaining 2 profoctures the exponditures were cpproximatoly equal.
do onndideto evon approachod tho coiling which it would havo boen possible
for him to spond. In Scitema and in Hyogo the cundidatos spent 35, O0o yon,
the largost uxnondituros made in any gubornatorial race, but this was 15, 000
l.as then the logel maximum.
In only 6 of the 17 profectures did cendidates for the govornorships
reccive campeign contributions of reportablo wmounts. Tho largost sum con-
tributod was in Akita wore Hasuike Kosaki reouivod So, Ooo yon, but his total
cemmpoign cxpunrlituro amounted to but 19, c0o yen. In Fuluoka the Social
Demooratic victor wms given a 10, 435 yen contribution cnd in Fukui prefecturo
Governor Obata Harukazu rooeived 25, Ooo yen. Govornor Uchiyama Iwataro of
K: nr  ewn roccived 17, 0oo yon but no other suns contributod to any succossful
an didato passod tho mo, voo mark. In Seitema the total contributions ackmow-
ledged by Governor Nishimura Jitsuzu wore but 720 yen.
Ho succossful gubernatorial cendidatc inourred any debt cs part of his
cemprign fund; no otudidnte, whothor successful or defeeted reports having
reccived a singlo son in financinl aid from any political party or from any
of its brenchos.
House of Roprosentatives
Exponso accounts of l02 membors of tho House of Represontatives have
been recoived to date. These, roferring to 14 prefectures, aro somowhat
loss then one-guarter of the total mombership of tho Lowor House.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.95)
Unlike the national district Councillors, Lower House mombers whose
reports were submitted relied little upon campaign contributions and even
lese upon loans. Only 13 reported having gone into debt to finance their
campaigns, and only 26 reported receipt of campaign contributions. of the
latter number six recoived totals of less than Bo0 yen each.
A tabular viow of campaign contributions and of loans follows. Party
identifications are made by the initials of the party to which the repre-
sentative belongs.
Contributions
Loans
Less than 1,000 yen
3D. 2L. 1SD
ID. IL, IPO
1,000-9,999
ID, 1L, 2SD, 1Ind.
10,000-19.999
ID. 3S, 2 Minor
20,000-29,999
1L, 2S, 1Ind.
1L, 2SD, 1PC
30,000-39.999
iD, 2S
1D
40,000-49,999
ID, LPC
50.000-59,999
1D
ID. IL
60.000-69,999
1 Minor
1SD
Ten Social Democrats, seven Democrats, four Liberals, three Minor Party
mon and two Independents received contributions. Four Democrats. three
Fooples Co-Operatives, throc Liberals and three Socialists borrowed money.
Only two Diet members. both Social Democrats included in the figures
iven above, both borrowed and reccived money. One of these borrowed 7.ooo
yen and receivod contributions of 2,000 yen. The other borrowed 20,000 and
roccived 14,000 in contributions.
The largost roceipts were loans of 67,615 yen to Tenaka Orinoshin,
Wakayama Social Democrat, and 50, O0o to Yannguohi Kikuichiro, Wakayama Liberal.
Hasogawa .asatono, Fukui Domocrat, vas granted a 50, 000 yen loan and Tsubo
kavu Shinzo, Fukui Democrat, received a 50,ooo contribution. Tanaka isao
Miye Minor Party reprosontativo, bonefitted by a 62,595 yen contribution.
Forty-throe of the l02 reports indicatcd that the Diet mombers had
balanced their accounts. Ono man roccived loss than he spent; the balance
had spont less than tho total amounts at their disposal.
A tabular vior of roceipts and oxpenditures follows:
Expended
Reccived
1,000-9,999 yen
(2) ISD, 1 Minor
(2) 1L. LSD
10,000-19,999
(15) 6L. 2D. 6SD. 1 Minor
(10) 3L. 1D, 4SD. 2 Minor
20,000-29.999
(26) 8L, 6D, 7SD, 1PC,
(23) 8L. 5D, 5SD, 2PC,
2PC, 2Ind., 2 Minor
2Ind., 1 Minor
30.000-39,999
(32) 9L, 14D, 6SD, IPC.
(23) 5L, 8D. 9SD, IPC
2 Minor
40,000-49.999
(24) 1L, 9D, 9SD, 4PC,
(33) 5L. 14D, 8SD. 4PC
1 Ind.
lInd., 1 Minor
50.000-59,999
(3)
IL. ID. LSD
(9)
3L。 4D。2SD
60.000-69.999
(2)
ISD, 1 Minor
102
102
Eloction Law Violations
As of 20 Juno the Home Ministry reported that 3,091 cases involving
8.532 individuals wore being investigated by Public Procurators' offices
in connoction vith suspocted cloction offonscs. of this number 2,997 persons
had boon indicted by 10 Juno vhilo 2,246 vere clearod.
Tho final roport of tho 1946 Dict oloction disclosed that 5.432 cases of
violations had been roferred to the Procurators' officos. This covered one
cloction only whereas tho 3.091 casos in 1947 included tho results of all
four April clections.
of the 2,997 indicted as of 10 June, 50 received sontoncce of hard
labor, 21 were given lighter jail sontences. 1.028 were fined, whilo 1, 905
still avaitod trial. One porson only, in Fukushima. was acquitted whilo
97
4

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
98
to woro convicted but had their sontences remitted. In ten instances both
finos and imprisonmont were imposed.
In 1946, 128 received hard labor, 63 lightor sentences, 1,822 paid fines
and sovon were acquitted.
Alleged offonses occurred in the following 1947 elections:
Violations
Councillons
399
House of Representatives
318
Governors
224
Mayors
88
Prefectural Assombly
427
Ward or town heads
800
Ward or towm assembly
835
3091
By far the greatest number of election offenses involved bribery. soli-
citation of bribos or the delivery of scarce articles in lieu of cash. These
numbered 972, involving 5.461 individuals. The next groatest causos were
house to houso canvassing, vhich accounted for 755 cases and 1,061 people,
and violation of poster regulations. 764 cases and 888 people.
In only two other instances did any one offonse nunbor more than 100
instanccs. Thoso vere campaigning before the official opening of a campaign,
165 casos with 325 individuals and intorruption of campaign, 161 cases and
308 individuals.
Many morc offenses had, of course, been alleged in the press and in
accusations filed with election authoritios. But oven here, certain cate-
gorics of offenses were almost entirely absent. Only four instances of
supposed violation of campaign exponse restrictions were roported by namo
and date. In Gumna alono was any chargo made of excessive demonstration.
Breach of authority was charged in five instances. In Miyazaki, where two
members of the cloction committee wero charged with having refused to list
an applicant upon tho roll of candidatos, evidonce seemed sufficiont to
warrant intensive invcstigation.
As 1ato as 10 June, Fukushima with 487 cases and Yamagata with 442
topped tho lists of profectures. Tokyo, whero many violations had been
allegod, had but 99 indictments.
Complote figurcs follov:

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
Disposition of Cesos of Allegod Eleotion Law Violations
1947 Elections
June 10. 1947
Namos of
Number of Persons
Number of Persona Tried by Courts
District
Involved
or Awaiting Trial
Procurators
Offices or
In-
Not In-
Total
Impria-
Impri-
Fine
Not
Remis-
Await-Total
District
dictod
dicted
onment
sonment
Guil-
sion
ing
Court
at Hard
ty
of sen-
Trial
Labor
tence
Tokyo
99
99
1
98
99
Yokohama
9
1
10
9
9
Urawa
26
36
62
12
14
26
Chiba
16
12
28
10
6
16
Mi to
208
90
298
5
2
94
107
208
Utsunomiya
45
106
151
5
1
17
22
45
Maebashi
111
137
248
59
52
111
Shizuoka
60
7
67
60
60
Kofu
52
43
95
2
1
13
36
52
Nagano
211
210
421
61
150
211
Niigata
17
46
63
17
17
Kyoto
99
127
226
9
24
66
99
Osaka
74
66
140
74
74
Kobe
61
9
70
2
25
34
61
Nara
30
13
43
1
1
9
19
30
Otsu
55
92
147
32
23
55
Wakayama
23
23
46
13
10
23
Nagoya
34
88
122
.34
34
Tsu
13
5
18
8
5
13
Gifu
130
26
156
2
59
69
130
Fukui
22
40
62
19
3
22
Kanazava
49
3
52
12
37
49
Toyama
103
130
233
2
3
14
84
103
Hiroshima
12
33
45.
1
7
4
12
Yamaguchi
26
13
39
16
10
26
Okayama
64
28
92
1
41
22
64
Tottori
No Roport
Matsue
94
94
94
94
Nagasaki
3
9
12
3
3
Saga
1
54
55
1
1
Fuiuoka
NO
Report
Oita
65
42
107
9
2
31
23
65
Fumamoto
13
38
51
4
9
13
Kagoshima
24
15
39
1
1
2
20
24
Miyazaki
11
11
2
9
11
Sendai
239
49
288
138
101
239
Fukushima
307
180
487
2
1
83
1
220
307
Yamagata
337
105
442
137
200
337
Morioka
35
133
168
18
17
35
Akita
13
18
31
44
6
3
13
Aomori
64
16
80
49
11
64
Sapporo
33
2
35
1
32
33
Hakodate
58
58
58
58
Asahikava
6
73
79
4
2
6
Rusiro
40
40
Takamatsu
29
23
52
5
24
29
Tokushima
9
40
49
9
9
Kochi
7
25
32
7
7
Matuyama
No Report
Total
2997
2246
5243
50.
21
1028
1
2
1905
2997
99

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
:100
Types of Alleged Elcction Law Violatione.
1947
(Indictments Returned)
June 10, 1947
Nature of
Member
Member
Pref.
Mayor
Member
Ward,
Momber
TOTAL
Crime
Ilouse
House
Gov-
Pref.
Town
Ward,
of
of Rep-
ornor
Assem-
or Vil-
Town or
Coun-
resent-
bly
lage
Village
cillors
atives
Head
Assembly
(A) By voter or
canvasser
(1) Buying votes
41
91
17
29
109
903
187
1377
(2) other pre-
election
inducements
11
4
7
22
(3) offering com-
pensation af-
ter election
day
9
2
21
1
33
(4) Demanding or
accepting the
above acts
2
68
49
67
70
514
155
925
(5) Delivering
money or
goods. with
the object
of buying
votes of
others
23
3
1
2
6
175
26
236
(6) Others
1
1
1
3
(B) Habitual crime
re (A) above
1
1
(C) By candidato
or elected
person
(1) Buying votes
1
8
9
(2) Demanding or
accepting the
above act
2
2
(3) Persuading or 
mediating the
above act
2
2
(D) Other acts
(1) Violence, in-
timidation or
abduction
1
3
10
2
16
(2) Obstructing
communications,
campaign moet-
ings or speech-
es
1
3
3
4
17
3
31
(3) Discovering
the name of
person voted
for
1
1
(4) Threatoning
election
staff
1
1
2
2
6
(5) Opening a
ballot-box
or removing
ballots
2
2
(6) Interfering
with voting
1
1

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
Nature of
Member
Member
Pref!
Mayor
Member
Ward,
Member
1CTAL
Crime
House
House
Gov-
Pref.
Town
Ward,
of
of Rep
ornor
Assem-
or Vil-
Towm or
Coun-
resent-
bly
lage
Village
cillors
atives
Héad
Assembly
(7) Entering a
place of
clection meet-
ing or count-
ing place
carrying a
veapon
1
1
(E) Unfair voting
(1) By ineligible
person
4
2
6
(2) By fraudulent
means
1
4
3
1
9
3
21
(3) Forging or
manipulating
votes to affect
their number by
a person men-
tioned in Art.
VI of Election
Law, vitness or
scrutinizer
5
5
(4) Campaign beforc
filing candi-
dacy
4
6
7
17
(5) Campaign using
school boy, etc.
2
2
(6) House to house
canvassing
40
15
8
17
15
94
40
229
(7) Violation of
limits on
postors
4
3
2
9
(8) Campaign by a
person men-
tioned in Art.
VI of Election
Law
1
1
2
(9) Violating the
law re special
papers or
clection
pictures
irt。 14
7
8
9
1
4
3
32
irt. 15
1
2
1
1
5
GRAND TOTAL
142
192
103
129
219
1772
440
2997
101

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
102
Arranged by parties to which the 8532 suspedted offenders were said to
belong, stetistics indicated that 804 Liberals were accused, 728 Democrats,
593 Social Democrats, 86 Co-Operatives and 75 Communists. A further 183
belonged to minor parties while 503l were Independents. (Sce chart on next
page.)
More than two-thirds of the offenses charged against Liberals, Demoorats,
Social Democrats and Co-Operatives, and a large proportion of those alleged
against Communists, Independents and minor party members dealt with bribery
in one form or another.
In this connection, it must be pointed out that Jupanese laws are far
more rigid than are those of most democratic nations and that many offenses
which are subject to prosecution in Japan are for actions which might be re-
garded as wholly permissible in other countries.
This, for instance, included in some instances the payment for the ser-
vices of legitimate campaign workers. Campaign nanagers who went from house
to house asking electors to vote for specific candidates were also judged by
the Jupanese to have committed clection "crimes" as were candidates who
posted too many placards or whose posters were of other than standard size.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
REPORTED PARTY AFFILIATIONS OF ALIEGED VIOLATORS OF ELECTION LATS
10 Juno, 1947
No. of Persons Classificd by Political Crganizations By Which They Were Suppcrted
(Sent to or pending transfer to procurators office)
Social
Minor
2
Liberal
Democrat
Democrat
Communist
Cooperative
Fartios
Independent
Unknown
Nature of Crime
599
523
358
21
47
68
3022
823
Buying Votes
6
2
5
32
36
5
Other inducements for votes
v.
8
1
Habitual crime re the atove 2 items
Breach of the regulations of election
office and resting place
1
1
2
2
7
1
303
27
46
29
10
11
132
70
Campaign before filing candidacy
85
62
84
21
7
10
770
22
Campaign through house to house canvassing
6
18
16
4
11
193
60
Obstruction of campaign
Neglect of official duty and abuse of
17
authority
Campaign of governor and public officials
13
4
concerned vith elections
2

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
Sccial
Minor
Nature.of Crime
Liberal
Democrat
Democrat
Communist
Cooperative
Parties
Independent
Unknown
Breach of regulations re balloting
3
4
2
2
132
9.
Tearing of veapons or excessive
demonstrative acts
3
Violation of limits on posters
53
70
84
27
20
46
565
23
Violation of regulation of campaign
expenditures
1
1
2
Violation of limits on greeting
acts after election day
16
3
3
70T
Others
7
3
5
2
1
1
129
13
Total
804
728
593
75
86
183
5031
1032

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
Election offenses were reported from three sources. The Home Mini
newapaper acoounts and reports from Military Gevernment teams in the ioza
were all drawn upon for information that would tend to throw light upon the
politioal situation.
Three inoidents in the Hokkaido received speoial attention. The first of
these involved an attack upon Miyake Masaru, a Communist campaign worker at
Muroran, who was slashed with a knife by an alleged gangster. Careful investi-
gation by CIC personnol, by the Military Government team, by looal Japanese
police and by a special agent sont from Tokyo failed to reveal either any
political motive for the attack or to show any conneotion between the assailant,
a serpent-solling pedlar, and any Anti-Communist organization.
A sooond Hokkaido incident conoerned a night raid, 3 February, two months
prior to the first election, upon Communist headquarters at Sapporo, capitel
of the prefecture.
Police investigation again with tho aid of CIC, of Military Government and
of a special agent from Tokyo, disolosed that the raid was committed at a time
when a married couple with childron living in tho same premisos were awako.
Locked files waro broken into and the records of the party were stolon but the
residents of the houso apparontly remaincd unawaro of what was happening. No
ovidonce warranting prosocution has beon revoaled.
The third Hokkaido oocurrenco was a raid, 14 aroh, upon Communist head-
quarters at Hakodate. A group of fivo mon, at loast three of whom wero armed
with pistols, broko into tho building, held up three Corimunist Party membors,
out tolophone wires and carried off the contents of filos and lookers.
Tho polico, notified within helf an hour, undortook inmodiato invostigation.
Since the Communists wore ablo to offer partial identification of two suspaots
the ferries and the reilway station wore watchod but without avail. Dospito
intonsive resoarch tho lack of detailod information made it impossible to dis-
covor ovidonco that would lond to fruitful rosults.
Othor Anti-Communist activities wero also reported. Two .of thoso inoludod
attacks upon spoakors or candidates. In Okayama, for instanco, 11 April,
Kumamoto Chikashi and throo other porsons ware chergod with having attackod
two Communist agonts and a Communist assembly candidate. Two arrosts woro
mado tho following day. In Tochigi, 6 April Konuma Toranosuke, solf-stylod
"Tigor of Iizuka", stabbed Matsunoto Sonoki, Communist candideto for tho Diot,
in tho shoulder. Konuma was immodiatoly arrosted, and upon trial was sontonoed
to 8 months impriso nont; an accomplico reccivod a 5 months sontonco.
Again in Okayama, a Communist cindiaste for t. prefectural assenbly was
attacked, 1l April. His asseilant was arrostud.
In Gunma, Tsukakoshi Tsunaji and two others raided Comnunist hoadquartors,
dostroyod olootion notioos and assaultod a canvasser. Thoy woro arrostod 3 April
In connootion with tho above instanoos, offioials of tho Homo Ministry
reprosonting tho Polico Buronu and Invostigation Buroau wore callod to Goneral
Headqunrters and spocifionlly romindod that it was the dosire of the Supremo
Commandor that full political froodon be guarantood ovory rocognized politioal
party and that ovory possiblo stop bo taken to discover and bring to trial
tho porpotrators of such torroristic cots.
Communists also complainod that in Tokyo, 22ierch, thuir salod certifi-
catos permitting the uso of 50, 500 posters woro lost in tho mails, thus
hamporing thoir Councillor ccmpaigns in 34 profootures. Now cortificatos,
howovor, wore authorized 3 pril, in amplo time for tho olcotion.
Spooific typos of violations othor then tho bribory and olcotion mothods
infringomonts inoluded sevoral othor variotios of offonsos. Tho following
summary gives a typical list of thoso roportod, but tho list is of acousations
only and does not nocessarily imply tho truth of tho statemant:
I. In sovon profooturos, Chiba, Gifu, Kochi, Nara, Shiga, Tochigi
and Wekayama, political activitios woro allegod against thoso who had boon or
105

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
106
who it was alleged, should have been purged! These accusations were, for
the most part, contained in arionymous letters filed, without proof, with the
Military Government teams. In each instahce the truth of the acousation was
nevertheless investigated.
2. Police interference was alleged only in Fukuoka (where a roundsman
was discovered within a polling place into which he had been invited by the
chairman of the election board) and in Saitama where a police inspector was
said to have been destroyed Communist campaign bills. The latter action, upon
investigation, proved to have been taken because the inspector mis-construed
the law forbidding election posters within a certain distance of the polling
place.
3. False statements that SCaP officials favored certain election results
were made in Tokyo and in Ibaragi. In the former instance Kasuya Isohei,
candidate for ward assemblyman, was charged by a rival, Mrs. Hashimoto Hana,
with having said that the Supreme Commander did not desire the election of
women. In Ibaragi, Kawada Hisashi, candidate for Governor, was reported as
having said over loud speakers that the Military Government endcrsed his
candidacy. This proved untrue, but leaflets were discovered stating that the
Military Government approved his campaign. The perpetrator was arrested and
the Military Government published in all local newspapers a denial that it
had at any time endorsed any candidate for public office.
4. Ehime authorities reported that an unknown person telephoned the
prefectural authorities, 11 April, announcing the withdraval of Kazukumi
Kajiwara from the Councillors campaign. The nare was at first stricken from
the official list of candidates but was restored and ample public notice
given prior to the election.
A complete list of charges follows.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.94)
TYPES OF  LL GD LLECTICH LA VIOL TIONS - 1947
Grand Totals)
Classifi-
Buying Votos
Other induce-
mabitral
Breachh of
Campuign
Canpuign
Cbstruction
Neglcct of
cation
mcnts for
Crive re
oolatons
Lefore
b. houre
of Canein
Official Duty
Votes
ti.c abovo
re election
Filing
to House
and buse of
2 itcns
ofif.ce and
Conddõecy
Canvassing
Authority
rostins place
Lo. of No. of
No.of No.of
o.of No. of
ilo. of lc. cf
ic.of o. c
Ro.of Nc. of
No. of
No.of
Eo. of
No. of
Cagcs
Persons
Casos
Iorsons
Cases Fersons
Cases
er gons
Cescs Persons
Cuses Pcrsons Cusos
Persons
Cases
Persona
Fref.
Governor
17
14
2
2
37
13
7
yor 
Ferd
20
74
2
2
1
1
6
11
30
35
3
8
Officicl
Town &
Villago
302
2,221
15
50
2
6
6
45
132
179
2.5
44
130
2
2
Hoad
io of
10T
louse of
58
195
3
4
122
162
10
11
1
4
C.uncill-
ors
of
88
430
2
3
3
5
13
63
14
23
44
cuse of
Represen-
ietives
i. of
Fref.
152
1,042
3
4
3
2
23
31
105
140
26
45
1
4
Asscably
H of
Lunicip-
138
359
5
5
1
1
20
40
3
110
20
26
al (ar)
4sssubly
of
Tc:m
20
946
5
10
44
96
126
151
Villago
Assembly
TCTAL:
972
5,461
35
3x
6
12
21.
165
325
755
1,061
161
308
5
17

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
Classifi-
C:mpaign of
Breach of
caring
Violation
Violation
Violation
cation
gov. ε pub-
Regula-
eapons
of Limit
of legula-
of Restraints
Total
lic officials
tions re
excessive
on Fosters
tion of
on Creeting
Ot'ers
of all
concerned th
Bulloting
Denonst.
Campaign
Acts after
Violations
clection
Act.
xpend
Election Day
No.of No.of
.o.of Ho. of
No. of No.of
No.of
No.of
o.of
∴o.of
No. of
No.of
No.of
No. of
No.of
No.of
Casos
Fersons
Cises Percons
Cusos
Persons
Casos
Forsons
Cages
Persons
Cases
Persons
Casos
Persons
Cascs
Persons
Prof.
21
42
1.
1
125
158
17
224
490
Governor
Layor 
Hard
2
2
26
35
1
1
1
1
3
3
88
173
Official
Tom &
Village
6
6
37
49
1
91
100
2
18
64
76
800
3,100
lcad
of
Fouse of
2
2
3
3
156
225
12
399
618
20T
Councill-
ors
.of
House of
3
3
2
2
118
147
2
2
1
2
5
15
318
740
Roprosen-
tutivos
L.of
Pref.
2
2
5
6
1
1
92
92
7
18
427 1,387
4ssembly
of
Lunici-
1
1
3
6
94
108
1
1
384
657
pal (ard)
Asserbly
Me of
Toun &
3
3
15
46
22
23
1
1
7
20
40
1,367
Village
Assembly
TOTA:
17
17
38
156
3
3
764
888
4
4
5
22
99
161
3,091

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
Other Problems
As campaigns and eleotions progressed, a series of new: problems arome.
While hot in themeelves violations of the eleotion law, they nevertheless exer-
cised an adverse influence on voting and were deemed to require prompt and
offeotive remedial action. Turning to the problems first and disoussing the
remedial aotion next,: they can be grouped under three headingsr (1) imprpper
use of the former neighborhood associations; (2) abstention from eleotions;
and (3) inoorreet marking of ballots.
Neighborhood Assooiations
As of 1 April, the hierarchy of neighborhood associations by which all
families in Japan had been brought under the diroot supervision of the Contral
Govornment was finally dissolved -- dissolution having been postponed until
this date in order that a new systom of rationing might be developed.
Despite the order whioh dissolvod the associations, howovor, tho peouliar
and historioal adaptability of these organizations to olootioneering rosulted
in meny roports of their use beyond 1 April. In particular, during the course
of the 5 April elootions, when many voters had not yet hoard of tho 1 April
order, survoillanoe teams waro advised that neighborhood associations wore
boing utilized to solicit votes, "to get out tho vote", to distribute tiokots
to polling plaoes, and the like. It was also reportod that formor heads of
theso organizations wero oxercising undue influence in the elootions parti-
oularly in the mattor of persuading votors to oast ballots in favor of looal
candidates backed by the ox-ncighborhood associction loaders.
Abstontions
2
The abstontion rato of votors in tho April, 1946 clections had baen 27.9
por cent, although actually only tho House of Roprosentativos olootion could
be compared with tho 1946 figures it had been hoped that each of the 1947
eleotions would sos an abstontion rato of loss than the previous yoar. In
actuality, however, only one eleotion showed a lower rats then that of 1946:
Election
Dato
Rato of Abstontion
Local Exooutives
5 April
27.9
Counoillors
20 April
40.8
Ropresentativos
25 April
32.1
Local Assemblios
30 April
18.3
Both local and national olections woro to a cortcin extont characterizod
by a rolativo dearth of candidatos. For tho total number of offices at stake
in the April olootions, for examplo, thoro wms an avorago of somothing loss
than 1-1/3rd candidatos por vacancy.
In the House of Ropresontativos oloctions, 1599 candidatos filed for 466
seats, or slightly over three and ono-half candidatos per vacanoy. This figure,
however, contrastod with 2, 8o0 who filod for tho same numbor of soats in tho
goneral olection of April, 1946. Again, although an averago of throo and ono-
half candidatos per soat in a final cloction would bo reasonablo in a country
in which primaries had boun employed, in which thoro woro only two or three
major parties, or in which qunlifications for candidacy were stringent, tho
situation was somowhat difforont in Japan. Horo thore woro no primarios, threo
major:parties,(Liberal, Domooratio, and Social Domooratic), two othor well-
organized parties (Peoplos' Cooporative and Communist) and a strong indopendont
tradition. In addition, eleotion laws governing oandidacy wore as liboral as
any in the world; age qualifioations ranged from 20 to 30, dopending on the
office, any Japanese citizen was eligiblo to filo candidacy, and no rosidenoo
requirements wore appliod to candidaoy for national or major local officos.
Had thera boen oandidates from eaoh: of tho ostablished parties and ovon
one independent in cach electoral distriot, tho total number of oandidates would
have been about 2, 8o0, or roughly, tho provious year's total.  In fotuality,
109

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
110.
however, no party nominated a candidato in each eloctoral district and evon the
number of independents who filod for the House of Reprosontatives was only slightly
more than half the number of seats at stake:
Party
Total Cardidates
Democratic
350
Liberal
326
Social Democratic
289
Communist
120
Peoples Cooperative
108
Minor
155
Independents
252
1599
The greatest si ngle factor contributing to the dearth of -candidates
in arygiven election, of course, was the very mumber of elections held in April.
The grand total of seats at stake in the only previous post-war election - that
of the House of Representatives in pril, 1946 - had been 466. In April, 1947,
on the other hand, within 25 days a total of 205, 062 positions were at stake.
Not only was no party sufficiently well organized to nominato arywhere near this
number of candidates, but even the practice of nominatin the sane indivi dual
for tvo or three different positions was made difficult by the fact thet elections
came sò close to overlapping that a candidate defeated in one election frequently
had no time left in which to file for the next.
Paradoxically, fron a national standpoint, the problem was also
linked with the growing strength of the major political parties. In the 1946
clections 1430, or. 51. percont of the total cand dates had either beon ndependents
or representad minor parties. In the compareble 1947 eloctions for the House
of Representatives the number of minor party and independent candidates had
dropped to 397 or 25 porcont of the total nuiber of candidates.
All in all, however, the elections for the House of Represantatives
showed tho least dearth of candidetes of any of tho April elections. In tho
Houso of Councillors election, for exemple, only 584 candidates ran for 250
seats. or an average of abeut 2-1/3rd candidates per seat. Here, however, not
only did all of tho reasons mentioned above apply with uqual emphasis to the
Houso of Councillors election, but a wholo additi onal set of contributing factors
vas evident.
Perhaps the most, important of these was genoral lack of undorstanding
of the functions of the now House coupled with a laiant tendeney to continue
thinking of national eleotions only in tho sonse of elcctions for the House of
Representatives. von political pertios wero hot free of this tendency, their
major activities centering around the elections for Ropreso:tativos.
In connection with tho election of members of the Houce of
Councillors speclal precautions were taken to see that candidacies woro not
thinned by delays in the upplication of the purge directive. Then, for exmaple, 
lte in March it became apparent that the compurative mrber of candidates
for tho House of Councillors would bo considorably less t an tint of the Houso
of Represontativos, the deadlino for filing was extended for ten days. Only
ton additional candi dates took advantage of to extended period, howover, thus
indicating that the mechanies of screoning had curtainly not beon a major factor
in tho dearth of candidatos.
A very impertant factor, on the other hand, appears to havo boen
tho introduction of the national constituoncy for the House of Couneillors; on
tho whole vocational, cultural, and intellectual quelitios, and above all persohal
popularity, wero epparontly doemed more iiportant than parties and platfonms;
candidates hositatod to file unless they folt in their owm minds that thcy were

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
woll and favorably known natiom lly before the start of tho carpaign.
The election law forbede declaration of candidacy prior to 31 March, only
20 days bofore clection, or until such time after that date end prior to il April
as a candidate had received purge cloaranco fron the Centrel Qualifications Examd- 
nation Cormittce. Even during this abbreviated campaign poriod stringent
limitations on publici ty, steming fron the papor shortego, mdo campaigning
extromely difficult for nowcomors; to rench an electorate of approximately 30, 000,08
for oxanple, candidatos vero pennitted to distri buto only 30, ooo postenrds. Such
curtailments naturally sorvod to prevont political noweomers fron challenging
effeotively tho osteblished posi tion of old line politicians. fomur membors
of the House of Poers, or other nationally known fi ures.
In connection with local loctions, the most striking point was not so
much that the percentage of candi dates to vacancies dipped to 2 to 1 in respect
to local chicf uxecutives cnd about 1-1/4 to 1 in rospect to local assenblies
as it was the fact that of the 10, 465 local ciiof cxecutives eleoted during April
a total of 3, 374 wore choson in "non contest" cloctions in which only one candi-
date ran for office.
In a few instances tho situction stauned from the last minute purgo of a
rival candidate, but in most instanccs it my bo attributed either to pre-
election agroaionts among loading candidstes or parti os or to the dominance of
old line political leaders who by one means or another maneged to dissuado
opposition candidntos fron running.
Spoiled Lallots
Wasted ballots in the 1947 election were of two general types: those in
which confusion in respect to talloting led voters to write a candidate's name
on the wrong ballot (as a gubernatorial candidate's name on a mayoralty ballot);
and those in which uncertainty in respect to names led voters to forget the 
names of candidetes and ither leave ballots blank or add fictitioustmamos.
as has been noted above, the April clections marked the first time in
Japan ese history when voters elected candide tes for s. parate offices at the
same time. In the past electors had voted only for candidatos for the House
of Mepresentatives and for local assemblies - end such electione hed always
beem held seperately. The Ayril election: thus not only precented a new
problem but repeated it thrice, on April 5 voters selected both governors and
local chief executives; on April 20 they select d Councillors from both pre-
both prefectural and local arsenblies. of especiel interest in this connection
as the fact that in many insiences the writing of a candidate's name on the
incorrect ballot actually appeers td have been intentionel. In severel
municipelities, for example, a very considerable number of voters, more in-
terested in the results of the municipal clection than in those of the guber-
natorial, appear to have written the mayoralty candidate'e name on both bal-
lots in order to make alsolutely certain of the validity of their votes for
mayor.
The problem of failure to mark ballots legibly was no novelty in Japan,
sinee a printed ballot, in the sense of one on which the names of candidetes
were merely checked, had never been used. Every pest elcction, therefore,
had produced thousands of ballots which were either blank or illegible; but
oven in the post-war revision of election laws the Dict had consistently
favored the hand-written be llot---feeling that the advantage to be gained from
such a simple literecy test far outweighed any which might accrue from
assurance than everyone who could mark his "X" could cest a ve lid ballot. The
following table compares spoiled ballots in the 1946 and 1947 elections:
111

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
112.
Average Na.
Average No.
Average Pot.
Date
Ballots Cast
Bellots Rejected
Rejected
April 10, '46
26.558,611
460.000
1.73
April 5, '47
28.722.464
2,080,107
6.73
April 20, '47
24.938,797
2.586.165
10.57
April 25, '47
27.795,884
435,229
1.56
April 30, '47
3£,824,953
1,176,338
5.02
i. typical example of types of invalid ballots is provided by the following
teble, which classifies invalid ballots cast in Tokyo in the 1947 gubernetorial
election. 1946 figures refer to votes cast in Tokyo for the House of Repre-
sentatives election.
1947
1946
election
election
Total vote in Tokyo
1,615,534
1.341,359
Valid votes cast
1.463.710
1,300,595
Invelid votes cast
151,824
40.764
Percentage of votes declared invelid
9.39
3.03
The invalid ballots are classified es follows:
1947
election
a. Ballots in which the name of a
person not à candidate for governor was
written in (e•g. General Mecarthur; candidete
for Ward Chief, etc.) . .
90,050
b. Blank ballots deposited . ... . 32,000
C.
"Give us rice" ballots..... 10,801
d. Ballots on which only lines or
eo
Unidentifiable ballots..... 3.300
f. Unauthorized ballots (e.g. pieces
of white paper; use of the voting ticket as a
bellot; use of one's calling card as a ballot;
use of meyor's ballot to cst a vote for governor;
and destruction of part of a ballot) ..... 3,239
g. Ballots on which elector wrote
something in addition to a candidate's name. . 1,463
h. Ballots on the inside of which the
electorts calling card ves pasted ..
1.327
i. Ballots on which elector voted for
more than one candidate for the same post...
388
j. Stanped or paster votes..
362
k. Use of voter's han (seal).
80
1. Invalid for miscellaneous reasons
122

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
Remedial Action
Prompt remedial action was taken in reapect to the neighborhood associa-
tions, the Home Ministry immediately reminding all election administration
committees that former heads of neighborhood associations and neighborhood
groups voluntarily organized to carry on any function of the dissolved
tonarigumi were prohibited from any activity in elections and could not be
utilized by election officials or candidates for any purpose whatsoover.
Typical of these instructions were the following:
TO
: Local Governors and Chairmen of Election Administration Committees.
FROM : Vice-Minister of Home Affairs.
The organizations of Chonaikai, Burakukai or Tonarigumi and others were
abolished as of 1 April. It is considered that this has not subsequently been
thoroughly understood, and your attention is drawn to the following items.
particularly in relation to the present elections that you may effect a
thorough dissemination thereof.
1. After the abolition of Chonaikai, Burakukai, Federations thereof
and Tonarigumi for persons who had been the heads of the former Chonaikai,
Burakukai, Rengokai or Tonarigumi to carry out election campaigns by utilizing
their special former positions in regard to persons who composed the above
organizationsor to participate in a public capacity by using the former or-
ganizations constitutes violation of the instructions which stipulate the
abolition of the organizations of the Chonaikai, Burakukai end the Tonarigumi
and you will not only investigate the past cases but also take such steps to
insure that situetions such as the above will not occur. In addition, steps
are being taken to bar such persons from exercising governmental authority in
the future. Your special attention is further drawn to the fact that such
acts will give the impression abroad of an obstruction of the free will of
the people.
2. In view of the following examples concerning the elections of
the heads of the various local public organizations, attention should be paid
in consideration of the objective as in paragraph 1 above in the execution of
election affairs, so that utilization of the positions of the heads of
Chonaikai or Burakukai and others and the oraanizations thereof will not occur.
In regard to any local public organizations vhich perpetrate such acts measures
as enumerated in the following items will be taken immediately.
(a) It has been brought to my attention that there have been
cases of not returning the entrance cards to the polling stations which are
common to the various elections to the electors imediately after polling
but of returning them to the electors through the former organizations of
Chonaikai, Burakukai, Rengokai or Tonarigumi or the former officials thereof.
Those entrance cards which are to be used for further elections should be
returned to the electors inmediately after each polling end in the future such
acts are strictly forbidden. Further for those not returned at the elections
on the fifth instant, they will be returned without delay to the electors
either directly by mail by the election administration.committee of the city,
town or village or through the branches of the city, town or village.
(b) It has been brought to my attention that certain election
administration committees have caused the heads of former Chonaikai, Burekukai,
Rengokai or Tonarigumi to carry out investigations into reasons for absten-
tions. Such actions will be strictly prohibited.
3. Subsequent to the abolition of the Chone ikei, Burakukai,
Rengokai, or Tonarigumi there are no objections to the free formation of
the informal and purely voluntary bodies. but it is not permitted to form
quasi-compulsory bodies or similar organizations thereto. If voluntary or-
113
a

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
114
ganizations are to be established in the future it should be determined on the
basis of a free expression of the people how such organizations are to be estab-
lished. Further, in regard to such voluntary organizations in the case of
election of the representatives thereof it should be clearly indicated in the
ballot that participation or otherwise in such organizetion is entirely up to
the volition of the individual and those not desiring to participate are not
required to vote, and members cen quit their groups any time they wish.
"TO
: Chairman of the Metropolitan and Prefectural Election Control Committee
FROM : Director of the Local Affairs Bureau, the Home Ministry
It is desired that strict care be taken to avoid using offices of former
town-block and villege associations as well as residences of former heads of
these associations es polling-places or counting offices. In case those
buildings are already scheduled to be used for such purposes and changes are
impracticable in view of the fixed period of announcement, all indications of
offices of the said associations should at least be removed.
It is also desired that you will strictly refrain from alloving those
who held the headship of the defunct associations to perticipate in the con-
duct of business concerning election."
***
Checks by surveillance teams during the latter pert of April indicated
that the above instructions had been carried out to the letter and that the
mortmain of the neighborhood associations had been successfully lifted from
the eleotions.
The problem of absenteeism was not one which could be readily solved by
fiat. The causes were fundamental: the multiplicity of elections; the urge
to spend election holidays in foraging for food; the relative lack of pub-
licity, stemming from the paper shortage; end the stringent restrictions
which were placed on campaigning. Nevertheless, SCAP and militery government
officicls continued their efforts to publicize clections by means of press
conferences and releases end the Japanese government was directed to ensure
that all possible measures were taken to publicize the clections. From 59.2
in the election for Councillors, the percentage of votcrs to eligible clcctors
rose to 67.9 in the Representatives election and to a high of 81.7 in the
election of local assemblymen. As will be seen from the teble on the next
pege this latter figure begins to approach the probable maximum vhich can be
anticipated.
With respect to the dearth of candidates not a grcat deal could be done
during the course of the election, elthough, as noted a-ove, periods for
fling purge questionncires were extended in order to ensure thet candidates
were not kept from running by fear of delays in the sereening process which
would make it impossible to file candidacy in time.
Since one of the primary causes of dearth of candidates in eny given
election in April was the very mumber of elections involved, this one aspect,
et least, will tend to be solved in the future as elections come to take
place et different times. Introduction of a printed ballot will undoubtedly
serve to increase the numbers of cendidctes, particularly in respect to the
netional constitueney of the House of Councillors, where newcomers were chery
of competing against individuals vhose names were very well knowm end readily
remembered.
The lack of more then one candidate for the office of chief in a third
of Japan's towms and villeges is essentially e social problem, one which can

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
ABSTENTIONS FROM VOTING - 3Ó APRIL, 1947.
(Kumamoto Ken, Tema-gun, Sue-mura)
1. Ballots Cast:
Sex
No. of regis-
No. of
No. of hb-
Percentage
No. of Ab-
Others
terod voters
Votors
sentees
of Absten-
sentee
as of elec-
tion
Votes
tion date
Male
507
446
61
12.2%
1
0
Femele
532
474
58
11%
0
0
Total
1039
920
119
11.5%
1
0
2. Reasons for Abstention:
Sex
Employ-
Travel
Sickmess
Illiteracy
Work on
Other
Total
!ment away
Farms or
from home
in Fac-
torics
Mc.le
34
4
10
8
3
2
61
Femalo
6
23
7
20
1
1
58
Totel
40
27
1.7
28
4
3
119
115

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
116
not be legislated out of existence---the tendency of town and village popula-
tions, stemming from centuries of blind obedience, either to fear subtle
economic pressures in cese of an attempt to unseat established leadership or
to accept the bland assurances of entrenched leaders that it is best not to
hold a contested election--for that would lead to unpleasant confusion and
This, of course, is a problem which will be solved only with the greater
political education of the Japanese people; a single election will not alter
the hebits of a lifetime. Indeed, what is perhaps astonishing is that for all
the elections there were as many candidates as there were: a grand total of
over 281, 344. This figure indicetes that of the average number of roughly
28, 000,000 Japanese who voted in each election, more than one out of every
hundred vas a candidate for some public office in the April elections. In
any nation this would be unusual; certainly it is so in a Japan where until
a few short months ago candidacy for public office had always been the privilege
of a limited few.
With the exception of a certain minor percentage (approximately 1.50%)
resulting from natural error, illiteracy, and the like, the problem of wasted
ballots was believed to stem almost entirely from limitations on election
publicity. These, in turn, arose from the paper shortage.
Early in March the Home Ministry and the Ministry of Commerce and In-
dustry had estimated that over 11,000,000 pounds of paper would be required
for the five elections. 'Such an amount simply was not available. In view
of the shortage of stock piles and production any great amount of paper could
not be used for election purposes without seriously affecting newspaper pub-
lications and the current program for printing new school books for use through-
out the entire Japanese educational system. In fact, late in Februery the
Japanese press carried stories to the effect that even by suspending the
printing of text books and reducing newspaper publications to tabloid form.
still only about 2,000,000 pounds of paper would be available for the elections.
It was subseguently estimated, hoever, by the Home Ministry that a saving
of approximately 67% of the original requirement could be effected, and allo-
cations for other uses not seriously disturbed, if only modified use were
made of the voluminous paper consuming election Career Bulletins vhich con-
tained biographical sketches of ali mejor candidates. Therefore it was de-
cided not to place Career Bulletins in each household in Japan as was custo-
mary in past elections but to post them instead in principal gathering spots
and on public bulletin toards in all communities. Hence the total allocation
for the 1947 elcctions, as finally authorized, was as follows:
Ballot Peper
820,370 1bs.
Election and Career Bulletins
504.489
Election Announcement Posters
161.085
Individual Candidate's Campaign
Rations
885,885
n
Official Lists of Candidates
134,955
Voting Tickets
262.647
Instruction Eooklets for Officials
366,885
n
Neighborhood Puppet Shows
4.400
en
Newspaper Fublications of Campaign
Expenditures
577.500
publications of'Election Laws and
Ordinances
12.925
Total
3,731,181
Concurrent with the decision on the total allocation of paper, the Diet
passed the previously discussed Posters Las, limiting, to the above figure the
total amount of paper vhich could be used in the election, whether on benalf

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
of parties, cendidates, or the government. This law, it. was recognized, placed
the most stringent of restrictions upon campaign publicity. Despite the entry
of so many new faces into politics and despite the creation of the new national
constituency of the House of Councillors. with its attendant problems of nation-
vide publicity, the bill made available for 300,o0o candidates less paper than
hed been aveilable for 3,000 in 1946. It further limited candidates to use of
only such paper as they received in the goverment allotment. By this denial
the bill not only favored established parties and well knowm andidates but
made but little provision for the educational programs so necessary for edvis-
ing thc electorate of the new techniques of voting, political issues at stake,
and the importance of the franchise. The restrictions were drastic, but they
vere fair; every candidate was assured exactly as much paper as any other can-
didete for the seme office. Any alternative would have favored the wealthier,
for the only source of paper other than the meagre gavernment allotment would
have been the black market.
With paper thus limited, it was highly important to make the greatest
possible use of vhat was at hand, particularly in the sense of concentrating
more information in and around the polls on election day.
previously Japanese election laws had been interpreted as maintaining a
3 cho (327 meters) neutral zone around polling places, with all campaign pos-
tcrs prohibited in these ereas. To remind voters of candidates and. parties, a
more liberal construction was placed on the lews, and during the lest three
elections posters were permitted in the neer vicinity of all polling places.
In addition, provision was made to ensure that voters received but one ballot .
at a time (end deposited it in a ballot box before receiving & second)* and
that names and effiliations of all candidates vere placed in every polling
booth. Tho following radios from SCAp to. Commanding General Eighth Army
summarize these remedial measures:
12 April 1947
FROM 1 SCAP
TO
 CG 8th ARMY..
. PRIORITY
RECUEST FOLLO TNG ENFORM TION BE TRANSMITTED TO TEAMS CHARGED WITH
SURVEILLANCE FORTHCOMING JAPANESE NATION'L AND LOCAL ELECTIONS PD THE FOLLOWING
INTERPRETITIONS OF JIP. NESE ELECTION LIWS H VE BEEN MIDE BY MINISTRY OF HOME
∴FF.IRS H.VE BEEN. DISSEMIN.TED TO ELECTION DMINISTR.TION COMMITTEES ND ARE
FURNISHED HERE ITH FOR YOUR INFORM.TION ND GUID.NCE PD  PD C.NDIDITES USE
OF LOUD SPE/KERS IN VICINITY OF POLLS ON ELECTION D..Y IS PERMITTED PD B PD
C. MF IGN POSTERS MY BE POSED ON ELECTION D.Y NYWHERE OUTSIDE OF CONFINES
OF POLLING PL.CES PROVIDED OTHER PROVISIONS OF POSTERS L.W ARE LIET PD LARGE
NUMBER OF INV.IID VOTES C.ST IN LIST ELECTION HS EMPH SIZED NECESSITY OF
KEEPING C.NDID.TES N. MES BEFORE VOTERS THROUGHOUT EL CTION D.Y PD C PD NMES
ND POLITICIL AFFILL TION OF ILL CANDIDITES CONCERNED SHOULD BE POSD T
E.CH POLLING PL:CE ON ELTCTION D.Y PD
See chert on next pege.
117

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.94)
118
ARRANGEMENT OF TYPICAL POLLING PLACE
(House of Councillors Eleotion - 1947)
0
5
4e
2
3.
8。
1. First ballot issued at this point
2.
First ballot marked here
3。
First ballot deposited here
4。
Second ballot issued here
50
Second ballot marked here
Second ballot deposited here
7。
Elcction witnesses
8.
Election officiels
(Outline depicts room in which actual voting takes place.
Registration books checked prior to entry into this room.)

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.97)
15 4pri1.1947
FROM : SCAP
TO
 CG 8th RMY
RECENT J.P. NESE LOCIL ELECTIONS WERE CH R..CTERIZED BY LARGE NULBER INVILID
B.LLOTS PF.RENTLY OCC SIONED VOTERS UNF MILLIRITY CINDID.TES N MES ND
ELECTION PROCEDURES. TO ENSURE GRETEST POSSIBLE FIMILLRITY ELECTOR.TE
THESE POINTS FUTURE ELECTIONS HOME MINISTRY HS RECOIMENDED LOCIL DMINISTR TION
COMMITTEES C..RRY OUT FOLLO"ING REMEDLL LE:SURES:
DISTRIBUTION LL HOUSEHOLDS PRIOR E.CH ELECTION LISTS CNDIDATES ND
POLITIC'L .FFILLTIONS.
B. POSTING LISTS C.NDID.TES .ND POLITIC.L .FFILL.TIONS IT LE.ST FIVE
PL.CES LCH POLLING DISTRICT PRIOR E.CH ELECTION.
C. POSTING LISTS C.NDID.TES ID POLITIC..L :FFILL.TIONS E.CH POLLING
BOOTH E.CH POLLING PL:CE E.CH ELECTION.
D. POSTING CIREER BULLET INS .LL C.NDID1 LS HOUSE OF REPRESENT TIVES AND
HOUSE OF COUNCILLORS .T LE ST 5 PL.CES F..CH POLLING DISTRICT FRIOR E.CH N.TIONL
ELECTION.
E. INSTITUTION .T .FRIL 2OTH ..ND 3OTH ELECTIONS SYSTEM BY WITCH VOTERS
WILL RECEIVE ONLY ONE BALLOT AT TIME AND WILL BE. REQUIRED PLACE FIRST BLLLOT
IN BOX BEFORE RECEIVING SECOND.
F. ENCOUR..GELENT GRE TEST POSS IBLE FUBLICITY LOC.L PRESS IND R.DIO
ELECTION PROCEDURES .ND N.JES POLITICI. FFILL.TIONS L C.NDID'TES. IN THIS
CONNECTION SPOKESLN SC.P ISSUED FOLLOWING STITELIENIT IPRIL 15 QUOTE IT IS HOPED
TH.T EACH NEWSPIPER IN J.F. N ILL PUÉLISH THE N.LE. GE. F.RTY, ND OCCUP.TICN
OF E.CH C.NDID.TE FOR THE HOUSE OF COUNCILLORS ND HOUSE OF REFRESENT..TIVES
DMMEDL.TELY BEFORE THESE ELICTIONS UNGUOTE.
DESIRE TE MS CIL RCED WITH SURVEILL.NCE FUTURE ELECTIONS CONT.CT .S ILNY
M.JOR ELECTION . DMINISTFL.T ION COLMITTEES S POSSIBLE AND ENCOUR.GE CRE.TEST
POSSIBLE COMPLL.NCE ABOVE HOLE MINISTRY RECOMMENDTIONS.
of particular interest this fear was the almost complete lack of indi-
viduals cla iming that they had been improperly denied the right to vote.
The 1946 elections for the House of Representatives had been marred by a
large mmber of claims by individuals that they had been improperly excluded
from registration lists. In most instances, however, these turned out to stem
from the construction of the election laws, which had provided only for annual
fall registration, with ample opportunity at thet time for correction of errors
in the register. In consequence, individuals vho had waited until elections
were imminent before ahecking the registers und noting omissions had been unable
to exercise their franahise. s noted above, this problem wes anticipated this
year and remedied in advance, two special registretion periods being held in
March and pril to permit all those eligible to vote to check polling lists
and register if their name was omitted.
Inalysis of Elections
In the last analysis three questions seam parumount in eny survey of
the 1947 elections: (1) Were the elections fair and democratic? (2) How
could election procedures be improved in future years? (3) What were the
political implications of the results?
Fair and Democratic Elections
Two major concepts are necessarily involved in democratio elec

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
15 4pril 1947
FROM : SCAP
TO
: CG 8th RMY
RECENT JAP. NESE LOCAL ELECTIONS WERE CH R CTERIZED BY LARGE NUMBER INVILID
BILLOTS APPIRENTLY OCC SIONED VOTERS UNF:MILLRITY CINDID.TES NMES AND
ELECTION PROCEDURES. TO ENSURE GRE/TEST POSSIBLE FIMILLARITY ELECTOR:TE
THESE POINTS FUTURE ELECTIONS HOME MINISTHY HAS RECOILMENDED LOCIL ADMINISTR TION
COMMITTEES C.RRY OUT FOLLO"ING REMEDL'L MEASURES:
 DISTRIBUTION /IL HOUSEHOLDS PRIOR E.CH ELECTION LISTS CaNDIDATES ND
POLITICIL .FFILLITIONS.
B. POSTING LISTS CINDID.TES .ND POLITIC'L :FFILL.TIONS AT LE.ST FIVE
PLACES EACH POLLING DISTRICT PRIOR ECH ELECTION.
C. POSTING LISTS C.NDID.TES AND POLITICAL FFILL.TIONS E.CH POLLING
BOOTH E.CH POLLING PLACE EACH ELECTION.
D. POSTING CAREER BULIET INS LL C.NDIDITIS HOUSE OF REPRESENTITIVES AND
HOUSE OF COUNCILLORS T LE ST 5 PL.CES E.CH POLLING DISTRICT FRIOR E.CH NTION'L
ELECTION.
E. INSTITUTION T FRIL 2OTH ..ND 3OTH ELECTIONS SYSTEM BY WHICH VOTERS
WILL RECEIVE ONLY ONE BALLOT AT TIME AND WILL BE. REQUIRED PLLCE FIRST B/LLOT
IN BOX BEFORE RECEIVING SECOND.
F. ENCOUR GEAENT GRE.TEST POSSIBLE FUBLICITY LOC.L PRESS ND R.DIO
ELECTION PROCEDURES ND N.JES POLITICIL FFILL.TIONS LL C.NDIDTES. IN THIS
CONNECTION SPOKESMN SCIP ISSUED FOLLOWING STITEMIENT IPRIL 15 QUOTE IT IS HOPED
THIT EACH NEWSPIPER IN JP N WILL PUBLISH THE N.ME. AGE. PARTY, ND OCCUP.TION
OF E CH C.NDID.TE FOR THE HOUSE OF COUNCILLORS IND HOUSE OF REFRESENT.TIVES
IMMEDL.TELY BEFORE THESE ELICTIONS UNGUOTE.
DESIRE TEIMS CH/RGED WITH SURVEILL NCE FUTURE ELECTIONS CONTACT .S ILNY
M.JOR ELECTION  DMINISTFCTION COLMITTEES S POSSIBLE AND ENCOURAGE GRE TEST
POSSIBLE COMPLL.NCE ABOVE HOLE MINISTRY RECOIMENDITIONS.
of particular interest this year was the almost complete lack of indi-
viduals claiming that they had been improperly denied the right to vote.
The 1946 elections for the House of Representatives had been marred by a
large number of claims by individuals that they had been improperly excluded
from registration lists. In most instances, however, these turned out to stem
from the construction of the election laws, which had provided only for annual
fall registration, with ample opportunity at that time for correction of errors
in the register. In consequence, individuals who had waited until elections
were imminent before checking the registers and noting omissions had been unable
to exereise their franohise. is noted above, this problem wes anticipated this
year and remedied in advance, two special registration periods being held in
€.
March and April to permit all those eligible to vote to check polling lists
and register if their name was omitted.
Inalysis of Elections
In the last analysis three questions seem paramount in any survey of
the 1947 elections: (1) Were the elections fair and democratic? (2) How
could election procedures be improved in future years? (3) What were the
political implications of the results?
Fair and Democratic Elections
Two major concepts are necessarily involved in democratic elections: pre-
eletion.assurence of democratic rights such as broad franchise, ease of can-
didacy, freedom from fear of coercion, and the like; and election day nd post
119

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
120
election assurance of honesty in the counting and tabulating of votes.
Insofar as the first is concerned, as was pointed out in Chapter II. a
vide variety of pre-election measures was. taken to insure democratic elections:
strengthening of the election laws, extension of the franchise, inorease in the.
mumber of polls, epplication of the purge, assurance of non-interference by the
police, surveillance by Occupation Forces, to name a few. Insofar as counting.
and tabulation were concerned, not only did every candidate have the right to
have & witness present at every step in the voting and counting process at
every polling place and ballot counting stetion in Japan---but every Japanese
citizen had the further right to bring any protest which he might have to the
attention of the Occupation Forces as well as his own Government.
With respect to the lavs, therefore, every step in the electoral process,
from the filing of candidacy and the registration of voters to the final tabu-
lation of results was fully protected by laws end safeguards comparable to
those of any democratic nation. Insofar as violations of these laws were
concerned, not only were Japanese procedures of investigation, indictment and
trial highly competent and satisfactory but once again full opportunity was
afforded all citizens to bring any criticisms of methods to the attention of
surveillence personnel. The especial fact that indictments for election law
violations for all five 1947 elections totaled only 2997 as opposed to 2632 in
the one election of 1946 might be taken either as an indication that political
morality had been markedly improved or that the investigative powers of the
government had gone into a sharp decline. The first reason is undoubtedly the
correct one, for the figure of 2997 included all alleged violations from all
sources, including those first reported to the Occupation Forces, and citizens
were urged daily to report to the Occupation Forces violations of vhich they
were aware which were not being properly investigated by Japanese officials.
In this connection, it is imperative to note that the vast majority of
clains of election law violations involved such crimes as bribery of voters,
house to house canvassing for votes, and violations of the poster law. For
all the 42,000 polling places and 11, 000 ballot counting stations in all Japan
and for all the 200, 000,000 ballots which vere counted during five elections
there vere only a hanaful of charges made anywhere---by press, or public or
candidates or parties---of i:propor cnsting of votos and no charges were
made of miscounting of votes.
Improvement of Elections
In comparison with the l947 elections, three basic avenues lie open for
the improvement of future Japanese elections: decrease in the number of
electors abstaining from voting; decrease in the number of wasted bellots; and
increase in the number of candidates, particulerly for the office of local
chief executive.
In considering the average abstention rate of 30 percent for the 1947
elections, it must be recalled that essentially this represents a percentage
of total eligible voters and not a percentege of a total of registered voters.
which in turn is only a percentage of the total of eligible voters. Jepanese
law provides basically for automatic registration; once each year all eligible
voters are registered regerdless of whethcr they have any interest in voting
or ot. In most Western countries, of course, the situation is reversed; regis-
tration is not automatic but requires that the voter take the initiative and
register himself. From the 'standpoint of the percentage of all adults actually
participating in an election, therefore, a 70 percent turnout in a Japanese
election vould be equivalent of about an 85 percent turnout in an average
American election.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.97)
The besic reasons for abstention this year vere apperently the mmber of
elcctions in repid succession; the severe restraints pleced on compeigming be
cause of the lack of pc per; and the novelty and complexity of such eleations es
recuired.the casting of sepcrate ballots.
All three, of course, vill improve with time. In vier of the varying
terms of the offices included, such a series of elections as wes hdld in 1947
could never egein be held unti1 1959---and even juxtaposition in 1959 would
require that durine the next 12 yoers no cenerel election for the Diet be held
except et the end of e four year term.
The stringent limitations on the use of paper stemed, of course, both
fram shoriege of paper and from the tremondous demand in the early part of 1947.
Such conccntrated dencnd in the future vill be elinineted by the general dis-
persal of élections over different yecrs and the gradual improvement in Japen's
economic position shotld result in grester evcilability of paper. Time also
will serve to decrecsc the novelty of the, elections, particularly in respect
to the combination of two elections in one dey.
The siuplect solution to the problem of voided lallots. of course. would
seem to be edoption of the printed ballot. Other solutions are relaxmtion of
restrictions on cempaign publicity and the practice. exphasized at the last
elcction. of posting neres of cendidctes in each polling booth end of ensuring
that a votcr receives only one ballot at a time and thus is required. to mark
only one at a time.
New local covcrnnent legislation provides procedures for the recall of
locel chief executives in those instances t.here the majority of the electorate
votes to remove them. Commaunities in vhich only one candidete ren for office
are thus in e position to vote for a new meyor if they so desire cnd need not
necess rily retain their prcsent mayors from nor until 195l. A continuing pro-
&rem of political educ:tion and the rapid development in tovns end villagea of
coupetine political parties are ectly to be desired in order to counter any
tendency to ccquiesce in the e recments of loc:1 leacers as to candidotes for
local ofrices. Once such parties are-d veloped it. is inperative that party
management, progrens, end issues be deternined by action of the entire member-
ship of the party re ther than by party lerders elone.
Political Implicctions
The following teble suvarizes party votes in the 1946 end 1947 elections.
Since the ethod of voting adopted in the House of Representatives election in
1946 permitted voters to c  t bullots for 2 or 3 condidetes, dependent on the
size of the electorcl district concerned, dircet comparison rith the Repre-
sentctives election in 1947 is not possible, since this yeer electors voted
for but one cendidato esch. Teble II, however. projects a basis for comperi-
son. indicating an estimeted division of votes in 1946 had electors cest bal-
lots for but one candidate.
121

=== Page 99 === (confidence 1.00)
Liberals
Democrats
Social
Damocrats
Cooperatives
Communist
Minor
Indepen-
Total
Parties
dents
1946, 10 April
13,505,746
10,350,530
9,858,408
1,799,764
2,135,757
6,473,272
11,352,402
55,448,879
The same reduced
to common denom.
6,500,000
4,960,000
4,730,000
860,000
1,020,000
3,100,000
5,430,000
26,600,000
1947, 5 April
2,111,906
1,605,540
6,047,059
392,847
258,044
1,590,487
14,734,584
26,740,467
Governors
20 April, Local
3,822,767
3,117,202
4,847,188
1,038,271
809,177
1,026,178
7,235,693
21,896,476
20 April, National
1,360,456
1,908,087
3,479,814
549,916
610,948
1,039,819
12,462,073
21,411,113
25 April
7,295,242
6,857,480
7,168,888
1,862,753
1,002,883
1,560,070
1,614,295
27,361,611
30 April, Municipal
1,980,001
2,073,491
2,049,494
149,453
252,409
652,571.
23,481,019
30,638,438
Prefectural
5,733,280
6,092,169
5,482,627
1,187,322
556,473
2,520,428
9,686,347
31,258,646
122
1946, April 10
2404
18.7
17.8
3.2
3.8
11.7
20.4
100.0
1947, April 5, Gov.
7.9
6.0
22.6
1.5
0.9
6.0
55.1
100.0
April 20, Local
17.0
14.3
22.2
4.5
3.2
5.0
33.8
100.0
April 20, Natl.
6.5
7.2
16.6
2.6
2.9
4.9
59.3
100.0
April 25
26.6
25.1
26.2
6.8
3.7
5.7
5.9
100.0
April 30, Pref.
18.3
19.5
17.5
3.8
1.8
8.1
31.0
100.0
April 30, Munic.
6.5
6.8
6.7
0.5
0.8
2.1
76.6
100.0

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
were won by "Independents." This single fact would maks analyses of
political implications of the elections almost impossible were it not for the
fact that the political implications of the word "Independent" are quite dif
ferent in Japan from what they are in the West. as one political observer has
pointed out, An independent* in Japan is a candidate who does not indicate
until after the clection what party he proposes to support, whereas a ineutral
is a candidate who propoßes to rémain independent.
Final results of all elections, tabulated by parties, were as follows:
Liberals
Demo
Soc. D.
Peop. Coop.
Comm.
Minor Partiee Ind. Total
5,899
5,883
6,382
831
439
2,204
183,424 205,06:
From the standpoint of local entities, the elections represented a sweep-
ing Conservative victory, since by far the greater number of elective candidater
were of conservative leanings, whether classified as Liberals, Democrats, or
Independents. In 4 prefectures, 11 cities, and 253 towns and villages there
are Social. Democratic chief executives and in 1l towns and villages there are
Communist chief executives. In about 10,000 local entitie's of government,
however, there are conservative chief executives, while the number of conser-
vative assemblies probably approximates the total number of local assemblies
in Japan.
Thc facts that the Social Democrats won a plurality among parties in each
House of the Diet and have now established a Cabinet in ooalition with the
Democrats suggests that national clection results were far less conservative
than local. They were less conservative, it is true, but whether sufficiently
so to set tho government on a path markedly divergent fron that of the past
year is still a moot question.
The present membership of the two houses is as follows:
House of
House of
Councillors
Representatives
Government Parties
47
Social Democrats
144
42
Democrats
129
Peoples Cooperative
31
89
304
Non Government Farties
43
Liberal
125
17
Independents
16
95
Ryokufukai
Japan Farmers
4
Communist
42
1.
Neutrals
1
Vacancies
7
161
162
If it be remembered that passage of any legislation requires either
approval of a bill by a majority of both Houses or repassage by the House of
Represcntatives by a two thirds vote of legislution passed by the Representa-
tives und voted down by the Councillors, the significance of the above figures
is apparent. Half of the House of Representatives is 233; two thirds is 31l;
and half of the House of Councillors is 125. Technically speaking, the Govern-
mont Parties have neither a majority in the House of Councillors nor the
necessery two thirds majority in the House of Representatives by which they
123

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
11
124
would override a Councillor's veto. Passage of legislation, therefore, will
require bargaining with non-government end essentially conservative groups;
when with this is coupled the fact that the Democratic Party itself is basically
conservative it appears readily apparent that the Social Democratic plurality
is unlikely to swing the Diet very far from a conservative course.
In particular, it should be noted that there is no possibility of dis-
solving a recalcitrant House of Councillors, as in the case of the House of
Representetives; should the membership of the Councillors prove ultra con-
servative they could continue to block for the next three years all Social
Democratic legislation which did not meet with their approval.
Comparison of figures for the House of Representatives elections in 1946
and 1947 raises three other points of interest.
Perhaps the most important was the loss of strength by both independents
and minor parties in this year's election for the House of Representatives.
In 1946 the two groups won 32.1 percent of the total vote; this year their
total dropped to 1l.6 percent. It would seen likely that insofar as the House
of Representativcs is concerned the Japanese people are gradually coming to
apprccietc the inportance of major parties vis a vis minor parties or inde-
pendents in a parliamentary system of government.
Of particular interest was the fact that the Social Democnats did not win
their plurality by taking votes away from the Liberals and Democrats: rather.
all three parties ran well abovo their 1946 totals, thanks primarily to votes
which had previously been given to the minor parties and independents. This
would indicate failure of the Social Democrats to make any decisive gains
among individuals who treditionally have voted for Liberals or Democrats and
would suggest thet any eains the Social Democrats might make in elections in
the near future will have to conc primarily from the votes of new electors or
those who still voted this year for independents or minor parties.
Unless this tendency be reversed by highly successful sdministration,
this vould make difficult the development of a Social Democratic absolute
majority in the House of Represontatives for some time to come. For such con-
trol the Social Democrats would nced another 20 percent or so of the populer
vote. Only 1l 6 percent remains in the minor party and independent pool and
the total accretion of ne voters over the next five years, even with repa-
triates added, will probably not exeeed ten percent of the present total. The
Social Democrats could hardly expect to win all these potential votes. The
most profiteble field of opcration for the Social Democrats therefore would seem
to be among the 32 percent of the populece who abstained from voting in the
last election.
In connection with the Communists, it should be pointed out that despite
their failure to win as many seats in the House of Representatives as they
had anticipated or as they did Jast year, their populer vote, on a comparative
basis, was approximately thet of last year: 1,002,883 in 1947 as opponed to
1.020,000 in 1946. Percentagewise this was a reduction, in that a grand total
of 1 361,000 more votes were cast in this year's election than in last.
Particularly striking, however, wes the fect that many of last year's Com-
munist votes were undoubtedly spare votes, cast by electors who were dividing
their two or three votes among several parties. This year's Communist votes
were all first choice.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
Statomont by tho Suprome Commandor
Tho domooratio responso of the peoplo of Japan to the opportunities
afforded them in April for an mprocedentedly full exeroise of the franchise
and for tho establishmont of both national and local governmonts aooording
with the freely exprossed will of the eleotorate was hailod by the Supreme
Commander in a statement on 27 April. Genoral MaoArthur saids
"With tho rocently held serios of elootions, 'the last preparatory step
nocessary for tho inauguration of the now Japanese Constitution has been
aocomplishad. This Constitution is among tho most liboral and progressive
n"tional chartors in the world. It refleots one of the great spiritual
roformations of mankind. Its offeotuntion marks a new era in the Far East
which may well prove vital to the future of civilization. It gives the
Jepanose poople another ohence. It raises the masses of them from the
tctalitarianism of practioal slavery to the dignity of free men. I have
faith they will noc fail their now obligation.
"That faith is justified by the elections just past. From factories and
shops. and hcmos, from villages and farms and mines, the Japanese people
stroamed by the millions throughout the land to the polling places to dis-
cherge their new responsibilities of oitizonship. There they toted for the
oandidates of thoir choice, freely and fearlessly, without disorder and
according to the rules as they understood thom. In this atmosphere of free-
dom, marked by serious offort and honesty of purpose, no one can justly
critioize their choice. This choico, for the first time in Jepanese history,
roflootod the froo will of tho majority, as against tho totalitarian diotates
of a minority. This is domocracy!
"Tho basio issue beforo tho eleotorate was a seleotion botween politioal
philoscphies. That of tho totalitarian oxtrome right had alroady been
discrodited and rojeoted for its rosponsibility for war and dofeat and long
suppression of tho rights and libortios of tho massos. On tho other hand,
that of tho extreme left, the comaunistio philosophy, was still in issue,
with its leadors strongly bidding for the.popular support. Since the
incoption of the occupation, whon thousands of its adhorents wore freed from
tho storn supprossion of prison colls, this philosophy and its leadors had
boen givon tho fullest liberty and froudom of politipal action in open and
fair competition with domocratic forcos and beliofs. It thus had its full
ohance and on tho morits has failod. The Japanoso peoplo have firmly and
decisivoly rojocted its loadorship and ovorwholmingly havo choson a moderato
courso, sufficiently centered from eithor extromd to insuro the presorvation
of froodom and the onhancoment of individual dignity."
125

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
NORTHEAST ASIAN
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA DEPARTENT OF STATE
American Embassy
AIR MAIL
London, September 19, 1947
DC/R
UNCLASSIFTED
No. 2114
Subject:
Transmitting Article from Spectator on Japan
1917 SEP 30
DEPARTMENT
89
4
The Honorable
Secretary or State,
00
P
Washington
2
19
Sir:
545
-1947
I have the honor to enclose, as of possible
il.terest to the Department, copy of an article from
the August 29, 1947, issue of The Spectator on the sub-
ject "Satellite Japan". The article appears under the
name of Sir Paul utler, a former British consular
officer in the Far East, who, from time to time, has
articles published on subjects dealing with that part
of the world.
Butler, after surveying the existing situation in
the Far East, and particularly the deterioration of U.S.-
U.S.S.R. relations, asserts that the U.K. should wel-
come "American predominance in Japan". Butler considers
that, under existing conditions, Japan is perhaps un-
FE
avoidably doomed to "satellite status", and that it is
preferable that Japan go into the American rather than
the Soviot camp. "Perhaps this satellite status"
B
Butler writos, "would bo the best short-term solution
of the Japunese problem". We considor utler's article
to be well and soundly written, and we ti erefore commend
S5
it to the attontion of officers concerned with Japanese
OCD
and other Far Eestern problems.
OIE
Rospectfully yours,
DCR
For the Ambassador:
Everett F. Drumright
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosure:
Copy of article
6
(Original and bectograph to the Department)
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy,
Mos CoW
Copy to Embassy,
Nanking
EFDrumright/ws
URCLASSIFIED

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 2114 dated September 19. 1947,
from American Embassy, London, England.
UNCLASSIFIED
Source:
The Spectator
August 29, 1947
SATELLITE JAPAN
Sir Paul Butler
The United States was the principal agent in
bringing Japan to her knees, and she has since supplied
the forces and met the expenses of occupation, with
little more than a token contribution from the British
Commonwealth. As the nead of an exclusively American
military government, Ceneral MacArthur is the architect
of the new structure to which the Japanese are making
gestures of conformity. I. the future beyond the res-
toration of peace, it will be the United States to whom
Japan must look for the rinancial assistance which she
will need to rebuild her shattered economy. Since he
who pays the piper calls the tune, these facts have
always warranted the infereuce that American conceptions
of policy will prevail in all fundamental aspects of a
Japanese peace treaty; and any doubts upon this score
must have boen dispolied by the economic blizzard which
has now broken over this com try, and in varyin degrees
over the Empire.
On the other hand, as the outeome of the war and
of her subsequent commmitments in Jupan and Forea, the
United States has assumed vital responsibilities in the
Northern Pacifie, at a moment when we are preoccupied
with a domestic crisis, when chaos is deepening in
China and when Ruesia has to all appearances repudiated
the concuption of One World.
On balance, therefore, we
should welcome thas American predominance to Jupan,
since the alternatives might be either a spread of
anarohy to the island fringe or lorthern Asia or its
disappearance behind an Asiatic
iron curtain. That such
a prospect, howevar depressin,
canmot be dismissed as
extravagant is indicated by the dangerous friction between
Russia and the United States which persists in Korea, as
well as by the gathering signs that Communist Man churia
may split off from the Chinese republic.
For all this, the terms of peace to be imposed upon
Japan remain of intimate concern to the United Kingdom
and the Commonwoalth. It is most appropriate that their
representatives should be exehanging views this week at
Canberra/
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
Canberra, where the delegates, in addition to the con-
ditions and sanctions which British interests demand that
Japan should accept, will no doubt also consider the
implications of recent American policy in the Far East.
To take the latter aspect first, it seems that, with
the widening of the ulf hetween the United States and
Russia and the frustration of American attempts to pro-
mote unity in China, the emphasis of American policy
has shifted. Less importance may now be attached to
the rowth of demccratic institutions and the exaction
of reparations than to the retention of Japan in the
American camp after the end of the occupation. In fact,
the nited States may be coming, however unwillingly,
to look upon Japan as an outpost against Soviet pene-
tration in Asia. This would entail rapid recons truction
of Japanese economy, provision of a higher standard of
living than has hitherto been contemplated and reliance
upon a bureaucracy which, although purged of active
militarist ingredients, would be unlikely if left to
its owm devices to show markea inclination towards wes-
tern democratic institutions. Thus General MacArthur
has been represented on various occasions as affirming
the need to hold Japan up rather than to keep her down;
as advocatin American occupation of Okinawa, both as
"a strategic frontier of the United States and a guarantee
for Japan against aggrossion"; and, at a time when her
recent Asiatic victims are still confront ed by semi-
starvation, as demanding for his fief 1,500,000 tons of
imported foodstuffs durin: the coming year.
These utterences of the Supreme Commander, whose
great prestige as a military leader has been enhanced by
his conspicuous administrative success in Japan, have
not been challenged by an American public obsessed with
fears of Russia. Althourh they may not represent official
views in Washington, the proposal of the State Department
that i  framework of a peace treaty should be constructed
by the eleven Powers Pepresented upon the Far Eastern Com-
mission, instead of by the Foreign  inisters' Committee,
would have the effect of by-passing a Soviet veto. Not-
withstanding the insigniricant Russian contribution to
Pacific victory, tho Soviet Govarnment has refused this
invitation to collaborate on an equal footin with the
Powers whose afforts and sacrifices did in fact lead to
the overthrow of Japan. Presumably some means will be
found of surmounting this immediate difriculty; but if
the ten remaining Powers led by the United States should
be compelled to conclude peace with Jaoun without Russian
participation, the result would be the extension to the
Far East of the cleavage betweer eastern and western zones
which alreedy exists in Europe.
Seen against a background of confusion in Asia, all
this leads indirectly to the conclusion, perplexing
indeed/
U.CLASSIFIED

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
-3-
indeed when one recalls the emphatic offioial views
so recently expressed in America and other Allied countries
regarding the subjection to be imposed upon Japan, that
the wheel may be turning full cirole. In Korea, Formosa
and Manchuria material conditions at least are far worse
today than under the oppressive Japanese regime; and it
may in time be realised that the Japanese conception of
their mission as a "stablising force in East Asia," which
was never questioned by world opinion before the Man-
churian Incident, had some justification. Such a re-
interpretation of their international record would
naturally be highly cratifying to the Japanese, who have
always shown themselves adept at exploiting a rift between
the Great Powers. Already a new assurance may be deteoted
in Japanese official statements. Mr. Ashida, the Foreign
Minister, was recently represented as stating that Japan
would endeavour to retain her sovereignty over any terri-
tory formerly administered by the central Japanese Govern-
ment (which would include Okinawa and the Kuriles) and
to secure the right to maintain a large armed police
force. Another official spokesman went even further, and
alluded to Japanese hopes to recover Formosa. A dominant
bureaucracy might be expected, after the occupation ends,
to recall the political and economic successes of the
Meiji technique, and endeavour to reproduce it.
How would this re-orientation of American policy
towards Japan affect the interests of the United Kingdom
and the Commonwealth? Ideally, we should of course much
prefer a demilitarised and adequately supervised Japan,
restored to enuine independence and permitted a standard
of living and restricted industrialisation which would
encourage the rowth of democracy while at the same time
precluding the intensive competition in export markets
from which we sufrered between the wars. Probably this
pattern would satisfy the needs of the Empire as a whole,
includin: those of Australia and India, who need the
revival of the Japanese market for their wool and cotton,
and of those Crown colonies to the rise of whose standard
of living cheap Japanese consunption ooas of fair quality
made a substantial contribution.
But if Japan must recede to satellite status (and
under existing Far Eastern conditions this seems unavoidable),
it is obviously preforable that she should enter the Am-
erican orbit rather than the Russian. On the economic side
the United States has already shown an understandable
desire to creato a favourable Japanese trade balance,
thereby reducing her own financial liabilities, The
pursuit of the political motives suggested above would
probably involve a higher level of industrial production
(in consumption coods at least) than some manufacturing
interests in this country might think desirable. It
would, however, be economically unsound to restrict the
distinctive/
UHCLASSIFIED

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
-4-
distinctive Japanese industrial capacity in a period of
general inflation when Asia is starved of commodities
which no other country can produce at acceptable prices.
Furthermore, once the principle that Japan must export
to live has been recognised, it would be almost impos-
sible in the long run to restrict the output ana range
of her permitted industries. This seems to have been
admitted, so far as textiles are corcerned, by the
President of the Board of Trade when he stated in the
House of Commons on October 28th, 1946, that the British
Government aid not consider it practical to perform a
surgical operation on those of Japan's export industries
which have no direct war potential.
Perhaps this satellite status would be the best
short-term solution of the Japanese problem. Under
American protection and backed by American resources
and capital, the national capacity for organised and
sustained effort should produce a more rapid return to
relative prosperity and stability than seems likely in
other Far Eastern areas. If this appears inequitable to
the Chinese, it must be remembered that their inherent
political disunity has lost for them the opportunity of
reconstruction with American assistance. As for the
security aspect, General MacArthur's expectation that
Japan will be incapable of renewed aggression in the
foreseeable future may prove better founded than his
hopes for her conversion to Christianity and democracy.
It is quite true that, depriv ed of her overseas empire
and of free access to strategic raw materials, Japan
will lack the potentials of a great military Power.
Material precautions should, however, be reinforced by
an objective international outlook towards Japan which
has hitherto been lacking. A revival with the passage
of time of tho illusions regarding Japan's character and
political intentions which were so prevalent in the first
decades of this century mi ht still ive her a second
innings.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Dc/e
Enclosure to Despatch No. ?114 dated September 19, 1947,
from American Embassy, London, England.
UNCLASSIFIED
Source: The Spectator
August 29, 1947
SATELLITE JAPAN
Sir Paul Butler
The United States was the principal agent in
bringing Japan to her knees, and she has since supplied
the forces and met the expenses of occupation, with
little more than a token contribution from the British
Commonwealth. As the head of an exclusively American
military government, General MacArthur is the architect
of the new structure to which the Japanese are making
gestures of conformity. In the future beyond the res-
toration of peace, it will be the United States to whom
Japan must look for the financial assistance which she
will need to rebuild her shattered economy. Since he
who pays the piper calls the tune, these facts have
always warranted the inference that American conceptions
of policy will prevail in all fundamental aspects of a
Japanese peace treaty; and any doubts upon this score
must have been dispelled by the economic blizzard which
has now broken over this country, and in varying degrees
over the Empire.
On the other hand, as the outcome of the war and
of her subsequent commitments in Japan and Korea, the
United States has assumed vital responsibilities in the
Northern Pacific, at a moment when we are preoccupied
with a domestic crisis, when chaos is deopening in
Chine and when Russia has to all appearances repudiated
the conception of One World. On balance, therefore, we
should welcome this American predominance to Japan,
since the alternatives might be either a spread of
anarchy to the island fringe of Northern Asia or its
disappearance behind an Asiatic iron curtain. That such
a prospect, however depressing, cannot be dismissed as
extravagant is indicated by the dangerous friction between
Russia and the United States which persists in Korea, as
well as by the gathering signs that Communist Manchuria
may split off from the Chinese republic.
For all this, the terms of peace to be imposed upon
Japan remain of intimate concern to the United Kingdom
and the Commonwealth. It is most appropriate that their
representatives should be exchanging views this week at
Canberra/
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
-2
Canberra, where the delegates, in addition to the con-
ditions and sanctions which British interests demand that
Japan should accept, will no doubt also consider the
implications of recent American policy in the Far East.
To take the latter aspect first, it seems that, with
the widening of the gulf between the United States and
Russia and the frustration of American attempts to pro-
mote unity in China, the emphasis of American policy
has shifted. Less importance may now be attached to
the growth of democratic institutions and the exaction
of reparations than to the retention of Japan in the
American camp after the end of the occupation. In fact,
the United States may be coming, however unwillingly,
to look upon Japan as an outpost against Soviet pene-
tration in Asia. This would entail rapid reconstruction
of Japanese economy, provision of a higher standard of
living than has hitherto been contemplated and reliance
upon a bureaucracy which, although purged of active
militarist ingredients, would be unlikely if left to
its own devices to show marked inclination towards wes-
tern democratic institutions. Thus General MacArthur
has been represented on various occasions as affirming
the need to hold Japan up rather than to keep her down;
as advocating American occupation of Okinawa, both as
"a strategic frontier of the United States and a guarantee
for Japan against aggression"; and, at a time when her
recent Asiatic victims are still confronted by semi-
starvation, as demanding for his fief 1,500,000 tons of
imported foodstuffs during the coming year.
These utterances of the Supreme Commander, whose
great prestige as a military leader has been enhanced by
his conspicuous administrative success in Japan, have
not been challenged by an American public obsessed with
fears of Russia. Although they mey not represent official
views in Washington, the proposal of the State Department
that the framework of a peace treaty should be constructed
by the eleven Powers represented upon the Far Eastern Com-
mission, instead of by the Foreign Ministers' Committee,
would have the effect of by-passing a Soviet veto. Not-
withstanding the insignificant Russian contribution to
Pacific victory, the Soviet Government has refused this
invitation to collaborate on an equal footing with the
Powers whose efforts and sacrifices did in fact lead to
the overthrow of Japan. Presumably some means will be
found of surmounting this immediate difficulty; but if
the ten remaining Powers led by the United States should
be compelled to conclude peace with Japan without Russian
participation, the result would be the extension to the
Far East of the cleavage between eastern and westerm zones
which already exists in Europe.
Seen against a background of confusion in Asia, all
this leads indirectly to the conclusion, perplexing
indeed/
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
-3-
indeed when one recalls the emphatic official views
so recently expressed in America and other Allied countries
regarding the subjection to be imposed upon Japan, that
the wheel may be turning full circle. In Korea, Formosa
and Manchuria material conditions at least are far worse
today than under the oppressive Japanese regime; and it
may in time be realised that the Japanese conception of
their mission as a "stabilising force in East Asia," which
was never questioned by world opinion before the Man-
churian Incident, had some justification. Such a re-
interpretation of their international record would
naturally be highly gratifying to the Japanese, who have
always shown themselves adept at exploiting a rift between
the Great Powers. Already a new assurance may be detected
in Japanese official statements. Mr. Ashida, the Foreign
Minister, was recently represented as stating that Japan
would endeavour to retain her sovereignty over any terri-
tory formerly administered by the central Japanese Govern-
ment (which would include Okinawa and the Kuriles) and
to secure the right to maintain a large armed police
force. Another official spokesman went even further, and
alluded to Japanese hopes to recover Formosa. A dominant
bureaucracy might be expected, after the occupation ends,
to recall the political and economic successes of the
Meiji technique, and endeavour to reproduce it.
How would this re-orientation of American policy
towards Japan affect the interests of the United Kingdom
and the Commonwealth? Ideally, we should of course much
prefer a demilitarised and adequately supervised Japan,
restored to genuine independence and permitted a standard
of living and restricted industrialisation which would
encourage the growth of democracy while at the same time
precluding the intensive competition in export markets
from which we suffered between the wars. Probably this
pattern would satisfy the needs of the hmpire as a whole,
including those of Australia and India, who need the
revival of the Japanese market for their wool and cotton,
and of those Crown Colonies to the rise of whose standard
of living cheap Japanese consumption goods of fair quality
made a substantial contribution.
But if Japan must recede to satellite status (and
under existing Far Eastern conditions this seems unavoidable),
it is obviously preferable that she should enter the Am-
erican orbit rather than the Russian. On the economic side
the United States has already shown an understandable
desire to create a favourable Japanese trade balance,
thereby reducing her own financial liabilities. The
pursuit of the political motives suggested above would
probably involve a higher level of industrial production
(in consumption goods at least) than some manufacturing
interests in this country might think desirable. It
would, however, be economically unsound to restrict the
distinctive/
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
-4-
distinctive Japanese industrial capacity in a period of
general inflation when Asia is starved of commodities
which no other country can produce at acceptable prices.
Furthermore, once the principle that Japan must export
to live has been recognised, it would be almost impos-
sible in the long run to restrict the output and range
of her permitted industries. This seems to have been
admitted, so far as textiles are concerned, by the
President of the Board of Trade when he stated in the
House of Commons on October 28th, 1946, that the British
Government did not consider it practical to perform a
surgical operation on those of Japan's export industries
which have no direct war potential.
Perhaps this satellite status would be the best
short-term solution of the Japanese problem. Under
American protection and backed by Americen resources
and capital, the national capacity for organised and
sustained effort should produce a more rapid return to
relative prosperity and stability than seems likely in
other Far Eastern areas. If this appears inequitable to
the Chinese, it must be remembered that their inherent
political disunity has lost for them the opportunity of
reconstruction with American assistance. As for the
security aspect, General MacArthur's expectation that
Japan will be incapable of renewed aggression in the
foreseeable future may prove better founded than his
hopes for her conversion to Christianity and democracy.
It is quite true that, deprived of her overseas empire
and of free access to strategic raw materials, Japan
will lack the potentials of a great military Power.
Material precautions shculd, however, be reinforced by
an objective international outlook towards Japan which
has hitherto been lacking. A revival with the passage
of time of the illusions regarding Japan's cheracter and
political intentions which were so prevalent in the first
decades of this century might still give her a second
innings.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.93)
FILE NO.
CO NOT DETACH THIS FORM.
894.00/9-2947
R EC :O R D
COPY
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
DESP.1306
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOF FILING.
FROM
TOK YO
-1000
MAY 4- 1946

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.95)
2-1947
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Rec'd
Tokyo, Beptember 29, 1947
Oct.10
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION
oce
Frenc.
No。 1306
INFO
OCD-enc.
FC
DCR
WAR-enC. SUBJ ET:
Tranamittal of Reports Concerning Non-Military
NAVY
Activities in Japan.
CIG
The Counselor of Mission has the honor to forward
1/
under separate cover four copies of a brochure recently
published by this Headquarters containing a summation of
894.
non-military aotivities in Japan during June 1947. There
2/
are also forwarded four copies of a similar summation for
May 1947. It is regretted that a change in methods of
distribution in this Headquarters has occasioned a delay
in obtaining the latter.
In the future copies of similar reports will be
forwarded to the Department without a covering despatch.
Accompaniments:
J。
"Summation of Non-Military
Activities in Japan"
No. 21, June 1947. (4 cop10s)
2。
"Summation of Non-Military
No. 20, May 1947. (4 cop1es)
Original and Ozalid to Department.
020
RHBushner/blc

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.90)
UNITED STATES POLITIQ
FOR JAPAN
NOV 1 2 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, October 7, 1947
UNCL.SSIFI_D
No. 1320
894.00/10-747
UEJCT: Transmittal of a Report Concerning the
olitical, conomic and ocial ctivities
VR
of Japanese omen
894.50
894.40
The Counselor of Mission has the honor to forward
five copies of a report concerning the political,
economic and s cial activities of Japanese women, dated
March 17, 1947, prepared by the Civii Information and
Education ection of this Headquarters.
FE
Enclosure:
0IE-.
Five copies of a GHa, SCaP,
OE
report entitled Japanese
Vomen, March 13, 1947.
ILH
OCD-81
1947 OCT 17 PM 12 17
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DCIR
Original and ozalid to Department.
RECEIVED
1ON
DC/L
CS/V
07D-92020
8
RHBushner:mm
17-0
Wa.
C1)C
com-
aE
OFPARTE
Labor-
di
La
Disl
NOV 24 1947
FILED

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Media Analysis Division
PUBLICATIONS ANALYSIS, 13, March 1947
No.95
Japanese Women
Womer and their political and soclal activities, their posi-
tion in industry and in the home, their future in the turmoil of
a changing world -- all these topics continue to occuny a promi-
nent position in Japanese magazihes. The current interest in
political government is reflected in th, volume of writing on women
members of the Diet. Although there is a certain amount of criti-
cism directed at women representatives as a group, serious writers
single out several individuals for specific prcise, and emphasize :
the necessity for continued political education in order to fit an'
increasing number of womer for participation in the political futur
of the nation. Discussions of birth control are porennial, with
opposition based on conservative social grounds, while proponents
stress the importance of sclving the population and food problems.
Women's rights in labor relations also are considered, with critici.
sm leveled at irresponsible participation in di putes and demonst-
rations. It is pointed out that women workers, as well as women in
the home, must give careful consideration to labor and ir ustrial
problems in order to fit tremselves for their new responsibilities
and rights.
Women in Politics
There is continued emphasis on the necessity for women to
increase their participation in political affairs. "Womer have
hitherto been political outsiders," writes Iel iko Kamichika in
SHINJIDAI. "They must soek haprinoss through activo participation
in politics. No nation over has faced a grenter and more sudden
change and it is only natural that Japanese women, suddenly emanci-
pated, occasionally may bo at o loss. Women's right to vote was
acquired at the very high cost of defeat. By propor use of this
franchise we may convert the present misory into happiness. Women
need to learn polities, not from the oxample of past politicians,
but in order to take their placc in building a new nd entirely di-
fferent government. Directives have driven out many evil politicic
but we must not rest contont with this; if we really have the desir
to attain happiness, we must obey the command of the present age
and inspire a new government tirough our united offorts." This
writer co laborates with Socialist Member of Parlirmont Shizue
Kato in an article in SHIN JoEN which calls for women's offorts
towards future socialization. According to Kato, "Women's position
in the party is still low because of their lack of experience, but
henceforth it is their duty to give a political stimulus to other
women who have no interest in politics."
Discussion of the fom:le members of the prosont Diet is exter
sive. Beginners in politics, their actions and appearances are
under constant scrutiny. Matsuko Inoue, writing in SEIKAI JEEP
admits that much criticism has been leveled at women representativ
but defends their "gradual progress." Mitsu Koro and Shizue Kato
"put fair and good questions which show earnest study," and Kiyo
Murashima also receives praise. Some of the ladies are of no
political affiliation, but "they have com: to know that as in-

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
dependent members they will have few chances to speak or
policies, and so have begun to consider entering the rogula
parties." The solution to their worries, writes Inoue, will
when the public "ceases to regard them as women and accepts th
merely as Representatives." Tomie Washinuma explains, in SHin
why women Diet Members are not more active politically: "One of
principal reasons for their inectivity is the parliamentary syst
in which not everyone can get the floor. This Diet is not wholly
democratic in that the reigning power is in the hands of men (alone
and old political transactions are supreme. An official meeting
of Diet members decides upon speakers, and its decision is approved
by the all-party liaison meeting at which no woman delegate is
present." This writer is mildly critical of the quality of some
women delegates who "were chosen through the plural ballot or
through canricious scattered voting," and scores those who have no
party affiliation, "through lack of political conception."
Holding that the majority of women representatives are "of
low standard," Kotaro Wakamiya, in JOSEI KAIZO, nevertheless has
hopes for the future. "Although the public condemns women ropresen-
tatives as incompetent, they have taken many positive actions in
the Diet and clsewhere. Some of them took the floor in the main
session, and almost all of them engaged in deliberation on bills
in the committees. Speeches by Toshiko Karasewa, Michiko Yamazaki,
Mitsu Koro and Shizuc Kato were especially outstanding." Wakamiya
discusses certain more critical aspccts, maintining  that "as they
are confined within the frame of women, they trade on their posi-
tion as such," but concludes: "We must not judge the future in
the light of present failings, but must endeavor to improve the
quality of women representatives. The first condition is the
elevation of the political consciousness of the people.at large;
the second condition lies in the attitudes of candidates themsclves,
who must have conscientious assurance as responsible politiciens.
If the qualifications of a women candidate are equel to or less
than those of mele candidates, she should abandon her candidature.
Women have one mission in which they can by no means be replaced by
men; that is cstablishing a hoalthy family and bringing up children.
The third condition is the untiring endeavors of women representa-
tives themselves. Their krowledge, speech and general conduet must
elevate the standing of women, at the same time be ng based on true
womanhood end the dignity of the individual."
Statements of Women Representatives
SHUFU NO TOMO prints a roundtable discussion among women Diet
delegates Shigeyo Takeuchi, Sei Yoshida, Michiko Yamezaki and Shizue
Yemaguchi. Pointing out that the broadening base or politics calls
for greater popular porticip tion, they say: "Givo more jobs to
women, and establish nurseries for children so that housewives may
work at will." According to them, "women on the whole are showing
a more enthusiastic attitud towards women suffrage than was antici-
pated. Politics, which had not much coneern with actual life up to
now, must be reformed occerdingly." Evineing coneern for the women
of Japan, this group calls for the advancement of industry and full
employment for women, especially for war-widows.
Another roundtable discussion, oppearing in FUJIN ASAHI,
Leatures Shizue Kato (Socialist), Shig yo Taknchi (Liberal), and
Toshiko Karasawa (Communist). Considering the democratization of
the feudal family systen, Kato regrets "the conservative attitude
of male delegates towards this problem." She quotes the Premier
as saying, "We must observe the family system as a fine old custom,"
and says that this caused "conservative members to withdraw with
a relieved expression." Takeuchi favors moderate revision, but
Kato is adamant, calling for "a change to good sense To destroy
a feudalistic family system does not mean to destroy all good as-
pects of home life, or to live a loose or selfish life. It means,
一2…

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
rather, that one's individuality should not be sacrifiecod for
sake of one's family." The Livelihood Protection Law is critibi
duction of unemployment and tho establishment of social inemrance.
She also condemns the restriction of the law which limits benefits
to those who have work, claiming that it is unreasonable "because
30 percent of the nation's vagabonds are expropriated workmen who
once served their country and have not always been homeless. Many
homeless women are widows or have been forced into the streets
through disasters of war, and they deserve protection."
Birth Control
Taka Hayashi, a militant supporter of birth control, insists
in SHUKAN ASAHI that certain problems "cannot be solved other than
by this means," nor can any national cultural pol:cy be advanced
until this s luti n has been reach d. Reporting a meeting of the
Society for Scientific Rcscarch on the Population Problem, a NIPPON
HYORON staff writer summarizes the expressed opinions. "The former
excessive surplus population invoked unrest in Japan, and caused
the recent aggressive war. We ust concentrate full efferts
towards restrictin of the population. The term 'birth control' is
incorrect, in that it confuses contraception and abortien; we had
better express it es 'controlled motherhood' or 'planned mother-
hood.' Such birth control should not be carricd out with the sole
purpose of restricting the number of births, but should be based
on eugenics." Those who fenr that "through birth eontrol the
population of cur country will drop to 50, 000, 000 in ten years,"
are refuted by this writer, whc blames the mistaken opinion on
"the capitalistic ideology of Malthus." He concludes: "The
population problem must be solved as part of the democratization
of Japan. Inereased production, increased employment by solution
of the basic pay problem and the cultivetion of expert markets
hould be held in no less importance than the protection of mothers
and children and national sanitation; all are integral parts of
the solution of the population problom."
Further comment on the pinions of this Society is
forthcoming from Tadashi Ota, writing in NYUUSU. This author states
the conclusion that "at the presont time, under c nditions where
a mother who has borne her child has no milk . and whero milk and
sugar are well-nigh unobtainable, it is necessary to take measures
against the high birth and death rates which foll v defeat." He
points out that from September 1945 to April 1946 the mortality rate
was in excess of the birth rate, but says that "such a cendition
by no means will continue after the return of demobilees and
expatriates. Birth control therefore is inevitable. In the present
stormy age, it goes without saying that suitable control of
population has great significrnce in the democratization of Japan."
As concrete measurcs, the Society favors "loosening of the dis-
ciplinary rules concorning artificial birth-interruption," ole-
vation of standards of sexunl morality, henlthy propagonda end
educaticn, and scientific research to be followed by establishment
of clinics for birth control.
Birth control . is considered on a social and political level by
Kunio Ota in SHIN-ZEN-BI. This writer holds that overy couple
should have at least two children, regardless of the secial situ-
ation of the parents. He admits the importance of reforming and
amending present social and political conditions, "which are the
nroblems of a democratic state," and believes that "it is within
ur minimum rights as a nation to have two or threc children in
every family. But even this right is endangcred by national and
social crises. Birth control, once an cconomic problem, is now a
social and political affair."
Two women Diet members go on record in opposition. In the
course of a roundtablo discussion printed in FUJIN GAHO, Tenkoko
-3-

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
Matsutani comes out against birth control and says that
population is not the cause of international uarre
righteousness, morality and culture will make a peaceful and
hearted country." Kikuko Yamane of the Nippon Cooperative Par
thinks that "if cooperative principles are adopted, birth controi
is not at all necessary from the point of population."
More detailed criticism comes from Niryo Kinoshita
obstetrician and gynecologist, who writes in JOSEI TO SHAkAI.
Refuting the claims of those whe would reduce the population of
Japan through birth control, Kinoshita places the greatest possible
reduction in the birth rate at 1,500,000 annually and states that
"it would tako 5o years to reduce the population of Japan to
60,000, 000." By the same token, "the effect of birth control on
the food, clothing, and housing questions would be negligible."
The writer is more tolerant of arguments which urge greater
freedom for women as the result of birth centrol, but cites
numerous evils which may result. In a country where birth control
is in force "the population tends tc become older and more infirm,
and so retards the progress o culture as a whole. Decrease of
population due to birth control annears in the upner classes,
and in the and causes cultura1 degeneration. Exneriments and
examples in many countries have shown that birth control does not
aot to prevent the corruption of sexuel mprality, but results in
an inverse phenomenon in the diffusion of abortion." In conclu-
sion, Kinoshita believes that, "generally sneaking, birth control
should not be encouraged as a nationel nolicy. It is, however,
unfair to prohibit birth control for those families who desire it
as a means of emancipating women, or protecting mothers and child-
ren, or raising their standard of livelihood, and the Eugenic Law
should be amended to provide for this necessity."
Women Workers
Protection of women's rights is the subject of a FUJIN ASAHI
roundtable where Yoshinari Kawai (Minister of Welfare) answers
the questiens of four women of varied background. In discussing
labor problems, they object to the dismissel of women workers on
the ground that they are not supporting families. Tsuneko
Akamatsu, Socialist, states: "It is a great inconsistency to
dismiss women because of such a feudalistic idea. The family
system is being destroyed, and wemen no longer can cling to their
homes as before." Celling for an eight hour dey, all four women
demand explanations for the "noor policies" of the Government.
Kawai replies that "people criticise the Government, but circum-
stances in Janan are far tco serious to permit solution of the coal,
food and labor problems without the deep understanding and cooper-
ation of the entire population."
Condemnatien of young women employees for "blindly following
men's labor strikes" comes from Bunshiro Suzuki, in SHUFU NO TOMO.
He sets great value on woren's "innate conservative role of good
sense in proventing men from going too far," and deplores the
present tendeney of women to participate in strikes "demanding
minimum labor and maximum wages." Declaring that too many young
women employees take part blindly in such movements, this writer
criticises their "flinnancy and ignorance. They do not know Marx
from Malthus, yet they display the same passionate admiration for
communism as they lavished on soldiers during the war." Advocating
moderation, Suzuki claims that "a country is like a home. When
women act to prevent men from running to extremes, Japan can make
moderate progress. Not only in the labor movement, but in social
life and trends of thought, women should give full play to the
good qualities of their conservative power. It is women who are
most sensible to all extremes, and that is their most precious
quality." In the same vein, Takamoto Hosokawa comments in FUJIN
KURABU, "The concentions and attitudes of women toward labor
disputes are of two kinds: radical and conservative. Those who

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
work hold the former view without knowing the true meaning of
strikes, while those who remain at home take the latter, having
absolutely no knowledge of the reason." Hosokawa criticises
women's lack of reason and insists thet "it is most essential to
edopt a careful attitude concerning purposes and methods, timing
and environment of disnutes - with consciousness of being under
the guidance of the Allied Forcos."
In another issuo of SHUFU NO TOMO, Iwao Ayuzawa cmchasizes
the im ortance of women workers and the necessity of their
rarticiration in labor unions. That Jaran was shut out of many
activities because of ignorence in labor problems forms one of the
remote but rowerful ceuses of this absurd war." A strong labor
union including women workers will "raise atandards of living,
and stabilize eccnomics. Social unrest will disarpear and Japan
never will see another unrcasonable wer. We wu't denend for
the future on light industry, which requires w wmer's hands.
Obedience ond modesty cre no? wome: 's only virtues; they must
claim what is just, awaken to the new situation, and make a power-
ful model labor union for th estrblishment of a new Japan."
Sources
(Megazines, Circulation, and Luthors*)
FUJIN ASaHI, 100, 000, Kikuko Yamane, tvo roundtables;
FUJIN GAHO, 100, O00, Tenkoko Matsutani; NIPPON HYORON, 50, 000,
staff article; NYIUSU, 150, 000, Tadashi Ota; JOSEI K4IZ0, 50,000,
Kotaro Wakaniya; JOSEÍ TO SHAKAI, 1O, OOO, Niryo Kinoshita; SÁNDEÍ
MAINICHI, 200, O00, Fumiyo Mizogami; SEIKAI JEEP, 50, O00, Matsuko
Inoue; SHINJIDAI, 3O, O0O, Ichiko Kamichika; SHIN JOÉN, Tomie
Washinuma, Shizue Kato and Ichiko Kamichika; SHIN-ZEN-BI, 10,000,
Kunio Oka; SHUFU NO TOMO, 250, C00, Iwac Ayuzewa, Bunshiro Suzuki,
one roundtable; SHUKAN ASaII, 250,000, Taka Fayashi.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.93)
FILE NO.
CO NOT DETACH THIS FORM.
894.00/10-
R EC :O R D
COPY
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
11
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
47
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
DESP.1328 FROM TOKYO
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOF FILING.
000
JILAD

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
OCT 28 1947
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Rec'd
Oct. 20, 1047
Tokyo, 0ctober 11, 1947
ACTION
UNCLASSIVTED
FE-enc.
No. 1328
LNF
CD-enc.
DR
LE-onc.
SUBJECT:
Instructions to GHe,SCAr, Staff Sections
0-0-0
Regarding the soope of Japanese Cabinet
orders.
The Actins olitical dviser has the honor to en-
close five copies of staff memorandum No. 8l dated
October 1, 1947 instructing staff sections of this
894.
lHead uarters that the scope of Je anese cabinet orders
is to be limipec.
In the past the Japunese cebinet hus instituted
action of legisjutive purrort by means of cabinet orders
without recourse to tho National Diet. Use of such
methods by the exocutive branch of the government has
aroused criticism in various committees of both houses
of the Diet. he enelosed momorandum is desiyned to
remind stuff seet ions of this Headquarters that action
on matters or substance is to be taken by the legisla-
C
tive breneh of ih government (the National Diet) as
required by articin 4l of the Jepammse constitution.
Enclosme:
Five copies or GH, SCAP,
Staff Memorandum 61,
October 1, 1947.
Original und ozalid to Department.
S 800
RHBushner:mm

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.90)
TO
FROM: PL(PVI)-
Suggestions for a reply to
the ettsched letter would be ap
precisted. If it seens preferoble
to enswer sirectly from your of-
fice, will you fend a copy of the
16p1y to FL?

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.96)
Olda Federated Church
ALDA, NEBRASKA
The Methodist Church
Oct. 15, 1947
The Society of Friends
214 West 25
Kenneth E. Johnson
818 West 29th Street
Minister in Charge
Kearney, Nebraska
DIVISION OF
The Department of Public Information
The State Department
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Washington D C
OCT 21 1947
Gentlemen:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Recently fron usually reliable sources I heard
reports which indicated that Kagawa, Japanese National
and leader of the Pre-war Christian Church in Japan,
was being held for trial by the U S Military Govern-
ment in one of the islands in the immediate territory
of Japan.
It was my belief, formerly, that Kagawa was fully
vindicated of any charges of conivance with the war-
time government of Japan.
894.00/
Is there official word available from your
department on this man?
If not, where may I find the information I seek?
In order to avoid duplication of channels may I
infomr you that I have sent similar requests for in-
formation to:
0
Allied Supreme Command-Tokyo
U S Army War-Crimes Pection, Pacific Taeatre
F B I Special Investigation section.
5
My Congressman
DIVISION OF
4
The Church Denomination headSeRIHEASI, ASIAN AFFAIRS
Office of Public Information-Executive
offices of the President
OCT 291947
I would appreciate any information you might give.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Cordially,
Kenneth E. Jehnson
8
C
k
OIC OCOUPIED AREAS OIVISIO
OF
PUBLIC
LIAISON
S
f
PVi
ans'd 10/28/g
DIVISION
OCT 2:1947
OCT 201947
HaEler
DEPARTMENI OF SIATE
2.kra

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.86)
NOV 51947
Im reply rafer to
AD0
My desr Mr. Johneon:
The recsipt is acknowledged of your letter of Octoher 15.
1947, in which you request infermation from the Dspertweet
Concerning Eeverend Toyohike Hagees, Jepemses Garistien lendar.
Thare hes been no infermatien reoslved hare thas would
subetantimte reperts tmt Roverend Kegmmse in bedeg hald for
trial by Tnited States Militery Govermment on one of the islends
894.00/10-
in the immadiate territory of Japam. It appes's from the Intest
inforuation svmilable to tho Eapartuent that Roverand Ksgnas's
record hss beem under eosamimation in ths purge of ultramational-
istic and ultresilitaristic aleseats in Japmnese life, and that
2
his cese bas not yet been definitely decided.
It is suggested, in viow of Roverend Kagms's presinsoce
both in Japan mnd in this country. that you watch for memepoper
reperte of the disposition of his case before the purge soreaming
cosmittee in Japen, as ssy developeents esneerning him will
moet likaly be reported immediatoly in the Ammriomn prows.
5
4
Sincsrely youre.
For the Secretery of State:
C
Frunk . Sabuler. Jr.
Chief. Japamene-Korean Branch
Divisien of Occupied Aress
C
3
S
5
The Bever and
A
5
Kennoth E. Jobmeon,
C
Minieter 2n Charge.
Alds Federeted Churco.
Alde. Netreain.
10025
44
ADO: EK C11/J6
10/28/47
NA
FI.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.94)
2200
The Arizona Daily Star
DIVISION OF
STATE CONSOLIDATED PUBLISHING COMPANY
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Tucson, ArizonA
1947
October 23, 1947.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WILLIAM R. MATHEWB
B
LOIIOR AND PUBLIBHLR
Ir. Robert T. Oliver,
1620 sye Street ,
AcK
Wshinrton é, D. .
FE
894.00/10-23
Dear r. C iver:
I am enolosin a copy of last Sunday's page
one and the ed itorial pae of the Star, to show you how
we made good use of one of yor stories.
I a writin t this time to take exception
C
to your most recent atory, "Periscope on Asia" in which
you accuse t e Stete Department of a "sleight-of-hand
performance ..."
As an merican editor and taxpayer I must say
that if, in order to help the Koreans and keep them
friendly to our country, we Aericans must support the
74,c00, coc Japarere on a forevermore, we will choose
the Japanese as friends, rather than the Koreans.
As for your su  tion that we must destroy the
Japanese Emperor, I must say t at sounds a yreat deal
like breal in: the thermoneter to cure a fever.
The poine i want to mato is ttis - and I think
S
is is a thorec sly pr etieul suo estion - thore is no magic
formula by  leh saerieare cun eseepe alest and continued
reaponsibility tn the Orlent. The Ople , is not going to
be made pourer by the ineresssd produetion of Japanese
wealth. The koreans ure not gotng to be made prosperous
by keoping the Japanese Prem Yein: self-supsorting. The
Japarese cansot be psde self-suppeut ine unless they manu-
fasture coods that are sold thro phout the Orlent and the
world. Neither can the Koreans. It sh uld be the respon-
sibility of the United states to see that no one in the
Orient gets the uppephand, not uven the CnInese or the
Russisns. The Rovcers have surfered from Chinese aceression,
if I am not misteken, l they certainly will suffer from
Russian aggression unlose Ameriou stands by.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
2. Mr. Oliver.
I do hope that in the future when you
present your case on the Foreans, you will do it without
smearing public officials of our country who are endeav-
oring to do their best and without charging the wise and
necessary moves they make in connection with Japan as
being detrlment 1 to Korea and the Orient.
Cordially yours,
Willian R. Mathews.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.93)
OCT 311947
My dear Mr. Mathows:
Thank you very maeh for sending us a eopy of your
894.00/10-2347
letter of Ooteber 25, 1947, to Mr. Robert T. Oliver.
It is gratifying to find peeple net enly thimking
20
seriously about Far Easterm problems but taking the
trouble to supply us with the substance of their
thoughts.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
148
J.I. Penrisla
Deputy Direotor for
Far Eastern Affairs
CS/A
Mr. William R. Nathews
Eaitor and Publieher
The Arizone Daily Star,
Tuenon, Arizona.
JE:JKPenfield:hst
10-31-47
2K
GA.T.
x 81947

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
D
AIR MAIL
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 2398
Subject:
Transmittin" Article from Economist on Japan
894.00/10-2747
The Honorable
5
Sacretary of Stata,
C2
Washington
Sir:
1. As of probable interest to the Department,
A
F
I have the honor to transmit copy of an article en-
titled "Democracy in Japan" which appeared in the
3
October 25, l)47, issue of the weekly Economist.
A.
01E
2. The article is devoted largely to a dis-
02
cussion of the constitutional and social reforms
F1N
applied in Japan since the ena of the Pacific war. It
is stronmly sugceste that those reforms have been im-
posed from without, not from the evolutionary processes
of national nolitical lifo. The article holds that
"It is on the success or its social policy rather than
on its purely political constitutional innovations
that the viability of tho Arurican-sponsored new order
in Japan depends."
67D
3. Linkin, Japan's ruture with the successful
completion of social reforms anu of vconomic rohabili-
tation, the article concluues or the following note:
"But in the presont conditiour of economic collanse
and unconsolidated ro"orm, ti ere is no reuson to beliave
that democracy would survive in Japan if the American
forces of occipat lor vore to be withdrawr in the imme-
ciate future."
CS/V
Rospactfullv yours,
Por the Artbassador:
Everett F. Drumright
First Secretury of Embassy
Enclosure:
Copy of articlo, as stated
(Original and hactomraph to tho Department)
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Lanking
Copy to Embassy, Moscow
EFDrumright/wg
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 2398 dated October 27, 1947,
from American Embassy, London, England.
Source:
The Economist
October 25, 1947
DELOCRAY TN JAPAL
Divargent views are helu by those most closely
concerned about tle health of the democratic regime
created in Japan since the enu or the war. General
MecArthur is very pleased with it. after all, it is
primarily his own creation, and like an earlier and even
more eminent Creator, he sees that it is ood. The Jap-
anese with whom he comer in cortect all say too that it
is rood, and a leaain soothsayer called Tomioka has
informed the Japanese public that the General will not
only be the noxt Presi ert of the nited States, but is
also destined to receiva as a supplenent to his allotted
span of life the years "sacrificeh" by Mr. Atcheson, the
renresentative of the State Denartment in Tokyo, who was
drowned when a flyin boat plin ad into the ocean on the
way back to Horth America. Wit' such od thines coming
to him the Supreme Commaruor is optimistic about the
Japanese. what is more, Dr. Evatt, when he came from
Australia to Tokyo to see ror hinself, saw and was cor-
vertel. On the other hard, . Melahon Ball, who for-
merly represented tho Britisn commonwealth on the Allied
Council in Tokyo ana resi muu on losin: the support of
Dr. Evatt, strongly disarrees and suys that no people
are as oxperionend as the Japanese in thidine their real
reelines." Even more aissiaont is tho Soviet represernta-
tive on the Allind sourcil, who soes not inr but a
counury dominated by iroeriuliom and reacbion, with fascist
beasts prowlins behina mvory pobr le dumo.
Amiu such a confusion of voports it is difficnlt
for the worlu to judge, uru it ls not likely that any
better agread story conlu oe obtained by interview ng
Japanese politicians.
ut is t possibio by surveying
what has actually been doro ir the past two vears aguinst
the background of prowar and wart'mo Japan to make a
tentative and provisioral ostimato of uhe stavility of
the new remime. That it has een impose Srom outside
and not produced by a spontaneous popular movoment within
Japan nannot he denied. Thero was no revolution in Japan;
on the contrary it was finally pulied ous or the war by
the monarchy turnins against the army. And, whereas in
Italy the Fado lio pull-out uid not absolve the monarchy
in public eyes from its rasponsibility ror originally
giving power to Muscolini, in Japan the convention
remained stron that ood acts of state manifested tho
Imperial will, while had ches were the work of evil
counsellors. Cortainly there was in August, l945, no
sisn/
UNCLASSTFTED

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.92)
UNCLASSTFIED
Page2.
sign there of political aisintegration; the change of
covernment came about in a constitutional manner ana the
last fighting War Minister, General Anami, very properly
committed suicido.
hevertheless, defeat in a protracted ana bitter war,
in which reat human and material losses had been suf-
fered, and nearly all the larger cities had been laid in
ruins, coulo not ave failed to shake the establishea
political ana social order to its rounaations; ana the
economic sequel, with its sta n ation ana impoverishment,
was bound to produce serions tens ons in Japanese society.
The army was aiscrediteu and its abolition, aecreed by
the Allies at Potsdam, must ave profoundly affected the
internal balance or forces, oven ir the Allies had not
undertaken directly to transrorm Japanese political and
social instiuutions. Japan, after all had already had
for many years multi-party elections to the House of Rep-
resentatives or a hasis of u iversal male suffrage. The
power or this in stitution had heon to a reat extent
restricted and thwarted, partl y constitutional provi-
sions which aiverted power slsewhure--notably the con-
vention whichave the ay u avy control of the service
ministries--ana oartly by bolico vressure in elections.
Ir l94o, ur der the stress or tre iationalist reaction,
there was a forced amalgamauion oi rties which virtually
put an ona to all polit ical freedom. Yet in 1937 the
party of labour, the Shakai faishuto, haa maneged to
double its represer tatle i a eraral election--a fact
which inuicated at losst a ceutein vi rour in nopular
political lire unu uho ossihility ol its le al expression.
With the aholit or o o ay mu avy ane the catastrophic
failure or the poljc'es aescclatsd with vltra-nationalism,
it ie prooanle than in a cr se there woulu ave been-
even wiuhin the eal: tir constitution--a revivel or parlis-
mentary politicn, a sbrc movemont towaras the Left and,
what has actualiy popbehed in bne Seneral Eleetion this
year, the omer once or tue Seelal Domocrats us the stror. sest
sit lo oarty in bhe eiocusd ouse.
The Americans, however, were not contont with the
abolition or the Aray ure havy or with insistence on
freedom or speech arud elections. They decided to present
Jupan with a new constitution, vaien was written by
amorican polivicul enpurts on ceneral racarthur's starr
and ut out as a Japanane document--this, indeed, saved
Japanese faco, but ulu not corceal lto orlgin from any
well-i rormed person. The Jananese t vs row, as berore,
have a cor suitutton which as  oither hoer in fact pro-
ducoa by a po ouler Co stituent Assembly nor rown oy a
lon: evolutionary rocess or nacional politicel lire;
instead it ims beon del ivoreu te thom Prom on hi h, only
t'his time by the Suprame Commanaer or the victorious
enemy, instead or by the Emperor Leiji. Tt is true that
this constitution romoves the checks on popular soverignty
which oxisted in the old one, ana is an intoresting com-
position or wnat oertain intelligent american theorists
rogard us the stronr points of various oxiating systems.
Revortholess, it can huraly be oxpecteu, in view of its
moue
UNCLTOSTFTED

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.89)
UNCLASSIFIU
Page 3.
mode of inception, to conmand any aeep loyalty or enthus-
iasm in uhe Japanese mind.
lore important have been the social changes ordered
by Alliua Headquarters airectives--notably the agrarian
reform anu the dissolution oi the reat Zaibatsu family
trusts, which rormerly aominated Japanese banking and
inuustry. Poth these measures went beyona the purge of
inuiviuuals elu responsinly ror oromotin" national
ar ression. It was hela unat ar oporessive agrarian
system (loosoly called "reuual") ana the exceptional
degree of concanuratior or canital haa been ractors dis-
posin: Japan to aggresrive policius anu woula, in future,
be obstacles to uemc cratisation. It was thus officially
reco nised in Washin ton vhat political democracy Was not
sufficient without certain social changes--a v:ew which
had somethir : ir common witn the concantlor row familiar
to us as "Eastarn (emperacy" una ws srdently supoorted
by the "p.low-travollaus" still inrluential in planning
cireles in le45. But, whereas real murxists re arded
trust-lustin: and ivin laia to peusants in private
ownership as steps towards socislisatior, both in inaustry
and agriculture, tho holi   rs ir the American way or life
saw in them conuitions or stan ility ror a system of can-
italist democracy. The social reforme immosed by the
Americans in Japan ure pow rtued clearly ervisaged as
prophylactics ugairst Oomnism. a socjety in which the
majority of peasants are cara ts myin i h rents on plots
of land insufficier t to  ai t in v tem, w ile most or the
profits of businoss ortaporie we wvoured by a few creat
nonopolists, is cbvic s vt oreo n a orooa anda of
violent soeial revolutior  laes it is pola to ether by a
very strey authoriburiun overr ut.
It is on the suesese or ihe soetel wliey ratr
thar on to ouroly liet et tuti al te ovatters
tbat tho ydlity or s o  eeeeson soree now cder in
Japan depends. sreat rrienltss sv meer oneourtered.
Por the vented at te reete wr gonbee were ureply ontrenehed
and hed a stren sel  e ow porties or wne t t
whicn had poplucos t os t rttos or bhe rewer
Diet. Land rerorm was persisto tls cstrueted under the
Shidehara and Yoshius r icotn a  bom last eleetions
cany poasants votou soetnl b mceret. with th soeial
Domoerate comim ie us the pw osb urty ure tne Richt
havine to cormete ror tho easunt vote, netter ro ross
in land distributic is r ow at per a, and peasant owner
ship is radually hoin exte ued. ass successful las
been the attemot te ai: nersn tne toluirs or the confis-
cated Zaibatsu conoanies: smull investers ure reported to
have shown reat reluctunce to talte up the sheres; this
is presunably uue to pessimism anout the tuture of indus-
try which mmst continue umtil the roparations question has
been settled and there are rome si ns of roal commereial
revival. At present in Japan it is moro orofitahlo to
mut caoital into commodity snuculation ana black market
transactions/
UNOD SBTFTD

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.96)
UNCTASSIFTED
Page 4.
transactions, and the "new millionaires" who arise from
this kina of economy are not factors of social stability.
If the agrarian reform is carried through und if
there is a revival of roreign trade or an extension of
American credits sufricient to cover the imports of food,
raw materials and new canital equipment on which Japan
dapends lor acequately faedinc its urban population and
restoring its ruined industry. thon the social bases for
"Western democracy" will have been laid. Then the labour
movement, now under predominantly Social Democrat leader-
ship, will he alle to devglon by constitutional, parlia-
mentary methoas. ut in the prasant conditions of oconomic
collapse ana uxconsolidated reform, there is no reason to
believe that uemocruey world survive it Japan if the
american forces of oceuvation were to be withdrawn in
the Jmmodiate Iuture.
UNCIA SSTFTED

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISJON,OF
NORTHEASTASIAN AFFAIRS
NOV2 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISIUN. GE
STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
DE11947
FOR JAPAN
95
DC/R
ECO OMIC AFFAIRS
DEC151947
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 1354
894.00/10-2747
ullin11-20
SUBJECT:
Transmittal of a Report Concerning Japanese
Letters to Occupation authorities.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
five copies each of report No. 15 dated September 23, 1947
prepared by the Analysis and Research Division of the
Civil Information and Education Section of this Head-
quarters, containing a survey of opinion and attitudes ex-
pressed in Japanese letters to Occupation authorities.
Enclosure:
Report, September 23, 1947,
concerning Japanese letters
to Occupation authorities
(five copies).
DEC181947
CS/V
Original and ozalid to the Department.
842
RHBushner:mm
6

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Researoh Division
SPECIAL REPORT
SERIAL NUMBER
AR-293-PO-B-15
23 Septomber 1947
TITLE
Survey of Opinions and Artitudes Expressed in
Letters by Japanese to Ocoupation Authorities:
Report No. 15
PREPARED BY
Public Opinion and Sociological Research
DATES OF SURVEY
1 June 1947 to 15 July 1947
SOURCES OF DATA
This survey is bascd on 34,939 communications expressing
a total of 35, lo2 opinions and requests addressed to General
MacArthur and other Occupation authorities by Japanese citi-
zons. These letters, postcards, and telegrams were tranelated
and condensed by ATIS, CIS, and CIE, and the digests and trans-
lations were received by CIE between 1 June and 15 July 1947.
EVALUATION OF DATA
Opinions and requests expressed in these communications
cannot bo treated as an adequate sample of public opinion,
since they are self-selected, and nothing is known of the
writers' backgrounds. Furthermore, in the case of the majority
of the letters recorded here, the original documents were not
available, so that no check could be made to insure the complete-
ness and accuracy of the digests and translations. Also it would
be incorrect to assume that this report is an adequate sample of
public opinion, because CIE does not receive the complete corre-
spondence or digests of correspondence of the Japanese to all
the Allied authorities. In view of the large number of commu-
nioations received in what appeared to be organized letter-
writing campaigns, the reader is warned against forming con-
clusions on the basis of these letters concerning the frequency
of these opinions among the Japanese population in general.
All that such letters can be expsoted to provide is a
liet of certain opinione and attitudes hold by some Japanese
residents.
R E S T R I C T E D
-1-

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
SUMMARY
Of the total number of opinions and requests listed in
this survey, an overwhelming peroentage (98.4%) was conoorned
with requests for the repatriation of Japanese nationale still
remaining in overseas areas. Food and living conditions were
the subjects of 0.79 percent, and 0.23 percent was concerned
with personal requests. All other topios represented only O.56
pcrcent of the total. The number of opinions and the peroentage
expressed on each subject is indicated in Table I.
Table I.
SUMMARY OF OPINIONS EXPRESSED IN LETTERS
Number of Peroent of
Subject
OpinionsOpinions
Repatriation
34,546
98.42
Food and Living Conditions
278
0.79
Personal Requests
80
0.23
Japanese Government and Politics
47
0.13
Education
43
0.12
Social Problems
30
0.09
Occupation Forces and Policies
29
0.08
Religion
16
0.05
Miscellaneous
33
0.09
Total
35,102
100.00
ANALYSIS
By far the greatest number of writers requested the return
of Japanese nationals from overseas areas, especially from terri-
tories presently or formerly occupied by the Soviet Union.
The great majority of commente classified under Food and
Living Conditions expressed gratitude for the release of food-
stuffs during the critical food crisis.
Writere of 39 of the 80 communications tabulated under
Personal Requests sought permission to join the US Air Force
as pilots or flight mechanics.
One letter even was written
in blood. There seeme to be a widespread rumor that the Occu-
pation Force is recruiting Japanese pilots.
Table II presents a detailed breakdown of the opinions
and roquests that were received during the period covered by
this report.
RESTRICTED
-2-

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
TabLe II DETAILED BREAKDOWN OF OPINIONS AND REQUBAT
Subject of request or comment
sub-
totel total
REPATRIATION
Roquosts for repatriation of Japanese
34,515
From overseas areas (unspecified)
24,270
From South Paoifio
3,327
From Russian controlled zones
3,121
From Manchuria
2,678
From Philippines
526
From Sakhalin and Kurile Islands
239
From China
206
From Korea
130
Other
18
Requests from repatriates
31
Compensation for overseas aseets
25
Other
6
FOOD AND LIVING CONDITIONS
278
Food and rationing problems
260
Housing, clothing, and fuel problems
10
Other
8
PERSONAL REQUESTS
80
To join US Air Force
39
To become members of Oocupation Force
11
Other employment requests
9
Miscellaneous
21
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
47
Comments on reforms and policies
34
Other
13
EDUCATION
43
To investigate schools or teachers
28
Educational reforms
13
Other
2
SOCIAL PROBLEMS
30
Minority problems (Korean and Eta)
8
Women and family
8
Juvenile delinquency
6
Other
8
OCCUPATION FORCES AND POLICIES
29
Favorable commente on Occupation
27
Other
2
RELIGION
16
Comments on Shintoism
7
Favorable comments on Christianity
5
Other
4
MISCELLANEOUS
33
Comments on world peace
6
Industry and trade
6
Agriculture
6
Unintelligible and "crack-pot" letters
5
Other
10
GRAND TOTAL
all opinions and requests
35,102
RESTRI CTE D
-3-

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
FILE NO.
LO NOT DETACH THIS FORM.
R EC:OR D
C O P Y
894.00/
DESP
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
11
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE CRIGINAL ACTION
-647
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
1380 FRON
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOF FILING.
V TOKYO
--〇00
DVR

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES OLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DEC3-1947
Rec'd
Nov.20,1947
Tokyo, November 10, 1947
ACTION
RESTRICTED
FB
No. 1384
I: FO
OCD
PC
DCR
AS
Subject:
Menorandum of Conversation with the Chief
OFD
Cabinet secretary and ths peaker of the
IC
House of Representatives, Hovember 5, 1947.
ITP
SPA
EUR/X
WAR
The .cting rolitical ..dviser has the honor to en-
HAVY
close a copy of a memorandum of conversation between Mr.
CIG
Suehiro NISHIO, Chief Cabinet -ecretary, Mr. Komakichi
894.00
MiTslOkA, Speaker of the louse of e,resentutives, and
W. Henry LaWR NC, Jr., second eoretary of this Mission
0-0-0
(:hc was aoo mpanied by Yosnio KwlI, State Department
employee, as interpreter) on the treaty of peace, effeot
of Hirano dismissal, communists in labor organizations,
permanency of occupation ersonnel, fate of the Coul
Bill, the Constitution, and activities of Nishio.
11-1047
Enclosure:
Memorandum of Conversation,
November 5, 1947.
Original and ozalid to Department.
801
WHLawrence,Jr:mm

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatoh No. 1384 dated Novembor 10,
from the Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on tl
subjeot "Memorandum of Conversation with the Chief
Cabinet Seoretary and the Speaker of the House of
Representetives, November 5, 1947."
CO.Y
Restricted
November 5, 1947
MMORANDUM CF CONVERSATION
Participants: hr. Suehiro NIsHIC, Chief Cabinet Secretary.
Fr. Komaxicni MaTSUOKA, Speaker of the
House of hepresentatives.
Nr. . hery LNC, Jr., second Seoretary,
Office of the United tates Political
Adviser, Tokyo.
Vr. Yoshio KMII, State Department Employee,
Interpreter.
Subjects:
Peace Treuty; Effect of liirano Dismissal;
Communists in abor Crganizations;
errmancy of Ocoupution Personnel; Fate
of Coal ill; The Constitution;
Activities of Nishio.
Place:
Im, erlul Hotel, Tokyo, November 5, 1947
(lunch).
Mr. Niolfic volunteered the information that in his
opinion, peace terns will be imposed u on Jupan, so that
there will be notlhins for Jupun to do at the peace confer-
ence exceyt to sign the troaty. He thought that the
Japanese delegation should be headed by Mr. Tetsu KnTAYaM.,
the Primo Minister, because he had been choson by ninety-
nine per cent majorities in both Houses. In addition, it
was his ofinion that the delegution should include the
Foreign Minister and the heads of the four major parties
in order that the opposi:ion would also be represented.
Nishio mentioned that some uarters advocate holding a
general election before the peace conference. If such an
eleotion were held, however, he stated the candidates would
necessarily have to base their election campaigns upon
Japan's attitude toward the peace oonference and treaty;
he felt that such eloctioneering would have adverse effeots
upon the Oocupation. He indicated that it was his belief
that General MacArthur might represent Japan at the peace
conference. Should such be the case, he raised the ues-
tion whether Japan might make its views known to General
MacArthur before the peace conference. Mr. Lawrence did
not enter upon a discussion of the subjects mentioned
concerning the peace treaty.
The dismissal of Mr. Kikizo HIRAnO as Agrioulture-
Forestry Minister in the Katayama Cabinet was disoussed
soparately with Messrs. Nishio and Matsuoka, one having
arrived

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.98)
Enol. to
Tokyo's 1384
November 10, 1947.
-2-
arrived early and the other romaining late. Mr. Matsuoka
expressed regret that he was unable to pursuade Hirano
to resign. He stated that the removal of Hirano from the
Cubinet was a major operation and that the appointment
of his successor would have an important bearing on the
future of the Cabinet. Both Matsuoka and Nishio in-
dicated a conviction that from now on there would be
Freater unity in the Cabinet. Nishio mentioned as
possible successor to Hiruno both Inajiro ASANUMA and
Vasaru NoMI(. The former, Nishio seid, had the
necessary ualifications for the post, but Nishio and the
Irime Finieter boliove thet, if he were named to fill the
Cabinet vacancy, the position of Acting secretary-General
of the sociel-Democratic party would then be filled with
a loftist. lishio stated thut he and Katayama are seek-
inE someone with the necessary cualifications, who would
pursue a middle of the road policy und who could be de-
pended upon to cooperate with the other Cabinet members.
No changes ure ex octed in the Cabinot other than the
appointnent of sorcone from outside the Cabinet to fill
the vacancy.
In a diseussion of Cormunist activity, Hatsuoka stated
that such activity as there is in lebcr unions exerts a
wide influence in consequence of present conditions in
Japan. He believea the only method cf neutralizing
communist activities lies in improvement in the standard
of livine of workers. lo stated that ways must be found
to build up the morale of the people and to get them to
exert all their energies toward increasing production.
The communists were mentioned as baing particularly active
in Hokkaido und in rural areas. The General Federation
of Labor (Ni on Rodo sodomei) finds it difficult to send
trained peo le to such areas, not only becuuse of the
small numher of trained people availablo, but also be-
cause of lack of funds. s far as funds are concerned,
the communists ap arently have inexhaustible amounts,
which are believed to come into Ja an via Korea and the
Kuriles.
Nishio stated thet the Constitution is working out
well and that ex erience to date indicates that amendments
or ohanges are unnecossary. He thinks that changes in
the future should be ade only when real need arises and
popular sontiment backs suoh change. In referring to the
demooratizing influence of the Constitution, Nishio said
that the Occupation under General NaoArthur's guidance is
a visible demonstration of democratic ways. Ho specifi-
cally mentioned the friendly, unarmed American soldiers
who are now here, as contrasted with the armed, severe
Japanese soldier before the end of the war. He even
expressed hope that after the peace treaty there will
continue to be occupation troops stationed in Japan.
Matsuoka

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.94)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1364
November 10, 1947.
-3
Matsuoka stated he had assured General MacArthur two days
ago that the Coal Bill will pass despite difrioulties which
it will enccunter in the Diet. He is definitely of the
opinicn that it will inorease coal production.
In the course of conversation both Matsuoka and
Nishio made montion of the probloms caused by the constant
clhanging of , crsennel in General Head uarters, upreme
Colrnander for the .llied .owers, und expressed a hope that
tours of duty ce of a more ermanent nature.
The impression given by Nishio is that he and the
-rime Minister are workin" in close harmony on all mettors
and that Nishio is the guiding influeuce behind decisions
currently being made both in the Cabinet and in t!e
Social-Denocratic :arty.
…1
W. Henry Lawrence,
Jucerd secretary of Mission

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.89)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, November 19, 1947
DIVISTUN OF
RESTRICTED
NORTHUAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
No. 1384
DE0151947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject:
Hemorandum of Conversation with the Chief
Cabinet secretary and the speaker of the
894.00/11-1047
House of Representatives, November 5, 1947.
74.512
The acting olitical dviser has the honor to en-
close a copy of a memorandun of conversation between Mr.
suehiro MIshIc, Chief Cabinet ecretary, Mr. Komakichi
InTstOk., peaker of the House of Representatives, and
. Henry Lk, Jr., second secretary of this Mission
T
(who was acc mpanied by Yoshio MiII, state Department
45
employee, as interpreter) on the treaty of peace, effect
CE
of Hirano dismissal, communists in labor organizations,
10
permaneney of occupation personnel, fate of the Coal
Fc
Bill, the Oonstitution, and activifies of Nishio.
FN
11
Enclosure:
Lemorandum or Conversuticu,
November 5, 1947.
18
S
CS/V
Original and osalid to Depertment.
45
1n
1
801
WHLawrence,Jr:mm
11
TIT
0
S
9
EO
NT
1947 NV 20
0330
61948

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclcsure to Despatch No. 1384 dated November 10, 1947
from the Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Memorandum of Conversation with the Chief
Cabinet Secretary and the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, November 5, 1947."
COPY
Restricted
November 5, 1947
IEMORANDUM CF CONVERSATION
Participants:
Mr. Suehiro NIolHIO, Chief Cabinet secretary.
Mr. Komakichi MaTSUOKA, Speaker of the
House of Representatives.
Mr. W. Henry LiWRENCE, Jr., Second Secretary,
Office of the United states Political
Adviser, Tokyo.
Nr. Yoshio II, State Department Employee,
Interpreter.
Subjects:
Feace Treaty; Effect of Hirano Dismissal;
Communists in Labor Organizations;
ermancy of Occupation Personnel;
Fate
of Coal sill; he Constitution;
Activities of Mishio.
Place:
Imperial Hotel, 1okyo, Movember 5, 1947
(lunch).
I'r. NIofIc volunteered the information that in his
opinion, peace terms will be imposed upon Japan, so that
there will be nothing for Japen to do at the peace confer-
ence except to sign the treaty. He thought that the
Japanese delegation should be headed by r. Tetsu KaTayaM,
the Prime Minister, because he had veen chosen by ninety-
nine per cent majorities in both louses. In addition, it
was his ofinion that the delegation should include the
Foreign I inister and the heads of the four major parties
in order that the opposition would also be represented.
Nishio mentioned that some cuarters advocate holding a
general election before the peace conference. If such an
election were held, however, he stated the candidates would
necessarily have to base their election campaigns upon
Japan's attitude toward the peace conference and treaty;
he felt that such electioneering would have adverse effects
upon the Occupation. e indicated that it was his belief
that General MacArthur might represent Japan at the peace
conference. should such be the case, he raised the ues-
tion whether Japan might make its views known to General
MacArthur before the peace conference. Mr. Lawrence did
not enter upon a discussion of the subjects mentioned
concerning the peace treaty.
The dismissal of Mr. kikizo HIRNo as griculture-
Forestry Minister in the Katayama Cabinet was discussed
separately with Messrs. Nishio and Matsuoka, one having
arrived

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1384
November 10, 1947.
-2-
arrived early and the other remaining late. Mr. Matsuoka
expressed regret that he was unable to pursuade Hirano
to resign. He stated that the removal of Hirano from the
Cabinet was a major operation and that the appointment
of his successor would have an important bearing on the
future of the Cabinet. Both Matsuoka and Nishio in-
dicated a conviction that from now on there would be
greater unity in the Cabinet. Nishio mentioned as
possible successor to Hirano both Inajiro ASANUMa and
Masaru NCMT:0. The former, Nishio said, had the
necessary ualifications for the post, but Nishio and the
irime inister believe that, if he were named to fill the
Cabinet vacancy, the position of cting secretary-General
of the social-Democratic party would then be filled with
a leftist. Nishio stated that he and Katayama are seek-
ing someone with the necessary qualifications, who would
pursue a middle of the road policy and who could be de-
pended upon to cooperate with the other Cabinet members.
No changes are expected in the Cabinet other than the
appointment of someone from outside the Cabinet to fill
the vacancy.
In a discussion of Cormunist activity, Latsuoka stated
that such activity as there is in labor unions exerts a
wide influence in consequence of present conditions in
Japan. He believes the only method of neutralizing
cormunist activit ies lies in improvement in the standard
of living of workers. le stated that ways must be found
to build up the morele op the people and te get them to
exert all their energies towurd inereasing production.
The c mmunists were mentioned us being particularly active
in Hokkaido and in rural arene. he Meneral Federation
of Labor (Mip on Rodo odomei) Pinds in difricult to send
trained people to such ream, not only because of the
small number of trained veeple availuble, but also be-
cause of lack of funis. s fur us runds ure concerned,
t he communists tpperontly have inexheust ible unounts,
which are believed te come in'a Ta n via Korea and the
Kuriles.
Nishio stated that the honst itut ion is working out
well and that experience to tate indientes that amendments
or changes are unnecessury. He thinks that changes in
the future should be nade only when real need urises and
popular sentiment backs such ehange. In referring to the
demoeratizing influence of the Jonstitution, ishio said
that the Cccupation under deneral Lucarthur's cuidanee is
a visible domonstration of demoeratic ways. He specifi-
cally mentioned the friendly, unarmed merican soldiers
who are now here, as contrasted with the urmed, severe
Japanese soldier before the ond of the war. He even
expressed hope that after the peace treaty there will
continue to be occupation troops stationed in dupan.
Latsuoka

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 1384
November 10, 1947.
-3-
Matsuoka stated he had assured General MacArthur two days
ago that the Coal Bill will pass despite difficulties which
it will encounter in the Diet. He is definitely of the
opinion that it will increase ccal production.
In the course of conversation both atsuoka and
Mishio made mention of the problems caused by the constant
changing of personnel in General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the allied Powers, and expressed a hope that
tours of duty be of a more permanent nature.
The impression given by Nishio is that he and the
rime Minister are workin: in close harmony on all matters
and that Nishio is the guiding influence behind decisions
currently being made both in the Cabinet and in the
Social-Democratic Party.
s! . Henry Lawrence, Jr.
Second Secretary of Mission

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.94)
Form Ds-
DIVISION OF
ACTION
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMET OF STATE
Crfice o1
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
2-N
NCOONDRTELEGRAM
FE
DIVISION OF
Action: FE
Info:
SS
C
Roo'd Now
0201947
AA
AS
EUR
PRTM: 5001
SPA
USUN
TO?
retary of State
OCD
CIA
NO:
470, November 12
OFD
FC
PRCM CO USAFIK ACTION STATE DEPARTMENT JOINT CHIEPS OF
CIE
STAFF INFC CINCFE (CITE ZPOL 1369) HODGE SENDS FOR
DCR
JACOBS
LOO
In connectlon with electlon prob:em as referred to in
Sooul POI.AD No. 469, November i1, there ls quoted be-
894.00/
low Interoepted telogram eent November 22 by Rhee to
Loulse Yim In. Neu York In whloh he makes oloar that he
ls preaslng for Immedlate e. ectlon In order that (ns
he hopes and probably wou if an eiectlon la held now)
to got rid of present lnterim government and establish
another Interim governmen which te would dominate
prlor to main electlon under UN observatlon. By thl
moans, he would hope to comlnate the future government
of South Korea which he might not be atio to do if the
present interim governmen: with our assistence and under UN
247
observatlon handied the preperatlons for main olootlon
and that electlon Is carefu ly observed oy UN represen-
tatives.
Rhee's tologram aiso mentions Chlnese deiegatlon and n
tolegram to Chlang Ka1-Shok whlch no dispatched November
12.
Rhee's telegrem to oulse Ylm 1s as rollows:
"Surprlsed to learn Chinese de:egatlor laking side
with Sovlets by Inslating Four Power actlon. Whole
natlon fought against Moscow decislon regarding trustee-
ship pov definltoiy eilminated. Why should China re-
vive It? Please ask Ambassador Koo and other members
to doslst. Then make our positlon public. Wired
3E
Nanking
C
FILED
1
H
2.2
CONFIDENTIAL
1947
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-#470, November 12, from Seoul
Narking as suggested. Inform me how widely Rioha'ds
dispatches circulated and reaction. Also publicly deny
that our demand for South Korea elections in defiance
of State Department incorreot, State Department promised
it and we will hold election in conformity with sA and
UN plan when interim government set up by eleoted congress
it will cooperate with UN committee, when it comem for
otherwise committee will find no one truly representing
Korean people for conoultation and result cannot be
saliefactory. Wl.en Un scttlement successful and mocentable.
we wil: drop present progrem to aocept it."
Rhee 's telegram to Chiang Kai-Shek 1s as follows: "We
are surprised to Learn tnat Chinese delogation UN Assembly
ineists on reviving Pour Power discussions on Korea. Entire
Rorean naticn Tought consistently against Moscow docision
creating trusteeshin, now 1t has been definitely eliminated.
Why ahould china take aide with Soviets complicating
s1 uatlcny P:eas cat e your delegation instructing them
to desist for 1i is your Excellency's earnest desire to
se: ureedy restoration Korean indopendence We are
temanding general eiection 1n South Korea for congress
which wiil eet up Inrerim government then we will be in
atronger pos1tion ic denand el1mination of 38th parallel
and withdrawal of fo ign forces and form national defense
army our mutual anslulance wil, be benefiotal to both
JACOBS
MHDJD
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.92)
NORTHEST ASIAN AFFAIRS
DYTNON OF
DÉC
EPARTMENT OF STATE
FOR JAPAN
DCIR
Tokyo, November 19, 1947.
UNCLASS IF IED
No. 1403
OIC OCCOPIED AREAS DIVISION
(A00)
JAN 12 1948
UIENI OF STATE
SUBJECT:
Report Evaluating Pre-election studies by
Japanese Public Opinion Organizations.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
enclose five copies of a report dated October 22, 1947
prepared by the Civil Information and Education Section
of this Headguarters, containing an evaluation of some
pre-election studies by Japanese public opinion organi-
zations.
1947
FE
A-S
OCD
Enclosure:
FC
P
An evaluation of pre-
election studies by public
1947 DEC I
0 IE
opinion organizations, pre-
ya
pared by Civil Information
and Education Section, GHQ,
SCAP, 0ctober 22, 1947.
(5 copies)
AM 10
E
F
SATTS
47    3 0
STATE
1948
CI  AN
3
OF
E0
E
Lus
Original and ozalid to Department
800
RHBushner: hp

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.93)
GENERAL HEADQUAFTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Informetion and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
A N
EVA LUA TION OF
S O M E
P R E - E L E C T I O N S T U D I E S B Y
P U B L I C
P T N I ON OF GA N I Z A T I ON S
Special Report Prepared by
Public Opinion and Sociological Research
AR-294-P0-A-17
22 October 1947

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADCUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Irormetion end Educetion Section
Analysis and Reseerch Division
SPECIAL REPORT
SERIAL NUMBER
AR-294-P0-A-17
22 October 1947
TITLE
An Eveluation
of Some
Pre-Election
Studies b: Public Opinion Orgenizetions
PREPARED BY
Public Opinion and Sociological Reseerch
DATES OF STUDY
1 May 1947 to 23 July 1947
CONTENTS
Introduction
1
Yoron Kagaku Kyokai Tokyo Ma yoralty Poll
5
Jiji News Agency Tokyo Mayoralty Poll
15
Comparison of Jiji and YKK Meyoralty Polls
21
Nagasue Public Opinion Fesearch Institute Poll
26
Asahi Newspaper Gubernatorial Election Polls
28
Osaka Public Opinion Resesrch Institute Polls
33
Summary
40

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
INTRODUCTION
In the summer of 1946, most of the major Japanese
public opinion agencies attempted the very difficult feat
of election prediction. For many agencies, such predic-
tions represented not only the most spectecular product
of public opinion work, but its very essence. It was
fortunate for the subsequent development of public opin-
ion work in Jepan that public attention was not directed
too closely to their work. Had it been, a serious loss
of confidence on the scale of the Literary Digest 1936
fiasco might have developed. 'o important prediction at-
tempt known to Public Opinion and Sociological Research
Init, CIF, SCAP, proviced eny reliable guide to the out-
come of the 1946 elections.1 The attempts of the Asahi,
Yomiuri, Mainichi, Nagasue, and others were all seriously
off base.
In the year that has elapsed since that time, how-
ever, the better Japanese agencies have worked hard with
a commendable earnestness to learn from their developing
experiences and have striven constantly to improve their
work.
In addition, during this period, SCAP officials
have devoted as much time as possible to lending techni-
cal assistance to all interested groups. On the Japanese
side, the importance of this work came to be recognized
in wider circles than the newspaper proups among which
the work started and has attracted the active participa-
tion of scholars from many branches of social science.
A signal result of these many developments of the
1. CIE, SCAP, Public Opinion Surveys on the General Elec-
tions Conducted by Mainichi Newspaper, Special Re-
port, RI-171-PO-E-3. CIE, SCAP, Asahi Newspaper
Public Opinion Survey Room, Report No. 2, Special
Report, RI-180-PO-A-5. CIE, SCAP, Yomiuri Hochi
Newspaper, Public Opinion Section, Report No. 1,
Special Report, RI-143-P0-A-11.
1

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
2
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
past year is the success attained by the Negasue Yoron
Kenkyujo (Nagasue Public Opinion Research Institute) of
Kyoto, the Asahi Newspaper, Jiji News Agency, Yoron Kagaku
Kyokai2 (Public Opinion Science Association), and the
Osaka Public Opinion Institute in predicting local elec-
tion results.
In the 1946 pre-election prediction surveys, many
serious errors entered into the results. Aside from ob-
vious political bias (Yomiuri, on the basis of an extreme-
ly large sample, predicted a Communist plurality), there
were many errors which clearly could be traced to poor
sample structure and poor interviewing procedures. For
example, Asahi showed a constant bies in the direction of
over-estimating Socialist strength.3 A careful analysis
of sample structure showed that women and rural areas
were under-represented, a tendency which would account
for the error in terms of the known dynamics of political
behavior.
Most of the agencies conducted their polls by news-
paper ballots or mail questionnaires in 1946. As a con-
sequence, there could be no serious control of represen-
tativeness, and a strong bias in fevor of more articulate
persons and persons with the time, inclination, and in-
terest in letter-writing developed.
This year many of these errors were corrected. The
conditions of survey were similer in some important re-
spects to those confronting public opinion organizations
in the United States in the 1944 elections, that is, a
high rate of population movement and inadeguate statis-
tics. As a consequence, none of the agencies could do
careful, controlled stratification, but they all made.
earnest efforts to achieve randomness. On the whole,
these attempts were successful,  as evidenced by the sur-
vey results.
Three major technical improvements can be seen in
this year's election surveys. First, improvement of sam-
2. Yoron Kagaku Kyokai will be referred to hereafter as
YKK.
3. CIE, SCAP, Asahi Newspaper Public Opinion Survey Room,
Report No. 3, Special Report, AR-243-P0-E-8.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
INTRODUCTION
ple randomization. hudimentary stratification was at-
tempted by Nagasue, Asahi, Osaka, and Jiji, while YKk em-
ployed the Fischer randomization tables to achieve ran-
domization rather than strict quota control. At the pres-
ent stage of development of Japanese public opinion re-
search, there is much. to be said in favor of strict ran-
domization as against quota allocation on a base of
faulty statistics. In default of accurate statistics et
the present time, it is impossible to estimete the magni-
tude of the sample error, but in very few cases does it
seem excessively high.
The second major technical improvement that may be
seen is the resort to direct personel interviewing rather
than to mail questionnaires or newspaper ballots. The
chances for representativeness and some degree of quota
control obviously are increased greatly by direct inter-
viewing, and a host of other technical controls which are
canonical in Americen pro:odure are made possible. All
of the major agencies employed direct interviewing.
The third major Improvement is specific to the field
of election studies, that is, in handling the problem of
turnout. A prediction based upon all of the ballots may
be accurate as to political preference, but it may not
predict accurately the trend of opinion of those who
ectually cast votes. American experience has shown that
there are differences in political direction between
voters and nonvoters. It is possible to demonstrate
clearly that increase in turnout favors one or the other
of the major political parties.4 In American voting be-
havior there is a definite selective factor, such that it
can be predicted within narrow margins of error that if
the total turnout is sich-and-such the nemocrets will in-
crease their majority, while if it falls below e certain
point the relative Republican position will be strength-
4. Lazarsfeld, Paul, "The Election Is Over," Public
Opinion  Quarterly, Fall 1944. Cantril, Hadley,
"The Issues As Seen by the American People," Public
Opinion Quarterly, Fall 1944. Cantril, Hadley and
Harding, John, "The 1942 Elections: A Case in Poli-
tical Psychology," Public Opinion Quarterly, Summer
1943. Gallup, Ceorge, Guide to Public Opinion
Polls, Princeton University Press, 1944.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
4
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
ened.
Three of the five Japanese agencies employed a
screening question to detormine something as to non-
voting rates and to correct their responses for this fec-
tor. Asahi and Osaka did not do this, yet they also pre-
dicted with considerable success, Osaka with the use of
an inferential screening device. Again, in the one in-
stance where two studies covered the same election area--
YKK and Jiji in Tokyo--the predicted turnout rates were
at considerable variance. The significance of these
facts will be discussed later in a point-for-point com-
parison of Jiji and YKK results.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter 1
YORON KAGAKU KYOKAI TOKYO MAYORALTY POLL
The Tokyo mayoralty elections were held on 5 April
1947. Several days before the elections, the Yoron Kagaku
Kyokai (Public Opinion Science Association) undertook to
attempt a prediction of the outcome. A screening question
was employed to determine probable nonvoting and thus to
be able to separate the probable voters from the probable
nonvoters.
In the Tokyo elections there were two principal can-
didates, one generally conservative and one socialist,
and a large number of minor candidates, all of them gen-
erally conservative.
Thus the results of the election
can be considered from the point of view of the distribu-
tion of votes among the candidates, or from the point of
view of general conservative vs socialist tendency. With
only one Socialist candidate, socialist opinion and sup-
port had only one place to go. But with about six gener-
ally conservative candidates, conservative opinion and
support could break up into various combinations, so that
even despite a conservative majority preference, the dis-
tribution of votes could possibly result in a Socialist
Party victory. The Jiji News Agency, which also conduct-
Table 1. PREDICTED AND ACTUAL RANK ORDER OF CANDIDATES
Percent of Total Votes
Candidate
Predicted
Actual
Difference
YASUI
(Con)a
54.1
48.1
6.0
TAKAWA
(Soc)
42.3
42.0
0.3
FUVUDA
(Con)
2.6
2.9
0.3
HIBI
(Con)
0.5
1.1
0.6
OYAMA
(Con)
0.5
3.4
2.9
HASHIMOTO
(Con)
0.0
1.3
1.3
Total
100.0
38.6
XXX
a
Con - Conservative, Soc - Socialist
5

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
6
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
ed a poll shortly before the one done by YKk, failed be-
cause it did not keep this important matter in mind.
YKK predicted the rank order of the two leeding can-
didates, although the minor candidate predictions were
not too good. However, the minor candidates in all polled
such a small proportion of the votes that this is unim-
portant in view of the small number of cases used. In
extremely small sample work, the probable error is very
high, and all the errors among the minor candidates fall
well within the range of permissible error.
In all, 392 persons were interviewed. On the besis
of the screening question, it was estimated that 198 of
these would not vote.
Therefore the prediction was made
on the probable voting total of 194.
Table 2. ESTIMATE OF NONVOTING
Number
Nonvoting
Sex
Inter-
Predicted
Actual
Differ-
viewed
Number
Percent
Percent
ence
Men
209
86
41.1
na
na
Women
183
112
61.2
na
na
Total
392
198
50.5
43.8
6.7
na  Not available
While the prediction attempt by candidates was suc-
cessful in general, if the results are grouped by general
conservative-socialist tendency, they were even more suc-
cessful.
Table 3. PREDICTED AND ACTUAL
CONSERJATIVE-SOCIALIST VOTE
Percent of Total Vote
Political.Viewpoint
Predicted
Actual
Difference
Conservative
57.7
58.0
0.3
Socialist
42.3
42.0
0.3
Total
100.0
100.0
XXX

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.96)
YORON KAGAKU KYOKAI- TOKYO MAYORALTY
CHART I.-SEX DISTRIBUTION OF BALLOTS FOR TOP TWO CANDIDATES
Percent
10
20
30
40
50
Men
YASU(Con.)
TAKAWA ( SOC.)
Women
YASUI (Con.)
TAKAWA (SOC.)
mmm
CHART 2.-SEX DISTRIBUTION OF TOTAL CONSERVATIVE-SOCIALIST BALLOTS
Percent
10
20
30
40
50
60
90
100
Men
Conservative
Socialist.
Women
Conservative
Socialist
CHART 3. - DISTRIBUTION OF VOTES FOR TOP TWO CANDIDATES BY AGE CLASS
Percent
Percent
100
100
80
80
60
60
YASUI(Can.)
40
40
TAKAWA (SoC.)
20
20
20
30
40
50
Age
7

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
YORON KAGAKU KYOKAI-TOKYO MAYORALTY
CHART4.-DISTRIBUTION OF CONSERVATIVE-SOCIALIST VOTES
By Age Class
Percent
Percent
100
100
80
80
60
-0
60
Cansereative
40
40
Socialist
20
20
0
0
20
30
40
50
Age
CHART 5.-FEMALE VOTE BY PARTY
CHART6.-MALE VOTE BY PARTY
Percent
Percent
Percent
Percent
100
100
100
100
80
80
80
80
Canservdtive
0
Canserrofive
50
60
60
60
Q
40
40
40
40
Socialist
Socialis
0
20
20
20
20
0
0
0
0
20
30
40
50
20
30
40
50
Age
Age
8

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
YORON KAGAKU KYOKAI TOKYO MAYORALTY POLL
9
The characteristics of the vote distribution are
rather interesting
There ia a clear sex division, with
women in general tending to be more conservative than men.
There is not, however, a clear age division, although
there is a slight
tendency for greater Socialist support
Table 4. DISTRIBUTION OF BALLOTS
FOR THE TOP TWO CANDIDATES BY SEX
Percent of Total
Candidate
Men
Women
YASUI
(Con)a
49.6
62.0
TAKAWA
(Soc)
50.4
38.0
Total
100.0
100.0
a Con - Conservative, Soc - Socialist
(See Chart 1)
Table 5. DISTHIBUTION OF TOTAL
CONSERVATIVE-SOCTALIST BALLOTS BY SEX
Political
Percent
of Total
Viewpoint
Men
Women
Conservative
53.6
64.8
Socialist
46.4
35.2
Total
100.0
100.0
(See Chart 2)
Table 6. DISTRIBUTION OF VOTES FOR
THE TOP TWO CANDIDATES BY AGE CLASS
Percent
of Age Class
Age Class
YASUI
TAKAWA
20 - 29
50.0
42.6
30-39
47.9
50.0
40 - 49
58.1
39.5
over 49
57.8
40.0
(See Chart 3)

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
10
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDTES
Table 7. DISTRIBUTION OF VOTE WITHIN
EACH AGE GROUP BY POLITICAL VIEWPOINT
Percent of Age Class
Age Class
Conservative
Socialist
20 - 29
57.0
43.0
30 - 39
50.0
50.0
40 - 49
60.0
40.0
over 49
62.0
38.0
(See Chart 4)
among persons under 40 that over 40. This mey be a purely
local phenomenon in Tokyo, where Socialist Party strength
derives much support from the highly organized and power-
ful labor unions.
Therefore conclusions from this study
perhaps may not be applied safely to other parts of Japan,
particularly non-metropolitan areas.
From Tables 6 and 7 and Charts 3 and 4, it is clear
that the conservatives derive more strength from the old-
er age groups (those above 40) than do the Socialists.
Viewing the matter from the point of view of the age dis-
tribution of the vote for each party, the matter can be
seen more clearly (Table 8).
Table 8. DISTRIBUTION OF CONSERVATIVE
AND SOCIALIST VOTE BY AGE CLASS
Percent of Totel Vote
Age Class
Conservative
Socielist
20 - 29
27.7
28.0
30-39
21.4
29.0
40-49
23.2
21.0
over 49
27.7
22.0
Total
100.0
100.0
(See Charts 7 and 8)
Since this poll screened out nonvoters from voters,
it is possible to get some idea of the characteristics of

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
YORON KAGAKU KYOKAI - TOKYO MAYORALTY
CHART 7. - AGE DISTRIBUTION OF THE SOCIALIST VOTE
Percent
Percent
100
100
Socialist Vote
Above -Below 40 Years
80
80
Percent
60
60
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 00 90 100
Under 40
Over 40
40
40
0
20
20
0
0
20
30
40
50
Age
CHART 8.-AGE DISTRIBUTION OF THE CONSERVATIVE VOTE
Percent
Fercent
100
100
Conservative Vote
Above -Below 40 Years
80
80
Percent
60
60
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Under 40
Over 40
40
40
20
20
0
20
30
40
50
Age
11

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
YORON KAGAKU KYOKAI- TOKYO MAYORALTY
CHART 9.-NONVOTING BY SEX
Percent
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Men
Women
CHARTIO.-NONVOTING
CHARTI1.- NONVOTING
By Age
By Age and Sex
Percent
Percent
Percent
Percent
100
100
100
100
80
80
80
80
Aemale
60
60
60
60
0
40
40
40
40
Male
20
20
20
20
20
30
40
50
20
30
40
50
Age
Age
12

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
YORON KAGAKU KYOKAI TOKYO MAYORALTY POLL
13
the nonvoting population, even though there are no clear
data as to their general political trend.  Table 9 shows
the age and sex characteristics of nonvoters as determined
from the sample polled. Since the predicted nonvoting
was higher than the ectual by some six to seven percent,
a proportionel revision downward can be made to approxi-
mate the actual figures. However, the generel tendencies
stand out. Nonvoting shows clear sex varietion, but lit-
tle importent age varietion. Women were strikingly high-
er than men in nonvoting, as generally had been expected,
but the higher age groups, if anything, showed less non-
voting than the younger age groups.
Table 9.
NONVOTING BY AGE CLASS AND SEX
Percent of
Percent of Men
Age Class
Age Class
and Women in
Men
Women
Each Age Cless
20- 29
44.0
56.0
31.0
30 - 39
35.0
65.0
27.0
40 - 49
51.0
49.0
22.0
over 49
46.0
54.0
20.0
All Ages
43.0
57.0
100.0
(See Charts 9, 10, and 11)
This study shows considerable technical skill in the
careful employment of small sampling. In addition to the
general success in prediction, other validity cen be dis-
covered internally in such items as the nonvoting predic-
tion. The estimate of nonvoting from a randomly-selected
number of the populsticn wes within seven percent of ac-
tual nonvoting.
This error is not too high in view of
the size of the sample and the uncertainty of voting in-
tention because of such factors as weather, degree of
structuring of opinion, intensity of politicel preference,
etc. YKk perhaps bent over backwards to make provision
for nonvoters, and may have listed more persons es poten-
tial nonvoters than it might otherwise have done.
At first glance the nonvoting figures seem to sug-
gest e phenomenon common in American elections: i.e., the
higher the nonvoting, the higher the proportionate con-

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
14
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
servative vote. In the current study, a nonvoting figure
of 50.5 percent was predicted. Coupled with it was a pre-
diction of a 54.1 percent vote for the conservative can-
didate. The actual results showed both a lower nonvoting
(i.e., a higher turnout) and a lower relative oonserva-
tive candidete majority, which would seem to suggest that
Socialist strength is greater with a higher turnout.
However, a closer examination of political dynamics,
by means of the consideration of pooled conservative-
Socielist votes, shows this not to be the case. That is,
the prediction, even with 50.5 percent nonvoting, turns
out to be just about the same as the actual results with
only 43.& percent nonvoting.
The conclusion from these figures would be that
there was no special selective fector or trend of politi-
cal preference among nonvoters as compared with voters.
Practically, it means that from the standpoint of survey
procedure, at least for the Tokyo area, a survey of pre-
ferences well could have been made without regard for the
problem of turnout, and an adequate prediction made.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter 2
JIJI NEWS AGENCY TOKYO MAYORALTY POLL
Between 1 and 3 April 1947, the Jiji News Agency
Public Opinion Unit conducted a poll of voting intentions
concerning the Tokyo mayoralty elections of 5 April. Some
2,380 persons were polled in every ward of Tokyo. The
sample structure was drawn up carefully in terms of the
best available populetion stetistics, and the question-
neire wes designed to meke provision for screening out
nonvoting intention. In addition to members of its own
research staff, Jiji recruited interviewers from students
et Tokyo Imperial, Mei i, St. Paul's, and Meiji Women's
Universities.
In spite of the great cere taken in the
preperation and execution of the survey, however, it fail-
ed to predict thc rank order of the candidates.
Table 10.
PREDICTED AND ACTUAL RANK ORDER OF CANDIDATES
Percent of Totel Votes
Candidate
Predicted
Actual
Difference
TAKAWA
(Soc)
43.5
42.0
1.5
YASUI
(Con)
36.9
48.1
11.2
FUKUDA
(Con)
12.8
2.9
9.9
HIBI
(Con)
2.0
1.1
0.9
OYAMA
(Con)
1.7
3.4
1.7
HASHIMOTO
(Con)
1.7
1.3
0.4
TANNO
(Con)
1.2
0.8
0.4
KISHIMA
(Con)
0.2
0.3
0.1
Total
100.0
99.9
XXX
a
Soc - Socialist, Con - Conservative.
But failure to predict the winning candidate did not
mean that the survey had no validity, nor that it was a
complete failure.
A re-examination of the materials re-
veals that the figure for the Socialist candidate (TAKAWA)
is within 1.5 percent error, end thet regrouping the gen-
15

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
16
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
eral conservative as against Socialist ballots, we get
the figures in Table 11.
Table 11. PREDICTED AND ACTUAL
CONSERVATIVE-SOCIALIST VOTE
Political
Percent of Total Vote
Viewpoint
Predicted
Actual
Difference
Conservative
56.5
58.0
1.5
Socialist
4:.5
42.0
1.5
Total
100.0
100.0
xxx
It is clear that Jiji established the general char-
acter of the trend, and fell down only on the selection
of the specific victorious conservetive candidate. Its
largest error was in overestimating the strength of the
candidate FUKUDA by about 10 percent. If this 10 percent
had been added to the figure for YASUI, who actually won,
the prediction figures would have equailed the actual re-
sults within a narrow limit of error.
There are several possible explanations of the error.
In the first place, it world appear that with the large
number of conservative candidates, voters had some diffi-
culty in choosing among them. Even with an absolute So-
cielist minority, it would have been possible under the
circumstances, with adroit political management, for the
Socialists to have elected their candidate.
In'the sec-
ond place, the politicians may have decided not to risk a
split between the two leeding conservetive candidetes and
given their backing to the one who seemed most likely to
win. This would account for the shift of 10 percent from
FUKUDA to YASUI, which wis sufficient to carry the elec-
tion.
. Or in the third plece, a general populer trend of
the same kind may have taken place in the few days before
the election, in which the FUKUDA voters, feeling that
YASUI had a better chance
as the conservative candidate,
switched their vote.
Jiji, like a number of other egencies, attempted to
screen out the nonvoters, both to arrive at some estimate
of the probable nonvoting rate and to have a correct base
for its prediction.
Two devices were used. Respondents

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.93)
JIJI NEWS AGENCY PUBLIC OPINION UNIT
TOKYO MAYORALTY
CHART 12.-CONSERVATIVE-SOCIALIST VOTE BY AGE CLASS
Psrcent
Prcent
100
100
80
80
Canserrotive
60
60
0.
40
40
Socielist
20
20
0
0
20
30
40
50
Age
CHART13.- FEMALE VOTE BY PARTY
CHART 14.-MALE VOTE BY PARTY
Percent
Percent
Percent
Aercent
100
100
100
100
80
80
80
80
Cassaratire
Comsersositive
60
60
80
60
0-
-0
000
0
--O
40
40
40
10
Socialist
Socialist
20
20
20
20
0
0
0
20
30
40
50
20
30
4o
50
Age
Age
17

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
JNI NEWS
AGENCY PUBLIC OPINION UNIT
TOKYO MAYORALTY
CHART 15.-CONSERVATIVE-SOCIALIST VOTE BY SEX
Parcent
10
20
30
40
50
60
100
Men
Conservatire
Socialist
Women
Conservative
Socialist
CHART 16. - SOCIALIST VOTE
CHARTI7.-CONSERVATIVE VOTE
By Age Class
By Age Class
Percent
Porcent
Percent
Percent
100
100
100
100
80
80
80
80
60
60
60
60
40
40
40
40
20
20
20
20
20
30
40
30
20
30
40
50
Age
Age
Above -Below 40 Years
Above - Below 40 Years
Percent
Percent
80
100
0
20
40
60
80
100
Under 40
Orer 40
Under 40
Over 40
18

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
JIJI NEWS AGENCY TOKYO MAYORALTY POLL
were asked to record whether or not they intended to vote.
In eddition they were asked; "Will you vote even if it
reins on election day?" in order to test both intention
and intensity. This question does not seem to have been
handled too well. However, in spite of the two screening
devices, Jiji's prediction that 13.7 percent of the popu-
lation polled would not vote was less then one-third of
the actuel nonvote of 43.8 percent. It might seem that
the error in nonvoting control may have affected the pre-
diction, but again, if conservstive-Socialist totals are
taken instead of candidate totals, it is evident thet no
clearly divergent tendencies can be established between
voters and nonvoters.
The Jiji poll, like the YKK poll, reveals a slight
tendency for women to be more conservative then men, and
the older age groups to he more conservative then the
younger age groups.
Table 12. DISTRIBUTION OF VOTE WITHIN
EACH AGE GROUP BY POLITICAL VIEWPOINT
Percent of Age Class
Age Class
Conservative
Socialist
20 - 29
54.0
46.0
30 - 39
54.9
45.1
40 - 49
58.1
41.9
over 49
59.6
40.4
(See Chart 12)
Table 13. DISTRIBUTION OF TOTAL
CONSERVATIVE-SOCIALIST VOTE BY SEX
Political
Percent of Total
Viewpoint
Men
Women
Conservative
55.0
58.4
Socialist
45.0
41.6
Total
100.0
100.0
(Sce Chart 15)

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
20
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
Table 14. DISTRIBUTION OF CONSERVATIVE
AND SOCIALIST VOTE BY AGE CLASS
Percent of Total Vote
Age Class.
Conservative
Socialist
20 - 29
28.5
31.6
.30-39
22.3
23.9
40 - 49
21.0
19.7
over 49
28.2
24.8
Total
100.0
100.0
(See Charts 16 and 17)
The Jiji data do not give much insight into the com-
position of the nonvoting population beyond the fact that
women outnumber men. No information is given concerning
age or any other factor.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 1.00)
Chapter 3
COMPARISON OF JIJI AND YKK TOKYO MAYORALTY POLLS
Jiji and YKK conducted polls on the Tokyo mayoralty
elections within a few days of each other. Jiji polled
2,380 persons in all werds of Tokyo, while YKK polled only
392 persons in seven wards. Both employed screening de-
vices to separate voters and nonvoters; the YKK method
seems to heve been superior.
Table 15. COMPARISON OF NONVOTING PREDICTIONS
Percent of Total
Agency
Voting Population
Men
Women
Total
Actual Nonvoting
na
na
43.8
Jiji Prediction
7.0
20.9
13.7
Diff. from Actual
30.1
YKK Prediction
41.1
61.2
50.5
Diff. from Actual
6.7
Diff. from Jiji
34.1
40.3
36.8
na
Not available.
As a result of corrections for nonvoting estimetes,
Jiji made its predictions on the besis of 2,054 cases,
and YKK made its on the basis of 194 cases. In spite of
the 900 percent difference in size of the sample base,
the detailed results show very considerable similarity of
trend. In some cases the number of instances employed by
YKK was too small to bo used significantly in breskdown.
Thus a comparative sex-age breakdown is not attempted be-
cause YKK cells get down to under 15 cases.
Excluding the specific candidate figures, where Jiji
fell down, and using only the general conservative-Social-
21

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
22
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
ist trend,
the detailed. similarity
between the two is
striking.
Table 16. COMPARISON. OF CONSERVATIVE-
SOCIALIST VOTE PREDICTIONS
Percent of Total Vote
Agency
Conservative
Socialist
Actual Vote
58.0
42.0
Jiji Prediction
56.5
43.5
Diff. from Actual
1.5
1.5
YKK Prediction
57.7
42.3
Diff. from Actual
0.3
0.3
Diff. from Jiji
1.2
1.2
It is important that in spite of the great differ-
ences between nonvoting predictions and the actual non-
voting results, the general trends of the predictions
were so close. This strongly suggests that there is no
politically selective factor operative in separating out
voters and nonvoters, whereas in general American experi-
ence, there is definitely a selective factor. This does
not seem to be the case at the present time in Tokyo, at
any rate.
Evidence from other parts of Japan is inconclusive,
but two further instances can be cited. The Asahi News-
paper Public Opinion Unit conducted gubernatorial elec-
tion prediction polls in several widely scattered prefec-
tures.
In two of the cases for which the results were
reported, Saitama and Kumamoto, Asahi was remarkably suc-
cessful in predicting the elections.
But in these two
cases no screening device whatsoever was employed to sep-
arate.voters and nonvoters.
If elections can be predicted both when a screening
device is used and when it is not used, the suggestion
seems strong that there is no important difference be-
tween voters and nonvoters in general political orienta-
tion.
However, these results are only tentative, end it
would be unsafe metiodologically to rely upon them. It

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
COMPARISON OF JIJI AND YKK TOKYO MAYORALTY POLLS  23
may be that this condition only obtains: in certain places
and not in others, or it may be a temporary state of af-
fairs. In view of the extreme fluidity of Japanese pol1-
tical opinion, it would seem methodologicelly wise to con-
tinue to study the phenomenon of nonvoting. Again, no
decisive methodological test of the actual political pre-
ferences. of those indicating nonvoting intention has been
made, so that we cannot be sure thet there are no selec-
tive'differences.
In view of the detailed similerity of the general
results of the trend analysis and its close agreement
with the actual results, a comparison of the sex and age
characteristics of the vote distribution will be both in-
teresting and valuable. Again, the strong similarity in
the general result trends seems to indicate considerable
validity. Variation between the results seems to take
the general direction of reduction of extreme differences
by Jiji. Since YKk used such small numbers, the cells
become too small for relieble analysis and random errors
are likely to be high. Therefore, it would seem that
Jiji's sample size produces more reliable results.
Table 17. COMPARISON OF PREDICTIONS
OF SEX DISTRIBUTION OF VOTES
Percent of Total Vote
Sex
Jiji
YKK
Difference
Conservative
Mcn
55.0
53.6
1.4
Women
58.4
64.8
6.4
Socialist
Men
45.0
46.4
1.4
Women
41.6
35.2
6.4
Thus both polls indicate somewhat higher female sup-
port for conservative views, but the difference is not
great.
The general assumption that Socialist support de-
creeses with increesing age and that conservative support
increases with increasing age is sustained by the
two

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
24
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
polls, and differences between them reflect random sam-
pling errors. An analysis of the age distribution of sup-
port for each party also confirms this general analysis.
Table 18. COMPARISON OF PREDICTIONS
OF AGE DISTRIBUTION OF VOTES
Age
Percent of Total Vote
Class
Jij1
YKK
Difference
Conservative
20-29
54.0
57.0
3.0
30 - 39
54.9
50.0
4.9
40 - 49
58.1
60.0
1.9
over 49
59.6
62.0
2.4
Socialist
20.-29
46.0
43.0
3.0
30-39
45.1
50.0
4.9
40- 49
41.9
40.0
1.9
over 49
40.4
38.0
2.4
(See Charts 4 and 12)
Table 19. COMPARISON OF PREDICTIONS OF
DISTRIBUTION OF CONSERVATIVE AND
SOCIALIST VOTE BY AGE CLASS
Age
Percent of Total Vote
Class
Jiji
YKK
Difference
Conservative
20-29
28.5
27.7
0.8
30-39
22.3
21.4
0.9
40 - 49
21.0
23.2
2.2
over 49
28.2
27.7
0.5
Total
100.0
100.0
XXx
Socialist
20-29
31.6
28.0
3.6
30 -39
23.9
29.0
5.1
40 -49
19.7
21.0
1.3
over 49
24.8
22.0
2.8
Total
100.0
100.0
XXX
(See Charts 7, 8, 16, and 17)

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
COMPARISON OF JIJI AND YKK TOKYO MAYORALTY POLIS 25
It is clear from both of the. polls that within the
Socialist vote more support comes from younger age groups
than from older, although the Jiji poll results minimize
the. difference to some extent.
Data from the two poils on nonvoting are not strict-
ly comparable, except that in both instances women out-
numbered men.' Since Jiji does not list age characteris-
tics, however, no comparison with YKk results is possible.
In neither case were political preferences of potential
nonvoters explored.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter 4
NAGASUE KYOTO MAYORALTY POLL
The Nagasue Public Opinion Research Institute in
Kyoto set out to predict the mayoralty elections of 5
April 1947. With the assistance of collaborators at Kyoto
Imperial University, and with careful regard for past ex-
periences, a very careful representative sample of 277
respondents was selected. Sixteen interviewers were sent
out with questions both as to political preference and
actuel intention to vote. On the basis of stated inten-
tiors of the respondents as well as the judgment of the
intorviewers, 96 ballots of persons who seemed unlikely
to vote were removed, and the prediction was mede on the
basis of the corrected tally of 18l probeble voters.
Thus, with good sample structure, a good questionnaire,
and alert interviewers, this device mede it possible to
predict with a degree of accuracy that would be consider-
ed quite respecteble in the United States.
It should be noted that contrary to usual Jepanese
practice up to the present time, Nagasue worked toward a
small and reliable sample, rather than a large and dif-
fuse one. The accurccy here is unusually high for small-
sample work. The results are shown in Table 20.
The most obvious technical improvements in the Naga-
Table 20.
PREDICTED AND ACTUAL RANK ORDER OF CANDIDATES
Sample
Actual
Percent
Number
Percent
Diff.
Candidate
Number
of Total
of
of Total
from
Polled
Polled
Votes
Vote
Sample
KANBE
93
51.4
121,883
49.4
2.0
TAKEUCHI
82
45.3
116,345
47.2
1.9
YAMAGUCHI
6
3.3
8,338
3.4
0.1
Total
181
100.0
246,566
100.0
XXX
26

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
NAGASUE KYOTO MAYORALTY POLL
22
sue Institute's methods lie in such innovations as direct
interviewing, meticuloug attention to sampling structure
and the development of a technique cepable of coping with
the turnout problem.
.In the course of a yeer of work,
the Nagasue Institute has developed a very detailed local
knowledge of social, economic,  and political conditions
in Kyoto. Rather than overextend itself, it confined its
operetions to the city of Kyoto and sought improvements
within this narrow frame.
All of this was well used in
the mayoralty poll.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter 5.
ASAHI NEWSPAPER GUBERNATORIAL ELECTION POLLS
The Asahi Newspaper Public Opinion Unit conducted
pre-election polls in Saitama, Nara, and Kumamoto prefec-
tures within a week of the ctual gubernatorial electicns.
The Nara results were disc:rded as having been poorly ex-
ecuted by the field staff. The results of the polls in
the other two prefectures, however, showed high agreement
with the actual results and are full of valuable date on
political behevior. The error of estimate ranged between
0.1 percent and 4.3 percent, the average error being un-
der two percent.The exceilence of these results can be
seen by comparison with similer American gubernatoriel
election predictions. In the 1942 New York state guber-
natorial elections, Gallup predicted the outcome with an
averege error per candidate of 1.3 percent, while Prince-
ton University's Office of Public Opinion Research aver-
aged 3.3 percent error. The Asehi record of 1.5 percent
for Kumamoto and 1.8 percent for Saitama comperes very
favorebly. Detailed results are given in Tables 21 and 22.
Asahi in these two polls employed no screening device
except insofar as the intervievwers
pessed over persons
who signified nonvoting intentions.
Much of this wes a
Table 21.
PREDICTED AND ACTUAL RANK ORDER OF CANDIDATES
Kumamoto Gubernatorial Poll
Percent of Totel Vote
Candidate
Party
Predicted
Actual
Difference
SAKURAI
Independent
46.1
48.5
2.4
HOSOKAWA
Socialist
30.4
29.6
0.8
FUJIMOTO
Peo. Coop.a
21.8
17.9
3.9
MIZUGAMI
Independent
1.6
3.0
1.4
FUKUDA
Unknown
0.1
1.0
0.9
Total
100.0
100.0
XXX
2
People's Cooperative.
28

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.95)
ASAHI PUBLIC OPINION
UNIT
SAITAMA GUBERNATORIAL
CHART 18. - CONSERVATIVE-SOCIALIST VOTE BY AGE
Percent
Percent
100
100
—0
Consernative
80
0
80
0
0
60
60
40
40
20
20
Socialist
0
0
20
30
40
50
60
Age
CHART 19.-FEMALE VOTE BY AGE
CHART 2O. -MALE VOTE BY AGE
Percent
Percent
Percent
Percent
100
100
100
100
Carsoovative
80
80
80
80
0
Conserrative
60
00
60
60
40
40
40
30
Socialist
20
20
20
20
Socialist
0
0
0
20
30
40
50
60
20
30
40
50
60
Age
Age
29

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.96)
ASAHI PUBLIC OPINION UNIT
KUMAMOTO GUBERNATORIAL
CHART 21.-CONSERVATIVE-SOCIALIST VOTE BY AGE
Percent
Percent
100
100
80
80
Conseruative
-0
60
60
40
40
Socialist
---0
20
20
0
20
30
40
50
60
Age
CHART22.-FEMALE VOTE BY PARTY
CHART 23.-MALE VOTE BY PARTY
Aucent
Percent
Porcent
Porent
100
100
100
100
80
80
80
80
0
Carservotive
Conservalive
0
60
60
60
60
40
40
550
0
40
Sacialist
Sadolist
20
20
20
20
20
30
40
50
60
20
30
40
50
60
Age
Age
30

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
ASAHI NEWSPAPER GUBERNATORIAL ELECTION POLLS 31
Table 22.
PREDICTED AND ACTUAL RANK ORDER OF CANDIDATES
Saitama Gubernatorial Poll
Percent of Totel Vote
Candidate
Party
Predicted
Actual
Difference
NISHIMURA
Independent
68.6
66:8
1.8
BABA
Socialist
23.2
23.7
0.5
OGAWA
Friendshipa
3.1
7.4
4.3
KANDA
Independent
1.2
1.8
0.6
SAITO
New Life
0.4
0.3
0.1
SUNAGA
Communist
3.5
0.0
3.5
Total
100.0
100.0
xxx
a
Work, Love, and Friendship with America Party.
mere matter of individual interviewer judgment, but the
procedure perheps corrected for nonvoting simply by not
including in the ballot count persons who seemed unlikely
to vote.
The Asahi study reveals some interesting character-
istics of voting behavior in the areas covered which per-
allel the results reported above in the Tokyo area.
In
both Kumamoto and Saitame, Socialist support deoreases
with age for both men and women, and conservative support
increases with age (Charts 18 to 23). Again, the female
vote was absolutely less than the male vote, particularly
in the older age groups. The trend particularly to be
noted, however, is the smaller absolute percentage of fe-
male to male vote among Socialists, there being an almost
equal absolute percentage among conservatives. It is al-
so possible to infer something as to the occupational
distribution of the Socialist-conservative vote from the
Asahi materials. There is considerable similarity be-
tween the rank-order of Socialist votes in the two pre-
fectures: this seems to designate a crystallization of
attitude among certain occupational groups
which tren-
scends regional differences (Table 23).
These polls were conducted with 2,103 and 1,979 re-
spondents respectively in Kumamoto and Saitama prefec-
tures.
Real occupetionel or aree stratification was not
employed because of inadequate statistical materiels, but
good efforts at randomization were made.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
32
AN EVALUATION OF SOME·PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
Teb1e 23. COMPARISON OF
THE OCCUPATIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF THE SOCIALIST VOTE
IN KUMAMOTO AND SAITAMA PREFECTURES
Kumamoto Prefecture
Saitama Prefecture
Percent
Percent
Occupation
Occupation
Socielist
Socialist
Company employees
48
Laborers..
32
Laborers
47
Students
32
Students
41
Tenent-fermers
31
Teachers
40
Compeny employees
29
Tenant-fεrmers
33.
Teachers
27
Government employees
31
Covernment employees
26
Housewives
30
Liberal. professions
23
Liberal professions
25
Owner-cultivators
Business operators
22
Housewives
16
Owner-cultivetors
20
Commerce and industry
15
Landowners
16
Business operators
15
Commerce and industry
16
Landowners

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter 6
OSAKA PUBLIC OPINION RESEARCH INSTITUTE ELECTION POLLS
The Osaka Public Opinion Research Institute succeed-
ed quite well in predicting the outcome of both the Osaka-
fu5 gubernatorial election end the Osaka City mayoralty
campeign, with an extremely small sample in each case.
The sample was laid out along simple lines (Table 24). In
the city elections, the farm group was of course excluded,
which brought the number of respondents down to 267.
Table 24. SAMPLE DEETGN USED BY OSAKA PUBLIC
OPINTON RESEARCH INSTITUTE IN PREDICTING THE
OSAKA-FU GUBERNATORTAL AND OSAKA CITY MAYORALTY
Number
Group
in Sample
Men
Brain workers
48
Manual workers
50
Commercial and industrial workers
50
Unemployed and brokers
36
Farmers
45
Total Men
229
Women
Housewives
35
Working women
48
Total Women
83
Total Sample
312
In each case respondents were asked the party they
supported and whom they wanted to win in the elections.
5. Osaka-fu is comparable to a prefecture, with Osaka-shi
or Osaka City as its metropolitan center.
33

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
34
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
The inconsistencies in comparative percentages between
party preference and candidate preference were, in some:
instances, striking. For instance, 44.4 percent of all
unemployed polled stated Socialist Party preference, yet
only 27.2 percent of all unemployed responding showed
Socialist candidate preference. Likewise, 16.7 percent
of all brainworkers polled stated Liberal Perty prefer-
ence, while.26:0 percent of all brainworkers. responding
showed Liberal candidate preference. However, these fig-
ures in themselves are misleading when it is understood
that of those unemployed and brainworkers responding to
the party preference question, only 30 percent of the
former and 56 percent of the latter responded to the can-
didate preference question.
These inconsistencies may be. better understood.
through further examination of question wording tech-
nique. When the human factors at work are taken into ec-
count, one may infer that the non-responding brainworkers
either were confused by much diverse publicity in elec-
tion cempaigns and could not decide which particular can-
didate to support, or they were still in the process of
evalueting, or they simply did not know the names of the
specific candidates, even though they had indicated a
party preference. At first glance the latter judgment
would not seem to be appropriate  for. "brain workers."
However, the fact is that the category of "brain workers"
here employed probably includes the entire gamet of non-
manual workers, including office workers, clerks, book-
keepers, professionals, and intellectuals. Therefore, it
is not surprising thet a certain percentage of so called
"brain workers" very likely did not name specific candi-
dates because of ignorance. In the case of the unemploy-
ed, the tables seem turned, the valid inference seeming
to be that a large percentage were ignorant of cendidate
names. However, this cetegory also includes brokers or.
black-marketeers who, living by their wits, probably would
be a sharper statum of this occupational breakdown, hesi-
tating to indicate candidate preference because of inde-
cision rather than ignorance.
These things cannot be shown clearly, however, by
means of such vague classifications as "brain workers"
and "unemployed." Furthermore, the entire occupational
breakdown suffered this same lack of specificity. This,
of course, was a result of the very small sample used, in

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
OSAKA PUBLIC OPINION RESEARCH INSTITUTE POLLS 35
which the stress properly was placed on as complete ran-
domization as possible et the expense of more specific
and detailed breakdowns.
Question wording technique must be examined further
in these polls. In the case of a question like "Whom do
you want for governor?". following a question on perty
preference, the omission of cendidéte names most probably
was used as & screening device to eliminate nonvoting re-
spondents. The over-all figures in the gubernatoriel poll
show: about 13.5 percent f ilure to meke candidate selec-
tion, end in the mayoralty poll, about 19.8 percent fail-
ure: If these failures to respond are taken es e rough
index of nonvoting intention, we find that the Osaka Pub-
lic Opinion Research Institute was wide of the ectual
nonvoting, which ran 40.1 percent in the gubernetorial
and 50.1 percent in the meyorelty elections.
There is, however, another phase of question wording
technique to be considered. when measuring stetisticel
dete and drawing valid inferences therefrom. This is the
understandability of questions. and the presence or ab-
sence of psychological weighting. In opinion polling, the
questions must be uniform in level of stimulus and under-
stendeble as well. It is necessary to assure that direct
responses to direct questions are obtained, and that all
elements of ambiguity are eliminated. In a question such
as the one appeering on the Osaka poll, which reeds in
literal trenslation: "In the Osaka mayoralty elections do
you went a political party to win, or a neutral? If a
politicel party, which one?" the question wording is am-
biguous because the term "neutrel" may include any one of
three or more categories. It may mean undecided as be-
tween the . political parties at the moment; it mey mean
that the respondent prefers an independent nonparty cen-
didate; and it may mean elso that the respondent is com-
pletely indifferent to the elections and will not vote.
Thus the use of the word "neutral" leaves the cetegory of
"neutral" answers unreliable and impossible of adequate
analysis. Alternate ques ion choices should have been
offered to independent, undecided, and indifferent re-
spondents, making it possible to understand the propor-
tions of eech category.
As initially steted, however, the poll predictions
vere
quite successful. Despite the smail number of re-

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
36
AN EVALUATION OF SOME PRE-ELECTION STUDIES
spondents polled and the inadequate turnout screening,
all except the Socialist mayoralty prediction were within
the limits of rendom sampling error.
With regerd to the
Socialist meyoralty candidate prediction, there is more
than just a rendom sampling error. There were inedequete
controls set, and difficulties were found in cerrying
them through.
Table 25.
PREDICTED. AND ACTUAL RANK ORDER OF CANDIDATES
Percent of Total Votes
Candidatea
Predicted
Actual
Difference
Osaka-fu Gubernatorial
AKAMA
(Lib)
46.2
47.1
0.9
KATSUKI
(Soc)
43.2
41.2
2.0
SHIDA
(Com)
6.9
6.3
0.6
HAYASHI
(Ind)
3.7
5.4
1.7
Total
100.0
100.0
xxx
Osaka City Meyoralty
KONDO
(Soc)
59.9
45.6
14.3
OCHIAI
(Lib)
35.3
40.1
4.8
IWAI
(Com)
3.3
6.7
3.4
HIROSE
(Ind)
1.1
1.0
0.1
YAMAMOTO
(Ind)
0.4
6.6
6.2
Total
100.0
100.0
XXXX
a Lib - Liberal, Soc - Socialist, Com - Communist, Ind -
Independent.
However, the smell number of cases employed mekes
breakdown very unrelieble. While the age distribution of
the vote corresponds to wh: t is reported from other arees,
(Charts 24, 25, 26, and 27), the sex breakdown is strik-
ingly et variance. In all other studies made, women tend
to be less radical (socialistic and communistic) in their
political sympathies than men. In the Osaka polls, women
outrenked men in Socialist support by perty (60.2 percent
to 55.4 percent) and by candidate (66.2 percent to 53.7
percent) in the mayoralty poll, and by party (58.0 per-
cent to 41.9 percent) and by candidete (62.5 percent to
41.7 percent) in the gubernatorial polls. This varietion
seems
to be & result of the small number of women inter-

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.93)
OSAKA PUBLIC OPINION RESEARCH INSTITUTE
OSAKA MAYORALTY AND GUBERNATORIAL
MAYOR
CHART 24.- PARTY PREFERENCE
CHART 25. -CANDIDATE PREFERENCE
Percent
Percent
Percent
Pcrcent
100
100
100
100
0
80
80
80
9
80
0.
60
sociolist
60
60
ialist
60
40
40
40
40
LibenalRDemach
Libep/&Dennodrat
0
20
20
20
20
0
8=
o...
0
20
30
40
50
20
30
40
50
Age
Age
GOVERNOR
CHART 26.-PARTY PREFERENCE
CHART 27. -CANDIDATE PREFERENCE
Percent
Percent
Percent
Percext
100
100
100
100
80
80
80
80
0
60
60
50
0
60
Sacirlist
Sacialist
0
40
20
40
40
Libe/aDemocngt
20
20
20
20
Nodtnol
Camounst
Nabinel
o..
0-
2000
0-
22-
20
30
40
50
20
30
40
50
Age
Age
37

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
OSAKA PUBLIC OPINION RESEARCH INSTITUTE
OSAKA MAYORALTY AND GUBERNATORIAL
MAYOR
CHART 28.- SOC/ALIST PARTY SUPPORT
Percant
70
80
10
Percant of Total Famele Votes
Peicent ot Total Mate Vates
CHART 29. - SOCIALIST CANDIDATE SUPPORT
Percent
50
60
70
80
90
100
Percent of Total Female Votes
Percent of Total Male Vates
GOVERNOR
CHART 30. - SOCIALIST PARTY SUPPORT
Percent
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Percent of Total Female Vates
Percent of Total Mate Votes
CHART 31. - SOCIALIST CANDIDATE SUPPORT
Percent
40
50
50
70
00
90
100
Percent of Total Female Votes
Percent of Tohal Male Votas
38

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
OSAKA PUBLIC OPINION RESEARCH INSTITUTE POLLS 39
viewed (85), unless Oseka women are much more radical
than those of the rest of the country, for which there
seems to be no independent evidence (Cherts 28, 29, 30,
and 31).
Thus, the overweighting of the Socialist prediction
in the meyorelty election seems to result from two fac-
tors.
1. There wes an under-representation of the female
vote. This normally results in an under-estimetion of
conservative strength, beceuse women on the whole tend to
be more conservative than men.
2. The particular femele sample polled in Oseka
seems to be unusually radical and not representetive.
Although definite quotas were set in terms of "housewives"
and "working women," it would seem thet the interviewers
biased their selections of individuels within these cate-
gories. This is one of the weaknesse's of quota control
and relience upon individu:1 interviewer judgment.
It would heve been fer better to have selected rey
spondents in a properly randomized manner from bureku6
lists, ration lists, and any similar name lists which are
reedily eveilable in Japan.  This would have provided a
more highly randomized sample, the people selected being
unknown to the interviewers. For example, YKk used this
procedure with about the same size sample in the Tokyo
mayoralty election with better results.
Nevertheless, the bias in the mayoralty prediction
seems to heve been compensated for by good luck in the
gubernatorial prediction, through the inclusion of a sub-
stantial farm representation. which weighted down the
Socialist vote.
The rardomization was evidently incom-
plete, but with a messur of good luck results were with-
1
in the limits of random sampling error.
6. A smell hamlet within e village.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
SUMMARY
It is possible to say at this point that the major
Japanese agencies have shown enormous improvement over
their work of last year. The improvements are princi-
pelly in respect to the employment of direct interviewing
methods, better sample randomization, and the considera-
tion by four of the five agencies analysed of the problem
of election turnout. In addition, we see in several cases
the beginnings of stratified sampling.
Meny shortcomings still remain, none of which, how-
ever, cennot be overcome in the reasonably neer future.
For example, the numbers of respondents  were in several
cases too small for significant analysis of voting dyna-
mics (YKK, Osaka, Nagasue).
Occupational breakdowns were not handled es they
might heve been.
For example, the Osaka Public Opinion
Research Institute used confusing and possibly overlap-
ping and nonexhaustive categories. In terms of known
voting dynamics, a category such as "ferm" would seem to
be insufficient, since the voting behavior of tenant-
farmers, owner-cultivators, and landowners differs redi-
cally.' The analysis of the rank order by occupetion in
Fumamoto and Saitama Prefectures by Asahi reveels this
clearly. Categories such as "brain workers" may include
clerks, writers, white-collar workers, etc.
However, on the balence, it would seem possible to
have more confidence in the results of work performed by
these egencies than would heve been justified a yeer ago.
Unless there sre redical departures in the present trends
of improvement, it should be possible to look to these
agencies for e good deal of informetion respecting public
opinion trends in Japan.
The polls all are agreed on the close relationship
between age and general perty affiliation, i.e., the
principle that the Socialist vote declines with ege and
40

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
SUMMARY
41
the conservative vote increases with age seems to be es-
tablished. Likewise, except for the variation in Oseke,
which mey be attributeble to small semple size, women in
generel tend to be more conservative than men. An exami-
nation of the rank order of the Socialist vote by occupe-
tions in Saitama and Kumamoto Prefectures shows feirly
constant groupings, which perhaps mey apply to the rest
of the country.
It also seems to be the case thet the nonvoting rate
emong women tends to be higher then among men. As for
age, the Tokyo data would seem to suggest that nonvoting
is higher in the lower ege groups, but this mey be a spe-
cial Tokyo rether than a national characteristic.
It further seems to be the case that turnout mede no
significant difference in the distribution of the actuel
vote. That is, there wes no particular party or politicel
trend in nonvoting.
. However, the data on this point are
ambiguous nd cennot be pushed too far without further
testing.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.78)
NO
DAMB. ARMOUR
20 : A A: Mor. 
DEC 22 1947
: NA: Mo. Alliion
Bozdarisbifoon
SUBJECT :
Paa Goil!
Dere is some iting lalemed
prthe delag Iim keefing
Brtamopt astready
is sireful-
X
I'imppto Tihyy Friday
1
night for a guich hooh aee
and a boattrigp hove win tondiln.
Wenry lhistmas

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
DIVISION OF
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
December 2, 1947
NA Mr. Allison
I found the attached report
prepared by Mr. N. A. Bogdan,
Vice President of J. Henry Schroder
Banking Corporation, very interesting.
He seems to be fairly optimistic.
Jim Penfield thought you would
be interested in looking through
it and perhaps using it to contest
many of the arguments of those
who wish you to change the directive
to Tokyo about the Zaibatsu.
In any event, could you give
me your opinion of this memorandum
so we can write Mr. Bogdan telling
him what we thought of it?
Cecil B. Lyon
Attachment:
Ltr. from Miss Slattery, Secretary
to Mr. Bogdan, 11/25/47, attaching
memorandum on Japan.
A-A: CBL: JWP

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.98)
2
MR. ARMOUR
J. HENRY SCHRODER BANKING CORPORATION
FORTY-SIX WILLIAM STREET
NOV 28 1947
NEW YORK 5, N. Y.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NORBERT A. BOGDAN
VICE PRESIDENT
November 25, 1947
894.00/11-2547
Dear Mr. Secretary:
Mr. Norbert A. Bogdan, who is now spending
several months in India and Pakistan, has prepared an
informal memorandum dealing with conditions in Japan
after his recent stay there.
Believing that it may be of interest to you,
I take pleasure in enclosing a copy herewith.
Very truly yours,
Elsie Stattery
Secretary to
N. A. Bogdan
0
The Honorable Norman Armour
Assistant Secretary of State
S
Washington, D. C.
Enclosure

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.92)
Deeamber 23, 1947
Lm reply refer to
894.00/1
My dear Mies Blattery:
x
4
Mr. Armour hes roquested mo to thamt yox and
through yom Mr. Bogdam for making aveilable to the
-2
Department e cepy of Nr. Bogdan's reeent imfermel
momorasdum dling with sonditions in Japan during
2547
his reeent stay there. Thls memorandum has been of
resl imterest and velue to the ofrieere of the Dopart-
ment concerned with Japanese a'faira and Mr. Bogdan's
remarks sonuerning the future of Japan's ssonomy bave
been partioularly valuable.
Thank yos ags'n for forwarding this repert.
Sineerely yours,
Cesil B. Lyon
CS/ V
Bpesial Assistant to the
Assistant Seeretary for Political Affairs
Mies Elele Blattery.
Beeretary to N. A. Bogdan.
J. Henry Sehroder
Banking Corporation.
48 Willinm Strees,
New York S, Jow York.
NA:JMAILL80D O
12/29/47

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.95)
LO NOT DETACH THIS FORM.
FILE NO.
894.00/1
R EC:O R D
 C O P Y
DESF
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE CRIGINAL ACTION
2
2547
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS
4
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
6
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOF FILING.
FRON TC KYC
DN R

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.97)
De/L
POID
V
FE.
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
A.S
FOR JAPAN
No. 1419
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, November 25, 1947
Subjeet:
Round-table Conferences on Questions
Pertaining to Culture and Peace
THE HONOR..BLE
THE SUCRET RY OF ST TE,
SHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to report that there have been
held, at the official residenoe of the Prime Minister of
Japan, four meetings of a Round-table Conference on Ques-
tions Pertaining to Culture and Peace. These meetings are
sponsored by the Nippon Bunka Kyokai (The Christian Litera-
ture Society of Japan) and the Nippon Heiwa Kyokai (The
Japan Christian Peace Association). Representative mem-
bers of these groups, legislators from both Houses of the
Diet, and individuals from the various Christian mis-
sionary groups attend and take part in these diseussions.
Mr. William C. KERR of the Religions Division, Civil
Information and Education Section, General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, and Foreign
5
Service Officer Glen BRUNER of this Mission have also
been invited and havo attended the more recent meetings.
There are tranamitted herewith, as of possible
interest to the Department, copies in translation of the
Minutes of the Proceedings of the Third Round-table Con-
ference on Questions Pertaining to Culture and Peace, of
the Honorary Sucretary's letter of October 19, 1947
requesting that study be made of the various problems to
be taken up at the Fourth Meeting, and of the letter of
invitation to the Fourth Round-table Conference received
by Mr. and Mrs. Bruner on November 10, 1947.
At these Round-table Conferenoes peace problems,
cultural problems, refomm problems, educational problems,
UNCL...SOIFTED
and

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's No. 1419,
November 25, 1947
UNCLASSIFIED
-8-
and problems of Christian evangeliam are taken up. It hes
been of particular interest to this offiee that Minister of
Eduoation Tatsuo MORITO and Minister of State Junso
SASAmORI have not only attended eaoh conferenoe but have
taken active part in the disoussions.
Respeetfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Acting Politioal Adviser
Enclosures:
1。
Minutes, in transla-
tion, of Proceedings of
Third Round-table
Conference
2。
Letter, in transla-
tion, transmitting
Minutee
S.
Invitation, in trans-
lation, to Fourth
Round-table Conference
Ori inal and four copies
to Department
711/840.4/843
GDruner: ena
UNOLASSTETID

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.94)
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICADEC
AIR MAIL
London, December 1, 1947
UNCLASS IFIED
No. 2725
Subject: Transmitting Article from Spectator on Japan
1947 DEC 10
DEPARTMENT OF
STATE
9P245
PR FASTERR AFT
he Hontra: le
RECE
Sacretary of State,
QEPAEN
Vashin ton
STATE
1. As of nrcha le interest tc the Department
have the honor to mclose copy of an article from
the November 7, ly47, issre of The Spectator entitled
"What Japan is hinkiny".
2. The author, r. Russell Greenwood, offers
sevoral interest ol servations: 1) that the ordinary
Japanase itize seems ull: determined Pirst to accopt
the rule of the occu in: Power and second to rebuild
his country; 2) that the most obvious feature of the
Japanese has heen his cor stant preocc pation with the
material siao of oxistence; 3) that the Tojo regime is
BC
thoroughly discredited; 4) that religion is sleeping,
but Christianity has received numerous converts; 5) that
Fe
the Japanese have only a hazy notion of the meaning of
OIE
"demooracy"; 6) that Communism has made little progress
A-S
in Japan; 7) that in Japan today the United States stands
unchailenced; and 8) that there is some desire in certain
OCD
Japanese circles for close cultural association between
Britain and Japan.
Respectfully yours,
Eck
For the Ambassador:
army
Navg
Everett F. Drumright
cial
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosure:
Copy of article
WA: 86
(Original and heotograph to the Departpent)
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Nanking
Copy to Embassy, Moscow
Drumright/wg
m

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.97)
Sourc: The Spectator
Noveer
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatoh No. 2725 dated Decomber 1 1
from Amerioan Embassy, London, England.
WHAT JAPAN IS THINKING
PyRussell Greenwood
There is little ir the present behaviour of the
average Jananese to remind one of the aggressive and
hrutal warfare that endod more than two years ago.
In.dea, he has gcome ar object of sympathy with larg
sections of the Occupation Forces, thoush this sympathy
renair s temperet hy a constant suspicion of that Oriental
inscrutahility especially noticga le in Japan. Certainly
a lot has died in him, nut it is on vory rare occasions
that the ordirery citizen givos himself up to self-pity.
Rether he seems fully aetermined first to accept the rule
of the occurying Power and gecond to rebuild his country.
Durir tle lest twelva months T have travelled widely
in Japan, aru, as an interpreter, have heen in conatant
touch with the Jananese, both officially and otherwise.
To me the most oovious feature has heen his constant pre-
occupation wit'. the material side of existence. Ideals
and litical do ma have little vganin wher his whole
time is spant in securir r cessities of food, clothing
and housing. Preeminuutly the nit of co-operation is
the family, ard it is t' is limitation of outlook that
makes the farmer relictant to ha a over his entire rice
harvest to the "overr ant ior redistrihution. Conaitions
are tor hara for the indivjuual to e movnd by apneals to
public spirit, and only the ac otien of stringent measures
will suffico to secure domestic roauction for the general
ood. As in so many countries, the war has left a legaoy
of black markets, and so prevalent are they that the word
"yami," which formerly stood for "black market," has lost
most of its meanin", and "yami" nrices are quoted bla-
tantly in local newspane s. Scarcely e fanily oan exist
without buyir rica or fish or fuel at exorbitant and
illegal prices.
Everywhere the Tojo re ime is thoroughly discredited,
and here I felt convinced that the Japanese were sincere
in their aisillusionment. More than one Japanese ex-
pressed to me the opinion that, were Tojo released, he
would inevitahly be assassinated by the peonle themselves.
I have heard vivid descriptions of"the propaganda broad-
cast from Tokio in the last days of the war--of the
looting and rape that woula take place as soon as Allied
troops set foot in Japan. The contrast between these
warnings ana the event itself was only the first of 
series of situations which revealed to the ordinary
citizen the deception practised by their war-time Govern-
ment.
With expansionist nationalism out of favour, what
is to be the guiding foree in the life of the Japanese
as soon/

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCIASSIFIED
Enolosure to
Dospatch No. 2725
December 1, 1947
from London
as soon as he has time to think independently of the moed
of the day? Religion, if not aead, is sleeping. Shinto-
ism told him that he was invincible, and on a national
scale has thus been founa lacking, though in the family
it remains the medium for showin reverence to anoestors.
Buadhism was always too far removed from everyday needs
to have a universal apneal, and it is more than ever o
in this era of hara work ror subsistence.. The trapping
ana ceremonies of both forms of religlon are maintained,
but they have no deeper meaning than Whit Monday has to
many or our own hikers and picnickers. A Shinto priest
sumned up the situation unintentionally when he wrote to
a Init Commu aer: "The festival will take place in the
farmers' less ousy season, ana I feel that the dancing
and singin in the precincts of the shrine will give
these farmars a well-meriteu diversion." Christianity,
on the other hana, has received many converts; among
them, iven prominance in the Jananese Press, were two
daurhters of a hi h-ranking uddhist priest in Kyoto who
were received irto the Komar Catnolic Church. But it
segms reasonablo to suggest that a proportion of these
converts have acte? from mixed motives, and there seems
in areral little promise of a widsspread Christian move-
mer.t amon the Jupanase peonle.
en discusslor. amon the Japanese does reach a
plane above that of the orice of rice or of cigarettes,
a word constartl: recurrin: is "democracy." It would
be over-optimistic to main tain that the people show any
profound understardin: or the theoretical value of the
word; many, I know, regard it in the light or "anything
General MacArthur tells us tc uo" (an actual quotation
from a Japanese farmer's reply on heing asked the meaning
of democracy). But at the same time many sections of
the community have worked hard in the creation and sup-
port of a democratic electoral machinery, the efforts
of school-teachers era of yout! leagues being especially
noteworthy. In this year's April elections I travelled
extensively as an observer, ana I was agreeably surprised
by the keenness shown by both men ana women and by their
evident gratitude to the Occupation lForces for taking a
henevolent but unostentatious interest in their elections.
Except in Tokio, electiors for prefectural and civic ap-
pointments proved more popular than the national eleotions
to the House of Representatives ana the House of Coun-
cillors. The average provincial citizan coula not cope
with five major election-days in one month: it was, I
feel, a mistake to administer such a heavy dose of demo-
cratic innoculation to a patient of such tender years.
However, the more than 60 per cent of votes cast is a
figure which compares not unfavourably with those of
many countries more acouatomed to the task of voting for
their rulers.
The final/

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASS IF IED
Enolosure to
Despatoh No. 2725
December 1, 1947
from London
The final election results, with the balance
slightly in favour of the new promier, Katayama, and
his Socialists, seemed a fair indication of the publio
attitude. The Communists had little recompenae for
their virorous campaigning. Part of the failure of the
Japanese Communist Party was clearly due to the influonoe
of MacArthurdom (and many Japanese were not slow to ap-
preciate a discropancy batween S.C.A.P.'s self-rightoous
announcements of a "free and unfettered election" on the
one hand and its undis uised hostility towards the
Communists on the other). At the same time widespread
anti-Communist feelin: had heen voiced by almost every
repatriate I met from the russlan zones in Korea and
Manchurla.
How far tlese rewly-sown seeds of democracy will
flourish in Japan denends to a reat extent on the Allies
thomselves; both on their present occupation policy and
on the wisuom of uhe future treaty (a treaty which, six
months ago, the Jananose Press was estimat'ng would be
corcluaed by tho end of 1347. So much for the hopes of
men). S.C.A.P. hus tried to show the moral desirability
and the moral suneriority of democracy. While this is
good as far as it roes, a nore potent way of impressing
them with the need for democracy is to show them its
efficiency. The fect that the Allies wo n the war aid
much to convirco the Tapanase in this respect, but the
present machinery of occunation is alreaay going some
way to dispel the hellat i aemocracy as an effective
means of jovurrment. mris   recially se in the Brit-
ish se, where P.. .F.,  rr: force, tries pain-
fully to pretend that it is important. It is, in point
of fact, entirely subserv'ot to the local Amerioan
vilitary Covernment team in overy prefacture which it
cccupios in S. Horshr aru Shivolu.
Today in Janan the .S.A. stands unchallenged. But
there is amon: the potter-oducate? classes a real feeling
that closer rolations with ritain would be of mutual
henefit, and Sir Robert Clivo's lotter to The Times this
spring on the subjoct received widespread support when it
was eventually published in tho Japanese Press. Japanese
businessmen have a sincere respect for their British
counterparts and an admiration for our manufactured pro-
duots. But the plea that has been put to me most fre-
quently by Japanese professional men and students is for
a close cultural association between Britain and Japan;
the Japanese student seems content to receive his lessons
in demooracy from the U.S.A., but not unnaturally he
prefers to learn his Shakespeare from Britain. It 1s to
be hoped that as soon as possible organisations suoh as
the British Counoil will take full advantage of the
occasion. The impending departure of Mr. Edmund Blunden
as educational adviser to the United Kingdom liaison
mission in Tokio seems a propitious sign. At the moment
the Japanese are materialists to a degree; but their
students are keen, and sorely in need of enlightened
support of a kind that Britain can give.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRETA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A-S
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
U - Ir. Lovett
Subject: Elimination of Excessive Concentrations of Economic
Power in Japan (Zaibatsu Program).
This memorandum end the attachments listed below have been prepare
Central
pursuant to your request to me on Friday to obtain for you as promptly
possible a coordinated State Department position with regard to the pro
posed cable to SCAP which has been submitted to you by the Secretary of
the Army. It is my view that the alternative State Department draft cable
is sufficient to enable SCAp to proceed, for the present, and that it goes
as far as is advisable until such time as State has been given an oppor-
tunity to consider fully the fundamental changes in policy and approach
which appear to be involveu in certain passages of the Army draft.
894.00/12-147
g
1. Proposed Army Draft cable, received by State Department
D
November 28, authorizing SCAP to permit the passage of the deconcentration
Returned to
Ordinance now berore the Japanese Diet, provided certain emendments are
made.
2. State Department's cable proposed in substitution for the above,
drafted by OE and IR and concurred in by A-T, A-S, FE and NA.
3. Commentary by the State Department, prepared and cleared as
above, on the proposed Arny Department cable, setting forth in detail the
reasons for the State Department amendments to the proposed Army cable.
State's draft includes a number or suggestions made by Army. It is
agreed that only "excessive" concentrations should be arfecced by this
legislation, that standards for deconcentration should be promulgated on
CS/E
an industry by industry basis rather than for the economy as a whole, and
that more time shoula be allowed for appeals. It is also agreed that
the ambi uity should be removed fron those provisions or the Ordinance
dealing wit. selection or concentrations to be dissolved and that re-
organization or dissolution orders shall be accompanied by the economic
and other data on which they are based.
Stete's draft does not inelude those Aray proposals which would be
desirable only if review of the entire progrem were camplete and had resulted
in fundamental end fer-reaching chenges in existing policy. It is regrett
that more or the Aumy proposals could not be eccepted but it seoms fair to
sey that the divergencies between the two Departments in this regard do no
stem from unreasoneble infloxibility on the part of the orficers of the
20/2
State Department, but rather from the widely separate positions from which
the overall problem is vieved. The basic difficulty anpears to be that the
67
StL.
Army
A.
SECRET
. W

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
.1
wishes to prejudge the review of the program. It therefore uses, as in
its first sentence, language of characterization to the effest that the
policy in SWNCC 302/2 "seens to be somewhat radical and of questionable
practicality". This language serves no useful purpose at this time and
tends to confuse an issue not yet decided. In effect, the Army is asking
us to concur on a few hours notice in a cable which prejudges important
issues now under review, without any evidence being introduced in support
of its judgment.
The Department of State has cooperated fully with the Army Department
in the earlier request to SCAP to delay action on the Ordinance and in
agreeing to review the whole program as set forth in FEC 230. The State
Departnent is preparing its own revision and your letter to Mr. Royall of
November 25 is the latest in a series of requests made by us for a statement
of Army objections to the paper in order that they may be considered in
this revision which may, for all we know, already have met many of the Army's
criticisms.
Apart from questions of basic approach, the effect of several of the
Army proposals for amendment of the Ordinances would be to weaken it to the
point of unworkability. It is hard to escape the impression that this is
what the Amy intends by the requirement that administration of its Ordi-
nance be peraissive rather than mandatory and that provision be made for
judicial review. The law could certeinly have been better drafted and it
is believed that the State Department's proposed amendments will improve
it. In any case, it is a necessary and proper part of the deconcentration
program. Its elesculation would heve serious adverse effects and would
indicate a reversal of basic policy.
The Army draft emphasizes the concept of "just compensation" and "fair
value" in such a way as again to prejudge one of the basic issues which we
have been endeavoring to discuss concretely with Army for some six weeks.
However, the question of compensation has almost no bearing on the Ordinance.
The type of reorganization contemplated is similar to the dissolution of
holding companies in the U. S. through distribution of portfolio securities,
the sale by cormorations of property unrelated to the main line of their
business, etc. Just as there is no provision in the United States Holding
Company Act, or Sherman Act, for "fair" compensation in connection with re-
organization, so also the question of compensation is largely irrelevant
with regard to the Japanese Ordinance. Anay concern with the question of
compensation may arise from a confusion between the purpose of the Ordinance
and that other aspect of the Zaibatsu program which relates to goverument
seizure and sale of the assets of Zaibatsu individuals. The program of
government seizure and sale went into effect in August 1946 pursuant to an
entirely different law and is now well advanced. The State Department is
prepared to consider further the question of compensation to these individuals
in the general review of the basic directive. To take up the problem out of
its main context by considering it in connection with the Ordinance may not
only prejudge the much larger issues but will also be misinterpreted by the
Japanese Government as placing a variety of unintended and unforeseen
limitations upon its power to reorganize Japanese enterprises.
a
The Aray
SECRET
-2-

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
The Army proposed the Agency administering the Ordinance not only to
determine that an enterprise was exerting a substantial influence on prices
but also to prove that the influence was "adverse". This provision would
place a burden on the Agency even greater in many cases than that required
by U. S. courts to be sustained under the Sherman Act. In the United
States price fixing is illegal per se whether benign or adverse. Bocause
of the virtual impossibility of comparing existing prices with prices which
would have been existing if a monopoly had not been present, this is the
only practical rule if enterprises of monopolistic characteristics are to
be defined as "excessive concentrations" under the terms of the Ordinance.
The Army draft would reguire that standards for determining excessive
concentrations be reviewed in Washington before promulgation. Even if the
necessary data and staff were present in Washington for such review its
effect could only be to emphasize to the Japanese responsible for admini-
stration there was considerable difference of opinion regarding the whole
progran between General MacArthur and Washington.
It is believed that the State Department draft goes as far as possible
in acceptin the Army suggestions and that it already oversteps the normal
prerogatives of SCAP and the Far Eastern Commission. Not the least serious
feature of the Army pronosals is that they would dictate General MacArthur's
action with a force and in a degree of detail which is in derogation of
international agreements whereby General LacArthur is Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers and is to be instructed only by the issuance of
policy directives.
For the above reasons it is recommended that you forward to Mr. Royall
under the attached letter prepared for your signature, the State Department
draft cable, and the memorandum of comment, both of which are also attached.
FankSWisner
Frank G. isner
SECRET
-3-

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.82)
SECRET
Dear fon:
Ints is in ronly to your letter of ovecher se im whic you
anclosed a nroonad ceble to anerel ac rtur an the aiesolmiem
of emeessive coneentrat! on: of econoic pomer 1n Jepan. I regret
that 1t ns not rosst le to 1o you ou cosouurese  the 
day, as you suppstet. inos cartein of your propesmls sem t
 to invohre qustions o hesic olioy, I!ve felt it me
to ave n carenul mmarimatlon made in the tate Dopartmt of the
pointnidltho:pr cundrtion of
them eseet es poesible.
SECRETFE
I  sendi you herosith an altorantive draft whieh inoor
porates e mber of your u estions.elosrd also is a mrmm
of oorsent wiieh sets forth in sosw deteil the remsons wtiy me heve
dirrioulty with corteir portion of your draft. Yo coble ppemse
to mme at movere! poistn tint our tn epertments heve mot oaly
alreedy revieved ths olicy aper, but urve also areed a artaie
fundenentel modifi cations. he onclosed draft, on the other haml.
a beeed on our woleratondiu t't ual.  rowiow has not yet boen
coneluded. It memns rsferable. i: vi of the urgenoy of the
tmediete problm ncia wmrtl no rt ur in coaneetion wit the
Oraimmee. to inform him of such nsreeont es o ay reeah now emd
to lvn t other o for frt er consideretio.
4
In thia conmeotion  hope vo y "cel soon  stataomnt of
your mpecifie objeotious to the policy nor b-fore the Per aster
commissiem end your recoxzseniati oas for its iaprovement. in view
of the meed for furter negotintions 1:  and for relleving
emerel me rtur o' is wmoerteinty rognri1n? mshimgton's posi tiom
1m this mmtter. I as 1nerensinzl/ ani ous t procend with you to mm
exsimtion or th, orerell polioy.
DC/R
inmerly yours,
002.67
cinretry ate
The Tonorable
Yenmeth C. yell,
oeretary ef the my.
on 85.C.
A-S : Fdisnsr umde 1br
12/2/49

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.92)
SECRET
Commentary en Prepesed Aray Department able and
Reasems fer State Depertment Revisiens
1. li1  2  1   .
The cmitted taxt aheresterises uncc 30ž/2 as "pomemiat méionl and of
questioneble preeticability." This statesent prsjudges the results of the
resonsideration of the dooment which State and Army bave agreed to wndertake.
Mersoever, the reference seems wnnecessery for the purposes which the tele-
gram is to sosve.
2. Cmit "and advarea" in line 1 of ake 2 of croposed Arey cable.
The provision proposed by Aray would have required the HCLC not caly te
determine thet an entsrprise was exerting a substantial influenes en prices
but slso to prove that the influence was "adverse". This provisiem would
have placed a burden on the HCIC which in many cases would be greater them
that required ty our courts to be sustained unv er the Sherman Aet. In the
United States, price fixing is illogal er s, whether benign or adverse.
Besause of the virtuel impessibility of comparing existing prices with priess
which would have existed if e monopoly had not been present, this is the only
preetieal rule if enterprisos of monopolistic characteristies are to be de-
fised as "srcessive concentrations" under the terms of the ordinance.
3。
Cuit paregrach C.  ase 2. linea 4 to 8 of  eragre h C on pare 2 of
propeasd Arsy aable snd aubetitute the new carasranh C auegsgted in
State_gable.
Artiele 3 of the Japanese lew is embiguously drew and Aray's recommenda-
tion thst it be changed spoeare well justified.
However, Arey's proposed chan es feil to remove the existing embiguity and,
muah more importent, creste new and critical cbstacles to effective falfill-
mont of the intont of the law. If Army's chenges were adopted, the HCIC would
not be required to eliminate excessive concentratione; they would simply be
gmpewered to do so. Even un'er the post favorsble oiroumatances it will take
considerable courege and vision on the pert of a Jenanese Commiesion to bring
about the kind of alteration in the Jepenese economy which will efford an
opportunity for individuel cospetitive enterprise to exist. If the power to
carry cut the intent of this law is msde  ormissive, rather then mandatory,
the possibility that the existing conopolies cen be broken up on the initiative
of HoLC will, without eny question, have disapreared. That brenkup would then
require that CA undertake to direct sach action of the HCIC in detail. This
would put en ungerranted and onerous burden on sC!r, and would prejudiee the
survival beyond the occupetion of the principles underlying the progrem.
The changes preposed in the Stste draft is intended to eliminete any
ambiguity in the law which hae concerned State from the firet. If Artiele 3
ef tho

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.91)
SECREI
-2-
of the law 1s roed in eoafesetlen with artiale 6, 1t oems alear that the
ecssssive seneentratieme toe be dissalved under the erdinenee would be me
leeted en the besls of the standards defined is Artiale 6 from ameng the
firms bearing eheresteristies spesified in Artiele 3. State's revisiem is
dssigoad to sey so.
4.1t li  to 13 of  D of  2.
This paragraph instruets the HCLC regardins the order in shieh emeeesive
coneentrations are to be designated, plecing the cartel-like eategory of ess-
centrations sheed of the others. Arny prepeses this ahange on the theery that
the designation of t is catagory in the law "more closely follees meriems
ota tutoo."
Imstruetion to iciC on the order of desigmetion seems ineppropriate in
the law, sinoe it is entirely a question of implementetion. Assuming that it
were jastified, however, it proceeds on a basie misapprehension both as to
the content of the United States statutes and as to the nature of the Zaibatee
problem. The cartel-like category of ooncertratiors dees not perallel the
category affested by .s. statutes and it is far from the sost impertant of the
cstegories affeoted by the Japanece statute. The extrt of the Aray Depert
ment's mimepprehension in this latter connection is indicated by the fast that
the Army wculd subordinate consideration of family aggregations of econsmie
power to a level of urgeney belor that of cartel-like groupe. Cartels, im
the Gerean and American sense o" the word, ere little kmowmn in Japem, while
family groups - the Zaibetay - are the most character!stie of Japenese eom-
cortrations.
5.
Subetitute peracrast (a) or the State drart for perasrenh (s) of the
A dra.
Arey's propesal to ineresse the reriod in whioh an ep eel may be taken
beyoed the 6 days prescribed in the dreft lew ap cars desirable. However,
Army's suggestior that the Hcif should be ampowered to determine this appeal
period, and should be empowered to axtend the neriod of appeal without limit
is elearly inoongruous. such disoretion would give the Hcic, by agreement
with mggrieved parties, a weans of perpetually evoiding judicial review of
its ordere. For as long as the period of appoal had not lapsed, the mCIC
order could not be enforoed; and repeated axtersions of such a perted would
Indefinitely postpone anforaesent of the order. Army's objoctive cen be
achieved simply by lengthening the eriod of mpneal to 30 daya.
6. Inre rah of the tato dre.
An extension of the period in which the rime vinister sall corsider an
appeel seems desireble in order to affosd reasonable opportunity for examina-
tior of the record. The Aray dret does not provide for such an ertension.
7.it

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.94)
SCCnLI
7.
The esitted tert would require that the Japenese law be changed se ee to
provide fer judisial ravies and sdequete compemeetien.
(e) n firet consideration, the Army Department's proposel fer
judicial review would seem eainently reasonables indeed in en early
sable to C:P drafted by State, the sase suggestien wae made. sCAp
replied to the suggestien, hossver, with obeervatiens whieh eppeer to
be eentrolling. He pointed out, in effeet, thst the Zaibeteu pregrem
is one which is teing im large nessure axternally imposed upom Jepemese
business and government, therefore, that the program hed to be imple-
mented in suoh a may as centinually to be under SCaF's contral. The
viemof foraer Assistant Srarotary of ar aCloy were cited ia this
sommection, as svidense of the desirebility of placing as little raliemse
as possible upen the Japanese themselves in the axecution of the pregrem.
Judicial review in the Japanese courts would plece the outeome of the
progras entirely beyoud SC: 's jurisdietion. Morecever, the pregrem
would be adjudicated by persons whose traditions and preconeeptiems were
entirely et variance with the objectives of the progrem. This suggeste
two things: that we must, however ruluotantly, give up the idee af
judicial review of HCiC; and that we must rush the program as far as
possible before the cccupetion enda, if there ls to be any hepe of mesesss.
(b) The question of compensation hes almost no bearing on the
type of reorgenisation contemplated under the HCiC law. The type of
reargenisation centemplated here is tn large measure the kind effested
under the U.s. Publio itility Holding Company Act, to wit, the dissalu-
tion of holding companies through d:stribution of portfelio sesurities,
the male by corperstions of properties umrelated to the wain lime of
their business, and so on. In none of these reorganisations is there
oocasion to compensate anyone. Just s there is no provision in the
Holding Compeny Aot or the hermen ct "or "fair" compensatien in com-
nection with reorgenimations, so also the question of compensation is
largely irrelevant with regard to the proposed Hcic law.
Concern with the questior of compensation may arise from a confusion
between the purposes of the HCLf law and another ns ect of the Taibateu progrem -
the latter being the progren of government seisure and sale of the sevets of
Zaibatsu individuals. The progrem of government saisurs and sale went into
affect in August 1946 purmuant to an entirely different ordinance and is now
well edvanoed. The State "epartment is nxious to deal with the question of
compensation to these individusls in the generel review of c CC 302/2. To
teke up the probles out of its main contoxt by considerio, it in conneetiom
with the clc lew not only may prejudge the wuch larger Imave but alse will be
a1sinterproted

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.91)
SECRL
-4-
misirterpreted by HCLC as plecing & variety of unintended and unfereesem
limitatiens upen its power to reorgamise Japanese enterprises.
8。
Calt meegd asatanaa on page  of pronoeed Aray cable. becianlas zita
porda fia any erent".
The suggestion in the Army Depertment's cable that deceneentratiem
standards be prowulgated on an iadustry by industry basis, rether than in
generel terms, sp- ars unobjectioneble. The provisien, however, that the
stenderde be fervarded to the United States for comment before promulgatien
could scarcely help in the execution of the program and mi ht well delay it.
No date or staff are aveileble in aslhington with which to peas juzgment on
the wiadom of the standards developed in Tokye and reviewed by SChP. Mere-
over, oven if such dats and steff existed, the suggested procedure appears an
unwarrented and unneceseary infringesent on CA 's powers; the substense of
these stendards is pleinly a matter of impleaentation such as is generally and
rightly loft to SCa 's dinoration. In addition, constent ashington delay and
revision of ixplementing standards sunrosedly to be originated, prosessed,
and edminiatered by Jananese would make more plain than ever the feot that the
Zaibatsu progrem was a foreign importstion cown to its ssellest details and,
equally important, would lesd msny Japaness to think that it was a peliey eon-
cerning which there was conaidercble divieion of opinion as etwwen SCkr end
Seshington. In both these wsys, ashington's review of these stendards moald
aubetentielly weeken the effectiveness of the Zaibatsu program, eithout any
compeneating benofit eing derived fros thet review.
9.
Calt finel paregraph of pronesed Army  epartment's cable.
The omitted text refers to Ammy-ltate reconsideration of sacc 302/2,
and inatruote CA on how to proceed in reference to Zaibatsu poliey pending
thet reconsideration. In doing so, however, it coes into such detsil es to
prejudge the romulte of that revie. so' hes indicated an urgent need for
policy guidence in re the decobeontration law, whose passege ashington hae
asked hie to deley. The prorosed r - t te cable should sdiress itself to
that lew, rether then te the bremter lesmms wf fotbatou poliey. Te will only
be possible to give sos poliey uidenee oo the Sstbetro melley es e whole
efter corpletien of rye tate rovter of the poliey.
12/1/47

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.93)
DRAZT CABIE PROM WAR TO SCAP
 30, 1947
CINOFE,
TOKYO, Japen
Provided following changes or their oquivalent are mede in the bill
on the dissolution of concentretions of economis power there is no further
objestion here to its passage or implementation.
(A) Add the word "excessive" wherever the word "concentration" appears
throughout the bill.
(B) Artiele 2. Change the last sentence of definition of "enterprise
of monopolistic charactertstics" to reed ss follows: "in this case 'influenee'
shall mean control sufficient to have a substentiel effect uoon the prlce or
flow of cepital or uno the price or flow of goods or services, if the
enterprise were withdrawn fron the market'.
(C) Article 3. Cmit from preamble "enumoret:d below" and add at end of
preamble the following sentences "Such excessive corcentrations shall be
designated from emong the enterprises or concentretioon enunereted below.
upen the basis of atendardy Ceveloped in eccordaree with Artiele 6.
(D) Artiele 8. Add sentence to second aregrneh seading as followes
"The written findinge shell cicelcee in detell the econouic, mamufaeturing.
and other data upon which the corder is taeed, or such informetien shell be
tranemitted with the order in neserendum form in addatien to the findinge."
()Article 13.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.95)
一2-
(E) Artiale 13. Change the wards "6 daya" to "30 days".
(F) Artiale 14. Change the words "15 daya" to "30 days".
In view of the sxtreme impertanoe of policy and standerds for elimimmtiem
of excessive concentrations under the proposed law, it is suggested that
the standerds to be promulgated under Article 6 should be prepared on an
industry by industry basis rather than in general terms applicable to the
entire economy.
This message sent to enable you to proceed with Crdinance without
delay and withcut ewaiting completion of review here of Sancc 302/2 and
trensmittal to you of results thereof.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.92)
DC/L
DIVISIONDO
TE
NORTHEAST ASFFAIRS
UNITED STATES POLITICAL
ARVISEP948
D/A
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, December 19, 1947
CONFIDENTIAL
For Use of the Department Only.
No. 1465
SUBJECT:
Memorandum of Conversation with Shigeru Nembara,
894.00/12-1947
President of Tokyo University.
1/
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a
memorandum of conyersation, which is summarized below, between
Mr. Shigeru Nambare, President of Tokyo University, and W. Henry
Lawrence, Jr., Second Secretary of this Miesion (Miss Shizuko
Ichibashi, interpreter for Mr. Nambare, was present) on the
subject f peace treaty and new Japan; communists among students;
105
elleged leftist character of occupation policies; purge; repara-
5PA
EUAX
tions; reduction of occupaticn costs; and the present political
FN
situation.
ED
Summery: Mr. Nambara said that the Japanese are
heartened et the strong atand taken by Mr. SEBALD in the
Allied Council toward the Soviet Union. Hambara feels that
ocD
the Japanese desire an early peace treaty, but are hopeful
the United Stateu will favor a minimum army and navy for
celf-defense as in the case of Italy. He is convinced that
S
the new Japan can be trusted with this meens of self-defense.
He believes there are fewer communists among students than
formerly, but in general throughout the country the communiste
1T
are more influentiel because of the underlying economic end
politicel instability of the times and because of occupancy
by communiets of key positions in unione. Nembara appeared
to egree with an article in Newsweek of December 1. 1947 by
Kauffmen, New York lawyer, thet Cccupation policies are to
the left of anything now tolerated in the United States, an
8
opinion that is evidently wide-spread among the Jepanese, who
believe Occupation policy crystallized at a time wher com-
promise with the Soviet Union was necessary, and has not re-
flected the changing relations of the United States and the
Soviet Union. Nambare egreed with Kauffman that the purge
2
has gone too far end has seriously slowed rehabilitation of
C
Japan.
CT?
1948
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 1465.
December 19, 1947.
-2
Japan. The former believes that other reforms have been too
drastic. He indicated that the level of industrial capacity
demanded by countries other than the United States would be
a great mistake and advccates reparations from current pro-
duction rather than removal of plants. Nambara expressed the
hope that the occupation forces can be reduced, pointing out
that the money could more profitably be spent in rehabilitating
the nation and in educating the youth of Japen in democratic
ways. He decried the present disproportionate policy of
"business first". Nambara believes the present Government is
not ideal, but sees nothing more suitable on the immediate
horizon. He is certain the situation would be far worse if
the Liberals came into power. He thought Hitoshi ASHIDA the
most likely man to head a new conservative party, but em-
phasized the importance of labor in any government. End of
Summary.
Enclosure:
Memorandum of Conversation
Original and ozalid to Department
800
WHLewrence, Jr.:vr
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1465 dated December 19, 1947 from the
Acting Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject, "Memorandum
of Conversation with Shigeru Nambara, President of Tokyo Univorsity."
COPY
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
SUBJECT:
Peace Treaty and New Japan; Communists Among Students;
Alleged Leftist Character of Occupation Policies; Purge;
Reparations; Reduction of Occupation Costs; Present
Political Situation.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Shigeru NAMBaRA, Presid ent of Tokyo University
(formerly Tokyo Imperial University).
Mr. W. Henry Lawrence, Jr., Second Secretary of
Mission.
Miss Shizuko ICHIBASHI, Interpreter for Mr.
Nambara.
PLACE:
The President's study at the Tokyo University, December 3,
1947.
Mr. Nambara seid thet the Japanese people have been heartened
by the strong stand taken by Mr. SEBALD in the Allied Council for
Japan toward the Soviet Union. Most Jepanese, Nambara declared,
believe an early peace treaty highly desirable despite the fact
that they are apprehensive concerning the possibility of Soviet
attempts to dominate Japen. The Japanese are in complete agreement
with Article 9 of the new Constitution in so far as it applies to
the renunciation of eggressive war as a means of settling inter-
national disputes. However, many Japanese, Nambara states, are
hopeful that the peace treety will result in treatment of Japan
similar to that of Itely which is allowed to maintain a minimum
Army end Navy for self-defense. These Japanese are of the opinion
thet it would be to the advantage of the United States to support
such a course beceuse of the possibility of a threat to Japan from
the Soviet Union.
Nambare is convineed that there is a new Japan in the making
which can be trusted with the means of self-defense. He is aware
that there are possibilities of an upsurge of reactionary spirit
after the peece treety, but believes thet the danger is not great
because of the headwey already made in the democratization of
Japen. Nambare pointed out that should the peace treaty conflict
with provisions of the Constitution the latter would naturally
have to be amended. In mentioning the Constitution, Nambara said
that, frankly speaking, the Constitution wes a creation of General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
Nambare steted thet there ere fewer Communists among the
students at Tokyo University then formerly. He aseribed this to
the fact that most students are now more critical in the evaluation
of Marxist ideas than students were in the peast. He mentioned that
individuals at the University who were former soldiers had turned
out to be more serious students than had been expected. It appears
that experience in Japan has peralloled that in the. United States in
this

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 1465,
December 19, 1947.
-2-
this regard. Nambera indicated meny Japanese students are hopeful
that they may soon be permitted an opportunity to study abroad, es-
pecially in the United States.
Communists, according to Nambara, exert an influence out of
proportion to their numbers, largely becsuse they occupy key positions
in unions. Furthermore, their activities thrive upon the difficulties
confronting the great majority of people at the present time in earn-
ing sufficient money to buy basic necessities. In Japan such harsh-
ness of the times is eptly described by the tern "takenoko seikatsu"
which means, transleted literally, living on bamboo sprouts but by con-
notation has reference to the necessity for peeling off clothes layer
by layer, end selling them in order to supplement income sufficiently
to keep alive. The Communists, as everywhere, are attenpting to make
the most of this situetion.
Nembara mentioned an article in Mewsweek of December 1, 1947
containing excerpts from a report of James Lee Keuffman, New York
lawyer, who visited Japan late last summer. It appeare that Nambara
is in general agreament with the statements made therein, including
those relating to Occupation policies es being far to the left of
enything now tolereted in the United States. Kauffman is well-
known to Nambara, having also been a professor at the Tokyo Imperial
University.
(The opinion that Occupation policies re more to the left than
in the United States is epparently shared by meny people in Japen.
It was stated to Lewrence in another way recently at a luncheon at
the Imperial Hotel with Nr. Takeo KURUSU, Jepanese Minister of
Finance, end Mr. Takeshi Watanebe, Chief of the Liaison Office,
Ministry of Finance. Watanebe said that the impression is wide-
spread among the Japenese that Occupetion policy, especially that
releting to labor and economic matters, encourages the Communists.
He stated thet among intellectuel circles there is a belief that
Occupetion policy crystallized at the time when relations betwoen
the Soviet Union and the other Powers involved were such thet eny
policy edopted was necessarily a compromise. However, Watanabe
said that these same circles believe thet such poliey has remained
static and has not reflected the changing relations between the
Soviet Union end the United States.)
Nambara agreed with Kauffman's view that the purge has gone
too far. Most Japanese, Nambare seid, are ughast at its extent.
They agree that it is essentiel to renove ultra-militaristic and
ultre-nationalist elements from public life, but believe the purge
has not been sufficiently selective. Nambere is clearly aware of
the difficulty of such selection, but pointed out thet some of
the people who were most friendly to merica and sone who would be
most helpful in solving the perplexing problems of rehabiliteting
Japan ere berred from assisting the Occupation and the Japanese
Government and industry. He steted thet some were purged merely
because of the positions they had held, even though they mede no
contribution to Japenese aggression.
He agreed it is essentiel to remove the Zaibatsu, but the
purge of executives, he thinks, will result in a loss of production
efficiency in Jepanese economic life from which it will take years
to recover. Nambare indicated that, in his opinion, other Occupation
reforms are too drastic. The decentralization of industry, he ssid,
would result in additional loss in production and efficieney with-
out a compensating gain in democratization.
On

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 1465,
December 19, 1947.
-3-
On the subject of reparations, Nambara expressed himself as
of the opinion that it would be e great mistake to cut down Japanese
industrial capecity to the level desired by China, Russia, the
Philippines, and Austrelis. It is his hope that the United States
will be able to convince these countries of the fallacy of such a
position. Japan hes the skill and knowledge to produce efficiently,
which can be used to manufacture goods vitally needed throughout the
world and especielly in the Fer East. According to Nambara, it
would be preferable to take repurations out of current production
rather than to remove plants physically from Japan.
Nambara hes hopes that the Occupation forces cen be reduced.
He pointed out that from the standpoint of the world the money
could better be spent in rehabilitating the nation and in educating
the youth of Japan in democretic ways. Education, Nambara is con-
vinced, is basically and overwhelmingly important to the future of
Jepan as a nation. He decried the cut in appropriations needed for
the new educational system, mentioning that the Economic and
Scientific Section of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, is more influential in obtaining consideration
for its proposals than is the Civil Information and Education
Section ("business first", as he put it). He stressed that such
priority of economic matters over educational ones is extremely
short-sighted.
In discussing the present political situation, Nambare said
that in his judgement the present cabinet is not ideal, but he could
see nothing more suitable on the immediate horizon. ie is certain
that conditions would be far worse if the Liberals should come into
power, He cited Shigeru YOsHIDA, former Prime lainister and now
President of the Liberal Party as representetive of the old Japan.
Kijuro SHIDEHARA, also former Prime Minister and leader of the
faction which recently withdrew from the Democratic Party, was
placed in the same category. Nembare considered Hitoshi ASHIDA,
Minister of Foreign Affeirs and President of the Demoeratic Party,
as representing a middle ground, end the mun who might best head
a new conservative party, but he emphasized thut, in his considered
opinion, labor mast play en important role in all future goveruments.
Nambara is epperontly weil thought of by Japanese leaders. He
appeers to be well informed and to be exerting himself strenuously
towerd inspiring his students and others to build a new democratic
Japan, despite the extraordinary difficulties facing the country.
In his statements he was frank and direet. It was of interest to
hear that he was elected hoad of Tokyo University by the feculty, a
practice which he cited as being more democretic and less militaristic
than, for exemple, the eppointment to the Presideney of Columbia
University of General Eisenhower.
I. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
Second Secretary of Mission
vr

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORTD NO. I
Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GÓVERNMENT
DAT: Jan. 13, 1948.
: NWB
TO
FOM: MG
suject: Attached.
Communist Daily Akahata on December
9, quoted a lengthy statement by a re-
patriate charging the Japanese Government
with responsibility for the slow repat-
riation of Japanese from Soviet-held
territory. The statement implies that
despite Soviet efforts to speed up repat-
riation, the Japanese Government (and
impliedly the occupation) have failed to
provide enough ships and supplies for
carrying out the program.
SCAP claims that this ana earlier
Akahata articles on the same subject
"grossly distort and misrepresent the
facts" and because of their implied
criticism or the occupation, SCAP is con-
sidering prosecuting the paper under the
Press Code.
(Comment: If prosecuted, the Akahata
will presumably defend itself by pinting
out that its articles merely reported
what the repatriate in question stated.
SCAP may not proceed against the Akahata
on the erounus that this is not a clearcut
violation of any one of the articles of
defiance of tne spirit of the Code)
NA: MG/hnc

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.95)
Dett
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER 
FOR JAPAN
NORTHENST ASTAN AFFAM
JAN -8 1948
No. 1471
Tokyo, DecembDEPAAMENP87 STATE
DC/R
CONFIDENTIAL
894.00/12-2247
SUBJECT:
Proposed Prosecution of Communist Party
Newspaper for Violation of Press Code.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch
No. 1400, November 18, 1947, on the subject, "Japanese
Press Reaction to Discussion in the Allied Council for
Japan of the Problem of Repatriation", and particularly
to enclosure No. 4 of that despatch, a translation of an
article on this subject which appeared in the Akahata,
Tokyo daily newspaper which is an organ of the Japan Com-
1/
munist Party. There is forwarded herewith translation of
another article on the same subject which appeared in the
December 9 issue of Akahata. Both articles allege laxity
on the part of the Japanese Government in the matter of
repatriation of Japanese from Soviet-held areas.
The articles appear grossly to distort and misrep-
CS
resent facts. They are in fact criticisms of this Head-
quarterst administration of the repatriation program,
and as such violate SCAP's Press Code for Japan (trans-
mitted as enclosure No. 2). For this reason, the Section
of Headquarters concerned with this program (G-3) has re-
quested that consideration be given to the prosecution of
the newspaper before a Provost Court for the violation.
Headquarters decision in the matter will be reported to
116
the Department when determined.
C CD
Respectfully yours,
SA
1C
P<1R
w.r.Selace
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
Enclosures:
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 1471
December 22, 1947.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Enclosures:
1。
Translation of article
from Akahata, December
9, 1947.
2.
Copy of Press Code for
Japan.
Original and ozafid to Department
701.32/8000
JWBurnett:cs
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.l to Despatch No.1471
dated December 22, 1947, from the
Office of the United States Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled
"Proposed Prosecution of Communist
Party Newspaper for Violation of
Press Code.
(COPY)
PERIODICAL SUB-SECTION
Y. Terasawa
10 Dec 47
Name of Translator
Date
Time in and out
J. Nakamura
10 Dec 47
Name of Team Captain
Date
Time in and out
Subject:
Japanese in Nahodka Eagerly Waiting for Return
Article:
to Homeland
Name of Publication and Date:
AKAHATA
9 Dec 47
Full Translation.
Title: Aren't Repatriation Ships Coming Yet?
Subtitle: Japanese Detainees Waiting at Nahodka.
IINUMA, Tomoo (39), Tokyo correspondent of the HOKKAIDO
SHIMBUN, and late repatriate from Soviet Union blamed the
negligence of the Japanese Government for slowness in
repatriation work, on 28 November.
His statement was contrary to an answer given to ASAOKA,
Nobuo (Liberal), Upper House member who asked how the repatri-
ation of the Japanese countrymen in the Soviet Union is
coming along as winter sets in at the Upper House plenary
session. Welfare Ministry HITOTSUMATSU answered:
"The Government is doing its utmost to hasten the
repatriation of the Japanese people abroad and is fully pre-
pared to receive them."
IINUMA, who was repatriated from AJINIRIA (TN Trans-
literation) in Siberia in late October, made the following
statement in the anteroom of the Communist Party in the
Lower House:
"It is because of the negligence of the Japanese Govern-
ment that the repatriation from the Siberian area is not
going on smoothly. Repatriates from the Siberian area em-
bark at NAHODKA on Japanese ships to Maizuru. Japanese who
are to return to Japan are now being taken to NAHODKA intern-
ment camp from various places by the Soviet Union. When I
was at that place in September and October about 30,000
Japanese were concentrated there. However, only one
Japanese

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.2,
Tokyo's Despatch No.1471,
December 22, 1947.
-2-
Japanese ship comes to NAHODKA once in three days, each
ship carrying only 2,O00 persons at a time. The KIZAN
MARU (6,900 tons) which I boarded took only 2,000 men on
board on account of food shortage, though it has accom-
modations for 5,O00 passengers. Therefore, there are
always about 20,000 to 30,000 Japanese countrymen eagerly
awaiting their return to homeland in the NAHODKA intern-
ment camp. This camp is actually made up of three camps.
Camp One is used for exchanging clothes; the second for
bathing and preparation for return; the third for
quarantine and customs inspections. The Japanese repatriates
must pass through these three camps before they can come
home. They are idling their time away without any work in
the first and second camps because transportation is not
available as stated before. Every camp is crowded with
homebound Japanese. Some of them are living in tents or in
the open. Some poor Japanese were even returned to the
hinterland working areas though they had finally reached
NAHODKA with much difficulties. I feel deep sympathy for
those Japanese who were obliged to go back to the hinter-
land again after seeing Japanese ships before their own eyes
because of food shortage on the ships.
"When I came back home I heard that the Soviet Union
has no intention of sending the Japanese back to Japan, but
this is absurd propaganda. However, I hear that the Japanese
Government has recently been trying a little harder to hasten
repatriation. However, repatriates' transportation is apt to
decrease considerably when winter sets in with its bad weather.
I feel very sorry that the Government did not endeavor to has-
ten repatriation much earlier. I was surprised at the bad
treatment on board the Japanese ship, which I boarded after
much difficulty. Half a military cup of rice-gruel and a tea-
cupful of miso (soy bean paste) soup was served as a meal.
Moreover, dried bread was served a meal once a day. I had a
hungry time for three days on board the ship, for I ate better
meals than I get now in Japan when I was a war prisoner in
Russia.
"The treatment at the time when we were interned was not
so good. The Soviet Union improved their treatment in work
and diet when we demanded it through collective bargaining
after we had democratized our military structure. I think
this was due to the power of democratic action and the Soviet
systen of adopting every measure if it is right."

=== Page 223 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No.
1471 dated December 22, 1947
from the Office of the United
States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, entitled" Pro-
posed Prosecution of Communist
Party Newspaper for Violation
of Press Code."
(COPY)
OFFICE OF THE SUPREME
COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
19 September 1945
AG 000.73 (18 Sep 45)CI
MEMORANDUM FOR: IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT.
THROUGH:
Central Liaison Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT:
Press Code for Japan.
1. News must adhere strictly to the truth.
2. Nothing shall be printed which might, directly or
by inference, disturb the public tranquility.
3. There shall be no false or destructive criticism
of the Allied Powers.
4. There shall be no destructive criticism of the
Allied Forces of Occupation and nothing which might invite
mistrust or resentment of those troops.
5. There shall be no mention or discussion of Allied
troops movements unless such movements have been officially
released.
6. News stories must be factually written and completely
devoid of editorial opinion.
7. News stories shall not be colored to conform with any
propaganda line.
8. Minor details of a news story must not be over-
emphasized to stress or develop any propaganda line.
9. No news story shall be distorted by the omission
of pertinent facts or details.
10. In the make-up of the newspaper no news story shall be
given undue prominence for the purpose of establishing or de-
veloping any propaganda line.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
Harold Fair,
Lt Col, AGD,
Asst Adjutant General

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.94)
felo
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
AIR MAIL
London, Debember 23, 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 2956
Subject:
Transmitting Article from Daily Telegraph
on Japan
The Honorable
Secretary of State,
2.1
2
Washington
2
S:
7
OL
Sir:
EC
P
C1.
1. I have the honor to transmit, as of possible
RT
interest to the Department, copy of an article from
tHe December 23, 1947, issue of the Daily Telegraph
on the subject of Japan.
C
2. The article is by Mr. Malcolm Muggeridge,
who, as the Department will be aware, is the very
able Daily Telegraph correspondent in Washington.
In that capacity Mr. Muggeridge has during the past
several months given the English reading public by all
odds the best account of American developments as seen
894.00/12-2347
from Washington.
3. In the present article Mr. Muggeridge sets
forth some of his first impressions of the Japanese
CIE
scene. It is Mr. Muggeridge's feeling that outwardly,
LE
at least, the occupation has been a success. But
Oc D
there is also evident in Mr. Muggeriuge's account an
underlying feeling that, for all the changes exerted
under tho occupation, Japanese life really remains
much the same as in pre-war days. So uncertain is
Mr. Muggeridge as to the post-war future of Japan,
that in the concluding paragraph of his article he
leaves it to his readers to draw their own conclusions.
Respectfully yours,
For tho Charge d'Affaires a. i.:
ANM
CS/ A
Everett F. Drumright
First Secretary or Embassy
Enclosure:
Copy of Article, as stated
(Original ana hectograph to the Department)
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Nanking
Copy to Embassy, Moscow
EFDrumright/wg
FILED
3

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCIASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 2956 dated Decemter 23. 1947,
from American Embassy, London, England.
Source: Daily Telegraph
December 23, 1947
JAPAN'S DOCILE APPRENTICESHIP IN DEMOCRACY
Malcolm Muggeridge
TOKYO
Defeat in Japan is less ostentatious than in
Germany, or even Italy. The Japanese appear to go
about their business with the same inscrutable deter-
mination as heretofore.
They give little indication of being under-nourished,
and though in towns like Tokyo and Yokohama there is stili
plenty of bomb damage to be seen, a great deal of clearing
up has been done and a large number of temporary buildings
have been erected.
Even in atom-bomb blasted Hiroshima the marks of
war are being rapidly obliterated, and the countryside
is for the most part quite unscarred. Its delicate
beauty remains, and the fields continue to be pain-
stakingly tended as though nothing had happened in the
world to disturb the even tenor of traditional ways.
The railway system was daliberately spared by American
bombing and is virtually intact.
THE EMFEROR IN HIS BOWLER HAT
Every day in Tokyo a little crowd collects in front
of Generai MacArthur's headquarters to watch the Supreme
Commander's arrivals and departures--C.I.s with their
inevitable cameras, Japanese who gaze with a mixture of
curiosity and awe at that remarkable man.
Nearby is the Imperial Palace where the Emperor
continues to reside, guarded by American and British
Commonwealth troops. His divinity has been at any rate
theoretically abolished, and on his occasional public
appearances he demonstrates his new status as a con-
stitutional monarch by a curious automatic raising and
lowering of his hat, usually a homburg but sometimes,
oddly, a bowler.
Further away, in ths former Japanese War Office,
a trial of Japanese war criminals is laboriously pro-
ceeding. It is now expected to drag on until well into
1948。
The two rows of accused display no omotion as they
listen attentively to the tale of their misdeeds. What-
ever regrets or contrition they may now feel finds no
expression in their outward demeanour. They might
,themselves be judges instead of the accused, so imper-
turbable is their bearing and so dispassionate are their
voices when they undergo cross-examination.
LEARNING/

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASS IFIED
Page 2.
Encl. to Despatch 2956, December 23, 1947, from London
LEARNING THE BLESSINGS OF DEFEAT
If the first impression of post-war Japan is
that a military occupation has left the essential mould
of Japanese life intact, there prevails in General
MacArthur's headquarters an eager confidence that in
fact a social revolution drastically transforming the
country's economy, jurisprudence and administration has
already happened.
Whereas in the past representative covernment has
usually come to.pass as a result of a popular demand
for it, in post-war Japan the procedure has been reversed
and representative govarnment has been instituted in the
hope that thereby the Japanese may come to desire it.
It is as though King John should have drafted
Magna Carta on his own aocount with the intention of
encouraging his barons to demand his adherence to it.
A series of directives frcm General MacArthur's
headquarters have indicated to the Japanese the good
things which are in store for them in consequence of
their military defeat.
According to these airectives the blessings of
democracy and of an economy based on free competitive
enterprise which is sacured against monopolistic ten-
denciss have been conferred on them by S.C.A.P. (Supreme
Command Allied Powers), and it is for them to deserve
these benefits by effectively operating their new
constitution and by throwing themselves energetically
into the task of promoting Japan's sconomic recovery.
The new constitution, promulgated by the Emperor
a year ago, was draftsd by Japanese political leaders
in consultation with the Government Section of S.C.A.P.
for submission to the Diet, where it underwent consider-
able modification before it was finally approved. It
required and received the approval of General MacArthur
and of the Emperor.
By its terms the Emperor's powers have become those
of a constitutional monarch; the Diet, elected by
universal suffrage and a secret ballot, becomes "the
highest organ of State power and the sole law-making
organ of the State"; and the "whole judicial power is
vested in a Suprame Court empowered to dotermine the
constitutionality of any law, order, rogulation or
official act."
JUDGES MAY GET ORDER OF DISMISSAL
In its basic concepts the constitution is clearly
mod.elled on that of the United States. It would doubt-
less have astonished Jefferson and the other Founding
Fathers to kmow that their deliberations in Philadelphia
were before two centuries had run to find application in
remote Japan.
In one/

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFTED
Page 3.
Encl. to Despatch 2956, December 23, 1947, from London
In one respect the constitution follows English
rather than Amerioan usage. The Cabinet is directly
responsible to the legislature, consisting of an Upper
and a Lower House. Hereditary titles in the Upper House,
the House of Councillors, have been abolished.
A vote of no confidence involves a dissolution,
and Supreme Court judges, originally appointed by the
Cebinet, are subject to a "popular review" by means of
a referendum each ten years. If at this referendum a
majority of voters favour a particular judge's dismissal
he must be dismissed.
General MacArthur's officers tend to be more
enthusiastic and earnest than they are experienced
in administration and politics. But not even the most
enthusiastic and earnest among them would venture to
suggest that the mere promulgation of a democratic
constitution in itself transforms Japan from a highly
centralised authoritarian State into an authentic par-
liamentary democracy.
SUCCESS OF WOMEN'S FRANCHISE
They do, however, point to certain signs as being
encouraging. Female suffrage, they say, a startling
innovation for Japan, has been surprisingly successful
in the sense that in the two general elections so far
held women have voted in large numbers and apparently
on their own account.
Again, they point out, the size of the poll at
these elections--around 80 per cent in rural as well as
urban areas--indicated a remarkable degree of public
interest in the issues at stake. They regard the success
of the Social Democrats in the last election as authen-
tically rerlecting Japanese political sentiment at the
time, and consider that the present trend is to the
Right as represented by what is euphemisticelly called
the Liberal party.
In their view the constitution provides the means
whereby Japan may become a democracy provided the will
thereto exists. As already mentioned, the people are
being urged to he co-operative to that end.
In towns and villages posters and films and lectures
draw their attention to the advantages of their new con-
stitution and, as far as possible without direct inter-
feronce, Supreme Command Allied Powers steer the Diet
along the course it should follow in the liveliest
Capitol Hill tradition.
A visit to the Diet in session suggests that if
the zeal for democracy of some of the legislators remains
somewhat dubious, their aptitude for parliamentary pro-
cedure, incluuing a mastery or delaying tactics, is
unyuestioned. Their debates have often been turbulent
and their committee work is adroit.
KEEN/

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 4.
Encl. to Despatch 2956, December 23, 1947, from London
KEEN TO OBEY THEIR CONQUERORS
One of the 18 women members of the Lower House,
the House of Representatives, had occasion recently to
complain of fellow members arriving in the Chamber itself
in a state of intoxication, and some of the arguments
there seem to have taken a physical shape.
It is General MacArthur's legitimate boast that
the military occupation has proceeded almost without a
single act of violence. The Japanese have been and
remain astonishingly docile. Their sole ostensible
desire is to carry out their conquerors' wishes, some-
times even before these are formulated.
It is as though, having been defeated by the Amer-
icans, they have decided that American ways must be
advantageous, in the same way that in the past they
modelled their administration and army on Germany's,
their navy and banking system on England's.
Whether behind this outward docility secret pur-
poses are being entertained is a subject of heated
controvery among foreigners in Japan.
There are those who consider that the changes which
have beon introduced in Japan since the occupation began
have so far made little Impression on the traditional
manner of life.
WHEN THE GUIDING HAED WITHDRAWS
As they see it, the Japanese are quite capable of
bending the forms of Parllamentary democracy to their
own purposes, as they did the forms of Chinese civilisa-
tion when they decided to adopt them in the seventh
century A.D.
On the other hand, not unnaturally, those who
have been concerned in drarting and putting into effect
measures designed to democratise Japan are convinced
that, whataver may be the ultimate form or the Japanese
State derived from these measures, the Japanese people,
having tasted freedom for the first time in their his-
tory, will continuo to love it.
All that is certain now is that sooner or later
the controlling and guiaing hand of General MacArthur
will be withdrawn, and that then, with an impoverished
aconomy, in a turbulent world, and with only 125,000
police, mostly under municipal control, to secure law
and order, a Japanese Government responsible to an
elected Diet will have to face the future.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.94)
D#
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 1472
Tokyo, December 23, 1947.
UNCLASSIFIED
NORTHEAST ASWAN AFFAIRS
JAN - 6 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
Report Concerning a Study of Women's Political
Attitudes.
10:
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
enclose five copies of a report dated November 28, 1947
894.00/12-2347
entitled "The Mainichi Study of Women's Political At-
titudes", prepared by the Civil Information and Educa-
01E
tion Section of this Headquarters.
SPA
The report contains a description of the methods
used in making the study. Upon the basis of the study
the conclusion is drawn that women are less interested
in political matters than men and that women are con-
siderably influenced by their husbands' political at-
titudes. In addition, it is noted that political
interest in urban areas seems to be considerably greater
than that in rural communities.
Enclosure:
Report, "The Mainichi Study
of Women's Political Attitudes"
November 28, 1947 (five copies)
CS/A
Original and ozalid to Department.
800
RHBushner:cs
UNCLASSIFIED
10
15
2
1947 0E0 30
FIED
A

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
Moleemre to Despatch No. 1472 dated Deeember 23, 19
the United States Political, Adviser for Japan, Tekye, entitle
eerming a Sthdy of Womem's Politieal Attitndes".
GENERAL HEADQUARTEHS
SUPREME OMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Informetion and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
SPECIAL REPORT
28 November 1947
SERIAL NUMBER : AR-30O-PO-D-9
TITLE
The Mainichi Study of Women's Political
Attitudes
PREPARED BY : Public Opinion and Sociological Research
DATES OF STUDY: April 1947 to October 1947
INTRODUCTION
A study of the indepancence of women's political atti-
tudes was conducted by tho Heinichi Newspaper Public Opin-
ion Room in April 1947. Three reas, Nakano Ward in Tokyo,
Ome City in Tokyo Prefecture, and Yuzurihara Village in
Yamanashi Prefecture, were selected in terms of differences
in urbanization and in cegree of familial control.
In each place, l0o ouples were interviewed on their
voting intentions towar the Liet elections. Two bnllot
forms were employed. Wives and husbands were interviewed
personally and se) rately on Ballot A. Ballot 3 was left
for each to fill out by nimself.
A comparison of the results of the two ballot forms
revealed that:
1. On the initial ballot, women were less decided on.
political matters than their husbands. Seventy-nine percert
of the men had made up their minds as to whom they were
voting for, but only 42 percent of the women had made a
decision.
2。
Political interest was highest in the city (69.5%),
lowest in the village (49%), and intermediate in the
town (63%).
3.
Rural women were least interested (29%), city women
most interested (53%), and town women intermediate (46%).
4. Disagreement between husbands and wives in voting in-
tention on the first ballot was nbout the same in city,town
and village.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
2
MAINICHI STUDY OF WOMEN S POLITICAL ATTITUDES
5. Of those who disagreed on the first ballot, 76 percent
of rural women, 52 peroent of town women, and 36 percent of
city women respectively changed their minds in the direction
of their husbands' choice on the second ballot.
6. Only a amall percentage of men changed their minds in
the direction of their wives' choice on the second ballot.
From these data it seems possible to conclude that:
1.
Women are less interested in political matters than men.
2. Women still are influenced very considerably in their
political behavior by their husbunds' opinions, in spite of
their recently acquired rights of political franchise.
STUDY OF WOMEN'S POLIFICAL ATTITUDES
Under the new Constitution of Japan women have been
given equal rights with men. article 14 states: "All of
the people are equal under the law and there shall be no
discrimination in political, economic, or social relations
because of race, creed, sex, social status, or family origin."
In spite of the new emancipation accorded women, the
question arises as to how deeply the new laws penetrate the
traditional pattern of passivity and self-abnegation. Those
who oprose the granting of rights to women constantly have
put forth the argument that wo len do not use these rights
properly. They maintain that single women fall easy prey
to those who would buy their rights or coerce them, and
that married women do not use these rights independently,
but simply follow the dictates of their husbands. Because
of the feeling that women have little political importance,
some public opinion agencies in Japan deliberately under-
represented women in their snamples, stating that this would
not change the results of their surveys at all, since Jap-
anese women only reflect the attitudes and opinions of their
husbands or family heads.
What is the truth of these contentions? The answer to
this question obviously has reat political and social im-
portance. An approech to this question may be made by study-
ing the actual changes in the attitudes and the behavior of
the Japanese people hich have occurred since the-recent lib-
eration of Japanese women. One method is to examine the be-
havior of women in one of the areas of newly acquired rights.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
:MAINICHI STUDY OF WOMEN'S POLITICAL ATTITUDES
The advent of the April 1947 Diet eleotione presented
the Mainichi Newspaper Public Opinion Unit with a valuable
opportunity to study the manner in which women exercise
their "eguality of franchise, " and to measure their polit-
ical interest.  This is a. very difficult thing to measure,
and several key factors had to be .examined and meaningful
controls set up.
In the present study, two factors known to have some
influence on the independence of women's political atti-
tudes were employed in the selection of a sample with which
to work. These were urban-rural differences and the strength
of familial controls. In the case of urban-rural differences
there are the highly conventionalized and relatively rigid
sooial patterns of the conservative, rural farm community
exerting strong and exacting pressures upon the individual,
especially the woman, as opposed to the loosely knit social
organization of communities consisting primarily of salaried
urban workers, where the old rigid controls are relaxed to
a great extent. Further ore, the rather great sociological
isolation of farm villages in Japan has tended to prevent
much interohange of ideas, whereas such intcrchange is al-
most inescapable in the crowded urban areas.1 That is, it
is reasonable to believe from general experience as well
as from the results of other public opinion and sociologi-
cal surveys, that country women are less interested in po-
litical matters than are city women, less educated, and
consequently less articulate and less likely to cast inde-
pendent baliots.
1.  The term "isolation" as used herein and clsewhere in
this report has the tcchnical meaning of separation
from centers of movements of thought, corresponding
to what the sociologist terms "mental isolation" and
the isolation of the "sacred society." Rural people
in Japan are not isolated from each other physically
or geographically, as they are in the United States,
but they are relatively isolated from the develop-
ment of new ideas and concepts. They live in a socio-
logically isolated environment, dominated by sacred
values, immobile, dominated by primary (face-to-face)
contacts, and by kin relntions, as distinguished from
the city people, who are characterized by high mobil-
ity, dominance of secular values, constant communica-
tion, dominance of seoondary contacts (non-face-to-
face), and dominanee of non-kin relations (employer-
employee, associations, government, unions, etc.)

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
4
MAINICHI STUDY OF WOMEN'S POLITICAL ATTITUDES
It is also reasonable to believe that women's politi-
cal independence will be affected by the extent to which
their position within the family is traditionally subeervi-
ent to the rule of the husband, who is termed in Japanese
shujin or dannasama meaning boss, lord and master, etc.
In Japan the extended family is more than just a general
term. It is a specific type of social organization. It is
called, technically, the dozoku? (same family) and consists
basically of a honke (main house) with its bunke (branch
houses). The main family units consist of the father and
mother and eldest son and his family. The bunke are branch
families usually set up for the younger sons, adopted sons,
grandsons, servants, loyal retainers of the family, etc.
When the main house has sufficient land and money, it will
build a house for one or more of the younger sons, depending
on the extent of their resourcos. Thus the bunke are set up.
In instances where the younger son or sons of the bunke fam-
ily can be provided with hous: and land, a magobunke (grand-
child branch family) is set v , either by the head of the
dozoku or head of the bunke. These relations of main house
to brench house then continue generation after generation
in a line of transmission through the eldest sons. All of
these branch families, whatever their nunber, are under
direct control of the main house, specifically the male
head of that house, to whom they owe many obligations and
duties, and from whom they receive many benefits. In many
cases, as for example, in the village studied in this survey,
the head of the main house is also the oyabun (boss), and
his branch houses his traditional kobun (retainers). Thus
the Jaranese extended family tends to be a working unit--
economic, social, and familial, under responsibility to its
main house, its units bounc together for mutual aid and
social action, co-operatin in their ritual life--through
many complex reciprocal relntionships.
With consideration of all the foregoing factors, there-
fore, the study of  men's political attitudes was set up
by mainichi Newspaper just prior to the April 1947 Diet elec-
tion. Three areas within 40 miles of each other, illustra-
ting significant differences in these diagnostic character-
istics, were chosen for the survey. They were: Nakano, an
urban ward of Tokyo with a hiyh percentage of salaried
workers and the modern "western" tyre of fa..ily structure;
2. Also known as jirui (land relative), maki (extended fam-
ily), ichimaki (one ext nded family), itto or ikke
(one house). These ter..s are used in different parts
of the country.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
MAINICHI STUDY OF WOMEN'S POLITICAL ATTITUDES
Ome, a small country market town, part of Tokyo-Prefeaturm.
which has the extended family system, now partially broken
down because of increasing pressures from the metropolis;3
and Yuzurihara, a farm village in Yamanaahi Prefecture near
Tokyo, having a strongly extended family system.4
Since the purpose of the study was the measurement of
the extent to which women would express independent polit-
ical preference, two situations had to be created; the first
to maximize the opportunity for independent response to
questions on political choice; the second to maximize the
opportunity for either pouse to exert pressure upon the
other in expressing that choice. Because of the necessity
for this kind of control procedure, only husbands and wifes
were included in the study, while single, separated or wid-
owed persons were excluded.5 The study was accomplished
through the use of a double set of baliots asking the iden-
tical question: "In the coming House of Representatives
election, what political party do you intend to support?"
On the first ballot the wife and husband were inter-
viewed separately and by direct interview procedure. The
wife was interviewed so that the husband would remain out-
side the interview situation and ignorant of it until after
his spouse had given her rnly. This procedure was rigidly
enforced in order to obtain aximum independence of opinion
on the part of the wife. In this ballot both the degree of
political interest and the amount of agreement between the
spouses were measured.
The second ballot was cdministered by leaving the inter-
3。
The extended family in Ome is strongest among merchants.
4。
Ninety percent of rural areas in Yamanashi Prefecture
have the extended family system.
See KITANO, Seiichi, The Extanded Kinship Organiza-
tion and Practice of Simulated Parent-Child Relation-
ships in a Mounuain Village in Koshu (Yamanashi Pre-
fecture) (Koshu Si son no Dozoku Soshiki to Oyakata-
Kokata Kankc), Mi -okugaku Nenpo, vol. 2, pp. 41-95.
See also, KITANO, Seiichi, Materials on Extended
Kinship Ors nization and the Simulated Parent-Child
Relationship (Dozoku
Soshiki to Cyakata-Kokata Kanko
Shiryo), Minzokugaku
enpo, vo1. 3, pp. 161-89.
5. It was found that many of the men of Yuzurihara had
not been repatriatcd from Manchuria, so that an un-
usually high percentage of women were living alone
and had to be excludcd from this study.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
6
MAINICHI:STUDY OF WOMEN'S POLITICAL ATTITUDES
view form with the same respondente, to be filled in over
night and colleoted the following morning. This time,
changes in degree of political interest and ohanges in the
amount of agreement betweer: the spouses were measured in
order to ascertain the rate of agreement change from the
first ballot. It also enabled a measure to be taken of the
direstion of agreement, in order to ascertain which of the
spouses' influence was predominent. If the agreement was
in the direction of the wife's initial choice, it was evi-
dence of the wife's political influence; if the direction
was towards the husband's first choice, it was evidence of
the husband's influence. For the purposes of this measure,
it did not matter whether the spouses initially indicated
a choice or were undecided. What was important was whether
the spouses retained their original positions or changed
their minds, and if they changed their minds, in which direc-
tion was the change. This pr cess may be visualized by the
following table.
POSSIBLE RESPONSES ON FIRST BALLOT
Choice
Wife
Husband
*1。
Same. party choice
x
X
2.
Different party choice
Y
X
3.
Wife undesided, husband decided
N
X
4。
Hueband undecided, wife decided
X
N
*5.
Both undecided
N
N
Key:
X one party choice
Y another party choice
N no phoige expressed
* area of agreement
The first type of choice desoribed is one in which both
the spouses have chosen the same party; the second in vhich
the wife has chosen one party and the husband another; the
third in which the wife has expressed no choice and the hus-
band has chosen a party; the fourth in which the wife has
chosen a party and the husband has not; and the fifth in
which both spouses expressed no choice. It can be seen
that within items 2, 3, and 4 is the area of possible dis-
agreement. The second ballot, therefore, measures the degree
of retention of the original  isagreement of the respondents
and also the degree to which the respondents changed their
minds. Viewed in another manner, the area of agreement,
items 1 and 5, rather than that of disagreement, may be meas-
ured.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
CHART 1.-PERCENTAGE EXPRESSING PARTY CHORE
Husband
Wife
0 20 40 60 80
0 20 40 60 80
Nakano
1st Bo/lot
2nd Ballot
Ome
Yuzurihara
3-City Average:
CHART 2.-PERCENT INCREASE ON 2ND BALLOT
Husband
Wife
0 20 40
120
160
200
Nakano
Ome
Yuzurihara
3-City Avenage
7

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
CHART 3.-PERCENTAGE OF COUPLES IN AGRÈEMENT
0 20 40 60 80
Percent Increase in Agreement
Nakano
20dBeln
On 2nd Ballot
0 20 40 60 80
Ome
Nakano
Ome
Yuzurihara
Yuzurihara
3-City
3-City
Average
Average
CHART4.-DIRECTION OF HUSBAND-WIFE OPINION CHANGE
(Percent of Total Agreement Reached)
Husbands Influenced
Wives Influenced By Husbands
By Wives
0 10 20
20
40
60
80
Nakano
Ome
Yuzurihara
3-City Average
 9 Percent Indeterminate
 3 Percent Indeterminate
8

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
MAINICHI STUDY OF WOMEN:S POLITICAL ATTITUDES
The second ballot may then be analyzed by a corre
lation of the amount of agreement on the first ballot with
the amount of agreement shown on the second ballot.  In
both cases the most important measurement 1s the direotion
of change, whether it is in the direotian of the wife's or
of the hueband's original response. For the purposes of
the study the analysis is made from the point of view of
agreement between spouses.
It can be obeerved imnediately that on the first ballot,
not only is the wives' average answer rate for the three
communities less than that of their husbands!, but even in
Nakano, the urban community with the greatest relaxation
of the old patterns binding women, with the greatest oppor-
tunity for political information, and with the highest edu-
cational level, only 53 percent of wives expressed politi-
cal choice, as against an 86 percent response by their hus-
bands. Also to be noted is the fact that the initial re-
sponse rate for both husbands and vives deoreased progres-
sively from the urban to the rural community, illustrating
here the degree of diffcrence in political interest among
communities of greater nd lesser urbanization. (Chart 1).
On the second ballot the most striking factor concern-
ing answer rate is the percentage of interest change on the
average for the three cities. There is a 20 percent in-
crease over the firet ballot for husbands and a l2l percent
increase for wives. (Chart 2).
It seems significant that such. a large percentage of
wives should express political choice after conferring
around the dinner table with their husbands. The fact
that only 42 percent of all wives expressed political
choice before these discussions took place, and 93 per-
cent chose a candidate aft rwards, would indicate that
women were influenced greatly by their husbands. This
can be borne out upon exami lation of the set of charts
on rates and directions of agreement between couples.
Here it can be seen that only 44 percent of ail couples
interviewed were in agreement on the first ballot, whereas
75 percent of these same courles agreed in choice on the
second ballot. This is a 70 percent change on the second
ballot as an average for all couples. It must also be
understood at this point,however, that the conditions of
the study were not perfectly controlled. That is, influ-
ence undoubtedly was exerted in a general way before the
interviews were taken, so that agreement between spouses
on the first ballot is still relatively high. The tech-

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
10
MAINICHI STUDY OF OMEN'S POLITICAL ATTITUDES
nique of the experiment simply allowed maximum mutual inde-
pendence of statement by obtaining ae uninfluenced a atate-
ment as possible from the wife. Therefore, if it were pos-
sible to set up perfeotly controlled conditione, the pereent-
age of orinion change most probably would have been even
higher than the 70 pereent here evident. It also can be
seen that the percentage of opinion change for the three
cities on the second ballot was greater from urban to rural
communities: 49 percent for Nakano, 66 percent for Ome, and
93 percent for Yuzurihara (Chart 3).
This seems to bear out ti e variance that was expected
in the strength of the family system and family controls from
urban to rural areas. Furthermore, of these couples who veer-
ed from their original choice, 88 percent were wives, and only
9 rercent were husbands, 3 percent of these couples having
changed their minds for indeterminaole reasons (Chart 4).
That is to say, 900 rercent more influence was wielded by
husbands upon their wives than by wives upon their husbands
in this study. The evidenee here seems quite clear cut.
Women, rather than using inderendently the vote guar-
anteed to them by law, still seem to show much greater igno-
rance and apathy about political questions than their hus-
bands, and still are influenced considerably in political
choice by their husbands. Thus it is clear that the legal
change in women's status is not yet implemented by a complete
change in their traditional thinking.
6. A comparison of tho results of this pioneer Japanese
stuy of the influence of husbands uron women's polit-
ical attitudes with comparable studies in England and
merica would ce most interesting. Unfortunately, to
the best knowleage of Public Opinion and Sociological
Research, CIE, SCAP, no such studies have been pub-
lished。

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
JAN 1 2 1948
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Amerioan Embassy
London, December 30, 1947
AIR MAIL
UNCLASSTFIND
No. 2990
Subject:
Transmitting Further Article from Daily
Telegraph on Japan
1
5
ESR
Secretary of State,
 Controlfaa)
294.00/12-2347cofieo BeiDE-A-S-01E
Sir:
LE-OCO
1i
1. In reference to the Lmbassy's despatch No.
894.00/12-3047
2956, December 23, 1947, on the above-cited subject,
U
I have the honor to transmit copy of a second article
on Japan appearing in the December 30, 1947, issue of
the Daily Telegraph, a Conservative newspaper published
in London.
FE
COT1
2. The enclosed article comes from Mr. Malcolm
TO。
Muggeridge, the able Washington correspondent of the
3C
Telegraph, who is on a special mission to Japan.
A-S
5. In his present article Mr. Muggeridge draws
E
人5
a sympathetic sketch of Goneral MacArthur, and describes
certain of the more important programs embarked on by
CIE
General Macarthur in Japan. He also discusses the
CCD
future of Japan, particularly in terms of the situation
SPA
obtaining in China and Korea. Ho considers that the
United States intends the "application to Japan of
something like the Monroe Doctrine whereby any attack
on that country would automatically constitute an act
of war against the United States."
Rospectfully yours,
22
For the Oharge d'Affaires a.i.:
Everett F. Drumright
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosure:
Copy of article, as stated
(Original and hectograph to the Department)
Copy to U.S. rolitical Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
NE
copy to Embassy, Nanking
Copy to Embassy,
MOSCOW
EFDrumright/wg
2a1

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 2990, dated December 30, 1947,
from American Embassy, London, England.
GEN. MACARTHUR'S FAITH IN JAPAN'S REGENERATION
Source: Daily Telegraph
Malcolm Muggeridge
TOKYO
There is one name whicn will be forever associated
with the defeat of Japan and the subsequent military
occupation of the country, and that is, of course, Gen.
Douglas MacArthur.
He has shaped and executed occupation policy. As
Mr. Byrnes once frankly aámitted to Senator Brewster
in the course of a session of the Senate War Investi-
gation Committee, Washington has had little hand in
the Supreme Commander's conduct of Japanese affairs.
His pronouncements are rarely, if ever "cleared" with
the State Department. He goes his own way. In Tokyo
he is supreme.
Gen. MacArthur was kind anough to find time for a
talk with me. He received me in his office, seated with
his back to the window, smoking an exceptionally large
pipe. He looks younger than his 67 years, bright oyed,
scarcely grey at all, though with his hair somewhat
thinning in front.
His voice is resonant, and readily becomes fervid.
He talks impersonally rather than intimately. As he
gets into his subject the flow of words gains momentum
until it is difficult,probably impossible, to stem it.
He is well versed in british affairs. Like most
Americans he has a profound admiration for Mr. Churchill,
with whom, though he has never met him personally, he
naturally had much to do during the war.
REPUDLTCANSI CHOL.E?
Inevitably, such a man in such a position is a
subject of controversy.
There are those who complain or his theatricality,
and allege that he is surrounded by orficers who are
so anxious to please him that they only tell him what
they know he wants to hear. Others consider him the
greatest living American, and compare the order which
prevails, at any rate superficially, in Japan with the
strife and confusion elsewhere.
He is being freely mentioned as a possible choice
for the Republican Presidential nomination next June.
The General himself, despite repeated attempts to
extract from him a statement of his position, has so
far serupulously refrained from any but equivocal
comment.
On this/

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 2.
Fncl. to Despatch 2990, December 30, 1947, from London
On this subject, unlike most others, he is
prepared to listen but not to pronounce himself. The
fact that he listens suggests that the White House is
not beyond his consideration; the fact that he will
not pronounce himself suggests that he has still an
open mind on the subject.
Those who know him best believe that if he were
offered the nomination he would feel in duty bound
to accept it, and that with his now almcst mythical
reputation among Americans he would prove a formidable
candidate.
OCCUPATION POLICY
Even Gen. MacArthur's severest detractors all
admit that he is without question a great soldier.
Whether history judges him likewise to have been a
great administrator will depend on how his work in
Japan turns out.
On that it is too early yet to form a final opinion.
The General himself is firmly, even passionately, of
the opinion that the Japanese after centuries of slavery
have come to appreciate their new pclitical freedom,
and that whatever may hapnen suosequently they will not
be persuaded or coerced into letting it go.
He sees the occupation troops as having brought
to Japan, both oy precept and example, the essentials
of democracy and Christianity, the one embodying
politically and the other spiritually the sanctity of
the indiviaual.
In this way, he considers, through his agency a
revolution unparalleled in history has been brought
about which will infallibly result in the rogeneration
of the Japanese people.
There is no question of the General talking like
this just ror efrect. He believes what he says pro-
roundly and utterly. His officers have made it the
basisof the whole occupation policy of S.C.A.P. (Supreme
Conmand Allied Powers), and post-war Japanese political
leaders have been quick, whether sincerely or not, to
echo the Supreme Commander's sentiments.
THE PURGE
As part of this process of regenerating Japan it
was necessary to ensure that those Japanese who had led
the country into authoritarian ways, and finally into
war, should be deprived of the possibility of future
leadership, and to break up the concentration of economic
power in the hands of a few families, the so-called
Zaibatsu.
The former/

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 3.
Encl. to Despatch 2990, December 30, 1947, from London
The former task was undertaken by means of a purge
aimed in Gen. MacArthur's words, at the "removal from
public office of undesirable leaders." This is, of
course, quite apart from the relatively few actual war
criminals who have been, or are in process of being,
tried on specific charges.
Unlike the German purge, Gen. MacArthur's is
specifically not punitive, and involves neither im-
prisonment nor coniiscation of property. So far about
200,O00 Japanese have been affected, and it is con-
sidered unlikely that other than occasional individual
cases will crop up in the future. The purge is con-
sidered now to have been virtually completed.
An obvious criticism of it is that though it may
achieve the exclusion from public office of those
identified with the pre-occupation regime in Japan in
that it leaves them with thsir property and social standing
intact, they are still in a position to influence, if
not clandestinely to direct, Japanese Covernment policy.
CHANGE IR TEMPO
Closely related to the purge is Gen. MacArthur's
poliey of "dissolving exoassive concentrations of
aconomic power into as many non-related units as possible."
To achieve this it was proposed to offer for sale
to the oneral public the immense industrial and aff-
iliated holdinrs of families like the Mitsui, reimbursing
them with non-transferable Government stock. In the
present inrlationary rinancial situation in Japan such a
progranne had littla chance of success, and the original
directive (Fac 23o) settinr it frorth has recently been
witndrawn after having been submitted to tho consideration
of the Far Eastern Commission in Washington on ay lz
last.
The obvious deduetion from its withdrawal is that
it has now been decided to procoed move cautiously, and
to
rebuila Jupan's oconomy to a greater extent than was
at first orvisaged on its existing foundations.
It is not only in regard to P30 230 uhat there has
lately been a change, ii not in policy in Japan, at any
rate in the tempo oi its execution.
Some three months ago Gen. MacArthur was taling
about the essential tasks of the occupation having been
completed. It looked then as though a peace conference
would be called before this year was out, and that a
speedy withdrawal of occupation forces was envisaged.
Now, in consequence of the attitude of China as
well as of Russia, tho prospoct of a peace treaty has
receded/

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 4.
Encl. to Despatch 2990, December 30, 1947, from London
receded, and there is every indication that the occupation
is expected to continue for some years to come. In
orthern Japan large airfields are being rapidly con-
structed, and the work or providing permanent quarters
for occupation personnel is being continued.
Two factors in particular have caused this changed
attitude towards the duration of the occupation. One
is the marked worsening of Russian-American relations,
and the other is Gen. Wedemeyer's exceedingly pessimistic
estimate of the Chine se situation.
Though the Wedemeyer Report on China has never been
nublished, its conclusion is known to be that, short of
large-scale American participation in military operations
in China, the Nanking Covernment is likely to lose all
control of Manchuria by February next and to suffer fur-
ther losses in horthern China in the not distant future.
A FAR EAST BASTION
In these circumstances the United States Government
has come to feel, with the undoubted concurrence of Gen.
MacArthur, that Japan will have to provide a necessary
bastion against Russian expansion in the Far East.
Such a policy would not necessarily involve an
inuefinite protraction of the military occupation of
Japan, which is oven now little more than a token occupa-
tion, with only 40, 000 American troops, some 10, 000
Dominions troops, ana 2,000 R.A.F. personnel.
These last are to be withdrawn early next year,
and it is anticipated that the Dominions forces will be
further reduced, perhaps down to 4, 000.
A permanent holding rorce of the size the United
States Congress would be likely to sanction would in
itself corstituts no security against invasior, say, from
Korea, where the prosent American position is militarily.
quite untenable.
At the same time, assuming, as must be assumed that
Chinese Communist, and therefore Russian, influence may
well before long extend as far as the Yullow River, and
that the United States Government is unable or unwilling
to sustain the Chiang Eai-shek regime, a demilitarised
Japan with for armed forces only 125,O00 civil police
wonld have little chance of standing alone.
NEW MONROE DOCTRINE
What is intended, therefore, if and when the present
occupation comes to an end, is the application to Japan
of something like the Monroe Doctrine whereby any attack
on that country would automatically constitute an act of
war against the United States.
This/

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 5.
Encl. to Despatch 2990, December 30, 1947, from London
This might not prevent Japan from being invaded,
or from being conquered as other countries have been by
Communist infiltration tactics, but it is reckoned that
as long as American naval supremacy, with the support of
massive air strength hased on Okinawa, is maintained in
the Pacific, the United States would have the advantage
in any conflict which ensued.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.92)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Noactri
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
CONEIDENTIAL
JAN-91948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Contro
9
 Jenuary 9, 1948
2.50m
Maerh
894.00/1-
948
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY: TNSFARCMU
DO/S CENTRAL FILES WITH

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DIVD
FCEVED
AIR MA II
MAR 5 1948
London, January 12
1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISIUN  MOdAPNIC
UNCLASSIFIED
INFORMATION
No. 75
Suoject: Transmitting Times Editorial on Japan
I carlfont
894.00/1-1248
/enclisure
retr med in DRF.
2/13/48
C0
The Honorable
Sacretary of State,
Washington
35
Sir:
In reference to paragraph numbered (8) of Thames
Cable No. 320, January 2, 1948, transmitting significant
excerpts from a Times editorial of January 2, 1948, on
the sub ject "New and Cld Japan", I have the honor to
enclose a clipoing of the entire oditorial ror the
inrormation and records of the Department.
Respactfully yours,
For the Charce d'Affaires a.i.:
averett
Drumright
First Secretary of Ehbassy
Enclosure:
OIC
clioning, as stated
Oricinal ano 4 copies to the vopartment
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, ScAP, Tolryo
Copy to Embassy,
HOSCOW
Copy to mmbasay,
Lanking
EFDrumright/wg
Fle
u2sal

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
from cie abessy at London, England.
PAPER:
PE PII:.S.
NUI. BER:
JAN - 21948
C : PY:
LO
DATE.
NEW AND OLD JAPAN
The passage of the economic decentrali-
zation Bill through the Japanese Diet
marks an important stage in the achieve-
ment of GeNerAL MacArthur's plans for
freeing the economic as well as the poli-
tical structure of Japanese society from
the grip of reactionary elements. The
Bill is intended to break the power con-
centrated in the hands of the Zaibatsu.
As a message from our Tokvo Correspon-
dent shows, it was opposed from widely
differing motives by several Japanese
political groups who resisted it with as
much strength as they have dared to show
against any measure pressed upon the
Cabinet by the Supreme Allied Command.
An unexpected complication was caused
by the leakage in Washington of the
confidential policy document known as
F.E.C. 230 upon which the Bill was based.
That document suggested that the break-
up of great industrial combines might be
followed by the sale of their constituent
enterprises to trade unions, among other
possible recipients, and this started a
scare in the United States that GENERAL
MAcARTHUR was aiming at the socializa-
tion of Japanese industry and playing into
the hands of the small Communist Party
now firmly entrenched in certain Japanese
trade unions.
This was a complete nisrepresentation
of the policy of the SUPREME ALLIED COM-
MANDER—F.E.C. 230 was, in fact, prepared
by the State Department, which has no
sympathy with Communists—but the
hubbub in Washington, which led to the
temporary withdrawal of F.E.C. 230,
caused GEnerAL MAcArTHUr to order
the Bill to be held up in the committee
stage of the Japanese House of Council-
lors until he had received further instruc-
tions. Moreover, the opposition of
Japanese big business interests, as well as
of the political parties, was greatly
encouraged. Fortunately the Government
of the United States realized the import-
ance of the issues at stake, and before the
end of the first parliamentary session held
under the new Japanese constitution
GENERAL MacArTHUR received official
authorization to proceed with the Bill with
insignificant amendments. It has now
passed into law.
The political and economic measures, of
Which GENErAL MACARTHUR is the prin-
cipal author, are heartily disliked by the
classes accustomed to monopolize power
in Japan. Much evidence has recently
como to light showing that they are wait-
ing patiently for a chance of regaining
their old authority. A "top secret"
document clandestinely obtained from the
Japanese Foreign Ministry and published in
the United States clearly reveals the plans
of the governing clusses for making light
of any restrictions upon Japanese sove-
reignty imposed by the peace treaty.
GENERAL. Tovo's obatinate defence of
Crimes Tribunal as simple national self-

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
throw democratic institutions when the
allied occupation eads Now they will
ind themselves much handicapped by lack
of financial support, and the economic life
of the country will be freed from the
stranglehold of monopolies. Although th
Japanese Government may be expected to
pursue its usual tactics of overt obedience
and covert obstruction, it will be poweriess
to prevent the allied liquidation commis-
sion froni destroying the influence of one
of the main forces now striving to restore
the domination of "Old Japan." The
result may be a lasting change in the struc-
ture of Japanese economy.
All this is particularly important in view
of the growing disposition of the allies to
make a definitive peace with Japan. As the
Canberra conference showed the nations
of the Commonwealth agree with the
United States that the interests of the
allies, as well as of Japan herself, will be
best served by bringing the allied occupa-
tion to an end as soon as possible. Now
that commercial intercourse between
Japan and the outside world, including the
sterling area, has begun again the indefinite
continuation (f allied supervision in its
present form might hinder rather than
help economic recovery. The progressive
elements which the new democratic insti-
tutions are bringing into prominenc: in
Japan will suffer in popularity if they are
indefinitely identified in the eyes of the
people with the presence of foreign
occupation forces.
This does not mean that reaction will-
be aliowed a free hand when peace is
made. The design for a peace treaty fore-
shadowed at Canberra—a design which
GeNERAL MaCARTHUr is known to en-
dorse-contemplates a dual procedure for
ensuring that democracy strikes root in
Japanese soil. In the first place, the treaty
would bind the Japanese Government to
accept in perpetuity not only the general
provisions for the restraint of future
aggression laid down at Potsdam but also
the specific measures of political and
economic reform introduced in the course
of the allied occupation. Thus the main-
tenance of the democratic framework now
set up will be among the specific obliga-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Secondly, there will have to be some allied
machinery for supervising the fulfilment
of these cbligations for at least a genera-
tion. This machinery could most conveni-
ently be provided by the Ambassadors of
the eleven nations represented on the Far
Eastern Commission. The Commission's
secretariat might be transferred to Japan
as the instrument of the new allied control.
The duration of the system beyond the
initial period of two or three decades
would depend entirely upon the progress
made by the Japanese people towards real
democracy and a peaceful outlook. No
Japanese Government should exercise un-
restricted control over national affairs
so long as there is any prospect of the
old reactionary force regaining influence.
A peace settlement upon these lines
should have the support of all the allies,
but the allies are not agreed on the pro
cedure to be adopted in making the peace.
The Soviet Government still insists that
the first steps should be taken by the
Foreign Ministers' Council, while the
countries of the Commonwealth and the
United States prefer a conference of all
the nations concerned. Certainly recent
experience in Lóndon does not suggest
that the urgent need for a easslem

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.81)
AwB
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECQRDS
ON TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
No acti
wi2
AIRGRAN
DEPARTMENT20F STATE
FROM:
Americen Rubaeny
Mosoow. U. S. S.R.
  J 16.298
Jan 27. 1948
9:44 AM
0
poty or
ACTIOF
INFO
DC/8
Wachanoo 
SA/
EUR
00
894.00/1-
Sovics
CHA
Polcy 2 J."
OXE
    cy
PA
iee
1648
工
PERMANENT RECOReQPY-This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
工

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.79)
UNCLASSIFIED
-2
Mosco, U. S. S.R.
Janvary 16, 1948
A-66
capiteliste in economic csbotago, tho artiele boldly
concludoss
"Tho Americn impericlioto aro trying in
ovory way to reclise the plans of eatablishing
thoir world domination. Japen ccoupies a
prominont plece in thece plens. The Americans
have converted Japen into thos colony. into a
patrimeny of Americen moncpolist capital. Thie
ellows thon to build wathout hindrence places
d'ermcs on the Japeneso Iclande egainst tho
Sovict Union ond shose countziee of Asia which
heve visen to fighs for libeves end indopendence
cgalnct tho forede of imperiellen end roection.
"Amortoen peliey in Jopen So csvsing great
onmsety an tho Couceratie cnd cnti-imperleline csmpe
Than yoliey will leat to the canverelen of Japan snto
a nor cockpit of senetion pod malitary donger an the
Mer k ste
In shls ltes a cort mo throat to workd
p  po of poohleo.
taricus.
Pdtouleo effoste of daga mpo to Amatete Vogtosn
demeerette peroaseces clleptns Mhes roy ero eeccopufe)
only tn carpstng thomsslven do she Msutern poohodo of
cengetevseu cnd beabevr.
Asttete eomphctne fuvthor shat
.    
A 
Popgoesane to segae waen aasfse fno pamgod amto an
a peopte ase dyang
Policy"
hletowy f rgon beok
boek n cofee
Copv to Wokyo
WErolendset
UNCLASSIFISD

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
五
NORTHEST ASIAN AFFAIRS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
JAN 28 1948
American Embassy
AIR MAIL
Lon OPPARTMENTUOF STATE
1948
DR
UNCLASSTFTED
No. 113
Subject:
Transmitting Third Article from Daily
Telegraph on Japan
STAIE
27
BRANCH
9
OF
00
98  3 AM
8
894.00/1
0121
S
E
Honorable
Sacretary of State,
111
Washington
"Sir:
1. In reference to the Embassy's despatches
-1648
Nos. 2956, December 23, 1947, and 2990, December 30,
1947; transmitting articles from the Daily Telegraph
on Japan, I have the honor now to transmit a third and
concluding article on the suhject.
FE
2. In the present article lr. Mugceridge dis-
cusses the position of the Emperor in relation to the
war and the occupation.
A-S
B
3. Mr. Muggeridge concludes Prom his observations
66
that "it is probable that most Japanese still regard
OcD
the amperor as a god to ne worshipped rather than a man
to be obeyed."
O IE
Rospoctfully yours,
(T
FILHD
DOR
For the Oharge dAffaires a.i.:
2
F
2
CS/
Everett F. Drumright
Pirst Secretary of Embassy
V
Enclosure:
Copy of article, as stated
(Original and hectógraph to the Department)
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Hanking
Copy to Embassy,
HosCOW
EFDrumright/wg

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 113 dated January 16, 1948,
from American Embassy, London, England.
Source: Daily Telegraph
January 15, 1948
WITH THE EMPEROR IN TIE RUINS OF HIROSHIMA
Malcolm Muggeridge
HIROSHIMA (delayed)
When American bombers began to go over Tokyo they
deliberately refrained from attacking the Imperial Palace.
The consequence was that at the time of Japan's defeat
tho Emperor's residence stood intact in the midst of a
largely ruined canital.
Its pleasant gardens and shaay groves were unscarred
by the war which had just erded so disastrously for Japan.
Tho Emperor himself and his household could await the
conoreror's cominr without physical discomfort, whatever
agonies of spirit they may have suffered.
This represented, of course, a deliberate policy,
decided on by the Allies before Japan's surrender, of
main taining the monarchy and thereby preventing the total
administrative breakdown which was otherwise to be expected.
As long as the mperor remained, it was felt, orders
would continue to be obeyed. Discipline in the armed
forces and civil Service would bo maintained, and it would
be posslolo to rufashion the Juoanese State without
totally disruptin it.
MILLTON ALLIED LTVES JERE SAVED
No aspact of Gen. MacArthur's poliey has been more
criticised than the decision to keep the Emperor on his
throne, thouch with greatly reduced status and with his
powers those or a constitulional Sovereign.
As the rormer supreme head of the Japanese State,
in whose name Japan propared ror and ruthlessly pursued
a policy of military acression, it is argued, his place
is in the dock with the other war criminals rather than
in the palace of his ancestors. In allotting responsi-
bility for war crimes, how is it possible to avoid
implicating the Emperor on whose behalf, at any rate
ostensibly, they were committed?
When I asked Gen. Robertson, the energetic and
exceedingly competent Commander-in-Chief of the British
Commonwealth Occupation Forces in Japan, what he thought
about the decision to treet with the Emperor, thereby
recognising/

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 2.
recognising him as spokesman of the Japanese people, he
said that probably as many as a million Allied lives
were at stake.
At the time of the armistice, he pointed out, there
were 46 Japanese divisions actually in Japan to defend
the country against invasion, and subsequent survoys
had shown beyond a shadow of doubt that to achieve landings
in accordance with Allied invasion plans would have proved
appallingly costly in life.
SYMBOL THE JAPANESE LISCONSTRIED
It was only because the order to cease fire came
from the mperor that it was obeyed and that Allied
forces were able to land in Japan practically without
bloodshed.
Thus on two counts, both weighty, the decision to
maintain the Emperor on his throne can be justified--
that otherwise there would have been heavy Allied losses
in effecting a landin in Japan and a total administrative
breakdown after one had been effected.
On the other hand, it must be admitted that it is
difficult to discredit a regime when its titular head,
its very symbol in the eyes of the Japanese population,
continues to be accorded recognition by the occupying
forces.
Moreover, the Japanese are prone, somewhat ominously,
to claim that, since they did not surrender unconditionally,
they cannot he said to have been defeated in battle.
Their surrender, they say, was contingent on the
Allies accoptin: the Mmperor as head and mouthpiece of
the nation, whe could not be held responsible for the deeds
of mere qovernments, ever thouch their authority was
derived from him. It is not dirficult to see how sueh a
concept could easily lond itself to the kind of myth which
provided tho mystique for lerman rearmament and revenge
arter the 1914-18 war.
ACOLADELG TES OYAL TOURTST
If the Emporor still remains on his throne his
situation is vastly different from what it was before
Gen. MacArthur came to Tokyo. Prom being a od upon whom
his subjects were not even permitted under pain or death
to cast their eyes he has become a man whose voice and
featuros are increasingly familiar to the Japanese people.
Awed and silent adoration has given place to popular
applause. Ho has emerged from the seclusion of the
Imperial Palace, if not to mix with the populace, at any
rate to be seen and heard by them.
From time/

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASS IF IED
Page 3.
From time to time now he goes on tour, travelling
in a special train with a retinue of court officials,
all attired in black cut-away coats and wearing tiny
chrysanthemums, symbol of the Royal House, in their
outton-holes.
Wherever the Emperor goes he is enthusiastically
acclaimed. For hours before the Royal train is due his
subjects line the railway track along which it will pass.
Peasants are as eager as officials to get a glimpse
of their Sovereign; schoolchildren shout "Banzai!" and
jump and clap their hanis at his approach. Buildings
which he visits are frenziedly cleaned and restored, and
whole districts receive a spring cleaning in preparation
for his coming.
WHERE THE ATOM BOMP HAD FAILEN
I havo been one of the onlookers during a visit the
Emperor has just hean paying to Hiroshima. He arrived
by launch at a point about 25 miles from the city and
drove into it between dense crowds all the way. I was
in a car immediately behind his own.
Shouts reeted him invariably, and some as they saw
him wept, but the whole effect has been strange rather
than exciting. It mi:ht have been a curiously conceived
hallot rather than a popular demonstration.
The Emperor's day was meticulously planned. A
printen schedule had indicated that two minutes were to
be allowed for him to "step out to reet orphans of
Hiroshima War Orphanage," and rive minutes to "receiving
citizens' hail." Later, threo minutes were spared for
"inapection on the way or ploughing ty cow," and another
three minutes for "inepeoting rurel lire."
At Hirochime itselr, oree a city with a population
of about 400, 020, a wooden platform had been erected as
near as possible to uhe actual point on which the atom
bomb fell littla short or twe-and-a-half years ago, and
here at loast 2o, Ooo peeple had collectod. They gave the
Lmperer a groat ovation and san" the Japanese national
song, "Fimigayo," apparently with deen reeling.
He told them in a speeel read from a serap of paper
he oulled awkwardly from his pocket that he regretted
the sacririces they had been called on to make, but that
ho conridently expected they would work hara in order
that these saerifices should not have been made in vain.
The mporor was then conauctod to the roor of the
partially restored town hall, almost the only building
in Hiroshima of more than one storey which was left
standing after the atom bomb explosion. From this
ominence he was shown the exteni or the damage and what
had been done towards restoring it.
On the/

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.95)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 4.
On the ground it is difficult to realise how vast
was the destruction wrought because of the many wooden
buildings which have been run up since the war ended,
but from above it is still apparent that the atom bomb
did indeed lay waste the whole city. Deaths from the
bomb are now sstimated to have been around 80,000.
Amon the faces of tose who turned out to welcome
the Empuror were some disfigured by terrible burns, but
these were rare. The worst cases ere still being treated
in Hiroshima Red Cross Hospital. Perhaps significantly
this institution has not boen included in the Emperor's
itinerary.
LE WOUB TAL WIHO LOVES SECLUSTOL
In all tho ceromonios and domonstrations connected
with the mporor's visit one has deteeted no tendeney in
any quarter to reproach or blame him for the city's
dreadful fate. It would havo been the easiest thing in
the world to stase a couuter-demonstration or even an
assassination.
on the contrary, the unanimity of feeling among the
people has been striking. They seemed to derive immense
satisfaction from the mperor's mere mesenee among them,
and have surged round him not with the idea of touching
him out to sense his physical proximity.
Fe is a short, nervous man whose features frequently
twiteh and whose oyelids lower rrom time to tine as
thou h the affort of holdine the. open for long at a
streteh is ueyond his powers. Thouth tho war has heen
over lon enou h for im to have rown accustomed to
leavin the divine seelusion in which ho hsd hitherto
spent his days, ho still vives an impression of heing
deafened by tho neiee und  lindet by the li pht or the
averyday world.
Ho seooo elways to be shrint-int inte linselr, and
probably retures uo his palaee with raliof, there to devote
himself quletiy to marine biolocy, whteh is his sanrle
ansorhinr intorest.
STILL RERADED AS A DETTY
Despite S.C.a.P. directives and Diet resolutions it
is probable that most Japunese sbill rogard tho Emperor
as a od to be worshipped rather than a man to he oheyed.
Divinity, being intangible, is more difficult to shed
than earthly authority, and thou h to the outward eye he
is only a nervous littlo man in a black suit who, on all
public appearances, repeatedly raises his homburs hat,
his subjects see in him a deity particularly concerned
with their welrare.
As such he focuses national aspirations at a moment
of humiliation and defeat; as such he could doubtless again
stimulate fanatical ondoavour on the part of the 80, 000, 000
enigmatic but inmensely competent Japanose over whom he
continues to rule and who continue to multiply to the
extent of increasing by 2,000, 000 yearly.

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DIVISION 
NORTHEASY ASTAN AFTAIRS
2948.
No. 46
EB11948
CONFIDENTIAL - DEPARTMENTAL USE ONLY
DEPARTMENI OF STATE
Subject:
Appeal by ex-Ambassador Kurusu against Disqualification
from Office.
894.00/1-2148
3
The Honorable
 Yil
The Sècretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to forward herewith, In Japanese and in English
translation, copy of an undated "Appeal for Examination of Qualifi-
cation for Public Offices" submitted to Prime Minister KATAYAMA Tetau
by former Japanese Ambassador KURUSU Saburo. It is felt that this
document may be of value to future historians concerned with the
personalities involved in the Nomura-Kurusu phase of Japanese-
American relations prior to the outbreak of war.
This document has been handed in confidence to an officer of
this Mission by Mr. Kurusu, who hes approved the English translation.
Although under established procedure, the Central Screening Committee
of the Japanese Government presumably passes final judgment in purge
cases, Mr. Kurusu has stated that he feels his chances of clearance
are being blocked by the failure of the Japanese Government to refer
a copy of his appeal to General Headquarters for guidance.
Respectfully youre,
lW.
CS
W. J. Sebald
Acting Politicel Advicer
Enclosures:
Confidential Fil
1。
Appeal for Examination of
Qualificetion for Public
Officea - Saburo KURUSU
894.
(in Japanese; single copy only).
2. Translation of enclosure 1.
In triplicate to the Depertment
800
JWBurnett:lh
CONFIDENT LAL - DEPARTMENTAL USE ONLY

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 46
dated January 21, 1948 from the Office
of the Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, Appeal by ex-:
Ambassador Kurusu against Disqualification
from Office".
(COPY)
(Translation)
APPEAL
FOR
EXAMINATION OF QUALIFICATION FOR PUBLIC OFFICES
SABURO KURUSU
His excellency, The Prime Minister,
Mr. Tetsu Ketayame,
RE/
EXAMINATION OF QUALIFICATION FOR PUBLIC OFFICES
Sir:
By the "Notice of Provisional Designation", No. G O46, dated
September 3, 1947, I was advised, in the name of the Prime Minister
that, under the provision of Paragraph 1 of Article 7-2 of the Imperial
Ordinance No. 1, of Januery 4, 1947, I was provisionally designated as
a person to be "purged". The reason specifically given is that I.
"was in the position of Ambessador
Plenipotentiary in Germany during the
period between July 7, 1937, and
September 2, 1945."
On September 30, I presented a petition for reexemination of
my cese. But the petition was not accepted and I am now definitely
designated es a "purged". Furthermore, I am made to understend, by
competent authorities of the Central Liaieon Office, that my case
belonge to a category which is commonly called, "Mandatory Cases",
by routine officiels concerned, and that persons thue designated,
are to be automaticelly end summarily excluded from public positions.
The explanation given is that "Ambassadors to Germany and Italy"
being en item specifically enumerated in Paragraph 1 of "The Criteria
for Examination and Decieion of Paragraph G Cases", the "purge" desig-
nation against me is willy-nilly final and no recourse to further
examination is to be permitted.
The "purge" is en extremely severe measure of suspending an
important part of a man's civic rights for an indefinite period.
Under the Japanese Constitution, both new and old, it could only be
enforced by a law duly legislated by the Diet. The only case in which
such a measure can be enforced by the Imperial Ordinance is when the
said ordinance is strictly in eccord with the SCAP directive based
upon the Potsdam Declaration. The Imperial Ordinance No. 1, of
July 4, 1947, which was invoked against me is an ordinance issued by
the Japanese Government for the enforcement of en order given to them
by SCAP
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 46,
dated January 21, 1948.
-2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
by SCAP in GHQ Directive of January 4, 1946 (APO 500 AG91.1.GS).
The Ordinance, thsrefo, should be looked upon as a detailed regula-
tion for enforcement of the original GHQ Directive. Such being its
nature, it should be indisputably assumed that the Ordinance must
never be allowed to overstep the boundary or stretch the objective
set by the SCAP Order in question.
From this viewpoint, let us examine the aforesaid GHQ Directive
of January 4, 1946. First we find that Paragraph 1, quotes a passage
of the Potsdam Declaration which reads in part as follows;
"There must be eliminated for all time the
authority and influence of those who deceived
and misled the people in Japan into embark-
ing on world conquest .......".
The fundamental objective of the GHQ Directive is thus clearly
defined.
Second, the seme Directive orders in its Paragraph 2, thet the
Japanese Government must remove and exclude from public and govern-
mental positions all persons who fall under the following categories:
a. Active exponents of militaristic nation-
alism and aggression.
b. Influential members of any Japanese
ultra-nationalistic, terroristic or
secret patriotic society, its agencies
or affiliates;
cr,
c. Influential in the activities of the
Imperial Rule Assistance Association,
the Imperial Rule Assistance Political
Society, or the Political Association
of Great Japan.
And Appendix A of the Directive which is provided in its Paragraph 9
enumerates the categories of persons to be "purged". The boundary
for application of the Directive is thus distinctly set.
Now let us first consider which one of those basic provisions my
case should fall under.
Among the items enumerated, a.b.c. in Paragraph 2 of the Directive,
thorough investigation will show thet I had nothing to do with political
organizations mentioned in items "b" and "c". Besides the "Notice of
Provisionel Designation" I received, does not mention any such political
affiliation as the reason of my "designation". Therefom, so far as
Paragraph 2
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 46,
dated January 21, 1948
-3-
CONFIDENTIAL
Paregraph 2 is concerned, the only point to be clarified is whether
my case corresponds to item "a". In other words, it first must be
determined whether I am an "exponent of militaristic nationaliam and
aggression".
The next point which should be raised is to which one of the
categories enumerated in Appendix A of the Directive is applicable
to my case. But as was already stated, the authorities concerned
explain that my case is to be considered under the "Criteria for
Examinetion and Decision of Paragraph G Cases". It should therefom be
concluded that the Paragraph G of Appendix A is the only one upon
which we must concentrate our investigation.
It is to be noted here that Paragraph G itself is divided into
three items but neither item 1, which refers to persons who "denounced
or contributed to the seizure of opponents of militaristic regime",
nor item 2, which provides for a person "who has instigated or per-
petrated an act of violence against opponents of the militaristic
regime" can be brought up against me. This simple process of elimin-
ation will thus leave item 3 as the only point to be investigated.
The fact to be established then is whether I correspond to item 3
which reads:
"A peraon who played an active and pre-
dominant part in the Japanese program
of aggression or who by speech, writing
or action, hes shown himeelf to be an
active exponent of militant nationaliam
and aggression."
It is quite true that the "Criteria for Examination and Decision
of Paragraph G Cases". which I referred to elsewhere, provides in its
first passage " those persons who occupied the following Governmental
Offices during the period between July 7, 1947, and September 2, 1945",
end mentions immedietely thereunder "Ambassadore Plenipotentiary to
Germany or Italy" as the lest item of those governmental positions
thereinafter enumerated.
Should it, however, be irrefutebly construed that the above
mentioned provision of the "Criteria" signifies that a person who
occupied the position of Ambassador to Germany during the period
therein specified, must be automatically and summarily condemned as
a person who has played en "active and prominent part in the Japanese
program of aggression" or as an "exponent of militant naticnalism and
aggression"?
In this connection, it must be first taken into consideration
that the greet majority of Japanese Ambassadors are career diplomate.
While many of their American Colleagues are political appointees,
Japenese Ambassadors are usually men promoted to their positions
after many years of service both at home and abroad under the Ministry
of Foreign Affaira. They are men in Civil Service of the Japanese
Government. While they are officials of "Shinnin" rank equally with
Ministers
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 46,
dated January 21, 1948.
- 4 -
CONFIDENTIAL
Ministers of State, their political significance in the Goverument
is entirely different from the latter. State Ministere and other high
political appointees generally change when the Cabinei cimnges, but
Ambassadors usually stay on. They are under the discipline and control
of the Home Government and especially of the Ministry of External
Affaires.
Everyone knows that the variations in international relations
cannot be judged solely from the ideological viewpoint. As an American
writer recently pointed out:
"During the Thirty Years War, in an age, where chief
ideological conflict was religtous, Catholic France went
to the aid of Sweden and the German Protestants in their
conflict with Catholic Austria..... In more recent times,
Tsarist kuesie has been allied with Republican France,
democratic Britain, oligarchic Japan, democratic America,
democratic Britain with Communistic Russia and Communistic
Russie with Nazi Germany. National interests make strange
bed-fellow; in the face of a threat to the balance of power,
nations will make alliances with ideological devils".
(Ideology or Balance of Power? by William G. Carlton, The
Yale Review, Summer, 1947. p.p. 592-3).
So long as the diplomatic relations among nations are such com-
plicated affairs, it must be extremely difficult to judge the personal
ideology of a diplomat simply by the country to which he is accredited.
For instance, it must be illogical to conclude thet any American
Ambassador is a comunist only because he was stationed in the U.S.S.R.
and endeavored to maintain and develoo friendly relations between his
country and Russia.
After considering all these points, it must be fair to presume
that the cases against "Ambassadorsto Germany or Italy", in the appli-
cation of Paragraph G, should be construed as prima-facie cases, and
those who are provisionally designated should be allawed to defend
their individual cases. In regard to this point, it must be duly noted
that the "criteria" provides in its first paragraph as follows:
"Whether a person will fall under
paregraph G titled, "Additional Mili-
tarists and ultra-nationalists" will
be determined by inquiry into his past
records. Hovever, general Criteria
for such decision shall be as follows".
Yet the officials directly in charge claim that the underlined passage
of the provision is not applicable to the case of an "Ambassador to
Germany". To sey the least, it is strongly doubtful whether such inter-
pretetion on the part of Japanese Authorities concerned are truly and
exectly in accord with the letter and spirit of the original Directive,
and for thet matter, with any innate sense of justico.
On October 25th,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 46,
dated Januery 21, 1948.
- 5 -
CONFIDENTIAL
On October 25th, 199, while still at my post in Belgium, I
was appointed as Ambassador to Germany. Prior to this date of
appointment, when approached from Tokyo on the subject of this
Portfolio, I twice refused by cablegram but my objections were over-
ruled and I was finally obliged to accept by the persistent request
of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. All the circumstances which
brought about my assignment to Berlin, must still remain both in
the memory of Foreign Office officials concerned at the time and in
the records kept in the files of the Gaimusho. It was at the time
when the Abe Cabinet was just organized after the resignation of the
Hiranuma Cabinet. This change of Cabinets was generally attributed
to the political repercussion of the Germano-Sovietic Non-Aggression
Pact which Germany entered into without any previous intimation to
Japan in spite of a very close relationship which then existed between
this country end Germany. It can be easily understood that the
diplomatic relation with Germany in those days was not eo amicable
as it had been hitherto. The early part of my Ambassadorship in
Berlin was a period which can hardly be called active or exciting.
Cur relations with Germany then having much cooled off, my principal
duty was to see to it that this propensity of estrangement between
the two countries should not go to an unnecessary extreme. Little
or no activity on my part was necessary. But in May of the next year,
Germany started the invasion of Belgium and the Netherlands and
completed the Military occupsticn of those two countries in a short
space of time. Immediately thereafter, the German army defeated the
combined forces of Great Britain and France and entered the capital
of the French Republic in June. It is superflous to mention that
this violent change in the military situation caused a tremendous
reaction in every direction in the diplomatic relationship of the
world.
In the case of Japan, a certain group who persistently meintained
the necessity of closer ccoperation with the Axis powers suddenly re-
gained their influence and started a powerful compaign for their cause.
Secondly, even those who did not share such a viewpoint became exceed-
ingly concerned about our rights and interests in French Indo-China and
the Netherlands East Indies, these colonies having lost their Mother
Countries in Europe under the military occupation of their enemy. Under
such circumstances, we hed much to deal with Germany concerning the
protection of our interests in those regions, especially because our
government had not established any diplomatic relations with the so-
called refugee governments of Frence or the Netherlands. However, in
spite of the strong campaign of pro-axis elements in Japan, the policy
of the Japanese Government then in power, remained practically the
same and no such idca as to strengthen our relation with Germany into
a military alliance was entertained in any responsible quarter yet. The
attitude of non-committal which was hitherto maintaimed was continued
without any variation and manifestation of our policy towards Germany
always confined iteelf to the vague desire of unspecified cooperation.
The instruction given to Ambaseador Naotake Sato, Special Envoy to
Italy, who visited Berlin just about this time, clearly demonstrated
the outline of the policy of Tokyo in those days. Accordingly my
activities
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 46,
dated January 21, 1948
-6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
activities as Ambasmador to Germany was also kept within the boundary
of this general policy of non-commitment.
However, just before the departure of Ambassador Sato from
Berlin, the second Konoe Cabinet was organized and Mr. Yosuke Matsuoka
assumed the Portfolio of Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thereupon, through
press despatches and other channels of publicity, strong clamours began
to be heard from Japan about "a great reorientation of foreign policy"
or about "reinforcement of friendship with the Axis Powers". Apparently
encouraged by such demonstrations, the German Foreign Minister repeatedly
asked me what would be the policy of the new Cabinet towards Japanese-
German cooperation. This repeated questioning necessitated my inquiries
to the new Foreign Minister on several occasions as to his (the Foreign
Minister's) future policy toward the country to which I was accredited,
and at the same time expressing my views personally of the policy Japan
should take in the prevailing world situation. My opinion was prin-
cipally based on three points:
1. The landing of German forces on the British Isles,
which was held imminent in certain quarters in
Japan, is an operation, which if successful, would
be so in one chance to a thousand, and even if it
should succeed and attain its objective, it would
certainly entail the struggle for the final
supremacy between the United States and Germany.
In such eventuality, the position of Japen placed
between the two contestants would certainly become
important and advantageous.
2. If the Japanese Government precipitates the decisi-
on of concluding a military alliance with Germany
and Italy without first exhausting every possible
means of reestablisning the friendly relations
with the USA, it will be hardly possible to attain
an unqualified approval of our public opinion and
the united support of the Japanese people behind it.
3. Japan and the United Stetes being the only principal
powers left out of the uropeen war, it should be
taken as a joint responsibility of the two countries
to prevent the disaster from spreading to the Pacific
and to prepare, if possible for the common effort of
bringing the uropean conflict to the earliest poa-
sible termination.
The Foreign Minister however, failed to enswer any of my inquiries
or to comment at all on my personal presentations. On the contrary,
the Germen side without any preliminary notification to me, sent
Mr. Stahmer over my head as a Special Envoy to Japan. My first intim-
ation of this mission I had when he called to take leave of me immedi-
ately before his departure. On this occasion I asked him if his going
to Tokyo
CONFIDENTIAL
a

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 46,
dated January 21, 1948
- 7 -
CONFIDENTIAL
to Tokye had any particular significance. He assured me that his trip
to Japan had not a motive other than to renew the friandmhips he had
made there on a former visit, but that the suggestion to go was made
by his Foreign Minister. Subsequent events proved this to be merely
a camouflage. A few days &fter the departure of Mr. Stahmer for
Moscow by plane on his way to Japan, I had an interview, by appoint-
ment, with the German Minister at his summer villa at Fuschlsee in
a suburb of Salzburg, Austria. At this interview I asked him directly
about the trip of Mr. Stahmer to Japan. He replied with the same
reason and explanation that Mr. Stahmer had given me. When our con-
versation came to the topic of the general cooperation of Germany
and Japan I said that if he thought of entering into any military
alliance with Japan, I could not agree with any such idea because,
no metter how we explained it, the United States would most certainly
take the alliance as one directed against her. Thereupon the Minister
responded that he thought it a most important point and om which calls
for very careful consideration. He thereafter carefully avoided the
subject. By his request, and according to his program, the talks were
to heve been continued in the afternoon but shortly I was told that
an urgent message had come from Mr. Hitler demanding his presence at
the German General Headquerters, and so there was no further opportun-
ity for discussion of any kind. My belief has always been that the
German Foreign Minister, being aware that I could not agree with his
opinions concerning the Alliance, and that I could get no instructions
from my own Foreign Minister on the subject, concluded that it was
useless to continue discussions with me on a matter concerning which
their own minds were already made up. Of this I have of course no
documentary proof but the eccumulation of such incidents during my
short tenure of office at Berlin strengthened this feeling in me.
Now ell the fecte are known to the world which brought ebout the con-
clusion of the Alliance. But at the time of these negotations between
Germany end Japan, the utmost secrecy was meintained, and the Japanese
Embasey et Berlin wes completely ignorant of any of the preliminary
arrangements leading up to t Tripartite Pact. When the deteils were
completed between Mr. Stahmer nd Foreign Minister Matsuoka in Tokyo,
I, as Ambassador was simply instructed at the eleventh hour by cable
to sign it. On the twenty-eighth of September, the day after the
signing of the Pect, I cabled my resignation to the Foreign Minister.
My resignation was accepted tentatively but I wes instructed to remain
at my post until a successor would be appointed. On December 20th,
1940, I was relieved of my duties but could not leave Berlin until
February 10th, 1941, when I returned to Javan via the United States.
When I arrived at Tokyo, Mr. Matsuoka was absent being on his way
back from his European tour. But soon after his return to Tokyo, I
had an interview with him. It wes on that occeeion that the Minister
finally agreed with my desire to resign. He even asked me to arrange
necessary formalities with the Vice Minister, and I subsequently
followed his advice. Notwithstanding this arrangement, the Minister
approached me a little later on the subject of negotiating an economic
arrangement with a Mr. Wohltet, the heed of the German Economic Mission
in Japan. I declined snd Dr. Ryoe Saito, was subsequently assigned to
that work. It is, therefore, quite clear that I had nothing to do
whatsoever
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 46,
dated January 21, 1948
- 8 -
CONFIDENTIAL
whatscever with eny commercial or economic agreement arranged or
entered into by the two countries.
As to any other phase of my official activities in Berlin, I
refer to all cablegrems, correspondence and any other documents ex-
changed between the Gaimuaho and the Embessy at Berlin during my
tenure of office. Furthermore, to prove whether my activities in
Berlin or my personal integrity fall under item "a" of Paragraph 2
of the GHQ Directive, inquiries should be made through the proper
channel to any of my foreign Oolleagues in Germany at the time such
as,... Mr. Heath, the American Charge d'Affaires and the Ambassadors
of Brazil and the Argentine. Recently I was much gratified to find
the following passage about me in a letter written by H.E. Ambassador
Fred Morris Dearing to the "American Foreign Service Journal" under
date of 0ctober 6th, 1946..
"And it was in Peru that I had for my Colleague
Saburo Kurusu. No one can make me believe that
he was not misused and betrayed by his own
Government or thet he practiced deliberate
duplicity with my own". (The American Foreign
Service Journal, November 1946, p,p. 33).
If further evidence is deemed neceesary for establishing the fact
that I am not a person who has "deceived and misled the people of Japan
into emberking into world conquest" as per Paragraph 1 of GHQ Directive
of January 4, 1946, inquiries may be made of any of my foreign
colleegues and aemociates with whom I came in contact through thirty-
five years of sincere diplometic service for Japan, in many countries
of the world.
Upon the strength of the foregoing reasons and facts, I reepect-
fully request thet an unbiased examination of my case will be made
and that the "purge" designation against me will be removed accordingly.
SABURO KURUSU

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION
UNITED STATES POLITICAL 
FOR JAPAN
FEB-41948G
Tokyo, JOEPAANEN230F SEMB.
No. 50
RESTRICTED
111
SUBJECT: Conversation with KATAYAMA Tetsu, Prime
2
S
Minister.
JAN 30
2
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.00/1-2348
C.
Sir:
I have the honor to report observations made by
894.12
KATAYAMA Tetsu, Prime Minister and President of the
Social Democratic Party, at a luncheon given by
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr., Second Secretary of this Mission,
on January 17, 1948 at his residence. The luncheon was
attended by Mr. John M. Allison, Chief, Division of
Northeast Asian Affairs; Mr. Cabot Coville, First Sec-
retary of this Mission; and Mr. Rolland Bushner, Third
-A-5
Secretary. Mr. TAKEUCHI Harumi, an officer of the
Japanese Foreign Service on loan to the Prime Minister
from the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and serv-
ing in the capacity of secretary, accompanied the Prime
Minister and acted as interpreter.
Mr. Katayama, who had absented himself from the
Social Democratic Convention in order to attend the
luncheon, stated that Japanese newspapers were crediting
the leftists in the Social Democratic Party with the
preponderence of power. He expressed certainty that
most of the strength lies with the rightists of the party.
C
He stated he would advocate abiding by the four-party
S
agreement between the Social Democratic, Democratic,
A
Peoples' Cooperative, and Liberal Parties, even though
the Liberals had already withdrawn. He thinks it is
wise for the three remaining parties to continue coopera-
tion and seemed confident that they would do so unless one
of the parties or a section of one of the parties took a
stand which would be contrary to the agreement. He cited
the possibility that if too strong a stand were taken by
the leftists of the Social Democratic Party the agreement
might be upset.
The
FILED
20 1948
An

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 50
January 23, 1948.
-2-
The major reason for leftist desire for abrogation
of the four-party agreement, according to Mr. Katayama,
was the desire on the part of the leftists to discontinue
interest on war bonds and to place a second tax on assets
and property. He felt that the leftists will give in on
the property tax, but will be adamant on the question of
discontinuance of interest on war bonds. One argument
advanced against such discontinuance, Mr. Katayama said,
is that war bonds are no longer in possession of the
people but are in banks, so that cancellation of interest
payments would affect the ability of the banks to pay
interest on other deposits. However, the leftists main-
tain that the money which could be saved by cancellation
of interest could be used for other purposes which now
have to be financed by taxes on the masses.
As the Department is aware, on January 19 (two
days after the luncheon) the Social Democratic Party,
by a vote of three hundred sixty-six to three hundred
forty-five, abrogated the four-party agreement. This
decision would appear to indicate that the leftists had
greater power in the Social Democratic Party than
Mr. Katayama had expected and arouses speculation as to
whether abrogation of the agreement may eventually lead
to collapse of the Katayama Cabinet. However, the
re-election of Mr. Katayama as Chairman of thé Central
Executive Committee and the election of Mr. ASANUMA
Inajiro as the Party's Chief Secretary implies that the
rightists still have majority strength from an administra-
tive point of view and so may be able to work out new
agreements with the People's Cooperative Party and the
Democratic Party. The strength of the rightists has
been further evidenced at the meeting of the Central
Executive Committee on January 21, at which twenty-nine
members of the committee were chosen, leaving one to be
determined later. of these, seventeen were members of
the right wing and twelve of the left. Five copies of a
list of these members, published in the Nippon Times of
January 22, are enclosed.
In discussing labor unions, Mr. Katayama said that
government workers are constantly demanding increases in
wages. He feels that workers apparently consider that
the only objective of unions is to obtain wage increases.
He inguired about the right of government workers in
the United States to strike, and when told of the non-
strike agreement signed by this class of workers, indi-
cated that only certain categories of Japanese government
workers were prohibited from striking (article no. 38
of the Labor Relations Adjustment Law). When queried
on the activities of the Communists in unions, he stated
that communists are most active in transportation and
communication unions.
When asked whether the Social Democratic members
of the Cabinet would be bound by a platform that would
be decided upon at the current Social Democratic Party
Convention

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's no. 50
January 23, 1948.
-3-
Convention, he indicated that ministers in the Cabinet
from the party would not be completely bound by the
platform, but must strive to put it into effect. He
said that the Social Democratlc Cabinet members must
necessarily take a practical point of view, otherwise,
in a coalition cabinet such as the present one the
cebinet would be unable to function.
In answer to a question as to whether the four-
party agreement barred leftist Social Democrats from
the Cabinet, Mr. Katayama said that the agreement did
not specifically include such a provision. However, he
stated that leftists were not made members of the Cabinet
because such inclusion would interfere with cooperation
with other parties.
Following a discussion of the mechanics of voting
in the United States, for example, whether the names of
candidates are always written in on ballots, Mr. Katayama
said the next session of the Diet would consider legis-
lation designed to prevent buying votes. He pointed out
that payment for votes is unfortunately customary in the
Far East. He emphasized that only by overcoming this
great difficulty could new leaders emerge as representa-
tives of the people.
Mr. Katayama, in describing difficulties facing the
Cabinet, emphasized economic problems. He stressed that,
in the next year, more strenous efforts must be made to
fight inflation, to place finances on a sound basis, to
streamline the government by efficiency of administration
and by reduction of the number of employees, and to
achieve stabilization of wages and prices. His admini-
strative address given five days later to the Second
session of the Diet was largely devoted to the urgency
of the economic situation and the intentions of the
government to devise means of improving it. Copies of
the address together with a summary are being forwarded
by despatch No. 52, January 23.
Respectfully yours,
WBelace
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
Enclosure:
List of members Central Executive
Committee, Nippon Times, January 22,
1948.
800
WHLawrence,Jr.:hp

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
NIPPON TDAS:
Jan 22, 1948
29-MAN EXECUTIVE DODY
ELECTED BY SOCIALISTS
Right-Wingers Win 17 Seats as
Against 12 Left-Wing Members
The right-wing faction of the
Social Democratic Party managed
late Tuesday night to elect 17
members to the party's powerful
Central Executive Committee as
against 12 left-wing representa-
tives. One seat was left vacant
to be filled later.
Left-wingers fought vigorously
to increase their strength in the
CEC, but agreed to a compromise
after hours of heated debates.
The new CEC members are:
Right Wing: Kiyoshi Masaki
(Hokkaido), Michio Hosono (Aki-
ta), Kanemitsu Yoshikawa (Chiba),
Eiji Tomiyoshi (Kagoshima), Nao-
saku Doi (Kanagawa), Junzo
Matsumoto
(Shimane),
Ryozo
Kato (Gifu), Ushiro Ito (Fuku-
oka), Daisaku Hayashi (Aichi),
Tadao Kikukawa (Tokyo), Sue-
hiro Nishio (Osaka), Chozaburo
Mizutani (Kyoto), Tatsuo Morito
(Hiroshima), Mitsusuke Yonekubo
(Hyogo), Yoshio Suzuki (Fuku-
shima), Eiichi Nishimura (Osaka),
Tsune Akamatsu .(House of Coun-
cillors).
Left Wing: Mosaburo Suzuki
(Tokyo), Kanju Kato (Aichi),
Katsuzo Arahata (Tokyo), Masaru
Nomizo (Nagano), Toshio Kuroda
(Okayama), Hyo Hara (Tokyo),
Junzo Inamura (Niigata), Kaichi
Yasuhira
(Ehime),
Shogetsu
Tanaka
(Fukuoka), Yoshiharu
Oshinia (Gumma), Seiichi Suzuki
(House of Councillors), Makoto
Hori (Houce of Councillors).

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.92)
DWISION OF
DO/t
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
Ff
OF THE
FEB 211948
 STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
American Embassy
AIR MAIL
London, January 29, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
DuR
No. 236
Subject:
Transmitting Extracts from Foreign Poicy
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Debate in Comnons on Japan
948 FEB 12 PM 3 14
1741.00
RECEIVED
TAIF ON
0
8
The Honorable
Secrotary of State,
Washington
894.00/1-2948
Sir:
2
1. For purposes of convenience, I have the honor
to transmit herewith copies of extracts from Hansard
covering important references to Japan in the notable
debate on foreign policy which took place in the House
of Commons on January 22 and 23, 1048.
FBEC
2. Genorally speaking, the debate impinged but
little on Far Eastern problems. Indeed the speakers
E.!
devoted themselves almost exclusively to European prob-
A-S
lems and particularly to relations with Soviet Russia,
UNA
which, as the terms of tho debate plainly indicate, are
being seen in a new and revealing light in this country.
OCJ
01E
S. Mr. Sovin was the only speaker on the Government
FC
side to refer to Far astern issues. In this relation,
J
he took the occasion to make it clear that the British
Government had no liking for tho Soviet proposals
DCk
respecting the convocation of a Japanese peace conference.
Instead, he stressed the mritisn desire for a multi-power
—1.
peace conference.
4. Messrs. Teeling and Paton, both members of the
Parliamentary Mission to Japan, were the only non-
Government speakers to dwell at any length on Japanese
CS/A
issues. Both speakers praised the achievements of the
occupation authorities, though Mr. Paton had doubts as
to the efficacy of the economic policies being pursued
in Japan. Mr. Teeling sought enlightenment with respect
to certain aspects of British policy in Japan, but he
was unrewarded for his efforts in this direction, since
Iir. Attlee, the last speaker for the Government, mado no
reference/
das
3
9
E
FILED
083
949
2
a
2

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASS IFIED
Page 2.
Despatch No. 236
January 29, 1948
from London
reference of any kind to tns Far East.
Respectfully yours,
For the Chargé d'Affaires a.i.:
First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosure:
Extracts from Hansard, as stated
(Original and hectograph to the Department)
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Nanking
Copy to mbassy, Moscow
FDrueright/we

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 236 dated January 29, 1948,
from American Embassy, London, England.
Source: Hansard, Vol. 446, No. 47
January 22, 1948
Lir. Bevin (Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs):
". . . One other matter I must mention in passing is
Japan. There is a conflict again because it is desired
by the Soviet that we should refer the Peace Treaty to
the Council of Foroign inisters; not a very encouraging
prospect. Really, it is very difficult to agree to it.
Here are Australia, New Zealand, India, Pakistan, Burma
and the letherlands, who were all in the Japanese War
from the very day of Pearl Harbour, and while I am ready
to admit that the maintenance of great Russian armies in
the Maritime Provinces probably had an effect before they
came into the war, the actual time that Russia was in the
Japanese War was but a few days. Yot I am asked to agree
that they should take & predominant position over the
Allies who fought in the Japanese War all the way through.
Really, we cannot expect people to accept that. What we
propose is that tho 13 or 14 countries which were involved
should form the Peace Conference. In that way I think we
are more likely to clear up the Far Eastern position, and
I hope the Soviet lovernmont will seo thair way clear to
accept that, and lo t us got on with the business of at
least makins one good peace treaty. That, of course,
includes tho United States, Canada and other countries . . .

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSTFIED
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 236 dated January 29, 1948,
from American Emoassy, London, England.
Source: Hansard, Vol. 446, No. 47
January 22, 1948
Mr. G. Lang (Labor M.P. for Stalybridge and Hyde):
". . . I know nothing personally of America in that way,
but I have seen Amorica at work in Japan for two suc-
cessive years, and I am bound to say that I have seen no
evidence there at all that america is desirous of
crushing democracy. . ."

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFTED
Enclosure No. 3 to Daspatch No. 236 dated January 29, 1948,
from American Embassy, London, England.
Source:
Hansard, Vol. 446, No. 48
January 23, 1948
Mr. William Teeling (Conservative M.P. for Brighton):
"I shall not attempt to follow the hon. Member for East
Coventry (Mr. Crossman) in what he has been saying
especially as I have only just returned from Germany
myself. ut I kiow there are many others who wish to
speak, and I feel that unless we turn for a few moments
to the Far East we are going to cive an extremely wrong
impression throu hout the world. Well over six months
have elapsed since the last Foreign Affairs Debate and
one would have thou ht that the Foreign Secretary would,
as a result, have had time to say a little more about our
position with regard to Japan and the Far East generally.
Looking at the length of time he gave to discussing such
points as tourist travel abroad, we cannot help but think
that he could have spared a little longer for the Far
Last.
"Prolably the enswer is that for some reason this
Government dous not wish this country to know too much
about what is going on in the Far East. I um inclined
to think that we have no policy with regard to Far Eastern
matters at all. I bolieve that the cituation in Japan
and the situation in the Far East is far from satisfactory
from the Britisn point oi view, and that the Americans
are not at all hapry with regard to our attitude and our
hehaviour on many points. Whon it is cons ldered what
that can mean to Yorkshire tnd Lancashire and to the
whole export drive of this country, it seems rather
alarming that we should concontrato so entiroly upon the
Jerman trouble and what is happening there without com-
parin it with the situation in Japan as well.
"as hon. Mombers will kmow, five or us went out a
few months a go to Japan and were there auring Cotober
and Hovember. Ne went, I beliove, because Generel
LacArthur and the whole wanerican set-up in Japan was
anxious that thls country should kn ow a little more about
what is being done there and about the problems there.
I would like to take the opportunity of saying how grateful
we all were at the wonderful way we were received, and
the marvollous efrerts that were made by uvorybody to
soe that wo got what information we wanted. We were
allowed to see Japanese and Americans on almoat any point
we wanted to discuss.
"I bolieve democracy is one of the subjects en-
doavouring to be taught at the present moment to both
Germany and Japan, and therefore, perhaps, it will be a
lesson in democracy to the Japanese to realise that
Mombers of this House can go out to Japun at the expense
of the Covernment--and when in Japan, I believe, at the
expense/

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 2.
Encl. 3 to Despatch 236, January 29, 1948, from London
expense of America--and still be able to get up on their
return and criticise those hosts who sent them out, and
also the kind American hosts who looked after them there.
I believe the americans will not take it amiss, and nor
do I think our own Government should.
"I cannot make out why we should pretend there is
a different programme--or is there a different pro-
gramme?--for our attitude with regard to Germany and
Japan, the two reat menaces of two, three, or four years
ago. In Germany ws are trying to so in for decartel-
isation of big firms. That may happen in two quite
differont ways in the American and British zones. The
ettitude in the british zone is to go slowly at the
present moment, because it is not entirely fair on
everybody in the zone that they should be sold out until
it is absclutely certain that thoy had some connection
with liazism.
"On the other hand, in Jupan, what is our policy
in regard to decartelisation. There they have the
'Zaibatsus,' as they are called--'family concorns.'
Many exaggerated things have beel. said abeut them recently.
If anybody thinks that in America thore is a united policy
on the way that the aitatsu are bein got rid of, he is
makiny a very great mistake. Only last wegk a spaech
was made in the United States by the Army Secretary, Mr.
Kenneth C. Royall, who was replyins to Cenerel HacArthur
on this subjoct.He thon said:
ITho dissolution of the Zaibateu may present in
itself no serious ecorumic problom, but at some stage
extreme deconcentration of Industry, while further
impairing the ability to make war, may at the same
time impair manufacturins efficiency and reduce the
overall production and the exoortable surplus of
Japanese industry--may, therefore, postpone the day
whan Japan can hecome salf-supporting.'
Later he said:
'our decisions will be made with realism and
with. a rirm determination of doing all possiblo to
prevent Japan from again waging unprovoked and aggres-
sive and cruel war agelnst sny other nation. We hold
to an equally definite purpose of building in Japan
a self-sufficiont delocracy, stron enourh and stable
onough to sup ort itself and at the same time to serve
as a deterrent against any other totalitarian war
threats which might horeafter arise in the Fnr East.'
How we aro vory soriously studying our export drive. We
hope, not only in this year but in the years to come, to
be able to sell that which we are begging cur workpeople
in this country to work harder to produce. What is the
attitude/

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 3.
Encl. 3 to Despatch 236, January 29, 1948, from London
attitude of our Government to this policy in Japan? Let
us not forget that the population of Japan before the
war was increasing at the rate of one million a year.
Today it is increasing at the rate of 1,300, 000 a year.
We should not forgot that today Japan is only half the
size of what it was bofore the war and that six million
more Japanese have been brought back to the country since
the end of the war.
"Yet, according to some, ana to the speech I have
quoted, it is the Americar policy that the country shall
be self-sufficing. ve all lmow that that moans that
the country shall be able to sell and export abroad.
Equally, we know that in the textile industry, so far
as cotton piece ccods are concerned, Japan sold more
in the last quarter in the Far ast than the total exports
anywhere of Lancashire and Yorkshire during that period.
what is the policy of our tovernment with regard to the
breaking up of these Zaibatsu firms. Before this state-
ment in the united States, the policy wus to get rid of
everybody who could be linked up in any way with the head
of a firm which mi ht havo hulped in the war offort.
Presunably we agreud to tl.is, anu the rosylt, as we saw
it, whon we were out there, was that firas wore being
left in the hanan of the tovurmmont eventually to be sold
to persons unknown. As far as one could seu, the people
to whom they would have to bo sold would be sither black
marketeers or people closely connectut either with Com-
munist trade unionism, as it has dovuloped in Jupan, or
people linked up with firms in the tnitod States. The
same thin: is happonin in Termany, and we have the
followin happening. Thn connoction with the auction of
eight mines in Stuttgart, it has not yot boun deoided who
is to get thom, but ore or she bids liloly to be accepted
was maoe by Saomen'e, of ew mork. shat ls cur policy
on that sub joot?
"In connection vith do-Naziricaulon in dorma-y, we
know that in. our sone we are not pressin it to quite the
same extent us ure the moricans in their zone. Indeed,
there will be cumplications about that i. bizonia in the
next few weeks or monthe. wiat is our attitude with
regard to the purging that is oing on in Jupan? Do we
realise that poople who are round to be connseted with
the war effort--heads of firms, some of whon, like the
Mitsuis, are not even being tried--are being purgod even
to the third dogree of their relationship? Their grand-
children, even, are not allowed to take any part or
interest not only in the firm with which they may have
been connected but also in any concern or business that
might be in any way like the one in which the famlly was
concerned before. Does that not savour of something just
a little like what was done to the Jevs not very long ago?
Is it not wrong? What is our attitude? As amoricans
themselves have been pointing out, many Jupanese who
are pro-Amorican end pro-British are being included in
tho purge/

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFTED
Page 4.
Encl. 3 to Despatch 236, January 29, 1948, from London
the purge without any great reason as far as one can
soe. What is our polioy?
"Also, we must not forget the question of Korea
and the danger that is coming from that part of the
world. It is & danger which may come very soon. Large
numbors of Americans have a certain view of our policy
and I would like to ask the Governmont for a statement
on this matter. Why is it that we are removing the 2, 000
odd troops who are at present in Japan? It is said quite
definitely by some people in America that the reason why
we are doing this is because there is a possibility of
war in that area, in Korea, or connected with Korea, and
we want to ve out of it and not in it. That is why I say
that it is not fair for the Foreign Secretary to give the
impression that nothing is wrong in Japan. The Americans
are worried about our attitude. These 2,O00 troops were
included in what is consiaered the minimum required for
the defence of Japan. I ask the Government whether they
are acting with the full approval of the Australians,
whether we consulted them? I would like to know the real
reason for the withdrawal. I hope that it will not be
said that it is in order to economise and to bring people
back to this country so that they may work for the export
market. That would be a typical short-sighted Treasury
pcint of view.
"If we are really short of people, why is it that
we have 17, 00 civilians workin in the ritish zone of
Germany whereas there are only 4, Oo) in the American zone?
Eleven thousard Americans are able to carry on the whole
of the Japanese Enpire. In both cases, I do not tako
into account the Armed Forces. These s, Doo troops in
Japan could easily have been taken away from unother part
of the world, pos ibly from civilians in Germany, if it
is export workers who are wanted. Then we would at least
have been left with a token force in Japan. Many Amoricans
say that by takin away these troops we are waiving any
claim for any interost in the future development of Japan.
They say of that ir we are not willin to pull our weight
out there, why should we try to press what I contend are
our legitimate claims in regard to trade, and so on? If
these ,oo0 men come back they may produce more coods,
but we lost the ri ht to bargain and to see that the Jap-
anese cotton and other textile products do not compete
too seriously with our own in the Far East and that we
have some division of markets. I would like a definite
answer on this point.
"I think that we are from the Treasury point of
view--it is more their fault than that of the Foreign
Office--cheeseparing far too much on small things. From
small things very often one can set greater results. In
the case of our Ambassador in Japan and the whole of the
Embassy organisation, they are left--other than the
British/

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 5.
Encl. 3 to Despatch 236, January 29, 1948, from London
British money they use amongst themselves--with the vast
sum of four dollars a month which they are allowed to
spend in order to keep on friendly terms with the Amer-
icans and to meet thon in Anerican places. Because one
goneral happens to be a particularly good golfer he is
able to make a little extra money on the golf links, and
in thet way a few more people are able to get about. In
Frankfurt, as 'The Times' pointed out, not only were the
chier British delegates allowed only one dollar for all
their stay, but the most important of our Civil Service
of: icials was allowed only 50 cents because it only costs
30 cents fer breakfast on the train. These pettifogging
things are doing a consiaerable amount of harm. we could
spend a little more money and get far more in contact
with the americans, and point out our own point of view.
"I do not think poople realise in what an inferior
and appallin ly huiliating position our people in Japan
are at the moment. Do they realise, ror instance, that
our Ambassador, thou h he is not officially called that,
nas not yet met the Prime inister of Japan, who has been
Prime inister since last February, or had not when I
left in November. Wy that is, I do not krow, excopt,
possibly, that for some policy point of view it may not
be desired that he should do so. Ne are hot allowed to
interfere in any way, and yet I do know that vast numbers
of Americans are working or. wonderful schomes of devolop-
ment in a wonderful way in Japan at the moment, and I
think that we should be working in wi th them and I believe
they want us to do so. Instead of that, they receive the
news that our s, Ooo mer are going away, and they feel that
we are not helping thom, beoause, if things go wrong, wo
aro leavin  all the responsibility to thom, and, on the
other hand, if things o right, they woula gladly have us
working with thom. I hove seen What Goneral KacArthur
has done in sendin: coal to Mong-Kong, when it was badly
needed in Japan, and also how he wants to cooperate with
us in Japan. Hu hus askod B.O.a.U. to come out but so
far London has reiused.
"Japan, after all, is not only the country of the
people who comnitted all the tortures and atrocities in
the war. I think we will find that the worst segments
only came from agricultural areas. I have seen the new
kind of Japan both in the agricultural districts and the
industrial areas, which are just as large. In the indus-
trial areas, nearly all the people are descended from the
Liberals and liberal-minded people who were running Japan
in the early '2)'s, and we should not forget that we were
the first white allies of Japan in the old days. We
should not forget, either, that thers aro large numbers
of people in Japan who are more than anxious that we
should go back and work with them. The vast majority of
Americans also want us to work with them. Nobody in Japan
today knows very much about the British. They kmow they
beat/

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFTED
Page 6.
Encl. 3 to Despatch 236, January 29, 1948, from London
beat us out of Singapore and Hong-Kong, but little else;
they do not seem to have heard of Burma; and there is
no publicity or newspapers fron Britain; and we are doing
nothing now in the way of presenting our case in that
country. Me have heen asked to send out BoAc, but for
some reason they are not allowed to go. Peoplo here have
wanted to o out to extond our trade there, but the
Troasury will not allow them onough money. We need quicker
means of transport and communications. All the time both
the Americans and the Japanese would like us to do that.
The young business man now coming along in Japan does not
know anything about us, or that we once had a great trade
with Japan, mainly mpire. On one occasion, when we went
about the country, I found that people had never even
heard of the tritish. All these are things we must
remember.
"I came back from Japan with this massage. We must
remember that we have lost many thousands of people in
the fighting in Malaya, burma ana elsewhere, and, here
are whole areas in which we can combine with the Japanese
and the Americans; if we lose our opportunity now, we will
have no justirication for puttin: in a claim in the peace
treaty that might save us from being hampored in other
parts of the world. I therefore ask the Government what
is their policy with regard to the withdrawal of troops
in Japan, and with regard to meatins ths undoubted coming
competition from Japan in the years to come? If it is
true that Japan is to receive a 750 million dollar loan
from the United States, as has been reported from Moscow,
if it is possiblo that tho peacs treaty may not, after
all, be signed in the next few months, and if the americans
are then oin to remain in Japan, what is the position
going to bo with regard to our traders going out thore
and in regard to reparations generally, and is there any
policy that mi ht save Yorkshire and Lancashire? For the
absence of a poliey on this we shall have mueh regret in
years to come whilo we still want to export."

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFTED
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 236 dated January 29. 1948,
from American Embassy, London, England.
Source: Hansard, Vo1. 446, No. 48
January 23, 1948
Iir. John Paton (Labor M.P. for Norwich): "I am
very glad to have been given this opportunity to inter-
vene in this Debate, ana, particularly, that I have
been called imnediately after the hon. Member for
Brighton (lir. Teeling), who has introduced a subject
which ought to be given far more opportunities in this
House for effective discussion than it has hitherto had
in this Parliament. It is true that, inevitably, in
present cirounstances, the great problems of Central
Europe must tend to overshadow the enormous and important
probloms that omorge for us, 10, 000 miles away on the
other side of the world. It is my view that the Japanese
problem, while it may not be so complex of solution as
the German one, is, nevertheless, of quite equal import-
ance to the peace of the world, and it is more than time
that this House got down to a really offective Debate
with adequate timo in which we mi ght examine all the
difficulties that face us in that area.
"Like the hon. Kember for Erightou, I was privileged
to be one of the liembers of the Parliamentary Delegation
which went to Japan and Rorea as the uests of General
IMacarthur, and I think it would be better ir, ins tead of
trying today, in quite inadequate time, to investigate
the problems of that vast area, I should give the House
one or two broad impressions of what I saw there and the
conclusions to which I cane. Mey I ondorse svery word
which the hon. iember for Bri hton said with rogard to
the gonerous hospitality extondod to us b: the Americans
during the whole of our tour over these reat areas of
Japan? I cannot myself find words to express all I feel
about it, fron Goneral MacArthur himselr right down to
his humblest subordiate, bacause, in every part of our
journoy throughout Japan we roceived always, on every
occasion, the greatost ki.dness, abundant hospitality and
a roal warmth of friendship which luft in to minds of
all of us, I am sure, the most onduring momories of
ratitude, and I am very lad today to have this oppor-
tunity to say publicly thet which I expressed privately
while I was still in Japan.
"The House is now familiar with tho iaportant
features or the political revolutio which has taker.
place in Japan since the cessation of hostilities, and
I thinlt that most puople know that thsre is now in Japan
a popularly elected Governmont, and a denocratic, written
constitution, which expresses the basic principles of
democracy in the way in which we accept ana have proved
thom in all the most advaneed democracies of the world.
There is also on the Statute Eook of Japan a Bill of
Rights which gives expression to all tho popular freedoms
upon which the advance of democracy in all Western nations
has been/

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 2.
Encl. 4 to Despatch 236, January 29, 1948, from London
has been founded and based. There has been placed on
the Statute Book a great measure of agrarian reform, and
more measures are in contemplation for completely re-
organising the educational system. A vast mass of most
valuable enactments has already gone on to the Statute
Book, and many more are in contemplation, which constitute
a complete political revolution in that country and which
give this Oriental country for the first time the whole
apparatus of an effective and sound aemocratic system.
"I do not want to give way, because I am keeping to
a timetable. There has been some cynicism expressed by
critics both in this country and Japan about the per-
manent value of all this great apparatus of democracy
which has been installed there. It is said, and truly,
that these devilopments have come about through the wishes
of Goneral MacArthur and the American occupation forces,
but I think that that view forgets the fact that these
enactmonts have been brought into being in Japan by a
popularly elected coverment. It would he an injustice
to leaders of the Jupanese Governmont to suggest that
they did not believe in the political instrument which
they were bringing into being and it vould be a gross
injustice to suggest that the present Coalition Government
under the leadership of the Socialist Prime Minister,
Ir. Katayama, is not a lovernment which believes whole-
heartedly in democratic principles and is workiny most
steadfastly to brin: tho: into being.
"While we agree that the American influence has
been strong, novertheless, it is my cor sidered view that
these onactments and this new system have been brought in
with the will and the support of the Japanose themselves
and of the popularly olected dovernent whicn is there
now. Dut tho cynics say this cannot possibly have any
permanence because it runs counter to the mental concopts,
all the traditions and all tho habits which the Japanese
have formed over thousands of years. True no ono can
dogmatise about this. It may be that this domoeratic
systom will not bo a permanent one. One cannot say;
time, alone will test it. At the same time, many of those
who are cymical about this great developmont are most
unjust to the aspirations anu the goodvill that have formed
it. While no one can afford to be dogmatic about the
pormanence of the new system in Japan, I can say most
definitely that everyond of us is satisfied that the aims
and the objects which inspired the Americans in helping
in the formation of that new system are worthy aims and
objects which ou ht to be wholeheartedly supported by
overy democrat in the western spheres of the world.  There
ought to be no cavilling, and while it is not in man to
command success, at least as democrats we can express
goodwill towards the system and oxtend our best wishes
that it should lave every success.
When we

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 3.
Encl. 4 to Despatch 236, January 29, 1948, from London
"When we come to the economic side of the picture--
and I want to conclude by saying in a very compressed
form some of the things I have wanted to say--the verdict
is bound to be much less favourable than that on the
political side, where one sees clear-cut decisions, clear
aims and a policy successfully worked out. When one
contemplates the economic side everything is fuzzy, obscure
and there are no decisions. In fact, there is irresolution,
indecision, false starts, policies formulated and with-
drawn and nobody seems to know oxactly and precisely where
they want to go. I lmow, of course, that there are
tremendous differences botween the kind of problems that
they face politically and the economic problems. Pol-
itically they were able to start with a clean sheet--a
sheet that had been wiped clean as far as the former
political system of Japan was concorned by the impact of
war and defeat.
"In the economic field the situation is far differnt.
They are up against intractable economic problems that
cannot be so easily waved aside. I suggest that one
main factor lies at the root of the confusion of thought--
the lack of clarity in aim and object which distinguishes
the Japanese scene just as it distin juishes the German
scene. I take the view that the tuhr, as the right hon.
Gentleman the Momber for Warwick and Leamington (r.
Eden) said yusterday, 'must be allowed to live,' but also
I believe it ou nt to live decently and sufficior.tly.
That idea has un ap lication also to Jupan. The rehab-
ilitation or estern Tormany an. the proper utilisation
of its inuustrial power is ossontial not only for cermany,
but for all Murope. Sinllarly, I believe the same thing
holds true about Jupan.
"I nover will bsliove that it is vossiblo to write
into peace treaties a prehibition which cun condemn
pormanently reat and able peoples to a corultior. of half-
life with a pulse reebly beating, und reducin: the body
pelitic to a state of persisternt anaemia. Por that reason
I have alwaye hoon opposed to the cen tral doetrine of
the Potsdam Declaration. I want to seo somothing eleo
done. Tiese policies ef rorced limitations are not
capablo of achievemont in tho lon run, as the Versailles
Treaty amply demonstrated to the vorld, but they are the
very hegation of statesmanshio, and they are on the level
of the imbecils applyin a torch to set alight the hay-
stack of the farmer.
"The real task of statesmanship is to find a
sclution for the problom of reconciling all tho essential
factors for security with full dovelopment of the i dus-
trial potential, using for that end all the productive
forces and resources of the defeated poople. It is a
problem which is not easy. Tho nihilistic way of
destruction/

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFTED
Page 4.
Encl. 4 to Despatch 236, January , 1948, from London
destruotion is neithor statesmanship nor policy. So
my final word is that I hope our Foreign Office ana the
able minds that are in it as well as our Foroign Sec-
retary will apply themselves to this problem. No one
in recent years has been more insistent in this House
on the overwhelming importance of economic reconstruction
and ecor:omic improvement than my right hon. Friend the
Foreign Secretary. I hope that the Foreign Office will
look at this problem, and that they will bring those
able minds that exist there into co tact with it in
order to find how it is possible to make not only
Western Germany and the Kuhr, but Japan also, fit into
the future system of world peace, while at the same time
givir the peoples of those lands a sufficient need of
life. I can assure the House quite definitely of one
thing, there can be no stable peace in Japan and no
permanonce for the new system of political democracy
there unless there is at the same time a sufficient
Japanese economy that will sustain the people in full
and decent lirs."

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFTED
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatch No. 236, dated January 29. 1948,
from American Embassy, London, England.
Source:
Hansard, Vo1. 446, No. 48
January 23, 1948
Mr. Wingfield Digby (Conservative M.P. for Dorset,
Western):
 When we came to look at the traditional
aims of Russian foreign policy, we are amazed at the
extent to which they have been realised. The set-back
of the Russo-Japanese war in 1905 has been fully restored,
and Russia has a zone of influence in Horthern Korea as
well. Outer Monolia has come fully under the Soviet
sphere of influence. It is true that Manchuria is now
controlled by the Chin ese Communists, who, I thinl: it
would be wrong to assume, as one at least of the hon.
Lembers opposite has done, are the same thing as Russian
Communists.
11

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.93)
Department of Stats
Charge Deparimeg
Washington
Charge to A1lotmmt -135333
1948
CONFIDENTI
SHANGHAI, (CHINA).
893.50/2-348 9894.00
227
Reurtel 23a Feb 3 rptd. Nanking os 181.
3XR'E
1. DERt umabbo understandragertlen 0onrer 239 Fob  rptd by
Shanghei to Nanking es lal that Quork no msterial has bean reeetoed.
Dept
JNquors. NP has been sending Shanghai regularly via Wireless Bulletin
-648
and Signal Corps all useful news reports frem Japan appearing in the
Dapt
56 US daily newspapers monitored by INP, exceptimg UP and AP reports which
unuseable by DEPT, DEPT estimates these 56 papers carry over 90 percent
of useable reports on Japan in US press. Also been radioing editorial
roundups on Japan and magazine material from Army weekly digest of press
opinion on occupied areas. This complete digest mailed USIS Shanghai
R
regularly. DEPT will continue efforts to improve press and magazine
CS/A
coverage.
2. SCAP publicity prepared primarily for US public and Congress.
Charges in Chinese And/purmoppane press that US economic policies in Japan
constitute threat to their national interests have not generally been
DISTRIBUTION
DEBIRED
considered nowsworthy by US press. Hence US reporters in Japan have ignored
(OFFICES ONLY)
these charges.
3. In absence press material of type needed DEPt renewing effort prsv.se
obttr-Psem SOAP, PER-aad-DEPTS of Hat1LJeSense-and-State interpretations
of US
12-648
CR CLEARANCE
CONFIDENTIAL
SB.
 U. . GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1947 7SES28

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.91)
OUTGOINGTELEG
INDICATI
Colleat
Department of State
Charge Department
Washington
Charge to
2
of Us policies in Japan attributable to responsible officials and helpf
Eti  e le
Drecmoctons mew progresoing as substemkial statement by DEPT
official as speech or press release describing S policies toward Japan
and effect on neighborying countries. Thds strtement Tatanded es bestc
infoma tion poliey te meeting Ohimase lan: thtttppte critioiams.
4S. DEPT asking POL&D for recommendation regarding assignment
by USIS any facts and interpretations of US policies attributable to SCAP
124.
and helping meet specific criticisms in Far Eastern countries.
SS. Do Consulate and EMB consider advisable that DEPT suggest to ARMY
editors be invited
XR
by SCAP to visit Japan s  atpeesa and observe occupation progress?
Sent Shanghai 227 ; rptd Nanking 203 for info; Tokyo 37
for info.
mardall
(R4B)
DISTRIBUTION
CCDE ROOM: Pleaso repeat to AMEMBASSY Nanking 2 0 3 for info; USPOLAD
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
Tokyo 37 for info.
1948 FEB
Htt.
few
ADF VHanson:ap
NP
CA
NA
2/5/48
Cleaned w
clea
Mh.Rice
8
ECTION
25
CONFIDENTIAL
CR CLEARANCE
DCT:ME
☆ U. D. GOVERNHENT PRINTING OPFICE- 1B47 7SUD35

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.92)
ADF
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OIC : ADF
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
RECEIVED
FEB10/19
2/20/4
15
DEPT.OFSTATE
Action
FEB 10 1 10 PH 48
Coatre) 2779
ebpoey 10, 1948
7:052.
894.00/2-1048
工
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKER

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.77)
.9
—f

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.95)
1
GIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAHRS
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISÉR
1948
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, Japan, February 11, 1948.
No. 85
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.00/2-1148
FEB 20 AM 10 17
2
RECEIVED
The Henorable
S
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
19
Sir:
EB
L
I have the honor to enclose copy of a menorandum of conversation
between Mr. MIKI Takeo, Minister of Communications, Mr. MATSUMOTO
Takizo, Parliamentary Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. SUZUKI
Kyoichi, Vice Minister of Communications, and two officers of this
Mission on a number of current political subjects. The major points
of interest were:
1. Cabinet enthusiasm at the announcement made by the United
States member to the Far Eastern Commission concerning aid
FE
to Japan for achieving self-support (section I).
20
Urgent need for a political party with a platform suitable
AS
to the times and exeludin the extreme right and left
(section III).
O E
3。
Impossibility of merger of Liberals and Democrats
016
(section VI).
1i0
Communist activity in the Cormunication Workers' Union
(Zenkoku Teishin Jugyoin Kumiai) and Sentral Labor
Relations Committee (sections IX and X).
CS
5。
Heed for defining "strike" in Labor Adjustment Law
(section XI).
A sunmary of the subjects covered is ineluded at the beginning
of the memorandun of conversation.
Respectfully yours,
50
1948
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Acting Political Adviser
Memorandum of conversation.
Original and ozalid to Department.
800
WHLAwrence,Jr./RIBushner/ble
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 85,
dated February 11, 1948, from
the Office of the United States
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Conver-
sation with Japanese Minister
of Communications".
(COPY)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
SUBJECTS:
United States Announcement Concerning Aid to Japan for
achieving self-support; Public Reaction to Prime Min-
ister's Administrative Address; Need for New Political
Party; Influential Position of People's Cooperative
Party; Arrest of Diet Member; Impossibility of Merger
Between Liberals and Democrats; Japanese National Attend-
ing Meetin of Provisional Frequency Board; Personnel of
Communications Ministry; Comments on Communication
Workers' Union and Central Labor Relations Committee;
Cabinet Dissatisfaction with Central Liaison Office;
Need for Amending Labor Adjustment Law.
PARTICIPANTS:
MIKI Takeo, Minister of Communications;
SUZUKI Kyoichi, Vice Minister of Communications;
MATSUMOTO Takizo, Parliamentary Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs;
W. Henry LAWREnCE, Jr., Second Secretary of Mission;
Rolland H. BUSHNER, Third Secretary of Mission.
PLACE:
Dinner iven at the residence of Foreign Service
Officers Lawrence and Bushner, Tokyo, January 29,
1948。
Sunmary. Minister Hiki stated that the announcement made by the
United States member to the Far Eastern Comission concerning aid to
Japan for achieving self-support had been received with enthusiasm by
the Cabinet and that the latter is now considering a five-year plan of
rehabilitation. He said that the Prime Minister's administrative
address was considered disappointing by most people.
Minister hiki asserted there is urgent need for a political party
with a platfonm suitable to the present times. Doth the Minister and
Hr. Matsumoto indicated that they are convineed that the People's
Cooperative Party occupies an influential position and that the
rightists of the Social Democratic Party are more closely allied in
aims with this party and the Demoeratic Party than with the left-wing
of the Social Democratic Party.
Ar. Matsumoto stated that the People's Cooperative Party had at
first sided with the Liberal Party in disagreeing as to the procedure
adopted to bring about the arrest of Mr. Hara, a Liberal Diet Member,
who is alleged to be involved in a hoarded goods scandal. Mr. Matsumoto
is convinced that there is no possibility of a merger of the Liberal and
Democratic Parties at the present time because of personal antagonism
between
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 85,
February 11, 1948.
-2-
between the leaders of the two parties.
Minister Miki described attendance of a Japanese national at
meetings of the Provisional Frequency Board in Geneva as a forward
step for Japan. Mr. Suzuki declared the Ministry is authorized
415,000 positions, but only 5,000 of these are unfilied. However,
it has 100,000 more employees than before the war, which he defended
on the grounds of increased needs due to lack of equipment plus require-
ments for maintenance of old and decrepit equipment.
Hinister Miki said that the Communists are active in the Communica-
tion Workers' Union and are members of the Central Labor Relations Com-
mittee. He mentioned the difficulty of getting employers to serve on
the Committee and the dissatisfaction of the Cabinet with the Committee
for such actions as approving the demand of electrical workers for an
average monthly wage of 5,860 yen and a sliding scale of cost of living
wage increases. Minister Miki believes the Labor Adjustment Law should
be amended to define a strike. End of Summary.
I. Cabinet Reaction to United States
Announcement Concerning Aid
to Japan
Minister MIKI stated that the announcenent made by Major General
Frank R. McCoy, American Representative to the Far Eastern Commission,
regarding the extension of aid to help make Japan self-supporting, had
been received with great enthusiasm by the Cabinet. He believes that
the fortuitous appearance of the statement in the press in Japan on the
same day as the publieation of the Prime Minister's Administrative
Address has given encouragement that the goals outlined by the Prime
Minister will be achieved. The Cabinet has under consideration at this
time a plan for economic rehabilitation which involves a fund of two
billion dollars over a peried of five years. The plan, however, has
not as yet been submitted to General lieadquarters.
Hinister Miki said that members of the Cabinet and other people
with whom he has come into contact are gratified at the confidence in
Japan which must be felt in America in order to permit such an announce-
ment to be made to the Far Eastern Commission, particularly as Japan has
so recently been an enemy country. Minister iki feels that despite
opposition on the part of certain members of the Far Eastern Commission,
the United States vill find a means of carryin out its announced plan.
Hinister Miki mentioned China and the Philippines as undoubtedly opposed
to the reconstruction of Japan on the scale advocated by the United
States; he declared that the Cabinet interprets the announcement as
indicating a trend in the United States toward including Japan within
the framework of the Marshall Plan, with Japan filling a position in
the Far East similar to that of Western Germany in Western Europe.
II. Public Reaction to the Prime Minister's Address
In referring to the Prime Minister's Administrative Address before
the Second Session of the Diet (this Mission's despatch No. 52, of
January 23, 1948), Minister Miki said that it was well received by
thoughtful intelligent people, but was considered disappointing by
many members of the Diet and by the people at large. He pointed out
that the public had placed great hope in the Katayama Cabinet when it
came into power, but considers its achievements to date small. As a
result, the popularity of the Cabinet is at a low ebb.
III. Need
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 85,
February 11, 1948.
-3-
III. Need for New Political Party
In discussing the present political situation, Minister Miki
agreed that all political parties are in ferment, being uncertain as
to their aims and policies. Members, he asserted, are selfish in
placing parties and individuals above the country as a whole. Min-
ister Miki stressed the urgent need for a political party with a plat-
form taking into consideration what is proper for Japan at this parti-
cular time in its history. He cited the impracticality of the Liberals
in advocating a "laissez-faire" economy and the Social Democrats in
advocatins socialism. He described the Democratic Party's espousal of
"revised capitalism" as enthusiasm for a hollow phrase and an example
of an attempt to reach a popular compromise ideology. He implied that
Japanese politicians are not motivated by any strong conviction as to
basic policies and hence find it easy to shift in practically any
direction, depending upon the most expedient means of extending power
by forming the most effective vote-getting combination.
IV. Influential Position of People's Cooperative Party
Eoth Minister Miki and ir. Matsumoto appeared convinced that the
People's Cooperative Party, of which they are both members, occupies
an influential position. They indicated that the importance of their
Party is evidenced by the endeavors of the major parties to enlist its
support. In this connection, Mr. Matsumoto said that he thought it
would be a good thin for Japan should there be a split anong the
Social Democrats. He asserted that the aims of rightists in the Social
Democratic Party are much more closely allied with those of the Demo-
cratic Party and the People's Cooperative Party than with those of the
left-wing Social Democratic Party.
V. Arrest of Diet Member
Mr. Matsumoto said that the Government Section of this Headquarters
expressed surprise that the People's Cooperative Party had sided with
the Liberals on the question of the Prime Minister's request for per-
mission to effect the arrest of HARA Susumu, Liberal Party Diet Member,
who is allegedly involved in a hoarded oods scandal. ir. Matsumoto
stated that he had pointed out to Government Section that the People's
Cooperative Party had not sided with the Liberals in an effort to
protect ir. Hara, but because the Party feels that the procedure used
in seeking his arrest was incorrect. The original position of the
People's Cooperative Party was that the request for arrest should have
come from the Attorney-General rather than from the Prime Minister.
To a man, Mr. Matsumoto said, the People's Cooperative Party would
have voted for the arrest of Mr. Hara, because they are convinced of
his guilt. The People's Cooperative Party later reversed its stand
on procedure and voted with members of the Social Democratic Party
and the Democratic Party for approvin: the Prime Minister's request.
The resignation of Mr. Hara and acceptance thereof by the House of
Representatives on January 30 made it unnecessary to arrest him in his
status of Diet member.
VI. Impossibility of Merger of Democratic and
Liberal Parties
Mr. Matsumoto appeared convinced that there is no possibility of
a merger between the Liberal and Democratic Parties at the present
time because of the deep personal antagonism which exists between
Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi, President of the Democratic Party, and Mr. YOSHIDA
Shigeru,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 85,
February 11, 1948.
-4-
Shigeru, President of the Liberal Party. He said that the same
personal antagonism exists between Dr. Ashida and Mr. SHIDEHARA
Kijuro, who has recently split from the Democratic Party. On the
other hand, according to Mr. Matsumoto, Mr. Yoshida and
Mr. Shidehara are referred to as the "Siamese twins" of Japanese
politics.
VIl. Japanese National at Meetings of Provisional
Frequency Board
Mr. SUZUKI said that the Ministry of Communications had been
given free rein in the selection of a Japanese national to accom-
pany a representative of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers in the capacity of technical adviser to the meetings of the
Provisional Frequency Board in Geneva (this Mission's despatch
No. 71 of February 2, 1948). Mr. HASE Shinichi, the Japanese
national designated, was selected for four reasons: (1) his tech-
nical knowledge; (2) the fact that he had been working in this
field since before the war and has continued since the war; (3)
because his rank is high enough to enable him to gain acceptance
of his ideas upon his return to Japan; and (4) because he speaks
English.
Minister Miki feels that the attendance of a Japanese national
at meetings of the Provisional Frequency Board is a forward step
for Japan, but expressed disappointment at the censorship of the
news of Mr. Hase's departure. He mentioned that photographs had
been taken and news articles written, but that only a small notice
of the departure was pennitted by censors to appear in the press.
He agreed, however, that a lar e amount of publicity might have
arousei antagonism on the part of those countries who object to
Japanese leaving Japan until after the signing of a Peace Treaty.
VIII.
Personnel Strength of Communications
Ministry
Mr. Suzulki declared that the Ministry of Communications is
authorized to employ 415,000 employees, but that only 5,000 of
these positions are unfilled. Therefore, the Ministry of Com-
munications is facing considerable difficulty, as contrasted with
other governmental agencies having a larger proportion of unfilled
positions, in preparing for the mandatory cut in the number of
sovernment employees, which has been deseribed in this Mission's
despatch No. 78 of February 7, 1948, recording a conversation with
officials of the Ministry of Labor.
(However, while most government agencies will be required to
cut twenty-five per cent of the 1947 fiscal year budget personnel,
the number of workers in certain agencies, including the Communica-
tions Ministry, will not be arbitrarily reduced, but only after a
consideration of the number of individuals essential for the proper
functioning of the Ministry. Copy of an article translated from
the Nihon Keizai of February 1, 1948 regarding the government's
decision to reduce personnel is enclosed.)
The number of authorized positions in the Ministry is approx-
imately 100,000 above the number of people employed prior to the
war. Hr. Suzuki defended the need for this additional number on
the ground that people had to be used instead of mechanical
equipment
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIBENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 85,
February 11, 1948.
-5-
equipment because of the insafficiency of such equipment, and on the
ground that much of the equipment is so old and decrepit that it
requires large maint enance crews. As an example, he estimated that
the Ministry had 80.Oo0 bicycles before the war, but even though it
now has a priority second only to export products, the Ministry has
only 60,000 bicycles.
IX. Communi sts in Communications Workers! Union
Minister Miki said that the comnunists were active in the Com-
munications Workers! Union (Zenkoku Teishin Jugyoin Kumiai), citing
the piling up of mail at Christmas time as one of the instances of
sabotage instigated by the comunists. When asked if he had ever seen
orders in writing of the communist party concerning sabotage, he stated
that in so far as he knows, orders are passed by word of mouth.
X. Central Labor Relations Committee
In discussin the Central Labor Relations Committee, Mr. Miki
expressed conviction that there are communists among the labor repre-
sentatives who sit on the committee. He estimated that ordinarily
two out of three members of the commission are menbers of the communist
party. According to Minister Miki, the Jhairman of the Central Labor
Relations Conmittee has reat difficulty in finding employers who will
serve on the commission because of the loud and violent tactics of the
communists (many of whom sit in the audience) and the fact that no
employer wishes to antagonize labor. He indicated dissatisfaction in
the Cabinet with the Central Labor Relations Committee. As an example
of the reason for such dissatisfaction, he described the demand of the
electrical workers for an average monthly wage of 5,860 yen and a
sliding seale of inerease for the future, both of which had been
approved by the Jentral Labor Relations Commiutee and presented to the
Cabinet on January 29. The decision of the conmittee to allow a
sliding wage index for electrical workers has been previously described
by ir. TSURu Shigeto, Deputy Director of the Economic Stabilization
Board, as one of the indications that inflation may get out of hand
and lead to a collapse of the entire Japanese economy (this Mission's
despatch No. 1486 of December 30, 1947, reporting a conversation with
.P. Tsuru).
XI. Need for Amendin Labor Adjustment Law
Minister Miki was of the definite opinion that the Labor Adjust-
ment Law must be amended specifically to define a strike. At present,
the definition is so vague, he claims, that no one among the Ministers
wishes to take the risk of discharging persons for disciplinary purposes
in circunstanees which even ranotely reseable a strike because of the
danger that the situation might later be designated as a strike. Such
an event would obviously place any Minister so deciding in a disadvan-
tageous position politically and also would make him liable to a lawsuit.
/s/ W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
Enclosure:
/s/
R.H. Bushner
Article from Nihon Keizai,
February 1, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 85,
February 11, 1948.
-6-
Article from Nihon Keizai, February 1, 1948
(Translation)
GOVERNMENT RELEASES ADJUSTMENT PLAN
The Government, at a recent Cabinet meeting, decided to make a
25 percent horizontal reduction in the number of budget personnel in
consideration of the expected administrative readjustment, which is a
necessary condition for the compilation of the 1948 fiscal year budget
estimates. Since then, the Government has been working on a definite
plan. It informally decided upon the plan at a special cabinet meet-
ing held on 27 January and published it yesterday.
According to this new plan, in the general and special accounts
25 percent of the 1947 fiscal year budget personnel, namely 10l,000
persons, will be affected by the coming readjustment. However, the
number of persons actually affected will be 23,o00. The major govern-
ment offices expected to be readjusted are the Ministries of Foreign
Affairs, former Home Affairs, Justice, Education, Welfare, Commerce-
Industry, and Transportation (only in the general account). In con-
formity with this plan, these ministries will present their concrete
readjustment plans respectively to the Cabinet by 15 February, and the
final plan will be decided by the Cabinet by the end of February.
Concerning outdoor employees working in the Transportation Ministry,
Communications Ministry, the three bureaus of the Finance linistry
(Monopoly hureau, Printing Bureau, and Mint), Comaerce-Industry Ministry
(production of alcohol), and the Agriculture-Forestry Ministry (forest
administration alone), another plan will be made on the basis of calculated
efficiency and the number of persons needed. This will be discussed by
the ministries concerned.
fhose who are dismissed will be employed as temporary employees
until the end of July, and tlose who retire fron office at once will be
paid salaries from their retirement date to the end of July. In this
respect, the Finance hinistry will take proper steps in the budget to
raise funds for retirement allowances.
The afore-mentioned plan aims at only bemporary adainistrative re-
adjustaent and reorganization of overnrent offices necessary for the
compilation of the next fiscal budget. The fundamental reform of the
administrative organization will be taken up by the Administrative
Organization Refonn Committee to be established in the Jabinet. The
organization of the comittee will be decided at the next cabinet.meet-
ing, and the committee will begin functioning in February. This admin-
istrative readjustment plan is based upon the data as of 1 January.
Therefore, in case that govern ent offices are newly established, they
will be able to employ necessary personmel irrespecbive of this basis.
Government to Be Reorganized by Remainin Eaployees
The Goverament's announcement: In view of the change of admin-
istrative affairs and the complication of the government organization
after the surrender, the Government will execute the readjustment of
administrative affairs and the simplification of the overnment organ-
ization according to the followin: plan in order to secure maximum
administrative efficioncy and to promote sound development of general
enterprises.
(1) Keeping
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 85,
Febmuary 11, 1948.
-7-
(1) Keeping pace with the change in the situation after the
surrender, the Government will abolish unnecessary and nonvital
administrative offices and rationalize the administrative organiza-
tion by re-examining administrative affairs under the jurisdiction
of each ministry=
(2) The Government will as far as possible remove duplications
among departments or boards, secure unity in administrative affairs,
and realize clarification of responsibility.
(3) In conformity with the principle of local autonomy, powers
of the Central Government will be transferred to local self-governments
to the reatest possible extent. At the same time, existing local
agencies of the Central Government will undergo a thorough readjustment
and will be confined with local bodies as much as possible.
(4) In order to reduce personnel in conformity with the preceding
items and to realize the principle of maximum efficiency with a minimum
number, the ministries and offices will reduce their staffs, both
budgetary and organizational, with 25 percent of the budget personnel
as of 1 Jan 49 as a general standard. As for government enterprises
such as railways and communications, the degree of reduction will be
separately decided on the basis of economy and efficiency. The minis-
tries and offices will reorganize their structures with their remaining
staffs.
(5) The measure under the preceding item will not be applied to
policemen, firemen, public procurators, judiciary officials, and school
teachers.
(6) Officials who will be dismissed under the preceding items
will be retained as extras until the end of July. During this period,
however, actual dismissals will gradually be realized, while filling of
new vacancies and reassignment will be effected with these to-be-discharged
officials. If necessary, they may be employed in other offices as extras.
(7) The ministries and offices will formulate their respective
plans for reorganization and personnel reduction and will submit them
to the Cabinet before 15 February.
(8) A special committee will be set up within the Cabinet to study
fundamental reform of the administrative strueture.
Remarks: (1) Until a reorganization plan in confonmity with the
precedin itens is finally decided, the measures for preventing in-
creased strengths of government staffs and for checking the filling of
vacancies will have continued effect: (2) Public corporations and other
organizations acting for the Government, personnel expenses of which
are paid from the National Treasury, will be dealt with under the
preceding items.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.89)
Dept
Def
Ft
Ro. 13
ADF
CONPIDENTIAL
ARICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Shanghai, China, Fabery 11 1948.
MAY 11946
Cub ject:
: "Re- ducation of Japsn Seen a Pallyre?"
DEPARMENI OF SIATE
IC:A
894.00/2-1148
RECEIVED
 .
1948
Y2
Noted
1/
I have the honor to enelose a transeript of a see-
Lion of the Central News goncy nclish Serviee of Janu-
ury 30. 1949, entitled "Re-Hducation of Japan Seen a
Pailure".
This artiele is considered as having a particular
importance since it wan composed by a staff member of
FE
the ofricial Muomintans Central Newe Ageney and formed
a part of the press handout of thet ageney. It can thue
to recurded ar the reflectlon of the ettitudo of at loast
A-S
a section of the uhiment vovermment and as an invitation
FC
to the proes to caroy crlticaum of pur poliey in Japan.
01F
reports
that
DCIR
CSN
10
S
-1
-1
1948
entitled
Pile
A1
IEageriof
2
Original and copy to Embancy,
A
Heetograph md copy to Department.
signd
Copy to Political Aavider, SCAF.
ginal.
4
FEB1
8

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.88)
Enaleaure No. 1 to Dempassh N. 
dated February 11, 194b, from the
American Consulate General, Shanghai.
CENTRAL NEWS AO-NCY
SHANGHAI,
ENGLISH SLRVICE
JAN.30,1948.
    A L
TY JANYS SHEN
(       
Nantin, Jan. 30 (Central): Whcever have visited
postwar Japan, will mgrec that despite their political
unrest, the Japanese are purposeful and forgine shead.
They are "scrambliny up" ali right, irroprossible as
yeast.
And occupation ls favoralle to the situation. Under
ocoupation, the yeast seethes nd fuzments.
One may well ask where all this will leed to. The
"Yine Wey?" or the "Bully way"? The eatablishment of a
peace-loving damocratic nation or the comebcck of the
sabre-end-atirrup clique?
The answer depends preponderately upon the re-
educttion of the Japanene poople.
One may well sok whether Goneral HacArthur has dono
a successful job, whether his policy has won the hearts
of the Japanese people or has alionated them.
If one looks only for surface reoults, one vovld
say he has sone en "axcellent" Job.
Soday Jupan enjoye a pence ans en order thet exiet
in few cther Aclatie countrles. Well may Japen elelm to
be one of the few "oases" in Asie ee "thenke to ts mas
nenimouw apatetenee of cur Amorfcon Prtcnde.
The ocoupeslon puthoritaoes have mepped eut one plen
after enother, laumehed one pro pes eftot another mt ene
trodnced one reform efter smoskee, o their effepte to
"ds oeretlse" Japen.
Por ell thés, the soperese pepers cre efrorire 
bravure peal or toarhs to the erepleans pme ere preteihe
Beneral eesrthuur  so estvevep etty peekpe e bey bave
nover sone to Emmperer Eirohito
Lut the dopheee cooekew sopape ane Tow too mmok.
They smile too ofton.
 fomt lioe bohtmo the mask of polatee
ness end peuvity whieh meset  rerdesns ore Piasins be charse
ing and tickling?
My experienee durins the paet few montns in Jepan
shoved that the Jepanese peoplo are past-mastere in turm-
ing verbal somerseults.
They will tell one thine to the
Amorieans and sing quite nother tune to the Chinese.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.85)
Thus they would sit at the feet of an merl
Listening to demooratic prinaiplos with a bestarie ed
and at the next moment, would confide to their chinepe
"friend" their seorat scorn and conternt of the merlesn
and harp on the necessity of Sino-Japanese "codperatiap
Their attitude toward the American is one of smo-
charine adolation and cringing syneopation while their
attitude towards the Chinese is one of slimy cordimlity
not untouched with condescension.
The Japanese cortainly know what they want. They
are playing ball with the American. They know this is
the only way to get what they want.
Thwe is Juxtaposltion with their te-deums to General
Eucarthur, the Japenese papers from day to day emphasise
in lurid colors she verious probloma facins Japan - its
food problen, coal shortage and unemploywent question.
The "tear-jorkers" they dislh out remind one of the crude
omei methods of oxagreration and propaganda.
Thus whichever perty asaunee the reine of the Gove
orre ent, ite uldin principle is ono and the peme to
leese the Americen in order to get as much as possible
from then.
The "docility" of the Japancce peoyle, their "readi-
ness to cooperate," their dillgence and the strategie im-
portance of Japan-all thoso havo conspired to sway the
Aserieen sutlorlcles in favor of sivihe defeatod Jepan a
peaee treaty mor lontent than mey other allted matlen
dvoeates.
Petps few lllee mtone t so treat  defeaced
harshly
ut n bein
Lenlent. eno at Ronst
8some
arsrence that
lomser
Salled
Juranase celcele
heve cbenaed
woede
sre ron whe ave reen spoonefed on
the pdesnatie ctwoephers or

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.91)
3
Regarding adult eduestion, there seems to be nons,
at Least, I gid net nstice any during my six monthe? stay
In Japan. Most Japanese I met are atill living in the
past. Mentally they have not changed much. All the
talks about damoaracy seem to have left them untouched.
One well-eduoated Japanese said to me bitterly, "Demooracy.
demoeracy, all this is nonsensel So far as I Imow, it has
only corrupted the Japenese momanhood, turned wives against
husbande!"
One American-returned people's Cooperative Party mem-
bor in an interview called the Americans "devils who will
be kicked out muxmarily one of these days," putting as mch
hatred as he could in his volce.
Tho traglc part is that theas people are by no mesns
isolated cases. I have met a lot of them all intellectuels,
all in their thirties, some covernment officials and some
possible future lesders, And these are the last people
that can be expected to foster the seeds of demoorasy that
tho occupation authorities are trying so hard to sow in
Japun.
Lot us take a look at the postwar Japanese government.
They have been largely composed of men whose records are
by no moans clean. About one-third of the present Diet may
be branded es war crime suapects. Nost members deeply
drenched in the imperimlistic way of thinkine are still
expomdins their pet theories about "over population" and
the necessity for more elhow room, shutting their eyes to
the possibilities of Honahu and Hokkaido, nd forgetting
that peaceful international trade mey solve more problems
for Japan then forcerul cxpansion.
So under cccupation. dapen hne  loaderehip which may
proyperly be doseribed es the "hengover" of the Empire days.
It is not inspired, but intensely nationulistic and like
the common people, still attaehes Iteelf elosely to the
ror.
A lecdership weieh still sooretly believes in
manifest destiny und at eny convenient movent may throw
eff its mask and show lte true coler.
Te re-educate theee people pnd the millions of repatrlates
and purgees and to train a maw loaderehip ls admittoely a
tgantie test wateh eummes bo caterled out overmight.
Mut the Peet co aine shat e éaemle mnd poaltive re
odueation progres is urgently called for. And in sueh a
progre, men of reel understending, met peetenders und ane
experieheed neseis (Amerioen Jepenese) with their fluent
Englieh hut abyemal ignorence of Japen, ore meeded.
Vore
practienl work chould bo done.
The merican's attempt to romanize the Jepanose language
may be mentioned as one of thoss jobs which while token
serioualy by the Amerioena, sre simply ammsing or irritating
to the Japaresee
To a Chihese. much nn attempt is inex
plicable.

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.90)
Is it neceasery to temper with a natien's language
which holds rieh mssosiations to ite own peeple? A
language is like the Ark of Covenant too saered for any
outsider to touch.
Even if the Jepenese wore romanized, so what? A
romanized Japaneae language would no more resemble the
English than the Chinose to the Greek, snd would bring
the two peoples no nearer in spirit. Why not channel all
this energy into the all importent taak of changing their
ideas?
Unlees their mind and heart are chenged, militarism
would certainly reassert itaelf at the earliost convenient
moment, utilizin the throne es the e lly point.
With the oxcoption of the Comsmmist Farty, all Japan-
ese partles may be said to be mere hollow shells contaln-
ing few ideus and less ideels. The difference is in
badged, catchworde and ahibtolothes pather than in anything
elpe. The stmg le mons thom is a stmug le for personal
posor.
but thoy are une the the ume in their determimetion
to save every serep froe the mine of wer shd speed up
Jepen's conovery.
 stroll in the Ginee aroe in Tolye will show you
why Japan is "serambline up". tn sil the chhop windows.
not one single ss-mede lumnry cun be found. All are
homemade roode. they seid to the Ammricen.
"e went only
food and essentisl pecds.
it is these they Bot.
it not to
Cons ounist
ust ooe are not
onl
upreed dlscontont ond finlly to explcslon.
solutson
4
NOTE:
MISTAKES IN ENGLISH IN THE ABOVE TEXT
the sigrned
ARE TRANSCRIBED LITERALLY PROM THE
gina!
04
ORIGINAL.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.86)
Nwa
DIVISION OF
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
Noted - nw
INCOMING TELEGRAM
FEB 1 3 1948
octio regend
NA
1D
PLA Y
Actior:
F3
Info
Contrel 3755
SS
C
See'd February 12, 1948
AA
5:27 p.m.
AE
AS
SAP
000
CX
OF
FC
Vie
200121180
sea Ashida
894.00/2-
1248
C
FILED
2
4
16
18
工
H

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.90)
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATLS POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, February 12, 1948.
No. 90
DDASIDN OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
UNCLASSIFILD
FEB 25 1948
DEPARIMENI OF STATE
Subject: reliminary Study of the Neighborhood Associations of
Japan.
The Acting rolitical Adviser has the honor to enclose five
copies of a report dated January 23, 1948 prepared by the Civil
Information und ducation Section of this Headquarters concerning
the background, wartine activity, and postwar abolition of the
neighborhood associations of Japan.
FE
The study is primarily an analysic of strueture and function-
ing of the tonarigumi, or neighborhood associations. The report
A.S
states that the abolition of the wartime systen of neighborhood
CIE
groups was virtually complete by June 1947 and that the working of
854.00/2-1248
the new system has been sufficiontly snooth to satisfy Home Minis-
ILH
try officials, who earlier had expressed the fear that the aboli-
tion of neighborhood organizations would disrupt severely the
econo.nic life of the nation.
t=/R
onclosure:
study of Neighborhood Associa-
tions, January 23, 1946, pre-
pared by the Civil Inforaation
and ducation Section, , .
(Five copies).
1918 FEB 20
2
86H
B
PH
RBFinn:cgf
2
S
-1
2
-1
T
Original and ozalid to the Department.
UNCLASSIFL.D
FILED
C.0
161

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.93)
3
THE FOREIGN SERVMORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICMAR - 4 1948
AS
AIR MAIL
File
London, February 17, 1948
000
JWS
UNCLASSIFIED
Sypt
DCR
No. 418
Subjeot:
Transmitting Editorial from Times on
Japanese Political Parties
0
2
I carhon retoined
JIAIE
(2)
RECEIVED
i-DRF/S
3/23/48
w
The Honorable
B
Secretary of State,
E
F
Washington
894.00/2-1748
Sir:
1. As of possible interest to the Department,
I have the honor to transmit a clipping of an editorial
from the February 16, 1948, 1ssue of The Times on the
subjeot "Parties in Japan".
2. The editorial was prompted by the recent
resignation of Mr. Katayama as Japanese Prime Minister,
an event which received only minor attention in the
British press. The editorial explains the diffi-
culties under which Mr. Katayama labored, and lists
various factors whioh may have contributed to his
downfall, not the least of which appears to have been
the withdrawal from Mr. Katayama of the support
hitherto accorded him by the Socialist Wing of the
Socialist Demooratic Party.
Respectfully yours,
For the Charge d'Affaires a.i.:
CS/V
Everett F. Drumright
(First Secretary of Embassy
Enclosure:
Clipping, as stated
NT OF STATE
(Original and three copies to the Department)
APR
Copy to U.S. Political Adviser, SCAP, Tokyo
FILED
MH  T 
1918 FEB 26 PM 12 40
2
EFDrumright/wg
1
2

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.97)
tch No.418or.7.2198
sy at London, England.
PAPERG
THE TIES
NULBER:
CIPY:
LONON
DATE.
FEB 161348
Parties in Japan
The resignation of the Government
headed by Mr. TETSU KATAyAmA derives
from the present unstable condition of
Japanese party politics. His assumption
of office last May was notable on two
grounds. He was the first Socialist Prime
Minister of Japan, and he was the first
Prime Minister to be elected by the
House of Representatives under the new
constitution. From the start his position
was inherently weak. His own party, the
Social Democrats, though the largest
group in the House, number only 143;
the right-wing opposition, who call them-
selves " Liberals," hold 135 seats. The
balance of power is held by the "Demo-
crats," whose political opinions are on
the whole conservative. This last group
claimed an equal number of posts in the
Cabinet as the price of entering a coali-
tion with the Social Democrats, and MR.
KatAyamA was obliged to drive a very
mixed team. It is remarkable that he
managed to hold them together so long,
for he is no orator, has little capacity for
inspiring enthusiasm, and owes his selec-
tion as leader by his own party entirely
to his personal reputation as an upright
"middle of the road" Socialist of the
Fabian school.
In less difficult circumstances Mr.
KaTaYAmA might have retained power
even longer, but he has been confronted
by a series of problems, both political and
economic, for which his left-wing sup-
porters demanded radical solutions, while
the more conservative elements of his
coalition insisted upon a cautious policy.
He was therefore obliged to fall back upon
a series of compromises which satisfied
nobody. In his efforts to enforce honestly
the economic controls relating to produc-
tion, food, finance and banking, foreign
trade, prices and wages, he encountered
the opposition of the great Zaibatsu
combines, but he persisted in his cam-
paign, and last December struck a heavy
blow against the Zaihatsu by legisla-
tion providing for the break-up of
excessive concentrations of economic
power. This measure was opposed by
the Socialists, who believed that the
great combines ought to be nationalized
rather than destroyed, as well as by
the Conservatives, and it forms one of
the principal grounds of left-wing com-
plaint against Ma. KaTayama's adminis-
tration. Nevertheless, it may exert a per-
manent salutary influence upon Japanese
economy. In the political field Mr.
KATAYAMA's principal achievements were
the decentralization and reform of the
police and judiciary, and :e introduction
of the new criminal code,"which caused a
sensation by abolishing the crime of lèse-
majesté and gave the Emperor the same
status as ordinary mortals in the eyes of
the law. Both these measures were in-
-ensely disliked by the highly conservative
'Liberai" group in the House led by
Mr. SHigeRU YoshidA, who now claims to
succeed MR. KaTaYAMA as Prime Minister.
Whether MR. YoshiDA takes office or
not depends upon the amount of support
he can obtain from the Democrats.
Their experience in the Katayama ad-
ministration appears to have strength-
ened their dislike of social and econo-
mic reform. and to have made them
more willing to consider a coalition with
MR. YosíiDA and the "Liberals." If a
Conservatve administrarion uccedt
nower it wil! he larsely due ta. the

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.98)
CITY:
LONDON
DATE.
FEB 1613481
artics im Japan
The
of the Government
from the pr
Japanese party poirtics. His assumption
of office last May was notable on two
grounds. He was the first Socialist Prime
Minister of Japan, and he was the rst
Prime Minister to be elected by the
House of Representatives under the new
constitution. From the start his position
was inherently weak. His own party, the
Social Democrats, though the largest
group in the House, number only 143;
the right-wing opposition, who call them-
selves "Liberals," hold 135 seats. The
balance of power is held by the "Demo-
crats," whose political opinions are on
the whole conservative. This last group
claimed an equal number of posts in the
Cabinet as the price of entering a coali-
tion with the Social Democrats, and Mr.
KATayamA was obliged to drive a very
mixed team. It is remarkable that he
managed to hold them together so long,
for he is no orator, has little capacity for
inspiring enthusiasm, and owes his selec-
tion as leader by his own party entirely
to his personal reputation as an upright
"middle of the road" Socialist of the
Fabian school.
In less difficult circumstances MR.
KATAYAMA might have retained power
even longer, but he has been confronted
by a series of problems, both political and
economic, for which his left-wing sup-
porters demanded radical solutions, while
the more conservative elements of his
coalition insisted upon a cautious policy.
He was therefore obliged to fall back upon
a series of compromises which satisfied
nobody. In his efforts to enforce honestly
the economic controls relating to produc-
tion, food, finance and banking, foreign
trade, prices and wages, he encountered
the opposition of the great Zaibatsu
combines, but he persisted in his cam-
paign, and last December struck a heavy
blow against the Zaibatsu by legisla-
tion providing for the break-up of
excessive concentrations of economic
power. This measure was opposed by
the Socialists, who believed that the
great combines ought to be nationalized
rather than destroyed, as well as by
the Conservatives, and it forms one of
the principal grounds of left-wing com-
plaint against MR. KaTAYAmA's adminis-
tration. Nevertheless, it may exert a per-
manent salutary influence upon Japanese
economy. In the political field Mr.
KATAYAMA's principal achievements were
the decentralization and reform of the
police and judiciary, and  e introduction
of the new criminal code,"which caused a
sensation by abolishing the crime of lèse-
majesté and gave the Emperor the same
status as ordinary mortals in the eyes of
the law. Both these measures were in-
-ensely disliked by the highly conservative
'Liberal" group in the House led by
MR. SHiGERU YosHIDA, who now claims to
succeed MR. KATAYAMA as Prime Minister.
Whether MR. YoshiDA takes office or
not depends upon the amount of support
he can obtain from the Democrats.
Their experience in the Katayama ad-
ministration appears to have strength-
ened their dislike of social and econo-
mic reform, and to have made them
more willing to consider a coalition with
MR. YoshiDA and the "Liberals." If a
Conservative administration succeeds to
power it will be largely due to the
Socialist wing of the Social Democratic
Party. Their impatience with the
"Fabian" policy of Mr. KatayamA and
their failure either to appreciate his diffi-
culties or to respect his moderation led
directly to his fall. No doubt they would
now prefer that Mr. Hitosíi AsHiDA,
who leads the Demsrats, should become
Prime Minister rathe" oan his "Liberal
rival, Mr. YoshIDA,sey would have
been wiser to remain ju cire themselves.
If "Liberals" and Demecrats decide to
form a coalition Governme of predomi-
nantly Conservative complexion, the
Social Democrais will become the main
Representatives.
of

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.93)
ADF
ISION OF
ACTION COP
COMM
ONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
GRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
12:50 a.
OF ONDDRSCORED
FEB 20 90548
OIC :AOF
RECEIVED
caile disf1d2120/18
FFB
DEPT OF STATE
894.00/2-1948
DC/R Correction Deak
NOTATION OE ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.79)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2- 375. Webruary 19. 8 a m. Grom Shanghai
installations su t as naval bases, airdromes, ete. has
anything to do  ith "gustihoos of Japanese", Is training
o Japacese atr ine p ots a form of unemployment relief?
 eststor mot to orcry whdorgr uund factories in Japan
Pur to restore Yaumte Tr on ard Sreel Worke designed to
  peascfut life or a wartime life?"
Srine  aid at ide by Potsdam.
pposent s pot y towards
fror to burtd up
 e  pre sapan s war
 ut shouta pbeerve these
sor wmeut be severety punished.
ave  ebed aegressovs lt le in
re an peeess os
ony of
o tomara
neove pramipien
1C

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.89)
CONFIDENTIAL
/375. February 19 8 a n, from Shangbai
char quar ter.
Semr Departmens 375 opeatea Nanking 20s Nanking please
paso Us Polad Tokyo eo Sberghai's 11
CABOY
AA

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.91)
ADF
SION OF
ACTION COPY
COMM
ONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
GRARH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
N
1r
FEB 19 11 10 A11 48
5728
AS
OIC : AUF
RECEIVED
FF1190
DETT OF STATE
894.00
Y ATTACHEL
E
W
2
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.94)
DC1h
DIVOo
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
DClR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, Japan, February 27, 1948.
No. 127
RESTRICTED
Subject: Response to Questions Submitted to General MacArthur By
A Representative of Central News Agency of China.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Foreign Service Regulations and
FE
2
to enclose copies of a letter dated February 24, 1948, addrossed to
894.00/2-2748
Ganeral MacArthur, and of a reply dated February 27, 1948, which I
handed to Mr. James C. Y. Shen, of the Central News Ageney of China,
Tokyo, in my capacity as Chief of the Diplomatic Section of this Head-
quarters and Chairman, Allied Council for Japan. Hy reply was made at
the request of General MacArthur, who personally approved the answers
as submitted.
2
H
Respectfully yours,
oBee
1)
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
10
From James C. Y. Shen to General
MacArthur, February 24, 1948.
CS/A
20
From Chief, Diplomatic Section,
GHQ, SCAP, to James C. Y. Shen,
February 27, 1948.
Original and ozalid to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Nanking.
Copy to Consulate General, Shanghai.
891
WJSebeld/ble
FEB4
RESTRICTED
1948

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
from the ofrice of the Umited
Tekyo, em the sabjest "Beepeass to
Questions Sukmitted to Gemeral
NacArthur By A Represestative of
Central News Ageney of Chins".
(COPY)
CENTRAL MSWS AGENCI OF CHINA
Shisei Kaikan Building
Hibiya Park
Tokyo
February 24, 1948
Goneral of the Army Douglas MacArthur,
Supreme Command of Allied Power,
Tokyo
Your Excellency,
Though in the throes of civil strife, the Chinese people today
are showing a tremendous interest in and paying close attention to the
work the occupation authorities are doing here in Japan.
Printed matter on postwar Japan is in great demand. Hero-worshipping
people are avidly reading your biography. People are trying to learn
more about the real situation here. They are asking whether a resurgence
of militarism is possible in postwar Japan.
With a view to helping them to a better understanding of postwar
Japan, we are taking the liberty to submit to Your Excellency the follow
ing questions:
1. Is a resurgence of militarism possible in Japan, once the
occupation is ended? Is prolonged armed occupation necessary or
sufficient to prevent it? If not, what is necessary and essential?
2. What are the thorniest problems facing the occupation
authorities?
3. Has democracy come to stay in Japan? Can a proper leader-
ship for post-occupation Japan finally evolve from among the various
existing parties?
4. Doss Cosmunism have a chance to spread in Japan?
Replies - written or otherwise - to these questions will undoubtedly
go a long way towards clearing some of the misunderstandinge and allaying
some of the fears that exist among the Chinese regarding postwar Japan.
We hope and believe Your Exeellency will be gracioue enough to gratify
our wishes and give us your views. Also we must assure Your Exeellency
that we shall withhold anything "off the record" and shall present your
views as faithfully as faithfully can be.
With best regards,
/s/ James C. Y. Shen
(James C. Y. Shen)
RESTRICTED

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
MESTRICTED
Esclesure No. 2 to Despatsh
No. 127, dated Pobraary 27, 1968,
frem the offise of the tatted
States Pelitieal Adviser fer Japen,
Tokyo, en the subjest "kesponse to
Questiens Submitted to General
MacArthur By a Represeatative of
Central News Ageney of Chima".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatic Section
Tokyo, February 27, 1948.
My dear Hr. Shen:
In response to the questions raised by you in your letter of
February 24, 1948 to General MacArthur, I am pleased, on his behalf,
to reply as follows:
QUESTION NO. 1: Is a resurgence of militarism possible in Japan,
once the Occupation is ended? Is prolonged armed occupation necessary
or sufficient to prevent it? If not, what is necessary and essential?
ANSWER: Japan has been completely disarmed; its armed forces are
complotely demobilized, military equipment has either been
destroyed or turned into scrap, arsenals and dockyards have been
or are being rapidly dismantled. The physical equipment for any
possible military force simply does not exist. By Japan's uncon-
ditional surrender the Japanese people have been taught that
militariem is a costly undertaking which defeats its owm ends and
brings suffering and disillusionment to its proponents. In my
opinion, a resurgence of militarism in Japan is physically im-
possible for generations. In consequence, it does not appear
necessary to continue indefinitely an armed occupation.
QUESTION NO. 2: What are the thorniest problems facing the occupation
authorities?
ANSWER: It appears axiomatic that Japan can not be a peace-loving
democratic nation unless, through its own efforts, guided and
assisted by the Allied nations, it is enabled to become self-
sufficient in its economy and is able to exchange goods--raw
materials and manufactured--with countries having such raw
materials and wihich are able and willing to engage in such peace-
ful exchange. So long as countries refuse to engage in a peaceful
interchange of goods with each other, so longwill the economy of
the Far East as a whole reeain out of balance. I therefore believe
that a serious and sincere effort on the part of all Allied nations
to find a common ground for negotiation of the peace is essential.
QUESTION NO. 3: Has democracy ccme to stay in Japan? Can a proper
leadership for post-occupation Japan finelly evolve from among the
various existing parties?
ANSWER:
Mr. James C. Y. Shen,
Central News Agency of China,
Tokyo.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tokye's 127,
February 27, 1948
RESTRICTED
-2-
ANSWER: My answer to both questions is "Yes". I do not believe
that a people who have tasted the fruits of demecracy and who
themselves are part and parcel of the demooratic process would
again willingly revert to their former slavery. Under the
watchful guidance of the Occupation, the political parties of
Japan have grown and have nurtured and practised democratie con-
cepts. Leadership is coming to the fore among the many young
men and women who have been given an opportunity to demonstrate
their capabilities. I am confident that with further encourage
ment, guidance, and understanding from all the Allies, demoeracy
in Japan is here to stay.
QUESTION NO. 4: Does Communism have a chance to spread in Japan?
ANSWER: Communism, the extreme left, is equally as bad as the
extreme right. It is a creed of desperation which feeds upon
hunger, hardship, and hopelessness. The Japanese have already
thrown cut the extreme right; given a reasonable chance to
become a self-respecting, peace-loving, democratic nation, I
am convinced that the Japanese will likewise refuse to accept
Communism as a system.
Sincerely yours,
W. J. Sebald
Chief, Diplomatic Section
and
Chairman, Allied Council for Japan

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.83)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
B.-M
A
Acvto. FE
In.So:
Contro1 8781
SS
Rec'd February 28, 1948
A.A
9:26 p. m.
AB
AS
SAM4
reuysilile
EUR
COD
Office of
C1A
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR
11948
DIRECTOR
Department of State
mroee politteal
nod sda eletion,
 e so mnt edarorial
89
eue Mebtnd HaeAsbhur's
4.00
comm m uresms lest
a purnult dewoeraey and
mmm or oebion.
ccommm on
aeftme Por ordered
12
  o 
coct
2848
MAR 9
FILED
369
工
工

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.82)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DIVISION OF
NU ST ASIAN AFFS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
MAR-201948
NA
DEPARTME OF STATE
1948
. 8,7948 12:55 PM
O1FICE 01
Departocn. et State
894.00/3-248
1940
atical si tuatie
or 1st Aprj
onost
oD
Lpele and
5
16 1948
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.83)
UNCLASSIFTED
Page 2.
八-546
March 2, 1948
from London
"Thoroupor tho Liberals, as the second largest
party, cleimed the Promiorship for their leader,
Ir. Yoshide; they professed willingress to take the
Democrats into a Liberal-led Cabineti, but refused
to avo unythin to do with tho Socsal Demoerats.
A Liberl-Domccrat coalition would have rangod Right
und Lefe in ap nese politics in sharp division, but
in. Ashide orot rs a middle-of-tho-voad polioy which
avetds Whi: situation, and the Social Denocrats appear
to wish to so t inuo thoir associatien with him, for
thoy ave nim lhe votos nocessary te secure his
oloetion on obruary Zist as the new Prime Tinister.
Violont criticist of the choice hes been heard from
both winge of the Japanose prees, and such phrases
as pelavient p lact marketeerinrI have provoked
tomral  cear ohumpts headquarters ir tio some very
vosty commonte cn tha bad manners and instability of
Japarsse pollvies.
"thevo lume t us boen a certatn shift towards
the hi hn watmort a easnelutlon of tho former poli-
tlcal :ltianee.
 hould ow be seen whether the
sootal omoorat party can koop its loft wing in line,
aP whethor te tatter wall come wope whader the
ant luoneo cf ms ror otte Gemcomist propagenda for
mibed troren polent the Comuasts are
balm foos p  c car t put tboy cortrel ore of the
twe Podopattone of Danones y brade amiove, eno they
ata fop co te soc tel tomoerate thet
only too well lnown to
DOUOL.O
dopy to u 5 
TODO

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: March 2, 1948
Office
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR-319/
SUBJECT:
Situation and Problems in Japan
894.00/3-248
PARTICIPANTS:
Dr. Sherwood M. Fine, Economic Adviser, ESS, SCAP
Mr. Hamilton, FE
Mr. Borton, FE
Mr. Green, NA
Mr. Hunsberger, DRF
COPIES TO:
Dr. Fine, Army, CAD
Mr. Whitman, OE
Mr. Barnett, OE
Mr. Owen, OE
3Y1iS
1—1493
Dr. Fine is on temporary duty in Washington. He called to answer
questions concerning Japan. In the course of the conversation he expressed the
following:
CS/A
Political Problems
The recent fall of the Katayama cabinet resulted not so much
from immediate issues like SCAp's insistence on balancing the Japanese budget,
as from basic economic problems which no Japanese cabinet can solve. As a
result of these problems the Katayama cabinet gradually lost its support. Its
coalition support lasted as long as it did, not so much from strength, as from
an unwillingness on the part of others, especially the Liberal Party, to assume
responsibility for overthrowing Katayama or forming a government.
There is no major antagonism, in the minds of the Japanese
people, between the Japanese Covernment's attitude and policies and those of
SCAP. Both the representative Japanese and the educated Japanese feel that an
alignment with the US is to Japan's interest, rather then thinking of the
Japanese view, is obligated by sheer self-interest to continue to.make
political and financial investaents in Japan. The Japanese appreciate US
support and friendship. There is no evidence whatsoever that the Japanese
will stall in order to get more aid from the US. There has been some stalling
recently, as in the case of the large coal producers, whose production records
were very poor, but the evidence shows that the reason is price difficulties,
功
especially

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
2
especially price instability end a desire to consume Japan's limited resources.
A major Japanese need is a clear B progrsm on the besis of which
they can plan definitely for the next few years. At present they are
overwhelmed by uncertainties.
The Economic Stabilization Board is a creature of ScaP. No head
of ESB before Wada was effective. Other personalities in the Katayama
Goverrment, with few exceptions, were incompetents and political hacks. Some
phases of administration have been much better handled under the Katayama
Government than before, for example rationing, price control and food
collections. Rice collections are now some 9o% of quota, whereas a year ago
only some 67% of quota hed been collected. This remarkable record means an
important reduction in reliance on the black market, with its coneequent
inflationary pressure.
A basic political problem is the struggle between the left and
the right. The Communists, although few in number, are prominent in the
ideological and propaganda struggle. They have a key group in the National
Congress of Industrial Unions and probably expect to gain strength in
Japanese unions generally. The basis for SCAP opposition to strikes is
simple: SC.P cannot tolerate any major disruption of the Japanese economy;
on the other hand SCAP studiously avoids interference in small strikes. The
Communists are strong cmong teachers umions. The teachers are probably the
worst off and most frustrated of all bureaucrats, and will represent first-
class recruits for Communigm until the economic situation improves. There
is some development of sound progressivism in Japan, but Japan is still in
the melting pot and the shape of the wfld is still uncertain. Much
distmust of past leadership exists. Inflation end economic distress are
prompting the strengulation of the middle class. A fundamental factor is
1
the fundomental extreme concervatism of the Japanese people.
The most important factor in deteimining whether Japen moves to
711.94
the left or right is US policy.
Reperations
x尺
US policy stetements during the pust year have seemed to the
Jepanese to indicate concern for the effects of repcretions on Jepen. There
is no feeling thet Japan can produce eny large cmount of reparations.
Capital reperations cost so much to move as to be unattractive to potentiul
recipients. For their successful use a coumtry needs technology, techniciens,
a flow of raw materials, nd on oppropriste general level of lmowledge on the
part of the people. These requiremente cre lergely lacking in the potential
recipiont countries. At the Beguio Conference of the Economic Council for
Asia and the For East, one interesting meeting discussed this problem end
representatives from al kinds of governments and political systems agreed
upon the need for technology.
Japanese Representation
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
3
Japanese Representation at International Conferences
SCAP representatives are sent to international conferences under
a directive instructing SCAP to arrange such representation as he can.
XR
Economic Conditions
894.50
The Japanese standard of living, always low, is now even lower.
Prices are quite unstable. Agricultural production, alweys inedequate to
feed the people, is now about normal. Industrial production is only 45% of
the 1930-34 average, or 24% of the wartime peak. To secure the 1930-34 average
standard of living for the present population would require induetrial
production at about 125% of 1930-34.
Two basic groups of factors account for the present low level.
Losses connected with the war include severance of overseas territories,
dastruction of 30% of industrial capacity in Jepan, disruption of prewar
trade patterns with the areas which Japan occupied during the war, and loss
of substantial insurance and shipping income (Merchant Marine income used to
be $loo million a year). Technological changes of importance are the decline
of silk and the decline of Japan's cotton textile industry. Before the wer
Japan hed about 12 million cotton spindles; at the end of 1947 only 1.8
million were in operation out of somewhat over 3 million still remaining.
Japan has now about enough textile capacity for her domestic needs alone.
Cotton trade during the occupation has largely been financed by
the US Commodity Credit Corporation, which has provided raw cotton for $50
million of cotton textiles for domestic Japenese consumption and to which
there was still outstanding as of the end of 1947 a $70 million obligation.
To repay this obligation is most difficult because of the problems in getting
dollars encountered by countries which would ordinarily buy Japanese textiles.
Consequently it may be necessary to sell Japanese cotton textiles in the US.
Dr. Fine recommended to SCAP by cable a week after reaching the US that such
sales be pushed. A textile mission under Dr. Jacobs of the American Cotton
Manufacturers' Association has prepared a 16-point program. It is an ingenious
scheme to sell Japanese cotton textiles for dollars without sales in the US.
The principal suggestion is sales in former Japanese markets, a project SCAP
explored when the problem first arose. The whole Far East wants to buy
Japanese products, except raw silk, but cannot get the dollars.. Other
difficulties Japan is encountering in selling textiles in Asia crise out of
antagonism to the Jepanese, economic depression, and political disruption.
The Netherlands Eest Indies have been one of the largest buyers of Japanese
cotton textiles in the post-surrender period. In return Japan has received
some metals end oil, and in the future may get some rubber.
Jepan cen get only part of its raw cotton from India. As a result
of pressure from US cotton states a formula has been developed whereby Japan
is to get her rav cotton as follows: 40% from the US, 38p from India, 2 from
Japan now
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
4
Japan now gets her three mejor imports from the UB, food,
fertilizer, and petroleum. Food imports depend on allocations by the
International Emergency Food Committee, to which allocations requests are
tailored for eppropriations. Food is shipped in UB bottoms, received
by the Japanese Board of Trade, stored by them under SCAP surveillance,
and distributed through Japanese ration chanmels. Since the hungry summer
of 1946, it hes been poss1ble through the exchange during the crop year of
imported wheat for domestic rice, to provide rice for city consumption
throughout the summer, when no rice comes inte the cities from the farme.
Salt is another important import. It used to come from China. It is now
possible to get it from the US, but shipping costs bring its price in
Japan up to 10 to 15 times the cost of Chinese salt.
Japanese food production is being pressed as hard as possible.
All available area is being cultivated; including former golf courses and
eir fields. But Japan is confronted with, a losing battle on food self-
sufficiency because of diminishing returns from cultivation of limited
acreage and because of population growth. Total population in Japan has
risen from 72 million at the time of surrender to 78.5 million at present
as a result of repatriation and naturel increase. It appears that the
rate of natural increase is now declining, although population statistics
are not very good.
Economic Recovery
Japen's major economic needs today are sufficient rice, textiles,
housing and coal. Even present inadequate standards can be maintained only
with considerable imports from the US; with trade patterns what they now are
these imports from the US cannot be paid for with the proceeds of exports,
and continued US aid is necessary. No recovery in Japanese production
and consumption will come about without substential and long- ange
rehabilitation of the economy.
Plans for economic recovery heve been prepered in Japan as well
as in Washington. The Economic and Scientific Section of SCiP drew up a
plan in the fell. It was approved by General MacArthur and brought to
Washington by Mr. Emerson Ross, end on it was based the Army Depertment's
request for a $l8o million rehabilitation cppropriation now before the
Bureau of the Budget. In the early steges of the preperation of the ESS
recovery plan the Japenese Covernment cooperated closely. Later the
Japanese submitted e series of plens on different recovery problems,
prepared at Dr. Fine's request by the Japanese Covernment working on its
owm. These plans cre in no sense official Japanese plans, since ESs wants
to avoid difficulties such as those resulting from press reperts about
Jepanose "demends" in connection with economic recovery.
Dr. Fine left Tokyo three weeks after General McCoy made his
st tement in the Far Eastern Commission on the US intention to foster
economie recovery in Japan. During those three weeks no instruction was
received by SCAP on asking the Japanese Government to submit en official
economic recovery
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
5
economic recovery progrem in accordance with General McCoy's statement.
The Japanese have not lost their capacity to work, and in this
sense they renresent a good bet for the US, in fact as good a place as any
for US aid. There are no beggars in Japan. But this Japanese ability does
not assure that success will be attained in plans to make Japan self-
supporting. Such success depends on the world trade pattern and on the
intelligence of the US cid program and other complementary programs.
Present chaos in world trade is the basic difficulty.
is to the need for intervention in the administration and
control of the Japanese economy, the growing SCAP intervention arose out
of widespread Japenese incompetence and a certain amount of very able
opposition such as that offered by former Finance Minister Ishibashi. Much
of SCAP cnd ESS intervention is simply educating the Japanese, with whom
there is much discussion and cordial exchange of ideas. Dr. Fine is not
afraid SCAP is pampering or restricting the Japanese.
In administering a recovery program the Japenese should be given
the maximum latitude, but SCAP must retain the right to insist on adequate
performance. The US must determine a simple set of standards, especially
setting up specific itoms for review cnd criteria for their review. It is
a simple necessity that we gradually withdrew our intervention in the
Japenese economy. We have much Japenese good will, and this will help in
the cdministration of a self support program.
DRF:wSwSeberger:BF
COIFIDETTIAI

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.88)
ADF
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
eOMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
OIC ADF
POTED
RFCFIVED
CORREOTED COPY
MAR6 10
5/48 3:30 e m.
ONS UIDERSCORED
e-P.
DEPT OF STATE
894.00/3-548
8.
CO
8
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.88)
1
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DC/R
INCOMING TELEGRAM
MAR8 1948
RESTRTOTED
Cortrel 1730
9
HEOT OFSTATE
Tee d Marob 5, 1948
7:32 a m
MAR 5 4 34 PH 48
FW
894.00/3-548
VOID-SFF COFRF
COrY ATTACHL
F
W
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
EETROEF

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.90)
JMA
OMING AIRGRAM
DDISION OF
NORTHEAST AIAN AFFAIRS
DETMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
rE
DEPARTMENT (OF STATE
CA
1948
894.00/3-848
E1
FOR
RE C'D
R
22
1948
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
工

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.69)
Page 2.
A.
March, 1040
from Loncon
of pho uttn pa  oeowtn Laberal Party. No confidently
expoebod to mecd  ratpme, and ia in progese
f   onewte ronpe to
  b  
e w te oom o thor whe dislike
h
 er
eor wteh oule
   o

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Toky 15, 1948.
No. 160
NORTHEAST SIAN AFFAIRS
UNCLASSIFIED
DEIR
F SIATE
Subject: Rules and Election Laws, Japanese Diet.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to forward
under separate cover as an accompaniment to this despatch
five copies each of the following mimeographed publications
of the Government Section, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers:
Rules of the Japanese House of Representatives,
adopted June 28, 1947.
894.00/3-1548
Rules of the Japanese House of Councillors,
adopted June 28, 1947.
Law for the Election of Members of the
House of Councillors as passed by
the 92nd Diet.
Law for the Election of Members of the
-E
House of Representatives as Passed
by the 92nd Diet.
Accompaniment:
Five copies each of
documents as listed
above.
Original and ozalid to the Department.
801.2
JDEdwards:cs
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
Accompaniment to Despatch No. 160 dated March 15, 198
from the Office of the United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo. entitled "Rules and Election Laws,
Japanese Diet".
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
Accompaniment to Despateh No. 1d
from the Office of the United Stat
for Japan Tokyo, entitled "Rules and 
Japanese Diet".
GENERAL HEADQUAPTERS
SUPREME CONT ANDER FOR TH" ALLIED POWERS
Government Section
RULES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Adopted 28 June 1947
Edited by:
Helen Loeb
Legislative Division
2 March 1948

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
RULES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Table of Contents
Chapter
Page
I. Convocation and Election of Officers
1
II.
Designation of the Prime Minister
2
ITI.
Opening Ceremony
3
IV.
Sessions: Length, Extencion, and Recess
3
V.
Election of Members of the Legislative Committee
of the Houses, Judges of the Tmpeachment Court,
Members of the Indictment Proceedings Committee
3
VI.
Introduction and Withdrawal of Bills
4
VII.
Committees
5
Section 1. General Provisions
5
Section 2.
Competenre of Commi+tee Chairmen
8
Section 3.
Public Hearings
9
Section 4.
Majority and Minority Reports
10
Section 5.
Standing Committees
11
Section 6.
Speciel Committees
16
VIII.
Plenary Sessions
16
Section 1.
Opening, Adjournment, and
Postponement of Sittings
16
Section 2.
Order of the Day
17
Section 3.
Proceedings
18
Section 4.
Speeches
19
Section 5.
Amerdrents
20
Section 6.
Voting
21
IX.
Interpellations
22
X。
Free Discussions
22

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.98)
Chapter
Page
23
XI.
Petitions
XII.
Leaves of Absence and Non-Attendance
25
25
XIII.
Resignations
XIV.
Litigations concerning Members' Qualifications
25
XV.
Minutes of a Plenary Session
27
XVI.
Police and Maintenance of Order
28
Section 1. Police
28
Section 2.
. Haintenance of Order
28
XVII.
Visitors
29
XVIII.
Discipline
30
XIX.
Relations with the House of Councillors
32
YX.
Relations with the Public and Government Offices
32
XXI.
Supplementary Provisions
33
1

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
CHAPTER I. CONVOCATION AND TLECTION OF OFFICERS
Article 1. Members shall assemble in the House of Repre-
sentatives at ten o'clock on the morning of the day designated
for convocatfon by the Imperial Rescript.
Article 2.: Newly elerted members must present to the
Secretariat for verification their certificates of election.
Article '3. If vacancies exist in the offices of both
Speaker and Vice Speaker on the day of convocation, the House
shall elect the Speaker after one-third of the members are
present.
The election of the Speaker shall be conducted by secret
ballot, or by signed ballot if the Hou-e so.decides.
Article 4. If election is hy secret hallot, each member,
in response to roll-call, shall carry his ballot and wooden
name-ticket to the ballot box on the rostrum.
Secretary A shall receive the name ticket and secretary B
the ballot, and they. on hehalf of each member, shall cast the
name-ticket and ballot into the name-ticket and ballot boxes
respectively.
Article 5. When all members present have voted, the
Secretary General shall declere that the voting is closed,
after which declaration no further ballots shall be cast.
Article 6. On completion of the voting, the Secretary
General shall at once have the ecretaries count the name-
tickets and hallots cast and examine the ballots.
In case the number of  ballots cast exceeds the numher
of name-tickets, unless such excess does not affect the result
of the election, a second election shall he held.
Article 7. On completion of the examination of the ballots,
the Secretary Goneral shall report the result of the election.
Article 8. He who has received a maiority of the votes is
declared elected.
If no candidate obtains a majority of votes, a final election
shall:be held to decide between the tvo candidates who obtained
the largest number of votes; he who then receives a majority
is elected: In case, however, the two candidates in the final
election obtain an equal number of votes, the decision shall
be made by lot.

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 9. After the election of the Speaker, the House
shall elect the Vice Sceaker.
The Vice Speaker shall he elected in the same manner as
the Speaker.
Article 10. In case the elected declines to accept the
post, another election shall be held.
Article ll When a doubt arises about the election, the
House will decide on the matter.
Article 12. After the Speaker and the Vice Su-aker are
elected, the Secretary General shall introduced them to the
House and conduct the Speaker to his chair.
Article 13. In case there is neither Speaker nor Vice
Speaker on the day of convocation, the House shall fill the
vacancy after one-third of the members are present.
The election prccedure in the above case shall be as
provided in Article 4 and suhsequent Articles.
Article 14. The Speaker shall decide the allocation of
members' scats at th- beginning of each session, although he
may change the seating arranrement in case of necessity.
Each seat shall have attached a number plate and the name
plate of its occupant.
Article 15. The election of Standing Committee Chairmen
shall be held in a manner similar to the election of the Speaker.
The House may entrust the Speaker with selection of
Standing Committee Chairmen.
Article 16. The Secretary Genoral shall be elected in
a manner similar to the elcction of the Speaker.
The House may entrust the Speaker with seleetion of the
Secretary General.
Article 17. The Sneaker pro-tem shall be elected in a
manner similar to the election of the Speaker.
CHAPTER II. DESIGNATION OF THE PRIME VINISTER
Article 18. The Frime Mini ter shall be designated by
single and open ballot. He who obtains a majority of votes
cast shall be designated.
2.
6

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
In case no candid'ate obtains a majority, the provision
of paragraph 2, Article 8 shall b applied mutatis mutandis
If it so desires, the House may designate the Prime
Minister by motion of a member or by other means.
CHAPTER IJI. OPEING CEREMONY
Article 19. The date and the place of the opering ceremony
shall be fixed by the peaker after consulting witr the Presi-
dent of the House of Councillors.
CHAPTER IV: SESSICNS: LENGTH, EXTENSION, AND RECESS
Article 20. The House shall decide the term of extra-
ordinary and special sessions after the Speaker has esked for
the views of each ta ding Com ittee Chariman and has consulted
with the President of the House of Councillors.
The decision shall be reported immediately to the House
of Councillors and the abinet.
Article 21. The foregoing Article shall anply mutatis
mutandis to the extension of the session of the Diet.
Article ?2. If because of national events. the New Year,
the year end, converience of delih rations on hills, or other
circumstances a recess of the Di t is necessary, it shall be
decided by the House after the Speaker has consulted the Presi-
dent of the House of Councillors.
The decision shall be reported immediately to the House.
of Councillors and the Cahinet.
CHATTTR V.
EL CTION CE EMETRS CF THE LEGISLATIVE
COMITTEE OF THE HCTCES, JUDGTS OF THE
INPTACHENTENT CCURT, UT PERS OF THE INDICTMENT
PR CEEDINGS CON ITTFE
Article 23. Members of the Legislative Committee of the
Houses shall be elected by seer-t ballot of single entry.
He who obtains the greatest numher of votes shall he
designated first; he who o'tains the next greatest number of
votes shall be designated next, and so on, until the required
number of persons are elected. If several candidates receive
an equal number of votes, final election shall be determined by
lottery.
To be elected, a candidate must receive at least ore-fourth
of the total numh'r of ballots cast divided by the numher of
persons to he selected for the committee.
3.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.97)
If the nominees. do not receive the required number of
votes, election shall be conducted in accordance with the abovaw
mentioned three provisions until the vacancies are filled.
The House may omit the procedure of el ction and delegate
the selection of Committee memhers to the Speaker.
Article 24. The foregoing Article shall apply mutatis
mutandis respectively to the elections of the judges and reserve
judges of the Impeachment Court and the members and reserve
members of the Indictment Proceedings Committee.
Article 25. The reserve mem ers mentioned in Article 24
shall take office in accordance with the sequence in number
of votes each received. In case tle votes received are equal.
in number, +he order shall be decided by lot.
Article 26. When Houre members must be elected to serve
on various othor committees and boards, as provided for by
law, the provisions of Article 23 shali apply mutatis mutandis.
Article 27. In accordance with Article 26, when only one
person must be clected from among the House memborship, as
provided for by law, he shall be el cted in the same manner as
the Speaker.
The House may dispense with an election and delegate the
selection to the Speaker.
CHAPTER VI. INTRODUCTION AND WITHDRAWAL CF BILLS
Article 28. In case any member wishes to introduce a
bill or resolution, he shell submit a draft to the Speaker,
together with reasons for its introduction.
The Speaker shall have the bill or resoltuion printed and
distributed to each menbor.
Article 29. Among the bills mentioned in the preceding
Article, a bill or recolution requiring the decision of both
Houses, in addition to being distributed by the Speaker to each
memher, shall also be referred to the Hous of Councillors,
through the Speaker, for preliminary examiration.
Article 30. Bills introduced by the Ca inet and bills
referred to the House from the House of Councillors chall
immediately be printed and distributed to cach member, unless
they are the same bills as have already been printed and distri-
buted for preliminery examination.
9
4.
a

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 3l. When a bill is submitted, the Speaker shall
refer it to a proper standing Committee.
Article 32. When committee jurisdiction cannot be deter-
mined for the surject matter of a bill, the Speaker shall refer
it to such Standing Com-ittee as decided by the House.
Article 33. When the subject matter of a bill does not
fall within the juri diction of ay Standing Committee, the
Speaker shall, upon consultation wit the House, institute a
Special Committee and refer the bill to it.
Article 34. The Speakcr, after consultation with the House,
may refor to the same Special Committee other related matters.
Article 35. The nreceding five Articles may be applied
mutatis mutandis to bills referred from the House of Councillors
or the Cabinet for preliminary examination.
Article 36. To withdraw a hill or motion already intro-
duced, a demand for vithdraral by all the members who joined
in introducing the same is required. For its withdrawal after
it has been referred to a Committee, the authorization of the
Committee is required. For its withdrawal after it has been
placed on the agenda of the House, authorization of the House
is required.
CHAPTER VII. COMAITTEES
Section I. General Provisions
Article 37.
All Committeemen shell he selected by the
Speaker.
Article 38.
A Comrittee shall have ore or ceveral direc-
tors who shall h. elected from among its merhers by mutual vote.
A director shall nerform the function of Chairman in cose the
latter is uneble to discharge  is duties.
Article 39. Committeomen may not resign their posts with-
out justifiable reason. "hen a Commit eeman wants to resign
his post, he must ohtain a proval of the Speaker, after hoving
given reasons for his request through the Chairman of his
Committee.
Article 40.
Vacancies in  Committee
sholl be filled by
the Speaker.
Article 4l. Committees shall not meet during a plenary
session of the House, excent mith the prior anproval of the
Speaker.
5。

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 42. A Committee may introduce a bill concorming
matters under its jurisdiction.
The bill mentioned above shall he introduced by the
Chairman of the'Committee.
Article 43. A Committee may establish sub-committees.
Article 44.
A Committee shall hegin examination of a bill
only after it has heard an explanation of the bill.
:Article 45. Committeemen may interpellate freely and
express opinions on any subject under discussion.
The Chairman shall give Committeemen permission to speak
in the order of their requests.
If a Committeeman ohjects to the order of speaking, the
Chairman must refer the matter to the Committee for decision.
Article 46. If a member of the House has an opinion on
a matter entrusted to a Committee of which he is not a member,
the Committee may ask the member to attend the meeting to
express his opinion.
Article 47. A Committeeman who desires to amend a bill
must present tre amendment beforehand to the Chairman.
Article 48. A Committee may establish a sub-committee
for the purpose of examiring an amendment to a bill.
Article 49. A Chairman who wishes to participate in-debate
himself. shall have a director or his deputy (who is selected
by him from among the Committeemen) preside.
Article 50. When debate is closed, the Chairman shall put
the question to a vote.
Article 51.
A Committeeman absent at the time of voting
does not have the right to have his vote recorded later.
Article 52.
No Committeeran may ask to revise his vote.
Article 53.
A Committee may request, through the Speaker,
the presence of a witness for the purpose of examination or
investigation.
Article 54. A witness shall not speak on other than the
subject for which he was called to testify.
6。

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
In case the speech of a witness exceeds the above limits, or
his speech or action is considered to be improper, the Chairman
may prohibit the continuation of his speech and order him from
the room.
Article 55. If a Committee desires to dispatch a Committee-
man for the purpose of examination or investigation, approval of
the Speaker is required.
Article 56. A Committee through the Speaker, may demand
the Oabinet, government and public offices, and others to submit
necessary reports or records for the purpose of examination or
investigation.
Article 57. When.permission to examine Committee records
and other reference materials is reguested by a member of the
House, the Committee must grant it, provided it does not interfere
with examinations or investigations conducted by the Committee
itself.
Article 58. No person is permitted to remove Committee
records or other reference materials mentioned above from the
House.
Article 59. When a Committee considers as urgent a matter
which it has exarined, it may recuest the peaker to hold a plenary
session of the House.
Article 60. If a Committee considers it necessary for the
purpose of examination or investigation, it may meet jointly with
another Committee.
Article 6l. A Committee shall compile the records of meetings,
containing the following:
1.
Date a d rour of opening, reccss, and adjournment
2。
Names of Commi+teemen present.
3。
Nomes of membors of the Touse. other than
Committeemen, present.
4.
Nemes of Ministers of Stete ard rerresentative
of the covernment present.
5.
Changes of Comnitteemen.
6。
Titles of matters entrusted to the Committee.
7.
Titles of matters reported to the House.
8.
Proceedings.
9.
Number of votes t ken.
10.
Summary of decisions.
11.
Public Hearings.
12.
Witnesses.
7.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
131
Dispatch of Committee-en.
14
Request for presentation of reports or records.
15.. Reports
16. Other important items.
Article 62. After being duly signed by the Chairman and
directors, the Committee records shall he preserved in the House.
Article 63. The Committce records shall be printed and
distri' uted to all members of the House. However, parts of
the records of secret reetings which the Committee decides require
special secrecy shall not he treated as above.
Article 64. The provisions of Articles 226-231 shall apply
mutatis mutandis in the case of person: other than members of the
House attending Committee meetings.
Article 65. The provisjon- of this Chanter shall be applied
mutatis mutandis to a Committee's examination conducted while the
Diet is in adjourrment.
Section II. Compotence of Committee Chairmen
Article 66. . The Committee Chairman shall determine pro-
ceedings in the Committee. maintain order in the Committee, and
represent the Committee.
Article 67. The Committee Chairman shall decide the dates
for Committee meetings.
If more than one-third of the Committe en request it, the
Committee Chairman must call a Comrittee meeting.
Article 68. .The Committee Chairman may limit the time for
questions, dehates, and other sneeches after consultation with
the Committee.
When such time limitation is made, it shall anply equally
to each of the Cormitteemen.
Article 69. A House of Renresentatives Committee Chairman
may explain in the House of Councillors the purport of a House
of Renresentatives bill which falls under the jurisdiction of his
Committee.
Article 70. The Committee Chairman may attend meetings of
other Committees and express his views.
8.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 7l. When Commiteemen act contrary to the Diet Law
or this regulation or injure the dignity of the House, the Chairman
shall restrain them or order them to retract their speeches. In
case they do not obey his order, the Chairman may prohibit them
from speaking until the close of the Committee meeting for that
day or may order them out of the room.
Article 72. In case he finds it difficult to adjust the
proceedingsin Committee meeting, or if a disciplinary case occurs,
the Chairman may declare a recess or adjourn the meeting.
Article 73. The Committee Chairman may permit persons other
than members of the House to attend a Committee meeting.
Article 74. When necessary in order to maintain order in
a Committee meeting, the Chairman may order visitors out of the room.
Article 75: Committee Chairmen shall report disciplinary
cases to the Speaker.
Section III. Public Fearings
Article 76.
A public hearing may be held by Committees to
examine bills or matters referred thereto by the House or the
Speaker.
Article 77. To hold a public hearing, the Committee must
obtain the Speaker's consent.
Article 78. A Committee may hold a public hearing for
provisional examination.
Article 79. When a Committee has decided to hold a public
hearing, the Chairman shall inform the Speaker and announce to
the public the date and the subject of the public hearing.
Article 80. Those who wish to have a public hearing and those
who wish to express their onirions at a nublic hearing shall be-
forehand state in writing their reasons, oninions, approval, or
disanproval thereof to the ©ommittee.
Article 81. The Committee shall select public speakers from
among volunteer speakers who give notice beforehand, from others
interested in the subject, and from men of learning and experience
whose opinions the Committee wishes to hear.
The Committee shall
inform those selected to testify.
The Committee shall appoint public speakers from those for and
against the subject.
9。

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 82. When a public speaker wishes to speak, he shalt
first obtain permission of the Chairman.
Article 83. A public speaker must confine his remarks to
the ubject on which his opinion is required.
In case a public speaker introduces irrelevant material or
his speech or action is considered improper, the Chairman is empow-
ered to stop his speech or order him out of the room.
Article 84. A Committeeman may internellate public speakers,
but public speakers may not interpellate Committeemen.
Article 85. Upon approval of the Committee, a public speaker
may designate an agent to sneak for him or present his opinions
in writing.
Section IV. Majority and Minority
Article 86. When a Committee has finished the examination
or investigation of a subject entrusted to it, the Committee Chair-
man reports the decision, with re sons therefore, to the Speaker.
Article 87. When the mattor entrusted to a Committee is
placed n the agenda of the House, the Chairman or his agent, a
Committeeman, shall report to the House the Committee proceedings
and results.
The Chairman of a sub-committee or a chief examiner may
supplement the Cheirman's report.
Article 88. A mirority member. or members may offer a minority
report by presenting it to the Speaker
at the same time as the
Committee report is nrecented.
Article 29.
The Speaker shell have the Committee reportland
minority reports printed and distributed to the members of the
House. "Howevor, secret material shell he excluded.
Article 90.
When a suh-committee has finished its exarination
or investigation, it shall present its report to the Chairman.
The aforementioned reports shall be printed and dist-ibuted to
Committeemen.
Article 91. If a Committee does not comolete an examination
authorized to he made during a period of Diet adjournment, it shall
report to the Sneaker to that effect at the herinning of the next
session.
10.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.97)
Section V. Standing Committees
Article 92. Subject to change according to the decision of
the House, numbers of Gommitteemen for each Standing Committee
and matters under its jurisdiction are as follows:
1. Committee for Foreign Affairs.....30 persons.
1.
Matters relating to foreign affairs.
2.
Matters relating to treaties.
3.
Vatters relating to international conferences
and irternational organs.
4.
Matters relating to Japonese nationals and
commercial affairs abroad.
5.
Matters relating to emigretion and enternrises
ahroad.
6.
Matters relating to. acquisition and loss of
nationality.
7.
Matters relating to other international relations.
2.
Committee for Fublic Safety and Local Government.....
30 nersons.
1.
Matters relating to administrative police.
2.
Matters relatine to fire-service.
3.
Matters relating to local oublic entities.
3. Committee for Land Planning.....30 persons.
1.
Matters relating to national,regional, and city
land plonring.
2.
Matters relating to rarbors, rivers, roads,
building of embankments. and other public works.
3.
Matters relating to public water-surfaces.
4。
Matters relating to land expronriation.
5.
Matters rela'ing to repairing of damages caused by
disestor.
6.
Matters relating to national varks.
7。
Natters relating to geography.
4。
Committee for Judicial Affairs.....25 porsons.
7.
Matters relatins to civil, criminal, end other
judicial laws end rogulations.
2.
Matters relating to law courts.
3.
Matters relating to procurators' offices.
4。
Matters relating to concillors at law.
5.
Matters relating to nenal ad iristration.
6。
Matters releting to non-judicial cases, registra-
tion, census registor, notarial acts, and deposit.
7.
Matters relating to judicial nrotection.
71。

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.97)
5. Commit ee for Educational Affairs.....25 persons.
1.
Matters relating to education and educational system
2.
Matters relating to scholarships.
3.
Matters relating to religion.
4.
Matters relating to science.
5.
Matters relating to physical training.
6. Committee for Cultural Affairs.....25 persons.
1.
Matters relating to national ceremonies and
functions.
2.
Matters relating to art.
3.
Matters relating to national treasures, important
works of art, historical places, beauty-spots, and
valuable natural objects.
4.
Matters relating to music, cinema, and plays.
5.
Matters relating to newspapers, magazines, and
other publications.
6.
Matters relating to radio broadcasting.
7:
Matters relating to national recreation.
8.
Matters relating to museums and lihraries.
9.
Matters relating to the tourist industry.
10.
Matters relating to other cultural works.
7. Committee for Welfare.....30 persons.
1.
Matters relating to population policy.
2.
Matters relating to health and sanitation.
3.
Matters relating to protection of women and
children.
4.
Matters relating to social policies and social
work.
5.
Matters relating to housing.
6.
Matters r:lating to health insurance.
7.
Matters relating to national census and statistics.
8.
Matters relating to pensions and annuities.
8. Committee for Labor.....35 persons.
I。
Matters relating to labor management and labor
unions.
2.
Matters relating to labor conditions and other
labor nroblems.
3.
Matters relating to unemployment measures.
4.
Matters relating to labor insurance.
12.

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.97)
9. Committee for Agriculture and Forestry.....45 persons.
1.
Matters relating to food problems.
2.
Matters relatine to agricultural affairs and
products.
3.
Matters relating to live-stock breeding and live-
stock industry products.
4.
Matters relating to forestry and forest products.
5.
Matters relating to silk yarn.
Matters relating to agricultural land.
7.
Matters relating to wild land reclamation.
8.
Matters relating to fertilizers and farming tools.
9.
Matters relating to agricultural insurance, live-
stock insurance, and forest insurance.
10.
Matters relating to agricultural and forestry
associations.
10. Committee for Fisheries.....30 persons.
1.
Matters relating to fisheries and marine products.
2.
Matters relating to fishing and fishing tools.
3.
Matters rel-ting to fishing ports and fishing
vessels.
4.
Matters relating to fishery insurance.
11. Committee for Commerce.....20 persons.
1.
Metters relating to commerce.
2。
Matt-rs rolating to trade.
3。
Matters relating to weights and reasures.
12. Committee for Mining end Industry.....30 persons.
1.
Matters relating
to the manufacturing industry.
2.
Mattors rolatirg to mining.
3.
Matters reloting
to inventions and patents, etc.
4.
Matters rela ing t
to fuel (except firewood and
charcoal).
13。
Comvittee for lectricity.....25 persons.
1。
Matters relating to generatior, transmission, and
distrihntion of electric pover.
2.
Hatters relating to weter power for electric
generation.
14. Committee for Transportetion and Traffic.....25 persons.
1。
Matters relating to lard transportation.
2.
Matters relating to water transportation.
3.
Matters relating
to warehousing.
4.
Matters relating to weather conditions.
130

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.97)
15. Committee for Communications.....25 persons.
1. Matters relating to the postal business.
2.
Matters relating to postal savings and money-
orders.
3.
Matters relating to postal insurance and postal
annuities.
4.
Matters relating to communication by electricity.
16. Committee for Finance and Banking.....40 persons.
1.
Matters relating to national finance.
2.
Matters relating to taxes.
3.
Matters relating to national bords.
4.
Motters relating to state-owned properties.
5.
Matters relating to currency.
6.
Matters relating to state enterprise accounts.
7.
Matters relating to foreign exchange.
8.
Matters relating to banks, trusts, insurance,
lotteries, stock exchanges, etc.
9.
Mattrs relating to monopoly enterprises.
10.
Matters relating to ommodity prices.
17. Committee for Budget.....50 persons.
I. The budget.
18. Committee for Audit.....25 persons.
1.
Audit.
2.
Approval of disburserent of reserve funds.
3.
Matters relsting to ad-irictrative rachinery.
19.
Committee for House Monagement.....25 persons.
1。
Matters relatine to House manogement.
2.
Matters relating to the Diet Law and rules
and regulations of the House.
3。
Matters relatirg to authorization for dis-
bursement of the contingent fund.of the House.
4.
Matters relating to estimates of House expenditures.
5.
Matters relating to the Irpeachment Court.
20.
Committee for Library Vanagement.....1o persons.
1.
Matters relating to management of the Diet Library.
2.
Matters relating to regulations governing the
Diet Library.
14.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
3.
Matters relating to estimates of expenditure of
the Diet Library.
4.
Matters relating to the fixed number of personnel
of the Diet Library.
21. Committee for Discipline.....25 persons.
1.
Matters relating to disciplinary action against
members of the House.
2.
Matters r lating to litigation against members'
qualifications.
Article 93. In case the number of Standing Committees
are increased or decreased, or if Committees are combined, the
number of merhers and the jurisdiction of the Committee concerned
shall be decided by the House.
Article 94. With the Speaker's authorization, a Standing
Committee may investigate matters relating to governmental affairs
under its jurisdiction only during a session.
To obtain the Speaker's authorization, a Standing Committee
shall present to him a writ en requost, stating the subject,
purpose, method, and period of its projected investigation.
Authorization for a Comnittee's investigetion shall be
reported to the House by the Speaker.
When a Standing Conmittee comnletes an investigation of
matters relating to n tional adrinistretion, the Chairman shall
report the same to the Speaker.
Article 95. When jurisdictional disputes arise between
Committees, the Speater shall decide the dispute after its referral
to the House.
Article 96. Cheirmen of Standing Committees shali not hold
membership on other Standing Committees conourrently.
Article 97. The Budget and Audit Committees may be divided
into sub-committees if necessary for purpores of examination.
Each sub-cormittee shall have a chief who will he elected by
mutual vote from emong sub-corritteemen.
Article 98. A Stending Committee may hold a joint exarination
meeting with a Standing Committee of the House of Councillors
upon agreement of the Committee Chairmen concerned.
15.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 99. A Stending Committee shall not vote on the
matter referred to a joint meeting until after the Joint Committee
has completed its examination.
Section VI. Special Committees
Article 100. The number of members of a Special Committee
shall be decided by the House at the time the Committee is
established, provided, however, that the House may increase the
number of members in case of necessity.
Article l0l. The Chairman of a Special Committee shall be
elected by mutual vote on the day of or he day follomirg the
selection of the Committee memhers.
The election of the Chairman of a Special Committee by
mutual vote shall be rade by secret hallot, the person obtaining
a majority of the votes becoring Chairman.' In case of a tie,
the election shall be decided bv lot. However, a Chairman may
be selected bv motion of a riember or by some other method.
Until the Chairran is selected, the senior member of the
Committee shall act as Chairman.
Article l02. The resignation of the Chairman of a Special
Committee shall be decided by the Committee concerned.
CHAPTER VIII. PLENARY SESGSIONS
Section I. Opening, Adjournment, and Postponement of Sittings
Article 103. A sitting shall be opened at 1 o'clock in the
afternoon, except when the house decides otherwise or the Speaker
deems it necessary to open the sitting at a different time.
Article 104. On openirs proceedings, tho Speaker shall
take the Speakerts chair and, after reporting on various matters,
shall declere the operins of the sitting.
Until the Speaker declares the opering of the sitting, no
one shall be allowed to speak on the proceedings.
Article 105. "hen the business scheduled on the order: of
the day has been completed. the Speater shall adiourn the meeting.
Even when business is pending, the Speaker may adjourn the
meeting without referring it to the Fouse if the proceedings
have extended beyond 6 o'clock in the evening.
16。

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 106. When the number of members present 1 10
than one-third of the totel memhership of the House, the S
shall, after an appropriate interval of time, have the number
counted again. When the counting has been repeated twice and
the prescribed number of members are still not present, the
Speaker shall postpone the meeting.
When the attendance falls below the prescribed number during
a sitting, the Speaker may declare a recess or adjourn the meeting.
Article 107. After the Speakér has declared the adjournment,
postponement, or recess of a meeting, no one shall be allowed
to speak on the business on the agenda.
Section II. Order of the Day
Article 108. The Spealter shall fix in advance the order
of the day, reporting thereon to the House.
Article l09. The time for opening a sitting, matters to be
Jaid before the House, and their order shall be placed on the
order of the day.
Article 110. The order of the day shall be published in the
Official Gazette and be distrihuted to all members.
Article lll. When an initiator or proposer of a bill desires
that Committee deliberation be dispensed with, he.shall present
his request to the Speaker in writing at the ti e of introduction
of the bill.
When such request has heen mede, the speaker shall place
it on the order of the day, and the House shall decide whether
to dispense with the Committee deliberation of the bill.
Article l12. hen the Speaker deems it necessary, or when
a motion has been made by a member or members, the Speaker may
alter or add to the order of the day by referring it to the House
without debate.
Article l13. When a sitting has failed to be opened for a
matter placed on the order of the day, or when a sitting has not
finished a matter on the order of the day, the Speaker shall again
place the matter or matters on the order of the day.
17.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
Section III. Proceedings
Article 1l4. When a matter is brought up for discussion,
the Speaker shall announce it.
Article ll5. When a matter referred to Committee delibevation
has come up for discussion, the Committee Chairman shall first
report on the Committres proceedings and the result of its
deliberation. After which minority reports may he made.
When a Chairman reports on matters mentioned in. the preceding
paragraph, he shall not be allowed to add his own views on the
matter:
Article 1l6. After the Chairman and the minority have finished
their reports, the Speaker shall ask for an explanation of amend-
ments.
Article l17. When a hill on which Cormittee deliberation
has been dispensed with is brought up for discussion, the initiator
or the proposer shall explain the purport of the bill.
Article l18. When interpellation by a member or members
has been finished, tre bill shall be put to debate, after which
the matter shall be put to a vote.
Article i19. Though the House has received a report on a
matter from a Standing Committee, the matter may again be referred
to the same Committee.
In regard to a matter on which a roport has been made by a
Special Comrittee, the House may rofer it to the said Committee
or to another Committee.
ArticDe 120. The House vay dologate to the Speaker the
adjustment of the provisions, words, and phrases of an accepted
amendment.
Article 12l. The Speaker shall refer to an appropriate
Committee a bill on which Committee deliberation is not to be
omitted.
Article 122. In case of special necessity, the House may
order a Committee to submit an intermediate report on a matter
pending in the &omrittee.
When such an intermediate report as provided by the preceding
paragraph has been made, the House may, in case of urgent necessity,
limit the time for Com-ittee deliberation.
18.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.98)
4
When the time allowed for deliberation is too short,.the
Committee may ask for an extension of the time for deliberation.
Section IV. Speeches
Article 123. All speeches shall he made at the rostrum.
However, permission may be granted by the Speaker for a member
to make his speech from his own seat.
Article 124. The Speaker may demand at anytime that a
memher who is speaking from his own seat make the speech at the
rostrum.
Article 125. A member who desires to address the House shall
submit previous notice to that effect to the Secretary. However,
under certain unavoidahle circumstances, such procedure may be
omitted.
Article 126. Members who have not sent in notice shall be
allowed to speak after completion of all speeches made by members
who previously gave notice.
Article 127. A member who did not give notice shall not be
allowed to speak until he obtains permission of the Speaker by
calling the attention of the Speaker and giving his own name.
Article 128. When more than two memhers rise and ask for
permission to speak, the Speaker shall designate the member who
is recognized as the first to rise.
Article 129. The Sneaker shall decide the time for granting
perrission for a speech on the conduct of proceedings, except
when he recognizes that the p-oposed sreech is related directly
to the subject at hand. or needs to he disposed of imrediately.
Article 130. A member whose speech was interrupted because
of the postronement of the sittins or a recess may continue his
speech when the proceedings are resumed.
Article 13l. The Chairman or a member of a Committee who has
supported the minority report may sr ak in order to supplement
the report.
Article 132. Any member against whom litigation concerring
qualifications for membership is filed or who is under disciplinary
action may speak in order to clarify his position.
Article 133. A member shall not be allowed to read a
stetement of his own views or reasons in the House. However, on
making an allegation or report, he shall be allowed to read a
brief statement thereon.
19。

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 134. Speeches shal1 not be allowed to extend beyond
the scope of the subject.
Article 135. A member who desires to debate on a subject
placed on the order of the day shall be required.to state clearly
his position for or against the subject.
Article 136. A Committee may designate debaters from among
its members and report them to the Speaker. Debaters so chosen
and authorized by the Speaker shall he permitted to speak in :
preference to any other debater.
Article 137. The Speaker shall permit an opposer to speak
first, and then, as far as circumstances allow, permit supporters
and opnôsers to speak alternately.
Even when all the members of A side who have sent in notice
have not finished their speeches, memhers on B side who have not
sent in notice may ask for recognition at the close of the speeches
by the memhers on B side who have sent in notice.
Article 138. If the Sneaker desires to debate, he shall
send in previous notice and take his seat in the House.
When the Speaker has rarticipated in debate, he shall not
be allowed to return to the Speaker's chair until a vote on the
question has been taken.
Article 139. The Speaker shall declare the close of an
interpellation or of debate when it is over.
Article 140. If questions do not easily come to an end, more
than twenty members may propose a motion for closing questions.
Article 14l. Wher more than two supporters and opposers
respectively have made their sneeches, or when more than two members
on A side have spoken, without being followed by the demand for
a speech by any members on B side, more than twenty members may
propose a motion for closine debate.
Article l42. If a motion for closing an interpellation or
debate, as stated in the preceding two Articles, is presented, the
Speaker shall decide it by referring it to the House without debate.
Section V. Amendments
Article 143. A motion to amend a bill, together with the
proposed amendment, signed by twenty or more supporters, shall be
presented to the Speaker in writing before discussion of the bill.
Amendments proposed by a Committee do not need sunnorters.
20。

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 144. Members' amendments shall be voted upon before
Committee amendments.
Article 145. Inrase there is more than one amendment proposed
on the same subject, the order of voting shall be decided by the
Speaker. The princinle to be observed in deciding the order of
voting shall be that the more different the amerdment is from
the original bill, the sooner it shall be voted upon.
Article 146. "hen all emendments have been disposed of,
the original bill shall be voted upon.
Article 147. In case all amendments to the original bill
have failed to pass but the House decides not to drop the matter,
the House may refer the ratter to a Committee to draw up a new
bill.
Section VI. Voting
Article 148.
Memhers who are not sitting in the chamber
at the time when a vote is taken shall not participate in voting.
Article 149.
Ho condition may be attached by a memher to
his vote.
Article 150.
When a vote is about to be taken, the Sneaker
shall announce the su' ject for voting.
After the above-rentiened announcement has been made, memhers
may not spealk or the subject.
Article 151. In taking a vote, the Speaker shall ask those
members in faver of the matter to rise; after ascertaining
whether they are in a majority or in a minority, he shall declare
the result of the vote.
In case the Speaker finds it difficult to ascertain whether
the standing merbers constitute a majority or e minority, or if
one-fifth or more of the attending merbers objeet to the declara-
tion of the Speaker ahout the result of the vote, the Speaker
shall order a signed vote to be taken.
Article 152. If the Speaker thinks it necessery or if one-
fifth or more of the attending me bers demand it, a signed vote
shall be taken.
Article 153. In a signed vote those merbers who are for
the matter at issue shall deposit write cards in the ballot-box;
those against the matter shail denosit hlue cards.
21.

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 154. While a signed vote is being taken, all
entrances to the chamber shall be closed.
Article 155. When voting is finished, the peaker shall
announce the results to the House.
Article 156.
Members may not change their votes after they
have been cast.
Article 157. The Speaker may ask the House if any member
has an objection to a given matter, and if he sees there are no
objections, he shall declare the matter passed.
If the Speaker's decision is objected to by twenty or more
members, the speaker shall call for a standing vote.
CHAPTER IX. INTERPELLATIONS
Article 158. The speaker shall have printed and distributed
to the members memoranda on interpellations permitted by the
Speaker or the House and the written answers thereto by the
Cabinet.
Article 159. In case a written answer of the Cabinet is
irrelevant, an interpellator may resubmit the interpellation.
Article 160. The Cabinet may give oral answers to inter-
pellations. On an answer given orally, an interpellator may
further interpellete orally.
Article 161. Upon a merbers's request that an interpellation
rejected by the Speaker or the House be recorded in the minutes,
the Speaker may bave such memorandum recast in more concise form
if it lacks terseness.
CHAPTER X. FREE DISCUSSION
Article 162. When a meetins for free discussions is to
be held, the Sneaker shall decide and report heforehand to the
House the date, time, and tire limit for speeches. However, in
case more than twenty membors obicet to the set date, time, or
time limit, the Speaker may change then after consulting the
Standing Committee for House Management.
Article 163. The Speaker may decide in advance the subject
or suhjects for free discussions after consulting with the Standing
Committee for House Management.
In case a subject for free discussions has been prearranged,
discussion may not go beyond the scope of the subject selected.
22.

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 164. In case the subject for free discussions is
not prearranged, members may express their opinions and question
Ministers of State and the representatives of the Government on
governmental affairs.
Article 165.
Members may questionaspeaker in free discussions.
Article 166.
Questions and answers in free discussions shall
be concise.
Article 167. The Speaker may decide in advance the number of
speakers in free discussions and allot the said number proportion-
ately to each political party or group, after consulting mith the
Standing Committee for House Management.
Article 168. For the purpose of designating speakers in
free discussions, each political party or group shall choose a
speech designator and n tify the Speaker of his name in advance.
The Speaker shall pernit those designated by a speech
designator on the floor to speak.
1
Article 169.
When a merber presents a motion to vote on
the subjects or opinions in free discussions, the Speaker shall
decide it without debate, after he has consulted the House.
Article 170. If a motion to vote on the opinions expressed
is a proved in a free discussion in which no subject is pre-
arranged, the Speaker shall take a vote after all debate is finished
CHAPTER XI. PETITIONS
Article 171. The address and the full nares of petitioners
(in case of juristic persons their names as well as the full
names of their renresentatives) shall be stated in a petition.
Article 172. A netition shall be written in ordinary Japanese.
In case a petition is written in a foreign larguage, it shall
be accompanied by a Japanese tronslation.
Article 173. A mowber who irtroduces a petition to the House
shall write his full name on the cover peper of the petition.
Article 174.
The Sneaker shall compile the list of petitions
received and have it printed and distributed to members.
Article 175. The list of petitions sholl state the full names
and addresses of petitioners, the purports of the petitions, the
full names of the introducing memhers, and the date of introduction.
23.

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.98)
In case of a petition signed jointly by several persons,
the names of the petitioners shall be stated as "Petitioners
A, B, and others."
In case there are several netitions with the same contents
and introduced by the same members, the numhers of such petitions
shall be given in addition to the statement "Petitioners A, B,
and others."
Article 176. The Speaker shall refer petitions to the
appronriate Comrittees at the same time that the list is distri-
buted.
Article 177. If a petition asks for the removal of a judge,
the Speaker shall transmit it to the Indictment Proceedings
Committee without referring it to any other Committees
Article 178. The Committees, according to the results of
their investigations, shall make the following classifications
of petitions and report the same to the House:
1. Those to be taken up for consideration at a meeting of
the House;
2. Those not required to be taken up for consideration at
a meeting of the House.
Those required to be taken up for consideration at a meeting
of the House shall he classified as follows and reported to the
House:
1.
Those to be adonted;
2。
Those not to be adopted.
Among petitions to be adopted, those regarded as appropriate
for transmittal to the Cabinet shell have a note to that effect
appended to. them.
Article 179. "hen a Committee decides not to subrit a petitio
for consideration at a meeting of the House, such decision of the
Committee shall he deterr ined as final, in case the consideration
thereof at a meeting of the House is not demanded by more than
twenty members within seven days, excluding days of recess, from
the date of the Committee renort
Article 180. The Speaker shell refer to anpropriate Committee:
written appeals or any other documents which a-e in the nature.
of petitions.
24。

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
CHAPTER XII. LFAVES OF APSTNCE AND NON-ATTENDANCE
Article 181. . When a member is unable to attend the House
for several days owing to certain circumstances, he shall submit,
in advance, to the Speaker a written application for leave of
absence, with reason stated, and the number of days of absence
desired.
Article 182. The Speaker may grant a leave of absence for
not longer than seven days. The House shall have the power to
grant leaves of absence in excess of seven days. No leave of
absence for an indefinite term shall be granted.
Article 183. If, owing to certain circumstances, a member is
still unable to attend the House after the term of the leave of
absence has expired, he shall submit a written request for extension
of his leave of absence.
Article 1f4. If a memher who has been granted a leave of
absence is present in the Pouse before the termination of his
leave of ahsence, the grant of the leave of alsence shall lose
its effect.
Article 185. If a member is prevented from attending the
House, owing to certain circumstances, he shall submit to the
Speaker. a renort of non-attendance, stating the reasons therefore.
CHAPTER XIII. RESIGHATIONS
Article 186. If a member wishes to resign, he shall submit
a written resignation to the Speaker.
Article 187.  The Speaker shall have the written resignation
read and shall, by corsulting wit! the House without debate, decide
whether the anplication shall be granted.
Article 128.
If the Speaker considers that a written re-
signation includes remarks vhich are insulting or derogatory to
the dignity of the House. he shall rerort a summary of the
resignation to the House instead of raving it read.
In such an event, the Speaker may refer the written resignation
to the Disciplinary Committee for investigation.
CHAPTER XIV. LITICATIONS CONCERNIHG IF BERS: OUALIFICATIONS
Article 189. Any member who questions the qualification of
any other member shall present to the Speaker a written appeal,
together with a duplicate, duly signed by him, giving a summary
of the case, as weil as the reasons and evidences thereof.
25.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 190. The Speaker shail refrr the written appeal to
the Committee, and, at the save tire, he shall serve the duplicato
of the written anpeal on the member whose qualifications are
questioned (such memher is hereafter called defendant memher) and
demand that he submit a written answer on a fixed date.
In case the defendant member proves that he is unahle to
submit the required enswer by the fixed date because of natural
calamity, illness, or other unavoidable reasons, the Speaker may
accept the written answer at a later fixed date.
Article 19l. When the written answer is submitted by the
defendant member, the Speaker shall immediately refer it to the
Committee.
Article 192. The Committee shall conduct an examination
on the basis of. the written anpeal and the written answer. In
case the required answer is not submitted by the fixed date, the
examiration may be conducted on the, basis of the written appeal
only.
Article 193. The defendart memher may engage counsel at any
time after he has received the duplicate of the written appeal.
In such care, the Speaker shall be notified.
The defendant memher shall notify the Speaker, at the time
of the notification prescribed in the foregoing paragraph, if the
counsel wishes to have his expenses refunded by the State.
Article 194. The counsel may, at the reguest of or with the
authorization of the Cormittee. sneok at the Committee in defense
of the defendant menber.
Article 195. The member who has instituted the investigation
(such member is Fereafter called prosecutor memher) and the de-
fendant memher may speak at the Commit'ee, with its authorization.
Article 196. If the Committee deers it necessary during the
course of the exaviration, it may invite, through the Speaker,
the prosecutor member as well as the defendant member to the Com-
mittee meetings for inquiry.
Article 197. The defendant member and his counsel may ex-
plain or defend his qualifications at a meeting of the House.
Article 198.
The House shall decide the issue by voting on
the qualifications of the defendant member.
26。

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.98)
A decision declaring a member disqualified shall require a
majority of more than two-thirds of the memhers present.
No reason is required for the decision of the House.
Article 199. "hen a decision has been made by the House, the
Speaker shall serve notice of it on the defendant merber and the
prosecutor member.
CHAPTER XV. MINITES OF  PLENARY SESSION
Article 200.
The following ite s shall be recorded in the
minutes:
1.
Time and date of opening, recess adjournment, postpone-
ment of the meeting
2.
Order of the Day
2.
Full names of the members who responded to the call
4.
Matters pertairing to the Cpening Ceremony
5.
Changes in mer hersl ip
6.
Assignment of and changes in memherst seats
7.
Acceptance of requests; disnatch and acceptance of
notices
8.
Matters pertaining to renorts to the Throne
9.
Matters pertaining to bills moved, submitted, referred,
sent, transmitted, and withdrawn
10.
Full names of rinisters of State and representatives
of the Covernment who at'ended the weeting
11。
Matters, and their nuroort, referred to the meeting
12.
Reports of Committees and roports of minority opinions
1?.
Reports of the Speaker
14.
Proceedings of the meeting
15.
Memoranda of interpellatiors and written replies
thereto
16。
Results of votes taken and the full names of voters
in case of signed voting
17.
Supplementary notes of members' speeches
18.
Other matters wh ict the House or the Fpeaker deem
necessary to be recorded.
Article 201.
The procsedings of the meetings shall be
recorded in shorthend.
Article 202. If a merher wishes to have recorded in the
minutes a brief document used as reference in his speech, he must
obtain permission from the Speaker.
27.

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 203. After the distribution of the minutes, a member
may ask that words and phrases in his recorded speech be corrected.
However, he shall not he permitted to change the purport of his
speech.
Article 204. When a protest is filed concerning corrections
made in the matters recorded in the minutes or the minutes them-
selves, the Speaker shall decide the matter by consulting the
House withort debate.
Article 205. The minutes shall be signed by the Speaker,
or by the Vice Speaker or the Speaker pro tempore who presided
that day, and by the Secretary General or his deputy. The minutes
shall be kept in the House.
Article 206. The minutes shall he puhlished in the Official
Gazette. However, parts decided to be kept secret, in accordance
with Article 6? of the Diet Law, and parts cancelled by the
Speaker, in accordance with (rticle 116 of the said Law, shall
not be published.
Article 207. The minutes publiched in the Official Gazette
shall he distrihuted to the members and made available to the
general public.
CHAPTER XVI. POLICE AJD  INTE ANCE OF ORDER
Section I. Police
Article 208. The Speaker shall exercise police power within
the House and direct the guards and police officers.
Article 209. Guards shall be on police duty inside the
House and police officers outside the House building.
.When he
deems it especially necessary, hovever, the Speaker shall order
the police officers to be on duty inside the House.
Article 210. When a criminal act occurs inside the House,
the guards or police officers shall arrest the offender and await
the order of the Speaker. They shall not, however, arrest an
offender in the Chamber without an order from the Speaker.
Section II. Maintenance of Order
Article 211.
Members shall respect the dignity of the House.
Article 212.
Members shall address each other with respect.
28.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
Article ?13. On entering the Chamher, no one shall wear or
carry a hat, overcoat, muffler, umbrealla, or cane. This rule
shall not anply when a menber, because of sickness or other
reasons, has the permission of Speaker.
Article 214. Smoking is prohibited in the Chamher.
Article 215. No one shall read newspapers or books, unless
they are for reference, during the meeting.
Article 216. No one shall, by speaking unnecessarily or
making noire, interfere with the sreech of another during a
meeting.
Article 217.
No one shell take the rostrum "ithout the
permission of the Speaker.
Article 218.
All memhers shall he silent when the Speaker
rinss the bell.
Article 219.
At the close of a meeting, the members shall
leave the Chamber. after the Speaker departs.
Article 220. All questions relating to order shail be
decided by the peaker, who may, however, decide them by consult-
ing with the House without debate.
CHAPTER XVII. VISITORS
Article 221. The visitors' gallery shall be divided into
sections for distirguished nersonages, diplomats, members of the
House of Councillors, governmert officials, the general public,
and the press.
Article 222. The section for the general public shall be
divided into introduction seats and free seats.
Those using introduetion seats shall have visitorst tickets
with the name of the introducing members.
Those using free seats shall have public visitors' tickets
given out in the order of their arrival.
Article ??3.
Visitors' badges good throughout a session
shall be given to newspaperren and news agencies.
Article 224. Visitors shall write their names, addresses, and
apes on their visitors' cards.
29.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 225. Visitors hall show their visitors! cards to
the guards and follo" their directions.
Article 226. No visitor shall be allowed to enter the
Chamber.
Article 227. Visitors shall observe all regulation for
visitors as established by the Speaker.
Article 228. When the Speaker considers it necessary, he
shall order the guards or police officers to search visitors.
Article 229. Those whom the Speaker considers undesirable
from the viewpoint of maintaining order shall be prohibited from
occupying visitors' seats.
Article 23e. The Speaker, when he considers it necessary
in order to keen order, shall limit the number of the visitors.
Article 231. The Speaker shall cause the guards to execute
his orders. They shall clear the gallery of visitors when it is
decided to have a secret plenary session, and shall expel visitors
when they become noisy . or interfer with the proceedings of the
House.
Article 232. The number of visitors' tickets and visiting
badges shall be decided by, and they shall be given out by, the
Secretary General, under the direction of the Speaker.
CHAPTER XVIII. DISCIPLINE.
Article 233. When a memher commits an offense during a
plenary session of the House, the Speal er shall arnounce a recess
or adjournment of the sitting or shall order the offender to be
expelled from the Chamber.
Article 234. When an offense is committed outside the
Chamber or putside a Cormittee meeting but inside the House, the
Speaker shall refer it to the Discinlinary Committee.
Article 235. By virtue of the Diet Law, Article 121,
paragraph 3, a member mav introduce a motion of discipline even
on a case which the Speaker or a Committee Chairman does not
regard as an offense.
Article 236. When a disciplinary motion is introduced, the
Speaker shall refer it to the plenary session of the House with-
out delay. It shall be made a subject of discussion in the
earliest plenary session.
30.

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 237. On a disciplinary motion, the Speaker shall take
a vote of the House without debate and refer the matter to the
Disciplinary Committee.
Article 238. In conformity mith Article 116 of the Diet Law,
in addition to punishing those who disobey his orders, the Speaker
shall refer matters concerning disciplinary action to the Discip-
linary Committee.
Article 239. A memher accused of an offense shal1 not
attend a plenary session or a Committee meeting which deals with
his case. With the per is ion of the Speaker or the Committee
Chairman, bowever, he may make explanations himself or have other
merbers explain in his stead.
Article 240. The Disciplinary Committee may, through the
Speaker, ask for the rresence and explanation of the offender and
related members.
Article 24l. In demanding an expression of apology before
an open Chamber, the Dis inlinary Committee shall write a draft
of apology and shall present it, together with its report, to
the Speaker.
Article 242. The period for which a memher may be sucpended
from attendance at the House shall not exceed 30 days. This rule,
however, shall not arply in case the me-ber is guilty of several
disciplirary offenses simultaneously.
Article 243. If a suspended member is a Special Committeeman,
he shall be regarded as relieved from thet apnointrent.
Article 244. If a uspended member comes to the House during
the period for which he has heen susnended, the Speaker shall
order him to leave the House. If he disobeys the order, the
Speaker shall refer the matter to the Disciplinary Committee.
Article 245. Members vhose actions are considered specially
serious, by virtue of disturhine the order or impairing the honor
of the House, may he dismissed from membership by the House.
Article 246. If less than two-thirds of the memhers of the
House in attendance vote in favor of dismissal of a member, the
House may take other disciplinary action.
Article 247. When the House decides on disciplinary action,
the Speaker shal1 make an announcement of it. If the decision
was made in a seeret plenary session, he shall make the announcement
in an open meeting.
31.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.98)
CHAPTER XIX. RELATIONS WITH THE HOUSE OF COUNCILLORS.
Article 248. When a bill is to be transmitted to the House
of Councillors, the Speaker shall order the Fecretary General.
to take it to the President of the House of Councillors.
Article 249. When the Speaker receives a bill from. the
House of Councillors, he shall report it to the Fouse of Repre-
sentatives.
Article 250. Election of memhers to a Joint Committee of
the Houses shall be made by secret voting on a plural ballot. The
person.who receives'a majority of votes cast shall be elected; if
two or more persons get the sare number of votes. the election
shall be decided by lot. The House, omittinp tre formality of an
election, may entrust to the Speaker the selection of members
of a Joint Committee.
Article 251. Filling of a vacancy in a Joint Committee of
the Houses shall he by the same method as elect on of members of
a Joint. Committee.
A-ticle 25?. Flection of the Chairman of a Joint Committee
of the Houses shall he carried out by mutual vote on the same
day or the day following the election of remhers to the Committees.
Article 253. A bill returned by the House of Councillors and
a definitive draft of a Joint Committee of the Houses shall not
be referred to a Committee.
The interrogatory debate on a returned bill shall be limited
to the scope of the amendments thereon. Witt regard to a defin-
itive draft, dehate srall he limited to the scope of the definitive
draft.
Article 254. Regulatiors concerring a Joint Committee of
the Houses, a joint examination "eeting of Standing Committees,
and the Legislative ommittee of the Fouses shall be decided by
the House after consultation betmeen the nresiding officers of the
Houses.
CHAPTER XX. REL/TICNE TTL TF TUPLTC AND. GOVERNNENT CFFICES.
Article 255. Dispatch of House members for the purpose of
investigation or research shall be voted upon by the Fouse, except
in the case of Article 55.
32.

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
While the House is in adjournment, the Speaker may decide the
dispatch of House members.
Article 256. "hen the House passes a resolution demanding
the Cabinet, Government and public offices, and others to subbit
reports or records for the purpose of investigation or research,
such demand shall be made hy the Speaker.
Article 257. Wher the House demands the presence of witnesses
for the purpose of inv stigation or research, the Speaker shall
notify the witnesses thoreof. As to witnesres, Article 54 shall
he anplied.
CHAPTER XXI. SUPPLTENTARY PROVISTONS.
Article 258. Questions concerning these Rules shall be de-
cided by the Speaker, who may, however, make such decision after
consulting the Houses.
33.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
Accompaniment to Despatch No. 160 dated March 1
from the Office of the United States Political A
for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Rules and EMection
Japanese Diet".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FCR THE ALLIED POERS
Government Seotion
RULES CF THL HOUSN OF COUNCILLORS
Adopted 28 June 1947
Edited by:
Legislative Division
Helen Loeb
3. November 1947

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter
Page
IX.
Intcrpellations
21
X.
Minutes
21
XI.
Fetitions
22
XII.
Relations with the House of Councillors
23
XIII.
Relations with the Feople and Government
24
Offices
XIV.
Leave of Absence and Resignation
25
Section 1.
Leave of Absence
25
Section.2.
Resignation
26
XV.
Litigation Cqncerning Qualifications
26
XVI.
Conduct of Members and Folice
27
Section 1. Conduct
27
Section 2.
Folice
28
XVII.
Visitors
28
XVIII.
Discipline
29
XIX.
Elcction of Hembers of the L gislative
31
Committ:e of the Houses and Others
XX.
Supplementary Rules
32

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
RULES CF THE HOUSE OF COUNCILLORS
Table of Contents
Chapter
Page
I.
Organization of the House and Election of
1
Cfficrs
II.
Nomination of the Prime Minister
3
III.
Opening Ceremony
3
IV.
Determination of the Length of a Session, its
3
Extension, and Diet Recess
V.
Introduction and Withdrawal of Bills
4
VI.
Reference of Bills
4
VII. Committees
4
Section 1. Common Rules
4.
Section 2.
Public Hcarings
7
Section 3.
Reports of Committee Meetings
8
Section 4.
Standing Committees
9
Section 5.
Spccial Comsittees
13
VIII. Moetings
13
Section 1.0
Op ni 8, Closing, and Ad-
13
journing of Sittings
Section 2.
Order of the Day
74
Section 3.
Iotion
15
Dection 4.
Speech
15
Suction 5.
Amendment
18
Section 6.
Voting
19
S:ction 7.
Free Discussions
20

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter
Page
IX.
Intcrpellations
21
X.
Minutes
21
XI.
Fetitions
22
XII.
Relations with the House of Councillors
23
XIII.
Relations with the Feople and Government
24
Offices
XIV.
Leave of Absence and Resignation
25
Section 1.
Leave cf Absence
25
Section.2.
Resignation
26
XV. Litigation Cqncerning Qualifications
26
XVI.
Conduct of Members and Folice
27
Section 1.
Conduct
27
Section 2.
Folice
28
XVII.
Visitors
28
XVIII.
Discipline
29
XIX.
Elcetion of Nembers of th: L gislative
31
Committ:e of the Houses and Others
XY.
Supplementary Rules
32

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.97)
CHAPTER I. ORGANIZATICN OF THE HOUCE AND ELE TION OF
OFFICERS
Article 1. Councillors must assemble in the House of Coun-
cillors at ten o'clock on the morning of the day stipulated by
the Imperial Rescript of Convocation.
Article 2. Councillors who attend the Fouse for the first
time must present to the Secretaviet treir certificates of election
for collstion with the list of electees.
Article 3. When the attendence of Councillors reaches one-
third of the full membership of the Houre, the Fresident shall
take his seat.
Article 4. In case there is neithor a President nor a Vice-
President on the day of convocation, the Fou shall elect the
President as soon os the attendence of Councillors reaches one-
third of full House membership.
The election of the Iresident shall be conducted by single
and secret ballot.
Article 5. Each Couneiller, in responce to rell-call, shall
carry his ballot end vooden nare-tieket to the Rostrum.
Secretary A shall veceive the name ticket and Secretary B
the ballot, and they, on behalf of each Ccuneillor, shall cast
his name-ticket and ballot into the name-tickct and ballot boxes
respectively.
Article 6. When all the Councillors present have balloted,
the Secretary General shall declare thet the voting has been
closed, after which deel pretion no nore ballcting shall be ellowed.
Article Z. On completion of the ballotipg, the Secre sary
General shall at once have the Secretaries count the haue-tickets
and bellots cast and ererino the bsllots.
In case the number of the ballots cest cweecdr the number of
name-tickets, except when sueh excess does net afr et the result
of the election, the elcction is void na ere her election shall
be held.
Article 6. On completion of the cxeaination of the ballots,
the Secretary Generel shall ryport the result sf the el ct on.
Article 9. He who has obtained a mejos ity of vctes is electel.
In case no one obtained a majority of votes, s finel olection
shall be held to decide between the tro csnáidates whe ceme reer-
est to the legal majority. He who in the second election obtains
the greater number of votes is eleeted.
In case, however, the

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.92)
candidates on vhom the final vote vas taken, have obtained an
equal number of votes, the one elected shall be determined by lot.
Article 10. If a problem arises about the election, the
Secretary Gen ral shall sottle it after consultation with the
House.
Article ll. Following the election of the :resident, the
House shall elect the Vice Fresident.
The election of the Vice Presicont chall te held in the same
manner as the clection of the President.
Article la. Po lo ing the el ctions of the Fresident and
the Vice Fresident, the Seer tery asan ral shall introduce them
to the Fouse and conduct the Fresident so bis chair.
Article 13. In case thers is neither a resident nor a
Vice-Fresident on th lam of conveeetien, they shall be slected
according to the Irovisions of Art. 4 and the articles following it.
Artiele l4. The Trmsidont shall designate the reate of the
Counclllors at the boginnine ox cach Sunstony althouch he may
change them hen necveeary.
Each seat shall have attached a numb   1 rjan-pcet which
indicates the full nare of its cecunant.
Article 15. If any vecnney ir she momborchip (of e Stonding
Committee) axists on the cay of canvecatior, a sslcction and
appointment sholl be made to fill th vacency.
The members of a tanainp conxittce val  no ineted by
the resident.
Article lá. Tf the cbairmanship of any Starding Committee
is vacant on the Cay ot convocation, the Chsirman shall be slected
in a manner sivil:r to the slection of the recicunt.
The Souse may sebere'o to the Er sia nt the 
power of choosing
the Chairman of s sterains Sumaittes.
Article lZ. In casw tpo is no Soe ot ry Gon rel on the
day of cenvocat on, he ehe b dect d in  wannar similer to
the slection of the Praricont.
The House may delesute to the Precidont the powor of chossiny
the ecretary Gonaral.
Artiele le. When the lec ione of the Prvsidont, the Vice
President, the Cheirmen of the Standing Commilt  sy ond the
Secretary Cenaral have boen completed, or wher mueh elcetiens

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
are not required, the President shall announce that the House is
duly organized and shail immediately notify the House of Repre-
sentatives and the Cabinet thereof.
Article 19. In the clection of the Fresident, the Vice
President, the Chairman of a Stending Cormittee, or the Secretary
General, whose post beccmes vacant while the House is in session,
and selection and appointment of members of Standing Committees,
if a vacancy occurs during a session, and also the election of a
provisional President, the provisions of Art. 4 and articles
following it will epply.
CHAPTER II. ECI ITAPION CF THE PRINE MINISTER
Article 20. The House names the Trime Minister who has been
nominated by single and cpen ballot.
He who obtains e major ty of votes shall be nominated. In
case no candidate wins a majority, e final ballot shall be taken
to decide between the two highest candidates, and he who then
obtein the greater num er of votes shall be nominated.
In case, however, there are candidates who have obtained an
equal number of votes, the tro on whom a final vote is to be
taken or the elected shall be deturnined by lot.
The House may deterrine the crn idate to be nominated not by
vote but by a motion or other ways.
CHAPTER III. OPENING CEREMONY
Article 2l. The cate and lace of the opening ceremony shall
be fixed by the Presice it after consulting with the Speaker of
the House of Representatives.
CHAFTER IV.
DETERHINATION OF THE LENGTH CF A SESSION,
ITS EXTENSICF, AND DIHT RECESS
Article 22. To determine the term of an cxtraordinary and
special session, the House shall decide by vote, sfter the Presi-
dent has consulted with tho Spesker of the House of Representatives.
The President must previously consult with committee chairmen of
cach standing committee to obtain their opinions on the legis-
lative prcgram for the  foreseid session.
Article 23. The provisions of the forcgcing Article apply
mutatis mutandis to the extension of the session of the Diet and
recess of the Diet.
3.

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.97)
CHAPTER V. INTRODUCTION AID WITHDRAWAL OF BILLS
Article 24. Any Councillor initiating a bill must make a
draft of it and present it to the Fresident together with written
reasons for its introduction.
The President shall have the bill printed and distributed
to the Councillors.
Articlc 25. The President shall send the bills provided for
in the praceding Article, vhich need the decisions of both Houses,
to the Rouse of Representatives for preliminary examination at
the same time as their distribution to the Councillors.
Article 26. The originator of a bill, who desires to omit
its examination by a ccm ittee, shall inform the President of the
desired omission in writing at uhe time of its introduction. In
such case, the Fresident chell crnsul: with the House as to
whether the cxamination by the committee shall be omitted.
Article 27. When a bill is presanted by the House of Repre-
sentatives or the Cabinet, or sent from the House of Representatives
or the Cebinet from preliminery examination, the President shall
have it prin ed and distributed to pach member, provided that the
bill presented or sent has not already been distributed for pre-
liminary examination.
Article 28. When a member mishes to withdraw a bill he
introduced, or a motion he made, the requ st for withdrawal must
be made by all the mennars who sponsored the bill or motion.
On the above mentioned requ st, the committee or the House
shall decide.
CHAPTER VI. BIYERENCD CF DILLS
Article 29. The Prosidon" shall refor a bill for preliminary
examination to a competent stonding committee. He shall refer
a bill which is not considcred as falling under the jurisdiction
of any standing com itt e to a special committce, fter consul-
tation with the House. Unless provided for otherwise in the pres-
ent regulation of the touse of Councillors, the same applies to
matters other than bills.
CHAPTER VII. COMMITTEES
Section 1.  Common Rules
Article 30. A committee shell have one or several directors.
Directors shall be clected from emong the committee members by
secret ballot. However, the mutual clcction may be replaced by
4.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.99)
the procedure of recommendation.
When a chairman is absent, a director shall act as his proxy.
Article 3l. The House may accept resignations of committee-
men or of the chairman of a standing committee. However, during
the adjournment of the House, the President shall act upon resig-
nations. The committee may accept the resignation of a chairman
of a special committee, a director, chief, or assistant chief.
Article 32. Related natters may be referred to the same
special committees en-bloc.
Article 33. A committce will deliberato on and examine
matters referred to it.
Article 34. Besides matters ref rred tc it, a committee can
examine a matter which the President approves.
To secure the approval of the President, the committee shall
present to the President necessery documents clarifying the sub-
ject which it desires to invostigate, the objsct of investigation,
its benefit, method, term, and expenses.
In case the President recognizes the cormittee's request
provided in the proceding paragraph, he shal: report to the House
to that effect.
Article 35. In conncction with manegement of the House or
the National Diet Library, notwithstanding the terms of the
preceding two Articles, the House Management Committee or the
Library Managcment Committeo may deliberate on or investigate
matters relative to the House or Library respectively any time
during the Diet Session.
Article 36. If necessary for deliberation and ex mination,
a committee can hold a joint meeting with anc ther committee or
committees.
Article 37. No committce shall moet while the House is
sitting: However, an exception may be made by the President.
Article 38. The chairman shall dosignate the date for a
committee meeting.
Article 39. When entrusted with a bill, a committee first
shall hear the explanation on the purport of the bill and then
begin examinetion thcreon.
Article 40. The chairman may announce a recess or an
adjournment of a committee m eting if it is difficult to edjust
proceedings of the meeting.
5.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 4l. If a committec member disturbs order in the
committee mecting in violation of the National Diet Law or the
present Rules, or injurcs the prestige of the House, the chairman
shall check it and cause him to retract his speech. If his order
is not obeyed, the chairman may prohibit the member from speaking
during the meeting or order him to retire from the room.
Article 42. A member can interpellate freely and express
his views on subjects. In case requests to speak are made by
members, the Chairman will recognize the members in order of such
requests.
Article 43. A committee shall make, through the President,
requests, if necessary, for the attendance of State Ministers,
Government delegates, and auditors.
Article 44. A committee may permit a Councillor who is not
a member of the committee to speak.
Article 45. In case the conmittee chairman desires to parti-
cipate in the debate, he must take his seat among committee members.
If the chairman participates in debate, he shall not return
to his seat as chairman ending completion of a vete on the sub-
ject under debete.
Article 46. Committee members who desire to amend a bill
shall present the raft amendment bill previously to the chairman.
Article 47. A chairman may limit the time for interpellation
and for debate beforchand by consulting thereon with the committee.
Article 48. A committee member may offer a moticn to close
interpellation or debate.
Article 49. When the deliberation of a committee is finished,
the chairman shall bring the matter to a vote, after announcing
the subject.
Article 50. The House may set a time limit for a committee
to report on deliberation or inv stigation.
Article 5l. A committee may sot up sub-committees for the
convanience of deliberation or invastigation.
Article 52. The chairman can attend and speak at other
committee meetings.
Article 53. When a committee requests per: ission to continue
its examination or investigation on a special matter after adjourn-
ment of the session of the House, the Fresident must consult
thereon with the House.
6.

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 54. If it is decided, through a vote of the House,
that a committee should continue examination or investigation
after adjournment, the President will immediately notify the
House of Representatives and the Cabinet thereof.
Article 55. The committee shall, at the beginning of the
next session, present to the President a written report concerning
matters upon which deliberation or investigation was not completed
during the adjournment.
Article 56. A committee shall draw up its ovin minute book.
Article 57. The committec chairman or the director who
presided at the committee meeting shall sign the committee minute
book, which will be presirved by the Secretariat.
Article 56. The minute book of e committee meeting will be
printed and delivered to each Councillor.
Article 59. Except as provided in the preceding three
Articles, provisicns rclating to the minutes stipulated in Chapter
X will be applied mutatis mutandis to the minutc book.
Section TI. Public Hearings
Article 60. A public hearing can be held for the examination
of bills.
Articlc 61. When a Councillor or anyone who is not a Coun-
cillor desires a public hearing to be held in connection with
an important bili, he must so state by submitting a letter making
clear the reason thercof.
Articlo 62. The committee chairman, after consulting with
the committee, can hold a public hearing. In case there is a
request made by the great majority of the committee members,
the same will apply.
In addition, the arproval of the Prosident is required.
Article 63. A public hearing can be held for preliminary
examination.
Article 64. Problems regarding public hearings shall be
decided by the committee chairman after he consults with the
committee.
Article 65. The committee chairman will moko public the
date and agenda for a public hearing.
？。

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 66. Those who desire to express their views at
public hearings shall inform t e chairman previously to that
effect by filing a letter stating their reasons, either pro or con,
on the problem.
Article 67. The committee shall select from among those who
request to be heard and others, these interested in the matter
and those who have profound knowledge and experience. These shall
be heard at the public hearing, (and will be called "public
speakers") and the committee shall notify them to this effect.
Councillors or other public employees will not be prevented
from becoming public speakers.
At public hesrings, the number of public speakers for and
against the subject and the length of time allotted must be
equitable.
Article 68. Public speakers shall not talk beyond the scope
of the subject.
In case either the public spesker talks beyond the scope
of the problem, or his words or behaviour are undesirable, the
chairmen may prohibit the speech or oreer the speaker to retire
from the meeting.
Article 69. A cormittee member may question a public speaker.
Article 70.
Fo chate er voie shall be made at a public
hearing.
Article Zl. The public speaker cannot express his vievis
through a proxy or present his views by means of a document, un-
less authorized by the committee.
Section IlI. Reports of Committee Meeting
Article 72. When deliberation or investigetion on a matter
which has been referred to a committee is completed, the committee
chairman shall drew up a report thereon and present it with the
signatures of the majority opinion holdors to the House. The
same shall apply to a report of the minerity opinion.
To a report of the committee chairman there shall be attached
e written summary of the matter, explaining briefly the reasen for
the committec decision, advantages and disedvantages, expenses,
and other matters involved.
The Prosident will have the report or reports printed and
distributed to each Courcillor.
8.

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 73. The House can request an interim report, if
necessary, on a matter which is under deliberation or investigation
by a committee.
Section IV. Standing Committees
Article 74. The number of members of each Standing Committee
and the jurisdiction of each committee shall b: as follows:
1. Foreign Affairs Committee --- 25 mem ers.
(1)
Matters relating to diplomacy.
(2)
Matters relating to treaty.
(3)
Matters relating to international conference and
international organs.
(4)
Matters relating to the Japanese subjects end
Japan's commercial affeirs abroad.
(5)
Matters relating to arigrents as mell as overseas
development enterprises.
(6)
Matters relating to acquirement ond loss of
nationelity.
(7)
Matters concerrins other internetional affairs.
2.
Public Safety end Local System Committee --- 20 members.
(1)
Matters relating to the sdministretive police.
(2)
Fatters rolsting to fire fighting.
(3)
Matters relating
to local public organizations.
(4)
Matters reloting
to local elections.
(5)
Matters relating to local administration.
3.
National Land Planning Committec --- 2C membors.
(1)
Matters relating to national lend planning, local
planning, and urban plonning.
(2)
Matters relating to herbons, rivers, roads, and
prevention of shifting sands.
(3)
Matters relating to public weter-surface.
(4)
Matters relating
to the land expropriation.
(5)
Matters relating
to the restoration of damaged cbjects.
(6)
Matters relating
to national parks.
(7)
Hatters relating
to seopraphy.
4.
Judicial Committee --- 20 members
(1)
Metters relating to civil, penal, and other judicial
legislation.
(2)
Metters relating
to lev courts.
(3)
Matters relating
to the Tublie Frocurstors' Board.
(4)
Matters relating
to the bar.
(5)
Matters relating
to the execution of penalty.
(6)
Matters relating to noncontentious cases, registra-
tions, census  egistration, authentication, and
deposits.
9.

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
(7) Matters relatine to judiciel protection.
5.
Education Committee --- 25 members.
(1)
Matters relating to education and educational system.
(2)
Matters relating to the business of fostering
men of talent.
(3)
Matters relating
to religion.
(4)
Matters relating
to science and technique.
(5)
Matters relating
to physical training.
6.
Culture Committee --- 20 members.
(1)
Matters relating
to national functions.
(2)
Matters relating
to art in general.
(3)
Matters relating
to national treasures, important
articles of fine arts, places of historical interest
and natural beauty, and natural relics, etc.
(4)
Matters relating to Jananese chcracters and Japanese
language.
(5)
Matters relating to the publication of newspapers,
magazines, authorship, and othor oublicstiens.
(6)
Matters relating to radio breadeasting.
(7)
Matters relating
to netional amusements.
(8)
Matters relating
to museums and libraries.
(9)
Matters rolating
to the sight- ecing industry.
(i0)
Matters relating to other cultural nterorises.
7.
Welfare Committue --- 25 mambers.
(1)
Matters relating
to population policy.
(2)
Matters relating
to health and hygiuro.
(3)
Matters relating
to protection of living.
(4)
Matters relating
to social policies end social
enterprises.
(5)
Matters relating
to housing.
(6)
Matters relating
to heelth insuvance.
(7)
Matters relating
to conrus and statistics.
(8)
Matters relating
to anruity end penston.
8.
Labor Committee --- 25 members.
(1)
Matters relating to adjustment of labor reletions
and labor unione.
(2)
Matters relating to labor cenditions and other
problems.
(3)
Matters relating
to unemployment.
(4)
Matters relating
to leber inaurance.
10.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.98)
9. Agriculture and Forestry Committee --- 30 members
(1)
Matters relating to food problems.
(2)
Matters relating to a riculture and agricultural
products.
(3)
Matters relating to stock-farming and stock-farming
products.
(4)
Matters relating to forestry and forest products.
(5)
Matters relating to raw silk.
(6)
Matters relating to farm lands.
(7)
Matters relating to cultivetion of waste lands.
(8)
Matters relating to fertilizer and agricultural
tools.
(9)
Matters relating to agricultural insurance, cattle
insurance, and forestry insurance.
(10)
Matters releting to forestry organizations.
10.
Fishery Committee --- 20 members.
(1)
Matters relating
to fishery and marine products.
(2)
Matters relating
to fisheries and fishing implements.
(3)
Matters relating
to fishing bouts and fishing ports.
(4)
Matcers relating to fishins inrurance.
11. Commerce Committee --- 20 members
(1)
Metters relating to commerce.
(2)
Matters rolatina to trade.
(3)
Katrers relating to weights, measures, and gauges.
12.
Mining and Manufacturing Industries Committee ---
30 members
(1)
Matters relating to the manufscturing industry.
(2)
Matters relating to the mining industry.
(3)
Matters relating
to invantion ard petent.
(4)
Matters relating
to fuels (exeluding firewcod and
charccal).
Electricity Gomaitt e --- 20 per hars
(1)
Matters releting to generation, transmicsion, and
distribution of elcctric pover.
(2)
Matters relsting to vater po ure for ganeration.
14.
Transportatiou and Communication Committee --- 25 members
(1)
Matters relating to land transportation.
(2)
Matters relsting to marine transnortation.
(3)
Matters relating
to warchousing business.
(4)
Matters relating to atmosph ric phenomena.
11。

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.95)
15. Communications Committee --- 20 members
(1)
Matters relating to the postal and telegraphic
services.
(2)
Matters relating to savings and postal money order.
(3)
Matters relating to postal insurance and annuity.
(4)
Matters relating to electric wave communication.
16.
Finance and Banking Committee --- 30 members
(1)
Matters relating to the nationel treasury.
(2)
Matters relating to taxes.
(3)
Matters rel:ting
to national hends.
(4)
Matters relating
to statc proporty.
(5)
Natters relating
to currency.
(6)
Matters relating
to enterprise manegement.
(7)
Matters relating
to forsign crehanges
(8)
Hatters relating to banke, trust, insurance, mutual
credit, and sccurity exchanec.
(9)
Hatters rel ting to monopolistic industries.
(ić)
Hatters relating to conmedity prices.
17. Budget Committee --- 45 meabers
(1)
 Matters relatine to budget.
18。
Audit Ccmmittee --- 25 membors
(1)
Matters reletiex to ono'ting.
(2)
Agreement to povmert frew the reeorve funds.
(3)
Mattere clating to sdministretive machinery.
19.
House Managoment Cormittee --- 25 Hombers
(1)
Matters relating to the ranagomant of the House.
(2)
Hatters reletins to the Eleetion Laws for mombers
of tbe Kouee of Eeoresontatives une members of
the Houee of Councillers.
20. Library Nanegem nt Committoc --- 1C mombers
(1)
Mattere raloting to the mevagem nt of the Dict
Library
21. Discinlinery Committa - 1s mmlare
(1) Matters polating to the chanttsevent of meabers.
Article 75. The Budyet Comeitt  and thy Audit Committee may
divide its members inte severel sectione fer comvenienee of
deliberation.
12.

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.95)
Each section shall elect a chief and an assistant chief from
among its members by secret ballot. However, they may be elected
by means of reccmmendation.
Pending the election of a chief and an assistent chief, the
business perteining to a section shall be conducted by the oldest
member of ths section.
In the House, the chief of e sectien may supplement the report
of the chairman of the committee.
When the chief of a section is abs:nt the assistant chicf
shall act as his proxy.
Article 76. In casc a standing committeo holds a joint
committee meeting together with a st nding committe of the House
of Representatives, the chairman shall nake all decisions after
consultation with the cheirman of the House of Representatives.
Article 77. A standing comm ittee shall not vote on matters
referred to a joint investigetien committee until the end of the
joint investigation committse mooting.
Section V. Scecial Committees
Article 78. The numuer of mombere on  peciel committce
shall be fixed by decision of the House. Lovever, if necessary,
the House may inerease the number.
Article 79. The solection of special comaittee members shall
be by nomination of, the Fresider t. In c se of a vecaney on
a special committee, replacemant shall be mude in a similar
manner.
Article 80. A shocial comuittes shall clect  chairman from
among its memb.rs by seeret ballet. Powaver, be may be eleeted
by means of recommendation.
Pending the clcctions of s chair on, the busirees purtaining
to a committee shall b conduct a by the cldust mumber on the
committee.
CHAPTER VIII. HEOTT GS
Section 1. Openina. Clesing. and Adisum ing of Sittings
Article 81. A sitting chell be openad rt 10 o'clock in th
morning. This, hewever, dons net apply in case the
residont
deems other arrengoments neee ssary.
13。

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.96)
Article 82. When the proceedings put on the order of the
day have been brought to a close, the President may declare the
sit ing adjourned. Even when proccedings are pending, the Presi-
dent may declare the adjournment of the sitting, referring it
to the House when such is recognized by him as necessary, or
without referring it to the Fouse if the proceedings have extended
beyond 4 o'clock in the afternoon.
Article 83. When it is time to commence proceedings, the
President shall take the Fresident's chair nd declare the opening
of the sitting, reporting on various matters.
Until the President declares the opening of the sitting, no
one shall be allowed to spsek on the rroceedings.
Article 84. Whon the members present do not constitute a
quorum at the beginning of the session, the President shall not
open the sitring. When attendence fealls belo" e quorum, owing to
the departure of members from th-ir scats curing the sifting, the
President may declere a pecess or the adjournment of the sitting.
When it is feared that the number of the members present
will fall short of a quorum during a session, the President may
prehibit members from leaving their seats or requ st the members
who are outside the chamber to present themselvas in the chamber.
When the nunher of the rembere present in deemed to be short
of a quorum, a Councillor may  u st the Frasident to count the
number of the me bers cresent.
Article 85. When the Frosident has ceeler d en adjournment
or a rocess, no one shall b allowed to cpeak on the preeuedings.
Section 2. Order of the Day.
Article 86. Vatters to be laid bofore a sitting of the lHouse,
their order, and the tine for the openine of th sitting shall
be placed on the order cf th day.
The President shall b ve the order of he day printed and
distributed to eech membur.
Article 87. When the Precident reecgnis s it os necessary,
or when such a motion is made by s member or me hurs, the Fresi-
dent may elter the ord r of the day by raforring it to the House
without discussion.
Article 88. When the Prucsident recognines a metter es mrr t,
or when a motion hes been introduced by a momh r or members for
opening a sitting in regard to an urgent matter, he Prerident may
add it on the crder of the day by reforring it to the Rouse
without discussion.
1.4.

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 89. When a sitting fails to open for a metter placed
on the order of that day, or when the proceedings have not been
finished on the dey specified, the President shall be required
to plac: the matter or matters not dealt with on the next order
of the dey.
Section III.Totion
Article 90. Except where special stipul tion is mcde in the
Diet Law and the present Rules, all motions to be brought up
for discussion shall recuire one or more sec.nders.
Section IV. Speech
Article 9l. Any Councillor whe desires to mrko a s sech in
a plenary session shall in advanec netify the seer. tory therpof.
Under unevoidable circumstonces, this shall not anply.
Article S2. The comritt e nay designate cne anong its members
to make a speech on the floor, n:tifying the President to that
effect. When the Fresident has cupioved the proposel, the one
design ted shall be permitted to mike his soscch in preference
to those who have given notice of their intent to speak in advance.
Article 93. A Councillor shall make cle-r at the time of
giving notification whether he is for or against the matter
under consideration.
Article 94. After the members heve given notice of their
intent to sneak or int reellate, the secretary shall put the
interpellations and spe ches in order on the Speech List, and
report the list to the President.
The President shall recognize the Councillor who vill make
an interpellstion or speech according to the order cn the Speech
List.
Those who do net comply with the preceding parag aphs shall
be regarded as not havine in edvence given notice of intent to
speak.
Article 95. A Councillor who hes not iven notice shall
not be authorized to make a speech until ali the speeches by
those who gave notice have been finished.
Article 96. A Councillor vho wants to peak vithout prior
notification shall stene up, call the Presidert by name, give
his own name, and then, with the er ission of the Fresident, make
his speech.
15。

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.96)
Article 97. When two or nore stand for recognition, the
President shall nor inste the one he deems to have stood up first.
Article 98. All speeches shall be mede on the platform.
However, when a speech is extremely simple and when special per-
mission has been given by the Fresicent, a member mey speak from
his own seat.
Article 99. At any time, the President may demond a member
wh: is speaking frem his own seat to make the speech from the plat-
form.
Article 100. A speaker shall not introduce extraneous matters
in his speech.
Article 1Cl. A speech shell not be int rru ted by anotner
spech.
Article 102. A euber who did mot finish his seeech owing
to an adjournment or roc: ss may continue his spesch when the
proceedings ore resumed.
Article 103. In a plen ry session, a Councillor sholl not
read documents, except brief documents or refer nce or report.
Articla 104. In a plemsry session in which the bill referred
frem a committee is ciscu cod, th: chairran of the committee shall
explain the contents of th bill, und tuport the ro ress end
results of the committ e'e delib rations and investigations before
interpelletions on the bill besin.
The conients ci this report
by the chairman shell have the apureve or whe majerity cpi ion
holders in advnce.
Article l05. The Chairuan of a committer shell not be ellowed,
in making roporta, to da his ereonel viaws thereto.
Article l06. The minority oninion holders, folloving the
majority report by the chairman, shall reoort the minority opinien.
In case there are severel cifferent minority cpinions, the order
of their reports shall be decideo by the Prosident.
Article 107. In a plonery session dchating a bill on vhich
commituee
examination was cnitted, the int pedueer, the chairman
of the committee or the introducer in the lr. of opresentatives,
& State Minister, or e bovern pent delegate chall make explanations
on the purrert end contants of the bill.
Article l08. Councillors may intarp llate the cheirman, the
reporter of the minority opinion, the introducor, the chairmen of
the committee or the introducer in the House pf Pepresentatives,
the State Minister, or the Sovernment delegate.
16.

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 109. In interpellations, e member cannot state his
own opinion.
Article 110.
Interpellations shall nct be mede on the same
subject more than three (3) times.
Article lll. When questions occur in succession end do not
easily come to a close, a member may propore a motion or closing
questions.
In case there are twenty or more seconders of the metion pro-
vided for in the preceding paragraph, the Fresident shall refer it
to the House which shall decide it without discussion.
Article ll2. When interpelletions have been finished, the
Fresident shell declare the close of interpellations.
Article 113.
When interpellstions close, discussion shall
be opened.
Article 1l4. The President, if necessary, may restrict the
time for debate after consultation ith the Pouse.
of
Article l15. In discussions, the nuaber/proponents and oppon-
ents, and the time allotted for their debate must be decided
equitably.
Article ll6. The President chsll give the first chance of
speaking to an opponent, end then, so far as circumstances permit,
to proponents and oppon'nts alternetely.
Even when all the nembers on A side who have sent in notice
hav not finished their speech:s, members on B side who have not
sent in notice may esk to speak at the close of the spesches by
the members on B side he have sant in notice.
article 117. à member shall be allowed to debate but once
on the same subject.
Article ll8. The committee chairman ard the minority ooinion
reporters can speak several times
in order to explain their
reports.
Proposers, e chairman or proposers in the House of Reoresenta-
tives, State linistsrs, and Goverhment delegates can speak several
times in order to explain the purpert of a bill.
Article 119. When the President desircs to speak on a bill
he shall send in previous no ice and take his seat in the House.
17.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.98)
When the President has participated in discussion, he shall
not be allowed to return to the President's seat until a vote on
the question has been taken.
Article 120. When two or more supporters and opposers have
made their speeches, or when two or more me bers on A side have
spoken without demands made for speaking by any member on B side,
members may propose a motion for closins discussion.
In case there are twenty or more seconders of this motion,
the Prasident shall refer it to the House Which shall decide it
without discussion.
Article 12l. When the proocser, the Cheirman of a Committee
or proposer in the House of Represenh tives, a Stete inister, or
a Government delegete has made a spaech on the subject, sfter
debate was closed or a motion for clore of debate was carried, it
shall be deomed thet further discussien has been entered upon.
Article 122. When discussion hss been completed, the President
shall declare the close of debsto.
Article 123. Any member who wants to make a speech on the
progress of procesdings shall in advance netify the seem tary of
its purport.
The time for a seesch on the propress of the preecedings
shall be decided by ths Prasident.
Soction 5. Amendment
Article 124. Whon reports es stipuletud in Article 104
or explanations as stipulated in Article l07 have ceme to a close
a member may propose a motion for amendment.
Article l25. A metion for amendeent chell previously be
presented to the President in the forr of a written notice, signed
by twenty or more seconders, topether wit  the draft of the pro-
posed amendment.
The President shall have the ahove-mentioned dreft of the
amendment printed end comies of it distributed to members of the
House.
Article l26. If the proposer of an emendment desires to
withdraw it, the motion may be retained by motion of another member,
seconded by twenty or mor members.
Article 127. A minority opinion vhich is an enendment,
supported by twenty (ao) or more member:, shall be a subject for
discussion as an emendment bill.
18.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 128. An amendment reported by a committee need not
be seconded before being made the subject of discussion.
Article 129.. Amendments proposed by members shall be voted
upon prior to those proposed by a committee.
Article 130. In case there are several amendments proposed
on the same subject, the more different in purport the amendment
is from the original bill, the sooner it shall be veted upon.
The order of such votes shall be decided by the President. But
in case the order is objected to b a merber end seconded by
twenty or more members, the Fresident shall r f'r it to the House,
which shall decide ithout debate.
Article 131. When all amendm nts have 'cen rejected, the
original bill shall be voted upon.
Article 132. In case all the proposed emendments and the
original bill heve failed to secure e majority of votes, end
if the. House has resolved not to aband n the subject, the House
may again refer it to the committec which shall prepore a new
draft of the bill; when suck a bill is reported, it may be mede
a subject of discussion.
Article 133. The Hou e may entrust the Tresident with the
ad justment of articles and the wording ef anendments which have
been approved.
Rection 6. Voting
Article 134.
Votes shall be cast unc nditionally.
Article 135.
Those members w o are not on the floor of the
House at the time when voting begins shali not participate in
voting.
Article 136. Before a vote is taken, the President shall
announce the matter for voting to the House, after which no member
has the right to speak.
Article 137. In takins a vote, the Fresident shall ask the
members who are in favor of the proposed matter under discussion
to rise frem their sests, end heving &seerteined whether they are
in the majority or mincr ty, shell ennounce the result of the
vote. In case the Fresident finds it difficult to ascertain
whether the pros are in the majerity or minority, or if a member
protests ageinst the President's announcement end is supported by
a fifth or more of the members present, the Fuesident shall call
for a signed vote.
19。

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.97)
Article 138. If the President deems it necessary, or if one-
fifth or more of the members in attendance demand it, the signed
vote shall be used.
Article 139. For a signed vote, each member shall take to
the rostrum a white ticket with his signature thsreupon, provided
he is on the pro side, or take a blue ticket similarly signed,
provided he is on the con sise, and deposit the ticlet in the
ballot box.
Article 14c. At the time of a signed vote, the doors of the
chamber shall be shut.
Article l4l. When the vote is finished, the President shall
announce the results to the House.
Article 142. A member may not demand a change made in his
cast vote.
Article 143. On any matter before the House, the President
may ask the House whether any member h s an objacticn. If there is
no objection, he shall declare the matter paseed by the House.
But if eny member expresses objection tc the watter or to the
President's dcclaration, the Presidont shall take a vote, in
accordance with the means of voting herein crovided in Section
6.
Section 7. Free discussions
Article 144. At a meeting for free discussion, Councillors
will be given an equitable chance to speak.
Article 145. The Fresident shall desi nate ths cate ard time
for a meeting for free dincussions and shall report it in advance
to the House. When, however, a Couneiller movas to chanee the
date and time, the President shall refer it to the House which
shall decice without discussion.
Article 146. The President may dacide the cubject for free
discussion in edvance, after consultine vith th. Houce.
When the
subject is decided, fres diseussien shall not be mede on unrelated
subjects.
Article 147. At a meutins for frae discreston vitt no subject
given, Councillors may cxpress their vi vs on important stete
affairs or may qu stion th Cabinet thureabout.
Article 148. The tine to be used for free diccuesions end
the time ellotted each speaker vill be decidsd by the President,
who shall report those dacisions in dvanee to the House.
20。

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.97)
The President shall decide the number of each party's speak-
ers at a meeting for free discussion in proportion to the numeri-
cal strenth of each party or group, and shall notify each party
in advanc: therecf.
Article l49. The President must permit those who are desig-
nated on the floor by the floor leader of each perty to sreak.
Mach perty must decide its respective floor leader and notify
the Iresident in edvance thereof.
Article 15C. The President may interrupt the speech of a
Councillor whe continues his speech beyond the time limit set
in advance by tihe Fr: sident.
Article l5l. Councillors can interpellete the speaker upon
the data he uses as grounds for his views. Such interpelletion
shall be concise.
Article li2. 1f any member moves for a vote on the matter
dealt ith in free discussions, the Fresident shell refer it to the
House, whic' vill decide it without debate.
When a motion t: vote on the subject is pessed (in the case
of Article l47) the Tresident must persit debate on that cubject.
CHAPTER IX. INTERFELLATIONS
Article 153. The Precident shell bave printed the summary
of interpellations, w ich the House or the Fresident approved, and
the Cabinet replies thereto, and shell distribute them to each
Councillor.
Artiele l74. The Cabinet may give oral answers to inter-
pellations, on mhich th  interpellstor can interpellste further
orally.
article l55. In recordins a memorendum of intoupellation
in the minutes, in accordance with the provisions of rticle 74,
Faragraph 4, of the Diet Law, the Presideut may beve such memor-
ondum rewritten in more concise for if it is found lacking in
terseness.
CHAPTER X. MIHUTES
Article 156. The inutes shall be a stonographic record
of all the proesedings of the reetings of the House.
Article l57. Matters specially so provided for by the Diet
Law and matters cpecially ce decided by he House shall be record-
ed in the pinutes.
21。

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 158. Members may demand corrections of their own
steatements only before six o'clock on the afternoon of the day
of the distribution of the minutes. Such corrections shall be
limited tc chan:es of words or phrases, with no alterations in
the purport of the st: tements made. The same will be applied
to the statements of Cabinet  inister, Government delegates, and
others made in the meetings.
In case a protest is filed by a Counicllor against the
matters recorded in the minutes, or egainst the corrections made
in the minutes, the President shall refer it to the Eouse, which
shall decide without debate.
Article 159. The minutes to be preserved in the Secretariat
shall be signed by the  resident, Vice President, or the President
protem who presided over the plenary session on that day, and by
the Secretary General or the secretery who was his proxy.
Article 160. The minutes shall be printed snd distributed
to members, and shall bo availablc to the public in general.
Article l6l. In the minutes to be distributed or to be
made available to the public, that part which is to be kept secret
in accordance with article 63 of the Diet Law, or a spesch which
the Presicent has ordered deleted in accordancc with Article 116
of the same Law, shsll not be inserted.
CHAPTER XI. PETITIONS
Article 162. A petition chall bear the neme (in case of a
juricical purson, the name of such juridical person), and the
place ef. pesidence (present address ir there is no permanent
residence) of the petitioner.
Article 163. No potition by deleration shall be accepted,
except in the case of thos recognized by Law as juridical persons.
Article l64. A petition must be couched in moderate terms
and must be submitted in a peaceful menner.
article 165. The President shall orepare summsries of
petitisns and have them printed and cistributed weekly to the
merbers of the Houss.
Such summeries of petitions shall bear the purport of each
petition, the name and the place of residcnce of the petitioner,
the nome of the Dict member introducing such wetitions, and the
date on vhich it vas received.
Article 166. The President shall, simultaneously with the
distribution of summaries of petitions, refer petitions to the
committees coneerned.
22.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
Article l67. A petition requesting dismissal of a judge
shall be referred by the President to the Proceedings Committee
Article 168. Committees shall examine petitions in the
order of their referral.
Article 169. Only such petitions as have been approved by
the House shall be printed in full and distributed.
Article 170. The committee shall classify petitions after
investigation and report to the House as follows:
1. Petitions to be taken up for consideration at a meeting
of the House.
2. Petitions not to be taken up for consideration at a
meeting of the House.
Those petitions to be taken up for consideration at a
meeting of the House shall be classified and reoorted to the
House as follows:
1. Petitions to be sent to the Cabinet.
2. Petitions not required to be sent to the Cabinet.
Article 17l. The Committee shall submit to the House special
reports on petitions vhich are to be taken up for consideration
at a meeting of the House, with attached memorandum as to the
committee's views.
The committee shall not provent the rooort of the minority
opinion from being submitted.
Article 172. The committ o's decision that a petition is not
to be considered at a mecting of the House shall be final, unless
consideration by the House is demanded by more then twenty members
of the House within a week after the committee's decision.
Article 173. Written appeals or other documents whose pur-
port
t  are in the nature of petitions shall be accepted and treated
as such b the House.
CHAPTER XII. RELATICNS WITH THE HCUSE OF REPRESENTATIVHS
Article 174: The President shall transfer a bill to the
House of Representatives by having the Secratary General transmit
it to the Speaker of the House of Renres ntatives.
Article 175. Whenever a bill is recsived from the House of
Represontatives, the President shall so report to the House.
23.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 176. Election of members of e Conference Committee
shall be conducted by secret ballot with plural entry.
The persops who poll the greetest number of votes shall be
elected, but in case of tie, the: persons to be elected shall be
determined by lot.
The House may entrust the President with the selection of
the members of a Conference Committee.
In case a vacancy occurs in the nember ship of a Conference
Committec, a by-election shall b: conducted in the same manner
in which the members were elected.
Article 177. The mutual slection of the Cheirman of the
Conference Committee shall be supervised by the eldest member.
Article 178. Houss of Councillors bills returned from the
House of Representatives and bills approved by a Joint Committee
of the Houses shall not agcin be referred to a committee.
Interpellations and debate on the bills referred to shall be
limited to the icope of mendments made.
Interpellations and ebate on the bills approved by a Joint
Committes shall be limited to matters deliberated on by the
Committee.
Article 179. Rules governing a Joint Comwittee of the Houses,
rules concerring a Joint Searing of Standing Committees, and rules
rels ting to the Legisl tive Commi ttee of the Houses shall be
resolved by the House, after the Fresident has consulted with
the Speaker of the House of Reuresen  tives.
CHAPTER XIII.
RELATIONS WITH THH PEOPLE AND GOVERNMENT
CFFICES
Article 180. If Councillors are to b: dispatched for
investigation or exanination, decision of the House must be made
thereon upon regu:st of the Committee Chairman or motion by a
Councillor. The House will decide likewise when the President
deems the dispatch necessary.
While the House is not in session, the President may decide
upon the dispatch of House members, and shall report it afterwerds
to the House.
Article l8l: If a committee desires the Cabinet, Government,
or other public offices, or others to present reports or records
for investigation or research, such request must be made through
the Fresident.
24.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.93)
i
Article 182. When a motion is presented demanding the
presence of witnesses before a meeting of investigation or
reseerch,the President shall decide it upon consultation with
the House, and if the House approves, the Fresident shell call
the witnesses.
Any committee which has decided to denand the presence of
witnesses shall derand theiv presence through the Fresident.
Article 183. The President and the Committce Chairman may
requcst the witness to submit, prior to his appearance, a summary
of his testimony.
Article 184. The vitness shell present himself to the
House or committee to give testimony. However, uneer unavoidable
circumstences, his testimeny nay be in writing.
Article 185. When the witn:ss hes pr sented himself to the
House or committse, he shall sive e written oath, wrier which
he shall be allowed to sresk.
Article 186. Uttorences of e witness shall be limited to
the subject on which he is reguired to t stify.
CHAPTER XIV. LEVE CF ADSIE ED SGICN
Baction l. laave of Absence
Article 187. Any menber mhe will be prevented from being
present at the Fouse for several deys due to cortain circumstances
shall submit in advance to the Frasident e uritten epplication
for leave of absenee rith the reason thuvefore snd numb r of deys
of ebsence. The Fresident may srant the leava of ebsence for a
pericd not loneer than a week. In case the leave or absence
is long r than a week, th Tresidcnt srall grant it only after
consultation with th: House.
Any member who is uneble to bo present in tha Mouss eue to
official duties, illness, or oth r cirermet-ne s f a temporary
nature shall submit to the President a vritton ao ificetihn of
his abe nce pivina the ressan sh cef.
Anticle l8e. Any mrmber who sterte on  sourney with leave
of absence granted shesl mociry the Fresiden bhareor at the time
of his deperture and ruturn.
Article l89. When a momber, grented a louve of sbe nee, is
present at the Fouse before the termination of his leave of
absence, the grant of leave of abeence shall lose its effect.
25。

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.93)
Seetion II.Resignation
Article 190. Any member who wishes to resign shall submit
his written resignation to the President.
Article l9l. The President shall hear the written resignation
read, and the House, without debate, shall decide whether the
application may be granted or not.
Article 192. If the President considers that the written
resignation includes insulting words, he may o it its reading,
but report a surmary of it te the Hotse. In this event the Presi-
dent may refer the written resienation to the Disciplinary Comm-
ittee for investigation.
CHAPTER XV. LITIGAT CU CONCERFIVG QUALIFICATICNS
Article l93. A member who wishes to contest the qualifi-
cations of another wember shail present to the President a written
appeal, together with a du:licate, duly signed by bi, Mhich
shall give a summary of the ispute end the reesons and evidences
thereof.
Article 194. Tho Frecifent sheall det  tue the tern of
investigation upon consultation wiih the ue en rubrit he
written aopeal to a special comristae. The rr rident shall serve
the du licste of the vritter a peal on the rerbor aceinrt whom
the dispute of cualifications is raised (ruch  omber is called
hereafter defendant me ter), hetify hir of the term of invosti-
gatien by the committee, and somand him to pubait e rittan
answer on a fixed date.
If the defencent member's feilure to suboit the vequired
answer on the fixed date is drs to ns upal caterity, iliness,
or other unavoidable reascne, the Freethent may heye Him submit
his vritten ansver at a later date.
Article l95. When the ritten enewer is submivted by the
defendant member on the fixed data, the Free: ant chall iirediately
refer it to the special ccuritrso.
Article l26. Tho comnitt a mnall eovnet ths investigation
on the besis of bhe wriuton amreel end pisten ensmer. If the
reguired answer de net subeitted oo tby fixed date, tbe avests-
gatuen moy be porducted on the besas ef srs vrattek appeal saly.
Article 19%. The dofanoant worber moy opse a cou col
anytire after he taceives the dslivery of the doplispete ss the
written appeal. In toie case. the Preni ent chsit be aotified
thereof. th same shall enply to tho Per ndem  r vho fails
to submit the vritter anerer by the fived dsse.
26。

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 198. The counsel may, at the request or with the
authorization of the committ e, speak at the committee in defense
of the defendant member.
Article 199. The member who initiates the contest (such
member is called hereafter prosecutor member) and the defendent
member mey speak at the committee with the authorization of the
committee.
Article 200. If the comiittce deems it necessary while
conducting the investigation, it may invite, through the President,
the prosecutor member as weli as the defendent member to the
committee meotings for inquiry.
Article 20l. The comrittee may request the President to
extend the term of investigetion.
Article 202. When the committee has submitted to the
Fresicent its renort cf investigat on, the Fresident shall have
it printed and distributed to sech member.
Article 203. The defendant minher may speak several times
in his own defense in the meetings of the House.
Article 204. The counsel may assist in the defense during
meetings of the House.
Article 205. The House shell decide by voting on the quali-
fication of the defendant member.
A decision on nonqualification of ths defendant member shall
require a majority of two-thirds or more of members present.
No reason is required for the cecision of the House.
Article 206. When decision has bren made by the House, the
President shall have copies of ths decision made and delivered
to the dofendant member, es ell as the prosecutor member.
CHAPTER XVI. CONDUCT CF MEME RS AND POLICE
Section 1. Conduct
Article 207.
All members shall respact the dignity of the
House.
Article 208. Terms of respect shall be nsed mutually by
members on the floor and in committee meeting rooms.
Article 209. The membars, on entering the chamber or
committee rooms, are forbidden to wear or carry hats, overcoats,
umbrellas, canes, end the like. However, a member who has obtained
permission of the Fresident
may carry his cane.
27.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 210. No smoking is ellowed in the chamber or in
the committee meeting rooms.
Article 21l. No one shell read newspapers, books, or the
like during the meeting, unless they ere used for references.
Article 212. No one chall speak unnecessarily or make a
noise to disturb the speech of another during a meeting.
Article 213. No one shall go to the rostrum without the
permission of the President.
Article 214.
Eve ryone
shall be silent when the President
rings the bell.
Lrticle 215. At the close or recess of a session, the
Councillors shall not leave the House until after the exit of
the President.
Article 2l6. All questions relating to discipline are
decided by the Fresident. The Fresident, ho ever, can refer the
matter to the House, which will decide vithout discussion.
Section 2. Folice
Article 217. The fresident exercises police power within
the House by directing the guards and the police officers.
Articla Pl8. The police officers shall be on police duty
outside the Hou.e bllding.
the uares or the police officers shell arrest the offender, make
their report to the Fresident, and a ait his orler. In the
chamber, however, they cannet  rrest the offender except by order
of the President.
CHAPTER AVII. VISITORS
Article 220. Seats for the visitors are divided into those
for the imporial family, foreign diplomats, members of the House
of Representatives, ublic officials, the eneral public, and
newspaperman.
Article 22l. When public officials desire to visit the House
on the invitation of the inistry or the Bosrd to w ich they
belong, the :ecr tary Gen ral shall send the number of tickets
decided upon to the Finistry or Poard.
Article 222. Half of the seate for thr general public
shall be allottid to those whe obtain tickets for the general
public sellery issued by the Secr tary Genaral on the dey of
the tession, These tickets shall bs given sut at the House before
the meeting to people in the orcer of their arrival.
28.

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
The other half of the seats for the general. public shell
be allotted to those with invitations from the Councillors,
such tickets, with the date indicated, being previously issued by
the Secretary General to the Councillors.
Article 223. A visitor's badge for the duration of a session
shall be given to news agencies.
The number of such bedges vill be decided at the beginning
of sach session by the Secretary General, with the apprcval of
the Fresident.
Article 224. The Fresident, when he deems it nocessary, can
order the guards and the police oificers to search visitors.
Article 225. The Fresident shall not permit a porson, when
he considers it necessary to control the visitors gallery, to
enter the visitor's room.
Article 226. The President, when he considers it necessary,
cen limit the number of visitors.
Articlc 227. The visitors shall show their tickets or
badg:s to the guards and take, the seats which are designeted
for thom.
Article 228.
All visitors shall obey the regulations fixed
by the President.
Article 229.
The visitors shall under no circumstanees enter
onto the floor of the House.
Article 230. The President will crder the guards to execute
his order to expel all visitors from their seats when it is
dectded to have a secret meeting, or vhen they become noisy, or to
expel visitors whe interfere with the proccedinge of the House.
Article 23l. Provisions of Article 224 end succeeding
Articl:s ahall be arplied mutatis mutandis to visitors at
Committee meetinge.
CHAPTER XVIII. DISCIFLIFE
article 232. If during a meetine of the House a disciplinary
offense is committed, the Fresident shall declare a recess,
edjourn the House, or cause the offender to be expelled from the
Forse.
Anticla 233. If a disciplinery offense occurs in committee
meeting, the chairman may declere a recess or adjourn the meeting.
29.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 234. When a disciplinary offonse other than those
covered by Articles 232 and 233 is committed, the President may
refer it to the Disciplinary Committee.
Article 235. Under Article l16 of the Diet Law, besides
punishing the person who disobsys his order of repression or of
retraction of utterance, the Fresident may refer the matter to
the Disciplinary Committee for action.
In the case stipulated in Article 41 of the present Rules,
the committce cheirman may report the matter to the President
and raquest him to deal with it as a disciplinary offense.
Article.236. When a person has made public those matters
n:t to be publicized under Article 63 of the Diet Law, the Presi-
dent shall refor him to tho Disciplinary Committee for punish-
ment.
Article 237. In accordancc with Article 121, Paragraph 111
of the Diet Law, a momber may propose a motion to discipline a
member even if the Chairman fails to regard the case as a
disciplinary offense.
Article 238. When e motien for disciplinary action is pro-
poscd, the President shall refer it immediately to the plenary
session of the House.
In case the motion is proposed during a recess of the House,
it shall be made a subject of discussion in the next Plenary
sss: on.
In connection with the foregoing paragreph, the President
shall call for e vote without resorting to discussion, and then
place the matter before the Disciplinary Committee.
Article 239. The Diseiplinary Committee, through the Presi-
dent, may cell the persons involved and subject them to an inquiry.
Article 240. A Councillor shell not ettend a neoting of the
House or of th: Jommittee which deals vith disciplinary action
egainst himself. With ths permission of the Fresident or of the
comnitteo chairran, however, he can make his explanation or have
another Councillor explain in his steed.
Article 24l. The Disciplinr ry Committes shall draft a
warnin: or an apoloay and offer it in an open meoting together
with its repovt to the resident.
Article 242. The suspension of  member of the House shall
not excsed a period of mere than 30 days.
30.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.97)
Even if several offenses occur simultaneously, the suspension
shall not exceed the period mentioned in the foregoing paragraph.
Article 243. If a Councillor who is susnended is a special
committee member, he shall be regarded as being relieved from that
office.
Article 244. When a Councillor who has been suspended
appears in the House within the eriod of  is suspension, the
President shall order his immediate exit from the House.' If he
disobeys the order, the Iresident shall cr er the necessary
punishment and refer the metter to the Disciplinary Comnittee.
Article 245. A member whose actions ere considered es ecially
grave, by reasen of disturbing the House or impairing the honor
of the House, shall be suspended from attondance in the House
or shall b. dismissed from membesrship in the House.
Article 246. If the ecision of the Visciclinary Committee
to dismies a memb r from emb rship ir the ho se is not aporoved
by two thirds or more of the councillors present, the House may
subject the menber to ot er discipline.
Article 247. When disciplinary action is decided by the
House, the Fresident shall malte an anuouncercnt in an open meeting
of the Houre, even if the decision was made in e secret meeting.
CHAPTER XIX.
ELACTTON OF LRMHERE OF THE LSGISLATIVE CORMITTEE
OF THE HOUE AS AND C.LERS.
Article 248. The election of rerbers to the Legislative
Committee of the houses shell be conircted by ecret bellot of
plural entry.
Those, equel to the number to be eleet d, who obtain the
greatest numbar f votes are elect 1 to the cor ittee. In case,
however, a grert r numbir of candidates receive equal votes,
finsl el ction shall be determined b lottory.
The House may omit the orocedure of election end entrust
the Tresident with the designs tion of the cormit tee merbers.
Article 249. The provisions of the precedins rticle shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the clection of jud  s of the Court of
impeachrent, reserve judges of the same, com itteemen for over-
seeing the clection of Yombers of the Wouse of Councillors from
the National Constitueney, and cthers who are to  e selected from
among the members of the House of Councillors according to lew.
31.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.97)
Article 250. The election of a Councillor to menbership
in an agency or committee, one merber cf w ich nust be a Coun-
cillor eccording to law, shell b: conducted in the same manner
as that of the Fresident. The House, ouitting the procedure of
election may entrust the Fresicent with the selection.
CHAPTER XI. SUPPLEIFTARY RULES.
Article 251. The Fresident shall decide all the coubtful
points with regard to the rules of the Louse of Councillors. The
President,  owever, can decide in consultation with the House.
32。

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.97)
Accompaniment to Despatch No. lóo dmted
for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Rules and Electiom Lews
Japanese Diet".
General Headquarters
Suprere Corrander For The Allied Powers
Government Section
THE LAW FOR THE ELECTION OF I EI BERS
OF TH HOUSE OF COUNCILLORS AS
PASCED BY 92ND DIET

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
LAW FOR THE ELECTION OF E BERS OF
THE HOUSE OF COUNCILLORS
Chapter I
General Provisions
Article l - The number of members of the House of Coun-
cillors shall be two hundred and fifty (25o), to be divided
into 150 members from the prefectural constituency and 100
members from the national constituency.
Members from the prefectural constituency shall be
elected in each of the election districts. The election dis-
tricts and the number of members to be returned for each of
such districts shall be stipulated in the annex.
Members from the national constituency shall be elected
in a single constituency comprising the Metropolis, the Dis-
trict (Dā) and all the Prefectures.
Article 2 - The voting districts and the ballot-counting
districts shall conform respectively to those districts for
the election of members of the House of Representatives. .
Chapter II.
Voting Right and Eligibility
Article 3 - Any person who has the right to vote in
the election of members of the House of Representatives shall
have the same right in the election of members of the House
of Councillors.
Article 4 - Any Japanese national who is over thirty
(30) years of age shall be eligible for election of the mem-
bers of the House of Councillors.
Article 5 - Any person who has been declared incompetent
or quasi-incompetent, or who has been condemned to nenal
servitufe or confinement and whose term of punishment has
not been completed or is yet to be executed shall neither be
eligible for election nor possess the right to vote.
Article 6 - Commissioners for Overseeing the Election
of members from the national constituency, Commissioners for
Overseeing the Election of members of the Metropolitan Assembly,
Commissioners for Overseeing the Election of members of the
District and Prefectural assemblies, Commissioners for Over
seeing the Election of members of the Municipal, Town and
Village Assemblies, secretaries of the Commission for Over-
seeing the Election of Members from the national constituency,
Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the Met-
ropolitan Assembly, Commissions for Overseeing the Election of

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.98)
2
members of the District and Prefectural Assemblies, Com-
missions for Overseeing the Election of members of the
Municipal, Town and Village Assemblies, Voting Overseers,
Ballot-Counting Overseers, Chairman of the Election Sub-
meeting, Chairmen of Election and Government and public
officials who are connected with affairs pertaining to
election shall not be eligible for election within the ros-
pective districts with which they are concerned in such
capacities.
Articlo 7. Judges, Public Procurators, Govornment
Auditors, revenuc officials and police officers in active
service shall not be eligible for elcction.
Articlo 8. Any person who holds a post which shall not
be held concurrently with membership in the Houso of Repre-
sontativos shall not become concurrontly a member of the
House of Councillors.
Chapter III
Elcction
Article 9. A regular clection shall tako place within
thirty (30) days bofore the date of oxpiration of the torm
of officc for the members.
When the period for a rogular clcction to bo held
according to tho precoding paragraph comes during the sossion
of the House of Councillors or vithin thirty (3o) days after
its closc, a regular clection shall tako placo not carlier
than thirty-one (31) days and not lator than thirty-five
(35) days aftor its closc.
The dato of a regular clection shall bo proclaimed not
less than thirty (30) days in advance.
Articlo 10. Eloction shall be conductod by ballot.
Article ll. The cloctoral lists for the clcction of
members of the House of Reprosontatives shall be used for
the cloction of mombors of the Houso of Couneillors.
Articlo 12. Affairs portaining to tho clection of Mom-
bers from the prefcctural constitueney shall bo taken charge
of by the Commission for Ovorsecing the Eloction of Mombers
of tho Metropolitan Assombly and tho Commissions for Over-
secing the Eioction of Mcmbors of the District and Profect-
ural Assemblios. The Commission for Oversceing the Elcction
of Mombers of tho Motropolitan Assembly and the Commissions
for Overseeing tho Election of Membors of tho District and
Prefectural Assemblies shall direct and supervise the Com-
mission for Overseeing tho Elcction of Mombers of the Muni-
cipal, Town and Villago Assomblics, with rogard to affairs
pertaining to the clection of Membors from the profectural
constituency.
Articlo 13. Thoro shall be instituted a Commission for
Oversecing the Elcction of Members from the national con-
stituency to ovorsec affairs portaining to thc olection of
Members from tho national constituency.
The Commission for Oversecing the Elcetion of Members
from the national constituency shall bo placed under the
jurisdiction of tho Minister for Homo Affairs and be composed
of ten (lo) Commissioners for Oversecing the Eloction of mem-
bors from thc national constitugncy.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.98)
Articlo l4. The Commissioners for Ovorsccing the
Election of Membors from the national constituency shall
be clected in thc Housc of Councillors from among the mem-
bors of the Housc of Councillors.
The torm of officc of thc Commissioners for Oversceing
the Election of Membors from the national constitucncy shall
be thrcc (3) years. Howover, the term of officc of Commiss-
ioners shall be the romaining poriod of tho term of office of
their predecessors.
Articlo 15. The Commission for Oversceing thc cloction
of Mombers from thc national constitucncy shall direct and
supervise thc Commission for the olcction of Members of the
Metropolitan Assombly and thc Commissions for Oversccing the
Elcction of Members of tho District and Profcctural Assemblies,
with rogard to affairs portaining to tho eloction of Mombers
from tho national constituency.
Tho Commission for Oversecing the Eloction of Members of
the Motropolitan Assembly and tho Commissions for Oversccing
the Elcction of mombors of, the District and Prefoctural
Assomblios shall dircct and suporviso tho Commissions for
Oversceing the Elcction of Mombers of the Municipal, Town
and Village Assemblios, with regard to affairs pertaining
to the clection of Mombors from the national constituoncy.
Article 16. The Commission for Ovorsccing the Eloction
of Membors from tho national constituency shall clcct ono
Chairman from among the Commissionors.
The Chairman shall suporintend affairs pcrtaining to
the Commission and roprcsent it.
Articlo 17. The Commission for Ovorsocing the Elcction
of Members from the national constituoncy shall not onon its
meeting without the attendancc of not loss than half of the
Commissionors.
All mattors at the mooting of the Commission shall be
decidod by a majority of those Commissionors who arc prosent,
and in case of a tie, the Chairman shall decide the issue.
Articlo 18. Thorc shall bo instituted seerctarios in
the Commission for Oversccing the Eloction of Mombers from
the national constituoncy, whom the Chairman superintcnds
and who shall bo ongagod in the businoss pertaining to the
Commission.
The secrotaries shall be appointed and dismissed by the
Chairman.
Articlo 19. In addition to the provisions of this law
and of ordinanccs to bo issued in accordance therewith,
necessary mattors porteining to the Commission for Over-
secing tho Election of Mombers from the national constit-
ucney shall bo decided by thc Commission.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
4
Chapter IV
Voting
Article 20 - Each elector shall cast only one ballot in
the election of members from the prefectural constituency
and in that of members from the national constituency res-
pectively.
Article 21 - Voting Overseers shal1 be selected and
appointed by the Commissions for Overseeing the Election of
Members of the Municipal, Town, and Village Assemblies,
from among those who have the right to vote in the election
of members of the House of Councillors.
When the election of Members from the prefectural con-
stituency and that of Members from the national constituency
take place at the same time the Commissioners for Overseeing
the Election of Members of the Municipal, Town and Village
Assemblies may appoint the Voting Overseers for the Election
of Members from the prefectural constituency concurrently
to the Voting Overseers for the election of Members from the
national constituency.
Voting overseers shall take charge of affairs pertain-
ing to election.
Article 22 - Candidates for membership may choose one
(1) person who will be a Voting Witness, from among those
registered in the electoral list of each voting district,
with his consent, and report the choice to the Voting Over-
seer not later than two days before the date of the election.
In case those reports as provided for in the preceding
paragraph (excluding those reported by candidates for member-
ship who have died or withdrawn their candidacy: the same
applies hereinafter) do not exceed ten (1o) in number, they
shall at once be Voting Witnesses, and in case they are more
than ten (10), ten (10) Voting 1tnesses shall be clected by
mutual vote from among those reported.
When the number of the Voting Witnesses provided for
in the preceding paragraph does not reach three (3) or has
decreased to less than three (3), or when the number of the
Voting Witnesses who have attended at tho polling place has
not reached three (3) by the time to open it or has decreased
to less than three (3) after it has been opened, Voting Over-
seers shall select and appoint such number of Voting wit-
nesses as makes their total number thrce (3), from among
those registered in the electoral list of the electoral
district concerned and immediately notify those who have
been selected and appointed, to witness voting.
Voting Witnessos shall not resign their offices without
proper reason.
Article 23 - Every elector shall enter by himsclf the
full name of one candidate in a ballot at a polling-place
in the election of Members from the prefectural constitu-
ency or in the election of Members from the national con-
stitueney respectively and cast it in a ballot-box.
The name of an elector shall not be entered in a ballot.
Article 24 - Denial of voting shall be decided by the
Voting Overseer, after consulting with Voting "itnesses.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.98)
When an elector whose voting has been subjected to the
decision provided for in the preceding paragraph is not
satisfied with it, the Voting Overseer shall provisionally
allow him to cast a ballot.
The ballot mentioned in the preceding paragraph shall
be sealed in an cnvelope by the elector, who shall cast it,
writing by himself his full name on the envelope.
The preceding two paragraphs shall apply to an elector
whose voting has been objected to by Voting "itnesses.
Article 25 - If, in the case of an island or any other
place without adequate means of transportation, it is deemed
impossible to send the ballot-box on the day ofvoting, the
Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
Metropolitan Assembly or the Commissions for Overseeing the
Election of Members of the District and Prefectural Assemblies
may fix a convenient date for voting in the locality con-
cerned and cause the ballot-box, minutes of the voting and
clectoral list to be sent by the date for ballot-count.
Article 26 - hon, on account of natural calamity or
other unavoidable circumstanccs, it is impossible to carry
out the voting or it is necessary to have the voting again,
the Voting Overseors shall so notify tho Commission for
Overseeing the Election of Members of the Metropolitan
Assembly or the Commissions for Oversccing the Election of
Members of the District and Prefectural Assomblics through
the Chairman of Elcction (Chairman of tho Elcction Sub-
Meeting in the caso of the eloction of Mombers from the
National Constituency.) In such a case the Commission con-
cerned shall cause the voting to be carriod out by fixing a
new date, which shall be proclaimed not less than five days
bcforchand.
Article 27 - When a regular clcction and the election
provided. for in Articlo 62 or Articlc 68 or Article 71 take
place at the same time, they shall be absorbcd into one
olection for Membors from the prefectural constituency and
for Members from the national constituency rospectively.
Articlo 28 - In addition to the provisions of this law
and of ordinances to be issued in accordance therowith, the
voting for members of the House of Councillor shall conform
to the voting for mombers of the House of Representatives.

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.96)
Chapter V
Counting of Ballots
Articlc 29. Ballot-Counting Ovcrscers shall bc
sclocted and appointed by the Commissions for Oversccing
the Elcction of Mombors of the Municipal, Town and Villago
Asscmblics from among thoso who havo tho right to voto in
the cloction of mombers of tho Housc of Councillors.
When tho clection of Members from thc prefectural con-
stitucncy and that of mombors from the national constituoncy
take placc at the samo time, the Commission for Overscoing
the cloction of Mombers of the Municipal, Town and Village
Asscmblics may apnoint thc Ballot-Counting Ovorsccrs for
the clcction of mombors from the profectural constitucncy
concurrently to thc Ballot-Counting Ovorscors for the
clcction of mcmbors from the national constitucncy.
Ballot-Counting Ovcrscers shall take chargc of affairs
portaining to tho counting of Ballots.
Articlc. 30. Thc provisions of Articlc 22 shall apply
mutatis mutandis to Ballot-Counting witnosses.
. Articlo 3l. The counting of ballots shall bo offected
on tho day of votine or on the following day (in case there
is : morc than onc voting district within ono ballot-counting
district, on the day whon all the ballot-boxos are reccived
or an the following day).
Article 32. Thc Ballot-Counting Ovcrscor shall, in the
prosoncc of Ballot-Counting "itnossos, open tho ballot-box
and cxamino thc votos coming undcr tho provisions of Article
24, paragraphs 2 and 4, and, aftor consultation with Ballat-
Counting Witncsses, dccido whcther or not thoso ballots are
aocoptable.
Tho Ballot-Counting Ovorsoor, togothor with Ballot-
Counting Witnosses, shall oxamine the ballots for cach city,
town or villagc or any othor district spocificd by the Com-
mission for Ovorscc ing tho Elcction of ombors ef the Metro-
politan Assombly or the Commissions for Oversccing the
Eloction of Mombors of tho District and Profectural Assomb-
lics.
As soon as tho oxamination of the ballots has hocn
finished, the Ballot-Counting Overscer shall roport the
result to tho Chairman of Eloction (Chairman of tho Eloetian
Sub-Mecting in the case of thc cloction of Mombers from the
National constituoncy).
Article 33. The validity of ballots shall bo decided
by the Ballot-Counting Averscor; after consultation with
Ballot-Counting Witnosscs.
Articlo 34. Any of the following votes shall be invalid.
1. A votc for which a regular ballot-paper has
not been used.
2。
A vatc on which the namo of a person who is
not a oandidate is entored.
3.
A voto on which the namos of two or more
candidates.have becn ontered.
4。
A voto on which the namo of a porson who is
not oligible has boen cntored.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.97)
-5. A vote on which other mattors in addition to
the name of a candidate heve beon entored.
But the profossion, social status, addross
or a title of honour of the candidato may be
writton on.
6.
A vote on which the name of a candidate has not
boen written by the voter himsclf.
7.
A voto by which it is impossible to asccrtain
the name of the candidatc entered.
8.
A vote on vhich the name of a person who is
a member of tho House of Councillors has been
onterod.
The provisions of the item numbered 8 in the preccding
paragraph shall apply to the clection hold in accordance
with tho provisions of Articlo 62 or Articlo 68 or Articlc
71.
The provision of the itom numbered 8 in the preccding
paragraph shall apply, in tho case of a rogular clcction
also, to a vote on which the name of a Momber of the Houso
of Councillors who is cither a Member from the profoctural
constituoncy or a Momber from the national constituoncy,
with a longer term of officc, has been cntered.
Article 35. The Ballot-Counting Overseer shall koop
minutos of tho ballot-counting, in which shall be rccorded
all matters ralating to the ballot-counting, and affix his
signature thereto toscther with Follot-Counting Witnosses.
Articlc 36. Ballots shall bo sortod into lots that
are valid and those that cre invalid and shall be proserved,
together with the minutes of the voting and the minutes of
the ballot-counting, by the Commissioncrs for Oversecing the
Elcction of tho Municinal, Town and Village Assomblies during
the term of office of the members olected.
Articlc 37. The provision of the principal sentenee
of Article 26 shall apply mutatis mutandis to thc counting
of ballots.
Articlc 38. In addition to the provisions of this law
and of ordinances to be issucd in accordance therewith, the
counting of ballots in the olection of mombers of tho House
of Councillors shall conform to the counting of ballots in
the olection of members of the House of Representatives.
Chapter VI
Eloction Mooting and Eloction Sub-Meeting
Scetion 1.
Election Mecting for Mombors from
the prefectural constituoncy
Article 39. The Chairman of El-ction shall be selected
and appointed by the Commission for Oversccing the Elcction
of Mombors of the Motropolitan Assombly or the Commissions
for Overscoing the Election of Members of the District and
Prefectural Assomblies from among those who have the right
to voto in the oloction of mombors of the Houso of Council-
lors.
The Chairman of Election shall tako charge of affairs
pertaining to cloction meoting.
7

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.98)
8
Article 40 - The election meeting shall be held at the
Metropolitan, District or Prefcctural Office or a place
designated by the Chairman of Election.
Article 41 - The provisions of Articlc 22 shall apply
mutatis mutandis to Elcction Witnesses.
Article 42 - The Chairman of Election shall hold an
clection meeting on the day when the report providod for
in Article 32, paragraph 3, is rcccived from every Ballot-
Counting Overscer or on the following day and shall examine
such reports in thc prcsoncc of Election Witnesses.
In casc a part of an clection has bocome invalid and
a new election has been held, the Chairman of Elcction shall,
upon receipt of the report provided for in Article 32, para-
graph 3, cxamine such report anew togothor with the report
concerning the other part of the elcction in accordance with
the provisions of the prcccding paragraph.
Articlo 43 - Tho Chairman of Election shall mako minutes
of the clection, in which shall be recorded all matters
relating to tho election meeting and affix his signature
thereto together with Election Witnesscs.
Tho minutes of the clection shall be proserved, to-
gother with documents relating to the roport mentioned in
Articlc 32, paragraph 3, by thc Commission for Oversecing
the Election of Mombers of the Motropolitan Assombly or the
Commissions for Oversccing the Election of Members of the
District and Profcctural Assomblios during the torm of
office of the members clected.
Article 44 - The provisions of thc principal sentonce
of Articlo 26 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the clection
mocting.
Articlo 45 - In addition to thc provisions of this law
and of ordinances to bo issued in accordance therowith, the
clection mecting in the election of mombers of the Houso of
Councillors shall conform to the cloction mocting in the
cloction of membors of the House of Representatives.
Scction II.
Eloction Sub-Mecting and Elcction
Meeting for Mombors from thc national
constituency.
Sub-scction 1. Elcction Sub-Mecting.
Article 46 - The clcction sub-mecting shall be hold
at the Motropolitan, District and Prefoctural Officc or a
place designated by the Chairman of the Eloction Sub-
moeting.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 47. As soon as the examination in accordance
with the provisions of Article 42, which are applied mutatis
mutandis in Article 48, has been finished, the Chairman of
the Election Sub-Meeting shall submit a report of the result
to the Chairman of Election, together with a copy of the
minutes of the election.
Article 48. In addition to the provisions of the pre-
ceding two Articles, the provisions of the preceding Section
shall be anplied mutatis mutandis to the election sub-meeting.
Article 49. The Chairman of Election shall be selected
and appointed by the Commission for Overseeing the Election
of Members from the national constituency from among those
who have the right to vote in the election of members of the
House of Councillors.
The Chairman of Election shall take charge of affairs
pertaining to election meeting.
Article 50. The election meeting shall be held at a
place desigrated by the Chairman of Election.
Article 5l. The Chairman of Election shall hold an
election meeting on the day when the report provided for in
Article 47 is received from every Chairman of the Election
Sub-Meeting or on the following day and evamine such reports
in the presence of Election Witnesses.
In case a part of an election has become invalid and a
new election has been held, the Chairman of Election shall,
upon receipt of the report provided or in Article 47, ex-
amine such report anew, together with the report concerning
the other part of the election in accordance with the pro-
visions of the preceding paragraph.
Article 52. The Chairman of Election shall make minutes
of the election, in which shall be recorded all matters re-
lating to the election meeting, and affix his signature
thereto together with Election Witnesses.
The minutes of the election shall be preserved, to-
gether with documents concerning the report provided for in
Article 47, by the Commission for Overseeing the Election
of Members from the national constituency during the term
of office of the members elected.
Article 53. The provisions of Articles 41, 44 and 45
shall apply mutatis mutandis to the election meeting.
Chapter VII
Candidates and Persons Elected
Section I.
Candidates for and Persons Elected
as Members from the prefectural con-
stituency.
Article 54. A person who desires to become a candidate
shall so notify the Chairman of Election between the day on
which the date for election is proclaimed or given public
notice and the twentieth (2oth) day preceding the date for
election.
When a person whose name is registered in the electoral

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.99)
10
list desires to name another person as a candidate, he may
notify his recommendation with the consent of the person
recommended during the period stipulated in the preceding
paragraph.
In case the number of candidates notified during the
period stipulated in the preceding two paragraphs exceeds
the number of members to be elected, and any of the candi-
dates dies or withdraws his candidacy after the period has
expired, notification of candidacy or recommendation of a
candidate may be made in conformity with the preceding two
paragraphs, up to the tenth (1o) day preceding the date for
election.
A person who has become a candidate in one electoral
district shall not notify his candidacy or aprrove the
notification recommending him as a candidate in another
electoral district.
A person who has become a candidnte for a Member from
the national constituency shall not notify his candidacy,
or approve the notification recommending him as a candidate,
for a Member from the prefectural constituency.
A candidate shall not withdraw his candidacy without
having notified the Chairman of Election.
Upon receipt of the notification provided for in para-
granh i to 3 and the preceding paragraph or information of
the death of a candidate, the Chairran of Election shall
immediately give public natice of the tact.
The practice of recommendation of candidates, men-
tioned in raragraph 2, is wide-spread in Janan; it should be
noted that the law now demands thet the recommended person
give his consent. The purpose of this is (l) to prevent
the advancement of the same candidcey ir two or more pre-
fectures; (2) to prevent cases in which a vorson elected
might refuse to become a Councillor because ho hed rever
intended to become one. Also, the law forbids the same
persons' standing as a candidate fer the national con-
stituency and prefectural constituency at the same time.
A candidate nay not withdray his candidacy without
having notified the chairman of eloction. This is recuired
in order to avoid opening of vacancies on the very day of
the election.
Article 55. A person who desires to notify his can-
didacy or who desires to notify recommendation of a candi-
date shall deposit five thousand (5,00o) yen in cash or
national loan bonds of the same face value for each candi-
date.
The deposit provided for in the preceding paragraph
shall helong to the national treasury in case the total
number of votes Cor a candidate for vhom the deposit has
been made does not reach one-tenth of the total number of
valid votes in the electoral district concerned divided by
the number of members. to be returned for that distriet in
a regular election.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.97)
7
The provision of the preceding paragraph shall apply
mutatis mutandis in cases where a candidate has withdrawn
his candidacy vithin ten (1o) days before the date for
election, unless such withdrawal is due to loss of oligi-
bility.
2
Article 56. The candidate who has obtained the great-
est number of valid votes shall be declared elected; pro-
vided, however, that the number of votes obtained shail be
one-fourth or more of the total number of valid votes in
the electoral district concerned divided by the number of
mombers to be returned for that district in a regular
lection.
In case the elections for the Members of the different
terms of offico are combined, the candidates who obtained
the necessary votes under the proviso of Paragrarh.I shall
be determined in the order of the number of their respective
votes as the elocted, starting from the members with a longer
torn of office.
If there are persons who have obteined the same num-
ber of votes, the Chairmen of mlcetion shall determine the
person elected by drawing lots at an clection meeting.
In cases where the rerson olected can be determined
vithout holdin- e new election in consequence of tho liti-
gation provided for in Article 73, such a person shall be
determined at an oloetion veetin.
Vhen a person elected has declined electior or has
been dead, or vhen his cloction has become invelid in
accordance vith the provisions of article 57, en election
meeting shall be held immocintely to determine the porson
elected fpom anone those who have obtainea such number of
votos as mentioned in the proviso o? paragraph 1 but have
not been eleeted.
When any of. the causes montioned in Artiel 62, para-
graph 1, itoms numbaved 5 end 6, has occurred durina the
period stipulated in Articlc Sl and there ere porsons who
have obtained such number of votes as mentioned in the
proviso of paragraph 1, or when such a cause has occurred
after the expiration of that period and there are persons
who have obtained votes and to whom the provisiors of para-
graph 3 are applicable, an clection mecting shall bo held
to determine the person olected from among the above-men-
tioned persons.
The provisions of perecraph 2 shall apply mutatis
mutandis in cas s where the causes mentioned in the pre-
ceding three reragranhs bars oecurred simultaneously or
consecutively with regard to the persons slected in the
combined election of membors with different terms of
office.
In any of the cases montioned in raragraphs 4 to 6,
when a person who has obtained such nurber of votes as
mentioned in the proviso of paragraph 1 but has not been.
elected, becomes ineligible for election after the date.
of the election, ho shall not be determined as tho person
elected.
11

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
12
Article 57 - When the person elected becomes ineli-
gible for election after the date of the election, he shall
forfeit election.
Article 58 - In case the number of candidates notified
in accordance with the provisions of Article 54, paragraphs
1 to 3, does not exceed the number of members to be returned
in the election, there shall be no election in the electoral
district concerned.
hen there is no voting in accordance with the pro-
visions of the preceding paragraph, the Chairman of Election
shall so notify the Voting Overseer immediately and at the
same time give public notice of the fact and also report it
to the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of
the Metropolitan Assembly or the Commission for Overseeing
the Election of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assembly concerned.
Upon receipt of the report mentioned in the preceding
paragraph, the Voting Overseer shall immediately give pub-
lic notice thereof.
In the case mentioned in paragraph 1, the Chairman of
Election shall hold an election meeting within five (5) days
from the date of the election and determine the candidates
as elected.
In case there is a combined election for the Members
with the different terms of office and the provision of
paragraph l is applicable, the candidates shall be deter-
mined by lot as the elected for the members with a longer
term of office.
In the cases mentioned in the preceding two paragraphs,
it shall be decided by the Chairman of Election, after con-
sultation with Election Witnesses, whether or not the candi-
dates are eligible for election.
Article 59 - 'hen the person has been determined, the
Chairman of Election shall immediately notify him of his
election and at the same time give public notice of his
name and also report his name, the number of votes he
has obtained, the total number of valid votes in the elec-
tion and other minutes of the election to the Commission
for Overseeing the Election of Members of the Metropolitan
Assembly or the Commission for Overseeing the Election of
Members of the District or Prefectural Assembly concerned.

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
When there is no person elected or .the number of the
persons elected does not reach the number of members to be
returned in the election the Chairman of Election shall
immediately give public notice of the fact and also report
it to the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members
of the Metropolitan Assembly or the Commission for Over-
seeing the Election of Members of the District or Pre-
fectural Assembly concerned.
Article 60 - Upon receipt of notification of election,
the person elected shall notify the Commission for Over-
seeing the Election of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly
or the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of
the District or Prefectural Assembly concerned whether or
not he accepts election.
Article 61 - When a person elected has failed to notify
his acceptance of election within ten (io) days from the day
he received notification of election, he shall be con-
sidered to have declined election.
Article 62 - When, in an election of members with the
same term of office, any of the cases mentioned in the
following numbered items has occurred, the Commission for
Overseeing the Election of Members of the Metropolitan
Assembly or the Commissions for Overseeing the Election of
Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblies shall
cause a new election to be held by fixing its date and
giving public notice thereof at least not later than thirty
(30) days preceding it, unless the person elected can be
determined without holding a new election; provided, how-
over, that this does not apply in cases where public notice
of the date for election has been given with regard to the
same person on account of causes other than the following
or in accordance with the provisions of Article 71;
1. When there is no person clected or the num-
ber of persons elected does not reach the
number of members to be returned in the
cloction.
2。
When the person clccted has declined clection
or has died.
3。
When the person elected has forfeited elec-
tion in accordanco with the provisions of
Article 57.
4。
When, in consequence of the litigation pro-
vided for in Article 73, there has ceased
to exist a person elected or the number of
persons elected has ccased to reach the
number of mombers to be returned in the
clection.

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
5. When the election of a rerson has become
invalid beceuse of the fact that a person
who has superintended the election oampaign
of the person elected has been sentenced to
a punishment on account of a crime related
to election.
6. When the election of a person has become
invalid because of the fact that he has
been sentenced to a punishment on account
of a crime related to election.
The election provided for in the preceding paragranh
shall not be held during the period alloved for filing and
litigation provided for in Article 73. The same shall anply
in cases vhere such a litigation has been filed and is still
rending.
The date of election mentioned in paragranh 1 shall not
be later than thirty-five (35) days after the date of ex-
piration of the period alloved for filing the litigation pro-
vided Cor in Article 73, or the Commission for Overseeing
the Election of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly or the
Commission for Overseeing the Election of Member of the Dis-
trict or Prefectural Assembly concerned has received the
notification provided or in Article 75, when the litigation
provided for in Article 73 is filed.
When any of the cases mentioned in the numbered items
of paragraph 1 has occurred within six (6) months preceding
the end of the term of office of members, the election pro-
vided or in paragraph I shall not be heid.
Article 63. Then the person elected has accepted
election, the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Mem-
bers of the etropolitan Assembly or the Commission for
Overseeing the lection of Hembers of the District or Pre-
fectural Assemtly concerned chall immediately furnish him
with a certificato of election and give public notice of
his name and report it to the Kinister o Home Affairs
through the Governer of the etropolis, District or Pre-
fecture concerned.
Article 64. hen the election in an electoral dis-
trict or the election of a nerson has become invalid in
consequence of the litigation provided for in Chapter IX
or when the election of a rarson has become invalid be-
cause of the fact that he has been sentenced to a punish-
ment on account of a crime related to election, the Com-
mission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
Metronoliten Assembly or the Commission for Overseeing
the Election of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assembly concerned shall immediately give public notice.
Section II. Candidates for en? Persons Elected
as Members from the national con-
stituency.
Article 65. A person who has become a candidate for
a Member from the prefectural constituency shall not notify
his candidacy, or approve the notification recommending
him as a candidate, for a Tember from tho national con-
stituency.
Article 66. "hen the numbered votes for a candidate
does not reach one-tenth of the total number of valid votes

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.98)
divided by the number of the members to be returned in a
regular election; the deposit made for him in accordance
with the provisions of Article 55, which are applied
mutatis mutandis by Article 69, shall belong to the national
treasury.
Article 67 - A porson who has obtained the greatest
number of valid votes shall be declared elected; provided,
however, that the number of votes obtained shali be one-
cighth or more of the total number of valid votes divided
by tho number of members to be returned in a regular
clection.
Article 58 - When, in an election of members with the
same term of office, any of the cases mentioned in the num-
bered.itcms of Article 62, paragraph 1, has occurred, and
if the person elected cannot be determined without holding
a new election, or if, with the person clected having been
determined without holding a new'clection, there still
remain a number of vacancies of persons elected which, added
by the number of tho vacancies mentioned in Article 71,
paragraph 1, oxceeds one-fourth of the number of members to
be returned in a regular clcction, the Commission for Over-
seeing the Election of Members from the national constituency
shall cause a now cloction to be held by fixing its date and
giving public noticc thereof not later than thirty (30) days
preceding it; provided, however, that this does not apply in
cases where public notice of the date for clection has been
given with rogard to the same nerson on account of causes
other than the above-mentioned.
'hen the number of vacancies of persons elected in an
election of members with the samo term of office, added by
the number of the vacancies of members mentioned in Article
71,Paragraph 1, does not oxceed one-fourth of the number
of members to bo returned in a regular election but an
election of members with different terms of office has to
be held, such olection and a nr election shall be held
simultaneously, regardless of c provisions of paragraph
1; provided, however, that this does not apply in cases
where the case mentioned in the preccding paragraph has
occurred after public notice of the dato for the election
of members with different tcrms of office was given.
The date for clection mentioned in the preceding para-
graph shall be tho date for the election of members with
different terms of office.
The provisions of.Articlo 62, paragraphs 2 to 4, shall
apply mutatis mutandis in the casos mentioned in paragraphs
1and 2.
1心5

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.99)
16
Article 69 . The provisions of Article 54, paragraphs
1 to 3 and paragraphs 6 and 7, Article 55, paragraphs 1 and
3, Article 56, paragraphs 2 to 8, Articles 57 to 61, Article
63 and 64 shall apply mutatis mutandis to candidates for and
persons elected as Members from the national constituency;
provided, however, that "preceding paragraphs" in Article 55,
paragraph 3, shall read "Article 66," "the proviso of para-
graph 1" in A-ticle 56, paragraphs 5, 6, and 8, shal1 read
"the proviso of Article 67," "Article 62, paragraph 1, items
numbered 5 and 6" in the same A"ticle, paragraph 6, shall
read "A"ticle 68," =nd "Commission for O"erseeing the
Election of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly or the
Commission for Overseeing the Election of members of the
District or Prefectural Assembly concerned" in Article 58,
paragraph 2, Aticles 59, 60, 63 and 64 shal1 read "Com-
mission for Overseeing the Election of members from the
national constituency."
Chapter VIII
Torm of Office for Members and Filling Vacancies
Article 70. The term of office for the members shall
be counted as from the date following the date of expiration
of the term of office for the members elected in the pre-
vious regular election.
However, it shall be counted as from the date of a
regular election in case the regular election is held after
the date following the date of expiration of the term of
office for the members elected in the previous regular
election.
Article 7l. In case vacancies of members with the same
tern of office have occurred, no by-election shall be held
until the number of such vacancies (to be added by the num-
ber of the vacancies of persons elected mentioned in Article
68, Paragraph 1, in the case of Members from the national
constituency) exceeds one-fourth of the fixed number of
members to be returned for the electoral district concerned
in a regular election (one-fourth of the fixed number of
members to be returned in a regular election in the case of
Members from the national constituency).
When a vacancy of membership has occurred, the Minister
of Home Affairs shall, within five days after receipt of a
communication to that effect from the. President of the House
of Councillors, so notify the Commission for Overseeing the
Election of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly or the
Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
District or Prefectural Assembly concerned (The Commission
for Overseeing the Election of Members from the national
constitueney in the case of members from the national con-
stituency) through the Governor of the Metropolis, District
or Prefecture concerned.
The Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members
of the Metropolitan Assembly or the Commissions for Over-
seeing the Eiection of Members of the District and Pre-
fectural Assemblies (the Commission for Overseeing the
Election of Members from the National constituency in the

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.96)
case of a Member from the national constituoncy) shall,
upon'reccipt of the notification provided for in the pre-
ceding paragraph, immodiately notify the Chairman of
Election that a vacancy has occurred, if the member
whose office has become vacant, vacated his office during
the poriod montioned in Articlo 6l and there is a candidate
ho has obtainod such number of votes as provided for in
the nroviso of Articlo 56, paragraph 1 (tho proviso of
Articlc 67 in the casc of a Membor from the national con-
stituency) but has not been clected, of if such a momber
vacated his office after thc oxpiration of such poriod and
there is a candidato to whom the provisions of Articlo 56,
paragraph 3, have been applied but who has not been olocted.
The Chairman of Eloction shall within tventy (20) days
after receipt of tho notification provided for in tho pre-
coding paragranh, determine a person elccted by applying
mutatis mutandis the provisions of Articlo 56, paragraphs
3 and 5 to 8.
Upon roccint of the notification provided for in para-
granh 2, the Commission for Ovorsecing the Election of Mom-
bers of the Motropolitan Assombly or the Commission for
Oversecing the Eloction of Mombers of tho District or Pre-
fectural Asscrblirs (the Commission for Oversecing the
Election of Mombers fron the national constitucncy in the
case of Momber from the national constitucncy)shall, unless
the provisions of paragraph 3 are anplicable or public
notice of the date for a hew clcetion has been given with
regard to the same person in accordance with the provisions
of Article 82 (Article 38 in the case of a Momber from the
national constituency), wait until the number of vacancies
of mombers with the samo term of office (to be added to the
number of the vacaneies of persors oloeted meotioned in
Article 68, naraeraph 1, in tho coso of Mombers from the
natioral constituoncy) oxeecds ono-fourth of the fixed
number of nembers to be return d cor the eleetorel dis-
trict concerned in a reguler oleetion (onc-fourth of the
fixed number of membors to be returned in a regular clection
in tnn case of Pombers from the natioral constituoney) and
thon cause a by-olection to be held within thinty five (35)
days from the day on thich th netification provided for in
paragraph 2 is last reecivea.
When the nurber of vaeeneies of monbers vith the same
torm of offico (to be added by the nurbar of vacaneins of
porsons elected mentioned in Article 62, Paracrarh 1, in
the case of embors from the national constitueney) doos
not excced one-fourth of 1he fixed number of mombors to be
returned for the olectoral district concorned in a rogular
oloction (one-fourth of tho fixod numbor of mombers to be
returned in a reguler clection in the case of Membors from
the ratignal constitueney) but an cleetion of mombors with
different terms of office (including here and hercinafter
the clection mentioned in Articln 62 in the case of Mempers
from tha prefecturel constitu ney) has to be held such an
slection and a by-election shall be held simultanepusly,
regardless of the provisions of paragraph 1 and the pre-
ceding paragraph, provided, hovever, that this shall not
apply in cases wb e the Comnission for Oversecing the
Election of Mombers of the Motropolitan Assombly or the
Commissions for Overscoing the Elcction of M mbors of the
District or profectural Assemblies (the Commission for
Oversecing tho Election of Mombers from the natioral con-
stituency in the caso of Mombers from thc national con-
stituonoy) shall have reecived the notification
provided for in paragraph 2 after publie noticc of the date
for tho clection of mombers with differont terms of office
has been given.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.98)
18
The dato of a by-election mentioned in the preceding
paragraph shall be that. of an election of members with
different torms of office.
The date of a by-election shall bo proclaimed not
later than thirty days preccding it by the Commission.
for Oversceing tho Election of Members of the Metropolitan
Assembly or the Commissions for Overseeing the Election of
Members of the District and Prefectural Assemblies (the
Commission, for Oversceing the Elcction of Members from the
national. constituency in the casc of Members from the
national constituency).
The provisions of Article 62, paragraphs 2 to 4,
(Article 68, paragraph 4, in the case of Membors from the
national constituoncy) shall apply mutatis mutandis to a
by-clcction.
On the other hand, in respect to the prefectural con-
stituencics the p ovision that bye-clcctions are held when
the number of vacancics of mombers with the same torm of
office excceds one-fourth means that death or withdrawal
of any member of the prefectural constituency (except in
Tokyo or Hokkaido) would neccssitato a bye-cloction in the
corrosponding prcfecture because tho largost number of
vacancios with the samo term is less than four (cxcopt in
Tokyo and Hokkaido whoro it is four).
Articlo 72 - A member filling a vacancy shall remain
in offico during the rcmaining period of the torm of office
of his predccessor.
Chapter IX
Litigation
Articlo 73 - A litigation may be filod on tho validity
of tho cloction in an clectoral district or the clection
of e person in the same way as the litigation on such
validity in the clection of members of tho House of Repre-
sentatives;
the proviso, with regards to an clection for
the members from tho national constituency, a person who
files a litigation on the validity of an clcction or on tho
validity of the clccted, on the ground that he cbtained the
necessary votes, according to tho proviso, Article 67, or
that the provisions of Article 56, Paragraph 8, Article 57
which are applicd mutatis mutandis by Articlc 60, are not
applicable to him, or that the dccision in Article 58,
paragraph 6 which is applicd mutatis mutandis by Articlo
69, is illogal, shall have the chairman of the commission
for Oversecing the Elcction of Mombers from the national
constituency of the accused.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.96)
Articlc 74. An clcctor or a candidato for mombership
who considers thc clcction of a porson to be invalid accord-
ing to tho provision of Articlo 79, Paragraph 3, may filo
a litigation at the Tokyo High Court with the clected as
the accused, within thirty (3o) deys from tho dato of the
notification under Articlc 59, Paragraph 1, or Articlc 69,
which is tho mutatis mutandis application of Articlo 59,
Paragraph 1.
"hen a parson who has suporintended tho oloction cam-
paign of a candidato has bocn sentonced to a punishment, in
accordance with the nenal provisions concorning the cloction
of menbers of th. Houso of Reprosentativos to bo applied
mutatis mutandis and the clection of the candidate concerned
is considered to have bocomo invalid, tho Public Procurator
shall instituto incidontally to tho public action, a liti-
gation against tho candidate olected.
Article 75. The litigations provided for in the pre-
coding two Articles shall be conducted in thc same way as
the corresponding litigations concorning th lcction of
monbers of the House of Represontatives; provided, hovever,
that notification conc rning these litiations shall be
given to the Ministor for Homc Affairs as well as thc Com-
nission for Oversocing the El ction of crbors fron the
national constituency in the cas: of Merbers from the
national constituoncy.
Chapter X
El ction Campaign
Articlo 76. The porsons who are listed in Article 6
shall not be cneogud in th: l ction cannaign within the
district with vhich th y or conerrned.
The clcetion campaign of a candidate shall not be
started until his candidacy is fil d acccrding to Articlo
54, Paragraph 1 to 3 or Articl- 69 in vhich the provisions
of the above mentiored paragraphs ere applind mutatis
mutandis.
No p rson shall make a visit to a hous: with the pur-
pose of obtaining a vote for hinself or others, or of pre-
venting othors fron obtaining a vot.
No one shall conduct th: ol ction camprign, by making
usc of on 's speciclly r latcd position to children, pupils,
and students of schools who ere under the age of tventy (20).
Articlc 77. Elcction compaign expcns s in this Chaptor
shall mean such cloction campaien expens s in connection
with the oloction of mumbors of the Housc of Councillors as
corrospond to the el ction carnaign exponses provided for
in the Law for th Election of menbors of the House of
Ropresentatives.
Incomos in connection vith lnction canpaigns shnll in
this Chapter mean such moncy or proporty intorost as has
been received and pecepted in order to mont the exp-nsos
montioncd in the preceding paragraph.
The assessnent of the proporty int rest mention d in
the preceding paragraph shall conform to the assessment of

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.96)
20
proporty inter st in conncction with thc cloction campaign
exponses provided for in the Law for tho Election of Mon-
bers of the Houso of Roprcsontatives.
Articlc 78. Any candidate or any porson who has
beon notificd of his rccommondation as a candidatr shall
aproint a porson rosponsiblc for the disbursomont of
lcction campaign cxponses (to bo cnllcd heroinafter
"responsible disbursor"), in the same way as tho person
rosponsible for thc dismissal or resignation of the rus-
ponsible disburser, the subrogation of his funetions and
notification concorning him and a porson who subrogates
his functions shall conform to th: corresponding casns in
the oloction of mombers of the House of Ropresontatives;
provided, however, that in the case of candidates for
Hombers from the national constituency, notification con-
ccrning tho rcsponsiblc disburser or a porson who subro-
gatis his funetions shall b givon to the Commission for
Oversecing the olcction of Mombors from the national con-
stitucncy.
Articlc 79. Elcction campaign xponsos shall not ox-
cued the anount montioned in the folloving paragraphs per
candidate:
1. The sun which equals the multiplication of
the amount of moncy fixed by an ordinanee, by the total
numbor of the clectors registored in the olcctoral list
at the dato of dccision of the list, which total number
is divided by the fixed number of the onbers to be re-
turn d from the clection district concorned in the ordi-
nary cleetion (in cas of the momb rs from the national
constituoney, by the fixed number of the nembers in the
ordinary lcction).
2. In caso a r -cl ction is hold owing to the
invalidity of part of on olection, the sum which equals
the multiplication of the arount of non y fixed by an
Ordinance, by the total nunber of th clectors registered
in the cloctoral list in the district concern d at the
date of d cision of the olectoral lists, which total num-
bor is divided by th fixed number of m nbors to be re-
turned fror the election district conccrnod in the ordi-
nary clection (in case of the members fron tho national
constitueney by the fixed number of the mombers in the
ordinary clcetion).
3. In casc the votine is carricd gut in nccord-
ance with the provision of Article 26, the sum which cqunls
the amount of noney, calculnt d according to the provision
of the pr ceding item. Howey r, the Commission for Over-
socing th. Elaction of Mombers of th Metropolitan Assembly
or Commissions for Ov rsocing tho Elcction of Members of
the District or Pref .cturel Assomblios may reduce the
amount when they deen it necessary.
The Commission for Oversccing the El otion of Mombers
of the Motropolitan Assonbly or Conmissions for Ovorsecing
the Election of Mombers of tho District or Prof:ctural
Assomblirs (the Conmission for Ovcrsosing th- Election of
Hombers from th: National Constitucncy as far as the
amounts mentioncd in Iton 1 and 2 of th pr a ding pera-
graph rolating to the mombers from the notional constitu-
oncy are concerned) shall give public notic of the amount
fixed by the prccoding paragraph immcdiatoly after the dato
of the olection has beon proolaimed or given public notice.

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.95)
In caso thc clcction campaign cxponses disbursed for
a candidato for mcmbership oxcoed tho amount given public
notico according to the provision of the prccoding para-
graph, tho clection of tho candidato shali be invalid.
"owever, this provision docs not apply in the caso where
any candidatc or porson vho has rotified his recommendation
of a candidato has paid duo attcntion to tho appointmont
and supervision of thc rosponsiblo disburser or the porson
tho porforms the functions of the disburser in his place
nd where the rosponsible disbursor or tho person who per-
forms the functions of the disburser in his placc has not
committed a fault in thc disbursing business of tho olcction
campaign.
Articl 80. The responsible disburser shall, according
to provisions of ordinances, submit roports on the recoipts
concerning tho clection cannaign and tho clcction campaign
cyponses to the Cormission for Oversecing the Elcction of
Mombers of the Metropolitan Assombly or Commissions for
Oversccing the Elcction of thc District or Prefectural
Assomblius (in caso of tho m mbers Crom the national con-
stituency, the Comrission for Oversccing the El ction of
Mombers fron th Tational Constitueney).
The loader of a politicel party or any other organiza-
tion which rcconnonds or supports candidates shall, in
accordanco with th: provisions of ordinances, r port the
inco in conn ction with loction campoigns and exponsos
of such carnaigns to thc Minist r of Home Affairs through
the Conmission for Oversooine the Eloction of Morbers of
the Motropolitan Assonhly or tho Commission for Oversccing
the Eloction of Mombers of the Distriot or Profcctural
Asserbly, as the case mry b. according to the locality of
its princinal offich, if it recommonds or supports candi-
datus in tvo or more Motronolitan, District or Prefcctural
aroas or in an arca outsid. o? th Metropolis, District or
Profocture where its prineipel ofcicc is located, and, in
other cas s r port to th: Commission for Oversecing the
Elcction of M nbers of th: Mctropolitan Assembly or the
Comnission for Ov rs  in: th: El ction of Momb rs of the
District or Pr frctural Ass  bly as th case may be accord-
ing to the locality of its principal office.
The provisions of th. pr ccdina peragraph shall apply
mutatis mutandis to any local branch of a political party
or any oth r organization which recorr nds or supports
candidat s.
Article Sl. Upon rocoipt of the r port provided for
in the pr ccding. Articl, the Minister for Home Affairs or
the Comnission for oversecing the El etion of Monbers of
the Metropolitan Ass mbly, the Connissions for Oversecing
the El ction of vorbors of the District and Prefcetural
Assembli s, or the Commission for Overse ing the Elcction
of Munbers from th: national constituancy shall malk pub-
lic tho nain noints of such roports in nccordance with the
provisions of ordinanees.
Articlc 82. The Minister Cor Hore Affeirs, the Com-
mission for Ov rsocing the Eloction of Mo mbers of tho Metro-
politen Assombly or the Cornissions for Oversccing the
Election of thc District end Pr fccturel Assoubli s or Com-
mission for Oversceing the. Eleetion of Meub rs fron the
national constitueney shall prcsorvo:the r ports provided
for in Articlo 80 during the torm of office of the mombers
clcctcd.
？1

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.97)
22
Any person may demand inspection of such reports, in
accordanco with tho provisions of ordinances, during the
period mentioned in tho preceding paragraph.
Article 83 - Tho Ministor of Homc Affairs may restrict
by ordinance literature and pictures, to be posted or dis-
tributcd for clcction campaigns, in the way of their form,
number and the placc whero they are posted.
Chapter XI
Ponal Provisions
Articlo 84 - Any person who has violated the provisions
of Articlc 76, paragraph 1, shall be liablc to imprisonment
for not more than six (6) months or a fine of not more than
three thousand (3,ooo) yen.
Any person who has violatod tho provisions of Article
76, Paragraph 2 to 4 shal1 bo liablo to imprisonment for
not more than one (1) ycar or a fine of not more than five
thousand (5,000) yen.
Articlo 85 - Any person who has noglectcd to submit the
report provided for in Articlo 78, paragraph 2, shall be
liable to a fine of not more than onc thousand (1, ooo) yen.
Tho prccoding paragraph shall apply to persons who
violate orders issucd under the provisions of Article 83.
Articlo 86 - Any person who has neglected to submit
the roport provided for in Articlo 80, or made a false
report shall be liablo to imprisonment for not more than
six (6) months or a fine of not more than thrcc thousand
(3,000) yen.
Articlo 87 - In addition to the provisions of tho pre-
ceding threo Articles, the penal provisions concerning the
olection of mombers of the Houso of Represontatives shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the clcction of members of the
House of Councillors; providcd, however, that the Chairman
of the clcction Sub-Mocting and the placc of such a meeting
in the clcction of Mombers from national constituoncy aro
respectivcly considored as the Chairman of Eleetion and the
placc of an election mecting.
Chapter XII
Supplemontary Provisions
Articlo 88 - Whon a Commissioner for Oversccing the
Election of Membors from the national constitueney, Voting
Overseer, Ballot-Counting Overscer, Chairman of Election
Sub-Mecting or Chairman of Election has lost the right to
voto, ho shall forfcit his office.
Article 89 - Expenditures in connoction with the
exccution of clection shall be provided for by ordinance.

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.98)
Articlc 90 - A candidato or a person who has notificd.
his recommendations of a candidato may, according to pro-
visions of ordinances, sond ordinary postcards for election
campaign to tho maximum of ten thousand (10,000) sheets
froo of postage, per candidate.
Facilities of schools and other establishments to be
designated by ordinances shall be pormitted to bc used for
camnaign spoeches, in accordanco with the provisions of
ordinanccs.
Tho caretakor of the establishments mentioned in the
precoding paragraph shall provido facilitics nocessary for
making campaign specches in accordanco with tho provisions
of ordinances.
The Commission for Oversccing the Eloction of Members
of the Metropolitan Assombly or the Commissions for Over-
secing the Elcction of Mombors of the District and Pro-
fcctural Assemblies shall, in accordance with the provisions
of ordinances, publish documonts in which the names, careers,
etc. of candidatos arc doscribed.
The Commission for Oversecing the Eloction of tho Muni-
cipal, Town and Village Assomblios shall post up a notico
of the names, ctc. of candidates in accordanco with the
provisions of ordinances.
Article 9l - In this law the provisions conccrning the
Commission and Commissioncrs for Oversccing the Elcction
of thc members of tho City Council shall apply to the Com-
mission and Commissioners for Oversccing the Election of
the Membors of the 'ard (of City) Councils, or the "'ard
Commission and ard Commissioners for Oversccing tho Election
of the Mombers of the City Council, and also the provisions
conccrning cities shall apply to wards in citios, with
rogards to the ward areas in Tokyo To and the cities
stipulated in Articlo 6 and Article 82, paragraph 1, of the
law of thc Organization of Citics.
In tho application of thc provisions of this law, the
Commission for Oversccing thc Elcction of the Towm or
Village Headman and tho Commissioners for the same in the
towns and villages stipulatcd in Articlo 38 of tho Law con-
cerning the Organization of Towms and Villages shall be
considercd rospectively as the Commission for Ovorsecing
the Elcction of tho member of the Town or Villago Assomblies
and the Commissioner for the same.
In the application of this law, such associations of
towns or villages as collectively take charge of the whole
affairs of the towms or villages or affairs of the town or
village offices shall bo considered as one town or village
and the Commission for Oversccing the Election of nombers
of the Assomblics of the Association of towns or villagos
and the Commissioners for the same or the Commission for
Overseeing the Elcction of Overscers of tho town or village
Association and the Commissioners for the same shall be con-
sidered respectively as tho Commission for Oversccing the
Election of Mombers of the Town or Villago Assombly end the
Commissionors for the same.
3

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.98)
.4
In places where the Law concerning the Orzanization of
Towms and Villages has not yet been enforced, the provisions
in this law concerning the Commission for Overseeing the
Election of Members of the Town or Village Assembly shall
apply to persons who hold a post corrosponding to the tom
or village headnan; the provisions relating to town or
village shall apply to the body corresponding to tom or
village.
Article 92. "ith regard to matters to which the pro-
visions of this law cannot be applied.in an island or any
other place without adequate means of transportation,
special provisions may be enacted by ordinances.
Article 93. Provisions necessary for the enforcement
of this law shall be cnacted by ordinances.
Additional Provisions
Article l. This lav shall come into force as from the
date of its promulgation.
Article 2. Any person vho has been adjudicated bank-
rupt and has not been rehabilitated: any indigent person
who is receiving official or private rolief or allovances
for livelihood; any person who has no fixed abode: and any
person whose term of. punishment has boen corpleted or shall
be executed no longer but ho is still disqualified for
voting in the election of nembers of the House of Repre-
sentatives (excluding uny person who has been sentenced to
a punishment on account of a crime relating to olection)
shall have for the time being the right to vote in the
election of members of the House of Councillors, regardless
of the provisions of this law.
The head of a family helonging to the Inperial Wamily
or of a fanily of neerago shall have the right to vote, for
the tire being, regardless of the provisions of this lew.
 With regard to the electoral lists necessary for the
persons mentioned in the preceding tvo paragraphs, pro-
visions shall be enacted by ordinence.
Artiele 3. The President or judges of the Corrt of
Administrative Litiga ion in active service shall, pending
the enforcoment of the Constitution, not be eligible for
election, regardless of the provisions of this law.
Article 4. The words "the House of Councillors" in
Article 14 shall read "House of Peers," pending the estab-
lishment of the House of Councillors.
Article 5. With regard to the electipn of Members
from the prefectural constituency, the notification con-
cerning the litigations provided for in Articles 73 and 74
shall for the time being be made to the Conmission for
Overseeing the Election of Members of the Metropolitan
Assembly or the"Commission for Overseeing the Eloction of
Members of the District or Prefectural Assembly concerned
through the Minister of Home Affairs and the Metropolitan,
Distriot or Prefectural Goverpor concerned.

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.97)
In the casc of election of the Members from the pre-
fectural constituency, a person vho files a litigation on
the validity of an election or on the validity of the
elccted rrovided for in Article 73, on the ground that he
obtaincd thc necessary votes, accordin: to the proviso,
Article 56, Paragraph I, or that Article 56, Paragraph 8,
or Article 57 are not applicable to him, or that the
decision ir Article 58, Paragraph 6, is illegal, shall have
the Chairran of the Corimission for Overseeing the Election
of Hembers of the Metropolitan Assembly, or the Chairman
of the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of
the District or Prefecture concerned as the accused, for
the time being, rogardless of Article 73.
Article 6. In the case of candidates for Hembers from
the prefoctural constitueney, the notification coneerning
the responsible disburser and a person who subrogatos his
functions provided for in Article 78, paragraph 2, shall
for the tine being bo made to the Commission for Overseeing
the Election of embers o the ctropolitan Assembly or the
Cormission for Oversecing the Elcction of "embers of the
District or Pre ectural Assembly concerned, regardless of
the provisions of the above-montioned paragraph.
Article 7. In cases where any olected person or any
person tho sunorintended electior carrcigns has been punished
in accordance with the provisiors of Article 87, the noti-
fication theroof shall for the tire being be made through
the "inister Cor Yone Affairs and the Governor of the Metro-
nolis or the District or Prefecture concerned to the Com-
mission for Overseeing the Election of Vembers of the Metro-
politan Assembly or the Cormission or Oversceing the
Election of  ombers of the District or Prefectural Assembly
concerned, revardless of the rovisions of the above-men-.
tioned Article.
Article 8. In applying mutatis mutendis the penal pro-
visions corcernins the olection of orbers of the Touse of
Reprosentativos, the persors listed in Article 6 shall for
the tire being be considered as public ofricials.
Article 9. The right to vote ene the cligibility of
eny porson to vhor the House Registration Law doos not
anply shall be suspended for the time being.
Article lo. Rovardins the Pirst ordinary clection of
the Hombers of the House of Couneillors to be effected by
this Lay, "withir ton (1o) cays" shall road "within five (5)
days" in Artiele 61.
In the Pirst porlar cleetion of Yembers of the House
of Coureillors to be held under this lav he clection of
six year term teubers and thet of three year term Members
shall be held conjointly on the dato to be fixed by an
Imrorial Roscrit.
Article ll. vith respect to the first rogular elect-
ion of Henbers of the Houso of Councillors to be held under
this lay, the phrase "the fixed number of nembors to be
returned for the clectoral cistrict concerned in a regular
Aection" in Article 55, Paragraph 2, and Article 56, Para-
graph 1, Proviso and Article 79, parasraph 1, Itens 1 and 2;
shall read "the fixed number of members in the electoral
district concerncd" and the phrase "the fixed nurber of mem-
bers to be returned in e regular clection" in Article 66,
and Article 67, Proviso and Article 79, Paragraph 1, Itoms
1 and 2 shall road "the fixed number of mombers."

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.97)
6
Article 12. As regards the. initial mombers of the
House of Councillors, in case a regular election takes
place before the enforccment of the Constitution of Japan,
they will become members of the House from the effective
date of the Constitution, and their term of office shall
be calculated as from that date; in case a regular election
takes place after the enforcement of thc Constitution
their term of office shall be calculated as from the date
of the said regular election.
(Additional Provision). This Law shall come into
force as from thc date of its promulgation.

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.95)
Annex
Electorel District
Number of Members
Tokyo Metropolis
8
Kyoto Prefccture
454624444442254
Osaka Prefceture
Kanagawa Prefecture
Hyogo Prefecture
Nagasaki Prefecture
Niigata Prefecture
Saitama Prefecture
Gunma Prefecture
Chiba Prefecture
Tbaragi Prefecture
Tochigi Profecture
Vara Profecture
Mie Prefecture
Aichi Prefecture
Shizuoke Prefecture
Yamanashi Prefeciure
2
Shiga Prefecture
242
Gifu Prefecture
Nagano Prefeeture
Miyagi Prefeeture
Fukushima Prefecture
4
Iwato Prececture
Aomori Prefecture
2
Yamageta Prefceture
Akita Profeeture
22
Fukui Prefecture
Ishikava Prefecture
Toyama Prelecture
2
Tottori Profecture
2244222262
Shimane PreSeeture
Okayana Pr fecture
Hiroshima Pr efceture
Yamaguchi Prefecture
Wakavama Prefecture
Tokushima Prefecture
Kagawa Pretacture
Ehime Prefocture
Kochi Prefceture
Fulauoka Prefccture
Oita Prefecture
Saga Prefecture
2
Kumamoto Prefecture
4.
Miyazaki Prefocture
2
Kagoshima Prefecture
40
Hokkaido District

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
Acc ompaniment to Desaptch No. 160 dat
from the Office of the United States Politieal
for Japan entitled "Rules and Election Laws, Japan
Diet".
General Headquarters
Supreme Commander For The Allied Powers
Government Section
THE LAW FOR THE ELECTION OF I EF BERS
OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
AS PASSED BY C2ND DIET

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
THE LAW FOR THE EL CTION OF MEMBERS
OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
The Election Districts
Article 1 - The members of the House of Representatives
shall be elected in each of the election districts. The
election districts and the number of members to be elected in
each district are set forth in the appendix to the present
law.
Article 2 - The voting districts shall be subject to the
limits of cities, towns and villages.
When the Commissions for Overseeing the Election of Mem-
bers of the Municipal, Town or Village Assemblies deem it
necessary, there may be established several voting districts
for one city, town or village.
In case voting districts are established according to
the preceding clause, the Commissions for Overseeing the
Election of Members of the Municipal, Town or Village Assem-
blies must immediately announce the fact.
In case any provisions of the present law are not ap-
plicable to districts established according to the second
clause of this article, special provisions may be enacted by
imperial ordinance.
Article 3 - The ballot-counting districts shall be sub-
ject to the limits of cities, towns and villages.
When the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Mem-
bers of the Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Over-
seeing the Election of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assemblies deem that there are special circumstances, there
may be established several ballot-counting districts for one
city or one ballot-counting district for several towns or
villages.
When the ballot-counting districts are established
according to the preceding clause, the Commission for Over-
seeing the Election of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly
or Commissions for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
District or Prefectural ssemblies must announce the fact
immediately.
In case any provisions of the present law are not ap-
plicable to ballot-counting districts established according
to the second clause of this article, special provisions may
be enacted by imperial ordinance.
Article 4 - When an alteration takes place in an election
district in consequence of a change in administrative bound-
aries, the members actually sitting for such district shall
retain their seats.
Voting Right and Eligibility
Article 5 - Any Japanese national who is over tventy
years of age shall have the right to vote.
Any Japanese national who is over twenty-five years of
age shall be eligible for election.
Article 6 - Any person who has been declared incompetent
or quasi-incompetent, or who has been condemned to penal servi-
tude or confinement and whose term of punishment has not been
completed or is yet to be executed shall neither have the
right to vote nor be eligible for election.
1

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.99)
2
Article 7 - Deleted.
Article 8 - The Commissioners for Overseeing the Election
of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly, Commissioners for
Overseeing the Election of Members of the District or Prefect-
ural Assemblies, and Commissions for Overseeing the Election
of Municipal Town or Village Assemblies, Voting Overseers,
Ballot-Counting Overseers and Chairmen of Election, and
officers and officials engaged in the management of affairs
pertaining to election shall not be eligible for election
within the limits of the jurisdiction of their respective
offices.
Article 9 - Judges, publie pracurators, government audi-
tors, revenue officials and police officers in active service
shall not be eligible for election.
Article l0 - Officials and those treated as officials
and officials of local public entities with the exceptions
hereafter listed may not combine their offices with member-
ship in the House of Representatives:
1.
Cabinet ministers.
2.
The Director General of the Cabinet Secretariat.
3.
The President of the Bureau of Legislation.
4.
Parliamentary undersecretaries of all ministries.
5.
Parliamentary Councillors of all ministries.
6.
Private. secretaries of the premier.
7.
Private secretaries of all ministries.
8.
Private secretaries to State Ministers.
Article 1l - Members of the Metropolitan, District, Pre-
fectural, and Municipal, Town or Village Assemblies may not
hold concurrent membership in the House of Representatives.
Electoral Lists
Article 12 - The Chairman of the Commissions for Over-
seeing the Election of Vembers of the Municipal, Town or
Village Assemblies shall investigate annually, as of the
fiftcenth of Soptember, al1 qualified persons who have been
domiciled for more than six months without interruption in
their respeotive localities and prepare a list thereof by
the thirty-first of October.
The oge of an elector shall be counted as of the date
when the electoral list is made final.
The persons disqualified under the rosidence requirement
provided in the first and the preceding clauses of this art-
icle may not be registered in the electoral list.
In the electoral list shall be entered the name, resi-
dence, and date of birth of each elector.
The terms of residenoe provided in the first and third
clauses of this article shall not be affccted by alterations
of the administrative boundaries.
Article 13 - Commissions for Overseeing the Election
of Members of Municipal, Town or Village Assemblies shall,
at their respective offices or at places they designate,
exhibit the electoral lists for public inspection for a
period of fifteen days commencing on the fifth of November.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.99)
They shall announce the place of exhibition at least
three days before inspection takes place.
Article 14 - When an elector discovers an omission or
wrong registration in the electoral list, he may demand that
a correction be made by giving to the Commission for Electing
Members of the City, Town or Village Assemblies written
corroborative evidence and the reason therefor.
Such a demand may not be made after expiration of the
period of exhibition.
Article 15 - Upon the receipt of a notice set forth in
the preceding article, the Commission for Electing Members
of the City, Town, or Village Assemblies shall examine the
reasons alleged and evidence adduced and shall give its
decision within twenty days from the receipt of such notice.
If it finds that the notice is correct it shall immediately
correct the elcctoral list, notifying the person who has
given the notice and other persons concerned and notify the
public at the same time. Then the notice is found to bo
incorrect a communication to that effect shall be made to
the person who has given the notice.
Article 16 - "hen cither the person who has given the
noticc or other persons concerned ore not satisfied with
the decision of the Commissions for Overseeing the Election
of Members of Municipal, Town or Village Assemblios made
according to the forogoing article, they may, within seven
days from the day on which they received the communication
of the said decision, institute a suit against the Chairman
of Commissions for Oversceing the Election of unicipal,
Town or Village Assemblies, in a district court.
No appeal is allowed to appelate courts against the
judgment of the district court mentioned in the preccding
clause but it is rermissible to bring an appoal to the
Suprene Court for revision.
Articlo 17 - The elcctoral list shall be considered
final on the 20th of Doccmber.
The list shall be kept until the 19th of December of
the following year. When, however, any correction is to
be mado in the list in pursuance of the judgment of a court
of law, the Commissions for Overseeing the Eloction of Mem-
bers of Municipal, Town or Village Assemblios shall at once
make the said correction and shail publish the fact.
A new electoral list shall be compiled whenever a
natural calamity or any other unavoidable circumstance may
require it.
The compilation of the olcctorel list according to the
foregoing clause and the date thereof, and the date and
duration of exhibition for public inspection and for final
determination of the list shall be dctermined by Imperial
Ordinance.
Elcction, Votes and Polling Placcs
Article 18 - Tho date of a general eloction shall be
the day following the expiration of a torm of members of
3

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
4
the House of Representatives. However, when there are
peculiar circumstances an eloction may be held within five
days after a term has expired.
When a term oxpires while the National Diet is in
session or within twenty-five days aftor the closing of the
session, tho general clection shall take placc not loss than
twenty-six nor more than thirty days after the close of the
session.
The date of a general clection shall be proclaimed at
least twenty-fivo days beforehand.
Article 19 - Election shall be by ballot. Each clcctor
shall cast one ballot only.
Article 19-2 - Affairs pertaining to tho elcction of
Members of tho House of Representatives shall be taken charge
of by the Commission for Oversccing the Elcction of Mombers
of the Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Oversecing
the Election of the District or Prefectural Assemblies.
Tho Commission for Ovorsccing tho Election of Mombors of
the Metropolitan Assombly and Commissions for Oversecing the
Election of Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblios
shall direct and suporvise the Commissions for Oversecing the
Elcction of Members of Municipal, Town or Village Assomblies
with regard to affairs pertaining to tho clection of members
of tho House of R prosentativcs.
Article 20 - Voting Overscers shall be selected and
appointed by the Commissions for Oversccing the Eloction of
Members of tho Municipal, Town or Village Assomblies, from
among those who have the right to vote for election.
Voting Overseers shall take charge of affairs pertaining
to voting.
Article 21 - The polling-place shall be the city, town,
or village office or place designated by the voting overseer.
Article 22 - The voting overseer shall announce the
polling-place at least five days previous to the date of
election.
Article 23 - The polls shall be opened at 7 o'clock a.m.
and be closed at 6 o'clock p.m.
Article 24 - Each candidate may appoint a person with
his consent to act as a voting witness from among those
registered in the electoral list of each voting district
and report his choice to the voting overseer at least two
days before the date of election.
When the number of the persons whose selection has been
reported in accordance with the provisions of the preceding
clause (excluding one whose selection has been reported by
a candidate who subsequently thereto has died or withdrawn
his candidacy, which proviso is hereinafter omitted) does
not exceed ten, they shall ipso facto become voting wit-
nesses. In case their number exceeds ten, they shall elect
ten voting witnesses from among themselves.
The election mentioned in the preceding clause shall
be effected by vote, and persons who have obtained the larger

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
number of votes shall be voting witnesses. In case an equal
number of votes are obtained the decision shall be made by
lot by the voting overseer.
The election mentioned in the second clause of this
article shall be held on the day preceding the date of
election.
The place and date of the election mentioned in the
second clause of this article shall be publicly announced
by the voting overseer beforehand.
When the candidate has died or withdrawn his candidacy,
the voting witness whose selection has been reported by him
shall cease to function as such.
In case the voting witnesses appointed according to the
second clause of this article are fewer than three in number
or there are fewer than three witnesses present at the time
of the opening of the polls, the voting overseer shall fill
the vacancies from among the persons registered in the
electoral list of the voting district, notifying the persons
so appointed and cause them to be presont at the polls.
A voting witness shall not vacate his office without
valid reason.
Article 25 - On the day of elcction electors shall come
in person to the polling-place and vote, after identifying
themselves as the persons whose names are on the electoral
list.
In case the voting overseer cannot identify a person who
is about to vote he shall require him to declare on oath his
proper identity. Unless this declaration is made, such a
person shall not be permitted to vote.
Article 26 - The ballot shall be given to each elector
at the polling-place on the day of voting.
Article 27 - Every elector shall enter by himself the
full name of one candidate in a ballot at a polling place
and cast it into a ballot box.
An clector shall not write his own namc on the ballot.
Article 28 - Writing upon the ballots with Braille as
specified by Imperial Ordinance is permitted.
Article 29 - No person other than those entered on the
eloctoral list shall be capablo of voting. Should, however,
any one come to the voting-place on the day of election
bringing with him a writ of decision entitling him to have
his name entered on the clectc al list, the voting overseer
shall allow him to vote.
Article 30 - henever a porson registered on the
electoral list does not possess the qualifications for
registration or the right to vote on the day of the clection,
such person may not voto.
The foregoing provision shall apply to those persons
who cannot thomselves write the names of the candidates they
wish to vote for.
5

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
6
Article 3l - The voting overseer after oonsulting the
voting witnesses decides whether or not to allow a vote to
be cast.
In case an elector is dissatisfied with the decision
mentioned in the preceding clause, the voting overseer
shall allow him to vote provisionally.
An clector shall place his baflot in an envelope and
seal it and deposit it in the ballot box after writing his
name on the envelope.
The provisions of the foregoing two clauses shall apply
to an elector objected to by any of the clcction witnesses.
Article 32 - "hon the timo for closing the polls
arrives, the voting overseer shall declare tho fact and
closo the entrance of the polling-places; he shall close
the ballot-box as soon as clectors present in the polling
place havo finished voting.
After the closing of the ballot-box no voting shall be
allowed.
Article 33 - For electors who certify the impossibility
of personal attendance at a polling-place on the day of
election owing to circumstanccs recognized by imperial
ordinance, special provisions may be enacted by imperial
ordinancc, notwithstanding the provisions of Articlcs 25.
26, the first clause of Article 27, the proviso of Article
29 and Article 31.
Article 34 - The voting over cer shall kecp minutes in
which all matters relating to the voting shall be entered
and which he and the witnesses shall sign.
Article 35 - The voting ovcrsecr, excopt when he is
also a ballot-counting overscer, shall, in company with ono
or more witnesses, send on the day of clection the ballot-
box, the minutes of the voting, and the clectoral lists to
the counting overseer.
Articlo 36 - In the case of an island or other place
where means of transportation do not permit sending the
ballot-box within tho time mentioned in the preceding
article, the Commission for Overseeing the Elcction of Mom-
bers of the Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Over-
seeing the Election of Members of the District or Pre-
fectural Asscmblies may fix a convenient date for voting
and cause the ballot-box, minutes of the voting and the
electoral lists to be sent by the timo of counting the votes.
Article 37 - hen, owing to natural calamity or other
unavoidable circumstances, it is found to be impossible to
carry out the voting or it is necessary to tako a fresh vote,
the voting overseer shall givo notice to that offcct to the
Commission for Oversceing the Elcction of Members of the
Motropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Oversecing the
Election of Mombers of the District or Prefectural Assemblics
through the chairman of clection. In such a case tho Com-
missions shall cause the voting to be carried out by fixing
a new date which shall be proclaimed at lcast five days
beforehand.
Article 38 - In case clcctions are to be held according
to Article 75 or 79 simultancously, one combincd clection
shall take place.

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
Article 39 - No elcctor is undor obligation to state
to any person the name of the candidate for whom he votod.
Article 40 - The voting overseor shall maintain order
at the polling-place and may, in casc of necessity, ask the
assistancc of the police.
Article 41 - with the excoption of clectors, persons
attending to the business of the polling-place, officials
who aro authorized to oversec the polling-place, and police
officials, no person is allowed to onter the poiling-place.
Article 42 - When at the polling-place, any person
makes a specch, cngages in discussion, causes an uproar,
holds a conferoncc or uscs persuasion as to voting, or othor-
wise disturbs the order of the polling-place, the voting
overscor shall caution him and if the caution is disregarded,
shall cause him to leave the polling-place.
Articlc 43 - A person who has boen compollcd to leave
a polling-placo in accordance with the foregoing article,
may be allowed to voto cither at the ond of tho voting or
earlier if it is deomed by the voting overscer that there
is no dangor of tho polling-placo being disturbed thereby.
Counting of Ballots and Counting-Office
Article 44 - Ballot-counting Ovorscers shall be sclccted
and appointod by thc Commissions for Ovorsccing tho Elcction
of Mombers of the Municipal, Town or Village Assomblios from
among thoso who havo the right to voto for clcction.
Ballot-counting Ovorsecrs shall takc charge of affairs
portaining to tho counting of ballots.
Article 45 - The counting-office shall be ostablished
in the city, town or villago office or at the place appointed
by the counting overseer.
Article 46 - The counting ovorseer shall announce the
dato of thg counting beforchand.
Article 47 - The provisions of Article 24 shall be
applicd to the counting witnesses of the counting-office.
Articlo 48 - Tho counting of ballots shall be offected
on the day of voting or on the day immodiately following (in cas
more than one voting district cxist within one vote-counting
district, on the day when all the ballot-boxes have been re-
ccived or on the day immediately following).
Article 49 - The counting overscer shall, in the prosence
of the counting witnosses, oxamine the votes coming under
soctions 2 and 4 of Article 3l and shall dccidc as to their
acceptability after consulting the counting witnesscs.
Tho counting overscor, with the counting witnesses,
shall cxamino the ballots for cach polling district.
As soon as the examination of the ballots has bcen fin-
ished, the counting overseer shall report the result immodi-
atcly to tho chairman of cloction.
7

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.99)
8
Article 50 - The electors are entitled to request per
mission to inspect the counting at the respective otfices.
Article 51 - The validity of ballots shall be decided by
the counting overseer after consulting the counting witnesses.
Article 52 - The votes mentioned below shall be invalid:
1. Those for which a regular bellot has not been
used.
2.
Those on which the name of a person other than
a candidate is inscribed.
3.
Those on which the names of two or more candi-
dates are inscribed.
4.
Those on which the name of a person disquali-
fied for election is inscribed.
5.
Those on which ther matters in addition to
the name of a candidate are inscribed. But
this rule does not apply to those on which
the profession, status, residence, or honor-
ifics are entered.
5。
Those on which the name of the candidate is
not written by the voter himself.
7。
Those by which it is impossible to ascertain
which candidate is meant.
8.
Those on which the name of a person who is a
member of the House of Representatives is
inscribed.
The preceding 8th item is applicable only
to an election held in accordance with the pro-
visions of Article 75 or 79 of the present law.
Article 52-2. Delete.
Article 52-3. Delete.
Article 53 - Ballots shall be sorted into lots that are
valid and those that are void and shall be preserved by the
Commissions for Overseeing the Election of embers of the
Municipal, Town or Village Assemblies.
Article 54 - The counting overseer shall make the count-
ing minutes, in which all matters relating to the ballot-
counting shall be recorded, and shall affix his signature
thereto together with ballot-counting witnesses.
The counting minutes and voting minutes shall be pre-
served during the term of office of the members elected, by
the Commissions for Overseeing the Municinal, Town or Village
Assemblies.
Article 55 - In the counting of ballots a new election
held in case a part of an election is declared invalid, the
validity of ballots shall be ascertained.
Article 56 - The provisions of Article 37 shall, with
the exception of the proviso,, be applied mutatis mutandis
in the courting.
Article 57 - For the control of counting-offices the
provisions of Articles 40 to 42 shall be applied mutatis
mutandis.

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.98)
. Election Meeting
Article 58 - The Chairman of Election shall be seleoted
and appointed by the Commission for Overseeing the Election
of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly or the Commission for
Overseeing the Election of Members of the District or Pre-
fectural Assemblies.
The Chairman of Election shall take charge of affairs
relating to the election-meeting.
Article 59 - The election meeting shall be held at the
Metropolitan or prefectural office or at a city office or a
place designated by the chairman of election.
Article 60 - The chairman of election shall announce the
place and date of the election mecting beforehand.
Article 61 - The provisions of Article 24 shall be
applied correspondingly to the election witnesses.
Article 62 - The chairman of election shall hold the
election mecting in the prescnce of the clection witnesses
on the day when or the next day after the reports provided
for in the third section of Article 49 are received from all
counting overseers and shall examine the reports.
In case a part of an clection was invalid and a new
.election has been held, the chairman of election, on receipt
of the report under tho third section of Article 49, shall
hold an election meeting and examine it together with other
reports.
Article 63 - The clectors are entitled to request ad-
mission to the clection meeting of their respective districts.
Article 64 - The Chairman of election shall make the
clection minutes, in which all matters relating to the
election meeting shall be rocorded and shall affix his
signature thereto togother with clection witnesscs.
Tho clection minutes, together with the documents
relating to the reports mado under Article 49, paragraph 3,
shall bo prosorved by the Commission for Ovorseeing the
Elcction of Members of the Motropolitan Assombly or Commis-
sions for Oversecing the Election of Mombors of the District
or Prefectural Assemblies, during the torm of ofcice of the
members elected.
Articlc 65 - The provisions of Articlo 37 shall, with
the excoption of tho proviso, be applicd correspondingly to
the elcction meeting.
Article 66 - For the contrel of the elcction mocting
the provisions of Articles 40 to 42 shall be applied
correspondingly.
Candidates and Porsons Elccted
Article 67 - A person who desiros to bo a candidate
shall so notify thc chairman of eloction betwecn the date
when the dato of clection is proclaimed and the seventh day
before the date of clection.
Whon a porson whose name is registered in the clectoral
list desires to name a candidato othor than himsolf, he may
make the recommondation with the consont of the candidate
during the peried set forth in the preceding clausc.
9

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.97)
10
In case the number of candidates named during the period
stated in thc two preceding clauses excceds the numbor of
members to be elected, when candidatos die after the poriod
stated or withdraw candidacy, notice or recommendation of
candidatos may bo mado according to the two preccding clauses
by the second day previous to tho date of election.
A person who has becomc a candidato in one election
district shall not notify his candidacy or approve the
notification recommending him as a candidato in another
clcction district.
A candidato may not withdraw his candidacy without
notification to tho chairman of clcction.
On roccipt of notice under tho third paragraph and the
proceding paragraph of this articlo or on the death of a
candidato tho chairman of clection must immediatoly publish
the facts.
Article 68 - The person who desires to onter for candidacy
or who desires to rocommond a candidato shall deposit 5.000
yon in cash or national bonds of the same face value for cach
candidato.
The deposit mado in accordancc with the preceding clause
shall bolong to the government in case the total votes for
the candidato aro less than one-tonth of the number of the
valid votes obtained by rospectivo candidates divided by the
number of members to bo clectod in that clection district.
The provisions of the prcceding clause shall be applied
to candidates who withdraw within ten days of the date of
clection, unloss such withdrawel is due to loss of cligibility.
Articlo 69 - The candidate vho has cbtained the greatest
number of valid votes shall be declared  lret a. However,
the number of votes btained shall aot he loss thon ono-
fourth of the totel pumher of the votes, obteined by ros-
pective candidates, divided by tho numher of members to be
clected from the district.
In aoterminira te porson petrd, ia vas the number
of ballcts ontained by the candidat's is the sames and the
choico is dotermaned by lot, the chairman or cleetion shall
hold a drawing at the cloction mocting.
In case the person clected mey be deteroined without
holding a now clection in conscquence of a suit instituted
under Articics 81 or 83, the porson clocted shall be determined
at an eloetion mecting.
When a person olectcd cither dcclines the election or
dios or when his clcction has been invalidated according to
the provisions of Articlo 70, tho porson clocted shall be
determined immediatoly at an clcction meoting from among
those persons who have obtained the quota mentioncd in the
proviso of tho first section of this article but have not
boen cleeted.
When any of tho causes mentioned in Articlo 75, paragraph
1, Itoms 5 and 6, has occurred during the poriod stipulated
in Article 74 and thero are porsons who have obtained such
number of votos as mentioned in the proviso of paragraph 1,
or when such a case has occurred after the expiration of the
poriod and, there are persons who have obtained votos and to
whom the provisions of paragraph 2 are applicable, an clection
mocting. shall be hold to detormine the porson clocted from
among the above mentioned porsons.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.97)
In applying the foregoing threo scctions, a porson votod
for who comes under the first clause and was not clected shall
not be declared clccted in caso he has been disqualified for
clection after the ate of the elcction.
If the total aumber of votos cast was 3,300,000, the
number of vacancics l0, and the loading candidato reccived
70,000 votes, ho would rotain his deposit, but he would not
be clccted to the Diet, because tho rcquisite minimum is
3,300,000 divided by 10 div1dcd by 4 = 82, 500. If the
number of candidates, as compared with vacancies, is very
largo and the vote widoly scattored among the candidates,
it might happen thnt nono would bo clected and a new oloction
would be neoded.
Articlo 70 - In clcction shall be invalidatod when the
person clected is isqualified for clcction after the dato
thereof.
Article 71 - In case tho number of candidatcs notified
according to tho rovisions of soctions ono to thrce of
Article 37 does net excced tho number of mombers to bo clected
from a district, 1o clcction shall be held.
hen it is unnccossary to hold an clcction according to
the provisions of tho proceding clause the cheirman of
clection shall so notify tho voting overscer, the Commission
for Oversecing thc Eloction of Members of the Motropolitan
Assemblios or Conmissions for Ovorsccing the Elcction of
mombers of the D strict or Profcctural Assomblios and the
clcctors.
On receipt of such notice the voting ovorsoer shall
publish the fact immodiatoly.
In the cireumstanccs indicated in tho first clauso of
this articlc, tio chairman of clection snali hold an clection
meeting within five days. previous to the date of clection and
determino the candidatcs as clocted.
In such cases the chairman of election shall dctermine
the validity of the qualifications of the candidaces after
consulting the clcction witnesses.
Articlo 72 - When a candidate's elcction has been de-
termincd, the chairman of clcction shall at once inform the
person clocted and at the same timc shall publish the names
of the persons clectod and also shall report the minutes of
the clection, such as the names of and the number of votes
obtained by the persons clected, and the total number of
votos for cach person, cte. to tho Commission for Ovorsccing
the Eloction of mombers of the Motropolitan Assembly or Com-
missions for Oversccing the Eloction of Mombors of tho District
or Prefcctural Assomblios.
The chairman of clcction shall immodiatoly publish and
give notico of the fact to tho Commission for Oversccing the
Elcction of mombers of the Motropolitan Assombly or Commissions
for Oversecing tho Election of Mombers of the District or
Prefectural Assemblios whon thero is no person clected or the
number of persons clected is loss than the number to be
elocted.
11

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.97)
12
Article 73 - Upon rcccipt of notico of clection, ovory
porson clccted shall notify the Commission for Oversceing
tho Elcction of Mombers of tho Motropolitan Assembly or
Commissions for Oversccing tho Election of Members of tho
District or Profcctural Assomblics whother or not he accepts.
Articlo 74 - Those porsons clccted who have failed to
givc noticc of accoptanco within ten days from tho day on
which they reccived notice of cloction shall bo considered
to have declincd clcction.
Articlo 75 - In any of tho following circumstances tho
Commission for Oversccing thc Election of Mombers of the
Motropolitan Asscmbly or Commissions for Ovorsoeing tho
Election of Mcmbers of the District or Profoctural Assemblies
shall fix a date and hold a now clcction, announcing tho datc
thereof at least twonty fivo days beforo tho dato of clcction
oxcept when tho porsons olocted can bo determined without
carrying out a now cloction. This provision is not appli-
cablo when the date of clection is announccd owing to
circumstances other than the following or in accordance with
the provisions of the cighth scction of Article 79 concern-
ing one and thc samo person:
1.
In caso thero is no person clocted or the
number of persons clocted is loss than the
number to be clected.
2.
When the person clected declines tho election
or is dead.
3.
Then the porson clected loses the clection
according to provisions of Articlo 70.
4.
"hen there is no person clected or tho number
of porsons cloctod doos not come up to the
roquircd number in conscquenco of a suit
instituted according to the provisions of
Articlcs 81 or 83.
5。
When an clcction is invalidated as the result
of a suit instituted according to Articlo 84.
6。
When an clection is invalidated according to
the provisions of Article 136.
An clcction'montioned in the preceding clause may not
be held during the period alloved for filing a suit under
the provisions of Article 81 or 83, or until the sottloment
of judgment in a casc in which a suit has boen filed.

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.98)
The date of election to be hold in accordance with the "rirs
section of this article shall be within thirty (30) days after
the final day of the period allowed for filing a suit under the
provisions of Articlo 81 or 83; in case a suit has been brought,
it shall be within twenty (2o) days after the day on which the
Commission for Overseting the Election of Members of the Metro+
politan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the Blection of
tembers of the District or Prefectural Assembly received the
communication from the Chief Judge of the Supreme Court to the
offect that the suit is termineted or the communication made in
conformity with the second clause of article 86 or Article 143.
When any one of the circumstances mentioned in the first
section of this article has arisen within six months prior to the
end of the torm of a renrasontative, no election is held under
the first section of this erticle.
Artiole 76 - When a person elected has accepted election
the Commission for overseeing the Election of Members of the Metro-
politan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the Election of
Members of the District or Prefectural Assomblies shall at once
give him a certificate of election and publish his name, at the
same time reporting thereon to the inister of Home Affairs
through the Governor.
Article 77 - When an olection has bee" invalidated owin to
a suit instituted under Chapter 9 or to tho application of
Article 136, the Commission for Cversceing the Election of Members
of the Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the
Election of lembers of the District or Prefectur1 Assemblies
shall publish the fact immodiately.
Term of Memborship end Substitutional Election
Article 78 - The term of mombership shall be from the date
of a general election.
Article 79 - A substitutional olection shall not be held even
when a vacaney occurs among members until the number of vacancies
comes up to two in the same clcction district. In th lceticn dis
trict, however, in which the fixed numher or mumb rs to b slceted
is two (e) the substantir 1 oleetion shall be held when a vopancy
has occurred.
In case a vacancy occurs among members the Minister of Home
Affairs shall notify the Commission for Overseeing the Election
of Members of the Metropolitan Assombly or Commissions for Over-
seeing the Election of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assemblies concerned within five days from the dats of his receipt
of the notification thereon from the President of the House of
Representatives.
On receipt of such notification the Commission for Oversecing
the Elcction of Members of the Yotropolitan Assembly or Commissions
for Overseeing the Election of Mombers of the District or Prefec-
tural Assemblies shall communicate it immediately to the chairman
of election when a candidate who obtainad the guota required under
the proviso of the first paragraph of Article 69 but wasanot elest-
ed is available, in the case of a vaoancy which occurs during the
period mentioned in Article 74; or when there is a candidate to
whom the second paragraph of Article 69 has been applied but was
not electod, in the case of a vacaney which takes place after the
period has elapsed.
The chairman.of election shall determine the person elected,
applying the provisions of sections four to six of Article 69,
within twenty (20) days from: thc datc of notification under the
preceding section.

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.99)
On receipt of notification under section two of this
the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
Metropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the Election
of Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblies unless the
third section herein of this article is applied or the date of
the election has been published according to the provisions of
Article 75 concerning one and the same person, shall wait until
the number of vacancies reaches one-fourth of the number of
members to be elected in the election district concerned; it
shall hold a substitutional election within thirty (3o) days of
receipt of the final notification under section two of this
article.
In case an election prescribed in Paragraph 75 is held in
the election district in which the fixed number of members to be.
elected is two, or in case the number of vacancies is two in
another election district, but an election is to be held under
Article 75, a substitutional clection shall, in spite of the
provisions of the first and fifth clauses of this article, be
held in parallel with the said eloction, unless the Commission
for Overseeing the Election of Members of the District or Pre-
fectural Assemblies have received the notification under the
second clause of this article after the date of election was
announced in accordance with the provisions of Article 75.
The date of the substitutional elcction mentioned in the
preceding clause shall be fixed in accordance with the rules of
the date of election under Article 75.
The date cf a substitutional elcction shall be announced at
least twenty-five (25) days before the election by the Commissions
for Overseeing the Electicn of Members of the Metropolitan
Assembly or Commissicns for Overseeing thc Election of embers
of the District or Prefectural Assemblies.
The provisions of sections two to four of Article 75 shall
be applied to a substitutional clection.
Articlc 80 - A member elected by substitutional olection
shall serve out the term of his predecessor.
Law-Suits Arising Out of Elcctions.
Article 81 - An elector or a candidate who entertains an
objection to the validity of an election may institute a suit
against the Chairman of the Commission for Oversoeing the Election
of Members of the Metropolitan Assembly or of the Commission for
Overseeing the Election of Mombers of the District or Prefectural
Assemblies in the High Court within thirty days after the date of
election.
Article 82 - When the legal provisions governing elections
are violated, the ccurt shall declare the clection void cither
in whole or in part if such violation is judged likely to affect
the returns.
In a suit instituted under Article 83, when the election is
adjudged to fall under the preceding section, the court shall
declare the clection void either in whole or in part.
Articlo 83 - When a candidate who has failed of election
questions the validity of the election of a porson elected in
the same election district, he may institute a suit in the High
Court against the person elected within thirty days from the date
of publication of the name of the person elected under sections one
and tvo of Article 72. But a suit shall be instituted against the
Chairman of the Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members
of the Metropolitan Assembly or of the Commissicn for Overseeing

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
the Flection of Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblies;
on the ground that the requirement imposed in the proviso of
section one of Article 49 has been obtained or on the ground that
the eloction does not obide by section six of Article 49 or by
Article 70, or on the ground that the decision made under section
five of Article 71 is illegal.
When a suit is instituted according to the preceding section
and the person elected dies before the decision is made, such
suit shail be reinstituted against the public procurators.
Article 84 - An elector or a candidate who claims that an
election is invalid under Article ll may institute a suit against
the person elected in the High Court within thirty days after
notification under section one of hrticle 72.
Article 84-2 - "hen a public rocurator deems an el ction
to be invalid under the provisions of Article 136 on the ground
of tho person accused for the offences under Article 112 or 113
having been the clection manager or the person who was not the
lection manager but actually managed election campaigns, he shall
in parallel vith the public action, bring a lavsuit against the
person elected.
Article 85 - In th trial of election cases instituted under
the provisions of Article 81, 83 or the first section of the
preceding article the court shall require the public procurator
to attend the proceedings.
Article 86 - Wh n  suit is instituted under the provisions
of Article 81 or 3 the Chief Judge of the High Court shall
inform the Yinistor of Home Affairs and the Commission for Over-
se ing tho Election of Members of the District or Prefectural
Assemblies concorned through the Governors concerned, as well as
when the suit is terminated.
When a litigation has come not to bo attonded to under the
first clause of Article 84 or uhon a judgront passed comes into
force of the suit instituted under the second clause of the same
article, the president of the law court shall notify the fact to
the Linister of Home Affairs and the Commission for Oversceing the
Election of Membors of the Matropoliten Assembly or Commissions
for Overseoing the Election of Membors of the District or
Prefectural Assemblies concerned thr ough the Governors concerned.
When e judgment is given to th suit instituted under
Article 81 or 83 or the first section of Article 84 or when a
judgment passed comes into offoct of the suit instituted under
the second clause of Article 84, the prosident of the law court
shall send a certified copy of the judgment to the Minister
of Home Affairs. In case the National Diet is in sossion, another
copy shall be sent to the chairman of the House of Ropresentatives
Article 87 - The plaintiff who instituted a suit under the
provisions of Article 81 or 83 or the first section of Article
84 shall deposit as security in thc court 3o0 yen in cash or
national bends of equal face value.
In case the judgmont is given against the plaintiff and
should he fail to pay the whole amount of the legal costs, within
seven days from the day on which the judgment was settled, the
security money shall be appropriated for the purpose and should
there still remain any deficiency the required amount shall be
charged to the plaintiff.

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.99)
16
The Election Campaign
Article 88 - Deleted.
Article 89 - No election office may be established by
persons other than a candidate or the person who recommends
à candidate (in case several persons recommend a person, their
representative).
When the person mentioned in the preceding clause has
established an election office, he shall immediately notify
the fact to the Commission for Overseeing the Election of
Members of the District or Prefectural Assemblies, as well
as when there is any change in the election office.
Article 90 - Only one election office may be established
for each candidate, but five or less election offices may be
established in accordance with Imperial ordinance.
Article 9l - The election offices shall not be established
within threc cho (about 360 yards) from voting places.
Article 92 - Resting-places or places of like character
shall not be established for the purpose of an election campaign.
Artacle 93 - Deleted.
Article 93-2 - Deleted.
Article 94 - When election offices are found to be estab-
lished contrary to the provisions of section one of Article 89,
the Comrission for Overseeing the Election of Members of the
Metropolitan Assembly or Comnissions for Overseeing the Election
of the District or Prefectural Assemblies shall immedictely order
such offices to close: this regulation is applicable similarly
when election offices are found to be established in eycess of
the number autherized under Article 90.
Article 95 - No election campaign shall be conducted
until the notice of recommendation of candidates under
Sections one to three of Article 67 has been made.
Article 96 - No persons shali conduct the election
campaign by making use of their positions specially related
to children, pupiis or students of schools under the age of
twenty (20).
Article 97 - Deleted.
Article 98 - No person shall carry on house-to-house
visiting for the purpose of obtaining vctes or of siding
or preventing the obtaining of votes.
Article 98-2 - Deleted.

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.97)
Article 99 - None of those mentioned in Article 8 shall
carry on an election campaign in the districts in which his
office is located.
Articlc 1o0 - The Minister of Home Affairs may establish
limitations by ordinance upon letters and pictures to be distri-
buted or posted in an clection campaign.
Article 100-2 - The Minister of Home Affairs may establish
limitations by ordinance upon such acts to re made with the object
of greeting electors, after the day of election, in connection
of candicates' success or failure in the election.
Election Eypenses
Art cle lol - à cand:dete shall appoint a person responsible
for the disbursenent of elcction eampaign expenses (hereinafter
referred tc as "resoonsible disburser"), providing however, that
this does not prevent a candidate from himself becoming a respon-
sible disburser, nor a person who has recommended a candidate
(in case there are several sueh perscns, their representative)
from appointing with approval of the said candidate a resp ns-
ible disburser or fron himself becoming a responsible disburser.
Article l0l, Para 2 shall be deleted.
A candidate may relieve a responsi le disburser of his
office by notice in writing. This rule shall epply in case a
person who has recomrended a cendidate and who has appointed a
responsible disburser, obtains the cand cate's epproval.
A resnonsible disburser may resign by notiee in writing to
the candidate and the person who anpointet him.
One who has appointed e rcsponsible disbuurser (including
one who has hir self become a responsible disburser) shall immed-
iately report the f ct of cppointrent to the Commission for
Overseeing the Election of Merbers of the Hetropolitan Assenbly
or Commissions for Overseeing the Election of Pembers of the
District er Prefectural Asscnblpes, to which the report under
the second section of Art"cle 89 was rare. The same rule shall
apply when a responsible da sburser has chonged.
One who acts for a responsibls disburser in accordarce
with the prov siens of Articl lol-? shall make a report in
pursuance of the instance mant sned n the precedins clause.
The same rule shull epely when one he  rusirned.
Artacle lol-? - When a resronseble cisburser is prevented
fron diseharging bis duti es, ons whe has apnointed hir shall
act for hip.
When ene who has recor monded a cs meidate and who has ap-
pointed a resuons ble disburser (ineludps one who has himself
become a responsible sisburser) s  lso prevented from discharg-
ing his cuties, the candamate shel? act for him.
Article lol-3 - The cxpenres of the slection campaign shall
not be paid out by any person other thar the responsible disburser
except the crpenses involved in the preparstion for cancidacy and
those paic out without any understand ng of the eandidates or
the responsible dishurser: however this rule shall not apply to
those who have obtained the written approval of the responsible
disburser.
Article l0l-4 - Any person who, not being the responsible
disburser, ha: received or accepted any receints relating to the
election campaign for a canaiuate for memberahip, shall immediate-
ly inform the responsible disturser ef the amounts, the kinds
and other items of the receipts; receipts relatins to
the election cempaign received or accspted prior to the

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.97)
notification of standing as a candidate shall be reported to
the responsible dishurser immediately efter the notification
of standing as a candidate has been made.
Article 102 - The expenses of the clection ca paipn for
each candidate shall not exceed th? amounts specified in the
followins items:
1. The amount obtained when the total number.of elect-
ors registered on the final electoral list, divided
by the numbor of members tc be clected in the elec-
tion district, is multiplied by the amount of money
fixed by ordinance.
2.
In case a part of an election is declared invalid
and : new clection is held, the emount obt ined
when the nurher of elcctors registered on the final
clectoral li:t of the district cencerned, divided
by the number of  omhers to be elected in the elec-
tion district concerned, is multiplied by the a-
mount of mnue. fixed hy ordinance.
3.
In case an clecnion is beld under Article 37, the
amount sh 1l be celculated in acco-dance with the
precsding iter; howeyer, this amount may be reduced
by the Commission for Oversceing the Election of
Mombers of the Yutropolitan Asserbly cr Commissions
for Ov socing the Eiection of Fembers of the Dis-
trict or Profectural Asser Jies when they deem it
necessary.
The Commission for Overcoeing the Election of Iembers of
the Metropolitan Ascembly or Con issions for Oversecing the
Election of Verhers of the District or Prcfoctural Assemblies
shall publish the emount determined upon under the preceding
section as soon as ths ds'e of electicn is proclaimed or not-
ified.
Article 103 - In case material cbli stions for an elec-
tion camnaign bave been reco nized or mate:jal henefits from
the use of hu  dinrs, ships, horses and vehicles, orinted
mattc., feod snd drink, etc., other than cash, have been re-
ceived, the oblicaticns or bonofits shall be co sidered ex-
penses of clectien at their market velues.
Article l04 - Amounts paid out for any of the following
purposes shall not he conaidered expenses of elcetion:
1.
Fer ships, horces, and vebieles used by a candidate.
2.
For the adjustrent of the remaining husiness of an
election carpaign after the datc of election.
3.
Expenses other than those which ere peid out by or
wiih the understanaing of the candidate for whom
notice has bean given under seetions one to three
of Article 67 or the respe sible dishurser.
4。
For the p  ration of the candidate other than
those paid out by or with the understanding of
the pe son whe has become the candidate or ras-
sponsihle disburser.
Article l04-2 - Roceipts relating to the election c mpaign
shall mean such money as has been received and accepted in or-
dor to meet the expenses fer the olection campaign.
In the case whore property oblirations have been exempt-
ed in order to reut the cxpenses for the election campaign
or where buildingr, ships, carr, printing matters, foodstuffs,
 other property intere ts except monoy have been obtained,
the obligations or interests, being estimated in current
prices, shall be regarded as receints relating to the elee-.
tion campaign.

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.92)
19
Article 105 - The responsible disburser shall, as pro-
vided for by an (rdinance, submit reports on the expenses
for the election camnaign and the receipts relating to the
clection cn paign to the Comission for Cverseeing the lec-
tion of erbers of the  etronoliten Assrmbly. or Commissions
for Cversecing the lection of the District or refectural
Assemblies.
rticle l06 - The repressntative or lecder of a political
party or any other orgenization hich recommends or supports
condidates. sh-ll in accordence vith ths orovisions of ordin-
once, renort the expenses of the election campaign and re-
ceiots relating to the election camprign to the Minister of
Home affeirs thicugh the Cormission for Cverseeing the lec-
tionof lembers of the : ctroooliten ssembly or Commissions
for Overseeing the lection of Mombers of he District or
Frotecturel ssombly, as the case rey , rccordins to the
locality of its rincinel office, if it recommends or sun-
rorts cendidntes in two or more Tetropoliten, District or
:ref ctur-1 arers or in n ere outside of the "etropolis,
District or : rafecture  here its orincinal office is loc-ted,
and, in other cnses  eport to the Con ission for Overseeing
the ml ctien of e hers of th  etropolitan Assembly or Com-
:issions for Cv rsesing the loc ion of Members of the Dis-
trict or Trefecturol sse bly es the cas ey be according
to the locclitv of its principel office.
The provisions of the rec ding os rasr ph shall apply.
mutatis mutancis to any local roneh of a political party or
any other orgenizotion which recorerends or sunports candidates.
irticle 1o7 - upen -eccint of the meport provided for in
the preccaing twe oro renhs, the Mini cter of Home Affairs or
the or mission for (verseeing the  lection of embers of the
etropol'tor scerhly or Gor issions for Cverseeing the Elec-
tion ef Members of the District or Frefectural Assemblies,
si 1l ate oublic the mein points of such meports in cccord-
rree vith the crevisions of ordinences.
Artiele 108 - The renorts unsar /rtieles 105 nd 106 sha11
be prererya during the torr of office of the members by the
 ini: tor of Tome ffeirs, the Comm ssion for (vereecing the
Ieetion of  orbers of th  etrcoolit n accerbly or Comrissions
for (verseeing the Blection cf Yeubons for the District or Pre-
tectural assemblies who hrve received thr cports.
Any porsen voy demanr inspodtion of such renorts, in ec-
certrnee vate the erovictens of crdiresees. rine thé period
meationed in the mrecedine peraarach.
Article lo8-? - The responsible disburser shall, in ec-
cordence with the provirions of or ine nces, keep none-books,
in vhich exronsos for the electien cruprign end receints re-
lrting to th- olectien corpeis shrll be recorded.
The responeibl aie ureer pboll prererve the beoks vnder
the preceding oarerrenk paf tre Cocuments s previded for in
Ordinances in resed te er enses for clee ion carpeign end re-
ceints relatins to elect on cr rig anuine the torm of office
of theTber.
Article 109 - In crse the resconsible disburser resigns
or is dinriesed, he must preoere an account of the expenses
for clcetion c naign on receints relating to election com-
n ithout delay for a new responrible cisburser or for the
orson who tokes over the duties of the responsible disburser
aonoint d under Article 1cl-2 when there is no pew respons-
ible disturser, ond he shall transfer it to him. This is ap-
olic bl: in cese c pew responeible.disburser is elccted after
the cuti s have becn tr isferred to e person  o hos taken

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.95)
20.
charge thereof under rticle 101-2.
article llo - In case the expenses of the election paid
out for a canidate exceed the emount specified in section
two of Article 102, the election of the candidate shall be in-
veli excet when the candidate and the person who has made
the recommondation have paid aue attention to the anpointment
nd supervision of the responsible disburser or the person who
trkes over the duties of the resnonsible disburser and there
can be found no fault in the exrenditure of carpaign funds on
the part of the responsible disburser or the person who takes
over hi: duties.
Chenter XII - Funitive Pules
/rticle. lll - Any person who has eff cted by fraudulent
process the insertion of his rere in the electoral list or
i hos w de  false dacloration under the second clause
of Artiele 25 shall be liable to a fine of not more than
1,"00 yen.
Article 1l2 - iny persen who has com itted an act falling
under any of the follouing heads shall be. liable to confine-
ment or venal cervitude for net more than three years or to
pay a fine of no" more thon 20, c00 yen.
1. When, ith she objoct of being elected, causing a
candidate  o be elected, or preventing him from be-
ing elected, roney, po is. or other presents or pub-
lic or private ervlovment has been given to en elec-
tor or to a c nvesser er vhe such gifts heve teen
provided.
2。
When, mith the object or being eleeted, censing a
candiss:e te be elected, or preventing him frem be-
ing elacted, irrigation, tenoncy, c dit, contribu-
ticas, or other ms tters of cirect interest to an
elector or canvesser is interested have been taken
edvantege of in persuading an elector or canvasser.
3.
hen, in eonnaction with an election, anything ren-
tiened in the first heed of this article has been
corried to en electer or a convosser for the purpose
of comnensation for votine or carrying on an election
compaien or for decliming to do either or for ccavas-
siny or percuedinr cthens.
4.
When, in connection with or elaction, a voter has re-
ceived or enarfed offers, or pccented oroposals of
presents or ontarteinr ents mertiined in the first or
the precoding clcuse of this rticle or yielded to
persuasion or asked for sueh foras of assistonce as
are mertioned in the recond item.
5。
Then, ith the ebjeet of ind cing the acts mentioned
in Ite s one to throe, a person has mede, proposed
or promised offers of money or ccods to election can-
vacsers; or hen :r lection carvasser has received,
demended or recertud cuch offers.
6。
hen in connection with en election, a person has act-
ed to persurde or mediate bot een others concerning
the acts rentioned in the preceding items.
Such public officer or official as mentioned in Article 8
engeged in motters. pertairing to an election who has committed
a crime falling in cne of the itens of the preceding clause in
connection vith the election in question shall b: liable to
confinerent or penal servi tude for not more thar four years or
to pay fine of net more than 30,00o yen. This rule shall
apply to the police officer who h's committed similer crimes in
connection vith the election in the Metropolis or orefecture
concerned.

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.93)
21
trticle 112 - - A person who has committed one of the fol-
lo ing ncts shall be liable to confinement or enal servitude
for not more than five years.
1. When, "ith the object of cbtaining material bene-
fits,  person h-s, on behalf of a candidate, com-
mitted g inst c lrrge number of voters or election
convassers, or caused them to commite one of the acts
mentioned in Iters one to three, five or six of the
first clause of the precediny crtiele.
2. Then, with the object of s ining matericl benefits,
a porson has, on behalf of a crndidate, undertaken
to comrit g inst a lorge number of electors or
election conv ssers, coussd them to undertake to
commit, or m de propos-ls therefor, one of the
acts me: tione: in Itcms one to three, five or six
of the first clause of the r ccding erticle.
This rule shall aooly in cose a verson, who hes committed
one of the o"fenses monticned in Tiers one to three, five or six
is  hrbituel offender.
Article J13 - Those vho come unaer any of the following
be ds shall be licble to confinement or enal servitude for
not more thon four yerrs or to oey  fine of not more then
30,000 yen.
1. : Those who have eifered the edvantages mentioned in
the first pd secoud jiems of the first section of
'rticle lla to  cancidr te er to  person, who con-
templetas becuning  candidase, for the purpose of
dissusding hin frer cndid cyy or to an elected per-
son for the purnore of persuading him to decline the
election.
2.
Thore vho hrve ccted as mentioned in the first item,
of the first ccction of Article ll2 for the purpose
of compensating  conaidote for teving vithdrawn
his c haid-ey or b comine a crndidate or  person
elected for h ving daclincd election, or for heving
redirted or pursu ded vith the sene objects.
3。
Those whe heve xeceived or cemerded effers or
entort inrerts unsor the twe prce dine seetions or
have aceeoted a pronorel urder the seeond scction
or h ve r reed to er soupht persu sion under the
first soction.
4.
There vho ave cted to  di ao betmen or persurde
othurs in rel: tion to the acts mentioned in the pre-
cedin soctions.
co officer or cfficial rs rentioned in erticle & in cherge
of metters pert inine to an election whe has committed one of
the cri es mentioned in th pr c cing clcuse in connection
with the clection in rurstion is li ble to co fine ent or
penel cervituce for more then five yoors or to o fine
of not rore than 4o,coo yon. The sme rule shall napply to
those police of icurs who boye cormittca simil r crimes in
conn ction with the lcction in the etropolis or pref cture
ccne rhed.
Article ll4 - Aay crticles or benefits reccived in conse-
quence of rctions orur rated in the three preceding articles
shrll be confiseat d: if confisertion in whole or in part is
imporsibl, supplcuantary compensrtion shrll be coll cted.
Ayticle ll5 - Those who foll un'er cny of the following
heads shr ll b: lirbls to confinument or cenal servitude for
not more ther four yoors or to pey o fine of not more than
30,000 yen:

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.93)
Those who, in connect:on with an election, subject
to cn act of violence or to intimidation, or anduct
an elector, a candidate, s would-be candid: te, a
canvasser, or an electeć person.
2.
Those who obstruct freedom of movement, meetings
or speeches or whc by fraudulent or ot er unfeir
reans obstruct the exercise of the right of elec-
tion.
3.
Those who, in connection with an election, take
c'v nt ge of irrig tion, tenancy, cr dit, contri-
butions or other interests of en elector, candid-
ate, woulc-be coprjdrre, canv-sser, or elected
porson; er of  s rime, te ple, school, company,
grild. or civ: c corpor tien in which such persons
ere inter ste, ane thuerten ao elector, ca didate,
rould-b candi ete, c ny sser, or elected person.
rticlc l16 - he in connection ith rn election a gov-
ornment or ublic a tity, ofrici:l ou tlose mentioned in Art-
icle   ve vilfrlly meglected to disrh rge trair duty or have
obs rur *ed  e ex rcise cf the rie t of el ction by the abuse
of sheir cutbority, tr: cing canaid ter or election convessers,
or in rrding into hoir housee or elcction ffices without
cny jurtifieble rercen, they shell be lirble to confinement
for not more than four verrs.
 sovernmant or oublic ntity officiel or those mentioned
in rticle & ho re u sts n elector to reveal the name of the
condideso for v om he insends to vote or has voted she ll be
sentenced to minor conft erent for not nove then six months
or to ey a fine of net more than 3, C0o yen.
rticle l17 - her  officer o o ficinl cs mentioned
in vticle 8, itresr or o eyeser crnrected with the election
has rove 1 d the me of c nrjae es vo ed for by electors, he
shall b li ble to minor confine ent for not more then two
year or to y  ine ef net ore than lo, ooo yen. The some
oneltics shell popl in crses of felse reoresertrtion of
voes ccst.
irticle ll" -  on, vatl sut ny justifiable cause, ay
person b s cithr t  olling-nl ce or  counting-plece. in-
te fersd ith the v tine of  elector or h s put into pr c-
tice ppy covice to siscever the me e of a nersen voted for,
be shell b li-ble to  tner confine ert for not move then one
yerr, or to ey  fine of no more son 5,oo you.
my person v o, centr ry to 1  and eeul sione, has op-
ened  bellot-box or h's re ov a  llote thorefrom shell be
li ble to minor cerfinepent or prel serv'tude for not more
then three ve rs or to pv fine of not more thn 2o, Cco yen.
rticle 1l9 - hoever hos conmi te violence gr inst or
the tened  votin ove sees, courtin overse r, chairmer of
electien, witness, or eleet on eversear, or has disturbed en
election recting, c untin -pl-ce or votins-pl ce, or has de-
t-ined, c- rged, or plundered ballo's or boilot-boxes or slec-
tion docunents sh ll be li:ble to  iror confinement or
ens1 rervitude for not more than four ye rs.
Article 120 - hoever hrs conmitted n offense mentioned
in the first section of article ll5 or in the prcceding orticle
by ssemblin  croud sh-ll br li ble to be pen lized s follows.
1. The princivel l nders shell be liable to confine-
ment or anal servitude for not less thre one year
and not more than seven years.

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.93)
23
2.
The locdors shall bo liable to confinement or nenal
servitude for not less than six months and not more
than five years.
3:
Whoover hos krovingly joined such  crowd. to edd to
its influonce shall be linble"to pay e fino of not.
rore than 1,000 yen:
Thouver hos knowingly formed a crowd or joined it in off-
ense agninst eny provision of the first section of Article 115
or op inst the nruecdins crticle end hes disoboyed more than
three timas the orders of the officers or officinis of the
clcction disconsing the crowd, sh ll be lieblc to pay  fine of
not "or thon 1o0 yen and the le-der sholl b linbic to minor
c finumont for no more thrn two years.
irticl: 121 - hen, in connection with cn clcction, who-
over usus  firoarm, sword, da ger, bludgcon, or other weapon
copoble of c using denth or injury, he shall b. liable to rinor
confinount for not mor than too yeors or to poy a fin of
notwcr. then 10,000 yen.
A unolice officinl may, henever it is judsed necessory,
suize my of the veapons ventioned in the preceding clcuse.
Articl 122 - Vhoover cat rs  plrce of elcction m cting,
caunting-pl ce c rrying any of the v opons mentioned in the
prco ding rticle sheli be li bl to miner cenfinement for not
mor then three yeons or to a fine of not wor. then 20, coc yen.
orticle 123 - In cose ny porsen hes off ndcd cprinst the
provisions m ntioned in th ve ue ins rticles, the wec-
pons carricd by him shall  confiseoted.
Article 124 - hoover, in connection with on lcction,
w s  disoley, such s sseubline a cred, cenducting a nro-
cession or porade, m kine use of fireworks, bonfires or tprch-
lights, be tine bells or drums or sounding conches or bugles
or r isine flrgs, etc., ond diereg rds the worning of police
officinls to step, sh-il be lirble to minor confinement for
not more theon six months or to a fine of not more then 3,0oo
yen.
article 125 - "hoever, vith the object of inducing bther
percons to conpit ny of the acts pentioned in Articles l12,
113, 115, 118-122, or the proccdine prticle, incites them by
meshe of speeches, "evsp ners, mag zines, cireulore, ol cprds,
etc. shrll be liable to minor confiner t for not Fore than
one ye  or to  fine of not nore thn 5, coo yen. Fi oviced
thet in cose o newsorpar or mzine is foun puilty of such
acts, the nerson resistered s the editor or who b s token
the pleee of an editor shall be lirble to the fores id punish-
C。
Article 126 - Whoever commits on offense under any of the
follouins items by re-ns of soeeches, newspapars, megozines,
circul rs, pl cords, etc., shrip be ji-ble to minor confine-
ment for not more th'n'two years or to  fine of not more thon
10,o00 yen. In cases involyin" nemsooners or magozines the
proviso of the precedin? rticle sall poly:
1. Whoever, ith the objact of beine elected or eaus-
ing  crndidote to be elected hos published folse
informction bout his rank, nosition, occupetion,
or cnrèer.
2..
Whoever h-s published false informetion cbout a
chndid-te with the object of preventing his elec-
tion.

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
24
shall be liable to minor confinemont for not more than one
year or te a fine of not more than 5,o00 yen.
Any person who has voted by fraudulently assuming the
name of another person or by other unfair means shall"be
liable to minor confinement for not mere than two years
or to a fine of not more than 10,000 yen.
Any person who has forged votes or manipulated votes
to affect their number shall be liable to minor confine-
ment or penal servitude for not more than three years or
to a fine of not more than 20,000 yen.
In case any officer; official as mentioned in Article
8 witness, or scrutineer has offended against the preceding
section, he shall be liable to minor confinement or penal
servitude for not more than five years or to a fine of not
more than 20,000 yen.
Artsale 128 - Should a witness fail to discharge any
f the duties provided in the present law without any just-
ifiable reason, he shall be liatle to a fine of not more
than 1,000 yen.
Article 129 - Any person who has offended against the
provisions of Article 95, 96 and 98 or has disobeyed the or-
ders made in accordance with the provisions of Article 94 is
liable to minor confinement for not more than one year or
to a fine of not more than 5,000 yen.
Article 130 - Any person who has established election
offices in excess of the number authorized in Article 90,
r who has offended against the provisions of Article 91
or has established resting-places or places of like charac-
ter, as described in Article 92, shall be liable to a fine
of not more than 3,000 yen.
Article 13l - A person who has offended against the
provisions of the first *lause of Article 89, Article 99
or Article 101-4, 105, 106 or 109 shal1 be liable to minor
onfinement for not more than six months or to a fine of not
more than 3,000 yen.
Article 132 - A person who has neglected to make re-
ports or to give noticos in accordance with the second sec-
ond soetion of Article 89 or the fourth or fifth clause of
-Articl lol shall be liable to a fine of not more than
1,900 yen.
Similar punishment shall be applie to a person who has
offended against orders issued in accordance with the pro-
visions of Article l00.
Article 1.33 - Deleted.
Article 134 - A person who has paid out expenses of
olection sontrary to Item three of Article lol shall be
liable to minor confinement for not more than one year or
to a find of not more than 5,000 yen.
Article l35 - Any person who commits an offense under
any of the following heads shall be lialle to minor confine-
ment for not more than six months or to a fine of not more
than 3,000 yen.
1. One who has neglocted to prepare or keep the books
provided for in Article 108-2, Para. 1 or has enter-
ed a false statement or. false account in the books.
2. One who, contrary to the first section of Article
108-2, Para. 2, has failed to preserve books or
documents.

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.97)
3.. Ono who h s entered a faise statement in the books
or documents to be preserved under the first cluuse
of Article 108-2, Para 2.
Article 136 - An elcction shall be invalid when, in connec-
tion the ewith, a crndidate hes offended arainst the provisions
of this chapter and been punished, or the person who controlled
and managed election ca paigns has heen punished for offending
ag inst the p ovisions of Articles 112 or 113 except when the
person elected h's taken proper care in the selection and super-
vision of the pe son who controlled and managed the election
campaigns, did not know the person as such, or the person in
quertion, in spite of refusal by the clected, did control and
manare the election campaign.
Article 137 - Any person who has been punished for offend-
iny ag inst any of tho provisions of this chapter, (except
thore of a ticles 130 and 132) shal1 be forbidden to exercise
the right to vote and the i t to be elected in an election
to vhich the provisions of this Cha pter apply mutatis mutandis,
for a period of five years efter the decision of the court, in
case he was sentenced to pay a fine; or in case he was sentenc-
ed to confinement or po-e sovere punishment, for the period
from the time when the decision of the court was riven until
his err of punishmcnt hes expired, or until he has been ex-
empted from execution of the sentence (except in case of a
sentence extinguished by preserintion) and another period of
five years imnedi tely follovi g. This rule shall also apply
for the period in case he was senterced to confinement or
more evere punishment, from the time when the decision of
the court was given until the tire when he is no lonper lia-
ble to execution of any sentenre.
In the cese of a person who has been punished for on offense
arainst any of the provisions of Article l12 or 113, or any of-
fonse to which these provisions a:e corres ondingly applied,
and who is a ain to be punished for an cffonse under Articlo
11? or l13, the erm of five years wentioned in the preced-
ing section shall be extended to ton years.
The court of law, in oxtenuatine circurstances, may,
while civin sentence to a person whose offense falis under
the provisions of the first clause of the article, declare
that the provisions of the same clause disquelifving him for
voting or eligibility for five years shall net be applied, or
that the tern be roduced, or, in the case of a pe can whose
offence falls under the provisions of the preceding clause,
that the term of ten years provided for in the same cleuse
be reduced.
Article 138 - For an offonse punishable acco ding to the
hird and fourth sections of Article l27 one year shall be con-
ide ed as the term of prescription.
For an offense punishable according to the provisions of
this chapter, other than those mentioned in the p cceding soc-
tion, six months shall be considored as the term of prescription,
oxceit when the offender has absconded, in which case one year
shall he considered as the term.
Article 138-2 - When Voting-Overseers, Ballot-Counting
Overseers or Chairmen of Elcction have co é to lse their
right to vote, they shall not remnin in such positions.
Chapter XIII - Supplementary ules
Article 139 - Election cxpenditures shall be fixed by
ordinance.
25

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.97)
26
Article 140 - A candidate or the person who has recom-
mended a candidato may send ten thousand (10,o00) ordinary
postcards for clection campairn per candidate freo of charge
as provided by ordinance.
In accordance with ordinance, schools or other buildings
which are designated by ordinance may be used for campaign
speeches.
The ca ctaker of the buildings montioned in thc preced-
inf section shall provide cquipment necessary for meetings
of specches in accordance with ordinance.
The Commission for Overseeing the Election of Members of
the letropolitan Assembly or Commissions for Overseeing the
Election of Fombers of the District or Pröfectural Assomblies
shall as provided for in Ordinance issuc pemphlets in which
nomes of candidates, their personal histo ies or other items
c e given.
The Commission for Oversecin: the Election of Members of
the lunicipal Toun, or Villagc Assemblies shall post up a
notice of the nancs of the candidates in accordance with ord-
inance.
Article 141 - In lnwsuits under the provisions of Article
16, 81 or 83, or the first sectior of A ticle 84, the example
of civil cases shell be followed with the exceptions provided
in this pcsent law.
Articlo 141-2 - with regard to the lawsuits under the
provisions of the second clause of Article 84 of the present
law, tho provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the
privaic lawsuits shall be applicable, excepting the provisions
of Items tio, three, five to eight and en to thirteon of
Articlc 572, A ticlo 574, 582, 598, 589, 591, 605-610 and
612, provided th t "the Code of Civil Procedure" and "the
Civil Departmont" shall read "the Co e of Criminal Proccdure"
and "the Criminal Depertment" respectively.
A judgment invalidating on lcction, uhich has beenipas-
sed for a suit brou ht under the provisions of the second
clause of Articlc 84, shall not cone into force, unless a
sentence of guiltiness has heen dccl red for tho public action
on the same case.
Article 14l-3 -  en  lawsuit has been instituted on an
cloction, the court of lav shall immedintely sit in judgment
notwithstondine the order of lawsuits on hand.
Articlo 142 - In respcct of criminal cases cnumerated in
Chapter XII of the present law, the court of rovision sh:ll
not he bound by the term provided in the first clause of Art-
icle 422.of the code of criminel procedure.
Article 143 - When, in connection with an clcction, an
olected pe son hes been punished fo offenses onumerated in
Chapter XII or the person who controlled and managed clection
car paigns has been punished for offending ogainst the provi-
sions of Anticle 112 or 113, the president of the court of
law shall notify the Hinistir of Hore Affairs ond the Commis-
sion for Oversccing the Election of Members of the Fetropoli-
ton Asserbly or Commissions for Ovcrseeing the Eloction of
Mombe-s of the Distriet or Prefecturel Assomblies concerned
through the governor of the  ctropolis, District or Prefoctu e
concerned.
Article 144 - In the epplic tion of the present law, a
corporation of touns or villages vhich tekes charge of the en-
tire office of towns or villeges or conducts affairs of the
town or villare, the Commission for Oversocing tho Flection
of Membors of the Corporation end Commissioners for the same

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.95)
or tho Commission for Cverseeing the lection of Overseers
of the Cornoration or the Commissioners for the same, as
the Commission for Cverseeing the lection of Membevs of
the Poun or Villcve Assemblies or the Commissioners for the
cane and the cornoration office as the town or villcge office.
The Commissions for Overseeing the lection of Town or
Villrte Heeds under. Article 38
the Town or Village System
Regulations ad the Corrissioners for the same shall be re-
grr ed as the Conmissions for Cv rseeing the Election of Mem-
bers of "oun or Villsge ssemblies or the Commissioners for
the same in the aoplication of this Lev.
Article 145 - For the preas of wor's of the Tokyo  etro-
polis end the Cities cnumerated in trticle 6 and the first
cl u.e of  rticl &2 of the Law on Municinalities, the pro-
visions concernins the cities, The Co mission for Cverseeing
the lection of  mbers of the unicipel ssemblies and the
Co irsioncrs for the sene and city offices in the present
law re aonlied to rrds, the Concissions for Cv rseeing the
lac tion of enbers of the W rd assomblies ene the Commissions
for the sove, or  he ard Com ission for versesing the Mlec-
tion of  or bers of the unicipal 'sscmblies and the Commissions
for the seme and vard offices res ecsivwely. Lowever, in ap-
plying the ovisions of  rticle 12, the "nersons who have
been donieilcd for more ther six montes without interruption
in their resnective locelities" shell be understcod as the
persons who have been omiciled for mo e than six months mith-
out interru tion in th area where the verds of the Tokyo  st-
ropolis exist, or in the citics of the Hetropolis, and ho ere
domiciled in the crds on thet day.
In e pl ce where there is no town or villege systen, the
provisions of the present lew relating to the Commission for
Overseeing the . lection of F vbers of Town or Villoge Assem-
blies, town or villoge heels, the town or village offices are
porlicable to th corres onciny orarnizations prsons, and
offices respectivaly.
rticle 146 - When, in en islend or other plsce where com-
munications  rs very Hifficult, t a orovisions of the present
lan r: hordly e nlicable, so cial provisions mey be enacted
by imp riel crcinnce.
rticle 147 - hen the voting is condncted in accordancc
with irticle 33, a porson who trkes.charge of the voting is
recognized es a voting overseur, the place where the votes
ere recorded as a polling-placc and vitnesses present at the
voting as voting witnosscs, and the provisions of Chapter XII
shall bo anplied.
rticle 146 - Dol-ted.
Articl 14e - The orovisions of Scction 9, articls IV,
Part 11 of criminal law, o. 36 of 1880 shall not be anplied
to the election of memb rs of the  ous of Reoresentetives.
Artiele 150 - The presont la sholl not be enforced for
the time beine in th islends of (sesamera in Tokyo  tropolis
or in th countri: s of Shumushu, Miichi, end Emu, under the
Nomuro branch office in the Folkkaido.

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.98)
28
Annex
List of Electoral Districts With Quotas of Members
Electoral District
Number of Members
Tokyo-To
No. 1 District
4
Chiyodt-ku
Chuo-ku
Minato-ku
Shinjiru-ku
Bunkyo-ku
Daito-k.u
No. 2 Distriet
3
Shinagawa-ku
ota-!u
Area uncter the juri diction of
Oshina-shicho
Area und er the jurisdiction of
Miyaka-shicho
Area under the iurisdiction of
Hachijojima-shicho
No. 3 District
3
Meguro-ku
Setagaya-tu
No. 4 District
3
Shibuya-ku
Nakano-ku
Suginamiku
No. 5 District
4
Toshime-ku
Kita-ku
Itabashi-ku
No. 6 District.
5
Sumida-ku
Koto-ku
Arakawa -k:u
Adachi-kua
Katsushika-ku
Edogawa-ku
No. 7 District
5
Hachioji-shi
Tachikawa.-chi
Nishitama -gun
Minanitama-gun
Kitatamagun
Kyoto-Fu
No. 1 District.
5
Kamikyo-Lu
Nakakyo-ku
Sakyo-ku
Higashiyama-ku
Shimokyo-ku
No. 2 District
5
Ucyo-ku
Fushimi-ku
Otaki-ku
Kadono-ku
Otowani-ku
Uji-gun
Kyze-gun
Tsuzuki-gun
3
Soraku-gun

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
Fukuchiyama-shi
Maizuru-shi
Minamikuwata-gun
Xitakuwata-gun
Funai-gun
Amada-gun
Ikaruka-gun
Kasa-gun
Yosa-gun
Noka-gun
Takeno-gun
Kumano-gun
Osaka-Fu
No. l District
4
Nishi-ku
Minato-ku
Taisho-ku
Tenoji-ku
Minami-ku
Naniwa-ku
Ikuno-ku
Abeno-ku
Sumiyoshi-ku
Higashisumiyoshi-ku
Nishinari-ku
No. 2 District
4
Kita-ku
Miyakojima-ku
Fukushima-ku
Konohana-ku
Higashi-ku
Oyodo-ku
Nishiyodogava-u
Higashiyodogawa-ku
Higashinari-ku
Aschi-ku
Joto-ku
No. 3 District
4
Toyonaka-shi
Ikeda-shi
Suita-shi
Takatsuki-shi
Horikuchi-shi
Mishima-gun
Toyono-gun
Kitakawachi-gun
No. 4 District
4
Fuse-shi
Minamikavachi-gun
Nakakavachi-gun
No. 5 District
3
Sakai-shi
Kishiweda-shi
Izumiotsu-shi
Kaizuka-shi
Izukita-gun
Izunami-gun
Kanagawa-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Yokohama-shi
29

=== Page 459 === (confidence 1.00)
30
No. 2 District
4
Yokosuka-shi
Kawasaki-shi
Kamakura-shi
Miura-gun
Kamakura-gun
No. 3 District
5
Hiratsuka-shi
Fujisawa-shi
Odawara-shi
Koza-gun
Naka-gun
Ashigarakami-gun
Ashigarashimo-gun
Aiko-gun
Tsukui-gun
Hyogo-Ken No. 1 District
3
Kobe-shi
No. 2 District
5
Amagasaki-shi
Nishinomiya-shi
Sumoto-shi
Ashiya-shi
Itami-shi
Muko-gun
Kawabe-gun
Arima-gun
Tsuna-gun
Mihara-gun
No. 3 District
3
Akashi-shi
Akashi-gun
Mino-gun
Kato-gun
Taka-gun
Kasai-gun
Kako-gun
Innami-gun
No. 4 District
4
Himeji-shi
So-shi
Shikama-gun
Kanzaki-gun
Iho-gun
Akao-gun
Sayo-gun
Shiso-gun
No. 5 District
3
Kinosaki-gun
Izushi-gun
Yabu-gun
Asago-gun
Mikata-gun
Higami-gun
Taki-gun
Nagasaki-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Nagasaki-shi
Shimabare-shi
Isahaya-shi

=== Page 460 === (confidence 1.00)
Nishisonogi-gun
Kitatakaki-gun.
Minamitakaki-gun
Area under the jurisdiction of
Tsushima-shicho (Local Government
Office)
No. 2 District
4
Sasebo-shi
Omura-shi
Higashisonogi-gun
Kitamatsuura-gun
Minamimatsuura-gun
Iki-gun
Niigata-Ken
No. l District
3
Niigata-shi
Nishikanbara-gun
Sado-gun
No. 2 District
4
Shibata-shi
Kitakanbara-gun
Nakakanbara-gun
Higashikanbara-gun
Iwafune-gun
No. 3 District
5
Nagaoka-shi
Sanjo-shi
Kashiwazaki-shi
Minamikanbara-gun
Mishima-gun
Koshi-gun
Kitauonuma-gun
Minamiuonuma-gun
Kariha-gun
No. 4 District
3
Takada-shi
Nakauonuma-gun
Higashikubiki-gun
Nakakubiki-gun
Nishikubiki-gun
Saitama-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Kawaguchi-shi
Urawa-shi
Omiya-shi
Kitaadachi-gun
No. 2 District
3
Kawagoe-shi
Iruma-gun
Hiki-gun
No. 3 District
3
Kumagaya-shi
Chichibu-gun
Kodama-gun
Osato-gun
No. 4 District
3
Kitasaitama-gun
Minamisaitama-gun
Kitakatsushika-gun
31

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
32
Gumma-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Maebashi-shi
Isezaki-shi
Seta-gun
Ione-gun
Saha-gun
No. 2 District
3
Kiriu-shi
Nitta-gun
Yamada-gun
Ora-gun
No. 3 District
Takasaki-shi
4
Gumma-gun
ano-gun
Kitakama-gun
Usui-gun
Akatsuma-gun
Chiba-Ken
No.
1 District
4
Chiba-shi
Ichikava-shi
Funabashi-shi
Matsudo-shi
Chiba-gun
Ichihara-gun
Higashikatsushika-gun
No. 2 District
4
Choshi-shi
Inba-gun
Unakami-gun
ose-gun
Katori-gun
No. 3 District
5
Tateyama-shi
Kisarazu-shi
Chosei-gun
Sanbu-gun
Kimitsu-gun
Isumi-sun
Awa-gun
Ibaraki-Ken
No. 1 District
Mito-shi
Higashi-ibaraki-gun
Nishi-ibaraki-gun
Kashima-gun
Yukue-gun
Inashiki-gun
Kitasoma-gun
No. 2 District
3
Hitachi-shi
Naka-gun
Kuji-gun
Taga-gun
No. 3 District
5
Tsuchiura-shi
Niiji-gun
Chikuba-gun
Makabe-gun
Sarushima-gun
Yuki-gun
3

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.98)
Tochigi-Ken
No. l District
5
Utsunomiya-shi
Kawachi-gun
Kamizuka-gun
Shioya-gun
Nasu-gun
No. 2 District
5
Ashikaga-shi
Tochigi-shi
Sano-shi
Haga-gun
Shimotsuka-gun
Aso-gun
Ashikaga-gun
Nara-Ken
5
Mie-Ken
No. l District
5
Tsu-shi
Yokkaichi-shi
Kuwana-shi
Ueno-shi
Suzuka-shi
Kuvana-gun
Inabe-gun
Mei-gun
Suzuka-gun
Kavage-gun
Ano-Jun
Ichishi-gun
Ayama-gun
Nage-gun
No. 2 District
4
Ujiyamada-shi
Matsuzaka-shi
Iina-gun
Take-gun
Watarai-gun
Chima-gun
Kitamuro-gun
Minamimuro-gun
Aichi-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Fagoya-shi
No. 2 District
4
Seto-shi
Handa-shi
Kasugai-shi
Aichi-gun
Higashikasugai-gun
Nishikasugai-gun
Chita-gun
3
33

=== Page 463 === (confidence 1.00)
34
No. 3 District
3
Ichinomiya-shi
Tsushima-shi
Niwa-gun
Haguri-gun
Nakajima-gun
Kaibu-gun
No. 4 District
4
Okazaki-shi
Hekikai-gun
Hazu-gun
Nukata-gun
Nishikamo-gun
Higashikamo-gun
No. 5 District
3
Toyohashi-shi
Toyokawa-shi
Kitashidara-gun
Minamishidara-gun
Hoi-gun
Atsumi-gun
Yana-gun
Shizuoka-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Shizuoka-shi
Shimizu-shi
Ihara-gun
Abe-gun
Shita-gun
Haibara-gun
Ogasa-gun
No. 2 District
5
Numazu-shi
Atami-shi
Mishima-shi
Fujimiya-shi
Kamo-gun
Tagata-gun
Sunto-gun
Fuji-gun
No. 3 District
4
Hamamatsu-shi
Iwata-gun
Suchi-gun
Hamna-gun
Inasa-gun
Yamanashi-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Shiga-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Gifu-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Gifu-shi
Ogaki-shi
Inaba-gun
Hashima-gun
Yoro-gun
Fuha-gun
Anbachi-gun
Ibi-gun
Motosu-gun
Yamagata-gun
Hugi-gun

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 2 District
Takaya-shi
Tajimi-shi
Kunjo-gun
Kamo-gun
Kani-gun
Toki-gun
Ena-gun
Mashita-gun
Ono-gun
Yoshiki-gun
Nagano-Ken
No. l District
3
Nagano-shi
Sarashina-gun
Kamitakai-gun
Khimotakai-gun
Kamiminochi-gun
Shimominochi-gun
No. 2 District
3
Ueda-shi
Minamisaku-gun
Kitasaku-gun
Chisagata-gun
Hanishina-gun
No. 3 District
4
Okaya-shi
Iide-shi
Suwa-shi
Suva-gun
Kamiina-gun
Shimoina-gun
No. 4 District
3
Matsumoto-shi
Fishichikuma-gun
Higashichikuma-gun
Minamiazumi-gun
Kitaazumi-gun
Miyagi-Yon
No. 1 Distriot
5
Condai-shi
Shiogama-shi
Katta-gun
Shibata-gun
Igu-gun
"atari-gun
Natori-gun
Miyagi-gun
Kurokawa-sun
Kami-gun
Shida-gun
Tode-gun
No. 2 Distriet
4
Ishinomaki-shi
Tematsuouri-sun
Kurihara-gun
Tome-gun
Mono-gun
Oshika-gun
Motoyoshi-gun

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
36
Fukushima-Ken
No. 1 District
Fukushima-shi
Koriyama-shi
Shinobu-gun
Date-gun
Adachi-gun
Asaka-gun
No. 2 District
5
"akamatsu-shi
Iwase-gun
Minamiaizu-gun
Kitaaizu-gun
Yama-gun
Kawanuma-gun
Onuma-gun
Higashishirakawa-gun
Nishishirakawa-gun
Ishitawa-gun
Tamura-gun
No. 3 District
3
Taira-shi
Iwaki-gun
Futaba-gun
Soma-gun
Ivate-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Morioka-shi
Kamaishi-shi
Miyako-shi
Iwate-gun
Shiba-gun
Kamihei-gun
Shimokei-gun
Kunoe-gun
Ninoe-gun
No. 2 District
4
Hienuli-shi
"aka-gun
Kisawa-gun
Esashi-gun
Nishiiwai-gun
Higashiiwai-gun
Kisen-gun
Aomori-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Aomori-shi
Hachinoe-shi
Hiyashitsugaru-gun
Kamikita-gun
Shimokita-gun
Sannoe-gun
No. 2 District
3
Hirosaki-shi
Nishitsugaru-gun
Nakatsugaru-gun
Minamitsugaru-gun
Kitatsugaru-gun
Yamagata-Ken
No. l District
4
Yamagata-shi
Yonezawa-shi
Minamimurayama-gun
Higashimurayama-gun

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.99)
Nishimurayama-gun
Minamiokitama-gun
Higashiokitama-gun
Nishiokitama-gun
No. 2 District
4
Tsuruoka-shi
Sakata-shi
Kitamurayama-gun
Mogami-gun
Higashitagawa-gun
Nishitagawa-gun
Atsumi-gun
Akita-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Akita-shi
Noshiro-shi
Kazuno-gun
Kitaakita-gun
Yamamoto-gun
Minamiakita-gun
Kawabe-gun
No. 2 District
4
Yuri-gun
Senkoku-gun
Hiraka-gun
Okachi-gun
Fukui-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Ishikawa-Ken
No. l District
3
Kanazawa-shi
Komatsu-shi
Enuma-gun
Nomi-gun
Ishikawa-gun
No. 2 District
3
Nanao-shi
Kakoku-gun
Hagui-gun
Kashima-gun
Fugeshi-gun
Suzu-gun
Toyama-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Toyama-shi
Kaminikawa-gun
Nakaniikava-gun
Shimoniikawa-gun
Nei-gun
No. 2 District
3
Takaoka-shi
Imizu-gun
Himi-gun
Higashitonami-gun
Nishitonami-gun
Tottori-Ken
No. 1 District
Shimane- Ken
No. 1 District
5
37

=== Page 467 === (confidence 1.00)
38
Okayama-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Okayama-shi
Tsuyama-shi
Mitsu-gun
Akaiwa-gun
Wake-gun
Oku-gun
Jodo-gun
Maniwa-gun
Tomata-gun
Katsuta-gun
Aida-gun
Kume-gun
No. 2 District
5
Kurashiki-shi
Tamono-shi
Kojima-gun
Tsukubo-gun
Asakuchi-gun
Oda-gun
Shitsuki-gun
Kibi-gun
Kamibo-gun
Kawakami-gun
Atetsu-gun
Hiroshima-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Hiroshima-shi
Saheki-gun
Asa-gun
Yamagata-gun
Takata-gun
No. 2 District
4
Kure-shi
Alti-gun
Kamo-gun
Toyota-gun
No. 3 District
5
Onomichi-shi
Fukuyama-shi
Mihara-shi
Mitsugi-gun
Sera-gun
Numakuma-gun
Fukayasu-gun
Ashina-gun
Jinseki-gun
Konu-gun
Futami-gun
Hiba-gun
Yamaguchi-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Shimonoseki-shi
Ube-shi
Hagi-shi
Onota-shi
Asa-gun
Toyora-gun
Mine-gun
Otsu-gun
Abu-gun

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 2 District
5
Yamaguchi-shi
Tokuyama-shi
Bofu-shi
Shitamatsu-shi
Iwakuni-shi
Hikari-shi
Oshima-gun
Kuka-gun
Kumage-gun
Tsuno-gun
Saba-gun
Yoshiki-gun
Wakayama-Ken
No. 1 District
3
"akayama-shi
Kainan-shi
Kaiso-gun
Naka-gun
Ito-gun
No. 2 District
3
Shingu-shi
Tanabe-shi
Arita-gun
Hitaka-gun
Nishimuro-gun
Higashimuro-gun
Tokushima-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Kagawa-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Takamatsu-shi
Okawa-gun
Kida-gun
Shozu-gun
Kagawa-gun
No. 2 District
3
Marugame-shi
Sakaide-shi
Ayauta-gun
Nakatado-gun
Mitoyo-gun
Ehime-Ken
NO.
1 District
3
Matsuyama-shi
Onsen-gun
Iyo-gun
Kamukeana-gun
No. 2 District
3
Imaharu-shi
Niihama-shi
Saijo-shi
Ochi-gun
Shuso-gun
Nihi-gun
Uma-gun
No. 3 District
3
Uwajima-shi
Yawatahama-shi
Kita-gun
Nishiuwa-gun
Higashiuwa-gun
Kitauwa-gun
Minamiuwa-gun
39

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.99)
40
Kochi-Ken No. 1 District
5
Fukuoka-Ken
No. I District
5
Fukuoka-shi
Kasuya-gun
Munakata-gun
Asakura-gun
Tsukushi-gun
Sawara-gun
Itoshima-gun
No. 2 District
5
Yawata-shi
Tobata-shi
Nogata-shi
Iizuka-shi
Onga-gun
Furate-gun
Kaho-gun
No. 3 District
5
Kurume-shi
Omuta-shi
Ukiha-gun
Mitsui-gun
Mitsuma-gun
Yame-gun
Yamato-gun
Miike-gun
No. 4 District
4
Kokura-shi
Moji-shi
Kagawa-shi
Kiku-gun
Tagawa-gun
Miyako-gun
Chikujo-gun
Oita-Ken
No. 1 District
4
Oita-shi
Hida-shi
Saeki-shi
Oita-gun
Kitaamabe-gun
Minamiamabe-gun
Ono-gun
Naoiri-gun
Hida-gun
No. 2 District
3
Beppu-shi
Nakatsu-shi
Nishitunisaki-gun
Higashikunisaki-gun
Hayami-gun
Shimonoge-gun
Usa-gun
Saga-Ken No. 1 District
5
Kumamoto-Ken
No. 1 District
5
Kumamoto-shi
Arao-shi
Hotaku-gun
Tamana-gun
Shikamoto-gun
Kikuchi-gun
Aso-gun

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 2 District
5
Yatsushiro-shi
Hitoyoshi-shi
Udo-gun
Kami Masushiro-gun
Shimo Masushiro-gun
Yatsushiro-gun
Ashikita-gun
Kyuma-gun
Miyazaki-Ken
No. 1 District
3
Miuazaki-shi
Nobeoka-shi
Miyaza'i-gun
Konoyu-gun
Higashi Sonoki-gun
Nishi Sonoki-gun
No. 2 District
3
Miyakonojo-shi
Minami Naka-gun
Kita Morogata-gun
Nishi Morogata-gun
Higashi Morogeta-gun
Kogoshima-Ken
No. 1. District
4
Kagoshima-shi
Kagoshima-gun
Ibusuki-gun
Kawanebe-gun
Hioki-gun
No. 2 District
3
Sendai-shi
Satsuma-gun
Izumi-gun
Isa-gun
Aira-gun
No. 3 District
3
Lanaya-shi
Kimotsuki-gun
Soo-gun
Kumage-gun
Aren under the jurisdiction of
Oshima-shicho
Hokkaido
No. 1 District
5
Sapporo-shi
otaru-shi
Area under tha jurisdiction of
Ishikari-shicho
. Area under the jurisdiction of
Shiribeshi-shicho
No. 2 District
4
Asehigawa-shi
Area under the jurisdiction of
Kamikawa-shicho
Area under jurisdiction of
Soya-shicho
Area under jurisdiction of
Rumoi-shicho
No. 3 District
3
Hakodate-shi
Area under the jurisdiction of
Hiyama-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Toshima-shicho
41

=== Page 471 === (confidence 1.00)
42
No. 4 District
5
Muroran-shi
Yubari-shi
Iwamizawa-shi
Area under the jurisdiction of
Sorachi-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Ibari-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Hidaka-shicho
No. 5 District
5
Kushiro-shi
Obihiro-shi
Kitami-shi
Abashiri-shi
Area under the jurisdiction of
Tokachi-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Kushiro-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Nemuro-shicho
Area under the jurisdiction of
Abashiri-shicho

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.98)
SUPPLEMENTARY RULES.
Article 1 - This law shall como into force so that the
coming genopal ologtion may be effected ageording theroto.
Homever Articlcs 10 and 1l of supplementary provisions shall
be applied to-the coming election for members of assemblies of
city, town and villago, or chief executives of city, town and
villege.
Vhen members of assemblies of public entities or chief
oxecutives thereof are clected, amended provisions for the law
of election for the House of Ropresentatives shall be considered
enforced, in the case of these provisions being applied mutatis
mutandis, if the amended provisions above mentioned are not yet
enforced.
Article 2 - The President of the Court of Administrative
Litigation and judges of the same in active service shell not
be eligible until the Japanese Constittion comes into force in
spite of the provisions of this Law.
Article 3 - In Article 10 of this revised Law for the Elec-
tion of Mombers of the House of Representatives, "the director-
genorel of the cabinet secrctariate" shall read "the Chief Secre-
tary of the Cabinct", till the coming into force of the Japanese
Constitution.
Article 4 - In Article 16, Para 2, of this revised Law
for the Election of Mombers of the House of Representatives,
"the Supreme Court" and in Article 81, Article 83, Para 1, and
Article 84, Para 1, "the High Court" shall read "The Supreme
Court", thet is "Daishin-in", till tho coming into force of
the Japanese Constitution.
Article 5 - Before thc coming into force of the Japenese
Constitution, the date of & gencral election shall be determined
and proclaimed by an Imperial Ordinance in spite of the provisions
of revised Article 18, Par: 4, of this rcvised Law for the
Election of Mimbers of the Housc of Representatives.
Articlo 6 - In the coming gencral clection, "vithin ten (10)
days" in Articlo 7 of the Law for Eloction of Mombers of tho
House of Roprosentatives shall be regarded as five (5) days.
Articlo 7 - Partial amendments shall be made to the Law
for Elcction of liorbors of the House of Councillors as follows:
Article 2 in Additional Rules shall be amonded as follows -
Article 2. Deleted.
Articlos 5 to 8 in Additional Rules shall be amended as
follows -
Articles 5 to 8 - Deletod.
Article 8 - Partial amendment shall be made to the Law for
tho Tokyo etropolis System as follows:
In Article 93-20 (of the seid Law), the following shall
be added -
"; names, porsonal historios otc. in Article 140, Para 4
of the said Law shall read political opinions."
Article 9 - Pertial amendment shall be mado to the Law for
the District and Prefectures System as follows:
43

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.97)
44
In Article 74 - 20 (of th- said Law), tho follpwing shall
be added -
"; names, personal histories etc. in Article 14o Para 4
of the seid Law shall read political opinions."
Articlo 1o - Following amendments shall be made to the law
concerning orgenizstion of city:
In Articlc 39, proviso, "officials are commissioners for
overseeing clection, verd commissioners for overseeing election,
secretarics of commission for oversccing election and of vard
commission for oversceing election, chairman of clection, chair-
man of subcommittees for voting and chairnan of subcommittec for
ballot counting" shall read "those montioned in Articlc 8 are
chairman of subcormittee for voting and chairman for ballot
counting".
Article 40, proviso shell read as follows -
However, those rentioned in Article 8 which is guoted in
Article 112, Pore 2, Articlc 113, Para 2, Article 116, Article
117 and Article 127, Para 4, the law of clection for the House of
Ropresentatives, shall include choirmen of sub-committee for
voting und chairran of sub-committee for ballot counting.
Article 1l - Folloving amendment shall be mado to law con-
cerning the organization of toun or village.
In Article 36-2 of the said law, "Article 96" shall be
added next to "Article 95" and also Article 100-2 shall be doleted
Article 36 proviso shall read as follows:
Hc ever those mentioned in Articlc 8 hich is quoted in
Article 99 of the seid lav shall include chairman of subcomrittee
for voting and cheirman of subcormittec for ballot counting.
Article 37 proviso shall road as follovs -
Hovever those mentioned in Article 8 vhich is quoted in
Article 112, Para 2, Article 116 Article 117 end Articlo 127,
Pore 4 of the lew of election for the House of Ropresentatives
shall inelude chnirmon of subcomittee for voting and chairman
af subcommittee for bollot counting.

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.97)
AFFAURS
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
MAY1/4 1948 
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 172
Tokyo, March 17, 1948.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CONFIDENTIAL
REFEVED
(For Department Use Only)
JotiMQa
DIVISIWPHIC
Subject:
General Order No. 4, March 13, 1948,
"Intelligence Targets in Japan".
3
2
The Honorable
894.00/3=1748
The Secretary of State
JUN 23 1948
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose five copies of General
Order No. 4, March 13, 1948, issued by General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, on the subject of
"Intelligence Targets in Japan".
The Department's attention is respectfully invited to
subparagraphs d, and e, of paragraph 6 of the enclosure,
from which it would appear that this Mission, in its
capacity as Diplomatic Jection of this Headquarters, is
precluded from exclusive exploitation of any intelligence
material and records in Japan unless a request is made
through the Translator and Interpreter Service, Document
A/MJS
Section, Tokyo, under control of the Assistant Chief of
Staff, G-2; and further, from sending any reports, publi-
cations, etc., of possible intelligence value to the De-
partment without prior clearance through the Assistant
Chief of Staff, G-2.
A literal reading and construction of General Order
No. 4 would prohibit all objective reporting on the part
of this Mission, unless the Chief of ission is prepared
to submit reports having a "possible intelligence value"
to G-2 Section for approval. On the other hand, to cont nue
reporting to the Department on subjects pertaining to th
Japanese situation might, it is believed, subject me, as
Chief of the Diplomatic Section, to possible reprimand by
the Supreme Commander.
It is not my intention to raise this question with the
Supreme Commander in view of possible misunderstanding to
which any conceivable approach on this subject might sive rise.
CONFIDENTIAL
As the

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's.172
March 17, 1948.
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
As the Department is aware, by the integration of this
Mission into General Headquarters its freedom of operation
in the normal sense was largely lost. It is my understanding,
however, that the Department has not abandoned the principle
that its officers in any foreign country, if they are prop-
erly to carry out their functions, must be free to report
objectively concerning matters of interest to the Department.
It is my considered recommendation to the Department
that no issue be made of this question at the present time,
as to do so might perhaps destroy the pleasant and smooth
working relationships which have been established between
this Mission and the Supreme Commander and his Headquarters.
This despatch, therefore, is written primarily with a
view to apprising the Department of the difficult circum-
stances which appertain to our efforts to accomplish our
mission in Japan.
Respectfully yours,
W.Becace
V. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
General Headouarters,
3CAP, General Order No. 4,
March 13, 1948, "Intelli gence
Targets in Japan". (Five copies)
Original and ozalid to the Jepartment.
820.02
WJSebald:cs
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclopure to Despatch No. 172 dated March 1
Qffice of the United States Political Adviser for
Bestricted
Targets in Japan'"
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMAIDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
GENERAL ORDERS )
APO 500
13 March 1948
NO.4)
INTELLIGENCE TARGETS IN JAPAN
Section
Rescissions of General Orders.......
I
References.....
II
Intelligence Targets in Japan.
III
I. RESCISSIONS. General Crders 9, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, 2 October 1945, and General Orders 15,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, 9 November
1945.
AG 300 (23 Jan 48)GB .
II. REFERENCES. Joint Chiefs of Staff Directive 1538, as amended by
WD Radio 95147, 24 July 1946.
III. INTELLIGENCE TARGETS IN JAPAN. 1. The Assistant Chief of Staff,
G-2, is dosignated to ccordinate the explsitation of all intelligence in
Japan including:
a. Technical and scientific intelligence. This requires co-
ordinating and supervisory control of certain general and technical agencies
engaged in the collection of such intelligence.
b. Those military intelligence targets, including historical
matters, which might be of interest to other agencies of the occupation,
to civilian agencies of the United Statos Governnont, or to foreign govern-
ments; or which, by their nature, require tho assistance of General Head-
quarters, Supreme Commandor for the Alliod Powors staff soctions for
adoquato coverago.
c. Other intolligenco, both civil and military, of interest to
or requosted by civil departments of tho United States Government or by
foroign governmonts.
2. Coordination by the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2. is for the
purpose of:
a. Facilitating maximum exploitation of all material of intelli-
gonce valuo in Japan.
b. Proventing competitive or wasteful duplication of effort be-
tweon Supreme Comnander for the Allied Powers and Far East Command agencies,
or botwoen these agoncios and special technical missions dispatched to
Japan by tho United States Government or foreign governments.
Restricted

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.99)
Restricted
(GO 4)
c. Reducing to a minimum demands on Japanase government and
private agenoies for information.
3. In the exercise of coordination in the categories listed in
paragraph 2, appropriate use will be made of the facilities of regularly
constitutod staff sections and operational commands. General Headquarters.
Supreme Comnander for the Allied Powers staff sections will be prepared to
furnish the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, such source mterial pertaining
to their several specialties as is required for compliance with Joint Chiefs
of Staff or Departinant of the Army directives and targets in the fields of
military and civil intelligonce in Japan.
4. Ccordinating control of tho intolligenco activitios of individuals
or missions oporating- within Japan, oithor from military and civil agoncies
of the United States or from govornments other than the United States, will
be oxorciscd by tho Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2. No intelligence. will be
released to governmonts othor than tho United States without conourrence of
tho Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, operating in accordance with Joint Chiefs
of Staff Diroctive 1538, as amended by WD Radio 95147, 24 July 1946.
5. The organization and function of technical militar intelligence in
Japan is designed to accomplish the folloving primary objectives:
a. Exploitaticn of technical materiol: This will include the
examination and evaluation of all available materiel and the deduction,
from such evaluation, of the state of resources for war. Intelligence so
obtained will be exploited for the reciprocal benefit of the United States
and Allied armed forces. This will include a'thorough examination of all
facilities which may be involved in the production of materiel for war and
the provision of trained personnel to assist the chiefs of services (Ground,
Naval and Air) in tho suporvision of tho collection, safeguarding and
evacuation of technical equipment for intelligence study and for tactical
and training purposes.
b. Exploitation of documonts:
(1) To select military, tecinical, scientific and general
documents for transmission to the United States acting
on current target. books published by the Departmont of
the Army, the Dopartment of the Navy, and the Departmont
of the Air Force, or to fill specific requirements of
specialist agencies.
(2) To control relcase of informetion of intelligence value
to govornments other than tho United States.
(3)
To focus all fiold agoncios of tho Ground, Naval and Air
Forces through Translator and Interpreter Service for all
document activity.
Kistricted
2

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.98)
Restricted
(GO 4):
(4) To extract, intelligence needed within Japan for sodurity
and control, by means of fragmentary translations or
photostats.
(5) To provide trained personnel to soreen doouments and
inventory same by categories.
c. Exploitation of Military Historioal Records and Official
Reports of the Japanose General Staff (Ground, Naval and Air) or of other
Japanose government agencies pertinont to:
(1) The organization of Japan for war.
(2) The preparations for the War of 1941.
(3) Campaigns in the Southwest Pacirfio Arca, 1942-1944.
(4) First Campaign in the Philippines, 1941-1942.
(5) Socond Campaign in the Philippines, 1944-1945.
(6) Campaigns in tho Pacifio Islands, 1941-1945.
(7) Campaigns in other arees, 1941-1945.
6. For effectivo coordination, the following polioy provisions will
be obsorved by all General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers staff sections:
a. All United States and forcign technical missions will, on
arrival in Japan, registor with the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, for
coordination of their activitios in ordor to provont competitive dupli-
cation with other like missions or with General Headquartors, Suprome
Commander for the Allied Powors and Far East Command staff seotions. The
Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, will notify tho Gonoral Headquartors,
Suprome Commander for the Allicd Powors and Far East Command agoncios
concorned.
b. The Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, will conduct all official
liaison with the Japanoso govornmontal authoritios portinont to tho oporation
of cithor Unitod States or foreign technical missions, and the releaso of
intolligence information portaining thoreto.
c. The Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, in order to oxpedito and
coordinate the conduct of investigations required to fulfill tho intolligonce
requiremonts of civil and military departments of the United Statos Govorn-
mont or of civil and military departmonts of foroign governments, is author-
ized to correspond, concerning teohnical dotails, with any of tho following
or their designated representatives:
Restricted

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.97)
Restricted
(GO 4)
(1) Chiefs of staff seotions, General Headquartera,
Suprome Commander for the Allied Powers.
(2) Commanding Goneral, Eighth Army.
(3) Commander, Naval Forces Far East.
(4) Cormanding General, Far East Air Forces.
(5) Hoads of Allied agencies.
(6) Chiefs or Heads of Foroign missions.
(7) Chiefs of special technical missions, United
States and foreign.
d. To protect intelligence matorial and records in Japan against
exclusive cxploitation by any staff section, agency or mission of the
occupation or of the United States or other governments, all requests for
removal of any Japanese documents or records from current Japanese custodian
or owmer will be cleared through the Translator and Interpreter Service
Document Section, Tokyo, under control of the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2.
This procedure applios whether contemplated romoval constitutes tomporary
loan, procureinent demand, or confiscation.
e. The principle of oxchange of reports will apply to all Gonoral
Hoadquartors, Supreme Commander for tho Allied Powers agoncios ongaged in
the collection of intelligonce, whother military or civilian. All reports,
publications, otc., of possiblo intolligence value propared by Goneral Head-
quarters, Supreme Comander for the Allied Powers staff sections will
accordingly bo cleared through the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, prior to
being dispatched to locations outside Jupan. Sufficient copios will be
prosented to Targots Branch, Ililitary Intolligence Sorvico Division, G-2,
Goncral Hoadquartors, Supromo Commander for the Allied Powers, so that two
copies may be filod in the Office of tho Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2.
AG 320 (23 Jan 48)GB
BY COMMAND OF GENERAL MaCARTHUR:
PAUL J. MUELLER,
Mejor Ceneral, General Staff Corps,
Pheavy
OFFICIAL:
Chief of Staff.
R.M.LEVY,
Restricted
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant Gonoral.

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
Restricted
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMAIIDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
GENERAL ORDERS )
APO 500
13 March 1948
NO..4)
INTELLIGENCE TARGETS IN JAPAN
Section
Rescissions of General Orders........
I
References......
II
Intelligence Targets in Japan.
III
I. RESCISSIONS. General Crders 9, General Headquarters, Supreme
Coinmander for the Allied Powers, 2 October 1945, and General Orders 15,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, 9 November
1945.
AG 300 (23 Jan 48)GB
II. REFERENCES. Joint Chiefs of Staff Directive 1538, as amended by
WD Radio 95147, 24 July 1946.
III. INTELLIGENCE TARGETS IN JAPAN. 1. The Assistant Chief of Staff,
G-2, is designated to ccordinate the expleitation of all intelligence in
Japan including:
a. Technical and scientific intelligence. This requires co-
ordinating and supervisory control of certain general and technical agencies
engaged in the collection of such intelligonce.
b. Those military intelligence targets, including historical
matters, which might be of interest to other agencies of the occupation,
to civilian agencies of the United States Governmont, or to foreign govern-
ments; or which, by their nature, require tho assistance of Goneral Head-
quarters, Suprome Comaandor for the Alliod Powers staff sections for
adequato coverago.
c. Other intolligonco, both civil and military, of intorost to
or requosted by civil dopartments of the United States Government or by
foreign goverrunonts.
2. Coordination by the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, is for the
purpose of:
a. Facilitating maximum exploitation of all material of intelli-
gence value in Japan.
b. Pruvonting competitive or wasteful duplication of effort be-
tween Supremo Comaander for the Allied Powers and Far East Command agencies,
or betweon these agencies and special tochnical missions dispatched to
Japan by tho United States Government or foreign govornments.
Restricted

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
Restricted
(GO 4)
c. Reducing to a minimum demands on Japanese government and
private agencies for information.
3. In the exorcise of coordination in the categories listed in
paragraph 2, appropriate use will be made of the facilities of regularly
constituted staff sections and operational commands. General Headquarters
Supremo Comnander for the Allied Powers staff sections will be prepared to
furnish the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, suoh source material pertaining
to their several specialties as is required for compliance with Joint Chiefs
of Staff or Departient of the Army directives and targets in the fields of
military and civil intelligonce in Japan.
4. Coordinating control of tho intelligonco activitios of individuals
or missions oporating within Japan, oithor from military and civil agoncies
of the Uhited States or from govornments other than the United States, will
be oxercisod by the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2. No intelligonce will be
roleased to governmonts othor than tho United States without concurrence of
the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, operating in accordance with Joint Chiefs
of Staff Diroctive 1538, as amended by WD Radio 95147. 24 July 1946.
5. The organization and function of technical military intelligence in
Japan is designed to accomplish the folloving primary objectives:
a. Exploitatien of technical materiel: This will include the
examination and evaluation of all available materiol and the deduction,
from such evaluation, of the state of resources for war. Intelligence so
obtained will be exploited for the reciprocal benefit of the United States
and Allied armod forces. This will include a thorough examination of all
facilities which may be involved in the production of materiel for war and
the provision of trained personnel to assist the chiefs of. services (Ground,
Naval and Air) in the suporvision of tho collection, safeguarding and
evacuation of technical equipment for intelligence study and for tactical
and training purposes.
b. Exploitation of documonts:
(1) To sclect military, techmical, scientific and general
documents for transmission to the United States acting
on current targot books published by the Department of
the Army, the Dopartment of the Havy, and the Departmont
of the Air Force, or to fill spocific reguiremonts of
specialist agoncies.
(2)
To control release of information of intelligence value
to governments other than tho Unitod States.
(3)
To focus all fiold agoncios of tho Ground, Naval and Air
Forces through Translator and Interpreter Servico for all
document activity.
Restricted

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.98)
Restricted
(GO 4)
and control, by means of fragmentary translations or
photostats.
(5) To provide trained personnel to soreen doouments and
inventory same by catogories.
c. Exploitation of Military Historical Récords and Offioial
Reports of the Japanose General Staff (Ground, Naval and Air) or of other
Japanose government agencies pertinont to:
(1) The organization of Japan for war.
(2) The preparations for the War of 1941.
(3) Campaigns in the Southwost Pacific Area, 1942-1944.:
(4) First Campaign in the Philippines, 1941-1942.
(5) Second Campaign in the Philippines, 1944-1945.
(6) Campaigns in tho Pacifio Islands, 1941-1945.
(7) Campaigns in other aroes, 1941-1945.
6. For effective coordination, tho following policy provisions will
be obsorved by all General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers staff sections:
a. All Umited States and foroign technical missions will, on
arrival in Japan, register with the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, for
coordination of their activitios in order to prevont compotitive dupli-
cation witli other like missions or with General Headquarters, Suprome
Commander for tho Allied Powers and Far East Command staff soctions. Tho
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, will notify tho Gonoral Headquartors,
Suprome Comander for the Alliod Powers and Far East Command agencios
concurned.
b. Tho Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, will conduet all official
liaison with tho Japanoso govornmontal authoritios portinont to tho oporation
of cithor Unitod States or foreign technical missions, and the reloaso of
intolligonce inforintion portaining thoreto.
c. Tho Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, in ordor to expodito and
coordinate the conduct of investigations required to fulfill tho intolligonce
requirenonts of civil and military dopartments of the United States Govern-
mont or of civil and military dopartmonts of foroign governments, is author-
ized to correspond, concorning technical details, with any of the following
or thoir designated representatives:
Gestricted

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.97)
Restricted
(GO 4)
(1) Chiefs of staff seotions, General Headquarters,
Suprome Commander for the Allied Powers.
(2) Commanding General, Eighth Army.
(3) Commander, Naval Forces Far East.
(4) Commanding General, Far East Air Forces.
(5) Heads of Allied agencios.
(6) Chiefs or Heads of Foroign missions.
(7)
Chiefs of special technical missions, United
States and foreign.
d. To protect intolligence matorial and records in Japan against
exclusive cxploitation by any staff section, agoncy or mission of the
occupation or of the United States or other governments, all requosts for
romoval of any Japanese documents or records from current Japanose custodian
or owmer will be cleared through the Translator and Interpreter Service
Documont Soction, Tokyo, under control of the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2.
This procedure applios whether contemplated romoval constitutes tomporary
loan, procurement demand, or confiscation.
c. The principlo of exchange of reports will apply to all Gonoral
Hoadquartors, Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powors agoncios ongaged in
tho collection of intolligonco, whether military or civilian. All reports,
publications, otc., of possiblo intolligence valuo propared by Genoral Head-
quarters, Supreme Conandor for tho Allied Powers staff sections will
accordingly be clcared thirough the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, prior to
being dispatched to locations outside Japan. Sufficient copies will be
prosented to Targots Branch, Ililitary Intolligence Sorvice Division, G-2,
Goneral Hoadquarters, Supromo Comnander for the Alliod Powers, so that two
copies may be filod in tho Offico of tho Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2.
AG 320 (23 Jan 48)GB
BY COELAND OF GENERAL MaCARTEUR:
PAUL J. MUELLER,
Major Ceneral, General Staff Corps,
OFFICIAL:
Rileary
Chiof of Staff.
R. M. LEVY,
Restricted
Colcnol, AGD,
Adjutant Goneral,

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
Restricted
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
GENERAL ORDERS )
APO 500
13 March 1948
NO.4)
INTELLI GENCE TARGETS IN JAPAN
Section
Rescissions of General Orders....
I
References......
II
Intelligence Targets in Japan..
III
I. RESCISSIONS. General Crders 9, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, 2 October 1945, and General Orders 15,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, 9 November
1945.
AG 300 (23 Jan 48)GB
II. REFERENCES. Joint Chiefs of Staff Directive 1538, as amended by
WD Radio 95147, 24 July 1946.
III. INTELLIGEHCE TARGETS IN JAPAN. 1. The Assistant Chief of Staff,
G-2, is designated to ccordinate the explcitation of all intelligence in
Japan including:
a. Technical and scientific intelligonce. This requires co-
ordinating and supervisory control of certain general and technical agencies
engaged in tho collection of such intelligonce.
b. Those military intelligence targets, including historical
matters, which might be of interest to othor agoncies of the occupation,
to civilian agencies of the United States Governmont, or to foreign govern-
ments; or which, by their nature, require tho assistance of General Head-
quarters, Supreme Comaandor for the Alliod Powers staff sections for
adoquato coverago.
c. Othor intolligence, both civil and military, of interest to
or requested by civil departments of the United States Government or by
foreign governments.
2. Coordination by the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, is for the
purpose of:
a. Facilitating maximum exploitation of all material of intelli-
gence value in Japan.
b. Proventing competitive or wasteful duplication of effort be-
tween Supreme Commander for the Allied Povers and Far East Comnand agencies,
or betweon these agencies and spocial technical missions dispatched to
Japan by tho United States Government or foreign governments.
Restricted

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.98)
Restricdd
(GO 4)
c. Reducing to a minimum demands en Japanose goterne
private agenoies for information.
3. In the exercise of coordination in the categories listed in
paragraph 2, appropriate use will be made of the facilities of regulerly
constitutod staff sections and operational commands. General Headquarters.
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers staff sections will be prepared to
furnish the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, suoh source material pertaining
to thoir several specialties as is required for compliance with Joint Chiefs
of Staff or Department of the Army directives and targets in the fields of
military and civil intelligence in, Japan.
4. Ccordinating control of tho intelligonco activitios of individuals
or missions oporating within Japan, oithor from military and civil agoncies
of the Uhitod States or from govornments other than the United States, will
be oxorcisod by the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2. No intelligenoe. will be.
relcased to governments othor than the United States without conourrence of
the Assistant, Chief of Staff, G-2, operating in accordance with Joint Chiefs
of Staff Directive 1538, as amended by WD Radio 95147, 24 July 1946.
5. The organization and function of technical military intelligence in
Japan is designed to accomplish the following primary objectives:
a. Exploitation of technical materiol: This will include the
examination and evaluation of all available materiel and the deduction,
from such evaluation, of the state of resovrces for war. Intelligence so
obtained will be exploited for the reciprocai benefit of the United States
and Allied armod forcos. This will includo a thorough examination of all
facilities which may be involved in the production of materiel for war and
the provision of trained personnel to assist the chiefs of services (Ground,
Naval and Air) in tho supervision of tho collection, safeguarding and
evacuation of technical equipment for intelligence study and for tactical
and training purposes..
.b. Exploitation of documents:
(1) To select military, technical, scientific and general
documents for transmission to the United States acting
on current target books published by. the Department of
the Army, the Dopartment of the Navy, and the Departmont
of tho Air Force, or to fill spocifio requirements of
specialist agoncies.
(2) To control relcase of informetion of intelligence value
to govornments other than the United States.
(3) To focus all field agoncios of tho Ground, Naval and Air
Forces through Translator and Intorpreter Sorvico for all
documont activity.
Kistricted

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.98)
Restricted
(GO 4)
(4) To extract intelligence needed within Japan for meourity
and control, by means of fragmentary translations or
photostats.
(5)
To provide trained personnel to soreen doouments and
inventory same by catogories.
c. Exploitation of Military Historical Records and Official
Reports of the Japanese General Staff (Ground, Naval and Air) or of other
Japanose government agencies pertinont to:
(1) The organization of Japan for war.
(2) The preparations for the War of 1941.
(3) Campaigns in the Southwost Pacific Area, 1942-1944.
(4) First Campaign in the Philippines, 1941-1942.
(5) Second Campaign in the Philippines, 1944-1945.
(3) Campaigns in tho Pacific Islands, 1941-1945.
(7) Campaigns in other arees, 1941-1945.
"6. For effective coordinaticn, tho following policy provisions will
bo obsorved by all Genoral Headquarters, Supremo Commander for the Allied
Powers staff sections:
a. All United States and forcim technical missions will, on
arrival in Japan, registor with the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, for
coordination of their activitios in ordor to provont compotitivo dupli-
cation with other like missions or with General Headquartors, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Pewers and Far East Command staff soctions. The
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, will notify tho Gonoral Headquartors,
Suprome Comaander for the Alliod Powers and Far East Command agoncios
concerned.
b. The Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-?, will conduct all official
liaison with tho Japanoso governmontal authoritios portinont to tho oporation
of eithor Unitod States or foreign technical missions, and the releaso of
intolligonce inforintion pertaining thereto.
c. Tho Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, in order to oxpodito and
coordinate the conduct of invostigations roquired to fulfill the intelligence
requirements of civil and military departments of the United States Govern-
ment or of civil and military dopartmonts of foroign governments, is author-
ized to correspond, concorning technical details, with any of the following
or thoir designatod reprosentativos:
Restricted

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.98)
Restrictel
(GO 4)
(1) Chiefs of staff seotions, General Headquarters,
Suprome Commander for the Allied Powers.
(2) Commanding Goneral, Eighth Army.
(3) Comander, Naval Forces Far East.
(4) Commanding Goneral, Far East Air Forces.
(5) Hoads of Allied agencies.
(6) Chiefs or Heads of Foroign missions.
(7) Chiefs of special technical missions, United
States and foreign.
d. To protect intelligence matorial and records in Japan against
exclusive cxploitation by any staff section, agency or mission of the
occupation or of tho United States or other govornments, all requests for
removal of any Japanoso documents or rocords from current Japanese custodian
or owmor will be cleared through the Translator and Interpreter Service
Document Section, Tokyo, under control of the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2.
This procedure applics whether contemplated romoval constitutes tomporary
loan, procurenent demand, or confiscation.
c. Tho principle of exchange of roports will apply to all Gonoral
Hoadquartors, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powors agonoios ongaged in
the collection of intolligonce, whother military or civiliane All roports,
publications, otc., of possiblo intolligence value propared by Genoral Head-
quarters, Supreme Comnander for the Alliod Powors staff sections will
accordingly bo clcared through the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, prior to
being dispatched to locations outside Japan. Sufficient oopios will bo
prosentod to Targets Branch, Hilitary Intelligonce Sorvico Division, G-2,
Goneral Hoadquartors, Supromo Commander for the Alliod Powers, so that two
copies may be filod in the Offico of tho Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2.
AG 320 (23 Jan 48)GB
BY COMAND OF GENERAL MaCARTHUR:
PAUL J. MUELLER,
Major General, Goneral Staff Corps,
OFFICIAL:
Chief of Staff.
R. M. LVY,
Restricted
Colcnel, AGD,
Adjutant Goneral,
4

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.98)
Restricted
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
GENERAL ORDERS )
APO 500
13 March 1948
NO..4 )
INTELLIGENCE TARGETS IN JAPAN
Section
Rescissions of General Orders........
I
References.....
II
Intelligence Targets in Japan........
III
I. RESCISSIONS. General Crders 9, General Headquarters, Supreme
Conmander for the Allied Powers, 2 October 1945, and General Orders 15,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, 9 November
1945.
AG 300 (23 Jan 48)GB
II. REFERENCES. Joint Chiefs of Staff Directive 1538, as amended by
WD Radio 95147, 24 July 1946.
III. INTELLIGENCE TARGETS IN JAPAN. 1. The Assistant Chief of Staff,
G-2, is designated to ccordinate the expleitation of all intelligence in
Japan including:
a. Technical and scientific intelligonce. This requires co-
ordinating and suporvisory control of oertain general and technical agencies
engaged in the collection of such intelligonce.
b. Those military intelligence targets, including historical
matters, which might be of interest to othor agencies of the occupation,
to civilian agencies of the United States Governnont, or to foreign govern-
ments; or which, by their naturo, require tho assistance of General Head-
quarters, Supreme Comaandor for the Alliod Powers staff sections for
adequato covorago.
c. Other intolligonce, both civil and military. of interest to
or requested by civil dcpartments of the United Statos Government or by
foroign governnents.
2. Coordination by tho Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, is for the
purpose of:
a. Facilitating maximum exploitation of all material of intelli-
gence value in Japan.
b. Preventing compotitive or wasteful duplication of effort be-
tween Supromo Commander for the Allied Powers and Far East Command agencies,
or betweon these agencies and spocial technical missions dispatched to
Japan by the United States Government or foreign govornments.
Restricted

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.99)
Restricted
(GO 4)
c. Reducing to a minimum demands on Japanese government and
private agenoies for information.
3. In the exercise of coordination in the categories listed in
paragraph 2, appropriate use will be made of the facilities of regularly
constituted staff sections and operational commands. General Headquarters
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers staff sections will be prepared to
furnish the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, such source material pertaining
to their several specialties as is required for compliance with Joint Chiefs
of Staff or Depertment of the Army directives and targets in the fields of
military and civil intelligonce in Japan.
4. Ccordinating control of tho intelligonco aotivitios of individuals
or missions oporating within Japan, oithor from military and civil agoncies
of the Uhited States or from govornments other than the nited States, will
be oxorcisod by the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2. No intelligence will be
relcased to governmonts othor than the United States without concurrence of
the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, oporating in aocordance with Joint Chiefs
of Staff Diroctive 1538, as amended by WD Radio 95147, 24 July 1946.
5. The organization and function of technical military intelligence in
Japan is designed to accomplish the following primary objectives:
a. Exploitation of technical materiol: This will include the
examination and evaluation of all available materiel and the deduction,
from such evaluation, of the state of resources for war. Intelligence so
obtained will be exploited for the reciprocal benefit of the United States
and Allied armed forces. This will include a thorough examination of all
facilities which may be involved in the production of materiel for war and
tho provision of trained personnel to assist the chiefs of services (Ground,
Naval and Air) in thd supervision of tho collection, safeguarding and
evacuation of technical equipment for intelligence study and for tactical
and training purposes.
b. Exploitation of documents:
(1) To select military, tecimical, scientific and general
documents for transmission.to the Unitod States acting
on current target books. published. by. the Department of
the Army, the Department of. tho Navy, and the Department
of the Air Force, or to fill specific requirements of
specialist agoncies.
(2) To control reloase of information of intelligence value
to governments other than the Unitod States.
(3)
To focus all field agoncios of tho Ground, Naval and Air
Forees through Translator and Interpreter Servico for all
document activity.
Kistricted
2

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.98)
Restricted
(GO 4)
(4) To extract intelligenco needed within Japan for
and control, by means of fragmentary translations
photostats.
(5) To provide trained personnel to soreen dooumente and
inventory same by categories.
c. Exploitation of Military Historical Records and Offioial
Reports of the Japanese General Staff (Ground, Naval and Air) or of other
Japanose government agencies pertinont to:
(1) The organization of Japan for war.
(2) The preparations for the War of 1941.
(3). Campaigns.in the Southwost Pacific Aroa, 1942-1944.
(4) First Campaign in the Philippines, 1941-1942.
.(6) Socond Campaign in the Philippines, 1944-1945.
(6) Campaigms in tho Pacific Islands, 1941-1945.
(7) Campaigms in othor aroas, 1941-1945.
6. For effectivo coordinaticn, tho folloving policy provisions will
be observed by all Genoral Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers staff sections:
a. All United Statos and foroim technical missions will, on
arrival in Japan, registor with the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, for
coordination of their activities in ordor to provont compotitive dupli-
cation with othor like missions or with General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for tho Allied Powers and Far East Comnand staff soctions. Tho
Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, will notify tho Gonoral Headquartors,
Suprome Commander for the Allicd Powors and Far East Command agoncios
concerned.
b. Tho Assistant Chiof of Staff, C-2, will conduet all official
liaison with the Japanoso govornmontal authoritios portinont to tho oporation
of cithor Unitod States or foroign technical missions, and the release of
intolligonce information portaining thereto.
c. The Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, in order to oxpedito and
coordinate tho conduct of invostigations roquirod to fulfill tho intolligonce
requirenonts of civil and military dopartments of the United States Govorn-
mont or of civil and military departmonts of foroign governments, is author-
ized to correspond, concorning teohnical details, with any of the following
or their designated ropresentatives:

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.97)
(00 4)
(1) Chiefs of staff seotions, General Hoadquarters
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
(2) Commanding General, Eighth Army.
(3) Commnder, Naval Forces Far East.
(4) Commanding General, Far East Air Forces.
(5) Hoads of Allied agencies.
(6) Chiefs or Heads of Foroign missions.
States and foreign.
d. To protect intolligence matorial and records in Japan against
exclusive oxploitation by any staff section, agoncy or mission of the
ocoupation or of the United States or other governments, all requosts for
removal of any Japaneso documents or rocords from current Japanese custodian
or owmer will be cleared through the Translator and Intorprotor Service
Document Soction, Tokyo, under control of the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2.
This proceduro applios whether contemplated removal constitutes tomporary
loan, procurenent domand, or confiscation.
c. The principlo of exchange of reports will apply to all Gonoral
Hoadquartors, Supreme Cormander for the Allied Powors agoncios ongaged in
the collection of intolligonce, whother military or civilian. All reports,
publications, otc., of possiblo intolligence value propared by Genoral Head-
quarters, Supreme Comnander for the Allied Powors staff sections will
accordingly be cleared through the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, prior to
being dispatched to locations outsido Japan. Sufficient copios will bo
presented to Targets Branch, Hilitary Intelligence Sorvice Division, G-2,
Gonoral Hoadquarters, Supromo Commander for the Allied Powors, so that two
copios may be filod in the Offico of tho Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2.
AG 320 (23 Jan 48)GB
BY COMMAND OF GENERAL MacARTHUR:
PAUL J. MUELLER,
Major Genoral, Gonoral Staff Corps,
OFFICIAL:
teavy
Chief of Staff.
R. M. LEVY,
Restricted
Colenol, AGD,
Adjutant Goneral.
4

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.99)
Restricted
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMAUDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
GENERAL ORDERS )
APO 500
13 March 1948
NO.4 )
INTELLIGENCE TARGETS IN JAPAN
Section
Rescissions of General Orders.
I
References.
II
Intelligence Targets in Japan.
III
I. RESCISSIONS. General Orders 9, General Headquarters, Supreme
Conmander for the Allied Powers, 2 October 1945, and General Orders 15,
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, 9 November
1945.
AG 300 (23 Jan 48)GB
II. REFERENCES. Joint Chiefs of Staff Directive 1538, as amended by
WD Radio 95147, 24 July 1946.
III. INTELLIGENCE TARGETS IN JAPAN. 1. The Assistant Chief of Staff,
G-2, is dosignated to ccordinate the exploitation of all intelligence in
Japan including:
a. Technical and scientific intelligonce. This requires co-
ordinating and supervisory control of certain general and technical agencies
engaged in the collection of such intolligence.
b. Those military intelligence targets, including historical
matters, which might be of interest to other egencies of the occupation,
to civilian agencies of the United States Government, or to foreign govern-
ments; or which, by their nature, require tho assistance of General Head-
quarters, Supreme Comaandor for the Alliod Powers staff sections for
adequate coverego.
c. Othor intolligonce, both civil and military, of interest to
or requested by civil departmonts of the United States Government or by
foreign governments.
2. Coordination by tho Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, is for the
purpose of:
a. Facilitating maximum exploitation of all material of intelli-
gence value in Japan.
b. Provonting competitive or wasteful duplication of effort be-
tween Supreme Commander for the Allied Povers and Far East Command agencies,
or botweon these agencies and special technical missions dispatched to
Japan by tho United States Government or foreign govornments.
Restricted

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.99)
Restricted
(GO 4)
0. Reducing to a minimum demands on Japanese government
private agencies for information.
3. In the exercise of coordination in the categories listed in
paragraph 2, appropriate use will be made of the facilities of regulamly
constitutod staff sections and operational commands. General Headquarters
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers staff sections will be prepared to
furnish the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, such source material pertaining
to their several specialties as is required for compliance with Joint Chiefs
of Staff or Departinent of the Army directives and targets in the fields of
military and civil intelligence in Japan.
4. Ccordinating control of the intelligonco activitios of individuals
or missions oporating within Japan, eithor from military and oivil agonoies
of the Uhitod States or from govornments other than the United States, will
be oxorcisod by the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2. No intelligenoe will be
roleased to governments othor than the United States without conourrenoe of
tho Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, operating in accordance with Joint Chiefs
of Staff Diroctive 1538, as amended by WD Radio 95147, 24 July 1946.
5. The organization and function of technical military intelligence in
Japan is designed to accomplish the following primary objectives:
a. Exploitation of technical materiol: This will inolude the
examination and evaluation of all available materiol and the deduction,
from such evaluation, of the state of resouroes for war. Intelligence so
obtained will be exploited for the reciprocal benefit of the United States
and Allied armed forcos. This will include a thorough examination of all
facilities which may be involved in the production of materiel for war and
the provision of trained personnel to assist the chiefs of services (Ground,
Naval and Air) in tho suporvision of tho collection, safeguarding and
evacuation of technical equipment for intelligence study and for tactical
and training purposes.
b. Exploitation of documonts:
(1) To select military, techmical, scientific and general
documents for transmission to the United Statos acting
on current target books publishod by the Department of
the Army, the Dopartment of the Navy, and the Department
of the Air Force, or to fill spocific requirements of
specialist agoncies.
(2)
To control release of informetion of intelligence value
to govornments other than tho Unitod States.
(3)
To focus all field agencios of tho Ground, Naval and Air
Forces through Translator and Interpreter Servico for all
documont activity.
Kistricted
2

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.98)
Restricted
(GO 4)
and control, by means of fragmentary translations or
photostats.
(5) To provide trained personnel to soreen doouments and
invontory same by catogories. :
c. Exploitation of Military Historical Records and Offioial
Reports of the Japanese General Staff (Ground, Naval and Air) or of other
Japanose government agenoies pertinont to:
(1) The organization of Japan for war.
(2). The preparations for tho War of 1941.
(3) Campaigns in the Southwest Pacific Area, 1942-1944.
(4) First Campaign in the Philippines, 1941-1942.
(5) Socond Campaign in the Philippines, 1944-1945.
(6) Campaigns in tho Pacific Islands, 1941-1945.
(7) Campaigms in other aroas, 1941-1945.
6. For effoctive coordination, the folloving policy provisions will
be obsorved by all General Headquarters, Supremo Commander for the Allied
Powers staff sections:
a. All hited States and forcign technical missions will, on
arrival in Japan, register with the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, for
coordination of their activities in ordor to provent competitivo dupli-
cation with othor like missions or vith General Headquarters, Suprome
Commandor for the Allied Powers and Far East Comand staff sections.
The
Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, will notify tho Gonoral Headquartors,
Suprome Commnder for tho Allicd Powers end Far East Command agoncios
concerned.
b. The Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2, will conduct all official
liaison with the Japanoso governmontal authoritios portinont to tho oporation
of eithor Unitod Statos or foreim techmical missions, and the release of
intelligonce information portaining thoroto.
c. Tho Assistant Chief of Staff, C-2, in order to oxpodito and
coordinate the conduct of invostigatiens roquired to fulfill tho intelligonce
requiremonts of civil and military dopartments of the United States Govern-
mont or of civil end military dopartments of foroign goveriuments, is author-
ized to correspond, concerning technical details, with any of the following
or their designated representatives:
Restricted

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.97)
(GO 4)
(1) Chiefs of staff sections, General Hoadqumrtera,
Suprome Commander for the Allied Powors
(2) Commanding General, Eighth Army.
(3) Commander, Naval Forces Far East.
(4) Commanding General, Far East Air Foroos.
(5) Hoads of Allied agencies.
(6) Chiefs or Hoads of Foroigm missions.
(7) Chiefs.of spccial tochnical missions, United
States and foreign.
d. To protect intolligence matorial and records in Japan against
exclusive cxploitation by any staff section, agoncy or mission of tho
occupation or of tho United States or other governments, all requests for
removal of any Japanoso documents or records from current Japanese custodian
or owmor will be cleared through the Translator and Interpretor Service
Document Section, Tokyo, under control of the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2.
This proceduro applios whether contemplated romoval constitutes tomporary
loan, procurement demand, or confiscation.
e. The principle of exchango of roports will apply to all Gonoral
Hoadquartors, Supreme Coruander for the Allied Powors agoncios ongaged in
tho collection of intolligenco, whother military or civilian. All reports,
publications, otc., of possiblo intolligence value prepared by Generai Head-
quarters, Supreme Comander for tho Allied Powors staff seotions will
accordingly bo clcared through the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, prior to
being dispatched to locations outside Japan. Sufficient copios will be
prosontod to Targets Branch, Ililitary Intelligence Sorvico Division, G-2,
Gonoral Headquartors, Supromo Commander for the Allied Powers, so that two
copios may be filod in the Offico of the Assistant Chiof of Staff, G-2.
AG 320 (23 Jan 48)GB
BY COLDLAND OF GENERAL MaCARTIUR:
PAUL J. MUELLER,
Major General, Goneral Staff Corps,
OFFICIAL:
leavy
Chiof of Staff.
R. M. LEVY,
Restricted
Colenel, AGD,
Adjutant Goneral.

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.94)
LK
2OOD
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
MAY 1 4 1948
No. 170
TODEPARTENTCAF STATEG948.
DC/R
CONFIDENTIAL
File
(For Department Use Only)
JWS
5
3
5
Subject: Forwarding Memorandum of Conversation with
Former Prime Minister KATAYAMA Tetsu.
(4)
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
894.00/3-1748
a copy of a memorandum of conversation, dated March 15,
1948, between the Acting Chief of Mission and former Prime
Minister KATAYAMA Tetsu.
Mr. Katayama gave as the reason for the resignation
of his Cabinet the desire on his part to prevent an
irreparable split within the Social Democratic Party.
This split apparently was threatened because of growing
friendly relations between certain members of the extreme
left-wing elements of his party with the Japan Communist
Party leadership, a circumstance which threatened party
unity. Mr. Katayama attributed his resignation to a
desire on his part to devote full time to re-establishing
party discipline and unity.
In discussing the progress of Communism in Western
European countries, Mr. Katayama appeared greatly relieved-
when told that the policy of the United States Government
is to resist Communism, particularly in countries where
the majority of the people are not in sympathy with
Communism. He stated that the Social Democratic Party will
never join with the Communists and cited the refusal of his
party to follow the lead of certain of its left-wing ele-
ments in joining a so-called People's Front in Japan.
Enclosure:
Copy of Memorandum of
Conversation Between the
94.
Acting Chief of Mission
and the Former Prime Minister
of Japan, Katayama Tetsu,
00
Dated March 15, 1948.
0.3
Original and ozalid to the Department.
A76E
2
800
WJSebald:cs
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.99)
F
Enclosure to Despatch No. 170
dated March 17, 1948 from the
Office of the Únited States
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, entitled "Forwarding
CONFIDENTIAL
Memorandum of Conversation with
Former Prime Minister KATAYAMA
(For Department Use Only)
Tetsu".
(COPY)
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Tetsu KATAYAMA
Mr. W. J. SEBALD
Former Prime Minister KATAYAMA Tetsu called at his
own request with a view to explaining the reasons for
the recent resignation of his Cabinet. Mr. Katayama
stated that general opinion is that his Cabinet resigned
because an impasse had developed within the Cabinet on
certain major policies. This, he stated, is not true.
The real reason for the Cabinet resignation was a desire
on the part of Mr. Katayama, as President of the Social
Democratic Party, to prevent an irreparable split within
the party into right-wing and left-wing factions.
Mr. Katayama indicated that the extreme left-wing
elements of his party were becoming very friendly with
the Japanese Communist Party leadership and that such
left-wing elements were insisting upon radical policies
which he felt the Social Democratic Party could not accept,
much less carry out. He said that a small faction of four
or five members, known as the Yokyoha (friendly-to-the-
Communists faction) were exercising considerable influence
over an additional twenty or so left-wing members and that
it became apparent to him that unless he devoted personal
attention to party matters, a dangerous split would occur.
For this reason he decided that his Cabinet must of
necessity resign in order to give himself freedom of action
in mending the bad schism which was in the making. Having
resigned, he now intends to devote his full time to travel-
ing throughout Japan with a view to re-establishing party
di scipline.
Mr. Katayama said that Dr. ASHIDA had been persistent
in his efforts to have him join the new cabinet in some
capacity or other, but that he has steadfastly refused
these invitations, as to do so would again force him to
give too much time to cabinet affairs. On the other hand,
he has agreed to serve as an adviser to the Foreign Office
and hopes in this way, notwithstanding his lack of experience
in foreign affairs, indirectly to throw the full weight of
his Party behind the new Cabinet.
Mr. Katayama asked me concerning the progress of Com-
munism in Western European countries and wondered whether
the proposed alliance between England, France, and the
Benelux countries would have any effect on other countries
of the world. I replied that the proposed alliance has
CONFIDENTIAL
the full

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 170
March 17, 1948
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
the full sympathy of the United States in that it indicates
a hardening on the part of Western European countries in
resisting the inroads of Communism. I further stated that
it is the policy of the United States Government to resist
Communism, and particularly in countries where the majority
of the people are not in sympathy with Communism. Mr.
Katayama expressed great relief to learn this and said that
I may rest assured that the Social Democratic Party will
never line up with Communism and that it will do its utmost
to prevent further infiltration by Communists into Japanese
labor unions, the Government, etc.
Mr. Katayama referred to Communist efforts some time
ago to draw the socialists into a so-called People's Front
in Japan, at which time the Social Democratic Party refused
to follow the lead of certain of its left-wing elements and
Communist sympathizers. He said that this policy is still
basic in his Party and that while he felt Japan's future lay
in the establishment of a social democratic country, Com-
munism must have no part in Japan.
W. J. Sebald
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NA
Office 01
FAR EASTERN AF
1 1948
80
5156
Department of State
FROM
P1
LOIDOI.
DATED LARCH 24,1948
1
UICLASSIFTED
REC "D. MARCH 31, 1948
DW
9:12 a.m.
ACTION:FE
INFO:
Secretary of State
DC/R
0
Hashington
BUR
DC/L.
A-738
OFD
OCD
Sub joct:
Guardien Tokyo correspondent reports U.S.
CIA
Party in Japan to Study Plans to Make
Japan self-sufficient
894.00/3-2448
Article quotod below appeared in March 23, 1948,
issue of Manchester Guardian
"PLAN TO LIAKE JAPAN SELF-SUFFIC TERT
U.S. EXPERTS IH TOKYO
Tokyo, March 22
Mr. illiam Drapor, the Unitod States Under-
Seoretary for the Army, has arrived in Tokyo accompanied
by a party of 16 economic oxperta drawn from American
industry and the Covornment.
The purpose of the party is to study plans for
the rehabilitatlon of Japanoso aconomy so as to make
Japan self-sufficient.'
It is belioved that the expansion
of the Japaneso textilo industry will form one of the
prinoipal subjects of consultation.
Mr. Ashida, the Japanese Prime Minister. has out-
lined tho new Cabinet's poliey in an addross to the Diet.
Japan, he said, 'was particularly perturbed over the
political instabilityt of neighbouring nations in the Far
East. She was in no positlon to have a voiee in the
organization of peaco, but since the country's very
R
existence and indepeedenee' wsre clcsely bound up with
9
present world conditions, it was impossirle for the
Japanese people to romain indifferent to internutional
devalopmente that threatened peace.
OM
The long/

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.97)
UICLASSIFIED
Page 2.
A-738
1arch 24 1948
from London
The long-heralded new Conservative party, headed
by Shigeru Yoshide, has at last come into existence
under the confusing designation of the Liberal-
Democratic Party. It is, to all appearances, merely
the old Liberal Party under a new name, but possesses
considerable voting strength, with approximately 160
seats in the louse of Representatives.
Mearwhile, the Socialists have refused the offer
of tho Japanose Communist Party to form a 'demooratio
people's front,' ono of tho principal aims of which
would be to strivo for Japan's 'complete independence."
GALLIAL
Copy to U.S. Political Advisor, SCAr, Tolyo
CLJones/W
3/23/48
UNOLASSIFIED

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.93)
JM
DIVISIONDE
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
AIRGRAM
tiile
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FROM
USPO.AD, Tokyo
Date of mailing:
March 26, : 48
Rec'd: Apr. 6, 1948 8:09 AM
3
A
ACTION E
Office of
INPO
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretory of State.
DO/R
APR 7 1948
G
OCD
Washington.
DIRECTOR
Department of State
CIA
A.55, March 26, 1948.
On March 15, 1948 the Liberal Party wes Zormally
dissolved at a memting of Liberel Party merpers of the
House of Fepreserts tives and House of Couneillors and
a new party inaugurated which has been desi nated the
Demoeratic Liberal Party (Minshu Jiyu-to). Formal
announcement of this perty is the culmination of a
894.00/3
drive for a new conservetive party announced by the
Liberals four months ago. The Demoeratic I beral Party
is composed of 15s members of the House of epresenta-
tives, thereby becoming the largest perty therein and
superseding the Social Demoeratic Party, fo merly the
largest party in the House of Pepresentetives. There
has been no change in the line-up of the House of
Couneillors where there are 44 Demceratic Liberal member
1
The new Liberal Democretie Party membership in the House
2
of I epresentatives is composed of l13 former Liberals,
9
35 former Demoeratic Club members (Minshu Ctub), one
48
foumer Social-Demderet, wo fommer Demoerats, one
fovmer Daiichi Gisn /Cluh/ member, and one Cormer
andependentl
Mre YosndtDa tomgesey president of the Cormer Libert
Pavrty, was sleeted rMestdent of the new party by an
overwhelming mo jorty. me. eumbelela W jw oy to emer
Prime Minister aus hasd of tbe Doshd Club, ras eleeted
suprome advicer. Hr. UmhalA Etsujiro, Home Minister in
the Yoshida Jabimut. and l6 othevs wese elected as
advisers
R
6
HH

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.68)
M ake hi. Presar ent or ub
wt) ea poaretevy Gensval.
s d Gr he Deweve te
e 0 reral re trs Commd
e or ser ohet n of the
f  G afe
tottt to the

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.98)
Tok o's A-55
ch 26, 1948.
-3-
(3)
Elevate national morality through respect
for freedom and realization of responsi-
bility。
(4)
Rehebilitate industrial economy through
respect for labor and promotion of
independence of enterprise.
(5)
Elevate national culture by promoting
science, enriching culture anc furthering
the people's welfare.
The basic policies of the new party consist of 34
items which were stated at the meeting to be concentrated
upon achieving industrial rehabilitation. The policies
include the following measures: revis1on of the election
law; renovation of the administrative structure; reductior
of existing controls; establishment of an orderly, free
economy; decentralization of authority; reorganization of
the Education Ministry; encouragement of export trade;
acquisition of foreign funds; reduction of national
expenditures; reform of the taxation system; stabilization
of wages and salaries; industrial peace through cooperatic:
of labor and cepital; improvement in welfare; and repatria
tion of Japanese ne cionals.
A special point was made at the meeting that many
people had an incorrect impression as to the Liberal
Party advocacy of a laissez-faire economy. It was claimed
that the party recognized the need for contrcis at preseni
but felt that they should be kept at a minimum. In addi-
tion, perties having different basic prineiples were
criticized for thesr rotation of power and for cooperatior
for the sake of obtaining political power. Vhile the
meeting was reported by an observer from this Mission as
enthuslastie, the entive program appeared to be prearrange .
Translations of the new party's besie policies, par'
declaration, names of officers, and other per tinent dete
are being forwarded by despateh.
SEBALD
800
WHbawrenee, Jr. a mbp

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.91)
242
UNITED STATES FOLITICAL ADDMO O5
MAY 1A 04801
No. 208
MAY14 1948
Toy 48
UNCLALS IF IED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
176
Eubject: Inauguration of the Democratic Libera Par
AHR 15
894.00/3-3048
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
AM 10
OF STATE
Washinrton.
Sir:
C.1
C:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's air-
gram No. 55 of March 26, 1948 informing the Department
of the inauguration or the Dembcratic Liberal Party
(Minshu Jiyu-to) ard to submit further information with
regard to the new party.
The following is a list of the executive members:
Director general:
YAi AzAKI Takeshi
TO.
Supreme adviser:
CnIDhHAhA Ki juro
Assoclate advisere:
UEHALA Etsujiro, HCSHIJIMA Jiro,
TE
NAKAJIMA Shuri, ONC Bamboku,
OISHI Linji, HAYAbHI Joji, HIGAI
OCD
Senzo, OMUnA Seiichi, YAVAZAKI
Takeshi, MASUDA Kaneshichi
(1iberels); IhoUL Tomoharu,
LATSUDA Shiichi (Minshu Club);
LA AYA Kisho, KUnODA Hideo,
ITAYA. Junsuke, IsHIaAKA Toyoichi
(Upper House members).
Consultants:
OCAbAMAnA Yasomi, PUnUsHIMA Yoshihide,
AUTAl  Hide ji, HOrI Kotaro,
INADA Naomichi (Liberals); MATSUI
Toyokichi, MarstmeTe Ichiro,
NAMANO Torakichi (Minshu Club);
CGUsHI Seiichi, ToKUGAA Yorisada, 
YAmADA Saichi, SUzUKI Yasutaka,
IBi A Seiju (Upper House members)
HANAbATA Sakubei, NIWA Hyokichi.
C.OSE Chubei, RoA Kitaro, HIKASHIMA
Auditors:
Lyoichi, CUUI Kenzo, HIRANUMA
0
C
Yataro.
89
Upper
t)
2
FILED
心
C
H.
ti
1948

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's No. 208.
March 30, 1948.
-2-
Upper House members of the Democratic Liberal
Party have decided upon  ATSUSHIiA Kisaku as chaimman
of the Uprer House Committee of the new party, DAN Ino
as chairman of the Upper House Political hesearch Committee,
and HTnApfA Ichozo as vice-chair an of the same committee.
Six members of the Liberals who refused to join the party
organized a pew party under the name Japan Liberal Party.
Party strength of the Diet as of 16 March was:
House o1 ! epresentatives
House of Councillors
Democratic Liberal
153
Ryokurukai
89
Social Democratic
122
Democratic
46
Democratic
90
Social Lemocratic
45
People's Cooperative
29
Democratic Liberal
44
Social : enovation
20
Independent Club
14
Independent Club
10
Com unist
4
Japan harmers
7
Independents
3
Japan Liberal
C
Vacancies
5
Independents
C
Communist
Vacarcies
20
There are erelosed trar slations, together with the
original Japanese text, or the Farty beclaration, Furpose
of the Formation of the Rew rolitical Party ane five
copies of Abstract of Tentative Flatform of Liberal Party
prepered by Governmert Sectior of this Headcuarters.
The
ten te tive pletform was asepted uncharged at the inaugural
meetinr on 10rch 15, 194t.
esrecierlly
.r. ec.
•. bobald
Enclosurest
1。
Party Declaration
2.
Pupose pr Formr tion of
New Party
3。
Abstract of Tertetive latfoum
or
Liberal
arty. (? copies)
Original and ozalid to bepertrent
800
WiLawrence,Jr.:mhp

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 208
dated March 30, 1948 from the Office
of the United States Political Adviser
at Tokyo, on the subject: "Inaugura-
tion of the Democratic Liberal Party."
Declaration
e, who have the sane aspirations, get together and hereby
forn a new political party, with a view to saving our fatherland
fron distress, and to brinring hope and stability to the people
in despair anu restlessness.
At present there are many political parties in our country.
Some are ruled by biased and nirrow-minded dogmatism, hindering
rehabilitation of the nation and the national life. Others are
bound by the immediate party protits, having no courage and
strength to remove evils of the tine.
The cancer for the reconstruetion of Japan is the predomi-
nance of socialistic ideoloy and the existence of fedualistic
bureaucracy canouflaged under the cloak of socialism. These two
factors suppress the individualities of the people, prevent their
economic and cultural develcpments, make their hearts stagnant,
and enhance subservieney to power and toadyism.
We aim at the establishment of such normal economic and
social life as wil! develop the talent of each individual freely
and equally, and properly reward his or her capacity and diligence.
This is the very foundation of democracy and the condition by
which demoralization now sweeping the country is rectified. By
this alone the efficieney of industry and public administration
is recovered, a speedy rehabilitation of the Japanese economy can
be expected, and the elevation of the national life and constant
expansion of productive power can be made possible through con-
stant inerease of productive power. There can be no increase of
distribution without inerease of production. e equally respect
the position of labor and management. The construction of such a
society must depend upon creative thought, standing upon human
nature and realistic policy.
We hope that the Japanese will become an international people
in the proper sense of the term. The militaristic self-sufficient
economy in the vast must promptly be reorganized to be suitable to
peaceful conmercial econony. In an attempt to ioin the inter-
national community economically and politically, Japan must en-
force scientific and cultural activities, with full respect for
positive intelligence.
Needless to say, we realize that Japan is surrounded by in-
surmountable difficulties. We, however, cannot stay indifferent
to see poor and ambiguous politics doubling these difficulties
and leading the people to difficult situations.
We hereby establish a political party with determination to
fulfill its historic mission of rebuilding Japan as the light of
the country.

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 208
dated March 30, 1948 from the Office
of the United States Political Adviser
at Tokyo, on the subject: "Inaugura-
tion of the Democratic Liberal Party."
Purpose of the Formation of the
New Political Party
Folitics is the basic design for changin: the unfortunate
age brought about by the defeat of war into a bright period. The
present politics, however, are confused and unstable, with sheer
continuation of blan pages. Under such a condition, when can the
nation be rebuilt?
Today, there are two currents in our politics. Democracy
that respects the freedom and personality of an individual, and
socialisn shackled by ideology. The forner is what the mass of
people ardently desire. And yet political power which should have
been crystallized has not heen materialized. This is the greatest
reason for a confusion of the political situation which was hin-
drance to the execution of effective and pertinent policy, despite
destitution of the national life.
We have long been advocating political unity by means of a
creat unity of those havin the same purpose in view. The oppor-
tunity has now ripened, and the time has arrived for the establish-
ment of a new political party.
The new party we are proposine aims at a popular and progres-
sive character based upon national sentiment and responding to the
international situation.
Ne reject needless class struggle, strive to bring about in-
dustrial rehabilitation and stability of national life. We execute
the principle of production first at home, and expedite a speedy
and over-all opening of international trade, thereby recovering
the national fate which is now in a sad plight, and speeding to
the construetion of a country with high cultural flavor.
The situation at home and abroad no longer permits hesita-
tion. In an effort to establish a responsible political structure
by casting aside all partisan sentiment and relations in the past,
and in full conformity with the core of the new Constitution, we
are now organizing a fresh, powerful and truly national party.
It is hoped that the people havine the same purpose and ideals
will support and join this new party.

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.99)
GOVERNMENT SECTION
No. 10 (2)
THE NATIONAL DIET
11 March 1948
ABSTRACT OF TENTATIVE PLATFORM OF LIBERAL PARTY
Fundamental Policies
Forty per cent increase of mining
and industrial production for
Faithful observance of Potsdam Declara-
the coming year.
tion.
Importation of necessary materials.
Thorough democratization in accordance
Re-examination of existing simple
with the spirit of the New Constitution.
super-priority production system.
Elevation of the morality of the people.
Encouragement of medium and small
Renovation of education; promotion of
enterprises.
culture.
Rationalization of enterprises.
Acquisition of foreign credit.
Elevation of technical levels.
Stabilization of national life.
Development of electricity resorces.
Suppression of inflation.
Rehabilitation of war disastor areas.
Expansion of international trade.
Recovery from natural disasters.
Reduction of existing controls over
Riparian, port and harbor, and vead
materials, wages, prices, etc.
construction projects.
Establishment of an orderly, free
Strengthening and improving ranrge
economy.
ment of marine and lanl tr nsrer
Revision of Election Law.
tation and communicalo.s
Public management of elections.
industries.
Penovation of administrative structure.
Free economy in banking, exinenge,
Enforcement of strict official discip-
foreign trade, and ey insustries..
line.
Impesition of controls when recessary
Prevention of social unrest.
Maintenance of peace and order.
Agriculture, Forestiy, and Fishery
Decentralization of authority.
Industry
Reorganization of local self-government.
Institution of plans for fishery
Education
and dairy industries.
Increase in production of ferti-
Renovation of education.
lizers, fishery goods, etc.
Reorganization of ducation Ministry
Vigorous development of agricultural
into a Ministry of Culture.
and fishery cooperative associa-
xecution of the new educational system.
tions.
Establishment of night schools.
Responsible delivery system for
staple foods.
Economy and Industry
Encouragement of rural industries.
Cultivation and development of
Acceleration of reorganization of
forestry resources.
national industry.
Adjustment and expansion of
Encouragement of export trade.
forestry-roads.
Acquisition of foreign funds.
Popularization of scientific farming
methods.

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.99)
Finance and Banking
Labor
Stabilization of currency.
Stabilization of wages and sala
Re-examination of banking policies.
Development of labor unions.
Reduction of national expenditures.
Political neutrality for labor
Increase in efficiency of government
unions.
enterprises.
Industrial peace through cooperation
Reform of taxation system.
of labor and capital.
Improvement of tax collection system.
Increased productivity of labor.
Reduction of income tax rates.
Smooth supply of daily necessities.
Revaluation and reduction of corpora-
Maintenance of useful enterprises,
tion taxes,
Prevention of unemployment.
Compulsory amortization of corporation
Improvement of unemployment allow-
assets.
ance and insurance systems.
Increased taxes on tobacco and other
Government monopolies:
Social Policy
Creation of new taxes when necessary.
Adjustment of central and local tax-
Improvement of public welfare.
ation systems.
Adjustment and modernization of all
Strengthening of tax administration
national hospitals and sanitariums.
system.
Acceleration of construction of
Adjustment of present banking policy.
dwellings at state expense.
Restriction of issuance of deficiency
Relaxation of present restrictions
loans,
on construction of dwellings.
Re-examination of system and manage-
Repatriation of Japanese nationals.
ment of Reconstruction Finance Bank.
Farm villages for repatriates.
Increase in industrial funds.
Stabilization of currency.
PARLIAMENTARY & POLITICAL DIVISION :
(J)
2

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.93)
aleclaration ane Platfoim
われらは同志相集り新政黨を結成し、苦惱の祖國を救い絶望と
焦燥にあえぐ民心に希望と安定とをもたらさんとするものである。
現在わが國に幾多の政黨があるがあるものは偏狭な獨斷に支配され
て、國家及び國民生活の再建をさきたげ、あるものは目前の黨利にとら
われて、時弊を取り除く勇氣と力を持たない
日本再建の癌は實に社會主義的觀念論の横行と社會主義によつて
擬裝せる封建的官僚主義の飛存であるこの二つぶ國民の個性を抑壓
しその經濟的文化的能力の發揮をさまたげ人心を沈滯せしめて、權
力に對する卑屈と事大主義とに拍車をかけている
われらは國民各自の才幹が自由に均等な機會をもつて發揮せられ
才能と勤勉が正しく報いられる正常空經濟的社命的生活の樹立を目標
とするこれこそ民主主義の根底であり滔々たる道德的額廢を克服
する條件である又これによつてのみ産業と行政の能率が回復し日
本經濟の速な復興が期待之れ生産力の絕えさる擴大に作つて國民生
活の向上と家庭生活のうるおいが可能となる生産の増強なくして分配
の增加はあり得ないわれらは勞働者と企業家の立場を平等に尊重寸
るかかる社會の建設は創造的な構想により人問性に立脚し現實
に即した施策にまたねばならぬ
われらは日本人が正しい意味において世界的國民たることを望む

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.87)
よう速に再編成せねばならない。而して、日本が經濟的に政治的に國際
社會の列位に參加するためには、實證的な知性を尊重して、科學上文化
上の精神活動を大いに高揚する施策が必要である。
われらはもこより祖國の現狀が容易ならざる困難に園繞せられて
いることを知るしかれども拙劣あいまいな政治が祖國の困難を倍
加し、國民をいよ窮地に導いているのを坐視することができない。
われらはここに新政黨を結成しひとえに祖國の暗夜をてらす光
明となつて日本再建の歴史的使命を果さんとするものである。
昭和二十三年三月十五日
领
一示ッダム宣言を誠實に履行し國際正義に基き新日本の建設を
期十る。
一、新憲法に則り責任政治を確立し社會正義に立卿して庶政の
刷新之期する。
一自由の愈重と責任の自に微して國民道德の高揚之期する
一勞側之重んじ企業の自主を促して產業經濟の復興之期す
一科學之興し教養を豊にし民生を厚うして國民文化の向上を

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.81)
Basic policy
基本政策
（昭和二十三年三月)
政治行政
一、選舉の公營を擴充する等選舉法規の改正を行い、政界の淨化を張力に推進する。
一、行致の改革及び監理を断行してその能事化をはかり、公務員の待過を改善すると共に、綱紀を
贈正する。
2
一、中央出先機闘を整理してその横限を地方に移誤する等、地方自治の確立と地方分種の強化をは
かる。
教育文化
一、文部省を文化省（假稱）に改超し、教育、文化行政の刷新をはかる。
一、新學制の完全賓施を促進し、國民救育の充實を期する。
一、顔く青少年に向學の機會を與えるため育炎施設の貫充をはかり、且つ働きつつ勉學する施段
を充實する。
一、科興、技術の振興を期し、研究機闘の支實をはかる。
一、文婆繪畫、昔樂、演劇、映盡等に對する國の樊勘策を講する
產業經濟
一、図際分業の見地から南業の再編成を促進し積極的に稔出貿易の振興をはかると共に外費導
入の態勢を急速にを備する。
一山な經辨への復師之目途として長期産葉復興計盡を御立し單純な傾斜生産と現行統師を再
檢討して、石炭電力、鐵銅肥料、檢送之中心とする頭点生產から敵次纖維、食品化學、精
密機械工藝品工業等の振興に移行するよう課合的に施策する
一、大企業本位の重点的方式を再檢討し逃全なる中小商工業の育成とその金融の圓滑化をはか
一現行の統制を涵合理的に整理縮少、金照爲替、買易、正要基礎産業及び重要物資に臨し
大梓の規制を行い個々の企業には自主的活動を促進する如き自由な經跡への移行を期する。その
間必要已むを得ざる統制は確實にこれを實施十る
一、説制縮少の過程として、図の管理を必要とする物資につき所要数きのみを供出せしめその後の
自由處分至認める制度游大指充方る
る食對策を證立し量兩面より國民食糧の自給度の向上に努為水産業及び産業の
の解等ののの所
な發進を助長する
一農水産物價格と工業製品價格との均衡をはかると共に、度林水産金隱の圓滑化を期する
一主全類二ついては地力に應じて責任生產堂之定め責任の供出後位一定條件の下に自由處分
一健至な新農村建設のため全慶者の為力を基本とする農民組合を育成して科學的農法の指
導と精農運動の中核たらしめる
一遠洋漁業の振與と渡海内水面の卷漁業の奬剛之はか各種漁案用資待の磁保を期する
森林姿源の培卷のため全園前に林を賞施すると共に林道綱の整備題充をはかる
一終合的國土計盜を樹立し電源開發戰災地復與災害復得治山治水及正悲謂道路の整備
復興を積極的に行う
一、海通、鐵道及び小還送の遊備調際をはかり交通運輸の能率化を明する
財政金融
、國民経務の實力に相應する貸質的健全財政を堅持しインクレーションの抑止と、通貨の安定
各期する。
一、圗民負落の適正と陸業再建の見地より豫算題成を行い、政府支拂監査の嚴格化を期し官業に
ついては極力經營の刷者をはかる。
一所得税の基礎控除を引さ上げ、且つ所得税及び法人税の稅率を輕減する。
開所得と説税に對してはその捕捉を徹底し、且つ煙草等の増産による増牧をはかる
中央及び地方税制の線合調遊を行い地方財源の充實をはかる。
a
一生産復興を促進するよう生産金融の圓滑をはかり目つ復興金融金庫の機能を刷新すると共に
各種の措置を講じて貯者の増強に努める。

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.82)
200
教育文化
一、文部賓を文化省（假編）に改組し、教育、文化行政の調新をはかる。
一、新學制の完全賞施を促進し、國民教育の充賞を期する。
一、廣く青少年に肩事の機會を興えるため、育英施設の横光をはかり、且つ嫌きつつ弟事する
を充貴する。
一、科學、技術の振興を期し、研究機酬の充賞をはかる。
一、文藝、線豊、昔業、演劇、映豊等に對する國の樊臨気を講する。
產業經濟
一、困際分業の見地から産業の再縮成を促進し、積極的に輸出賀易の振興をはかると共に、外費事
入の恐勢を急速に整備する。
一、自由な經濟への復歸を目途として長期産菜復興計畫を樹立し、單純な領斜生配と現行統制を再
檢討して石炭、電力、鐵劍肥料、輸送を中心とする重点生産から敵次織維、食品、化學、精
密機械、工藝品工業等の振興に移行するよう綜合的に施策する
一、大企乗本位の重点的方式を再檢討し、健全なる中小商工業の育成とその金體の圓滑化をはか
一、現行の統制を濡入合理的に整理縮少し、金險、爲替、貿易、正要基礎産業及び重要物資に臨し
大梓の規制を行い個々の企業には自主的活動を促進する如き自由な経済への移行を期する。その
間必要已むを得ざる銃制は確質にこれを實施する
一、純制縮少の過程として、図の管理を必要とする物資につき所要数量のみを供出せしめその後の
自山處分を認める制度を液大撮充する
一、米麥等源粉貧食粗偏重の食精政策左改め水產吉產、油脂等蛋自質及び脂防質食糧を綜合也
る食粗對策を確立し、是質兩面より國民食糧の自給度の向上に努め、農業水陸業及び畜産業の
計張をこの線に沿つて樹立する。
一、無音為家の解消、果樹裁培等の奬剛、蠶系業の振興及び農漁村工業の樊剛を行い、その所要施
設を助長し、多角經營による農水産業の經營的安定を期すると共に、農漁業協同組合の積極的
な發進を助長する。
一、農水産物價格と工業製品價格との均衡をはかると共に、農林水産金融の回滑化を期する
一主食類については地力に應じて責任生産量を定め、責任量の供出後は一定條件の下に自由處分
を認める。
一、健全な新農村建設のため全農業者の協力を基本とする農民組合を育成して、科學的農法の指
導と精農運動の中核たらしめる。
一、遠洋漁業の振興と浅海内水面の草漁業の奬剛をはかり、各種漁業用資材の確保を期する
森林資源の培養のため全國前に植林を賞施すると共に林道網の整備後充をはかる。
一綜合的國土計遊を樹立し電源開發、戰災地復興災害復得、治山治水及正港測道路の整備
復興を積極的に行う。
一、海遞、鐵道及び小還送の整備調整をはかり、交通運輸の能率化を期する
財政金融
一、因民經済の實力に相感する貸貧的健全財政を堅持し、インクレーションの抑止と、通貨の安定
お期する
一、國民負落の通正と産業再建の見地より孫算通成を行い政府支拂監盜の儀格化を期し官業に
ついては極力経營の刷がをはかる。
一、所得税の基礎控除を引き上げ、且つ所得税及び法人税の稅率を輕減する
一、間所得と脱税に對してはその抽捉を後底し且つ煙草等の増産による増收をはかる
一、中央及び地方税制の綜合調監を行い地方財源の充實をはかる
一、生産復興を促進するよう生産金強の四滑をはかり、日つ復興金過金庫の後能を刷新すると共に
各種の指近を語じて時落の増強に努める。
勞働社會
一、貸金の重点を漸次生活給より能率給に移行し、勤勞所得税の累進卒を輕減する又生活必語
物資の圓滑なる入手をはかり、勤勞者の生活安定方策を推進する
一、勞資協力による勞働法規の回滑なる巡用により勞通組合の億全な發違を促し、公明なる圓題
協約の締結によつて産業半和の確立をはかる。
母性及び乳幼見の保護施策を充官する。
一、公營の住宅建設を促進すると共に、個人住宅について建築制限を殺和する
公共醫療施設を充實整備寸ると共之傷獲者遺家族戰災者引揚者貧窮者の厚生施策を
推進する
一、海外同胞の引揚を本年中に完了すべく一府の努力を拂う。

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.84)
数罪によって貴らされた死の不幸な時代と光明むる時かに
泊はその基礎設計であも。然るに現賞の産情は混逃して、移治の館離は数
徒らに、空轉空白を直ねて止まる所を知らないかくてはいっの日に再
の事業が成るか異に死ばにたへないものがある。
今日我國の政治の姿には二つの流れがある。個人の自由と人格と尊重する民主
夕義と徒に公式論に捉はれたる社會主義とが之である。此の前者こを羅民大業の
熱心と要望する所でありながら今日迄その政治力は結集さるべくして諸集され
なかった。こいに政局の動搖と混迷が生じ、これが園民生活の困窮をよそに何
一つ有効適切な施策を行ひ得ない最大の原因である。
われ等は、環て同志の大同間結による政局の安定を率先提唱して來たが今や
政機至く熱し新業樹立の時は來た。
われ等の意圖する新黨は飽く造も、國民感情に立脚し、國際情勢に即應しつ
大衆的性格と、進步的性格とを併せ備へんと志すものである。
われ等は徒らなる階級闘爭を排し産業の復興と國民生活の安定こを圖う
内に生産第一主義と實行し外は國際貴易の急速なる全面的再開を期しもつて
悲憶なるこの國運を挽回すると共に、香り高い女化日本の建設に邁進せんとする
ものである。
内外の情勢は今や逡巡を許さぬわれ等は此の際既往一切の熱派的感情と
行き勢かりを捨て新憲法の真鑑に徹して貴任政治體制を確立するため茲に清新
且つ強力なる奥の國民前新業を結成せんとするものである。
同憂共減の諸君、幸に此の趣旨に費同せられ振つて新常結成に器畫せられ
んこもを切題して止まね。

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.89)
第二十二條顧間及び相談役は重要事項について継裁の路問に臨する。
願問及び相談役は純衆の推属によって霊大食で決定する
第二十三條純裁は無大令の同意を得て願問のうちから名春絶裁及び最高願間を推藍するとと動で
さる。
第二十四條名舉總裁及び最高願問は常時總裁の絡間に應する。
第二十五條總務は總裁を佐け黨の要務を處理する
総務の選任は左の各銃による。
一、各地區別（別表）所屬代議士十名（四捨五入）につき一名の割合によつて車記無記名
投票で各地區別（別表）に互選する
二所屬議院議員のうちから單記無記名投票で議員十名（四捨五入につき一名の制
合によつて互選する。
三所屬國會議員のうちから聞記無記名投票で十名を互選する。
四、総裁は、その指名によつて所屬國會議員又は國命議員以外の黨員のうちから十五
名を限り選任することができる。
總務の互選によつて總務命長及び常任継務若干名を置くことができる。
第二十六條
幹事長は總裁を輔佐し、欲機闘の決議に基て黨務を執行する。
幹事長は黨大命で選舉する。
第二十七條
副幹事長は幹事長を佐け幹事長事故あるときはその職務を代行する。
副幹事長は幹事長の推薦によつて議貝總會で決定する。
第二十八條
幹事は總務並びに幹事長及び副幹事長を佐け黨務を分據する。
幹事の選任は左の各號による。
一、各地區別（別表）所屬代議士五名二捨三入）につき一名の割合によつて單記無記名
投票で各地區別（別表）に互選する。
二所風多議院議日のうちから單訓無記名投要で議貞五名二拾三入につき一名の額
合によつて互選する。
三、總裁はその指名によつて所屬國命議員又は國命議員以外の黨員のうちから二十名
を限り選任することができる。
幹事の互選によつて常任幹事若干名を置くことができる。
第二十九條
政務調在會長は議員總命で選舉する。
同副命長は會長の推薦によつて議員總命で決定する。
第三十條
議員總命長同副會長代議士會長同副命長及參議院議員會長同副會長は夫議
員總會代議士會及參議院議員會で選學する但し代議士會長同副會長は議員總會
長同副令長を疑ねることがでさる。
第三十一條
令計監督は黨の令計を監督する。
會計監督は爲大命で選舉する
第三十二條
評議員は然大令に出席し数決に加ることかできる
評議は總務の推薦によつて總裁が指名する。
第三十三條
各後の任明は一年と十る正し任明が滿了しても後任の役員が決定するきでは共の
職を親るものとする。
第二節支部役員
第三十四條支部に支部長一名を置き其他の役貞は本部役員に準じて各支部で定める
第四章
組
織
第一節支
部
第三十五條
都道府縣に連合支部を置き當該市、郡支部を以て組織する
市郡支部は當該町村支部によつて構成する。
第三十六條
支部の規約は本部の承認を受けなければならない。
第五章入黨離黨及除名
第一節入
第三十七條然に加盟しようとするものは員の紹介によらなければならない。
第二節離
第三十八條
為を離熱しようとするものは其の理山を明記して窓に居出なければならない。
第三節除
名
第三十九餘
然員にして黨親を案り留面を汚し其他不都合の行爲があつた場合は、總務會の決議に
よつて之を除名する祖し國會議員の場合は議員總命の決誰をも得なけらばならない。
第六章會
第一節黨
弟四十條熱費は熱員の負接とし毎年一回收支を筋大命に於て公表しなければならない。
第四十一餘終員は本部喪として年額十圓を支部費と共に納入しなければならない。

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.89)
四、純裁は、その指名によつて所器國金議員えは
名を限り選任することができる。
連務の互週によって誰務食長及び常任結持若干名とくこといで
第二十六條幹事長は結義を輔住し、震機師の決勝に華かて詩を載行する
幹事長は大會で選事する。
第二十七條副幹事長は幹事長を佐け事長事故あるときはその職務を代行する
副幹事長は幹事長の推蔵によつて議員親會で決定する。
第二十八條幹事は總務並びに幹事長及び副幹事長を佐け黨務を分機する
幹事の選任は左の各號による。
一、各地區別（別変）所屬代議士五名（二拾三入）につき一名の期合によつて單記無記書
投票で各地置別（別表）に互選する。
二、所展る講院議員のうちから軍間無記名投票で議員五名二捨三入につき一名の
合によつて互選する。
三総裁はその指名によつて所屬國會議員又は國會議員以外の為員のうちから二十名
を限り選任することができる。
幹事の互選によつて常任幹事若干名を置くことができる。
第二十九條
政務調査會長は議員總會で選舉すろ。
同副命長は會長の推薦によつて議員總會で決定する。
第三十條
議員總會長同副會長代議士會長、同副令長及參議院議員會長、同副會長は夫議
員總會代議士命及參議院議員會で選舉する但し代議士會長、同副會長は員總會
長同副命長を兼ねることができろ。
第三十一條
令計監督は黨の命計を監督する。
命計監督は大會で選舉する。
第三十二條
評議員は為大令に出席し、裁決に加ることができる。
評議貞は總務命の推薦によつて總裁が指名する。
第三十三條
各役員の任期は一年とするっ組し任期が滿了しても後任の役員が決定するまでは其の
職を執るものとする。
第二節支部役員
第三十四條支部に支部長一名を置き其他の役員は本部役員に準じて各支部で定める。
第四章組
織
第一節支
部
第三十五條
都道府縣に迹合支部を置き當該市、郡支部を以て組織する。
市郡支部は當該町村支部によつて構成する。
第三十六條支部の規約は本部の承認を受けなければならない
第五章入黨離黨及除名
第一節入
第三十七條微に加照しようとするものは黨員の紹介によらなければならない。
第二節離
第三十八條為を誰蒸しようとするものは其の理山を明記して欲に屈出なければならない。
第三節除
名
第三十九條
然員にして蒸規を楽り個面を汚し共他不都合の行爲があつた場合は、總務會の決議に
よつて之を除名する祖し図會の場合は議員親命の決議をも得なけらばならない。
第六章會
計
第一節黨
第四十條
費は黨員の負控とし毎年一回收支を然大令に於て公表しなければならない。
第四十一飲員は本部役として年額十圓を支部役と共に納入しなければならない。
支部費の額は支部で決定する。
本部經常事務費は當分のうち所馬國會議員が別に定める方法によつて負擦する。
第二節寄
第四十二條寄附金品の受領は結務會の承認を得なければならない。
第三節會舒年度
第四十三餘會計年度は每年四月一日から翌年三月三十一日までとする
第七章附
則
第四十四條本黨則の改度は黨大命の決議によらなければならない。
(别)
一關東地區
北
地
一北海道地區
一北信地區
一東
海
地
一近畿地區
一中國四國地區
九
州
地

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.84)
JMA
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DIVSION 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND REDORDST TELEGRARHSBRANCH
 8 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
3060
A) Pokto
Asr 8. 948
9:5 A
35
Office of
894.00/4-348
ACTION
INPO
1915
DO/R
G
Papartmii late
CIA
2
O1
HH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—-This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.98)
May 20, 1948
STATUS OF THE PURGES IN JAPAN
(Source: NA)
As of May 1948, approximately 95% of the various purges undertaken in
Japan have been completed, with approximately 200,00 persons removed or
excluded from public office and from key positions in the economic and
cultural life of Japan. No new categories have been added to the purge list
since last year, and present plans contemplate relaxation of the program
hereafter, rather than the addition of sny new groups. In relation to the
economic reccvery personnel needs of Japan, it is felt that the purges may
already have been carried too far.
The major goal of the purge program was to eliminate from leadership in
Japan those groups considered responsible for Japanese militaristic nationalism
and aggressive expensionism. From the beginning of the occupation the responsi
Hlity for administering the program hes been in Japanese hands, in accordance wit
6
detailed instructions from SCAF and under SCAP's general supervision.
Groups thus removed from office or barred from appointment or election to
office include over 150,000 military, neval and Gendermerie officers, 45,000
influential members of ultra-nationalistic political and patriotic societies and
agencies. In addition, the economic purge has affected about 1500 key persons in
commerce, industry, finance and agricultural and 70o in the public information
media field. Corresponding action was taken in the educational system.
20
The purges in Japan have differed in three significant respects from the
4
denazification activities in Germany. In the first place purgees in Japan have
been identified by categories rather than as indiviuels. Second, the only penalty0
imposed in the Japanese purges has been diqualification from office. Purgees,
other than war criminals, have not been subjected to imprisonment, fines, or pro-
perty confiscations. In the third place, the manner of administration of the
Japanese purges has been such that only persons in office or aspiring to office
have been affected. It is felt, however, that the coverage of persons in the
affected categories has been substantially complete, so that there is no one now
in governmental or key private positions who falls clearly within purged categories,
and that there remain relatively few affected aspirants to such offices who have
not been notified in advance of their ineligibility.
The present status of the progrem is that the national level Central Screening
Board of the Japanese Government has been reduced to a smell residual unit in the
office of the Frime Minister, and although the prefectural screening boards are still
in existence, the volume of their activities is rapidly declining.
S
There are two principal problems which remain for the future:
A
4
1. There is the prospect of en incresse in the criticism vhich has
already been voiced, as to the justice of discualifying persons for
office by categories rather then following examination of the
records and histories of individusls. For the duration of the
2
occupation this is clearly not a serious threat to the purpose of
the purge program.

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
2. The clear need for a concerted effort towards economic recovery,
to establish a peaceful and independent nation that can play its
part in Far Eastern and World affairs without reliance on abnormal
outside help, is already generating a demand for the return to
active roles of experienced and able purgees: Fressure in this
direction may be expected to increase over the next few years and
some compromise with the principles laid down in the immediate post-
surrender phase appears indiceted during the rebuilding phase of
Japanese history which lies ahead.
This substantial completion of the purge program, should not lead to complacency
regarding the attainment of the anti-militaristic and democratizing objectives of
the occupation of Japan. The fight goes on between those elements in the Japanese
society, such as the intrenched bureaucracy, which generally escaped the purges,
and which clings substantially to old patterns of thought, and those newer elements
such as the liberal trade unions and farn groups which are being weaned away from
feudal restrictions towaris the role of potential supporters of democracy in Japan.
Our hopes for the future of Japan must rest on the mergence of a native leadership,
as free as possible from the stigme of subservience to the foreign occupying power,
if the destructive effect of the purges is to be followed by the constructive
developments which constitute our underlying objectives.

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.88)
D
Form DS-302
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
15103
FE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Offict o1
133
PLAIN
FAASTNAFFAIHS
践
MAY 2
1948
4
CA
Control 7791
DepartmenStar
见
Rec'd May 24, 1948
171
Action:
FE
8:55 a.m.
Info
53
DCR
Tolsvo
ART OP STATE
894.00/5-244
8
H工H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.98)
May 6, 1948
Dear Sebald:
Would you be good enough to let me know the status
of the appeal of Yoshio Osawa who was purged beoause of
the executive position he held in a Japanese film company
I make this request not so much because he is a olassmate
of mine and I personally wish him well, but beoause he
has a host of friends in the United States many of whom
are friends or aoquaintances of mine or feel themselves
free to get in touoh with me and do so with great and
inoreasing frequenoy. I want to be in a position to give
them definite information.
Osawa went to Lawrenceville School for five years
and Princeton for four years. He graduated from Prinoeton
1n 1925 and was one of the most popular members of that
olass. On returning to Japan, he worked with General
Motors until it closed up its operatione in the latter
part of the 30's. As a result, a large number of solid
oitizens and not a few important people have had continu-
ous contact with Osawa over a number of years and they
regard him as the epitome of the type of Japanese who
should come to the fore in Japan if the purposes of our
occupation are to be consolidated by action on the part
of the Japanese themselves.
Every few days I get an inguiry from someone who
has heard, not from Osawa but from a fellow Amerioan.
that he is in difficulty and who finds it incredible that
he should be purged.
All this leads me to write asking would you let me
know what the status of his cese is and whether his
personal standing has. on appeal, overcome the category
of the position he held during the wer or if not what
the case against him is in brief.
With kindest regarde.
Faithfully yours.
W. Walton Butterworth
William J. Sebald, Esquire.
Acting Politisal Adviser for Japan.
Tokyo.
FE: WWBut terwo rth:mss

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.91)
Office of
Form DS-302
(7-2-46)
JUNRACTICOPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
庄
CONFIDENTIAL
lake
4
T1
Control 10065
CA
Action:
RPS
Rec'd May 29, 1948
Info
H
10:35 p. m.
P
Requiredaction
0
FE
tahen ly phone
OCD
OIC. AOF wirhbg ly
CIA
ECEVED Fl.
PC
DCR
FROM:
Shanghai
Jun1
TO:
Secretary of State
To FE for actions
NO :
1213, May 30, 8 a.m.
DEPFOFSTATE NH
PRIORITY
894.00/
REDEPTEL 227 February 6
Suggest AmPULAD request SCAP issue invitational orders
x 1.
for two-weelt visit by Woo Kyatang, executive editor of
American ouned SHANGHAI EVENING POST. Randall Gould,
PosT editor, anxious have Woo do series articles on
J1
11.114
Japan to counteract growing Chinese criticism Us policy
1
vis-a-vis apan. Woo, able end conscientious, knows
3048
what to vrite Consulate Ceneral believes would help
our cause. Since criticism presently well played local
press believe time liness of trip now veluable. If
Department concurs, advise NPoLAD proceed inmediately
requesting Scap issue neceseary invitational orders and
Learances wnd arrange meke fatto avaifable to Wen
Manking 971
CACO
工
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FOR20.
CONFIDENTIAL
DATE: June 7, 1948
TO
: HMB
FROM : FMF
suct: Shangha1's 1213 of May 30th
I talked with Major King, of the Public
Information Division of the Department of
the Army, who has been assigned action on
the attached. I suggested that in their
wire to Tokyo they indicate that information
had come to their attention that Mr. Woo
would be available to go to Japan to do a
series of articles for the Shanghai Evening
Post and Mercury, that the State Department
had been consulted and heartily endorsed
the project as being in the national interest
in view of the present situation in China,
and that invitational orders be issued if
possible.
Major King explained that "invitational
orders""brings up a budgetary problem as
well as one of precedent. He explained
that at one time Secretary Royall's sugges-
tion that invitational orders be issued to
US editors had been turned down, but at
last admitted that SCAP could in his dis-
cretion overcome these difficulties and
it would be pointless to anticipate them now.
Major King promised that a wire would
go out this afternoon and that he would
telephone when the reply has been received.
FE:FMFisher:mp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.86)
ACTION
is assigned to
LABOR ADVISER
OF THE
QISION OF
FOR ONOMIE AFAS
ÚNITED STATES OF AMERICA
NORASIAN AFFAIRS
0
10
JUN1 61948
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
No. 321
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
+e
JONFIDENTIAL
RECEIVE
Tokyo, Jne 3, 1948.
19
BF
Subject: Observations Hade as a esult ot an Crientation Visit to Kyushu.
The Honoraole
894.00/6-348
The Seeretary of state,
Hashington.
Sir:
I have the henor to perer to this Hission'e despatch Yo. 299 of
Eay 24, 1943 concemin, the activities of communists in Kyushu and to
enelose a cop or un airitional aumorandum, prepared by Fso W. Henry
LAmtnCE, Jr., containin turther resulte ? his ooservations and inter-
views durin an orientation visit to Kyushu lurin the latter part of
JA
April, 194s. The memorm dom deals ori aril, with such sub jects as lebor,
Nreparatione, a the uecobrdisation and pur e prograns.
74
ruch of o mferma io conoatned in se melosed memorandum ds of a
corroborative nature ond afrorus maple vitare ua a number of policies
implemented by the Cecupation  pot out . shole-hearted approval or
sympathetie roopora Prom a large segment ef se Juotrese population.
Thab there shouj/ te sritieln or policies mhtet sre sistasteful to individ-
uals primaril erreeter trr  ntorstunte. t it vorld appear from
the reasons advaneed for cortain cone swtons pomched bp tr. Lawrenee, that a
considoraole Preld emie tor a wotl-devier mm oreeuted informetion and
education pro ram. tet  he pooent et se is sirrored throughout the
chelosei momorendus ds  t, I elieve,  misunierstesding or inorance
of the objectives thich ae  ou ht in the labor, decent ralination, purge, and
other pro rame carrien on b the eoupatione ae, core is constant reiter-
ablon that leglslation, particularly labor tom, s bss far wavaneed and in
consequence is cansine uneasiness on te art os t labor and management.
While it way we ammitted that the nes dammese tomor le islebin is far from
porfect ana unloubtedly rogpuires pevision, it i tait vnt a periol of ad-
justment is neeessary ent at ee oend rey stons  br be made only aftel
a triel porio ! mm tarter mmperienee inttonke e mivicaoility of mendment
The pereietent demant on the part a laner for wge luereases, to well
as menagement's claim thct lacor fails to ap rectabe ite pesponsibilitics,
is illustrative of the enerat pastbeen of diopute prosotly prevalont in
Japan as a Mhrole. Labor kas toon fvm wivihg far seyond its wildost
dreams in the pact; it
 ohoe,   , noithe in tory nor
ooperating with
in practice pe peateges fdsae  or 
managemert
DOMFIDERIAL
RECEIVEC
FIL
22 918
9

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.78)
Tokyo's 321
June 3, 1948
JONFIDENTIAL
-2-
(For Department Use Only)
management to in waye uni meme to inerease production, to achieve reater
stability,  oin therfre,  inerease in real wages.
Lam er inal ueei o metrmi reperations is a factor which dis-
tubs nraliv we markine time pendin definite
knowlede  lant pehiliti n  aprovament alt not become so much
wastei efrort. I aitio, wile fr  reminder of reparations, the
t o se,    fr packagin soods
be trare forer undr  er preo orm do one which naturally
causes envy an i    e ines m lesirous of rehabili-
tatin terLae  e various reusons to
obtain the needeaers.
Phe decersateet eonsiueratle un
certainty shic exerto a ret r men on Ja mese industrial recovery.
The breakine up of pree eots us ir ne cat sos boratlys but rear continues
that single units prodasin, plosel  ttet roa eta ill likevdse be broken
up into inefficient componente. preorrion exists thal decentralization
will inerease proutetion soste wm til  mene e tirrteulties of financing
pro uctivo perebions.
Eany lovermment erieisle u  . rmee conversed believed that
transportation, an iaportant faeter in my prerv po rae, shouli have high
priority in rican mi hichlen.ransportation
includes such daportmt divielons s ro peoras, pmllvey eruipment, mnd in-
creased ship An In bnds connestion,  i v lent in . Lawrencets
memorante, n optiriotie vein oa o ord  uoe orfieials and indus-
trinlists t the Unitet oeo wr n e mase morey to
rebuild wr pehabilitete e sero weomes dors vee short period.
This feelin, has te a ive. mpetue wm ureer e ene  ereerabed press
reports eoneermia i shoh e   on. he dapanese
consisbenth son   ur opeuironey t sbate that the
sooner dm ee wil be.
The coeurees
beve been too weepm - nnea   em military
of ficiels. o nt    eable le dors in
in lustry he been etieipate in
ultrmationalist or tsoertstte wotscor  pom  on worout maturity
or periueepetre hence
these youn m wareoee  noorim the
rehabilitation or dupn  evelr he deapods
Er. Lawrence do bo o commere or   mee wt sieh he searehed
out information, opinéoe, mms Pce pro. he many ricies, coth Aaerioun
and Japanese, wiu sh db y de n artfon, e  m vge of
his presence in kyushu to vieit ue) ooeorve many de dvisiee, ineludin a
number or aportant intoctries, eh  mteet, shesie , a. eramie plants.
shipyards, and one of she coal tmoe sa norbhern tuche. tt a Pelt thab kr.
CONFIDENTIAL
Lecrence

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.87)
Tokyo's 321
June 3, 1948
-3-
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Uise Only)
Lawrence made t maximan e of the time which was allocated for his trip.
peopect Pully youre,
W.Mecace.
. sebald
unclosure:
emorandtapr1
 Henry Lawrence, P., ut
June , 14, concernin vt
to Eyushu.
In tripliente to the pepartrent.
8003
dscball:s

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.81)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure to Despatch No. 321 dated
June 3, 1948 from the Office of the
(For Department Use Only)
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Observations
Made as a Result of an Orientation
Visit to Kyushu".
MELORANDUM
June , 1943.
st d : Ubservabi no Eae  a es lt of a Visit to Kyushu by
Forei prviee offieer . Hemy Lawrence, Jr., Con-
e rmin Labor, lepuabions, Jecentralization, Obstacles
to ehalita don, rd e Purse.
The followin  seryatione re ti peonlt  my visit to four
pr fectures in Ryushu, Pukuoka,  a asaki, Kumamoto, and Kagoshima during
the last ten lays of april, l94s. esldes travel in urban and rural
areas, tours were de  several basic industries including steel,
chemical, an ceramic plants, shipyaris, ani a coal mine. Facts and
opinions re ardin, current conlitious were obtained lurin conversations
with men err of the Syushu togional Hilitry sovernment Tean and of local
prefectural L ilitary evernment teans, nd with representative Japanese
leadere ad individuals (a li. t  t mes ef  e mo important persons
interviewed is enalo ad). The J anese leaders ine luded the overnors and
the phairmen of thee ts eablies  the Peur prefectures. In adaition,
conversattons were ir  witn ihsiviauals from the fellosin groups:
1. Prefectural uroat chiefs.
hef r r ere or locl ofPi es  he Jontrel
Linlson  Joorlimatin orfiee.
S. Rayor  es t towms.
briuli
toe hmhustries.
t.t m lerrs.
D
Fatmsers tr rleheemets
2. mueatore and sburent.
tue  .
ry viet bopyuehe poit yoaneo yobore e o. wea do o
basic aportme bo e recoye  p ston  s. In Fukuoka
Prefoeture alone is prodused fisty poroont  sopmt coal, mmt caghty
pereent of hee oeel. osderat pro   n e in pehabilitation,
bub p reor ostuclee preventin eemt  self-up
portin ono.   u 

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.71)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 321,
June 3, 194
-2-
JWIDENTIAL
(For Jepartment Use Only)
I. boe temt lea te  por for inreased wages
s to oroment ln wel sare, umecompanded by
pearrorr   or rre the responsibality
be cop   nt an order to achieve
uy rest  bure
proebon etn
.Uneeraiy
decentralizati
. shorpen
Strinr.
 L 
The wujocity e oce loaders
  euion
pp u   r   as contrested
Labordos
opn
sb or pbem n h
Uhis revdeion tae ploee wurny e teoupe a omor ret the
poltodoal strom th of ta or afber ohe  coupmbe  cam  reat, sue to
the brememdous maber of votes fvoly,  t erilerm or mmending
the lecislubion will te alaest sasumounto te. tptrioe vepaessed andicated
that as the ceoubion to   sbe Por s soo wsud sbate os Laber
legislation, the Ceoupation shoer epeer o  or tetween labor and
manghnt.
Phegeent  e uroe ey b hoienl
Company, Lod., ieh appemred to t peuson t in s apppotch to the probmomo
of mensement  or pelens ebed r onion sreils do not
properyem tee  vosei mtien or lor n ragement
and abbem bo ebate polledes wdeh rr sarty s prality of
manement. we friesks of or y o tn ukn e union into
weir

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.73)
Enel. to
Tokyo's 321,
June , 1948
-3-
COPFTDENTIAL
(For veparbmem Use ual)
to ir comt iuenee, out not in allovin, the union to wosume the duties of
 Laror Leaders Oppose tevision
Lascr toaneee sonoend that the lamer lawn do not at present need
ey eior, pxeeot  pbape in ver manor provtstone poroine to further
Laprovesent i  welfare of thter. mhese leadere are Peartul that any
se 1one to dn e upper  t reduce the
a ant es mee   or. Lamer eadero e ro tlr aisturbed by
me    o s to ether or  esist ine labor legisla
sn sho  t eet  ur.  Hitoshi.
the Prim .de Suehire, eo Prine inister, as
tebra,ale
ror
Lebor feadere w ap orehensive concermin   ekment of Labor
podorati on corrde, otou they for s co pre sapress aporoval of
mue boarde a a me fios Por soebtlin Pisputo ueicin Pren interpretatlons
o te lows. the  to wders state that they mlostmi the arbitration
ourds dn the t sbstes posteiet r der r express feur
tht ovorone ls aoe perel toes  o wr wse tre boards for
tr ir n en ds. mhis uneasiness has coo. inar al tatements of r.
o uLore e feet  eon of he
lecor laws ds not taphater, p or se   e pestrained from
in, tco far.
Do
o  t n 
becpmin oe set  he enehio
o     
O. Lator Leaders tevs le to laubeot lsion yostow oo
an amporbe opeet or toor o   ot t kator lewdere
onr
Trsirmm

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.76)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 321
June , 1948
-4-
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
thairnan or the union of the Ja san utber Jo., Ltd. (Kurume), said that
afber  tooo ht  tm conviheed ombers of the union that a certain
emr shouh be prsued uor  woshe i sut n areement with the manage
ont,  roup sitin the union stirred up the workers so that it became
apo  to cary out  tr  reement. In consequence of
hr oeurences,t  lor arises In
onentor   Jt Laor elations Som
st mueh as the o  umother. his attitude is held to
s Fron an imtinetive m e tenteney on ohe prt of Japanese to
etreet ovrmerbal oetr. nterrlest ererle or lator and
mrl tr? the problems of re
itaion eive.r  both maugement
 sbor atte  te dr loubis ith : ilitary lovernment by re-
porbin, o , setviuies or each sbher.
 uut laborhas
 snsacieuer benerits, son
   . e  unons of or
e l oUhion (fere or
n pe    oei) muver  t  ssi deration the
uhe xortitat   w  e  womundohe,det as those of
the ll J   styr n (Seu-sekitan o Sen-nihon Sekitan
 umions in a conmaon
 co11ector
hoen the
neruthetaon.
,workers
o.
soor roofgements
souphintor   does
livin.h enae e willin
to  om td. ogement
obgets to ovorbe wo oe y weer weee to not turn
in a fu d sor. m    o oporm ef
Phelontly for i ho-houe rr b eo w es could be
Ofricials

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.77)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 321
June 3, 1948
-5-
CORFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
Offieial of  oth the Lit subichi Chemical Jomoany and the Japan Steel
Jomoany raised objections to General Headauarterst prohibition of contract
Labor. Phe se officials cel unat pra luction co ste are increased thereby,
vecan e  t premintainin worker Por sertain operations which
me only neeessury  inbervate.
F. Lecor awakenis to hps wsponsibilities
Poe  ein    s bor do coing to
the pdieation t oe i Limit to her lemrie for inereased wages
unleer orobrebior. i inere ed. Tn peveral taneee, manarement has been
atle to sbtain t cooperamiom  or uni ns in irereasin production.
In te com mi t-dominot ud a o mine  the Japan Soal Mining Co.,
Ltd., mana eent pereuadel umion heriere t invent te (and improve) the
mineto internal traoeportd n  eu, iur h pesult shat efficiency in
urin in miners n    i out coal has been inereased.
At the urosak Sctory r  h hedot sompany, the union
Leaders  sheir m seort pntet m mr me  a uhree month plan for
a production mive.  frii  o s oany are ware that if the
drive ue seede, e unin el   fe inereases.
However, they stabe thas wan. ment will to i. a bobber pos ition to censifor
such ineretses beeet on the level or oroduetdon tshf oved. Phese sfficials
point to this wethod ? suekin  e te pePreshin contrast to
the inordinete demamms of ator tor wage ine us in other industries, in-
ehusiny sueh dords as sst  umen  tas levied on labory as
well funeralr,.
On the ohbar, o u Y wro p  morease in
proouction or o to  in vario t  rmuary through
bareh 1 o or    nine that
the dem mtwet Por mmeome re aware
uponineePhe
sove o ete
labor e oos feel that
interest exists on oo p or, ut  o pas do bomdioapped be
Laek of oats  ae o rd uomment for rin materials
for dissemination. There is  te i rtgement
and labor ofriciele o mes ho  er reblee pethed in the United
States, but aahn isn wvaila l is very limdtad. Jaoanoee vmphers tend to
join unions with ahacsity, but te majorie o  ee netive membere.
beine content be be led. T ts mosivity moe nm an mrt Por the strenth
of the cormuniuts in tre raher meymment.
In conncebor sb edueuti on  larer,.  sayeshi, Ptnet
oe the uohu to md pehoot, s o ue e thst be seupatont
efforte baye iat eeed a has ? wn orabam lin  the sharet cisties of
Jawnese

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.74)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 321
June 3, 1948
-6-
JONFTDEITIAL
(For Jepartment Use Only)
Japanese lasor. He elaims that beere is a regional difference varying
from vorkere of migher intelleetual tuainments in the Kanto District, to
worlters of a pore praetical nis! in She Kunsai Sistrict. He also main-
bain phat depanose ddeas relabin to lu or are based on tussian and
 sbrards pather hm spen ri hoas lie shares the opinion
e  r ntd  too man adyuntages
k reer  
O II
heparations
Phe soncensus of my lis sussione on the subject of peparatiene was that
t in thie  ard i seriol, hinderin the rehabilitation of
sapan. susiness men d she repe adone estion  o discouraging
aspect of kllied poliey. Phey souphaln  imr tllty pealistically to plan
ke aprovumente  plart ustil i  aroon etrer  particular
plant ds to roin in dapm. e s, not oly are business men un-
walin t perrow saita or pottatin seged eouipment or to
wolernee  r pb, ue  a  aher do v r eult to ac
juire rooded unds.
Melio eals  ee ee ht there be
no Pore.er reperati  emsept in c es or spoet cszed epi ment designed
wolely for war-makine ur oses.  ey poimt t tat much of the industrial
woipment tentativel. loet  et or copoatir o rlinary cuipment es-
suntal por promeefor  pesee-tr eor r few mount of
ont p  o  rop  wh the
wp svar  eoeapeon auteorstiee, ot loe nte ehinery are
  h
n
the utite  pt.
nenurertotos
were put da ortfm L edhater afbor  wmr  e appsoval or
the peoupstion wuthosdtlee, sven touh the peesor t  oret on
e msidurel t couplete fooe t to daaage by te soae bomb. A large numbor
of usofut osielee sre p e e, inetdin taetrial wnr t minieo
oumipment, bae a large portot o y meehenery to torer wue bhe enbare
plant ds sontabivety doei mr or roo tons.
Japanese bumines orfeialpoint out o   dntenance of
plants d maohin y et natet for yopobaws  brodous. Fany of these
waehdnes woe woon wwaes. whdp mt uo oe taoobo wwe woe. Puekin coste
aleo are yor o, r  wopeoet shat paeke wpeetre stions wauate to

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.79)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 321
June 3, 1948
-7-
CONFIDLNTIAL
(For Jepartment Use Only)
those of the Unito tates Army or Havy were used. The amount of lumber
Invelved sults in a drein upon the Japanese economy at a time when such
material I, urgentl, needel  ponsbruetion prposes. There is a feeling
exppessei both  itary dovermer and d panese pprisials that
peparation shipmente to haine l  me valuable to that country for
Uhe luer r ueelves.
Poe  aer or  pr coe da aneer oreials interviewed
that i ol a vanta eous  ohe  hese seonomy to know exaetly what
plante are to  t for r toum ven if te caimaent nee being
used for prottei sead à peaee-lime rtieles hrd to be pomoved and new
cuuipmont manufactured in ortor  e ntimue produetion. The contention of
these officials ian cire onee pp uti rs e uneluded, definite plans can
be le i te met result over a poriod sf time will be greater production.
at the Yawata orks of e  Iron u teel co., Ltd. about 39%
of capacity i in use, vut the werhs proluce only 1s: of possitle production.
Part or th lo. prouetion, eoor n to Yr. No Haoneri, Shief of the
Yawata lors,  ue to tmeertainty regar lin, the reparations program. He
state uh o ermnot plan for the Puture wlen even the cement plant miht
be removed, sepenlin upon n interpretation  she ter "reparations". Mr.
ha DA Kanaye, aima. r ue Ywata Norke ton, si that formerly
18o,o00 tonr Pinished steel re roued  ,000  en whereas now with
25,000   ,00 ton r  on 2,000 and 3,000 of
those 2s,ooo n u pleyed     wuimont hich might be moved
to. reparations.r. umin  pabdllbation needs of Japan
are o roat th e m r  wodet, iestudine bht
so ofricbrto alow c
to keep soe irmstet repm ror cuevent production,
  countries to
whomratemaehine
were no urthe
ikelihou of
e nthe po
nl 
bion or deentrliton.opbfone on ths
eupoot, do oe wejectson ww voteed to en uo or he bie combdnes.
but tere w soeenuoue opoesit fon to cub-asvtdin an le mite pree tueing
slosely beoet ptotoe Por oowapt, ee  atory or bhe piosutach
Shemie ., Ld. le boen aivised that t bont a  avided into three
parte, because it io a laree plant   sre major tivistonscoke, oppmic,
and ihor ande deprtmorts. hate et  o -vision mot: mot be imposstble,
o  y uy tly fooe o wo.  re  ore power
planm omr wooor pekom seevee tie whete anetethsttm, aa srseten, thep do
intesration

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.77)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 321
June 3, 1948
-8-
CO:FIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
interation I ufacre,  by-oroluct of one pbcess bein used as an
in redieno i e po lueti a  other proluet. Art rinally, it was
arued thrt by  iem wamas the phant i net excessively large.
The prospeet o pecentral tsatiom for branehes of ceapanies with
hetrs oriees in pogo ha raiset s estiso in the minde s some
ooupanies s to e s  Pinunein p ione in she future. It is be-
lieved that shee cooanies whici. are decentralized will find the dif-
Soulties  Mmercin reatl rereared by reason ef the eurtailment of
the advants re oo don1  loseress of association with
ot r con  .
P o  re or   1, 19 of the
action by thee Holsi Jo mm tiptation Jomais ion do relsase 194
dapamese inu trial m diotribubive ce. anies sut of as from continued
dest nation under Putlie Law no. ? "lsiastion of Joncentrations of
sxeessive cononde Power saw" pas ss  Lprul  eliminatine some un-
curtainty. Furthemmore,  presence in Japan o the waesiean Decentral-
ization soarl appointed  te ee Jomnor  vamider shis problem
urs well Fora desinise seter ason  lecentralised.
an fnberestng sideli ht com n eer saton was mde by a
Ioeal newspaper elitor vho s   Hod arterst poliey toward
newspaps is  vri met  r n poliey. He
stabed that onl o pereentwesprdt pmhoertert serd pewspapers,
shereas opYomiur,
weiniehi. te foelued  t huor ttsen ehan ed since the
war ant belseves thad poeet  wapapor  e Peer for demoeracy
t a o e oou  he
ion
o do well khowm, bue ohr barled 
ateriules availle  o  o 
pole.  f fron o    swed  ebrt
which dreket  troe er ithe i
portation  e eoh. weus os e
resulted enen eva
Por use y compundes makie ioeponr apt e, tele, und ea
pro lucts.
DO FIDELCIAL
49 

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.72)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 321
June 3, 1948
-9-
JONIDSCTIAL
(for separtment  se only)
hs  teen rup atoily peintel out, coal is the crucial raw material of
the dap unese economy. tntil april, the coal inmustry was producing the
bae ahhottel for th oarr Dort apl, thre was a large slump,
i e o peein ffort  r part f april, the ouota was
ush    o so. ubelieved by rilitary
wov ment rrier el e to t Podlure of the
denee o  e to carry out promises
 heb t  ha he it
romeitonal incentives
t  comdses vet bee t r  he Takamatsu Hine
fanes Jouln behacco which was
u for  sbe e wrivee io eil. whis delay was also
beoplso ,the hand had
t onerhours but
Foul tt oe e refficieney of
theiners.  non i  found to increase
the effieieneya   e  so e sumented by the
use of machioy   ope  hery ean be smported
Fro she ited eates.
The Joul Law i w pommher o  e hey Peel that
io contrioutes mod r sowari snere n mfbe ion mt wmris to increase
sost beeause of the pet bape lvoivei. hs ve ph the govermment
wa already doin pl e w nesesy. oth alt sovornment and
o hesefrici  turee.we ol which is
soirar peto ostseenerinmade up by
over opeer cou be fosed
rorl woenerea livin
0
unCor
nInuhi
a t  eroeete oehe power
io oneet e clestde eh r et for repa
abtonp. on o apanese
of fieiar ooreuse they
are so e btho. n Carl l oheir
pro eon r nes lepmn y   of sol otted.
Howe.
Dome
n rom
Shan Pltost h he
w
eoed
eleeurie ptante in Jaeatras
DeMrasorbasion

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.71)
nel. to
Tokyo's 321
June, 1942
-10-
JORRIAL
(ror pepartment Use Only)
Prertation
Ine e  poe he o res  povery in ushu.
oe are or e  peede per mmd peplacenent.
od  woeent suppy.
 t roe  whom  inborviet that
 oipp r eer  strain on avaihuble
went atly be empr red. woein silrtree at e eoakd and sasebo are
e
   re are reat dif-
Preoter otrn e t  Prrnein ue shepards. The
es seetneous equipment
seh   ur ented   pre parde are also anxious to
  ies.
h     o   onntly
e
 I was cold that
e unstle conditions
r stows  nt  a ood example is
e Pakmatmd i  e o mn e feh has not re
woneerrr or  or pment or coal
inment Pt or its eouipment
eentThis
sompanies eo
Pricials in
o  n us to Learn
hee. Fh fo
ellbe.
eeen
mo
euet capabe
Les  us      n took no
e e o ponity
n
cuss
may cmable

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.85)
Encl. to
Tokyo1s 321
June 3, 1948
-11-
CORFIDENTIAL
(For Jepartment Use Only)
may taole t mes company friciale to carry on their tunctions with ability,
these men do p ot, in t is crinical mried, have the maturity or experience of
those vhe have been purged.  ress was constasrtly laid upon the severe handi-
cap w.ich thi. lrek or es petent ane ement places upon the rehabilitation of
Japanese economy.
J. Hunry Lawrenee, Jr.
orei pervice Officer
LioJeoihsun
muser  r e  core
set l rip to  d

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.72)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure to Memorandum dated June 3, 1948
enc losed with Despatch No. 321 dated June
(For Department Use Only)
3, 1948 from the Office of the United States
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled
"Observations Made as a Result of an
Orientaticn Visit to Kyushu".
LI CF JAPANBE OFFIDIALS AO) HSLSS MEN MET BY
FO Y OFF.. LAD, J.DURING
OFFIJIAL TJP TO KYUSHU APRIL, 1948
Ful uoka leen:
 corokeroator pre  epurtment.
veke on.
F Pore, ,  rate e, Laison Orfice,
Pok Pr F con.
 ,      aion
Ofrice.
 , , ment
0221.
 1 Roieh, , o  o w of
Jommpree   .
 Pos, oi
sabln  ok
i Priee or.
o uPoltorb ovorment.
 ,
a , , F
Hakako Yoshinori, Liuison
Seordfrbfen ofrice.
YD L L
sooe naton fce.
 uLads
Loortinit ion offl de.
n oueon
(Fice.
Proreebue)
t  easu, ovnor of  eh con.
omtou, hef Foro
Koshib R.
sa Hajhme, h , Bod eeton, omeuery e or

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.73)
incl. to incl. to
Pokyo's 21
June 3, 1748
COLLNIDETIAL
(For separtment Use Only)
  )
Kagoskdne n (Jo):
EoL ser , Soshime Branch
(ee of Fpusha Li on m oorinat ion Orrice,
e
Fukuoka 
Pxkk Finore, peaker, Fukucke Prefectural As embly.
Y Ya,   F J.
Pakaokr  inere, peuker, Pukuoka Lnieip kobly.
Mawasaki nomm
  euro h , secrtriat, sae  sffice.
,Ladsen er,e se office.
mvenote.
，
obe
Inurtrial
 tenosuke,
o

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.74)
Encl. to encl. to
Tokyo's 321
June 3, 1948
-3-
200NIDEIRTAL
(Por bepartaaent Poe only)
e  Pzo, Presitest, Mihon Pamko Katmohiki Kaisha
(  Jol  i ., L.), i ashi Rakasu,
ouin
 Yoshi,,,  Joal ining
J, L
 inoru, ctirminive Orce, Japan Joal
Ting lo., Lod.
sice
i hmic
R atsushi, Dher, weeteer t paerrently
o,,,oski Pactory
kctory
 ko son o
omYu
 Yosbum,,ore Unon.
(r)
eI ek,  oon d
steelLrnin.
 e,ron.

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.72)
cl. to encl. to
Tokyo'3 321,
June 3, 1948
-4-
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
8.
 Jos  etor, ki  i
1.
 Daobo,  or o  Depurent,
r hbu
d
Latere Joke    hikr afehe  fdbdshd Heavy
 , .
 Foie, r,   oo shiki
Kaichr ( h,   , L, o former
Laval srsel, Ses or e rree, Ro. 1  uro-machi
2-che, Hihonbsht, o s, .
 ,m 
p r pet, S oa PrFecoorad pov pt.
okr  a Aootetane   d peeh ice,
P oe ukr E  (   , Ltd.)
  or  , h arket.
fl r,  e n  ,os kd
ssee  re r. So., Ltd.).
KPere.
DOLFEDMTTAL

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.86)
9.
BUISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
15-X
FRE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
N.
ONFIDENTIAL
Aocioa
F
1nf82
a
SS
c
COPRECTED COPY
C
6/9 '48, 8:37 p.m.
?1
CORRECTIONS UNDERSCORED
F
SAM
vontrol 2939
O.D
A
Roo'd June 9. 1948
PR
12:48 8.m
VD
1
1o FV/FMF
Action
1
tabenon
orignial
8:v0-an
rucorrected
Ser Dytel
ro vmhas coule
1049e9
Ito Shang Lai
894.00/6-948
DO/B. Correction Desk
R
PERMANENT

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.85)
DVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
Cfice et
CA
INCOMING TELEGRAM
E
N
CONFLOSRTIAL
Control 2939
15-x
Rea d June 9, 1948
Action:
F
12.48 a.m.
in5e
nl rege mated
SS
C
219/49.5.9m. 8.
3.
So FMF /FE
8AM
OCD
L
10:v0am
PR
VD
RPS
DCn
VOID - SEE CORRECTED
COPY ATTACHED
894.00
945
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
ENTRAL FILES WITH

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.91)
AMCONBUL
SHANGEAI
1049
894.00/6-948
DEPT concurs (URTEL 1295 June 9) hopes W0o
can accept immediately.
Manlll
(0)
Dould duter
MARSHALL
894.5.
DISTAIBUTION
FE:FyFisher:mp
CA
RPS/F
DESIRED
(Cleared by telephone
(OFFICES ONLY)
6-9-48
9D5
by Mr. Elliot)
CONFIDENTIAL
CSN
894.00/6
vB Udt
CONFIDENTIAL
 . 3. GV   : 1 79

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.91)
101
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, June 14,
No. 351
UN 22194
UNCLASSIFIED
ATMENT 
SUBJECT: Tranamittal of Jupunese Public Opinion Surveys.
(6 0 7:1.9)
894.00/6-1448
1/
The Actiny Political Adviser has the honor to forward herewith
five copies of a publication entitled Current Japanese Public opin-
1on Surveys, H0. 1, 29 May 1948, prepared by the Analysis and Re-
search Division of the Civil Information and Education Section of
this Heudquarters.
This study of public opinion is the first of a series to be
issued ut approxirately the rate of one per week. However, there
are at present in process of editing and publication eight addition-
al studiee which ere expected to be issved together in the very
neer future. Five others ure at present beine analyzed with a view
to publicatien. Subsequent publie opinion surveys will be forwerded
without covering despatet, unless there appears to be special need
for comment.
0D
The present study is un analysis and eveluation of a cross
seesion of Toryo pmblic opinion regurding three political suestions:
"ahat do you think of the ahide cabinetae - "what politieal party
do you thint is bent wigit wowy"  und, "e yon trink the present
Diet should oo dieso! ved or not?"
Phe survey vas condueted by the asseciatien fer Pubi ic opinion
weienee (Yoren agaku Kyokei), which the Analysis and Research Divi-
nion of the civil Tnrormation and Eumeation section considers to have
reen bighly pelitadde in previous surveys. the same division comments
shot al sbongh a survey of Tokyo alene caonet be accepted us indicat-
ing the brond cp the nation, previous surveye heve showm that atti-
O
tudes i Tolye conerlly contom te these of the rest of the country.
S
aas the rubjects to be covered in the succeeding eight public
2
opinion stuties to be totned soor, as mentiored above, are the fol-
lowing:
thitude tovard cultural and pelitical problems
in psaka refecture.
murvey of ettitnden toward co-edueation in Lyoto.
3. Attitudes

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo's No. 351
June 14, 1948.
-2-
3. Attitudes towards strikes of Government workers:
Comparison of surveys conducted in Kyoto and
Tokyo.
4。
Survey of attitudes of union members in the
Tokyo area.
5.
Survey of attitudes of parents in Tokyo toward
the 6-3-3 schoo1 system.
Enclosures:
Five copies of publicaticn
entitled Current Japanese Publie
Opinion Surveys, No. 1, May 29,
1948.
Original and ozalid to Department
891
JDadwards: emr.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 351 dated June 14, 1948 from the
Acting Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled: Irans-
mittal of Japanese Public Opinion Surveys.
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
CURRENT JAPANESE
PUBLIC OPINION SURVEYS
NO. 1
22 MAY 1948
Public Opinion and Sociological Research Branch
Research Unit
ANALYSIS AND RESEARCH DIVISION

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.99)
FOREWORD
In this series of Current Japanese Public
Opinion Surveys, Civil Information and Iducation
Section presents brief analyses of surveys by
Japanese agencies of the attitudes of the Japa-
nese people toward significant current issues.
In some cases, discussion of these findings will
have appeared in the Japanese press. In this
series, each public opinion survey which is re
ported is evaluated from the point of view of
general reliability both of techniques and of
findings. This evaluation is intended as an in-
dication of the acceptability of the surveys as
measures of Japanese attitudes.
The analysis in this series of a survey by
a Japanese public opinion agency does not con-
stitute either an endorsement of that agency or
approval of the findings.

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.98)
ATTITUDES OF TOKYO RESIDENTS TOWARD THE ASHIDA CABINET
Yoron Kagaku Kyokai, February 1948
THE SURVEY
THE PROBLEA
In February 1948, Mr. Hitoshi ASHIDA was elected Prime Minister by
the Japanese Diet. The election was by a small margin of votes after a
great deal of disagreement in both houses of the National Diet. The
opposition remained vocal and articulate even after the fornation of
the new Cabinet, and demanded the dissolution of the Diet and a general
election to reascertain the popular mandate. It was contended that
changes in popular sentiment had altered the representativeness of the
Dict.
THE SURVEY
In order to test the various claims and counterclains, the Associ-
ation for Public Opinion Science (Yoron Kagaku Kyokai) conducted a poll
of attitudes toward the newly formed ASHIDA Cabinet on 22 Fobruary 1948,
the day after the announcenent of the election of Mr. ASHIDA. It inter
viewed 5l6 persons in a carefully selected cross section of the Tolyo
population.
SUMARY OF HE FINDINGS
The seneral results of the survey indicated that public attitude
toverd the Cabinet was lukewarm, with resignation and vatchful vaiting
as the cominant tone. It was found also that a plurality of all re-
spondents favored dissolution of the Diet end the holding of new elce-
tions. That a general shift of public political sentiment had occur-
red was indi cated by the fact that the Laberals emerged as the strong-
cst single perty, a reversal of previous tendeneies in Toleyo, vhere
the Social Democratic Party had been strongest, as shown by the 1947
Diet clcctions and subsequent public opinion surveys.
RELIADILITY OF THE FIIDINGS
The general findings of this survey seem to be feirly reliable,
although the number of persons polled was too small a sample of the
population to give high reliability in the detailed breakdowms.
7.

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.98)
2
OURRENT JAPANESE PUBLIO OPINION SURVEYS
SURVEY FINDINGS
GENERAL RESPONSE
The prevalent sentiment reported by the respondents was one of in-
difference or of actual hostility to the Cabinet. One-fourth of the
respondents wore classified as "against" it. More than one-third re-
ported the fecling that "it cannot be helped." Only 18 percent reported
thenselves definitely in favor of the Jabinet.
Question: That do you thin: of the ASHIDA Cabinet?
In favor
18%
Cannot be helped
36
Against
25
Don't lmow
21
By Sex
Tonen were far less decided in their attitude than men. Forty
percent of the women respondents were unable to offer an opinion end
only 10 percent indicated definite opposition.
Men
Women
In favor
19%
16%
Cannot be helped
37
34
Against
35
10
Don't lnow
9
40
By Agc
Little significant difference vas noted in the responses given
by the ifferent age-groups.
20-29
30-39
40-49
Over 49
In favor
19%
16%
21%
16%
Cannot be helped
36
42
35
30
Against
29
24
20
27
Don't Imow
16
19
24
27
POLITICAL PARTY SUPPORT
Incrcase in support of the Laberal Party makes it stand out as the
most strongly supported group. Social Democratic Party end Democretic
Party support are correspondingly less than they had been in the past.
Ono-third of the respondents were uncertain.
Forty-eight percent e
pressed no perty preference.
Question: mhich political party do you think is best right now?

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.95)
ATTITUDES OF TOKYO RESIDEITS TOWARD THE ASHIDA CABINET
3
Liberal
33%
Democratic
9
Social Democratic
6
Other parties
4
Support no parties
15
Don't lnow
33
By Sex
Thile the general tendencies among men and women were similar, 59
percent of the women respondents had no opinion as compared with 18 per
cent of the men. of the men, 37 percent failed to express a party
preference; of the women, 69 percent.
Men
Tomen
Liberal
42%
20%
Democratic
9
3
Social Democratic
9
6
Other parties
4
2
Support no party
19
10
Don't know
18
59
By Age
Political party support y age-groups vas as follows:
20-29
30-39
40-49
Over 49
Liberal
30%
36%
315
35%
Democratic
4
10
4
Social Democratic
13
6
6
9
Other parties
L
5
1
3
Support no parties
22
17
12
7
Don't know
?3
3?
40
42
DISSOLUTIOH OF THE DIET
A plurality of the respondents favored dissolution of the Dict.
Questiont Do you thinlt the present Diet should be hissolved or not?
It should be issolved
45%
It should not be dissolved
30
Don't mov
25
Br Sex
Wonen were less decided thum men on the question of the dissolu-
tion of the Dict.
Men
Tomen
It should bo issolved
56%
265
It should not be dissolved
32
23
Don't lmow
13
45

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.98)
4
CURRENT JAPANESE PUBITO OPIIION SURVEYS
By Age
Age-groups, responding as follows, indicated-no significant dif-
ferences.
20-29 30-39 40-49
Over 49
It should be dissolved
46%
46%
42%
43%
It siould not be dissolved
32
30
32
26
Don't lnow
22
24
26
31
"DONIT IIOW" RESPONSES
By Sex
Women vere far less certain than men of their political sentiments,
as shorm in the folloving tabulation of "Don't Imow" responses to each
of the questions.
Men
Tomen
Attitude toward the Cabinet
9%
2:0%
Political party support
18
59
Dissolution of the Diet
13
46
By Age
The Younger age-groups seemed to be more decided in their political
attitudes then the older groups, as indicated by percentages of "Don't
kmow" responsos.
0-29
30-39
40-49
Over 49
Attitude toward the Cabinet
16%
19%
24%
27%
Political party support
23
32
40
41
Dissolution of the Diet
22
24
26
31
SIGFIFICANCE OF THE FINDINGS
This study represents the attitudes of the small but carefully
selected cross section of the population of Tokyo the day after the en-
nouncement of the appointment of Mr. ASHIDA as Prine Minister. It
seems to emonstrate that there was no popular enthusiasm for the
choice, and that uncertainty and an attitude of resignation and probably
of unconcern vere prevalent.
The findings of this Tolyo survey may be construed as indicative of
national opinion despite possible cifferenccs in political opinion be-
tween Tolgo end the rest of Japan. The small minority support accorded
the AShIDA Cabinet, as revealed by this survey, is comparable to the
minority support reported for the KATAYMa Cabinet in national surveys
conducted in the latter part of 1947 and early in 1948. Early surveys

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.98)
ATTITUDES OF TOKYO REDENTS TOWARD THE A
of attitudes toward the KAtayala Gabinet showed support runntng
as 69 percent.1 By December, surveys showed that support had fallen
to 22 percent. A study by Jiji ews Agency Public Opinion Room? of
national cross section showed the following distribution of attitudes
toward the KATAYAMA Cabinet.
In favor
22%
Against
45
Don't know
33
A study conducted about a month later3 showed that while the per
centage of respondents expressing support remeined essentially the
same, there had been a rapid consolidation of clear cut opposition on
the part of those who had been uncertain.
In favor
23%
Against
70
Don't Imov
7
The KATAYAMA Debinet was a coalition of three parties, the Social
Democratic, the Democratic, and the People's Cooperative. The AShIDA
Cabinet is a coalition of the same three parties. The findings of this
survey suggest that the support for the AshIDA Cabinet in Tolyo is sub-
stantially the same as the final support of the KATAYAMA Cabinet. It
is clear from this survey, as it has been from other recent surveys,
that support of the Laberal Party has increased while support for the
Democratic and Social Democratic Parties has fallen avay rapidly.
EVALUATION OF THE SURVEY
The survey was conducted by an agency which has been very reliable
in previous surveys. During the April 1947 elections they vere able to
predict very closely the outcome of the Diet elections in Tolyo by use
of an extremely small sample.
The present sample was based upon modem considerations of random
sanpling by area sampling design. Its relative success is indicated by
the fact that the age composition of male and female groups of the
I. Mainichi Mevspaper Public Opinion Roon (Mainichi Shinbun Yoron
Chosa Shitsu), KATAYAMA Cabinet Survey, No. 1, 1-10 July 1947.
2. Jiji News Agency Public Opinion Roon (Jiji Tsushinshe Yoron Chosa
Shitsu), 5-8 December 1948.
3. Mainichi Newepaper Public Opinion Roon (lainichi Shimbun Yoron
Chosa 3hitsu), KATAYAMA Cabinet Survey, No. 3, 8-15 January 1946.

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.99)
6
CURRENT JAPAHESE PUBLIO OPINTON SURVEYS
sample derived. through random mcthods accordod closely with the latest
available census statistics.
Licn
Women
ge-Groups
1946
This
1946
This
Census
Survey
Consus
Survey
20-29
28.7%
30.2%
32.7%
30.8%
30-39
25.1
25.5
25.3
28.8
40-49
22.9
21.7
19.4
23.7
Over 49
23.3
22.6
22.6
16.7
Thile a survey of Tokyo alone cannot be taken to indicate exact
trends in the nation, previous surveys have shown that attitudes in
Tokyo ccncrally conform to those of tho rest of the country.
The over-all results, based upc. 516 cases, are fairly reliable
in terms of sample size. The brcakdorm by sex is also adequate though
of lesser reliability. However, the breakdom by age-groups resulting
as it docs in a small number of cases per category-response, must be
regarded as indicative only.
Thore is one technical objection to the survey procedure vhich
maltes cstimctes besed upon assumptions of perfect random sampling
someriat uncertain. The ficld procedure permitted the possibi lity
of sonc individuals in the population being selectcd more than once.
The cmount of this doviation from true random sampling cannot be es-
timated fron available data, but it may be considerable. While the
theorctical possibility of duplication of responses exists, the
practical chance vas reduced by taling all the interviews in one Sun-
day afternoon so that mobility from one area to another vas assumed
to be at a minimum.

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.92)
DOTE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
ISION Epkyo, June 17, 1948.
No. 361
NOTTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
ULODASSIF LED
JUN 2 1 1946
DEPARTONTHAYE
Jubject: raaphlet bescribine Results of Japanese Public Opinion
rolls.
894.00/6-1748
The Acting rolitical adviser has the honor to enclose three
cooies or a panphlet prepared by the Japan Institute of Pacific
Studies concerning trends of Japanese opinion since the end of the
war.
The pamphlet contains a trief survey of the methods used to
poil putlic opinion in Japan and tabulates the results of various
polls, mostly in 1947, on political, econonic, and social matters.
It is believed that the pamphlet is of value both as a description
of dapanese experiments in opinion testins and as an indication of
dapmese reactions to mome of the reforas undertaken by the
Occupation.
2
anejosnre:
Three copies of panphlet pre-
pored by Japan Institute of
acifie tulies entitled
"General Trend or Jaganese
Opinion Followin the ni of
the var."
200
RBr inn:crf
Original and osalid to the De artment.
UHOLASSIPLD

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.99)
PACIFIC STUDIES SERIES
General Trend of Japanese Opinon
Following
The End of War
By
361
YASUO TATSUKI
THE JAPAN INSTITUTE OF PACIFIC STUDIES
THE INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING CO., LTD.

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL TREND OF JAPANESE
OPINION FOLLOWING
THE END OF WAR
—Based Especially on Public Opinion Surveys—
By
YASUO TATSUKI
This paper is prepared by Mr. Yasuo Tatsuki, a research associate of
theJapan Institute of Pacific Studies. The author alone is responsible
for all statements of fact and opiniom.
PACIFIC STUDIES SERIES
NIHON TAIHEIYO MONDAI CHOSAKAI
(The Japan Institute of Pacific Studies)
4, 7-CHOME, GINZA, TOKYO
DISTRIBUTED BY
THE INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING CO. LTD.
1948

=== Page 558 === (confidence 1.00)
CONTENTS
I. On Public Opinion Surveys in Japan
1
II. Political Problems.
5
1. Yoshida Cabinet and Political Parties
5
2. Draft of the New Constitution
18
(a) Emperor System
19
(b) Renunciation of War
22
23
(d) On the Katayama Cabinet
25
III. Economic Problems
Measures to Combat Inflation and the People's Life under
the Inflation.
31
1V. Labor Problems
In Connection with the February 1 General Strike (abor-
tive)..
35
V. Social Problems—On the Revised Civil Code.
43
1. Abolition of the " House"
43
2. Equality for Men and Wom n
47
3. " Wife Obeys What Husband Advocates"
50

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.98)
I. On Public Opinion Surveys in Japan
Surveys on public opinion have been studied and conducted in
Japan since the cessation of hostilities in 1945 for the express pur-
pose of investigating and appraising in a scientific manner the
views of the entire people freely expressed, which form the basis
of democratic government. The object of this paper is not to inves-
tigate such public opinion surveys themselves, but to attempt, faulty
though it may be, to present rough data on the general trend of
the Japanese public opinion following the end of World War II
on various problems in this country covered by such surveys, albeit
incomplete, conducted so far. Before proceeding further, it may be
appropriate to give a brief sketch of the organizations which now
exist that concern themselves with such surveys.
Any dictator, however tyranical, must know the general trend of
the will and wishes of the people whom he governs, if he wants the
machinery of his administration to run efficiently and smoothly. In
feudal Japan, various methods—temporary, partial, and unscientific,
naturally—were employed by the so-called able and wise administrators
to find out just what the common men and women were thinking about
their rulers. Some disguised themselves as ordinary travellers and tour-
ed the country from province to province, and from village to village,
to conduct the necessary investigations themselves; others'despatched
special agents to do the work for them. In other cases, such intel-
ligent administrators consulted scholars and priests who were looked
upon as possessing full knowledge of the conditions of the lower
strata of life. It has now become clear that the chauvinistic bureau-
2
1

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.98)
1
.
men and women alike, must have a good understanding of the general
movements of political, economic, labor, and other social aspects of
life. They must have opinions on these topics. These the Japanese
people today lack in vaiying degrees. Even though some of our peo-
ple may possess views in regard to various problems presented to them,
they are still unable to exp ess them in a clear-cut manner, due to semi-
feudalistic social environment. For example, when it is still considered
a womanl virtue for the wife to obey the views of her husband, it
is self-evident that it is exceedingly difficult to extract the true wishes
from the wife.
In spite of such difficulties and handicaps, it is still not impos-
sible to draw conclusions which seem correct and fair, if the surveys
are conducted in the proper and scientific manner with due preparations.
The leading newspapers of this country have their own network of
local branches and agencies, adequately staffed and financed, and their
findings can be given full credit.
The Mainichi Shimbun was the first among the newspapers to
initiate these surveys, t king samples on a rather large scale.
Recently, it has been sending questionnaires to 5,000 or 6,000 in each
survey, now that the general confusion immediately following the
cessation of hostilities has been removed and the life of the average
citizen has become more or less stabilized. Two months are required
normally in each survey, one month for deciding upon the class of
individuals to whom enquiries are to be issued, the questions to be
asked, etc. and another month for obtaining the replies. Usually,
about 90 % of the individuals receiving such questionnaires answer,
according to the Mainichi.
A feature of the Mainichi's surveys in the ratio of men and women
3

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.99)
crats and militirists during the period preceding the surrender of Japan
employed secret police agents and the gendarmes to carry out the sur-
veys of popular opinion, not motivated by paternal and sincere
desires to improve their administration like the wise rulers in feuda!
times, but for the purpose of compelling obedience of the people to
their policies or to suppress views and ideas considered dangerous to
the administration.
After the close of World War II, however, various organizations
have arisen from an entirely different motive. The surveys conducted
by the new organizations are based on the fundamental idea that
democratic government rests on intelligent public opinion, and efforts
are made to carry out such surveys scientifically, According to an
investigation by the Asahi Shimbun, there were in November 1946
five bodies in Japan whose sole business was to conduct public opinion
surveys, three in Tokyo and one each in Osaka and Kyoto. In addi-
tion, departments to study public opinion have been created at Keio,
Tokyo Imperial and other universities each headed by competent profes-
sors. Among the newspapers and news agencies carrying on such
surveys from time to time are the Jiji Press, the A ahi Shimbun, the
Mainichi Shimbun, the Yomiuri Shimbun, the Chubu, the Nishi-Nihon,
the Chukyo, and the Nihon Keizai Shimbun. The findings of these
surveys are published in their respective papers.
3
But obvious difficulties exist. Needless to say, surveys of public
opinion to be conducted scientifically, require a complete set of statis-
tics, a trained personnel, a national network of organs and staffs, etc.
Moreover, there must be preparations on the pirt of the general public.
As is well illustrated by cases in the United Stat s, where such surveys
are bist developed, the various communities and the individual citizens,
2

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.98)
4
II. Political Problems
I. Yoshida Cabinet and Political Parties (1s! Survey by Asahi)
Q (1) Do you support the Yoshida Cabinet?
Q (2) Which party would you support if a general election
should be held in the near future ?
Two hundred thousand question cards were mailed (one out of
every 200, of the 39,820,000 persons above the age of 21). Of this
number, 70 % were men, and 30 % women. Every profession or oc-
cupation was represented by the recipients of these cards. Replies
came in more heavily from the urban residents and from persons in
middle-age groups, than from the rural communities and those more
advanced in age.
These questionnaires were sent out on July 1, 1946, when the nature
of the Yoshida Cabinet (formed in May 1946, after a prolonged period
of confusion and instability in the political circles, following the
resignation of the Shidehara Cabinet in April of the same year) be-
came somewhat clear and after the Diet had been convened. In all
127,436 replies were received, which, after deducting the invalid ones,
were as follows;
Q (1) Do you support the Yoshida Cabinet ?
.39,519..
..32.3 %
No.
.45,292.
.37.1
Reserved
..37,416.
..30.6
Total......122,227
100.0 %
5

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.98)
7
i
to whom questionnaires are sent. This paper believes that under present
conditions, the adoption of the simple ratio of men to women represented
by the census figures is inadvisable, and the ratio 8: 2 (for men and wo-
men, respectively) is chosen, based upon considerations of the qualifiet
voters of men and women in the general elections for Lower House mem-
bers (of the Diet), the ratio of effective votes cast by men and women,
and the ratio of men and women candidates for seats in that House.
On the other hand, the Jiji Press uses in general the method employ-
ed by the Gallup system. Questionnaires are issued to about 3,000 to
5,000 persons ; some 200 students, employees of the Press' local branches,
etc. are mobilized to obtain first hand replies (through direct interviews).
The Asahi Shimbun has been more cautious in its undertakings.
It has pointed out in its editorials the dangerous possibility of falling
into unscientific surveys due to national conditions, and has endeavored
earnestly to compensate by its own efforts for the handicaps and in-
sufficiencies-lack of complete statistics, remnants of feudalistic concep-
tions and pre:udices or nationalistic concepts, all of which constitute
obstacles to the conducting of an ideal public opinion survey. Simple
topics and forms are adopted; the card system is used for questions;
surveys are conducted by about 500 cultured and non-politically biased
persons in the various prefectures, who act under detailed instructions
from the paper's head office; about 200,000 individuals are questioned
in every survey in order to make up for the defects of sample cases;
and each survey usually takes about a month.
Let us now take up some of the more important surveys conducted
by reliable organizations.
4
e

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.98)
C
2
Table 1.
Not
Occupation
Supporting
Reserving
Total
Suppo ting
Public officials
4,911 32%
5,361 35%
5,119 34%
15,391 100%
Company emplo-
3,528 29
4,995 42 7
3,555 29"
12,078 100
yees
Enterprisers
623 46
412 30
327 24
1,362 100
Independent pro-
1,415 36
1,33034
1,166 30
3,911 103
fessional workers
Teachers
2,157 30
2,422 34
2,533 36
7,112 100
Students
764 21
1,866 51
1,050 29
3,680 00"
Manual workers
2,948 22
6,935 51
3,687 28
13,570 100
Clerks
2.667 24
4,747 42
3,810 34
11,224 100
Farmers
9,218 42
6,579 30
6,184 28
21,981 100
Merchants
3,693 39
2,822 30
2,791 30
9,306 100
Fishermen
58140
465 32
396 38
1,442 100
Industrialists
597 38
517 33
463 29
1,577 100
Others
82041
649 32
558 28
2,027 100
Housewives
1,760 31
1,889 33
1,979 35
3,528 100
Jobless
3,275 33
3,533 35
3,184 32
9,992 100
Undetermined
562 29"
770 40
614 32
1,946 100
Grand Total
39,519 32% 45,292 37% 37,416 31
122,2271
100%
N.B.
Occupational groupings were based on the following:
(a)
Enterprisers (capita'ists, directurs of companies & factories).
(b)
Industrialists (medium and smaller-classes).
(c)
Manual workers (factory operatives, miners, transport workers,
and free laborers).
x
(d)
Clerks typists, telephone operators, sales girls, shop employees,
and clerks).
i
7

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.98)
Q (2) Which party would you support?
Progressive (now Democratic)..
.12 355.....10.1 %
Liberal.
.28,810...
...23.6
Socialist
.49,843......40.8
Communist.
5.903..
4.8
People's Cooperative.
6,348....
... 5.2
O:her minor groups....
1,114....
No party.
.17,894.
.14.6
Total
122,227
0
Four points may be enumerated as indicative of the trend of opi-
nion revealed in the replies to Question (I) above.
1). While 32 % of the persons, to whom questions were put, re-
plied that they would support the Yoshida Cabinet 37 % definitely
were opposed to it, and 31 % reserved their attitude. Thus, no con-
clusive and overwhelming votes were cast either in favor or agains
the Cabinet.
2). Geographically, prefectures in which farming communities
predominate, showed support for the Yoshida Cabinet, where as those
in which large cities are concentrated tended to oppose the said
Cabinet.
3). By occupation (see Table 1 in the next page, opponents to the
Cabinet belonged chiefly to the intellectual classes (students 51 %, com-
pany employees 42 %, clerks 42 %, officials 35 %, teachers 34 % and
laborers (manual workers 51 %. Supporters of the Government in-
cluded: enterprisers 46 %, farmers 42 %, merchants 39 %, and indust-
rialists 38%. Those reserving their attitude included teachers 36%
and housewives 35 %.
8

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.99)
1). Just as the Yoshida Cabinet was not either opposed or sup-
ported overwhelmingly, none of the parties received a strong-majority
support, although the Socialist Party obtained a relatively higb
percentage.
2). In those prefectures wherein are located the eight leading
cities of the country with large numbers of intellectuals and laborers,
the various parties were supported as follows:
Socialist P........46 %
Liberal P
...20
Progressive P .... 8
Cooperative P .... 4
Communist P .... 6
(15 % said they would not
Other minor P.... I
support any party)
The Socialists obtained in these areas 5 % more votes than the
national average, while the Liberals and Progressives received, respec-
tively, 4 % and 2 % less than the national average.
3). By occupation, about 50 % of the working classes (manual
workers, clerks) and about 44 % of the intellectuals (company emplo-
yees, school teachers, free workers and students) supported the Socialist
Party. This Party received about 32 % support from the agricultural,
commercial, industrial, and fishing classes or communities.
The Liberal Party, on the other hand, polled 31 % support from
the agricultural, commercial, industrial, and fishing groups; it received
21 % support from the intellectuals, and 17 % of the laborers.
The Communist Party was favored by a small number of students
9

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.98)
C
L
(e)
Farmers (farmer owners, tenant farmers, live-stock breeders,
forest owners).
(f)
Others (hotel or restaurant owners and the like landlords of
houses).
4. By age, the replies showed that the Yoshida Cabinet was
supported more by (1) men above 40 and (2) women above 30, than
the younger people. Of the men in the twenties, only 24 % said that
they supported the Cabinet, while 46 % said they would not support
it. Of the men in the thirties, 30 % were supporters and 41 % non-
supporters. Of the women in the twenties, 25 % were in favor of the
Cabinet and 39 % opposed.
Table 2.
61
sex un-
Ages
21-3031-40 41.50 51-60
to!al
known
No. of votes
26752 35031
23982
11009
3562
90309
1439
Supporting
24%
30%
38%
47%
53%
33%
36%
Not Supporting
46
41
32
26
22
37
38
Reserved
30
30
30
27"
25
29"
26"
Women
No. of votes
17470
7333
3915
1344
417
30479
Supporting
25%
33%
37%
43%
48%
30%
Not Supporting
39
33
31
26"
23
36
Reserved
36"34"
33
31
29
35
As for Q (2, which party would you support?, the replies refiected
the popular thinking vis-a-vis the parties and their basis. The fol-
Jowing points require emphasis:
8

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.99)
1
a
1
able 3.
Communist
People's
Others
No Parly
Total
Coop.
539
3%
856
6%
90
1%
258
17%
15,427
100%
621
5
476
4
63
1
1,759
14
12,328
100
34
3
80
6
21
2
164
12
1,365
100
203
5
237
6
41
1
641
17
3,833
100
174
2
411
6
151
2
1,242
17
7,123
100
329
9
165
5
9
0
727
20
3,569
100
1,371
10
385
3
104
1.648
12
13,572
100
576
5
481
4
99
1
1,894
17
11,276
100
697
3
1,871
9
218
1
2,600
12
21,746
100
69
5
66
5
15
1
191
13
1,418
100
289
5
428
5
85
1
1,160
12
9,295
100
53
3
56
3
16
1
207
13
1,616
100
67
3
89
4
22
1
257
13
2,039
100
203
4
273
5
66
1
780
14
5.692
100
549
5
407
4
88
1
1,74
17
10.035
100
139
7
67
3
26
1
294
15
1,943
100
5,923
5%
6,348
5%
1,114
1%
17,894
15%
122,267
100%
Aomori pref...... Liberals 24 %. Socialist. 26 %, Non-partisans 18%.
Saga pref........ Liberals 27 %, Socialists 29 %, Non-partisans 15%.
Kumamoto pref .. Liberals 34 %, Socialists 29 %, Non-partisans 17%.
4). Considered by age, the Socialist Party was favored by 45%
of those in the twenties, 43 % of those in the thirties, and 39 % of
those in the forties. On the other hand, the Liberal Party was sup-
ported by the aged people; those in the 50's and 60's gave more
11

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.99)
Table
3.
Progressive
Liberal
Socialist
Public Officials
1,526
10%
3,265
21%
6,580
43%
Company Employees
985
8
2,572
2!
5.852
43
Enterprisers
189
14
597
37
370
27
Independent professional
378
10
912
24
1,421
37
wokers
Teachers
506
7
1,358
19
3,281
46
Students
183
5
534
15
1,622
45
Manual wokers
86
6
2,171
16
7,031
52
Clerks
962
9
2,016
18
5.248
47
Farmers
3,096
14
6,450
30
6,814
31
Fishermen
170
12
46!
33
446
31
Merchants
1,206
13
2,983
32
3,144
34
Industrialists
178
11
489
30
617
38
Others
317
16
590
29
697
3+
Housewives
510
9
1,519
27
2,331
41
Jobless
1,080
11
2,534
25
3,628
36
Unknown
207
11
449
23
761
39
Grand
Total
12,355
10%
28,810
24%49,843
41%
and manual workers (mostly younger people) only.
It is noteworthy that a considerable number in all occupations re-
plied tha they would support no party.
Apparently, this class of
people are dis atisfied with the older conservative parties, but have
not yet come to plac: full confidence in socialism. A few cases may
be cited to show the ratios existing among the supporters of the vari-
ous parties and this group of nom-partisans.
10

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.92)
from women, as well as those from the rural communities, increased
considerably as compared with the previous survey. Another feature
was the increase of replies from aged people (in the former survey,
more replies came from the younger people), and a more correct pic-
ture of the whole trend of views was thus obtained. Again, this time
more replies came from public officials and school teachers than the
laborers, more from the independent farmers than the tenant farmers,
as compared with the previous survey.
Q (1) Do you support the Yoshida Cabinet ?
Yes.
.46,135.......28.4 % (32.3 % in first survey)
No
.79,127.....
 48.7 % (37.1 %
n
）
No view
.37,227...
...22.9%30.6%
n
Q (2) Which party would you support in the next election?
Liberal P ........42,256........26.0 % (23.6 % in first survey)
Progressive P ....20,951........12.9 % (10.1 %
Socialist P....
....73,624....
..45.3 % (40.8 %
7
八
People's Coop .... 7,299.....
... 4.5 % (5.2 %
Nationalist P .... 2.415....
. 1.5 %
Communist P .... 8,299.....
5.1 %4.8 %
n
人
Other factions .... 1,559.....
... 1.0%(0.9 %
Independents...... 6,090........ 3.7 % (14.6 %
1
)
The replies to Q(1) may be summarized as follows:
1). Approximately 50 % showed no support for the Yoshida
Cabinet, and only 30 % showed support. Compared with the results
of last year's survey (32 % supperting, 37 % opposing, and 31 % resery-
ing their attitude), this is a marked change in the attitude of the:
13

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.98)
3
1
support to the Liberals than to the Socialists. The Progressive Party
supporters showed a tendency very much similar to those supporting
the Liberal Party. As for the Communists, 7 % in the twenties sup-
ported them, decreasing to 0 as the ages advanced.
The Second Survey by Asahi Shimbun
Q. 1) Do you support the Yoshida Cabinet?
Q. (2) Which party would you support in the next general ele-
ctions?
Questionnaires were issued on January 15, 1947, when political
tension was almost at its climax (a movement was actively on foot for
the formation of a three-party Coalition Cabinet of Liberals, Progres-
sives and Socialists), and when the so-called " labor offensive" was
steadily advancing. A total of 204,880 question cards were sent out,
and 173,383 replies came in (of this number, 10,849 were invalid).
The questions were sent to one out of every 180 qualified voters re-
corded by the Home Ministry in April 1946. As for occupations, the
figures of the agriculture and forestry (as on April 1, 1946 of far-
mers and non-farmers were taken into consideration. Farming popula-
tion was classified into land owners, independent farmers and tenant
farmers. Non-farmers' occupation statistics included the Welfare
Ministry's Provisional Registration Reports on Labor (Feb. 1, 1945,
and Labor Survey on October 10, 1946.
These questionnaires were distributed throughout the country by
4,500 survey conductors and a certain number of primary school
children. Replies were sent back sealed, so that secrecy could be
maintained and the free expression of the people obtained. Replies
12

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.99)
Table 4.
No. of
Not
Supporting
No View
valit votes
Supporting
Public officials
16,655
4,411 26%
9,469 57% 2,775 17%
Company employees
13,800
3,298 24
8,240 60
2,262 16
Laborers
15.482
2,244 15
10,108 65
3,130 20
School teachers
7,054
1,614 23
4,418 63
1,022 14
Students
3,525
801 23
2,208 62
516 15
Independent profes-
3,497
1,246 36
1,640 47
611 17
sional wokers
Enterprisers
2,576
1,331 52
882 34
363 14
Merchants,
indust-
12,477
4,385 35
5,227 42
2,365 23
rialists
Land owners
4,651
2,498 54
1,239 26
914 20
Independent farmers
25,544
9,848 39
9,051 35
6,645 26
Tenant farmers
20,607
5,218 25
9,837 43
5,552 7
Fishermen
2,048
616 30
813 40
619 30
Jobless
3,318
581 17
2,046 62
691 21
Housewives
29,966
7,701 26
13,384 45
3,881 29
Others
1.289
343 27
565 44
331 29
Grand Total
162,439
46,135 28%79,127
49%37,227 23%
received 61 % support.
2). Acc rding to occupations, the Socialist Party obtained the
support of 59 % of laborers, 57 % of school teachers, 56 % of company
employee, and 50 % of jobless people.
These groups of people are
living by borrowing money from others or by selling whatever pro-
perty they happeń to pussess.
Those supporting the Liberal and
Progressive Parties included land owners (69 %), enterprisers (60 %),
16

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.98)
4
people. It means that considerable numbers who formerly supported
the Cabinet and those who had reserved their attitude in the first
survey, had shifted over to the side of non-supporters.
2). From the occupational point of view, 60 % of company em-
- ployees, school teachers, laborers, and students, who are in the finan-
cially poor classes, as well as 60 % of the public officials, did not
give their support, as shown in the following table. Those who were
better off financially,' such as enterprisers (52 %, merchants and
industrialists (35 %) independent professional workers (36 %), inde-
pendent farmers (39 %), fishermin (30 %). and land owners (54 %)
supported the Cabinet. Again, it is noticeable that the areas which
are economically better off, like Kyushu, Shikoku, and others of
agricultural regions, gave their support to the Cabinet, while the
regions of Tohoku, Kanto, and the cities where living is difficult, did
not favor this Cabinet.
3). By sex, replies from women were lower in percentage com-
pared with the men, both of the supporting or non-supporting groups;
apparently, women still do not possess clear-cut views of their own on
political matters.
4. As in the previous survey, the older people generally supported
the Yoshida Cabinet, and the younger groups opposed it.
Replies to Q (2) may be summarized as follows;
1. Although failing to secure a stabilizing majority, the Social-
ist Party obtained 45 %, which was higher than t e combined support
received by the Government parties (Liberal and Progressive), which
was 39 %. If all the other minor factions were added, the Opposition
14

=== Page 574 === (confidence 1.00)
)
favor of the conservative parties and the younger the Socialist or
Communist (or other progressive) parties. The majority of both men
and women up to 40 supported the newer and progressive parties,
while those above 50 overwhelmingly cast their votes to the conserva-
tive parties. The majority of men and women in the 20's and men
in the 30's supported the Socialist Party.
Table
5.
People's
Nationalist
Communist
Others
Independent
Coop.
675
4%
127
1%
832
5%
168
1%
530
3%
37+
3
108
1
782
5
100
1
400
4
387
3
209
1
1,600
10
122
1
476
3
278
4
222
3
344
5
60
1
244
3
133
4
29
1
376
11
37
1
140
4
148
4
29
1
204
6
50
1
173
5
116
5
34
1
49
3
34
1
90
4
377
3
142
1
396
3
107
1
449
4
311
7
67
2
63
1
46
1
145
3
1,848
7
453
2
609
2
250
1
967
4
1,323
7
403
2
1,298
6
216
1
692
3
115
6
58
3
116
6
22
1
79
4
135
4
45
1
430
13
56
2
204
6
1,026
3
469
1
1,144
4
254
1
1,420
5
49
4
20
2
56
4
37
3
81
6
7,295
5%
2.415
1%
8,299
5%
1,559
1%
6,090
4%
17
1

=== Page 575 === (confidence 1.00)
independent farmers (2.%), merchants, industrialists, fishermen, and
free workers.
Commumists were favored by 13 % of the jobless people, 11 % of
students, 10 % of laborers, and 5 % each of the public officials and
company employees.
3). By ages, as in previous examples, the older groups were in
Table
5.
Liberal
Progressive
Socialist
3,574
24%
1,916
12%
8,133
53%
Public officials
2,800
20
1,446
10
7,790
56
Company employees
2,310
15
1.240
8
9.138
59
Laborers
1,180
17
715
10
4,011
57
School teachers
637
18
257
7
1,916
54
Students
Independent
professional
998
29
495
14
,400
40
workers
Enterprisers
1,041
40
509
20
703
27
Merchants & industrialists
4,081
33
1,878
15
5,047
40
Land owners.
2,061
44
1,164
25
794
17
Independent farmers
8,788
5
4,387
17
8,242
32
Tenant farmers
4,916
24
2,306
11
9,45
46
Fishermen
687
33
268
13
703
34
Jobless
537
16
270
8
1,641
50
Housewives
8,322
28
3,919
13
13,412
45
Others
324
25
181
14
541
42
Grand
i Total
42,256
26%
20.951
13%
73,624
45%
16

=== Page 576 === (confidence 0.99)
(1) About one-half of this number (48 said they would recognize
the Emperor system in principle, and that they were opposed to placing
sovereignty in the hands of the people.
2) Fifteen favored the Socialist Party's contention that the Em-
peror should be left only as "ceremonial existence," with no political
powers whatever.
(3) Four supported the Liberal Party's contention that the Em-
peror should be made the "supervisor" of administration with sover-
eignty residing in the State.
(4) Two wanted sovereignty to be with the Ruler, as advocated
by the Progressive Party.
(5) One other reply.
On the other hand, 14 persons advocated what they termed the
"republican form of government under the Emperor system," in which
the Emperor was only left for ceremonial purposes.
Thus a total of 1,738 persons (87 %) were in favor of the Emperor
system in one form or another, distributed as follows:
Favoring Emperor system as per Government draft ......1 702
" as per own individual plan .... 22
n
14
n
republican gov. under Emperor system..........
1,738
The foregoing figures represent the views of the intellectual
classes of the people, who are regarded as possessing more advanced
opinion on political maters. Accordingly, if a general plebiscite were
to be taken on this question, it is most likely that the supporters of
the Emperor system would be far in excess of the above figures.
21

=== Page 577 === (confidence 0.98)
Company employees.
.82 86
Judicial men.
.82 %
Scholars, educators
.81 %
Writers, etc.
.70 %
Students.
.68 %
Farm-labor movement workers
.55 %
As for the second question, the replies were:
Favoring abolition of the Emperor system..
.215 11 %
Opposing
.1,711 86 %)
11
Undecided
743.7 %
Those favoring abolition of the Emperor system were occupationally
distributed as follows:
Farm-l bor movement workers.
.48%
Students
.20%
Company employees, private enterprisers, writers, etc...16 %
Medical men, agriculturalists
.10 % each
Scholars, educators.
9 %
Judicial men (judges, procurators, attorneys, etc.)
7%
Public officials, miscellaneous
6 % each
Financiers, religious workers
5 % each
Comparing the figures on the replies to (Q (1) aad (Q (2), we find
that all of those who opposed the Emperor system did not necessarily
favor a republican form of government. An analysis of the 48 per-
sons (difference between 265 who favored abolition of the Emperor sys-
tem, Q (1) and 215 who favored a republican form of government by
abolishing the Emperor system) shows the following:
20

=== Page 578 === (confidence 0.99)
Farm-labor movement, workers
.20 %
Private enterprisers
.16%
An examination of the reasons, given for considering the provi-
sion in question as being unnecessary, show:
101 persons........ There is no need of surrendering the right of
self-defence, although aggressive wars should
be abandoned.
72 persons........ This is too Utopian; such matters should be
fixed by international treaties or after Japan
declares permanent neutrality, or when the
UNO guarantees our safety; otherwise, the
provision is likely to end in a dead letter. A
unilateral declaration is meaningless.
Even among the farm-labor movement workers, there were some
who declared that " we must defend ourselves against aggressive attacks,
with our own blood."
(c) The National liet
Q (1) Do you favor a bi-cameral system?
Q (2) Is it necessary to give a veto power to the Government
or the Emperor against the decisions of the Diet ?
Q (3) If the Diet acts against the will of the people, should:
it not be dissolved by plebiscite?
Replies to Q (1) showed that 1,588 (79 %) wanted a bi-cameral
system, while 345 (17 %) opposed it. The ratio among the two sexes
20

=== Page 579 === (confidence 0.98)
Among the supporters of the Government draft, 14 stated: "Although
a republican form of government may be ideal, the Emperor system
should be allowed to remain during the present transition period."
This means that the overwhelming support that is now given the Em-
peror system does not, of necessity, continue to be so in the future.
(b) Renunciation of W'ar
Q (1) Is this provision necessary?
Q (2) If not, what are your reasons ?
Replies to Q (1)
Necessary.
.1,395 (72 %)
Unnecessary
568 (28 %)
By sex, the replies were:
Men: necessary 69 %, unnecessary 21 %
Women: " 73 %.
11
27%
By occupation, those who replied that the provision was unneces-
sary were distributed as follows:
Public officials.
.34%
Company employees
.29%
Financiers
.27 %
Religious workers.
1 %
Writers, authors, etc.
.19 %
Agriculturalists, judicial men.
.30% each
Students
.28%
Scholars & educators
.25%
Medical men
.25%
22

=== Page 580 === (confidence 0.99)
ment will be formed by a " majority party," and because to give it to
the Emperor would be undemocratic. The only solution would be to
dissolve the Diet in accordance with the results of a plebiscite.
(d) On the Katayama Cabinet
(Survey conducted by Mainichi Shimbun)
Between July 1 and 10, 1947, immediately following the formation
of the Katayama Cabinet, this survey was carried out; questions were
asked of 5,000 men and women throughout the country. The ratio of
men to women receiving the questions was 8:2 (4,000 men and 1,000
women). This ratio was worked out after the figures on total votes cast
in the general elections in April, 1947, were considered, the num-
ber of women's votes cast, the number of total candidates and that of
women candidates, the number of total candidates returned and the
number of women elected, etc.
Of the 4,000 men, to whom questionnaires were sent, 30% were
farmers and fishermen, 20 % each) salaried people, laborers, and
merchant-industrialists, and 10 % free workers. Of the 1,000 women,
30 % were farmers and 70 % non-farmers. Replies received numbered
4,803 or 96 %.
(Q 1) Do you support the Katayama Cabinet?
..3,300.
.68.7 %
No.
.1,503.
31.3 %
Total.
.4,803.
100.0%
Thus it can readily seen that the Cabinet was given support by a
majority.
25

=== Page 581 === (confidence 0.99)
was about the same. Those who advocated a single-chamber system
were found among the more progressive elements, including farm-labor
movement workers (45 %), writers and authors (30 %, company em-
ployees (19 %), and students (18 %).
To (Q (2), those favoring a veto power for the Government or the
Emperor number 934 (47 %), those opposing 1,039 (52 %.
As for Q (3), those favoring a dissolution by plebiscite numbered
1,592 80 9%), and those opposing 349 (17 %). No great differences
were noticed between men and women in their respective ratios for
yes and no.
Among the advocates of a veto for the Government or Emperor
were: scholars and educators (65 %), religious workers 63 %, miscel-
laneous (55 %), financiers (53 %), public officials (47 %), mainly con-
servative in their views. Those opposing the granting of veto includ-
ed; farm-labor movement workers (78 %, writers, authors, etc. 73 %),
and students (64 %), representing the more progressive ideas.
In connection with Q (3), dissolution of the Diet was favored by
farm-labor movement workers (100 %). writers and authors (95 %,
students 92%, religious workers 88%, private enterprisers (86%,
scholars and educators 83 %.
Whereas replies to Q (2 indicated that the people were not so
seriously concerned with the fear of "tyranny by a majority party,"
answers to Q (3 clearly show that this is causing some considerable
anxiety among the voters. Many are opposed to giving veto power
to the Government because they knew that in the future every Govern-
24

=== Page 582 === (confidence 1.00)
Table ó.
Trust in
New
Coali-
Middle-of-
Socialist
No
No. of
Katayama
P'remier
Political
feeling
tion
the-Road
Course
Nucleus
Others
replies
Replies
一
3.4
2.2
5.1
1.0
1.7
5.0
10.1
100
2.5
4.2
2.2
3.4
1.2
3.5
8.5
100
2.3
2.5
2.0
3.0
3.8
3.5
13.7
100
3.9
3.0
4.5
2.7
1.6
7.3
7.5
100
3.7
3.4
2.0
1.4
1.7
3.7
9.6
100
1.6
4.8
2.7
0.6
1.6
5.4
13.0
100
5.3
4.3
2.7
2.1
2.3
5.5
128
100
3.6
3.3
3.1
2.3
2.1
4.7
10.6
100
High Gt.
Same as
No
No plans
No
No. of
Too theo-
Service
Yoshida
Confi-
for unem-
Others
replies
Replies
retical
Charges
Cabinet
dence
ployment
39
4.6
3.9
4.6
9.1
3.9
100
5.0
2.1
4.6
1.7
0.4
4.2
8.0
100
3.2
4.5
4.1
2.3
1.8
7.2
10.4
100
6.5
3.3
2.5
2.7
0.6
6.5
4.5
100
5.9
3.3
3.3
2.5
5.9
8.4
100
2.7
2.7
4.1
6.9
9.6
6.9
100
1.6
7.5
3.2
3.2
1.1
3.8
8.1
100
4.4
4.0
3.6
3.1
0.6
6.6
6.6
100
27

=== Page 583 === (confidence 1.00)
Table
6.
Supporting
Occupation
Policies
Friend
of
No other
suitable
Sincere
in
Demo-
Proper con-
stitutional
good
laborers
parties
politics
cratic
practice
Farmers &
28.8
15.9
8.0
8.4
6.1
4.3
Fishermen
Salaried
26.8
20.0
11.0
9.1
3.8
3.8
people
Laborers
21.0
28.7
8.7
5.4
2.5
2.0
Merchants &
23.7
11.8
13.6
10.0
4.5
5.9
Industrialists
Independent
prefessional
32.1
12.6
13.7
8.2
1.4
6.5
workers
Farmer-women
18.4
16.2
16.2
9.7
3.3
1.6
Non Farmer-
19.5
18.3
11.3
6.6
5.4
3.9
women
Total
24.7
18.6
11.0
8.0
4.1
3.9
Not Supporting
Not carry-
No Poli-
Opposed
Opposed
Exces-
Occupation
ing out
tical
to
to
sive
promises
power
Social'sm
Coaltion
Control
Farmers-Fishermen
25.8
19.1
14.8
7.3
3.0
Salaried people
26.1
29.4
7.6
8.0
2.9
Laborers
26.7
19.0
11.3
6.3
3.2
Merchants
&
In-
18.4
22.0
16.3
4.8
11.9
dustrialists
Independent
pro-
16.0
27.8
12.6
10.1
4.2
fessional workers
Farmer-wcmen
23.3
13.7
15.0
5.5
9.6
Non Farmer-women
28.0
17.2
16.7
3.2
6.4
Total
23.7
21.6
13.6
6.3
5.9
28

=== Page 584 === (confidence 0.98)
The above table indicates that even among those who would cast
their votes for the Socialist Party, there are 12.7 % of "rebel" ele
ments; the majority of these gave for their reason: "because the Party
has failed to carry out its promises made at election time."
Supporters and non-supporters of the Katayama Cabinet, grouped
by occupations, were lined up as follows:
Occupations
Supporters
Non-supporters
Farmers & fishermen.
.12.2 %
6.9 %
Salaried people
.14.2 %
4.3 %
Laborers
.12.5%
4.6%
Merchants & industrialists..
9.1 %
7.0 %
Free workers
6.1 %
2.5 %
Farming women.
3.9 %
1.5 %
Non-farming women.
.10.7%
3.9 %
68.7 %
31.3 %
Contrary to general belief, farmers and fishermen, as well as
merchants and industrialists, supported the Cabinet in greater propor-
tion than their respective opponents. The salaried people and the
laborers, of course, were expected to give their support to the Cabinet.
In general, the percentage of supporters far exceeds that of non-sup-
porters.
Another question asked was: " What do you wish to be done first
by the Katayama Cabinet ?" Replies covered more than 30 items, of
which the following were the more important:
Measures for food crisis
.39.3 %
Stabilization of living
.27.3 %
20

=== Page 585 === (confidence 0.98)
Those recefving the questionnaires were asked to state their reasons
for either supporting or opposing the Katayama Cabinet, and the re-
plies were as Table 6.
Among the reasons given by the supporters of the Katayama
Cabinet, " Socialistic policies " tops the list with S15 persons out of
the total supporters numbering 3.300 or 24.7%.
The second reason in the list is " friend of the laboring people"
(615 persons, 18.6 %), while the third prominent reason is "because
there are no other suitable parties." (11 %).
On the other hand, among the reasons for not supporting the
Katayama Cabinet, the first is " failure to carry out the promises"
(made at election time). Out of the total of 1,503 non-supporters, 356
(23.7 %) gave this for their reason in opposing the present Cabinet.
The next reason is " lack of political power" (21.6 %, while 13.6 %
of the non-supporters openly declared they were opposed to socialism.
Included in this survey was a supplementary questions: "Which
party would you vote for in the next general election ?" The replies
were as follows:
Parties
No. of replies Supporting Not supporting
Socialist.
.2,266
87.3 %
12.7 %
Democratic(ex-Progressive)..740
63.8 %
36.2 %
Liberal.
.966
32.9 %
67.1 %
People's Cooperative
.120
67.5 %
32.5 %
Communist
.137
54.7 %
45.3%
Others
.574
65.3 %
34.7 %
4,803
28

=== Page 586 === (confidence 0.99)
III. Economic Problems
Measures to Combat Inflation and the People's Life
Under the Inflation
On November 10, 1946, the Asahi Shimbun sent out the follow-
ing questionnaires to 107,184 households (1 out of every 150 households
in the country, based on population statistics prepared by the Home
Ministry as on April 16, 1946:
Q (1) What measures do you think would be the best to prevent
the inflation?
Q (2 On what sources of income is your family living?
The survey'was conducted just when the labor offensive was
growing in intensity centering around the question of demands for
increase in wages, and when the need for reorganizing the nation's
economy and individual living was strongly voiced among various
sections of the people.
Statistics on farmers and non-farmers prepared by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry (as on April 1, 1946) were used to decide
the distribution of occupations for the questionnaires. The farmers
were grouped into land owners, independent farmers, and tenant far-
mers. The dis:ribution of non-farming population was fixed by rely-
ing on figures posstssed by the various prefectures.
Of the households receiving the questionnaires, 85,963 (roughly
31

=== Page 587 === (confidence 0.98)
Securing of bounty-articles (for farmers).
4.4 %
Do not expect much
3.9%
Fulfilment of public promises
3.4 %
Increase of production
2.4%
Elevation of people's morals.
2.0 %
Reform of taxation.
1.9 %
Removal of controis.
1.5 %
Convening of peace conference.
1.4 %
Increase of prices of agricultural products
1.1 %
Cleaning-up of officialdom
1.1 %
Fairer delivery quotas of rice
1.1%
Fair distribution of foodstuffs
.1.1 %
Promotion of foreign trade.
.0.8 %
More living quarters.
.0.5 %
Others
.6.8 %
100.0%
The above clearly reveals that the greatest concern of the Japanese
people today is to get more food and their living stabilized. involving
the question of inflation. Requests for the calling of the peace con-
ference or the reopening of foreign trade apparently are regarde!
secondary.
Grouped by occupations, those clamoring for food and the stabiliza-
- tion of living stood as follows:
For Stabilization
Oconpations
For Foodstuffs
of Living
Salaried people.
.42.7 %
31.4 %
Laborers.
.47.0%
27.7 %
Merchants & industrialists
.39.2 %
22.8%
Farmers & fishermen
.23.7 %
24.2 %
Farming women
.22.4 %
23.2 %
Non-farming women
.50.8 %
30.5%
These figures speak eloquently how strong is the cry for food today.
30

=== Page 588 === (confidence 0.99)
IV. Labor Problems.
The February 1 General Strike (abortive)
On January 31, 1947, the Supreme Commander for Allied Powers,
General of the Army Douglas MacArthur, issued a directive ordering
the stoppage of the general strike scheduled for February 1 (the fol-
lowing day) by the 2,600,000 members of the All-Government and
Public Worker's Unions. Negotiations had been going on since January
18, when these workers decided to call a general strike if their demands
could not be met, between the Government and the central executive
commitee of the Unions. The mediation of the Central Labor Relations
Board was ineffective. Only SCAP's timely order stopped this threaten-
ed nation-wide strikes.
The Jiji Shimpo conducted a survey of public opinion on this
great issue between the Government and its employees. Was the use
of this weapon (general strike) justified in view of the critical economic
conditions prevailing? The results of the survey revealed the general
attitude of the people on this question, as well as on labor movement
in general.
Method of Survey—Four thousand men and women were questioned,
this figure being based on population statistics as on April 26, 1946,
and the questionnaires were sent out during the middle of February 1947.
Q (1) Although the general strike of Government employees and
school teachers has been averted, which side, do you think,
35

=== Page 589 === (confidence 1.00)
under the inflation.
Table 8.
On wages & by sel-
Occupations
On fixed wages
ling goods on hand
Enterprisers
1,232
66%
625
34%
Medium & smaller class
7,489
67
3,607
33
merchants & industrialists
Salaried workers
8,891
32
18,554
68
Laborers
2,885
45
3,567
55
Free professional workers
1.812
63
1,072
37
Land owners
1,018
42
1,380
58
Independent farmers
10,318
76
3,197
24
Tenant farmers
6,335
67
3,115
33
Fishermen
875
70
372
30
Jobless
204
5
3,608
95
Others
407
41
575
59
Total.
41,466
51%
39,672
49%
34

=== Page 590 === (confidence 0.99)
2) According to age and sex. the number of those blaming the
labor unions increased stead ly with the advance in age among the men:
the reverse is noted among the women, chis probably due to the fact
that the older women showed a tendency of indifferences o: replied that
they did not know.
3) Those blaming the Government numbered most among the
young groups for both sexes (most is the 30's and next in the 20's).
Table 10.
Govern-
Labor Uni-
Not in-
Don't
Total
ment Un-
on
Un-
terested
know
reasonable
reasonable
Total
3,932(100%)
1,037.26.4)
1,731(44.03368.5)
828(21.1)
Farmers
1,962(100%)
364(18.6)
867(44.2)174(9.9
537(27.3)
Fishermen
109.100%
2422.0
51(46.8) 24(22.0
10(9.2)
Medium
&
smaller
mer-
391(100%)
83(21.2)
201(51.4)
35(9.0)
72(18.4)
chants & in-
dustrialists
Enterprisers
79.100%)
13(16.5)
62(78.5)
1(1.3)
3(37)
Laborers
384(100%)
192(50.0)
111(28.9)
25(6.5
56(14.6)
Salaried
peo-
366(100%)
144(39.3)
165(45.1)
12(3.3)
45(12.3)
ple
Officials
136、100%
67(49.3)
55(40.4)
3(2.2)
11(8.1)
Students
&
104(100%)
62(59.6)
37(35.6)
1(1.0)
4( 3.8)
Teachers
Free profes-
87(100%)
24(27.6)
40(46.0)
9(10.3)
14(16.1)
sional workers
Jobless
187(100%)
37(19.8)
86(46.0)
18(9.6)
46(24.6)
Others
127(100%)
27(21.3)
56(44.1)
14(8.9)
30(23.6)
37.

=== Page 591 === (confidence 0.97)
was unreasonable?
Replies to this question were as follows:
Table
9.
51 ani
Total
21-30
31-40
41-50
over
Total
3,933 100%
1,680(100%) 804(100%)793(100%) 655 100%)
Men
1,974100
972(100")432(100")435(100")135(100")
Women
1,958 100
708(100")372(100")358(100")520100")
Government
I'nreasouable
Total
1,037(26.4)
49329.3)
24430.3
200(25.2)
10015.3
Men
614.31.1
316(32.5)
146(33.8)
124(28.5)
28(207)
Women
42321.6
17725.0
9826.3
7621.2
7213.8
I'nions
Unreasonable
Total
1,731/44.0
78446.7
356(44.3)
358(45.1)
233(35.6)
Men
99350.3
476(49.0
214(49.5
228(52.4)
75(55.6)
Women
738:37.7,
308.43.5
142(38.2)
130(36.3)
15830.4
Not Interested
Total
3368.6
111(6.6
67(8.3)
79,10.0)
7912.1
Men
128 6.5)
636.5
23(5.3)
337.6
9.6.7
Women
208(10.6)
48. 6.8
4411.8
46.12.8
70(13.5)
Don't know
Total
828.21.0
29217.4
137(17.1)
156(19.7)
243(37.0)
Men
239(12.1)
117(12.0)
4911.4)
5011.5
2317.0
Women
589,30.1)
17524.7
8823.7)
106(29.7)
220(42.3)
1 As may be observed from the above table, the number of those
who thought that the labor unions were unreasonable reached 1,731
44 %: of the total replies (3,932); those who thought that the Govern-
ment was unreasonable numbered 1,037 (26.4 % ; those who said they
were not interested numbered 336 (8.6 %); while 821 (21 %) answered
that they did not know. Those who blamed the labor unionists were
almost one and a half times the number who blamed the Government.
38
4

=== Page 592 === (confidence 0.98)
1) A total of 2,275 persons thought that the general strike was
wrong (57.9 %); 1,291
1 32.8 %) said it was unavoidable and thus
justified it; 126 were indifferent(3.2%); while 240 6.1%)did not know.
2) Those who disapproved the general strike were mostly older peo-
ple, both men and women. Of those who we:e 51 or more in age, 70.4%
of the men and 61.9 % of the women disapproved the general strike.
3) Those approving the general strike, both sexes in the thirties
number the most, the number decreasing with the advance of age.
Table
12.
Uuavoid-
Not in-
Don't
Occupa'iois
Total
able
Wrong
terested
know
Farmers
1,962.100%
487.24.8%
1,23463.9%
78,4.0%)163(8.3%):
Fishermen
109 100
3330.2
61/55.9
76.4
8(7.5)
Medium
&
smaller mer-
391(100
11328.9
253 64.7
12(3.1
13(3.3)
chants, & in-
dustrialists
Enterprisers
79(100
14(17.7
63.79.7
1(1.3
1(1.3)
Iaborers
384(100
223(58.1
128(33.3
10(2.6
23.6.0
Salaried peo-
366(100
164(44.8
18450.3
4(1.1
143.8)
ple
Officials
135,100
69(50.7
67(49.3
Teachers
&
104(100
67(64.4
33(31.7
4(3.9
一
Students
Free profes-
sional work-
87(100
2326.4
60,69.0
1(1.1
3(3.5)
ers
Others
127(100
41(32.3
78(61.4
2(1.6
6(4.7 )
Jobless
187,100
57(30.5
11461.0
7(3.7
9(4.8)
Total
3,932(100%)
1,291(32.8%)2,275(57.9%)
126(3.2%)240(6.1%)
e9

=== Page 593 === (confidence 0.99)
By occupations, 78.5 % of the enterprisers, 51.7 % of the medium
and smaller merchants and industrialists, as well as 35.6 % of the
school teachers and students, and 40.4 % of the officials blamed the
labor unions. Those blaming the Government included: scheol teachers
and students (59.6 %, laborers (50.0 %), public officials 49.3 %), etc.
Q (2)
Is it right or wrong for public officials and school teachers,
who are in public service, to resort to general strikes?
To this, the replies were as follows:
Table
11.
51 an!
Total
21-30
31-10
41-50
o'er
Total
3,932(100%) 1,680(100) 804(100) 793(100) 655(100)
Men
1.97(100)
972(100) +32(100) 435(100)135(100)
Women
1,958(100")7
708(100) 372(100):358(100).520(10))
Unavoidable
Total
1,291(32.8)
641(38.2)306(38.1)216(27.2)128(19.5)
Men
719(36.4)
377(38.8)178(41.2)132(30.3):32(23.7)
Women
572(29.2)
264(37.3)128 34.4) 84(23.5) 96(18.5)
W'rong
Total
2,275(57.9)
925(55.1)437(54.4)496(62.5)417(63.7)
Men
1,167(59.1)
5+3(55.9)243(56.3)286(65.7) 95(70.4)
Women
1,108(56.6)
382(54.0)194(52.2)210(58.7,322(61.9)
Not interested
Total
126(3.2)
39(2.3)
30(3.7)
25(3.2
32(4.9)
Men
36(1.8)
23(2.4)
6(1.4)
5(1.2)
2(1.5)
Women
90(4.6)
16(2.3)
24(6.5)
20(5.6)
30(5.8)
Do not know
Total
240(6.1)
75(4.4)
31(3.8)
56(7.1)
78(11.9)
Men
52(2.7)
29(2.9)
5(1.1)
12(2.8)
6(4.0)
Women
188(9.6)
46(6.4)
26(6.9)
44(12.2)
72(13.8)
38

=== Page 594 === (confidence 0.98)
The majority favored the suspension of the general strike while
efforts were being made to increase the nation's output, this number
reaching 2,200 (56.0 %). Those who said that the strike was unavoid-
able numbered 1,076.27.4 %); those who were indifferent numbered
193 (49 % ; and those who said they did not know numbered 463
(11.7 %).
Those disapproving the strike were numerous among men of 51
and over (73.3 %) and women in the 20's (54.8 %). Among those
who thoug.t the strike was unavoidable were men in the 30's and
women in the 20's (most numerous).
By occupations, as shown in Table 14, enterprisers (78.5 %, free
workers (66.7 %), medium and smaller-class merchants and industrialists
(62.7 %), jobless (60.4 %), farmers (59.7 %), were in favor of stop-
ping the strike. Laborers (57.0%), school teachers and students (51.0%)
and public officials (44.9 %) said that the strike could not be helped.
All of these figures show that Japanese public opinion shouted
"No!" to the use of the general strike by workers in public utilities
as means of attaining their economic objectives, although permitted
legally. Furthermore, public opinion put stress upon the need of
speeding up economic recovery, as one of the urgent tasks in post-war
Japan (although admitting that there were causes for strikes to break
out) and thus voiced its disapproval of the abortive general strike of
February 1, 1947. Finally, it placed the blame upon the labor unions
for leading the controversy into a general strike.
•.
41

=== Page 595 === (confidence 0.98)
According to occupations, enterprisers (79.7 %), free workers
(69.0 %), farmers (63.9 %), school teachers and students (31.7 %),
laborers (33.3 %), expressed disapproval of the strike. Those approv-
ing the strike included school teachers and students (64.4 %), laborers
(58.1 %), and public officials (50.7 %).
(2 (3) What are your views on the general strike, especially now
when it is generally believed that increasing production is essential in
raising the living standard of the people?
Replies to this question were as follows:
Table
13.
51 and
Total
21-30
31-40
41-50
over
Total
3,932(100)1,680,100 804100) 793(100) 655(100)
Men
1.974(100) 972(100 432(100) 435(100)
135(100)
Women
1,958 100 708 100 372 100 358 100 520 100)
Stop the strike tim-
porarily
Total
2,200(56.0) 952(56.7)427(53.1) 462(58.3: 359(54.8)
Men
1,180(59.8 56458.0243(56.327463.0) 99 73.3)
Women
1,020(52 1) 388(54.8 184 49.5) 188 52.5) 260 50.0
Unavoidable
Total
1,076(27.4) 517(30.8) 260 32.3) 197(24.8) 102(15.6)
Men
602(30.5 297(30.6 154 35.6) 12528.7)
2619.3
Women
474 24.2) 220 31.3) 106(28.5 72(20.1)
7614.6
Not interested
Total
193 (4.9)
64 (3.8)
41 (5.1)
36 (4.5)
52 (7.9)
Men
73 (3.7)
50 (5.1)
9 (2.1) 12 (2.8)
2 (1.5)
Women
120 (6.1)
14(2.0)
32 (8.6) 2+ (6.7) 50 9.6
Do not know
Total
463(11.7) 147( 8.7)
769.5)
98(12.4) 142(21.7)
Men
1196.0
616.3
26 6.0
24(5.5)
8( 5.9)
Women
344(17.6)
8612.1
50(13.4)
74(20.7) 134 25.8)
40

=== Page 596 === (confidence 0.99)
V. Social Problems
On the Revised Civil Code.
The Mainichi Shimbun conducted a survey of public opinion on
the revisions effected in the Civil Code—abolition of the "house" and
the equality of the sexes. For this, 5,000 questionnaires were sent out,
distributed among all the prefectures in proportion to the population
statistics of the Cabinet. Those receiving the questionnaires consisted
of (a) Men: salaried class 20 %, laborers 10 %, farmers 35 %, mer-
chants and industrialists 20%, students 5 %, and others 10%; (b)
W'omen: housewives 50 %, working women 30 %, students 5%, and
others 15 %. In both sexes, the ratio of married to unmarried persons
was 50-50.
This survey was carried out during the period of a month begin-
ning January 8. 1947. In all, 4,757 replies were obtained (95.1 %).
Replies from unmarried persons, who are believed to be more progres-
sive, as well as the farmers and fishermen, regarded conservative i
thought, were less than expected.
1. Abolition of the "House"
Q (1) What do you think of the abolition of the " house" in the
revised Civil Code?
NB. The " house", according to the old Civil Code, consists of
members of a family controlled by the " head of the house" who ex-
43

=== Page 597 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 14. (Occupations)
Stop
Unavoil-
Not in-
Do not
Occupations
To!al
strike
able
terested
3.932
2,200
1,076
193
463
Total
(100)
(55.9
27.4
4.9
(11.8
1,962
1.172
348
121
321
Farmers
(100)
59.7
17.7
6.2
(16.4)
109
55
21
9
24
Fishermen
(100)
(50.5)
19.3
8.3
21.9
Medium & small mer-
391
245
96
16
34
chants & industrialisis
(100)
(62.7)
24.6
(4.1
8.6
79
62
13
Enterprisers
100
(78.5)
16.5
15.0
384
126
219
12
27
Laborers
(100)
32.8
57.0
3.1
(7.1
366
1S1
159
12
14
Salaried people
(100)
(49.5)
+3.4
3.3
(3.8)
136
74
61
1
Officials
100
(5+.4)
14.9
0.7
104
+7
53
Teachers & Students
(100)
45.2
51.0
(3.8)
Free professional wor-
87
58
23
1
5
kers
(100)
(66.7
26.4
1.1
5.8
127
67
33
8
19
Others
(100)
52.8
260
(6.3)
(14.9
187
113
50
13
11
Jobless
(100)
60.4
26.7
7.0
15.9
42

=== Page 598 === (confidence 0.99)
These figures show that students lead those favoring the abolition
of the " house" (78.2 %), followed by laborers 58.2 %), free workers
(58.3 %) etc. Those opposing the abolition inciuded farmers, fishermen,
merchants and industrialists as shown above.
Opinion among the women on this subject was reflected as follows:
Favoring
Opposing
Do not k o:
Housewives.
..53.4 %
38.7 %
7.9 %
Working women..
.66.0
27.9
6.1
Students
.68.2
24.5
7.3
Others
.66.4
28.7
4.9
Since working w men, students, and others do not form the central
groups in any " house," the majority favor such abolition, unlike the
housewives.
Reasons given by those favoring the abolition of the "house"
may be grouped as follows: (percentage worked out on 2,753 replies
favoring abolition).
1) The head of the " house" will no longer exercise absolute
rights over the questions of domicile, marriages, property transfers,
etc.....54.6 % (second in percentage).
2) The excessive responsibility hitherto imposed upon the head
of the " house " (obligation to support members of the " house") will
be removed.
3) All children will be able to share equally in the inheritance
of property (as against the old system whereby only the eldest got the
property upcn the father's death)......less than 40 %.
45

=== Page 599 === (confidence 0.98)
ercise various legal rights, including those of designating the place of
residence, marriages, adoption of sons or daughters, entry or exit of
members of the house, etc. It is the legal unit in official family re-
gisters.
Replies to this question were as follows:
.57.9 %
Favoring abolition
Opposed to abolition
.37.4 %
Do not know..
4.7%
100.0%
Percentages of approval or disapproval differ according to sexes,
?
occupations or family status (married or single). By sexes the replies
were:
Men
H'omen
Favoring abolition
55.7 %
60.1 %
Opposed to abolition
41.9
33.1
Do not know.
2.4
6.8
By occupations, the following results were obtained:
Favoring
Opfosing
Do not know
Salaried workers.....
..62.0 %
36.3 %
1.7 %
Laborers
.58.7
33.8
7.5
Farmers & fishermen......43.3
54.6
2.1
Merchants & industrialists..53.3
44.8
1.9
Students
.78.2
21.8
0
Jobless
.57.5
39.1
3.4
Free workers.
.58.3
41.7
0
44

=== Page 600 === (confidence 0.99)
7) Even though a man or woman reaches maturity, he or she re-
quires direction of the head of the "house" in matters relating to
marriage or living.....33.3 % (fourth).
It is to be noted that the strongest reason for disapproving the
abolition of the " house" consists in the desire to preserve the good
practices or customs of the traditional house. Material considerations,
such as the scattering of the property (farm land) occupy a lesser
position.
2. Equality for Men and Women
Q (2) What is your opinion on the abolition of the inequality of
the sexes?
Favoring equality of sexes
..64.5 x
Opposing equality of sexes
.31.8%
Do not know.
3.7 %
100.0%
By sexes, the above replies were distributed as follows:
Men
Women
Favoring equality
.54.7 %
74.4 %
Opposing equality
.41.8 %
21.8 %
Do not know..
3.5 %
4.0%
100.0 %
100.0%
If grouped into married and unmarried peoples, the two sexes
reacted as follows:
47

=== Page 601 === (confidence 0.99)
4 Marriages of children (only daughters and widows, iuclud-
ed) can be decided by their own free will....less than 40 %.
5) Conceptions regarding family honors or family's social stand-
ing will be removed and national life will become more cheerful....
55.5%(first in percentage).
It is interesting to note that reason 5) was listed by so many in
the replies favoring the abolition of the " house," while reason 1, oc-
cupied only second place.
Those opposed to the abolition of the "house," gave the follow-
ing reasons:
1) The good practices of tradition will be gone..64.2 % (firs)
2 There will be no responsible person to support grand-parents
or parents....53.5 % (second).
3 There will be no one to carry on the festivals of the ancestors.
..36.1% (third).
4) The eldest son, whe is responsible for carrying on the festivals
of the ancestors, should receive a larger portion of the family property
than the other children.
5) Preservation of the ancestors' memories, family lineage, blood,
and family name will become impossible.
6) Farm lands and other property will be scattered.....10.5 %
(last in list).
46

=== Page 602 === (confidence 0.99)
1
a
husband) will be lost....46 3 %.
These reasons were given by about 50 % of the women.
3) It is wrong for a wife to seek divorce just because of the
husband's infidelity....8.5 %.
Detailed tabulations of these reasons are given below:
Table 15. (Reasons for Favoring and Opposing Sex Equality)
A). Favoring Sex Equality.
Men
Women
Mar-
Mar-
Single
Total
Single
Total
ried
ried
Total
912
401
1,313
962
792
1,754
a) Because wives can enjoy
equal social, legal rights
476
184
660
589
378
967
and position as husbands
b) Because women can en-
joy equal social, legal
665
299
964
656
599
1,255
rights and position as
men
c) Because husbands will
be duty-bound to be
324
125
449
506
382
888
faithful
d) Because divorced wives
can receive compensa-
171
45
216
238
110
348
tion
e) Because wives, besides
children, can inherit pro-
342
82
424
332
154
486
perty
f) Because wives can dis-
pose of their property
127
36
163
226
85
311
without husbands' per-
mission
g) Others
55
33
88
36
29
65
49

=== Page 603 === (confidence 0.99)
A) Men
Married
Urmarried
Favoring equality
.52.7 %
60.1 %
Oppesing equality
43.8 %
36.6 %
Do not know..
3.5 %
3.3 %
10.0 %
100.0 %
668)
(1,731)
B) Women
Married
Unm irried
Favorin equality
.70.2 %
80.3 %
Opposing equality
.25.0%
16.8 %
Do not know..
4.8%
2.9 %
100.0%
100.0%
(987)
(1,371)
Reasons for favoring equality given by 3,067 persons may be
grouped into two:
1) Because wives will be able to have the same social and legal
rights and positions as their husbands.....72.0%.
2) Because women will be able to enjoy the same social and legal
positions as the man.....53.1 %.
On the other hand, reasons for opposing equality advanced by
1,512 persons included:
1) It is still tco early.....58.0 % (first).
2) The good custom (wife obeying the decisions advocated by
48

=== Page 604 === (confidence 0.97)
2
Mainichi's survey was carried out through direct personal contacts
or interviews with the people concerned. Three typical areas were
selected ; first a block or district in one of Tokyo's 22 wards—Yamato-
cho, Nakano ward—considered to be the area where the percentage of
intellectual inhabitants is the highest (and consequently, the intensity
of political consciousness the deepest) ; srroni a town in the suburbs
of Tokyo—Ome; and third, a village in Yamanashi prefecture, Yuzuri-
hara village.
1) The Yamato-cho block has a population of about 10,000, com-
posed mostly of salaried classes and their families, who escaped war
devastations. One hundred couples received the questionnaires; the
educational level of these 100 men and women was as follows:
Husbands....
Graduates of secondary schools.
.37 %
11
" universities, colleges,
higher schools..
.48 %
Others
.15%
100%
Wives....
Graduates of secondary schools.
..63 %
11
" univ. coll. higher schools.
. 2 %
Others
35 %
100%
2) Ome town has a population of about 15,000, 80 % of whom
belong to the merchant class. This town was not damaged by the air
raids during the war. Interest in politics among the citizens of this
town was considered to be of medium degree.
61

=== Page 605 === (confidence 0.99)
1.
1
B). Opposing Sex Equlity.
Men
Women
Mar-
Mar-
Singl
Total Single
Total
ried
ried
Total
758
245
1,003
343
116
509
a) Because the good custom
(w fe obeying husband's
356
84
440
182
79
261
de isions) will be gone
b Because men and women
331
86
397
133
42
175
are naturally unequa!
C)
Because it is wrong to
make husband's infideli-
51
18
69
40
19
59
ty reason for divorce
d. It is s ill too early
430
145
575
199
106
302
e) Because the disposition
of property should be
234
56
290
62
23
85
decided by men who
have better judgment
f) Others
25
15
40
8
3
11
g) Do not know
61
22
83
66
29
95
3. "Wife Obeys What Husband Advocates"
The Mainichi Shimbun conducted a survey to find out the degree
of political consciousness possessed by the Japanese women, particularly
the housewives. The revision of the Civil Code will definitely remove
legally one of the traditional virtues of Japanese womanhood, namely
that the wife should obey what the husband tells her. In spite of this
revision, will not this virtue remain for some time yet among the
Japanese women? The results of Mainichi's survey give the answer
to this query.
50

=== Page 606 === (confidence 0.95)
2
Hush. nts
llives
Average
Yamato-cho.......
7 %
9 %
8 %
Ome town
2 %
3 %
2.5 %
Yuzurihara village..
6 %
8%
7 %
Average
5%
7%
6%
Why was there such a sharp difference in the per entages between
the first and second replies? In the case of the first, answers were
demanded at once and those questioned had no time to ponder over.
In the case of the second, however, there was more t me given for the
couples to " talk it over." Reusons for being unable to reply to Q 1),
in the case of women were:
Yamato-cho
Om
Yuzurihara
Undecided yet
.19%
54 %
25%
Don't know.
.21 %
11 %
55%
Will ask husband.
. 4%
9 %
7 %
Various others
.56%
26 %
12 %
100%
100 %
100%
We shall take Yuzurihara village to illustrate to what degree the
" wife obeys what her husband advocates," by analizing the replies.
1) In 87 cases, the husband and wife supported the same party,
while in i3 cases, they differed in their supports. This means that in
87 cases, the wife simply followed the husband's suggestions.
2) There were 42 cases wherein the wife and hushand supported
the same party on both the firs: and second days of the survey, show-
ing that the wife obeyed the husband throughout. In two cases,
however, the husband followed the wife's decision.
63

=== Page 607 === (confidence 0.97)
3) Yuzurihara village has a population of 3,800, 90 % of whom
are farmers and their families (with charcoal-making and lumbering
as avocations). Of the 10) couples chosen, only 4 men and 2 women
had gone through secondary schools.
The dates of the surveys were:
Yamato-cho (Nakano)
.April 3- 6, 1947.
Ome town.
.April 19 20, 1947.
Yuzurihara village.
April 10-13, 1947.
Two questions were asked of all these 300 (ouples, They were:
Q (1) Which party will you support in the coming election?
Q (2) Which party do you think your husband (or wife) will
support?
The first question was asked by the interviewers on the spot and
replies were demanded at once (wives were questioned first), while the
replies to the second question were collected the following morning.
The results showed the following:
1) Those unible to answer the first question it once
Husbands
Hires
Ar rage
Yamato-cho.
.14%
47 %
3: %
Ome town
.19%
54%
37 %
Yuzurihara village
..30 %
72%
51%
Average .....
..21%
58%
39%
2) Those unable to reply to the second question
62

=== Page 608 === (confidence 0.97)
日本に於ける世論の動向
著者
立木康男
行者
日本太平洋問題調查會
定價 五十圆
東京都中央區銀座七四日映別館
1948年5月20日印刷
印刷所文祥堂印刷株式會社
1948年5月25日發行
東京都中央區銀座三四
發賣元
國際出版株式會社
東京本社 東京都中央區日本橋本町四ノ四
電話茅場町(66) 3801. 5058
报替東京 20444
大阪本社 大阪市北區中之島朝日ビル
電話土佐堀(44) 1836.3631
报替大阪 119391

=== Page 609 === (confidence 0.97)
2
i
3) Of the 42 cases mentione! 2) above, there was naturally no
rases wherein the husband followed the suggestion or decision of
the wife.
4) There were 11 cases in which the motives were not char in
their replies to the f.rst and second questions.
Y'arat he Ome Yuzurihra 'verage
Wife Obeying Clear .
29
42
31
Husbond
Supported..33
33
32
32
Total
51
62
74
63
Husnd (by- Clear.
5
2
3
ing lHife
Supported ..0
一
0
0
Total
2
6
2
3
Wife's Own Decision
39
27
13
26
Unknown
5
5
11
7
The foregoing three samples may be said to be representative of
the whole country. Similar results will probably be obtained if the
survey were expanded to cover the entire nation.
54

=== Page 610 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to.
D-361 Tokyo
6-17648
PACIFIC STUDIES SERIES
General Trend of Japanese Opinon
Following
41
M
The End of War
By
YASUO TATSUKI
THE JAPAN INSTITUTE OF PACIFIC STUDIES
THE INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING CO., LTD.

=== Page 611 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL TREND OF JAPANESE
OPINION FOLLOVING
THE END OF WAR
—Based Especially on Public Opinion Surveys—
By
YASUO TATSUKI
This paper is prepared by Mr. Yasuo Tatsuki, a research associate of
theJapan Institute of Pacific Studies. The author alone is responsible
for all statements of fact and opinion.
PACIFIC STUDIES SERIES
NIHON TAIHEIYO MONDAI CHOSAKAI
(The Japan Institute of Pacific Studies)
4, 7-CHOME, GINZA, TOKYO
DISTRIBUTED BY
THE INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING CO. LTD.
1948

=== Page 612 === (confidence 0.95)
The Japan Institute of Pacific Studies is an unofficial and
non-politied body organiz d in 1946 for facilitating the scientific
study of the problems of the Pacific area. - The In titute as such
is precluded from cxpressing an opinion on any aspe et of mational
or international affairs; opinions expressed in this study are,
therefore, entirely individual.

=== Page 613 === (confidence 0.99)
CONTENTS
I. On Public Opinion Surveys in Japan
II. Political Problems.
5
1. Yoshida Cabinet and Political Parties
5
2. Draft of the New Constitution
18
(a) Emperor System
19
(b) Renunciation of War
22
(c) National Diet.
23
(d) On the Katayama Cabinet
25
III. Economic Problems
Measures to Combat Inflation and the People's Life under
the Inflation.
31
1V. Labor Problems
In Connection with the February 1 General Strike (abor-
tive)..
35
V. Social Problems—On the Revised Civil Code.
43
1. Abolition of the " House"
43
2. Equality for Men and Wom n
47
3. " Wife Obeys What Husband Advocates"
50

=== Page 614 === (confidence 0.98)
I. On Public Opinion Surveys in Japan
Surveys on public opinion have been studied and conducted in
Japan since the cessation of hostilities in 1945 for the express pur-
pose of investigating and appraising in a scientific manner the
views of the entire people freely expressed, which form the basis
of democratic government. The object of this paper is not to inves-
tigate such public opinion surveys themselves, but to attempt, faulty
though it may be, to present rough data on the general trend of
the Japanese public opinion following the end of World War II
on various problems in this country covered by such surveys, albeit
incomplete, conducted so far. Before proceeding further, it may be
appropriate t) give a brief sketch of the organizations which now
exist that concern themselves with such surveys.
Any dictator, however tyranical, must know the general trend of
the will and wishes of the people whom he governs, if he wants the
machinery of his administration to run efficiently and smoothly. In
feudal Japan, various methods-temporary, partial, and unscientific,
naturally-were employed by the so-called able and wise administrators
to find out just what the common men and women were thinking about
their rulers. Some disguised themselves as ordinary travellers and tour-
ed the country from province to province, and from village to village,
to conduct the necessary investigations themselves; others despatched
special agents to do the work for then. In other cases, such intel-
ligent administrators consulted scholars and priests who were looked
upon as possessing full knowledge of the conditions of the lower
strata of life. It has now become clear that the chauvinistic bareau-
a
1

=== Page 615 === (confidence 0.99)
men and women alike, must have a good understanding of the general
movements of political, economic, labor, and other social aspects of
life. They must have opinions on these topics. These the Japanese
people today lack in varying degrees. Even though some of our peo-
ple may possess views in regard to various problems presented to them,
they are stili unable to exp. ess them in a clear-cut manner, due to semi-
feudalistic social environment. For example, when it is still considered
a womanl virtue for the wife to obey the views of her husband, it
is self-evident that it is exceedingly difficult to extract the true wishes
from the wife.
In spite of such difficulties and handicaps, it is still not impos
sible to draw conclusions which seem correct and fair, if the surveys
are conducted in the proper and scientific manner with due preparations.
The leading newspapers of this country have their own network of
local branches and agencies, adequately staffed and financed, and their
findings can be given full credit.
The Mainichi Shimbun was the first among the newspapers to
initiate these surveys, t king samples on a rather Iarge scale.
Recently, it has been sending questionnaires to 5,000 or 6,000 in each
survey, now that the general confusion immediately following the
cessation of hostilities has been removed and the life of the average
citizen has become more or less stabilized. Two months are required
normally in each survey, one month for deciding upon the class of
individuals to whom enquiries are to be issued, the questions to be
asked, etc. and another month for obtaining the replies. Usually,
about 90 % of the individuals receiving such questionnaires answer,
according to the Mainichi.
A feature of the Mainichi's surveys in the ratio of men and women
3

=== Page 616 === (confidence 0.99)
crats and militirists during the period preceding the surrender of Japan
employed secret police agents and the gendarmes to carry out the sur-
veys of popular opinion, not motivated by paternal and sincere
desires to improve their administration like the wise rulers in feudal
times, but for the purpose of compelling obedience of the people to
their policies or to suppress views and ideas considered dangerous to
the administration.
After the close of World War II, however, various organizations
have arisen from an entirely different motive. The surveys conducted
by the new organizations are based on the fundamental idea that
demoeratic government rests on intelligent public opinion, and efforts
are made to carry out such surveys scientifically. According to an
investigation hy the Asahi Shimbun, there were in November 1946
five bodies in Japan whose sole business was to conduct public opinion
surveys, three in Tokyo and one each in Osaka and Kyoto. In addi-
tion, departments to study public opinion have been created at Keio,
Tokyo Imperial and other universities cach headed by competent profes-
sors. Among the newspapers and news agencies carrying on such
surveys from time to time are the Jiji l'ress, the A ahi Shimbun, the
Mainichi Shimbun, the Yomiuri Shimbun, the Chubu, the Nishi-Nihon,
the Chukyo, and the Nihon Keizai Shimbun. The findings of these
surveys are publi-hed in their respective papers.
But obvious difficulties exist. Needles to say, surveys of public
opinion to be conducted scientifically, require a complete set of statis-
tics, a trained personnel, a national network of organs and staffs, etc.
Moreover, there must be preparations on the p.it of the general public.
As is well illustrated by cases in the United Stat s, where such surveys
are b:st developed, the various communities and the individual citizens,
2

=== Page 617 === (confidence 0.99)
II. Political Problems
1. Yoshida Cabinet and Political Parties (1s! Survey by Asahi)
Q (1) Do you support the Yoshida Cabinet?
Q (2, Which party would you support if a general election
should be held in the near future?
Two hundred thousand question cards were mailed (one out of
every 20), of the 39,820,000 persons above the age of 21). Of this
number, 70 % were men, and 30 % women. Every profession or oc-
cupation was represented by the recipients of these cards. Replies
came in more heavily fronm the urban residents and from persons in
middle-age groups, than from the rural comnmunities and those more
advanced in age.
These questionnaires were sent out on July 1, 1946, when the nature
of the Yoshida Cabinet (formed in May 1946, after a prolonged period
of confusion and instability in the political circles, following the
resignation of the Shidehara Cabinet in April of the same year) be-
came somewhat clear and after the Diet had been convened. In all
127,436 replies were received, which, after deducting the invalid ones,
were as follows;
Q (1) Do you support the Yoshida Cabinet ?
.39,519..
..32.3 %
No.
.45,292..
.37.1
Reserved
.37,416.
.30.6
100.0%
Total......122,227
5

=== Page 618 === (confidence 0.99)
to whom questionnaires are sent. This paper believes that under present
conditions, the adoption of the simple ratio of men to women represented
by the census figures is inadvisable, and the ratio 8: 2 (for men and wo-
men, respectively) is chosen, based upon considerations of the qualified
voters of men and women in the general elections for Lower House mem-
bers (of the Diet), the ratio of effective votes cast by men and women,
and the ratio of men and women candidates for seats in that House.
On the other hand, the Jiji Press uses in general the method employ-
ed by the Gallup system. Questionnaires are issued to about 3,000 to
5,000 persons ; some 200 students, employees of the Press' local branches,
etc. are mobilized to obtain first hand replies (through direct interviews).
The Asahi Shimbun has been more cautious in its undertakings.
It has pointed out in its editorials the dangerous possibility of falling
into unscientific surveys due to national conditions, and has endeavored
earnestly to compensate by its own efforts for the handicaps and in-
sufficiencies--lack of complete statistics, remnants of feudalistic concep-
tions and prejudices or nationalistic concepts, all of which constitute
obstacles to the conducting of an ideal public opinion survey. Simple
topics and forms are adopt'd; the card system is used for questions;
surveys are conducted by about 500 cultured and non-politically biased
persons in the various prefectures, who act under detailed instructions
from the paper's head office; about 200,000 individuals are questioned
in every survey in order to make up for the defects of sample cases;
and each survey usually takes about a month.
Let us now take up some of the more important surveys conducted
by reliable organizations.
4

=== Page 619 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 1.
Not
Occupation
Supporting
Reserving
Total
Suppo ting
Public officials
4,911 32%
5,361 35%
5,119 34%
15,391 100%
Company emplo-
3,528 29
4,995 427
3,555 29"
12,078 100
yees
Enterprisers
623 46
412 30
327 24
1,362 100
Independent pro-
1,415 36
1,33034
1,166 30
3,911 103"
fessional workers
Teachers
2,157 30
2,422 34
2,533 36
7,112 100
Studcnts
764 21
1,866 51
1,050 29
3,680 00
Manual workers
2,948 22
6,935 51
3,687 28
13,570 100
Clerks
2,667 24
4,747 42
3,810 34
11,224 100
Farmers
9,218 42
6,57930
6,184 28
21,981 100"
Merchants
3,693 39
2,822 30
2,791 30
9,306 100"
Fishermen
58140
465 32
396 38
1,442 100
Industrialists
597 38
517 33
463 29
1,577 100
Others
82041
649 32
558 28
2,027 100
Housewives
1,76031
1,889 33
1,979 35
3,528 100
Jobless
3,275 33
3,533 35
3,184 32
9,992 100
Undetermined
562 29
77040
614 32
1,946 100
Grand Total
39,519 32% 45,292 37% 37,416 31
122,227 100%
N.B.
Occupational groupings were based on the following:
(a)
Enterprisers (capita'ists, directors of companies & factories).
(b)
Industrialists (medium and smaller-classes).
(c)
Manual workers (factory operatives, miners, transport workers,
and free laborers).
(d)
Clerks typists, telephone operators, sales girls, shop employees,
and clerks).
7

=== Page 620 === (confidence 0.98)
Q (2) Which party would you support?
Progressive (now Democratic)..
..12 355....10.1 %
Liberal.
.28,810......23.6
Socialist.
.49,843......408
Communist.
5,903...
. 4.8
People's Cooperative.
6,348...
. 5.2
Other minor groups..
1,114..
0.9
No party..
.17,894.
14.6
Total
122,227
1000
Four points may be enumerated as indicative of the trend of opi-
nion revealed in the replies to Question (1) above.
1. While 32 % of the persons, to whom questions were put, re-
plied that they would support the Yoshida Cabinet 37 % definitely
were opposed to it, and 31 % reserved their attitude. Thus, no con-
clusive and overwhclming votes were cast either in favor or agains
the Cabinet.
2. Geographically, prefectures in which farming communities
predominate, showed support for the Yoshida Cabinet, where as those
in which large cities are concentrated tended to oppose the said
Cabinet.
3. By occupation (see Table 1 in the next page, opponents to the
Cabinet belonged chiefly to the intellectual classes (students 51 %, com-
pany employees 42 %, clerks 42 %, officials 35 %, teachers 3+ % and
laborers (manual workers 51 %. Supporters of the Government in-
cluded: enterprisers 46 %, farmers 42 %, merchants 39 %, and indust-
rialists 38 %. Those reserving their attitude included teachers 36 %
and housewives 35 %.
6

=== Page 621 === (confidence 0.99)
1). Just as the Yoshida Cabinet was not either opposed or sup-
ported overwhelmingly, none of the parties received a strong-majority
support, although the Socialist Party obtained a relatively high
percentage.
2). In those prefectures wherein are located the eight leading
cities of the country with large numbers of intellectuals and laborers,
the various parties were supported as follows:
Socialist P........46%
Liberal P
..20
Progressive P .... 8
Cooperative P .... 4
Communist P .... 6
15 % said they would not
Other minor P.... 1
support any party)
The Socialists obtained in these areas 5 % more votes than the
national ayerage, while the Liberals and Progressives received, respec-
tively, 4 % and 2 % less than the national average.
3). By occupation, about 50 % of the working classes (manual
workers, clerks) and about 44 % of the intellectuals (company emplo-
yees, school teachers, free workers and students) supported the Socialist
Party. This Party received about 32 % support from the agricultural,
commercial, industrial, and fishing classes or communities.
The Liberal Party, on the other hand, polled 31 % support from
the agricultural, commercial, industrial, and fishing groups; it received
21 % support from the intellectuals, and 17 % of the laborers.
The Communist Party was favored by a small number of students
9

=== Page 622 === (confidence 0.98)
(e)
Farmers (farmer owners, tenant farmers, live-stock breeders,
forest owners).
(f)
Others (hotel or restaurant owners and the like landlords of
houses.
4. By age, the replies showed that the Yoshida Cabinet was
supported more by (1, men above 40 and (2) women above 30, than
the younger people. Of the men in the twenties, only 24 % said that
they supported the Cabinet, while 46 % said they would not support
it. Of the men in the thirties, 30 % were supporters and 41 % non-
supporters. Of the women in the twenties, 25 % were in favor of the
Cabinet and 39 % opposed.
Table 2.
01
5ex 161-
Ages
21-30 31-40 41-50 51-60
total
over
known
No. of votes
26752 35031
23982
11009
3562
90309
1439
Supporting
24%
30%
38%
47%
53%
33%
36%
Not Supporting
46
41
32
26
22
37
38
Reserved
30
30
30
27
25
29
26"
Women
No. of votes
17470
7333
3915
1344
417 30479
Supporting
25%
33%
37%
43%
48%
30%
Not Supporting
39
33
31
26
23
36
Reserved
36
34
33
31
2935
As for Q 2, which party would you support ?, the replies reflected
the popular thinking vis-a-vis the parties and their basis. The fol-
lowing points require emphasis:
8

=== Page 623 === (confidence 0.99)
able 3.
People's
Communist
Others
No Party
Total
Coop.
539
3%
856
6%
90
1%
258
17%
15,427
100%
621
5
476
4
63
1
1.759
14
12,328
100
34
3
80
6
21
2
164
12
1,365
100
203
5
237
6
41
I
641
17
3,833
100
174
2
411
6
151
2
1,242
17
7,123
100
329
9
165
5
9
0
727
20
3,569
100
1,371
10
385
3
104
1
1.648
12
13,572
100
576
5
481
4
99
1
1,894
17
11,276
100
697
3
1,871
9
218
1
2,600
12
21,746
100
69
5
66
5
15
1
191
13
1,418
100
289
5
428
5
85
1
1,160
12
9,295
100
53
3
56
3
16
1
207
13
1,616
100
67
3
89
4
22
1
257
13
2,039
100
203
4
273
5
66
1
780
14
5,682
100
549
5
407
4
88
1
1,74
17
10,035
:00
139
7
67
3
26
1
294
15
1,943
100
5,923
5%
6,348
5%
1,114
1%
17,894
15%
122,267
100%
Aomori pref...... Liberals 24 %. Socialist-26 %, Non-partisans 18%.
Saga pref........ Liberals 27 %, Socialists 29 %, Non-partisans 15%.
Kumamoto pref .. Liberals 34 %, Socialists 29 %, Non-partisans 17%.
4). Considered by age, the Socialist Party was favored by 45%
of those in the twenties, 43 % of those in the thirties, and 39 % of
those in the forties. On the other hand, the Liberal Party was sup-
ported by the aged
people; those in the 50's and 60's gave more
11

=== Page 624 === (confidence 1.00)
Table
Progressive
Liberal
Socialist
Public Officials
1,526
10%
3,265
21%
6,580
43%
Company Employees
985
8
2,572
21
5.852
43
Enterprisers
189
14
507
37
370
27
Independent professional
378
10
912
24
1,421
37
wokers
Teachers
506
7
1,358
19
3,281
46
Students
183
5
534
15
1,622
45
Manua! wokers
86
6
2,171
16
7,031
52
Clerks
962
9
2,016
18
5.248
47
Farmers
3,096
14
6,450
30
6,814
31
Fishermen
170
12
461
33
446
31
Merchants
1,206
13
2,983
32
3,144
34
Industrialists
178
11
489
30
617
38
Others
317
16
590
29
697
34
Housewives
510
9
1,519
27
2,331
41
Jobless
1,080
11
2,534
25
3,628
36
Unknown
207
11
449
23
761
39
Grand
Total
12,355
10%
28,810
24%
49,843
41%
and manual workers (mostly younger people) only.
It is noteworthy that a considerable number in all occupations re-
plied tha they would support no party.
Apparently, this class of
people are dis atisfied with the older conservative parties, but have
not yet come to plac full confidence in socialism. A few cases may
be cited to show the ratios existing among the supporters of the vari-
ous parties and this group of non-partisans.
10

=== Page 625 === (confidence 0.91)
from women, as well as those from the rural communities, increased
considerably as compared with the previous survey. Another feature
was the increase of replies from aged people (in the former survey,
more replies came from the younger people), and a more correct pic-
ture of the whole trend of views was thus obtained. Again, this time
more replies came from public officials and school teachers than the
laborers, more from the independent farmers than the tenant farmers,
as compared with the previous survey.
Q (1) Do you support the Yoshida Cabinet?
.46,135........28.4 % (32.3 % in first survey)
Yes.
No
.79,127....
48.7 % (37.1 %
11
No view
.37,227..
...22.9%(30.6%
n
.)
Q (2) Which party would you support in the next election?
Liberal P ........42.256.......26.0 % (23.6 % in first survey)
Progressive P ....20.951....
...12.9 % (10.1 %
八
Socialist P........73,624...
...45.3 % (40.8 %
7
People's Coop .... 7,299.
4.5 %(5.2 %
n
1.5 %
Nationalist P .... 2.415.
Communist P .... 8,299.
5.1 %4.8 %
11
人
Other factions .... 1,559...
. 1.0 %(0.9%
n
Independents...... 6,090....
...3.7 % (14.6 %
n
入
The replies to Q(1) may be summarized as follows:
1). Approximately 50 % showed no support for the Yoshida
Cabinet, and only 30 % showed support. Compared with the results
of last year's survey (32 % supporting, 37 % opposing, and 31 % reserv-
ing their attitude), this is a marked change in the attitude of the
13

=== Page 626 === (confidence 0.99)
support to the Liberals than to the Socialists. The Progressive Party
supporters showed a tendency very much similar to those supperting
the Liberal Party. As for the Communists, 7 % in the twenties sup-
ported them, decreasing to 0 as the ages advanced.
The Second Survey by Asahi Shimbun
Q. 1) Do you support the Yoshida Cabinet?
Q. (2) Which party would you support in the next general ele-
ctions?
Questionnaires were issued on January 15, 1947, when political
tension was almost at its climax (a movement was actively on foot for
the formation of a three-party Coalition Cabinet of Liberals, Progres-
sives and Socialists), and when the so-called "labor offensive" was
steadily advancing. A total of 204,880 question cards were sent out,
and 173,383 replies came in (of this number, 10,849 were invalid).
The questions were sent to one out of every 180 qualified voters re-
corded by the Home Ministry in April 1946. As for occupations, the
figures of the agriculture and forestry as on April 1, 1946 of far-
mers and non-farmers were taken into consideration. Farming popula-
tion was classified into land owners, independent farmers and tenant
farmers. Non-farmers' occupation statistics included the Welfare
Ministry's Provisional Registration Reports on Labor (Feb. 1, 1945,
and Labor Survey on October 10, 1946.
These questionnaires were distributed throughout the country by
4,500 survey conductors and a certain number of primary school
children. Replies were sent back sealed, so that secrecy could be
maintained and the free expression of the people obtained. Replies
12

=== Page 627 === (confidence 0.99)
Table
No. of
Not
Supporting
No View
valid votes
Supporting
Public officials
16,655
4,411 26%
9,469 57%
2,775 17%
Company employees
13,800
3,298 24
8.240 60
2,262 16
Laborers
15 482
2,244 15
10,108 6
3,130 20
School teachers
7,054
1,614 23
4.418 63
1,022 14
Students
3,525
801 23
2,208 62
516 15
Independent profes-
3,497
1,246 36
1,640 47
611 17
sional wokers
Enterprisers
2.576
1,331 52
882 34
363 14.
Merchants,
indust-
12,477
4,385 35
5.227 42
2,365 23
rialists
Land owners
4,651
2,498 54
1,239 26
914 20
Independent farmers
25,544
9,848 39
9,051 35
6,645 26
Tenant farmers
20,607
5,218 25
9,837 43
5,552 7
Fishermen
2,048
616 30
813 40
619 30
Jobless
3,318
581 17
2,046 62
691 21
Housewives
29,966
7,701 26
13,384 45
3.881 29
Others
1.289
343 27
565 44
331 29
Grand Total
162,439
46,135 28%79,127
49%37,227
23%
received 61%support.
2). Acc rding to occupations, the Socialist Party obtained the
support of 59 % of laborers, 57 % of school teachers, 56  of company
employee:, and 50 % of jobless people.
These groups of people are
living by borrowing money from others or by selling whatever pro-
perty they happen to possess.
Those supporting the Liberal and
Progressive Parties included land owners (69 %), enterprisers (60 %).
15

=== Page 628 === (confidence 0.98)
people. It means that considerable numbers who formerly supported
the Cabinet and those who had reserved their attitude in the first
survey, had shifted over to the side of non-supporters.
2). From the occupational point of view, 60 % of company em-
ployees, school teachers, laborers, and students, who are in the finan-
cially poor classes, as well as 60 % of the public officials, did not
give their support. as shown in the following table. Those who were
better off financially, such as enterprisers (52 %, merchants and
industrialists (35 %), independent professional workers (36 %), inde-
pendent farmers (39 9%), fisherm n (30 %. and land owners (54 %)
supported the Cabinet. Again, it is noticeable that the areas which
are economically better off, like Kyushu, Shikoku, and others of
agricultural regions, gave their support to the Cabinet, while the
regions of Tohoku, Kanto, and the cities where living is difficult, did
not favor this Cabinet.
r：
3). By sex, replies from women were lower in percentage com-
pared with the men, both of the supporting or non-supporting groups;
apparently, women still do not possess clear-cut views of their own on
political matters.
4. As in the previous survey, the older people generally supported
the Yoshida Cabinet, and the younger groups opposed it.
Replies to Q (2) may be summarized as follows;
1. Although failing to secure a stabilizing majority, the Social-
ist Party obtained 45 %, which was higher than t e combined support
received by the Government parties (Liberal and Progressive), which
was 39 %. If all the other minor factions were added, the Opposition
14

=== Page 629 === (confidence 0.99)
favor of the conservative parties and the younger the Socialist or
Communist (or other progressive) parties. The majority of both men
and women up to 40 supported the newer and progressive parties,
while those above 50 overwhelmingly cast their votes to the conserva-
tive parties. The majority of men and women in the 20's and men
in the 30's supported the Socialist Party.
Table 5.
People's
Nationalist
Communist
Others
Independent
Coop.
675
4%
127
1%
832
5%
168
1%
530
3%
一
37+
3
108
1
782
5
100
1
400
4
387
3
209
1
1,600
10
122
1
476
3
278
4
222
3
344
5
60
1
244
3
133
4
29
1
376
11
37
1
140
4
148
4
29
1
204
6
50
1
173
5
116
5
34
1
49
3
34
1
90
4
377
3
142
1
396
3
107
1
449
4
311
7
67
2
63
1
46
1
145
3
1,848
7
453
2
609
2
250
1
967
4
1,323
7
403
2
1,298
6
216
1
692
3
115
6
58
3
116
6
22
1
79
4
135
4
45
1
430
13
56
2
204
6
1,026
3
469
1
1,144
4
254
1
1,420
5
49
4
20
2
56
4
37
3
81
6
7,295
5%
2,415
1%
8,299
5%
1,559
1%
6,090
4%
17

=== Page 630 === (confidence 1.00)
independent farmers 2 %), merchants, industrialists, fishermen, and
free workers.
Communists were favored by 13 % of the jobless people, 11 % of
students, 10 % of laborers, and 5 % each of the public officials and
company employees.
3). By ages, as in previous examples, the older groups were in.
Table
5.
Liberal
Progressive
Socialist
Public officials
3,574
24%
1.916
12%
8,133
53%
Company employees
2,800
20
1,446
10
7,790
56
Laborers
2.310
15
1.240
8
9.138
59
School teachers
1,180
17
715
10
4,011
57
Students
637
18
257
7
1,916
54
Independent
professional
998
29
495
14
,400
40
workers
Enterprisers
1,041
40
509
20
703
27
Merchants & industrialists
4,081
33
1,878
15
5,047
40
Land owners
2,061
44
1,164
25
794
17
Independent farmers
8,788
5
4,387
17
8,242
32
Tenant farmers
4,916
24
2,306
11
9,45
46
Fishermen
687
33
268
13
703
34
Jobless
537
16
270
8
1,641
50
Housewives
8,322
28
3,919
13
13,412
45
Others
324
25
181
14
541
42
Grand
Total
42,256
26%
20.951
13%
73,624
45%
16

=== Page 631 === (confidence 0.97)
Agriculturalists
.122(6.1%)
Private enterprisers
95(4.8%)
Judicials (judges, procurators, attorneys, etc.).. 88 ( 4.4 %)
Medical men.
77(3.9%)
Writers (critics, authors, journalists, publishers,
radio broadcasters, etc.).
70（3.5%）
Students
50(2.5%)
Religious workers
43(2.2%)
Farm-labor movement workers.
40(2.0%)
Miscellaneous (jobless, housewives, etc.).
.186(9.3%)
(No member of either of the two Houses of the Diet were in-
cluded.)
(a) The Emperor System
(Q (1) Do you recognize the Emperor system? (Articles 1 and 2.
Chapter 1, of Constitution)
Q 2, Should we adopt a republican form of gover ment by
abolishing the Emperor system?
In regard to the first question, 1,702 persons (85 %) replied that
they were in favor of the Emperor system, while 263 (13 %) were
against the system. The supporters of the system were occupationally
distributed as follows:
Private (personal) enterprisers
.91 %
.90 %
Business men (financiers).
.90 %
Medical men
.89 %
Public officials
.89 %
Miscellaneous.
Agriculturalists.
.88 %
.86 %
Religious workers..
19

=== Page 632 === (confidence 0.96)
2. Draft of the New Constitution
The Mainichi Shimbun, one of the leading newspapers of this
country, conducted a survey of public opinion in May 1946 on the
"Draft of the New Constitution" (original draft of the new Constitu-
tion now in force, there being no essential difference from the present
one).
Method of the survey—Two thousand intellectuals of both sexes
were selected and questioned. The population ratios of the prefectures
was not given consideration, emphasis being placed on the cultural
level of the people questioned; the question as to whether or not the
persons concerned suffered personal damages from the war was also
considered. The questionnaires were sent to 200 persons in Tokyo.
120 each in Kyoto and Osaka, 70 each in Aichi, Hyogo, and Fukucka
prefectures, 60 each in Hokkaido, Kanagawa, Miyagi, Niigata, and
Ishikawa prefectures, and 30 each in other prefectures. The other
facts relative to the distribution of these questionnaires were:
1) Men........1,738 (86.9 %)
Women........262 13.1 %
2
Educational consideration
Graduates of universities.
.786 (39.3 %)
of senmon gakko, higher schools ....389 (19.5 %)
11
"
of middle schools
.613(30.7%)
Others
.212(10.6%)
(3) Occupational consideration
Public officials
.483 (24.2 %)
Company employees
.301 (15.0%)
Scholars, educators.
.269 (13.5 %)
Business men (enterprisers)
.176(8.8 %)
18

=== Page 633 === (confidence 0.98)
(1) About one-half of this number 48 said they would recognize
the Emperor system in principle, and that they were opposed to placing
sovereignty in the hands of the people.
2 Fifteen favored the Socialist Party's contention that the Em-
peror should be left only as " ceremonial existence," with no political
powers whatever.
1
(3) Four supported the Liberal Party's contention that the Em-
peror should be made the " supervisor" of administration with sover-
eignty residing in the State.
4 Two wanted sovereignty to be with the Ruler, as advocated
by the Progressive Party.
(5) One other reply.
On the other hand, 14 persons advocated what they termed the
"republican form of government under the Emperor system," in which
the Emperor was only left for ceremonial purposes.
Thus a total of 1,738 persons (87 %) were in favor of the Emperor
system in one form or another, distributed as follows:
Favoring Emperor system as per Government draft ......1702
as per own individual plan .... 22
"
14
republican gov. under Emperor system........
1,738
The foregoing figures represent the views of the intellectual
classes of the people, who are regarded as possessing more advanced
opinion on political matters. Accordingly, if a general plebiscite were
to be taken on this question, it is most likely that the supporters of
the Emperor system would be far in excess of the above figures.
21

=== Page 634 === (confidence 0.97)
.82 %
Company employees.
Judicial men.
.82%
Scholars, educators
.81 %
Writers, etc.
.70 9%
Students.
.68 %
Farm-labor movement workers
.55 %
As for the second question, the replies were:
Favoring abolition of the Emperor system.....
..21511%
Opposing
1,711 86 %)
Undecided
74 3.7 %
Those favoring abolition of the Emperor system were occupationally
distributed as follows:
Farm-1 bor movement workers.
48%
Students
.20%
Company employees, private enterprisers, writers, etc...16 %
Medical men, agriculturalists
.10% each
Scholars, educators.
9 %
Judicial men (judges, procurators, attorneys, etc.
7%
lP'ublic officials, miscellaneous
6 % each
Financiers, religious workers
5% each
Comparing the figures on the replies to (Q (1) amd Q (2), we find
that all of those who opposed the Emperor system did not necessarily
favor a republican form of government. An analysis of the 48 per-
sons (difference between 265 who favored abolition of the Emperor sys-
tem, Q (1) and 215 who favored a republican form of government by
abolishing the Emperor system) shows the following:
20

=== Page 635 === (confidence 0.98)
Farm-labor movement workers
.20 %
Private enterprisers
.16 %
An examination of the reasons, given for considering the provi-
sion in question as being unnecessary, show:
101 persons........ There is no need of surrendering the right of
self-defence, although aggressive wars should
be abandoned.
72 persons...
This is too Utopian; such matters should be
fixed by international treaties or after Japan
declares permanent neutrality, or when the
UNO guarantees our safety; otherwise, the
provision is likely to end in a dead letter. A
unilateral declaration is meaningless.
Even among the farm-labor movement workers, there were some
who declared that " we must defend ourselves against aggressive attacks,
with our own blood."
(c) The Nationa! l'iet
Q (1) Do you favor a bi-cameral system?
Q (2) Is it necessary to give a veto power to the Government
or the Emperor against the decisions of the Diet?
Q(3)
If the Diet acts against the will of the people, should
it not be dissolved by plebiscite?
Replies to Q (1) showed that 1,588 (79 %) wanted a bi-cameral
system, while 345 (17 %) opposed it. The ratio among the two sexes
20

=== Page 636 === (confidence 0.98)
Among the supporters of the Government draft, 14 stated: " Although
a republican form of government may be ideal, the Emperor system
should be allowed to remain during the present transition period."
This means that the overwhelming support that is now given the Em-
peror system does not, of necessity, continue to be so in the future.
(b) Renunciation of W'ar
Q (1) Is this provision necessary ?
Q (2) If not, what are your reasons ?
Replies to Q (1)
Necessary....
.1,395 (72 9%)
Unnecessary
568(28%)
By sex, the replies were:
Men: necessary 69 %, unnecessary 21 %
Women: " 73 %,
11
27%
By occupation, those who replied that the provision was unneces-
sary were distributed as follows:
Public officials.
.34%
Company employees
.29 %
Financiers
.27 %
Religious workers.
1%
Writers, authors, etc.
.19%
Agriculturalists, judicial men.
.30% each
Students
.28%
Scholars & educators
.25 %
Medical men
.25%
22

=== Page 637 === (confidence 0.99)
ment will be formed by a " majority party," and because to give it to
the Emperor would be undemocratic. The only solution would be to
dissolve the Diet in accordance with the results of a plebiscite.
(d) On the Katayama Cabinet
(Survey .conducted by Mainichi Shimbun)
Between July 1 and 10, 1947, immediately following the formation
of the Katayama Cabinet, this survey was carried out; questions were
asked of 5,000 men and women throughout the country. The ratio of
men to women receiving the questions was 8:2 (4,000 men and 1,000
women). This ratio was worked out after the figures on total votes cast
in the general elections in April, 1947, were considered, the num-
ber of women's votes cast, the number of total candidates and that of
women candidates, the number of total candidates returned and the
number of women elected, etc.
Of the 4,000 men, to whom questionnaires were sent, 30 % were
farmers and fishermen, 20 % each) salaried people, laborers, and
merchant-industrialists, and 10 % free workers. Of the 1,000 women,
30 % were farmers and 70 % non-farmers. Replies received numbered
4,803 or 96 %.
(Q 1) Do you support the Katayama Cabinet?
Yes..
.3,300.
.68.7 %
N).
.1,503.
.31.3 %
Total.
.4,803.
100.0%
Thus it can readily seen that the Cabinet was given support by a
majority.
25

=== Page 638 === (confidence 0.99)
was about the same. Those who advocated a single-chamber system
were found among the more progressive elements, inciuding farm-labor
movement workers (45 %), writers and authors (30 %, company em-
ployees (19 %), and students (18 %).
To Q (2, those favoring a veto power for the Government or the
Emperor number 934 (47 %), those opposing 1,039 .52 %.
As for Q (3), those favoring a dissolution by plebiscite numbered
1,592 80 %), and those opposing 349 (17 %). No great differences
were noticed between men and women in their respective ratios for
yes and no.
Among the advocates of a veto for the Government or Emperor
were: scholars and educators (65 %), religious workers 63 %, miscel-
laneous (55 %), financiers (53 %, public officials (47 %), mainly con-
servative in their views. Those opposing the granting of veto includ-
ed; farm-labor movement workers (78 %, writers, authors, etc. 73 %,
and students (64 %), representing the more progressive ideas.
In connection with Q (3), dissolution of the Diet was favored by
farm-labor movement workers (100 %), writers and authors (95 %,
students 92 %, religious workers (88 %, private enterprisers (86%,
scholars and educators 83%.
Whereas replies to Q (2) indicated that the people were not so
seriously concerned with the fear of "tyranny by a majority party,"
answers to Q (3 clearly show that this is causing some considerable
anxiety among the voters. Many are opposed to giving veto power
to the Government because they knew that in the future every Govern-
24

=== Page 639 === (confidence 1.00)
Table ó.
Trust in
New
Coali-
Middle-of-
Socialist
No
No. of
Premier
Political
tion
the-Road
Nucleus
Others
replies
Replies
Katayama
feeling
Course
3.4
2.2
5.1
1.0
1.7
5.0
10.1
100
2.5
4.2
2.2
3.4
1.2
3.5
8.5
100
2.3
2.5
2.0
3.0
3.8
3.5
13.7
100
3.9
3.0
4.5
2.7
1.6
7.3
7.5
100
3.7
3.4
2.0
1.4
1.7
3.7
9.6
100
1.6
4.8
2.7
0.6
1.6
5.4
13.0
100
5.3
4.3
2.7
2.1
2.3
5.5
128
100
3.6
3.3
3.1
2.3
2.1
4.7
10.6
100
High Gt.
Same as
No
No plans
No
No. of
Too theo-
retical
Service
Yoshida
Confi-
for unem-
Others
replies
Replies
Charges
Cabinet
dence
ployment
39
4.6
3.9
4.6
一
9.1
3.9
100
5.0
2.1
4.6
1.7
0.4
4.2
8.0
100
3.2
4.5
4.1
2.3
1.8
7.2
10.4
100
6.5
3.3
2.5
2.7
0.6
6.5
4.5
100
5.9
3.3
3.3
2.5
5.9
8.4
100
2.7
2.7
4.1
6.9
9.6
6.9
100
1.6
7.5
3.2
3.2
1.1
3.8
8.1
100
4.4
4.0
3.6
3.1
0.6
6.6
6.6
100
27

=== Page 640 === (confidence 1.00)
Table
6.
Supporting
Friend
No other
Sincere
Proper con-
Policies
Demo-
Occupation
of
suitabie
in
stitutional
good
cratic
laborers
parties
politics
practice
Farmers &
28.8
15.9
8.0
8.4
6.1
4.3
Fishermen
Salaried
26.8
20.0
11.0
9.1
3.8
3.8
people
Laborers
21.0
28.7
8.7
5.4
2.5
2.0
Merchants &
23.7
11.8
13.6
10.0
4.5
5.9
Industrialists
Independent
professional
32.1
12.6
13.7
8.2
1.4
6.5
workers
Farmer-women
18.4
16.2
16.2
9.7
3.3
1.6
Non Farmer-
19.5
18.3
11.3
6.6
5.4
3.9
women
Total
24.7
18.6
11.0
8.0
4.1
3.9
Net Supporting
Not carry-
No Poli-
Opposed
Opposed
Exces-
Occupation
ing out
tical
to
to
sive
promises
power
Socialism
Coalition
Control
Farmers-Fishermen
25.8
19.1
14.8
7.3
3.0
Salaried people
26.1
29.4
7.6
8.0
2.9
Laborers
26.7
19.0
11.3
6.3
3.2
Merchants
&
In-
18.4
22.0
16.3
4.8
11.9
dustrialists
Independent
pro-
16.0
27.8
12.6
10.1
4.2
fessional workers
Farmer-wemen
23.3
13.7
15.0
5.5
9.6
Non Farmer-women
28.0
17.2
16.7
3.2
6.4
Total
23.7
21.6
13.6
6.3
5.9
28

=== Page 641 === (confidence 0.98)
The above table indicates that even among those who would cast
their votes for the Socialist Party, there are 12.7 % of "rebel" ele-
ments; the majority of these gave for their reason: " because the Party
has failed to carry out its promises made at election time."
Supporters and non-supporters of the Katayama Cabinet, grouped
by occupations, were lined up as follows:
Occupations
Supporters
Non-supporters
Farmers & fishermen.
.12.2 %
6.9 %
Salaried people
.14.2 %
4.3 %
Laborers
.12.5 %
4.6 %
Merchants & industrialists.
9.1 %
7.0 %
Free workers
6.1 %
2.5 %
Farming women.
3.9 %
1.5 %
Non-farming women.
10.7 %
3.9 %
68.7 %
31.3 %
Contrary to general belief, farmers and fishermen, as well as
merchants and industrialists, supported the Cabinet in greater propor-
tion than their respective opponents. -The salaried people and the
laborers, of course, were expected to give their support to the Cabinet.
In general, the percentage of supporters far exceeds that of non-sup-
porters.
Another question asked was: " What do you wish to be done first
by the Katayama Cabinet?" Replies covered more than 30 items, of
which the following were the more important:
Measures for food crisis
.39.3 %
Stabilization of living
.27.3 %
29

=== Page 642 === (confidence 0.98)
Those receiving the questionnaires were asked to state their reasons
for either supporting or opposing the Katayama Cabinet, and the re-
plies were as Table 6.
Among the reasons given by the supporters of the Katayama
Cabinet, " Socialistic policies" tops the list with 815 persons out of
the total supporters numbering 3 300 or 24.7 %.
The second reason in the list is " friend of the laboring people"
(615 persons, 18.6 %), while the third prominent reason is "because
there are no other suitable parties." (11 %).
On the other hand, among the reasons for not supporting the
Katayama Cabinet, the first is " failure to carry out the promises"
(made at election time). Out of the total of 1,503 non-supporters, 356
(23.7 %: gave this for their reason in opposing the present Cabinet.
The next reason is "lack of political power" (21.6 %), while 13.6 %
of the non-supporters openly declared they were opposed to socialism.
Included in this survey was a supplementary questions: " Which
party would you vote for in the next general election ?" The replies
were as follows:
Parties
No. of replies Supporting Not supporting
Socialist.
.2,266
87.3 %
12.7%
63.8 %
36.2 %
Democratic (ex-Progressive)..740
Liberal.
..966
32.9 %
67.1 %
P'eople's Cooperative ....
.120
67.5 %
32.5 %
Communist
.137
54.7 %
45.3 %
Others
.574
65.3 %
34.7 %
4,803
28

=== Page 643 === (confidence 0.97)
The above table indicates that even among those who would cast
their votes for the Socialist Party, there are 12.7 % of "rebel" ele-
ments; the majority of these gave for their reason: " because the Party
has failed to carry out its promises made at election time."
Supporters and non-supporters of the Katayama Cabinet, grouped
by occupations, were lined up as follows:
Occupations
Supporters
Non-supporters
Farmers & fishermen..
.12.2 %
6.9 %
Salaried people
.14.2 %
4.3 %
Laborers
.12.5 %
4.6 %
Merchants & industrialists.
9.1 %
7.0 %
Free workers
6.1 %
2.5%
Farming women.
3.9 %
1.5 %
Non-farming women.
10.7 %
3.9 %
68.7 %
31.3 %
Contrary to general belief, farmers and fishermen, as well as
merchants and industrialists, supported the Cabinet in greater propor-
tion than their respective opponents. The salaried people and the
laborers, of course, were expected to give their support to the Cabinet.
In general, the percentage of supporters far exceeds that of non-sup-
porters.
Another question asked was: "What do you wish to be done first
by the Katayama Cabinet?" Replies covered more than 30 items, of
which the following were the more important:
.39.3 %
Measures for food crisis
.27.3 %
Stabilization of living
29

=== Page 644 === (confidence 0.97)
Those recefving the questionnaires were asked to state their reasons
for either supporting or opposing the Katayama Cabinet, and the re-
plies were as Table 6.
Among the reasons given by the supporters of the Katayama
Cabinet, " Socialistic policies" tops the list with 815 persons out of
the total supporters numbering 3 300 or 24.7 %.
The second reason in the list is " friend of the laboring people"
(615 persons, 18.6 %), while the third prominent reason is "because
there are no cther suitable parties." (11 %).
On the other hand, among the reasons for not supporting the
Katayama Cabinet, the first is " failure to carry out the promises "
(made at election time). Out of the total of 1,503 non-supporters, 356
(23.7 % gave this for their reason in opposing the present Cabinet.
The next reason is " lack of political power" (21.6 %), while 13.6 %
e.
of the non-supporters openly declared they were opposed to socialism.
Included in this survey was a supplementary questions: "Which
party would you vote for in the next general election ? " The replies
were as follows:
Parties
No. of replies Supporting Not supporting
Socialist..
.2,266
87.3 %
12.7 %
63.8 %
36.2 %
Democratic(ex-Progressive) ..740
Liberal.
.966
32.9 %
67.1 %
P'eoplè's Cooperative..
.120
67.5 %
32.5 %
.137
54.7 %
45.3 %
Communist
Others
.574
65.3 %
34.7 %
4,803
28

=== Page 645 === (confidence 0.99)
III. Economic Problems
Measures to Combat Inflation and the People's Life
Under the Inflation
On November 10, 1946, the Asahi Shimbun sent out the follow-
ing questionnaires to 107,184 households (I out of every 150 households
in the country, based on population statistics prepared by the Home
Ministry as on April 16, 1946:
Q (1) What measures do you think would be the best to prevent
the inflation?
Q 2 On what sources of income is your family living?
The survey was conducted just when the labor offensive was
growing in intensity centering around the question of demands for
increase in wages, and when the need for reorganizing the nation's
economy and individual living was strongly voiced among various
sections of the people.
Statistics on farmers and non-farmers prepared by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry (as on April 1, 1946) were used to decide
the distribution of occupations for the questionnaires. The farmers
were grouped into land owners, independent farmers, and tenant far-
meis. The distribution of non-farming population was fixed by rely-
ing on figures po-s ssed by the various prefectures.
Of the households receiving the questionnaires, 85,963 (roughly
31

=== Page 646 === (confidence 0.97)
Securing of bounty-articles (for farmers).
4.4 %
Do not expect much
3.9 %
Fulfilment of public promises
3.4%
Increase of production
2.4%
Elevation of people's morals.
2.0 %
Reform of taxation.
1.9 %
Removal of controls.
1.5 %
Convening of peace conference.
1.4 %
Increase of prices of agricultural products
1.1%
Cleaning-up of officialdom
1.1 %
Fairer delivery quotas of rice
1.1 %
Fair distribution of foodstuffs
.1.1 %
Promotion of foreign trade.
.0.8 %
More living quarters..
.0.5 %
Others
6.8 %
100.0%
The above clearly reveals that the greatest concern of the Japanese
people today is to get more food and their living stabilized, involving
the question of inflation. Requests for the calling of the peace con-
ference or the reopening of foreign trade apparently are regarded
secondary.
Grouped by occupations, those clamoring for food and the stabiliza-
tion of living stood as follows:
Fer Stabilization
Occupations
For Foodstuffs
of Living
Salaried people.
.42.7 %
31.4 %
.47.0%
27.7%
Laborers.
Merchants & industrialists
.39.2 %
22.8 %
Farmers & fishermen
.23.7.%
24.2 %
Farming women
.22.4 %
23.2 %
Non-farming women
.50.8%
30.5 %.
These figures speak eloquently how strong is the cry for food today.
30

=== Page 647 === (confidence 0.99)
(such as promoting savings) were 50 %; 17 % had no views. Since
this was a financial question requiring some expert knowledge, many
were naturally unable to give off-hand replies.
2 Those favoring drastic measures were mainly of the intellectual
classes; 45 % of the salaried people favored such measures, followed
by the jobless, free workers, laborers, land owners, tenant farmers,
enterprisers, etc. in the order mentioned. The last in this group were
the medium and smaller-class merchants and industrialists, as well as
the independent farmers (22 % each).
3 Among those who wanted moderate measures to fight the in-
flation were:—enterprisers 67 %. followed by medium and smaller
merchants and industrialists, independent farmers, land owners, free
workers, fishermen, tenant farmers, in the order named. The last of
this group were the jobless and the,laborers 38 % each).
Replies to Q 2 were as Table 8.
1) From this table, it is clear that 51 % of the households (to
whom questionnaires were sent) are living only on incomes from fixed
occupations, and that the remaining 49 % are living by "red ink"
accounting.
2) By occupation, 76 % of the independent farmers, followed by
fishermen, merchants and industrialists, tenant farmers, enterprisers,
and free workers were supporting themselves without selling their
clothes or whatever other items of property they happened to pos-
sess. Among those who were in the "red ink" category, 68% of
the salaried people (so-called white-collared job classes) were suffering
33

=== Page 648 === (confidence 0.99)
80 %: sent in their replies. Among the replies from the farming groups,
those from the land owners and independent farmers exeeeded those
from tenant farmers. Of the non-farming groups, replies from fisher-
men were fewer than expected, while those from salaried people were
heavier proportionately than the others.
The replies to Q 1) were as follows:
Table 7.
Valia
Drastic
Moderate
Occupations
No V’iee
Replies
Measures
Measures
Enterprisers
1,857
435
23%
1.238
67%
184
10%
Medium & smaller-
lass merchants, &
11,096
2,476
22
6,724
61
1,896
17
industrialists
Salaried people
27,445
12,237
45
11,909
43
3,299
12
Laborers
6.452
2,236
35
2,460
38
1,756
27
Free workers
2,884
1,043
36
1,476
51
365
13
Land owners
2,398
676
28
1,388
58
334
14
Independent
far-
13,515
2.980
22
8,210
61
2,325
17
mers
Tenant farmers
9.450
2,459
26
4,558
48
2,433
26
Fishermen
1,247
286
23
625
50
336
27
Jobless
3,812
1,426
37
1,449
38
937
25
Others
982
346
35
425
43
211
22
Total
81,138
26,600
33% 40,462
50% 14,076
17%
1) As may be seen from the above table, those advocating drastic
measures (such as re-freezing of the new yen or imposition of heavier
taxes) reached only 33 %, while those favoring moderate
measures
32

=== Page 649 === (confidence 0.97)
IV. Labor Problems.
The February 1 General Strike (abortive)
On January 31, 1947, the Supreme Commander for Allied Powers,
General of the Army Douglas MacArthur, issued a directive ordering
the stoppage of the general strike scheduled for February 1 (the fol-
lowing day) by the 2,600,000 members of the All-Government and
Public Worker's Unions. Negotiations had been going on since January
18, when these workers decided to call a general strike if their demands
could not be met, between the Government and the central executive
commitee of the Unions. The mediation of the Central Labor Relations
Board was ineffective. Only SCAP's timely order stopped this threaten-
ed nation-wide strikes.
The Jiji Shimpo conducted a survey of public opinion on this
great issue between the Government and its employees. Was the use
of this weapon (general strike justified in view of the critical economic
conditions prevailing? The results of the survey revealed the general
attitude of the people on this question, as well as on labor movement
in general.
Method of Survey—Four thousand men and women were questioned,
this figure being based on population statistics as on April 26, 1946,
and the questionnaires were sent out during the middle of February 1947.
Q (1) Although the general strike of Government employees and
school teachers has been averted, which side, do you think,
35
1

=== Page 650 === (confidence 1.00)
under the inflation.
Table 8.
On wages & by sel-
Occupations
On fixed wages
ling goods on hand
Enterprisers
1.232
66%
625
34%
Medium & smalier class
7,489
67
3,607
33
merchants & industrialists
Salaried workers
8,891
32
18,554
68
Laborers
2,885
45
3,567
55
Free professional workers
1,812
63
1,072
37
Land owners
1,018
42
1,380
58
Independent farmers
10.318
76
3,197
24
Tenant farmers
6,335
67
3,115
33
Fishermen
875
70
372
30
Jobless
204
5
3,608
95
Others
407
41
575
59
Total
41,466
51%
39,672
49%
34

=== Page 651 === (confidence 0.99)
2) According to age and sex, the number of those blaming the
labor unions increased stead ly with the advance in age among the men:
the reverse is noted among the women, this probably due to the fact
that the older women showed a tendency of indifferences o: replied that
they did not know.
3
Those blaming the Government numbered most among the
young groups for both sexes (most is the 30's and next in the 20's).
Table 10.
Govern-
Labor Uni-
Not in-
Don't
Total.
ment Un-
on
Un-
terested
know
reasonable
reasonable
Total
3,932(100%)
1,037 26.4
1,731(44.0 336 8.5)8
828(21.1)
Farmers
1.962/100%
364.18.6
86744.2|1749.9
537(27.3)
Fishermen
109100%
2422.0
5146.82422.0
10(9.2)
Medium
&
smaller
mer-
391(100%)
83.21.2
201(51.4)
35(9.0)
72(18.4)
chants & in-
dustrialists
Enterprisers
79.100%
13(16.5)
62(78.5)
11.3
3(37)
Laborers
384.100%
192(50.0)
111(28.9
25(6.5)
56(14.6)
Salaried
peo-
366(100%)
144(39.3
165(45.1
12(3.3)
45(12.3)
ple
Officials
136(100%)
67(49.3)
55(40.4)
32.2
11(8.1)
Students
&
104(100%)
62(59.6)
37(35.6)
1(1.0)
4(3.8)
Teachers
Free profes-
87(100%)
24(27.6)
40(46.0)
9(10.3)
14(16.1)
sional workers
Jobless
187(100%)
37(19.8)
86(46.0)
18(9.6)
46(24.6)
Others
127(100%)
27(21.3)
56(44.1)
14(8.9)
30(23.6)
37

=== Page 652 === (confidence 0.98)
was unreasonable?
Replies to this question were as follows:
Table 9.
51 anl
Total
21-30
31-40
41-50
over
Tota!
3.933 100%
1,680(100%)804(100%/793(100%)
655 100%)
Men
1,974100
972(100)432(100")435(100
135(100)
Women
1,958 100
708(100) 372(100")358 1001520 100)
Gevernment
l'nreasouable
Total
1,037(26.4)
493(29.3)
244(30.3)
200.25.2
100 15.3
Men
61431.1
316(32.5)
146(33.8)
12428.5
28207
Women
423.21.6
17725.0
9826.3
7621.2
7213.8
l'nions
Unreasonable
Total
1,73144.0
784 46.7
356(44.3
35845.1
233(35.6)
Men
99350.3
47649.0
214(49.5
228(52.4)
75(55.6)
Women
738:37.7
30843.5
142(38.2)
13036.3
15830.4)
Not Interested
.1
Total
3368.6
1116.6
67 8.3
7910.0
7912.1
Men
128 6.5
636.5
235.3
337.6
96.7
Women
20810.6)
48.6.8
4411.8
4612.8
70(13.5)
Don't know
Total
828 21.0
29217.4
13717.1
15619.7
243(37.0)
Men
239(12.1)
117(12.0
4911.4
50(11.5)
23.17.0
Women
589 30.1)
17524.7
8823.7
10629.7
222(42.3)
1 As may be observed from the above table, the number of those
who thought that the labor unions were unreasonable reached 1,731
44 %) of the total replies (3,932; those who thought that the Govern-
ment was unreasonable numbered 1,037 26.4 % ; these who said they
were not interested numbered 336 (8.6 %); while 821 (21 %) answered
that they did not know. Those who blamed the labor unionists were
almost one and a half times the number who blamed the Government.
36

=== Page 653 === (confidence 0.98)
1) A total of 2,275 persons thought that the general strike was
wrong (57.9 %); 1,291
32.8%) said it was unavoidable and thus
justified it; 126 were indifferent(3.2%); while 240 6.1%)did not know.
2) Those who disapproved the general strike were mostiy older peo-
ple, both men and women. Of those who we:e 51 or more in age, 70.4%
of the men and 61.9 % of the women disapproved the general strike.
3) Those approving the general strike, both sexes in the thirties
number the most, the number decreasing with the advance of age.
Table
12.
Luavoid-
Not in-
Don't
Occupa'ic is
Total
W'rong
able
terested
know
Farmers
1,962.100%
487.24.8%1,23463.9%
78.4.0%)1638.3%)
Fishermen
109100
33:30.2
61/55.9
76.4
8(7.5)
Medium
&
smaller mer-
391100
11328.9
253(64.7
12(3.1
13(3.3)
chants, & in-
dustrialists
Enterprisers
79,100
14:17.7
63.79.7
11.3
1(1.3)
I.aborers
384(100
223(58.1
12833.3
10,2.6
23.6.0
Salaried peo-
366100
16444.8
18450.3
4(1.1
14.3.8
ple
Officials
135,100
69(50.7
67.49.3
Teachers
&
104(100
6764.4
3331.7
4(3.9
一
Students
sional work-
Free profes-
87(100
23:26.4
60,69.0
1(1.1
3.3.5
ers
Others
127(100
41(32.3
78(61.4
2(1.6
6(4.7)
Jobless
187,100
57(30.5
11461.0
73.7
9(48)
Total
3,932(100%)1,291(32.8%)
2,275(57.9%)
126(3.2%)240(6.1%)
20

=== Page 654 === (confidence 0.98)
By occupations, 78.5 % of the enterprisers, 51/ % of the medium
and smaller merchants and industrialists, as as 35.6% of the
school teachers and students, and 40.4 % of the officials blamed the
Jabor unions. Those blaming the Government included: school teachers
and students (59.6 %, laborers (50.0 %), public officials 49.3 %), etc.
Q(2
Is it right or wrong for public officials and school teachers,.
who are in public service, to resort to general strikes?
To this, the replies were as follows:
Table
11.
51 ant
Total
21-30
31-10
41-50
oner
Tota?
3,932(100%) 1.680(100) 804(100) 793(100) 655(100)
Men
1.97(100")
972100) 432(100) 435(100) 135(100)
Women
1,958(100) 708(100) 372(100) 358(100) 520(10))
I'navoidable
Total
1,291(32.8)
641(38.2)306(38.1)216(27.2)128(19.5)
Men
719(36.4)
377(38.8)178(+1.2)132(30.3) 32(23.7)
Women
572(29.2)
264(37.3)128 34.4) 84(23.5 96(18.5)
Hrong
Total
2,275(57.9)
925(55.1)437(54.4)496(62.5)417(63.7)
Men
1,167(59.1).
543(55.9)243(56.3)286(65.7)95(70.4)
Women
1,108(56.6)
382(54.0)194(52.2)210(58.7)322(61.9
Not interested
Total
126(3.2)
39(2.3)
30(3.7)
25(3.2
32(4.9)
Men
36(1.8)
23(2.4)
6(1.4)
5(1.2;
2(1.5)
Women
90(4.6)
16(2.3)
24(6.5)
20(5.6
30(5.8)
Po no! know
Total
240(6.1)
75(4.4)
31(3.8)
56(7.1)
78(11.9)
Men
52(2.7)
29(2.9)
5(1.1)
12(2.8)
6(4.0)
Women
188(9.6)
46(6.4)
26(6.9)
44(12.2)
72(13.8)
38

=== Page 655 === (confidence 0.99)
The majority favored the suspension of the general strike while
efforts were being made to increase the nation's output, this number
reaching 2,200 (56.0 %). Those who said that the strike was unavoid-
able numbered 1,076 27.4 %); those who were indifferent numbered
193 (49 % ; and those who said they did not know numbered 463
(11.7 %).
Those disapproving the strike were numerous among men of 51
and over (73.3 %) and women in the 20's (54.8 %). Among those
who thoug t the strike was unavoidable were men in the 30's and
women in the 20's (most numerous).
By occupations, as shown in Taile 14, enterprisers (78.5 %, free
workers (66.7 %), medium and smaller-class merchants and industrialists
(62.7 %), jobless (60.4 %), farmers (59.7 %), were in favor of stop-
ping the strike. Laborers (57.0%), school teachers and students (51.0%)
and public officiais (44.9 %) said that the strike could not be helped.
All of these figures show that Japanese public opinion shouted
"No!" to the use of the general strike by workers in public utilities
as means of attaining their economic objectives, although permitted
legally. Furthermore, public opinion put stress upon the need of
speeding up economic recovery, as one of the urgent tasks in post-war
Japan (although admitting that there were causes for strikes to break
out) and thus voiced its disapproval of the abortive general strike of
February 1, 1947. Finally, it placed the blame upon the labor unions
for leading the controversy into a general strike.
41

=== Page 656 === (confidence 0.98)
According to occupations, enterprisers (79.7 %), free workers
(69.0 %), farmers (63.9 %), school teachers and students (31.7 %),
laborers (33.3 %), expressed disapproval of the strike. Those approv-
ing the strike included school teachers and students (64.4 %), laborers
(58.1 %), and public officials (50.7 %).
(2 (3)
) What are your views on the general strike, especially now
when it is generally believed that increasing production is essential in
raising the living standard of the people?
Replies to this question were as follows:
Table
13.
51 and
Total
21-30
31-40
41-50
ov'er
Total
3,932(100)1,680,100)804,100: 793(100: 655(100)
Men
1,974100972100)432100435100
135100
Women
1,958 100 708 100 372 100 358 100 520.100)
Stop the strike tem-
porarily
Total
2,200 56.0) 952,56.7) 427(53.1) 462(58.3) 359(54.8)
Men
1,180 59.8 564 58.0, 243(56.3 274 63.0) 99 73.3)
Women
1,020(52.1) 388(54.8 184 49.5: 188 52.5) 260 50.0
I'navoidable
Total
1,076 27.4) 517(30.8) 260,32.3) 197(24.8) 102(15.6)
Men
602(30.5297 30.615435.6)12528.7
2619.3
Women
47424.2) 220(31.3) 106(28.5 72(20.1)
7614.6
Not interested
Total
193(4.9)
64 (3.8) 41 (5.1) 36 4.5)
52(7.9)
Men
73 (3.7)
50 (5.1
9 (2.1) 12 (2.8)
2(1.5)
Women
120(6.1)
14 (2.0) 32 8.6) 24 6.7) 50 9.6)
Do not know
Total
463(11.7) 1478.7)
76( 9.5) 9
98(12.4) 142(21.7)
Men
1196.0
616.3
26(6.0)
24(5.5)
8. 5.9)
Women
34417.6
8612.1
50(13.4)
74(20.7) 134.25.8)
40

=== Page 657 === (confidence 0.98)
V. Social Problems
On the Revised Civil Code.
The Mainichi Shimbun conducted a survey of public opinion on
the revisions effected in the Civil Code—abolition of the " house" and
the equality of the sexes. For this, 5,000 questionnaires were sent out,
distributed among all the prefectures in proportion to the population
statistics of the Cabinet. Those receiving the questionnaires consisted
of (a) ./en: salaried class 20 %, laborers 10 %, farmers 35 %, mer-
chants and industrialists 20 %, students 5%. and others 10%; (b)
H'omen: housewives 50 %. working women 30 %, students 5 %, and
others 15 %. In both sexes, the ratio of married to unmarried persons
was 50-50.
This survey was carried out during the period of a month begin-
ning January 8. 1947. In all, 4,757 replies were obtained (95.1 %).
Replies from unmarried persons, who are believed to be more progres-
sive, as well as the farmers and fishermen, regarded conservative in
thought, were less than expected.
1. Abolition of the "House"
Q (1) What do you think of the abolition of the " house " in the
revised Civil Code?
1
NB. The "house", according to the old Civil Code, consists of
members of a family controlled by the " head of the house" who ex-
43
2

=== Page 658 === (confidence 0.98)
Table 14. (Occupations)
Stop
Unavoid-
Not in-
No not
Occupations
Total
strike
able
terested
know
3.932
2,200
1,076
193
463
Total
(100)
155.9
(27.4
(4.9)
(11.8
1,962
1.172
348
121
321
Farmers
(100)
59.7
(17.7)
6.2
(16.4)
109
55
21
9
24
Fishermen
(100)
(50.5)
19.3
8.3
21.9
Medium & small mer-
391
245
96
16
34
chants & industrialists
(100)
62.7
24.6
4.1
8.6
79
62
13
+
Enterprisers
100
(78.5)
16.5
(5.0
384
126
219
12
27
Laborers
100
32.8)
57.0
3.1
(7.1)
366
181
159
12
14
Salaried people
(100)
(+9.5)
43.4
3.3
3.8
136
74
61
1
Officials
(100)
15+.41
44.9
0.7
104
47
53
4
Teachers & Students
100)
45.2
51.0
3.8
Free professional wor-
87
58
23
1
5
kers
(100)
66.7
26.4
1.1
5.8
127
67
33
8
19
Others
(100)
52.8
260
(6.3
14.9
187
113
50
13
11
Jobless
(100)
60.4
26.7
7.0
15.9
42

=== Page 659 === (confidence 0.99)
These figures show that students lead those favoring the abolition
of the "house" 78.2 %). followed by laborers 58.2 %), free workers
(58.3 %) etc. Those opposing the abolition included farmers, fishermen,
merchants and industrialists as shown above.
Opinion among the women on this subject was reflected as follows:
Favoring
Opposing
Do notko
Housewives.
.53.4 %
38.7 %
7.9 %
Working women.
.66.0
27.9
6.1
Students
.68.2
24.5
7.3
Others
.€6.4
28.7
4.9
Since working w men, students, and others do not form the central
groups in any " house," the majority favor such abolition, unlike the
housewives.
Reasons given by those favoring the abolition of the "house"
may be grouped as follows: (percentage worked out on 2,753 replies
favoring abolition).
1) The head of the "house" will no longer exercise absolute
rights over the questions of domicile, marriages, property transfers,
etc.....54.6 % (second in percentage).
2) The excessive responsibility hitherto imposed upon the head
of the " house" (obligation to support members of the " house") will
be removed.
3) All children will be able to share equally in the inheritance
of property (as against the old system whereby only the eldest got the
property upcn the father's death)......less than 40%.
45

=== Page 660 === (confidence 0.99)
ercise various legal rights, including those of designating the place of
residence, marriages, adoption of sons or daughters, entry or exit of
members of the house, etc. It is the legal unit in official family re-
gisters.
Replies to this question were as foliows:
Favoring abolition
.57.9 %
Opposed to abolition
.37.4 %
Do not know.
4.7%
100.0%
Percentages of approval or disapproval differ according to sexes,
v cupations or family status (married or single). By sexes the replies
were:
Men
H'omen
Favoring abolition
55.7 %
60.1 %
Opposed to abolition
41.9
33.1
Do not know.
2.4
6.8
By occupations, the following results were obtained:
Favoring
Opfosing
Do not know
Salaried workers...
.62.0 %
36.3%
1.7 %
Laborers
.58.7
33.8
7.5
Farmers & fishermen...
..43.3
54.6
2.1
Merchants & industrialists..53.3
44.8
1.9
Students
.78.2
21.8
0
Jobless.
.57.5
39.1
3.4
Free workers
.58.3
41.7
0
44

=== Page 661 === (confidence 0.98)
7) Even though a man or woman reaches maturity, he or she re
quires direction of the head of the " house" in matters relating to
marriage or living.....33.3 % (fourth).
It is to be noted that the strongest reason for disapproving the
abolition of the " house" consists in the desire to preserve the good!
practices or customs of the traditional house. Material considerations,
such as the scattering of the property.(farm land) occupy a lesser
position.
2. Equality jor Men and Women
Q (2) What is your opinión on the abolition of the inequality of
the sexes?
Favoring equality of sexes
..64.5 %
Opposing equality of sexes
.31.8%
Do not know..
3.7 %
100.0%
By sexes, the above replies were distributed as follows:
Men
Women
Favoring equality
.54.7 %
74.4 %
Opposing equality
.41.8 %
21.8%
3.5 %
4.0 %
Do not know..
100.0 %
100.0%
If grouped into married and unmarried peoples, the two sexes
reacted as follows:
47

=== Page 662 === (confidence 0.97)
4 Marriages of children (only daughters and widows, iuclud-
ed) can be decided by their own free will....less than 40 %.
5) Conceptions regarding family honors or family's social stand-
ing will be removed and national life will become more cheerful....
55.5 % (first in percentage).
It is interesting to note that reason 5) was listed by so many in
the replies favoring the abolition of the " house," while reason 1) oc-
cupied only second place.
Those opposed to the abolition of the "house," gave the follow-
ing reasons:
1) The good practices of tradition will be gone..64.2 % (firs:)
2) There will be no responsible person to support grand-parents
or parents....53.5 % (second).
3) There will be no one to carry on the festivals of the ancestors.
...36.1 % (third).
4
4) The eldest son, who is responsible for carrying on the festivals
of the ancestors, should receive a larger portion of the family property
than the other children.
5) Preservation of the ancestors' memories, family lineage, blood,
and family name will become impossible.
6) Farm lands and other property will be scattered.....10.5 %
(last in list).
46

=== Page 663 === (confidence 1.00)
husband) will be lost....46 3 %.
These reasons were given by about 50 % of the women.
3) It is wrong for a wife to seek divorce just because of the
husband's infidelity....8.5 %.
Detailed tabulations of these reasons are given below:
Table 15. (Reasons for Favoring and Opposing Sex Equality)
A). Favoring Sex Equality.
Men
Women
Mar-
Mar-
Single
Total
Single
Total
ried
ried
Total
912
401
1,313
962
792
1,754
a) Because wives can enjoy
equal social, legal rights
476
184
660
589
378
.967
and position as husbands
b) Because women can en-
joy equal social, legal
665
299
964
656
599
1,255
rights and position as
men
c) Because husbands will
be duty-bound to be
324
125
449
506
382
888
faithful
d) Because divorced wives
can receive compensa-
171
45
216
238
110
348
tion
e) Because wives, besides
children, can inherit pro-
342
82
424
332
154
486
perty
f) Because wives can dis-
pose of their property
127
36
163
226
85
311
without husbands' per-
mission
g) Others
55
33
88
36
29
65
49

=== Page 664 === (confidence 0.97)
A) Men
Married
Unmarried
Favoring equality
.52.7 %
60.1 %
Oppasing equality
.43.8 %
36.6 %
Do not know.
3.5 %
3.3 %
1 0.0 %
100.0%
668)
(1,731)
B) Women
Married
Unm arried
Favorin equality
.70.2 %
80.3 %
Opposing equality
.25.0%
16.8 %
Do not know..
4.8 %
2.9 %
100.0%
100.0 %
(987)
(1,371)
Reasons for favoring equality given by 3,067 persons may be
grouped into two:
1) Because wives will be able to have the same social and legal
rights and positions as their husbands.....72.0 %.
2) Because women will be able to enjoy the same social and legal
positions as the man.....53.1 %.
On the other hand, reasons for opposing equality advanced by
1,512 persons included:
1) It is still too early.....58.0 % (first).
2) The good custom (wife obeying the decisions advocated by
48

=== Page 665 === (confidence 0.98)
Mainichi's survey was carried out through direct personal contacts
or interviews with the people concerned. Three typical areas were
selected; first a block or district in one of Tokyo's 22 wards—Yamato-
cho, Nakano ward—considered to be the area where the percentage of
intellectual inhabitants is the highest (and consequently, the intensity
of political consciousness the deepest) ; second a town in the suburbs
of Tokyo—Ome; and third, a village in Yamanashi prefecture, Yuzuri-
hara village.
1) The Yamato-cho block has a population of about 10,000, com-
posed mostly of salaried classes and their families, who escaped war
devastations. One hundred couples received the questionnaires; the
educational level of these 100 men and women was as follows:
Husbands....
Graduates of secondary schools
.37%
11
" universities, colleges,
higher schools.
.48 %
Others
.15%
100%
Wives....
Graduates of secondary schools.
..63 %
11
 univ. coll. higher schools.
2%
Others
35%
100%
2) Ome town has a population of about 15,000, 80 % of whom
belong to the merchant class. This town was not damaged by the air
raids during the war. Interest in politics among the citizens of this
town was considered to be of medium degree.
51

=== Page 666 === (confidence 0.99)
B). Opposing Six Equrlity.
Men
Women
Mar-
Mar-
Singl
Total
Single
Total
ried
ried
Total
758
245 1,003
343
116
509
a) Lecause the good custom
(w.fe obeying husband's
356
84440
182
79
261
de isions) will be gone
b) Because men and women
331
86
397
133
42
175
are naturally unequal
c) Because it is wrong to
make husband's infideli-
51
18
69
40
19
59
ty reason for divorce
d) It is s ill too early
430
145
575
199
106
302
e) Because the disposition
of property should be
234
56
290
62
23
85
decided by men who
have better judgment
f) Others
25
15
40
8
3
11
g) Do not know
61
22
83
66
29
95
3. "Wife Obeys What Husband Advocates"
The Mainichi Shimbun conducted a survey to find out the degree
of political consciousness possessed by the Japanese women, particularly
the housewives. The revision of the Civil Code will definitely remove
legally one of the traditional virtues of Japanese womanhood, namely
that the wife should obey what the husband tells her. In spite of this
revision, will not this virtue remain for some time yet among the
Japanese women? The results of Mainichi's survey give the answer
to this query.
50
一

=== Page 667 === (confidence 0.94)
Hushunts
Avcrage
Yamate-cho..
7 %
9%
8%
Ome town
20%
3%
2.5 %
Yuzurihara village..
6 %
8%
7%
Average
5%
7 %
6%
Why was there such a sharp difference in the per entages between
the first and second replies? In the case of the first, answers were
demanded at once and those questioned had no time to ponder over.
In the case of the second, however, there was more t'me given for the
couples to " talk it over." Reusons for being unable to reply to Q 1),
in the case of women were:
Yamato-cho
Om
Y'uzurihara
Undecided yet .....
..19%
54%
25%
Don't know.
.21 %
11 %
55%
Will ask husband.
4%
9 %
7 %
Various others
56%
26%
12%
100%
100 %
100%
We shall take Yuzurihara village to illustrate to what degree the
" wife obeys what h'r husband advocates," by analizing the replies.
1) In 87 cases, the hu-band and wife supported the same party,
while in 13 cases, they differed in their supports. This means that in
87 cases, 'the wife simply followed the husband's suggestions.
2) There were 42 cases wherein the wife and husband supported
the same party on both the firs: and second days of the survey, show-
ing that the wife obeyed the husband throughout. In two cises,
however, the husband followed the wife's decision.
63

=== Page 668 === (confidence 0.98)
3) Yuzurihara village has a population of 3,800, 90 % of whom
are farmers and their families (with charcoal-making and lumbering
as avocations). Of the 10) couples chosen, only 4 men and 2 women
had gone through secondary schools.
The dates of the surveys were:
Yamato-cho (Nakano)
.April 3-6, 1947.
Ome town.
April 19 20, 1947.
Yuzurihara village.
April 10 13, 1947.
Two questions were asked of all these 300 couples. They were:
Q (1) Which party will you support in the coming election?
Q (2)
Which party do you think your husband (or wife) will
support?
The first question was asked by the interviewers on the spot and
replies were demanded at once (wives were questioned first), while the
replies to the second question were collected the following morning.
The results showed the following:
1) Those unable to answer the first question (t once
Husbands
H'ives
Av rage
Yamato-cho.
.14%
47%
31 %
Ome town
.19 %
54%
37%
Yuzurihara village
..30%
72%
51 %
Average .....
..21 %
58%
39%
2) Those unabie to reply to the second question
52

=== Page 669 === (confidence 0.97)
本に於ける世論の動向
者
立木康男
行者
日本太平洋問題調查會
定價 五十四.
東京都中央區銀座七ノ四日映購館
1948年5月20日印刷
印刷所文祥堂印刷株式會社
1948年5月25日發行
東京都中央區銀座三四
發賣元
國際出版株式會社
東京本社
東京都中央區日本橋本町四ノ四
電話茅場町(66) 3801. 5058
报替東京 20444
大阪本社 大阪市北區中之島朝日ビル
電話土佐堀(44)1836.3631
振替大阪 119391

=== Page 670 === (confidence 0.96)
3 Of the 42 cases mentione1 2) above, there was naturally no
cases wherein the husband followed the suggestion or decision of
the wife.
4) There were. 11 ases in which the motives were not char in
their replies to the f.rst and second questions.
Yarate he Ome Yusurih ra 'rerage
商
Wife Obeying Clear ...21
29
42
31
Hushal
Supporied..33
33
32
32
Total
51
62
63
iusran/ (bey- Clear.......2
5
2
3
ing Wife
Supported ..0
1
0
0
Total
2
6
2
3
Wife's Own Decision
39
27
13
26
Unknown
5
5
11
7
The foregoing three samples may be said to be representative of
the whole country. Similar results will probably be obtained if the
survey were expanded to cover the entire nation.
64

=== Page 671 === (confidence 0.98)
DC/R
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 362
Tokyo, June 17, 1948
ite
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Use of Department Only)
Subject: Observations Concerning Government, Democracy and Education,
894.00/6-1748
and Military Government in Kyushu.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 32l of
June 3, 1948 concerning observations on eccnomic matters in Kyushu and
to enclose a copy of an additional memorandum prepared by Foreign Service
Officer W. Henry Lawrence, Jr. regarding governmental, educational, and
Military Government matters observed during his recent orientation visit
to four prefectures in thet area. The information is useful as being
a cross section of both Americen and Japanese opinion.
As in the case of the pr vious memorandum, much of the material is
corroborotive in nature, but it brings into focus the besic need for
augmenting efforts at educating the Japanese people in democratic ways
and for continuing such endeavors over a long period of time. In addi-
tion, it emphasizes the need to divoree Military Government from its
tendeney to direct the detailed operation of Japanese affeirs if
Japanese leaders and peonle are to manage their own affeirs in consonance
with the aims of Allied policy when it is possible to discontinue the
Occupation.
In summerizstion the following are the high-lights of Mr. Lawrence's
findings:
Government
Education of tne public and of governnent orficials and workers
is needed if government is to function democratically. The public's
interest in political affairs is still dormant; government ofricials are
primarily interested in their own welfare rather than that of the governed.
Progress is hampered by the inefficieney of government workers and by the
duplication of central end local government offices. Despite efforts at
decentrelization
COIT IDE TLAL

=== Page 672 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's 362
June 17, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
decentralization, govrnmental activities continue to centerin Tokyo.
Many Japanese lea ers in local government and other walks of life who
were interviewed consider the Occupation as the real government of Japan,
whereas the general public, unfamiliar with the relationship between the
Occupation authorities and the Japanese government, apperently does not
share this view.
Democracy and Education
There anpeared to be a conviction on the part of Military Government
and Japanese leaders that the Occupation is trying to do too much too
quickly. The Japanese people do not comprehend what democracy means
despite the fect that they discuss it glibly and appear to be enthusiastic
about it. There is indication that progress is being made, however,
particularly among the younger people, as may be judged by the growing
success of such activities as thore of student government. The concensus
mong educators was that efforts should be concentrated upon these
individuals, but it is also believed that as much attention as possible
should be given to older groupsdespite the opinion of some officiels that
the chances of changing attitudes of the older groups are practically nil.
Educators were found to be deeply disturbed at the meager amount
of money appropriated for education. Notwithstanding the patent difficulties
experienced by the Japanese Government in balancing the budget, encouragement
should be given to the Japanese Covernment to increase appropriations for
education, or much of the effort of the Occupation to promote an under-
standing of democracy by the Japanese people will have been wasted.
Mr. Lawrence found a strong desire on the part of Japanese University
students and teachers to study abroud, although the difficulties of finding
the means to rinance this study causes real anxiety n concern. The
desire to study abroad is also shared by younger men in the financi al,
business, nd newspaper world.
There was widespread interest in the United States and a desire on
the part of many people interviewed to read books ane publications about
the United States; the dearth of such materiel was decried and hope
expressed that this situation will change. (The Civil Information and
Education Section of this Headguarters has recently announced a list of
l00 books available for publication.) A real need exists in Japan for
literature from abroad and ever effort should be made to increase the
publicetion of foreign books as ranidly as possible, notwithstanding the
high cost of translation rights and the severe paper shortage in Janan.
American movies are mostly praised, but some aspects thereof are
considered detrimental to the Japanese sense of moral and social propriety.
In this connection, there is noted in the men orandum a widespread tendency
on the part of many young Japanese people to belittle things Japanese,
including the finer aspects of Japanese culture, in their enthusiasm to
adopt anything of American origin.
Military
CONVIDENTIAL

=== Page 673 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's 362
June 17, 1948.
CONFIDENTLAL
-3-
Militery Government
Milit ry Government personnel were found to be varied in ability
and in length of time in Military Government, and to shift constantly.
Military Government teams have been encouraged by higher authority to
make living conditions as pleasent as possible. With disregard of
economics, higher suthority appears to take the attitude that "the only
reperations Americans will get from Japan will be the good living conditions
of members of the Occupation". There is apparently little recognition of
the fact that actually a sizeeble portion of the expenses of the Occupation
are being borne by the Americen taxpayer end thet the use of Japanese
materials and funds retards the recovery and rehabilitation of Japan. As
the Department is ewere, the expenses of the Occupation and the amounts of
indigencus materials used in support of the Occupation forces are both
great.
Hilitery Government was originally set up to "observe and report",
but in many respects has become an operating ageney. The chain of
command is through the tactical forces which often results in conflicting
orders. Military Government officials would prefer to be responsible
airectly to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
These officials feel that they can get the Japanese to do almost anything
Military Government wishes, and it seems clear that the Japenese tend
to weicome such direction.
Some Military Government officiels feel, however, that it is
unfortunate that so much direction is given to the Japanese people, because
it has retarded their initiative, advice of Iilitary Government being
considered tantamount to an order. If the Japanese people are to be
encouraged to handle their own affairs, we are of the opinion that the
tendeney on the part of Military Government officiels to direct everyday
details of Japanese affairs should be curbed and the Japanese weaned es
quickly as possible from suen ninute cirection in order to stimulate a
sense of responsibility, confidence, and ahility in Japanese officialdom
to menage their own affairs.
Respeetfully yours,
Wit. recace..
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
emoranuum dated June 17, 1946.
Original and ozelid to Department.
∴00
MHLawrence, Jr.:mby
COMPTLLTEAL

=== Page 674 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 362
dated June 17, 1948 from the Office
of the Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Observations
Concerning Government, Democracy and
Education, and Military Government in
Kyushu".
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Use of Department Only)
(COPY)
LEMORANDUM
June 17, 1948
Subject: Observations Concerning Government, Democracy and Education,
and Military Government in Kyushu Made as a Result of a Visit
to that Aree.
Government
It was found thut the policies of the ASHIDA cabinet are considered
ambiguous by Japanese local government officials in Kyushu. It is clear
that many Japanese leaders regard the Occupation as the real government
of Japan, a fact which was best expressed by a local newspaper editor
who said that at the present time it makes little difference which party
is in power since General Headguarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, runs the Japanese Government.
Comment: There is some doubt thnt the same opinion is
shared by the man-in-the-street. On a recent occasion,
Dr. TSuRU Shigeto, formerly Deputy Director General of the
Economic Stabilization Board, stated that the Japanese
people huve no means of knowing the real facts coneerning
the relationship between the Occupetion and the Jananese
Goverament. He contends that the Japanese Government gets
credit ror many thinps for which the Occupation is responsible.
This lack of knowledre on the part or the people is even
shared by some of tne Japanese leaders, beceuse, as Prince
Taktsu (brother of the mperer) puts it, so many things
tuke place between orficials of the Occupation and the Japanese
Government of whieh no rrord is made or published.
Local government officiuls feel tnat loeal government does not yet
have sufficient respect amrng the Japonese people to attract the number
or able men needed. There is alse laek of understanding as to the
responsibilities of the difrerent local cov-rning bodies, such as the
assembly and the governor, whieh will require education of both govern-
ment ofricials und the public. It appears that governmental aetivities
are still centered in Tekyo, so thant decentralization or government is a
goal rather than an uetuality.
Throughout Kyushu, Militury Gover ment ofricials claim a lack of
interest on the part of local politicians in the overall welfare of
their constituents and of Japan. There is omazingly little interest on
the part of furmers, barbers, and fishermen with respect to political
affairs. They coneider themselves unversed in governmental afraire, and
thererore believe that the government should be left to the experts,
meaning the politicians.
The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 675 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's 362
dated June 17, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
The higher government officials and businessmen are condemnatory
of government workers. The mayor of Fukuoka City, Mr. MIYOSHI Yaroku,
admitted that most of his people were inefficient. r. HARAGUCHI Tomiichi,
a director of the Sasebo Ship Industry Company, Ltd. stated that, in his
opinion, privete business could operate the governnent railroads effi-
ciently with one thirā of the present workers. Duplication of central
and local government offices was repeatedly mentioned by Military
Government personnel and Japanese leaders as wasteful.
Demccracy and Education
Doth among Lilitary Government officials and to an extent among
the nore frank of the Japanese leaders there is a conviction that the
Occupation is trying to do too much too fast. It was pointed out that
this is the first time in history th t a people have been given democracy
from the top and that many of the Japanese people do not understand what
the Occupation is trying to accomplish nor comprehend what democracy means.
Ar. TAlak. Johei, a Japanese newspaper publisher, said that many
Japanese consider the old "boss system" democratic, because the boss
does not take money for himeelf, but looks after the welfare of his
followers. Mr. Tanaka and other leaders declared that there is need for
a great deal of education before the Japanese people will understand
what democracy means both from the point of view of what it has to offer
and of what responsibilities it entsils. There is a tendency on the
pert of many Japanese to interpret democracy as the American way of
doing things and to interpret the American way as the material and
glamorous things which they see in American movies and magazines.
There is ind cation that progress is being mede, particularly among
young people. Military Government officials and Japanese leaders frequently
stressed that the youth of Jupan ure the ones upon whom to concentrate.
Educators in Militury Government b:lieve thut some progress can be made
with adults, but that the amount or erfort required will be much greater
than with the younger generation. With the letter, they feel thet
democratic ways are reasonably easy to implement. The suecess of such
activities as stuient government in sehools and partieipation of youth
groups in community aetivities are cluimed by educators to show that
young people cun do things in & democratic way. The need for further
education over a long periou cr time, however, educators are convinced
is obvicus.
Educators in Military Government and umong the Japanese maintain
that the amo nt of money appropriated for education is far too little.
There is need for runds for sehool huildings to make the new 6-3-3
school system a success as well as need tor funds for better salaries
for teachers and for educational supplies and materiels. Too much
reliance is placed on meeting expenses by obtaining contri itions fcom
parents or stuuents. Militery Government educators said that even the
present unsatisfactory state of education denends in large measure upon
these contributions--as mmuch as 50.s. The educators objeet to this way
of meeting expenses, stating that expenges should be met by taxes on all
the people pather than on those whose children are being educated at a
partieular time.
The

=== Page 676 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's 362
dated June 17, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
The universities have the same problem as the lower schools in
making ends meet and, in addition, have serious difficulty in providing
housing for students. At Kyushu University, most of the students work
part time in order to meet expenses and several hundred of them sleep
in class rooms, because there is insufficient housing available. Extension
of the college course to four years as planned under the Occupation is
like adding a third more students, so will augment difficulties of
university life. Veterans at Kyushu University have been found to be
extrerely serious students.
Most Japanesc University students end many teachers would like to
study abroau. The recent announcement by the Supreme Commander thet
some of them will be allowed to go abroad for study was enthusiastically
received and many inquiries made as tc how this might be done. The
desire to study abroad is not limited to students and teachers alone,
but is eagerly cesired by the younger men in the finaneial, business,
and newsp per world. Practically the only place mentioned where
individuals would like to study is Americe because they feel thet it
offers the only stable and secure place where one can carry on an academic
career.
Interest in America is not contined to coing there but tc knowing
everything ubout Americans. The dearth of books and publications con~
cerning the United States is decried und hope expressed that American
books might be publisned in Japan or translated into Japanese so thet
peo le might learn more about how things are cone in America. The desire
to know more about the United States and its people is both overwhelming
and encoure ing. Announcement of the openin: of a library in Fukuoka
City under the auspices of the Civil Information and Education Section
or General Headquarters was enthusiastically received. The news that
a technical section had been established in the library was especially
weleomed by aoctors and others who are starved for scientific information
published during the last ten yeare.
American movies were mostly praised but occasionally fear was
expressed that they might mislead the Jananese as to whet America is
like and that some things in the movies are detrimental to the Jananese
sense of moral and sociel propriety. It was claimed that movies give
the impression that there are a tremendous number or divorces in America.
Some Japanese people, even emong the young ones, think that young people
in Japan heve gone overboard for doing things the American way without
proper appreciution for the finer aspects of Jepanese culture and without
diseerning what is good anc bad in american culture.
Everywhere the Japanese leaders and peonle expressed their friendliness
toward Americans. Time and again individuals told of their experiences
nuring the early days of the Occupetion. Nr. KamAoFA Shigemi, Assistant
Editor of the Nagasaki Minyu Shimbun, Ltd., who had been a radioman on
a bomber during the war, said that he was convineed he would be killed
when the Americans came ashore. He stated, however, that United States
troops behaved so difrerently from expectations and were so kind he and
others felt a deep and lasting friendliness for ell Americens. A young
university
JON.ILE.TLAL

=== Page 677 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's 362
dated June 17, 1948.
CONFILENTIAL
-4-
university graduate, r. TAkUCHI Toshiro, expressed a similar reaction.
He explained that even though the Japanese people were aghast at the
use of the atomic bomb they did not hate the American people for having
used it against the Japanese. The explanation appeared to be the vivid
contrast between the horrible crimes Americans were expected to commit
when they came ashore and their friendly democratic behavior when they
arrived in person.
Military Government
No report on Kyushu would be complete without considerable mention
of Military Gov rnment. is is well known, there is a Military Government
team in each prefecture and a regional team for Kyushu. The personnel
c nsists of people of widely varying ability and interest, and length
of time in ilitary Government. Many of the officers are on temporary
cuty from the tacticel forces for special drives, such as fish and
vegetable control and collection of taxes. A sizable number of these
officers are fairly recent West Point graduates. In general, Military
Government ofricers and civiliens are enthusiastic about what they are
doing.
Many of the personnel in Military Government have had no experience
which particularly qualifies then for lilitary Government and have had
little or nc training for such duty. The enlisted men are mainly engaged
in housekeep  not only because of the ordinary needs of a teem, but
because of frequent inspections fron local tacticel commanders. The
enlisted men are held by many of t eir officers to be not very well-fitted
in most cases for the duties of Nilitary Government, because of their
youth, inexperience, and lack of training. LMilitary Government teams
nave exee Lient living conditions ene are making constant improvements in
their mode of living. They havye been encouraged to do this by higher
authority who appear to take the attitude that the only reparations
Americans will get from Japan vill be the rood living conditions of
members of the Occupation, inelunins ilitary Government, while in Javan.
There is constant shiftin: of personnel within Vilitary Government.
It is true that some of the orficers have been with Vilitary Government
since the beginning of the Occupation and that some officers have staved
on as civilians. in a number of cases tnese men are believed to be doing
outstanding jobs. Jananese officials express gratitutde for what Military
Government has been doing to eid them since the Occupation began in
procuring such things as allocations of coal and food.
Militury Government was originally set up to "obgerve and report"
but has found itself operating in many cases. Not only do members of
Hilitury Government feel that this is a prectical thing to do but they
receive orders from higher authority to do so. The chain of command which
is through the tactical forees often results in conflicting and confusing
orders. Military Government officials express the view that it would be
far better if Military Government were operated directly frcm General
Headguarters, Supreme Commender for the Allied Powers, as are the Civil
Intelligence Corps end the Civil intelligence Detachments.
ene

=== Page 678 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's 362
dated June 17, 1946.
CONTIDENTIAL
-5-
One Militery Covernment officer stated that the Japanese think he
is & lesser edition of Ceneral Macarthur and almost a god. This officer
and many others feel that they cen get the Japanese to do anything which
they ask. Since there is no doubt that the Japanese people have long
been accustcmed to being told wnat to do, they welcome having Military
Government continue the process. Some Military Governnent officials feel
that this is unfortunate beceuse it has led the Japanese to depend too
mueh upon Military Government. Rather than finding wsys of accomplishing
com-thing, they come to Military Government for advice. Once having
received the advice, the Japanese people consider it practicelly tanta-
mount to an oreer.
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
Second Secretary

=== Page 679 === (confidence 0.75)
RSTRICTLD
AItGital.
4523
Fe hoscow
Dalu: J me 18, 1948
DIot Jn ): June 19, 1948
Y
Tuse 25, 1948 12:13pa
3
asht o son
ACTIO SOR
59. Jrme 1
INFO
D0/R
Mhe cevtet crees bas peeeut y shenn on inereased
    eb e ruber
/
   Po
s dioe e
 the ncoopereon
C
to co ver:
89
bi he
Ps
 P ursic lee coreede teu or Pte fobmson
94.00/6
1
o tot rooo  te ubivteo of ohsor. lore al
   tuon per d to
preeose tbre ake en  oviet ey  o pr
t f   tobe t  le  ee to
8
yod
48
工
FILED
10
te C   e 
369

=== Page 680 === (confidence 0.92)
.
-2- A-592, June 1ε, 1948
Japan to the Ush after the war. as a result of
ne otiations between Lennan and Jraper, on the
one side, and Japanese Premier Ashida and a
representative of Japanese concerns, akashima,
on the otier side, a plan was evolved in accord-
ance with which Japan will be granted a loan
of 1,740,0.3,. 1n 194-1949.
"In order to achieve its ains, the nshida
Goverm ent plans to ban trade unions. Asnida
declared at a session of the Lower Jhamber on
 ay 24 that he insists on baming  the trade
union movement which is directly assuming the
forms of a political movement.
"Deeply hated by Japanese and merican reaction-
aries are such mass organizations of workers as, for
exumole, the Hational Congress of Production Trade
Unions, whicih numbers 1,70o,o nembers, und which
is under the leaders ip of progressive elements.
ot oniy the Japanese but also the occupation
authorities nave ade repeated slanderous attacks
apainst this progressive trade union association.
In  ay. Johen arold, Jepartment of Labor repre-
sentative on acarthur's staff, uven called upon
the workers never to clect Comaunists to trede
union positions.
"Tne Jananese workere, nowever, pay litolc
attantion to the advice of do estic und foreign
reacticunries, and are continuing to show co plete
confidence in the Communists. The attacks of
Japanese and serican auunorities, like phe treasonous
pelicy of the ight  ing soclalists, who are tryin
to split the mntional ongress of roductlon frade
Unione, canmo defleet ios leaders from the right
course
"Aln tass apuin confirms tne i uoable truth.
shat in apan, as throu hout the whole world, the
forces of the demoerabie comp, despite the offens.n
of veaction ere stoudily pe ing and becoming
"a tecord for servllity." Red etar, June 12 194
 Lut donnston has cound a conpetitor vho
went evon farther taan the sreedy busineseman in
his proposals regarding 'recoustructlon' of Japan's
economy
It is hignly charaeverisuie that the
author ot the so-ealled wak, shina Plan,' a report
on hicn appearon on she yoth pey in thé peges of the

=== Page 681 === (confidence 0.66)
-3 -592, J 16, 19
mbire i ot n meric sut.
  o o tue foror ur po  nisou
of  kshimey ho pov occupt s phe pest
 ef te  on for rade.
 h 
Peposes to
s
de
11
t
1
1

=== Page 682 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
OFFICE OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE: June 18,
1948.
SUBJECT:
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Kensuke Horinouchi,
894.00/6-1848
Former Japanese Ambassador to the United States
Mr. Butterworth, FE
Mr. Benninghoff, FE
COPIES TO: NA
DRF
Mr. Hamilton
Mr. Young
OPO
1-1493
Mr. Horinouchi called at his own request to pay his re-
spects. For the most part the conversation was general.
With regard to his own position, Mr. Horinouchi said
that he was attached to the Foreign Office in the capacity of
instructor to officers who would eventually go abroad in the
Japanese foreign service. He said that the students include
both former junior members of the Foreign Office as well as
new appointees recently graduated from the university. He
said that in his instructions his chief purpose was to con-
vey to the students the necessity for concentrating on demo-
cratic processes. Jepanese officers are being trained on an
area or language basis.
He did not have much to say about the operations of GHQ.
However, he did volunteer the information that early in the
occupation meny Japenese newspapers turned to the left, pro-
bably at the instance of "junior officers" in GHQ who thom-
selves had leftist tendencies. He seid that this unfortunate
trend of the press had stopped and that the pendulum had
swung far to the right, perhaps too far.
With
111

=== Page 683 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
With regard to the Japanese people, Mr. Horinouchi
stated that the apathy which was so noticeable immediately
after the end of the war has been replaced to some degree by
a feeling of hope. Thie has been brought about, he said, by
such recent developments as the beginnings of foreign trade
and the possibility of American financial aid. On the other
hand, he was worried and anxious about the low state of
morality among the Japanese people. As an example, he said
that, although before the war if a person left a pocketbook
in a streetoar it would be returned, such was unhappily not
the case at present.
FE:HMBenninghoff:hst

=== Page 684 === (confidence 0.91)
Form DS-302
(7-2-40)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECCRDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
20X
RESTRICTED
At EUR
T:fo.
Control 9418
S8
Ree d June 26, 945
2120 0.8.
PROE
894.00/6-2648
J0L8-1948
FILED
1948
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST DE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 685 === (confidence 0.89)
UMA
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DIVISION OF
NORTHEASTASIAN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
OFPANTMENT OF STATE
1885
FROM:
UPOL.), Tokyo
Dated:
July 9, 1942
Jate of Hailin:July 10, 194
Recd: July 14, 3:26 p.11.
2
A
ACTION FE SeorcturY f State
INFO:
ashingtou.
DC/R
EUR/X
A-M3. July 9, 1948
EUR
t appedatey 10: 0 pm on July  1 no doichi, 
OCD
To ate. Sanso wao kirled in Tokyo. preouaabty y a hit-and-run ri o.
894.00/7-948
CIA
DS
The investaecan. sercies of leneral Headomarters, sear, have been ma
FC
to aseertain the cireumstanees surrounding onis ireident and it ve no
pocsible clue as to the jdentity of the driver of the car.
as the pepartment is aware tbsakn sanze is one of the cheef lov
of the Japan Commmint Party. He has velcea diseavisfaction vath th:
manmer in vhich vhe Japanese police muthoraties are conduetine the
invest igatien of this ineident, has stated that me will reguest the
14
Provost flarohal or Tokyo to conduet an invest i ation, and hts Phreatss x
in the even' that the hatter inveetigation sleuld to ineonelusive a
place the mabter into the hande or the Sovier tember, alliee Soun i t t
Japan for uppropriate aetion.
Phe dormrtaent wail e wovaset a ste posstbte event that 
inotdene shoutd  ive ptme to turt or irrsomltiom
SBALD
12.3
duebalaos
GORPID IPLAL
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—-This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
