894.24 Japan, Equipment And Supplies., March 14, 1938 - October 31, 1938 (File 1052), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.24-1052-2   Pages: 680   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.24-japan-equipment-and-8/894.24%20Japan%2C%20Equipment%20And%20Supplies.%2C%20March%2014%2C%201938%20-%20October%2031%2C%201938%201052-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
augusc 16 1938.
In reply zefer to
GA és.s ouwer, Jasob 0.
My dear Mr. rouwer:
By referenee from the White House I acknowledge
the receipt of your lotter of July 9, l93s, contaiming
the signatures of a number of members of your Chureh
in regard to the export of war materials to Japan.
There is tranamitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending
the Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will
observe that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution pre-
894.
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two er mere fereign
24/306
countries he shall proolaim sueh fact. should the presi-
dent issue a proelamation finding that a ssate of war
exists between Chine and Japan the export of axms, ammuni-
tion and implements of war to both these countries would
immediately
G
The Reverend
Jaceb G, mouwer,
Trinity Refermed Church,
Grange Gity, Iems.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
immediately be prohibited by the terme ef the Boutral-
ity Aot. In the absence of sueh a proolamation, however,
there exists no legal authority for preventing the ex-
port of arms either to both those countries or to Japam
alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint
Resolution of mmy 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out
of war. The question as to whether and when the pro-
visions of the Resolution shall be invoked is properly
left to the sound disoretion of the president. In
deciding whether he should invoke the Resolution in a
partioular si tuation the President must take into aocount
various factors and partioularly the broad general inter-
este of this country and its nationals. In the present
situation in the Far East the President has conoluded
that in the light of all the fasts and eiroumstances, when
weighed from a praotical point of view, it would not be
to the best intereste of this country and our peeple as a
whole to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolutiom.
You mmy be interested in learning that sinee July 1,
1937, the Department ef state has 1ssued lieenses for
the expert ef asms, ammunitien and implements ef war to
Chime in the value ef $14,165,180.98, and te Japan in the
va10

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
value of $10,450,757.93.
Sincerely yours,
for the seoretary of state:
Edgar P. Allen, Aoting Ohief,
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosure:
Joint Resolution.
and
d origi-
news

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
Siluer Bay. New York
on Lake George
RECEIVED
=T.July 20,1938
Honorable Franklin D.Roosevelt
Pregadent ofpithe Upited
States of America,
The White House
Washington, D.C.
N
Mr.PresidentRDS
Enclosed herewith is a
petition which is the result of a
number of meetings and conferences
that gathered at Silver Bay on Lake
George,N.Y. this Summer. You will
note that it is signed by two hundred
and sixty three American citizens
who take this means to respect-
fully request your thoughtful con-
sideration and appropriate action.
Sincerely and respectfully,
P.L.Gillett
rresident of the
"Friends of China at
Silver Bay".
Divieica 
17 1938.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIKS
AI
Uepartmenn oi State

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.90)
PETITION ON THE JAPANESE INVASION OF CHINA
(To be submitted to the President of the United States by the Friends of China at
Silver Bay, New York)
WHEREAS. The United States of America and many other nations have indicted
Japan as the aggressor nation and the violator of the Nine-Power Treaty and
the Kellog Pact, in the present Sino-apanese conflict, fomented by the Mi-
litary Party of that country, and has repeatedly protested against the bomb-
ings of undefended Chinese cities and the unnecessary slaughter of Chinese
non-combatants, and
894.24/307
WHEREAS, American raw materials are being used to manufacture Japanese guns,
tanks, armored cars, flame-throwers and other weapons of war, American bomb-
ing planes are being used to carry American-made bombs for the destruction
of Chinese civilian populationand American shells are loading the Japanese
guns, and
WHEREAS, we feel put to shame at the undoubted fact that America is supplying
to Japan huge quantities of sorap-iron, oil, and trucks and other materials
used in the furtherance of the war, over and above the amounts of our normal
trade of recent years, and
WHEREAS, we sympathize wi th the Chinese people in their desire to build up
an independent, democratic state, an end gravely threatened by the present
aggression of Japan, and
WHEREAS, all good Americans deplore the traffic which makes it possible for
certain American interests to profit from the wanton destruction of the inno-
C
cent victims of Japanese aggression,
THEREFORE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the President of the
United States, in accordance with the prinoiple of his Good Neighbor enun-
ciation, and in the interest of the people of China and Japan, to take eve-
ry practicable means, direct and indirect, to bring to an end atraffic from
our country which is compelling us to be a partner in the destruction of the
Chinase people.
P.n. Gillett
WarconIUl. Broum
Elizabecth E Mulliatir.
arkes os forschlels
Op e speerser.
iMewto Hayes
Constance M. idner
Mary Ross Hall
Ena M. Sthe re?
Ornh R. Magill
Jied R. Berlind
Edwin E. Aubore
CucheJdtean
gw.ml.
VPBov
TmdR. Baulhy
Berthi Sillett

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.77)
EdwaraF. Daffy.
T. Holde
ae h Celeuwrad
Nonmen Holbowr Run Hudoon
Elgiben m. Raybern JohuaR
Ogette Manuell
Richard f. Forole
Poman
Ere Barmer
Many F. Cm
Eojned
Badain Waillu
Phea Hudeon
Daril Dungess
. W Huntington
culoee
wn 
A. Relit Barnel
Rohurh. he
Rna Pulnam
Paul m. Willeox
alboot L Scoson
desliaTompie
RoeSrasou
9 k wet Denmis
L. Rtee
Bathrrin .t-
Julin grulf
Esthert Babe
Fuduk J. Phiffin.
Jean Miller
Middie 7W. Lualow.
Prederieh f tiffin or
Siclen La
Mayme g Korr
Pobert B. Marr Hue B. heng
Hice R. Cansthers
ClijabesBasber
Camme Edwards
Cnicie th. TRymer
Jro. V.Aania
Betty Putram
Jrm Canolfiso
muril A. Bigaw
Tastg, Camperere
Clipabith Lackey
A..becker
Waim R Cocbre
Hi
Donald W. Wanfield
Johm Cledred
Somiller
Drane V. Ramsey
GiHansy
J. SlewartBurgers
Willian E. danTher
aljee C Hayed
, oncowle
Laal P. 
Soseph E. 13)ot
RReynwes.
F Juemby Nicholas
Barbara Mooe
Dm.tipsmh
Dmothea N. Watton
Amta Rivuy
Franbt
Dan-K. Walton
Ruth X. Waters
Yorman P. Budan
Aippe?
o.Jeyl
Doidthy E. Bartedt
C. c2hirk
R.h. Rayburn

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.78)
ak Z. Jitus
Heorge H. Boadley.
LousseRoberts
lina Sickne Keuberry
Synden Gage ls.
Marcca tily
Lois Davis Stenenok
ultanitte Klung
Dillion Weatherwaf
Tomaturranlt
WstBace
John Zhoyd
Serry Beardsley
WilliamMastu
Ber. St. C.Vannix
Lany Mullegath
Walter Bearson
Tara m. louioter
Harding Bergwall Ned Curan
Yorm an at. Kendell.
John 1. Paulsen
Bokert BLong
Doun Lawnw
Varonica Marra
dane Zafka
Connie Taylor
A onald lackha
Thas.R.towson
Muriel Salylor
Vimin MaeRaughn
Fluaol Aolghi Bitary Barter
John C. Snhach, Y.
Benneth Jrssault
Chariaf Bainea
Manthe e. Tpamary
Frepi r. 1 3utmon
Beter aky
Aufvia 16. Fruller
Harsed Shaahure
Kienart pt
Dred Warlngo
alll
Tertuls D. Norton
Barbara ackaon
Marjans Buahans
Easseuso
NouoldialBuchonon
Edrch cssan it
Licharal Hurliurt
Bettly Bell
Oayca Toats
L. Spalinae
mady Sloype Cady
Julia Paulus
Miriam Boyd Parbin
Daphne gacheon
M. is Ww E. Gerverr.
Frae Rovullard
M. hugitia Warren
)helen Bluchert
Sarah hi Springmeyer
Catherine. Hausler
Betty Pappin
sE
madlyn Munt
Charhes Co
Alice h. Berle
ad
harian Berly
Shone Munay
Hath Pppi
Aohest6Berls.
A manya. Poiter
Elanor French

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.85)
be atmitted to the resident of the nited tates the riendu f hine at
11ver ny.o Yorl)
 As. The nited :taten os Aerice and many uther mmtioro la e indictel
Japan a the ggressor m tio and the violater the ine wer Preaty and
the Rollog Paot, i the present  ino Japanese o flict, fomented b the i
litary arty of that country. and hms opoatedly protes o. apaine he bon
inge of undefended hinese citios d the meoeusary aleupiter  hinese
non combatants, and
 , mrin  aterial aro oir ueo to raruacture Jepanene uns.
tanke. armored care, Metrowers me ther weerone f war, rerican 
ing planes are being used t carry Arerican-rade boni a for the lcctruction
of Chineee civilian  opulati nand Arorican a olls are loadin te Japar oso
mune, and
Le we foe? put to eae at the doubteu fact that werio io upplying
to Japen hure quantities of sorariron, 1, nd trooxe d other ateriale
used in the furthoranoe o he vr, over ad ahove the an unte f our normal
tade of reoent year and
at, we yyatize with the hinose people in oir cosire to build up
an independent, demooratic state, an ens r vely threatenel y tie present
argression of Japan. and
il At, all good moricane deplore the traffie which makoe it xousible for
certain Ameriean intereste to pre it fro the wanto Jestruot on f the imo
cent viotims of Japanese agression.
T a F E  the wederoimed reepectfully pet tlen the resident of the
Unit states, in aoourdence with the prinoiple f is ood alghbor enuv
ciatlon, and in the intereet o! the people of hine and Japan, to take ove
ry preetiemble means, diroet akd indireet, to brinyr to an and atm ffic from
our coumtry w:ioh is compellin ue to  e è partnor in the destruotion of the
Chinese people.
Puth Stuy
Sally depte
Ruch Blateslee
Kloria Loreng
Amagary m:e
Elizareil Marah
JohnJayh
Dale Reit

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.77)
IM soet , Broklyn 21 4
Araham Ho dgoS, W essom, Mannit
Nur. miny
Lois a. Johnan - Philadelphia, Cenna.
raety ttime - aebany 4.4.
marion Jorbal albany Hus forft
JJrimby Nicholas- Jranton, M.
Robeut D. callen. Maplewood, n.A.
Philip B.Woodroofe Albany, N.Y.
Ruih c. Blabre Baeos led.
Buth Herning.-White Planic, D.y.
EvelyS. Vie, Pl, P.
Shyld m. Edverde Ipring file, Ohid
leann deng- Youhers, N.y.
Margaret Relery - White Plains, N.Y.
a.t. Van Ess - Bawralh. I raq.
Edwin I. I horpe, fr - Pirryspolis, ta.
Anme BroSos- Rew Rochell, New Yath
Panl B.Arusd Obirlin, Ohn.
Engon a. n hite, Whiteator, N.S.
Tange R. Cadman - Greasantrille, N. Y.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.81)
Aliday - Jitetrbirg; m assachuretts
Meridian, missisig
marquart-mieton Jet W
nat Danms. Meadville, Pa.
it Nills - Wellesley, Mass.
Wice L. Watton
Barbara anue Yells Thens ralk, n.y.
Haris Flath, Greenshury, Ga.
Anowlton Brown. Wellestay, 1ll,asa.
Ann Hemenway, heonia, new berses
Noward Roden, youtere, nuw Youk.
Bruty Nitales
P, m.
"Lo0 Rildlr
Mn. y. C.
EnmaRrelaMard
hrlin Ulis
Margaret George
Altoona, Ponn'a.
Edi W M
Ofeglin, Ohio
Robart B. Miller
Danvers Maes.
2 Roy w.Tiet IHs
Baltinion, hid.
Jack Jergia
kew york City
Telhanor Whipp
New Gork City
Yois Kerr
Staten doland, n.y.
Noman& Duggan
Newell
White plais, my.
futh tranklin
Kenneth reigler
Honneth B oulay jo. Flushing
N.Y.
Ablcrl in
Hem peleadd, U. y.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.78)
Halliday
ite
PrasblaHard
Welen Addph
Ruith muride
Tounng

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.77)
Cairo, Egyst.
wth
Radio City N.Y.
Terzidu
neen yo hi4
eet Tergian
weean y' Cartuing
Roy Ranbarb
O berlem, Ofio.
Willions E. Cadg
-tusrd
ullntter

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.91)
8
aaguet 17 1938.
394.24/307
17 1950
My dear ur. Gillett:
By reference from the White House I aeknowledge
the receipt of your letter of July 20, 19ss, enelosing
a petition signed by 363 persons in regard to the export
of war and other materials to Japan.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Reselutien of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Jeint Roselutiom approved August 31, 1935. You will ob-
serve that seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution pro-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two er more foreign
countries he shall preelaim sush fact. hould the
president issue a preelammtion finding thst a stateef war
exists between Chime aad Japan the expert of arms, ammuni-
tien and implements of war te beth thess countzries would
immodiately
. P. L. Gillett, president of the
ysiende of hine at silver ms
salves may. now tork,
Lae Gge.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
immediately be prohibited by the terms of the Neutrality
Aot. In the absenoe of such a proolammtion, however,
there exists no legal authority for preventing the expert
of arms either to both those countries or to Japan alone.
The Joint Resolution, furthermore, does not under
any oiroumstances authorise the president or the Seoretary
of state to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artioles and
mmterials whioh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are enumerated in the president's
Proelammation of May 1, 1937, whioh is set forth under
Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Intermational
Iaff1e 1n Am2.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, is to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the sound
diseretion of the President. In deciding whether he should
lnveke the Reselution in a partieular situation the Presi-
dent mmst take inte account various facters and partieularly
the bread general interests of this country and its
matienals. In the present situation in the Far East the
prosidemt has ceneluded that in the light of all the faets
and eireumstanees, when weighed frem a prastieal peint ef
2

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.88)
view, it would not be to the best interests of this
sountry and our people as a mhele to invoke the pro-
visiens of this Jeint Reselation.
You may be interested in learning that since July 1,
1989, the Department of State has issued lioenses for the
expert of arms, ammunitien, and implements of war to Chime
1n the value of $14,165,130.98, and to Japan in the value
$10,450.757.93.
You doubtless have notleed the account given in the
press of the statements made by the Sesretary of State at
his press eonference en June 1l in which the Seeretary
said with reference to the bombing of civilian populations
and the prebable danger to Americans and Ameriean inter-
ests abreed, that he had issued repeated publie statements een-
demming the bombing of eivilian populations, that he intended
to maintaim this position and te may to everyone that this
Gevermment eendemas the bombing of eivilian pepulatiens er
Its material emeouragement, and that he says this abreed and
says it at heme te the Ameriean people and especially to
JUG
the masufacturers ef bembing planes.
2
nody
Süneerely yeurs,
Sharles W. Sost, Aeting Chies
Office of Arme and manitiens Gontrel
nelesures!
1. Joámt Reselution.
A trye copy of
5'
thaaigned arigt
.
FE pow
8/15

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.93)
SA
THE AMERICAN SECTION OF THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
Missionary Mediral College for Women, Vellore, Inr.
BRITISH
MRS. DEWITT KNOX, PRESIDENT
AMERICAN AND CANADIAN
AND BOCITIS CO-QPERÁTÍNO
BOARDS AND SOCIBTIBS CO-OPERATING
MISSIONARY SOCINTY
SECRETARY
AMBRICAN BOARD OP COMMISSIONMS POR
FORBIGN MISSIONS
 OF ENGLAND, ZBNANA MIBSIONARY
NEW YORK. N. Y.
WOMAN'S AMERICAN BAPTIST
BOCIETY
FORIGN MISSION SOCIBTY
NITED FREE CHURCH OF COAND
WOMAN'S FOREIGN MISSIONARY SOCIBTY
WOMEN'S FORIGN MTSTON
METHODIT EPISCOPAL CHURCH
WEBLDYAN METHODIST MISSIONARY SOCINTY
WOMAN'S BOARD OF FORBIGN MISSIONS
MI M. K. S, Sety
2 EATON GAt, LONDON, B. W. I.
WOMBN'S AUXILIABY
MARMION WAY, ROCKPORT, MASS.
TREASURER AMERICAN SECTION
MIBS HILDA L. OLSON
CANADIAN BAPTIST FORBIGN
WOMEN'S MISSIONARY SOCIBTY
MISSION BOARD
REPORMBD CHURCH IN AMBRICA
UNItED LUTHRAN CHURCH IN AMBBIcA
TEL. ROCKPORT 672
WOMAN'S MISBIONARY BOCIBTY
UGUBTANA
August 17, 1938
89424
Honorable Cordell Hull
gus 26 1988.
Seoretary of State
Washington, D. C.
alh d-25-38
My dear Secretary Hull:
I have been urged to send postoards protesting the failure 'of our
Government to prevent suppifes going to Japan for the murder of
Chinese. Ne are blood guilty in every bombing and oruel attack for
we could, through our President, put an embargo on shipments of sorap
iron and oil to Japan.
894.24/308
Why does he fail the people of this country at this time when he has
baan given power? What is the use of sending out these littae notes
from your office on 'World Peace' when we as a Nation are guilty before
God and the world of encouraging Japan inher terrible wickedness.
Personally, I have believed in you but I am disappointed that you do
not take more definite action and secure action from the President who
is failing the people in this great issue. This, even more than his
strange political performances in Kentucky and Georgia, will alXianate
the people against him and his administration. Can you do nothing in
your department or are you under his dictatorship?
Very cordially yours
0
L.W.P.
G
Mrs. Henry W. Peabody
Division of
LWP/EW
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
V
AUG 25 1938
FILED
Departmest of Stade
1
u

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
august 26 1938.
My dear Mrs. Peabody:
The reeeipt is aaknowledged of your letter of August 17,
1038, in regard to the export of war and other materials to
Jopan.
There 1s transmitted herewith a opy of the Joint Reso-
lution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, mending the Joint
Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will obeerve that
89
Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides that whenever
the President shall find that there exists a state of war
2
4
between or among two or more foreign states he shall proelaim
33
smeh faet. should the President issue a proelamation find-
508
1ng that a state of war exists between Ohina and Japan the
expert of arms, ammunition and implements of war to both
those countries would immediately be prohibited by the
terms of the Neutrality Aet. In the absenee of smeh a
prealmmation, however, there exists no legal authority for
preventing the export of arms either to both those ceuntries
or to Japan alene.
F/HR
tor women.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
The Joint Resolution furthermore does not under any
eiroumstanees authorize the President or the Searetary of
state to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammmmition and implements of war. The artioles and materials
whioh are considered to be arms, ammunition and implements of
war are emmerated in the President's Proelamation of May 1,
1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part II of the enalosed eopy
of the pamphlet, International Traffle in Arme.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lut1on of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound discretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
stion the President must take into aocount various faotors
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far East, the President has ooneluded that, in the light of
all the facts and ciroumstanees, when weighed from a practieal
peint of view, it would not be to the best interests of this
eountry and our people as a whole to imveke the provisions of
this Joint Resolution.
You may be 1nterested to kmow that sinee July 1, 1987,
the Department of state has issued lieenses for the export
8

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
valme of $13,791,s8s.18 and to Japan in the value ef
$10,581,006.95.
fou doubtless have notised the aecount given in the
press of statements made by the Beeretary of State at his
press conference on June 1l, in which the Beeretary said,
vith referenee to the bombing of oivillan populations and
the probable danger to Amerieans and Ameriean interests
abroad, that he had issued repeated publio statements
condemning the bombing of clvilian populations, that he
intended to maintain this position and to say to every-
one that this Government condemns the bombing of civilian
populations or its material enoouragement, and that he
says this abroad and says it at home to the Ameriean people
and especially to the manufacturers of bombing planes.
Sineerely yours,
Gmarles W. Yost, Leting Gaief
Offiee of Arme and Mmitions Gontrel
Bmslesures:
CR
Joint neselution.
AUG 25 1938.PM
panphles.
A true. cony of
Ant
the sigled origi
nal.
2m

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.93)
CHARGE SLIP
894.24
File No.
ENCLOSURE
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
Remares
309
TS-Barlims
1-22-44
CFⅡ

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
WELLESLEYOMAACHDET
PICEIVED
TAT
AU6
DEPARTMENT OF
BIBLICAL HISTORY
894.24
As From Round Bond, Maine
18
August
1938
Honorable Cordell Hull,
Division of
Washington,
FAR EASTEHN AFFAINS
D.C.
My dear Sir:
We have read, with great interest, your seven
point programme, released yesterday: also the PMES com
ment on the same. These are noble words, with which we
entirely sympathize and which cannot be iterated too
894.24/310
often.
However, we have grown weary of fair words  from
our government, especially as regards "war", "peace" "dis-
armament".
It 1s well known in China and it is beginning
to be realized here that the brutal and aggressive war being
carried on today in the east is being carried on by the
United States: that 52.7%of the sinews of that war were in
May and June supplied by the United States: that a large pro-
portion of that 52.7 percentage could not have been got from
any other source: that if these services were withdrawn
the war would have to stop.
In the face of these facts, your words, noble as
they are, meem evasive and futile. Is our government in
Washington entirely controlled by non-moral profiteers,
who are willing to wage this war for profit. Hardly anything
that has happened in this country in recent decades seems
to some of us more despicable that the present policy of
"Sell to Japan cotton, scrap iron, oil, and copper just a
long as she can pay".
A cable from Mme. Chang-ka1-Shek
(Wellesley 1917) says: "If your government ceases to supply
to Japan scrap iron, this diabolical aggression which 1s
ruining my country and my bravepeople will have to stop."
We shall have to face, in the U.S., before many
decades, the "back wash" of the iatense hatred that our pro-
gramme is creating in China. The oriental will bury the bone
but he has a disconcerting way of marking the spot.
F/A
What can be done?
Bancorelydesl Thrupdoy
(Seal Thompson , Professor,
Wellesley College)

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
1.
COPIES OF THIS PAMPHLET MAY BE SECURED ON APPLICATION
dress Communications to E. H. Lockwood, Secretary, I98, The Bund, Canton. 廣州青年號外 No. VIII.
CANTON COMMITTEE FOR JUSTICE TO CHINA
廣州外僑對華正義
This Bulletin is prepared by Rev. G. Baker, Church Missionary Society,
Canton, China.
June 25, 1938.
THE BOMBING OF CANTON.
The appalling destruction and loss of life from the
real war situation. We are, therefore, including in this
bombing of Canton has already been published to the
number impressions rather than statistics of the bombing,
world. We who are foreigners in this city can hardly
because we believe it is vital that public opinion
realise the depth of the tragedy; and feel very conscious
throughout the world should not let itself accept the fear-
that even the little practical help and sympathy we can
ful statistics of war, as though they were of a natural
give is almost nothing compared to the extent of the
calamity; but should decide quickly that this organized
and barbarous slaughter of civilians must 
suffering. Facts and figure alone convey little of the
WAS THE BOMBING INDISCRIMINATE?
A certain amount of confusion exists on this sub-
not go through this station, but round by a loop-
ject. We suggest that the answer is threefold.
line which cuts out Canton altogether.
1. (a) No one denies that there are certain military
(b) Essential services of Water and Electric
posts and barracks in Canton. But the mere pre
Light. This in itself is an attack on the health
sence of soldiers constitutes no defence against
and well-being of every non-combatant.
air-attack. Moreover hardly any of these have
been hit, and from the military point of view, is
(c) Government Offices, and residences of Civil
the killing of a few soldiers worth the expense of
Government officials, again showing this to be a
the hundreds of bombs rained on this city?
deliberate effort to paralyse the social life of the
civilian and not the military population.
(b) No anti-aircraft guns were put up in the city
until after it had been raided. It is therefore
(d) Cultural institutions, and National Monu-
misleading to describe Canton as heavily fortified.
ments, such as the Sun Yat Sen Memorial Hall,
(c) Can we in any case justify attacks on military
and the National Sun Yat Sen University.
objectives in such a densely populated place as
Canton, where it can be shown that far more
3.
A great many other bombs have been dropped in
civilians than military have been killed?
almost every section of the city, for which we can
see no reason at all. These must therefore be
2.
There have been other objectives aimed at by the
described as purely indiscriminate acts of terrorism.
Japanese:
Finally it is important to add that the Japanese
marksmanship has been very inaccurate, so that
(a) Wong Sha Railway Station, terminus of the
the effects have been those of indiscriminate
Canton-Hankow Rly. It should be noted that
bombing even in those cases where the intention
war-materials from Hong Kong to Hankow do
was not so.
THE FIVE POINT OBJECTIVE OF THE CANTON COMMITTEE FOR JUSTICE TO CHINA
1. United Action between the United States and Great Britain in the present Sino-Japanese Crisis.
2. Economic Boycott of Japan by Western Powers.
3. Aid to China in the purchase and transportation of means of defense.
4. Positive Action upholding China's sovereignty by Western Powers.
5. Contributions for relief work for those who suffer from Japanese atrocities not only in Canton but in
all parts of China. They should be sent to the Committee Headquarters, 198, The Bund, Canton.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.94)
September 2 1938.
My dear Whes Thompson:
The reseipt 1s acknowleaged of your letter of August 18,
1988, with regard to the situation now obtaining in the Far
East.
There is tranemitted herewith a copy of the Joint Hese-
89
. lution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the Jolnt
4
Rosolution appreved August 31, 193s. You wil1 ebserve that
2
4/310
ssstien 1 (a) of this Jeint Resolution provides that when-
ever the President shall find that there exists a state ef
wor between or among twe er more fereign states he shall pre-
aaim sueh fast. mould the President 1ssue a preslamatson
fänding that a state of war exists between Caine and dapen
the expert of ares, ammunition ane implemests of mar te bete
shese sountries would immediately be prehibited y the terme
of the Meutrellty Aet. In the abeenee of sush a preelme
sten, hevever, shere exists no legal mtherity fer preventing
A

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.96)
the export of arms either to beth those countries or to
Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Jeint Rese-
1ution of May 1, l9s7, is to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Jeimt Resolution shall be invoked is properly left te the
sound diseretion of the President. In desiding whether
he shoule invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
ation the President must take into ascount various fasters
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this coum-
try and its nationals. In the present sitmatiom in the Far
East, the President has oneluded that, in the light of all
the faots and ciroumstanees, when weighed from a praetieal
point of view, it would not be to the best interests of this
aountry and our people as a whole to invoke the provisions
of this Joint Resolution.
In this connestion you may be interested te kmow that
sinee Jaly 1, 193?, the Departmeat of state has issmed
licenses for the expert of arms, ammmition and implememts
of war to chine in the value of a1s, ans,.ll and te Japan
1n the valme ef $10,630,006.9s.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
and implements of war. The artieles and materials which are
eensidered to be arms, amsunition and implements of wase are
eimmsrated in the President's Preslamatiom of May 1, 19s7.
thish ts set forth under Part II of the enelosed eopy of 
pamphlet, International Traffle in Arna. It vill be noted
that cotton, serap iron, oil and copper are not insluded
among suek artieles and materials. There is no statute mow
in existenee whieh would authorize the President or the Sesre-
tary of state to prohibit the export of ootton, sorap 1ron,
oil or copper to any foreign ∞untry.
sineerely yours,
For the Beeretary of State:
harles W. Yost, Aoting Ohief
Offiee of Arms and iumitions Control
Bmalesures!
Jeist Roselution.
Pamphlet.
SEP 1 1938.
Qu
A true copy of
S
ed origi-
nel.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
CA
EMBASSY OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
E
Berlin, August 9, 1938.
No. 270
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
ONM
AUGI1938
Ou
strict corf dence
1T
894.24/311
STRICTLY COIFIDE TIAL.
A
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to submit the following inform-
ation received from the Military Attaché to this Embassy
for such interest as it may present:
An Amerioan Army Officer arriving in Hamburg on
August 6, 1938, observed on the deck of a Japanese
steamer just leaving that port four Heinkel No. lll
F/A
bombers. This shipment was presumably destined for Japan.
I report this incident as being the first authentie
account by an eye-witness of the shipment of German air-
planes to Japan.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Deniellbeeth
ived
Donald R. Heath
八
First Secretary

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.95)
CYNTHIA PEARL MAUS
RECEIVED
AUTHOR :: LECTURER :: ENTERTAINER
lck 8-19.38
ATNE
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA
Rvrveme
August 4, 1938.
PIONEER YOUNG PEOPLE'S SUPT.
LOCAL CHURCH SPECIALIST
PM 2 46
RESPEOTFULLY RHFERRED
404 Missions Bldg.
FOR AOKNOWLEDGMNT
AND CONBIDERATTON
Pres. Franklin Dolano Roosevelt,
MSHM Dutyre
White House,
Wahington D.C. A MECORDS
august 22 1938.
Secretary to the President.
My dear President:
894.24
As an Am-rican citizen, whose ancestors atback to Revelationary War times,
I should like to add my protest against the continued sale of airplanes, gasoline and
munitione to Japan for use in the bombardment of Chinese cities, with its consequent
laughter of thousands of innocent nonle and the dostruetion of the only mean of sub-
istonc for million in Chilm.
On what consistent basie ean either the Presid ent or other governmental agente
6
tin the poliey of olling munitione to Japan and i thu a party to thi ruthless
4
mking of profit fro: the blood and tear of million of inrocent people.
Our natione happens to be one of the natione signing the nine power pact guarN
anteeing the intogrity of China against invasion. This being the cane why not instruet 
Congres to offoct a "Poliey of Non-Participation in Agression" by topping the shipmont
3
of all good that can be used in any way by their military forces?
2
I also urge the Unitod State under y our leadership to take the initiative
in bringing to pass a speedy close to thie war of aggression on the part of Japan, as
your predicessor Theodore Roosvelt did in the Russian-Japanese war yeare ago.
As one momher of our Ropublio I am enharassed by the corwadice and lack of moral
intogrity of my own country in it continued ale of war munition to Japan, the aggressor
nation in this undeclared mssacre of millions of helples people. A one of the signors
of tho Pact guaranteeing the intrgrity of China we are under moral obligation to boy-eott
Japan's piracy and agression.
In the name of humanity and common decency among nations instruet Congrese to
Yours for the honor and moral intogrity of a county that under no other Prosidont
has ever allowed the situation that now prevails to exist. If our signature as a nation
has any moral value, now is the time to act. We have remained spineless and a partieipant
in this war of aggression far too long already.
Cordialy,
Room #402 Miesions Bldg.
Division of
Indianapolis, Indima.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
F/H
06201
11
Cepartment of State

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.89)
august 22 1938.
y dear ss Mes:
ny referenee frem the white Mouse I acknewledge the
reseipt of your letter of Angust 4, l98s, in regard te the
894.
expert ef war and other materials te Japen.
Tmere is tramamitted herewith a copy of the Joimt Rese-
lution of Congress approved May 1, 193?, amending the Joint
Resslution appreved August 31, 193s. You will observe
2
thas Sostion 1 (a) of this Joint Reselution provides that
whenever the President shall find that there exists a state
of war between or mmeag twe or more foreigm states he shall
preelaim suck faet. Should the President issme a preelame-
sien finking that a state of war exists between chine ane
Sapem the expert of arms, ammnition and implements of wor
te both those countries would immediately be prekanted w
ake torme of the Seutrality Let. In the absense  ms
elten, hewever, there exits no lega ther
F1

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.92)
for preventing the expert of arme either to beth those csun-
tries er to Japan aleme.
The Jeint Reselution furthermere dees mmt under any eir-
sumstanses sutherise the President er the Seeretary of state
to prehibit the epert of commodities ether thes arme, ae-
mitiem and implements of war, The artieles and materials
whiek are censidered te be arms, emmunition and implememts ef
war are emumerated in the President's Preelamatiom of May 1,
1937, whick is set ferth under Part II ef the enelesed copy
of the pamphlet, Iatarmattenel Trarfie ia Arme.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reselu-
sien of May 1, l957, is to keep this country out of war.
The questien as to whether and when the previsions of the
Jeint Reselution shall be inveked is preperly left te the
sound diseretion of the Presidemt. In deeiding whether
he should inveke the Joimt Reselution in a partieular situ-
atiem the Presidemt must take inte accoumt various faeters
and partieularly the bread, gemeral interests ef this seum-
try and ite mationals. In the present aituatien in the Fay
Mast, the Presidemt has someluded that, in the lighs of all
the fasts and eiroumstamces, when weighed frem a praetieal
peint of view, is wuld met be to the bess interests ef
the eounty and eur peeple as a shele t iaveke the previ-
stome ef this Jeint Reselutien.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.92)
Iou may to interested to knew that simee July 1, 1987,
the Department of State has issued lieenses fer the expert
of arms, amamitien and implements of war te Chine in the
value of a1s, r91, ses.18 and to Japam in the value ef
010,801,066.98.
Tou deubtless have motieed the aeeount given in the
press of statements made by the seeretary of state at his
press conferenee on Jume 1l, in which the Beeretary said,
with referemse to the bombing of civilian populations and
the probable danger to Amerieans and Ameriean interests
abread, that he had issued repeated publio statements
cemdemming the bembing of civilian populations, that he
intended to maintain this positiom and to say to every-
ene that this Gevermment condemms the bombing of civiliam
pepulations or its material eneouragoment, and that he
says this abread and says it at heme to the Ameriean peeple
and espesially to the mamufacturers of bembing plames.
simeereay yours,
AUG 22 1938.
Charles W. Yost, Aetins Ghier
effiee ef Arms and mamitiens Centrel
Emelesuree:
07
Pamphlet.
A true cor
the sisd
pmt
nal.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.90)
28-15th st hetrit mich, ang 9th 1938.
Secretary of State Hull.
Washmgn DC,
ARTME
19 1938.
Jafan with munitions of was
AND AORDS
ing
China, kcan not ser how
in
our (Christion?) contrymen,
can mot something be done 
stop this suffly from leaving
frutat unchristian ure?
Resfectfulley sintmitid
Smhmiller,
n EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG171938
894.24
F
/HR

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.94)
tuguet 19 1938.
En roply zefer to
My dear Mr. miller:
The reeeipt is meknowledged of your letter of
August 9, 1938 in regard to the expert of munitions
to Japan.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
6
Mesolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending
4
the Joint Reselution approved August 31, 19s5. You
24/
will ebserve that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Reselutiom
provides that whenever the president shall find that
there exists a state of war between or ameng two er mere
foreign countries he shall preelaim sueh fact. should
the president iseue a proolamation finding that a state
of war exists between China and Japan, the expert of
arms, ammunitiem and implements of war to beth these
ceuntries weuld immediately be prehibited by the terms ef
the
Mr. S. M. D. Millez,
F/HR
séme pifteemth street,
Detreit, Miehigan.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.93)
一2
the Weutrality Aot. In the abeenoe of suoh a proolama-
tien, however, there exists no legal authority for pre-
venting the export of arms either to beth those countries
or to Japan alone.
I my add that the primary purpose of the Joint
Resolution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out
of war. The question as to whether and when the provisions
of the Resolution shall be invoked is preperly left to the
sound disoretion of the president. In deciding whether he
should invoke the Resolution in a partioular situation
the President must take into account various factors and
partioularly the broad general interests of this country
and its nationals. In the present situation in the far
Bast the President has conoluded that in the light ef all
the faots and ciroumstanoes, when weighed from a praotical
peint of view, it would not be to the best interests of
this ceuntry and our people as a whole to invoke the pre-
visiens of this Joint Resolution.
You my be interested in learning that since July 1,
1937, the Department of state has issued lieenses for the
expert of arms, ammuaition and implements of war te Chima
in the value of $26,res,sas.28, and te Japan in the value
of $10,500.065.93.
Yo0

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
You doubtless have noticed the account given in the
press of the statements made by the seoretary of state at
his press conferenee on Jume 11 in which the seeretery
said with reference to the bembing of sivilian pepulatioms
and the probable Aanger to Amerieans and Ameriean interests
abroad, that he had issued repeated publio statements sen-
demning the bombing of eivilian populations, that he intended
to maintain this position and to say to everyome that this
Government condemns the bombing of olvilian populations or
1ts material eneouragement, and that he says this abread and
says it at home to the American people and espesially to the
manmfaeturors of bombing planes.
sinserely yours,
Gharles W. Yost, Aeting Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Gontrol
melosure:
AUG 18 193
Joint Reselution.
CR
5
pmt
ARHI
8-16 8-17

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.88)
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTÓN
CD
OF STATE
August 15, 1938.
1938 A06
AM 10 30
MEMORANDUM FOR
DIVISICH OF
ANDT
894.24/314
FOR PREPARATION OF REPLY
FOR MY SIGNATURE.
F. D. R.
894.24
Lrite hn the Susudent
C
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
A
Depar men oi State
pews
SEP 1-1936
FLLED
F
/HR

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
OPY: VCI
YENCHING UNIVERSITY
Peking, China
Office of the
July 15, 1938
President
Hon. Franklin D. Roosevelt,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. President:
894.24/314
You can scarcely be expected to remember the in-
terview I had the privilege of having with you on May 1,
1933, but 1t rema1ns in my consciousness as a memorable
experience. It 1mpressed me greatly that in less than
two months after taking office, and with the urgently
pressing internal problems you were then facing, you
were sufficiently interested in the consequences to
China of Japanese designs of continental conquest to
send for one whose only claim upon your time was his long
residence in that country. I vividly recall how, after
graciously putting me at ease, by asking a few questions
about the Univers1ty with which I am connected, you spoke
of your inherited sentiment for China through the early
associations of the Delano family. I replied by telling
of the most recent bereavement of a member of that family
in Peking and of my slight service to Captain Delano at
the funeral of his wife. Then you proceeded to brush
aside the arguments for or against Japanese aggression
in China as irrelevant, implying that the moral aspects
of the issue were sufficiently clear. You stated that
the only question with which you were concerned was as
to how Americe could help China. I was thrilled by this
insight into your attitude, and in the far more serlous
and sinister revelatlons of Japanese policy which have
developed since, I have been cheered, despite the con-
tinued inaction of our country, by the memory of what
you said on that occasion. I have never been one of
those American friends of China who have felt that we
should go to war on her behalf or even take any steps
F/HR
that would involve us in that possibility. But it has
been hard to reconcile your expressed sympathy for China
in this struggle for her national rights, and that of
the American people generally, with the unwillingness to
use means, apparently fremed for this very purpose, which
would be of incalculable aid to China, and would most
probably prove of the greatest benefit to Japan in the
end. I refer of course to the enforcement of the Neu-
trality Act. As a layman and one a bsent from the States
since

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
since my visit with you, there are intricacies in the
applicat1on of this Act itself and in related issues
which I cannot hope to understand. But again, with the
special point of view afforded by residence here, I feel
a passionate desire for our country to live up to its
own treaty obligations and to its share of international
responsibility before the chance has slipped away. It
happens that several articles which heve recently reached
us here deal so effectively with the aid America could
thus render China, and the lack of serious consequences
to us of so doing, that I venture to refer tc these rather
than to meke further comments of my own. Two of these are
by Eliot Janeway in the June 1ssues of Asla and Harpere
magazines. The latter 1s used as the basis of an edi-
torial appeal to you to enforce the Neutrality Act in
The Christian Century of June 8. The June 1ssue of the
Far Eastern Survey, published by the Institute of Pacific
Relations, stresses especially the relatively slight
economic hardship to the United States from such a course.
These articles are quoted as bein of easy reference
should you be interested in factual material of this
nature.
In view of your profeseed sympathy with China's
rights and needs in her struggle to maintain her national
independence, and because of my unwavering confidence 1n
your idealiem and courageous outlook, notably in inter-
national affairs, I am not critical, but frankly puzzled.
Are the specifications of this Act too complicated? Is
1t merely the technicality that Japan 1s waging an unde-
clared war? Is it the lose of trade? Or are there weighty
considerations which offset the benefit we could so easily
render this suffering nation with an inetrument devised,
it would seem, for just such a situatlon? Meanwhile, an
international crime 1s being perpetrated with impunity
merely because Japan happens to be equipped for modern scien-
tific warfare, and China 1s defective in the training and
equipment necessary for effective resistance in kind. The
tragic horror of it all is forced on the attention of those
of us living in the midst of 1t. Despite all epecious asser-
tions to the contrary, Japan 1s unquestionably intending
to treat North China as a colony for monopolistic economic
exploitation. In so far as successful, this will lead to
further conquest, and in time, to an apparently inevitable
confliot involving other countries, including ours. This
could be so easily prevented, now, and thus avert not only
continuing devastation here on an enormous scale, but the
vaster menace of the future. It would seem that the United
States 1s the only country free thus to act in this fateful
crisle, although others would doubtless give moral and,
1n

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
1n various ways, material support. No better s'rvice could
America render the cause of peace in the Pacific area than
by aiding Chine to maintain her administrative and terr1-
torial integr1ty and thus to join the fellowship of freedom-
loving peoples.
Pardon my writing you on this matter in the midst of
all your onerous responsibilitles and with such adequate
sources of information on this particular one.
With expectent belief in your willingness to help in
thie 1ssue as may be possible, I am,
Very respectfully yours,
J. LEIGHTCN STUART

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.90)
ruguet 18 1938.
 eear Mr. President:
In respense te yeur memoramdum ef Auguss 18,
there is enelesed for your censideretion a dreft of
a letter whieh you may eare to send to Dr. J. Leighton
stuart, Presidemt ef Ienohing University, In reply to
8
6
his lester to you of July lö, in regard to the ques-
4
.24/314
tiom of applieation of the Neutrelity Aot to the situe-
tiem in the Far Last.
It is euggested that, if meeting with your
appreval, the letter be returmed, after sigmature,
to this Department, for tranemission by the Depart-
ment's ponoh to Peiping.
Dr. stuart's letter ls returmed herewith.
Faithfully yours,
Con
Enelesares:
Bwart letter.
Lester frem
Dr. Stuart.
F/HR
"al.
JR
AUG 18 1938.
the Presteemt,
The mite Neuse.
Rom
new
AI V
CA
C
cvy
mim.N.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.77)
.r
I have resoived your letter ef. July 1s, 1o0s,
La sháon yen rosee se appressatively to the coaver
sétton ve had some fêve peare age ln romere te the
Far ésteem sá tuatéen and in whiek yos express the
foallng thas è pelley conel atant with whet you
unserstand te be u cessep tiem of the sssuee at
stake ln the present Bine-Japesese sesfllet would
sesm te eall for imveeesiom of the Boutrelity Act.
Yem may be essured thet the mmintemamse of
peese, the samstaty of treatles, respeet by all
matiene of the rights of athers snk ad justmens of
intermetienel difreremees  peesefal metheds are
1ts efrerte.
As a msene of elarifying at least some of the
faoters Imvolved in the situation to skick you re
fer, there ls emelesed a stetemees of senment ia
regare to the qeeetion of applleetien of the Sontrel-
its Ast to the sosfliet in the Par East.
Zoar ecetiased feith in the fundascmtal sdeals
inspirine the fereign polloy of thle Geverameat is
apprecisten.
simeerely youre,
RCM
C
m.m.4.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.89)
in the Far Eest is a question invelving many eenrliet-
raw materials and by deelarine that the arms momed in a
other worde the Noutrallty Ast, even if apylied to the
dent te prehibit the expert to that aree of ras materials
desire ef Congress to limit the Ast in this respest.
tial rmw mteriale.
In regard to the matter of arns, 1t should be meted
state ef war existe in the Far East, and se preelain, the
arpese of the Joiat Reselutien of May 1,

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.84)
It should mot be forgottem that this Sovermmemt hes
repeatedly expressed 1te herrer of the bembing frem the
sir ef sivillan pepulatéens. The Seeretary ef state in
hés prese cenferesee en Jane 11 rel tereted this etand and
sale that we were enéeevering espesially te imprees en
Amerieam mamfaetarere or bembing plames eur feeling ia
and equipment to ecumtries shich engage in it.
Enelesmres:
Moutrality Aot of
May 1.1937;
Pamphlet.
rom
FE
GAIGWE1 TC1 VIO
m.m.lt.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.94)
auru 29 1938.
Gentacenttal - fer ataff use onlx.
602
To the Ameriean Ambassader,
Peiping.
The Seeretary of State transmits a letter frem the
President to Dr. J. Leighton Stuart of Yenehing
Umiversity, Peipimg, 1n reply to Dr. Stuart's letter of
July 15, 1938 to the President.
It is desired that the Embassy effeet delivery of
this letter to Dr. Stuart by safe means.
Cepies of Dr. Stuart's letter and the President's
894.24/314
reply are enelosed for the confidential information of
the Eabassy.
Emclesures:
1. Frem Br. steart,
July 18, 1988.
2. To be. átuart, erigimal
and copy.
Atrue copy
to Chungking.
5

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
ROBERT STANLEY ROSS. CB.
11 WEST FORTY-SECOND STREET
NEW YORK
TELEPHONE
LONGACRE 5-5214
August 15, 1938.
894.24
Hon. Cordell Hull,
State Department,
!AH LASTERN ATTAIKS
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Hull:
pau
Is our government going to permit American-made
894.24/315
war supplies to be sold to brutal Japan until all China becomes
a slaughter-house?
Is not our government more principled and more
powerful than the arms and munitions manufacturers?
Surely, we do not want history to record on
China's tombstone, "Here lies China, murdered by Japan with weapons
supplied by America!
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely yours,
Robert É.Toss
RSR/ET

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.91)
august 19 1930,
 dear ur. Rosst
The receipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of August 1s,
l938, in regard to the export of war materials to Japan.
There 1s tranemitted herewith a copy of the Jeint Rese-
894.
lution of Congrese approved May 1, 193?, amending the Joint
Resolution approved August 3l, 193s. You w1ll observe
24/
that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution prevides that
whenever the President shall find that there exists a state
3
of war between or among two or more foreigm states he shall
5
preslaim such faot. Should the Presidomt issme a proeleme-
tion finding that a state of war exists between Ghine and
Japan the expert of arse, ammunition and implements ef war
to beth those countries would immediately be prokibited by
the terme of the Nemtrality Aet. In the absenee of suck a
preslemetien, however, there exists no legal mntmority for
preven ting the empert of esme either te both those countries
er to dapen alane.
F/HR
ry

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.89)
-0
I may add that the primary purpose of the Jeimt Rose.
lution of May 1, 1957, 1s to keep this country out of war.
the question as to whether and when the previsions of the
Joint Reselution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partieular situ-
ation the President must take 1nto account various fasters
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the Far
Bast, the President has coneluded that, in the light of all
the faots and ciroumstanoes, when weighed from a prastieal
point of view, it would not be te the best interests of this
sountry and our people as a whole to invoke the provisions
of this Joint Resolution.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, l937,
the Department of state has issued licenses for the expors
of arns, ammunition and implements of war to chine in the
valwe of 02s, f91,ses.1s and to Japan in the valme ef
$10,881,006.93.
AUG 18 1938
sinserely yowrs,
For the Searetary of states
Grles . Zost Asimg mief
Offise of Arms and mitione Contrak
le
signed origi-
he
Ant
Julnt mout.
nely

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.93)
A
First
Christian
Church
Hyron C Cole. -Hinister
180 19 1938.
Prany. Culifornie
938 AUG 1311 32
August 10, 1938
ack T-R+38
RVH/emu
Hon. Cordell S. Hull
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Hull:
We as a church are deeply concerned about
94.24/316
the present invasion of China by Japan. Inas-
much as most of the raw and finished products
used by Japan in her aggre sive action come
from the United States of America, we are urging
that you not merely protest to Japan about her
actions but that you take definite moves to
stop the shipment and sale of such raw and
finighed products that are destined for use
by the Japan Militarists.
Respectfully yours,
894.24
FIFST CHFISTIAN CHURCH
Orange, California
By --
Myron C. Cole, Minister
Miyrone & lore
Dveice
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MCCHK
A06 18 193
Vepartame
F/HR

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.93)
suruet 19 1938.
Ea reply refer to
ydoar r. Gole:
The reseipt is aaknowledged of your letter of August 10,
193e, in regard to the shipment of war and other materials
to Japan.
6
There 1s tranamitted herewith a opy of the Joint Reso-
2
lution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the Joint
4/
Reselution approved August 31, l9ss. You will observe that
3
9
Sestion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides that when-
ever the President shall find that there exists a state ar
war between or among two or more foreign states he shall
proelaim sueh fast. should the President issue a preelame-
sion finding that a state of war exists between Chine and
Japan the expert ef arms, ammunition and implements of wer
to both those countries would immediately be prokibited by
the terme of the Weutrality Aet. In the absenee of such a
preelmmation, however, there exists no legal authority for
F/HR
preventing
The Reverend

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
preventing the export of arms either to both those countries
or to Japan alone.
The Joint Resolution furthermore does not under any
eireumstanees authorise the President or the Beeretary
of state to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artieles and .
materials which are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's
Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under
Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal
TraSfLe1DADmEL
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly loft to the
sound diseretion of the President. In decidng whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situatiom the President must take into mscount varioms
festors and partieularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situatiom
in the Far East, the President has o maluded that, in the
light of all the fasts and eiroumstanees, when weighed
frem a preetieal point of view, it would net be to the
best imterests of this country and our peeple as a whele
o

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.93)
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 1, 1987,
the Department of state has 1ssued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to Ohina in the
value of 13,791,588.18 and to Japan in the value of
$10,5801,866.93.
sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
Oharles W. Yost, Aoting Ohief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
OR
938.
5
Or R
and
GA:RVX:U

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.92)
J. B. REYNOLDS
CLERK
1318 NORTH 42ND
Fremont Baptist Church
1938 AUG 15 PM 12 54
717 NORTH 36TH STREET
SEATTLE,WASH
WALTER I. FOWLE, Pastor
DIV: 4OF
512 NORTH 48TH STREET
COMMU.
ONS
AND RLOORDS
Ack 18-18-$8
Aurrst,
RvH/aman
894.24
Hon. Cordell Hull, Jecretary or tate
STEATAIKS
"ashington, .0.
Honored Jir:
new
T wis to unite w otere in i aproter uin
the shiprine o arme crd munitione to Paren, ts main
it possible for her to c tinue her evastutin ar in hine.
94.24/317
It becomes incrcasingly evi ent that the c ief source of
Jananese military sun lies in America, and trat ii we
placed an embarro on suc shiuments t e er moul soon cone
to a close. The excuse tat a decl: ration or war us not
been issued und that thererore no mar exists is o clearly
a mere excuse us t be beyond seri  ciderution. e
are actually furni  in arms a  amunitiona to il veny
thousands of  Inlesa riends o Americe.
I understand the State Per rtment feels t et becte
no great protest hus come to them, t e churel peoule o.
America are indifferent. I am sure they ave wronaly inter-
preted this. The hundreds or chureh peo le I mo are very
deenly rieved at te present situation. They ave sily
lost confidence in t e moral idcaliam ant srirituI visic
of our tute berertuent :nd present rovernnent und feel tht
it is useless to protest.
Jincerely yours,
Walter Fowb
F
/HR
WIF/jb
Walter I.Fowle

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.93)
august 19 1938.
My dear tr. Fowle:
The reeeipt is moknowledged of your letter of August 9,
195s, in regard to the export to Japan of arms, ammunitiom
94.
and implements of war.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint Reso-
24/3
Lution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, mending the Joint
Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will observe that
1
Beetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides that when-
ever the President shall find that there exists a state of
war between or smong two or more forelgn states he shall
proelais such fast. Should the President issue a proele-
matiom finding that a state of war exists between China and
Jepan the export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to
both those eountries would immediately e prohibited by the
terme of the Neutrality Aet. In the abeense of such a
preslematien, however, there exists no logal authority for
preventing
The Reverend
F/HR
Walter I. Foule
B12 Morth ferty-eighth stseet,
seattio, mahingten.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.93)
preventing. the export of arms either to both those countries
or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Resolu
tion of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this ountry out of war. The
question as to whether and when the provisions of the Jeint
Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the sound die-
oretion of the President. In deciding whether he should in-
voke the Joint Resolution in a partieular situation the Presi-
dent must take 1nto account various factors and partieularly
the broad, general interests of this country and its nationals.
In the present situation in the Far East, the President has
coneluded that, in the light of all the facts and eiroumstanees,
when weighed from a practioal point of view, it would not be to
the best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
You may be 1nterested to know that sinoe July 1, 1937,
the Department of state has lssued licenses for the export of
ams, mmmunition and implements of war to China in the value
ef 818,791,588.18 and to Japan 1n the value of $10,581,866.98.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
1938.
melesure:
Q
Jeims Reselution.
Oharles W. Xost, Asting Gief
Offise ef Arms and kumitiens Gomtrel
pmd
A true cupy of
GA RVAI-30
the se
ReU
d.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
THE NATIONAL CITY CHRISTIAN CHURCH
THOMAS CIRCLE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
IVAN H. DUGAN
RAPHAEL HARWOOD MILLER
ancd.8/19/38
STATE
LECAL AER
RECEIVED
AUG 20 1938
File
August 16, 1938
894.24
Mr. G.H. Hackworth
State Department
394.24.318
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Hackworth:
I am sending you, berewith, a letter which I have received
from one of our missionaries who has given a lifetime of service
in China. She was connected with the Mary Lyon school at Nanking
and has been one of the leaders in Christian education. She has
made a great contribution to education in China. I have written
her as per enclosed copy and I shall be very glad if you will
give me some information as to just what can be done in view of
the situation which now exists.
I am sure that the sympathy of a vast majority of the Emer-
ican people is with China but we understand that the government can
do very little to prevent shipment of supplies to Japan until there
is a declaration of war. The whole situation is contradictory, how-
ever, for of course we all recognise that there is a war with all
that a war can entail of cruelty and injustice and suffering and it
shows destruction of a great nation with which America has always
been friendly.
With incere petsgnal regads,
RHM:LC
R.H. Maller
r/nn
Letter

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
August 16, 1938
Miss Emma A. Lyon
Disciples Headquarters
Chautauqua, N.Y.
My dear Miss Lyon:
It was good to hear from you, even though the subject of
your letter is distressing. All of us are suffering because of
the terrible conditions in China. But we are more or less help-
less, in as much as our neutrality laws are operative only when
there is a declaration of war. And modernations do not declare
war. The strong attack the weak and kill the defenseless without
naming it war, with the result that the commerical interests of
America can aid and assist the strong against the weak without
any fear of interference by our government.
And then I have understood that the leaders do not wish
for interference by outside nations. The only way supplies could
be withheld from Japan would be for the people of this country to
exercise a voluntary boycott of all trade with Japan. But this is
a very difficult thing to bring about. I understand that our State
Department can do nothing in the matter until there is a declara-
tion of war. However, I am sending your letter on to one of the
heads of the department and shall be glad to refer his answer to
you.
As a congregation we have taken an offering to help supply
food for the Chinese people. Our sympathies are all with the
Chinese but we all feel very helpless in the presence of a terrible
situation. And I can understand how those who have given their
lives to service in China must be almost distracted.
Very sincerely yours,
RHM:IC
R.H. MILLER

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
THF NATIONAL CITY CHRISTIAN CHURCH
THOMAS CIRCLI
WASHINGTON. D.(
IVAN H DUGAN
RAPHAEL HARWOOD MILLER
August 18, 1938
FW 894.24/318
Mr. G.H. Hackworth
State Department
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Hackworth:
This letter should have been enclosed with the one Dr.
Miller sent you yesterday. Please pardon the oversight.
Sincerely yours,
Lela Carson
Secretaryto the Minister
F/HR
buclosume .
10.6.13.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.93)
Auguet 19, 1938.
Dear Dr. Willer:
I bave your letter of August l6 and the one
addreesed to you by Mies Kama Lyon. Miss Lyon desires
that something should be done to prevent the sale of
gasoline, oil, sorap irom, cotton, ste. to Japen. Tou
are oorreot in your etatement to Miss Lyon that this
Department ean do nothing with respset to the matter.
I enelose for your informmtlon a copy of the
Joint Resolution of Congress approved May 1, l937.
amanding the Joint Resolutlon approyed Auguet 31,
1935. You will note that Sootion 1(e) of ths Jolat
Resolutlon providee that whenever the President shall
find that there existe a etate of war betwmeen or among
two or more foroign ststes he shall proolaim suoh faot.
Should the 'residont Leeue a proolamation finding that
a state of war exists betwsen China and Japan, the
export of arme, ummunition and implewents of war to
both thoss countries would imeediately be prohibited
by the terws of the Resolution. In the abeenee of
such e proclemation, however, there oxists no legal
authority for preventing the emport of arme either
to both those countries or to Japen alone.
The Resolution does not authorise the President
or the Seoretary of etate under any oiroumetanses to
prohibit the export of commoditiss other than arme.
amwunition and implements of war. The articlee and
materials which are coneiderod to be arms, ammmition
and implemente of wer are enumorated in the Preaident's
art II of the enolosed cony of the nomnhlet. Intex
Datlonal Traftio an Arme
y0

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.90)
of the Jetnt Recelussen is to
ther and when the provisieme ef the Resolutien
with etmeere goed wishse, I m
sineesely youss,
Enclesures:
Green . Hackwarth
Joint Resolution;
Pamphlet;
Miss Lyon's letter.
CA
Le GNN1HHW
5
chy

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.93)
THE WHITE HOUSE
RECEIVED
ARTYFNOFSTATE
WASHINGION
29 1936,
38 2 PM 4 20
A3D
AUG 30 1838
C
DIVIBION OF FO
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
RECORDS
11938
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECHETARY OF STATE
Cepartorerr of Su
The President has signed the draft of
894.24/319
letter to Dr. J. Leighton Stuart, transmitted
with your letter of August eighteenth, and it is
herewith returned for transmission by the Depart-
ment as suggested.
MHm
M. H. McINTYRE
Secretary to the President
AUG 31193
FILED
F/HR

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
RECEIVED
EPARTMENT OF STAT
BNUG 25 AM 9 09
August 24, 1938.
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AUG 25 1938
AND REGORDS
lvH/em
Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
894.24
Dear Mr. Hull:
894.24/320
I am receiving numerous communications
from my District reletive to the shipment of scrap iron
and other material to Japan for the purpose of ma king bombs
to kill innocent civilian peonle of China.
I would appreciate a stetement from you
relative to this situation so that I can answer my con-
stituents in a satisfactory manner.
Most of these communications are being
received fron the church people of my District and they
are very indignant that such a course is being followed
by the United States.
Sincerely yours,
AUG 31 1938
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
B
FILED
AHUG21938
Harry RSheppard
Departmens ed Stame
HRS/DA
HARRYR. SHEPPARD
F/A

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.88)
30 1938.
My dear Mr. Shoppard:
I asknowledge the reeeipt of your letter of August 24,
894.24/33
1088, in regard to the shipment of sarap iron and other
material to Japan.
There are transmitted herewith several coples of the
Jeint Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, memding
0
the Joint Resolution approved August 8l, l9ss. You wiil
Obeerve that Bestion 1 (a) of this Joint Reselution pre-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
existe a state of war between or mong two or more foreigm
states he shall preelaim sueh fast. should the President
lssme a preelmmation finding that a state of war exists
between mine and Japan the expert of arms, ammmasien
and amplements of war to bep those countries would iame-
F/WB
aiately be prohimted by the terme of the Neatwalssy Ast.
In the abeenee of ssch a preelamatlon, however, there
sxdsts
Honera e
Heuse of nepveesméasives.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.92)
一0
exists no legal authority for preventing the export of arms
either to beth those sountries or to Japan aleme.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Jeint Ress-
lutien of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
the question as to whether and when the provisions ef the
Jeint Resolution shall be invoked is properly lert to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution inapartioular situ-
atiom the President must take into ascount various fastors
and partieularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the Par
East, the President has oneluded that, in the light of all
the fasts and sirewmstanees, when weighed frem a praetieal
peint of view, it would not be to the best interests of this
csuntry and eur peeple as a whole to invoke the provisions
of this Joint Resolution.
In this eenmestion you may be interested to know that
since Juis 1, 19s7, the Department of state has issued
lieenses for the export of arms, emmunition and implements
of war te Qaine in the value of $13, 791,ses.18 and te Japan
1n the vaiue of $10,sm,sss.8s.
the Noutrality Ast furthermere dees not unter any eirewm-
stanees amtherise the President er the seeretary of state to
pokabss the expert of emmedities ether then me, mmition
aa

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.91)
心
and implements of war. The artieles and materials which are
considered to be arms, emmunition and implements of war are
emmmerated in the President's Preelamation of May 1, 1937,
which is set forth under Part II of the enelosed eeples of the
pemphlet, Intereatlenal Tratfie in Armas It will be meted that
serep iren is not ineluded among such artieles and materisls.
There is mo statute now in existenee whieh would ssthorise the
President or the Seeretary of state to prohibit the export of
serep 1ron to any foreign country.
You doubtless have notieed the account given in the press
of statements made by me at my press conferenee on Jume 12, in
which I said, with referenee to the bombing of civilian pepe-
latlons and the probeble danger to Amerieans and Ameriean in-
terests abroad, that I had 1ssmed repeated statements condemn-
1ng the bombing of eivilian populations, that I imtended to
maintain this position and to say to evergeme that this devern-
memt condemns the bombing of eivilian populatioms er its
materlal emeouragement, and that I say this abroed and say it
at home to the Amerlean peeple and especlally to the mams-
festurers of bembing planes.
ORF
sineerely yours,
AUG29 1938. PM
Routine
Cordell Hull
meleswres!
A irue 
Q
the sd
three coples of
nal.
C
Joims Rosslution.
5
Three coplee of
pamphlet.
Rum
Jms

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
RLCEIVED
Elnora, Indiana
ATMENF ST
1938
Franklin D. Roosevelt
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. President:
JNS
RECORDS
Every true American citizen is concerned about
the war between Japan and China in spite of the fact that
some people say "that doesn't concern me. That's on the
other side of the world". We can not be blind to the fact
that we, in the United States, are affected by it, either
844.2
directly or indirectly.
Some of us happen to know that the United States
has sold to Japan over half of the materials, including
steel, pig iron, copper, oil, automobiles, and other machin-
ory to carry on the war. It is only reasonable to conclude
that if the United States should discontinue the shipment
of these materials to Japan she could not long continue the
war. Whether we are actually engaged in the conflict or
not, we are partners with Japan as long as we sell thege
094.24/022
materials to her.
As one who loves World Peace and would like to
it
see prevail always, I, personally, urge you to do all in
your power to bring to an end tais traffic between the
United States and Japan, wich is helping to destroy the
lives and property of the Chinese people with whom we
B
have long had the most friendly relations.
I wish to congratulate you for the stand you
have taken in the past concerning World Peace. I know
that if you had your way about it there would never be
a war, and I feel confident that in the future you will
use every measure possible to promote peace and avert war.
I often think of you and the tremendous responsibility
that you have upon you. I know that many people are quick
to criticize and that words of praise do not always come
freely. I speak only for myself, but I have always tried
tc be patient and place absolute confidence in the leaders
of our nation, for I am certain that they will try to serve
our people in the best possible way. I often mention your
name in prayer before my congregation on Sunday morning,
because I know that with the inmense responsibilities that
you have it will take more than human wisdom and understand-
F/HR
ing to lead this great nation of ours. May God be present
with you and all of your co-workers through all of your de-
liberations.
RESPEOTFULLY REFERRED
Most cordially yours,
FOR ACKNOWLEDGMENT
AND CONBIDERATION
Rev. Omer 7. Fletcher
MH M Jutjie
Pastor of the M. E. Church
Elnora, Indiana
Secretary to the Preaident

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
1ugu8t 25 1938.
 dear Mr. Fleteher:
By reference from the white House I acknowledge the
reesipt of your letter of August 8, 1938, 1n regard to the
export of war and other materials to Japan.
There 1s tranemitted herewith a ∞py of the Joint
894.
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, mending tme
.24/322
Joint Resolution approved Amgust 31, 193s. You will
observe that Sestion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution pre-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
2
exists a state of war between or atong twe or more foreign
states he shall proelaim sueh fact. should the Presidemt
1ssue a proslamation finding that a state of war exists
between Chine and Japan the export of arms, ammumition
and implements of war to both those countries would imme-
Giately be prokibited by the terms of the Mestralisy Aet.
F/HR
In the abeenee of sueh a proelamatien, hovever, there
existe
The Reverend

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
exists no logal euthority for preventing the export of
arms either to both those ountries or to Japan alone.
The Joint Resolution furthermore does not under ang
sireumstanees authorise the President or the Seeretary
ef state to prohibit the export of commodities other tham
asme, ammunition and implements of war. The artieles and
materials whieh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are emumerated in the President's
Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set forth under
Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlenal
TraffLe1nAme
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
lution of May 1, 1957, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolutlon shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound dicoretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in & partioular
situation the president must sake inte aseount various
faeters and partieularly the broad, general interests ef
this eountry and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has coneluded that, in the
light of all the facts and eiroumstanees, then weighed
frem a prastieal peint of view, it would not be to the

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
to invoke the provisions or this Joint Resolution.
You may be interested to know that, sinoe July 1, 19s7,
the Department of State has issued lieenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $13,791,588.18 and to Japan in the value of
$10,581,866.95.
Your very kind remarks concerning the President and
his efforts in behalf of world peace are greatly appreciated.
sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Tost, Aoting Chier,
Orrice of Arms and Munitions Control.
Enelosures:
Joint Resolution:
Pamphlet.
CR
AUG 25 1938.
A true cupy of
nal.
CA:RVHBU/hjg
8-24-38

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.93)
RECEiVeCongress of the United States
DEPARTMENT OF STAI
Pouse of Representatibes
Washingten, D. C.
AUG 27 AM 10 23
Yakima, Washington
am
23 August 1938
AUG 29 1038
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
STATE
Hon. Cordell Hull
Or
secretary of State
Depart.nent of tate
Washington, L.c.
.2u86 80 1938.
My dear Mr. Sceretary:
894.24/323
Anowing tnat a state or wur exists both in the
Far Last und upuin, I urge you, us tecretary of
state, to recognizc formally these wers und thus
bring ubout an enforeement of the Neutrality Act
793.94
to the chd that some of the raw matcriais und
other potential war sup: lies beiny cent abroad
be haited at unce.
852.00
rour coopcretion towara tnis end wili be sincerely
uppreciated.
Sincerely yours,
Dmtrly
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
KH
AUG 2 9 1938
A6 31193
FILED
Department of Stale
F/A

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.90)
80 1938.
UR
My dear Mr. Hill:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
Amgust 23, 1938 in regard to the applleation of the
Neutrality Aot to the situations existing 1n Spaim and
In the Far Dast.
894.24/323
I am enelosing a copy of the pemphlet Xatermattam
Iraffle in Ame under part vII of which are te be foume
the laws and regulations governing the expers ef arms to
Spain. As you will ebeerve, sueh experte are prekibsted
at the presemt time beth by the Joint Reselutien of
Gengrese appeeved Jamuary 8, 1037 and by the President's
Prealamatten af may 1, 193? Lesued purasmnt to Sestion 1
of the Mentumsaty Aes. It should be meted, hewever, thas
F/WB

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.91)
一0
of Section 1 of the Neutrality Aet prevent its appliee-
tien to artieles and materials other than arms, ammuai-
siem, and implements of war. Your attention is Lavited,
1n this eeaneetien, to Section 1 (d) of the Aet, a eopy
of whieh is enelesed.
with regard to the applloation of the Neutrallty Aet
to the Far mst, permit me to point out that the primary
purpose of the Aet is to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Aet shall be inveked is properly left to the sound dis-
aretion of the President. In deciding whether he should
invoke the Aet in a partieular situation, the President
mst take lnto account the various facters and particularly
the bread general interests of the eeuntry and its nationale.
In the present situatien in the Far East, the President has
ceneluded that, in the light of all the facts and eiroum-
stamoes mhen weighed frem a practioal peint of view, it
would mot be to the best intereste of this country and
eur peeple as a hele to iaveke the provisieme of the
Boutraliy Ast.
I may add that should the Noutrality Aet be applled
to the ceafliet in the Tar mst, 1t would, dhe te the
abeve-meationed previsions ef Sectiem 1 (a), preveme the
empers to chime ane Japme ef arme, emmaitien, and implemeate
a

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.81)
-8
of war but not of any other artioles or materials. There
is me statute now in existenee conferring on the President
or the Seeretary of state the authority to prohibit the
expert ef rew materials and petestial war supplies te any
ferelgn eountry.
Bincerely yours,
Cordell H
Enclesures:
1. Pamphlet.
2. Noutrality Aet.
いいい
ORX
▲UG 30 1938.
Routine
Qe
5
end
OM
Fm
0

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
The Brooklgu and Long Island Church Society
of the Methodist Episcopal Church
CONT
LECEIVED
26 1936.
INCORPORATED 1878
AUG
STAT
auguet
The great connedtional agency through whch all MISSIONARY and CHURCH EX
TENSION Enterprises of the Methodist Episcopal Church in the Boroughs of Brooklyn
and Queens, (ity ot New Yotk, and all of Long Island, ate promoted and maintained.
38
HAROLD 13. WAI 2 77
FRANCIS H. TAFT
Rec. Secretary
President
Asst. Rec. Secretary
C. HERSEY LENT
Vine-Presidents
REV. HARRY B. BELCHER, D. D.
Treasurer
HENRY P. SCHOENBERNER
Supt. and Corr. Sec.
150 Saint Felix Street
RBv. FrANCIs J. McCONNELL, D.D., Res. Bishop
Asst. Treasurer
HERBERT C. ASHTON
WILLIAM KENNEDY
ALONZO C. MONAGLI
150 SAINT FELIX STREET
215 Montague Street
WINTHROP M. TUTTLE
FraNk A. HorNe
BROOKIYN, NEW YORK
Chairman of the Finance Commiltee
CHARLES E. BURLING
M. GRAECEN BRIGGS
Charrman of the Executive Committee
TELEPHONE STERLING 3 - 0385
WILLIAM H. BARRADELL
August 12, 1938
RESPEOTPULY REFERRED
FOR ACKNOWLLDGMENT
AND CON SILERATTON
MSH M Jutyre
President Franklin D. Roosavelt,
The White House,
sion of
Washington, D. C.
Soarutary to) the Prosident
Dear Mr. President:
May I respectfully urge you to do everything
394.24/324
in your power to aid in bringing to an end the war-
sustaining traffic between our country and Japan, a
traffic which is making the United States a partner
in the Far Eastern conflict, and which is so wantonly
destroying the lives and the property of the Chinese
people with whom we have long had the most friendly
relations.
It would seem to me that the one thing to do to
put an end to the whole filthy business is to invoke
the Neutrality Act. Certainly we do not want to be
any longer a partner with Japan in the unspeakable
slaughter of innocent Chinese.
Yours very truly,
HBB:AW
F/HR

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.95)
august 26 1930.
94.Be - Belcher, Narry B.
My dear Dr. Beloher:
By referenee from the white House I aoknowledge the re-
ceipt of your letter of August 12, 1938, in regard to the situ-
ation now obtaining in the Far East.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint Reso-
lution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the Joint
Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will observe that
89
Beetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides that whenever
4
the President shall find that there exists a state of war
2
24/324
between or among two or more foreign states he shall proolaim
sueh faet. Should the President 1ssue a proolamation find-
Ing that a state of war exists between Ohine and Japan the
export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to both
those countries would immediately be prohibited by the terms
of the Neutrality Aet. In the absenee of such a proelame-
tion, however, there exists no legal muthority for preventing
the export of arms either to beth those countries or to
Japen alone.
F/HR
ThReverend
reekly, Now Xora.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.95)
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound discretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account various
factors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has coneluded that, in the
light of all the faots and oiroumstanoes, when weighed
from a praotieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this oountry and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
You may be interested to know that sinoe July 1,
1937, the Department of State has issued licenses for the
export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China
in the value of $15,791,88s.18 and to Japan in the value
of $10,801,806.95.
CR
Sineerely yours,
H
AUG 25 1938.PM
For the seeretary of state:
Garles W. Xost, Asting Chief
Offiee of Arms and iumitions Gontrel
A true y
melosure:
the si
dosns Resslution,
nal.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.94)
CA
euP
1938
RECEIVED
vilorent
JEFARTMENTOFSTA
dE
ack 9-138
Hon. Cordell Hull,
Agpen 2tate.
RVH/am
Washington,. C.
D95S4F
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDBeturning to Japan on July 6, lo38, after an
eight months furlough in the nited tates, I found
what I had suspected, namely, that the Japanese people
are straining every resource to win their technically
undeclared war in China. They have been pronagandized
into believin: that eneral Chian: Hai Shek is their
894.24
arch-enery, and that they are fititine to save the
Chinese people and themselves fro, the lenace of con-
munism. Naturally they have been kept in ignorance
of the horrible treatment that their army has civen the
civilian hinese and the disar ed sol iers at nanking
and other coqtured cities--such facts as have been pub-
lishe widely in the nited tates, of hich the account
appearing in "The Indcpendent ournal of  olumbia Uni-
8
versity" (raduate chool of ournalis in the issue of
6
Friday,  arch 18, 193e (Vel. 5, Humber a) and the full-
4.24/3
page account in the ew York ines some weo'ks prior to
this date, are exa mles. cre these facts senerally
kmowm by the Japanese people. the invasio ight be
brought speodilj to an end  at least ts diabolical
cruelty be miticated.
2
This invasion is con only characterized os an
5
undeclared war, but it has, on the contrary, been most.
patently and cffectively declared, as hos been nointed
reneatedly in the United States, or ex ple, in "The
Christian Century", issue of July o, los, thiri page.
In brief, this invasion, vhich is comstuntly referrea
to in Japan as a "righteous", a Tholy war, has provedr
to be one of the tost cLendish mrs of tistory, bring
FILED
ing appalling suffering and loss of life to countless 
civilians.
This war of invasion, then, tochrically unde-
clared, is absolutely and unequivocally a declared war.
Therefore, the Neutrality Act should be invoked, or at
least some means be devised of placing an embargoonexports
of oil and gasoline to Japan.  stoppage of gasoline
R
supplies to Japan would effectively stop the invasion of
A
China, and would moreover render any retaliatory naval
or military action by Japan relatively ineffectual.
Divisic
FAR EASIERA ALRAINS
SEP1-1938
Departme vi

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
Hon. Cordell Jull, ugust 4, 193
For hunanity's sake such action must be taken,
and taken speedily.
espectfully yours,
as of 47e, S-chore, "ai itazava,
Jetagaya Ku, Tolyo, Japan.
August 4, 1938.
(Ackmowledgrment iy be sent to e in core of the
American Embasey, Tolyo, vhere 1 can call upon
notification by telephone.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
325
September 2 1938.
24
To the American Consular Officer in charge,
Tokyo, Japan.
The Seeretary of State enoloses a copy of a letter
dated August 4, 1938, from Mr. J. Fullerton Gressitt, Tokyo,
in regard to the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
If no objection is peroeived, it is suggested that
Mr. Gressitt be furnished with the enelosed copies of the
Joint Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937 and the
894.24/3
pamphlet, International Traffic in Arma, and that he be
informed somewhat along the following lines:
It will be observed that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint
Resolution provides that whenever the President shell find
2
5
that there exists a state of wer between or among two or
more foreign states he shall proolaim such fact.
Should
the President iseue a proolamation finding that a state of
war exlsts between China and Japan, the export of arms, am-
munition, and implements of wer to both those countries would
immediately be prohibited by the terme of the Neutrality Aot.
In the absenoe of suoh a proelamation, however, there exists
no legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
It may be added that the primary purpose of the Joint
Resolution of May 1, 1937 1s to keep this country out of
1
wer.
The question as to whether and when the provisions
A
of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left
to the sound diseretion of the President.
In deciding
whether

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
whether he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a particular
situation the President must take 1nto aocount various faetors
and partioularly the broad general interests of this country
and its nationals. In the present situation in the Far East
the President has conoluded that, in the light of all the
faots and oiroumstanees when weighed from a praotieal point of
view, it would not be te the best interests of this country
and our people as a whole to invoke the provislons of this
Joint Resolution.
It may be of interest to know that sinoe July 1, 1937
the Department of State has 1ssued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $13,012, 669.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,630,006.93.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not under any oiroum-
stanoes authorize the President or the Seoretary of State to
prohibit the export of commodities other than arms, ammuni-
tion and implements of war. The artioles and materials
whiah are considered to be arms, ammunition and implements
of war are enumerated in the President's Proolamation of
May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part II of the pamphlet.
It will be noted that oil and gasoline are not inoluded among
such artieles and materials.
There 1s no statute now in
existence whioh would muthorize the President or the Seere-
tary of state to prohibit the export of oil or gasoline to
any foreign country.
CR
SEP
1 1938.PM
Enclosures:
Lotter of August 4, 1938.
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
CA: RVH: EMUk
9-1-38

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
OCTR
FE
The American Committee
CEIVED
N-J
PM
4
8 WEST 4OTH STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y.
LOngacre 5-3062
NATIONAL BOARD
August 27, 1938
CORDS
INITIAL MEMBERS
Ack. fole
Dr. Edward H. Hume
Director of Christian Medical
Council for Overseas Work
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton
Josephine Schain
National Chairman, National
Committes on the Cause and
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Division of
3.m. l4.
Cure of War
Department of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr
Union Theological Seminary
Washington, D. C.
小
Mrs. Linceln Steffens
AND
(Ella Winter), Executive Board,
MONITIONA
League of American Writers
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
Roger S. Greene
AUB 70 1938
Lately Acting Director of
Peiping Union Medical College
Under separate cover, we are sending
and Former Consul-General
at Hankow
Helen Keller
Author and Lecturer
you a copy of the booklet, "Amer8ca's Share in Japan
Louis D. Freelick
854.24/326
Formerly Editor of ASIA
Magazine
War Guilt". It deals, we believe, with one of the
T. A. Bisson
Research Staff, Foreign Policy
Association; Author, "Japan
most important issues in foreign policy confronting
in China"
Philip J. Jaffe
Managing Editor, Amerasia
the American people today.
Maxwell Stewart
Associate Editor, The Nation
Eliet Janeway
Complimentary copies of the booklet
Economist, Writer
Margaret Forsyth
National Board, Y.W.C.A.
are being mailed to those who, it is believed, will
Dr. B. A. Garside
Educational Administrator
Geerge Fitch
give it most responsible consideration. We bespeak
Secretary of Y.M.C.A. in
China (on leave)
Olin D. Wannamaker
Educational Executive and
for it your careful and thoughtful attention.
Lecturer
Rev. Dr. Frank W. Price
Nanking Theological Seminary
Sincerely yours,
(on leave)
Hary B. Prce
Rev. Dr. E. W. Laeeeck
Shanghai Community Church
(on leave)
Earl H. Leaf
Writer, Former North China
Harry B. Price
Manager of United Press
Edgar H. Rue
Secretary
Executive Secretary, Institution
for the Chinese Blind, Shanghai
HBP:HN
Chester A. Smith
Chairman, State of the Country
and Bocial Bervics Committes,
Now York Methodist Conference
1087-38
0cn
Harry B. Price
Profesour of Bconomics,
Yenching Univeroity, Poiping
(on lesve), Beeretary
Mombership as Individuals
4-30-38
F/HR
11

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
The American Committee
FE
JN-P JA
8 WEST 4OTH STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y.
LOngacre 5-3062
Agang29
NATIONAL BOARD
August 24, 1938
INITIAL MEMBERS
Dr. Edward H. Hame
Director of Christian Medical
Division of
Council for Overseas Work
Josephine Schain
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
National Chairman, National
Committee on the Cause and
Hon. Cordell Huil
Cure of War
Secretary of State
Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr
Union Theological Seminary
Department of State
Department of State
Mrs. Linceln Steffens
Washington, D. C.
(Ella Winter), Executive Board,
League of American Writers
Roger S. Greene
Dear Mr. Secretary:
Lately Acting Director of
Peiping Union Medical College
and Former Consul-General
at Hankow
Under separate cover, we are sending
Helen Keller
Author and Lecturer
Louis D. Freelick
you a copy of the booklet, "America's Share in
Formerly Editor of ASIA
894.24/
Magazine
T. A. Bisson
Research Staf, Foreign Policy
Japan's War Guilt". It deals, we believe, with
CHEH
Association; Author, "Japan
in China"
Philip J. Jaffe
one of the most important issues in foreign policy
Managing Editor, Amerasia
Maxwell Stewart
Associate Editor, The Nation
confronting the American people today.
Eliet Janeway
Economist, Writer
C
Margaret Forsyth
Complimentary copies of the booklet
National Board, Y.W.C.A.
2
Dr. B. A. Garside
C
Educational Administrator
are being mailed to those who, it is believed, will
Geerge Fitch
Secretary of Y.M.C.A. in
China (on leave)
give it most responsible consideration. We bespeak
Olin D. Wannamaker
Educational Executive and
Lecturer
for it your careful and thoughtful attention.
Rev. Dr. Frank W. Price
Nanking Theological Seminary
(on leave)
Sincerely yours,
Rev. Dr. E. W. Lacceck
Hany B. Price
Shanghai Community Church
(on leave)
Earl H. Leaf
Writer, Former North China
Manager of United Press
Harry B. Price
Edgar H. Rue
Executive Secretary, Institution
for the Chinese Blind, Shanghai
Secretary
FLTBD
Chester A. Smith
Chairman, State of the Country
and Social Service Commistee.
HBP:HN
New York Methodist Conference
1937-88
Harry B. Price
Professor of Economics,
Yenching University, Peiping
(on lesve), Besretary
Membership as Individuals
26

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.96)
E
The American Committee
IN-P 
8 WEST 4OTH STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y.
LOngacre 5-3062
August 24, 1938
NATIONAL BOARD
AUG 261938
aur
INITIAL MEMBERS
Dr. Edward H. Hume
MR. WELLES
any 29
Director of Christian Medical
Council for Overseas Work
Josephine Schain
Division or
National Chairman, National
Committee on the Cause and
Mr. Summer Welles
FAR EASTEHN AFFAIKS
Cure of War
Under Secretary of State
AU6 26 193
Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr
Union Theological Seminary
Department of State
Mrs. Lincoln Steffens
Washington, D. C.
(Ella Winter), Executive Board,
League of American Writers
Roger B. Greene
Dear Mr. Welles:
Lately Acting Director of
Peiping Union Medical College
and Former Consul-General
t Hankow
Under separate cover, we are sending
894.24/326
Helen Keller
Author and Lecturer
Louis D. Froelick
you a copy of the booklet, "America's Share in Japan's
Formerly Editor of ASIA
Magarine
T. A. Bisson
War Guilt". It deals, we believe, with one of the
Research Staff, Foreign Policy
Association; Author, "Japan
in China'
most important issues in foreign policy confronting
Philip J. Jaffe
Managing Editor, Amerasia
Maxwell Stewart
Associate Editor, The Nation
the American people today.
Eliot Janeway
Economist, Writer
Complimentary copies of the booklet
Margaret Fersyth
National Board, Y.W.C.A.
Dr. B. A. Garside
Educational Administrator
are being mailed to those who, it is believed, will
George Fitch
Secretary of Y.M.C.A. in
China (on leave)
give it most responsible consideration. We bespeak
Olin D. Wannamaker
Educational Executive and
Lecturer
for it your careful and thoughtful attention.
Rev. Dr. Frank W. Price
Nanking Theological Seminary
(on leave)
Sincerely yours,
Rev. Dr. E. W. Lacceck
Havy h Thice
Shanghai Community Church
(on leave)
Earl H. Leaf
Writer, Former North China
Manager of United Press
Edgar H. Rue
Executive Secretary, Institution
Harry B. Price
for the Chinese Blind, Shanghai
Chester A. Smith
Secretary
Chairman, State of the Country
and Social Service Commistes,
New York Methodist Conference
1957-38
HBP:HN
Harry B. Price
Professor of Bconomica,
Yenching University, Peiping
FLED
(on leave), Beeretary
Membership as Individaals
s6e

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.94)
U 80 1938.
Dear Mr. Prioe:
I aoknowledge the receipt of your letters of
August 24, 1938, addressed to the Secretary of State
and to Mr. Welles, in regard to the booklet entitled
"America's Share in Japan's War Guilt", published by
894.24/326
The Amerioan Committee for Non-partioipation in Japanese
Aggression, copies of which have been reoeived under
separate cover.
Tour oourtesy in furnishing the Seoretary and
Mr. Welles, and other officers of the Department in-
eluding myself, with copies of your Committee's booklet
is appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
Marwell M. Hamilton,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
F
Mr. Harry B. Price,
Seeretary. The American Committee for
Nen-partieipation in Japanese Aggression,
CR
& West 40th street,
▲UG 30 1938.
Now Yerk, New York.
A tru cppy of
the signned origt-
B

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
1 copy retained
in FE
AMERICA'S SHARE
IN JAPAN'S WAR GUILT
AMERICAN COMMITTEE FOR NON-PARTICIPATION
IN JAPANESE AGGRESSION
8 West 40th Street
New York, N. Y.
Price: Fifteen Cents

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
PRINTED IN U.S.A.
60
BURLAND PRINTING COMPANY, INC.
53 ROSE ST., NEW YORK, N. Y.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 1.00)
FOREWORD
A momentous issue of right and wrong confronts the people
of America. Shall we continue to be partners with Japan in her
unjustifiable invasion of Chinese soil or shall we refuse hence-
forth to furnish Japan with the materials of war? Japan is now
dependent upon the United States for one-half of her war sup-
plies.
We would not be accomplices in a crime in our local com-
munity. Why should we be accomplices in an international
crime? Why should American iron, American steel, American
oil, American copper, American chemicals, American aircraft
and motor trucks be used to destroy and kill in China?
There are honest differences of public opinion on what Amer-
ican foreign policy should be and on the methods that should
be followed in working for world peace. But would not the real-
ization of our present aid to militarist Japan lead all groups in
America to a common decision? Can we not say together-we
will not underwrite Japan's cruel war? We refuse to be Japan's
partner. We decline to help Japan build up a great military
and naval machine by which she can dominate Asia and threaten
America as well as the peace of the entire world. On the other
hand we stand ready to give every possible assistance to both
Japan and China in any programs of constructive economic de-
velopment which will benefit their own peoples and the peoples
of the world.
Upon such a platform we believe that all Americans who hate
war and who wish to "engage activily in the search for peace"
can unite. No further aid to Japan until she ceases her war of
aggression in China and agrees to a just and peaceable settlement
of all outstanding problems! This is definitely a peace policy,
not a war policy. It is a road from war, not to war. We simply
withdraw from our part in Japan's war upon China. We do
what we can to hasten the end of hostilities. We act to bring
an carlier peace in the Pacific. Whatever other nations may do,
our consciences then will be clear.
This is not only an international issue but is very definitely a
national question. The United States Government is being
3

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
forced to spend billions for the construction and maintenance of
a Big Navy because of the menace in the Pacific. It is idle to
pretend that our huge naval construction program is being
pushed because of threats from European navies. The threat
comes from Japan. Yet we are not only arming Japan for her
aggression in China but also supplying a major share of materials
for Japan's naval construction program, compelling Congress
to enact such a measure as the $1,15o,ooo,ooo Naval Expansion
Bill-money that is urgently needed at home for flood control,
public works, slum clearance, housing projects, social security,
education, public health and the whole relief program.
The irony of it! We prepare to defend ourselves against those
whose sinews of strength for expansion come from our own
industries.
In this booklet the reader will find important and challenging
facts which reveal America's role in arming Japan and America's
share in Japanese aggression on the Asia mainland. It raises an
issue that deserves the earnest consideration of every American.
The issue is clear-cut for those who oppose war and seck peace.
Japan could not continue her invasion of China another six
months or continue as a potential menace to the security of
other nations without equipment, oil and other materials from
the United States.
The time has come to present these facts to every man and
woman in the United States. If the American people become
fully aware of the part they are taking in the deliberate and
frightful bombing of helpless civilians in China, the mad at-
tempt to subjugate a great people, and the ambitious expansion
of a militaristic power, there is little doubt what they will say
or do. Americans will say, "Count us out." Americans will not
give further aid and encouragement to the aggressor, actual
andpotential.
Not only must the information in this booklet be widely dis-
seminated but the moral conscience of America must express
itself. We are committing a great wrong. We are virtual allies
of a nation whose military policy and methods have received
world condemnation. We sympathize deeply with the deluded
and misled people of Japan. We are their sincere friends. We
entertain no hatred toward them. But we cannot condone the
actions of their military party, and we must not economically
support what we morally condemn. To be indifferent or silent
4

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
now, to acquiesce in an intolerable international situation, to
think selfishly of peace as only an American problem, is to
strengthen the forces of greed and lawlessness among nations and
to incrcase the future periis to peace on the American continents.
Shall we say nothing and do nothing in the face of the known
facts about our share in the guilt? Then we betray humanity.
If the people of the United States know the facts, if their con-
sciences are deeply stirred, they will act and they will see that
their government acts. Japan then can no longer look to America
for the means of war. America then will cease to be a partner
of Japan in her barbarous attacks upon China.
The United States can do its part by refusing to give economic
support for war purposes to a country which is violating. as
Japan is, a solemn treaty of peace with the United States.
China is making a magnificent struggle for liberty. The least
we can do is to withhold aid from her enemy. The democracies
can stop war from spreading only by refusing absolutely to sup-
port wars of aggression, only by refusing to share in their evil
profits.
Let America act now and act quickly, for peace.
5

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
OUR ASSISTANCE TO JAPAN
"The lamentable fact is that today the aggression of
Japan is being actively assisted by the efforts of men
of our own nation and men of the other great de-
mocracy in the world-the British Commonwealth of
Nations. It is not only being actively assisted, but our
assistance is so effective and predominant that without
it even today the aggression would in all probability
be promptly checked and cease.
"So I say that the first glaring fact which stares us
in the face in our analysis of the situation is that
China's principal need is not that something should
be done by outside nations to help her, but that out-
side nations should cease helping her enemy. Given a
situation in which the supply of munitions was only
somewhat less unequal, China's bravery has already
shown that Japan's task would be hopeless.
"In the light of these facts, the first question that I
should ask of the Amcrican and British peoples is:
Does the safety of the American nation and the safety
of the British Empire require that we go on helping
Japan to exterminate, by the methods she is daily em-
ploying, the gallant Chinese soldiers with which she is
confronted-not to speak of the civilian Chinese popu-
lation that she is engaged in terrorizing? Is the condi-
tion of our statesmanship so pitifully inadequate that
we cannot devise the simple mieans of international co-
operation which would stop our participation in this
slaughter? I for one do not think so. I believe that it
can be done, and done effectively. without serious
danger to us."
-HENRY L. STIMSON,
former Secretary of State.
Excerpt from letter to New York Times,
October 6, 1937
6

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.96)
WHAT GOVERNMENT LEADERS
ARE SAYING ...
PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT:
"Without a declaration of war and without warning or justi-
fication of any kind. ivilians, indluding women and children.
are being ruthlessly murdered with bombs from the air.... The
peace-loving nations must make a concerted effort in opposition
to those violations of treaties and those ignorings of humane in-
stindts whidh today are creating a state of international anarchy
and instability from whidh there is no escape through mere iso-
lation or neutrality."
-From address of October 5, 1937
on the World Political Situation.
CORDELL. HULL. Scocttoy of State:
"Respet for law and observance of the pledged word have
sunk to an inconccivably low level. The outworn slogans of the
glorification of war are again esounding in many portions of the
globe. Armed force. naked and unashamed, is again being used
as an instrument of poliey and a means of attaining national
ends through aggression and aggrandize ment. It is being em
ploved with brutality and savagery that outrage and shock every
humane instinct.
"There is a desperate need in our country, and in every coun-
trv. of a strong and united public opinion in support of a re-
newal and demonstration of faith in the possibility of a world
order based on law and intenational cooperative effort. When
sudh public opinion has developed and when the momentous
issue ot today-the fateful ded ision as to whether relations among
nations shall be governed by armed force or by cooperation and
order under law-is deanly understood and visualized, there will
be no insuperable difh ults in finding aceptable ways and means
of adhieving the desired cnd."
-Prom addies at Nashuille, Tenne.
11011 3. 1038.
FRANCIS B. SAYRE. AStant SortY of State:
"When forces of lawlessness are abroad, supine inaction in
effect means siding with the evil against the good: the strongest
1-

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
encouragement which can be given lawless aggressors is to make it
quite clear that they have nothing to fear from those with power
to withstand them. The United States cannot afford to be a
cipher at this crucial moment of the world's history. We must
be resolute and prepared if necessary to withstand the aggression
of the lawless. This does not mean desire for war. War is
evil incarnate. But it means recognition of the fact that some
things are worse than fighting if fighting be in defense of life or
principles.
"I need scarcely add, in closing, that the general acceptance of
a code of law and morality among independent nations can never
be brought about through force, for this is essentially a thing of
the spirit. The task of the law abiding now is to save the world
from being delivered over into the hands of the lawless-to pre-
vent the shipwreck and annihilation of what we have been toil-
fully building for centuries."
-From an address before The American So iety of
International Law, Washington, April 3o, 1938.
STANLEY K. HorNBECK, Adviser on Political Relations, Depart-
ment of State:
"Without the concept of justice, pursuit of national interests
becomes simply effort toward national self-aggrandizement.
Without regard for justice in pursuit of national interests it
would be difficult indeed to conceive of peace as possible. . . .
"There is warrant for believing that the present disruption of
international relations generally is due to a failure on the part
of some nations to realize that in relations between and among
nations national self-interest must, in the long run, be subordi-
nated to the claims of justice. . ..
"To make principles effective in practice it is necessary that
peoples be committed, by personal understanding and conviction,
to them. .. .
"The first line of our national defense should be spiritual. It
should lie in character. It should lie in concepts, beliefs, faith.
conviction,-and in willingness to make sacrifices-if necessary
even sacrifice of our own lives-in support of and in defense of
these.
-From address before the Chaplain's Association of the
Army of the United States, Washington, May 17, 1938.
8

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
WHAT MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
ARE SAYING .. .
SENATE RESOLUTION:
-Introduced by StNAIOR KEY PITTMAN OF NevaDA: Passed
unanimously by the U'nited States Senate on June 16. 193.
Resolved, That the Senate record its unqualified condemnation
of the inhuman bombing of civilian populations.
SENATOR JAMES P. POPE of Idaho on:
AMERICAN AID TO JAPAN
"Mr. President. the American people are shodked at the con-
tinued Japanese barbarities in carrying out her campaign against
China." Our Government has protested against particular acts
of violence. and we have daimed damages for properties de
stroved. America has joined other powers in these protests. It
is as well, however, for us to recogriize the bitter fact that it is
America which is supplying 5!4 per cent of the materials abso-
lutely necessary in order that Japan may continue her aggression
against China. It is doubtful whether Japan could get these
materials if we were not willing to supply them. I call your
attention to the following table:
“United States' share in Japan's imports of essentials for war
purposes:
Commodity Class
Percentage (193)
Copper
92.9
Automobiles and parts
91.2
All oil
60.5
Pig iron
41.6
Other iron
59.7
Madhinery and engines
18.5
Zinc
20.4
Total in aggregate.
51.1
"The following table is still more condlusive in its proof of the
fact that America is Japan's best support in the war against
China. The table shows the contribution of the nine principal
countries towards Japanese aggression:
9

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 3A
CONTRIBUTION OF NINE PRINCIPAL COUNTRIES TO JAPAN'S
IMPORTS ESSENTIAL FOR WAR PURPOSES-BY COUNTRIES
(Value in Thousands)
1937
1936
Principal
Share in
Share in
Countries
Value•.
aggregate
Value
aggregate
(yen)
(%)
(yen)
(%)
U.S.A.***
627,238
54.4
280,389
47.9
British Empire***
201,496
17.5
116,454
19.9
Dutch India
84,913
7.4
46,827
8.0
Germany
43,434
3.8
21,872
3.7
Belgium
23,473
2.0
7,447
1.3
China
20,099
1.7
17,668
3.0
Soviet Union
12,528
2.2
Norway
2,931
.3
759
.1
Switzerland
179
.0002
1,952
.3
Total
1,003,764
87.1
505,896
86.4
"The interesting fact remains that while the United States
protests against the aggression of Japan in China, and while 95
to 99 per cent of the American people keenly feel the invasion of
China by Japan, yet the United States, by furnishing the neces-
sary war materials to Japan keeps her going in her war on China.
I think it is clear that if it were not for the materials which the
United States is furnishing Japan, this war of aggression would
be seriously hampered. What we ought to do about it is another
matter. Whether the Japanese embargo should be supported by
the Government may be a question. At any rate, the American
people ought to know that while they are longing for discontinu-
ance of the aggressive war upon China by Japan, we are making
it possible for Japan to carry on the war by the shipment of war
materials to Japan."
Senator Key Pittman of Nevada:
"I believe the people, the churches and the peace societies of
the country have at last awakened to their duty in protesting
• Manchuria is excluded.
 Aggregate value of imports of 13 commodity classes: 1937-1,152,861,000
yen; 1936-585,015,000 yen.
U.S.A. includes Philippine Islands; British Empire includes Great
Britain, Canada, Australia, India, Malay, and British Borneo.
• Values for 1937 are approximate estimates.
10

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
against military wrongs and against violation of the peace trea-
ties."
RePreseNTATIve EMaNUeL CeLI Er OF NeW YORk:
"Day after day the Japanese are mercilessly maiming and kill-
ing thousands upon thousands of women and children in China.
The news despatches brand Japan as one of the most despicable
and accursed of nations. We must wash away some of America's
guilt. We are also guilty because, despite our Neutrality Act. we
are supplying Japan with more than 5o per cent of her war
supplies in the form of oil, machinery, automobiles, scrap and
pig iron and such ingredients for her munition factories. Amer-
ican planes which dropped those bombs on Canton can only be
flown with American oil which we are supplying. Surely this is
one of the blackest pages in our American history."
SENATOR WILLIAM D. KING of Utah:
"It seems to me that there is at least a moral obligation if not
a legal obligation resting upon the United States, to denounce
the course of the Japanese Government in its invasion of China.
its destruction of oities and towns and villages, its murderous
assaults upon unoffending people, particularly women and chil-
dren, and its application, under the name of war, of the most
cruel, atavistic propensities. which found expression in the con-
duct of primitive races. The course of Japan is an anachronism.
It belongs not only to the Dark Ages, but to the darkest and
cruelest periods of human existence. We may not be justified
in becoming a party to the conflict; we may not be warranted in
trying to stay by military force the sanguinary and devastating
course of Japan: but certainly we owe it to ourselves and to the
future to lift our voices against the recrudescence of those fright-
ful and tragic ancestralisms which it was hoped the world had
abandoned and entombed in dishonored graves of the history
of the past.
"I do not believe that a denunciation of Japan's course would
lead to war. I cannot help but believe that if we and other
civilized nations were to brand Japan as a treaty violator, as an
outlaw, as a nation unworthy to be found in association with
nations that love peace and seck justice, instead of that course
being provocative of war. it would tend to modify the course of
the Japanese Government and restore it, if not to complete
sanity, at least to a condition in which there might be negotia-
11

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
tions looking to a termination of the frightful tragedy which is
now destroying hundreds of thousands of human beings and
devastating cities and towns and portions of a vast continent.
"I have referred to treaties existing between the United States
and Japan. Certainly our Government should be interested in
having treaties to which it is a party respected and its terms ob-
served. It certainly cannot be claimed that the duty rests upon
a nation party to a treaty to remain silent while other parties to
the treaty flagrantly violate its terms. Our Government, as well
as other governments, have interests in the Orient. China was a
party to treaties with the United States and other occidental na-
tions. These treaties were beneficial to China and were promo-
tive of trade and commerce, helpful to the Chinese people, and
more or less a benefit to those nations signatories to such treaties.
"Japan solemnly covenanted in the Nine Power Treaty to
respect the rights and territorial integrity of China. She bound
herself, as did other signatories to the same treaty, to respect
Chinese territory and the rights of the Chinese people. It was
not a unilateral treaty; it was a multilateral treaty, and each
party to the treaty obviously had some obligations resting upon
it. Japan has violated this treaty, as well as others. She has
contemptuously disregarded the rights of other signatories to the
treaty, and has invaded Chinese territory, and is waging one of
the most aggressive and sanguinary wars of which the pages of
history bear record. . . .
"I am repeating when I say we are warranted in prohibiting
any further shipments of munitions and military supplies and
commodities to be devoted to military purposes.
SENATOR ArTHUR CApPER of Kansas:
"The people of this country are indignant, shocked, filled with
righteous wrath over this inhuman and barbarous treatment of
non-combatants. And I feel that the people of this country ex-
pect the Senate to vindicate the rising indignation against these
nations which are running amok and threatening to plunge the
world from civilization into the depths of barbarism. . . . It is
the duty of the Senate to condemn treaty violators; to condemn
the ruthless and wicked bombing of thousands of defenseless
men, women and children; to make plain to all the world our
abhorrence of such practices; and to disapprove the sale of Amer-
ican aircraft to countries which so flagrantly violate all the prin-
ciples of civilized warfare."
12

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
SENATOR BENNETT CHAMP CLARk of MissOuri:
"Does it not partake of a good deal of the nature of smug
hypocrisy for the Senate . . . to deplore the use of bombs, par-
ticularly in the case of a certain Oriental nation, while we go on
day after day selling for the profit of our own manufacturers and
our own producers the materials out of which the bombs are
made and the machines by which they are used?"
SeNator ElBert D. ThomaS of Utah:
"The spirit of America is for peace. The American people
condemn war and they condemn a resort to war. ...
"If the application of the Neutrality Act could by any flight
of the imagination stop the fighting, we might be forgiven in
attempting it. But it would not. It would be purely a unilateral
action which would not affect the fighting one whit. Under the
Neutrality Act both belligerents must be treated equally. By it.
condemnation of both China and Japan would result. Impartial
neutrality is a physical impossibility. If we do nothing. we help
the stronger. If we act imipartially, we still help the stronger.
"No one in America would want to see us allied with either
of the combatant states: above all no one wants to see us aiding
the stronger of the two. But an application of the Neutrality
Act would do just that. If we should embargo the shipment of
arms we would not in any way affect the ability of the state with
plenty of arms from continuing the war. If we refused to sell
to only those who could not come to get our products-Japan
only could buy our goods because no Chinese boat could get
past the Japanese Fleet. The American people would not stand
for taking sides in this way."
POLL OF CONGRESSIONAL SENTIMENT
WASHINGTON, June 21-Representative members of the
Senate and House. polled by The Christian Science Monitor,
show an entire willingness to support Secretary Hull's effort to
apply a voluntary embargo on shipment of American air raft to
Japan, but an even greater desire to extend the embargo to a
wider range of exports.
-Christian Science Monitor.
13

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
WAR MATERIALS FROM AMERICA TO JAPAN
The war picture, so far as raw materials for war purposes are
concerned, is practically all Japanese. Scrap iron and steel is a
major item, and in 1937 the Japanese bought from the junk
yards of the United States 1,865,918 tons of old boilers, car
wheels, stoves, automobiles and other wrecked objects made of
iron or steel, for which they paid S35,462,ooo. In the first five
months of this year Japan's scrap iron and steel purchases have
amounted to 690,ooo tons, for which was paid $11,632,000.
In these five months Japan's purchases of other raw materials
have included 466,ooo bales of cotton, the price of which was
$24,436,000; crude petroleum, 11,729,000 barrels, for $16,16.1,000:
automobile parts and accessories, S1,935.o0o; steel ingots, sheet
bars, etc., not containing tungsten, $2,o32,o0o: pig iron, $2,166,-
000; motor fuel, $1,935,000; gas and fuel oil, $2,638,000, and
lubricating oil, $1,100,000.
When various other raw products, all of them essential war
materials, are added, the total of such purchases for the first five
months of this year amounts to about $73,ooo,ooo. In the corre-
sponding months of 1937 the total of thesc purchases was ap
proximately $102,000,000.
Japan's total import trade from the United States in 1937 was
$288,ooo,ooo and of this it is a reasonable estimate that more
than $2oo,ooo,ooo was for raw materials Japan must have in
order to wage war against China. This year, it appears, the total
raw material bill will be considerably less than in 1937, prob-
ably about $150,000,000.
-New York Times,
July 24, 1938.
14

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
SOME QUESTIONS
The extent to which the United States supplies Japan with
materials essential to her war of aggression, and the extent to
which the Japanese military machine must depend upon America
for these supplies are revealed in statements appearing else-
where in this pamphlet. The probable effectiveness of a policy
of non-participation in Japanese aggression and some of the
practical problems involved in such a policy are also discussed.
Thoughtful consideration of so far reaching a matter inevitably
raises some further questions. The purpose of this section is not
to deal with these questions fully but to suggest some conclusions
which seem reasonable in the light of recent history and of the
facts now at our disposal.
1. Is the U'nited States now neutral?
Public sentiment and official pronouncements would seem to
put us on the side of China. But materially we are Japan's most
important and most indispensable ally. Japan possesses a mili-
tary-industrial plant capable of converting huge quantities of
raw materials into implements of death. China does not. By
furnishing the better part of the essential supplies for the main-
tenance and continued operation of this military machine, we are
making it possible for Japan to retain the superiority in equip-
ment which is her outstanding advantage over the defensive
forces of the Chinese. By this means we are supporting Japan.
2. Would invocation of the Neutrality Act put the United States
in a neutral position?
No. Invoc ation of the Neutrality Act would leave us in the
position of supplying Japan with most of what she needs while
selling to China none of the arms and munitions that are vital
to her defense. It would therefore make us even more decisively
an ally of Japan. For while an embargo would be placed upon
munitions, Japan could still obtain here the raw miaterials and
machinery which are vastly more important to her than muni-
tions. Unlike China, she has a highly developed munitions
industry and could continue to use American raw materials to
equip her mechanized army. She has a large merchant marine
for transporting these supplies.
The neutrality legislation was framed with a view primarily to
the European situation before the outbreak of the conflict in
15

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
China; it has been found unsuitable for application to the situa-
tion which has developed in the Far East.
g. Is it wise for us to do nothing?
Without a more positive American policy, at least to the extent
of withholding economic aid to Japan, the present conflict may
continue raging for years, becoming the most stupendous in all
history for its devastation and its toll in agony among millions
upon millions of peaceful civilians as well as among courageous
soldiers on both sides. The longer it continues, the vaster and
deeper will suffering become and the more insuperable will be
the problems which follow in its wake. To do nothing in the
face of such a situation seems callous. But actually to continue
support for the military machine which is responsible for this
devastation is morally indefensible.
Through a more definite attitude, the United States, by refus-
ing to support Japan's aggression, would make its enormous influ
ence felt on the side of justice and of a new and better interna-
tional order in the Pacific area-an order based upon mutual
respect, justice, security, and peace.
A positive policy now would still leave the United States in a
strong position to help in arranging a just peace when the war
is ended. Japan's greatest external dependence is upon America.
The resumption of trade and the reestablishment of friendly,
cooperative, and mutually helpful relations between the two
countries can be made contingent upon conditions of peace and
security for all.
4. What are the justifiable grounds on which the United States
can withhold economic assistance to Japan?
On humanitarian grounds the people of the United States can
refuse to be party to a ruthless war of conquest over a great
peace loving people, or to the utterly inhuman acts which this
war has entailed.' They can decline to furnish the oil, scrap iron,
airplanes and bombs needed for the slaughter of soldiers and
civilians who are struggling for national independence, and the
money needed for purchasing these supplies elsewhere. They can
show this much regard for a great nation whose citizens have
traditionally regarded Americans as their best friends.
Where and how American goods shall be sold abroad is a
matter for the American people to decide. While international
16

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
custom has prescribed that a recognized government in time of
war may iniport war materials from friendly nations, Japan's
claim to the benefit of this custom has been forfeited by her re-
peated violation and repudiation of treaty obligations to the
United States, to China, and to the other signatories of the Kel-
logg Pact and the Nine Power Treaty.
Action by the United States, therefore, can be on grounds that
America will withhold economic support for war purposes from
any nation which is in process of violating a solemn treaty of
peace to which it is a signatory with the United States. Such
an action would be a logical and reasonable consequence of such
treaty violation, not an unfriendly act taken on the initiative of
the United States. It would apply in the case of the Nine-Power
Treaty but not in the case of the Kellogg Pact, the terms of which
prevent sudh implementation as the above.
The American people acting individually, in groups, and
through their government (an refuse to lend economic aid for
war purposes to a nation which is in the process of violating a
solemn ireaty of peace to which the United States is a parts.
Japan is clearly violating such a pact (the Nine-Power Treaty)
under which she bound herself with other signatories of the
treaty to respect the territorial and administrative integrity of
China.
On grounds of her own legitimate interests in peace and
security in the Pacific area, the United States can dedline to
endorse or support a course of conquest by a regime which has
steadily undermined the foundations upon which any just inter-
national order must rest.
5. Do American interests and traditional policies warrant a policy
of non-participation in Japanese aggression?
For decades American Far Eastern policy has proceeded on the
assumption that the best interests of China, of America, and of
the world generally, would be served by a unified and inde-
pendent government in China. It is dlear, propaganda to the
contrary, that an independent China will trade with the world.
while a conquered China will trade almost exclusively with Japan.
Maintenance of the right to participate in the trade of China on
terms of equality with other nations is an affirmed and reaffirmed
policy of the American Government.
Our Government has also repeatedly declared its interest in law
and order, in peace and the maintenance of international obliga-
17

=== Page 100 === (confidence 1.00)
tions. These intangibles have figured especially prominently in
our Far Eastern policies.
These policies reflect a concern not only with trade but also
with the future of American security in case the great Chinese
people become the pawns of another power. Some Americans
fear the consequences of Japanese domination in China. The
surest means for bringing this to pass is to continue supplying
Japan liberally with the means for conquest. Some Americans,
with less cause, perhaps, fear Russian domination in China. The
surest road to this is for all the other powers except Russia to
remain aloof while Japanese aggression in China continues. This
would bring about a growing feeling among the Chinese people
that they have nowhere else to turn but to the powerful neighbor
on their north and west. Most congenial to the American out-
look would be an independent China whose people are free to
choose their own destiny. The stopping of American assistance to
the Japanese military regime would be an important step in the
direction of helping to maintain an independent China-a China
ready and eager to cooperate with the United States of America.
From the standpoint of domestic interests, huge sums are now
being expended upon naval armaments which would be unneces-
sary but for the potential threat of Japan to the security of all
countries in the Pacific area. The burden thus levied upon
American taxpayers is many times greater than any temporary
losses involved in a cessation of our present war trade with Japan.
It is inconsistent with our own interests to supply to Japan the
sinews of war and then to spend huge sums in order to counteract
the growth in aggressive power which we are helping to make
possible.
6. Is Japan clearly the aggressor in the present conflict?
The fact that the conflict is being waged on Chinese soil is in
itself an answer to this question, rendering hollow the Japanese
militarists' claim of self-defense. Anti-Japanese feeling in China
is a consequence of Japanese encroachments. By impartial third
parties, Japan's aggression has been repeatedly recognized.
Since the occupation of Manchuria in 1931-32, which was
stigmatized by unanimous vote of the League of Nations as an
unwarrantable act of military force, Japan has steadily enlarged
the scope of its encroachments on China. This process continued
between 1932 and 1937, by dint of threats backed by military
18

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
force. Especially was this true in North China when Jehol,
Chahar and East Hopei were successively drawn into the orbit
of Japanese domination.
In July, 1937, despite all efforts by the Chinese Government,
the Japanese military authorities used the manufactured Marco
Polo Bridge "incident" near Peiping to start a general invasion
of China. Once again the League of Nations has recognized the
subsequent hostilities as a case of aggression by asking League
members to render aid to China. Both now and in 1931-32, the
American Government has adopted the same attitude as the
League. In response to a recent Congressional request, the State
Department included Japan among treaty-violating nations.
7. Is there a serious danger that the cutting off of economic assist-
ance to Japan might lead to war?
Even before the outbreak of hostilities, Japan's economic condi-
tion was becoming serious. Ihe present war, spreading over an
enormous area and being waged against seemingly limitless man
power and an altogether unexpected determination on the part
of the Chinese people, is already placing the Japanese Govern-
ment and military command in a desperate position; this is re-
flected in unprecedented efforts to break Chinese morale by
means of acreal bombings and in a tightening of every control
at home. Acute strain is becoming evident in Japan's fmancial
and commercial stru ture, due not only to the war itselt, but also
to Japan's utter dependence upon foreign markets and foreign
sources of supply. Japan. it seems, has already attempted more
than her home cconomy can support.
Meanwhile. Japan's military leaders have had to face a discon-
certing change in the balance ot forces in the Pacific area. Japan's
armament program after the invasion of Manchuria was matched
by a growth in the Far Eastein defences of Great Britain, Russia.
and France and in the naval power of America. Now that Japan's
military strength is spending itself in China, the balance is turn-
ing against her. While she becomes weaker, these nations. whose
interests are opposed to those of Japan in China, are becoming
stronger. Among these nations none possesses greater resources.
a greater industrial plant, and greater financial and commer ial
power than the United States.
Japan, meanwhile, is entirely dependent upon sources of supply
whidh other nations, unsympathetic with her aggressive aims, can
19

=== Page 102 === (confidence 1.00)
control. Even her navy could not operate for long. without
replenishment of oil and other essential supplies from abroad.
It is believed, therefore, that a policy on the part of the United
States of non-participation in Japanese aggression, while further
weakening Japan's capacity for war, would bring to the Japanese
an increased realization of the grave situation toward which their
present course is leading. Instead of initiating a war, it is be-
lieved that this simple policy of non-cooperation would prove to
be a curb, far more effective than verbal protests, to japanese
militaristic expansion, at a moment when such a curb can be
applied with a minimum of cost to ourselves.
It is not likely that Japan's militarist leaders would be so rash
as to attempt reprisals against the United States. They recognize
that, if they cannot readily win a war against China in their own
backyard, they cannot dream of wandering afield, when eco-
nomically exhausted, in order to engage in conflict the strongest
power in the world. War with the United States at this time
would mean a certain end to their dream of becoming a great
world power.
There is no historical support for the supposition that an
American embargo on war materials to Japan would lead to
war. An embargo by Russia and an effective stoppage of war
supplies from France to Japan have not done so.
It is reasonable, moreover, to believe that a policy of non-
cooperation now would involve far less risk of war than a con-
tinuation of the support which we are rendering to Japan.
8. Is it conceivable that an American policy of non-cooperation
might lead to an invasion of the Philippines?
Japan has already learned that invasion means the surrender
of trade with the invaded market and the antagonizing of the
invaded population. Thus China, Japan's most important mar-
ket, has been crippled for many years to come. The Philippines
have become an export market more important to Japan than
ever before since they yield revenues essential for the financing of
the present war. It is most unlikely that Japan will want to
sacrifice such revenues at her present critical financial juncture.
Another factor not to be neglected is that Japan has political
ambitions in the Philippines, and she knows that a physical
invasion at this time would permanently alienate masses of people
whom she is now trying to win for her position. Finally, even if
20

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
se were to be deprived of war materials from the United States,
she would not be willing to lose the last cent derived from her
enormous exports to this country; or from her commerce through
the Panama Canal. Both exports to this country, and trade with
Europe and Latin America through the Panama Canal, would
naturally be closed to her once she did such a rash and provoca-
tive thing. In general, Japan realizes that in the present balance
of world forces she is a world power only in the Far East and that,
outside the Sea of Japan, the vast superiority of the western
powers renders them immune to offensive action on her part.
9. Why is there a danger that our continued support to Japan
would lead to war?
Because, by supplying Japan with over half of the materials
needed from abroad for her vast expansionist program, we are
contributing to an indefinite prolongation of the present conflict,
with the continuous threat to international peace which this
involves. We are making it more possible for the military rulers
of Japan to continue their grandiose dream of complete domina-
tion in Asia, with enormous new resources and manpower under
their control. We are making more possible an ultimate Japa-
nese victory which, without our aid, could not be achieved.
A partial or complete victory for Japan in the end would pro-
duce an international situation more unstable than any which has
heretofore existed in the Pacific area. It would further strengthen
and consolidate the control which military leaders now have over
the Japanese government and nation thus postponing any change
in national policies which might result with the rise to power of
more liberal elements. The great ballast for peace which exists
with an independent China would be lost.
It is a foregone con lusion that the Japanese militarists, en-
trenched as overlords of Asia, would proceed to develop to
gigantic proportions the military and naval power of the Empire.
Now relatively weak they would then become genuinely strong.
As a vast militaristic empire they would be capable of thrcatening
the peace and security of the world for years-possibly generations
to come.
If a Japanese victory is achieved and consolidated, the Empire
will still be far from self-sufficient: there is little reason to doubt
that the newly won strength will be used to back up fresh
21

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
demands for raw materials and markets and political controls in
other areas where American interests are deeply involved.
A Japanese victory, moreover, would encourage and strengthen
the hands of aggressive powers elsewhere. Instead of being dis-
credited, aggression as an instrument of nationalistic policy would
be further established. Its success in this instance would lend
new impetus to the growing rule of force in the present-day
world.
1o. Would a stoppage of American economic aid to Japan le
effective?
Some essential materials, as indicated in articles which follow,
can be secured only from the United States. Particularly im-
portant among these are machinery and machine tools, special
steels and lubricating oils which are necessary for the operation
of industries - especially heavy industries — with standardized
American equipment. If the entire supply of other materials
from America were cut off, it would be difficult, if not impossible,
to get anywhere near sufficient quantities from elsewhere. Ger-
many and Italy could not supply Japan with what she needs,
even if they wished to do so. Purchases from Russia and France
are already checked. In Great Britain, public opinion would
render exceedingly difficult any governmental policy which ap-
peared to run counter to that of other powers in the Far East,
particularly if the United States were to stop furnishing economic
aid to the Japanese for the duration of the war.
In the total complicated balance of forces which exist in a
major conflict, a stoppage of American economic aid to Japan
now, would count heavily on the side of restraint for aggression.
11. What positive results may reasonably be expected from a
policy of non-cooperation with Japanese aggression?
A more speedy end to the war; an end to Japanese expansion
at the expense of the Chinese and of other peoples: a reduction
of the tax burden levied upon the American people for naval
armaments; a probable change in the Far Eastern balance of
power whereby China would emerge independent and free to
cooperate with other powers; a discrediting of the military regime
in Japan and the rise of a now repressed liberal element to a new
degree of influence; a general discrediting of military aggression
in this day as a means to nationalistic expansion; an earlier begin-
22

=== Page 105 === (confidence 1.00)
ning of reconstruction in China and Japan; and an earlier restora-
tion of peaceful trade and international security in the Pacific
area.
12. Would American industry and commerce sustain serious losses
by an embargo on munitions and war materials to Japan?
It has been stated that the two industries most affected would
lose the equivalent of approximately a week's work during the
year through a cessation of the Japanese war trade. This is a
price that would have to be paid as our contribution toward
peace and toward our own future security. Compared with the
loss in trade which has already taken place and which will increas-
ingly occur in the Orient as a result of continuance of the war,
this loss is small. Compared to the price we are now paying
through taxation for the expansion of naval armaments in the
Pacific, it is also small.
It is to be hoped that the United States will be willing to sacri-
fice that minute portion of its prosperity which now comes from
traffic and connivance in the suffering and sorrow of innocent
civilians, and that those who now benefit from such traffic will
be willing to take a longer and larger view of their responsibilities
and opportunities. It is to be hoped that, where possible, means
may be found to compensate for losses incurred.
A great future compensation will come with the resumption
of peaceful trade and with the expansion of investment and
market opportunities which friendly relations with an inde-
pendent China will insure. Moreover, resumption of peaceful
irade would restore our Japanese market for cotton, lumber and
other commodities which, unlike the trade in war essentials, are
permanently important to us. and which Japan has curtailed in
order to be able to continue buying military necessities.
13. Would a stoppage of cconomic aid to Japan tend to engender
hatred for the Japanese people?
There is a widespread and justified appreciation for many
admirable qualities of the Japanese people. It is in no spirit of
hatred for them that a policy of non-cooperation with Japanese
military leaders is being discussed. To the contrary, there is a
realization that the war which these leaders have engendered is
extremely burdensome to the common people of Japan, and that
it is to their interests that the conflict be brought to an early end.
23

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
The cessation of economic assistance, now, would not be an
injury to the Japanese people but to the capacity of military
leaders to continue waging aggressive war in China. The people
of the United States may well look forward to the time when
the Japanese people, the civilian population, in control of their
own destinies, can face their very difficult problems of internal
reconstruction. When such a time comes, it is to be sincerely
hoped that the United States will be ready to furnish liberal aid
and cooperation.
14. What would be the effect of such a policy upon the people of
China?
It would check the injury to the Chinese people which is inher-
ent in our economic assistance to their aggressors. It would re-
establish the faith of the Chinese in the goodwill and integrity of
the American people. The failure of the United States to take
any positive action in connection with the present desperate con-
flict has been and is being interpreted in China as evidence of
American weakness and insincerity. On the one hand we, indi-
vidually and collectively, protest our friendship for the Chinese
people and our allegiance to principles of international peace and
justice; on the other hand we continue to supply to Japan enor-
mous stores of materials which are converted into implements of
death in order to line our own pockets by this doleful traffic. The
Chinese have traditionally liked and respected America; mutual
bonds of friendship have prevailed. A policy of non-coopera-
tion with Japanese aggression now would serve to restore and
strengthen this relationship.
15. How would such an embargo affect the world economic situa-
tion?
By helping to bring the war to an end, it would make possible
an earlier restoration of international economic relations with
which the interests of the United States are inextricably inter-
woven.
16. How would such an embargo affect the international political
situation?
As a contribution toward an ending of the present conflict, it
would also be a positive step toward paving the way for a pea e
in which aggression would be outlawed. We would be doing our
part now in a more courageous and realistic way toward laying
new foundations for world peace.
24

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
17. What can America's contribution be toward the establishment
of a new era of international cooperation in the Pacific area?
A negative contribution can be that of firmness in refusing to
provide further assistance to Japan for her invasion of China. In
a definite way this would help to restore the prestige and sanctity
of international obligations.
More positively, the people of the United States have it in their
power to inject into international relations in this area a new
and broadened perspective based upon equality and mutual
advantage for all nations. They can think and work in behalf
of a new Pacific order in which justice rather than fore will
prevail. The negative and positive contributions are ne essary
to each other.
Specifically, the United States, when the opportune time comes,
(an participate in liberalizing international economic relation-
ships, in laying the groundwork for a new economic stability and
security, in favoring political adjustments which permit to the
Chinese people a chance to work out their own destiny, in build-
ing a new machinery for peaceful change and developing means
for preventing the violent overturn of this machinery, and in
reducing thus the haunting fear of new, destructive wars. Only
on such foundations can a new era of international peace, pros-
perity and goodwill be inaugurated.
25

=== Page 108 === (confidence 1.00)
WHAT EDITORS AND WRITERS
ARE SAYING...
U. S. ON THE SIDE OF LAW AND ORDER
"Though the United States has lived for two years under a
Neutrality Act which expresses its wish to remain at peace, the
American people are not neutral now in any situation involving
the risk of war, nor will they remain neutral in any future situa-
tion which threatens to disturb the balance of world power. ...
"In the case of China's fight for self-existence against Japanese
aggression, American sentiment is tapped by loyalties which come
readily to the surface. We sympathize instinctively with the
underdog. We cherish a special and long-standing friendship
with the Chinese people. We resent the ruthlessness of Japan's
attack. We are not ashamed of a frank commercial interest in
desiring the continuation of the Open Door.
"These considerations are responsible for the fact that Ameri-
can opinion has willingly supported Mr. Roosevelt in the main-
tenance of the elaborate fraud that no "war" exists-since a
finding that "war" is actually in progress would compel us to
invoke sections of the Neutrality Act which would react to the
disadvantage of China as against Japan.
"This is the first consequence of American unneutrality in the
Far East. But something more decisive is involved in this dispute.
We have cast our choice of sides in this dispute. We have cast
our influence in advance of an ultimate decision on the soil
of China, against any possibility that Japan will profit from
this adventure with our approval or support.
"We will not recognize as valid Japan's claim to one square
foot of Chinese territory conquered by force of arms. We will
not facilitate, through such recognition, the development of a
new code of property rights which would encourage the invest-
ment of foreign capital. We will not permit our own capital
to go to the aid of Japan in making her conquest a paying ven-
ture. The American banker or the American industrialist who
dared to propose American participation in any plan to develop
the resources of China under Japanese administration would
find the opinion in this country overwhelmingly against him.
To that extent at least, we have aligned ourselves with China
in her present struggle. ...
26

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
"There is reason to believe that . . . an effort to repeal the
Neutrality Act will succeed in reaching its objective when Con-
gress reconvenes. Certainly that result is greatly to be desired,
not only because it would liberate the foreign policy of the
United States from the effects of a law which attempts to pre-
scribe a fixed course of action in every possible emergency, re-
gardless of when and how that emergeney may arise and what its
effect on our own interests may be, but also because repeal of
the law would at least permit the material resources of the
United States to count on the side of international law and
order. . . ."
-From editorial, "A Way of Life,"
June 15, 1938. New York Times.
MUST AMERICA ABET BOMBING?
“For several days this newspaper has run quotations in this
space reporting the results of divilian bombing in China and the
share Ainerica has in it through the supplying of war materials.
particularly aircraft. Our purpose has been to widen and clarify
an appreciation of this relationship. Our hope has been that
when dearly seen this role would be rejected by the moral sense
of the American people. We believe it is so rejected. But there
remains the task of making that moral rejection effective and
dissolving America's partnership with bombers.
"Three principal ways of procceding present themselves:
"1. Governmental pressure. Secretary Hull has voiced the hope
that American aircraft manufacturers will refrain from ship-
ments to Japan. The June figures on plane exports may show
how effective this plea has been. But the survey made by the
Monitor discdoses à marked silence on the part of several big
plane manufacturers as to their attitude and action. Despite
the highly commendable sentiments of some plane makers the
impression remains that those who are doing a good business
will not be stopped by intimations of State Department wishes.
"It should be noted that Mr. Hull's statement was not a direct
or formal request made to plane manufacturers but a hope ex-
pressed in the press. Judged by past experience much more
definite pressure will be required if the United States is to
ease being Japan's dhief aid in the bombing business. State
Department hints of a similar kind did not prevent America
being a supply base for Italy in Ethiopia or both sides in Spain.
27

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
"2. Governmental embargoes. Without action of Congress any
embargoes would have to be applied under the Neutrality Act
and would shut off supplies to China as well as Japan. The
State Department makes a good case to show that they would
injure the aggressee more than the aggressor. Those who are not
concerned about which is the aggressor and are determined only
that America shall have no part in war make a good case for
embargoes to end supplies to both sides.
"3. Voluntary measures by individuals and groups. The most
effective moves of this kind have been taken by dock workers and
sailors who have refused to handle war supplies for Japan. On
Friday the Monitor carried an account of the resolution adopted
by the Waterside Workers' Federation in Melbourne, refusing to
load tin clippings which might be used for "war and the ruth-
less slaughter of non-combatants." Similar action has been
taken by other dock workers in Australia and England.
"In the United States there have been only sporadic efforts of
this kind, and they have not been effective in stopping American
supplies for Japan. So far as we have heard there has been no
movement among stockholders or employees of aircraft com-
panies to curb this business. Others who have neither profits
nor wages to lose should be slow to take a holier-than-thou atti-
tude. They might offer to share the sacrifice by some form of
compensation for orders rejected.
"There is also the argument, 'If we don't supply them some-
body else will.' But that will not be persuasive with men and
women who are deeply moved by a moral revolt against being
accessories to civilian bombing. And if the moral position be-
comes clearer, hands will cease to carry out an evil the heart
condemns. Despite all the obstacles there can be no doubt that
if conscience becomes sufficiently awakened it will find ways to
stop American aid to civilian bombing. Effective action by
private and governmental agencies awaits only such awakening."
-Christian Science Monitor.
DISASTROUS DEFEAT IN FOREIGN RELATIONS
"It would be the most disastrous defeat in the history of
America's participation in world affairs if, just as we are coming
within reach of the evolutionary, non-revolutionary liberation of
China foreseen by John Hay and guarded as an article of faith
in our Far Eastern policy ever since, we should bring it to abor-
28

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
tion by lending our money, our industry, and our political
influence to the uses of Japan."
-OWEN LATTIMORE,
Atlantic Monthly, July, 1938.
MEANS CAN AND MUST BE FOUND
"The time has come for a fresh address to the question of sell-
ing war materials to Japan-cither munitions or materials essen-
tial to munitions. For one thing, no legal rationalizing, no
philosophical detachment can blur the realization that the
United States is and has been for a year accessory after the fact
of a war of invasion, a war carried on with a maximum of
cruelty, in violation of every article of even the elastic moral
code of war. Nor does aquittal at law absolve America from
responsibility for the result. Moreover, in supplying Japan with
the means of attempting to conquer China, America has been
conniving at its own detriment. What has happened to foreign
interests at Peiping. Tientsin, Shanghai, foreshadows the fate of
American interests in the event of Japanese victory. Further-
more, with the rapid exhaustion of Japanese reserves Japan be-
comes increasingly dependent on American sources of supply
and by so much vulnerable to American decision on continued
purveyance. Increasingly, then. America becomes Japan's ar-
imoury, for the forging of weapons in the long run directhy against
itself. It should renounce the role.
"The mechanism of the law is an obstacle. Official embargo
may still not be practicable. But it is necessary to begin to
canvass possibilities for bringing about a cessation of the flow
of materials to Japan without contravening the law or definitive
new legislation. Provisions for licensing arms shipments offer
one means. The kind of pressure that can be levied by the
government to prevent loans to foreign governments is another,
if levied in the matter of sales of munitions or materials for
munitions. There is still a third. The same end can be a hieved
as a matter of reprisals.
"There has been ample ground for reprisals in the past. There
will be others in the future. Japan already stands as violator
of contractual obligations to the United States. Japan ha、 broken
the Nine Power Treaty and the Kellogg Pact. Japan has com-
mitted open offenses such as the sinking of the Panav. It is
within the right and the power of the American government on
the occasion of every derogation of American rights or offense
29

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
against American persons or property to declare by executive
order or congressional resolution that in reprisal thercfor the
export of some commodity will be forbidden. If the Japanese
refuse to permit Americans to return to Nanking, as it actually
does in complete violation of all treaty rights, America retali-
ates by shutting off the supply of copper. If Japan refuses to
evacuate American property such as hospitals, colleges and mis-
sions-as it does-America shuts off the supply of iron. If Japa-
nese officials announce that extra-territorial rights are not valid
for Americans in zones under Japanese occupation, thus unilater-
ally abrogating treaties between China and the United States,
America shuts off the supply of automobiles. If Japanese military
refuse to permit Americans to return to their places of busine
in the Hongkew and Yangtzepoo districts of Shanghai, as they
do, the supply of something else is shut off. There will be ample
opportunity. The offenses of Japan, offenses under international
law, are infinite. It is necessary only to read half a dozen issues
of the North China Daily News. The dossier of the Departnent
of State must be of prodigious thickness. The means are less
important than the end, which is that America must cease being
the provisioner of the Japanese army in an aggression abominable
in itself and working toward America's injury. The means can
be found and they must be found. And organized efforts mast
be made to find them and to have them put into effect."
-NathanieL Peffer, Amerasia
(from August issue by permissio).
AMERICA'S GIFT TO AGGRESSORS
"At first American business asked for prepayment in full be-
fore accepting orders (for munitions to Japan) but when the de-
pression deepened, the 'cash with order' policy was modified.
Orders were accepted on the basis of 4o per cent down and the
rest on delivery. Now there is talk of à $5o,ooo,ooo credit to
Japan for purchases here.
"Meanwhile Japan's war orders which brought a measure of
prosperity to the war traders have resulted in a great de line in
cotton sales, evening out the score for business as a whole. Of
one thing there can be no doubt, however, and that is the
United States is an important factor in keeping the Japanese
Juggernaut rolling."
-H. C. Engelbrecht, The Nation.
30

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
AMERICA MAKES INVASION POSSIBLE
"An arms embargo against Japan would have almost immedi-
ate effedt. Washington's tender consideration for the murderous
Japanese is unjustified. The American Government not only
supports the aggressor but makes the continued invasion pos-
sible. Military experts in Europe and the United States have
dedared that Japan would have to withdraw her troops from
China if American imports to Japan were stopped."
-LuDwig Lore, New York Post.
OUR NATIONAL STAKE IN CHINESE RESISTANCE
"We cannot pietend to be uninterested in the creation of a
Japanese empire whidh might extend from Siberia to Singapore.
We have, over and above our abstract sympathies, a great na-
tional stake in the Chinese resistance. For we know quite well
that only the Chinese can hope to stop the Japanese in Asia,
and what we can do to encourage them, short of war, we shall
be disposed to do."
-WAliEk LiprmAs. New York Herald-Tribune.
THE WORLD AND THE VICTOR
“The world, then, has these possibilities to face. Which would
be the better victor, speaking tor the world, Japan or China?
It seems to me immeasurably to the benefit of the human race
that China be victorious. . . It Japan wins, she will be come
not only a first dass power but a superpower, holding in her
hands the Orient. Her swollen pride will immediatehy lead her
to further conquest. She will think of territory and of power un-
matched since the davs of the Roman Empire. The victory of
Japan will mean a great deal more than the victory in this war.
It will mean the triumph in the Orient of the imperialistie and
fascistic ideas of a militarist nation. It will mean that the world
must immediately see to it that armament is matdhed for arma-
ment to an even greater extent than now, for further wrs will
be inevitable. .. The kind of thinking the Chinese have done
for centuries has produced a human being less dangerous to
society than the one produced by Japanese thinking. Ii Japan
wins. let the world prepate for further strife and aggression or.
if not these, at least for constant conflict. If China wins, we
may hope for peace."
-PeaRt Buck, in Asia Magatne.
81

=== Page 114 === (confidence 1.00)
IF CHINA WINS, AMERICA WINS. WHY ARM JAPAN?
"That the inhumanity of Japan's monstrous aggression in
China is abhorrent to every self-respecting man and woman is
clearly evident in the world reaction to the undeclared war now
raging on Chinese soil. But there is still doubt in many minds
as to the real significance of China's fight for us and for the
rest of the world. China is fighting not only a defensive war to
retain its national integrity; it is fighting to preserve for us and
the rest of the world an Open Door to legitimate trade and
commerce with its four hundred million people.
"The American people must recognize the fact that if Japan
gains its objectives in China the doors of the Far East will be
shut tight. American high standards of living depend to a large
degree upon a world open to all on a free and equal basis. In
supplying Japan with large quantities of its munitions require-
ments, we become a silent partner in a war against China which
is fighting to preserve its independence, a condition which con-
stitutes the basis of our whole Far Eastern policy. On the other
hand, a victory for China is a victory for everything that America
has stood for in the Far East for half a century. Why then do we
aid Japan to make that victory difficult if not impossible?"
-PHILIP J. JAFFE,
Managing Editor of "Amerasia."
AN UNSAVORY ALLIANCE
"The renewed bombing of open Chinese cities following the
establishment of a Cabinet in Tokyo dominated by extremists
calls for a re-examination of the undeniable facts of American
aid to the Japanese war machine. The extent of American eco-
nomic participation has hitherto been generally underestimated.
A recent careful study of the Japanese economy, the most ex-
haustive yet attempted, shows that in recent months the United
States has supplied no less than 54.5 per cent of the war materials
essential to the Japanese invasion of China. Only in very small
part have these consisted of actual munitions of the type covered
by the Neutrality Act. The one exception is in the field of
aircraft. The United States contributed $1,ooo,ooo worth of
planes and parts to Japan in April alone.
"Far more important, however, from the standpoint of Japanese
military efficiency are the huge shipments of American scrap
iron, oil, copper, and machinery. Before the war Japan's imports
32

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
from the United States consisted primarily of raw materials for
its textile industry-cotton and wood pulp. In the past year these
commodities have practically dropped out of the picture as Japan
has concentrated on primary military necessities. April saw 40
per cent of our petroleum exports and 4o per cent of our copper
exports go to Japan. Many of the American airplanes used in
bombing Chinese cities can only be flown with American high-
grade gasoline. Scarcely a week passes without the shipment of
three or four cargoes of scrap iron and steel from New York
alone. The development of Japanese heavy industry for war
purposes has also brought a tremendous increase in the purchases
of iron and steel products. In 1937 Japanese steel imports from
this coun ry rose to nearly a million tons, an eighteen-fold in-
crease over the previous year. Machine exports, which are the
foundation of Japan's future strength, have likewise skyrocketed.
Last year contracts were signed for the sale of three complete con-
tinuous sheet-and-strip mills, the most efficient equipment of its
kind to be found in the world.
"The most effective weapon for destroying America's partner-
ship with Japan in the rape of China is the consumers' boycott.
Japan cannot buy if it cannot sell, and the United States still
absorbs some 25 per cent of Japanese exports. The bovcott is
unquestionably growing in scope and effectiveness. Reports from
New England, the South. and the Middle West testify to its
increasing popularity. It is in large measure responsible for the
45 per cent decline in imports from Japan in the first four months
of this year as compared with the corresponding period of a year
ago. Silk, the most crucial of these imports, dropped 31 per cent
in quantity and 4o per cent in value in the first quarter of the
year.
"The refusal of longshoremen and sailors to load or carry war
supplies to Japan offers another promising method of stopping
American aid. If carried out by the United States alone. the effect
would be unimportant, since Japan could shift most of its orders
elsewhere. But the longshoremen of England, France. the Seandi-
navian countries. and Australia have already indicated their will-
ingness to participate in united labor sanctions. There are strong
intimations that some of the American unions are already pre-
pared to tie up shipments of war materials if they can be assured
of gencral support, and the resolution adopted by the executive
committee of the Federal Council of Churches last week indicates
that this support will be forthcoming. But it is important that
33

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
neither longshoremen nor hosiery workers should be asked to
bear the brunt of the responsibility. The rank and file of the
people who hate war must share the burden to the extent of
providing a peace chest for persons thrown out of work by either
form of boycott. If this is done adequately and efficiently, there
is no reason to fear that labor will not do its part. The price is
a trivial one if it severs this country's unhappy alliance with the
war-makers."
-The Nation.
DEATH IS A COMMODITY
"Some American oil companies are sure missing a good bet.
They ought to advertise: "Whose oil is used in Jap airplanes
bombing Canton? Ours. Whose gasoline? Ours. Buy from us
and know you're buying a tested product."
"Yessir, let's be generous with recognition. Let's give every
seller of scrap iron a medal (appropriately made of scrap iron)
with this motto on it: "Death is a Commodity."
"Let's no longer criticize United States munitions makers, for
they can prove they have been fair-that is, they've sold to both
sides. The nationality of the corpse never interests them; it's
just his killer's credit rating.
"Brother, remember what a good time you had in your old
jallopy you drove in 193o? Those Sunday drives? The picnics?
Pretty mean of me to bring that up. But the scrapped brake-
drum of that old pleasure boat just finished off a mother and
her five children in Canton, China, two days ago. How's your
family?"
-CAL TINNEY, Columnist.
JAPAN'S GHASTLY TACTICS
"In taking steps to discourage the sale of airplanes to Japan,
because of the campaign of frightfulness waged by that country
against the helpless populations of Canton and other Chinese
cities, Secretary Hull will have the warm approval of the great
majority of Americans.
"It is apparent that mere verbal protests by the United States
and other nations against the boinbing of undefended cities,
34

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
whether in Spain or China. have no immediate effect. Certainly
the Japanese wailords have not been deterred by such protests
from continuing to vent their sadistic fury on Canton. where
the death toll from repeated air raids now runs into many
thousands. More drastic measures are obviously called for to
give point to the civilized world's disapproval of such ghastly
tactics.
"The United States and other nations that have expressed
their deep disapproval of air raids on civilian centers would
be open to charges of hypocriss if, at the same time, thes should
continue to send to the offenders the means whereby stch out-
rages can be committed."
-Washin gton Post.
OUR STRANGE NEUTRALITY ACT
"Our strange neutrality act continues to breed strange conse-
quences. ... As The Nation wisecracked. it is admirably designed
to keep us out of the last war. The President was dissatisfied
with this act at the time of passage. but he didn't put up the
fight against it that he might have. We wish he had: wish it
more as the effects of this law become more grotesque. ...
"Altogether, our Neutrality Law is building toward a terrific
blowup in our faces. Wed better repeal it as soon a、 we can.
and drop these well meant but futile efforts to outguess the
future."
-New York Dai!. Nes.
America-Japan's arsenal.
35

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
WHAT CHURCH LEADERS ARE SAYING ...
THE JAPANESE TURN TO AMERICA
FOR SINEWS OF WAR
"An observer with considerable first-hand knowledge of China
writes from Hankow that the Japanese would like to quit but
cannot do so without losing face. Japanese officers, he says, are
refusing to obey their high command and materials of war com-
ing from Japan are said to be below par, due presumably to
the fact that the country lacks raw materials. It is stated further
that they would have been compelled to withdraw from China
were it not for the materials they have been receiving in increas-
ing amounts from the United States. We shipped them $85,ooo
in arms in October last year, with the amount steadily rising until
in February we shipped them $1.184,0oo worth.
"The Japanese militarists had planned for a two months cam-
paign, believing they would be able to conquer China in that
time. Sufficient oil had been stored to carry on for that period.
When the supply was exhausted they turned to us and got 25
million gallons. The next month they got 1o5 million gallons
and the next 337 million gallons. One steel company alone
shipped them 844,ooo tons of steel in four months. We shipped
them more iron in the last four months of 1937 than in the
previous six years. Shipments of scrap iron tripled in a year.
First we demanded cash, on the theory that otherwise we would
become involved in the war. Our money-makers then decided
that it would be safe to ask for but 4o% payment in cash; now
there is talk of a huge credit pool so that we can continue to
send the instruments of war to Japan with no cash payinents.
All of which is done in spite of a so-called policy of neu-
trality. ...
"People say it does no good to write letters to the President; to
Secretary of State Hull; to Congressmen; to Senators. It does.
The Senate's Civil Liberties Committee received its appropriation
to carry on its work last week, largely because of leiters re-
questing it. No shipments of the instruments of war, and the
materials out of which munitions are made, to Japan would stop
their aggression in a short time. Present your demands to your
servants in Washington and thus help save China for the
Chinese."
—WILLIAM B. SPOfFORD, Chairman,
Church League for Industrial Democracy.
36

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
SHRAPNEL WITH AMERICAN MARKINGS
". . . Our missionary workers have even taken from the body
of a slain child on a Shanghai street a piece of shrapnel that bore
markings showing that it had come from American scrap iron.
Stop this trade! It is slaughtering innocent Chinese."
—Mrs. VIncenT T. SHipLeY, Chairman of
the Women's Committee of the Presby-
terian Foreign Missions Board.
OUR MORAL JUDGMENT IS NULLIFIED
"For nearly a year the conscience of thoughtful Americans has
been uneass, to state it mildly, over the present relation that
exists between the United States and Japan.
"I am confident that the great majority of American citizens
consider the so-called "undedlared" war between Japan and
China to be an unprovoked and brutal war of aggression on the
part of Japan. I believe that our country as a whole condemns
Japan.
"And yet we continue to sell Japan scrap iron and other com-
modities for the manufa ture of guns and bombs, and Japan
pays us through our purchases of her raw silks and other goods.
As a result, our moral judgment which condemns Japan for this
war is practically nullified by our trade with her.
-THe Right Rev. ALexander MaNn.
Bishop of Pittsburgh.
A PLEA FOR ACTION
After the 15oth General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church
in the United States ended its sessions with condemnation of the
"needless destruction" of lives and property of non-combatants
in China and with informal endorsement, through thunderous
applause, of a plea to stop shipments of scrap iron from this
country to Japan, Rev. Dr. Charles W. Welch of Louisville, the
Moderator, said:
"Don't go back to vour Presbyteries with big chests, bragging
that you are Presbyterians. You are not until you have put into
practice what we have resolved to do in this General Assembly."
37

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
CYNICISM, COWARDICE, IRRESPONSIBILITY
"America's peace efforts have been ineffective because they have
been in terms of cynicism, cowardice and irresponsibility, in-
stead of terms of expectation, courage and honorable action.
They have been war-evading rather than peace-making.
"America is in the position of saying to Japan, 'We hate and
despise what you are doing in China. You have broken faith
with us, and are undermining world security on which our own
well-being depends. But as long as you can pay us we will con-
tinue to sell you what you need, and can't get anywhere else, in
order to go on doing it.'
"Japan has invaded China not at all because China lacks good
government and unity, but because China's remarkable progress
in both good government and unity, since 1933, constituted to
the Japanese military mind an alarming threat not only to
Japan's imperialistic ambitions on China's mainland, but to
Japan's dominance in the Far East."
-Rev. E. W. Luccock,
Pastor of Shanghai Community Church.
THE GUILTY AND THE INNOCENT
"Sooner or later the American public must realize that it can
not remain indifferent to acts of international outlawry; that it
must join with other nations in making some distinction in the
treatment accorded to the guilty and the innocent. This need
not involve the obligation to make war upon the guilty; but it
may well involve a determination to cut off all trade relations
with a state which violates its international obligations."
-Committee on International Law and Organization
and Joint Policy Committee of the Catholic Asso-
ciation for International Peace. Rev. R. A. Mc-
Gowan is Chairman of the first, and Prof. Charles
G. Fenwick is chairman of the second committee.
EMBARGO AGAINST THE AGGRESSOR
"The World Alliance for International Friendship Through
the Churches shares the well-nigh universal condennation of
Japan in their aggression in China, believing that the difficulties
38

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
might have been adjusted by peaceful means, in accordance with
the Nine-Power Treaty and the Briand-Kellogg Pact, to both of
which Japan, as well as China, is a signatory. . . .
"Since the present neutrality legislation permits no distinction
between the victim and the aggressor and tends to quarantine
the peaceful nations rather than war, we believe that the present
law should be amended so as to provide that, when a nation has
violated a treaty to which the United States is a party and oppor-
tunity for peaceful settlement has been refused, the President
shall have power to lift the embargo from the nation agreeing
to accept a peaceful settlement and to apply it only against the
aggressor."
-World Alliance for International
Friendship through the Churches.
PENALTY NECESSARY TO PREVENT WAR
"Benedict XV in his great Letter to the Warring Powers, in
order to reinforce a program of arbitration, of disarmament and
of supremacy of moral right over military power, recommended
that penalties be imposed on any governinent that refuses to
submit a national dispute to arbitration or to accept a decision
once rendered.
"A penalty short of war is necessary to prevent war. Ihe pen-
alty that is immediately eflective in case war threatens or has
been dedared is the cconomic penalty of boycotting the nation
which refuses arbitration or aibitral decision. If the nations
were in carnest to stop a war this would probably be the action
decided on in the international consultation which both major
parties have agreed should be the settled practice of our country
when war threatens anvwhere. But unless the United States
agrees to a bovcott polie beforehand, the air cannot be deared
of fears because there would be no certainty of any effective
peacelul action whatsoever. Indeed, unless a different policy is
agreed on beforehand, the nations might after consultation even
leap to the ultimate san tion of war.
-From statement issued by the Reverend Dr. John A.
Ryan. Social Acion Dept., National Catholhe Welfare
Conference: Prof. Parker T. Moon of Columbia Univer-
sity, and Prof. Charles G. Fenwick of Bryn Matar College.
39

=== Page 122 === (confidence 1.00)
ARMS EMBARGO ON JAPAN
ASKED BY METHODISTS
Foundry Church Acclaims Plea
"A congregation of 8oo men and women in the Foundry Meth-
odist Episcopal Church yesterday rose in dramatic acclamation
of a resolution calling for embargo on shipment of war materials
to Japan. The action followed immediately the Rev. Frederick
Brown Harris' stern condemnation of Japanese "ruthlessness,"
delivered from his pulpit.
"The resolution and its reception are unprecedented in the
123-year history of the Foundry Church," Dr. Harris said. . . .
"'It is just as incongruous to maintain relations with Japan."
the cleric said, "as it would be to entertain the Cash kidnapper
in our homes." He praised the "bravery" of President Roosevelt's
Chicago speech calling for a quarantine of aggressor nations, but
said the speech had not been translated into policy "because
public opinion has not been mobilized behind it."
"Dr. Harris quoted with approval Theodore Roosevelt's state-
ment that he put only one thing before peace-righteousness.
"'It is unthinkable,' he concluded, 'that a Christian nation
should stand silent while these wanton attacks continue.'
"The text of the resolution adopted by the congregation is as
follows:
"'Whereas Japan has day after day ruthlessly bombed the un-
defended city of Canton, resulting in more than 8,ooo dead and
wounded non-combatants and untold destruction of property,
and has announced through Government spokesmen its intention
of continuing such action,
"'Be it resolved that the Government of the United States im-
mediately adopt the policy of non-participation in aggression by
planning an embargo on exports to Japan of munitions and war
materials, including oil, gasoline, pig and scrap iron, airplanes
and airplane parts, machinery and engines, copper, automobiles
and auto accessories and chemicals."
"'Dr. Harris told The Post he would join a delegation from
New York, representing Nation-wide church, peace and labor
40

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
groups, in calling at the White House today to urge 'concrete
action' against Japan."
-Washington Post,
June 12, 1938.
THE PRICE OF OUR FAILURE
"The tragedy is that while the peace forces divide, the fascist
war-makers unite. And all the world prepares and thus helps to
make more certain the war which their aggression promotes. The
price of failure to achieve unity to withhold war supplies from
the war-makers is an inevitable universal conflict."
-The Methodist Federation for Social Service.
PEACE WOULD BE SERVED
"The tragedy now taking place in China is bound to affect
world peace and the spread of the Christian gospel. It is impos-
sible for one to be neutral in the presence of this brutal aggres-
sion. Despite my love for both countries, I have been unable to
reach any condlusion except that Japan is the aggressor without
any valid excuse whatever. To withhold support both in finances
and munitions from the Japanese would greatly serve to bring
peace in China and restore to power in Japan a liberal and
internationally-minded leadership."
-BISHOP ARTHUR J. MOORE.
Methodist Episcopal Church, South.
A TELEGRAM TO PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT
"Because of Japan's continued war upon China, thus violating
her agreement with us in the Pact of Paris never to resort to war
as a means of settling disputes and her violation of the laws of
humanity by bombing helpless civilians in undefended cities like
Canton and her announced intention of continuing to do so, I
earnestly request you to do all in your power to have an embargo
placed upon the export to Japan of munitions and all other war
materials as a protest against her international lawlessness. You
will have the overwhelming support of the American people in
so doing."
-CHesTer A. SmirH, Chairman of the Commission on
Social Service, New York Conference of the Methodist
Episcopal Church.
41

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
WHAT CHINA'S LEADER IS SAYING...
WITHHOLD MILITARY SUPPLIES
"China is fighting the battle of the United States and Great
Britain because she is fighting not only for her national salvation
but also for the maintenance of respect for treaties.
"Disturbance of peace in the Far East must necessarily affect
American and British interests considerably.
"But what is more important than their national interests is
the joint responsibility of America and England, as civilized
nations, to uphold justice and the principles of humanity.
"Since hostilities began we have received the sympathy of
various nations and we are grateful to America and England for
their share of sympathy and assistance. Our people, however,
regret to observe that the caution now exercised by the British
and American Governments only tends to increase the menace
to the cause of peace. What China expects mainly from America.
England and other countries is that they give material assistance
to China and withhold military supplies from Japan. Only by
such measures can aggression be curbed and the civilization of
mankind maintained."
-GENERAL CHIANG KAI-SHEK.
WHAT JAPANESE OFFICIALS
ARE SAYING ...
WHAT WAR IS
"War is the Father of Creation and the Mother of Culture.
Rivalry for supremacy does for the state what struggling against
adversity does for the individual. It is such impetus, in the one
case, as in the other, that prompts the birth and development of
Life and Cultural Creation."
-Pamphlet published from Press Bureau
of Japanese War Office.
ABSURD RESOLUTIONS
"We must request the League to study the situation still more.
Such absurd resolutions as that condemning Japanese airmen
42

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
for bombing defenseless cities may not be passed hereafter. But
Japan is not a member of the League and what the League does
or says politically is no concern of ours. No resolution or action
of the League will cause Japan to swerve from her course."
-Japanese Foreign Office Spokesman.
AMERICA'S MORALITY
"We Japanese have no fear of any change in America's foreign
policy for Americans have no real morality but only pious phrases.
What Americans have means so much more to them than what
they are that they will continue to sell to Japan whatever Japan
has the money to pay for, regardless of what Japan does with it
after she gets it."
-Japanese representative.
FROM THE JAPANESE VIEWPOINT
"America's attitude towards the China incident is fair and
just."
—FOREIGN MINISTER KOKI HIROTA.
WHAT OTHERS ARE SAYING...
A TELEGRAM TO THE PRESIDENT
"In the name of humanity I implore you to take drastic
measures to save Chinese non-combatants. The world looks to
you as champion of the handicapped and the defenseless. You
will justify America as the friend of mankind by placing an
embargo on all war materials to Japan."
-HELEN KELLER, noted blind and
deaf writer and lecturer.
BOYCOTT THE AGGRESSOR
"The best method of preventing these nations from killing
defenseless women and children is for the masses of the people
to boycott as far as possible . . . that aggressor nation.
—AdMiRAL. RicHaRD E. ByRD, U. S. N., retired.
43

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
A MESSAGE TO ROOSEVELT
Everyone I meet seems to be in sympathy with the Chinese-
no one seems to have a good word for the Japs. Yet we supply
Japan with most of the things necessary to kill and maim the
Chinese to whom we, as a nation of citizens, extend our sympathy.
Japan continues to violate our rights and do everything in its
power to insult us and then says to the Secretary of State, "Sorry,
so sorry."
Why does Japan apologize? Because Japan and the Japanese
know that without the things they get from us they wouldn't
last a month in China. Mr. Roosevelt said, "I hate war." There
are more people on relief now than in 1932. The Japan-China
war has started since then and it certainly hasn't put our mil-
lions of unemployed back to work, so our whole existence doesn't
depend on Japan. Why not embargo war materials and stop
the war in China? It's a perfectly simple and easy way for a
peace loving nation to achieve the desired result and honor and
peace at any price. If we don't do it now, we'll have to fight
for it later. I'd rather see our people on relief than dead on any
battlefield!
-Ernest G. Jarvis, President, Niagara
Falls Smelting and Refining Corp.
JAPAN AMOK
"Japan should be considered as having run amok just as a
madman and she should be treated as such. What to do? Quar-
antine her in the same sense that President Roosevelt used the
word in his Chicago speech."
-GrovEr CLArk, late Professor of Government at Denver
University, noted authority on Far Eastern affairs.
THE A. F. OF L. ATTITUDE
". . . Because the officers and members of the American Fed-
eration of Labor abhor war and regard it as a primitive, brutal
and uncivilized process for the settlement of disputes which
arise between nations, labor believes that it should utilize the
one means at its command to not only voice its protest against
war, and particularly against unjustifiable warfare, but for the
definite purpose of helping to speed the termination of the
shocking, horrible conflict raging in China.
44

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
". . . We realize that unless the democratically governed
people stand together refusing to sell arms and munitions or to
make loans to any country violating international peace and law,
the other countries, whose interests lie in aggression and arbi-
trary rule, will make common cause with Japan, and protests of
individual countries will be useless."
-WiLLIAm GREEN, American Federation of Labor.
DAILY SHIPMENTS OF MATERIALS TO JAPAN
"Daily from Baltimore, San Francisco and elsewhere go forth
thousands of tons of scrap iron and other raw materials for
Japan. Scrap iron to be used for war mechanism, artillery and
bombs-bombs which fall on helpless civilian populaces like
Canton and Suchow. And why do such conditions exist? How
long do you suppose Japan could carry on her military invasion
of a poor and helpless people if it were not for the raw materials
which we ship her?"
—BENJAMIN R. STICKNEY, JR.
OUR HANDS ARE STAINED WITH CHINESE BLOOD
"When we trade with Japan we help pay for this invasion of
China. Our hands that buy and sell are stained with Chinese
blood."
-E. STANLEY JoNES, Noted American missionary.
GIVE AID TO CHINA
"If we want to sell war materials, let us sell them in wholesale
lots to China so she may be more able to defend herself against
her barbaric enemy who stops at nothing short of outrage to
gain her unrighteous ends. .. . It is high time that all our
people should vigorously protest against any aid to Japan."
-H. B. BRADIORD.
DISGRACEFUL TO DO NOTHING
"I strongly urge immediate adoption of a poliev of non-
participation in aggression stopping Japan's merciless slaughter
of non-combatants. Can not something be done by the United
45

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
States to put an embargo not only on airplanes but on gasoline,
oil, automobiles, iron, copper and chemicals to Japan. It is
disgraceful for the United States to do nothing."
—EDGAR H. RuE, Secretary, American Committee,
Institution for the Chinese Blind.
How Australian Longshoremen Feel and Act ...
MELBOURNE, Australia. – The Australian Trade Union
Movement was on record today with its affiliates of waterside
workers, as opposing the loading of war supplies to Japan.
They have implemented their resolutions with dockside action
and dockside workers are now refusing to load war supplies
destined for Japan.
"Being opposed to war and the ruthless siaughter of non-
combatants arising thercfrom," states the resolution of the
Australian trade union movement, "we are compelled by con-
viction and conscience to refrain from loading metals or other
products likely to be used in the manufacture of munitions by
belligerent nations."
After the Sydney branch of the Waterside Workers' Federation
refused to load war materials for Japan on the grounds that "If
we hold back the weapons, we hold back the crime." shippers
began to send cargoes io Melbourne for loading.
However, the Melbourne bran h of the Federation followed
the lead taken at Sydney and likewise refused to handle war
goods to Japan. Shippers willing to supply Japan with war
supplies have been unable to fulfill their contracts with the
Japanese munitions factories.
-Dispatches appearing in the
Christian Science Monitor.
War in China-Made in Japan.
46

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
WHAT RESOLUTIONS ARE BEING PASSED...
Resolution adopted by the National Convention of the General
Federation of Women's Clubs, Assembled May 10-17, 1938, at
Kansas City, Missouri:
Resorved, That the Genera! Federation of Women's Clubs in
convention assembled, May, 1938, support in principle Congres-
sional legislation to implement the aforesaid non-recognition
p licy of the United States by empowering the Government of
the United States in consultation with other states signatory of
he K llogg-Briand Pact to withhold from the violating state any
financal transac tions which shall enable it to prosecute the war
or to consolidate its gains; and be it further
ResoivED, That the General Federation of Women's Clubs
advocate that whenever the Government of the United States
shall find, after consultation with other states signatory of a
treaty, that a state is invading another state in violation of the
treaty it may be authorized to employ against the invader eco-
nomic measures, not including war but including prohibitions of
loans and credits for war purposes or for consolidation of its
gains, and to place embargoes on munitions of war or other ma-
terial, except food stuffs, as may be used directly or indirectly
in the prosecution of the war.
A PROGRAM FOR WOMEN
In an attempt to make greater progress in the promotion of
peace, the Conference recommends to its member organizations
for urgent consideration the following subjects judged by the
delegates to be, at present. the most essential points of its
program:
For Legislative Action:
1. Revision of the neutrality policy of the United States
through legislation designed to keep our country out of war and
to permit cooperation with other nations to prevent war. ...
d. The embargo (including munitions, credits and essential
war materials) may be removed by the President from a nation
which, as the result of consultation (with other nations signa-
tory to the Pact of Paris), is agreed to be the victim of aggression.
47

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
—National Committee on Cause and Cure of War,
"Program for 1938," member organizations being:
American Association of University Women
General Federation of Women's Clubs
National Board of the Y. W. C. A.
National Committee of Church Women
National Council of Jewish Women
National Federation of Business and Professional Women's
Clubs
National Home Demonstration Council
National League of Women Voters
National Women's Christian Temperance Union
National Women's Conference of American Ethical Union
National Women's Trade Union League
Action taken by Executive Committee of the Federal Council
of Churches of Christ in America, June 3, 1938.
The Executive Committee of the Federal Council of Churches
of Christ in America makes vigorous protest against the con-
tinued bombing of the civilian populations of China and Spain.
We request that our Department of International Justice and
Good Will transmit this action to the President and the Secretary
of State.
We also respectfully call upon the Christian bodies in other
lands to take similar action.
War cannot be refined of its savage cruelty. There will be out-
rages against God and humanity as long as there is war. Despite
this fact, the Christian Church cannot but lift its voice in protest
against the barbaric practices of bombing civilian populations.
To do otherwise, would be to stultify its conscience.
At the same time we are humiliated by the fact that Americans
are supplying a substantial portion of the essential war materials
that make such outrages possible.
We deplore the practice of making profit from the blood and
tears of the innocent. To surrender such profit would involve
sacrifices by various commercial, financial, labor and transpor-
tation interests and by other sections of the population, but we
urge that such sacrifices be made for it would go a long way
towards restoring a sense of morality in international affairs.
48

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
Resolution adopted by the Goneral Conference of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, South, in session at Birmingham, Alabama, on
April 30, 1938.
WHeREAs, it is a matter of common knowledge that the terri-
tory of China has been invaded by the armed forces of Japan,
and
WheREas, it is reliably reported that materials of war and other
supplies purchased in America are being used in inflicting great
suffering and loss of life and property upon the people of China,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that we call upon the President and
Congress of the United States to take such action as may be
necessary to prevent the material and financial resources of the
government or citizens of this country from being used either
directly or indirectly to aid Japan in her war of aggression upon
China.
Resolution presented to President Roosevelt and Secretary of State
Cordell Hull by delegation representing 124 religious and peace
societies, June 13, 1938.
WHeREas, Japan has ruthlessly bombed day after day the un-
defended city of Canton. killing and wounding over 8.ooo civil-
ians and causing untold destruction of property, and has an-
nounced through its government spokesinan the intention of
continuing such action,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the government of the U nited
States put into effect a "Policy of Non-Participation in Aggres-
sion" by placing an embargo on exports to Japan of munitions
and war materials, including oil, chemicals, copper. gasoline.
pig and scrap iron, airplanes and airplane parts, machinery and
engines, and automobiles and automobile accessories.
Two resolutions passed at the Conference for Boycott of Japanese
Goods, held in Boston. Mass., on May 15, 1938, attended by 109
delegates representing membership of 323,718 persons in trade
unions, and religious, fraternal. peace, social and racial organizations.
WiEREAs, there exists in the Orient a state of war in which
the Japanese nation has become an aggressor upon the territory
of the Chinese nation and has slain multitudes of unarmed and
defenseless Chinese people, including many women and children,
49

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
WiereAs, the continued exportation to Japan of materials
capable of being used in the support of this aggression constitutes
a direct aid by the American people in such aggression,
Wiekeas, the Neutrality Act, so-called, fails utterly to distin-
guish between nations guilty of aggression and those whose de-
fenseless people are left to the mercy of unjustified and unpro-
voked invasion, thus punishing the innocent as much as the
guilty,
AND wíEREAs, the effect of the Neutrality Act cannot possibly
be sufficient to insulate the United States from war should the
same break out on any extensive scale, but the Act tends to make
it difficult for this nation to take part in any preventative meas-
ures designed to forestall such outbreak,
ThereforE BE IT REsoLvED, that the President, the State Depart-
ment, the Maritime Commission, and all other executive and
legislative agencies of the United States government, be called
upon to take any available steps through regulation of ports,
adjustment of financial and tariff relations, or otherwise. to
end the exportation to Japan of materials of war and all ma-
terials of general economic use, and to reduce all imports of
Japanese surplus goods,
BE IT ALSO RESOLVED, that the Neutrality Act, sO-called, be
amended in such way as definitely to distinguish between the
aggressor nation and the nation subjected to such aggression, to
the benefit of the latter, and
BE IT FINALLY REsoLVED, that copies of this resolve, together
with an organization roster of this conference, be transmitted to
the Senators and Congressmen from Massachusetts, the President.
the Secretaries of State, War, Navy and Labor. and to the
Chairman and Clerk of the Joint Committee on Constitutional
Law of the Massachusetts General Court with the request that
the latter Committee take cognizance of the conference's action
through a Memorial to Congress; and that copies be sent to the
press.
Second Resolution
WieReas, the present policy of the United States Maritime
Commission permits the loading and shipping of war materials
to Japan in Maritime Commission ships, and,
WieReas, the policy of the consumers' boycott opposes the
giving of such material aid to an aggressor nation,
50

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
THEREFORF BE IT RESOLVED. that this conference calls upon the
United States Maritime Commission and President Roosevelt to
dis ontinue the policy which thus permits the giving of aid to
an aggressor through the use of government-owned ships to carry
goods to Japan through conditions more favorable than those
o herwise to be secured, and particularly to discontinue the polie
ef shipping war materials in government-owned ships.
Resolution adopted at the Annual National Convention of the
Young Women's Christian Association. 1933.
Wítür As, our con cn for the people of both Japan and China
would lead us to seek means of terininating the current war in
the Far East, and
WírREAs. the United States' position as a major consumer of
Japanese goods and as an exporter of war materials to Japan
makes it a strategit counus at this point,
The RFFoRF BE H RISoIVED. that the Young Women、 Christian
Asso iation, in Convention asembied, commend and encourage
efforts to curb shipament to Jap sn of materials whidh will be used
dircdly by Japan in pursuing its military invasion of China..
Resolution passed by 2 000 persons attending meeting outside the
Japanese Consuiato Generel in New York City on June 17. 1938
protesting the Jap anese bombings of Canton.
WíFrrxs. the United States Govermment has branded Japan as
the aggressor nation in the present Sino Japanese conflict and has
repeatedly protested against the merciless bombings of unde-
fended Chinese cities. the bratal sla: ing of Chinese non-comba-
tants and the destruction of American missions and hospitals.
and.
WherFas, the Japanese armed forces have repeated their mass
murders of the civilian population in China and other brutal
adts. disregarding the basie prindiples of those standard of
humane conduct which have been developed as an essential part
of modern civilization, and.
WíekEas. American raw materials are being used to manu-
facture Japanese guns, tanks. armored cars, flame-throwers and
other weapons of war. Ameriten bombing planes are being used
to carry American made bombs for the destruction of Chinese
51

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
civilian populations, American shells are loading the Japanese
guns and American credits are helping to finance Japan's aggres-
sion in China,
THErEfORE BE IT ResolvED, that this meeting goes on record
as deploring the American policy which makes it possible for
certain American interests to profit from the blood and tears of
the innocent victims of Japanese aggression,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this organization urges the
Government of the United States to enact legislation to prevent
the material and financial resources of this country from being
used either directly or indirectly to aid Japan in her conquest
of China,
AND BE IT FINALLY REsOLVED, that this meeting expresses
its solidarity with seamen, longshoremen and all other workers
and labor organizations which refuse to handle munitions, war
supplies and raw materials destined for Japan, and throw its
moral support behind financial, industrial and other interests
which refuse to lend money, extend credit or sell war materials
to Japan.
Stop Making Uncle Sam a Partner in Aggression!
Resolution presented by the National Maritime Union of America
to the C. 1. O. conference in Atlantic City, N. J., October 12. 1937.
WieReas, The present invasion of China by the Japanese Mili-
tary Machine without a declaration of war is an open violation
of the Kellogg-Briand Peace Pact and of the Nine Power Treaty,
and
Wiereas, We believe this invasion not only contains the germ
of a new world war, the burden of which must be borne by the
workers throughout the world, but is, in its essence, an attack
on democratic institutions and a violation of democratic princi-
ples, and . . .
Wiereas, The Maritime Workers, many of whom are affiliated
with the Committee for Industrial Organization, have signified
their indignation at being forced, by the very pursuance of
52

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
their livelihood, to carry munitions and war materials to the
Japanese Militarists for use by them in their attacks on the
Chinese people, and
WheReAs, In a communication to New York Maritime Council.
dated October 5th, R. Walton Moore, Assistant Secretary U. S.
Department of State, declared that the Department would be glad
to accord a hearing to any parties or organizations interested in
presenting their views on our foreign policy as regards the Japa-
nese invasion, therefore be it
Resoiven. That we, the accredited representatives of unions
affiliated with the C. I. O. gathered in a national conference.
demand of the Federal Government that it immediately take
steps to enforce an economic embargo on Japan and to forbid
the export to that country of munitions, war materials. or any
and all goods which might be used by the Japanese Military
Machine in the furtherance of its present attempt to subjugate
the Chinese people, and be it further . . .
Resotven. That the Federal Government of the United States
forbid the importation into this country of any and all goods
manufactured in countries or territories controlled by the Im-
perial Japanese Government, and be it further .
Resolven, That we call upon all Labor Organizations of the
U'nited States and all civil and peace organizations to join with
us in our demand on the State Department.
Resolution presented to Mr. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State. by
New York and Washington peace delegations on June 13. 1938.
WHeREAs, The United States Government has designated Japan
the violator of treaty obligations to the United States in the
present Sino-Japanese conflict and has repeatedly protested
against the merciless bombings of undefended Chinese cities. the
brutal slaying of Chinese non-combatants and the destruction
of missions and hospitals, and
WHEREAs. The Secretary of State. the Hon. Cordell Hull, has
expressed the government's disapproval of the export sales of
American planes which could be used for bombing civilian popu-
lations, and,
WiEREas, Not only American airplanes but also American
airplane parts, oil, aviation gasoline, pig and scrap iron, ma-
53

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
chinery and engines, copper, war chemicals and even actual
bombs are being shipped in large quantities to Japan, making
possible the continued bombings and attacks on Canton and
other Chinese cities,
THEREfoRE, BE IT REsolvED, That we urgc the Secretary of
State to extend the application of his disapproval and to dis-
courage the export to japan of all these munitions and raw
materials, so that American action will have the greatest possible
moral and material effect in compelling the Japanese to cease
their present atrocious tactics of destroying whole civilian popu-
lations.
The delegations included:
Rev. Dr. Frederick Brown Harris. Pastor of Foundry Methodist Episcopal
Church, Washington. D. C.
Rev. Wilbur LaRoe. Jr., Chevy Chase Session. Washington Presby tery (Chair
man, Committee on Civic Affairs. Washington Federation of Churches).
Mr. Olin D. Wannamaker. educational executive and lecturer. New York City.
Rev. H. W. Burgan. Pastor, Hamline Methodist Fpiscopal Church and
Chairman, Committee on International Goedwill. Washington Federa-
tion of Churches.
Rev. E. H. Pruden. Pastor. First Baptist Church. formerly on facults of
U'niversity of Shanghai.
Rev. J. H. Hollister. Pastor, Chew Chase Presbvterian Church.
Mrs. L. E. Gilbert, Women's Guild. National Memorial Baptist Church.
Philip J. Jaffe. Managing Editor, Amerasa, New York City.
Mrs. Dean Burke. Washington Bovcott Committee.
Miss Mary Ross, Berkeley Brandh. American Association of Universits Women
(unofficial).
Mrs. Philip Reno. Washington Women's Trade Union League.
Mrs. J. Austin Stone. National Women' Trade Union League (Legislative
representative for peace projects).
Dr. R. Morris Paty. Jr., Southern Methodist Mission Board.
Robert Norton. Comimittee for Boscott Against Japanese Aggression.
Mrs. Eleanor Fowler. Washington Labor Peace Committee and American
League for Peace and Demo racy.
Mrs. Edwin S. Smith. American League for Peace and Democracy.
Miss Ellen J. Rider. Federation of Churches.
Arthur Clarendon Smith. Washington Committee for Aid to China.
Mr. E. H. Leaf, writer, former North China Manager, U'nited Press Association.
Miss Lillian M. Elkin. Washington Labor Peace Committee.
Irving Aronoff, Memorial Day Youth Peace Parade Committee, representing
104 youth organizations.
Support a Policy of Non-Participation in Aggression.
54

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
MEMORANDUM TO THE UNITED STATES DELEGATION TO THE
WORLD YOUTH CONGRESS—VASSAR COLLEGE, AUGUST 1938.
Approved by the American Youth Congress at Berea. Ohio, July 2-4.
(Commission on Political and Economic Organization for Peace.)
"War is not inevitable" was the dedaration of the first World
Youth Congress at Geneva in 1936. Today we must modity this
statement to read that "Wai is not inevitable if the peace loving
peoples of the world compel their governments to unite against
aggression."
The menace to world peace at the present moment arises not
out of the strength of the foes of peace. The enemies of peace
are weak. weak in integrity and material resources. U'nite the
peoples and, through them, the govermments who aspne toward
peace behind a common international poliey of defense against
aggression, and the spedtre of world war whidh today horrifhes the
ivilized world will fade.
Wars can be prevented it it is understood that:
1. Peace must be organized internationally. Aggression isnot
the private concein of the invader and the attacked but of
all countries.
2.
Nations should not merely re-affirm their support of the
Kellogg Briand Peate Pact to renounce war as an instru-
ment of national poliey but will make this affirmation vital
by refusing to supply violators of the Pact with any goods
necessary for the waging of the war....
The Congress also voted against participation of American
athletes in the World Olvmpies at Tokvo in 19jo and approved
plans for a nation wide campaign to aid in the raising of relief
funds for Chinese vouth.
Oil for the Death of China!
55

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
Resolution passed by the Industrial Council of the Committee on
Industrial Organization, Los Angeles, Calif.
Wiereas, For the last eleven months the Imperial Japanese
Government has been waging an unprovoked and aggressive war
of conquest against Democratic China, and
Wiereas, During this period the innocent and defenceless
Chinese populace has been bombed and shelled unmercifully by
the Japanese army and navy, and
Wiereas, Many of the planes, their parts and accessories,
bombs, oil to run the planes, have been manufactured in the
United States or assembled and manufactured in Japan with
materials bought in the United States,
THerefoRE BE IT ResolvED, That we condemn these inhuman
acts and whole-heartedly support the State Department's protest
to Japan, the Pittman Resolution of the United States Senate,
the condemnation of American munitions manufacturers by
Cordell Hull, who sell planes to Japan, and
BE IT FURTHER REsOlVED, That we support:
1. An official government embargo on shipments of war
planes, their parts and accessories, to Japan.
2. An immediate embargo on the shipment of oil, scrap
iron and other raw materials of war to Japan.
3.
A boycott of articles manufactured in Japan, the sale of
which in the United States finances the export of war
materials from the United States, and
BE IT FINALLY ResolvEd, That this resolution be communicated
to:
Cordell Hull, Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.
Hon. Key Pittman, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, Washington, D. C.
Douglas Aircraft Corporation, Santa Monica, California
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, Burbank, California
Northrup Corporation, Inglewood, California
Vultee Áircraft, Downey, California
Democracies Can Act!
56

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S PARTNER
JAPANESE DEPENDENCE UPON THE UNITED STATES
BY ELIOT JANEWAY
(Reprinted by permission and through courtesy of Harper's Magazine)
The Japanese government is engaged in a war in which it
wouid be helpless without necessities-oil, steel, munitions, and
various commodities-which it imports from the United States.
At the same time the Roosevelt Administration has embarked
on the biggest naval program ever undertaken by our govern-
ment at any time, and one of the chief reasons for it is a fear of
the Japanese. How does it come about that our government
prepares to defend us against persons who would be no threat
if American industry did not help them to become one?
This year's great war games in the Pacific are more secret and
mysterious than for many years. This year's Congress is being
asked to vote a naval appropriations bill that will land America
right in the middle of the arms race. ...
. . It is Japan. not Germany or Italy, which figures as the
possible attacker in the popular mind and in the Navy Depart-
ment's plans. It is because of Japan that our enormous new
battleships will slide down the wavs in 1942 and 1913. There
it is, the smoke of the "China in ident," slowly creeping up trom
the horizon, a cloud by this time a little larger than a man's
hand, and our uneasy people find in it a warning that sometime.
from over the world's shoulder, the Japanese guns and battle-
ships may turn against us.
Meanwhile what is Japan doing? That is a fair question be-
cause it so happens that she is doing more than bombing Chinese
cities. Japan too has plans for 1943. Her immediate problem
is of course to supply the armies that are pushing into China:
but the program she has publicly announced, and upon which
she is now spending every last cent she can find, is not designed
merely to supply shells and tanks to her infantry or bomb、 to
her airmen. Japan is beginning a second industrial revolution.
the most immediate and obvious results of which cannot be
achieved before the carly 1940's. . ..
... Surely if Japan's new industries are to serve her... we
can only be delighted at the prospect of Japanese peasants
57

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
living an easier life. But this, alas, is not the case, and it seems
probable that the Japanese peasant will ride on the new rail-
roads only in troop trains, and will come to have a close ac-
quaintance with automobiles only if he is mobilized into a motor-
ized unit of infantry.
Japanese living standards are falling, not rising, as the blue-
prints for this program are approved. The textile industry-
Japan's greatest employer of labor and producer of wealth-is
seeing more and more of its plants close, as foreign exchange to
purchase cotton and wool abroad becomes rarer and rarer. Heav-
ier and heavier are the tax burdens falling upon the peasants.
and the Finance Minister can only express sympathy for their
decreasing incomes but can offer no hope of easier circumstances.
The Japanese government itself has sent a good part of the gold
reserve which nominally backs its currency out of the country to
pay for imports needed for the war.
Not only are these plans being formulated at an inopportune
moment, if these new industries are to serve any peacetime com-
mercial purposes, any solvent domestic market, but the develop
ment of them is to take place under the ægis of the government.
This may not seem remarkable, or out of place. Other govern-
ments than that of Japan are taking a hand in industrial plan-
ning. But in Japan the government means the Army. Only
one point need be cited for proof. The Japanese Army and Navy
between them account for seventy-nine per cent of the expendi-
tures under the 1938 budget, a budget that has quadrupled in
the seven years since the Manchurian conquest of i931. Japan's
plans for industrial expansion are plans for industrial armament.
This expansion is not confined to Japan proper. Second only
to the Mitsui combine in national power is the Manchurian
Heavy Industrial Development Co. Ltd., headed by Yoshisuke
Aikawa, which is the monopoly for expansion in Manchukuo-in
equal partnership with the government (i.e., the Army). The
Japanese Army owns large interests in many key industrial ven-
tures, notably the South Manchurian Railway, and is in effect
one of the Empire's most important property-owning bodies. . . .
.. . It is certain, . . . no matter how long Japan expects to
be formally fighting in China, that the northern provinces are
to be incorporated into Japan's long-term plans and to play their
part in strengthening her in future campaigns for future pros-
pective conquests. Here the Manchurian Heavy Industrial De
58

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
yelopment Co. has its twin in the Kochu Koshi, which is breed-
ing a swarm of "development companies" as subsidiaries. The
pattern is identical with that of Manchukuo. Here again is a
monopoly company operating in partnership with the govern-
ment, headed by a friend of the Army, and engaging in long-term
Army-inspired projects. . . . North China, still a battlefield. is
already, in the War Ministry's (areful blueprints, an interrelated
part of the cherished plan for Japanese self-sufficiency.
II
It will be worth while to examine a few of these industrial
schemes and so get some picture of the immense reorganization
and expansion which the Army hopes will make over Japan. By
1941 the steel industry is expected to be turning out twice as
much as at present. But not only is Japan's capacity for making
steel to be doubled: much of this new capacity is to be for special-
ized steel, so that Japan can thriftily turn out high-grade steel
for madhinery, and low-grade steel for office buildings. .. The
United States capacity, although enormously greater. is almost
altogether occupied by filling orders for industry. But Japan's
steel will be steel for the Army, whether it goes directly into
shells or less directly into madhinery to make light tanks. Japan
has no need of steel mills to turn out wire for farmers, or light
steel strips for refrigerators: tor she has no one to buy cither
wire or iceboxes.
Central agent in the steel program is a government corpora-
tion. the Japan Iron Manufacturing Co....
The automobile industry too is fa ing four years of rapid ex.
pansion under government regulation. The present session of
ihe Japanese Diet has indluded automobiles in the artiddes im-
portant from the standpoint of national "defense" which are
subjedt to complete govermment control. The purpose of in-
creased production is of course obvious-and is not for growing
sale to ivilians. . Japan's automobile factories, unable to cre-
ate demand in civilian cirdes. are working on special orders-for
the war. For some time now the Japanese automobile industry
has been concentrating on cars using Diesel motors-heavv. epen-
sive, cconomical only on very long hauls, and thus badly adapted
in every way for use by Japan's citizens, but extremely well
adapted to the needs of armies pushing into China's interior....
59

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
living an easier life. But this, alas, is not the case, and it seems
probable that the Japanese peasant will ride on the new rail-
roads only in troop trains, and will come to have a close ac-
quaintance with automobiles only if he is mobilized into a motor-
ized unit of infantry.
Japanese living standards are falling, not rising, as the blue-
prints for this program are approved. The textile industry-
Japan's greatest employer of labor and producer of wealth-is
seeing more and more of its plants close, as foreign exchange to
purchase cotton and wool abroad becomes rarer and rarer. Heav-
ier and heavier are the tax burdens falling upon the peasants,
and the Finance Minister can only express sympathy for their
decreasing incomes but can offer no hope of easier circumstances.
The Japanese government itself has sent a good part of the gold
reserve which nominally backs its currency out of the country to
pay for imports needed for the war.
Not only are these plans being formulated at an inopportune
moment, if these new industries are to serve any peacetime com-
mercial purposes, any solvent domestic market, but the develop-
ment of them is to take place under the ægis of the government.
This may not seem remarkable, or out of place. Other govern-
ments than that of Japan are taking a hand in industrial plan-
ning. But in Japan the government means the Army. Only
one point need be cited for proof. The Japanese Army and Navy
between them account for seventy-nine per cent of the expendi-
tures under the 1938 budget, a budget that has quadrupled in
the seven years since the Manchurian conquest of 1931. Japan's
plans for industrial expansion are plans for industrial armament.
This expansion is not confined to Japan proper. Second only
to the Mitsui combine in national power is the Manchurian
Heavy Industrial Development Co. Ltd., headed by Yoshisuke
Aikawa, which is the monopoly for expansion in Manchukuo-in
equal partnership with the government (i.e., the Army). The
Japanese Army owns large interests in many key industrial ven-
tures, notably the South Manchurian Railway, and is in effect
one of the Empire's most important property-owning bodies.
. . It is certain, . . . no matter how long Japan expects to
be formally fighting in China, that the northern provinces are
to be incorporated into Japan's long-term plans and to play their
part in strengthening her in future campaigns for future pros-
pective conquests. Here the Manchurian Heavy Industrial De-
58

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
yelopment Co. has its twin in the Kochu Koshi, which is breed-
ing a swarm of "development companies" as subsidiaries. The
pattern is identical with that of Manchukuo. Here again is a
monopoly company operating in partnership with the govern-
ment, headed by a friend of the Army, and engaging in long-term
Army-inspired projects. . . . North China, still a battlefield. is
already, in the War Ministry's (areful blueprints, an interrelated
part of the cherished plan for Japarese self-sufficiency.
II
It will be worth while to examine a few of these industrial
schemes and so get some picture of the immense reorganization
and expansion which the Army hopes will make over Japan. By
1941 the steel industry is expected to be turning out twice as
much as at present. But not only is Japan's capacity for making
steel to be doubled: much of this new capacity is to be for special.
ized steel. so that Japan can thriftily turn out high-grade steel
for machinery, and low-grade steel for office buildings. ... The
United States' capacity, although enormously greater, is almost
altogether occupied by filling orders for industry. But Japan's
steel will be steel for the Armv. whether it goes diretly into
shells or less directly into machinery to make light tanks. Japan
has no need of steel mills to turn out wire for farmers, or light
steel strips for refrigerators: tor she has no one to buy cither
wire or iceboxes.
Central agent in the steel program is a government corpora-
tion. the Japan Iron Manula turing Co. . ..
The automobile industry too is fa ing four years of rapid ex-
pansion under government regulation. The present session of
the Japanese Diet has indluded automobiles in the artides im-
portant from the standpoint of national "defense" which are
subjedt to complete government control. The purpose of in-
creased production is of course obvious-and is not for growing
sale to ivilians. ... Japan's automobile factories. unable to cre
ate demand in civilian cirdes, are working on special orders-for
the war. For some time now the Japanese automobile industry
has been concentrating on cars using Diesel motors-heavy. expen-
sive, economical only on very long hauls, and thus badly adapted
in every way for use by Japan's citizens, but extremely well
adapted to the needs of armies pushing into China's interior...
59

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
The other method of transport at the Army's disposal, the rail-
roads, is making almost as much trouble. The government au-
thorities used to be of the comfortable opinion that they had
plenty of cars and locomotives to handle both peace- and war-
time shipments. But they are now finding 1o0,ooo tons of freight
going unhandled every day for lack of transport facilities, and
new railroad equipment is vital. To complicate the problem are
the 1,2oo miles of railroad taken over in North China which-
perhaps simply to confuse the future conqueror-were built on
three gauges, wide, standard, and narrow. So orders are being
placed under Army supervision-for 500 locomotives, 1,o00 pas-
senger cars, and 1o,ooo freight cars. The steel is being obtained
from our old friend, the Japan Iron Manufacturing Co.
. . . Military expansion for steel, automobiles, and railroad
equipment depends on military expansion of the machine-tool
industry which fashions steel into parts for these basic steel-using
industries. We have the government's guarantee that the ma-
chine-tool business can depend on at least two years of military
expansion after any need for it in China is over. Is any other
evidence needed to show that North China is just another step
in what Japan regards as her imperial progress?
Oil is notoriously the weakest link in Japan's economy. Obvi-
ously, as this program of industrial expansion goes into effect her
fuel requirements will increase. Now unless something is done
to permit Japan to lay her hands on oil that is exclusively hers,
this whole complicated program will be jeopardized. But Japan's
oil deposits are negligible, as are those of Manchuria and North
China. Japan, however, is not going to drill for oil, but to man-
ufacture it. She is planning to spend the better part of a billion
yen on a project for liquefying coal. . ..
Two commercial commodities have been included in this self-
sufficiency program for military reasons. Japan's cotton goods
industry needs, when working at top speed, about 412 million
bales of cotton a year. China produces about 33/4 million bales,
most of it in the North. Japan plans to increase this output by
persuading the peasants to give up growing food crops and con-
fine themselves to cotton culture, depending on food imported
from other regions. Pulp output, used by her rayon industry,
is also to be increased.
For Japan is anxious to maintain her position as a textile ex-
porter, even though at present she is starving out many of her
60

=== Page 145 === (confidence 1.00)
small textile manufacturers. Textile exports bring her foreign
exchange which can be used for the import of goods which her
ambitious program demands.
III
Now this is important to notice because it is the first admis-
sion that this enormous program, so calmly discussed in Japan,
is not self-inaugurating and self-perpetuating. It is dependent
on imports. So vital are the imports that the government has
had to include in its plans two industries, only minutely con-
cerned with the Army, because they make these imports possible.
Steel, automobiles, railroad equipment, machine tools, oil, the
plans are smugly and snugly laid for expansion in these fields on
a huge scale. But here is the catch. Not only a prostrate China
is to contribute to the program. So is Somebody Else, the nation
which sells industrial equipment to Japan.
If you are beginning to have a grim suspicion that Somebody
Else is the United States-which is boycotting Japanese goods.
fearing Japanese aggression, building battleships to defend her-
self against Japan-you are quite right. You will have heard of
our scrap iron shipments to Japan. We are still selling her
scrap. More important, we are selling her steel, finished and
semi-finished, ready to be processed by her factories into arma-
ments. We are selling her gasoline to fill the tanks of the air-
planes that bomb Chinese cities. And most important of all,
from our own standpoint, we are selling her the machine tools
and metal-working machinery which she is to use in revolution-
izing her economy on to a base more nearly comparable with our
own. In the 189o's there was a bit of excitement in England over
the fact that England was exporting textile machinery to coun-
tries, including Japan, though no one thought much about her
then, which were substantial markets for English textiles. Little
attention was paid to the outery. and the trade continued. What
Japanese textiles subsequently did to English markets is a matter
of economic history. Well, that took over forty years and there
was never any question of war between England and Japan. nor
were the machinery exports for armament use. This. then, is a
very minor analogy to what we are doing at present. The great
triumph which has made the United States the most powerful
industrial nation in the world has been the development of mass
production-for pea eful purposes. We are selling Japan the
imeans of mass production for war.
61

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
But before we begin to talk about the machinery we are sell-
ing Japan for future use it is worth while to put down some-
thing of what we are selling Japan to-day for immediate use.
For this forms, indirectly, part of her expansion program too.
Her program, as we have seen, is based upon the complete con-
trol, for her own purposes, of North China. We are helping her
to conquer North China by selling her the vital raw materials
she needs for armaments.
Steel first of all. In 1937 Japan produced 5.3 million tons of
steel. Well over one-third of that steel was made from American
raw materials, scrap and pig iron. Besides raw material for her
furnaces, the United States sold her 1,ooo,ooo tons of new iron
and steel in various unfabricated forms. This was quite an in-
crease from the 1936 figure of 54.00o tons. And Japan bought
75,ooo tons of American pig iron alone during the first two
months of 1938, and is ordering 100,o00 tons more. The same
huge rate of increase is continuing in the purchase of steel. Our
exports to Japan and Manchukuo in January 1938 were three
times what they had been a year ago. A very important point
to note in connection with Japan's purchases of steel here is that
much of it is specialty steel already alloyed with expensive special
metals-copper, nickel, aluminum, chromium, and so on-which
Japan is thus spared from buying. and, indeed, which she is still
unable to process adequately for modern engineering and arma-
ment use. 'Even so, she bought more than twice as much refined
copper from us in 1937 as she did in 1936.
Japan's oil self-sufficiency program, you will recall, will not be
completed until 1943, and even then will give her at best but
two-thirds of her gasoline requirements, and 45 per cent of her
heavy oil needs. During 1937, when this program was merely
so many figures on paper, Japan bought 31,ooo,ooo barrels of oil
abroad. By October she had already bought 23,ooo,ooo barrels
of it from us. This includes special aviation fuel, produced in
commercial quantities only by America. This anti-knock gaso-
line, high in octane content, is the only fuel which will permit
some of the American engines which Japan has been buying to
develop their full power. Because of its anti-knock qualities too.
it lengthens the life of engines, thus saving Japan's under-capaci-
tied engine shops much replacement work. So essential is oil to
Japan, and so precarious her present shortage, that Tokyo taxis
are being prevented from cruising in order to conserve her gaso-
line supplies.
62

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
But even more important than the crucial oil and steel sup-
plies for immediate use that we are sending Japan is our part
in aiding Japan to complete her expansion program. Her ex-
pansion program for the steel industry calls for an increase of
2.3 million tons of rolled steel (finished steel rolled from steel
ingots). In 1937 Japan contra ted for the purchase of three mod-
ern American rolling mills having a combined capacity of some
million and a quarter tons-almost half of the increase called for
by Japan's five-year program. These are the famous new auto-
matic continuous sheet-and-strip mills made only in this coun-
try, which eliminate So-85 per cent of the labor usually needed
for rolling steel and which complete the complicated process at
the rate of about i.Soo feet a minute, ten times as fast as the old
fashioned mills through which steel was rolled by hand. The
steel thus turned out lends itself particularly well to automobile
production (another vital part of Japan's expansion program)
and, by their labor saving devices. these mills will ease somewhat
the serious Japanese shortage of skilled workmen.
It is not only steel rolling mills which we are selling Japan.
but high-speed metal-working madhinery of all kinds. We sold
Japan S3p,ooo,ooo worth in 1937. more than she had bought
from the whole world in 1936. and about two-thirds of her 1937
imports. But machinery imports are much more important than
their dollar value would indicate: cadh machine in its lifetime
produces goods worth many times the value of its purchase price.
Moreover. the high-speed production and standardization of op
crations which efficient machinery makes possible is something
that cannot be measured in dollars or tons. It is the very basis
of mass production and the enormous efficiency that that implies
-for peace or for war. Japan's automobile industry, for instance.
is faced at present with a confusing variety of machinery and
parts: standardization is admittedly its principal problem. Aik
awa stated, as we have seen. that two years would be necessars
for the installation of modern, high-speed standardized equip
ment in his Mandhurian automobile and aircraft plants. It is
because he must have standardized and efficient machinery, and
because such madhinery for automobile production is made only
in the United States, that he is coming here shortly to spend
Szoo,ooo,ooo-almost a third of the total cost of the Manchurian
development program-on American equipment-if his sales talk
about profits to be made in the development of Manchukuo per
suades American industrialists to advance the $3oo,ooo,ooo Mr.
63

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
Aikawa needs. And if Japan begins to standardize her auto, her
steel, her engineering industries on the basis of American designs,
she cannot later turn to those of another country; if she did she
would simply continue the same old confusion caused by diverse
types of machinery, some of them interlocking, others not, which
she is trying to get rid of now. Parallel to her auto-equipment
buying, purchases of American locomotives and freight cars will
facilitate the completion of Japan's continental railway program.
Twenty per cent of the new rolling stock Japan needs will be
bought here.
Japan's textile exports have traditionally been the most im-
portant way in which she has financed whatever purchases of
capital goods she has had to make. But textile exports depend
upon raw material imports, notably of cotton. Last year, when
Japan found that the China incident was developing into some-
thing very much like a full-fledged war, she was forced to curtail
these imports, sacrificing her cotton textile industry and its ex-
ports (its export revenues as well, it may be added) to her need
for materials of war. The immediate drop in export revenues.
and thus in foreign exchange, forced her to resort to large-scale
shipments of gold which cut deeply into her scanty reserves. Al-
together she shipped $25o,ooo,o0o in gold to the United States
in 1937; and some $25,o00,o00 more has arrived in California so
far this year, with more promised. Furthermore, she is now de-
bating whether or not to ship every last remaining ounce of gold
to us, since her need of manufactured imports is much more
vital to her than the farce of a gold foundation  her paper yen.
These gold payments went for armainent necessities and for
machinery needed by the expansion program. They did not go
for cotton. Thus was set in motion the vicious circle which has
closed her textile factories, despite her recognition of the im-
portance of export revenues to her present solvency and future
plans. By heroic measures, she succeeded since the current cot-
ton season began in August in cutting down her lint takings here
to a third of last year's volume. In spite of this, however, she
ended 1937 with the enormous trade deficit of 636,ooo,o00 yen.
This appalling figure frightened her into cutting down her cot-
ton imports by an additional 18o,ooo,ooo yen in January and
February, so that her trade deficit for these months was reduced
by 75 per cent.
But the unfortunate result was that she found herself without
sufficient cotton goods on hand to fill export orders previously
64

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
undertaken. To fill these orders, she has had to purchase fin-
ished cotton goods here, an unprecedented step; and, however
reluctantly, to resume her raw cotton purchases here. And as
soon as she resumed her cotton purchases she was compelled
to resume her gold shipments as well, to the dismay of what is
left of conservative opinion in Japan. But sad as the result has
been for Japan, it has been sadder for us. Cotton is the Achilles
heel of our economy. Japan's inability to purchase her normal
quota of our cotton has had a most depressing effect on the
cotton market and, therefore, on Southern purchasing power.
And her orders to our steel and machine-tool industries have
been far from making up what her boycott of our cotton has cost
us. Similarly, Japan's inability to supply her rayon industry
with pulp has hurt our West Coast lumiber mills, which suffered
a panic last summer when the outbreak of war left them with
huge unexportable surpluses on hand. The Japanese purchases
that have been outlined here, vital as they are to Japan. were
sufficient in 1937 to provide our steel and oil industries with a
week's work apiece. no more. They are essential to Japan but
unimportant to us, and the long-term program of armament
expansion growing out of the war in China which they are making
possible has ominous political implications for the United States.
Well, there is the story, a very simple one. Japan is the one
nation in the world whose aggression we fear. Japan is the un-
ashamed attadker of a country with whom we svmpathize, whose
magnificent defensive stand we admire heartily. In this attack
have occurred atrocities-the bombing of universities, for exam-
ple-which shock the world.
American industry is selling Japan the goods which permit her
to do this and to rear grandiose schemes for continuing to do
this on a scale so huge that all western Asia will be reduced to the
level of the Japanese subjects in Korea. Seventy-five per cent
of the gasoline Japan used last vear. gasoline for tanks and
bombers and warships. came from the United States. One third
of the steel she made last vear. steel for shells, bombs, dum dum
bullets, was made out of American raw materials.
Here, then, is the paradox. The Japanese menace is made
possible by American exports. Because of the Japanese menace
our government is building battleships with money which might
otherwise go for housing or to case thie tax burden of our people.
What is to be done about this situation is up to the American
people. Here are the facts.
65

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN'S NEW NEED: AMERICAN STEELS,
MACHINES AND OILS
BY ELIOT JANEWAY
(Reprinted through courtesy and permission of Asia Magazine)
It must have been a good five years ago that some one discov-
ered Japanese purchases of American scrap iron. Ever since that
time-and particularly since the beginning of the Japanese cam-
paign in China last year-the United States has been collectively
shaken, every now and then, by a spasm of conscience over the
scrap iron which is mysteriously being transmuted, under Nip-
pon's cherry blossoms, into bombs to kill Chinese babies. Car-
toons decrying this trade, and the trade in oil to turn the wheels
of Japanese automobiles, the propellers of Japanese airplanes.
and to push her battleships through the Yellow Sea, have become
familiar. But the typical American reaction has been the thought
that, after all, Japan would make such purchases from Germany
or England if she did not make them from the United States:
and the trade has gone on.
I want to talk now about a trade with Japan which could be
carried on by the United States alone, which no one has car-
tooned, and which is qualitatively of such vast importance that,
without it, the probability is Japan's economy would break
down.
This is the trade in machinery and in lubricating oils. Japan
is buying from the United States machinery which her German
ally and her British ex-ally do not make at all, or do not make
in a quantity or quality able to challenge American products.
It is true that Japan could buy elsewhere some-but not so much
-of the scrap iron and crude oil which bulk so large in her im-
ports. But, now that she has begun to deal in and to depend on
American machinery, American machine tools, special American
steels, lubricating oils and so on, she cannot turn away-unless
she starts to build up her heavy industries all over again, and her
engineering processes from the bottom, and on a less efficient
basis. For Japan has begun to modernize and integrate her
industry with the aid of the United States. One of the most
important parts of integration on a mass production scale is, ob-
viously, standardization. Because she is using American models
now, she must continue to use American models. And in addi-
66

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
tion, and in explanation of her natural impulse to turn first to
the United States, is the fact that German and British industry.
old and expert as they are in engineering skills, do not use those
skills in the efficient mass production way which is so typically
American, nor are they at present able to employ those skills on
engineering goods for the export market. It is in any case absurd
to think of Japan's dividing her coonomy into two or three com-
partiments, modeled by engineering imports from different na-
tions. Since her main line of mass production development in
the heavy industries is American, she must either complete her
program under American auspices or at great expense scrap the
better part of her American engineering models and start all over
again on a German or British basis.
Japan's in reasing imports of American machinery show how
thoroughly her quantitatively larger imports of raw materials
are, and will be, influenced and controlled by the machinery
which must process them. Thus a qualitative problem has arisen
beside her older problem of obtaining raw materials. They must
be raw materials of a suitable quality and kind.
Now just what is the importance of machinery to a country?
Let us take a very simple case. Japan is capable of turning out
5.ooo,ooo tons of steel a vear. when she is buving scrap and pig
iron abroad (that is, in the United States) freely. That sound
impressive, but actually it is jtst a first step. For steel is just so
much raw material for modern industry, able to do nothing but
rust in a mill vard unless it is handled further. If it is to be
useful to modern industries. it must be turned, ground. cut.
shaped, welded, treated to resist heat and acid, to cut other steel.
to endure enormous pressures and great speeds. In the past five
years, machine tools for making madhinery out of steel have been
speeded up as mudh as has been the making of the steel itself.
Éver more efficient tools have been developed to handle the
growing output of the steel mills. Thus. if Japan is to use the
steel, she must import the tools, or she will find herself produe
ing steel she cannot process. And to produce and process steel
at this pace she is calling upon the engineers and chemists and
plants of Detroit and Pitsburgh. So American machinery. in
effect, rules the greatest of Japan's empire-building industries.
These empire-building and controlling industries have changed
with the empire itself. Japan first of all built up her strength as
an island empire. The industries she developed were, naturally.
shipping and shipbuilding. and light goods for export, such as
67

=== Page 152 === (confidence 1.00)
textiles, just like that other island empire halfway across the
world; which has prided herself on her textile exports and her
sea-going tradition. But now Japan is becoming, and desiring
ever more to become, a mainland empire. Her problems are
changing. Control of her tens of, thousands of square miles of
backward territory, peopled by unwilling subjects, raises new
questions of continental transportation and communication. It
is the United States and not England which has developed the
technique of handling industries such as railroad, automobile and
aircraft building on a mass production scale, and it is therefore
to the United States that Japan has turned for aid in the solution
of her new problems; and particularly for the machinery to set
American-style assembly lines in motion. It is very evident that
an assembly line industry, importing its machinery or at the best
the machine tools that make its machinery, is qualitatively de-
pendent for its very life on the engineering skill ten thousand
miles away that determined the position of each screw in a cer-
tain machine and decided that it should operate at four hundred
and fifty revolutions per minute.
Because of this long-distance dependence. Japan needs machin-
ery that is well built and sturdy, since she herself is not equipped
to duplicate or repair it. In any case, she must mortgage her
industrial future to the nation that supplies her, since replace-
ment must be made frequently. Auto-making machinery, for
instance, is subjected to great pressure and must be replaced
every three to five years. And there is always the chance of an
accident which will hold up an assembly line until repairs-which
Japan is ill equipped to take care of-can be made.
Thus far we have been going on the assumption that these
complicated machines are imported to handle the 5,ooo,ooo tons
of steel which Japan produces yearly. But this is hardly true.
For the steel which Japan turns out is, for the most part, heavy
and brittle, unsuited for use in high speed and high tension
machines and motors. So Japan imports not only American
tools but also new American steels alloyed with aluminum,
nickel, chrome and other metals, and much lighter and more
durable than the typical Japanese product. Railroad equipment
is one of the chief products which Japan must turn out. It is
obvious that light steel cars, which are yet strong enough to
carry a heavy load, are advantageous.
In the aircraft industry this special steel is not simply advan-
tageous; it is indispensable. The American Machinist, a trade
68

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
paper, mentions casually the composition of steel used in an
airplane propeller made by a famous American manufacturer.
The propeller is forged from a special alloy of aluminum and
steel which has been heat-treated until its tensile strength has
become sufficient to enable it to withstand a strain of 55,o00
pounds per square inch. It must be able to stand such a strain
if it is to serve the powerful engine that drives it. Japan is buy-
ing such engines in the United States, and she is purchasing also
the machine tools designed to make these propellers. But even
when she has installed them she will still have to come to the
United States for the aluminum steels out of which the propellers
are made.
For in Japan steel is still just steel. while in the United States
steel is bought according to speification. The consumer tells
the manufacturer what he wants to use his steel for, and the man-
ufacturer melts it accordingly. Japan is finding it as necessary
as does the United States to use special. efficient steels for special
purposes. She is. for instance. and very immediately. planning
to motorize her infantry. She wants thousands of fast, sturdy
autos, trucks and tanks, with which to send her troops into
China's vast interior. There are no service stations in Shansi.
and, if each part of the cars Japan gives to her soldiers is not
strong and reliable, the Japanese advance will end only in a
bogged down mess of broken cars surrounded by guerrilla snip-
ers. Now, if vou want to cut teeth in automobile gears at a mass
production clip, the cutting tool sou use will have to be fash-
ioned precisely to cut five one thousandths of an inch deep. and
at the rate of 425 feet a minute. But no ordinary steel can be
handled in this fashion and survive to function as a gear on an
automobile. Accordingly. Japan is making her gears with Amer-
ican machine tools. The steel and the tools are useless if
they are not used together, the steel because an old-fashioned
tool cannot cut it, the tools because they will destrov a less
strongly fashioned steel. And still Japan has not remotely begun
to approach the American standard of efficiency which grades all
steels meticulously according to the uses their compositions per-
mit them to be put to.
Much of Japan's 5.ooo,ooo-ton steel capacity must, therefore.
be written off as useless in the face of her railroad, automobile
and aircraft program. If Japan hopes seriously ever to turn her
feudal peasant land into a power comparable to America's indus-
trialized might, she must start from the very beginning to dupli-
6g

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
cate America's industrial plants. She has, during the past year,
begun to purchase modern mills for rolling steel in the most
efficient way. And, because of this, she has been forced to in-
crease her purchases of machinery to process this new steel. Dur-
ing 1937 she spent as much on machinery as she spent on her
much heralded purchases of scrap iron, and she has bought so
far this year at the record rate of S3.ooo,ooo a month.
But the purchases of machinery in which her purchases of
steel involve her have forced Japan also to pay tribute to another
industry, unimportant in the extreme as far as quantity is con-
cerned, but qualitatively, again, absolutely necessary once mod-
ern industrial methods begin to be followed. This is the
American method of lubrication-developed to its height in the
machine shops of Cleveland and Youngstown. All of the com-
plicated and expensive machinery Japan imports is fitted with
oil pumps, designed to force just the right grade and kind of
lubricating oil between metal surfaces at just the right speed.
and thus, by preventing friction, to lengthen the life of the tool
or the engine. And so Japan must acknowledge the hold over
her economy of yet another unique American product. which
hardly shows up as a significant item in her list of imported
goods and yet without which an integrated modern economy
would be out of the question. The steel takes the tools, and the
tools take the oils, and Japan must come to the United States for
all three.
Every day Japan's war in China makes her need of this Amer-
ican equipment more urgent. The railway problem is typical.
Because of a car shortage, 1oo,ooo tons of freight remain un-
handled every day. Japan plans to build zoo locomotives and
7,o00 freight cars. But her 24 plants dedicated to this purpose
must remain idle until the lathes and other machine tools she
has ordered abroad, principally in America, arrive. Meanwhile
she has placed emergency orders for 2o per cent of this program
in America, abandoning hope of supplying them herself.. ..
And so the story, all through the industrial economy that
Japan is striving so desperately to modernize and to integrate, is
of dependence on American products, on unique American skills,
on goods which America alone is producing in quantities suffi-
cient to export. For light, durable steels in mass production
quantities; for railroad, automobile and aircraft manufacturing
equipment made from these steels and by these tools; and, finally.
70

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
for the high-powered fuel needed to run her new American air-
craft engines, Japan can go nowhere else. And each of these
products is uscless without all the others.
What Japan is aiming at-and indeed what these American
products are alone designed to serve-is an interdependent, mass
production economy. But what Japan is necessarily and inevita-
bly involving herself in is an economy integrated toward contin
ued imports from one country, interdependent indeed, but far
from independent of that country's good will. And that economy
is virtually subject to the control, no matter how little her pub-
licists and generals may know it or care to admit it, of the quan-
titatively small, but qualitatively all important engineering goods
which that country sends her.
SHIPMENT OF STEEL AND SCRAP IRON
TO JAPAN
EXTENSION OF REMARKS OF HON. BYRON N. SCOTT
OF CALIFORNIA IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1938
(Exceopts trom Congreossomal Record)
Introduction to artide. "AMERICA CAN HALT JAPAN"•
By PaUI. G. McManus
Mr. Scott. Mr. Speaker, under the leave to extend my remarks
in the Record. I indlude the following article by Paul G. Me
Manus:
The difficulties the Japanese have been encountering in their
war against China spotlights what singularly few people seem
aware of: That the United States is in the strategic position of
being able to cripple Japan's war mathine by suddenly cutting
off the supply of scrap needed in steel production. This may be
illustrated by citing figures for Japan. In 1937 she produced
• For the balance of a dosels reasoned ande. see Congresstonal Record for
May 1s. 93s. Spate pievents quotation m tull.
71

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
roughly 5,goo,ooo tons of steel. In the manufacture of this ton-
nage over 2,ooo,ooo tons of scrap were used, of which the United
States supplied 1,go0,o00 tons. Thus one-third of the raw mate-
rial used in Japan's steel industry in 1937 was derived from
American scrap. It can readily be seen that sudden stoppage of
this flow would adversely affect Japan's ability to produce steel.
The foregoing represents the opinion of no individual. The
figures cited are based upon official export statistics compiled
monthly by United States Government bodies. The paragraph
as a whole is quoted almost literally from a recent speech by
E. W. Pehrson, of the Metal Economics Division of the United
States Bureau of Mines, before the trade organization of used-
material dealers. It constitutes the most direct statement made,
since Japan invaded China, of the vital role played in Japan's
war economy by American industry.
AMERICAN EXPORTS BOLSTER JAPAN
BY T. A. BISsON
(Reprinted through courtesy and permission of Foreign
Policy Association, Inc.)
During recent weeks the new military-fascist members added
to Japan's Cabinet have demonstrated how the war in China
should be conducted. Not content with an intensified drive on
the central China fronts, they have instituted a ruthless bombing
of Canton which has piled up a total of at least 8,ooo casualties,
mostly civilian non-combatants. Laying claim to "military neces-
sity," Japanese officials have spurned protests against this bar-
barity, declared that the air raids would be continued "with even
greater vigor," and acted on this declaration. By June 12, as a
result, Canton was experiencing its fifteenth successive day of
aerial bombardment.
Military inefficiency rather than military necessity-if the real-
ization that a desperate case requires desperate remedies be ex-
cepted-lies at the root of this latest exhibition of Japancse
"frightfulness." For months Japan's naval planes have been
bombing the tracks, stations and bridges of the Canton-Kowloon
Railway in an effort to disrupt the munitions shipments which
are reaching Hankow via Hongkong and Canton. Japancse
78

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
planes have been virtually unopposed in the air; nevertheless.
they have failed to interrupt railway traffic. Heroic Chinese re-
pair crews quickly restored tracks or bridges where the raiding
planes scored direct hits. Hoping to demoralize the Chinese
defense, the new Japanese leadership deliberately resorted to an
indiscriminate bombing of Canton. The doubtful efficacy of
this weapon has again been illustrated in south China: latest
reports indicate that the Canton-Kowloon Railway is still func-
tioning and that munitions trains are still passing north to Han-
kow.
The raids on Canton are not the responsibility of Japan alone.
Americans should face the fact that this country is participating
de facto in the destruction wrought at Canton. The high test
aviation fuel, which the United States is supplying in large and
increasing quantities to Japan, makes this country a participant
in the Canton bombardments: so. also, does the S5.67o.237 worth
of American aircraft and accessories sold to Japan since January
1938. As pointed out in the Washington News Letter, these facs
led Secretary Hull on June 1i to reveal that the State Depare
ment was taking measures to "dis ourage" sale of American air-
planes to Japan. Airplanes, however, constitute but a small
portion of the war materials which American concerns are sup
plying to Japan. High-grade steels with specified allovs. special
types of machinery and madhine tools, and certain fuel and
lubricating oils-these, and other products, are available to Japan
in large quantities only in the American market. When scrap
and pig iron, refined copper. petroleum, automobiles and accts
sories, non-metallic metals, and numerous lesser items are added
to the list of American exports to Japan, the full picture bec omes
apparent. A scientific study of this subject, to be shortly pub-
lished by the Chinese Council for Economic Research at Wash-
ington, D. C., estimates that during recent months Japan has
secured 544 per cen: of its war imports from the United States
It is clear that Secretary Hull's private warnings to a few
American airplane manufa turers do not constitute an adequate
answer to the question raised by these facts. The U'nited Siates.
as the chief source of supply of Japan's war materials, has become
a silent partner in Japanese aggression. It is not enough to sav
that this country is also supplying munitions to China. Nor does
application of the Neutrality Act commend itself as the proper
answer to the situation that has developed. As early a、 last
September the American government explicitly ranged itself
73

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
with the League in condemnation of Japan's bombing of open
cities in China; in more recent declarations, the State Depart-
ment has implicitly branded Japan as the aggressor in the cur-
rent Far Eastern hostilities. Something more than words is
required, however, if the United States is not to be accused of
transparent hypocrisy. In order to enforce a policy of non-par-
ticipation in Japanese aggression, the American government
must levy a strict embargo on sales of war materials to Japan.
At the same time, the Chinese government should continue to
enjoy every facility for the purchase of the munitions which it
needs to protect China's national existence against an unjustified
and ruthless assault. Only thus can the deeds of our governiment
be squared with its words. This policy will demand a price
from certain vested American interests, but that price will be
cheap compared with the war which looms on the horizon if
Japan ever establishes itself effectively in China.
Despite Japan's recent military gains, there is no reason to
believe that the Chinese cause is hopeless. Rising waters and
breaches in the dikes of the Yellow River have mired the Jap-
anese advance along the Lunghai Railway. and Cheng how is
apparently still in Chinese hands. Time is being given for the
Chinese forces to reform their lines for the defense of Hankow.
Withdrawal of further American aid to the aggressor at this (ru
cial moment would condemn Japan's desperate eleventh-hour
offensive to defeat.
Japan furnishes the pilot-Ameria furnishes the airplane, gaso-
line, oil and bombs for the ravaging of undefended Chinese cities.
74

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.98)
Stop Economic Aid to Japan ...
WHAT ORGANIZATIONS CAN DO
The active support of organizations throughout America is
needed in order to make effective an embargo upon war supplies
from the United States to Japan.
Any or all of the following suggested activities can be carried
out. beginning at once. by organizations, national or local, with
or without the cooperation of other bodies:
1. Take the stoppage of military supplies to Japan as a leading
issue in connedtion with organizational publications, correspond
ence, meetings and conferenees. Arrange for special gatherings
and radio addresses when possible.
2. Send copies of all actions taken by large or small groups to
President Roosevelt, to Seoetany of State Cordell Hull. to mem-
bers of the Senate and House Committees on Foreign Relations.
to Senators and Congressmen of sour state, and to local news
papers.
3. Write individual lettes to an or all of the above protes
ing against American aid to Japanese aggression and requesting
that ofh ial a tion be taken to piohibit the export of war supplits
to Japan.
4. Form local committees civie leaders, ministers, members
of women's oiganizations, labor organizations, and peace groups
and other publie spirited itizens to call on Congressmen. Sen
ators and Congres ional candidates, informing them of the
opinion of local groups, and urging them to take a position
with regard to the issue.
5. It the legislatune in von state is meeting this autumn or
winter, attempt to secune passage of a Memorial to Congress urg-
ing congiessional action for withholding munitions, other war
supplies and financial aid trom Japan for the duration of the war.
or withholding cconomic aid for war purposes to countries whch
are in process of violating peatce neaties with the United States
6. Express vour moral support to industrialists, menchants
and other individuals and to labor and other organizations re
fusing to cooperate in the manufa ture or shipment of supplies
for Japan's war madhine.
75

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
7. Designate one or more persons active in the organization
who can devote his time and effort during the summer and au-
tumn to the embargo issue, who will keep in touch with all
branches of the organization, with other organizations, and with
the American Committee for Non-Participation in Japanese
Aggression.
WHAT INDIVIDUALS CAN DO
The actions of individuals are no less significant than those
of organizations. To any who feel strongly with regard to the
question of American support for Japanese aggression, the fol-
lowing activities are suggested:
1. Send letters to President Roosevelt, Secretary of State Cor-
dell Hull and to Senators and Congressmen from your state, as
suggested in third paragraph above.
2. Write the editor of your local newspaper, stating your po-
sition and suggesting that the paper lend its editorial support
to the policy of non-participation in Japanese aggression.
3. Order and distribute further copies of the pamphlet,
"America's Share in Japan's War Guilt."
4. Discuss the question with friends and think of further
means toward ending America's support to Japan at this time.
Send your ideas and suggestions to the Secretary, American Com-
mittee for Non-Participation in Japanese Aggression.
5. Promote and cooperate in such organizational activities as
are suggested above.
76

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
American Committee for Non-Participation
in Japanese Aggression ...
A growing realization that the United States is. in effect, an
ally of Japan for her program of conquest in Asia has led to the
spontaneous organization of the American Committce for Non-
Participation in Japanese Aggression.
Neither widespread sympathy for the Chinese people in their
courageous struggle for freedom nor protests over inhuman war-
fare and the violation of treaties can atone for the positive
support which we are lending to the Japanese military niachine.
This Committee's reason for existence is to help in bringing
the essential facts to the attention of the American people, co-
operating with other individuals and organizations that are
working to this end, and to investigate ways and means whereby
the stoppage of war credits and essential war supplies to Japan
can be made effective for the remainder of the present conflidt
in China.
Significant facts with regard to American aid to Japan will
be placed before commercial, industrial. financial, "labor and
transportation groups. On grounds of both moral responsibility
and far-sighted self-interest, the case for non-participation in
Japanese aggression will be presented, and public opinion will
be invited to lend its support to all who voluntarily sacrifice a
share in "profits from the blood and tears of the innocent" in
China.
The Committee will endeavor to help in crystallizing public
demand and support for governmental executive action designed
to check the flow of American credits and war materials to Japan.
Study is being made of the forms of effective executive action
possible under existing law. Contact will be maintained with the
governmental departments concerned.
The Committee will also work toward securing the enactment
of a measure at the next session of Congress prohibiting the (
tension of economic aid for war purposes to a country which is
in process of violating a solemn treaty of peace to which the
United States is a party.
To insure the more complete effectiveness of any action taken
in America, the Committee will collaborate with organizations
77

=== Page 162 === (confidence 1.00)
in other countries which are working to halt shipments of essen-
tial war materials to Japan. Through this means, international
action by peoples and governments will be sought.
The central and single aim of the Committee is expressed in
the phrase "non-participation in Japanese aggression." Doc-
trinal isms, domestic issues, and the European situation, how-
ever important, are beyond its scope.
Members of the Committee regard this program as a construc-
tive effort in the direction of international peace and justice.
They desire the well-being of the people of Japan as well as of
all other peoples in the Pacific area. They desire peace and ju
tice for all concerned. They feel, at the same timie, that before
any just settlement and lasting peace structure can be achieved.
Japanese military aggression must be checked. They believe that
for this a policy of non-cooperation by the powers together with
continued Chinese resistance will be effective, and that the urgent
and crucial need of the moment is to withhold economic assist-
ance for war purposes from Japan.
Starting in a small way, this Committee has received an imme-
diate response on all sides. This has led to a more inclusive organ-
ization which is still in process as the movement to check the flow
of war naterials from America to Japan gains rapidly in momen-
tum. The contents of this booklet suggest the contacts which
the Committee has made to date and the extent to which the
movement has already grown. It is expected that formal organi-
zation of the Committee will be completed and announced in
the near future, with outstanding citizens among the sponsors.
Far more important than this Committee, however, is the
movement of which it is but a part. Not one but scores of or-
ganizations and thousands of individuals must unite in common
effort in order to make this movement effective.
In cooperation with individuals and organizations throughout
the United States, furnishing and receiving suggestions and in-
formation, the American Committee for Non-Participation in
Japanese Aggression is ready to do its part.
78

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.92)
NATIONAL BOARD
INITIAL MEMBERS
Dr. Edward H. Hume, Diredtor of Christian Medical Council for
Overseas Work.
Miss Josephine Schain. National Chairman, National Committer
on the Cause and Cure of War.
Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr. Union Theological Seminary.
Mrs. Lincoln Steffens (Ella Winter). Executive Board, Lrague of
American Writers.
Mr. Roger S. Greene. lately Arting Director of Peiping ln
Medical College and fonmer Consul-General at Hankor
Miss Helen Keller. author and ledturer.
Mr. Louis D. Froelick. formerh Fditor of Asix Magazive.
Mr. T. A. Bisson. Research Satt. Forcign Policy Associaon
Author, "Japan in China."
Mr. Philip J. Jaffe. Managong Editor. Amerasia.
Mr. Maxwell Stewart. Iswortate Editor. The Nation.
Mr. Eliot Janeway, cronomist, ir).
Miss Margaret Forsth. Nottordl Boood, Y.IW.C..A.
Dr. B. A. Garside. edueational adminrstator.
Mr. George Fitch. Seoctany of Y. M.C.A. in China (on lear.
Mr. Olin D. Wannamaker. edue atonal executire and det
Rev. Dr. Frank W. Price. Nonhing Theological Seminar.
leave).
Rev. Dr. E. W. Luccock. Pastor. Shuanghai Comumuonity Chooch
(on leave).
Mr. Earl H. Leat. woiteo. toom, Noth China Momag
U'nited Press.
Mr. Edgar H. Rue. Exceuti Seetor. Iustitution for the Che
nese Blind. Shanghai.
Mr. Chester A. Smith. Chaomar. State of the Country and Son ia
Servi. e Comumittee. Ner Yonk Methodist Conference. 197 38.
Mr. Harry B. Price. Protessor of E onomies. Yendhirg U 
Peiping (on lear ). SICRi 1ARY.
Monberhip as indiriduals
79

=== Page 164 === (confidence 1.00)
Initial contributions have made it
possible to print the first issue of this
booklet and to begin the setting up of
an office. For the broad program of work
needed in order to make effective the
stopping of economic aid to Japan, ad-
ditional contributions will be necessary.
Donations sent to the Secretary, Ameri-
can Committee for Non-Participation in
Japanese Aggression, 8 West 4oth Street,
New York, N. Y., will be gratefully ac-
knowledged and conscientiously applied
to the enlarging work of this Committee.
Contributors and others interested will
be invited to cooperate in the efforts of
the Committee and they will be kept
informed with regard to further develop-
ments.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.94)
DERFE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
C
RECEIVED
EPARTMENT
Mémorandum of Conversation
143
1938
AM 1150
DATE: August 27, 1938.
SUBJECT:
Sino-Japanese situation.
YNECORDS
PARTICIPANTS:
SECRETARY OF STATE HULL AND THE
CHINESE AMBASSADOR, DR. CHENGTING T. WANG.
COPIES TO:
894.24/327
1—1408
The Chinese Ambassador called on his own request.
He said he desired to thank this Government for its
protest to Japan against the destruction of a passenger
plane and a number of l1ves. He handed me the attached
copy of a message received by the Chinese Embassy as to
altack
the facts.
4usg.
The Ambassador then brougnt up the question of the
Sino-Japanese situation and, after expressing his appre-
clation of what this Government has been doing, especially
F
in relation to the purchase of silver, he said he believed
A
this country was now in a state of mind and that the time
AUG 3 0 1938
was ripe for further action along the lines of restraining
shipments
2

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
1431
- 2 -
shipments of important materials, as well as munitions,
to Japan, and he hoped this Government would feel
justified in taking up the matter. I said that, of
couree, I could make no comniuments whatever in regard
to this; that I would keep in mind what he said and bring
1t to the attention of my associates, especially in the
Far Eastern Division. I reminced him that, of course,
shipments of most of our aeronautical supplies to Japan
have ceased except those under contract. He seemeu
thorougnly to understand this. I inquired what would
ve the state of mina of other important governments
abroad, such as those in Europe, in re ard to his sug-
gestion. He said he had no iniormation of a recent
nature but that he would be glad to see our Government
take the matter up with the British and other govern-
ments. I suggested that tnose governments are very much
preoccupied during present weeks with the Czechoslovak
and Spanish situations, and that in any event I would
suggest that his Government might more appropriately
perhaps take the matter up through 1ts ambassadors and
other representatives at European capitals. He said
that might be well enough.
He then inquired when the President would return,
and I replied that he would be back on Tuesday morning
next. He said he would be glad 1f the State Department
would

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
1435
- 3 -
woula make an engagement ror him to see the President;
that he desired to bring up this same important point
with him. I replied that I would be glad to confer with
the Protocol officials, or he could do so as he preferred.
He saia that he woula be glad to see them himself.
In reply to my question, the Ambassaaor steted that
1t would be some time yet before Hankow woula be occupied
by the Japanese.
C.H.
S CH:HR

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
TEXT OF A TELEGRAPHIC ESSAGE RECEI VED AT THE
CHINESE E BASSY, DATED CIUNGKING, AUGUST 27, 1938
Ten bodies of the victims of the Chinese National Aviation
Corporation passenger plane tragedy were recovered up to yester-
day evening. Almost all bear machine gun bullet wounds. Eight
bodies were identified includin the two prominent Shanghai
bankers Mr. Hsu Sineloh and r. Hu Pikieng. The bullet riddled
wreckage of the plane was also salvaged.
The Chinese force withdrew from Juichang, Kiangsi, on
the 25th taking up positions in the west and northwest of Juichm g
beyond the range of the Japanese naval guns.
On the western shore of the Poyang Lake the Chinese wiped
out three hundred Japanese landed at Niuweitun, south of Singtse,
on the 24th. The last remnants were exterminated following a
three hour battle yesterday morning.
On the northern side of the Yangtse River, the Japanese in
Hofei, Anhwei, started a westward offensive against Liuan. Serious
fighting is taking place in a point 30 kilometers east of Liuan.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
EINTERSEMINARY MOVEMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES
Under the Auspices of the National Council of Student Chris.
tian Associations with the Cooperation of the Joint Executive
Committee of the Life and Work and Faith and Order Movements
38A0
PM 1 5647 Madison Avenue, New York, N. Y.
MU
CUTIVE COMMITTEE
GARDINER M. DAY
AUG
222 Cornell Avenue
Chairman
Swarthmore, Pa.
ROY McCORKEL
Secretery
EVH/Emn
HENRY S. LEIPER
J. ROSS STEVENSON
HENRY P. VAN DUSEN
GEORGE STEWART
ROLAND ELLIOTT
PROVISIONAL NATIONAL
STUDENT COMMITTEE
Camp KanesataRe
CHARLES R. ALLEN
Spruce Creek, Pa.
Berkeley Divinity School
Auglst 17, 1938.
WILLIAM A. TAYLOR
Crozer Theological Seminary
RICHARD WALSH
Division of
Pacific School of Religion
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
HAROLD LUNGER
Yale Divinity School
0G 29193
894.247328
Mr. Cordell Hull
GEORGE KALBFLEISCH
Eden Theological Seminary
Secretary of State
Departmert of Siate
HERMAN F. ALLEN
Washington, D. C.
Presbyterian Theological Seminery
Chicago
HENRY T. DEAN
Dear Secretary Hull,
Gammon Theological Seminary
Plenme permit me to expresa my gratitude for
HOWARD A. ALSDORF
Lutheran Theological Seminary your seven point program in international relations as recorded in
Philadelphia
today's New York Times. The newspaper account, I believe, was a
MERRITT QUEEN
Drew Theological Seminary
reproduction of your recent radio address. The progam as you outlined
HOMER YINGER
it was re ssuring, and, needless to say, most pertinent t the present
GEORGE PEARCE
School of Theology,
Southern Methodist University
Is there not some further action that can be devised by our govern-
WARD FELLOWS
ment to stop American business interests from profiting from the crisis
Union Theological Seminary
New York
in the Far East. Must we be partners with Japan in her program of devesta-
tion and death in China? Ig thereno way we can invoke the neutrality
act in the ar Bast?
I should be plea ed to know, sir, if it is true that our nation
ranks first of all the netions in the export of armaments?
Ever sincerely,
F/HR
COOPERATING WITH THE WORLD'S STUDENT CHRISTIAN FEDERATION

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.92)
ugust 30 1938.
My dear Mr. MeGorkel:
The reseipt 1s aeknomledged of your letter of August 17,
1sse, in regard to the applieation of the Neutrality Aet to
the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
I deeply appreciate your commendatory remarks with
894.24/328
reforenee to the seeretary's address of August 16. I assure
you that your interest and support are indeed encouraging and
helpful.
There is tramsmitted herewith a copy of the Joint Reso-
lussen of Congress appreved May 1, 1987, amending the Jeint
Resslutien appreved Angust Al, l9ss. You mill ebesrve thas
sestion 1 (a) ef this Jeint Resolutien ppevides that whenever
the presicent shall find that there emtats a state ef
betssen er. ameng swe or more foreigm states he shall preskakm
 fast. Should the President Sesse a preelmatlem fimé-
thet a atate ef wa exists between ina and deen the
empers
F/HR

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.94)
expert of arms, ammunition and implements of war to both
those sountries would immedlately be prohibited by the terms
of the Meutrality Aet. In the abeenee of smck a preelame-
tion, however, there exists no legal amthority for preventing
the export of arme either to both those countries er to Japan
aomo.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
1ution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Jeint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partiemlar situe-
tion the President must take into ascount various factors
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this cowm
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the Far
East, the President has coneluded that, in the light of all
the faets and eiroumstamees, when weighed from a prastieal
point of view, it would not be to the best interests of this
country and our peeple as a whole to invoke the provisioms
of this Jeimt Resolutiom.
In this sonneetion yom may be interested to kmow that
snee Jaly 1, los7, the Department of state has 1ssued
Iteemses for the expert of arms, ammunitios and implements
te  In the vale ef 13,9,00.16 ne to a

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.95)
8
1n the value of $10,581,866.93.
The Meutrality Ast furthermore does not under any
eiremstanees axthorise the President or the Searetary of
state to prokibit the export of eommodities other than arms,
ammanition and implements of war. The artieles and materials
whish are considered to be arme, ammunition and implements of
war are enumerated in the President's Proelamation of May 1,
1937, which 1s set forth under Part II of the enolosed eopy
of the pamphlet, International Traffle in Arns.
You doubtless have noticed the aooount given in the
press of statements made by the Seoretary of state at his
press conferenee on June ll, in which the Seeretary sald,
with referenee to the bombing of oivilian populations and
the probable danger to Amerieans and Amerlean interests
abroad, that he had issued repeated public statements
condemning the bombing of civilian populations, that he
intended to maintain this position and to say to every-
ene that this Government condemns t bembing of eiviliam
pepulations or its material eneouregement, and that he
aays this abroad and ssgs it at home to the Amerieam pesple
and especially to the manmfeeturers of bembixg plames.
with regard te the question raised in the last pare-
ph of your letter, I have to infemm you that aeserding

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.87)
the Treée in Arne and Ammanitien the United states ranked
firth in the export of arms and ammunition during the year
1936.
sineerely yours,
Charles W. Yost, Aoting Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
Joint Besolution.
Pamphlet.
OR H
AUG 29 1938.PM
U8
A tru copy
the ed olgi
EN
CUB

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.95)
Division or
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
CRS
CAPITOLHOEL
S
1O NO1
H
8TH&GRAGESTS
CE
2
R
1938
AND
Hon Hell Hull,
Secretary oftate,
RICHMOND,VA.
eptember
Washington, C.
Rurjamm
Dear Mr. Secretary:
8 1938
depteuber
One year ago, on September 1, 1937, I wrete  ou urging that our lover ment respond
promptly to the appeal of eneralissimo Chian-Kaishek for the intervention of foreign
powers to end the unprovoked Japanese war. are a ti st China. I em hasized that Japan is
a signer of the Keilog Fe ce iact, and of t.e ine Fower Treaty, neither of which has been
abrogated; also that the declared uncha..red polic of t e Tnited S tes is the Cpen Door
in China. I urged that the n ted States should lead, callin unon the other signers of
the Treaty to declare to Japan that her war are a ainst China must cease, and that if Japan
refused all diplomatic relaticns should be in cdiiey severed, and an e argo laid on
Japanese commercial and moetary transactions .itn th other Treaty nations.
But a whole year has passed, and the most orrible, barbarous varfare known in civil-
ized time has been carried on by Japan, muruerin thousands upon thouse ds of unprotected,
unarmed civilians, ranin wh lesale giris and omen of conquered territory, with an utterly
contemptuous disre ard for the horror of the civilized world, es ecialiy as no active
measures were taken to even hamper her in her deter ation to subjurate China.
8
S
Very recently you unde a ad ress in vhich you stated:"he el eve in, we support and
we receommend,(1) Adherence to the basic nrinciples of nter. ational law in governing
rules of con uct among nations; (2) respect for and observance of treaties; (3) voluntar)
self-restraint, abstntion from use f force in rursuit of nolicy, and fro interference
4
with the internal ar airs of other nations."
3
All three of these basic principles Ja an has ruthlessly viclated, and has flouted 
barbarity in the face of the world, and has become a veritable outla. in In ternational li.
Surely the time has now come to sever diplonatic relations with such an outlaw, and to
place an embargo, if not on all forms of com ercial and monetery transactions, at least
upon all trading in whatever can be used as munitions of war. Such a. enbargo should apply
only to Japan and not to China, as Japan is the outlaw aggressor, and China should be ac-
corded every possible facil ty to defend herself against Japan's cruel,barbarous warfare.
I thought that our nation was right, when it went to t..e rescue of the Cuban people
from the atrocities of Spain. I thou ht it was ri ht, when we joined to fi~ht against German
submarine frightfulness, and the ruthlessness of the Ger an war-lords. I think our country
will be eternally condemned, if we do not endeavor to put such pressure on Japan as to  ing
to an end her unprovoked barbarous warfare upon China, calling also upon other sighers
the Kellogg Pact and the Nine Power Treaty to join with us. I do not propose a deelar ion
of war. I do not think it will e ecessary. I believe the measures indicated abowiat
this juncture bring Japan to her knees, and put ai end her indefensible, horrible oonduct.
Indeed,it may be that Japan would welcome such action on our part as an excuse to terminate
a conflict which is draining away the very life-blood of the Japanese people.
I believe that,with the exception of some profiteers in munition, the great mass of
the American people would approve such positive, persistent, peaceful pressure in
ocordance with the principles enunciated in your recent address. I am writing not
as a Bishop of a great Church, but simply as one American citizen of many million
With much respect,
samesann
/HR
Sincerely,
James Cannon, Jr.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.92)
eptember 8 1938.
my doar Biahop:
I wish to thank you for your letter of September 1,
89
1958, setting forth your views with regard to the situation
now obtaining in the Far East.
24/329
As you doubtless are aware, Beotion 1 (a) of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, a sopy of which
1s enelesed for your convenient reference, prevides that
whenever the President shall find that there exists a state
of war between or mong two or more foreign states he shall
proelaim sueh fact. should the President isswe a proalame-
tion finding that a state of war exists between Ghina and
Japem the export of arms, ammunition and implemente of war
to both those countries would immediately be prohibited by
the terms of the Noutrality Aet. In the absenee of such
a proelamation, however, there exists no legal authority
for preventing the export of arms either te beth those eown-
tries er te Japan aleme.
F
8
Jamen Ganmn, Jamier, ..
n, vrgiia.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this oountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Jeint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound disaretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular site-
ation the President must take into aosount various faetors
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far East, the President has conoluded that, in the light of
all the facts and oiroumstanees, when weighed from a prae-
tieal point of view, it would not be to the best interests
of this ountry and our people as a whole to invoke the pro-
visioms of this Joint Resolution.
In this conneotion you may be interested to know that
since July 1, 1937, the Department of State has issmed
lieenses for the export of arms, ammunition and implements
of war to Ohina in the value of $13,a12,6e9.11 and to
Japan 1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Noutrality Aet, moreover, doos not under any eir-
eumstanees suthorize the President or the Seeretary of
sSate te prekibit the export of commodities ether tham arms,
ammmition and tmplements of war. the artieles and me-
teriale which are censidered to be arme, mmitien and
imploments

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.93)
-3
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part 1I
of the enalosed opy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffle
AD.
You doubtless have notioed the aecount given in the
press of statements made by the searetary of state at his
press onferenoe on June 1l, in whioh he said, with
reference to the bombing of oivillan populations and the
probable danger to Americans and Amerlcan interests abroad,
that he had 1ssued repeated statements oondemning the
bombing of oivillan populations, that he 1ntended to main-
tain this position and to say to everyone that this Govern-
ment ocondemns the bombing of eivilian populations or its
material enoouragement, and that he says this abroad and
saye it at home to the Amerioan people and especially to
the manufacturers of bombing planes.
Bineerely yours,
R. WALTON MO
Counseler.
Emelesures:
SEP 7 1938.PM
Joimt Resolution.
Pamphlet.
.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.97)
eA
Penn Yan, NY. August 30, 1938
Replying to
PLCEIVED
CA 894.24/291
F=A
894.24
Attention of
8EP1
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
For the Secretary of State,
Washing ton, D.C.
My dear Mr. Yost,
Department of S'a
This is simply to thank you for your trouble in
giving so informative a reply to my questions in your letter of
August 27, and also for the two docunents sent under another
cover as mentione in your letter. They ive me the present status
of th:tthority o. th
ne of your depurt aont in the
nattor of sales of munitions etc.
Your letter also gave the respective amounts of sales
to China and Japan during the past year, o value in determining
24/330
the difficult question as to whether Japan or China would suf-
fer the more by the enforcement of the neutrality Act, i.e.
the Joint Resolution of May 1, 1937.
As to credits that the Japanese may have obtained other
than the normal commercial credits it would seem that the Honorable
Senator James P. Pope, of Idaho had such information as you
say the  epartment has not when he said, on June 8, in the
Senate,
for the continuance of the war in China is credit. Th burf of
the credit is being furnished by the United States".
2
Thanking you once more, and still cherishing the Hope
P
that a way may be found to " preserve the best interests of this
F
country" without conspicuously aiding in the continuance of
aggression on the victims.
Geo. D. Wilder.
Sincerely yours,

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.84)
erasía
EDITDRIAL
BOARDI
FFR、FFI
haumon
EVIEW OF AMFRICA
PHLIPAFFE
managing editor
D THE FAR EAST
AN PEFFER
essistant editor
125 EAST 52nd ST NFW YORK
A BIASON
HATNGH
TELEPHONE PLAIAAJOU
HENNFTHWCOLFOROVE
WENIATTIMORE
WAM W TOCKWOOD
PEAKE
OAVION
POPPER
HARRIFTIFVINE
serretary
Dear Ruader:
We are en laing a y of Nathanlel Peffer'e artlele.
entitled "A Year of War: Tho Nee: or a Change t American Attitude
and Action", reprinted from the August iacue of AMERASIA.
Thls sensational statement by Vr. Peffer, well kueyn
authority a writer on Far Ehsten affaire, c. te immediate necere-
ty of a hso in Ame Ln olind te Fa Fast--sensational
beauee after e outlreak of he r e we deflnitely or pered to
anye1ieaien b te ..A. led ofed imtace.
But th o te i wih to nae th
ignifut aere   wazine ha ta
a place tu the front ranke of Ame loa litient journals.
efrand
1
24
111
he YC
C
hamyd
AME

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
Reprint from AMERASIA, August 1938
A Year of War
The Need for a Change in American Attitude and Action
By Nathaniel Peffer
AMERASIA
A Review of America and the Far East
125 EAST 52nD STREET, NEW YORk, N. Y.
25 Cents a Copy
$2.50 a year

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
A Year of War
The Need for a Change in American Attitude and Action
By Nathaniel Peffer
TH
HE TIME has come, I think, to re-
the sinking of the Panay only. I mean the
examine the bases of American policy
continuous pin-pricking in cities like Shang-
toward the Far East.
hai, the mistreatment of foreigners, the ar-
Let me say at the beginning that I have
bitrary closing off of districts to foreigners
not been one of those who believed in inter-
contrary to all law, the direct or indirect in-
vention, cither directly or as the result of
fringements on the economic rights of for-
some antecedent step. I may take the liberty
eigners and the manifest intention to shut off
of reminding readers of AmErAsiA that in
to foreigners any future economic oppor-
these pages I wrote last Autumn on return-
tunity in China.
ing from the Far East that America could
Two. The manner in which Japan has
choose only between going to war and not
conducted the war has outraged every Amer-
going to war. Sanctions and embargoes unless
ican sense of decency. Of Japan's conduct of
universally applied would be only preliminary
the war the word barbarity is too generous
to war. And I was opposed to war, on the
a description. The word bestiality is more
grounds that it was too horrible a price to
accurate, even etymologically more appropri-
pay except for survival and that if China
ate. I do not mean only the bombing of un-
were saved from Japan by the efforts of a
defended towns and villages. I mean the
third Power it would be laid under obligation
indiscriminate killing, looting, burning and
that it could discharge only by subservience
raping that has followed every Japanese vic-
to that Power, whereas if it repelled Japan
tory. Hardened as this generation has become
by its own efforts it would have demonstrated
to cruelty and human suffering, hardened as
that imperialistic encroachments were no
a cancer specialist must become, the abomi-
longer feasible. China would be substantively
nations of the Japanese invasion have proved
independent and the international conflict
revolting. And to the American of any sen-
for priority in China, with all its menace to
sitiveness it cannot be without humiliation
world peace, would be over.
that America has legally but also effectively
This reasoning I still believe to have been
contributed to these abominations by selling
valid then. But it would be doctrinaire blind-
to Japan the instruments of abomination.
ness or fatuous devotion to consistency to
Legally America's position may be unim-
maintain that a year of war has made no dif-
peachable; but the effect has been to abet the
ference and that America's position is and
Japanese soldiery in plundering, looting, kill-
should be now exactly what it was a year ago.
ing and raping. The fact is that America has
For three things have happened in that year
sold more materials to Japan than any other
to change the nature of the problem that
nation, and the fact must make any Amer-
the Far East presents to the United States.
ican squirm, however correct the position of
One. In that year American rights and in-
his country may be in international law.
terests in the Far East have been treated with
Three. In a year of war Japan has been
scorn and overtly violated. I do not mean
markedly weakened. It has not succeeded in

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
subduing China. It is now mired, perhaps in-
out some peasant's hut and kills his wife and
extricably mired, in China. It has destroyed
children. The arguments that might be made
or enervated its sinews of war. It is now
against individual boycotts a year ago no
measurably less formidable than it was a year
longer hold, now that we have seen how
ago. For the first time since the World War
Japan makes war. The state of international
there is a prospect of safeguarding the world
law and the complexity of international rela-
from the threat to its peace and welfare that
tions may constrain countries sometimes to
Japan has undeniably constituted since then.
be unwilling accessories to a war; but they
Before proceeding to the deductions to be
should not be permitted to do so when the
drawn from these three developments it is
war is of the kind waged by the Japanese.
better to get ourselves cleared as to the first
Third—and more important. The time has
premise. It is idle to pretend that America
come for a fresh address to the question of
has at any time desired anything except the
selling war materials to Japan—either muni-
defeat of Japan in this war. In that respect
tions or materials essential to munitions. For
its interests and its reasoned and instinctive
one thing, no legal rationalizing, no philoso-
preferences coincide. Its national existence
phical detachment can blur the realization
has not yet been sufficiently jeopardized to
that the United States is and has been for a
warrant the supreme sacrifice of war, but
year accessory after the fact of a war of in-
that a Japanese defeat would contribute to
vasion, a war carried on with a maximum of
its material security and its sense of human
cruelty, in violation of every article of even
values is almost a unanimous belief. In this
the elastic moral code of war. Nor does ac-
war this country is anti-Japanese. It wants to
quittal at law absolve America from responsi-
see Japan defeated. Short of war until there
bility for the result. Moreover, in supplying
is no other recourse, it would and should help
Japan with the means of attempting to con-
encompass that defeat. And everything that
quer China America has been conniving at its
has happened in the last year has streng-
own detriment. What has happened to for-
thened that desire, added to the provocation
eign interests at Peiping, Tientsin, Shanghai
and made opportunity.
foreshadows the fate of American interests
in the event of Japanese victory. Further-
more, with the rapid exhaustion of Japanese
reserves Japan becomes increasingly depen-
effectuation, for reëvaluation of Amer-
dent on American sources of supply and by
ican policy in the Far East and translation in
so much vulnerable to American decision on
the form of concrete measures. What
continued purveyance. Increasingly, then,
measures?
America becomes Japan's armory for the
First. The most obvious is succour to Chin-
forging of weapons in the long run directed
ese civilians in the form of relief. What is
against itself. It should renounce the rôle.
generally acknowledged but not openly
The mechanism of the law is an obstacle.
avowed is the scandalous failure of America
Official embargo may still not be practicable.
to respond to the need in China, the indif-
But it is necessary to begin to canvass pos-
ference to the humanitarian appeal of the
sibilities for bringing about a cessation of the
ghastly suffering in that country. This is the
flow of materials to Japan without contra-
one niggardly episode in recent American
vening the law or definitive new legislation.
history, one in which the country can take
Provisions for licensing arms shipments offer
shame and which must be redressed.
one means. The kind of pressure that can be
Second. A renewed campaign must be
levied by the government to prevent loans to
launched for individual boycotting of Jap-
foreign governments is another, if levied in
anese goods. It must be borne in on every
the matter of sales of munitions or materials
American citizen that every cent he spends
for munitions. There is still a third. The
on any commodity imported from Japan is
same end can be achieved as a matter of re-
his addition to the cost of a bomb that wipes
prisals.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 1.00)
There has been ample ground for reprisals
supplies. We have resorted to much more
in the past. There will be others in the future.
"uneconomic" devices for disposing of surplus
Japan already stands as violator of con-
products or commodities before, devices of at
tractual obligations to the United States,
least as poor a risk. There are industrial en-
Japan has broken the Nine Power Treaty
terprises in the United States which would be
and the Kellogg Pact. Japan has committed
willing to join, either because of a sympathy
open offenses such as the sinking of the
with China or a desire to cultivate China's
Panay. It is within the right and the power
good will and get in on the ground floor of
of the American Government on the occasion
future development or a willingness to run a
of every derogation of American rights or
risk which is no greater than that of glut-
offense against American persons or pro-
ted inventories. They should be recruited and
perty to declare by executive order or con-
mobilized. Here, too, the means are less im-
gressional resolution that in reprisal therefor
portant than the end.
the export of some commodity will be forbid-
den. If the Japanese refuse to permit
Americans to return to Nanking, as it actual-
tails of executing policy. I wish to raise
ly has, in complete violation of all treaty
questions of policy, to reëxamine the bases
rights, America retaliates by shutting off the
for decision on the Far East now that the
supply of copper. If Japan refuses to evacu-
war between China and Japan enters its
ate American property such as hospitals, col-
second year. It is time to do so. America
leges and missions—as it does—America
might still be able to continue as a detached
shuts off the supply of iron. If Japanese of-
spectator of one of the most tragic and brutal
ficials announce that extraterritorial rights
wars of modern times. Perhaps it may be able
are not valid for Americans in zones under
to do so. But it cannot continue to be an in-
Japanese occupation, thus unilaterally ab-
direct participant—a participant on the side
rogating treaties between China and the
of Japan. For willingly or unwillingly, with
United States, America shuts off the supply
or without intent, consciously or unconscious-
of automobiles. If Japanese military refuse
ly, America's strength in this war has been
to permit Americans to return to their places
cast on the side of Japan. And that must
of business in the Hongkew and Yangtzepoo
cease. If America cannot and will not help
districts of Shanghai, as they do, the supply
China, it must cease to help Japan, even
of something else is shut off. There will be
where such help is not so intended but fol-
ample opportunity. The offenses of Japan,
lows from normal processes. The normal
offenses under international law, are infinite.
processes then must be arrested. It is to
It is necessary only to read half a dozen
America's interest to do so: as I say, Amer-
issues of the North China Daily News. The
icans would count Japanese defeat an ad-
dossier of the Department of State must be
vantage to America. It is in America's desire
of prodigious thickness. The means are less
to do so: as I say, almost unanimously the
important than the end, which is that Amer-
American people have been revolted by Jap-
ica must cease being the provisioner of the
anese excesses.
Japanese Army in an aggression abominable
A year of the Far Eastern war has brought
in itself and working toward America's in-
a dividing line. That which was valid a year
jury. The means can be found and they must
ago, when we could not foresee what the war
be found. And organized efforts must be
would be, is no longer valid, now that we
made to find them and to have them put
have seen the kind of war it is. The changes
into effect.
brought about in a year should be reflected
Fourth. The possibilities must be canvassed
in changes in American attitude and action.
for giving China unofficial but substantial aid
Concretely America must cease even in-
in the form of credits. One such possibility is
ferentially assisting Japan to subjugate China.
the organization of a syndicate with a mutual
It must do so in the national interest. It
or pooled guaranty of credits for purchase of
should do so out of national decency.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.94)
DWIGHT WILSON WEIST
RECEIVED
418 CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING
STAT
State
SCRANTON. PA.
3
350
RESPEOTFULLY REPERRED
wNS
August 298D6938.
FOR AORNOWLEDGMENT
AND OONSIDERATION
MSt M Dutyne
Bearetary to the President
The Honorable Franklin D. Roosevelt,
SEP31
1938
President of the United States,
Washington, D.C.
894.24/332
Dear Mr. Presiient:
894.24
Please note copy of lotter which I
have just sent to Senator George W. Norris, of Nebraska.
Why have I selected Senator Norris?
Because he is
most likely to understand the righteousness of such a
proposal.
Very sincerely youre
Durhant
W-M
SEP81938
FILED
Euc(
F/A

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.94)
DWIGHT WILSON WEIST
418 CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING
SCRANTON.PA.
mgast 29, 1958.
COPY
The Homerable George W. Morris,
The Uaited states Senate,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Senater Norris:
Mere and mere we are hearing from China,
and from these other than the Govermment in close centast
with the Chimese situatiom, that the war of Japan against
Chime is being prelonged because of Ameriee and Ameriean
eitisens faraimhing the war materials.
In merica, eitisens will immdiately say
that, if we deu't furaish these materials, some other nation
will? Pessibly se. Bat eertainly in this ease we would
have our censeiemee free from the thought that our handiwerk
was the eeuse of the death of se mamy millions of peeple,
and this war contimmed by our produets is ruining the mation
of Chima, which has always been a friendly neighber of ours.
Certaialy the Cengress and United states
senate sheuld immediately get busy and see whether the fasts
as I hmre stated eam be substamtieted. The Semate sheuld
immedtately ge inte the questien of whether there is a war
between China and Japan, and, if se, to bring into play the
neutrality previsiens already en the statates.
Very simserely years,
Dw.weart

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.96)
NoP
Aboard S.S. Empress of Japan
LSRA
At Sea
August 24, 1938
1.H.-9/6/38
Mr. Cordell Hull
civision of
SEP
Washington, . C.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1938
SEP
6-1938
Dear Mr. Secretar:
NOTED
Department of State
I can harily expect
 remomber me as you have so ma
894.2%
ers coming to you continuously from every where. I am the man from
China whom, with his son, you v ry graciously received on July ?2nd.
That son will never forget t at exnerience and your w rds lirect to
him. We are both very rateful to you.
As you may see from the above I am now on my way back to China.
I do not need to tell you that I go with a heavy heart. Yes, I am
thinking of the suffering Ch nese. I am thinking of the War-Mad
militarists , of the inv ders from Japan and their continued an con-
tinuing brutalities. But these are not what hurts me most: I am
thinking, I am hurt, stunned, ashamed that our country continues to
8
be a partner, an ally by furnish ng the invader the materials, at
least a large persent of tlem, to keep tjos terrible holocaust going.
Surely you and theepeople at lerge do not fully realize what is
happening, what has been going on now for over a year. Get the pic-
ture! Just imagine that an enemy ha treated your fair c ty, our
capital, as Nanking has been treated an t at it ha been ma e poss-
3
ible by the help of En land or some other nati n caliming to be our
3
friend. (Do we not continue to caaim to be a friend of China?) What
3
would we thin of such frien ship? Look again! Your home has been
entered by a neighbor across th sr ot; your sons have been bayonet-
ed to death; your wife has b en assaulted by a ozen or more of the
brutes; your daughters have been raped several times and then forced
to go with these beasts to satisfy their lusts, to bear children fdr
them! Your home has been looted of all that was of any value. Yet,
all the while your neighbors stood by and looked on and did nothing.
Alas! That would havebben bad enough but that is not all the story
by any means. Some of those NlGilsuRS furnished the bayonets, the
guns, even provided the cars fill d with gasoline for that neighbor
across the street" to spirit your aughters way to that life which
is worse than death. What kind of fifendship is that? As I see it,
that is our position as we wontinue to share in this tragedy.
Since we are furnishing the invader with 54.4% of her materiaP
FILED
it seems to me that we must share that percent of her cruelties, (
atrocities, rapes and murderw. "How long, Oh Lord, How Long?"
I have read with interest your recent utterance. I know it
does not matter that I indorse them but I wish to say that I do. I
hope you will believe me when I say that on my way to the U.S. A.
in Maroh, before I had heard your name mentioned in that relationship, 
I said to myself and my fellow travellers, "Our Secretary of State
should be the next President." After meeting you in your office I
am more than ever convinced that the American people could not make
a better choice. I am saying this not because I am a Tennessean.
nor is it mere empty words, but because I believe it to be the truth.
I sincerely hope it may be realized.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
2
ut what I am writing about today cannot waat till then. Multi-
des perish daily. Civilization is threatened. Can't something be
done now? Mark you, I do not want war. Far from it. War settles
nothing!'I believe there is another way out. I do not n ed to tell
you that Japan is boycotting our goods, that is, she is buying only
what she wants to buy. Why cannot a nation use the same liberty in
selling what she wants to sell? veryone knows that Japan has broken
faith. Her signature to treaties is as nothing to her if she wishes
to do otherwise. Why are we compelled to do business with her since
she has put herself in this position? I do not think I am telling
you anything new when I say that Japan has no more respect for our
flag, for our wishes that she does for any sort of rag in the hands
of a coolie in China. Has her military not torn down the Stars and
Stripes too many times for us to think that she has respect for it?
I am sure that you are aware of the fact that there is no open door
where Japan controls. Witness Korea, Manchukwo, etc. I agree with
those who are saying that if Japan wins this war and holds China as a
vassal, as she is holding Korea for instance, then she will use the
machinery our citizens are selling her now and wit the raw materials
that she will have from China, she will be ready to turn toward the
Occident for further campaigns. You are, of course, familiar with
the "Tanaka Memorial" and you also know that in many respects Japan
is following that, step by step. Her ambitions will not be satisfied
with Asiatic dominance.
I have said wnough and perhaps too much. I must beg your pardon
for intruding upon your time. As I told you when I called to see you,
I have nothing to put over, no "axe to grind", to use a good old Tenn-
essee term. I am simply wantingto see righteousness enthroned and
justice prevail. I have written at this length because as an Ameri-
can citizen I am chacrinned. As a citizen of the world I am wanting
peace and right to reign. I believe, sir, that you are in a position
to lead our people. I am convinced that the people as a whole are in
sympathy with China and her cause of right. I is only a small minor-
ity who are carrying on this business and bringing disgrace to our
nation. The people will support you.
Thanking you again and with ev ry good wish, I am
Very truly yours,
Juo.cStawl.
John C. Hawk,
c/o American Consulate
Shanghai
China

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.95)
September 8, 1938.
To the
American Consular Officer in charge,
Shanghai, Chime.
sir:
894.24/333
There is emelosed herewith a letter addressed to
333
the Reverend John O. Hawk, for delivery in your dis-
oretion.
89424
sineerely yours,
Easlesure:
3
To the Reverend
John C. Mawk.
Routine
S CEG:RNB
F/HR

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.91)
September 6, 1938.
Dear Dr. Mawk:
Thank you for your kind letter of August twenty-
fourth. I reoall with pleasure your visit at the
Department last July.
I appreciate your generous personal references, but
I have no plans or purposes, either present or prospeotive,
894.24/333
of a personal politioal nature. I am devoting all of my
time and thought and effort to the conduct of our foreigm
affairs.
I enolose as of possible interest some material deal.
ing with certain points disoussel in your letter.
with best wishes,
Sinoerely yours,
cordell bull
19
1
7
Enclosures:
1.
statement.
2.
Intermational Traffie
in Arme.
3.
Jeist Resolution of
May 1, 1937.
S
S
John C. Bask
F/HR
Care ef Amerseam Gomsulate Gemeral,
SEP 71938.
hai, Sai.
CArand
cupy
the si
origi-
GWG:RUB

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.97)
SA
BOARD OF CHRISTIAN EDUCATION
OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN THE U. S. A.
1938.
EFARTMENT OF STAIL
septemcer
212 PATTERSON BUILDING
RAYMOND ALLSTON. D. D.
CHRISTIAN EDUCATION
SEP 3
OMAHA, NEBRaskA
NODS OF COLORADO AND NEBRASKA
september 1, 1938
DIVISION JI
GOMMUNICATIONS
SEP 6
Honorable CordellAMRECORDS
aick
AR EASTERH AFFAIRS
Secretary of State
4
Washington, D. C.
143
Dear Mr. Hull:
Departren of
I have just read a pamphlet entitled, "America's Share in Japan's
War Guilt," and have been deeply impressed by the clear-cut state-
ments of a great many outstanding leaders, including yourself, as
well as declarations of responsible organizations in regard to
America's support of Japan in her immoral invasion of China. I
am amazed and encouraged to find such deep and widespread feeling
894.24/334
over the way American corporations are making possible the pro-
longation of this bloody war. It would seem that with all of
this sentixent, there should be some way by which it could be
made articulate. Is there no way whereby proper steps could
be taken to halt this traffic in death and destruction between
899.
America and Japan? Do you have any suggestion as to what in-
dividual American citizens or groups of citizens could and
should do to withhold from the Japanese militarists the support
that is now being given them by American business?
I believe, as you do, that the real hope of China lies in the
Christianisation of her life and culture. Undoubtedly the
present practice of professedly Christian nations, like the
United States in their economic support of Japan in her pagan
and ruthless aggression will make it exeeedingly difficult for
the Chinese people to develop or retain a confident and re-
ceptive attitude toward the Christian faith. From the stand-
point of every high interest in life, to have such a thing
happen is tragedy.
In the face of this situation, do you have a word of counsel
F/A
or guidance with reference to a practical approach toward
FILED
the correction of it? I shall greatly appreciate whatever
help you may give.
Very respectfully yours,
5. Raymond Alleta
Field Representative for
Christian Education
TRA:KS

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.93)
september 9193
My dear Dr. Allston:
The receipt is aaknowledged of your letter of septem-
ber 1, 1938, in regard to the situat1on now obtaining in
the Far East.
There is transmitted herewith a oopy of the Joint
894.24/334
Resolution of Oongress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 3l1, l935. You wil1
obeerve that Seetion 1 (a) of thie Joint Resolution pro-
vides that whenever the President shell find that there
exists a state of war between or among two or more foreign
states he shall preelaim suoh fast. Should the Presidemt
issme a proelamation finding that a state of war exists
between China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and
amplements of war to hoth those countries woule immediately
be prohibited by the terms of the Neutrality het. In the
absemee of sush a proalemation, however, there exists mo
10g02
X
F

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either to
both those oountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into aooount various
factors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has conoluded that, 1n the
light of all the facts and oiroumstanoes, when weighed
from a practical point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of thie Joint Resolution.
In this oonneotion you may be interested to know that
sinee July 1, 1937, the Department of State has 1ssued
lloemses for the export of arms, ammunition and implements
of war to China 1n the value of $13,812,669.11 and to Japan
1m the valme of $10,630,005.95.
The Noutrality Ast, mareever, does not under any
skrewmstamees asuthorise the President or the Seeretary of
state to prehibit the expert of commodities other them
as.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.94)
-8
arms, mmunition and implements of war. The artioles and
materials which are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are enumerated in the Presidemt's Preele-
Bation of May 1, 1937, whioh is set forth under Part 1I of
the enclosed copy of the pamphlet, Internetlonal Traffle
You doubtless have not1ced the acoount giren in the
press of statements made by the Secretary of state at his
press conferenee on June 1l, in which he said, with
referenee to the bombing of olvillan populations and the
probable danger to Amerleans and American interests abroad,
that he had issued repeated statements condemning the bomb-
ing of oivillan populations, that he 1ntended to maintain
this position and to say to everyone that this Goverment
condemns the bombing of civilian populations or its ma-
terial eneouragement, and that he says this abroad and
sage it at home to the Amerioan people and especially to
the manufaoturers of bombing planes.
sinoorely yours,
ORA
Gharles V. Yeet, Aecietant hief
SEP 9 1938.
Offise of Arms and Muaitions Cestrel
reimt Roslution.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.88)
METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH
CEIVED
SAN FRANCISCO AREA
JAMES CHAMBERLAIN BAKER
83 MCÀLLISTER STREET
38
RESIDENT BISHOP
PM
375
RESPEOTFULLY REFERRED
a. p
FOR ACKNOWLFDGMENT
C6-31-38
AND CONSIDERATION
tM Jutyre
Rvn/ama
Aust 5, 10
Secretary to the President
The onora le
FAR EASTEN
89424
Dep.
894.24/33
rrl tot
anese ar as I neve t ron ie countr. ost of our
people are is'r et tecuuse t e el es is
furnichine te sinews o or too
i write to rosyectfull. rpost ond urge you to
do everything in your power to Irin to an end the
war sustaining traffic between our countr and Janan.
5
I t' in I ma: rroporly add that te undreds of
churches to whiel I an releted would beartil: suprort
my position in this matter.
espectfully ours,
Janmes C Bater
JCF:MB
James C. n er
1

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.92)
September 2 1938.
My dear Bishop:
By referenee from the hite House I acknowledge the re-
Goipt of your letter of August 5, l958, in regard to the situ-
ation now obtaining in the Far East.
894.24/335
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint Reso-
lution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the Joint
Reselution approved August 31, 193s. You wil1 observe that
Sestion 1 (a) or this Jeint Resolution previdee that whes-
ever the President shall fird that there exists a state ef
war between or among twe or more foreign states he shall
preelaim such faet. smould the President iesue a preelame-
sien finding that a state of war exists between hins and
Jupan the expert of arme, ammunit ion and implements of wer
te beth these countries mild immediately be prohibased by
the seome of the Neutrality Aet. In the abeenee of such
a preslametien, hovever, there exiets me legal autherity
00
..
San Francisco, Californias

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.95)
for preventing the export of arms either to both those coun-
tries er to Japan alome.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reselu-
t1om of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war. the
question as to whether and when the provisions of the Joint
Resolution shall be 1nvoked is properly left to the sound
diseretion of the President. In deciding whether he should
Invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular eituation the
President must take into account various factors and partiou-
larly the broad, general interests of this country and its
nationals. In the present situation in the Far East, the
President has oneluded that, in the light of all the facts
and ciroumstances, when weighed from a praotical point of
view, it would not be to the best interests of this country
and our people as a whole to invoke the provisions of this
Jeint Resolution.
In this connestion, you may be interested to know that
since July 1, 1937, the Department of State bas 1ssmed 11-
conses for the export of arms, ammunition and implemeats of
ar to China 1n the value of $13,812,689.11 and to Japam in
the va1e of $10,680,006.9s.
The Boutrality Ast moreover does not under any eiromm-
a

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.89)
-8
and implements of war. The artiekes and materials whick
are considered to be arms, ammunition and implements of war
are emmerated in the President's Proelamation of May 1,
1937, which 1s set forth under Part II of the enelosed oopy
of the pamphlet, International Traffie in Arms.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Beeretary of state:
Counselor.
Enclosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
CR H
SEP 2 1938.
A
GA:RVX:DU 9-1-38
lulm.
CWO

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.95)
CH
MEMBER
INTERSTATE AND FOREIGN
e8 1938.
COMMERCE COMMITTER
Congress of the United States
ARTENousGORepresentatibes
Washington, D. C.
1938 SEP 6 AM 10 38
Se tember , 1938
DIVISICN OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
SEP
89424
Honorable Cordell Hull
lab
AR EASTEAN AFFAIRS
Gak 9-7-3
The Secretary
De:artment of State
Vashington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Attache. is a oost:1 c rd receive. from Mr.
Henry Borne, 271? Joliet Street, Nev Orleans, Louisiana
r garding the  topping of the flow of American sun lies,
including munition, pl ne., : cran iron ,etc., to Ja, an,
which I am tran. mittinp for your con ideration and advice
894.24/336
in the matter.
Thanking you in advance for your very kin. inaulgence,
I am
Res ectfully your:,
FILED
PHM-E
F/A
11

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY:EMU
Aug. 30, 1938.
Dear Mr. Maloney:
Without undue sympathy to either Japan or China, may
I urge you to do something to ston the flow of American
supplies 1ncluding munitions, planes, scrap iron, etc.,
to Japan? It is difficult to maintsin American self-
respect, not to mention a Christian conscience, when it
1s so obvious that the slaughter of innocent victims
goes on because we Americens furnish the war materials.
Surely there are other ways of aiding business and fur-
nishing Jobs than at the cost of human blood on such a
wholesale basis. If Oriental or other wars cannot con-
tinue without our suppli s, then that blood is on our hands.
Respectfully yours,
HERMAN BORNE,
2713 Jol1et St., New Orleans, La.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.89)
一,
September 8 1938.
My dear Mr. Maleney:
The reseipt 1s saknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 3, 193e, tranemitting a postal oard from Mr. Menry
Berne of New Orleans in regard to the export of war and
894.
other material to Japan.
It is smggested that you may wish to transmit to
24/
Mr. Borne the enelosed copies of the Joint Resolution of
May 1, 1959, and the pamphlet, Internatlenal Tratfie 1a
3
Amk and to inform him somowhat along the following lines:
It will be obeerved that seetion 1 (a) ef the Joint
Reselution of May 1, 1937, provides that whenever the
President shell find that there exists a state of war be-
tween or among two er more foreign states he shall pre-
dlakm suck fast. should the President isswe a preelame-
siom finding that a state of war exists between Chine and
35
Japan the expert of arms, emmunition and implements ef war
C
The emprale
Pas . Meleney.
F/HR
Mouse ef Repressntatives.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.95)
to both those countries would immediately be prohibited by
the terms of the Neutrality Aot. In the absenee of such
a preelamation, however, there exists no legal authority
for preventing the export of arms either to both those
countries or to Japan alene.
It may be added that the primary purpose of the Joint
Reselution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of
war. The question as to whether and when the provisions
of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left
to the sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding
whether he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partieu-
lar situation the President must take into account various
factors and partieularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
In the Far East, the President has onoluded that, in the
light of all the faets and oireumstanees, when wighed
from a preetieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to imveke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this connestion it may be of interest to know
that sinee July 1, 1987, the Department of state has 1s-
sued lieenses for the export of arms, ammunition and im-
plemente of war to China in the value of $1s,as,ese.11
and to Japem 1n the valme of $10,680,008.93.
o

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not under any eir-
eumstanees authorize the President or the Seoretary of
state to prohibit the export of commodities other then arms,
ammmition and implements of war. The artieles and me-
terials whieh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are emumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1939, which 1s set forth under Part II
of the pamphlet.
Mr. Borne's postal card 1s returned herewith.
sincerely yours,
Emslosures!
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
Pestal Card.
OR 
8EP 8 1938.
Routine
5
ant
Za.
GAIRVH: DU
a

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.20/216
FORMemorandum
FROM__Stoto.Department
(..Bruner
) DATEDy17.1937
Far Eastern Division
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: The development of mumitions industries and the accumulation
of military and naval stores in the Nagasaki Consular
District as a means of mobilization for nat ional defense.
hr
w
w
7

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.89)
DCR
FE
Septenter 1st,1938.
eA
Tho Honoral lo Cor.oll Hll,
Secretary of State,
Washington,D.c..
Dear il Secretary;-
There cane to ne regeatphe rom Madan Chiang kai-shek the
folloving letter;-
Wuchang, China.
Juer 4, 1938.
Dear Mr
894
Kr shepherd convey
Please aceept my tlanke for the sympatly vhie o exprose,and the
appreclation of the Goner  in and myself of the preyers which
you ofter. Te are ret ly inpressed ty the o rs v i t peode
of the benoe reies make on or hehalf, and te hope that the covern-
9
ments or th se couttrros wi l ,in tire, exert sone pressure upon
Japan to prevent the complete rueaei r of our coutntry and the ine
4
poverishment of ur peoplo.
Yours very sinceroly,
2
Signed
mayline Soone Chiang.
14
(Hadar Chian Kai -sl.el)
The letter vas a reply to one i wieh I mad (xpressed deep sympathy
Ci
w th the people or Chrna  thor awrud mf feres o aored  cal
31
and Hadam Chiang that tes of taousarads or Anericane were offering
8
carnest lnterccsslons o. China's  ehalr,and hopin for a speedy etnding
or  war. I gave as an auded rounds for ts d e interest  the
confliet the tact that China was noo only contendi for the right of
independent existence,l'1 was in ren ity ftghtins for the welrare of all
nations in her efrort to precerve international lar us tne taeis of
dealings between nations.
This morning I feel irpelled to write to you;sending a facsinule
copy to the Prosidont;aski  waful consideration tc iven to
the sit ject of finding sone poosihle way ly which t cnd  frigt't
Ful destruction of life,liberty and the means cf subsintance wiich
LEL
Is workint sucn havoc i. China and Japan at present.
No one Is fool isl: enoush to want to see anotner "war to ond war";
for the folly of that cvurse has veen sarriciently demonstreted.
On the othoruand,there is Scriptural warrant for the belief that
a solfish refusal to lond aseistance vhen it is in cur povor to give
it is also reprohensible;-"If thou forhear to deliver them that are
drawn  to death, and those that are ready to be slain; if thas sayest,
Bohold,we knew it not;dot!: not He that ponderet! the hoart consider it?
and shall not He render to evory man accordin to his works"? Prov.24;1l,12.
Surely there must Le some reasonarle to stop the man (or nation)
way
that has run amuck and is spreading destructlon in its path!
F/H
工
R

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.94)
Not only are the Japanese nilitarists tho atgressors I. an unprovoked
attack upon a .oinbor nation,whose oly offense was an efrort to be
prepared for o if-defense,tut they have persistent ly refused to respect
any of the roghts which t e usage of civilized nmations eceords to non-
cumbatants in time of wa. This var is teing waged o. the prir ciple of
the unlimited ritht or tht st rong to annihi late or enslave all vho o
to refuse sutmission to tho will of the suporior force. To allow suah a
principle to Co uohallenged lll mean the end of all those amelioratiors
of international strife which have been built up through centuries of
effort: and we wi:l be back in t o age of barharism;will: pbwersof de-
atotctdbi nthat will meal: the and of all lav! tie will of the mout
brutal of the would-te dictators.
There is still time for this teend to he stopped by a bit of cnuine
self-sacrifice on the part of the lav loving nations of the carth.
Americe ls sup l ir the reater port of thhe war materials without which
t!is lnternational bri andage would exhaust itself i a few nonthe; and
Great Britai supplied nearly ill tle rest.
No that Japan has fall deelarel Ler ptpose to co rignt on with
her destruction of the live of im.ocent civilians;it see the time
has core for decisive action on the part of-those ho lesire the preser
vation of international lans thn vill tend to relnee the destr in. veness
of as.
If tne finn stand of a continaercn of natione whicn danire peace
can prevent war in Lurepe,vould not t e sre cource be of use in Asia?.
America,as the largest contributor to Japan's power of Jestruction,
might well take the lead I. a movement to inform the warlords of Japan,
In a kindly but very firm way,that since they refuse to cecognize the
authority of the law of nations regarding the rights of noncombitants,
(witten or uwritten), our countyy a: no longer supply then with those
things which we krow are being used for unlaoful n .
These warlords would make trenendous ob jections, of counee,and might
even threaten war;lut in reality,the pcople f Japan itself,and the mil-
lions ef China woald have deepest cratitude to Am rica for her aet f
good neichtorliness. And millinns or Amoriea's best citizens wou a be
freed from the dee sense of shame wiien they now feel wuenover they
think of the part whicl our nation i playing in. the destruction pich
Is beine wrought i the land of one or ot western neighbors which has
always counted us a true friend.
Please do not take the time and trouble to send a re ly to t.is letten.
I an moreiy writing out of a soso of duty to God and fa lew renjand
withh a gonuine love for the pecple of Chiia anone whon I labored for
forty years as a missionary,and a high repsect for the people of Janan
among whiom I have resided on several occasions as a guest.
Phat you may  e assured I am not seekin cheap notoriety for mysolf,
I will tell you that cnly the tx, copies of this letter exist;and no
one will ever krow fror re that they were ever wrillen.
I trust that yo. will te cuided to sone course of actio. that will
husten the end of the awfal destruetion of lives and homes,and which
will reduce to direst poverty millions of  cople in both Japan and Chi-
na,and leave them witout a bread wimer.
Yours very sincerely,
(My card r:olosod).

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.95)
9 1938.
beplenter
My dear Mr. Shoemaker:
The receipt 1s aoknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 1, 1938, 1n regard to the situation now obtaining in
894.24/338
the Far East.
There 1s transmitted herewith a oony of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1936. You w111
observe that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution pre-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two or more foreign
states he shall proolaim suoh fact. Should the President
1ssue a proolamation finding that a state of war exists
between China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition
and implements of war to both those countries would imme-
338
diately be prohibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aet.
2
In the absence of suoh a proolamation, however, there
exists
Mr. J. E. moemaker,
F/HR
5ses Lawten Avenue,
Oakland, Califermia.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
exists no legal authority for preventing the export of arms
either to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound discretion of the President. In deoiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
ation the President must take into account various factors
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far East, the President has ooneluded that, in the light of
all the facts and ciroumstanoes, when weighed from a prae-
tieal point of view, it would not be to the best interests
of this country and our people as a whole to invoke the
provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this oonneotlon you may be interested to know that
since July 1, 1937, the Department of State has issued
lieenses for the export of arms, ammunition and implements
of war to Ohina 1n the value of $13,812,669.11 and to Japan
1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Meutrality Aot, moreover, does not under any eir-
emstances authorise the President or the Seeretary of
state te prohibit the export of commodities other them
ams.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.94)
-3
arms, ammunition and implements of wer. The artioles and
materials whioh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
1mplements of war are emumerated in the President's Proo-
lamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part II
of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traf-
fe 1n Anee
You doubtless have notloed the aooount given 1n the
press of statements made by the Seoretary of State at his
press oonference on June 1l, 1n which he said, with ref-
erenoe to the bombing of civilian populations and the
probable danger to Americans and American 1nterests abroad,
that he had 1seued repeated statements condemning the bomb-
ing of oivilian populations, that he 1ntended to malntain
this position and to say to everyone that this Government
condemns the bombing of oivilian populations or its material
encouragement, and that he says this abroad and says 1t at
home to the Amerioan people and espeoially to the manufao-
turers of bombing planes.
Sincerely yours,
OR
SEP 9 1938.PM
Charles w. Yost, Assistant Chief
melosures:
Offioe of Arms and Munitions Control
Jeint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
@mt
ul.
natm

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.90)
Lomira, Wis.
August 5, 1938
AUT 18
DIVISION 0I
RESPEOTFULLY REFFRRED
ICATIONS AND
FOR AOKNOWLEDGMENT
AND CONBIDERATION
President Roosevelt
MSt M Dutyre
White House
AUG71938
Washington D.C.
Ach 9-2-38
Secretary to the President
Honorable Sir:
RVH/Emn
8 1938;
As members of the Wisconsin State Convention of the Womap
Missionary Society of the Evangelical Church, we express ourdis-
approval of the ruthless bombing of innocent men, women, md chil-
894.24
dren in China. We dc not approve of the United States sending
gasoline, munitions, and raw materials to Japan for warfare. We
very strongly feel that you as President of the United States
should use your power to prevent Industrial Manufacturers from sen-
ding equipment to Japan; and we urge you to prohibit the selling of
war supplies to Japan.
894.24/339
Mre. Meo. Wickell Pres.
FAM IADITHA ALIAINS
Mra C.w. marki.
143
Depa
Mms. a t. cne son Minrfield
Mra. Q. a. Boltiher, donmah, Wis.
ms. Aum. Hoey Chisitena Falla
mrs. H.0. Hom milvaubee wes
Mrs m. Zrigzheinn Mulr
Ins. loaller E. Sellung
Mre. Arthus Kohlhepp. Eadu Clair, Wis.
Harel Elmer, Plymauch, u is.
339
F/HR
Leta Mueller
Mre Hawey Nickel.
Menmark Wis R3
YG
mrsComile mille
Balavian HHis R. 1
mon Harwin Saner
Colgate, wis.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.80)
win G. Habermann
Chilton Wis. PR4
LE. Schmist.
abkleton St
 honioe. We
neo. Alin C. Rabe hl
z0l n Cansr
Daraleton, iw 
Hhlen Hake ck
Bonduel, Nis.
mas. G.O. Boettcher
Wanwatosa, lwis
Mrs. C. N. Dubs
Changsha, China.
Mew. M. J. Bartck
Sheboygan, This.
mma PF rabs
ut War
as Ed Hammetler
milwaukee hns.
Mas M ary Heitman
Richfield Ais.
Mrs C. E. Mavee
Kas. Cmelia Marnz
Rishfield wis!
Mre. Wm Deorfameien
Lake mills, Wis.
Mrs a.  Frel
Appletion, I tial
Indepenkence, Wis.
Mee anthe Wemer
Min Anna Bilefeld
M ondom, Wis,
Miss Cara Mc Millan
Menamonee Falle, Ke..
Mro. Delmar Sch mist.
Menomonee Fall. 11e,
Mra Em ma Breitrick
appleton his
4in2 a H Mahel
sh wi
Mra Chas Mueller
mishiedt SNis.
This
Mrs. Waller H. Beeck.
manin ete lemi.
mra. Enaest Klettbe
Jefferson Wis.
madrain, U in.
mre. C. N.Colander
milwautee, wes.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.83)
Lorin Bagby
Gudahy Wis.
Arma Staub
Milwankee Wis.
Mrs. W.. King,
Menomonie Wis.
Hs J C Hoffmann Brodhead Ae
Mrs. bst Hoimke B rillin n is,
mo Ellis Jain
Elk mound wis
mrs Hennan Wihem Prann du re
Mrr. a. H. Glaesman 29r Seoll St. lohkosh, kie.
Wis Frank Mauerman Bro head Vi Bx 262
Whe Sired Michaclie
Brodhead, Wic. R. 2.
M. N. B erger
Lacine is
Ircadia, shis.
Nissta Vile Miller
Miss Maryome Brozman
Jilmanton, Wis.
Ilorence Eashman Racue His
Racing, Itis R 24 Box 801
Ms.EH. Eashma
Mrs. Leonard Otle
Janot Jct., Wia.
Cort W ushungten, wis:
Mes. Earl Matthrio
Fond- du-dac We
Huo. R.Ce. Maectile
milwaukee wis
Mis. H.C. Reinhold
-Fond du Lae, Nas.
Thrs. H.G. Baum
Portage Nis.
7Mrs I I. Vieth
Moo tha or sahal
Fonddu Lac
Ella Tradd
inihwankee
(Mrs J O)yda Schmerain Neenah
Ino m Dettman
wankisha

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.81)
Mirnrine Meguer
Cort Mashingh
.W. Huebres
sueboygan wis!
 anton Manake
Sheborggan Wis!
mns Edu: Lamprecht
1ort rashington Uis.
Mrs. Jera Stiflen
Ciroy. Wrseonsm
Mochallr Sis
Mis e Laux
adels Wiz
mildred J Liebenstein
milwankee Wis
miss minmis terken
Mis Bert Aheman
Brog is
Hinise tris
Mre. O. Fenner
Fonachutac Wis.
Mns. L.G. Laubenstuin
Pt. W ashinglon Wis.
Mro R. Rockadanz
Fond dudae tHes
Mas E Elrhardl-
Fond du lae Mis
Iors. L.  nell
nl Au na. 
Virs.S. M.: rs
Foud du Lag Wis.
Mrs R.L. inabeck
Iond dw Lae i
Miss Worotky ledam
Horicon, Wiz.
sejrs S. W. atm
Foeddutac 1015.
Mre. Art bur mittelstalt
7 tartford, wis.
Ske er.
MrsJesse Rohde
i
Yeshkow uis.
Mrs F J. Miclke
Wie.
Ripn
Mss. H. J. Droegkamp
Wilwankee wis.
Mrs. Seo. Whahnke
Waukesha bis
Mno. C.E O laen
New Richmond, Wis
Mars alfred Mar
Wanwatosa Wis.
Mao Lottin Padrutt
Praisis du Sec Wis.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.78)
Leo Butenh off
markesan hio
s Emma  ain
Milwarbee his
miss Lucy S auter
mrs Katie Rachl
Mrs Ed Hillenryr
Misn Olive Grube,
colyate wis.
Titra, Jindo C.nt
Ostuersu, Io
Ms Anthur J. Borchuid
Mi woiee, 'Wis
Mas. F.A. Haumersen
Racice Wis.
TMus E Nedtrving
Milwankr tis.
Inrs. O. Tetzlaf
Milwanku Tise.
mis. alfradmost
Trilnankee.v is
M.es. Johin Bren
Me .
Muy Jred B wauch
Mituruebe Mis.
Ged HAickelt
11

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.93)
buptember 6 1938.
My dear Mrs. Niekell:
By referenee from the White House I acknowledge the re-
selpt of a letter dated august 5, l938, signed by yóu and a
number of other mmmbers of your organisation in regard to
the export of war and other materials to Japan.
894.24/339
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint Reso-
lution of Gongress approved May 1, 1937, amending the Joint
Reselution appreved August 3l, 198s. You will observe that
Sestion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides that mhen-
ever the President shall find that there exiets a state of
6
war between or among two or more foreign states he shall
preelaim susk fast. should the President issue a proelame-
tien fimdsng shat a state of war exists betweem Ghime and
Japen the export of arms, ammunition and implements of war
te both those countries wwuld immediately be prohibited by
the terme of the Neutrality Aet. In the absenee of such a
proelemation,
F/HR
0.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.96)
proelamation, however, there exists no legal suthority for
preventing the export of arms either to both those countries
er to Japem alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Resolm-
tion of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep tkis country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provicions of the
Joint Resolution shall be 1nvoked is properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deciding whether he
should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situation
the President must také into account varlous factors and par-
tioularly the broad, general interests of this ∞untry and
its nationals. In the present situation in the Far East,
the President has conaluded that, 1n the light of all the
fasts and cireumstances, when weighed from a praetical point
of view, it would not be to the best interests of this oun-
try and our people as a whole te invoke the provisions of
this Joint Resolution.
Im this conneetion, you may be interested to know that,
simee July 1, 1937, the Department of state has 1ssued 11-
censes for the export of arms, ammunition and implements of
war to Chine in the valve of 813,n2,069.11 and to Japan 1n
the valme ef $10,6s0,006.9s.
The Moutrality Ast, moreover, does met under eny eiremm-
stanees suthorise the President or the Seeretary ef state te

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
prohibit the export of commodities other than arms, ammuni-
tion and implements of war. The artieles and materials
whieh are considered to be arms, ammanition and implements
of war are enumerated in the President's Proelamation of
May 1, 193?, which 1s set forth under Part II of the en-
closed copy of the pamphlet, International Traffie in Arme.
You doubtless have noticed the acoount given in the
press of statements made by the Seeretary of state at his
press onference on June 11, in which he said, with
reference to the bombing of civilian populations and the
probable danger to Americans and American interests abroad,
that he had issued repeated statements condemning the bomb-
3.ng of sivilian populations, that he intended to maintain
this position and to say to everyone that this Govermment
condemas the bombing of civilian populations or its me-
terial eneouragement, and that he says this abroad and
says it at home to the Amerlean people and especially to
the mamafaeturers of bombing planes.
Bineerely yours,
OR
SEP
6 1938,
Charles W. Yest, Aeting Chief
Offiee of Arms and iumitsons Geatrel
melesures:
0
Jeist Roselusion.
Pamphlet.
Rmt
the sghed origi-
GAS RVETEU  9-3-38
FE
601

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.95)
福州格致學校
校長葬廷模顺士
DONALD T. M. HBUEH.
FOOCHOW COLLEGE
校務長邢孟文博士
GEO. W. HINMAN.
6 1938
Asst, to Principal.
W. TING.
教務長倪耿光學士
mni d Former
布林守正律師
ociation.
GENG GUONG NGA.
Dean.
民國十八年立案為正式中學
校友幹事林捷新先生
mer Students Association.
CHIEH SING LING.
Alumni Dec'y.
Beaver Dams, New York, August 25, 1938
Fooehowu,
HonorableorardeliOfull.
Washongton, D. C.
Division of
AUG: 1938
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dear Sir:--
alh9-2-38
RVN/amn
It seems incredible that the sentiment of the people of the United
States is practically unanimous against the atttitude of the Japanese
militarists in China, while at the same time our steel and oil and
copper compamies and dealers in scrap iron continue supplying the ma-
terials to Japan for brutal aggression.
Are there no moral obligations for steel and oil corporations; or,
if not, can they not be made amenable to the public conscience? The
government of the Wnited States is certainly the proper medium for ex-
sale to foreign buyers, just as it does the sale of lethal weapons to
894.24
individuals in this country.
2
Mrs. Hinman and I have recently returned from China. We may refer
the threat of amrial bombing. We know how the Chinese trust the Amer-
ican people in spite of the damning evidence that much of Japanese killo
ing machinery comes from America. How long will conscienceless corpo-
rations defy public sentiment, and scatter death abroad as they would
not dare to do at home? We call on our government to end this defiance
of the "good neighbor policy" by those who want to sell a little more
oil and steel to international brigands.
It will not be necessary to supply war materials to China in their
struggle for life and independence if our government supplements a con-
trol of American exports toJapan with theutmost in diplamabic pressure
against those who have made themselves the world's outlaws. Courageous
dofiance of Japan's policy in China by diplomatic representations can
do much to check her mad career, provided we implement American public
opinion by a positive embargo on the war supplies which Japan must have.
Faithfully yours,
Go. H. Himman.
Geo. W. Hinman
Assistant to the Principal.
HR
VEne

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.93)
September 6 1938.
94.24-
My dear Mr. Kinman:
The receipt 1s mcknowledged of your letter of August 25,
1938, in regard to the situation now obtaining in the Far
894.24/340
East.
There is tranemitted herewith a copy of the Joint Resolu-
tion of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the Joint
Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will observe that
Beotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides that whenever
the President shall find that there exists a state of war be-
tween or smong two or more foreign states he shall proelaim
sush fact. mhould the President issue a proolmation find-
ing that a state of war exists between hine and Japan the
expert of arms, ammunition and implements of war to both those
sountries would immedistely be prohibited by the terms of the
Houtrality Ast. In the abeence of sueh a proelamation, how-
ever, there exists no legal muthority for preventing the
empert of arms either to both those comstrses er to Sapen aleme.
/HR
..,
Boaver Dame, Nev Yors.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Resolu-
tiom of May 1, 1939, 1s to keep th1s country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joimt Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
somnd diseretion of the President. In deciding whether he
should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situatiom
the President must take into aocount various factors and par-
tieularly the broad, general interests of this country and
1ts nationals. In the present situation 1n the Far East,
the Presidemt has conoluded that, in the light of all the
facte and siroumstanees, when weighed from a practical point
of view, it would not be to the best interests of this oum-
try and our people as a whole to invoke the provisions of
this Joint Resolution.
In this conneetion you may be interested to kmow that
sinee July 1, 1937, the Department of state has 1ssued
licenses for the export of arms, ammmnition and implememts
of war to Chine 1n the value of $13,a12,se9.1l and to Japen
1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does mot under any eiromm-
stamees mmthorize the President or the seeretary of state to
prohibit the export of commedities other than arms, ammmmitiem
and implemente of war. The artieles and materials which are
comsidered to be arms, emmenition and implements of var are
emmeratee

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
emmerated in the President's Proelamation of May 1, lost,
which 1: set forth under Part II of the enolosed copy of the
pamphlet, International Traffie in Arms. It will be moted
that serap iron, steel, copper and oll are not imeladed smomg
suck artieles and materials. There 1s mo statute now in
existense whieh would authorize the President er the seere-
tary of state to prohibit the export of sorap iron, steel,
oopper or oll to any foreign oountry.
You doubtless have notleed the ascount given in the press
of statements made by the seoretary of State at his press con-
ferenee on June ll, in which he said, with referenoe to the
bembing of civillan populations and the probable danger to
Amerieans and Amerlean interests abroad, that he had issmed
repeated statements condemning the bombing of oivilian popu-
lations, that he intended to maintain this position and to
say to everyone that this Government condemns the bombing
of civilian populations or its material enoouragement, and
that he says this abroad and says it at home to the Amerleam
people and especially to the mamufasturers of bombing planes.
sineerely yours,
OR
27
SEP 3 1938.
Gharlee W. Dost, Leting Gief
Offiee of Arms and kunitions Gontrel
mt Resolmsion.
0
A trur coy oi
thecipd
86tm

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.95)
6 1938.
Council
RECE
RTMENT OF STATE
OF THE
THIRTY THIRD AND LAST DEGREE
8 AUG 26 AM 10 14
DIVISIONOT COWLES 33
WASHINGTON.D
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
RVH/Emin
ANCIENT AND ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE OF
FREEMASONRY SOUTHERN JURISDICTION U S A
August 25, 1938
Hon. Cordell Hull,
TAN EASTEMN AFFAIND
State Department,
Washington, D.C.
894.21
894.24/341
Deer Sir:
As an individual citizen, I am deeply inter-
ested in the situetion in Europe and Asia. I do hope
that our Government will take some action to prevent
munitions of war being supplied to Japan so long as the
vicious invasion of China continues.
I might add that I think we should raise the
embargo on Spain and permit the regular and loyalist
Government to receive supplies in order that the Gov-
ernment of Spain may preserve itself and overcome the
insurgents.
Yours sincerely,
John H Lacebe
JHC/c
F/HR

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.86)
September 61938.
dear r. Cos:
the reeeipt is acknowledged of your letter of August 25,
l9ss, in regard to the situations now obtaining in Spain and
thearast.
.There are enalosed coples of the Joint Resolution of
May 1, les7, commonly referred to as the Neutral 1ty Aet, and
the pemphlet Lare  llene iterd br he 
6
Rarz et atate Governinr Ihe International Traffle in Armes
24/
 and Imlemente of r and other itian f .
The embargo prohibiting the expert ef arms te Spain was
1
first brought about by the Joint Reselution of Gongress whics
was appreved on Janwary 8, l937, and which is etill in effeet.
This Jeint Reselution passed the Senate unanimously and the
Meuso of Representatives hy a vete of 4os to 2. Befere the
embarge en the export of arms te spain could be lifted it
would be nessssary either that the Gengrese repeal this Jesnt
mapslutiom or that the President find that the state of elval
0
F

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.94)
-8
strife in Spain no longer exists.
As of interest in this conneetion there are enelosed
eepies of letters which were addressed by the Department
to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and to Mr. Raymond Leslie Beoll, Fereign Poliey
Association, Inoorporated, New York City.
with regard to the application of the Neutrality Aet to
the situation in the Far Last, I invite your attention to
Beetion 1 (a) of this Act which provides that whenever
the president shall find that there exists a state of war
between two or more foreign states he shall proelaim such
fact. Should the President issue a proclamation finding
that a state of war exists between China and Japan, the
export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to beth those
countries would immediately be prohibited by the tems of the
Neutrality Aet. In the absenee of such a proelamation, hew-
ever, there existe no logal autherity for preventing the ex-
pert of arme either to both those countries or to Japan aleme.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Resolu-
tiem of May 1, l937, 1s to keep this oountry out of war.
The questien as te whether and when the previsiens ef the
Joint Reselutiem shall be Inveked is preperly lert to the
sound diseretien ef the President. In deeiding whether he
ahemia Anveke the deint Reselution An a partieular edtmatien
the President must take iate acccumt varieus fasters and
partiomlaray

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.93)
partieularly the broad, general interesto of this country amd
its nationals. In the present situation in the Far East, the
President has coneluded that, in the light of all the fasts
and eiroumstanees, when weighed from a prastieal point of view,
it would not be to the best interests of this ountry and our
people as a whole to invoke the provisions of this Joint
Resolution.
The Noutrality Aet, moreover, does not under any cirem-
stanees athorize the President or the Seeretary of State to
prohibit the export of commodities other than arms, ammunition
and implements of war. The artieles and materials whieh are
considered to be arms, ammunition and implements of war are
emmerated in the President's Proelamation of May 1, 1937,
which is set forth under Part II of the pamphlet.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, l93t,
the Departmemt of State has issued lioenses for the export
of arms, amunition and lmplements ef war to Chine in the valme
of $13,812,669.11 and to Japam 1n the value of $10,830,006.88.
Bineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
CR
melosures:
R. WALTON MOORL
SEP6 b938. Seimt meselution.
Gounselor.
Q
cupy of
ned orig!
pant
9r

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.95)
MSHM Dn tyne
DEPARTCE
Secrotary
PETITION TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
38
PM: 37 PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE
ach9-3-38
JAPANESE INVASION OF CHINA
september 6 1938.
RVtt/amn
WHEREAS, the United States of America and many other nations have
indioted Japan as the violator of the Nine-Power Treaty and the Kellogg
Pact, in the present Sino-Japanese conflict, fomented by the Military
Party of Japan, and has repeatedly protested against the bombings of un-
defended Chinese cities and the unnecessary slaughter of Chinese non-
lyo
combatants, and
WHEREAS, we feel put to shame that American raw materials are be
ing used to manufacture weapons of war for Japan, American planes are
being used to carry American-made bombs for the destruction of Chinese
civilian population, American shells are loading Japanese guns, and
America is supplying to Japan huge quantities of scrapiron, oil, trucks
and other materials used in the furtherance of the war, over and above
the amounts of our normal trade of recent years, and
WHEREAS, we sympathize with the Chinese people in their desire to
894.24/342
build up an independent, democratic state, an end gravely threatened by
894.24
the present aggression of Japan, and deplore the traffic which makes it
possible for certain American interests to profit from the wanton de-
struction of the innocent victims of Japanese aggression.
THEREFORE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the President
of the United States, in accordance with the principle of his Good
Neighbor enunciation, and in the interest of the people of the United
States, China and Japan, to take every practical means, direct of in-
direct, to bring to an end a traffic from our cuuntry which is com-
pelling us to be a partner in the destruction of the Chinese people.
And we desire to go on record as expressing our solidarity with seamen,
longshoremen and all other workers and labor organizations which refuse
to handle munitions, war supplies and raw materials destined for Japan,
and throw our moral support behind financial, industrial and other in-
terests which refuse to lend money, extend credit or sell war materials
to Japan.
O.R Jarwater
F/HR
will bredig
Mr. t Mra. Auderaon Keeble

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.79)
PETITION TO BE UBMITTED TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE
JAPANESE INVASION OF CHINA
la brego Bebee,
James Sonald Chego
s. C.C. Vinoant
JRMilaheel
Gamr Deuge
n tutrig
James Elliott
Grace cataveli
ms. Nenneth martin
Mattie Inotr
mha. Lloyd Wells
Mro.8.S. Yal
Edith Sodauril
J.Lloya Wello.
o. Wendell fendy
Mrg Mrs WR Pate
Trma S me ate
Olive Stanley
Mrs. Earl M. Keed
Mra.  P.Sandere
mea.yo. a. drenlos
Mre E  NTer

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.82)
PETITION TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE
JAPANESE INVASION OF CHINA
Lilbian Iunlat.
mns, S. m. m Reynott
Cora H. wsketettlr
Prace M= Ray nold.
Mus Go. a. Ednon doon.
mr. and Mrs. J. R. hatkins
wBorut
mr I. W. as a yut
D Paue Wonley
Alterta Coventry
Mr. H. I Smita
ms.D. S. tramer
My -.S.T ally
J. J. Frotter
Mr Dt,Moung
Mo. R. arwaths.
Muo R.P. Kramer

=== Page 229 === (confidence 1.00)
PETITION TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE
JAPANESE INVASION OF CHINA

=== Page 230 === (confidence 1.00)
SUGGESTED FORM OF PETITION TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE
JAPANESE INVASION OF CHINA

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
SUGGESTED FORM OF PETITION TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES ON : HE
JAPANESE INVASION OF CHINA.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.92)
September 6 1938.
Gear Mr. Tarwater:
By referenee frem the white House I acknowledge the
ressips of a petition signed by you and a number of other
persems in regard to the export of war and other materials
Bo Japan.
894.24/342
Your courtesy in transmitting this petition to the
President is appreciated.
There 1s transmitted herewith a eopy of the Jeint
Resslution of Congress approved May 1, 198?, mending the
Jeint Resolution appreved August &l, 193s. You will
ebserve that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution pre-
viees that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war betwsen or meng tme or mere fereign
statee he shall preelaim sush fest. should the Preaidsmt
issme a preelemation finding shat a state of war exists
betwees Gine and Japan the expert of arms, umitien
ans
.Tter.
F/HR

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.96)
and implements of war to both those countries would imme-
diately be prohibited by the terms of the Neutrality Aet.
In the absenee of suek a preelamation, however, there
exists me legal mthority for preventing the export ef
arms either to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
1mtion of May 1, l937, 1s to keep this ocountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provislons of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of. the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account various
faetors and particularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situe-
tion in the Far East, the President has oneluded that,
1n the light of all the facts and oirowmstanoes, when
weighed from a praetieal point of view, it would not be
to the best interests of this country and our people as a
mhole to inveke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this conneetiom, you may be interested te know
that, sinee July 1, 1957, the Departmeat of state has
lssued lleenses for the export of arms, ammmpition and
implements of war to Ghime in the value of as,a2,ess.12
t te Japam in the valme of 810,620,006.88.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.91)
-8
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not under any eir-
ammstamees authorise the President of the Searetary of state
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms, ammu-
mitios and implememts of war. The artieles and materials
whick are considered to be arms, ammunition and implememts
of war are enumerated in the President's Proelatatiom of
May 1, 1937, which 1s pet forth under Part II of the on-
closed copy of the pamphlet, International Traffle is Arse.
You doubtless have notleed the account given in the
press of statements made by the Seeretary of state at his
press conferenee on June 1l, in which he said, with
referenee to the bombing of civilian populations and the
probable danger to Americans and American interests abroad,
that he hed issued repeated statements condemning the bomb-
ing of eivillan populations, that he intended to maintain
this position and to say to everyome that this Government
condemns the bombing of civilian populations or its me-
terial eneouragement, and that he says this abread and
says it at home to the Ameriean people and espeedally te
OR  the mammfecturers of bombing plames.
sineorely yours,
Qi
S
Gherles W. Yest, Aeting Gdef
Offiee ef Arms and manitiene Gontrel
FB
Ahe copy of
hm.
Xiheed origt-

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
HENRY HUIZINGA
12 1938.
UNIVERSITY OF SHANGHAI
CEIVED
ALTUE
STAT
SHANGHAI, CHINA
september
(ON LAV) 5704 Maryland Ave.,Chica
Auguat 24, 1938
38
PM 00
CO
Mr Franklin D. Roosevelt
lus
IF LISTERN AFFAIRS
SEP
President of the United States
Dear Mr. President,
CORDS
Department of State
Every day we hear of Japanese bombs murdering hundreds of
Chinese women and little children and men. Every day we read of American
exports of crude oil, gasoline, kerosine, scrap iron, corner and many
other things that carry the bombing planes and that go into the bombs
that kill the Chinese, and that fill the hospitals there of kind missionary
4
doctors. The gold which Japan is sending us to pay for these things is
of no use to us, but is simply buried here with all the other surplus
gold.
89
We feel somehow guilty of abetting this awful wickedness, but we
feel so helpless about it. Do you also feel that way, Mr. President?
24/343
It seems to many of us that you could stop this flow of munitions, auto
trucks, and war materials to Japan. Do try it, Mr President, and you
will have the backing of a large majority of the citizens of our land.
I am in hearty agreement with the American Committee for
Non-participation in Japanese Aggression, 3 West 4Oth Street, New York,
as given in its pamphlot, "AMERICA'S SHARE IN JAPAN'S WAR GUILT."
Yours veyy respectfully
RESPEOTFULLY REFERRED
FOR AOKNOWLEDGMOINT
SEP121938
HENRY HUIZINGA
MtM Dtyre
AND CONBIDERATION
EDUCATOR AND AUTHOR
FILED
Shanghai, China
Seoretary to the Preaddent
F/HR
11

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.92)
eptember 121938.
refer to
My dear Mr. Huisinga:
By referenoe from the white House I moknowledge the
recelpt of your letter of August 24, 1938, in regard to
the export of war and other materials to Japan.
There is transmitted herewith a oopy of the Joint
894.
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, l937, amending the
Joint Resolut1on approved August 31, 1935. You will ob-
24/343
serve that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall proelaim such faot. should the President issue
a proelamation finding that a state of war exists between
China and Japan the export of arms, ammnition and imple-
ments of war to both those countries would immediately be
prehibited by the terms of the Neatrality Aet. In the
abeenee of such a preelamatien, however, there exists no
10gal
33
Menyinga,
0704 Margland Avemse,
nlimets.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those oountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be 1nvoked 1s properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deolding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account various
faotors and particularly the broed, general interests
of this oountry and its nationals. In the present situa-
tion in the Far Sast, the Presldent has conoluded that,
in the light of all the faots and ciroumstances, when
weighed from a practioal point of view, it would not be
to the best interests of this country and our people as
a whole to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this onneotion you may be interested to know that
sinoe July 1, 193?, the Department of State has issued 11-
eonses for the export of arms, ammunition and implements
of war to Ohina 1n the value of 13,a12,6s9.11 and to
Japan 1n the valme of $10,630,006.93.
The Moutrality Aet, moreover, does not under any air-
oumstanses authorise the President or the searetary of
state te prehibit the export of commodities other them
amo.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.95)
-L
arms, emmumition and implements of war. The artioles and
materials which are oonsidered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are emumerated in the President's Proo-
lamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part II
of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet, International Tref-
I may add, with reference to the bombing of civilian
populations and the probable danger to Americans and
Ameriean interests abroad, that the Seoretary of State
has stated publiely on repeated oooaslons that this
Government condemns the bombing of oivilian populations
or its material enoouragement. The Government's condemna-
tion of this praotioe has been expressed direotly to all
manufacturers and exporters in this country of airplanes
and aeronautioal equipment.
Sinoerely yours,
Charles w. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
CR
Joint Rosolution.
Pamphlot.
A true fopy of
SEP 10 1938.PM
the sined origi-
nal.
5
alu.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.89)
Jover CenTenohio
•.
7
1483元
every noble deed
vndersland life and
seek to help where help
894
is naeded!
.24/
I too wanled to do
344
covrse and
ldses
Then her medieal Course
5
College, We went to the
Iokiani Sislen buillanar

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.92)
rniysatus us tie greatesh helger
Than Killing girts and women
settle ment amount- to in The
face of all of these millious?
To whe really love our nughtor
would you do'y

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.90)
Cariried on a AmallJhi
(Aos piral. While Iluill
and carnied on a School
for gils, the only one
afian qiving 33ofihe
Thest yeard of mp life
to lhosle chlildren
in kindeu garlen, girts
Thrs High Achoo.
and women in adilt
classes. Can you seu
how I feel whew I lkinow
and heat on all sides
U.S, prolongs the
Wwar? V.5, warmaterinds

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.89)
mplvence to wrand stop.
Are we afraid of
hurring the feelings
Killing thousands
Miss
Frances K, Bement
, Ps, I thave oflew enyoyed your
Women's dlut
since my melony trom Chirea

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.96)
omber
14 1938.
My dear Miss Bement:
At Mrs. Roosevelt's request the receipt 1s acknowledged
of your letter of September 3, l938, in regard to the export
of war materials to Japan.
894.24/344
Your kind remarks coneerning Mrs. Roosevelt are greatly
appreelated. Also, 1t is gratifying to know that you heve
enjoyed Mrs. Roosevelt's talks before the Chautauqua women's
aub.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint Reso-
lution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the Joint
Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will observe
that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides that
whenever the President shall find that there exiats a state
of war between or among two or more foreign states he shall
preelaim suck faet. hould the President issue e preele-
mation finding that a state of war exists between Gmine and
Japen the export of arms, ammunition and implemente of war
F/HR
Mies Frances K. Bement,
Senter Riege Read,
Dever Gater, .

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.96)
r
to both those countries would immediately be prohibited by
the terms of the Neutrality Aot. In the absenee of such
a proalamation, however, there exists no legal muthority
for preventing the export of arms either to both those
countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into ascount various
factors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has coneluded that, in the
light of all the facts and eiroumstanees, shen weighed
frem a preetieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to inveke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
 In this conneetion you may be interested to kow
that sinoe July 1, 1939, the Department of State has 1s-
sued llcenses for the export of arms, ammunition and is-
plements of war to Chine 1n the valme of $13,12,089.11
and to Japam 1n the value of $10,630,006.95.
8

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.90)
3
I can readily aoprealate your interest in the Far
Eastern situation and I hope that I have made alear to
you the Department's position in regard thereto.
sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosure:
Jeint Resolution.
SEP
CR
14 1938.
CAd
A wee opy
the digned otigi.
and
nal.
CAI RVHI BU
9-19-38

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.93)
GJUNICATIONS
S
N RRD
BUILDING
SEP
PH
1938
ach 9-7-38
2
evnch
了
EP
1938 5SE
81938
September 1, 1938
The Honorable Cordell Hull
State Department
as
LAR EASTERN AFFAINS
Washington, D.C.
8941
Dear Sir:
For ever a year Japan has been conducting her latest
campaign in China. I believe I am correct in saying that during
this time the United States exports of war materiels to Japan
have increased enormously, and that we are new mupplying her
more munitions, sora iron, and other producte than any other
ceuntry, perhaps than all ethers cembined. It appears te me
994.24/545
that we are cantributint in this way toward prolonation of
a war that is indefensible, hcwover cne looks at it. Aside
frem meral ccusideratians I feel that the United States is
jeopardizing her friendly relations and commercial prespects
for the future in China and the Orient generally.
I should, therefore, like te protest against our
furnishing oredit te Japan, and against aiding and abetting
her in other ways. In view of Japan's attitude toward American
nationals, and American intereats in China, I feel the United
States hould adept a stiffer pelicy all along the line. The
fiction that a war is net a war because it is undeclared be-
comes daily more ridiculcus.
Having lived in China, my pre-Chinese sentiments are
streng, and no doubt my understanding of the diplematio in-
tricacies of eur position in the Orient is weak. Therefere,
fer my ewn interest and information, I should appreciate
receiving any public reperts or statements of pelicy frem
your department that might be pertinent.
Rospectfully yours,
Threw 8. Urirder
TSW/o
5
F/HR

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.95)
september 8 1938.
s.
ydearr. wilder:
The reseipt 1s aaknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 1, l9ss, in regard to the situation now obtaining in
the Far East.
There is transmitted herewith a ∞py of the Joint
894.24/345
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1936. You w1ll ob-
serve that seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or smong two or more foreign states
he shall proolaim sueh faet. Should the President iseme
a preelamation fineing that a state of war etists between
Ghina and Japan the export of arms, mmunition and imple-
ments of war and the extension of sredits to both these
345
coustries would immediately be prehibited by the terms ef
the Neutrality Aet. In the absenee of sueh a prealamation,
hewever,
pailedalphia, Pennsylvanta.
F/HR

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.96)
-&
however, there exists no legal authority for preventing the
export of arms or the extension of eredits eether to both
those sountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be 1nvoked 1s properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deoiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account various
faotors and partioularly the broad, general 1nterests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has onoluded that, in the
light of all the faots and ciroumstanoes, when weighed
from a practieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this conneetion you may be interested to know
that sinee July 1, 1937, the Department of State has 1s-
sued lieenses for the export of arms, ammunition and im-
plememte of war to China in the value of $13,812,609.11
and te Japan 1n the valwe of $10,830,006.93.
The Moutrality Aot, moreover, does mot under eny
siroumstanees authorise the President or the Seeretary

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.90)
-3-
of state to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artioles and
materials whioh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Proo-
lamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part II
of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, International Traffle
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
molosures:
Joint Rosolution.
Pamphlet.
K
OR
SEP 7 1938.PM
e
A true copy of
D
the sigred origi-
amt
chr
au.
GAIRNIU7-30

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.95)
NE COLLEGE
Opat
PARTMEN-OPSTATE
AUG
Ach 9-3-38
AUSPICES METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH, SOUTH
AND COLORED METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH
938A2
AUCRU /am
E.C. PETERS, PRESIDENT
GEORGIA
August 19, 1338
.ONS
RESPEOTFULLY REFERRED
AND RECORDS
FOR ACXNOWLEDGMENT
AND CONSIDMATTON
Honorable Franklin D. Roosevelt, President
MSHM Dutyre
United States of America
White House
Washington, D. C.
Searetary to the President
My dear Mr. Presiáent:
Permit me to join with what I believe to be a large
number of christian men nl women citizens of this country
in a petition to you regarding the continuance of trade by
this country of war materials with Japan.
I understand not fully, of course, the lifficulties
894.24
which you face us the Chief Executive in taking steps toward
894.24/346
putting a stop to this traffic in arms. At the same time, I
would like to urge you to take the lead in hatever ractical
way your good judgment may dietate in su gesting to the Congres
of the United States at its ext session thot something be done
in this connection.
Thanking you, I am
Rivipion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
Very truly yours,
ECPeters
EP6-1938
ECP:B
Department of State
F/HR

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.91)
September 8 1938.
My dear Mr. Peters:
By referenee from the white Nouse I acknowledge the
reseipt of your letter of August 19, 19s8, in regard to
the situation new obtaining in the Far East.
894.24/346
I appreciate your courtesy in informing the President
of your views coneerning this matter whioh, I need not asd,
will reseive appropriate consideration.
As you doubtless are aware Seetion 1 (a) of the Joint
Reselution of Congress approved May 1, 1957, a copy of
hieh is enelosed for your convenient reference, provides
that whemever the President shall find that there existe a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall proelaim such faet. should the Presidemt issme
a preelamatlon finding that a state of war exists betweem
Gmime and Japam the expert of arms, ammunition ane Stple-
ments ef war to both those countries would immedlately he
preki béted
...reere.
,
F/HR

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.96)
prokibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aet. In the
absense of sueh a proelamation, however, there exists no
legal satmority fer preventing the export of arms either
to both those sountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lutlon of May 1, h937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisione of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should inveke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into ascount various
fectors and partieularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has oneluded that, in the
light of all the faets and oiroumstanoes, when weighed
from a prectical point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this sountry and our people as a whole
to inveke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
Im this conneetion you may be interested to know that,
since Jaly 1, 1937, the Jopartment of state has issued
lieenses for the export of arms, amumitiom and implememts
of wer to Ghine 1n the value of a13,812;s69.11 and to
Japam 1n the value of $10,6s0,006.95.
airemmstanees

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.91)
-3
ciroumstances authorize the President or the Seeretary of
state to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, mmunition and implements of war. The artieles and
materials which are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part II
of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffle
100
sinoerely yours,
For the Beoretary of State:
R.WALL
Counselor.
Enclosures
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
OR
SEP 6 1938.PM
SEP 7 1938.PM 
5.
Pnt
7m.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
Dek
PAINE COLLEGFEVED
NOV 17 1938
DARTHENT OF STAT
ESTABLISHEDIBB3
AUSPICES METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH,SOUTH
ÄUGUSTA
November 5, 1938.
GEORGIA
E C PETERS. PRESIDENT
AND RECORDS
201938
Ch
Hon. Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
894.24/346
My dear Mr. Secretary Hull:
I have been reading with very great iaterest,
and even greater approval, some statements made by you and reported
by the press with reference to American foreigh policies following
the Munich accord. Like a good many Americans, I am deeply inter-
ested in the post-Munich conditions, particularly with reference to
the situation in the Far East.
May I express the hope that some more effective
plan of action b our Government may be taken preventing the ship-
ment of war supplies to Japan. I have nothing to offer in the vay
of suggestion, and if I had I am not sure that I would make suc'h to
you as I am not familiar with all the conditions that would have to
be considered in connection with any change of policy.
I have seen hints in the press of a declaration
of wer by China which would make the declaration of the Neutrality
Act on the part of our Government possible. In view of the fact
that all of the Chinese ports that might be used by that country for
the receipt of war materials are now in the hands of the Japanese,
application of the Neutrality Act now would affect Japan more than
China.
I want to express my own very deep personal
appreciation for the note which your department dispatched to Japan
sometime in September. It seems to me that the position taken by
you is eminently sound and I trust lays the foundation for a practi-
cal means of putting to an end the help which we have been giving,
however unwillingly, to Japan in the war against China.
I shall watch with interest the reply of the
Japanese Government and the note which your own department may make
when this reply has been received.
Very truly yours,
ECPitess
F/WB
ECP:G

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.93)
NOV 2 5 1938
004.4.
My dear Mr Peters:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your letter of Novem-
894.24/346
ber 5, 1938, regarding the present situation in the Far
Bast.
Your kind coment in regard to the polioy whioh the
administration is endeavoring to follow in the conduct of
our foreign relations is greatly appreciated.
It is noted that you are in favor of the prevention
of the shipment of war materials to Japan. You will find
full iaformtion on this subjeot in the Department's
letter to you of September 8, 1938, and the enolosures
thereto.
sinoerely yours,
For the Sesretary of State:
R. WALTON MOORE
ON
NOV 25 1938.
Counseler.
.B. C. Peters,
President, Paine College,
Me
Augusts, Georgia.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.95)
BOARD OF CHRISTIAN EDUCATION
OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
JEFARTMENT GE STA
NT OF CHURCH RELATIONS
829 WITHERSPOON BUILDING
SDRAS BEVA
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
September 8, 1938
DV
COMMUNCATIONS
eptember 11058.
AND RECORDS
AN
SE
sien
ache 9-13-38
Honorable Cordell Hull,
AF EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
894.24
Washington, D. C.
11143
01
Departmeni
Dear Mr. Hull:
With many other like-minded Christians, I desire
894.4/347
to express to you my sorrov. und deep regret tht our
government permits American munition makers to supply
war material to Japan with which to kill men, women,
and children of China, and to aid in the unwarranted
war invasion of China. is you undoubtedly knov, the
United States ships to Japan more oil, iron, copper,
and war equipment than the shipment from all other
countries put together. As a nation ve are guilty of
helping Japan to continue her aggressive var on China.
Surely some way can be found to put an embargo
on the shipment of var materials to Japan. As an
American citizen I appe:l to you to stop such ship-
ments.
Sincerely yours,
Reorge E. Bevana
GEB: b

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.96)
Beptember 15 1930.
My Gear Mr. Bevans:
The reeeipt is acknowledged of your letter of Septem-
bor 8, 19s8, in regard to the export of war and other
8
materials to Japan.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
.24/347
Ressletion of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Jeint Reselut1on approved August 32, 1935. You wil1 ob-
serve that Seetion 1 (a) of this Jeint Resolution prevides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall preelaim sueh faot. Should the President issue
a preelamation finding that a state of war exists between
Cmina and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
memts of war te both those countries would immediately be
prehibited by the terme of the Noutrality Aet. In the
absenee of emeh a preelamation, however, there exists mo
legel autherity for preventing the export ef ems either
34F/HR

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.95)
-
te both thome countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
Iution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint mesolution shall be inveked 1s properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account various
factors end partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its natlonals. In the present situation
1n the Far East, the President has onoluded that, in the
light of all the faots and oiroumstanees, when weighed
from a practieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this oonneetion you may be interested to know
that sinee July 1, 1937, the Department of State has 1s-
swed licenges for the export of arms, ammumition and im-
plements of war to China in the value of 813,12,669.11
and to Japan 1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Moutrality Aet, moreover, does not wnder any
eiroumstamees muthorise the President er the secretary
of state te prehibit the export of cemmodities ether
artteles

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.92)
-3
artieles and materials which are considered to be arms,
ammunition and implements of war are enumerated in the
President's Proolamation of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set
ferth under Part II of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet,
Internstleael Traffle in Arns. It will be noted that
eil, iron and copper are not inoluded among such artieles
and materials. There is no statute now in existenee
which would authorize the President or the Becretary of
state to prohibit the export of oil, iron and copper to
any foreign country.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Emalosures:
Jeint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
SAP
15 1938.
CR
naT.
A
amt
1280

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.97)
G. C. HAMELIN
NKHAM
SECRETARY
eA
REIGN AFFAIRS
Congress of the United States
201938.
1438
Douse of Representatingt embe
eptember 29 1938.
Washington, D. C.
1938 SEP 12 AM 9 48
September 9, 1938
U VISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
SEP 12 1938
AND RECORDS
Cch 9-13-3
894.24/348
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
Permit me to quote below for appropriate attention
and advice from a communication reoeived today from a resident
of my congressional district:
"Could the (U.S.) Governnent in any way without
the consent of Congress forbid the export to Japan of
all wer-material?
"If it could not, why could not the State Depart-
ment request the cessation of all such exports (as it
has done in regard to bombing planes) AND THEN publish
widely in the Press the names of all those who disregard
the request?"
With appreciation of your reply, I remain
Sincerely yours,
AF EASTERN 
loy ke. T.
Departmer
GEORGE HOLDEN TINKHA
SEP1
FILED
MR. HORNBECK
ADVISER
SEP 141938
DEPARTMENT OF TATE
8
11

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
1439
September 20 1938.
My dear Mr. Tinkham:
I have your letter of September 9, 1938 in whieh you
quote two questions asked by a resident of your congressiomal
89
distriet in regard to the export of war materials to Japan.
4
The first question 1s "Could the United States Govern-
2
ment in any way without the oonsent of Congress forbid the
4/348
export to Japan of all war material?". My understanding is
that your constituent is alluding to arms, ammunition, and
implements of war as referred to in Section 1 of the
Neutrality Aet. The answer to the question, in that ase,
1s that the Government is not authorized to forbid the
export to any country of such artioles, exeept when the
President issues a proelamation in accordance with the pro-
visioms of that seetion. If your constituent is referring
to commodities ether than arms, ammumition, or implements
of wmr, the answer is that this Geverament has mo statutery
autherity
F/WB
The Nenerable
George Welden Tinkhas,
Nouse of Representetives.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.96)
1440
authority to restrict the export of such oommodities to
any foreign eountry.
The sesond question is " . . . way could not the
state Department request the sessation of all sueh exports
(as 1t has done in regard to bombing planes) and then pub-
lish widely in the Press the names of all those who die-
regard the request?". In answering this question it may
be stated that the Department's action in urging the
manmfaoturers and exporters in this country of airplanes
and aeronautioal equ1pment not to sell or export their
products to countries whose armed foroes are engaged in
the bombing of the oivilian population from the air was
based upon this oountry's general and unreserved con-
Secretary has
demnatlon, to whioh the / given expression repeatedly in
publio utterances, of that type of motivity. Only 1n
sueh exoeptional cases does the Department take action of
that advisory character.
sineerely yours,
R.WDTON MOORE
Counselor
OR
SEP
tup
Rn

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.91)
Division of
SEP15 1938
FE
1938.
RLCLIVED
Depertment of Staic
TMENT OF
mr Cordell Wull
SEP 13
Washingon. D.C. US. a
OF
ATIONS
AND KECORDS
In an interrew urth the Vnited Prees, Wr.
Suw Fo, a leading chintee statis mau, acked
thuee questiones. These same questions that
894.2
are in the minds is enery true americace. why
daes the Vnited States still supply Jupan
24/349
urth the sinews of war - arm uments and
raw materials- aud there by driectly assist Japan
no her aggressioro to China? why do americans
still bay gapanise goods? He also wrshes that We.
If Dr. Sun Fo eally knew whuttuas ni
the heart and muinds i enlry peace loring aiggerican
he would uo that the mericaw publee  dsapsin
m seneral y your foreigss policies. We need your
co- operation ur. Hull. Iand many others wondern
why you dorit stop shipments of raw materials 
and armamernt to Japam. mly dorit aur gonern-
ment supply China urth mattrials ts protect
hevself, imore so thaw we do? I expect an
1451s. mhitcomb
ansmer. 1 Floyd a. Baker-
Indianapodis,clud.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.91)
september 1 1038.
My dear Mr. Baker:
The receipt 1s aaknowledged of your letter of septem-
ber 9, l9se, in regard to the situation now obtaining in
894.24/349
the Far East.
There 1s transmitted herewith a opy of the Joint
Resolut1on of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution appramee August 31, 1935. You wil1 ob-
serve that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution prevides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall proelaim such fast. Should the Presidemt 1sewe
a preslamation finding that a state of war existe between
China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
ments ef war to both those countries would immediately be
prohibited y the terms of the Noutrality Ast. In the
absenee ef such a proelamation, however, there ezists mo
10ga2
oya . Baker,
TH
Inasemepelse, Inam.
R

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.95)
-8
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either to
both those countrles or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this ountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situatlon the President must take into account various
faetors and partioalarly the broad, goneral interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has conoluded that, in the
light of all the facts and oireumstanoes, when weighed
from a practical point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this oountry and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this connection you may be interested to know
that sinee July 1, 1937, the Department of state has 10-
sued lleenses for the export of arms, ammunition and im-
plements of war to China in the valme of $13,812,689.11
and to Japan 1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Moutrality Ast, moreover, does not under any
eiremmstamses enthorise the President or the Besretary
as tate to prohibet the expert of eommeditiee ether them

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artieles and
materiale whioh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
1mplements of war are emmerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part II
of the enelosed opy of the pamphlet, International Tref-
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Ofrice of Arms and Munitions Control
Enolosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
he copy of
SEP 15 1938.
CR

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.93)
7
RICVED
DETMENT OF IAI
1938 SFP 12 PM 1 29
Septe:ber , 1938
COMMATIONS
Socretary of State AND RECORDS
U. 3. uf erica,
cvieion of
blck 4-14259
.asninton, D. C.
:AR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dear ir:
894.24/350
4
 year or so ago the Con ress anthorized the iresident
494.3
to invoke neutrality with respect to the s: ipment of arms and
munitions to furei m beli erents.
I would like to know he ther he has exercised this power
in connection with tie ar now oin. on in the crient between
China and Jupan.
Is thore any restriction on erican murition manufacturers
in the shipnent of munitions to either of these two countries?
Thankin: you for the above information, I remain
SEF
Respectfully yours,
FILED
2
6
1930
J. M. Ballowe
1637 Farwell Ave.,
Chicago, Ill.
F
11

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.91)
september 17 1938.
04.24/860
My dear Mr. Ballowe:
The reseipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of Beptem-
894.24/350
ber a, loss, in regard to the situation now obtaining in
the Far Bast.
In reply to your first question, I have to inform you
that there has been no proolamation by the President find-
1ng that a state of war ex1sts between China and Japan.
The provieions of seetion 1 of the Joint Resolution of
Gongress approved May 1, 1937, a copy of which 1s enelosed,
are therefore not applieable to shipments of arms, ammu-
nition and amplements of war to China and Japen.
with regard te your second question, you are informed
that in the abeenee of a proelamation by the President find-
ing that a state of war exists betweem mina and Japan,
there are me restrietions against the epors of arme to
either of these countries ether then the requirement umser
sestion 
l,
F/WB
1P,
aieege, imie.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
Seet1on 5 of the Neutrality Aot that lioenses be obtained
for the export of any arms, ammunition or implements of
war and the special provisions in regard to exports to
Chine whioh are set forth under Part vII of the enclosed
copy of the pamphlet, Internationel Traffie in Arme. As
you are doubtless aware, however, the Department has
stated to the manufacturers and exporters in this ountry
of airplanes and aeronautioal equipment that this Govern-
ment 1s strongly opposed to the sale of sueh produots to
countries the armed forees of which are engaged in the
bombing of oivilian populations from the air.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
BEP
Emelesures:
GR
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
fuly
sged origi
GASRVE: MU -16-58
now

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.88)
Division of
9 1938.
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS THREE OAKS
NORFOLK?
feuber
SEP 9 - 1938 oED
Soptunte 5.1938
Re
The lu
CON
warhigon. D.C.
OF
ack 9-9-38
COMM
ATIONS
AND RECORDS
Fes leu. secretary
8
94
te Ree
fest agariot
tuoot earnest
I apan in
4
thas our comily
this outflod
at Ohe
Con lwe not atop
5
aggersin
the Chineme
to he carnies on apainar
It seems ii credinle
that
Quernea hoves do theis.
/HR
Tery icere.
(luind (orer)

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.83)
ans aloo
Gulie H. K. Faeeme
(Huo Sdd +o.)

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.94)
dertember 9 1938.
Im reply refer to
G-B04.24--Fallows, Annette Riohards, et al.
My doar Miss Fallows:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your letter of Beptem-
894.24/35
ber 5, 198, in regard to the situation now obtaining 1n
the Far East.
There is transmitted herewith a oopy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amonding the
Joint Resolut1on approved August 3l, 1935. You wi1l ob-
serve that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there existe a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall proolaim suah faot. Should the President issue a
preelemation finding that a state of war emsste betweem
China and Japan the export of arms, ammumition and implements
of war to both those ccountries would asmediatesy be pre-
hibited by the terms of the Noutrality Ast.  the sbesnes
of sueh a preelamation, however, there exists me logs
F/HR
anthousey
Mise Annette Rieharas Fallews,
Three Oaks,
Nerfolm, Gonnestiout.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.95)
amthority for preventing the export of arms either to
both those ountries or to Japan alone.
lutiom of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this sountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s proverly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
ation the President must take 1nto acoount various faetors
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far East, the President has conoluded that, in the light of
all the facts and oiroumstanoes, when weighed from a prae-
tieal point of view, it would not be to the best interests
of this country and our people as a whole to invoke the
provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this conneotion you may be interested to know that
sinee Jaly 1, 1937, the Department of state has issued
lisenses for the export of arms, ammunition and implements
of war to Ohina 1n the valme of $13,812,6e9.11 and to Japan
1n the value of $10,680,006.93.
The Neutrality Aet, moreever, does not under any sir-
cumstaneee authorise the President or the Seeretery of
State to prehibat the export of commodities other tham ame.
101

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.91)
-3
ammunition and implements of war. The artieles and me-
terials whioh are o nsidered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are emumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1937, wh1ch 1s set forth under Part II
of the enelosed opt of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffle
ln Ar. It will be noted that sorap iron and like proe-
mots are not ineluded among suah artioles and materials.
There is no statute now in existence which would mthorize
the President or the Beoretary of state to prohibit the
export of sarap iron and like products to any foreign
oountry.
sinoerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
melosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
OR
SEP 9 1938.PM
Qu
i.
amt
Zulu.
GAI RVHI MU 9- 

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.95)
THE AMERICAN SECTION OF. THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
MRS. DEWITT KNOX. PRESIDENT
CO-OPERATING
NEW YORK. N. Y.
BOARDE AND SOCIBTIBS CO-OPERaTING
BOCIBTY
AMRICAN BOARD OP COMMISSIONBBS POB
AND, ZENANA MISSIONARY
SECRETARY
FORBIGN MISSIONS
YORK. N. Y.
WOMAN'S AMERICAN BAPTIST
CHURCH OF SCOTLAND
FORBIGN MISSION SOCIETY
N'S FORBIGN MIBSION
WOMAN'S FORBIGN MISSIONABY SOCIBTY
METHODIMT EPISCOPAL CHURCH
AN METHODIST MISSIONARY SOCIDTY
HILDA
L. OLSON
WOMAN'S BOARD OF FORBIGN MISSIONS
M. K. S, Sretory
OMBN'S AUXILIARY
MISS HILDA L. OLSON
CANADIAN BAPTIST FORBIGN
REPORMBD CMUH IN AMBICA
2 ATON G, LONDON, 8. W. I.
MISSION BOARD
MARMION WAY, ROCKPORT, MASS.
CASÉE ADDRESSI ADLIHO, ROCKPORTMASE.
AMBRICA
Cい
AR EASTERN AFFAIKS T. R672
CO
AUGUANA
September 1, 1938
dear Mr. Yost:
Department of Staie
Tiappreclate your very courteous letter with the statenents regurdi goth
President should not declare that a state of war exists between Chine and Japan.
It seems such a quibble and the attemnt to deceive himself or the people is a failure.
Certainly a "state of war" exists betwee: China and Janan whethor the President chooses
to make the statement or not.
894.24/352
I do not believe that decention is needed to keep this country out of war. My
894.2
personal opinion may be of little value, but the opinion of the people of the nation
will decide some questions which belong to them, rather than to the President.
I have been gratified by the statements made by Secretury Hull, but he has no power
under this arrangement to do more than politely state his opinion. I have a great
respect and regard for Secretary Hull und only wish that he had the power that has
been given to the President. That power belongs to Congress and it was, as many
feared, a mistake to transfer it.
2
Much depends on your definition of a "Belligerent Nation". Is it not a war making or
fighting nation? Does it apply to a person or nation defending his life against a
marderous attack?
Evasions and deceptions will not keep this country out of war. A firm hand, an out-
spoken statement by the people which might be secured through a referendum submitted
to the people would put them in the position of responsibility assumed by the
Executive. A strong statement by the People backed by consistent embargo would do
more to check Japan and other dangerous neighbors than diplomatic statements based on
deception.
The present situation in Europe is, many believe, due to the weak and cowardly attitude
of England's Prime Minister. Now that England has spoken we may see an end to Germany's
bluff. The United States should stand for right, not with a political league but on
her own responsibility.
5
If this Government would stop sending or lending to an aggressor nation, there would
be hope. China, under attack, should have out-spoken defense by every decent nation.
The present situation of bluff in the world can only be met by a courageous decisive
stand which will prevent war rather than encourage it.
Many thanks for the statements you so kindly sent. I would not presume to give my own
point of view, if I stood alone. I do, however, know that many feel as I do that it
F/HR

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
Y
time to do something more than has been done. Note this last protest from
Issionaries in China.
My experience as Chairman of the Committee to secure the funds to build three colleges
for women in China; Ginling, Yenching and Shanghai Medical, has given me more than
a passing interest and knowledge of Chine.
My complaint is not against Secretary Hull, but against a bed move on the part of
Congress and lack of action on the purt of the President who was given power.
Sincerely yours
Luag o- Brabrdy
Mrc. Henry W. Peabody
LWP/EW
V

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.95)
September 9 1938.
y reter to
84.244352
My dear Mrs. Peabody:
I wish to thank you for your letter of September 1,
1938, with further regard to the situation now obtaining
In the Far East.
894.24/352
I have to inform you that there 1s no authority for
preventing the export of arms to an eggressor nation as
smh. The Neutrality Aot applies equally te all ocountries
matween or mong whom a state of war is found to exist by
Presidential proolamation. should the Neutralt Ast be
applied to the rar Eastern situation the shipment of arms
to China as well as to Japan would be prohibited by the
torme of this Ast.
Sincerely yours,
Gmarles W. Yost, Assistant Ghief
OR
Ofrise of Arms and Munitione Control
SEP 9 1938.PM
Meaeal Gallge for wemen,
of
true
Pmd
F/HR
Masseakusetts.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.93)
COMMITTEES:
BNTERSTATE AND FORSN CO
SA
RULES
EFARTMENT OF STA
Mashington, D. C.
1938 SEP 14 AM 9 37
DIVIS (h ot 227 Post office Building,
COMMUNICATIONS
Grand Rapids, Michigan.
AND FECORDS
Sentember 12, 1938.
AND
MUNITIO
SEPA9
Hon. Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
AMASTERN ATIAIHS
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Hull:
cew
September 19 1050
Enclosed please find a letter ad ressed
894.24/353
to me by r. and Mrs. John Hacket , Marne, Michigan
107.
in protest ag inst the shipment of munitions and war
materials to Japan and relative to the shinment of
.I have informed r. and
munitions to oyalist Spain.
Lirs. Hackett that I would forward their letter to
you for consideration.
Very sincerely yours, 
Gad a. ape.
enc.
SEP 20 1938
FILED
F/HR

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
MABEL HACKETT
Marne, Mich.
Sept. 5, 1938.
Honorable Carl E. Mapes
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Mapes:
We urge you to use every means in your power to aid
in stopping the flow of munitions and war materials to
Japan, and to permit the shipment of munitions to Loyalist
Spain.
The partnership of this country in the 1nhuman barbarity
being practiced upon peace loving nations 1s enough to make
us hide our faces in shame.
Yours respectfully,
MABEL HACKETT
JOHN HACKETT

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.87)
septerto 19 1938.
y dear Mr. Mapes:
I seknowleege the reeeipt of your letter of septem-
ber 12, 1938, enelosing a letter dated September 5, 1938,
894.
from Mr. amd Mrs. John Haekett, Marne, Miohigan, in regard
to the situatione now obtaining in Spain and the Far East.
24/353
I a enelosing for your information a copy of a let-
ter which is being sent to Mr. and Mrs. Mackett in reply
to their letter.
Mr. and Mrs. Maekett's letter of September & 1s re-
turned herewith.
sineerely yours,
Cordoll Hui
salesures:
SEP
to ur. and
Routine
From uo.
The Reserakke
F/WB
Gar . Maes.
227sl.
CO
EWK

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.93)
September 19 1938.
My dear Mr. Haakett:
At the request of the Honorable Carl E. Mapes, United
89
states mepresentative, I m replying to the letter of Septem-
4.24/
ber 5, 1938, from you and Mrs. Hnokett in regard to the situ-
ations now obtaining in Spain and the Far East.
There are enalosed oopies of the Joint Resolution of
5
May 1, 1937, commonly referred to as the Neutrality Ast,
and the pamphlet, Lavs and Regulatiene Aaminletered bx the
tesretarx of State Governins the International Traffie in
ama Ammunition. and Implementa of War and other Munitione
The embargo prohibiting the export of arms to Spain was
first brought about by the Joint Resolution of Congress which
was approved on January 8, l957, and whieh is still in effest.
This Joint Reselution passed the senate unanimously and the
F
Kouse of Representatives by a vote of 40s to 1. Before the
estarge
Mr. Jakn Mackest,
Marne, Michigan.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.94)
-0
embarge on the export of arms to Spain could be lirted it
would be nesessary either that the Congress repeal this Joint
Resslution or that the President find that the state ef sivil
strife in Spain mo longer exists.
As of interest in this connection there are enelosed
coples of letters whieh were addressed by the Department
te the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and to Mr. Raymond Lealie Buell, Foreign Poliay
Assoelation, Inoorporated, New York City.
with regard to the applloation of the Neutrality Aet to
the situation in the Far East, I invite your attention to
Seetion 1 (a) of this Aot which provides that wheever the
President shall find that there exists a state of war be-
tween two or more foreign states he shall proolaim smehk fast.
should the President lssue a proelamation finding that a
state of war exists between Ohina and Japan, the export of
arms, ammunition and implements of war to both those coum-
tries would immediately be prohibited by the terms of the
Neutrality Aet. In the absenee of such a preelamation, hew-
ever, there exists no legal authority for preventing the es-
pert of arms either to beth those eeuntries or to Japam aleme.
I may add that the primary purpose ef the Jeint meselu-
tiem ef May 1, 1987, 1s te keep this country out of war.
the questien as to whether and when the previsione of the
3o2ms

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.94)
-3
Joint Resolution shall be 1nvoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deoiding whether he
should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situation
the President must take 1nto account various factors and
partioularly the broad, general interests of this country and
1ts nationale. In the present situation in the Far East, the
president has oonoluded that, in the light of all the facts
and oiroumstames, when welghed from a praetioal point of view,
it would not be to the best interests of this oountry and our
people as a whole to invoke the provislons of this Joint
Resolution.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize tre Presi-
dent or the Seoretary of State unter any oiroumetanoes to pro-
hibit the export of commodities other than arms, ammunition
and implements of war.
The srticles and materials whioh are
considered to be arms, ammunition and 1mplements of war are
enumerated in the Pres1dent's Proolamation of May 1, 1937,
which is set forth under Part II of the pamphlet.
Ar
You may be interested to know that sinoe July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has issued li enses for the export
of arms, emmunition and implements of wer to China in the
velue of $13,812,669.11
Japan in the velue of
$10,630,006.93.
Sinoerely yours,
HA
For the Seoretary of State:
Cwin
Enclosares:
WW
See attaghed
weaw
Charles W. Yost, Assistent Chief
CA:RVH: EMU
Eu
FE
Ofrioe of Arme and Munitions Control
S

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.91)
melosures:
Jeimt Resolution.
Pamphlot.
To Senator Pittaan,
May 12, 1938.
To Mr. Raymond Leslie
Buell, Mareh 21, 1938.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.97)
5
RECEIVED
Haddonfield, N. J.
DEPARTMENT OF STAI:
12/38.
Acknowledged
SFA141938
A
By Form a
Secretary of State,
SS
Washington, D. C.
Fil•
DVISTON OF
COMMUNICATIONS
SEP 211938
Dear Sir:
AND RECORDS
844.24
The enclosed clipping from the editorial page of the Phila-
delphia Record embodies statements which I emphatically endorse.
A recent survey by the Foreign Policy Association shows that
54.4 % of the means for carrying on the war in China by the Japanese
has been supplied by the United States. And yet, in the face of all
this support given to Japan, you continue to protest the use of this
material for aggressive action. Within the past week you have renew-
ed a general indictment of nations who wilfully ignore treaties and
openly disregard internatiunal law. And at the same moment you must
be conscious of violating the spirit and intent of our own Neutrality
894.24/354
Act. Is your department unwillins at this late date to acknowledge
the errors in the conduct of our foreign relations, or does it pro-
pose to continue to stultify itself by pursuing a policy inconsistent
with and in direct contravention of the will of this nation as ex-
pressed in the Neutrality Act?
Mr. Joseph Green, Chief of the Munitions Control Section of
your Department has revealed to me the very insubstantial grounds on
which the action of the President and yourself have been acting in
this matter. Mr. Green insists that your department could not act
otherwise than has been done, because the President has not "found"
that a state of war exists either in Spain or China! I am inter-
ested to know just how he or you would define the present state of
affairs in both thosecountries, if it is not a state of war in fact?
Now, Mr. Green also states that the Neutrality Act and the
amendment thereto relating to the Spanish situation, state unequivo-
22
cally that "should the President find a state of war to exist between
two or more foreign states, he would be obliged to proclaim such fact
and that, following such proclamation, the embargo upon shipment of
munitions and certain specified materials, such as copper, cotton
etc. would be required by the Act.
Recently we were advised that Mr. Johnson, Assistant Secretary
of War to study the feasibility of building a military road throughout
Alaska and with a view to secure a free passage through British Col-
umbia of troops and military supplies. Also it is known that our
western coast defenses are being strengthened and the the naval squad
ron enlarged. Obviously all this preparation as well as that in the
F
Hawaian Islands and elsewhere in the Pacific, are designed to check ,
Japanese aggression. The nation is thus subjected to vast ex ense fo
"defense" purposes at the same time that we are equiping our prospect
方
enemies with the means to conduct an aggressive war, which if success-
ful will undermine democratic institutions throughout the world.
cliffing
Very truly yours,
FEHyolof.
11

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
LD OUT 9/8/38
has been sold down the river.
people, thank God, have had no
was a day when our people should
to be clear of a British alliance, today is
possible, as rumors indicate, that our State
rtment may have played a subtle role in
ing the British force the Czechs to knuckle
der to Hitler, by granting concessions in the
Sudeten area which virtually mean its sever-
ance, both political and cultural, from Czecho-
slovakia.
But the State Department as at present con-
stituted does not represent the American people.
We only hope the Roosevelt Administration will
recognise that fact—before it is too late.
Perfidious Albion!
If that famous phrase isn't being echoed and
re-echoed in Czechoslovakia tonight, then the
Czechs are an amazing people.
The peace of Europe, of course, is preserved.
For the moment.
But how much longer can the British expect
to work their magic formula of preserving peace
by giving away chunks of other countries?
The whole Franco-British setup in Eastern Eu-
rope, the whole basis of the Little Entente, is
based upon the notion of military insurance.
Rumania, Jugoslavia, Poland, the rest of the
smaller nations all have hugged the British orbit
for one reason:
Protection.
British policy now is made clear as offering no
protection whatever, but, instead, as utilizing
those small nations as pawns on His Majesty's
chessboard.
Ethiopia relied on the British. Ethiopia no
longer exists.
Austria relied on Britain. Austria is no more.
Czechoslovakia has relied on Britain. And now
she, too, comes to appreciate the finesse of Cham-
berlain in "making sacrifices" for peace.
Obviously, such a system will have to come
to an end. Either the British will run out of
smaller nations to sacrifice—
Or the smaller nations will run out on the
British, which is much more likely, and place
their insurance policies with Hitler, Mussolini &
Co., instead of Chamberlain, Halifax, Ltd.
Once the smaller nations become convinced
that they can hope for nothing by banking on
the British, they will hasten, as Hungary seems
to be doing, to make a deal with the dictators.
With no satellite countries left to sacrifice.
what could Chamberlain do?
If it were suffciently necessary to selfish Brit-
ish interests, Britain would fight. But if things
came to that pass, she also would do what she
has done for centuries.
She would hunt some other nation to do most
of the fighting for her.
Already the British Dominions have emitted
rumblings of protest at the notion that they be
expected to fead the mother country's advance
in a new conflict.
But if not the Colonies. there's still Uncle
Sam.
Already the British Government counts upon
our State Department to do its bidding. Al-
ready, Chamberlain has inquired whether we
would care to repeat our sucker role in the
World War.
With the memory of the sacrifice of Czecho-
slovakia fresh in our minds-let us make clearer
than ever that WE'RE STAYING OUT
Let John Bull fight his ewn battles. sacrifice
his own possessions.
And if YOU feel that way let it be known at
Washington.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.92)
A
S
CC
E
S
2
I
NO
JOHn M. LEYDA
1938 SEP
A
ATTORNEY
C
MUNYNION
Aug. 31, 1938
SFP
Hon. cordell Hull,
Secretary of tate,
YAR EASTEHN AFFAIKS
ack 9-8-38
Washington, D. .
RVH/ame
Dear Secretary:-
The following is conicd from an Associated Press
dispatch, published in the omahia Yorld-lerald on the o8th inst:
"The Foreign Poliey Association said today the outlook was for
'indefinite prolongation of hostilities in the Far ast, unless
the Western powers, particularly the United states, discontinue
furnishing war suppltes to Japan!
It was also stated that the chief pplies of war raterial purchas-
ed in the year 1037, were: The U...,54.44. British, 17.51. The Nether-
Iands India, 7.4). That Prom pri1 3 1e97, to June 20 1098, Janan
bought $9, 384,0oo.00 worth of mnmi tions n thris comntry.
8
6
now in view of your efPort to ston this iliotic war business, it 
seems humiliatin to note tat our U. . profi teers are aiding these
Japanese pirates, (that is what they tre) to kill wonen and chilarenN
in hina. de bave a erricient or anization of s- en in this countr
to s top bank robb ry um: ki trunin, te., but al low our mumition man
wosen and children in hina. ts ot oup cocalled entrality Law an
5
absolute Praud? 1t Too so to ue. ust our  nition nufaetureBs
5
have their profits re ardless of resul ts? ire ve, tie United states
of Aherica, any better tn n the Jananese pirntes when we ner rit such
taings te be tone? Is it modern civilization? t mkes one sick at
heart to contenplate it, and ve, a christian nntion!
the Dies Coranittee of Investiation is foo'int its tine aray hunt-
ing reds and conn unists while there is real rork to do.
Let is quarantine Japan as siu st d hy Presi 'ent Roosevelt, and
let this fnclude trt spanish urror, Faico.
LIYDA.
F/HI
R

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.96)
september 12 1938.
My dear Mr. Leyda:
The recelpt 1s aoknowledged of your letter of August 3l,
894.24/355
1938, in regard to the s1tuation now obtaining in the Far
East.
There 1s transmitted herewith a oopy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will
observe that seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution pro-
wides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two or more foreign
states he shall proolaim suoh fact. should the President
1ssue a proelamation finding that a state of war exists
between Ohina and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and
implements of war to both those oountries ould immediately
te prohibited by the terms of the Neutrality Act. In the
absonee of such a preelamation, however, there exists no
l0gal
F
/HR
Mr. John M. Lorte,
Plettmmouth, Mobraska.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either to
both those oountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this ountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provislons of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he abould invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account various
factors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its naticlale. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has oonoluded that, in the
light of all the faots and oiroumstances, when weighed
from a praotloal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this onneotion you may be interested to know that
sinse July 1, 1937, the Department of State has issued
licenses for the export of arms, ammunition and implements
of war to Ohina in the value of $13,a12,669.11 and to Japan
1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Moutrality Aet, moreover, does not under ang
eiremmstanees authorize the President or the Searetary ef
sSate to prehibit the export of commodities other them
ams.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.95)
-3
arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artieles and me-
terials which are considered to be arms, ammunition and imple-
ments of war are enumerated in the President's Proolemation of
May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part II of the enelosmm
copy of the pamphlet, Internatlenel Traffle in Arme.
You doubtlese have notioed the account given in the press
of statements made by the Beoretary of State at his press con-
ferenee on June ll, 1n whiah he said, with reference to the
bombing of oivilian populations and the probable danger to
Amerioans and Amerioan interests abroad, that he had 1ssued
repeated statements condemning the bombing of oivillan popu-
lations, that he intended to maintain this position and to
say to everyone that this Government condemns the bombing of
oivillan populatlons or its material enoouragement, and that
he says this abroad and says it at home to the Amerioan people
and espeolally to the manufaoturers of bombing planes.
with referenoe to your oomment ooneerning the Spanish
situatlon, your attention is invited to the enolosed coples
of letters in regard to the Spanish arms embargo which were
aadressed by the Department to the Chairman of the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate and to Mr. Raymond Leslle
OR
sinoerely yours,
8EP10.1938.P
A true copy of
the gae origi-
nal!
ofrise of Arms and Manitions Go
71m.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
To Semator Pittman,
May 12, 1938.
To Mr. Raymond Leslie
Buel1, Marsh 21, 1938.
A true copy of
the sigor
nal.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.96)
13 1938.
cok
RECLIY
PARTMENT LF STATE
SEP1938
1938 SEP 6 AM IIR2 #3, Box 234,
Hon.Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
DIVISION OF
Division of
Washington, D.C.
COMMUNICATIONS
FAR EASTERN AFFANRS
AND RECORDS
Dear Sir:-
SEP13 1938
Deperta
4
While at arecent meeting at Lakeside,Ohio,
spe ker - a Chinese - referred to the many bombings by the
Japanese,one having occurred that day, and stated that after
one such raid he went into the wreckage and picked up a part
of a bomb on which was, "Made in U.S.A."
894.24/356
The attiched clip ings,from our local papers, refer
to another bombing,in which an American was endangered.
I wonder, I wonder if these bonbings, with their
terrific loss of life and property, would have occurred if
the bombs had not been purchased in our own U.S....
Can you not, will you not, use your influence, and
power, as Secretary of State, to stop the sale of bombs,other
war materials, and oil, to Japan?
Surely this wauld not involve our country in war,
but would be a most determining factor in stopping, suddenly
and quickly, this most heartless and unwarranted aggressing
nation in the war they are carrying on against an unprepated
neighbor. Will the U.S.A. continue to aid in such destrudtion of
/HR
human lives?, and property?
Yours truly,
7.1
()Hias) Niimi M. Dlanoon
(District Secretary,Women's Foreign
Missionary Society.)

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.97)
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 1938.
FORT WORTH STAR-TELEGRAM—EVENING
LANE·SUNK
Fired On by Japs
Associated Press Photo.
BY JAP FIRE
IS LOCATED
IN RIVER
AIRLINER SUNK
By International News Service.
HONG KONG, Aug. 25.—The
BY JAPS FOUND
sunken wreck of the huge airliner
that was attacked and forced down
by Japanese war planes was found
Thursday as a report of the assault
was rushed to the United States
IN RIVER
consulate by the China National
H. L. Woods. pilot of the trans-
Aviation Corporation, operators of
port plane forced down by Japa-
the craft.
nese in
China
Wednesday
The wreckage of the plane was
Woods. a friend of the late
found under 40 feet of water in a
Frank Hawks is a native of
branch of the West River. part of the
Kansas and learned to fly in
Macao.
Pearl River delta, not far from
Kansas City. He has been a
commercial flier in the Orient
CONTINUED FROM PAGE D
Immediate efforts were begun to
since 1933.
cut off appatentiy by one of the
raise the hull of the plane. When it
bullets about which it was attempt-
is brought to the surface. it is cx-
me to intorm the wotld.
pected to shed more light on asser-
Prlot Wood said that after the
tions that'the Japanese warcraft
plane landed in the mudd water, a
subjected it to a terrific machine gun
burst of machone-gun fire swept the
barrage, killing 14 or 15 of the occu-
passenger compartment. killing a
pants.
woman and a baby i her arms.
Seek to Suppress News.
Occupants of the pline abie to do
Meanwhile, H. L. Wods. American
so, he said. jumped into the water.
pilot of the liner, arrived here from
but while they struggled toward the
Macao, where he first went to seek
shore the Japanese planes dived at
aid. Woods, who was accompanied
them repeatedly, picking them off
by an American official, declined to
one by one.
make any new statement regarding
that attack until he consults author-
JAPS WARN PLANES IN
ities here.
WAR AREA IN DANGER.
Reports from Shanghai said the
SHANGHAI. Aug. 25 (A) A Jap-
Japanese censors there had attempt-
anese naval spokesman served warn-
ed to suppress al! news regarding
ing Thursday that any civilian plane
the machine-gunning of the passen-
flving ovet what Japan has desig-
ger plane.
nated the wa area of China is in
Meanwhile, stories of survivors
danger of beng shet down.
and radio appeals for aid. gathered
He deciar ed that the airhner of
together, revealed an account of the
e Chenes Amerean China Nation-
attack.
al A aton Cor poration which was
When the airliner was first assault.
tof ed dewn and machine-gunned by
ed the radio operator sent out a
Japanese arpdanes near Canton
series of frantic messages appealing
Wednesday was mistaken for a Chi-
for help.
nese bomber
"Eleven Japanese planes are chas.
The Japanese army has designated
ing us." the first message said
all of Chitm cast of a line between
"Need help."
Pakhoi, deep in the south. and Sian
Message Cut Off.
n West-Central Shensi Province, a
Then came the message:
ne of hostiliies
The Japane e spokesmen asserted
"Planes forcing us to land."
tt the antmer fereed down Wed-
Finally, about five minutes later.
nesday was flying ever this zone and
this message came in dots and dashes
wis assumed by J+panese thers to
across the ether.
"S O S
.. . S O S. . . We are
be a warplane when it attempted to
being machine .
elude then patred
There the message was suddenly
(CONTINUED ON PAGE 6).

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FORT WORTH PRESS
FORT WORTH, TEXAS, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 1938
MOO
12 KILLED AS
TOKIO AIRMEN
FIRE ON SHIP
Survivors Machine - Gunned
While Swimming Ashore;
American Escapes
Ba United Piese
HONG KONG. Aug. 24
A
SHOT
Chinese passenger plane piloted
by an American was shot down
near Canton today. Chinese an-
nounced officially that the at-
tacking planes were Japanese and
of the plane's 14 passengers and
crew of three. 12
were
feared
dead
Five Japanese planes converged
on the passenger plane. firing ma-
chine guns. It was forced out of
control and plunged into the river.
where it was machine-gunned
again. The Chinese said the plane
was riddled and was now partly
submerged. with the tail and part
of the fuselage out of water.
Pilot Is Uninjured
The American pilot. H L. Wood
of Winfield. Kan., made his way to
Macao by motor car He was un-
injured. He took with him a
Wounded Chinese passenger. C. N
Lo
He said hus Chinese radio oper-
LANE
ator accompanied him as far as
Shekli.
where
w0
critically
wounged passengers were in the
hospital.
Wood corroborated Chinese as-
sertions that the Japanese contin-
ned to uachine gun the passen-
gers and crew as they tried to
aape by swinuning ashore
Most Victims Bankers
The plane is ope cared by the
Chinese National Aviation Co
which is 45 per cent American
owned It was en route from
Hong Kong to Wuchow
115 14
passengers were all Chinese. Most
of them were bankers going to
Chungking to attend a conference
The plane was to have carried
Di Sun Fo. American-educated
Chinese official. but he cancelled
his passage and took an Eurasia
plane to Hankow.
A Pan-American Airways plane.
piloted by P S Delaney and fol-
lowcd hy the U S gunboat Min-
danao. went up the Canton River
to aid sur ivors of the attacked
plane

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.96)
eptember 18 1938.
reply refer to
Mydear Mies 8lawson:
The receipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of septem-
ber 2, 1938, in regard to the s1tuation now obtaining in
894.24/356
the Far East.
There 1s transmitted herewith a oopy of the Joint
Resolution of Oongress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will ob-
serve that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall proolaim such faot. should the President isswme a
proelamation finding that a state of war exists between
China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
ments of war to both those countries would immediately te
prohibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aet. In the
350
absenee of sueh a proelamation, hovever, there existe me
10gal
R

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either to
both those oountries or to Japan alone.
The primary purpose of the Joint Resolution of May 1.
1937, 1s to keep this ocountry out of war. The question
as to whether and when the provisions of the Joint Reso-
lution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the sound dis-
cretion of the President. In deoiding whether he should
1nvoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situation the
President must take into aocount various faotors and partiem-
larly the broad, general interests of this ountry and its
nationals. In the present situation in the Far East, the
President has ooncluded that, in the light of all the faote
and circumstanees, when weighed from a practioel point of
view, 1t would not be to the best interests of this oountry
and our people as a whole to invoke the provisions of this
Jotnt Resolution.
ThenNeutrality Aot,moreover, does not under any oiroum-
stanees authorize the President or the Seeretary of state
to prohibit the export of commodities other than ares,
ammunition and implements of war. The artieles and ma-
terials which are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Pree-
Lamation of May 1, 1957, whish 1s set forth under Part 11

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.93)
-3
of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Tref-
AB
with regard to the statement of the speaker referred
to in your letter to the effeet that after an air raid by the
Japanese he had pleked up a pleee of a bomb marked "Made in
U.s.A* I desire to invite your attention to the provisions
of Bection 5 of the Neutrality Aot under which l1oenses are
required for the export of arms, ammunition and implements
of war from the United states to all foreign countries, and
to inform you that no l1oenses have been ismsed by the De-
partment of State for the export of bombs to Japan since
July 1, 1957.
I may add, with reference to the bombing of eivilian
populations and the probable danger to Amerieans and Ameri-
ean interests abroad, that the Searetary of state has stated
peblialy on repeated occaslons that this Government con-
demms the bombing of civilian populations or its material
encouragement. The Government's condemnation of this
practice kas been expressks direetly to all mamufpsturers
and exporters in this country of airplanes and mereneutical
SEP 13 1958.
epuipment.
A true fopy of
sineerely yours,
the sig origi-
nal.
melosures:
Q
Gharles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Orfiee ef Arms and Mamitiens Contrel
Beaus

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.95)
18 1938.
THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
i
ATE
OFPLOTMENT
SEP 8
9-5-193
Gck 9-4-39
Sec'y of State
950 Sepual Pall,01
Washington,D.C.
Dear sir:
DIVISION OF
Can't something be done
The New York Times of July 24th of this year
tells of the sale of American scrap iron and other
materials essential to Japan's war machine thatis
proving to deadly in China to the extent of 680,000
tons of scrap iron and steel during the first five
months of the current year and of $35,462,opo worth
during the year 1937. That tells a story that is
not consistent with Christian statesmanship,it seems
to many of us.
Well informed men believe that Japan could not
win in her attempted rape of China if we of the
C2
United States would only cease such support of Japan.
6
4.24/357
I heartily endorse your moves in the way of
international goodwill especially through the
trade agreements but wish that something might be
done to stop Japan's progress. china needs our
friendship at least to the extent of our refusing
to cooperate with her worst enemy.
Very truly,
F/HR
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JEP12 1938
DeparhprO

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.97)
September 18 1958.
My dear Mr. Mllott:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 5, l93s, in regard to the situat1on now obtaining in
the Far East.
Your kind endorsement of the Seoretary's efforts, par-
tioularly through the trade agreements program, to promote
894.24/357
and further international good will is greatly appreolated.
There is tranemitted herewith a oopy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1936. You w1ll ob-
serve that Beotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall proclaim such fact. should the President 1ssue a
preelamation finding that a state of war exists between
China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and implements
of war to both those countries would immediately be pre-
hibated by the terms of the Noutrality Aet. In the abeease
of sueh e proelamation, however, there exists mo legal
F/HR
aathority

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
authority for preventing the export of arms either to
both those ocountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into aooount various
factors and particularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has concluded that, in the
light of all the facts and oiroumstanoes, when weighed
from a praetieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this conneotion you may be interested to know
that sinee July 1, 1937, the Department of state kas 1e-
swed licenses for the export of arms, ammunition and im-
plements of war to China in the value of $13,812,669.11
and to Japan 1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not under any eir-
sunstanses m thorise the President or the Segretary of
state to prohibit the export of sommodities other than arms,
miion

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.95)
-3
ammunition and implements of war. The artioles and me-
terials which are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Proo-
lamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part II
of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet, International Traffls
A It will be noted that sorap 1ron and steel are
not 1noluded among such artioles and materials. There 1s
no statute now in existenoe which would authorize the
President or the Seoretary of State to prohibit the export
of serap iron and steel to any foreign country.
Sinoerely yours,
Charles w. Yost, Assistant Chief
Office of Arme and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
CR
SEP 12 1938.PM
5
GAIRVH:DU-10-S0
FE
2V0
reaus

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.84)
14 1938.
pivision or
onal Counril of Jederated Church mbstEN Affains
6200 KENWOOD AVENUE
413193
LGIVED
PHONE HYDE PARK 410O
DepartmentS
ARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT
O-CHAIRMEN:
cept.
MRS. THOS.F. RAWLINGS
CO
OF
CHICAO. ILLINOI
SEP1938
To the Asoyr
Cck 9-9-38
Pmy decor Im. Au lC!
T U ix a eruice efdeep
alm Tkmin tnlom on
mild Staten e i
68
24/358
Sporin.
Shincereh
Lenda B. Matle

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.89)
eptemper 14 1938.
My dear Mrs. Mathes:
The reeeipt is aaknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 5, 1938, in regard to the export of war materiale to
Japan and to the embargo against the exportation of arms
894.24/358
to Spain.
mere are enolosed copies of the Joint Resolution of
May 1, 1937, commonly referred to as the Neutrality Aot,
and of the pamphlet, Laza and Reguletsens Adminiatered ne
the meeretery of state Governing the International Trattle
àn araa Ammunitten. and Implemente of ar and other Muat=
the embargo prohibiting the export of arme to spain
was first brought about by the Joint Resolution of Congress
which was approved on January 8, 1987 and which 1s sti1l In
offeet. This Jeint Resolution passed the sonate unanimeusly
and the Nouse of Representatives by a vote of 40s to 1.
F/HR
Dofore
.Mathe
BS Karper Avome.
Gui enge, Xllaneés.

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
Before the embargo on the export of arms to Spain could be
lifted it would be neeessary either that the Congress repeal
this Joint Resolution or that the President find that the
state of civil strife in Spain no longer exists.
As of 1nterest 1n this oonneotion there are enelosed
coples of letters whioh were addressed by the Department to
the Ohairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate and to Mr. Raymond Leslie Buell, Foreign Polley
Association, Inoorporated, New York City.
with regard to the applicatlon of the Neutrality Aot
to the situation in the Far East, I invite your attention
to Seotion 1 (a) of this Aot whiah provides that whenever
the President shall find that there exists a state of war
between two or more foreign states he shall proolaim such
fast. Should the President issue a proolamation finding
that a state of war exists between China and Japan, the
export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to both
those countries would immediately be prohibited by the
terms of the Neutrality Aot. In the absenee of such a
proelamatiom, however, there exists no legal authority
fer preventing the export of arms either to both those
countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the sound
diseretion of the President. In deelding whether he
should invoke the Resolution in a partieular situation the
President must take into account various faotanw and par-
tioularly the broad general 1nterests of ths country and
1ts nationals. In the present situation in the Far East
the President has oonaluded that, in the light of all the
faets and ciroumstanoes when weighed from a practical
point of view, it would not be to the best interests of
this country and our people as a whole to invoke the pro-
visions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not under any oir-
oumstanees authorize the President or the Seoretary of
state to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, mmunition and implements of war. The artieles and
materials whioh are considered to be arms, mmunition and
implements of war are emmerated in the President's Proo-
lamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part II
of the pamphlet.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1,
1987, the pepartment of state has 1ssued lioenses for
the export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to
Chume in the value of €13,812,6s0.11 and to Japan im

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.94)
the value of 10,630.006.93.
Sinoceely yours,
For the Beoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offioe of Arms and Munitions Control
Enolosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pampkiet.
To Senator Pittman,
May 12, 1938.
To Mr. Raymond Leslie
Buell, Maroh 21, 1938.
Or
amt

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.90)
171958
715 NORTH KENILWORTH AVENUE
OAK PARK
ILLINOIS
Seplimh
RECEIVEL
94
38
JEFARTMENT OF STA
The 10dartiment
AND
CONTR
SEP 16 1938
894.24/
wek 1/16/38
AR EASTEHN AL FINS
359
6
a Statement
n United States Ex.
borto of
mimnitins and oil
siy months, and oblipe
T
A
Es atte ook

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.94)
tember17 1938.
In reply refer to
CA 894.24/359
My dear Miss Cook:
There are enelosed, in oompliance with the request
contained in your letter of September 14, l938, cop1es of
the statements to the press in regard to the issuanee of
export and import licenses for arms, ammunition, and imple-
ments of war during the months of January to August 1958,
894.24/359
inelusive. Statistios in regard to exports of commodities
and materials other than arms, ammunition, and implements
of war are not maintained by this Department. It is sug-
gested that you oommunicate with the Department of Com-
meree, Washington, D. C., for information in regard to oil
exports.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Enelosures:
Press statements
OR
for Jammary to
17 1080
Angust 1956
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief,
Offiee of Arms and Mumitions Contrél
Miss May Estelle Cook,
A true c.
the signed
Oak Park, Illimeis.
nal.
Cho

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.97)
Telephene CENtral 2029
The Chicago Round Table
RECEIVEO
ARTMENT OF STATE
of the
eet D. Leober
For Justice, Amity and Understanding among Protestants, Catholics and Jews
Fred W. Sergent
203 North Wabash Avenue — Chicago, III.
DIVISION OF
september 28 1938.
Jemee Davis
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
September 15,1938
baaee Committee
Arthur Andersen
Gck 9.22-55
Execative Secretery
Honorable Cordell Hull
James M. Yard, D.D.
Secretary of State
Execative Committee
Washington, D. C.
Augustine J. Bowe
Homer J. Buckley
Dear Ir. Secretary:
George A. Chritton
S. J. Duncan-Clark
I am sure that you deplore Japan's invasion
John Fitzpatrick
W. E. Garrison
of China as much as any one in the country.
894.24/360
Mrs. Charles W. Gilkey
I am writing to say that I hope that you
William H. Height
will do all in your power to stop the flow
Mrs. Williem S. Hefferan
of American munitions and war supplies to
Mrs. Frank P. Hixon
Japan. From roally accurate information,
Martin H. Kennelly
Sol Kline
I believe that Japan could not continue
Frank Knox
the war for many months if american supplies
Gerson B. Levi
were halted.
Salmon O. Levinson
Sigmund Livingston
Very sinceroly yours,
Louis L. Mann
auresmyard-
Mrs. Andrew MacLeish
Merrill C. Meigs
Joseph Przydatek
Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon
James M. Yard
Edwin H. Thomas
Y:R
National Chairmen
Prof. Arthur H. Compton
Prof. Carlton J. H. Hayes
Roger W. Straus
F/A
894.24

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.94)
September 28 1938.
My dear r. Yard:
The reeeipt is aoknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 16, 193e, in regard to the export of munitions and war
89
supplies to Japan.
94.24/360
As you doubtless are aware, Seetion 1 (a) of the
Jeint Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, a copy
of whiah is enolosed for your convenient referenee, provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
0
state of war between or among two or more foreign states he
shall proolaim such faet. Should the President issue a
proelamation finding that a state of war extsts between
Gmina and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
ments of war to both those countries would immediately be
prokibited by the terms of the Nemtrality Aet. In the
absenee of sueh a proelamation, however, there exists me
legal mmthority for preventing the export of arms either
so
F/A
Jamee N.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint
Rosolution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this eountry out
of war. The question as to whether and when the pro-
visions of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s
properly left to the sound diseretion of the President.
In deeiding whether he should invoke the Joint Resolu-
tion in a partioular situation the President must take
into account varlous factors and partioularly the broad,
goneral interests of this country and its nationals.
In the present situation in the Far East, the President
has conaluded that, in the ligrt of all the facts and
eireumstanoes, when weighed from a praetical point of
view, it would not be to the best interests of this oown-
try and our people as a whole to invoke the provislons
of this Joint Resolution.
In this conneetion you may be interested to know
that sinee July 1, 1937, the Department of state has 1s-
smed lleenses for the export of arms, ammunition and im-
plements of war to China 1n the value of $13,812,689.11
and to Japan 1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
Mereever, the Noutrality Aet doee not under any
sireumstanses authorise the President or the Seeretary
of state to prohibit the expert of eammodities ether

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
then arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artieles
and materiale which are considered to be arms, ammunition
and implements of wer are enumerated in the President's
Preelamation of May 1, 1957, which 1s set forth under Part 11
of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet, International Tretfle
LA
Sincerely yours,
For the Bearetary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Ohief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
melosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
8EP 23 1938.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.97)
SH
GRACE CHURCHNNEW YORK
PARISH OFFICE
BO2 BROADWAY
September 15, 1938.
6-23-38
STATE
My ear Mr. Green,
3
I have just read again an interesting letter from you of July
874.74/229
Civision 
3
26193
you
grote so fully.
I recognize that in the matter of arms, ammunition and imple-
ments of war alone, it was true as you said that more had been shipped
894.24/3
to China than to Japan during the period from July 1937 to July 1938.
This, however, takes no account of the vast amount of other material
essential for the prosecution of war which Japan has been securing from
the United States, such as for example, scrap iron and oil. I think
it is undisputed that Japan would hardly be able to prosecute her present
iniquitous course in China without the materials which go to her from
this country. I am aware that our present legislation makes it difficult
for the President or the Department of Stete to do anything about this.
At the same time, there is a humiliating inconsistency for the President
aqgressor
to speak of boycotting nations, and for the Secretary of State to make
his condemnation of these nations plain, when in fact, we go on being
the accessories in what we condemn. In addition to its words, which seem
to be quite right and true, is there anything which the State Department
F/WB
is planning to recommend and to try to accomplish to the end that America
may no longer be a partner with Japan in her aggression?
Sincerely yours,
Mr. Joseph C. Green, Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
Department of State
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.90)
Xn reply refer to
0A 804,24/801
My Gear Dr. Bowle:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 15, 1938, 1n whieh you refer partioularly to the ex-
894.24/361
port to Japan of commodities sueh as sarap iron and oll.
As the Department stated in its letter to you of
July 7, 1938, there 1s no statute now in existenee which
would muthorise the President or the Bearetary of state to
prohibit the export of sorap iron, oil or similar oommodi-
ties to ang foreign ocountry. The question of whether or
not legislation of this oharacter mtght be enasted in the
future rests of course with the Congress.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of state:
H
CR
26 1938.
Charles W. Yost, Assistant hief
SEP
Offiee ef Arms and Munitions Gentrel
F/A
The Reverend
W. Russell Bewie, D.D.,
Grase Choura,
A true copy of
802 Breakmeg
the
New York, New Yerk.
5
9nt
9-94-58
reuw

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.91)
Anited States Senate
Washington, D.C., Sept..13..., 1938.
Respectfully referred to
Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State
ackd-
SP 19  10 28
amin
RECEL
15
(Letter /2/3 from William M.
Danner, Suite209, 313 West 3d
Street, Los Angeles, California;
re shipments of war material to
Japan.)
Respectfully,
U.S.S.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
CA
COPY
409 Transamerica Building
Los Angeles, California
September 13, 1938.
Dear Mr. Danner:
I have just returned to Los Angeles, and this
894.24/362
is the first opportunity I have had to reply to your
letter of September 2.
I note what you say regarding the Sino-
Japanese confliot. The administration of the Neutrality
Aot is with the executive branch of the government, and
I am referring your letter to the Secretary of State
for his oonsideration of your views.
With all good wishes, I am,
Sincerely yours,
. G. MCADOO
Mr. William M. Danner,
Suite 209
313 West fhird street,
Los Angeles, Califormia.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
THE AMERICAN MISSION tO LEPERS, INC.
Suite 209,
313 West Third Street
Los Angeles, California,
September 2,1938
Hon. Will1am Gibbe McAdoo,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Dear Mr. Senator-
I have watched your career with greatest interest, and have
been reminded of many of your good deeds since you first
waded through New York subways in rubber boots, and brought
that enterprise to its highgrade success.
Recently I have been aopointed to an office here in your own
wonderful California, and I am earnestly honing that you may
attack one more big tsk, adding this to your notable list
of accomplishments.
From the best information I can gatner the undeclared war of
the Japanese on the Chinese is mainly supported through war
material by people in the United States.
What an opportunity for you to lead in the suppression of
this frightful situation which certainly cannot be justified
from Christian or humane standpoints.
May we not hear that you are taking the lead in shutting off
the material by which Japanese outrages in Chinese territory
are made pcasible? Certainly to shut off the supoly of
material wiil bring the undeclared war to a close.
Earnestly hoping for your pronounced leadership in this
item of worldwide interest, I am, with sincerest good wishes,
Very truly yours,
WM. DANNER

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.94)
September 28 1938.
In reply refer to
GA 004.24/302
My dear Mr. Danner:
At the request of the Honorable willlam Gibbs Meadoo,
United states Senator from California, I am replying to
89
your letter of september 2, 193s in regard to the expert
4
of war material to Japan.
.24/362
There is tranemitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will ob-
serve that Beetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there existe a
state of war between or among twe or more foreign states
ne shall proelaim suck faet. should the President lssue
a preelamation finding that a state of war exists between
Ghina and Japan the export of arms, ammunitien and imple-
monts of war to both those countries would immediately be
prehibited by the terms of the Neutrality Aat. In the
absenee
M. william X. Danner,
suite soe, ans west Third street,
A1
Les Angeles, Salifermia.

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
absenee of such a proclamation, however, there exists no
legal muthority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those sountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reselu-
tion of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war. The
question as to whether and when the provisions of the Joint
Resolut1on shall be invoked 1s properly left to the sound dis-
oretion of the President. In deeiding whether he should in-
voke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situation the Presi-
dent must take into aocount various faotors and partioularly
the oroad, general interests of this country and its nationals.
In the present situation in the Far East, the President has
oonoluded that, in the light of all the faots and ciroumstanees,
when welghed from a praotieal point of view, it would not be
to the best 1nterests of this country and our people as a
whole to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this onneotion you may be interested to know that
sinee July 1,1937, the Department of state has 1ssued 11-
censes for the export of arms, mmunition and implements of
war to China 1n the value of $13,812,669.11 and to Japan 1n
the value of $10,630,006.93.
OR
SEP 22 1938.
sineerely yours,
A true copy of
For the Seoretary of State:
the siphed orip
nal.
Joint Resolution.
Joseph 0. Green, Caief
m
offiee of Arns and mmitione Gentrel
936
PEee

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.91)
september 28 1938.
In reply refer to
GA 004.24/862
My dear Senator Mendoo:
I asknowledge the receipt of your memorandum of Septem-
ber 13, 1938, enelosing a letter dated September 2, 193s,
from Mr. William M. Danner, Los Angeles, California, in
894.24/36
regard to the export of war material to Japan.
I am enelosing, for your information, a oong of a let-
ter whieh 1s being sent to Mr. Danner in reply to his
letter.
2
Mr. Danner's letter of September 2 is returned herewith. 
Sineerely yours,
Cordell Hul.
melesures:
To Mr. Danner.
From Mr. Danner,
September 2,
1930.
A true
OR
the s
1
nal.
S.P 22 1938.
SEP 22 1938.PM
The Nenerable
Routing
walliam Gabbe Mesdee,
F/A
400 Transemeriee Builaing.
.s
Los Angeles, California.
BrN
X
el
80-38

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.96)
THE UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN
19 1938.
MADISON
7
umber
CLASSICS
EC VED
Sent9oF1939
HALL
894.24/:363
SEP
1938 SFP 12 P 1 42
ack 1-17-3k
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Washington, D.C.
: OF
COMAATIONS
AND KECORDS
Dear Sir:
I wish to protest, both on grounds of humanity
and of national self-interest, against further American
aid to Japanese aggression. Cannot our words be translated
into deeds by prohibiting the export of war supplies to
Japan?
Respectfully yours,
T
/WB
Walter R. Agard.

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.95)
regly refer to
My Gear Mr. Agard:
894.24/363
The reeeipt is aoknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 9, l9ss, in regard to the export of war materials to
Japan.
As you doubtless are aware, Seotion 1 (a) of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, a copy of whieh
1s enelosed for your convenient referenee, provides thet
whenever the President shall find that there exists a state
of war between or among two or more foreign states he shall
preelaim such faot. should the President issue a proelams-
tion finding that a state of war exists between hina and
Japan the export of arms, ammunition and implements of war
to both those sountries would immediately be prohibited by
the torms of the Neutrality Aet. In the abeenee of sueh
a preelamation, however, there exiets mo legal mthoraty
for preventing the expers of arms either to hoth those
F/WB
mrtes r to Japan alome.
8

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lumion of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
the question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
ation the President must take 1nto account various factors
and particularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far East, the President has oonoluded that, in the light of
all the fasts and ciroumstanees, when weighed from a prae-
tioal point of view, 1t would not be to the best interests
of this country and our people as a whole to invoke the
provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this conneotion you may be 1nterested to know that
since July 1, 1937, the Department of State has issued
licenses for the export of arms, ammunition and iaplements
of war to China 1n the value of $13,812,669.11 and to
Japan 1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Meutrality Aet, moreover, does not under any eir-
emstanees amthorize the President or the Seeretary of
state to prehibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammumition and implements of war. The artieles and mag
terials whisk are considered to be arms, ammwmition and
1mp1omemts

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.93)
-3
implements of war are emamerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1939, wh1oh 1s set forth under Part II
of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet, International Traf-
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offioe of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
Joint Rosolution.
Pamphlet.
OR T
SEP 19 1938.
A t
the signcd
mal.
S
17-

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.98)
"Hespital of Universal Love"
(Methedist General Hospital)
Hankew, Central China
July 26,1938.
was eme of the refreshments of mind and soul after a terrible
le get a geed mail an Sunday. ...... On, hew I'a like to have been
yeu ia Kashmir A The yery thought of it seems like a werld apart
all this war herrer 1%
After some weeks of rain and no raißs,we have had a fortnight ef
shestly raids. One very near us last Tuesday with a theusand casualties
amengst the peer and anether une that struak very near the Ameriean Church
Missiem Hespital in Muohang across the river Yangste. I went moress to
see if I could hely Miss Reiley there. A maternity hospital opened by
the Gevernment was struak. The bomb wert through three fleors of reim-
foseed cemerete,killing or wounding all the patients in it. Seme ef the
methers lay so peaceful in death with their babies clasped in their arme.
while the reseue mquad were trying to get out bedies frem beneath the de-
brise It seemed as though they were happier than theenes who were se
abdemen with a rupture of the uterus and a long slit in the buttook of
the feetus. Did ever cuch devil's work darken civilisatien before !
Last Tuesday the bombs dropped so near to us that as the bombers
pasmed over our heads, we waited in a tense stillness not knowing waat a
moment might bring. But oh, so glad to be able te rest one's heart in our
loving Lord's care and to feel Him near. Then we heard the thud, thud of 
bembs falling and then the explosions, and our hearts were beatdags:
knewing that same peor folk were being killed somewhere near. A Guild
Hall net far from us housed some hundreds of refugees from a nearby
provinee - hardly any escaped alive. From another place a stream of stret-
ehers brought in wounded to us.
Our four doctors started at once to operate,two in each roum,while I
went along the stretohers picking out those who had a chance of life to
ge next to the operating-room. Relatives were pulling at my dress implor-
Ing me to let their particular loved one go in next,leathe to accept the
feet that they were beyond human aid. Oh,it was ghastly ! The heat (we
are usually on the hills at this time, but out hills are in the battle
area and we are all needed in cur stations), the suffering so patiently
berne,the misery,the sight and smells made me feel sick at heart and in
bedy. One could only ask, "Dear Lord, how long must this terror continue!"
The next dey another raid before the poor victims of the prewious d
day had even recovered from the shock of operations and everyone was busy
with dressings.We notice that the raid victims suffer most when the air
raid sirens shriek over the city. One small bey of seven - so tiny, was
en a mall boat when a bomb struck it and killed his father and brothers
in front of him and injured his own leg, which had to be amputated. He
breaks out in a sweat and starts up crying when he hears the warnings.
Ah me ! and we try to teach the world of brotherly love !
It is a bitter thing too to see American and British names on bits
of bombs picked up. Last week some of our American missionary friends
took pieces to the Consul and he agreed that they were from Americae An
English author is here in Hankow this week and says that Britain and
Ameriea could step the war in a week if they would get together and that
America is waiting for England to take the lead. On,if she could only see
what we see syrely she would take the lead right speedily. God forgive
her if she doesn't !
All preparations have been made for the invasion of the city.The
Consular authorities want to draw off all their nationals possible,but
the missionaries have plainly stated their intention to stay. Our staff
gets lower and lower because those who can afford it are leaving for the
farther inland provinces and taking their murse daughters with them. I
cannet blame them, as untold horrors have been perpretrated on the civél-
ians left behind in cccupied cities. We have many high school girls acting
as practical aids and thus we are carrying on and intend to continue to do
so whatever comes if God keeps us.
My leave is due now. I could not rossibly leave at present how-
ever and must wait till God opens the way, which I hope may be next spring.
D.V. Our Supt. is a Chinese dootor a:d he needs his English colleagues
Tery urgently and just now I am the Senior one so could not think of lear
One of the Hankow nurses who had to visit a clinio in a much bombed
area came back one day after a raid with shaking hands and she was all
wed. The next time we said to her, "Don't go today." But she smiled
A replied,"ky Bible today said in my reading,"I will fear no evil while

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.87)
PETITION TO THE SEORETARY OF STATE ON THE
JAPANESE INVASION OF OHINA
miEREas, the Umited States ef Amerioa and many other nations have indieted
apem as the vielater of the Nine-Pewer Treaty and the Kellegs Pactd in the pres-
est Mme- Japamese cenfliet, femented by the Military Party ef Japan) and has re
peatedly pretested against the bembings ef umdefended Chinese eities and the wmee-
essary slmghter of Ckinese mon-eembatants,) and
WHEREAs, we feel put to shame that merican raw materials are being used to
mamfacture weapens of war for Japan, Ameriosm planes are being used to earry
meriean-made bombs for the destruction of Chinese siviliané pepalation, merican
shells are ledfing Japanese gums, and America is supplying to Japan huge quaxti-
ties of serapirem, eil, trueks and other materials used in the furtheranee of war,
ver and abeve the mounts ef our normal trade of recent years, and
HEREAs, we ympathise with the Chinese people in their desire to build up
am independent, demoeratie state, an end gravely threatened by the present aggres-
sion ef Japan and deplore the traffie which makes it possible for certain mer-
Semm imterests to prefit from the wanton destruction of the innocent victims of
Japenese aggression,
THEREFORE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the Secretary of State,
in aseerdance with the Good Meighber polioy enunciated by President Roosevelt, and in
the interest of the people of the United states, China, and Japan, to take every
practieal means, direet or indirect, to bring to an end a traffie from our country
which is cempelling us to be a partner in the destruetion of the Chinese people,
Res. F.m Buck St telena calis.
Gertnde m. Rone St. Hilena Clly
Mro. Sracetta Kidd St. Hkelena Paly
Aho. Dessco Jrist S. Helena Balit.
mrs Spela Cook. St. Helena.
Maina h. Dunoan It Helnca Cal
mame Chang
Ss. Necame, Caiy
Anma Kudd Lhuillier St. Helena baif.
Cohra Jones, St. Helara, Calif
Lucy austin, st. Heleha, Calif.
Charli M. Suit, St. Helena, Eal.
Mrr. Buther C. Wanilling. St. Helina Calif.
Meo Beeihaon Kayon
IS+ Helena'bali
m. b .H. boosk.
St relena Bal.
Albrat JC. L. Kayaer
St. Helewa Cal.
EBstiyhy thHilena. ig.
Cak
Nmh.Kidd St Helene
Wa. Emah.D. Noble Si Helma ay
Mra Hatte Mikklin It belino Lal.

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.80)
ds. Naeonm, Caiy.
Anma Kidd Lhuillies At. Helena Baly.
Lohra gones, St. Helara, Calif
Lucy austin, st. Heleiha, Calif.
Charlis M. Hrit, St. Helena, Bal.
Meo Bechaon Kaysn
S+ telena'balif
mr. b re. bookk.
of rekene tel.
Albart H. L. Nayair St. Helena bal.
Nmh. Kidd St Helene
Calt.
Mra Hattle 1 Wilkein It Belsne, Cal.
Alice a. Cattrell St. Helina, bal.
Mos L. D. Dmith. . Helea. Cul.
Paniel Kudson, St. Helena, balif.
Mro. Florence Nudem, St. 7velena, Calif.
Mrs. Helene R. Bust St. Hienas a.
Carol E.Buah
1 dina eaf.
Mi Charlotts Pallion strecyna fali!
Iva M. Broudte R
Mu Cimily t hang
Mro Eligaletle Soolly
Lt. velena Culiz.
St. Hellua, Caly.
Mainis Oighey
calistoga calif.
Mra marthe Cooley
St. Helemn
Mis a. M. Kude.
Mrg C loinda Hudoon
St.Helena, Calr.
Rer. Charlolte E. Jouer

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.95)
ptember 19 1938.
In reply refer to
A 9.2J,
The Reverend
Charlotte E. Jones,
Methodist Churah,
894.24/364
St. Melena, California.
Madem:
The receipt 1s aaknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 5, 1938, enelosing a petit1on signed by membere of
your ahurah in regard to the situation now obtaining in
the Far East.
I appreolate your oourtesy in furnishing me with this
1nformation.
As you doubtless are aware, Section 1 (a) of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, a copy of
whieh is enelosed for your oonvenient referenee, provides
that whenever the president shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states he
shall preelaim such fest. hould the President issue a
preelamation finding that a state of war exists between
F/WB
Chine and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
mente of war to both those countsies would immediately be
prohibited

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
prohibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aot. In the
absenee of such a proolamation, however, there exists no
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those ountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purposs of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, l937, 1s to keep th1s oountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound disaretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution 1n a partioular situ-
ation the President must take into account variods factors
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far Last, the President has conoluded that, in the light of
all the faots and ciroumstanees, when weighed from a prao-
tieal point of view, it would not be to the best interests
of this country and our people as a whole to invoke the pro-
visions of this Joint Resolution.
In this onneetion you may be interested to know that
sinee July 1, 1937, the Department of state has issmed
licenses for the export of arms, ammunition and implememts
of war to ahine 1n the value of $13,a2,6s9.11 and to
Japam 1n the valme of $10,630,006.93.
The Meutrality Ast, moreover, does not under any
eiroumstanees

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
eirewmstanoes authorize the President or the Seeretary of
state to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammunition and implements of war. The artieles and me-
terials whieh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are enmerated in the President's Pree-
lamation of May 1, 1937, whiah 1s set forth under Part 11
of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet, International Traffle
I may add with reference to the bombing of civilian
populations and the probable danger to Americans and Ameri-
can interests abroad, that the seoretary of state has
stated publloly on repeated occaslons that this Government
condemns the bombing of oivilian populations or its
material encouragement. The Government's condemnation
of this practioe has been expressed direotly to all mane-
facturers and exporters in this country of airplanes and
aeronamtieal equipment.
Very truly yours,
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
OR
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
SEP 19 1938.
Seclesures:
Ce!
Joint mosolution.
the sig
Pamphlet.
nal.
Rawy

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.83)
SH
RESPECTTILL7 REEERRED
BOR ACK NOWLEDOMENT
OFF
AND CONSIDERATION
MH M Jityie
9.2738
Pr08110U
RUHY
894.2
P
F.W.
894.24/364
+
Charlotle.dones
OF STATE
SE244
QMUNICATINS
EE
n RS
GFQENT
3
F/WB

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.87)
PETITION TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
ON THE JAPANESE INVASION OF CHINA
t Mino-Japanese confliet, femented by the Military Party ef Japan and has re-
peatedly pretested against the bombings of ndefended Chinese sities and the um-
meeessary slaughter of Chinese nen-combatants, and
WHEREAs, we feel put to shame that merican raw materials are being used to
mammfaeture weapons of war for Japan, American planes are being used to carry
Ameriean-made bembs for the destruction ef Chinese sivilian pepulation,' meriean
shells are leading Japanese guns, and meriea is supplying te Japam huge quas-
tities ef scrapiren, eil, tracks and other materials wsed in the furtheranee of
war, ever and abeve the amounts of our nermal trade of resent years,' and
WHEREAs, we sympathise with the Chinese people in their desire to build up
an indepemdent, demeeratie state, an end gravèly threatened by the present aggres-
sdon of Japan, and deplore the traffic which makes it possible for sertain mer-
ieam interests to prefit from the wanten destruetion of the innoeent vietims of
Japanese aggression
THEREPORE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the President of the
United States in ascerdance with the principle of his Good Neighber emmciation,
and in the interest of the people of the United states, Ohina, and Japan, to take
every practical means, direct er indirect, to bring to an end a traffie from our
country which is compelling us to be a partner in the destruction of the Chinese
peeplo;
Reo. F. M. Buek.
St Heleva Qalif
Mro. i. D. Kedd
alue. Chaney
Sf. Helena, Calif
Gecliudt m. Rosse sh. Heirna teachy.
Zilleain m. C ok ut. beln Cal
King I. Duncan It Helena Cal
tha Desso Srist, 8t delena Cal
men peliar Cook St, elena Cal.
Edua Joues, St. Helance, Calif.
Ancy Austin
St Hbelena
Anma Kaind Zhuiillie. St. Helenu. Canf.
Chaileo M. Sriat. St. Helaua, Gal.
Blanehe Me Dgmald St. Hhlona Calig.
Jmo Budan Mayan St Nelena balif.
Nonk Kedd St Helene
Cal.
Wo. a. Pble St: Helna alij

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.80)
Chailso M. Sriat: St. Heldua, Gal.
Blanahe me Dgamald St. Halona Calig.
un b re' booty.
Nt
Wonk Reded, St Helena
Cal.
To. a d. Ple dt: Helena (ati
Ahie a. Coltrell
Sh. Helena, Cal.
Mrs L. S. dimith
Sl. Helena. Cel.
Daniel H udson
St. K slena, balif
mro. Flarence Hudem
It. 7velena, Calf.
Am. Helene R. Jwi
Curol E. Bu
Me Pharlatto Pan
Iva M. BronnRN. St. Aelena, Calij.
Min Emily Chan:
of t telima o alij
2oins Bligabeth Coo.
t AHelma Caliy.
Miie Cougle
St. telcna, a.
ms Martha Cooley
calistoga calif.
Mia a. M. Rude
St./telenx.
Mr. Clorinda Hudxon
ot belima
Re. Charlolte E. Jones
St. Heleua, Calif.

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.94)
september 28 1938.
The Reverend
Charlette E. Jones,
Mothodist Churoh,
st. Helena, California.
Madam!
By referenee from the white House I acknowledge the
894.24/364
reselpt of your letter of September 5, 1938, enalosing a
petition signed by members of your Churah in regard
to the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
In this conneetion your attention is invited to my
letter of september 19, l93s, in reply to your letter of
september 5 conoerning this same matter.
Very traly yours,
Gharlen W. Yost, Asssstamt Ghief
ofrise of Arms and manitions dontrel
OR
SEP 28 1938.
A true 
the si
nal.
と2

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.88)
RECEIVED
1938 SEP 10 AM 11 52
TEMPE, ARIZONA
GRADY GAMMAGE
Sapt. 5, 1938.
AND
PRESIDENT
DIVSIC
Lo cheomle ndll Hal,
SEP3 1938
J428767+38
Washington 10.c.
894.24/365
Ao a votar and teaiher
 che Anigona
State Leacheno Callege al Jompa, I fanor an
esubango on matals, machinory, annd ailher
munitiono to gupan from the ih.s.
I hone considered ai serionsly onongs
that my attitnde wiel he chie same enew ihougn
U.S. suffer in on econo nie way frow temporory
loss of trade.
Respect fuily Yours
(T Mhes) uln R. Muhno
Training Leacher.
922 maple S1.
Jempe, arng.
F/WB

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.95)
veptember 19 1938.
My dear Mrs. Kuhns:
The recelpt 1s aoknowledged of your letter of Septem-
89
ber 5, 1938, in regard to the export of war and other
4.
materials to Japan.
2
As you doubtless are aware, Beotion 1 (a) of the Jeint
4/385
Resolution of Congress appreved May 1, 1937, a oopy of which
is emelesed fer your convenient reference, provides that
whemever the President shall find that there exists a state
of war between or among two or more foreign states be shall
preelaim such fact. Should the President 1ssue a preelama-
tien finding that a state of war exists between China and
Japan the export of arms, ammunition and implements of war
te both those countries would immediately be prohibited by
the terms of the Neutrality Aot. In the absenee of sush
a preelamation, hewever, there exists no legal autherity
F/WB
fer preventing the export of arms either to both those
esustries er te Japan alene.
Mre. Laiu R. Dabme,
s22 Mpple street,
Tempe, Arisona.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.95)
-8
I may add that the primary purpose ef the Joint Rese-
lutlon of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this ountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the previsions of the
Jeint Resolution shall be inveked is preperly left te the
sound diseretion of the President. In &eeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
atlon the President must take into acoount various facters
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present s1ituation in the
Far East, the President has coneluded that, in the light of
all the faots and oiroumstanoes, when weighed from a prao-
tloal peint of view, it would not be to the best interests
of this country and our people as a whele to invoke the
provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this conneetion you may be interested to know that
sinee July 1, 1937, the Department of State has issued
licenses for the export of arms, ammunition and implements
of war to China in the value of $13,812,6ee.11 and to
Japan in the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Noutrality Aet, moreever, dees not under any oir-
oumstanees m thorise the President or the Seeretary of
state te prehibit the export of eemmodities other than arms,
ammunition and implements of war. The artieles md me-
terials whieh are ensidered te be arms, mmumitien and
1mp1memts

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.91)
-8
implements of war are emumerated in the President's Pree-
lamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part II
of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Internstlenal Traf:
Sineerely yours,
For the searetary of states
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclesures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
SEP 19 1938.
Q
A true con
the sigp
nal.
GAGRVEODG9-16-38
Res
FE

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.94)
Bucknell Aniversity
CONTROh
VISION OF PHILOSOPHY AND THE ARTS
1938 SEP 13 AM 11 17
SEP 13 1938
ach//9-17-58
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
September 12,1938
AND RECORDS
Mr. Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Washington,D.C.
Dear Secretary Hull:
now
Many of us are disturbed by tbe realization
that heavy shipments of war munitions are going from the
United States to Japan for use in the later's invasion of
894.24/366
China. However much legal justification there may be for this
trade,there can be very little ethical justification for it.
If there is any way by which these shipments can be restricted
or prohibited,I trust that your Department will not hesitate
to take whatever steps may be necessary.
Cordially yours,
harles herond
Professor of Religion
SEP10
FILHD
F/WB
11

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.94)
eptember 19 1938.
My dear Mr. Bond:
The reselpt is aaknowledged of your letter of septem-
ber 12, 1938, in regard to the export of war materials to
894.24/366
Japan.
As you doubtless are aware, Seation 1 (a) of the Joint
Reselution of Gongress approved May 1, 1937, a copy of which
is enelosed for your convenient referenee, provides that
whenever the President shall find that there exists a state
of war between or among two or more foreign states he shall
proclaim such fagt.
should the President iseme a pmreelame-
sion finding that a state of war exists betweem Gine and
dapan the expert of amms, ammunition and implemente of war
te both shese countatee weuld immediately be prohibited by
the serme of the Neutralisy Lot. In the abeenee of such
, there existe me legal authority
ef are elther to beth those
F/WB

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.94)
-0
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
lution of May 1, l937, 1s to keep this oountry out of war.
the question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Jeimt Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular sits-
ation the President must take into aocount varlous fastors
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this eoum-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far East, the President has conoluded that, in the light of
all the facts and ciroumstanoes, when weighed from a prao-
tieal point of view, it would not bo to the best interests
of this country and our people as a whole to invoke the
provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this conneetion you may be interested to know that
since July 1, 1937, the Departmont of state has 1ssued
lieenses for the export of arms, ammunition and implements
of war to China in the value of $13,812,669.11 and to
Japan 1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Meutrality Aet, moreover, does not under any eir-
eunstanees authorise the President or the Seeretary of
state to prehibit the export of commodities other then srms,
mmitien and implemente of war. The artieles and me-
tortals which are considered to be aras, ammunitien and
amplomemso
2

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1937, wh1ah 1s set forth under Part II
of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Tref=
Sineerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offioe of Arms and Munitions Gontrol
Enclosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
OR
SEP 19 1938.
trie py of
thre sipned or gl
nal.
17-3
FE

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.95)
AIRMAIL
20,1930
APANTMENT OF STATE
TO THE PRESIDENT OF
1938
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
acke 9-2839
HONORABLE PEBSIDENT, MR. ROOSEVELT,
€1938
of rendering assistance to the weak war-tern China.
I have tried my best to serve God and Humanity by being in the
smine, net only suffering, but being aystematically devastated and
destroyed.
8
6
hat's going on 1s not considered before the eyes of the world 4
994.24
on eyes.
3
a fleet, a modern amy as mell as air-craft machineries.
Being attacked by "Enemy No. One" to the Human Race, morally mhe
ought to have the right of expecting seme help, or at least she should
not need to see other nations assisting the World Enemy.
We rejoice kmowing that Your Homor are in heart aympathising
with China. But we deplore so mueh the mere that the Americam mam-
facturere are mending in smmmition, gas, air planes and mar materials
We heve been requested by our Amerieam representatives, the

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.90)
THE U. S. A.
2
ally as we also mos that the Chinese around we are
ef how our Flag hae been diagraced by the Japanese.
Can't there be found any way to assist China in her stru
agaiast the aggressor. We believe much could have been done al-
ready in the past year. We are far from wishing participatlon in
this or any other war, but we have a strong convietien, based on
our experlenoes in the Orient these Last thirty-five years, that
with a streng stand for our rights, and for the rightebusness in
the world as a whele, Japane could have been checked greatly.
Many believe, that if Chine could put up and keep in daily
operatien five er six hundred air crarts against the Japanese
fleet and lavadere on the Yangtse River, the aggressor would seom
have to withdrem. Is there no may of manipulation in whieh to
assist China befere it 1m too late? At least, the flos of ammu-
nition to the World memy should be stopped. And we hope that
Your Homer will do all in your power to assist in righteousness
and to strife againet unrighteousness and world-robbery.
Hoping, watohing, working and praying for the solution of
the sad world-situation, and for the salvation of China and the
World as a whole,
I wish to remain,
Most cordially, Your humble and loyal citison,
jotauy
JOEL S. JOYNGON
仁
KINGMEN.H
北
CA
1
道行堂自
門

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.92)
CA
7
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATL
SEP 13
Ach 4-1t-39
I03B SEP 10 A 11 32
PARIARN
DIVISION OF
St.Helena. California
SOMMUNICATIONS
September 5, 1938.
AND RECORDS
ember 19 1938.
Hon.Cordell Hull,
Division of
Secretary of State.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington,D.C.
SEP171938
Dear Sir:
Department of State
894.24/364
The oneloset poti bien is from a grout
of pereons pepreconting the Methodist Church of
St.Holena, Culifornia.
We sineeroly trust that the wish of
the mony poople of cus sountay who coel as we do in
regard to this mutter muy receive your conslaeration.
Siaeosely
Charlottee. Joner
Pustor Mothodist Church
St.Helera, Csliforniu.
199
FILED
F/WB

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.95)
-
Sapan alene. There is no statute now in existenee ms
would authorise the President or the Seeretary of ssate e
prehibit the export of arms to one belligerent comaty me
not to the other.
It may be added that the primary purpose ef the
Jeint Resolution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country
out of war. The question as to whether and when the
provisions of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked is
properly left to the sound diseretion of the President.
In deeiding whether he should invoke the Joint Resolw-
tion in a partioular situation the President must take
into account various factors and partioularly the broad,
general interests of this country and its nationals. In
the present situation in the Far East the President has
sonoluded that, in the light of all the faets and eir-
cumstanoes, when weighed from a praotieal point of view.
it would not be to the best interests of this oountry
and our people as a whole to invoke the provislons of
this Joint Resolution.
It may be of interest to know that sinoe July 1,
1937, the Department of State has issued l1oenses for
the export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to
China 1n the value of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan in
the value of $10,708,726.93.
with regard to the attitude of this Government
toward the bombing of aivilian populations and the
probable danger to Americans and American interests
abroad, attention is invited to the repeated statements
of the Seoretary of State condemning the bombing of
oivilian populations or its material enoouragement, and
espeoially

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.90)
espeelally to the statements made by him at his press con-
ferenee on June ll in regard to the sale of alrplanes and
aeronautioal equipment to countries engaged in the bombing
of eivilian populations from the air. (See radio bulletin
No. 136 of June 11, 1938.)
Enolosures:
From Mr. Joel S. Johnson.
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
894.24/367
JR
001 1 1938.
5
Pnt
CA:RVH: EMU
9-9A-38
FF

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.98)
Supreme
The
THE
SEP 0- 1938
THIRTY THIRD AND LAST DEGREE
COWLES 33
WASHING
ANCIENT AND ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE OF
OF
FREEMASONRYSOUTHERN JURISDICTIONUSA
September 8, 1938.
Hon. R Walton Moore, Counselor,
Srate epartment,
shington, .c.
酷
dear Mr.toore:
894.24/368
 e your letter of September 16th, together with a
, 1 8, and copy of letter to Senator Fittman under date of
May 1 1938, and a copy each of Public Resolution No. 27, of
the 75th Congress, and the fifth edition of the International
Traffic in Arms Laws and Regulations.
I thank you for the interest manifested in regard to
my letter pertaining to the Neutrality Law, and also for the
time and trouble it required of you to give me complete infor-
mation relative to the matter. I wrote as an individual citizen.
I had never read the Resolution or what is called the
Neutrality Act, nor do I know how the conditions can be changed
SEP
other than by an act of Congress, as suggested in your letter,
FILED
but change there ought to be, in my opinion.
This law was in effect regarding Italy and Abyssinia,
and while it was complied with in letter it was not in spirit,
I take it, for almost daily Italian ships left Atlantic and
Pacifio Coast ports laden with scrap, cotton and other materfals,
which were taken to the factories in Italy, converted into mu-
nitions of war and used to murder the thousands of an innocent,
helpless, backward people; a people who were Christians and
probably progressing proportionately faster than any other of
the backward peoples of the present time.
At the same time Ethiopia had no ships, had no fac
tories - had practically no money. But we, supposed to be Chris-
tians, must not do anything. "Peace at any price."
I suppose nowadays that the Bible is a back number and
that the story about the Good Samaritan is a fable. I wonder where
this country would have been today if France had not played the
36
4

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
Claim
Lawyers
U.S. Arms Go to
Reich Illegally
Export, Allowed by State
Dept., Held Violating
Treaty, Neutral Act.
11
The National Lawyers Guild yes-
p:
terday renewed charges that the
Administration's present policy of
permitting the exportation of muni-
tions to Germany constitutes a vio-
lation of both the Treaty of Peace
with Germany signed August 25,
1921, and the existing neutrality
FI
act.
The charges, made in a report
published by the international law
committee of the District of Co-
lumbia Chapter of the guild, have
been sent to President Roosevelt
ainer
and the Secretaries of State, Treas-
Chi-
ury, War. Navy and Commerce,
who constitute the Munitions Con-
)ner's
trol Board operating under the
I had
neutrality act.
red a
The report pointed out that the
eart.
peace treaty between the United
States and Germany includedan ar-
ticle which provided thatimporta-
tion into Germany of farmo. muni-
S
tion and war material of every kind
shall be strictly prohibited. De-
st.
spite this provision. the report as-
serted Germany. under authoriza-
ths
tion of the Munitions Board. im-
ported $1.669.165 in munitions from
he United States. from January 1.
1936. December 31. 1937

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Good Samaritan to us in 1776!
Wars are bad, heaven knows, but you cannot pet a lion
or a tiger and keep it from slaying you, and that sinile applies
to such beasts as Mussolini and Hitler. The more you try to
appease, the bolder and worse they become.
If the United States and England had told Japan to keep
out of Manchuria, and meant it, there would be peace all over
the world today, and unless Hitler is stopped, Napoleon's rule
over Europe will be mild as compared to that of Hitler.
I believe in peace; so did my forbears in this country,
but they were willing to fight and die for their rights and to
maintain their rights, und whenever the people of this country
lose that ideal, then woe is it. Aguin thanking you, I am
Yours sincerely,
Johmmfoseled
THC*T

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.74)
CA
She Mary Nanless Hasfita
POR AOKNOWLEDGMONT
M. MtMantme
S
AND RECORDS
W..huriglon, D.e.
7941.24
89
Dear M. P esid t
4
Chieria. Wis hon, uo s
6
Yu a n ontt nHan
, ea  fet 
madge, d o ori th
Tusudortnora
to me; t 't h2o at id me 
intin e a 1 t ga
The ue of md tii  d  n
such sl qlie sinty tal mom mumitio
cantlyme t2 e natii coml age
gueasiont by y ntimi gain ah
giieable desluctivn of niocent human
beinigs.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
"Hespital of Universal Love"
(Methedist General Hospital)
Hankew, Central Chins,
July 26,1938.
was eme of the refreshments of mind and soul after a terrible
to get a geed mail an Sunday. ...... On, hew I'a like to have been
yeu in Kashmir & The yery thought ef it seems like a werld apart
all this war herrer 1%
After some weeks of rain and no raißs,we have had a fortnight ef
shestly raids. One very near us last Tuesday with a theusand casualties
mengst the peer and anether une that struak very near the Ameriean Church
Missiem Hespital in Muohang across the river Yangste. I went moross te
see if I could hely Miss Reiley there. A maternity hospital opened by
the Gevernment was struak. The bomb wert through three fleors of reim-
feseed cenerete,killing or wounding all the patients in it. Seme ef the
methers lay so peaceful in death with their babies clasped in their armp.
while the reseue squad were trying to get out bedies frem beneath the de-
brise It seemed as though they were happier than theenes who were se
grievously wounded. One mix months pregnant woman hed a gaping wound ef 
abdemen with a rupture of the uterus and a long slit in the buttook of
the feetus. Did ever cueh devil's work darken civilisatien before !
Last Tuesday the bombs dropped so near to us that as the bombers
passed ever our heads, we waited in a tense stillness not knowing what a
moment might bring. But oh,so glad to be able to rest one's heart in our
Loving Lord's care and to feel Him near. Then we heard the thud, thud of 
bembs falling and then the explosions, and our hearts were peatdass?
knewing that some peor folk were being killed somewhere near. A Guild
Hall net far from us housed some hundreds of refugees from a nearby
provinee - hardly any escaped alive. From another place a stream of stret-
ehers brought in wounded to us.
Our four doctors started at once to operate,two in each roum,while I
went along the stretchers picking out those who had a chance of life to
ge next to the operating-room. Relatives were pulling at my dress implor-
ing me to let their particular loved one go in next,leathe to accept the
faet that they were beyond human aid. Oh,it was ghastly ! The heat (we
are usually on the hills at this time, but out hills are in the battle
area and we are all needed in cur stations), the suffering so patiently
borne,the misery,the sight and smells made me feel sick at heart and in
bedy. One could only ask, "Dear Lord, how long must this terror continue!"
The next day another raid before the poor victims of the prewious d
day had even recovered from the shock of operations and everyone was busy
with dressings.We notice that the raid victime suffer most when the air
raid sirens shriek over the city. One small bey of seven - so tiny, was
on a mall boat when a bomb struck it and killed his father and brothers
in front of him and injured his own leg, which had to be amputated. He
breaks out in a sweat and starts up crying when he hears the warnsngs.
Ah me ! and we try to teach the world of brotherly love !
It is a bitter thing too to see American and British names on bits
of bombs picked up. Last week some of our American missionary friends
took pieces te the Consul and he agreed that they were from America An
English author is here in Hankow this week and says that Britain and
Ameriea could step the war in a week if they would get together and that
America is waiting for England to take the lead. On,if she could only see
what we see syrely she would take the lead right speedily. God forgive
her if she doesn't !
All preparations have been made for the invasion of the city.The
Consular authorities want to draw off all their nationals possible,but
the missionaries have plainly stated their intention to stay. Our staff
gets lower and lower because those who can afford it are leaving for the
farther inland provinces and taking their nurse daughters with them. I
cannet blame them, as untold horrors have been perpretrated on the civél-
ians left behind in occupied cities. We have many high school girls acting
as practical aids and thus we are carrying on and intend to continue to do
so whatever comes if God keeps us.
Ny leave ts due now. I could not rossibly leave at present how-
ever and must wait till God opens the way, which I hope may be next spring.
D.V. Our Supt. is a Chinese dootor and he needs his English colleagues
Tery urgently and just now I am the Senior one so could not think of lear
One of the Hankow nurses who had to visit a clinio in a much bombed
area came back one day after a raid with shaking hands and she was all
wed. The next time we said to her, "Don't go today." But she smiled
replied,"My Bible today said in my reading,"I will fear no evil while

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.97)
." And she went.
ear deasenesses left Anhwei, a nearby provinee with a group
em foet in the winter mew and after an inoredible jourmey hes
was seareely any food at all te be ebtained. They trekked unknowm
lost their way,fell into swamps,were hurried meross br'ages by
Boldiers just before they blew up the bridcem. Several times they had
flee by by-paths to avoid the enemy, had no place to sleep nights and
finally arrived at one of one of our country stations more dead than alive
and scarcely recognizable. Yet now she has recovered and is leading meet-
ings everywhere. She spoke to our nurses' Bible class a week or so age
and her face Bhone as ahe said, "I just want'to witness to the fast that
the grace of God in sufficient fcr every need and in every ciroumstanee
of life. Never once did He fail us on pll that long journey." She deserib-
ed hew when they all had to lie in the open at night she reminded them of
how Jesus had no place to lay His head and how they all cheered up and
sang hymns at the remembrance. Also how the Chinese soldiers meeting them
at the villages over ni ht asked her t tell them of Jesus and how glad
she wes to do se. This is the sort of thing we are meeting all the time 
and it makes our hearts glow that out of all this horror God is bringing
a new and sweeter life with deepened spiritual valves out of it to this
great land, and whc shall say what Jod has for her in the future !
The other day I came across two verses of a poem of John Oxenham'
in an old magazine and it seemed so very true of Chine at the present
that I pass it on to you to share.
TheDawne
"I see a new world risin; from the ashes of the past,
For when the soul of life blazed out at  resdom's trumpet blast,
The old false gods of former days and the things that mad for shane
Ate shriveled In the incenge of that sacrificial flame.
From these dread times of suffering,from the hadowy vale of death
A sweeter life is springing which is quiokened by our faith.
We are building God's new temples with our blood, our prayers, our tears,
Tomples of grace that rise anace and shall outlast the years."
Goodbye .... The joy of the Lord keep you ever young in lim.
ladys Stephenson.

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.91)
EWING CHRISTIAN HIGH SCHOOL
LUDHIANA， INDIA
S.S
PM 2
CCMUNCATION
S
D
September 1, 1938
11938.
RECORO
Oetober
26
1)
AND
1938 SEP
SEP 26 1938
9/27/31
The Honourable Cordell Hull
11
Secretary of State
Washington, D.C.
FAR LASIERR ALTAIND
United States of America
8
Sir,
6
I have the honour to ask whether United States firms
2
are supplying munitions and particularly airplanes to
Japan or to Japanese firms or not. This question has been
3
raised a number of times lately in conversation with
O
Indian friends, and they think that as an American citizen
I should be able to supply the answer. Unfortunately I
cannot, so am asking you.
The sympathy of Indians is
strongly with the Chinese, - and yet at the same time the
plea by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru that Japanese goods not be
bought by Indians during their occupation of China went
unheeded. Japanese goods are still being bought because
C?
of their cheapness of price.
F2LED
1三
Your reply to this will be of real help I believe in
presenting friends here with the facts. Should we supply
them airplanes I certainly hope that it may stop.
I have the honour to be,
Yours very truly,
Aearge B. Leede.
George B. Leeder

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.97)
October 1 1938.
To the Amerioan Consul,
Karachi, India.
The Seeretary of State enoloses a copy of a letter
Gated September 1, 1938, from Mr. George B. Leeder, Ewing
Christian High Sohool, Ludhiana, India, in whioh he requests
certain information in regard to the exportation of muni-
894.24/37
tions, partioularly airplanes, to Japan.
There are enolosed, for transmission to Mr. Leeder,
a copy of the Joint Resolution of Congress approved May 1,
1937, and a copy of the pamphlet Intornational Traffio in
0
Arms. If the Consul perceives no objection to such action,
it is suggested that, in transmitting these documents, he
inform Mr. Leeder somowhat es follows:
It will be noted that Section 1 (a) of the Joint Resolu-
tion of May 1, 1937, provides that, whenever the President
shell find that there exists a state of war between or among
two or more foreign states, he shall proolaim suoh fact.
Should the President issue a proolamation finding that a
state of war exists between China and Japan, the export of
arms, ammunition, and implements of war to both those ooun-
tries would immediately be prohibited by the terms of the
7
Neutrality Act. In the absenoe of suoh a proolemation,
however,

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
however, there exists no legal authority for preventing
the export of arms either to both those countries or to
Japan alone and the Secretary of State is compelled, under
the law, to issue, upon the receipt from duly registered
persons of appropriate applications therefor, licenses
authorizing the exportation of arms, ammunition, and imple-
ments of war, inoluding airplanes, to Japan. The Seuretary
of State has, however, stated publioly on repeated occasions
that this Government condemns the bombing of oivilian popu-
lations or its material enoouragement. The Government's
condemnation of this practioe has been expressed directly
to all manufaoturers and exporters in this country of
airplanes and aoronautical equipment and the Department
has informed suoh manufaoturers and exporters that it would,
with great regret, issue any licenses authorizing the
exportation, direot or indirect, of any aircraft, aircraft
armoment, aircraft engines, airoraft parts, airoraft acces-
sories, aerial bombs, or torpedoes to any country, the armed
foroes of whioh are making use of airplanes for attack upon
civilian populations. It may be added that Amerioan manu-
facturers and exporters have, as a general rule, been oo-
operating in this announced polioy of the Government.
Mr. Leeder may be informed further that the primary
purpose of the Joint Resolut1on of May 1, 1937, is to keep
this country out of war. The question as to whether and
when the provisions of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked
is properly left to the sound disoretion of the President.
In

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.95)
In deeiding whether he should invoke the Joint Resolusion
in a partioular situation, the President must take into
account various factors and, particularly, the broad,
general interests of this Country and its nationals. In
the present situation in the Far East, the President has
conoluded that, in the light of all the faots and oiroum-
stanees, when weighed from a practioal point of view, it
would not be to the best interests of this country and our
people as a whole to invoke the provisions of the Neutrality
Aot.
Mr. Leeder may be interested in learning that, since
July 1, 1937, the Department of State has issued licenses
for the export of arms, ammunition, and implemonts of war
to Ch1na 1n the valuo of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan in the
value of $10,708,726.93.
Enolosures:
Joint Resolution
Pamphlet
From George B. Leeder,
dated September 1, 1938
894.24/370
CR
SEP 29 1938.PM
Q
sined ong
5
CA:EPA:HJG
9-27-38
NE
FE
10
rws
(1)

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.93)
7.CHINA CLUB OF SEATTLE
KLC:IVED
.Pullea
5131 ARCADE BUILdinG
MAIN 9275
L. Yee L
SEATTLE WASHINGTON
.LOWNAN
AVID WHITCOMB
1938 SFP 20 AM 11 33
Honorery Vice-Presidenis
september 26 1938.
Law G. Kay
Treasurer
September 16th,1938
Mrs. Chas. H. Lavers
OF
Secretary
COUN
TIONS
W. B. Passtley
ANDCURpgrable Cordell Hull,
Henerary Secretary
Secretary of State,
TRUSTEES
Washington, D. C.
SEP 20 1938
W. S. ALLEn
SAM ChiNn
ack 9-233
W. E. CoMAN
Dear Sir,
DONG ON LONG
H. B. EARLING
W. P. Phea
The United States is building up one of
Dr. RiCHARD E. FULlER
A. M. GHoamBy
the greatest navies in the world against a
L. C. Gilman
894.24/371
J. T. HaRdeMAN
potential foe.
Da. WaLter G. Hilther
Law G. KAY
J. D. LowmAn
With our friendship for Great Britain
H. K. MAR DonG
K. J. MIDDLETON
a very practical thing,there is no poss-
WALTER B. NETTLETON
ReennalD H. Parsons
ibility of any group of European powers
W. E. PaimstLey
J. W. SPANGLER
causing us much trouble.
D. J. ToBrance
J. R. WBST
DAVID WHITCOMB
On the Pacific Coast we are of the
opinion that the only naval power which
might cause us trouble is Japan.
At the present time China is fighting
a war of seif defense, but in a larger
sense China is fighting our battles. If
Japan is suffieiently weakened in her
fight with China, then Japan ceases to be
a menace to our own shores.
Is it logical then for us to supply
Japan with war materials thus weakening
China and at the same time strengthening
a potential enemy.
Would it not be a more practical thing
to help China destroy the military mind
of Japan and thus make t he world a better
place in which to leave, and at tthe same time
remove for many years to come a possible con-
fliot with Japan.
I have been informed that the Panay was
bombed with American scrap iron. You can draw
your own moral from this.
Sincerely yours
CHINA CLUBOF SEATTLE
WRin
W. E. Priestley
Honorary Secretary

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.88)
oeptember 26 1938.
My Gear r. Priestleg:
me receipt is aeknewledged of your letter of Septem-
ber l6, l9ss, in regard to the export of war materials to
Japan
894.24/37
ore is tranamitted herewith a opy of the Joint
nomelution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 81, l9ss. You will ob-
serve that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whemever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or mong two or more fereign states
he hall preelaim suek faet. mould the President lssue
a preelmmation finaing that a state of mar sxists between
Gine and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and Ample-
monts of war to beth these countries would immedletely be
premibited by the terms of the Neutrality Aet. In the
 prelin,e,there 
20ga2
F

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.93)
一8
legal sethority for preventing the expert of arme either
to beth those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
1usien of May 1, 1957, 1s to keep this country out of war.
the question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolmtion shall be invoked is preperly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In desiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolutiom in a partieular
sitmation the President must take into account various
festers and partieularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has conoluded that, in the
light of all the faots and oiroumstanees, when weighed
from a praetical point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our peeple as a mhole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this eonneetion you may be interested to know
that simee #aly 1, 1939, the Department of State has 10-
sasd lieenses for the export of arms, ammunition and Is-
plemente of war to hina 1n the value of $13,a12,669.11
 to Japam in the valme of 810,630,006.93.
The Boutrality Ast, moreever, dees not under axy
atremmstamses anthorise the President or the Seeretary
et state to prakibit the eport of eemmodities other then
.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.91)
arme, ammunition and implements of war. The artieles and
materials whieh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Pree-
Lamation of May 1, 193?, which 1s set forth under Part II
of the enelosed opy of the pamphlet, International Traffle
l Am. It will be noted that serap iron is not inelnded
among such artieles and waterials. There is no statute
now in existenee which would authorize the President or the
Seeretary of state to prohibit the export of serap 1ron to
Japam or to any other foreign oountry.
Sineerely yours,
For the Beeretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Ohief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
melosures:
Joimt Resolution.
Pamphlet.
SEP 24 1938.
true copy of
S
ant
DAIRVHI HU23-50
FE
new)

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.95)
LAW
PUBLIC
RECEIV
PARTMEN F STATE
MECHANICSBURG PA
26 1938.
1938 SEP 19 AM 10 51
September 16, 1938
DIVISICN CF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
MUNTON
CONROL
SEPZV1938
re
ack 9-23.$8
994.24
Hon. Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
894.24/372
Dear Sir:
I am direoted by the Cumberland
County Woman's Christian Temperance
Union to transmit to you the enclosed
resolution.
Very truly yours
ddaG. Kash
Ida G. Kast
IGK:P
F/A

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
(Pennsyhana)
Resolutions adopted by the Cumberland County Woman's
Christian Temperance Union at its institute held in
the United Brethren Churoh, in Newburg, Thursday,
September 8. 1938.
Whereas, About fifty per cent of the war essentials
whioh make possible Japan's continued brutal assassination
of China is being furnished by imports from the United States:
Whereas, Military experts have declared that Japan would
have to wi thdraw her troops from China if American imports to
Japan were stopped:
Whereas, We oannot support economioally what we must con-
demn morally:
Resolved: That we urge the government of the United
States to take suoh aotion as may be necessary to prevent the
material and finanoial rasources of the government or the
citizens of this country from being used either directly or
indireotly to aid Japan in her war of agression upon China.

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.92)
uptember 26 1938.
In repáy refer to
.Kast, Id G.
My dear Miss Kast:
The recelpt is aoknowledged of your letter of septem-
ber 16, 1938, enelosing a oopy of a resolution whioh was
adopted by the Oumberland County Woman's Christian Temper-
894.
anee Umiom at its institute held in Newburg, Pennsylvania,
on Beptember 8, l9ss, in regard to the situation now ob-
24/372
taining in the Far East.
Your courtesy in furnishing the Department with the
copy of this resolution is greatly appreciated.
As you doubtless are aware, Seetion 1 (a) of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, a eopy ef
shich 1e enelosed for your convenient referenee, prevides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists
a state of war between or among swo or more fereign states
F
he shall proelaim such faet. Should the President lesme a
1
preslamation
Maes Záe G. Zest,
Asterney-at-Lew,
Mecheniesturg, Peansylvasia.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.97)
proelemation finding that a state of war exists between
@aina and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
memts of mar to both those countries would immediately be
prokibited by the terms of the Moutrality Aet. In the
absenee of susk a proelamation, however, there exists no
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lutiom of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provislons of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in & partioular situ-
atiom the President must take into account various factors
and partieularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its mationals. In the present situation in the
Par East, the President has conelwded that, in the light of
all the fasts and sireumstanees, when weighed from a pras-
tieal poimt ef view, it womld not be to the best interests
ef this sountry and our peeple as a whole to inveke the pre-
visiems of the Joint Resolution.
In this dönneetion you may be interested te know that
simee July 1, l939, the Department of state has Lesmed
léeensss for the export of arms, emumition and implemeats

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.94)
efrwar to Chine 1n the value of $13,812,669.11 and to
Japan 1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Noutrality Ast, moreover, does not under any eir-
cumstanees amthorise the President or the Sesretary of
state to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammunition and implements of war. The artieles and ma-
teriale whieh are considered to be arme, ammunition and
1mplements of war are enumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth wnder Part II
of the enelosed ∞py of the pamphlet, Internattonal Traffle
Sineerely yours,
For the Seoretary of state:
Gharles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Wunitions Control
Eaelosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
OR
SEP 24 1938.
5
ant

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.96)
24 1938.
OF
THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF THEOLOGY
ND
OBERLIN COLLEGE
september
MUNITIONS
RECEIVEL
OBERLIN, OHIO
SEP 20 1930
PHY OF RELIGION
SIONS
1938 SEP 19 AM 11 23
VH/Cm
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
September 17, 1938.
To the Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
394.24/373
894.24
m
Dear Mr. Hull:
After watching for a year the course
of the undeclared war in China we the undersigned
have become convinced that its continuing tragedy
is being made possible largely by the unrestrained
flow of American munitions and war supplies to
Japan.
We believe that Japan's action in China
is in direct contradiction to the principles and
values for which we as a democratic nationg stand,
and to which you in your published addresses have
given such discerning and accurate statement. Therefore
we urge that appropriate action be taken as soon
as possible to bring about cessation of our aid
to the aggressor nation.
Clarence H. Hamilton
(Mro) fulu S. Hamillton
Ruth Hmilton
misiam Nammillon
F/A

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.94)
September 24 1938.
o4. Mamilton, larenee N.
My dear Mr. Hamilton:
The reseipt is acknowledged of your letter of Beptem-
894.24/373
ber 17, 1938, in regard to the export of munitions and war
supplies to Japan.
Your oourtesy in furnishing me with your views in
regard to this matter is greatly appresiated.
As you doubtless are aware, Seetion 1 (a) of the
Joint Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1957, a eopy
of whieh is enelosed for your convenient referenee, pro-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two or more foreign
states he shall proelaim sueh faet. should the President
issme a preelamation finding that a state of war exists
F/A
between Chine and Japen the export of arms, ammunition and
implements ef war to both those eountries would immediately
be prehimased w the terme of the Neutrality Aet. In the
absenee
Garástáan Micsions,

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.95)
abeenee of such a proelamation, however, there exists no
legal mthority for preventing the export of arms either
te beth thome countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
lution of May 1, 1937, is to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Jeint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
atiem the President must take into account various factors
and partieularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far East, the President has sonoluded that, in the light of
all the faets and ciroumstanees, when weighed from a prae-
tieal point of view, it would not be to the best 1nterests
of this sountry and our people as a whole to invoke the pro-
visioms of this Joint Rosolution.
In this conneetion you may be interested to kmow that
sinee Jaly 1, 1937, the Department of state has issmed
lieenses for the export of arms, emmunition and implements
of war to Gaine in the value of $13,an2,ese.11 and to
Jepan 1n the valwe of $10,680,006.93.
The Mous rality Aet, moreo ver, Gees not under any eir-
stato

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.90)
state to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammumition and implements of war. The artieles and ma-
terials whieh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
1mplements of war are enumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part II
of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Treffle
10ARL
sineerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
mslosures:
Joint Reselution.
Pamphlet.
CR
SEP 23 1938.PM
conx of
5
the
nal
CUM
iRVEI23-38
neuu

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.91)
SA
DR.WALTER G. HILTNER
NORTHERN LIFE TOWER
BEATTLE
11938.
1938 S 27 AM 11 27
Sept. 23, 1938.
COMMUNICATIONS
The HonoraNlREocR05l Hull,
SFP
Secretary of State,
Go 9-30-68
Washington, D. C.
184
ralemu
Sir:
Enclosed is the copy of  letter just sent to President
Roosevelt. It reports the feelings of a large group in this
part of the country in regard to the continued shipments of
war materials to Janen, and the reaction here to recent events
in Europe.
894.24/374
Respectfully,
Walter G Hilluer
WGH:DC
im
C
FILED
1、

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.99)
DR.WALTER G. HILTNER
NORTHERN LIFE TOWER
BEATTLE
Sept. 21, 1938.
The President,
Executive Mansion,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
It is possibly sending coels to Newcastle to add anything
more to your burden in regard to international relstionships.
"owever, as cheirmen of the Committee Against International
Aggression, I wish to express to you the sentiment of the people
in this part of the country as well as my own personel opinion.
We feel that continued shinments of munitions of wer,
machinery for their manufecture and the materiels fron which they
ere mede is a cisgrace to the merchents of our country, as well
as to the nation as a whole.
e, by treaty end by sacred pledge, would pretend to be
friends of China and ageinst the aggressor, Janen. Yet we con-
tinually injure our friendly nation and aid the eggressor nation
and one might easily say without possibility of doubt, merica's
potential if not active enemy; the most destructive agent of
world peace today.
Your citizens believe that if you wish to stop this traffic
a letter from you to these merchants of death, or a radio mes-
sage to your people, would stop the traffic overnight.
Some weeks ago a letter was sent to you suggesting that mow
the United States government should notify Japan that no money
would be loaned to her for the development of the territories
she is stealing from her neighbor, and that our nation would not
in future recognize any territories so acquired. Thousands of
your people are convinced that this action should be taken "now".
In these days of international perfidy as exhibited by the
British and Frenoh treatment of Czeohoslovakia, honest people
the world over stand aghast. It seems that the solemn obliga-
tions of the statesmen of the world and the nations they repre-
sent is of fer less value than a screp of paper. It is so pu-
trid that the stench rises to high heaven.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
DR. WALTER G. HILTNER
NORTHERN LIFE TOWER
SEATTLE
The Prime Minister of Great Britein sits down with the
colossal bully and bluffer of the world and determines to plunge
a knife into the heart of Czechoslovekia. Then the same Prime
Minister, the Premier of France and t e American Ambassador sit
around the conference table and determine to dismember a friendly
state whose representative is excluded from the hearing. We
doubt if history can disclose a more wanton act of international
brigandage.
e do not esk that our people should be brougnt into the
unholy mess in urope - but in the nane of the Lord God Jeho-
vah, we do ask that our President and our Secretary of State
and our representetives in Lurope refuse to be parties to the
paramount treachery of the ages.
The millions of your citizens don't know what to do, but
we do beg of our representatives that they "deal justly, love
mercy" in their netionel end international affairs lest our
nation be destroyed as were the nations of old to whom the
prophets spoke.
Resnectfully yours,
i. r. H.
WGH:DC

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.91)
October 11938.
refer to
dear.Hiltneri
The reseipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 23, l95e, enelosing a copy of a letter addressed to
the president with further regard to the situation now
obsaining in the Far East.
Im reply I invite your attention to my letter of
894.24/374
May 2, 19se, in whioh I informed you fully in regard to
the non-applioation of the Neutrality Aot to the Far
Dastern situation.
For your further information, however, I may state,
with referenee to the bombing of eivilien populations
and the probable danger to Amerieans and American interests
abread, that the Bearetary of state has stated publiely en
repeated oesesions that this Government sondemns the bemb-
Ing ef eivilian pepuletions er iss material eneouragemens.
.,
 Tomr
F/A

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.91)
The Government's condemnation of this praotiee has been
expressed direetly to all manufacturers and exporters in
this country of airplanes and aeronautieal equipment. I
may add that only in sueh exoeptional eases does the De-
partment take action of that advisory charaster.
sineerely yours,
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Ofriee of Arms anc Munitions Control
OR K
A true Copy oi
OC11 1938
the simed ori
nal
Bmt
000

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.93)
cknowledged
138 Hancock Street
Auburndale, assachusetts
June 20, 1938
Sen. Cordell Jull JUL -11938
Secretary of tatd958 ? AM 10 10
cn
State Department
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
)4S
The undersigned American citizens are grateful for your
894.27
persevering efforts to uphold the standards of international law
and decency which are today so gravely threatened. As one step
toward this end, we heartily commend your recent action in dis-
couragin/; the further sale of American bonbing planes to Japan.
In view of the continued bombing and nachine-gunning of
Chinese non-combatants by the Japanese military in cynical disregard
of repeated protests of the United States government backed by the
894.2
condemnation of American public opinion, it is clear that if our
detestation of all this inhumanity is to find effective cxpression
we must supplement our words still further by appropriate action.
Therefore ve earnestly suggest that the United States
24/
government take the further step of a complete enbargo on all
military arms and supplies and on all raw materials for the military
3
machine, such as oil, steel, scrap iron, cotton, motor trucks,
7
airplane parts, etc. destined for Japan. In case this would require
5
Congressional action, ve would suggest that the Secretary of State
take steps to discourage the export of these commodities to Japan,
as has already been done in the case of bonbing planes, and that
a list of those corporations, firms, and individuals who persist in
this trade,after the warning,be given to the press so that the
public may know who is making money out of the blood of tens of
thousands of Chinese men, vomen, and children.
We believe that only by concrete and determined action
can America escape the serious charge that she is--for all practical
purposes--the economic partner and ally of Japan in the latter's
lawless and shameless acgression.
Respectfully yours,
Pane Roslancd
Copies to
Senator David I. Walsh
E. C. Fry
Senator Henry C. Lodge, Jr.
Sara O. Horst
Uara H. Bruce
F/A
mary motrlfa Aool
David S. Henisk
mra. Leeds Sulick
Starriel E W alber.
Orboral Casmon
Rachrl C. Helt
ManyB S
John K Rroane
. Tanny E. Griwold

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.95)
144 HANCOCK STREET
AUBURNDALE, MASSACHUSETTS
mgust 17, 1938
ania
f0t 9/38
Mr. Francis B. Sayre
223-82
State Department
Washington, D.C.
Dear Frank:
The enclosed letter to Jecretary Hull vas signed by
fifteen persons living on the compound of the issionary Iome
where I have been staying since January. Ve received a routine
acknowledgment from the State Department and personal acknowledgments
894.24/376
from the two Massachusetts senators.
Secretary Hull's broadcast last evening was magnificent.
That is the stand which I am convinced the vast majority of our
countrymen want the State Department and the Administration to
take in these days when the future of oivilization literally
9
trembles in the balance.
But is it not necessary to "implement" our oft-repeated
politico-economio creed by concrete deeds? In particular, what
is there to prevent some such action as is suggested in our letter
of June 20 regarding the export of the sinews of war to Japan.
not
"
11
Would that be taking sides? some timorous soul might ask. Most
assuredly it would! How in the world can we refrain from taking
sides? Who wants to tixxta remain neutral in suoh a clear-out
F
choioe as the Seoretary himself so eloquently described for us
/A
last night?
"We might inour the displeasure of Japan." I reply,
"So what?"
Sinoe when have we been afraid of inourring the
displeasure of Japan? To be sure, our own record in international
oollaboration sinoe the War has not been spotless. We did muoh to
insure that the League of Nations should be still-born. However, in
the present instanoe it is Japan who is ohiefly responsible for

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
the appalling and staggering disintegration in international
relations, I feel. That be ing so, why should we, at this
moment, be aiding and abetting this conscienceless aggressor by
supplying her with the wherewithal to continue her conquest of
China?
What is there to prevent a request from the State
Department for absolute and inmediate cessation of all export from
America of any and all materials which contribute to keeping
Japan's war-machine going? And, after such warning, what is
there to prevent the publication of a list of any firms or
individuals which persist in this demoralizing trade?
In one
word, I think, my dear Frank, that we as a people and as a govern-
ment have already stated our position clearly enough and repeatedly
enough. The whole world -- including the "bandit" nations -- know
that position quite well. The only thing they are interested in
is the question, Is this just one more pious sermon, or is the
United States at last sufficiently aroused to do something about it,--
something which will really hurt their cause?
It seems perfectly
clear to me (perhaps in my ignorance) that the Italo-German-Japanese
combination is and has been throwing one bluff after another, until
they have had the peaceful, decent-thinking demooracies stymied and
on the continuous run--backward. Czeohoslovakia, on May 21, showed
the way to meet that sort of bluster and bluff. They called it.
Why should we -- great, powerful, inpregnable -- be less ready to
baok our professions with some concrete deeds than little Czeoho-
slovakia?
Most sinoerely yours,
Paul Rowland

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.98)
158 Haneoek Street
Auburndale, Massaohusetts
Jume 20, 1938
Hon. Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
State Department
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
The undersigned American citizens are grateful for your
persevering efforts to uphold the standards of international law
and deoenoy which are today so gravely menaoed. As one step toward
this end, we heartily commend your recent aotion in discouraging
the further sale of American bombing planes to Japan.
In view of the continued bombing and maehine-gunning of
Chinese non-combatants by the Japanese military, in cynioal
disregard of repeated protests of the United States government
baoked by the condemmation of Amerioan publio opinion, it is olear
that if our detestation of all this inhimanity is to find effective
expression we must supplement our words still further by appropriate
aotion.
Therefore we earnestly suggest that the United States
govemment take the further step of a complete embargo on all
military arms and supplies and on all raw materials for the military
machine, suoh as oil, stel, scrap iron, copper, ootton, motor truoks,
airplane parts, eto. destined for Japan. In case this would require
Congressional aotion, we would suggest that the Seoretary of State
take steps to disoourage the export of these commodities to Japan,
as has already been done in the oase of hombing planes, and that a
list of those corporations, firms, and individuals who persist in
this trade, after the warning, be given to the press so that the
publie may know who is making money out of the blood of tens of
thousands of Chinese men, women, and ohildren.
We believe that only by concrete and determined action can
Ameriea eseape the serious charge that she is -- for all practioal
purposes -- the eoonomie partner and ally of Japan in the latter's
lawless and shameless aggression.
Respeotfully yours,
Copies to
Senator David I. Walsh
Senator Henry C. Lodge, Jr.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.87)
September 9, 1938.
Dear Ponl:
I have just returned to weshington ane
fine ameittng me your letter of Anguet seves»
Seeath, tegether with a copy of the letter
whick you sont to seeretary Hall em Jume
swentieth. I was interested to have your
thoughs méth respeet to the Japanese situatien
and appreetste your writing ms.
894.24/376
I hope that all goee well with you and
shat you have had a plessant susmer.
wath warm personel regards, belleve
sineerely yeurs,
FRANC B. SAYRE
Br. Paml Rosleed,
144 Hanoock stsees,
Aubarasale, Kesssehmsetts.
F/A
FBB:ABN
irte copy of
the signed org.
inal E.a.X.

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.92)
August 18, 1938.
My dear Mr. Kowlank:
In the abeenee of Mr. Sayre I take
pleasure in meknewledging the receipt
of your letter of August 17, l938, en-
elesins a eopy of a letter whien you wrote
to Seeretary Hull on June 20, 1938.
I shall be glad to bring your letter
te the attention of Mr. Sayre when he re-
894.24/376
turms from his veeatlon the first of Sep-
tomber.
Very traly yours.
Seeretary te Mr. Sayre.
Mr. Paul Rowlamd.
l44 Basesek street,
aburndale, Massaehusetts.
408 IAL
F/A
the signed urig-
inal ε.ax

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.91)
27 1938.
september
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
Y. W. C. A.
BB JACKBON STREET
S!
PROVIDENCE. RHODE IBLAND
JESSIE H. HUNT
PHONE GASPEE 1117
CHAIRMAN
September 8, 1938
111
RESPBOTFULLY REPRRED
FOR AORNOWLFOMLNT
FPA  TATE
AND OONBIDBHN
MSt M Aty
RLCEIVED
The
Searetary to the President
3
SEEPP 17
Btnd
House
D
A
Washington, D.C.
The inclosed petition is signed by ten
894.24/77
persons who feel the sub ject matter is tre-
mendously important. We know that it will
receive your interested attention.
Most respectfully yours,
Lomia S. Noumann
894.24
(Mrs.) Louisa S. Neumann
LSN:G
Executive Secretary
Inc.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
SEP 26 1938
F/A
MEMBER OF PROVIDENCE COMMUNITY FUND. INC.

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.94)
WHEREAS, the United States of America and many other nations
have indicted Japan as the violator of the Nine-Power Treaty
and the Kellogg Pact, in the present Sino-Japanese conflict,
fomented by the Military Party of Japan, and have repeatedly
protested against the bombings of undefended Chinese cities
and the unnecessary slaughter of Chinese non-combatants, and
WHEREAS, we feel put to shame that American raw materials are
being used to manufacture weapons of war for Japan, American
planes are being used to carry American-made bombs for the
destruction of Chinese civilian population, American shells
are loading Japanese guns, and America is supplying to Japan
huge quantities of scrap-iron, oil, trucks and other materials
used in the furtherance of the war, over and above the amounts
of our normal trade of recent years, and
WHEREAS, we sympathize with the Chinese people in their desire
to build up an independent, democratic state, an end gravely
threatened by the present aggression of Japan, and deplore the
traffic which makes it possible for certain American interests
to profit from the wanton uestruction of the innocent victims
of Japanese aggression,
THEREFORE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the Presi-
dent of the United States, in accordance with the principle of
his Good Neighbor enunciation, and in the interest of the
people of the United States, China and Japan, to take every
practicable means, airect or indirect, to bring to an end a
traffic from our country which is compelling us to be a part-
ner in the destruction of the Chinese people.
Suricl E. Gray
Brealie B. litdeni
Enily Sila.
Lunn B Sarkissian
maia  enovale
Fluucey. lawiele
Stanley S Neumann
2.
Sonisa 5. Denmann.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.91)
september 27 1938.
My dear Mrs. Neumann:
By referenee from the White House I aoknowledge the
receipt of your letter of september 8, 1938, tranmitting
894.24/377
a petition signed by ten persons in regard to the export
of war and other materials to Japan.
Your oourtesy in furnishing the President with this
petition 1s greatly appreciated.
There is tranmitted herewith a oopy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1955. You will ob-
serve that Beation 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among twe or more foreign states
he shall preelaim sueh fast. should tme President isswe
a preelamation finding that a state of war exists between
Gaine
Mpe. Loußee S. Moumann,
Executive Seeretary, International Instatute,
F
Loung Womente Carissian Aeseesation,
I
88 Jacksen street,
Previdenee, mode Island.

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
Gina and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
ments of war to both those countries would immedlately be
prohibited by the terms of the Meutrality Aot. In the
abeemee ef such a proelamation, howetr, there exists no
legal muthority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this ountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Reselution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should iwoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account various
faeters and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has conaluded that, 1n the
light of all the facts and ciroumstanses, when weighed
frem a preetieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whele
to inveke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this conneetion you may be interested to know
that sinee Jaly 1, 1937, the Department of state has 10-
sé lleenses for the expert of arms, ammuaitien and in-
ptemeats of war to chine in the value of $1s,a1s,ese.11

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.88)
-8
and to Japan 1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Memtrality Ast, moreover, does not under any eir-
eumstanees muthorise the President or the Seeretary of
state te prohibit the export of commodities other than
arme, ammumition and implements of war. The artieles and
materials whioh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are emumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part II
of the enelosed opy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffle
LLARL
I may add, with referenee to the bombing of civilian
populations and the probable danger to Amerieans and Ameri-
eam interests abroad, that the Searetary of state has stated
puhliely on repeated ocsasions that this Governmment condemns
the bombing of eivilian populations or its material enoourage-
ment. the Government's condemnation of this practiee has
been expressed direstly to all mamufacturers and exporters im
this country ef airplenes and aerenautical equipment.
sineerely yours,
SEP 28 1938.
Garles W. Zost, Assistant Gtef
Offiee of Arms and Mamitiens Oentral
0l0sus0s8
Jeant Remelution.
TE0
FB
Rowr

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.95)
MRS WILLIAM RUHL CLYME
1987 CHATFIELD ROAD
3
COLUMBUS OHIO
RECEIVED
27 1938.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
September eight
1938 SEP 17 AM 11 28
1
9
The PreedCAIONS
SEP 21 1938
acke 1-24-39
My dear Mr. President,
concerned about America's share in Japan's war guilt.
The fact of our supplying machines and machine tools,
oil, pig and scrap iron, these American products which
Japan could not obtain elsewhere, makes America the
virtual partner of Japan in her bestial war on China.
C3
This group 1s working out means whereby we can exert
S
individual influence toward help for China; plans for
4
the dissemination of facts concerning the Far Eastern
situation,before the citizens of Columbus; study groups
2
to enable us to keep abreast of developments,to be aler
4
to changing conditions in China.
What can the Government do? That 1s the question we
hope to have answered as we eagerly watch our evolving
foreign policy,passing thru your hands and those of our
dependable Secretary of State. From personal boycotting
of Japanese goods,even thru government reprisals,we are
with you 1n the endeavor to stop the United States from
continuing to be Japan's arsenal.
Yours with sincerity,
Lul Jockoon Oly
Ti
1
Division of
A
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 26 1938
Uepartmeni oi 

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.93)
eptember 27 1938.
My dear Mrs. aymer:
By referenee from the White Nouse I acknowledge the
894.
reseipt of your letter of Beptember 8, l938, in regard
to the export of sertain artioles and materials to Japan.
24/378
In this conneotion your attontion is invited to the
provisions of the Neutrality Aet of May 1, 1937, a eopy
of whieh is enelosed for your convenient referenee, under
which the President is granted the authority to prohibit
the export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to
belligerent states. This Aet, however, speelfieally
limits the artieles which may be defined as arme, mmmuni-
tiem ane implements of war, and exeludes such artiales
as mentioned in your letter. There is no statute now
in ofreet which wuld uthorise the Presidomt to prekibis
the expers of such artieles to Japan or to any ether
F
fepeige country. The artieles and materials which ere
1
cone&deres
A
..

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.95)
0
censidered to be arms, ammwnition and implements of war
are emumerated in the President's Proelamation of May 1,
losv, which is sut forth under Part II of the enelosed
copy ef the pamphlet, International Traffie in Armas
At the present time there has been no finding 
the President that a state of war exists betweem Shama and
Japan, and in the absenee of a proelamation to that effeet
there are no restrietions upon the export of arms te
either of those countries other than the requirement under
Seetion 5 of the Neutrality Aet that lioenses be obtained
for the export of any arms, ammunition and implements of
war and the speeial provisions in regard to exports to
China, whioh are set forth under Part vII of the pamphlet.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Neutrality
Aet is to keep this country out of war. The questiom
as to whether and when the provislons of the Joint Rese-
lution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the soumd
diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether he
should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular sitm-
atiom the President has coneluded that, in the light
of all the facts and eiromstanees, when weighed frem
a prastieal point of view, 1t would not be to the best
intereste ef this esuntry and our peeple as e shele

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.96)
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
sinoerely yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
Gharles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enelosures:
Joint Rosolution.
Pamphlet.
A true copy of
the sighed origi
nal.
0
sous

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.93)
EA
SECRETARY OF OTTERBEIN GUILD
MISS GAIL WHITE
The
3605 NOYBE AVE. . E.
7
SEC'Y
OF LITERATURE
RIED
HAROLD WALLER
FER
Miman's Missionary Assoriation
223 LOVE AVENUE
SMITHFIELD
KHANNON
VA
SICRETARY
OF
THANK OFFERING
of the
MRS
A J STEELE
BECOND
VICI-PRESIDENT
26 MAIN STREET
MRS
PHILIPPI W VA
PARKERSBURG. W VA
SECRETARY OF STEWARDSHIP
M'S F L MILLER
1433
22ND STREET
SECRETARY
West Birginia Branch
PARKERSBURG. W. VA
MRS
1051
A W WESTFALL
31ST STREET
OF
27 1950:
DUNSELLOR
OF OTTERBEIN GUILD
TIONS
MRS
PENNYBACKER
AND ACOURDS
THEME
1609
GRAND CENTRAL AVE
TREASURER
MRS A J LOWTHER
DIRECTOR
CHILDRENS WORK
BOI QUINCY STREET
deptem
MISS FRANCES MILLER
VA
1433
22ND STREET
PARKERSBURG.
VA
Gek 9-23-39
setem
The Honorable Jordell
RNK
894.24/379
Secretar of State
Cmu
Dear Sir:
inclose
w ic  ore incor orate
reore er the committee
on Foreim issions an adoted y the West  ini Jon-
ference of tie o c o t  niter Prethren in Jhrist at
it's re-ent annual  sion  sen it as directed honine
it vil7
eceive yo
careul
es ectfullyo
rs ..Inight, Thr. Jommi tte
civisicn
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
113
ur
F/A

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.97)
t from Report of Committee on Foreign Missions, West Virginia
nference, Church of the United Brethren in Christ.)
RESCLUTIONS
1.
Relative to War Materials
Whereas the United States of America and other nations have repeat-
edly protested against t'e bombings of undefended cities and the unnecessary
slaughter of non-combatant civilians and children, and
Whereas we feel put to shame that Anerica has continued to supply a
substantial portion of the war materials whicl help to make possible such
outrageous attacks upon defenseless civili ns and children, and
Whereas the discontinuance of the sale of such materials would do
much to restore a sense of national responsibility and national morality
in international affairs even ti ough the surrender of profits therefrom
woul involve sacrifice on the p rt of many in America.
Therefore, be it resolved:
(1) That ve respectfully petition the Presicent of the United
States, in accordonce with the principle of ris good Yei  bor enunci tion,
and in the interests of t'e people of the Waited states to t ke vary
practical aeans, irect or inirect, to bring to an end  tr rfic from our
country which is compelling us to be  purtner in the destruction of other
peoples' nation.l independence nd liberty.
(2) That a copy of t ese resolutiona be sent to t e President of
the United States und to  e Secretary oi itate, also to tne local papers.
No. 2. Relative to Ciina Relief
Phe Red Jross Campai m for ina relief terainated June 15 vit
very mediocre recu's in shite of Jhina's unprecedente neers. Pe Jhurch
cannot be the Church and rem in in ifierent to this cistress. It mas,
therefore, rormed the Jureh Jomittee tor Jina telier by appointing
reoresentatives from the t ree constituent roups of  ort: Aierica, the
Federal Jouncil of  urc es, te orei n : ission Conicrence, und the
Crina Famine Relief, for the purpose of ruisiny funds for China relief.
Therefore, be it resolved tat ve cooperute in this nation-wide
effort to awaken America to her sense of moral obligation to Jhina's suffer-
ing millions and that as indivicuals ve ccert responsibility for nelping
arouse interest un securing ifts in our local communities. "In as much
as ye have done it unto one of the least of ti ese ye have done it unto me."
No. 3.
.Relative to Ladras
We are pleased to learn of the Jorld : issionary Co. ference vhich
is to convene at Madras, India, Decem er 13-30, 1938, when representatives
from every part of Christencom will be assembled for prayer and a restudy
of the Great Commission in the liglt of tre present world orer. e learn
with pleasure also t?at a series of post maras conferences are plunned
for Canada and the United States.
Therefore, be it resolved that we join our fellow Christiuns
around the world in prayer that this gat! ering at Ladras may find new light
and fresh power which will enable the church to face with new courage its
appointed task, and that we will cooperate in every way possible in making
the post Madras conferences a great blessing to the home Church.
C..art
S.J.Westfall
Com.
Lirs..M.Knight.,Chr.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.93)
september 27 1938.
 Gear Mrs. Knight:
the receipt is acknowledged of your letter of Soptem-
894.24/379
ber 19, 19ss, enelosing opies of several resolutions which
were adopted at the recent annual session of the west
Virginia Conferenee of the huron of the Unised mrethren
in Christ.
Your eourtesy in furniahing me with copies of these
reselutions is greatly appreeiated.
with regard to the first resolution you probably
will reeall that the seeretary of state has stated publiely
en repeated oecasions, with referenee to the bombing of
eivilian pepulations and the prebable danger to Amerieans
and Ameriean interests abroad, that this Gevernment sen-
demme the bembing of sivilien populations er its material
ensemragement. The Government's cendempation of this
F/A
prectice
..

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.91)
prastiee has been expressed direetly to all mamufacturers
and experters in this country of airplanes and seronautieal
squipment.
Fer your convenient referenee there are enelosed copies
of the Joist Rosolution of Gongress approved May 1, 193?,
and the pamphlet, Iaternational Traffle in Arnss
sinoerely yours,
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Inelosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
OR
SEP 24 1938
Amt
te 
nel,
GAIRVEIGS922-80
FE
reows

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
STATE
3
RECEIVED
DFPAHTMENT OF STATE
XCERPT
september 28 1938.
 SEP 13
306 Woodlawn Road,
Baltimore,
D
Maryland.
-JMMUNICATIONS
September .
AND RECORDS
4M Dutyne
894.24
The President,
The White House,
Becretary to toe President
Washington, D. C.
FAM LASTENN AFFAIRS
Dear Mr. President:
For a long time I have wanted to write you but I feel so
insignificant to trespass upon your time. I have wanted you to
know that even if I am so small a bit of this large world, with all
my heart I believe in you and your honest and great desire for
justice and the best good for all. Your duties and responsihilities
894.24/380
are so overwhelming - such terrific pressure goes with that awful
office - the criticism so narrow, severe, cruel, but with it all,
to quote Mr. Hugh S. Johnson (!) * * you are such a "thoroughbred".
I am not bit enough nor know enough to know what to do,
but there are so many cruel things to be righted and this effort
of a letter to you is to ask your help in this brutal thing Japan
is doing in China. Can we longer remain indifferent to the great
tragedy of our times? Do we as Americans not bear partial
responsibility for the fact that Japan has pretty much all the
supplies she needs?
After Secretary of State Cordell Hull's anti-war statement
of August 27, the Baltimore Sun quotes Premier Mussolini's newspaper
answer: "Not a day passes without bringing from America a sermon
whose argument is always the same. While the United States has the
first place as an exporting country for pacifist speeches, it has
the first place also as exporter of armaments. Our Japanese friends
know something about that. As Japanese they receive sermons from
America; as customers they get from the same America whatever they
need to meet the situation in China - for pay naturally."
China is making a magnificent struggle for liberty. The
least we can do is to withhold aid from her enemy. Can you not, Mr.
President, refuse absolutely our supporting this war of aggression?
F/A
Sincerely and respectfully yours,
(Miss) Alice E. Frame

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.92)
september 28 1938.
My dear Miss Frame:
By referenee from the White House I acknowledge the
reeeipt of your letter of september 6, l938, in regard
89
to the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
There 1s transmitted herevith a copy of the Joint
.24/38
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You wi1l
O
ebserve that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution pro-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two or more foreign
states he shall proelaim suah fact. should the President
issme a prealmation finding that a state of war exists
between Chine and Japan the export of arms, ammmnition and
1mplements of war to both those countries wule immediately
be prohibited by the terms of the Neutrality Ast. In the
abeense ef smeh a proelamation, however, there exists mo
10gal
 AleB. Freme,
F/A
soe odlmm Roed,
Baltsmore, Maryland.

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.95)
-0
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lutiom of Mey 1, 1937, 1s to keep this ountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Jeint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly lert to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partiemlar
situation the President must take into account varioms
factors and partieularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has oonoluded that, in the
light of all the facts and olroumstanees, when weighed
from a praetieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this ountry and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
In this connestion you may be interested to know
that sinee July 1, 1937, the Department of state has 1s-
smed lieenses for the export of arms, ammunition and im-
plememts of war to Cmina in the value of $13,12,se9.11
ame to Japam 1n the valme of $10,630,006.93.
The Neutrality Aet, moreever, Goes mot wnder any
siremmstanees mthorise the President or the seeretary
of state te prokibit the export of esmmodities ether

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.94)
-3
than arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artieles
and materials which are ocnsidered to be arms, ammumition
and implements of war are emmerated in the President's
Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set forth under
Part II of the enelosed sopy of the pamphlet, International
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Tost, Assistant Chier
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
SEP 27 1938.
pnt
nal.
0626-38

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.81)
Jugians wa; guilt 
2. has Americe furmishe,
wa, material, to atazi
Grmay mnd Faseist
Stuly, hise wa, materide,
are tran, shippet to
2
Gensal

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.86)
894.24/381
1938.
F/A
928 Olria ive.,
eptember
Anm AAbor, uch.
RECEIVEL
Sejot. 15,1938
HARTMENT OF STA
SEP 88 1938
1938
FLED
AND RECORDS
DenLin
Bivisic
FAR EASTERN AFTAIRS
826193
Subnit
I respeotfully
1. Shar Amerise furmishes
Japan 54% 0'f wa, materia
(Of. Amerial's Share in
Japan's wa, quilt")
2. has America furmsher
wa, material, to ctazi
Germay and Fasest
Ituly, Thise wa, material,
herss
are trans shipped to
Gensal

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.86)
Yensal Frango oo that he
Moas vey truly
may oos throw the anish
ell. Levi
republic.
Comment,
Prgerar emeritu, w
the Uninsit of
This is intoubtedty gord
bresines-but it is
Mohigan.
flood money!
Amerca's gailt can neve
be wiped out!
Wheu is Amerree',
Lemocratic Cnscience?
Some swith the coind!
The forerign poliay of
the Government elves
not express the will
of the Amerrian sesple,

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.88)
september 28 1938.
My dear Mr. Levi:
The reeeipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of Septem-
bor 18, 193e, in regard to the situations now obtaining in
the Far East and Spain.
894.24/331
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint Reso-
lution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the Jeimt
Reselution approved August 31, 1935. You will observe
that Sestion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution prevides that
whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more fereigm states
he shall preelaim sueh faet. Should the Presidemt 1ssse
a preelamation fimding that a state of war exists betweem
Chimm ane Japan the expert of arms, ammumition and imple-
monss of war te bth those countries would immediately be
prohabated by the terms of the Moutrality Aet. In the
absense ef suek a preelamation, hevever, there exists me
1001
F
A1
MP.L. Lova.
PrOTeSeOr BMerLtGS,
The wuiveresty ef mekigan,
sas elivia Avemse
Amm Artor, mkigan

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
lutiom of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this eountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joimt Reselution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account various
faotors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situatiom
in the Far East, the Preaident has conoluded that, in the
light of all the facts and ciromstanees, when weighed
from a praotical point of view, it would not be to the
best imterests of this country and our people as a whole
to 1nvoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
Im this conneetion you may be interested to know
that simoe July 1, 1937, the Department of State has 1s-
sued licenses fer the export of arms, ammumition and im-
plements of war to Ohine 1n the valme of $13,812,6e9.11
and to Japam 1n the value of $10,630,006.93.
The Moutrality Aet, moreever, dees mot under any
eiroumstanses autherise the President or the Seeretary
of state te prehibat the expert of commodities ether them
a1.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.91)
-3
arms, ammunition and implememts of war. The artieles asnd
materials whioh are considered to be arms, amamition and im-
plememts of war are enumerated in the Presidemt's Preelamntien
of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set forth under Part II of the en-
clesed copy of the pamphlet, Intermational Traffie in Arme
With regard to the alleged transshipment of arms fres
Italy and Germany to the Rebel forees in Spain, your attet-
tiom is invited to the fact that under the provisioms of ilee-
tiom 5 of the Moutrality Aet licenses are required for tho
export of arms, ammunition and implements of war frem the
Uaited states to all foreign countries. Under the regula-
tions pertaining to the 1ssuanee of l1censes the country
desigmated on the applioation for l1cense to export mst in
eash case be the country of ultimate destination. I mey asd
that the Department has been extremely careful to assure it-
self that the provisions of this regulation are striotly eom-
plied with and has had no evidenee whatsoe wr presented te it
whieh would lead it to belleve that any arms, amitiom es
implements of war have been shipped frem the United states,
either direetly or 1mdireetly. to the Rebel ferees in Spaim
simse Jamary 8, 1937, the effeetive date of the Spamish
arms esbarge.
SBP 27 1938. PM
simeerely yours,
Qu
For the Seeretary of state:
whesres:
hriesW. Boes
offiee of Arms and
m
pe

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.96)
The Presbgterg of Columbus
TRICK
P. MARTIN BAKER
National Missions
Christian Education
IVAN L. WILKINS, MODERATOR
CHARLES A. HUNTER
issions, Vacancy and Supply
Board of Pensions
23 MAPLESTJLONDONO
ROBERT R. REED
W. MILLER
United Promotion
Social Welfare
938
FRANK M. PATTERSON, STATED CLERKY
W. E BYERS
NATHAN PETTIT
Treasurer of Presbytery
Treasurer, Trustees of Presbytery
CLARENCE S GEE
R. L. OFFIELD
Pormanent Clork
General Presbyter
DIVISION O
Sept
1938
The Hon. Cordell Hull,
COMMUNICATIONS
Secretary of State
AND RECORDS
CON
Washington, D. 0.
SEP
G26 9 23-38
Dear Sir:
At the regular fall meeting of the PreebyteryRrhm
of Columbus held in the First Presbyterian Church 
Lancaster, Ohio, Sept. 13, 1938, the following action
was taken, and the stated clerk instructed to send
the same to you with the request that you submit
894.24/332
the matter to President Franklin D. Roosevelt:
894.24
"In view of the fact that American exports to
Japan of essential war materials have aided that
country in its ruthless destruotion of life and
property in China, therefore the Presbytery of
Columbus in the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., urges
the present adminiatration to take speedy and effeotive
steps to stop these exports to Japan."
Most respectfully submitted.
Stated Clerk
Done at Lancaster, Ohio,
September 13, 1938
1
F/A
11

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.93)
eptember 28 1938.
My dear Mr. Patterson:
The receipt is asknowledged of your letter of septem-
ber 1s, 193s, in whieh your organisation urges the present
aémimistratlon to take speedy and effeetive steps to pre-
894.24/382
vent the export of war materials to Japan.
Your courtesy in informing the Department of the
views of the Presbytery of Columbus in regard to this
matter is greatly appreeiated.
2
There is enelosed a eopy of the Joint Resolution of
Gongress approved May 1, 1937, amending the Joint Resolu-
sier of August 31, 1935. You will observe that see-
tion 1 (a) ef this Jeint Resolution prevides that hemever
the president shall find that there exists a state of war
between or mong twe or more foreign states he mell pre-
alaim such faet. Smould the President issue a preslame-
sion finding that a state of war exists between Ghime and
F/
Jopen
A
1

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.96)
Japan the export of arms, mmunition and implements of war
to both those countries would immediately be prohibited by
the terms of the Neutrality Ast. In the absenee of such
a preslamation, however, there exists no legal anthority
for preventing the export of arms either to both those
countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joimt Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he ahould invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into acoount various
fastors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
1n the Far East, the President has eonaluded that, in the
light of all the facts and oiroumstanoes, when weighed
from a preetieal point of view it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as e whole
to inveke the previsions of this Joint Resolution.
 The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not under any
etroumstamees asthorise the President or the Secretary
ot state te prehibit the expert of commodities ether them
matossale

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.92)
materials whish are considered to be arms, ammumition and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Proe-
Lmmatien ef May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth umder Part II
of the enelosed eopy of the pamphlet, International
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 2, 193?,
Department of State has issued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $13,8l2,669.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
$10,830,006.93.
sineerely yours,
For the Searetary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Ofriee of Arms and Munitions Control
Easlesures:
Joimt Resolution.
Pampklet.
OR
SEP 27 1938.
2
true
and
the signed
na!.
9-96
cow

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.94)
GA
RESPEUTFULLY CAFERRED
RECEIVED
PARTMENT OF STATE
FOR CONBDERA TION
MH Me
1938 SFF 20 PM 3 15
P'resident
To the President of the United States
The White House
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. President:
894.24/383
Each day's delay means more women and children
894.
killed or maimed, and these are counted in thousands;
more men civilians destroyed by the narcotic drugs
deliberately provided very cheaply by Japan; to say
mothing of the thousands killed or wounded on the
battlefiolds of China.
While this goes on,our country, more than any
other, supplies Japan the materials with which to com-
mit these atrocities. I wish you could have heard the
speech of Mr. Wellington Koo in the Assembly of the
League of Nations last Friday; it would have moved you
to action. How long will the wretches who sell scrap-
iron to Japan be permitted to batten on the blood of
China? For some time we forbade the sale of helium
gas to ermany. Why cannot we forbid scrap-iron to
Japan? The military leaders of Japan are planning
to destroy one of the finest nations on this earth.
Must we as a nation be obliged to assist in this?
You, who are thehope of the world, cannot afford
to remain inactive. You have already done much, but
more remains to be done.
C0
The whole worlu awaits your action.
で
FILED F/A
Very respectfully yours,
KatlernueS, Blake

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.91)
Si+
Faldwin Park, Calif.
lie yust 25, 1938
1938 SEP 23 PM. 2 31
cater
 Hull, Secretary  State
29-38
AND RECOROS
SEP 24 1938
cvision of
ear Se
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Conete If Chrtatian
Churches of Southern California,
894.24/334
held July 25-31 it Long Beach,
Califoinia, paesed the following
resolutionn :
I hereas American airplanee,
gacaline, and musictione are used
by Japan for the bombardment of
Ehinese cities, and the consequent
slaughter of innoeent people, and
for the destruction of the only
T
meane of subsistence of milliong
in china; and since raw materials
and inachinery imported from
A
America are purchased by Japan for
8
the invasion of China reaulting in
frightful slaughter and human agony.

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.91)
Whereas e poliny of selling
munitione to Japan do a ruthlese
making of profit from the blood
and teare of imillerne ifineacent
people, and whe n pur sued while
we proteet a gainst apaneed tuth
leseness is inco nsestent ind
pharisaical on our part.
Be it resolved t. - we urge
the Government of the United
States' lo ut ints effent a "Polecy
 Non-Partecepateow in lyression"by
stopping the shepment to agressor
nativ ns of all goods that can be
used by their military forcee, and
that immedeate stepe be taken
to slop their shipment to. Japan.
Also, we urge that any meaaure
possible for peace-loving people he
taken to aid China in ite desperate
resistance to the invaders.
Authorized by the

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.87)
Baldeven Vark, Chrestean heerch
on Augrust 21, 1938.
Respectfully,
(delegate: Mre Mlie S Mason
(pastar) Aer S Ini. Ber nard

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.94)
beptember 80 1938.
My dear Mr. Bernard:
The reseipt is acknowledged of the letter of August 25,
1oss, signed by you and Mrs. Ollie L. Mason, in regard to a
resolution adopted by your Chureh in favor of this Govern-
894.24/384
ment preventing "the shipment to aggressor nations of all
goods that ean be used by their military foroes", immediate
prohibition against the shipment of sueh goods to Japan
and the adeption of any measures possible to aid China in
18s present confliet.
I appreelate your courtesy in informing me coneerning
this resslusion.
As you are doubtless aware, seetion 1 (a) ef the
Jeint Reselutien ef Gomgrees approved May 1, 19st, e copy
of whieh is enelesed for your sonvenient reforenee, pre-
védse thas whenever the Presideat shall find that there
ts a tte of var between or meng twe er more fereign
states
The Reverend
araard,

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
states he shall proelaim such faet. Should the President
issms a proelmation finding that a state of war exists
betwden China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and
implememts of war to both those countries would immediately
be prohibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aet. In the
absemse of such a proslamation, howe ver, there exists no
legal anthority for preventing the export of arms either to
beth those ountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this ountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provislons of the
Jeint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partieular
situation the President must take into ascount various
fasters and partieularly the broad, general interests of
this eountry and its nationals. In the present situatiom
in the Far East, the President has coneluded that, in the
light of all the fasts and eireumstanees, when weighed
frem a practieal point of view, it wuld not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whele
to imveke the previsions of this Joint Resolution.

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.93)
-3
of State to prohibit the export of commoditles other than
arms, ammmition and implements of war. The artieles and
materials whieh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are emmerated in the President's Pree-
lamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part II
of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet, Iaternatlonal Traffle
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 1, 1959,
the Department of State has issued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to Caina in the
value of $14,206,817.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,700,726.93.
I may add, with referenee to the bombing of alvilian
populations and the probable danger to Amerieane and Ameri-
eam interests abroad, that the Seeretary of State has stated
publiely on repeated ossasions that this Government con-
domme the bombing of eivilian populations or its material
ensouragement. The Government's condemnation of this
prastise has been expressed directly to all manufacturers
and exporters in this country of airplames and seronautieal
OR 
equipment.
SEP 29 1938.
simeerely yours,
Q
Sherles W. Yost, Assistast Ghiet
arzñee of Arme and Mamitiene Gontãeß
nOw

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.97)
Division of
Sept 7. '38
RECEIVED WEST DOVER
Jear Sumner,
I bothered you earlier in the Summer
to stop the exporting of war-materials to Japan;
and you anawered that without Congressional con-
to try for compulsory stopping of exports; but
meanwhile why could not Secretary Hull REUEST
terials, - as he did in regard to bombing planes
AND THEN publish widely the names of all who
disregarded the request? What would be the objee-
tion to this, and would it not at least reduce
greatly the amonnt of the shaneful trade which
is now disgracing our nation? I confess I see red
when I read such a quotation as the following;
894.24/38
AMERICA'S MORALITY
"We Japanese have no fear of any change in America's foreign
policy for Americans have no real morality but only pious phrases.
What Americans have means so much more to them than what
they are that they will continue to sell to Japan whatever Japan
has the money to pay for, regardless of what Japan does with it
after she gets it."
—Japanese representative.
and realize that certain corperations and iiai-
5
viduals are responsible for such statements
Yours very sincerely
S. Warren
Sturges
CA

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 29, 1938.
U:
894.2-5
In the second paragraph of the
attached draft of a reply to Mr.
sturgis, we have followed closely the
phraseology in the final paragraph
of a letter of September 20 to Mr.
Tinkham in which answer was given to
a question put to Mr. Tinkham by a
constituent. There is, you may care
to note, a marked similarity between
the question raised by Mr. Tinkham's
constituent and that raised by Mr.
Sturgis in his letter to you.
(Mr. Tinkham's letter and a copy of
the Department's reply are attached).
FE:Vidoent:REK

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
September 27, 1938
TAR LASTERN ATIAIHS
FE
A
Mr. Hamilton:
I have here a further letter
from Mr. S. Warren Sturgis, one of
my old masters at Groton School.
Will you be kind enough to draft
some appropriate reply for me. I
address him as "Mr. Sturgis".

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.94)
september 29 1938.
y dear r. sturgis:
I have your letter of September 7, l938, in mhich
894.
you inquire why the Secretary could not request cessa-
tien of all shipments of war materials, as he did in
24/38
the oase of bombing planes, and then publish widely the
names of all who disregarded the request.
5
In answering your question, I my state that the
Department's action in urging the manufacturers and ex-
perters in this country of airplanes and aeronautieal
equipment met te sell or expors their products to coun-
tries whese armed forees are engaged in the bombing of
eivilian populations was based upen this country'e gomeral
and unreserved condemnation, to whieh the Secretary has
given expression repeatedly in publie usterances, of that
sype of activity. Only in such exceptlemal eases does
the Bepartment take actien of that advisery character.
A
C
FILED
5=1938
.s.are 
Weat Bever,
Vermens.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.92)
I have noted with sympathetio interest the com-
ments and views contaimed in your letter and appreeiate
the spirit and metives which prompted you te write.
with kind regards,
sinoerely yours,
Sumner Welles
1
CR
8EP 291938.PM
CA
FE
9/20/38
m.7./d.
Cvg

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.94)
ther 80 1958.
CANAAN COUNTRY SCHOOL
LHTO
RECEIVED
M
PARTMENT OF STATE
September 12, 1938
1938 SEP 24AM 910
The President of the United States
The White House
MMJNICATIONS
Washington, D. C.
AND RECORDS
Dear Mr. President:
It seems evident that we Americans are be-
coming increasingly conscious as a people of the fact
that Japan's war machine would soon be stalled with-
894.24
out American aid in the form of financial credits and
war materials. As a result of this realization, people
894.24/386
are discussing ways and means whereby this distressing
partnership might b, terminated. Truly we share at
present in Japan's war guilt.
There seems to be no douut as to your own
views regarding Japanese aggression in China and the
violation by Japan of solemn treaties to which both
the United States and Japan are parties. It is our
humble opinion that the people of America generally
are coming to share your views and to demand action.
The time seems ripe for measures by our government to
prohibit the export of war supplies to Japan.
It is our earnest hope that you will see fit
to back such measures at the next session of the Congress.
If as chief executive you were able to discover under
existing laws a direct and quicker method for dealing
with the problem, you would undoubtedly find popular
support.  The people of Japan are not our enemies, but
we are determined to have no share in the ruthless
aggression of the Japanese military clique in China.
Sincerely yours,
Henng N Wo0000
F/A
FAR EASTERN ALTAINS
SEP29 1938
Henry H. Welles
7
Departinen or Srate
Headmaster
7.
FILED
2.2
HHW:S

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.94)
80 1938.
etember
refer to
My dear Mr. Welles:
By referenee from the White House I acknowledge the
reeeipt of your letter of September 12, 1938, 1n regard
to the situation now obtaining in the Far Last.
894.24/386
Your somments with referenee to the adoption of measures
 this Gevernment to prohibit the export of war supplies to
Japan have been noted and will, I need not add, reeeive ap-
propriate attontion.
As you doubtless are aware at the present time there
1s no statute in existenee whiah would authorise the Presi-
dens to prehibit the export of arms, amsunition and imple-
ments of war to ene belligerent eountry and net to the
ether. In this connestion I am enelosing for your eon-
venient referenee a copy of the Joint Mesolution of Gongress
appreved May 1, l9st, amending the Joint Resolutien of
st , l9ss. You mll obeeve that Seetien 1 (a) ef
F/A
omnestsous.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.95)
this Joint Resolution provides that whenever the President
shall find that there exists a state of war between or
among twe er more foreign states he shall preelaie seck
fast. smould the President 1ssue a proelamation finding that
a state of war exists between China and Japan the export ef
arms, ammunition and implements of war and the extension of
eredite to both those countries would immediately be pro-
mibited by the terms of the Noutrallty Aot. In the absenee
of smeh a proelamaticn, however, there exists no legal au-
thority for preventing the export of arms or the extension
of eredits either to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
the question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Jeint Resolution shall be invoked is properly lert to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account varioms
fasters sme partieularly the broad, general interests of
this ceuatry and its nationals. In the present sitmation
in the Par mst, the President has consluded that, in the
light of all the faets and eireumstanees, when weighel
 a prestieal point of viov, it would not bo to the
tiatereste ef thie osntry nd ur people as a hole

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.90)
-3-
so invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Noutrality Lot, moreover, does not under any
sireumstanses suthorise the President or the seeretary
of state to prohibit the export of commodities other them
arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artieles
and materials which are considered to be arms, ammunition
and implements of war are enumerated in the President's
Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under
Part II of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet, International
You may be 1nterested to know that sinoe July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has 1ssued l1censes for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
valwe of 1e,ze6,a17.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
10,708,726.93.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
maries v. Yost, Assistant Chief
Ofrise of Arms and Mmitions Gontrel
SEP 29 1958.
esiesuress
Joims meselution.
true
copy of
amt
he sighad origi-
ycou

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.97)
Second Presbyterian Charch
RECEIVEL
JEFARTMENT OF STA
80 1938.
ach 9-28-38
tember
MIT1938 SER.23 AM 10 31September 1, 1938
DIVIS N
Honorable CommaNICHJJHll,
Secretary OANBUEOORDS
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Hull:
I have admired and supported the position of the
administration as to international affairs. I an wondering
if the state department should not encourage the taking of
immediate steps to stop the shipment of all arms and war
material to Japan.
The statement is abroad and voiced freely by
Chinese authorities that Japan could not continue this war
without this aid given by the United States.
8
6
Moreover, it has been asserted that most of these
94.2
shipments of war materials and accessories are made on long
term credits.
24/38
This, if true, seems to us to be in effect aiding
Japan in its unjust, inhuman, and arbitrary military aim
to conquer China by force.it is said that 31,000,000
Chinese refugees have fled from East China to West China
7
before the ravages of Japanese militarism.
Are we nationally culpable in this matter ? I
believe in national idealism and do not think it is
justifiable for the sake of profit to prejudice the cause
of a people who are fighting for deliverance from what you
have weli called international highwaymen. Please remember
that the God of nations still lives and w ll bless America
as she befriends the weak in their fight against oppression
and tyranny.
I have the honor to be,
FAR 1
~IlAINS
Cordially yours,
Frank m. Silaley
F/A
President of the Evanston, Illinois
Ministers' Association
(An Organization of Sixty Members)
FMS.P

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.92)
oeptember 80 1938.
My oar ur. silsley!
The reseipt is aoknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber m, loss, in regard to the export of war and other
materials to Japan.
894.24/387
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution mpproved. August 31, 1935. You w1ll eb-
serve that Sestion 1 (a) of thie Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exista a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states me
shall proelaim sueh fact. Should the President iesme a
preelamation fineing that e state of war exists betwsen
Gina and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and implememte
of war and the exteneion ef long term eredits to both those
countriee would immedlately be prehibited by the terms ef
she Moutralisy Ass. In the abeense ef such a preelmmatien.
however.
I
Ministera' Assosintion,

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.97)
however, there exists no legal authority for preventing the
export of arms or the extension of eredits either to beth
those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this oountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into aocount various
fastors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
In the Far East, the President has coneluded that, in the
light of all the facts and eiroumstanees,mhen weighed from
a praetieal point of view, it would not be to the best
interests of this country and our people as a whole to
invake the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not under eny
aireumstanees authorise the President or the seeretary
of state te prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artieles and
materials whieh are sonsidered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are emumerated in' the president's Pree-
1matien of May 1, 10s7, whiah 10 set forth under Part X1

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.88)
-3
of the enelossd opy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffle.
AL.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, lost,
the Department of state has issued lioenses for the expert
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to Ohine in the
value of $14, 268, 817.1l and to Japan in the value of
10,708,726.93.
sinoorely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Ohier
Offioe of Arms and Munitions Control
Bmelesures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
SEP 29 193.
pnd
the signed origi-
GAIRVEI9-20-30
reees
cLz

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.93)
Washington Park
tember 80 1938.
RECEIVEU
ARTMFNPtethodist Episcopal Church
1938 SEP 24 AM 9 47robidence, R. J.
Corner Broad St. and Alabama Abe.
Cuch2 9 29-39
RrH/Emiy
DIVISCN
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
September 21, 1938
LAK LADILAN ALLAIND
Hon. Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
894.24/388
in
Sir:
At a Quarterly Conference of the Washington
Park Methodist Episcopal Church of Providence,
Rhode Island held recently, the Secretary of the
Conference was directed by a unanimous vote to
forward to you the enclosed letter.
Respect fully
lecoal
Secretary

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
Washington Park
Methodist Episropal Church
Corner Broad St. and Alabama Abe.
Probidence, K. J.
September 21, 1938
Hon. Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
May we respectfully urge you to do everything
in your power to aid in bringing to an end the war-
sustaining traffic which is making The United States
a partner in the Far Eastern conflict, and which is so
wantonly destroying the lives and property of the Chinese
people, with which we have long had the most friendly
relations.
Respectfully
Secretary of the Quarterly Conference

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.94)
ptember 80 1938.
My dear Mr. stewart:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your letter of septem-
ber 21, l93s, in regard to the situation now obtaining in
the Far East.
As you doubtless are aware, Seotion 1 (a) of the
8
Joint Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, a copy
6
4
of which is enelosed for your oonvenient referense, pro-
24/
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two or more foreign
C.
88
states he shall preelaim sueh faet. should the President
1ssme a proelamation finding that a state of war exists
between China and Japan the export of arms, ammumition and
implements of war to both those ountries would immediately
be prohibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aet. In the
abeenee of sueh a preelamation, however, there exists me
legal smthority for preventing the export of arme either
to beth those ountries or to Japan alone.
3
Mr. Fredesiek B. stewart,
R/
A

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this oountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be 1nvoked 1s properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
ation the President must take into account various faetors
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this ∞un-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far East, the President has concluded that, in the light of
all the facts and oiroumstanees, when weighed from a prao-
tieal point of view, it would not be to the best interests
of this country and our people as a whole to invoke the pre-
visions of this Joint Resolution.
The Noutrality Aet, moreover, does not under any eiro
oumstanees mthorize the President or the Seeretary of
state to prehibit the export of commodities other than arms,
samemition and implements of war. The artieles and ma-
terials whieh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements ef war are emumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part XI
of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet, Iateraatlomal Tratthe

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.89)
the Department of state has issued licenses for the export
of arms, ammumition and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,966,817.11 and to Japan in the value of
10,708,726.93.
sineerely yours,
For the Searetary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enelosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
H
OR
SEP 30 1938.
Qu
A true
the gingrit
5
mal.
pmt
20-50
sew

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.94)
H
7
D. BREWER EDDY
RICLIVED
14 BEACON STREET
AUTMLNT OF AI-
BOSTON. MASS.
1938 SFP 26 AM 9 49
September 23, 1938.
OF
COM..
TIONS
Ckq-29-3
AND ML:CORDS
894.24
Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State,
State Department,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
May I add one more to the large number of persons
who are protesting the exportetion of munitions to Japen
under these present circumstances? I find myself in marked
sympathy with the pemphlet which is well known to you,
894.24/38
"America's Share in Japan's War Guilt", ana I believe our
nation is now in morel aefault in permittirg the exportation
of munitions, gasolire, steel anu iron products, ana I further
believe that the administration shouid finu some vay of limit-
ing this exportation.
There are many technical difficulties in the vay,
but the principles of moral righteousness snould transcend the
opportunity for financial gain on the part of private firms
6
engaged in this unrighteous traffic.
I am speaking constantly on the platform, meinly
in the east, and my euuiences show a heavy majority in hearty
favor of a stronger moral stanu on the part of the United
States. We vould commend you for courageous utterances in
this matter, but are waiting eagerly to see something more
defirite done by the Admiristration to check this traffic.
Very sincerely yours,
Eddy
Brewer
FAR LASIEAN ALL
DBE/H
Ue
Thi
公
F/A
FILED
11

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.95)
beptember 80 1938.
My dear Mr. Eddy:
The receipt 1s aaknowledged of your letter of Septem-
894.24/389
ber 23, 1988, in regard to the export to Japan of munitions,
gasoline, steel and iron produots.
There is tranmitted herewith a oopy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will ob-
serve that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that thenever the President shall find that there exists a
stpte of war between or among two or more foreign states
me shall proelaim sueh faot. Should the President isswe
a preelamation finding that a state of war exists between
cime and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
mante of war to both those ountries would immediately be
prehibited by the Serme of the Noutrality Aet. In the
ameeaee ef mah a preslamation, hovever, there exists no
F/A
200m

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.95)
legal mthority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Rosolution shall be 1nvoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partieular
situation the President must take into account various
factors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
1n the Far East, the President has oonoluded that, in the
light of all the facts and oiroumstanees, when weighed
from a praotleal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this oountry and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Meutrality Aet, moreover, does not under any eir-
sumstanses authorize the President or the Seeretary of State
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms, am-
nitiom and implements of war. The artieles and materials
whieh are conaidered to be arms, ammmnition and implements
of war are exumerated in the President's Proalamatiom ef
1, 1937, which 1s set ferth under Part I of the emslessd
2

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.96)
-3
will be noted that gasoline, steel and iron products are
mot imoluded among the artieles listed in this proelame-
tion. In this onneetion your attention 1s invited to
Bestion 1 (d) of the Moutrality Aot. I may add that the
artieles and materials enumerated in the Proelamation of
April 10, 1936 and 1n the Geneva Convention of 192s were
of the same general character as those enumerated in the
President's Proelamat1on of May 1, 1937. Accordingly,
no statutory authority exists whiah would authorize the
President to prohibit the export of gasoline, steel and
1ron produots to Japan or to any foreign country.
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 1, 1957,
the Department of State has issued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and imolements of war to China in the
valme of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,708,726.93.
sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Ghief
offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
elesures:
OR
Joint Resslution.
SEP 29 1938.
Pamphlet.
pew

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.96)
EVARTS G. LOOMIS COMPA
CELLULOGE AND PLASTIG
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
EQUIPMENT
RECE
126 S0. 14TH STREET
MOLDING PRESSES
PARTMENT OF STATE
NEWARK, N. J.
LOOMIG SWING JOINTS
TELEPHONE HUMBOLDT 2-5041
1938 SEP 27 AM 11 33
HYDRAULIC PUMPS, VALVES AND
FITTINGS
September 26,1938
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
SFD
1938
October 1 1958,
ack 9.30-58
844.24
RYH/Emu
Mr. Cordell Hull,
894.24/390
Secretary of State,
IEAR ATAIHS
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
If you have not seen or read the enclosed
booklet on what we, you and I, are allowing and thus
helping to be done in China, please do read it and
pass it along to others.
A few days ago I saw a Japanese freight
steamer about to leave Brooklyn and being loaded
with boxes and crates marked airplane motors, motor
trucks, as well as steel and, I Was told, shrapnel.
He are not merely "passing by on the other
side", we, so called Christians, American citizens,
are sending 54% of the eguipment and materials used
for the starvation, maimimg and killing of millions
of innocent women, children babies, as well as men,
for which we are getting millions of filthy dollars
and giving the United States & terribly black name.
We are depending on you to run our govern-
ment and demand that you do something imuediately
toward wiping out the suirch on our country.
Very truly yours,
OCT
F
EVARTS G. LOOMIS
Evart, 9. Lomis
EGL:EC
3
ED
3.1
3
8

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.86)
October 1 1938.
Im reply refer to
My dear Mr. Loomis:
The reseipt is acknowledged of your letter of septem-
894.24/39
ber 26, 1938, in regard to the export of war and other ma-
terials to Japan.
As you doubtless are aware, Seation 1 (a) of the
Joint Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, a copy
6
O
of which is enelosed for your ∞nvenient referenee, previdss
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states he
shall preelaim sueh faet. Should the president issue a
preelemation finding that a state of war esists betweem
Gmine and Japan the export of arms, ammumition and imple-
menss of mar to beth those countes o smmedlately be
prehibated by the torme of the Noutsality Aet. In the
absenee of such a preelemation, mowever, shere ezists me
legal sathority for preventang the emport ef amme elther
0
F
11
.
1 Soth Poenth stet,
Ma, ee deee.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Jeimt
Resolution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this coumtry out
of war. The question as to whether and when the pre-
visions of the Joint Resolution ahall be invoked 1s
properly left to the sound diseretion of the President.
In deeiding whether he should invoke the Joint Resolu-
tion in a partioular situation the President must take
into account varlous factors and partioularly the broad,
gemeral interests of this country and its nationals,
In the present situation in the Far East, the Presidemt
has conoluded that, in the light of all the fasts and
ciroumstanees, when weighed from a praetieal point of
view, it would not be to the best interests of this coun-
try and our people as a whole to invoke the provisloms
of this Joint Resolution.
Mereover, the Neutrality Aet does not under any
eireumstanees authorize the President or the Beeretary
of state to prohibit the export of eommodities ether them
arms, ammumition and implements of war. The artieles
materials whieh are considered to be arss, ammumition
and implements of war are emmmerated in the Presicemtts

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.92)
Traftte in Arme.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, 1937.
the Department of state has issmed licenses for the expert
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan in the value of
10,708,726.93.
with reference to the bombing of civillan populations
and the probable danger to Americans and Ameriean interests
abroad, the Seoretary of State has stated publioly on re-
peated ocoaslons that this Government condemns the bombing
of clvilian populations or its material enoouragement.
The Government's condemnation of this praotiee has beem
expressed directly to all manufacturers and exporters in
this country of alrplanes and aeronautical equipment.
Bineerely yours,
Charles w. Yost, Assiatant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
OCT 138.
Enclesures:
Joimt Reselution.
Pamphlet.
A true (on)
omt
the signed
nal.
5
20u
GAI RVEI ES

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.94)
Buke Hniversity
DURHAM
RECEIVEHCAROLINA
CFARTHENT OF STA
SEP:1938
Ack9 30/39
OF PHILOSOPHY
1938 SEP 27 AM 11 33
Hon. Cordell Hull.
Department of SttHU CAlloNS
WaBhington, D.C. AND FECORDS
11938.
ster
294.24
Dear Sir:-
894.24/391
I am writing to urge you to stop the trade
in goods destined for military usage between the U.S.
and china. I am thoroughly ashamed of my country that
we should thus be assisting a country like Japan, which
i so thoroughly condemned thruought the country by all
olasses. rhis trade furthermor earne us merely contempt
in the eyes of the Japanese, and weakening our prestige
in the rar East where we need it most. We ahould do
nothing less than stop supplying Japan with materiale for
war/ and what can be used for that purpose, in order to
avoid outting off our own noses.
Very respectfully,
Ho
FILED
LAN LASTLÓN AFTAIRS
F/A
2014
Sate
11

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.93)
C010ber 1 1938.
My dear Mr. Dubs:
The reeeipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 2s, 19ss, in regard to the situation mew obtaining in
894.24/3
the Far mst.
As you doubtless are aware, sestion 1 (a) of the
Jeint Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, a oopy
of whieh is enelosed for your convenient referenee, provides
16
that whenever the President shall find that there existe a
state of war between or among twe or more foreign states he
shall preelaim sueh faet. should she President ismme a
proelematlon finding that a state of war exists between
Ghina and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
mente of war to both those countries would immediately be
prehibited by the terms of the Noutralisy Ast. In the
abseame ef sush a proelamation, hovever, there exiate nmo
 for preventi the eport of me either
Careline.

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.97)
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint
Resolution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out
of war. The question as to whether and when the pro-
visions of the Joint Resolution shall be 1nvoked 1s
properly left to the sound disoretion of the President.
In deeiding whether he should invoke the Joint Resolu-
tion in a partioular situation the President must take
into account various faetors and partioularly the broad,
general interests of this country and its nationals.
In the present situation in the Far East, the Pres1dent
has ooneluded that, 1n the light of all the fasts and
siroumstanees, when weighed fron a practieal point of
vlew, it wowld not be to the best interests of this coun-
try and our people as a whole to invoke the provisions
of this Joint Resolution.
Moreover, the Neutrality Aet does not under ang
siroumstanees uthorise the President or the Seeretary
of state to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, ammumition and implements of war. The artieles
and materials whiek are considered to be arms, ammunition
and implements of war are emumerated in the Presidest's
Preslamation of May 1, 1937, which is set forth wmder
pe xl of the enelosed copr of the peéphlet, Lateraatlenak

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.92)
-8-
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 1, 1957,
the Depertment of state has 1ssued l1oenses for the export
of ares, mmanition and implements of war to Chine in the
value of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,708,726.93.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Ohief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
Jdapt Rosolution.
Pamphlet.
CR
OCI 1 1938.
A true coj.
the signe
5
nal.
ryau

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.94)
SH
1 1958.
ccober
SUFFIELD ACADEMY
RECEIVEL
DEFARTMENT OF STA
SUFFIELD
grant
CONNECTICUT
SEP81938
ADMASTER
GAGE
Gok 4-29-18
1938 SEP 27 AM 11 32
September 26, 1938.
OF
COMMUHCATIONS
AND HECORDS
Secretary of State,
Vashington, D. C.,
894.24/392
Dear Mr. Secretary:
Allow me to express my deep appreciation
of the statement in your address at Fashville on June third
and other similar statements reg:rding the use of armed force
to attain national ends through aggression and aggrandizement.
Your statement is very true that such force "is being employed
with brutality and savagery that outrage and shock every humane
instinct".
In making this statement, you doubtless had
in mind the aggressive warfare of Japan in China, and it is my
hope that you may find the means to prevent America's partnership
in this aggression and brutality by the sale of munitions and
raw materials to Japan.
Very truly yours,
Brownell Jase
F/A
FILED
A
Departme

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.90)
October 1 1958.
My dear Mr. Gage:
The reseipt 1s aaknowledged of your letter of Beptem-
894.24/392
ber 28, l938, in regard to the export of war and other
materiale to Japan.
Your eemmendatory remarke with reference to the seere-
tary's mddress of June 3, l9ss, and similar aéaressas are
Geophy appreslated. I assure you that your intorest and
suppert are indeed encouraging and helpful.
As you doubtless are aware, seetion 1 (a) of the
Jeint Resolution of Gongress approved May 1, 1957, a copy
of whieh is enelosed for your convenient referenee, proviees
that whemsver the President shall find that shere exists e
state of war between or ameng twe or more foreign states he
shall preelaim such faet. Should the President issue a
preslemation finding thet a state of war exists between
cmine and Japan the expert of arms, ammunition and iuple-
mosns of wor te both those ountries mtie Lmedsasely be
prokibssed
F
11

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.97)
prohibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aot. In the
absenee of sueh a proelamation, however, there exists no
legal mthority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint
Resolution of May 1, 1937, is to keep this country out
of war. The question as to whether and when the pro-
visions of the Joint Resolution ahall be invoked 1s
properly left to the sound diseretion of the President.
In deeiding whether he should invoke the Joint Resolu-
tiom in a partioular situation the President must take
1nto account various factors and partioularly the broad,
general intereste of this country and its nationals.
In the present situation in the Par East, the President
has coneluded that, in the light of all the fasts and
cireumstanees, when welghed from a praetieal point ef
view, it would not be to the best interests of this coun-
tay and our people as a whole to invoke the provisions
of this Joint Resolution.
Moreever, the Neutrality Aet dees not under any
sireumstemees smtherise the President or the seerstary
of state to prehibit the export of semmodities other
tham arme, ammamition and iaplemente of war. the

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.93)
-3
ammmmition and implements of war are enumerated in the
President's Proelemation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set
forth under Part II of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet,
Internatienel Traffte in Arne.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has issued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,266,a17.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,708,726.93.
Sincerely yours,
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offioe of Arms and Munitions dontrol
Enclosures!
Joint mesolution.
Pamphlet.
OR
SEP 30 1938.PM
A true copy of
the sihe origt-
0
nal,
and

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.98)
Telophone CENtral 2029
The Chicago Round Table
Chalrmen
General Cherles . Dawes
of the
Vice-Chairmen
National Conference of Jews and Christians
Albert D. Lasker
Judge J. P. McGoorty
For Justice, Amity and Understanding among Protestants, Catholics and Jews
Fred W. Sargent
203 North Wabash Avenue — Chicago, III.
Treesurer
James Davis
Cheirmen of
Plaance Committee
September 29,1938
Arthur Andersen
Executive Secretery
James M. Yard, D.D.
Executive Committee
Augustine J. Bowe
Homer J. Buckley
Mr. Charles W.Yost,
George A. Chritton
Assistant Chief,
S. J. Duncan-Clark
Office of Arms and Munitions Control,
John Fitzpatrick
W. E. Garrison
Department of State,
894.24/393
Mrs. Charles W. Gilkey
Washington, D.C.
William H. Haight
Mrs. William S. Hefferen
CA 894.24/360
Mrs. Frank P. Hixon
Martin H. Kennelly
Dear Mr. Yost:-
Sol Kline
Frank Knox
Gerson B. Levi
Thank you very much for your letter of
Salmon O. Levinson
September 23rd in reply to mine of the
Sigmund Livingston
15th. I am of course aware of the technical
Louis L Mann
diffioulties and also know that we have sent
Mrs. Andrew MacLeish
Merrill C. Meigs
more war materials to China than Japan.
Joseph Przydetek
Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon
Nevertheless in the interest of China who is
Edwin H. Thomas
invaded by the aggressor, Japan, I believe
that we should apply the Neutrality Law at
Natlesal Cheirmen
Prof. Arthur H. Compton
once. Why pretend there is no war between
Prof. Carlton J. H. Hayes
China and Japan? I have word from China that
Roger W. Straus
the Chinese government would be pleased to
FILED
have the Neutrality Law applied. I am hoping
therefore that unless or until the Law is
amended or repealed, that it will be applied.
yory truly yours,
ques luyard
James M.Yart.
JMY:SLC.
F/A

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.93)
CA
RMAN
AT M. LA POLLETTE, JR., WIS.
HUR CAPPER, KANS.
THUR H. VANDENDERG, MICH.
lnited States Senate
JAMES J. DAVIS, PA.
TE
, MO.
COMMITTEE ON FINANAITUFN
JAN, CONN.
R.1.
PEY. PA.
LIKLEY, OHIO
M. BROWN, MICH.
Dctber 19 1938
HERRIN, IOWA
WASHINGTON, D36 OCT
C. JOHNSON, COLO.
September 30th, 1938
PELTON M. JOHNSTON, CLERK
DIVISION OF
COMMUNILIONS
AND RECURDS
894.24
Secretary of State,
Department of State,
Washingtcn, D.C.
Gck 10-5-68
Dear Sir:
RVH/am
I refer for appropriate attention a letter
from Mrs. Edgerton Parsons, of Hadlyme, Conn.,
a copy of which has been retained for my files.
894.24/394
Very truly yours
AUGUSTINE LONERGAN.
L/J*h
Encl.
00TT
FTLED
1936
F/FG
4

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.97)
Hadlyme, Conn.,
September 29, 1938.
Honorable Augustine Lonergan,
SonateOffice Building,
Washington, D.C.
Sir:-
I endorse government and people's action to halt the flow of
American munitions and war supplies to Japan so long as the invasion
of China continues, and I urge that action be taken to that end.
Very truly yours,
人
(Mrs. Edgerton Parsons).

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.96)
7 1938.
eetober
My dear Mre. Parsons:
At the request of the Honorable Augustine Lonergan,
United States Senator from Oonneotiout, I acknowledge the
894.24/394
receipt of your letter of September 29, 1938, in regard
to the export of munitions and war supplies to Japan.
There is tranamitted herewith & copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will ob-
serve that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall proolaim suoh fact. Should the President 1ssue
a proolametion finding that a state of war exists between
China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
ments of wer to both those countries would immediately be
prohibited by the terms of the Neutrality Act. In the
A1
absence
Mre. Edgerton Persons,
Hadlyme, Conneotiout.

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.98)
absenee of sueh a proslamation, however, there exists no
legal smthority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, l939, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provislons of the
Joint Resolution shall be 1nvoked 1s properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deoiding whether
he shoulm invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into acoount various
faotors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
1n the Far East, the President has conoluded that, in the
light of all the faots and oiroumstanoes, when weighed
from a praotloal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provislons of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Act, moreover, does not authorize the
Presldent or the Seoretary of State under any oiroumstanees
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms, am-
munition and implements of war. The artieles and materials
which are considered to be arms, ammunition and implemente
of war are enumerated in the President's Proelamation of
May 1, 1937, whioh is set forth under Part II of the
enolosed

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.90)
-3
enelosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffle in
AnEs
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, 1937,
the Department of state has issued lieenses for the expert
of arss, ammunition and implemaats of war to China in the
value of $14,28s,a17.1l and to Japan in the value of
$10,715,942.88.
with referenee to the bombang of eivilian populations
and the probable danger to Americans and Ameriean interests
abroad, the seeretary of state has stated publiely on re-
peated occasions that this Government condemns the bombing
of eivilian populations or 1ts material enoouragement.
The Government's condemnetion of this prastiee has been
expressed direetly to all mamufacturers and exporters in
this country of airplanes and aeronautical equipment.
Sineerely yours,
Jeseph C. Green, Chlef
offiee ef Arms anémitions Contrel
OR
OC1 6 1938.PM
A true copy
—Q
na!.
Jeint Reselution.
5:pmt

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.92)
vctober 7 1938.
My dear Senator Lomergan:
I acknowledge the reseipt of your letter of Septem-
894.24/394
ber 30, 1938, enelosing a letter from Mrs. Edgerton
Parsons, Hadlyme, Conneetiout, in regard to the export
of mumitions and war supplies to Japan.
There is enelosed for your information a copy of
the letter whish 1s being addressed to Mrs. Parsons in
reply to her letter.
sineerely yours,
Sumner Welles
melesure!
Leting Secretary
Gopy of letter to
Mrs. Parsons.
OR
OCT 6 1938.PM
The Xenorable
F/A
A true copy of
Angustine Lenergen,
the sig igi
aal.
Unised states Semase.

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.98)
894.24
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/13885
SEE
FOR
Linton, Irwin H.
Sept 14, 1938.
FROM
-)
DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.24/ 39
Sale of arms and munitions to Japan: report on Japanese atrocities
REGARDING:
from U.S. missionary in China, recommending discontinuance of-,
FRG.
5

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.96)
894.24
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
793.94/13894
FORTel #205; 10pm
FROMGeneva
(..Bucknell) DATED_.Sept.16..l938.
TO
NAME
1-1127
Embargo against Japan of arms, munitions, airplanes, oil, es-
REGARDING:
sential raw materials, financial credits: recommended by Koo
in his speech berore the Assemby, today.
FRG.
39

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.24/
500.C 1113/87
Tel #10965pm
SEE
FOR
397
FROM
General Disarmament
Harrison
DATED
Sept. 20, 1938
Conference
AMDEL
TO
NAME
1-1127
In the Third Committee of the League of Nations,
REGARDING:
the Chinese delegate urged an embargo on military
planes and oil to Japan.
W

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.88)
CH
CHARLES L. MCNARY, OREGON
CHAIRMAN
lnited States Senate
CONFERENCE OF THE MINORITY
1938 0CT 6 AM 9 07
October 4,193
OPAH
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
824/7
Honorable Corcell Hull
Secrttary ui State
Vashington, L. C.
844.24
My cear Mr. Secretery:
rsu
Mr. ne Mr. Lonard B. rter, of
Veritas Orchards, Jedfore, Qregon, heave writ en me
testing strongly ugainet t fric in munitions to J pn.
894.24/398
Mr. and Mrs. Carpenter feel lat this country shoslo
take action to prevent un iu or tis c r vter to the
Japanese in their warfare  t the Chi ts. I shal
welcome your comments.
Very sincercly y ,
bast
FLEL
McN:KH
F/FG
u

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
Uctoter 81938.
My doar Senator MoNary:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of Ootober 4,
1938, in which you refer to a letter written to you by
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard B. Carpenter of Veritas Orohards,
Meaford, Oregon, in regard to the export of munitions to
894.24/398
Japan.
It is suggested that you may wiah to transmit to
Mr. and Mrs. Carpenter the enolosed coples of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1957, and the
pamphlet International Traffio in Arma and inform them
somewhat along the following lines:
It will be observed that Seotion 1 (a) of this
Joint Resolutlon provides that, whenever the Presi-
dent shall find that there exists a state of war be-
tween or emong two or more foreign states, he shall
proolaim such fact. Should the President 1ssue a
proolamation finding that a state of war exists be-
tween China and Japan, the export of arms, ammuni-
tion, and implements of war to both those countries
would immediately be prohibited by the terms of the
Neutrality
F/A
The Honorable
Charles L. MoNary.
United States Senate.

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.97)
Neutrality Aet. In the absenee of sush a proelame-
tion, however, there exists no legal anthority for
preventing the export of arms either to both those
coumtries or to Japan alone.
Moreover, the Moutrality Act does not under any
siremstanees authorise the President or the seere-
tary of state to prokibit the export of esmmodities
other than arms, mmmunition and implements of war.
The artieles and materials which are considered to
be arms, mmunition, and implements of war are
emmerated 2n the President's Proolamation of May 1,
1937, which 1s set forth under Part II of the pamphiet.
It may be of interest to know that, sinee July 1,
1957, the Department of state has 1ssued lioenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of wer
to Caina 1n the value of 814,266,817.11 and to Japan
1n the value of $10,708,726.93.
I may add, for your information that the primary
purpose of the Joint Hesolut1on of May 1, 1937, 1s to
keep this oountry out of war. The question as to
whether and when the provislons of the Joint Resolution
shall be invoked is properly left to the sound diseretion
of the President. In deaiding whether he should invoke
the Joint Resolution in a partieular situation, the Presi-
dent must take into account various faetors and partiou-
larly the broad, general interests of this country and
its nationals. In the present situation in the Far East,
the President has eoneluded that, in the ligat of all the
fasts and siroumstanees, when weighed srem a prestieal
petnt of vieu, it weuld not be te the best interests ef

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
this country and our people as a whole to invoke the pro-
visions of this Joint Resolution.
Sinesrely yours,
Sumner Welles
Aeting Seeretary
Enclosures:
Jolnt Resolution.
Pamphlet.
CRH
OCT 8 1938.
Y
Ant
107/8

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.94)
AND
Pasadena Presbgterian Churrh
OCT 6 1938
Pasadena, California
Cek 10-7-39
MINISTERSI
RUH/a
September 18 oF
1938
101938
gtober
The Honorable William G. McAdoo,
United States Senator,
FOR AOKNOWLEDGMENT
Transamerica Building,
AND CONSIDHRATION
Los Angeles, California
MStM Dutyne
894.24/399
Dear Sir:
Secretary to the President
We of the Christian family on the
Pacific Coast, members of the congregation of
the Pasadena Presbyterian Church, resenting the
wanton slaughter of non-combatants by Japanese
in China, and conscious that American made planes
and munitions aid the aggressor in that undeclared
war, respectfully petition the President of these
United States, in accordance with his enunciated
Good Neighbor policy, to take every practicable
step to put moral standards above financial
considerations and end a traffic wherein our people
have become profitable partners in the destruction
of the Chinese.
Very truly yours,
FILED
Rooud freemas
Lizziue B. Masoy
F/A
SMe Ella M. Barner
Maclashar aylor
Arch.F Hayward
Harlan R. Barber
Edward Ash
SranersCole

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.76)
Cnnma d. Cice
Uuna Fistu
Sarah P. Beeley
masmary L. Frerguson
Mo didraa Beutty Dran
mary A Wackinnon
grinds Dglae
Olive A Finsey
mis. Doane th Lowky
Marguerete A. Vaunear
Lillian M. Seluuler
Teraldine I. Fitch.
Ethel U. Ball.
Min Ellen J)L Lushmas.
mrs Orma Ruencall
allem F Aley
Wirs. Floruuce J. Brom
Agned E. Morgan
Mie ie. A en
Nellu A, Conart.
Mrs. a.L amilton.
Marea B Kanuler
Urs. Nellie a. Smith
Chasfoetr H. Sated
Mro Vlalme
Eva M. Fishr
EmmeSoauence
Vriginna Kay Talmer
Fajaipoon
Sarch H Tracey
Ena m. Jackaon
Arrna R. B rulatker
Elezateth L Atough
hip ffieap 
Matyth throard
Ms F loence bardheagh
Floa It Eager
Harrit A. Van Osdel
Ena M.Ordy
Mrs.E.F. Baker.
Pla
Alrca M. Batter,
Mno)mnie 5. foroofas
Int fan Rb. toraugfond
Wby SeolBlack
Olive A. Finay
Miss Jesrica , oce
Beabalea mack atton
Menefe Williarms.
mris Cara R moon
Edoard. Rolr

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.85)
mies TWuth Chrrstman
Beaaie Paraouo
Mis Maraaret O0. racfoleg
a may Campbell
s Malle M. Henducks
Mizs Laura M. Porvell
Frank E.mscreeran
Mrs Metta F. Jalle
J.I.Boorey
Eyu M Frahes
Jamer Lenstiman,
Eduard Ash
Eloise V. Mdlonald
Mus. Kellie B. Sears.
Williamt. Eagen J.
Ebyabith Tiugrec
S. Ada Pomerry

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.94)
vctober 10 1938.
My dear Br. Freemen:
At the request of the Konorable William Gibbe Measoo,
Unised states Senator from California, I acknowledge the
swosipt of your lester of sept ember l8, l93s, containing
the signatures of a number of the members of your congre-
894.24/399
gation in regard to the export of war materials to Japan.
In this conneetion your attention is invited to y
letter of October 6, 1938, in reply to your letter of
September 18, coneerning this same matter.
sineerely yours,
For the Bearetary of state:
Gharles w. Yost, Assistant mief
Ofrice of Arme and Manisiens Gontrel
neacens, Galifernia.
OCT 8 1958.
rue
the
digned
nal.

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.95)
REV. A. B. SIMPSON. FOUNDER
FOREIGN MISBION FIELDS
INDIA
FRENCH WEST AFRICA
CONGO
INDO-CHINA
EPARTMENT
RECEIVED
GO YE INTO ALL THE WORLD
COLOMBIA
ECUADOR
TARY
CHILE
ARGENTINE
7938 SEP 24
BORDER
CRETARY
VID J. FANT
0..
BNEAD
UMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
260 WEST 44TH STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y.
RICO
94.24
RESPEOTFULLY REFERRED
Sepbember
FOR AOKNOWLFDGMENT
Mr. F. D. Roosevelt
AND CONSIDERATION
President of the United States
SEP26 1938
Mst M Tutyne
Washington, D. C.
Cacte 9 29-98
Rrm/emgh
Dear r. Roosevelt:
me
Seoretary to the President
The Board of Managers of our Society meeting in uarterly ses ion today
passed the following resolution unanimously, and as Recording Secretary of the
Board I was instructed to forward it to you:
H, the United States of nerica and many other nations have
indicted Japan as the violator of the Nine-Power Treaty and the Kellog
Fact, in the present Sino-Japanese conflict, fomented by the Military
Party of Japan, and have repeatedly protested against the bombings of
undefended Chinese cities and the unnecessary slaughter of Chinese non-
combatants, and
894.24/400
MR, we feel put to shame that American raw materials are
being used to manufacture weapons of war for Japan, merican planes are
being used to carry American-made bombs for the destruction of Chinese
civilian population, merican shells are loading Japanese guns, and
America is supplying to Japan huge quantities of scrap-iron, oil, trucks
and other materials used in the furtherance of the war, over and above
the amounts of our normal trade of recent years, and
HR, we sympathize with the Chinese people in their desire to
build up an independent, democratic state, an end gravely threatened by
the present aggression of Japan, und deplore the traffic which nakes it
possible for certain merican interests to profit from the wanton de-
struction of the innocent victims of Japanese aggression,
THER FORE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the President
of the United States, in accordance with the principle of his Good Neigh-
bor ennunciation, and in the interest of the people of the United States,
China and Japan, to take every practicable means, direct and indirect, to
bring to an end a traffic from our country which is compelling us to be a
partner in the destruction of the Chinese people.
Our Board of lianagers consists of twenty-four members representing over
500 churches and a constituency of more than 30,O00 people in the United States.
F
Trusting that you may receive divine wisdom and guidance in these trying
days, we are,
Very cordially and prayerfully yours,
kanr
h
D.J.Fant:H
D
D,

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.95)
October 8 1938.
Mydear Mr. Fant:
By referenee from the white House I asknowledge the
reeeipt of your letter of September 15, 193s, in which
you set forth the text of a resolution whioh was adopted
unanimously by the Board of Managers of your organization
894.24/400
in regard to the export of war and other materials to Japan.
Your courtesy in furnishing the President with the
text of this resolution is greatly appresiated.
As you doubtless are aware, Beetion 1 (a) of the
Jeint Reselution of Cengress approved May 1, 1937, a copy
of whish is enelosed for your convenient referenee, pro-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or smong twe or more foreign
states he shall preelaim suek feet. should the Presidest
&ssue a preelamatien finéing that a state of war exists
between Caina and Japan the export of arms, ammumitien and
implements
F
1
A

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.94)
implements of war to both those countries would immediately
be prohibited by the terms of the Noutrality Act. In the
absenee of sueh a proelamation, however, there exists me
legal axthority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those sountries or to Japan alene.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provislons of the
Joint Resolution shall be 1nvoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
ation the President must take 1nto account various factors
and partiemlarly the broad, general interests of this coum-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far East, the President has oonaluded that, in the light of
all the facts and siroumstanees, when weighed from a pras-
tieal point of view, it would not be to the best interests
of this country and our people as a whole to 1nveke the pro-
visiems of this Joint Resolution.
The Meutrality Aet, moreover, does not under any eir-
eunstanees authorise the President or the seeretary of
state to prekibit the export of commodities other them arms,
mitien and implements of war. The artieles and me-
2mp1ememte
1

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.94)
-8
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1957, which 1s set forth under Part II
of the emelosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlemal Traffls
LAD
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee Jaly 1, 193?,
the Department of State has 1ssued licenses for the expert
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,286,817.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,708,726.98.
with referenee to the bombing of oivilian populations
and the probable danger to Amerieans and American interests
abroad, the Searetary of state has stated publialy on re-
peated cscasions that this Government condemns the bombing
of eivilian populations or its material encouragement.
The Goverment's condemnation of this practiee has been
expreseed directly to all manufacturers and exporters in
this country of airplanes and aeronautieal equipment.
sineerely yours,
OR
Charles W. Yost, Assistamt Chief
SEP 80 1938.PM
Offiee of Arms and Mumitions Gontrel
OCT 8 1938.
Emelosures:
Jeint Resolution.
Pamphlot.
art
nal

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.94)
SA
WM. G. OWENS
Datober 6 1958.
RECEIVED
BUOKNELL UNIVERSITY
RTMENT OF STAI:
LEWISBURG, PA.
September 29,1938
Mr. Cordell Hull,
Washington,D.C.
DIVISION OF
COMMUHGATIONS
Lek10-43
AND RECORDS
of Shanghai,China.During all the time that I was there the Japanese
were trying to create an" Incident"which they could use to begin the
war that every one knew was coming but no one couli tell when.The
Japanese boasted that when they had conquored China they would be
independent of the world as far as munitions were concerned.
494.74
If moral obligations do not prevent the United States from
helping Japan subdue China,a nation which for the last decade has
been becoming modern and unified,would it not be good business to
keep the treaties with China &nd not supply Japan with war material?
Those who are selling munitions,cotton, iron and oil may get rich
894.24/401
todey but there will be no business hen China is snother  nchuchuo.
But the United st tes ill neel : strongar navy when epen
contlols everything s r rest s nai,which tiey nov ponler
their limit
Chine is fightirs the vorl ar for Demoercey.tht the Unitei
States shoula not sell  pun m nitions nor unything thet couls be
used for wer purposes is my opinion  ni the opinion of cll mith Mom I
have talked on the subject.
very trul
Mm. 3. Evons
m
F/A
FILED

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.97)
October 6 1938.
My dear Mr. Owene:
The receipt 1s aaknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 29, 1938, in regard to the export of war and other
materiale to Japan.
As you doubtless are aware, Seotion 1 (a) of the
Joint Resolutlon of Congress aporoved May 1, 1937, a copy
of whioh 1s enclosed for your convenient referenoe, pro-
894.24/401
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of wer between or among two or more foreign
states he shall proelaim suoh faot. Should the President
issue a proolemation finding that a state of war exists
betwoen China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and
implements of war to both those countries would immediately
be prohibited by the terme of the Neutrality Aot. In the
absenee of such a proolamation, however, there exists no
legel authority for preventing the export of arme either
to
Mr. Will1am G. Owens,
Buoknell University,
A
Lewisburg, Penneylvania.

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.96)
一
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I mey add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
1ution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
the question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be 1nvoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partieular
situation the President must take into account various
fastors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Par East, the President has coneluded that, in the
light of all the faots and eiroumstanoes, when weighed
from a practieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Meutrality Ast, moreover, does not mthorise the
President or the Seeretary of state under any eiremstanees
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms, am-
mamition and implements of war. The artieles and materials
which are consiétred to be arms, ammunition and implements
Ma 1, 1937, whick 1s set forth under Part II of the en-
You mey be laterested te knew that sinee July 1, 1esy,

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
the Department of state has 1ssued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to Caine in the
valme of $14,266,a17.00 and to Japan in the valme of
10,715,942.88.
Sineerely yours,
For the seeretary of state:
Charles W. Yost, Assietant Ohief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
Joint Rosolution.
Pamphlet.
CR
OCT 5 1938.
A true
5
the

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.88)
Amencan Marathi Mreronone
RECEIVED
Satara Sudia
lot Seftemler,
To Mr. Franklin &. Rooeenelt,
1938 SEP 24 AM 9 31
SEP
The white Hor, washrnigton, D.C., U.S.a.
AND RECORDS
Dear dun President:
4 1938.
oer
As a intizem of the Unsted States af America, Ire-
speetfully urge you to use all your power touard
the enactment of legislation which shall prevent the
894.24/402
export of are, ammunstion, and war materiils of
ewery kind to fahan and to a'l othes aggressor
nations. It io a terrible grief to us who live
in Asia as reprieentativis of churchiee ins
America, and sick to preant Jesno Chrict to the
people of the East, to know that American
homles are reopanaible for the claughter of insace o
nou-comhstant, eopecially momeen and children, in
China today The eneloved etter fram a miseiossary
nune in staehow has come to a frind of mine in
Holhapinr Sudin, gming a winid acrount of themg
F
FOR AOKNOWLEDGMON?
AND CONSIDERATION
A
Division of
MstMatne
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 30 1938
14
Beoretary to the Preadest

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.89)
Surely the feople of the United States can he
rouced to abchor such wanton deatruction at our
hando, and to insist that our munstion-makero
shall forego the profit accrning to theom froum
the sale of war materials to aggrenor nations.
I humkly submit that you Sir, as firet cstigen
of the United tates, ao Tresident of our great
cominonwealth, and ao a Christian, have more
reaponsihility and hower than amyone elhe to
put a stoh to our part in this maffie i
murder.
True, there are diffseultie to he surmounted,
hut you, as our leader, can find the way through
them to a stand in this matter which shall
he warthy of the best traditoir of the Amern
reaple, and right in the sight of god. I heg you
to call our nation to whstever saersfries may be
noseriary for making sales of munistioins to
agresor nation imposile, and to ds it soon.
Teery sncerely yous.
LillinPikem
Oriesianamy of the a. B. C. F.on.
Satarn, Sudia

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.97)
"HOSPITAL OF UNIVERSAL LOVE"
(Methodist General Hospital)
Hankow: China.
July 26,1938.
It was one of the refreshments of mind and soul after a terrible week
 get a good mail on Sunday. ..... Oh, how I would like to have been with
you in Kashmir ! The very thourht of it seems like a world apart from all
this war horror !
After some weeks of rain and no raids, we have had a fortnight of
ghastly raids. One very near us last Tuesday with a thousand casualties a-
mongst the poor and another one that struck very near the American Church
Mission Hospital in Wuchang across the river Yaneste. I went across to see
if I could help Miss Reiley there, A maternity hospital opened by the Gov-
ernment was struck. The bomb went through three floors of reinforced con-
crete,killing or wounding ell the patients in it. Some of the mothers lay
so peaaeful in death witl thir bahies clacped in their arms,vile the res-
cue squad were trying to get bodies out from beneath the debris. It seumed
as thou h they were happier than the oues whe were so grievously wound d.
One six months pregnant woman had a garing wounl of th abdomen with rupture
of the uterus and a long clit in the buttock of tl footus. Did ever such
devil's work darken civilazaticn bofor!
Last Tuesday the bombe drorped so near to us that ao the bonbers
passed over our heads, we wait a in a tense stillnenr not kmowing what a mon
ent micht bring. But onso glad to be able to rost one's heart in our lov-
ing Father's care and to Ceel Fin near. Thun we huard the thud, thud of bombs
falling and then the explosions and our hearts wore vounding,knowing that
some poor folk were bein killud vomevn r near. A luild Hall not far from
us housed some hundred: of refuugoes from c nearby province - hardly any es-
caped alive. From another pluce a trcaaa of stretclers broucht in wounded
to us. Our four doctors stirted at once to op rate,two in cach room while I
went along the stretchers piclin: out thore who had a chance of life to go
noxt to the operating-room. olutives w re pulline at my drcss imploring me
to let their particular lovd one o in auxt,loathe to accept the fact that
they were beyond human aid. Oh, it was shastiy  The heat (we are usually
on the hills at this time but our hills are in th, battle area and we are
all needed in our stations),the suffering so patiently borne, the misery,
the sight and smells made me feul sick at heart and in body. One could only
ask,"Dear Lord,how long must this terro? continue !"
The next day another raid bofore the poor victims of the previous day
had even recovered from the shock of operations and everyone was busy with
dressings. We notice that the raid victims suffer most when the air raid
sirens shriek over th city. One small boy of scven - so tiny, was on a
small boat when a bomb struck it and killed hi: father and brothers in front
of him and injured his own leg,which had to be amputated. He breaks out in
a sweat and starts up crying when he huars the warnings. Ah me 1 And we try
to teach the world of brotherly love !
It is a bitter thing too to sco Anerican and British names on bits
of bombs picked up. Last week some American missionary friends took pieces
to the Consul and he agreed that they were from America. An English author
is here in Hankow this weck and says that Britain and America could stop
the war in a week if they would only get together and that Anerica is wait-
ing for England to take the lead. Oh, if she could only see what we see
surely she would take the lead right speedily. God forgive her if she docen't!
All preparations have beon made for the invasion of the city. The
Consular authorities want to draw off all their nationals possible, but the
missionaries have plainly stated their intention to stay. Our staff gets
Tower and lower because those who can afford it are leaving for the fartheryi
aland provinces and taking their nurse daughters with them. I cannot blame
them, no untold horrors have boun perpetrated on the civilians left behind
in ocoupied cities. We have many high school girls acting as practical aids
and thus we are carrying on and intund to continue to do so whatever comes
ir God kuupsus.
My lenve is due now. I could not possible leave ab present however
and ust wait till God opens the way, which I hope may be next Spring, D.V..
Our Supt. is a Chinese doctor and he needs his English collpagues vory ur-
gontly and just now I am the Senior one so could not think of leaving.
One of the Hankow nurses who had to visit a clinic in a much bombed
area came back one day after a rnid with shnking hands and she was all un-
norwed. The next time we said to her, "Don't go today." But she smiled and
repated. "My Bible today said in my reading, 'I will fear no cv/il whale
Thour art with me' ". And she went.
One of our denconesses left Anhwei, a nearby province, with a group

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.97)
Tugees on foot in the winter snow and after an increlible journey has
recently arrived here. For weeks they hid in mountait caves where there
soarcely any food at all to be ohtained. They trekkedknkkmown ronds,
ost the way fell into swamps, wer: hurried across bridges by the soldiers
just before they blew the bridges up. Suv ral times thay hed to flee by by-
paths to avoid the enemy. had no place to sleep nights nd finally urrived
at one of our country stations more duad than alive and sczrcely recogniza-
ble. Yet now she has recovered and is luading meetings everywhere. She spoke
to our nurses' Bible class  weck or sc ago and her face shine as she said,
"I just want to witnese to the fact that the race of God is sufficient for
every need and in every circumstance of life. Never once did le fail us on
that long journey." She described how when they all had to lie in the open"
at night she reminded then of how Jusus had no place to lay Fis head and how
they all cheered up and sung hymis at the rumembrance. Also hew the Chinese
soldiers meeting them at the villages overnight asked her to tell them of
Josus and how tlad she wes to do so. This is the sort of thing we tre meet-
ing all the time and it makes our hoarts glow that out of all this horror
God is bringing a new and sweeten' life with deupened spiritual valves out
of it to this great land, and who shall say what God has for her in the fu-
ture 1
The other day I cn: across two verses of a poem of John Oxenham(s in
an old magazine and it seened so very true of China at the presert that I
pass it on to you to share.
The Dawn.
"I see a new world rising from the ashes of the past,
For when the soul of life blazed out at Froudomss trumpet blnst,
The old false gods of former days and the things that made for shame
Are shriveled in the incense of that sacrificial flame.
From these dread times of suffering,from the shadowy vale cf death,
A sweeter life is springing which is quickened by our faith.
We are building God's new toaples with our blood, our prayers, our teass,
Temples of grace that rise apace and shall outlast the years."
Goodbye. ..... The joy of the Lord keer you ever young in Hin.
Glndys Stephenson.
Kolhapur,India, August 24,1938.
Dear Friends,
Miss Stephenson wrote the above letter to me as a personal friond and
expected it to go no further. She is an English nurse in Hankow,whom I mot
in Cleveland,0. in 1926 when we were both studying there for further prepar-
ation for mission work. Her letter as so stirred me that I n urged to do
something. What can I do here in India that will have any uffect in stopping
the sale of war materials by our country to Japan ? I can make my own per-
Fonal protest in Washington,D.C., and I an sending copies of this lettor to
all my friends asking them to protest nnd to socure the co-operation of all
Christians in their vicinities. Please, let us protest and keep on protest-
ing until our country puts a stop to its share in this terrible torture of
the Chinese poople. We do not need for England to take the lead. We should
not. It is our own responsibility.
will you sond in your protest ? And will you get all other Christians
possible to do the same ? Lot us not ease until our ppotest is heard and
answered.
Sincerely,
F lorevee Sc'rafer

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
Octcber 4 1938.
To the American Consular Officer in oharge,
Bombay, India.
The Seoretary of State enoloses a copy of a letter
dated September 1, 1938, from Miss Lillian Picken, Satara,
India, and a ∞py of a letter dated September 2, l938,
from Miss Florenoe E. Sohafer, Kolhapur, India, both of
894.24/402
whieh have reference to the situation now obteining in the
Far East.
Each of these writers enalosed with her letter
a copy of a letter from Miss Gladys Stephenson, Hankow,
Ohina, a photostatio oopy of whloh 1s enolosed herewith.
If no objeation is peroeived it 1s suggested that
the Misses Picken and Sohafer be furnished with the en-
olosed copies of the Joint Resolution of Congress approved
May 1, 1937, and the pamphlet, International Traffie in
Arma. and that they be informed somewhat along the follows
ing lines:
It will be observed that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint
Resolution provides that whenever the President shall find
that there exists a state of war between or among two or
more foreign states he shall proolaim such fact.
Should
A
the President iseue a proolamation finding that a state
of war exists between Chine and Japen the export of arms,
ammunition and implements of war to both those ountries
would immediately be prohibited by the terms of the
Neutrality Aot.
In the absenoe of such s proelamation,
however, there exists no legel authority for preventing
the

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
the export of arms either to both those countries or to
Japan alone.
It may be added that the primary purpose of the
Joint Resolution of May 1, 19
is to keep this country
out of war.
The question as to whether and when the
provisions of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked is
properly left to the sound disoretion of the President.
In deoiding whether he should 1nvoke the Joint Rosolu-
tion in a partioular situation the President must take
into aocount varlous faotors and partioularly the broad,
general interests of this country and its nationals. In
the present situation in the Far East the President has
ooneluded that, 1n the light of all the faote and oir-
oumstanees, when welghed from a praotioal point of view,
it would not be to the best interests of this country
and our people as a whole to invoke the provisions of
this Joint Resolution.
It may be of interest to know that ainoe July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued lioenees for
the export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to
China in the value of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan in
the value of $10,708,726.93.
with regard to the attitude of this Government
toward the bombing of olvillan populations and the
probable danger to Amerioans and Amerioan interests
abroad, attention is invited to the repeated statements
of the Seoretary of state condemning the bombing of
civilian populations or its material encouragement, and
espeoially to the statemente made by him at his prees
conference on June ll in regard to the sale of airplanes
and

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.92)
-3
and meronautieal equipment to countries engaged in the
bombing of sivilian populations from the air. (see radio
bulletin No. 136 of June 11, 1938.)
Enclosures:
From Miss Lillian Picken,
September 1, 1958.
From Miss Florence E. Sohafer,
September 2, 1938, with photo-
static copy of enolosure.
Joint Resolution (Two coples).
Pamphlet (Two oopies).
CR
OCT1000.894/24
9141
CA:RVH:EMU
929-38
FE
9nE

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.79)
SA
RECEIVED
ack
844.24 1 
lart Centuny.
Craw in thi
Glano 1938  icn ter
8
Shane sut fed one S, odcc
4
fy An snd Omnitions to
a me is aa an
0
ail, scraim and stee n wa
ebag) on ex a to (i
T

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.93)
votober 6 1938.
My dear Mrs. Sherrod:
By referenoe from the White House I acknowledge the
894.24/403
recelpt of your letter of Septomber 20, 1938, in regard
to the export of war and other materials to Japan.
There 1s transmitted herewith a oopy of the Joint
Resolution of Congrese approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will ob-
serve that seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall preelaim sueh faet. Should the President 1ssue
a proelamation finding that a state of war exists between
Gmine and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
F/A
monts ef war to both those countries would immediately be
prehibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aet. In the
absonee of sueh a proslamation, however, there existe me
l0gal
. L merro,
$400 Marse street,
morteley, allfermsa.

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those eountries or·to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
lution of May 1, l937, 1s to keep this sountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provislons of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account various
factore and partieularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
1n the Far Tast, the President has oonoluded that, in the
light of all the facts and oiroumstanses, when weighed
from e praotieel point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to 1nvoke the provislone of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not under any
eiroumstanees suthorise the President or the Seeretary
of state to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, ammenition and implements of war. The artieles and
materials thich are considered to be arms, ammumition and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Pree-
Immation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part I1
of the enelesed copy of the pamphlet, Interntiensl trtfhs
2

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.92)
-3
n Arme. It will be noted that oil, sorap iron and steel
are not imeluded among sush artioles and materials. There
Is no statute now in existenee wnish would authorise the
President or the Searetary of state to prohibit the export
of oll, serap 1ron or steel to Japan or any other foreign
count ry.
You may be 1nterested to know that s1nee July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has iasued lioenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,266,a17.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
10,215,942.88.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Gharles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Ofriee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enslesures:
Joint Resolution.
Pampalet.
Or
CR
OCT  1938.
A tre cupy
0
pml
130
pew7

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.96)
3
DR. WALTER G. HILTNER
RECEIVED
Ae 10-11-19
JE PARTMENT OF STATE
BEATTLE
Rv tHo/Eme
43
Sept. 21, 1938:
1938 0C. 6 PM 1
RESPEOTFULLT REFERRED
FOR ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The President,
AND OONSIDER▲TION
Executive ManaionsAI NS
Washington,  RECORDSMAtM tyne
8441.24
Beoretary to the President
Sir:
It is possibly sending coels to Newcastle to add enything
more to your burden in regard to internationel relationships.
However, as chairmen of the Committee Against International
Aggression, I wish to express to you the sentiment of the people
in this part of the country as well as my own personal opinion.
We feel thet continued shipments of munitions of wer,
machinery for their manufecture and the materiels from which they
894.24/404
are made is a disgrace to the merchants of our country, as well
as to the nation as a whole.
We, by treaty and by sacred pledge, would pretend to be
friends of China end against the aggressor, Japan. Yet we con-
tinually injure our friendly nation and aid the aggressor nation
and one might easily say without possibility of doubt, merica's
potential if not active enemy; the most destructive agent of
world peace today.
Your citizens believe that if you wish to stop this traffic
a letter from you to these merchants of death, or a radio mes-
sage to your people, would stop the traffic overnight.
Some weeks ago a letter was sent to you suggesting that now
the United States government should notify Jepan that no money
would be loaned to her for the development of the territories
she is stealing from her neighbor, end that our nation would not
FIET
in future recognize any territories so acquired. Thousands of
your people are convinced that this action should be taken "now'
In these days of international perfidy es exhibited by the
British and Frenoh treatment of Czechoslovakia, honest people
the world over stand aghast. It seems that the solemn obliga-
A
tions of the statesmen of the world and the nations they repre-
sent is of far less value than a scrap of paper. It is so pu-
trid that the stenoh rises to high heaven.

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.97)
DR. WALTER G. HILTNER
NORTHERN LIFE TOWER
BEATTLE
The Prime Minister of Great Britain sits down with the colos-
sal bully and bluffer of the world and determines to plunge a
knife into the heart of Czechoslovakia. Then the same Prime
Minister, the Premier of France and the American Ambassador sit
around the conference table and determine to dismember a
friendly state whose representative is excluded from the hearing.
We doubt if history can disclose a more wanton act of inter-
national brigandage.
e do not esk that our people should be brought into the
unholy mess in curope - but in the name of the Lord God Jeho-
vah, we do esk that our President and our Secrotary of State
and our representetives in Europe refuse to be parties to the
paremount treachery of the ages.
The millions of your citizens don't know what to do, but
we do beg of our representatives that they "deal justly, love
mercy" in their netionel end internetionel affeirs lest our
nation be destroyed as were the nations of old to whom the
prophets spoke.
Respectfully yours,
WaltentHetmer
WGH:DC

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.94)
votober 12 1938.
06.04/404
My dear Dr. Hiltner:
By referenee from the white House I acknowledge the
reeeipt of your letter of september 21, l938, with further
894.24/404
regard to the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
In this conneotion your attention is invited to my
letter of Ootober 1, l938, in reply to your letter of
September 23 enelosing a oopy of your letter to the Presi-
dont of september 21.
sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Ghief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions dontrol
OR
OCT 11 1938.PM
Dr. walter o. xilsner,
Nerthern Life Tower,
seattle, washingten.
ant
the sigrred origi.
nal.

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.86)
CH
928 Olivia Avenue,
Anm Arber, Miohyan,
ATE
OFPARTMENT
Ocdobe 5,1938
1938 OCT 7 AM 11 31
JAm. CordeHall,
Secretary I ffate,
Washigtm,
Dew Sir.
Iam uuts obligadim to yom fo your lette
894.24
of Sept 28tmist., a, well as a joamphles
" Untenatimal Arms Traffie" Ofcouree 
4
am willy & accepet yor mfosmakin but
and explanation
405
murt Fake the libety Of calliy Yous attantion
to an eortonal m The tadion of Sepdaubs
10: " Partnership with, Japan". Imarke
no omment, Iam rpte ofounier thas
the question does not tuen on ao t whether
China got as Mugh or more was
Maserals than Japan, She quertion 
F
Whethe the land If freetm ohouls
X
in any way lend aid  the linist
to aggressor matims who cwant to

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.86)
otwy democraay ay what we wwartan
by Qivilizadim: Of coase by furnishi
all thys to both side, we are hentral
- a Meutrality which tmy mind is
Whilly wrong anm unjustified from evsy
The only thip the lniser Hate, hoald
do is to brycott an quarantine
Japan, Yerhiny aw IHaly, Shat would
be an honsable Course to pureve.
As dee it au blord guilt Memams
-a blot on ou escutcheon! f
on lawmakers make auee laws
they hat betts Go home, he tawhaye,
mmey Thout be mew for bette.
Jousposer, I am of the oamem, thes
the foreign prolicicy of the Governnt
dwes not expren the wice of the
Amuican peeople, Why are bog astt ig

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.97)
S. D. Junk Firm Will Ship
Scrap Iron to Japan
Federation of State Societies
Arrangements were completed by
a junk firm with the harbor de-
t Chamber of Commerce First Monday Night Each Month
partment yesterday to ship 4000
tons of scrap iron from Pier 1 next
month to Japan. The harbor de-
partment was informed negotia-
tions will be completed early next
Mrs. Maude Scritchfield, 1st. Uice-President
week for chartering a steamer to
retary
Christ Andersen, 2nd Uice-President
transport the scrap iron to Osaka.
Paul Wycoff, 3rd Uice-President
J. B. Burgster, A. E. Blethen, J. E Dodd. Directors
MUN
THE
WO
OCT
9938
San Diego, California
acke 10-4-39
DEPART
september 23, 1938.
Vame
894-24
secretary of war hull;
". shington, D..
Honorable sir;
am taking the liberty to write you
concerning an article which anpeared in The
San Diego Union of september 23rd.
any ship-loads of scrap iron has
894.24/406
been shirped from this port to Japan in the past
and we feel that your particular attention should
be called to this fact.
we wish t o submit a protest against
this action and hope you will ive it your imme-
diate attention and in turn will extend to you
our most sincere ratitude.
sincerely yours,
Maude Ter elifield
First Vice kresijent
Federation of state societies.
F/A

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.93)
o0tober 61938.
rophy refer to
My &ear Mre. soritehfield:
The receipt 1s aoknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 23, loss, in whioh you protest against the exportation
894.24/406
of sorap iron to Japan.
There 1s enelosed a opy of the Joint Resolution of
Congress approved May 1, 1939, amending the Joint Resolution
of Angust 31, l935. It wil1 be observed that under the
provisions of Seotion 1 of this Joint Remolution the Presi-
Gent is granted the authority to prohibit the export of
arms, ammunistem and implements of war to belligerent
states or to a state engaged in sivil strife. This Aet,
mowever, speeifieally limits the artieles whick may be
defined as arms, ammunition and implements of war and
emludes serap irem and like produets. There is no
thsute now in effect which wuld mtherise the President
to
F
Seritshfiele,
cderasion ef state Reesesiee,

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.89)
to prohibit the export of sarap 1ron to any foreign country.
As of interest there 1s enelosed a copy of the pamphlet,
Xnternatienal Trarfle_10 A
sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Oharles W. Yost, Assistant Ohief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Gontrol
Emalosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
CR H
OCT 5 1938.
Oe
5
And
A true
the sihuy
GAIRVEIBU
10-4-38
EWO
e
nal.

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.93)
CA
Woman's Christian Cemperance Union
Merhanicsburg, Pennsglbania
RECEIVEL
RTMENT OF STA
October 3 1938.
September 23.1938
POOX
1938 SEP 26 PM 2 29
DIVISIUN Jr
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS.
SEPU
Honorable Cordell Hull
Ack9-30-3
Seoretary of State
10100
OF
Washington, D.C.
Department of State
Sir:-
194.24
At a recent meeting od the Woman's Christian
894.24/407
Temperanoe Union of Mechanicsburg,Pa., it was
unanimously resolved that a letter be written to
the Seoretary of State, protesting against the
furnishing of war materials to Japan.
America is supplying Japan with one-half of
her raw war materials. We are supposed to be a
Christian nation.
Are we a Christian nation if
we disobey the command "Thou shalt not kill"?
Respectfully,
The Woman's Christian Temperance
Union of Mechanicsburg,Pa.
By ma
F丘命
Corresponding Seoretary
1938

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.94)
October 8 1938.
My dear Miss Ehleman:
The reeeipt is aaknowledged of your letter of Septem-
ber 23, 19ss, in which you state that at a recent meeting
894.24/407
of your orgamisation it was resolved unanimously that a
letter be written to the Beoretary of Btate protesting
against the furnishing of war materials to Japan by this
ooumtzy.
As you doubtless are aware, seotion 1 (a) of the
Joint Reselution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, a copy
of whieh is enelosed for your convenient referenes, pro-
vides that whemever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two or more foreign
states he shall proolaim sueh faet. should the President
tesue a proelamation finding that a state of war exists
between chime and Japen the export of arme, emsemitien and
7
implemeats ef wer to both these countries would immedsatels
eprehiasted  the tesme of the Noutsality Lot. In the

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
absenee of such a proelamation, however, there exists no
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
t both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint
Resolut1on of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out
of war. The question as t whether and when the pro-
visions of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s
properly left to the sound diseretion of the President.
In deeiding whether he should invoke the Joint Resolu-
tion in a partioular situation the President must take
1nto aecount varlous factors and partioularly the broad,
goneral interests of this ountry and ite nationals.
In the present situation in the Far East, the President
has oonaluded that, 1n the light of all the faots and
eiroumstanees, when weighed from a praetieal point of
view, it would not be to the best interests of this coum-
try and our people as a whole to invoke the provisions
of this Jeint Resolution.
Moreover, the Neutrality Act does not under any
remmstanees amthorise the President or the Seeretary
of state to prohibit the export of commodities other
them arms, ammmmition and implements of war. The artieles
and materials whieh are comidered to be arms, amumition
ame implemente ef war are emmmerated in the Presidest's
Prealamatten

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.93)
-3
Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whieh 1s set forth under
Part II of the enelosed oopy of the pemphlet, Internatlem
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 1, 19s7,
the Department of State has 1ssued l1oenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
$10,708,726.93.
sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles w. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offioe of Arms and Munitions Control
Bnelesures:
Joimt Resolution.
Pamphlet.
CR
OCT 1 1938.
5
rue
of
AmA
ial.

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.91)
S
Pasadena, Galifornia
S
MAITER
0
REE
C
September 18
1938
3
R
1938
ack 10-5
OH
10
he Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
We of the Christian family on the
Pacific Coast, members of the congregation of
the Pasadena Presbyterian Church, resenting the
894.24/408
wanton slaughter of non-combatants by Japanese
894.24
in China, and conscious that American made planes
and munitions aid the aggressor in that undeclared
war, respectfully petition the President of these
United States, in accordance with his enunciated
Good Neighbor policy, to take every practicable
step to put moral standards above financial
considerations and end a traffic wherein our people
have become profitable partners in the destruction
of the Chinese.
Very truly yours,
Roour freenan.
AR LAS
Mrs Ella M. Barner
FILED
nw
6 1038
Macblarhan Laulor
Arch.+ Haynward
F/A
Harlan R. Barber
Traneeescole.

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.77)
Miisara R. Muose
tma d. Crispe
Tarah P. Beeley
Mirs. A.L. Hamill
Wirs FlouncaF.Bromn
Jrin S. Douglest
On iSoth H I sumer-
Tuany A Wackinnon
Wise nie  leon
Lilliant M. S clurler
Nrs Aelen I. Palrnt
Warquerite A. Eauveiau
Vrigima Hay Palmer
Ethel d: Ball
-F. a fardoon
allen F Ally
Erom. Jackoon
Agnes E. Morgan
Mr. Honat
M2o H C. Khig
Maru. B. Hunler
Clma C Kinrey
Hanford N. L'ockwood
Grace f. Meens
as P'rabol 9. Lockwood,
Mro Floreno bavanagh
Mre. Doane M. Lovery
Mrs. E.F. Bake.
mrs Samer Tishman
mrkLuertia keirn
Ulie M. Bater
Int Sm P. b. brawfad
Mos. Qusar Beeitey Doan.
Mr. Nellie a. Smilt L J.Boorey
Mo. Homer P. Lair.
Flora Heager
Miss Jrssica 2a. Moone
Ama Fister
murMarg J. Jerguoon
Tealdne I Frtch.
Mise Rilfh Chuetman
Onma Rubucdalf.

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.82)
Paraous.
targaut 0 nl
Beatrice Anoy
Mo. Mable M. Hendricks
Misa Laira IM. Powell
Jeank Esorcreaver
Mrs Ietta 7 Jalle
Eva r
Eow . Ficher
James Lenatiman
Eloise V. Midlowald
Mus. nellie B. Sears.
William N. Eager .
Elizabed Imgree
S. Ada Pomeroy

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.91)
october 6 1938.
 dear Dr. Freeman1
the ressipt is aoknowledged of your letter of Beptem-
ber l8, 1sss, contaiming the signatures of a mmber of the
members of your songregation in regard to the export of
 matortale to Japen.
894
There is tranemitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
.24/408
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1936. Zou will ob-
serve that Sestion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists e
state of war between or mong two or more foreign states
ho shall preelaim sueh fast. should the President issme
a palamatton finding that a state of war exiuts between
Gmina and Japan the export of arms, emmwnttion and imple-
meats of mar to both those countries would smmedlately be
prakabited by the teme of the Neutralsty Aet. In the
abssnes
1

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.94)
一
absense of such a proclamation, however, there exists no
Legal amthority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lujten of May 1, 1957, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisione of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partieular
situatiom the President must take 1nto account various
feetors and partieularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has eoneluded that, in the
light of all the fasts and oireumstanees, when weighed
frem a practisal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this eountry and our people as a whole
tLaveke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not mmthorise the
Presissnt or the Searetary of state under any eireumstaness
to prokibit the export of eommodities other than arms, -
itien and implements of war. The artieles and materials
re condered to be rs, itien and Laplmte

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.94)
onalosed copy of the pamphlet, Internationel Traffle in
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, 1987,
the Department of state has issued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to Chine in the
value of $14,286,817.11 and to Japan in the value of
10,715,942.88.
Binecrely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offioe of Arms and Munitions Control
melosures:
Jeint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
CR
OCT 5 1938.PM
A true
cony
o1
the siged
0
And
nal.
1025-38
FE

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.92)
A
JOHN OLIVER, D. D.
METHODIST MINISTER
116 BERKELEY WAY
WHITTIER, CALIFORNIA
ÉCEIVEL
sept.28th
Cordell Hull,
SEP 30mmutix9 uffi les,
waslito,..,
1938
894.24/409
Lored si:
DIVIS 0L
AND Racorpsto enforce the Neutrality aw, stop-
ping the ship ent of war material t,
Japan, hina, and p in.
It is a huniliating shae
to know that a pipe line has been buiit
out fifteen miles from the shore atn
Luis bispo, Jalifornia, fro. which il
tanlers have been lled vith I,o, o.
worth of gasoline aid vil have beer loaded
for Japan to be used in their  ttae on
defensele:s cities and peoples.
In the name of and for the
sate of Ww.anity which has  ade erica
great, I beg and pray you to help st op
this international feeding of the war
spirit.
Respectfully ad sincerely
lives
T
A1
m

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.96)
ostober 7 1938.
My dear Dr. Oliver:
The reeeipt is acknowledged of your letter of septem-
ber s8, l9ss, in which you urge the applioation of the
894.
Noutrality Aet of May 1, 1937, with a view to preventing
the export of war material to Japan, Ohina and Spain.
24/409
I have to inform you that at the present time the
export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to Spain
1s prohibited by an embarge whiah was first brought about
Uy the Joint Resolution of Congress approved January 8,
195t, and which is still in effeet. The export of arms
to Spain is also prohibited by the President's Proelame-
tion of May 1, 1937, which was issued pursuant to the
provisions of Seetion 1 of the Aet of May 1, 1987.
I have to inform you further that there has been no
proelamation by the president finding that a state of war
F/A
exists between Ghina and Japan. The previaions ef
session 1

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
seetion 1 of the Aet of May 1, 1937 are, therefore, not ap-
plieable to the export of arms, ammunition and implememts
of war to China or Japan.
The artiales and materials whieh are sonsidered te be
arms, ammunition and implements of war are emmerated in
the Pres1dent's Proelamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set
forth under Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet,
Internatlonal Trafflo in Arse. It will be noted that 
gasoline and oil referred to in the seeond paragraph of
your letter are not inoluded among suoh artieles and
materials. Moreover, there 1s no statute now in exist-
pee whish would authorise the President or the Seeretary
of state to prohibit the export of gasoline or oil to Japan
er to any other foreign country.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
1ut1on of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is preperly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In desiding whether
he ahould invoke the Joint Resolution in a parsisular
situatiom the President must take into aecount various
festers and partieularly the broad, general iaterests of
t mtry and ite nationals. In the present sttuatien

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.93)
-3
light of all the faots and oiroumstanoes, when weighed
from a prastical point of view it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
A copy of the Joint Resolut1on of May 1, l937, 1s
enslosed for your convenlent referenos.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Ohief
Offioe of Arms and Munitions Control
Enelosures:
Pamphlet.
Joint Resolution.
CR
OCT 6 1938.PM
tup
ら
GAIRVEIBS
rewr

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.91)
EA
The Buffalo District
Methodist Gpisropal Church
RECEIVEL
JEFARTMENT OF STA
DISTRICT SUPERINTENDENT
G2LANGANTER AVENUE
September 26, 1978.
BuYFALO. NEw York
COMML ILATIONS
AND PEOORDS
OF
ND
CORTEOL
938
894.24
Act 10-4-38
Rvr/emh
The Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
natober 1938.
Washington, D.C.
894.24/410
Dear Mr. Secretary:
The District Conference of the Bufialo District of the
Methodist Episcopal Church, wricn includes sixty-five clurches
in Euf nio and surroundin: territory, on September 20 passed
the resolution which is enclosed on separate sheet.
We feel confident that this expression will be welcomed
by you as represent ng te earnest conviction of a group of
intelligent church representatives, and that y u will be
pleased to ive flithful consideration t te two pleas presen-
ted in t .e resolution.
Respectfully yours,
Hame tu 
F/A

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.92)
RESOLUTION FOR WITHNOLDING AMERICAN COOPERATION IN THE INVASION
OF CHINA
WHEREAS, the invasion of China by the Japanese Army and
the kdlling of peeceful Chinese people has been aceomplished with
the use of vast quantities of war supplies shipped from the United
States, totaling 54.4 of the total war mupplies imported into
Japan during the past year,
AND WHEREAS, as Christians and Americans, we wish our
country to be a leader on the road to peace rather than an abetter
of aggression,
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that we urge the President and
the govermment of the United States to take such measures as will be
found practical to prevent the material and financial resouroes of
this country, including serep iros, oil, aviation gasoline, eto..
from being used to further the invasion of China,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that our govermment case the
suffering of the Chinese peeple by extending a substantial loan from
our greet surplus of wheat and cotton to the goversment of Chine
THE DISTRICT CONFERENCE, MUFFALO DISTRIOT.
METRODIST EPESOOPAL GREURCE
MWR. Rreakets
Me. 0..mt
Charl . all, Ch
satember 20, 19s0.
Dratnet Superintendent.

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.96)
My door Mr. Koen:
The recelpt is aaknowledged of your letter of Boptem-
ber 88, 1938, enelosing a ∞py of a resalation which was
adopted by the Distriot Conference of the Buffalo Distriet
89
of the Methodist Episoopal Churah on September 20, 1938,
4
24/410
in regard to the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
Your ocourteny in furnishing me with a copy of this
resolution is appreciated.
As you doubtless are aware, seotion 1 (a) of the
Joint Reselution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, a copt
of whieh le enelosed for your convenient referenee pro-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
existe a state of war between or among two or more foreign
states he shall proelaim such faet. Should the President
isume & preelmmetion finding that a state of war exists
betweem aine and Japan the export of arms, amunition
F/A
and
Mstriet Supcrintendemt, The Baffale Metriet,

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.95)
一0
and implements of war to both those countries would imme-
diately be prohibited by the terms of the Neutrality Aet.
In the absenee of sueh a proelamation, however, there
exists no legal suthority for preventing the export of
arms either to both those oountries or to Japan alome.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint
Resolution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out
of war. The question as to whether and when the pro-
visions of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s
properly left to the sound disoretion of the President.
In deeiding whether he should invoke the Joint Resolm-
tion in a partioular situation the President muat take
into account varlous factors and partioularly the broad,
general interests of this country and its nationals.
In the present situation 1n the Far East, the President
has ooncluded that, in the iight of all the faots and
olroumatanees, when weighed from a practieal point of
viow, it would not be to the best interests of this coum
try and our people as a whole to invoke the provisions
of thie Joint Resolution.
Moreover, the Neutrality Aet does not under any
airoumstanoes authorlse the President or the Seeretary
of State to prohibit the export of commodities other
am arme, ammmmitien and implemeate of war. The ar-
s1ales

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
tieles and materials which are considered to be arms, amm-
nition and implements of war are enumeratod in the Presi-
dent's Proelamation of May 1, 1957, whieh 1s set forth
under Part II of tis enelosed copy of the pamphlet, Iater
natlenel Traffle in Arne.
You may be 1nterested to know that sinoe July 1, 1957,
the Department of state has issued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implemente of war to China in the
value of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,715,942,88.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Iost, Assistant Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
Joint Rosolution.
Pamphlet.
CR
OCT 5 193
A true copy
the si
or:
nal
emt

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.95)
THE CARTERSINK COMPANY
Bonton, Manachurelts
K E N D A L L S Q U A RE
September 8, 1938,
1933
To the President of the United tates,
Ack 10-3-38
Executive Mansion,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
In view of the almost universal sympathy with China in
this country, and the almost universal reprobation of
Japan, it seems increasingly preposterous that this
country should continue to furnish to Japan the muni-
tions without which she could not continue the war.
894.24/411
If the Government is helpless to deal witn this situa-
tion in any effective way, it will be impossible to
regard it with anything but pessimism and disgust.
Yours respectfully,
Ketarl P Sart
R.L.C.-E.V.K.
F/A
CARITRINA
CARBON PAPERS★INKED RIBBONSWAITING

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.92)
THE CARTERSINK COMPANY
Boston, Mannachuretts
198 SEP 29 PM
K E N D A L L S Q U A R E
DIVISION OF
SERy 1938
Jetrer 5 1938.
COMMUNICA IONS
Ack 1o-5-38
September ?8, 1938.
AND RECURDS
Hon. Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
n
In view of the almost universal sympathy with China in
844.24
this country, and the almost universal reprobation of
Japan, it seems increasingly preposterous that this
country should continue to furnisn to Japan the muni-
tions without which she could not continue the war.
If the Government is helpless to deal with this situa-
tion in any effective way, it will be impossible to
regard it witn anything but pessimism and disgust.
Yours respectfully,
bethant o arth
R.B.C.-E.V.K.
CARIIKINK
CARBON PAPERS★INKED RIBBONS★WRITING

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.90)
Uctober 1938.
roterto
dear r. Carter:
the reseipt is aaknowledged of your letter of septem-
or m0, lose, in regare to the export of war materiale to
Japan. my referenee from the white House the receipt is
894.2
also aeknowledged of your letter of the same date in re-
ar to this same matter.
4/41
There is tranemitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Reselutien of Congress approved May 1, 1959, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 3l, 193s. You will ob-
serve that Section 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution prevides
that whemever the President shell find that there exists a
state of war between or ameng two or more fereign states
he shall preelaim such faet. hould the President 1ssme
a preelametion finding that a state of war exists betweem
Chine and Sapan the export of arme, ammmnition and imple-
mants of war to beth those ceuatries would immediately be
F
prohibé sed

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.97)
prohibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aet. In the
absenee of sueh a proelsmation, however, there exists no
legal astmority for preventing the export of arms either
to beth those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, l937, 1s to keep this oountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Replution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partiemler
situation the President must take into account various
factors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this ∞untry and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far Last, the President has oonoluded that, in the
light of all the facts and oiroums anoes, when weighed
from a praetieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not under any
oireumstanees authorize the President or the Seeretary
of state to prohibit the export of commodities other them
arms, mmmition and implements of war. The artieles and
materials which are considered to be arms, ammmmition and
smplements ef war are emmerated in the Presiéent's Preele-

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.91)
mation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part II of
the enalosed copy at the pamphlet, Internatlenal Traffie in
ALL
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has issued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
$10,708,726.93.
Sincerely yours,
For the Searetary of state:
Charles w. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offioe of Arms and Munitions Control
Enolesures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
OR
18
OCT 4 1938.PM
Qu
A true
the signt
"al.
Pmd
GAIRVE: ENU
10-8-38
FB
pous

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.93)
NEW HAVEN CONFERENCE OF YOUTH
STA
atober 1938.
SEP01988
SEP 30 AM 11 42
Ach3-3
RuH/Emy
September 29, 1938
DIVISION CF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
Seoretary of State
ga1.
Cordell Hull
m
Washington, D.C.
Dear Secretary of State Hull:
The enolosed resolution was passed by a group of five
hundred people at the Y.w.C.A. in New Haven yesterday.
We earnestly hope you will give the matter of the embargo
your early attention.
Very sinoerely yours,
Wlnam Poot
UOPWA
William Post, Chairman
/412
NO.11
121 Pendloton Street
Now Haven, Connecticut
FILED
51938
r1
2.

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.98)
NEW HAVEN CONFERENCE OF YOUTH
Septomber 29, 1938
RBSOLUTION ON CHINA
WHEREAS the United States is Japan's chief source of sorap iron,
oil, high test gas, and other war materials,
WIEREAS the continued purchase of good by the United States results
in orodits to Japan whioh help continue the war,
WIIEREAs Japan is obviously, and beyond all doubt the aggressor in
the present conflict,
BE IT RESOLVED THAT this audience of five hundred people assembled
at the Y.V.C.A. in Now Haven Conneoticut on Soptomber 28th
urges the United States to place a complete embargo on Japan,
inoluding arms, ammunition, gasoline and raw materials until
such time as Japan withdraws from China, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT copies of this resolution be sont to
President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Seoretary of Stete Cordell
Hull.
UOPWA
NO.11

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.95)
tober 51938.
My eoar Mr. Post:
The reeeipt 1s aaknowledged of your letter of septem-
ber 29, 1938, enelosing a copy of a resolution whioh was
adopted by a group of five hundred people at a meeting
894.24/412
held in the Y. w. C. A. in New Haven in regard to the ex-
port of war and other materials to Japan.
Your courtesy in furnishing me with a oopy of this
reselution is appreoiated.
As you doubtless are aware, Seetion 1 (a) of the
Joint Resolution of Congress approved My 1, 1937, a copp
of which is enclosed for your convenient referenee, pro-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two or more fereign
states he shall preelaim sueh faet. sheuld the Presidemt
lesme a proslamation finding that a state of wer exists
betweem
Mr. willlmm Pest,
F/A

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.95)
-
between China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and
impkjments of war to both those countries would immediately
be prokibited by the terms of the Neutrality Ast. In the
absenee of sweh a proelamation, however, there exists no
legal awthority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those eountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and then the provisions of the
Joint Resolut on shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
ation the President must take 1nto account various factors
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far ast, the President has conoluded that, in the light of
all the facts and eiroumstanees, when weighed from a prae-
tieal polmt of view, it would not be to the best interests
of this country and our people as a whole to invoke the
previsiens ef this Joint Resolution.
Moreever, the Meutrality Ast does not under any eir-
eumstanees asthorize the President or the Seeretary ef
state te prehibit the export of commodities other then
arme, ammemition and implemente of war. The artieles and
materialo

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.93)
materials which are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are enumerated in the President's Preela-
mation of May 1, 1937, whieh is set forth under Part II of
the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffle in
You may be 1nterested to Unew that sinee July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has 1ssued lioenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
valme of 14,266,817.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,708,706.93.
sineerely yours,
For the Seoretary of state:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
melosures:
Joint Rosolution.
CR
Pamphlet.
OCT 4 1938.PM
Qu
A true
5
the sisled c
ant
11.

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.98)
MRS WILLIAM RUHL CLYMER
1987 CHATFIFLD ROAD
COLUMBUS OHIO
September twenty-nine
1
9
8
Mr. Charles W. Yost,Assistant Chief,
1968
Office of Arms and Munitions Control,
Washington, District of Columbia.
My dear Mr. Yost,
Thank you much for your letter in reply to mine of
September eight,to Mr. Hull. It was kind of you to
894.
go to such trouble. The enclosures are gratefully
received,as well.
Seing one of those League of Women Voters,therefore
2
having had to study the Neutrelity Act, I realize
4
that my quest1ons did not fall under any present
legislation. It is only a matter of howling out here
4
1n the wilderness, I guess,to endeavor to impress
Washington,in advance of January,that some deep think=
belief that it cannot be made of canvass and sewed up
tight; perhaps elastic would be the best material,
fashioned with wide seams,to be let out as we grow.
The events of the past ten days show us that we have
to step lively with our Foreign Policy,for happenings
of two weeks ago are but as ancient history today.
By all that will have transpired by January, I suspect
that we shall have revamped our ideas many times over.
By no means would one wish you cut of a job, but we
are hapy tonight tha vou may have fewer arms and
munitions to "control" than would have been possible
without the meeting of the Big Four.
F/A
Here's to wisdom and insight in a bewildered world!
Yours with sincerity,
894
f
lv

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.92)
CH
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
RCEIVED
October 13, 1938.
UANTMENTOF STAT
19380 PM 4 06
MEMORANDUM FOR
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
AND RECORDS
894.24/414
FOR PREPARATION OF REPLY
FOR MY SIGNATURE.
L
h 10-15-38
F. D. R.
Cury/emn
A
F/A
u

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.98)
Origieh returred to the
Presthent
ROCKWELL KENT
AUSABLE FORKS
NEW YORK
October 10, 1938.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt,
The White House,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. President:
Citizens of a democratic country must never forget that
their government must be practically representative of
their interests, nor that 1t 1s their right at any time
to address such complaints to their President as they may
feel the public interest, or public opinion, warrant.
You, Mr. President, were returned to your second term in
office by an overwhelming majority of the American people.
Their vote was testimony of their confidence that you and
your Administration would truly represent their int erests.
While in most affairs the conduct of the Administration
undoubtedly still has the enthusiastio support of the
majority of the American people, there is one important
matter of foreign policy in which the conduct of the Admin-
1stration must be said to be completely misrepresentative
of the will of even the majority of the Administration's
own supporters. It 1s in regard to the shipment of arms
and supplies to Japan.
The Administration is of course fully aware of the grow-
ing indignation of the American public against our contin-
ued alding and abetting of aggressors in wars of conquest.
Please accept this letter as a citizen's properly indig-
nant protest at our official violation of democratio and
1nternation morality, and a warning from one who has been
a staunch supporter of the Administration, that unless
our foreign policy 1s made to be representative of the
wishes of the American people, the Administration will
forfeit the People's support.
I have the honor to be, my dear sir,
Your obedient servant,
ROCKWELL KENT.
RK:fk

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.91)
votober 20 1938.
844-24/414
y dear ur. pres;dent:
In eompllanee with the requeat contained in your
894.24/414
mamorandm of Cetober 13, 195s, there 1s tranamitted
te you herevith a draft of a letter for your signe-
ture, if you approve, aédressed to Mr. Roekvell Kemt,
In reply to kis letter of Ostober l0, eoneerning the
empert of arme end sapplles te Japan.
Faithfully youre,
Cordell Hull
masiesures
waft of
letter.
Frem ur. Kout.
OCT 19193
V
A true copy of
the signed origi-
nal.
newy

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.96)
My Gear Mr. Kent:
I asknowledge the reecipt of your letter ef Oeto-
ber 10, 1930, 1n regard to the shipment of arms and sup-
plies to Japan.
I am enelosing a oopy of the Neutrality Aot of May 1,
1937. You will observe that Beotion 1 (a) of this Aet
provides that whenever the President shall find that
there exists a state of war between or among two or more
foreign states he shall proolaim sueh faet. Should I
lesme a proelamation finding that a state of war exists
between Ohina and Japan the export of arms, ammunition
and implements of war to both those countries would imme-
diately be prohibited by the terms of the Neutrality Aot.
I may mdd that there 1s no statute now in existenee which
grante me the authority to forbid the export of arms to
one party to an international war and not to the other.
In this conneetion you will be interested to know
that sinee July 1, 1937 the Department of state has
1ssued lioenses for the export of arms, emmunition and
1mplements of war to China in the value of $14,206, 817.11
and to Japan 1n the va1ue of $10,741,230.38.
I wish also to invite your attentlon to the fact
that the Neutrality Aot does not under any eireumstanees
authorise the President to prohibit the export of com-
medities other than arms, ammunition and implements of
war. You will note, furthermore, that Seetion 1 (a) of
the Ast limits sharply the type of commodities whleh may
be defined as arma, ammunition and implements of war,
and ezeludes from this definition susk materials as oil,
serep Sron and the like. There is no law on the statute
boaks whieh grants me the power to prohibit the expert of
this type of commodisp te any foreign country.
you
. Roskwell Kent,
Axsable Forks,
New Yerk.

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.86)
You may already be aware that, in pursuanse of this
Afmimistration's pelicy of unqualifled condemnation of the
at ef state has urged Amerieen menufaeturers and es-
váth this pelley by Ameriean mamafacturere end expertere
has already been obtained. You will realise, hovever,
that the Department of state ean take metion of that aè-
visey charester only in exeeptional ciroumstanees.
In sonelusion, I wish to express my appreslation of
the statement of support of the general policies of the
Alministration sontained in your letter and to hope that
y explanation will have made olear to you the existing
Ilmitations upon the power of the Executive in regard to
the export of war supplies.
Very sinoerely yours,
Daelosure:
Noutrality Aet.
x
OCT
191905
n.R
乙
CWo
Ry

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.85)
12 1938.
①ch.4,1938
getober
WOMEN'S INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE
379Gartifthed
FOR
PEACE AND FREEDOM
MT. VERNON BRANCH
Dut Vermon,
GRAHAM WILSON
NEW YORK
u.y.
RS. GRANVILLE WARD
1938 0C1 6 AM 11 41
Tthe sbonorable bardell bull
ADRECORDS
lease send me as
fregenh
Srentraliti, Lan.
ach 10-10-39
fine feace statements, o hase firoms.
trade agregments, tuat l can noham
derstand -the failiire to enforee-thie
mentrality Lan n the blineke Jafanere
Uhill you not. nsu your iu
sdrselves.
Thaul you sor sending
me colnes of the lan.
FILED
994.24
(ns E)
FAR LASTERN ALIAIN
0.11
Upermen 
w

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.93)
votober 12 1938.
y refer to
dear Mre. wilson:
The receipt 1s aaknowledged of your letter of Octo-
ber 4, 1938, 1n whioh you request to be furnished with
several soples of the Noutrality Aet of May 1, 1937, and
protest against the non-applioation of this Aot to the
894.24/415
situation now obtaining in the Far East.
There are transmitted herewith three coples of the
Joint Resolut1on of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amené-
Ing the Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You
waal observe that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution
prevides that whenever the President shall find that
there exiets a state of war between or emong twe or more
foreign states he shall proelaim sueh faet. smould the
Prosident issue a proclemation finding that a state ef
war exisss between China and Japan the export of
mition and implemens: of war to hoth those esuntries
F/A
t.V..

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
would immediately be prohibited by the terms of the Neu-
twality Aet. In this conneetion it wall be observed
that this Ast applies equally to all sountries between
or among whom a state of war is found to exist by e
presidential proelamation. In the absenee of sueh a
proelametion, however, there exists no legal authority
for preventing the export of arms either to both those
countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lutiom of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provislons of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
mound disoretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a particular situ-
ation the President must take into aocount various factors
and partieularly the broad, general intereets of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situatiom in the
Far East, the President has conaluded that, in the light
of all the faets and airoumstanees, when weighed from a
prastieal peint of view, it would not be to the best in-
terests of this country and our people as a whole to in-
 the previsions of this Joimt Beselution.
staso

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.95)
-3
state to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, ammunition and implements of war. The artieles
and materials which are considered to be arms, smmuhi-
tion and implements of war are emumerated in the Presi-
dent's Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth
under Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Inter
nattonal Traffle tn arma.
You may be interested to kmw that sinoe July 1, 1939,
the Department of state hes issued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to Chine in the
value of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
$10.708,726.93.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Contrel
Enslesures:
CR
Jeint Reselution. (3 copies).
OCI 11 1938.PN
Pampklet.
Q
ent
A true copy of
5
the signed origi-
nal.

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.96)
uctober 16 1938.
Hatherly Metnddist Episcopal Church
Rockland, Massachusetts
1938 OCT ? PM 1 19
October 4, 1938
894.24
DIVISION OF
The Honorable Cordell HuIDMMUN IONS
Secretary of State
AND REJONDS
Washington, D. C.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIMS
k10-1266
My dear Mr. Hull:
RrH/Emn
The officials of our Church in Quarterly Conference
894.24/416
assembled, representing the constituency of the Church, wishing
to express our opinion and use our influence toward peace
respecfully urge you to do all in vour power to stop the war in
Asia by forbidding the shipment of war materials to Japan. We
realize that the United States is the chief contributor to
Japan's continued aggression by our supply of scrap iron and
oil and other war materials. we therefore declare it to be our
opinion that the present administration could have a large
influence in stopping the war with the exertion of proper
power and pressure.
Respectfully vours,
The Official Board of the
Hatherly Methodist Bniscopal Church,
F/A
Thesley H. oncPher
rhw/WHM
(signed) Wesley H. MoPhee, secty.
raye H. Wdodburm
Rev. Royer H. Woodburn, Pastor
00113 1938
FILED
7

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.91)
ctober 13 1938.
My Gear Mr. Mephes:
The reeeipt is acknewledged of your letter of Oste-
ber 4, loss, in regard to the export of war and other
894
materials to Japan.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
24/416
Resolution of Gongress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Jeint meselution approved August 3l, l9ss. You will ob-
 hat Sestion 1 (a) ef shis Joint Resolution prevides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among twe or more foreign states
he mhall proelaim suck fast. smould the President issue
à preelemasien finding that a state of war esists between
Ghine and Japen the export of arms, ammmnition and imple-
monte of war te both those countries would ismedlately be
pohaated by the sevme of the Noutralsty Ast. In the
nee ef u a premtion, hevever, there existe no
100
 offBr of the

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.94)
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly loft to the
sound disoretion of the Presldent. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partiemlar
situation the President must take into aecount various
festors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situstion
1n the Far East, the President has conoluded that, in the
light of all the faets and ciroumstanees, when weighed
frem a praetieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to inveke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aet, moreever, does not amthorise the
President or the Seeretary of State under any sirewmstanees
to prehibit the export of commodities other thes arms, -
mumition and implements of war. The artieles and materials
which are considered to be arms, ammunition and implements
of war are enumerated in the President's Prealamatien ef
Mag 2, 1937, wiatch 1e set torth under Pare II of the en-
ded o of te mphlet, Intermatlenel Trattle  A
oo

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.93)
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has 1ssued lieenses for the export
of arms, amunition and implements of war to Chine in the
value of t14,28s,817.11 and to Japan in the valme of
$10,741,230.38.
Sinserely yours,
For the Searetary of state:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Ohief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclesures:
Joint Rosolution.
Pamphlet.
CR ☆
OCT 13 1938:
A true copy of
the siged erigi-
nal.
5
pmt

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.71)
sttedde Inis le
2
于
tmed now to Nome-
9
Smemi in the Lan

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.80)
0~
894.24/417
F/A
2 EDGEMONT ROAD
MONTCLAIR, NEW JERSEY
RECEIVED
RM
FARTMENT OF STA
A
100
dbereigy & Sate,
DEPA
CHUN
(n)
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
Delvi ny
1rrde invemendt
 unethe
xn n ow
sthedn ons lie
some
inemitthe
Lan

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.68)
rastem sifars setop
m, 1U.
this terugetth
tatues.
Aipise ongrees intion
D ralven th
9 21x
122
h0 igr
tirae

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.70)
2n
tatives.

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.95)
Ootober 18 1938.
My dear Mrs. Dwenger:
The reeeipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of Oeto-
ber 3, 19ss, in regard to the shipment of materials to
894.24/417
Japan.
Your very kind remarks with reference to the adminis-
tration's trade-agreements program are greatly appreolated.
there 1s transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution f Gongress approved May 1, 1937, mending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1936. . You will ob-
serve that Beetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the Presideat small find that there exiats a
state of war between or mmong twe or more foreign states
he shall proelaim suoh faet. Should the President issue
a preelamation finding that a state of war exists between
Chine and Japen the export of e, ammuaition and Imple-
mente of war to both theee stries would samediately be
prohimated
F/A

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.97)
prohibited by the terms of the Weutrality Ast. In the
absenee of sueh a proelmation, however, there exists ne
logal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Jeint Resolution shall be 1nvoked 1s properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deoiding whether
he ahould invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situatlon the President must take into mocount various
factors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
1n the Far East, the President has oonoluded that, in the
light of all the facts and oiroumstanees, when weighed
from a practieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not mthorize the
President or the Secretary of state under any eirowmstanees
te prohibit the export of commodities other than arms,
mitien and implements of war. The artisles and materials
h are considered to be arms, ammunition and implemente

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.92)
-2
May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part II of the en-
alosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffle la Arms.
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, l9st,
the Department of State has 1ssued l1oenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and 1mplements of war to China in the
value of $14,266,817.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
10,708,0.93.
aineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Charles w. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offioe of Arme and Munitione Control
Enalosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
OR
OCT.11 1938.
OCT 12 1938.PM
A true copy of
thnd origi-
5
nal
GAI RVEI 
010-80

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.93)
1
TRINITY UNION METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH
LILA A. DILLON PARISH WORKER
STOR
PROVIDENCE. RHODE ISLAND
SH STREET
123 WESLEYAN AVENUE
TER 4447
TEL. MANNING 2312
TELEPHONE DEXTER 9587
OFFICE. TRINITY SQUARE
A1.
1938 OCT 15 AM 10 27
Jetoter
tcer 281950.
ach 10-25-38
RUN/emn
OF
IONS
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
At the First Quarterly onferenee of Trinity Union Methodist
Episcopal Chureh, Providence, n.I., held on Tuesday, Oet her 11, 1938,
894.24/418
the Recording Stewarl was instruetel to c mmunieate with y u relative
to the shipment of war material to Japan by itlzens of the United
States, as follows:
May we respectfully urge you to do everything in your power to
aid in bringing t) an nd the war-sustaining traffie between our
country ana Japan. a traffie which is making the United States a
partner in the Far-Fastern e mflict. ana which is s wantonly
destroy ing the lives and property of the thinese people with whom
we have long had the most friendly relations.
Yours very respectfully,
Ednara M. Wheeler,
894.24
Recording Steward
F/A
mw

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.93)
vetober 28 1938.
 refer to
1.84/418
My dear Mr. Wheeler:
The receipt 1s aaknowledged of your letter of Osto-
894.24/418
ber 14,1938, in whioh you state that at the first Quarter-
ly Conferenee of your Churoh held on Ooto ber 11, 1938, you
were instruoted to oommunioate with this Department in re-
gard to the export of war material to Japan.
Your oourtesy in furniahing the Department with the
views of your Churah concerning this matter is greatly
appreeiated.
There is transmitted herewith a opy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, mending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You w111 ob-
serve that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution prevides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state ef war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall preelaim sueh faot. should the President issue
Mr. Mward M. meeler,
FYWB
proviéenee, Rhode Ialand.
81

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
a proelamation finding that a state of war exists between
China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
ments of war to both those countries would immediately be
prokibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aot. In the
absenee of such a proclamation, however, there exists no
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lutlon of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into acsount various
fastors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far mst, the President has ∞noluded that, in the
light of all the faots and oiroumstanees, when weighed
from a practieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not authorise the
Prosikent or the Beeretary of state under any eiremstanees
to prehibit the export ef commodities other than arms,
m1tion

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
munition and implements of war. The artieles and
materials which are considered to be arms, amsunition and
implements of war are emmerated in the President's Pree-
Lamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part 11
of the enalosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traftle
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 1, 1937,
the Department of state has 1ssued licenses for the export
of arms, mmunition and implements of war to Ohina in the
value of $14,265,554.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
$10,793,865.38.
sineerely yours,
For the Secretary of state:
Charles w. Yost, Assistant Chief
Ofriee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enelosures:
Joint Reselution.
Pamphlet.
n
9OT 87

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 10, 1938.
aN
In connection with the reference in
the attached letter to protection of mis-
sionary property in China a reply 1s sug-
gested along the following lines:
"During the course of the
present conflict in the Far East
the American Government has em-
ployed all practicable means to
protect American lives and has
protested against and sought to
obtain satisfaction for damages
to and interference with Ameri-
can missionary and commercial
interests. It has shown that it
demands respect for the rights
and safety of our people and at
the same time it has avoided in-
volvement in the dieputes of
others. Furthermore, the Ameri-
can Government has informed the
Governments of China and Japan
that it reserves all rights on
1ts own behalf and on behalf of
American citizens in respect of
damages which might result from
military operations. When specific
cases or circumstances arise 1n-
volving Jeopardy to American
nationals, including American
misal onaries,

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
missionaries, or violation of
their rights and interests, the
Amerioan nationals concerned make
report thereof directly to Ameri-
can diplomatic or consular offi-
cers in China who have instructions
as to appropriate procedure to be
followed and who report those cases
and ciroumstances to the Department.
Such cases receive prompt and care-
ful attention and all appropriate
efforts are made to obtain remedial
or redressive action.
"within the last few weeks
American official representatives
in the Far East, especially at
Shanghai, have through representa-
tions to the Japanese authorities
been successful in obtaining the
return to the owners of American
missionary property at Yangchow,
Quinsan, and Soochow, Kiangsu
Province. You may be assured
that both the Department and 1ts
representatives in the field are
continuing their efforts to obtain
full respect for all American
rights and interests in the Far
East."
c.g.C.
eey
FE:Uhristenson:VCI

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.87)
September 28, 1938
12
(S
eh
tabar
3
C
grot
hon. Cpbdell Hull
A
Secreof State
5iashiton, D. C.
ligk 10-13-318
00
m
Rvn/emu
group of the Women's lissionary Societ: of tre
First ethodist Church of Seminole, Oklahora,
wish to urge that you nrotest against the sale
of raw materials, especiully cotton, cil, iron,
and steel, to the Jananese.
e also wis to urge that yon nrotest against
the confiscation of church nronerties in China
by the Japanese and that you demand the return of
such properties to their rigrtful owners.
We wis to express our sincere gratituue to
you for your efforts toward raintaining worlu peace.
894.24
Sincerel: yours,
Mrs. Carlos Hear
mis H. A. Sh..li
894.24
Mro 8.a. Hammous
Ms. J. L. Pipki
Mrs L. F. Mreel and
mro John Hays
Mre N. X. Langten
Mrs OESirpnans
Ef W asthburn
6
Mrs M. R. Heeser
Mrs Bearl Payne.
Mis J.V. Crict
Mrs. B. R. Rush
Mrs. Chester Jatce
mis Royrodle.
Mrd J.C. Roace.
Mro Alfred Henderson
Mes V.E. Flory
Mrs . P. 7Merrell
Mro N g /todgem
Mis. Fred S. Caedineee
Ma. 9.I burtis
Mra W. W.Hander
Ms.l. C. Peid

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.93)
0ctober 15 1938.
ydear rs. Wear:
The reeeipt is aoknowledged of a letter dated Septem-
ber 88, 1988, signed by you and ether members of your
Missionary sesiety in regard to the export of raw materials
to Japan and to the oonfisoation of missionary property in
894.
Gmina by Japan.
with regard to the export of raw materials to Japan
2
your attention is invited to the provisions of the Nemtrality
4
Ast of May 1, l95?, a copy of which 1s enelosed for your con-
4
6
venient referenes, under whieh the President is granted the
autherity to prohibit the export of arms, ammunition and
implements ef war to belligerems states. This aet, however,
apesifieally limits the artieles which may be defaned as
arme, amsumition and implements ef war and exeludes rew
materials such ss eetten, ell, irem and steel. there is
 statute mow la effeet which would mntherise the presidems
to
F/A
esgofto

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.95)
to prehibit the export of raw materials sueh as these
to Japam or te any ether foreigm country.
with referenee to the proteetion of missiomary
esurse of the present conflict in the Far East the
American Government has employed all prastieatde means to
proteet Ameriean lives and has protested against and
sought to obtain satisfaction for dameges to and inter-
ferenee with Ameriean missionary and sommereial interests.
It has shown that it demands respect for the rights and
safety of our people and at the same time it has avoided
involvement in the dispates of others. Purthermore, the
Ameriean Government has informed the Governments of China
and Japan that it reserves all rights on its own behalf
and en behalf of Amerlean oi tisens in respeet of damages
which might result from military operations. mem
spesifie eases or eiremstanses arise involving jeoparey
to Ameriean nationals, ineluding American missionaries,
or vielation of their rights and interests, the Ameriesn
mationals conserned meke report thereef eirestly te Ameri-
emm diplemeßie er consalar effieers in Qine who have is-
apprepoéate

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.94)
-8
appropriate efforts are made to obtain remedial er re-
dressive astion.
within the last few weeks Ameriean offielal repre-
ssatativee is the Far East, espesially at Shanghei, have
through representations to the Japenese suthorities been
sueceseful in obtaining the return to the owners of Ameri-
ean missionary property at Yangohow, Quinsan, and Sooehow,
Kiengsu Provinee. You may be assured that both the De-
partment and its representatives in the field are contin-
wing their efforts to obtain full respeet for all Ameriean
rights and interests in the Far East.
sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Gharles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enelesure:
.Jeint msolution.
OR
true copy
OCT 14 1938.
2025-50
REUD

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.97)
REV. CHARLES H. WICKS. D. D.
Field Superintendent
Misronsin Congregational Conference
620 Third Ave., Eau Claire
REV. JOHN W. WILSON. D. D.
Ropm 615 Jusuranre Batlding
Pastor-at-Large
517 N. Mary St., Appleton
Telephone Bedser 944
Madison, Misronsin
1958 001 7 AM 9 47tober 1, 1938
Honorable Cordell Hull
acte 10-1-28
Washington, D. C. AND RECORDS
RVH/Emu
Sir:
The Wisconsin Congregational Conference, meeting in
14 1938.
its Centennial anniversary at : adison, isconsin, witar342
voting delegates present, on sentember 23 unanimotsly
passed the following resolution:
"The Wisconsin Congregational Conference desires to
emphasize Its fraternity and sympathy with the
Christians of China and Japan in the burdens and
strairs imposed by the tragic war between their
nations. Ve would ephasize our friendship with
89
both the Chinese and Japanese people.
4.24/420
We protest most emphatically the war of agcression
744.24
being waged by the Japanese military group against
China, and we urge our people, our business estab-
lishments, and our government to take necessary
steps to see that we shall no longer aid and abet
this aggression by selling to Japan those materials
which constitute so large a part of the resources
with which the aggression is being prosecuted.
We acknowledge with a sense of shame and humility
our share of responsibility for the conditions in
Europe and Asia at the present hour; and we pray
for guidance for ourselves and for the warring
nations and for those on the verge of war, that a
way may yet be found to a peaceful solution of these
international difficulties."
Respectfully,
Meo R Faville
TRF/ED
Theo. R. Faville
F/A

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.90)
votober 14 1938.
dear. raville:
The reseipt is asknowledged of your letter of Oetober D,
894.24/420
10ss, informing me of the text of a resolution whish was
amsivereary meeting at Madisen on September 2s, in regard
te the situation now ebsaining in the Far East.
Your courtesy in furnishing me with the text of this
resolution is greatly appreelated.
There is transmitted herewith a sopy of the Joint
Resolutien of Congress appreved May 1, l9st, mending the
Jeint mosolutien approved August 3l, loss. Mou will ob-
morte that estion 1 (a) of this Jeint messiution prevides
as whenever the President shall find that there exists a
of wor between or smeng tme or more feseign states
hall prectate such fest. smote the president sesme
  th  te ef  e 
F
f

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
of war to both those countmies would immediately be pro»
hibited by the terms of the Neutrality Aot. In the ab-
sense of sush a proelemation, hovever, there exists no
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to beth those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, l937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situatiom the President must take into account various
fastore and partioularly the broad general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has eonoluded that, in the
light of all the faots and eiroumstanses, when weighed
frem a praetieal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this sountry and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Meutrality Ast, moreever, does mot authorise the
President er the Seeretary of state under eny eireumstanees
to prehibit the export of eemmodities other than arms, am-
mamitien and implements of war. The artieles and materials
which are considered te be arms, ammunition and implements

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.90)
of war are enumerated in the President's Proslamation ef
May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part II of the en-
elosed copy of the pemphlet, Internationel Tratfle in Ames
You may be interested to know that sinee July 1, 198v.
the Department of state has 1ssued lioenses for the expert
of arms, ammanition and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,286,a17.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,741,230.38.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Gharles W. Bst, Assistant Chief
Offioe of Arms and Munitions Control
Enslesures:
Joint Resolution.
Pampialet.
CR
BET 16 1938:
Oei
tru
coby
pnd
na
leeus

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.96)
CONNECTICUT PEACE CONFERENCE
COOPERATING ORGANIZATION OF THENATHOL PEACE CONFERENCE
138 ORANGE STREET, NEW HAVEN. CONN.
16 1938.
STEERING COMMITTEE
PRESIDENT
N. HORTON BATCHELDER
JOHN BROPHY
GEORGE S LACKLAND
LEWIS FOX
MRS. LOUIS Y. GABERMAN
VICE-PRESIDENTS
ALLAN HACKETT
MRS. W. F. JOHNSON
DIVISION OF
MRS. LOUIS Y. GABERMAN
N. HORTON BATCHELDER
CHARLES P. JERVEY
CHASE KIMBALL
COMMUNI IONS
TREASURER
GEORGE B. LACKLAND
J. QUINTER MILLER
AND NLOURDS
CHASE KIMBALL. BOX 373. WATERBURY
WAYNE W. WOMER
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
RECORDING SECRETARY
WAYNE WAKEFIELD WOMER
MRS. P. H. HODGKIN
109 HARTFORD AVE.. WETHERSFIELD. CONN.
PROGRAM COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
MRS. FLORENCE L. C. KITCHELT
SPEAKERS BJREAU CHAIRMAN
MRS. C. K. MATSON
Octoher 7, 1938.
g.Ant
m
MEMBER ORGANIZATIONS
Honorable Cordell Hull
Stete Lepartaent
TEACHERS
Mashin ton, D. C.
Gelk 10-13-38
AND
RELIGIOUS
AND
PROFES.
RVH/Emill
COLLEGE
CLUBS
AND
My dear Mr. Secretary:
At a meeting in New laven ealled I st night by
894.24/42
CONNECTICUT
the Connecticut Peace Conference and ttended oy 114
persons, the persons present pessed the two resolutions
enclosed.
These resolu' ions do not in any way bind the
Connecticut Pesce Conference or its members, as the
AND
Conference cannot pess resolutions without the consent
of the individua l member organizations. But they are
the opinion of those et the meeting.
Nine persons out of the 1l4 people voted against
the resolution on Japan, and more than 100 voted in
894.24
favor of it. The disermement resolution was passed
unanimously.
I am s end ing this to you on behe lf of the meeting
at the request of its chairman.
Respectfully yours,
Cliare Kimball
CK/b
Enc.
FILED
(17
CO

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.98)
We, the persons prosent at the moeting in the New Haven Y.W.C.A.
on October 3, 1938 hearti ly approve of an international conterence for economic
and military uisarmament such es is the declared purpose of the hdninistration,
and we pledge our wholehearted support of American participetion and leadership
in such a conference and in the political &nd economic neasures necesstry
to moke such & conference  success.

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.96)
lawlessness and aggression, and
WHEREAS, the Japanese invesion of China, fomentod by the military party of Japan,
has lod the United States of America und many other nations to indict Japan as
a violator of the Nine-Power Tresty and the Kellogg peot, and to protest repeatedly
against the merciless bombing of undefended Chinese citia:, the unnecoss ry
laughter of Chinese oivilians, and the destruction and i orilment of schools,
churches, hospitals, and business enterprises in whic treir ationals ere
ongegod, and
HEREAs, we a re shocked thet Amerioen raw matorials are being used to nufscture
weapons of wer in Japen, thet Amer cen plones are h ins used to cerry bomb: from
America for the destruction of chinere civilian populetions, thrt srells from
Americe ar londing Ja enonc uns, anc tlat America is supplyin to Japan hure
quantities of scrap iorn, co er, oil, trucks, end other terirls used in the
furtherance of the  r, orer nd soove the emount of our normel trade of recent
years, and
:HERas, we sympathize with the chinese people in thsir desire to ouild up an
indopendent, domocrttic state, an nd ri vely tarce ened by the present  ggrossion
of Japan, and deplore the traific which makes it possible  or certain Amorican
intereets to profit from tho enton destruction of the innocent victime of
Japanese aggression,
TIfEREFoR. we the persons prosent at the meeting in the New Haven Y. . C. A.
on Ootober 6, 1938, rospectfully petition the Irosident of the ünited States
and Congross, in aocordance with the prinoiple of the Good Neighbor and in
the interests of the people of the inited States, Chim and Japan, to take every
praeticable means, direet or indireot, to bring to an end a traffio from our
country whioh is compelling us to be * partner in the destruction of the Chinese
poople.
an we desire to go on record as expressing our moral support for labor, fimncial,
imdustrial, commereial, and other groups whieh refuse to partieipate in the sale
er shipmemt of mr supplies to Japan.

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.90)
october 15 1938.
G0ar Mr. Kimball:
The ressipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of Osto-
ber 9, loss, enelosing soples of two resolutions whick
894.24/421
were adopted at a meesing in New Naven on Oetober & at-
tended by 114 persons, the first of which is in regard to
an international conferenee for ecenemie and military
disarmament, and the seeend of whick is in regard to the
emport of war and other materials to Japan.
Your ceurteey in furnishing the seeretary witm coples
of shese reselutions ls greatly appresiated.
with regard to the situation mow obtaiming in the
r Mmst, reur attention is invited to Seetion 1 (a) ef
 lesed sopy of the Jeint Resolution of Gengrees
,1he

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
President shall find that there exists a state of war be-
tweem or smong two or more foreign states he shall proelaim
sush faet. Should the President issue a proelamation find-
1ng that a state of war exists between China and Japan the
export of arms, ammunition and implements of war to both
those countries would immediately be prohibited by the
terms of the Noutrality Aot. In the absence of sueh a
preelamation, however, there exists no legal mathority
for preventing the export of erms either to both those
countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partieular
situation the President must take into account varioms
fasters and partioularly the broad, general interests ef
thie sountry and its nationals. In the present situatiom
 the Far East, the President has coneluded that, in the
light of all the facts and cireumstanees, when weighed
frem a prastieal peint of view, it would not be to the
best intereste of this country and our peeple as a whole
to inveke the previsioms ef this Joint Reselmtion.

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.93)
-2
The Noutrality Aet, moreover, does not authorize the
President or the seeretary of state under any cireumstanees
to prohibit the expert of cemmodities other than arme, -
mamition ans implements of war. The artieles and materiale
which are considered to be arms, ammunition and implements
of war are enumerated in the President's Proelamation of
May 1, 1937, which 1s set forth under Part II of the en-
elosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffle in Arme.
You may be 1nterested to know that since July 1, l957,
the Department of state has 1ssued licenses for the export
of arme, mmunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,266,a17.11 and to Japan 1n the value ef
810,741,230,88.
with referenee to the bombing of eivilian populations
and the probable danger to Amerleans and Ameriean interests
abroad, the seeretary of state has stated publlely ea re-
peated eecasions that this Govermment condemns the bembing
ef siviliem pepulations or its material eneouragemems.
severnment's condemnetion of this practiee has bees
appressed directly to all manufacturers and exporters in
this ccuntry of airplanes and serozautieal eqeipment.
OR
sineerely yours,
OCT 15 1938.
5

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.91)
CHAIRMAN
ROBERT M. LA POLLETTE, JR., WIS.
ARTHUR CAPPER, KANS.
ARTHUR H. VANDENBERG, MICH.
JOHN G. TOWNBEND, JR., DEL
Vlnited States Senate
JAMES J. DAVIS. PA.
20 1938.
.c.
CLARK, MO.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
RRY, R. 1.
gil
. GUFFEY, PA.
J. BULKLEY, OHIO
TIBS M. BROWN, MICH.
80.18  9 09
FDE L HERRING, IOWA
WIN C. JOHNSON, COLO.
PELTON M. JOHNSTON, CLERK
aok 1o-18-38
S
AND RECORDS
RVH/Emm
ashir ton..
0 tob-r 12, 1958.
894.24/422
894.20
Dear Mr. ecret ry:
I ao enelvin r rit letter sirned by the
Superintendert and rester he Cerel Se ist .
Woodwerd and Adaes Avees, e'roit, ichigr rliy to
the war in China.
With the rtn as the lester hd be
kind enough to send me int rotien sit w I wy l
to this letter?
1
Phectis M. Brows
Honoreble Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State.
Washington. D. C.
FLLED
F/WB

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.99)
CENTRAL METHODIST CHURCH
Detroit, Miohigan.
sters
October 14, 1938.
enry H. Crane
E. Shurley Johnson
Oscar G. Starrett
Senator Prentiss M. Brown,
st. Ignace, Michigan.
Dear Senator Brown:
THIS LETTER IS EXACTLY THE SAME AS THE LETTER
OF THE SAME DATE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY
OF STATE, F11e 894.24/422
JOHN D. FATT
Superintendent
O. Q. Starrett

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.95)
CA
Central Methodist Church
Corner Woodward and Adams Avenues
Office
NE
At'Grand Circus Park
23 EAST ADAMS AVENUE
STARRETT
JOHNSON
DETROIT :: MICHIGAN
Telephone CAdillac 6477
133 00: 17 AM 11 07
October 14, 1938
g4
Socretary of State,. Cordell Hull
Department of StateS
Washington, D. CAND RECORDS
aek10-18+38
Dear Secretary Hull:
Run/am
We the teachers, officers, and pupils of the Chinese Sunday
School of Central Methodist Church, Detroit, have for many months been
deeply aware of the suffering on the part of both Chinese and Japanese,
resulting from the war in China. We have sent considerably over a
thousand dollars to China for relief work, but now we feel that we
should do something fundamental toward stopping this fratricide. In
this we ask your help.
.894.24/422
We are loyal American citizens and are proud of our country's
long record of friendship for China. We believe that most Americens
are unalterably opposed to Japan's policy of military aggression in
China, and would look upon a triumphant Japan as a menace to America's
best interests in the Orient. Yet we are amazed at the extent to which
Japan is being aided in the conflict with China by American-made
ammmition and supplies. We do not think that the will of the American
people should be thwarted and the best interests of our country
sacrificed in order that a relatively few companies should make huge
profits from this unworthy traffic with the Japanese militarists. As an
aggressor nation, as a treaty-breaker, and as a perpetrator of inhuman
atrocities, Japan should be quarantined by the nations which believe in
peace and democracy. It would be a kindness to both the Japanese people
and the Chinese if Japan's supply of war materials could be cut off.
Does it not smack of hypocracy for the American government to protest
against the bombing of civilians in Canton or Hankow and at the same
time permit American citizens to continue to provide the weapons and
the fuel by which the bombings are made possible?
We realize of course that you must represent the vested
interests of the industrialists as well as pro-Chinese groups like our
own, and that they are more vocal than we. A strict embargo on war
materials would necessarily deprive them of profits, but their sacrifice
will be small indeed compared with that which the world will pay if
Japan ever establishes itself effectively in China.
W
B
Sincerely yours,
Johw S. Fatt
Superintendent
Os. stamill
Pastor
Additional signatures on next page.

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.84)
n. Wutton Wayne Yee
Zredlnck hor
I A. Fatt
Jeng Hing
Leo Loo 00
Jrene May
Richard Chan
foe Low
4
Frank yee I
aley (Chan
Jrankyee It
Vorachy Chin
Rase Ton
Gloria Lnin
Mary Mc Clame
Howard falt
Cbny Clards
Chan Sang
Robest Loong
luon whing auk
Nester Ldrg
Withr miny
you Sunng Gong-
Tom rw
Don Pon
Many Fon
Sarah Pon
Leong Pon
iel wwox Leunng
yeo on Jang
many Soo Hoo
Wing Yyick Moy
Tony chuyng
JoeFast
Tomyee
grave mo Semetes
Yook Frong
Aarrutt Cackler
(over)

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.82)
Joe Soo7oo
Leong Sang
yee King you
Joug Pore
yee Dach Chong
Ruan Wai Sue
Marjorie S 
Patey Sim
Neiry oofoo
Byion him
Ghorg any
ber Kwork Jeang,
Geargé fer,
Mabee Fate
Stomer Iatt
Walter Fatt
Floence Ge
Marguret Watarman

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.92)
uctober 20 1938.
My dear Senator Brown:
I asknowledge the reeeipt of your letter of Osto-
ber 17, 1938, enelosing a letter dated Oetober 14, from
the Superintendent and the Pastor, John D. Fatt and
894.24/422
Osear G. Starrett, respectively, of the Central Methodist
Chureh, Detroit, Michigan, in regard to the export of war
materials and supplies to Japan.
I am enelosing, for your information, a copy of the
letter whieh 1s being addressed by the Department to the
Superintendent and the Paster of the Central Methodist
Gmreh in Detroit, in reply to their letter ef Oetober 1€
regarding this same subjest. ror your convenient ref-
eremee I am alse enelosing ceples of the pamphlet and
the Ast referred to in the letter to the Superintendemt
and the Paster.
The letter frem the Superintendent and the Paster
F
A1
of
the Ronerakle
Pronsise N. Browm,
  m.

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.90)
of the Central Methodist Church whieh aecompanied your
letter under acknowledgment is returned herewith in com-
plianse with your request.
sineerely yours,
Emelosures:
To the superintendent and
Paster of the Central
Methodist Chureh.
Pamphlet.
Neutrality Aet.
From the Superintendent and
Pastor of the Central
Methodist Chureh.
CR X
OCT 19 1938.
Boutinc
Cor
Dan
又
new

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.95)
uctober 20 1938.
My dear Mr. Fatt:
The receipt 1s aaknowledged of a letter dated Osto-
ber 14, 1938, signed by you and the Pastor of your Church,
894.24/422
the Reverend Osoar G. starrett, in regard to the export
of war materials and supplies to Japan.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolut1on of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 3l, 193s. Zou will ob-
serve that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there existe a
state of war between or smong two or more foreign states
he shall preelaim sueh faet. should the President issme
a preelamation finding that a state of war exists between
Gine and Japam the export of arme, ammmmitien and imple-
mente of mr to both those gountriee wuld smmedlately be
pwibated  the teme of the Noutrelsty At. In the

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.95)
absenee of such a proelamation, however, there exists no
legal suthority for preventing the export of arms either
to beth those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
Lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be 1nvoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partieular
situation the President must take into aocount various
fastors and particularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals.  the present situation
in the Far East, the President has conoluded that, in the
light of all the faots and oiroumstanees, when weighed
from a practical point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not muthorise the
President or the Searetary of state under any ciremstanees
to prohibit the export of commodities other tham arms, ame-
mitien and implements of war. The artieles and materials
which are considered to be arms, ammunition and implemests
of war are emmmerated in the President's Preelamatien of
May 1, losv, which 1s ses ferth uader Part II of the
.0010

=== Page 574 === (confidence 0.94)
enelosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffie in Armes
You may be interested to kmw that sinee July 1, 19s7,
the pepartment of state has isseed lieenses for the expers
of arms, ammmnition and implements of war to Ghime in the
value of $14,286,884.11 and te Japan in the value of
10,741,230.38.
I may add, with referenee to the bombing of eiviliam
populations and the probable danger to Amerieans and Amerl-
eam interests abroad, that the Seeretary of state has stated
publiely on repeated oocasions that this Government eon-
demme the bombing of eivilian populations or its material
encouregement. The Government's condemnation of this
praetiee has been expressed direetly to all mamfacturers
and exporters in this country of airplanes and asronantieal
equipmont.
sineerely yours,
Joseph C. Green, Chief
Offiee of Arms and Mamitione Gentrel
CR
CT
191938.
Enclesures:
Josms Reselutioa.
phlet.
A tru copy of
thed origi-
na
Fom
と

=== Page 575 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 26, 1938.
Reference Moecow's despatch No.
1666, September 19, 1938, transmitting
Japanese Aggression in China."
The title reveals the main theme
of the article: that American financial
and business interests, delighted with
Japan's heavy orders, favor Japanese
economic expension at the expense of
China and endeavor to sabotage the popolar
 anti-Japanese boycott(admissione
by the editor of the New York Journal
of Commerce and others to this effect
are cited); that American popular in-
dignation, the warnings of far-sighted
statesmen, and the American Government's
policy have been powerless to prevent
the constant provisionment ta Japan of
her vitally depended upon economic as-
sistance, which has included enarmous
quantities of oil, et cetera (Janeway
and others cited extensively) and a
large subscription to a Japanese war
loan by the Ford Company in Japan.
FE: Chdee:VCI

=== Page 576 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1666
Moscow, September 19, 1938.
Subject:
: Transmitting Translation of an Article
from the Izvestiya entitled "Wall Street
and Japanese Aggression in China".
4he
874.24
eR
23 011 9 1 07
(S)
S
894.24/423
The Honorable
FAH LASIEHN AFFAINS
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Uepartment of Stale
Sir:
1-2/
I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy in
the original Russian, together with a translation
thereof into English, of an article by K. Volkov, en-
N0V1
titled "Wall Street and Japanese Aggression in China",
published in Izvestiya of September 10, 1938, which is
based in part upon data printed in the United States
and which attempts to demonstrate that Japan's China
campaign is largely dependent upon sales to Japan by
American industrialists of essential military
commodities.

=== Page 577 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
commodities.
Respectfully yours,
A.C. Kirk
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Englosures:
1. Clipping of article entitled "Wall
Street and Japanese Aggression in
China" from the Moscow Izvestiya,
September 10, 1938, in Russian.
(Attached to original despatch only.)
2. Translation of Enclosure No. 1.
710 Japan
SEG/hla
Original and four copies to the Department.
One copy to the Legation, Riga.

=== Page 578 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch 1666,
dated September 19, 1938, from the
American Embassy, Moscow, U.S.S.R.
on the subject of Wall Street and
Japanese Aggression in China.
-     
    -
. 
 .   -
,    -
    -
1.
——10.1
    -
.   
 .   
   . 
     -
 «»
   .  
 . .   
    -
,   . 
     --
 :
  .
 -  
. .    1920  
     -
 . , ,  
 , :
    ,
.   
    . 
 ,  , 
     -
  , 
rere».
 . ,  
    »... ")
 .  
.   .    
-    
   , 
.   . 
     -
      -
,   .
 .   -
     -
    .
 ,   
    --
    -
,     
.   -
  , 
     -
    ο
  , 
.    
   . ,
    -
.   
. «- »  8 -
 ».
  ,
 . . ,     
     -
   ,  -
  -  
. .   «» -
  . 
 ,    -
 . ,   
    -
-.     
».
   -
   -
  .    
.      
 ,    
     -
, .    -
   -
  .      
   CA.
 ,    
.   -
 .    
  .
-   -
 .  , 
    -
    .  
   -
    -
»      
 »      -
.    
,   , 
  . , 
-
 .  
  «- 
    -
 ,   -
 « .  .     
.   .   
 « 
 .   -
  ».  -
,  :
 .   
   , 
«   -
    ,  -
     -
*) . ., . XXV. . 840.
   -    

=== Page 579 === (confidence 0.88)
     , 
.  . -
,     -
      ,
   .
  10—12 .  -
     (-
,  
 .  -
.   . .).
1938   
  . -
  .  
     -
     -
     -
 .  
20 ..  ,  -
oT 1/Y1 1938 r. coobmaet. To B .
 .   -
   1938 .  
CIA172.816  
,    
       87.907    
   . 
1937 . .-.   
   .  
10 .!     
    -
  -
  «»   9. 
    -
    -
    ,  
     -
.    -
 . . ,
  ».
 . « », .-
  . 
      -
 .    -
 1937 .    
    .
 25  . -
 .   -
 .   -
   .
  .    
   . 
  ,   .
    105 .
  -
 -    
. .   
.      
.    -
   . o 
,  
  , -
     -
  .
.   337 ..  
    .
 .  -
!  .  -
  . ,  
    .
     .-
1937     
    -
me.  B 1936 roiy (135.000 Gappe-
   3.000.000 .
, . . 400 ..
   1937 .  
.    
c 72 000 ap. 8 1936 r.). o o
 (, 
 50 .  
 . .).    . 
.    
 .  
   -
 »,   1937  -
  1937 ,  ,  
  . 
    5 .-
 ,   
  .  
 . . .-.  
.    -
 ,  
. .  .
. .     
    .
   . 
   -
     -
   .  
     .
1938 .  .  
.    
   « 
   . -
17     
(»,    1937 
     -
      . -
     53 .
  «  »
      -
..      
 15  . .  
 33 .. .
 .   
1937 .   
   . ..
   -
. . . 
 .   «.
»    
 .    
 197    
    .
990 00  .  ..   . . 500  -
.     
      196 .   7.00    
  .    
     40.   .  24 , 
    -
  197    -   .   
   1..  -     
 .           
      193 .
   -

=== Page 580 === (confidence 0.89)
.   
    .  -
 -  -
    -
 ,   1937 . 
 .
 1938  329 .  -
      -
.   1/   -
 .. 
 .    -
      -
  .
    ( - .    -
. »  ).       -
 .        -
 .    -  .
    -
   -
     . -
    . 
« ,   -
  ,   
    -
  .
    .
   -
  . -
  .   -
     -
   -
 ,  , 
 ,  
 ,    -
    -
   ,  -
  . 
     -
1937 n 1938
   -
, 
-
  .
 . , , 
«   » . 
    1938 . 
.     -
 500.00 . . 
1919 .  ,  -
,    -
  .   
  .
     -
.   -
 -  
  .
,   
    -
      -
      -
:   -
   . -
.  «- » 
,    
12  1938 r. 3 1- .
   -
1938 .     -
.    -
   124.958.000 ..
 « »  
(».
 1937  (165.611 000
, . ,
10.1.7.)
Ha
40.653.000 .    
    . . 
  .  
   -
 ,  -  .
    -
 .   
     -
 ,  
,    
    . -
.
  , 
0   
   -
-
   -
,    -.

=== Page 581 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.1666
dated SEP 19 1938 from the Amer1-
can Embassy, Moscow, U.S.S.R., on
the subject of a translation en-
titled "Wall Street and Japanese
Aggression in China".
SOURCE: Izvestiya, Moscow, September 10,
1938.
(Organ of the Soviets of Deputies
of the Toilers of the U.S.S.R.)
TRANSLATION.
WALL STREET AND JAPANESE AGGRESSION IN CHINA.
By K. Volkov.
From the very beginning of Japanese aggression in
China it became palpably apparent that a certain part
of the manufacturers and financiers of the U.S.A. in-
directly and directly supported the bandit war of Japan
against the Chinese people. This support is expressed
by supplying Japan with important types of strategic
raw materials and armaments, without which the latter
would not be in a position to conduct a war of any length.
V.I. Lenin, even in 1920 in his speech at the 2nd
Congress of the Comintern pointed out that:
". . . Japan has been able to loot eastern
Asiatic countries, but it cannot have any inde-
pendent financial and military force without the
support of some other country." . . . (Lenin,
Collected Works, v. 25, p. 340.)
This exceptionally clear and exhaustive Lenin
charaoterization of Japan maintains its validity at the
present time. Now even the bourgeois American press
is compelled to recognize that the course of military
activities in China is determined to a considerable de-
ree by the attitude of the London and New York stook
markets

=== Page 582 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
markets toward the present Japanese aggression against
the Chinese people. Thus, for example, the New York
Times on July 8, 1938, writes that along with China
"London and New York are fields of battle, where the
outcome of the present war on the Asiatic continent is
being decided".
An attentive study of the facts shows, however, tht
the London and New York stock markets in this connection
are not at all arenas of bitter fighting. Wall Street,
the citadel of world capitalism, presents rather an
idyllic picture of a peaceful deal of American magnates
of financial capital with Japanese imperialism. An ar-
ticle published in the journal Oriental Economist by
George Bogen*, editor-in-chief of the magazine New York
Journal of Commerce, serves as a clear illustration of
this deal. This article, entitled "American Capital in
Northern China", besides its contents presents great
interest also because its author expresses not so much
the personal viewpoint of a private person as the views
of the so-called "business" circles in the U.S.A. George
Bogen begins with the frank statement:
"Industrial and financial ciroles in the
United States in general do not share the wide-
spread indignation against the Japanese occupation
of Northern China and Shanghai. They are more in-
olined to hold the realistio point of view that
Japan requires room for economic expansion and
that China is precisely such a field of activity
for Japanese expansion. Such a point of view, in
partioular, is the reason that the movement for a
boyoott of Japanese goods has not attained serious
dimensions. In reality industrial and financial
oircles
Transliteration from the Russian.

=== Page 583 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
circles of the U.S.A. have made special efforts
to weaken this boycott movement in every way."
This statement does not recuire comment. George
Bogen and "business" circles of the U.S.A., it seems,
not only openly approve and encourage the rapacious
policy of Japanese imperialism in China, but directly
admit that they are disrupting the anti-Japanese boycott
in the U.S.A. precisely with the aim of rendering aid to
the aggressor.
George Bo en further waxes even more eloquent. He
points out that "financial circles of the U.S.A. are
harboring serious fears with regard to the condition af
Japanese finances" in connection with the war in China;
and he expresses the supposition that the present economic
measures of the Japanese Government for curtailing the im-
portation of a number of types of goods from the U.S.A.
may harm the interests of American exporters. Neverthe-
less Bogen continues:
"The present enormous purchases by Japan of
various goods and in particular of oil has produced
a favorable impression on the branches of industry
of the U.S.A. directly interested. These branches
of industry have shown a great readiness to view
the existing situation from the point of view of
Japanese interests. However, universal indignation
with regard to the activities of Japan has been so
strong in the U.S.A. that up to the present time
our finanoiers and industrialists have avoided makig
any public declaration with regard to their position
on the question, although they certainly were ex-
tremely interested in the fact that the Government
of the U.S.A. has proorastinated about applying the
noutrality law."
Thus, the bankers and the oil, steel and cotton
kings in the U.s.Á. do not now even consider it necessary
to

=== Page 584 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
to conceal the fact that behind the back of public opinion
of the U.S.A. and in spite of it they have blessed the ra-
pacious policy of Japan in China and have rendered it as-
sistance in every way. It is fully evident that the posi-
tion of the financial oligarchy of the U.S.A. on this
question does not correspond to the policy of the present
Government of the U.S.A. which, as before, although not
consistently enough, is in f vor of the maintenance of the
territorial integrity of China and against war and ag-
gress on as an instr ment of national policy. However,
this does not in the least disturb the wirepullers of
Wall Street. If they have often opposed the measures of
Roosevelt's Government inside the country and have fre-
quently disrupted them, there is nothing astonishing in
the fact that these circles have actually repudiated and
also have frequently and simply sabotaged the measures
of foreign policy of the Roosevelt Administration.
George Bogen assures Japanese bankers and manu-
facturers that "business" circles of the U.S.A. would
have no objection to participating in the exploitation
of the riches of Northern China under the aegis of the
Japanese usurpers. However, the fate of the Ámerican oil
companies in Manchuria is still too well remembered in
the U.S.A. and therefore George Bogen considers it not
superfluous to demand firm guarantees that future American
investments in China be exempted from the restrictions
and arbitrary actions of the Japanese authorities,
partioularly

=== Page 585 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
particularly the military. The author, taking for
granted the problematical Japanese "victory", ends his
article with the following advice to his Japanese col-
leagues:
"Apparently, the surest method for removing
the hesitation among American busines circles
on the question of participution in the financing
of North China would be the publication of a joint
statement by the Japanese Government, the Army and
the Autonomous Government of Northern China, which
would express their friendly attitude toward
foreign investments, and in which they would under-
take to avoid repression and limitation with regard
to foreign trade and investments on the territory
of Northern China."
The article of George Bogen is not at all the idle
thoughts of an American journalist; it is quite suffi-
ciently reinforced by facts. The course of events shows
that word and deed are in accord among the business men
of Wall Street. A series of data confirms the presence
of systematic aid, rendered by American capitalists to
the Japanese aggressor. It is extremely indicative that
American financiers and manufacturers, who have invested
about 400 million dollars in various Japanese enter-
prises (machine construction, chemicals, etc.), have not
made the slightest attempt to protest against the estab-
lishment of governmental control over those branohes of
production in which American capital is particularly in-
terested. It is well known that the representative of
the Ford Company in Japan has subsoribed heavily to a
loan issued by the Japanese Government to finance the
war in China. In the foreign press there has not yet
been any authentic information regarding the granting
of

=== Page 586 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
of a large loan to Japan by American financiers. However,
the magazine Far Eastern Survey, well informed on these
questions, hinted unambiguously enough as far back as
June 15, 1938, that Japanese solicitations along this line
had received a certain encouragement and even a promise
of the grant of a loan in the "near future" on the part
of individual banks in the U.S.A. The picture becomes
even more indicative if we turn to the question of the
enormous extent to which Japan is bein€ supplied with
strategic raw materials and armaments from the U.S.A.
It is scarcely necessary to speak of the enormous
role of oil in modern warfare. The Japanese Government,
taking into account the fact that the internal sourcas of
oil hardly cover 10; to 12 of the total requirements of
the country, began in a dvance to create large stores of
this most important strategic raw material. American
economists estimate that on the eve of the invasion a
China the Naval Ministry of Japan had at its disposal stores
of 20 million barrels of oil, which nearly equals the annual
requirement for the fleet and army in time of peace. How-
ever, even by the third month of war Japan has been com-
pelled to increase considerably the purchase of dl in
the U.S.A. According to information published in the
March issue of the magazine Pacific Affairs by Eliot
Janeway, economic expert of the International Statistical
Bureau, Japan has purchased 25 million gallons of aviation
casoline in California during the first six days af Sep-
tember l937 alone. In the course of the last two weeks
of

=== Page 587 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
of the same month there were purchased in the U.S.A.
105 million gallons of oil, suitable for refining into
aviation gasoline. In all, during the months of Sep-
tember and October, Japan purchased 337 million gallons
of oil in the U.S.A! In other words Japan bought nearly
twice as much oil daily as in the year of 1936 (135,000
barrels daily in 1937 in comparison with 72,000 barrels
in 1936). According to official data of American sta-
tistics, published in the magazine Far Eastern Survey,
during the whole year of 1937 Japan imported 35 million
barrels of oil from the U.S.A., i.e., nearly twice as
much as the annual store in peace time. This is not
counting purchases in the Dutch East Indies and ot her
countries.
It is possible to observe a similar picture also
in the field of export of American steel and iron to
Jepan. Japan, preparing for war against the Chinese
people, at the beginning of 1937 began enormous pur-
chases of iron ore and scrap iron abroad. E. Janeway,
mentioned by us before, asserts that during the first
four months of 1937 the United States sold Japan more
pig iron in bars than was sold to any other country during
the previous six years! In 1937 the U.S.A. sold to Japan
990,000 tons of iron and steel; during the same period
in 1936 only 40,000 tons in al1 were sold! During 1937
Japan imported from abroad in all about 1,900,000 tons
of sorap iron, which is double the import of l936.
Japan not only imports sorap iron in large amounts
from

=== Page 588 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
from the U.S.A., but also high-grade steels (chromium
nickel, aluminum, etc.). In 19. 8 the amount of steel
and iron ore imported by Japan from the U.S.A. not only
did not diminish, but actually increased. The magazine
Far Eastern Survey, already cited by us, of June 1, 1938,
reports that during the first quarter of 1938 Japan im-
prted 172,816 tons of iron and steel from the U.S.A.
against 87,907 tons for the first quarter of 1937, i.e.,
an increase of nearly 100%! The sume E. Janeway in his
article in the June issue of the magazine Asia stated
that in the field of machine construction Japan is almost
entirely dependent on Detroit and Pittsburgh for the
special steels of airplane construction and automobile
industries.
No less indicative is the Japanese importation of
modern tools and machines. One may say without exag-
geration that the Japanese machine-building industry,
including military machine-building as well, is now
being reorganized on the basis of American technical
assistance and according to American methods. By the
calculations of E. Janeway, in 1937 Japan purchased
machines to a value of $3,000,000 monthly in the U.S.A.
By value imports by Japan of machine equipment from the
U.S.A. equal 50% of the cost of all equipment produced
within the country in l937. Moreover, according to the
opinion of American experts, this figure is far from
reflecting the actual state of affairs, since an impor-
tant part of Japanese orders for the most intricate
•quipment has not yet been filled by American factories
and

=== Page 589 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
and the final amount of the export of tools to Japan
can be given only in the second half of 1938. According
to the data presented in the July issue of the magazine
Far Eastern Front, Japan in 1937 imported machines and
tools to a value of 53 million dollars, of which 33 million
dollars fell to the share of the U.S.A.
At present Japan is suffering serious difficulties
in railway transport. A large cuantity of freight is
not transported as a result of the shortage of locomo-
tives and rolling stock. The plan for the construction
of 500 new locomotives and 7,000 cars has not been ful-
filled in view of the fact that the 24 factories which
received orders for their construction do not possess
the required number of turning lathes and other machines.
And here again the American capitalists came to the aid
of Japan. Railroad and steel kings in the U.S.A. under-
took to deliver the necessary tools to the Jpanese fac-
tories.
This is also approximately the picture in the auto-
mobile industry. Not long after the beginning of the war
in China the Japanese tried to force foreign capital out
of this branch of industry ("General Motors" and Ford).
However, the war soon showed that the quality of Japanese
automobile stands at an ertremely low level. In the
Chinese theater of military activities Japanese automo-
biles quickly broke down and got out of order. They
were foroed to make peace with both Ford and "General
Motors", whioh are now the chief suppliers of automobile
transportation

=== Page 590 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
transportation in Japan nd the organizers of its au-
tomobile industries.
The aviation industry goes without saying. Japan
is now trying to start on the road of mass production
of airplanes, mainly according to American models; but
until such time as this production is mastered it is
purchasing finished products made in the U.S.A. In
1937 and 1938 Japan was the largest purchaser of Am-
erican airplanes. Thus, for example, the magazine
Great Britain and the East reports that during May 1938
alone, Japan bought airplanes in the U.S.A. valued at
more than $500,000. We note in passing that the 1arge
purchases of aviation gasoline in the U.S.A. are ex-
plained by the fact that the majority of Japanese air-
planes and motors either are built according to American
models or are directly imported from the U.S.A.
A general idea of the extent of the export of war
materials and arms from the U.S.A. to Japan is given in
the official figures of the Department of Commerce of
the U.S.A., which were published in the New York Time s
on August 12, 1938. During the first half of 1938 ex-
ports from the U.S.A. to Japan amounted by value to
$124,958,000, which in comparison with the figures for
the first half of 1937 ($165,611,000) shows a decrease
of $40,653,000. This decline does not at all indicate
a decrease in the military purchases of Japan in the
U.s.Á. The figures previously presented by us tell pre-
eisely the contrary story. The decrease of imports
from

=== Page 591 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
from the U.S.A. occurred because of the sharp decline
in the import of consumers goods and of raw materials
not intended for the needs of war.
To the scale of American military supplies to Japan
the amount of gold exported from Japan to the U.S.A.
eloquently bears witness. According to the data of the
New York Federal Reserve Bank, from March 1937 to January
1938, 329 million gold dollars, or more than one-third of
the entire gold reserve of Japan, had already been trans-
ferred to the safes of American bankers.
All of these facts testify that American magnates
have actually placed the unlimited economic resources
of the U.S.A. at the disposal of the Japanese aggressor.
However, the deal of the financial oligarchy of the
U.S.A. with Japanese imperialism not only frees the hands
of the Japanese aggressor in its destructive war against
the Chinese people, but also basicly undermines the fun-
damentals of the traditional policy of the U.S.A. in the
Far East.
Durig the course of the last decades the most far-
sighted American political figures have emphasized more
than onoe that the Government of the U.S.A. is obliged to
take very effeotive measures to put a stop to any aid on
the part of the U.S.A. to aggressor countries which vio-
late the territorial integrity of China.
Thomas Millard, a very great expert on the Far East,
expounded this requirement with distinot clarity in his
memorandum

=== Page 592 === (confidence 0.98)
- 12 -
memorandum addressed to the Senate back in 1919. He
wrote that the cornerstone of the policy of the U.S.A.
in the Far East is:
"The refusal on the part of the U.S.A. to render
any aid to those countries which can use it di-
rectly or indirectly to the detriment of American
interests in Eastern Asia; the immediate cutting
off of financial or any other support to those
countries which directly or indirectly try to
violate the territorial integrity of China and
the policy of the 'open door' in this country."
However, reality has shown that demands of this
type by the most far-sighted Americans are still far
from transfomation into reality. It is true that in
their recent speeches the most prominent political fi-
gures of the U.S.A. call upon public opinion of their
country to exert moral pressure upon the capitalists
who are supplying Japan with arms and strategic ma-
terials. The very near future will show how effective
such a pious method of reforming the inveterate sinners
of Wall Street will be.
EIR/hla

=== Page 593 === (confidence 0.93)
NOV 25
Achnowl
By Form
PRESIDENT, W. H. KROMER
File
BY, N. N. SHAW
VICE PRESIDENT, H. R. HARRIS
The Union Church of the Canal Zone
Ss
COMMITTEES:
CHURCHES:
PASTORS:
EDUCATION, MRS. C. L. MORGAN
"INTER-DENOMINATIONAL
PEDRO MIGUEL REV. H. C. SCHJEVELAND
MISSIONS. REV. R. R. GREGORY
Established January 25, 1914
CRISTOBAL
REV. C. L. MORGAN
BALBOA
REV. L. L. LOOFBOUROW
FINANCE. L. J. EGOLF
GATUN
CHAPLAIN R C. DEIBERT
AFFILIATED WITH THE FEDERAL COUNCIL OF CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN AMERICA. NEW YORK. JUNE, 1921
AM 10 58
Ro. S4, Bulbou, Sallul one
(S)
October 13, 1938
A
21
LJ
F
Honabl Cordell Hull
State Depertment
Wu hin ton, D.C.
My dear r. Secretury:
Livin in the Canel one, we se tle co ree of
94.24
the nations o by, und no, ore or lees,  nt the
vessels ure carrying. lo a reut uny of us living
here, the flow of u.. tio., -ere. iron, na  teriels
to be used in the dev st vin, wllvel u a i China,
have  een a const it wour e or torrow.
894.24/424
A we sue this trefrie o , thy f us lere on the
Sone feel th t u reut i justi e is eir otr: ted on
the Chinese nation, w.ieh heeds or ee ves our hel nd
enc ure ement.
May I most re peetrully ur shet you ae everything
that is possible to  ias un end to this tr rfic, vhich
has made Jupan'e tavesi n oa chin poseisiu. To us here,
it seems to muke the Taiteu otates unufficially  p the.
FLLED
in the terrible destiuetion in Chin, thich has been one
of our most friendly nei hbors.
Sincerely yours,
Leon L. Loofbourow
LLL:FF
F/A

=== Page 594 === (confidence 0.96)
894.24
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/14113
Tel-1786; 7pm
FOR
SEE
Wilson
Oct 19, 1938.
FROM
France
-)
DATED
NAME
1-1127
TO
0.1
6
4.2
Japan's southward expansion policy: joint action by British
REGARDING:
French and American governnents in the prohibition of arma-
4
ment and munitions shipments to Japan urged by Wellington Koo,
pointing to success of moral suasion exercised by Washington in
respect to airplane deliveries.
42
5
RG.

=== Page 595 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Ootober 27, 1938.
ASO
JA1J
JOV
JWB
Mukden's despatoh no. 372 of August
37 to the Embassy at Peiping reports that
Manohurian imports from the United States
during the first quarter of 1938 totaled
Yen 41,000,000 as compared with
Yen 11,500,000 and Yen 7,150,000 in the
corresponding periods of 1937 and 1936,
respectively. Notwithstanding this large
inorease Manchurian importers of American
goods for private aocount are liquidating
because of denial of import permits or
exchange remittance permits. The large
imports of American goods, prinoipally
of iron and steel and automobiles dnd
parts, are either army purchases or are
related directly or indireotly to Japan's
war industries on the continent. It is
pointed out that the Japanese army through
its agency."Manchukuo" determines how
every dollar remitted from Manchuria to
the United States shall be spent.
894.34/436
FE:PenTield:HES

=== Page 596 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE  E TOWSET O
INTERNATIONAL ÉCO AFFARS
GLOCT 28 1938
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. -
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMÉRICA
C 22 1158
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Mukden, Manchuria,
August 27, 1938.
SUBJECT:
Imports of War Materials from
Oe
the United States.
S.
THE HONORABLE
ON/-NID
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON.
894.24/426
SIR:
I have the honor to enclose a copy of my despatch
no. 272 dated August 27, 1938 to the Embassy, Peiping,
China entitled "Imports of War Materials from the
United States".
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Very respectfully yours,
PARTMENTOF
NOV-41938
OF STATE
AM/C
FLLED
Wm. R. Langdon
American Consul
Enclosure:
Copy of despatch no. 272, as stated.
In quintuplicate to the Department.
F/WB
800/711.1
WRL:fgl

=== Page 597 === (confidence 0.90)
No. 272
,,t 27, 103.
CURJECT:
Importa of ar atoriula fro
the United  tates.
The honore ble
sir:
 recat rticluhs b te oreigr olioy
assct1.
en titleu " erie  rt solst.I da an"
aars tus foliowl assue:
" he ruids on Canton are uot thhe ras; or.sl-
bllit. cr Jepu slone.
ario should faoe
the fot th t tlis country is urticiratine
de fucto ir the estructior vrought at Canton.
The hish test viatin fuel, whio! the United
tates is suprlying in large and increusi.
uantities to Jap un, makes this country a
cartioipunt in the C nton bombardments; so also
does the $5,670, 237 of Amer1can a1reraft and
accessories sold tc Japen sinoe Junurry l....
Airplanes, however, oanstitute but a small por-
tion of wer materials whioh mericun coroerns
are supplyine to Japan. High grade steels and
specified alloye, special typee of machinery
and machine tools, and certain fuels and lubri-
eating oils - these, and other produots, are
available to Japan in large quantities only in
the merioan market. "her sorap and pig Iron,
refined coprer, petroleum, automobiles and ae-
cessories, non-metallio metals, end numerous
lesser items ure added to the iist of Ameriean
exporte tc Japu, the full rloture becomes ap-
parent. A meientirie study of this subjest,
to bo shortly publighoc by the Chinese Counell
fer Keonomie Relations at Wamhimgton, D. C.,
estimates that during rocent months Jaran has
seeured 54.4 pereent of its war imports from
the United tate .......
The forogoi g passage brings to my mind the thought
* Fereign Poliey Bulletin, Volume IVII, no. 34,
June 17, 1988.
that

=== Page 598 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
that a complete pioture of merica's contribution to
Japan's war imports oannot be presented until current
Amorican exports to Manchurla are added to it.
As the Embassy is aware, the trade of Manohuria
has become, particularly since the war with China, an
integral  art of the trade of Japan. Another speoial
charactsristic of the trede of manohuria since the first
of the year 1s that, under the xohange Control Law and
Trade Control Law, it ie striotly oontrolled by the Hein-
king Government. Low as the Hsinking Government is a
creature of the Japanese Army, this control is dictated
by military needs even more than in Japan, where a civi-
lian element in the Goverumont still existe to give, in
the administration of the rational exehange and trade con-
trol laws, a degree of consideration to private enterprise,
export industries and other general eoonomic needs. Thus
imports into Manehuria from "third countries" since the
beginning of the year must be regarded ehiefly as rmy
purehases or as trade related direetly or indireetly to
Japan's war industries on the Continent.
To judga from t he predieament or importers for pri-
vate aceount of Ameriean produets well-established in this
market, sueh as passenger automobiles, lear tobaeeo, raw
cotton, mewing mmchines, four, raisins, eanned feods, drugs,
to
teilet artieles, who are preparing liquidate their leeal
business because of denial of import permits or exehange
remistanee permits, ome would suppese that Amerieen experts
to Manshuria have virtually eeased. This is far frem being
the ease, hewever, as will now be pointed eut.
A fow daye age the memthly returas of the trade of
Manchuria fer April were publisked. They shew that im-
perts frem the Uaised ssates in the first four mouths ef

=== Page 599 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
1938 totelled Yo 41,00,00, es comared with Yen 11.500.000
and Yon 7,150, 000 1r the corresponding periods of 19 7 and
1936, respectively. At this rate Amerioan sales to Man-
o uria may reach an all-time h1gh of Yon 125, 000,00. in
l938, a year of l1quidation for local 1 orters cf Amerlean
goods for rivate aocount.
Beginning wit this year, the arrangenent of monthly
returns of "Manohuku." follows a now syatem, unlike that
followed herotofore, whioh wes patterned after thet of
the Chinese  aritime Customs. Generally sreakins, the
new arrangement tonds to be obsourantist in resreot to
artioles related to military and politieal developments.
For instance, the separate items for opiwr automobiles,
gasolone and crude ol! are no longer to be found. "owever,
a goneral idea of the chier itams that composed the
Yon 41, 000, 000 of 1mports from the Un1ted tates in the
first four months or l938 may be gained from a olose emmi-
nation of the pril mont ly returns, t o wit:
Jan.-Apr. 1938
Jan.-Apr. 1937
Iron and steel
Yen 22,944,000
563,750
Leaf tobaoeo
625,000
1,158,000
Ginned eotton
2,636,000
1,459,000
Venieles other tnan
bieyeles* (viz.,
automobiles)
7,532,459)
1,398,502
Parts of vehieles
osher than bieyeles*
(vis., auto parts)
2,189,705)
(*Ineluding Japan assemblies and parts)
Our own Department of Commeree, of course, has details
of Uaited States exports to Masehuria and the Emmatuns Leased
Terrisery and is the authority to look to for emet knewledge
of the charester of our sales to these areas of the Far ast.
The peint I wish te make is that in any eemsideration which
cur geverament my eurrently er later give to the pelitieel

=== Page 600 === (confidence 0.97)
aspects of this trade, it should be borne in mind that
the Japanese Army, through its agenoy "Manohukuo",
determines how every dollar remitted from anchuria to
the United tates shall be spent.
Very respectfully yours,
Wm. R. Langdon
merioan Consul
Five copies to the separtent by despaton no. -
dated August 27, 1956.
Copy to the mbassy, Chungking.
Copy to the mbassy, Tokyo.
Copy to the Consulate General, Harbin.
Cony to the Consul: te, Dairen.
800711.1
WRLIfg1

=== Page 601 === (confidence 0.94)
BOPELAND, N. Y., CHAIRMAN
CHARLES L MC NARY, ORES.
C
WAY, ARK.
GERALD P. NYE, N. DAK.
WALLACE H. WHITE, JR., MAINE
United States Senate tüe
ATE
G. BILBO, MISS.
ERNEST W. GIBSON, VT.
NCIS T. MALONEY, CONN.
M F. GUPPEY, PA.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE
LAUDE PEPPER, FLA.
JOSH LEE, OKLA.
1938 OCT 75 AM 10 05
GEORGE L. BERRY, TENN.
GRACE MC ELDOWNEY, CLERK
October 22, 1938.1V1 4 0F
COMMUN
ONS
ANDDS
6 1938.
2
844.2
Honorable Cordell Hull,
Gele 15-28-38
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Rvn/ame
My dear Mr. Secretary:
me
894.24/427
In the continued absence of Senator
Maloney, I am enclosing another self-explanatory
communication which has come from Mr. Chase Kimball,
Treasurer of the Connecticut Peace Conference. His
latest correspondence with your Department has been
addressed to the Office of Arms and Munitions Control,
Attention of Honorable Joseph Green or Charles W.
Yost.
I know that you will give this letter
and Mr. Kimball's communication such further con-
sideration as you may feel they deserve.
Sincerely yours,
Secretary
MMW
F/A
11

=== Page 602 === (confidence 0.99)
CONNECTICUT PEACE CONFERENCE
138 Orange Street, New Haven, Conn.
Box 373
Waterbury, Conn.
October 21, 1938.
Honorable Francis T. Maloney
Senate Office Building
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Miss Flynn
Dear Madam:
I received this morning your letter of October 20th,
with enclosures, discussing the resolutions passed by the
New Haven meeting and sent to you.
Apparently the State Department misuncerstood the
purpose of the resolution on the Far East and I have
written trying to explain what I thought was in the minds
of those who voted for the resolution.
I enclose herewith a copy of the letter, which I
request that you bring to Senator Maloney's attention,
since, as you know, the resolution 1s addressed to
Congress as well as to the Presiaent.
Respectfully yours,
CHASE KIMBALL

=== Page 603 === (confidence 0.95)
November 8 1938.
In reply refer to
CA 894.24/427
My dear Senator Maloney:
I aoknowledge the receipt of a letter dated Ooto-
ber 22, 1938, signed by your secretary, enclosing & letter
dated Ootober 21 from Mr. Chase Kimball, Waterbury, Con-
894.24/427
nectiout, in whioh he makes reference to a letter which
he addressed to this Department with further regard to
the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
In this connection, there 1s enolosed for your in-
formation a copy of a letter which is being addressed
to Mr. Kimball in reply to his letter of October 21, 1938,
addressed to the Depertment.
Mr. Kimball's letter to you of October 21 1s returned
herewith.
Sinoerely yours,
Enclosures:
1. To Mr. Kimball.
2. From Mr. Kimball
to Senator Maloney.
AA
The Honorable
CR
OCT 29 1938.
0
Francis T. Maloney,
Pmt
United States Senate.
RELL
CA:RVH:EMU/V&
10-28-38
FE
C
S
nm

=== Page 604 === (confidence 0.97)
CONNECTICUT PEACE CONFERENCE
COOPERATING ORGANIZATION OF THE NATIONAL PEACE CONFERENCE
138 ORANGE STREET. NEW HAVEN. CONN.
STEERING COMMITTEE
Ft
PRESIDENT
N. HORTON BATCHELDER
GEORGE S LACKLAND
JOHN BROPHY
LEWIS FOX
VICE-PRESIDENTS
MRS. LOUIS Y. GABERMAN
MRS. LOUIS Y. GABERMAN
ALLAN HACKETT
N. HORTON BATCHELDER
MRS. W.F. JOHNSON
ARLES P. JERVEY
TREASURER
ORGE B. LACKLAND
CHASE KIMBALL. BOX 373. WATERBURY
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
YNE W. WOMER
WAYNE WAKEFIELD WOMER
RECORDING SECRETARY
109 HARTFORD AVE., WETHERSFIELD. CONN.
MRS. P. H. HODGKIN
PROGRAM COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
Sox 373
MRS. FLORENCE L. C. KITCHELT
4424
Waterbury, Conn.
SPEAKERS BUREAU CHAIRMAN
MRS. C. K. MATSON
Octoeer 21, 1938.
office of Amus and unitione Control
MEMBER ORGANIZATIONS
State bepe mrent
AMERICAN UNITARIAN ASSOCIATION
CATHOLIC ASSOCIATION FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE
IN EDUCATION
Washin ton, D. C.
894.24/428
AND TEACHERS
AND
RELIGIOUS
Ationtion:
Honorable Joseph G. Green
or Charie. . Yost
AND
PROFES.
AND
Gentlemen:
m
CONNECTICUT
I wish to thank you for your letters of October 15th
and leth regarcin tho two recolutions edopted at a recent
meetin in New Haven, and, in articular, the resolution
referrin to the aid which the United States is now giving
ACTION
Japen in her aggretsion.
PEACE
AND
Apperently you misunderstood the purpose of the
ASSOCIATION
ASSOCIATION
resolution, which hws nothing to do with the so-called
Neutrality Act, sinee, as is woll movm, most of the aid
that is now being iven to Japan could not bc cut of'f by the application of the Neutrality
Act as it is now written.
As you know, it has been authoritivoly estimated that during 1937 more than 546 of
the goods imported by Japan to carry on her war cane from the United States. The United
States' share in such imports are 93% of the copper, 91: of the automobiles and parts, 60%
of the oil, about 50 of the iron, and ehout the snme amount of machinery. The export
by the United States of none of thece things can be forbidden under the Neutrality Act
The question did not come up, but I am convinced that the reat majority of the
7
114 persons present at the New Haven meeting egreed with the President in his refuil 
apply the Neutrality Act in the present Far Eastern war. Eut they disapprove emphotically
of the tremendous aid being iven Japan. There are many reasons for such disapproval,
probably the most potent of them being cited by Eliot Janeway in a recent article in
Harper's.
Knowing that the Neutrality Act does not apply to the situation, the resolution
does not request the application of the Neutrality Act, but does request the President
and Congress "to take every practicable means, direct or indirect, to bring to an end"
this traffic, which makes us a partner in the destruction of the Chinese people. I am
certain the meeting had in mind the action in June of Secretery Hull, urging airplane
manufacturers to refuse to export further airplanes or parts to Japen. It was hoped that

=== Page 605 === (confidence 0.95)
Ace of Arms and
anitions Control
2
October 21, 1938.
the President and Secretary Hull might exort similar pressure gainst exporters and
producers of copper, eutomobiles, oil, iron, machinery, and similar articles which
are useful in tho precent war. 1 wo ld : pprecin te lesnin thrt you nave recorded
this resolution es an exprescion of public opinion o' thet neture, and not as a
request for the epplication e? the procont neutrelity lew.
If I may add a purely personel word, 1 heve understood thet Seeretary hull's
statement did have e substential efiect ii. stoppin she oxport of nirplane: and parts
to Ja an. Can you inform me as to hether any a recianle enount of companies have
broken the letter or the spirit oi Soerets ry iull' stetement, and, if so, what
companies have so broken it? I was alse very much in erested in the figures of
licenses issued by your orfice for the uxport o? trns and munitions and ember oes
of war to China an! Ja an since July lst, l937. Hould you be kind enough to send me
a teble showin; the totel amount of liconses For such export to China end Ja pan
separstely, for each month from Januery 1, 1937 to se ember 30, 1938?
Re:pectf:lly yourc,
Clhare Kiuboll
CK/b

=== Page 606 === (confidence 0.90)
Le Red Ank Fill
Im reply refee to
November 8 1938.
894.24/428
My dear r. Kimball:
The reseipt is moknowledged of your letter of Oete-
ber 21, 1938, in whieh you refer to previous eerrespenk-
894.24/428
eaee, and state that in your opinion the majority er the
people whe attended the meeting at New Haven on Oote ber 6
were mt concerned with the application of the Noutrality
Aet to the Far Eastern situation, but were desirous of
having the President and the Searetary of State make
representations to the exporters and predmcers ef copper,
autemebiles, ell, iron, machinery and similar artieles
which may be useful in the Far Easterm cenfliet, similar
to these contained in a general letter whieh the seere-
tary addressed to the mamufasturers and esperters in this
country of airplames and aevensntienl equipment en Juèy l,
1o8s. At the request of the Monerakke Prameis T. Maleney,
Uaited States Semater frem Conmectiout, I alse sekmswteage
the reselpt ef your letter to kim of o cte ter n, enslouing
F/WB
.l.
..

=== Page 607 === (confidence 0.93)
a eepy of your letter of the same date to the Departmemt.
I have to inferm you that your viows in regard te the
situatien mew ebtaiming in the Far East as set ferth in
your letter of Ceteber 21 have been daly meted. Fer your
additiomal imfermatiem I may state that the Department's
resent actien in urging the mamfacturers and exporters in
this eountry of airplanes and aeromautieal equipment met
to sell er export their produets to countries whose armed
forees are engaged in the bombing of eivilian pepulations
frem the air wav? baced upon this country's general and
uareserved condemnation, to which the Sooretary has givem
expressios repeatedly in public utteramses, of the bembing
of eivilian pepulations. Omly in meh exseptiomal eases
dees the Departmemt take astiom of that advisery charaeter.
I may add that the Departmemt's representatiess te these
mamufaetarers and exporters have been substäntially com-
plied with.
In eompl1anee with the request centained in the last
semtemee of your letter of Geteber n, I am settimg forth
belew a takke shewing the value by menthe of the l1eenses
which have been isssed for the expert of arms to amamn
and Japam Guring the peried fren Jammary 1957 to Septem-
ber 193s, 1mmluve.
A truo cupy of
the signed origi-
nal.

=== Page 608 === (confidence 0.85)
CHINA
JAPAN
Jamary (1937) 8
26,722.
90
00
290
7
(1930)
,918,1s.
179,909.
00
1.
84
no.
Angust
122,448.13
199,249.00
September
815,379,381.58
810,014,900.1
Sinserely yours,
Jeseph G. Gream,
ai of
Offiee of Arms and mmitiens Ceatrel
true
cop:
the signed og
Q0T 20
ant

=== Page 609 === (confidence 0.93)
SH
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS
JOINT CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE
ON INTERNAL REVENUE TAXATION
House of Representatibes H.S.
LIBRARY COMMITTEE
Mashington, D. C.
938 0CT 26 NM 9 27
CONS
ANDEDS
ack.10/27/36
RuHiLef.
Stockbridge, Mass.
October 24, 1938
894.24/429
Hon. Cordall Hull,
Secretary of State,
hashington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:-
In
I enclose herewith
letter from the Rev. Harry .. Foot, scribe
of the Berkshire North Association of Con-
gregational Christian Churches, in reference
to ths Sino-Japanese foreign policy.
FOLED
I will be glad to hear
from you on the subject at your convenience.
F/A
Very t ruXy
99
Enclosure

=== Page 610 === (confidence 0.99)
THE FIRST CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH
Dalton, Massachusetts
Harry W. Foot
October 19, 1938.
Minister
Honorable Allen T. Treadway,
Congressional Office Building,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
As scribe of the Berkshire North Association of
Congregational Christian churches it is my duty to trans-
mit to you an expresslon of opinion on the matter of
Sino-Japanese foreign policy growing out of the Annual
Meeting of the Association held in South Williamstown,
Massachusetts, on October 18, 1938. The Association com-
prises twenty-one churches and twenty-six ministers of
the First Congressional istrict.
The Association voted to go on record as being
heartily opposed to the further exportation of munitions
of war to Japan. Its members are persuaded that the con-
flict represents a caee of aggression directly contrary to
every Christian ideal of international procedure.
The Association believes that we as a nation are
responsible for the continuance of the war in-as-much as
we are furnishing the aggressor natlon with eighty-five
percent of the warstuffs which make the invasion of China
possible.
The Association therefore respectfully asks that you
use your influence to curtail and terminnte the exporta-
tion of war materials to Japan.
We feel that only by so doing can we as Americans
redeem our birthright and help make possible for less-
privileged nations the destiny of freedom which we cherish
as our own.
Respectfully yours,
HARRY W. FOOT, scribe
Berkshire North Association.

=== Page 611 === (confidence 0.95)
Detober 28 1938.
In reply refer to
GA 804.24/420
My dear Mr. Treadway:
I acknowledge the reeeipt of your letter of Oeto-
ber 24, 1938, enelosing a letter dated Oetober 19 from
the Reverend Harry w. Foot, seribe of the Berkahire North
894.24/429
Association of Congregational Christian Churehes, in re-
gard to the attitude of his Assoclation toward the export
of war materials to Japan.
It 1s suggested that you may wish to transmit to
the Reverene Mr. Foot the enolosed opies of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, and the
pamphlet, International Traffie in Arma and inform him
somewhat along the following lines:
It will be observed that Seation 1 (a) of this
Joint Resolution provides that, whenever the Presi-
dent shall find that there exists a state of war be-
tween or among two or more foreign states, he shall
proelaim suek fast. Should the President issme a
proelamation finding that a state of war exists be-
tween China and Japan, the export of arme, ammumi-
tlon, and implements of war to beth those sountries
would immediately be prohibited by the terms ef the
Noutrelity
The Sonerakle
Allom T. Treadwey.
stockbriage, Massackusetts.

=== Page 612 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
Neutrality Act. In the absenee of such a proelame-
tion, however, there exists no legal authority for
preventing the export of arms either to both those
oountries or to Japan alone.
Moreover, the Neutrality Act does not under any
oiroumstances authorize the President or the Seere-
tary of State to prohibit the export of oommodities
other than arms, ammumition and implements of war.
The articles and materials whioh are considered to
be arms, ammunitions, and implements of war are
emmerated in the President's Proolamation of May 1,
1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part II of the pamphlet.
It may be of interest to know that, sinoe July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued 1oenses for
the export of arms, ammmition, and implements of war
to China in the value of $14, 265, 554.11 and to Japan
1n the value of $10,793,865.38.
I may add, for your information, that the primary pur-
pose of the Joint Resolution of May 1, 1937, is to keep
this country out of war. The question as to whether and
when the provisions of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked
1s properly left to the sound discretion of the President.
In deciding whether he should invoke the Joint Resolution
in a partioular situation, the President must take into ao-
count various faotors and partioularly the broad, general
interests of this country and its nationals. In the present
situstion in the Far East, the President has coneluded that,
in the light of all the facts and siroumstanees, when weighed
frem a praetieal point of view, it would not be to the best
interests of this country and our people as a whole to in-
veke the previsioms of this Joint Resolution.
To

=== Page 613 === (confidence 0.91)
-3-
The Reverend Mr. Foot's letter is returned here-
with.
Sineerely yours,
Enclosures:
1. Joint Resolution.
2. Pamphlet.
3. From Reverend Harry W.
Foot, October 19, 1938.
H
true
of
Qer
OR
OCT 28 330
Poutine
5
pmt
FE
news

=== Page 614 === (confidence 0.90)
Congress of the Anited States
Döuse of Representatibes
Washington, D. C.
238 OCT 27 PIM 12 13
Norwalk, Ohio
3-5 Post Offioe Building
NS
Ootober 25, 1938
NomeoRrare
AVO
0S
10-27-38
/e
RVA/Emn
vetober 29 1938.
Honorable Cordell Hull
The Seorotary of State
84H.
Wa shington, D..
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
At the request of the signers, I
am forwarding the enolosed petition to you,
894.24/430
knowing that it will be self-explanatory.
Sincerely,
W
m
F/A

=== Page 615 === (confidence 0.78)
Greenwich, Ohis. Oct, 14, 1938.
a. Hhute:
The kuner I at m can dikind an you-
to helk emy god cause He fue brory ulplso ank
That ne abiali eflortin so litttev. te didmal
knar shire ele tosin'l lma al i/ fan
lo, will fe pleaxe fo eantont
How m donvieh me suntel dosome-
Sincerely
Mrx. F: 13. Rozcoe.
Cor. secy.
10/17/38 - No copy retained in Washington

=== Page 616 === (confidence 0.80)
aii-
Uniow m srolext a qainet us fomrnment  nding
 ,
ot hers annteer it n as.
GreencicL, Shis
mre Effie . Helte, Vn.
Mis Glara R. Domaldson Greunswishs B.
Mrs. F.A. Bouer Greeuurcle Olei
mrs. Chao. W. Beurs"
Mrs Tresso Mosa
Mrs. Altha King
1
mas Floy mt Cies oug h".
Mrs. Nemmih Neaver, s
mrs. Anerritt Asborsi.
Ms E. H. Samiut.
Tho, Mangand-Hillett
11
11
11
Mrs. Beatrice Roscoe

=== Page 617 === (confidence 0.96)
vetober 29 1958.
My dear Mrs. Rosooe:
At the request of the Honorable Dudley A. White,
894.24/430
Representative in Congrese from the Thirteenth Ohio Dis-
triet, I meknowledge the reseipt of your letter of Oeto-
ber 14, 1938, enolosing a pet1tion signed by you and
other members of your organization with partioular
referenee to the export of war and other materials to
Japan.
Your ourtesy in tranemitting this petition is
greatly appreclated.
There are enelosed for your information copies of
the Joint Resolution of Congress epproved May 1, 1939,
and of the pamphlet, Internatlonal Traffle in Arnes
Yem will observe that sestion 1 (a) of this Jeint
Reselution prevides that whemever the Presidemt shall
fine tkat there exists a state of war between or smong
F/WB
10

=== Page 618 === (confidence 0.97)
two or more foreign states he shall proolaim suoh fact.
Should the President issue suoh a proolamation with respect
to China and Japan the export from this country of arms,
ammmitiom and implements of war to both of those countries
would be immediately prohibited. In the absence of sueh a
proolamation there is no statutory authority for preventimg
suoh exports.
In determining not to issue a proolamation, the Presi-
dent has emroised the disoretion vested in him by the
statute. He could not fail to recognise that the primary
purpose of the statute is to keep this country out of war
and he, of course, felt obliged to take into aocount all
the pertinent conditions and circumstances. Inoidentally
I may stress the faot, in view of what is above stated,
that a preelamation would have placed an embargo on the
shipmems of the material mentioned not only to Japan but
to Ohina.
 The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorise the
President or the Seoretary of state under any oiroumstances
to prohibit the eport of commodities other than arms, am-
manition and implements of war. The artioles and materials
whieh are comsidered to be arms, ammunition and implements
of war are emmmerated in the President's Proolamation of
May 1, 19s7, whieh Às eet forth undes part I1 ef the pamphlet.

=== Page 619 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
It will be noted that materials suoh as serap iron are not
included amon such artieles and materials. There is no
statute now in existenee whioh would wthorise the Presi-
dent or the seeretary of state to prohibit the export ef
materials suah as serap iron to Japan or to any other
foreign country.
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 1, 1939
the Department of State has 1ssued licenses for the export
of arms, emmunition and implements of war to China in the
value of 14,265,554.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
$10,793,865.38.
sinoerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Joseph C. Green, Chief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
Joint Resolution.
Pamphlet.
9CT 28
1938.Pm
Amt
227-30
GÀ: RVH: MU
FE peD

=== Page 620 === (confidence 0.90)
oetober 39 1938.
In peply refer to
894.24/430
My dear Mr. white:
I aaknowledge the receipt of your letter of Ooto-
ber 25, 1938, enelosing a letter dated Oetober 14,
894.24/430
from Mrs. F. B. Rosooe, Corresponding Beoretary.
Woman's Christian Temperanee Union, Greenwich, Ohio,
and a petition signed by her and other members of her
organization with partioular referenoe to the export
of war and other materials to Japan.
I m enelosing for your information a ∞py of the
letter whieh is being addressed to Mrs. Rosooe in reply
to her letter.
Sincerely yours,
Enclosure:
H
To Mrs. Roseoe.
copy
F/W
The Monorable
B
bmdley a. mite,
/Rodtiñe
O
8-8 Post offiee Building.
OF Nerwall, Ohele.
OCT 28 1938.PM
5
Routiné
and
ewy
pwa

=== Page 621 === (confidence 0.92)
Y., CHAIRMAN
JOHN G. TOWNSEND, JR., DEL
OF
LYNN J. FRAZIER, N, DAK.
AND
HENRY CABOT LODGE, JR., MASS.
lnited States Senate
Doo, CALIF.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING AND CURRENCY
CLIFFE, MD.
ack 10-17+38
BROWN, MICH.
 HITCHCOCK, s. DAK.
RVH/Eme
.HUGHES.
L. HERRING, IOWA
DAM H. SMATHERS, N. J.
ctober 14,1938.
PHILIP LEVY, CLERK
votober 19 1938.
894.24
Mr Joseni. C. Green.
St. te Deoart ent,
Washingto....
894.24/431
De r Mr. Green:
M-
The att ci.ed letter fron Miss Grace Harley
of Youngstown. chio, protestin: tie . S. shippin
war n teriels to Jouen is forvo ded  r your reply
to er irect anl it will oe epnreci ted if you will
let ne lmow ho:t t: is nlso.
Sincerel:  urs,
Robal ! Bulbley
ADJ
F/A

=== Page 622 === (confidence 0.98)
Y:DMU
224 W. Wood st.,
Youngstown, O.
Oct. 10, 1938.
Hon. Robert J. Bulkley,
U. S. Senator
Washington, D. C.
Honorable Sir:
I am writing to urge that you do all in your
power to stop the shipment of war materials to Japan.
Respectfully yours,
GRACE HARLEY
Public School Tch.

=== Page 623 === (confidence 0.95)
I Suclette
ctoher 19 1936.
In reply refer to
GA
My dear Senator Bulkley:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of Oeto-
ber 14, 193s, enolosing a letter from Miss Grace Harley,
Youngstown, Ohio, in regard to the export of war matoriale
to Japan.
There 1s enolosed for your information a opy of the
894.24/431
letter whioh 1s being addressed to Miss Harley in reply
to her letter. Copies of the pamphlet and Joint Resolu-
tion whieh are referred to in the Department's letter are
also enelosed.
Miss Harley's letter is returned herewith.
sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Enclosures:
Copy of letter
to Miss Harley.
CR
Pamphlet.
18 1938.
Jeint Remolution.
Letter from Miss Harley.
Routine
thes
nal.
Robert J. Bulkley,
F/A
United states Benate.
5
Ca
pmt
10-17-8
pell

=== Page 624 === (confidence 0.95)
Sm reply refer to
●otober 19 1938.
My dear Miss Marley:
At the request of the Honorable Robert J. Bulkley,
United States Senator from Ohio, I acknowledge the re-
ceipt of your letter of Ootober 10, 1938, in regard to the
export of war materials to Japan.
There 1s transmitted herewith a oopy of the Joint
Resolution of Congrese approved May 1, 1937, mending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1936. You w11l ob-
serve that sestion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolutiompprovides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists a
state of war between or among two or more foreign states
he shall proelaim sueh faet. mhould the President issue
a proelamation finding that a state of war exists between
@ame and Japan the export of arms, ammunition and imple-
te of wer te beth those eountries would immedlately be
absenoe
Soungetown, chie.

=== Page 625 === (confidence 0.95)
absenee of sueh a proelamation, however, there exiets no
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to beth those sountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Rese-
lutiom of May 1, l9st, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deciding whether
he shoula invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into account various
facters and partieularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present s1tuation
Im the Far East, the President has conaluded that, in the
light of all the facts and oiroumstanoes, when weighed
from a prastieal peint of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this sountry and our people as a whole
te inveke the provisione of this Joint Resolution.
The Meutrality Aet, moreover, does mot authorise the
metanees
Presiéent or the searetary of state under any 
te prehibit the expert of eommodities other then rms, -
munitien and implements of war. The artieles and materiels
thich are cessidered te be arme, ammsnition and iuplements
Na1, 1007, which Lo set forth under Part  of the

=== Page 626 === (confidence 0.91)
-8
enalosed copy of the pamphlet, Internatlenal Traffle ln
You may be interested to know that simee July 1, l9sy,
the Bepartment of state has 1ssued lieenses for the expers
of arms, amunitlon and implements of war to Caine in the
value of a14,98s,817.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
$10,741,230.38.
sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Joseph 0. Green, Ghief
Offiee of Arms and Munitions Control
Enelesures:
Jeims Reselution.
Pampklet.
CR
OCT 18 1938.
OCT 18 1938.PM
A trye copy of
theatgned origi-
nal.
0
Pmt
10-17-8

=== Page 627 === (confidence 0.74)
october 8B 1958.
FRANK W MICHENER
NEWBERG OREGON
114238
R. Sagpe
Iota
11171938
uerRiale
251938
d cou dCr sgsme
fleding soe A yaur 2 sheles
in the pafers Iree souvercred viat
Lestle see, He i teuiseit en ruen of
2' roaiiou4 ghoaer W
894.2
tre in msit uurert.
4
n
Hocviver saucat u ne iour' uy
22
Aduiuisiratire p mitsT e A ale if
War ulies leant mi?
the"neutvalite aol "paraed ey cougres
These aggresers are oul our
only pansible ruemies Ses the Pulure
Why spnd such ecoreons sunce
Bos defure anda' re some ime

=== Page 628 === (confidence 0.72)
Itm rourt peace aud Low aa
Urder Why not shende Qe
Reopolfectls Yours
Ssanklmichener

=== Page 629 === (confidence 0.96)
oetober 26 1938.
In reply refer to
OA
My dear Mr. Michener:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of Oetober 12,
19s8, in regard to the export of war supplies to Japan and
Germany.
894.24/432
As you doubtless are aware, the Neutrality Aot of
May 1, 1937, a copy of whioh is enolosed for your conven1-
ent reference, provides that the President shall, whenever
he finds that a state of war exists between or among two
or more foreign countries, proolaim such fact and that there-
after the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to both parties to the conflict shall be prohibited. There
is no statute now in existence which would permit the ap-
plieation of such an embargo to the export of arms to one
party to the confliot and not to the other. At the presemt
time, there has been no finding by the President that a
state of war exists with respeet to either Japen or Germamy.
wish
F/A
Mr. Trank W. Miehemer,
Nowberg, Oregen.

=== Page 630 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
With regard to the applioation of the Neutrality Aot
to the situation in the Far East, I may point out that the
primary purpose of this Act is to keep this country out of
war. The question as to whether and when the provisions
of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left
to the sound disoretion of the President. In deoiding
whether he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into acoount various fao-
tors and partioularly the broed, general interests of this
country and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far Kast, the Prèsident has vonoluded that, in the light
of all the facts and ciroumstanoes, when weighed from a
practioal point of view, it would not be to the best in-
terests of this country and our people as a whole to in-
voke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorise the
President or the Secretary of State under any ciroumstances
to proktbit the export of commodities other than arms, am-
munition, and implements of war. The artioles and materials
mhiek are coasidered to be arms, ammunition, and implements
of war are emmerated in the President's Proolamation of
May 1, 1os7, whioh is set forth under Part II of the en-
elosed eopy of the pamphlet Laternational Traffie ia Arme.
o

=== Page 631 === (confidence 0.89)
You may be interested to know that sinoe July 1, 1937,
the Departmemt of State has issued licenses for the export
of arms, amunition, and implements of war to Chine in the
value of $14,265,554.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,741,250.38.
Faithrully yours,
SAY
FRA
OCT 25 193
Enelosures:
Joint Rosolution
Pamphlet
CO
A
9nt
CA:RVH: EMD/hJeO
PA
10-24-
FE
eeus

=== Page 632 === (confidence 0.93)
Grare Cathedral
Topeka, Kansas
Movember 9 1825.
OF THE DEAN
October 24, 1938
Ans'd
Ca
Ir. Charles . Tost,
190
Assistant Chi f,
Office or Arms and  uniticns Conorol,
Department of t:to,
vashin tor,..
894.24/433
Ly dear  r.  ost:
170
I eppreciated very much your letter of July
894.24
29th, in regard to the traffic in ar s wit C ina
anu Ja an.
I heard a stntemeit this m rnin made by
Miss Helen Top! ing, who wa: quotin Luriel Lester
as saying that the J. P. .or an Company cf New York
had made several lcans ic Ja an, which mcney was used
by Japan in buyin raw materials in this cou try for
use in carryin, on its war witn Cnina. Can you verify
this report, or is it false?
Thanking you in auvance for your courtesy,
I am
yoh We Day.
Very truly yours,
F/A
JWD-J

=== Page 633 === (confidence 0.94)
November 9 193s.
In reply refer to
FE 894.24/433
My dear Dean Day:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
Ootober 24, 1938, in whioh you inquire with regard to
the aoouraoy of a statement whioh you have heard to
894.24/433
the effeot that the firm of J. P. Morgan and Company
has made several loans to Japan, the proceeds of which
were used by that oountry to buy raw materials in the
United States.
The Department is not aware that any loans have
been obtained in the United States by Japanese borrow-
ers within the period to which you referl
Sineerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
3.310.
Marwell M. Hamilton
Chier
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
B/A
The Very Reverend
A true c
John Warren Day,
the si
com
Deam, Grace Gathedral,
OR
NOV 9 1958.
Topeka, Kansas.
89.5.
reewl
FE:EGS:JPS
FE
11-8-38

=== Page 634 === (confidence 0.89)
EH
894.24
RESPEOTFULLY REFERRED
1938
FOR AOKNOWIEDGMENT
MRS. E. H. BRUNEMEIER
u
NORTH KRAEMER AYNUE
PLACENTIA. CALTOORNIA
Qct.319.38.
Vace 10/25/38
President Fraulelin Rovels
Waching ton, D. @.
6
Honores Sir:
4
We four hundres ten members of
ans well ansufer in ades yods time.
But connot ofr God see the saughter
of the innocituts in China, and doc.
dde not mote the Japanese freighte:
rslopping at our forts to take on cerap
iron aud oil and munitions to help
keep the Japanese army n China te
stiop shis sdle of war Qup plies to dapay
- and shereby an ower your own ans
our prayers?

=== Page 635 === (confidence 0.92)
2
believe Mr President, that you
we the frower ds this not a hwar?
 There mot a neutrality pact to
be enforced?
Our churches are appealed
for fund to rebuild the bombed
manufaeture. We must rebruld
Thoe war torn missions. But The
inconsistincy of this pale of war
goood to wreck more, is heart
Breaking!
peace so wide ans deep aud dincere
as to stip aiding belligerout nations?
Mro. E. H. Brunemecer
ProsidenF Auahoim CouncilChrch Women

=== Page 636 === (confidence 0.93)
oetober 26 1938,
In reply refer to
QD.
My dear Mrs. Brunemeier:
By reference from the White House, I acknowledge the
receipt of your letter of Ootober 3, 1938, in regard to the
894.24/434
export of war and other materials to Japan.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1957, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will ob-
serve that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that, whenever the President shall find that there exists
e state of war between or among two or more foreign states,
he shall proslaim such fact. Should the President issue
a preelemation finding that a state of war exists between
Chima and Japan, the expart of arms, ammunition, and imple-
ments of war to both those countries would imediately be
prokibited by the terms of the Noutrality Act. In the
absemee of sueh a proelamation, however, there exists no
1ogal
Mrs. E. H. Bramemeier.
7
/WB
Plecemtia, Califesmie.

=== Page 637 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I mmy add that the primary purpose of the Joint Resolu-
tion of May 1, 1937, is to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound discretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular situ-
ation, the President must take into account various factors
and partioularly the broad, general interests of this coun-
try and its nationals. In the present situation in the
Far East, the President has conoluded that, in the light of
all the faots and ciroumstanees, when weighed from a
practioal point of view, it would not be to the best inter-
ests of this country and our people as a whole to invoke
the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Noutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize the
Presidemt or the Seoretary of State, under any cireumstanees,
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms, ammm-
nition, and implements of war. The artloles and materials
whieh are considered to be arms, emmunition, and implements
of war are emmerased in the President's Proolamation of
May 1.1087.

=== Page 638 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
May 1, 1937, whish is set forth under Part II of the en-
clesed copy of the pamphlet International Traffio in Arms.
It will be noted that scrap iron and oil are not ineluded
among sush articles and materials. There is no statute
mow in existence whieh would authorize the President or the
Seoretary of State to prohibit the export of scrap iron and
oll to Japan or to any other foreign country.
You may be interested to know that sinoe July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has issued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,265,554.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,793,865.38.
Sinoerely yours,
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief,
Office of Arms and Munitions Control.
melosures:
Joint Resolution
Pamphlet
CR
OCT
copy of
origi-
na
pmt
CA:RVH:HJG
10-85-38
reee
CoL

=== Page 639 === (confidence 0.91)
AREA
Methodist Community Church
R.BISHOI
DISTRICT
TEVENS. SUPT
ARTHURF WAHLQUIST. PASTOR
36 1938.
YUCAIPA CALIFORNIA
Seft. 234 1938.
How. F. D. Roosevelt:
Gresident of the United States
Washington, D.C.
391958r
Dear Sw:
As a World Wer Yeteran who saw 23% months
Urider false pretenses and in disregard of reeblei
89
to do youlr duty to slofe thes thier.
2
reshonsile forfefin ay aly amay
4
ln
destect fell pes
4
C
5
F/WB

=== Page 640 === (confidence 0.97)
october 26 1938.
In reply refer to
My dear Mr. Wahlquist:
By referenoe from the white House, I acknowledge
the receipt of your letter of September 24, 1938, in
894.24/435
regard to the export of war and other materials to Japan.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will ob-
serve that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists
a state of war between er among two or more foreign states
he shall proolaim such faot. Should the President issue
a proolamation finding that a state of war exists betweem
Chine and Japam the expert of arme, ammunition, and imple-
ments of war to both those countries would immediately we
prohibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aet. In the
absence
F/WB
The Reverend
Arthur P. mhlquist,
Nethodiet Gommamity Charek,
Yueaipe, Calsfermia.

=== Page 641 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
absence of such a proclamation, however, there exists no
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
Lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound discretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution 1n a partioular
situation, the President must take into aocount various
factors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and 1ts nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has oonoluded that, in the
light of all the faots and oiroumstances, when weighed
from a practioal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a mhole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Meutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize the
President or the Secretary of State under any ciroumstances
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms, am-
munition, and implements of war. Tie articles and materials
whioh are considered to be arms, ammmnition, and implements
of war are enumerated in the President's Proolamatiem of
May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part 1I of the
anelosod

=== Page 642 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
enclosed copy of the pamphlet International Traffio in
Ame. It will be noted that sorap iron is not inoluded
among such articles and materials. There is no statute
now in existence whieh would euthorize the President or
the Seeretary of State to prohibit the export of serap
irom to Japam or to any other foreign country.
You may be interested to know that since July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued licenses for the
export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to China
1n the value of $14,265,554.11 and to Japan 1n the value
of $10,793.865.38.
I may add, with reference to the bombing of civilian
populations and the probable danger to Americans and Ameri-
can interests abroad, that the Secretary of State has stated
publicly on repeated occasions that this Govermment condemns
the bombing of eivilian populations or its material encourage-
ment. The Gevernment's comdemnation of this praetioe has
beem expressed directly to all manafasturers and exporters
in this ecuntry of airplanes and aerenmutical equipment.
Simoerely yeurs,
Gharles W. Yest, Assistant Chief
Offiee of Arms and Mmitiens Centrel
OCT 26 1958
1. Jeins Reselution.
5
2. remphlet.
hal.
10/25
FEAOUD
CAIRVÉTVIO

=== Page 643 === (confidence 0.93)
Lompoc,
111938
Cali founia.
RUH vc
oct. 4, 1938.
The Honorable Franklin D. Roosevelt,
Washington, D. C.
282958
Dear Mr. President: -
The following resolution was unanimourly rasaed at a meeting
of the official Board of our Church on october 3, 1938. I am
glad to add my personal endorrement.
Faitnfully Jours,
John Nicholson
Fastor.
894.24/436
894>4
RESOLUTIUN.
"The official Board of the Methodict Episcopal Church of Lom-
poc, California, rerrectrully w ges you to do everytning in
jour power to aid in bringing to an end the wer-oustaining
traffie tetween our country and Japan, a traffic vniet is wa-
king the United states a partner in the Far-Eaetern conflict,
which is so wantonly destroying the lives and the property of the
Chinese people witn whom we nave long had the moat friendly re-
lation:.
FILET
F/WB

=== Page 644 === (confidence 0.95)
Detober 26 193m.
My dear Mr. Miaholson:
By reference from the White House, I aoknowledge the
receipt of your letter of Ootober 4, 1938, in whioh you
894.24/436
set forth the text of a resolution whiah was adopted
unanimously at a meeting of the Offioial Board of your
ahureh on Oetober 3, 1938, in regard to the export of
war and other materials to Japan.
Your courtesy in informing the President in regard
to this resolution 1s greatly appreciated.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Reselutlon of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Joint Resolutlon appreved August 31, 1936. You will ob-
serve that Section 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists s
state of war between er among two or more fereign states
he shall preelaim sueh fact. Sheuld the President issue
F/WB
a
The Reverend
John Micheleem,
Mothediet Mpiseopal Church,
Lampee, Galaferaie.

=== Page 645 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
a proolamation finding thatastate of war exists between
China and Japan the export of arms, ammunition, and imple-
ments of ar to both those countries would immediately be
prohibited by the terms of the Noutrality Aot. In the
absence of such a proolamation, however, there exists mo
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out of war
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1s properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation the President must take into aocount various
factors and particularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has conoluded that, in the
light of all the facts and ciroumstanees, when weighed
from a preetioal point of view, it would mot be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aet, moreover, does not authorize the
President er the Seeretary of State under any eireumstanees
2

=== Page 646 === (confidence 0.88)
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammumition, and implements of war. The artioles and
materials mhioh are considered to be arms, ammumitiom,
and implements of war are emumerated in the Presidemt's
Proclamation of May 1, 1937, whiah 1s set forth under
Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet Intermational
Traffio 1n Arme.
You may be interested to know that since July 1, 193?,
the Department of State has 1ssued licenses for the export
of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,265,554.11 and to Japan in the value of
$10,793.865.38.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistast Chief
Office of Arms and Manitions Contrel
Enslosures:
1. Pamphlet.
copy of
9. Jeint Reselution.
origi-
i
 25
9387
S
Ant
15/20
rrpw
GÀIRVHIVIC

=== Page 647 === (confidence 0.99)
These letters have not been acknowledged.
In answering them, please say you are doing so at Mrs. Roosevelt's
request.

=== Page 648 === (confidence 0.89)
RYCEIVED
etober 28 1938.
OF STATE
B1
1938 00. 15 AM 11 45
10-26-38
RVH
MJCAIIDNS
AND REOORDS
our Gomment could not
futn
89
ring the mar to
4
a close Gom ula noni
2
uld b
4
managid and hou-ts go abont it.
437
Wi are prasing for peace, and asking gou
to nse gmr influence.
Respuctfully Gours
844.24
Mrs. H. L. Thormt
F/V

=== Page 649 === (confidence 0.95)
oetober 28 1938.
My dear Mrs. Thompson:
At the request of Mrs. Roosevelt I aoknowledge the
894.24/437
reeeipt of your letter of Oetober 13, 1938, 1n regard
to the export of war materials to Japan.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, mending the
Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1936. You will ob-
serve that Seetion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists.s
state of war between or smeng two or more foreign states
he shall proelaim suoh fact. should the President issme
a predkamation finding that a state of war exists between
Gmina and Japan the export of arms, ammanition and imple-
memts of war to both those countries would immediately be
prohibited by the terms of the Neutrality Ast. Im the
absenge
ra. W. L. Thompson,
F/WB
MKench, Morth Garalina.

=== Page 650 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
absence of suah a proolamation, however, there exists no
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those countries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this ∞untry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Joint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound diseretion of the President. In deeiding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution 1n a partioular
situation the President must take into aocount various
factors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has oonoluded that, in the
light of all the faots and ciroumstanees, when weighed
from a practioal point of view, it would not be to the
best interests of this country and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Meutrality Aot, moreover, does not athorize the
President or the Searetary of State under any oireumstanees
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammunition and implements of war. The artieles end
materials whieh are considered to be arms, ammunition and
implements of war are emumerated in the President's Proe-
lamation of May 1, 1957, which is set forth under Part II
o8

=== Page 651 === (confidence 0.92)
--3
of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet, Internationel Traffle
You may be 1nterested to know that sinee July 1, 1937,
the Department of State has 1ssued lioenses for the export
of arms, ammunition and implements of war to China in the
value of $14,265,554.11 and to Japan 1n the value of
$10,793,865.38.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
Enclosures:
Joint Rosolution.
Pamphlet.
CR
OC1 27 1938.PM
0
and

=== Page 652 === (confidence 0.93)
RECEIVEI
ART
adl
10/26/58
038 0CT 1 PM 3 09
R1
ONMIONS
Newport, Rhode Island,
ANDFRDS
October 15th, 1938
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
Mr. Secretary:
894.24/438
nn
St. Paul's Methodist Episcopal Church of
Newport, hode Island, at its First Cuarterly Conference,
held October 13th, 1938, went on record as opposing the
sale of all war materials by Americans to Japan, and urged
that this action be brought to your attention with the
request that you do everything possible to eliminate this
unchristian practice.
Very respectfully yours,
heure E heonard.
Recording Steward.
F/WB
X

=== Page 653 === (confidence 0.97)
●etober 28 1938.
 reply refer to
CA 994.24 Loomerd, tomtm.
My dear Mr. Leonard:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
Ootober 15, 1938, 1n whieh you state that your churah
894.24/438
went on record at 1ts First Quarterly Conference on
Ostober 13, 1938 as opposed to the export of all war
materials to Japan.
Your oourtesy in informing the Department in regard
to this matter is greatly appreciated.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending
the Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You w1ll
observe that Section 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution pro-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two or more for-
eigm states he shall proolaim such fact. Should the
President issue a proolamation finding that a state of
war
F/WB
Mr. Lewis E. Leomard, Recording Steward,
St. Paul's Methodiet Episcopal Churek,
Mewpert, hode Island.

=== Page 654 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
war exists between China and Japan the export of arms,
ammunition, and implements of war to both those countries
would immediately be prohibited by the terms of the
Neutrality Aot. In the absence of such & proclamation,
however, there exists no legal authority for preventing
the export of arms either to both those countries or to
Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint
Resolution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this oountry out
of war. The question as to whether and when the provi-
sions of the Joint Resolution shall be invoked 1e properly
left to the sound disoretion of the President. In decid-
ing whether he mbould invoke the Joint Resolution in a
partioular situation, the President must take into account
various factors and partioularly the broad, general in-
terests of this country and its nationals. In the present
situation in the Far East, the President has concluded
that, in the light of all the facts and oiroumstances,
when weighed from a preotioal point of view, it would not
be to the best interests of this country and our people
as a whole to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolu-
taoo.
The Meutrality Aot, moreover, does mot muthorize the
Presidemt er the Seeretary of State under any ciroumstances
o

=== Page 655 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arms,
ammunition, and implements of war. The artioles and
materials which are considered to be arms, ammunition,
and implements of war are emumerated in the President's
Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under
Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet International
Traffic 1n Arms.
You may be interested to know that sinoe July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued l1oenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to
China 1n the value of $14,265,554.11 and to Japan 1n the
value of $10,793.865.38.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
Emelesures:
1. Joint Resolution.
2. Pamphlet.
Ou
O0T 27 1958.PM
A rue copy of
Uned origi-
pant
5
CA:RVH:VIC 10/26
FE
new

=== Page 656 === (confidence 0.98)
by the
CONGREGATIONAL AND CHRISTIAN MINISTERS'
ack 10/25/38
ASSOCIATION OF THE METROPOLITAN AREA OF NEW YORK
RUH:vre
OCT 18 PM 1 35
211 West 56 Stroet
New York, New York
COMMUNICATIONS
October 17, 1938
AND RECORDS
The Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
894.24/
Dear Secretary Hull:
WHEREAS, the people of the United States desire peace and deplore international
lawlessness and aggression, and
WHEREAS, the Japanese invasion of China, fomented by the military party of
Japan, has led the United States of America and many other nations to indict
Japan as a violator of the Nine-Power Treaty and the Kellogg Pact, and to pro- 4
test repeatedly against the merciless bombing of undefended Chinese cities, the 
unnecessary slaughter of Chinese civilians, and the destruction and imperilment 6
of schools, churches, hospitals, and business enterprises in which their nationals
are engaged, and
WHEREAS, we feel put to shame that American raw materials are being used to manu-
facture weapons of war in Japan, that American planes are being used to carry
bombs from America for the destruction of Chinese civilian populations, that
shells from America are loading Japanese guns, and that America is supplying
to Japan huge quantities of scrap iron, oil, trucks, and other materials used
in the furtherance of the war, over and above the amount of our normal trade of
recent years, and
WHEREAs, we sympathize with the Chinese people in their desire to build up an
independent, democratic state, an end gravely threatened by the present aggression
of Japan, and deplore the traffic which makes it possible for certain American
interests to profit from the wanton destruction of the innocent victins of
Japanese aggression,
THEREFORE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the Secretary of State, in
accordance with the prinoiple of the Good Neighbor and in the interests of
the people of the United States, China and Japan, to take every practicable
means, diroot or indirect, to bring to an end a traffic from our country which
is compelling us to be a partner in the destruction of the Chinese people.
AND we desire to go on record as expressing our moral support for labot,
in the sale or shipment ofvar supplies to Japan.
F/WB
Signed WALTER A. R. MCPHERSON
((
WAYNE A NICHOLAS
ROBERT C. WHITEHEAD
STANLEY U. NORTH
Waltr aR. M.Pheraon
By
CHAIRMAN

=== Page 657 === (confidence 0.98)
RESOLUTIONS PASSED
by the
ack:10125/38
CONGREGATIONAL AND CHRISTIAN MINISTERS
RV H: vrd
ASSOCIATION OF THE METRCPCLITAN AREA OF NEW YORK
211 West 56 Street
New York, New York
October 17, 1938
844.24
The Honorable Franklin D. Roosevelt
President of the United States
Washington, D. C.
Dear President Roosevelt:
WHEREAS, the people of the United States desire peace and deplore international
lawlessness and aggression, and
WHEREAS, the Japanese invasion of China, fononted by the military party of Japan,
has led the United States of Anerica and many other nations to indict Japan as
a violator of the Nine-Power Treaty and the Kellcgg Pact, and to protest re-
peatedly against the merciless bombing of undefended Chinese cities, the unneces-
sary slaughter of Chinese civilians, and the destruction and imperilment of schools,
churches, hospitals, and business enterprises in which their nationals are engaged,
and
WHEREAS, we feel put to shame that American raw materials are being used to manu-
facture weapons of war in Japan, that American planes are being used to carry
bombs from America for the destruction of Chinese civilian populations, that shells
from America are loading Japanese guns, and that America is supplying to Japan huge
quantities of scrap iron, oil, trucks, and other materiels used in the furtherance
of the war, over and above the amount of our normal trade of recent years, and
WHEREAS, we sympathize with the Chinese people in their desire to build up an
independer, denocratic state, an end gravely threatened by the present aggression
of Japan, and deplore the t raffic which makes it possible for certain American
interests to profit from thevanton destruction of the innocent victims of Japanese
aggression,
THEREFORE, we the undersigned respectfully petition the President of the United
States and Congress, in accordance with the principle of the Good Neighbor and
in the interests of the people of the United States, China and Japan, to take
every practicable means, direct or indirect, to bring to an end a traffic from
our country which is compelling us to be a partner in the destruction of the
Chinese people.
AND we desire to go on record as expressing our moral support for labor, financial,
industrial, commercial, and other groups whichrefuse to participate in the sale
or shipment of war supplies to Japan.
Signed WALTER A. R. MCPHERSON
WAYNE A. NICHOLAS
ROBERT C. WHITEHEAD
STANLEY U, NORTH
Nanaa.Mshuim
BY
Chairman

=== Page 658 === (confidence 0.96)
vatober 88 1938.
My dear Mr. MoPherson!
The receipt 1s aoknowledged of your letter of
894.24/439
Ooteber 17, 1938 in whioh you set forth the text of a
reselution whioh was adopted by your organization in
regard to the export of war and other materials to Japan.
By reference from the white House, the receipt 1s also
acknowledged of your letter of the same date in regard
to this mme matter.
Your courtesy in furnishing the President and the
Department with the text of this resolutiom is greatly
appreciated.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending the
Jeint Resolution approved August 31, l935. You will eb-
serve that Seetion 1 (a) of this Jeint Resolutien provides
that whemever the President shall find that there existe a
F/WB
state
The Reverend
mlter A. R. MePherson, Chairman,
Lasiom or the Metropeliten

=== Page 659 === (confidence 0.96)
0
state of war botween or among two or more foreign states
he shall proclaim suoh fact. Should the President issue
a proolamation finding that a state of war exists betweem
Chime and Japan the export of arms, ammumition, and imple-
ments of war to both those countries would immediately be
prohibited by the terms of the Moutrality Aot. In the
absenee of sueh a proolammtion, however, there exists no
legal authority for preventing the export of arms either
to both those oountries or to Japan alone.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint Reso-
lution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this oountry out of war.
The question as to whether and when the provisions of the
Jeint Resolution shall be invoked is properly left to the
sound disoretion of the President. In deciding whether
he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partioular
situation, the President must take into account various
factors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and ite nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has coneluded that, in the
light of all the facts and oiroumstances, when weighed
frem a preotioal point of view, it would net be to the
best interests of this country and sur people as a whele
to invoke the previsions of this Jeint Resolution.

=== Page 660 === (confidence 0.95)
-3
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize the
President or the Secretary of State under any siroumstances
to prohibit the export of commodities other than arme, ammumi-
tion, and implements of war. The artioles and materials
whioh are considered to be arms, ammumition, and implements
of war are enumerated in the President's Proolamation of
May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under Part II of the on-
olosed copy of the pamphlet International Traffio in Arme.
You may be interested to know that sinoe July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued licenses for the
export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to China
1n the value of $14, 265, 554.11 and to Japan 1n the value
of $10,793,865.38.
I may add, with reference to the bombing of eiviliam
populations and the probable danger to Amerioans and Ameri-
oan interests abroad, that the Seoretary of State has stated
publioly on repeated occasions that this Government condemns
the bombing of oivilian populations or its material enoourage-
ment. The Govermment's condemnation of this prectice has
beem expressed direetly to all mamufaeturers and experters
In this ccuntry ef airplanes and aeronautioal equipment.
Sincerely yours,
Charles W. Yost, Assistast Ghief
OR
Bmelesures:
offiee ef Arms"and Manitions Gemtrel
A true Eopy n!
2. Joins Reselmtiom.
FE 
nal.
CA:RVETVIC Z0/25

=== Page 661 === (confidence 0.77)
LEGAL ADVISER
136 Honarck b
Aecburudale mas.
FE
DEPARTMENTOSTATE
RECEIVED
tu Nonorable
eoord el Null, Secrelary of state
38 NOV 1 AM 9 54
Jer
DearNe
1938
Cck 11-16-38
18 1938
I am a smimry fon shanglai, and
ei conemon wit all mcecmarie ci clina
I am uttesly alonisled ihat ecorica ha
so defeates hes ideals of dencoeroey by
heepin daan to evif ont l
894.2
esvenliaely dencscralic state of cliina.
The monace of an armes for Eas unde
fond aff ilin rest of the wored is an
unalural elina ad will mo loegesbe
a eace lovng democrale fones b
ask shat poiis astin be labon by our
natrin to coichses scmomis suphort to Jop
as long to hes cocdirs ave mdeing
chee teitory.
I frcher wrsh to ponit out dopana

=== Page 662 === (confidence 0.72)
collection of duery cent of deelroyed omorican
Trspsty in cleina.
Japau has made abeolneily fru uee of
U.s. propaty wiitln a fen days after proniing
Th prsiet it us, fos uslaner, ruone ached
tocated laat nos. ue compeied wiin clrat
wich 4.s. conalar malice and feage.
Dee 4" s neculrs of our nwain
thi fael of nonlaio- So sleangfiai our on
was where
rs ael oar feromal belongnigo had been
completely deelroes. This foremalei, hs
wed sike te ser clrat claiin wrged and
callectes for cleat Fropsty wos deleberaaly

=== Page 663 === (confidence 0.72)
loged shrw wecko afeer seri figliling
ad Jasus by. ruliy not pecsle luce
about lis male smes fleigour
clain in June. Seuch deliberate
delay only encourage. Jopan t ferd
olu can go ahead, derlroy ond hies
Ponng neiredeate oceiin nies he
rahen t sreake Jafan farce tu
I recnair senceerly
(uro w.D.) nele B. Boone.

=== Page 664 === (confidence 0.97)
November 18 1938.
Im reply refer to
GA 894:24/440
My dear Mrs. Boone:
The receipt is acknowledged of your recent letter
1n regard to the situation now obtaining in the Far East.
I assume that your statement in regard to this
country "helping Japan to wipe out the essentially demo-
oratio state of China" has reference to the export of
894.
war and other materials from the United States to Japan.
In this conneotion there is transmitted herewith a
2
4/440
copy of the Joint Resolution of Congress approved May 1,
1937, oommonly referred to as the Neutrality Aot. It
will be observed that Beotion 1(a) of this Joint Resolu-
tion provides that whenever the President shall find that
there exists a state of war between or among two or more
foreign states he shall proolaim suoh fact. Should the
Presidemt issue a proelamation finding that a state of
war
FA
Mrs. W. D. Boome,
126 Mansoek street,
Auburndale, Massaehusetts.

=== Page 665 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
war exists between China and Japan, the export from this
country of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to
both China and Japan would be 1mmediately prohibited.
In the absence of suoh a proolamation, there is no statu-
tory authority for preventing such exports.
In determining not to 1ssue a proclamation, the
President has exeroised the discretion vested in him by
the statute. He could not fail to recognize that the
primary purpose of this statute is to keep this country
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
account all the pertinent conditions and ciroumstances.
Incidentally, I may stress the fact, 1n view of what is
above stated, that a proolamation would have placed an
embargo on the shipment of the material mentioned not
only to Japan but to China.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize
the President or the Secretary of State under any cir-
oumstances to prohibit the export of commodities other
than arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The
articles and materials which are considered to be arms,
ammunition, and implements of war are enumerated in the
President's Proclamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set
forth under Part II of the enelosed copy of the pamphlet
Laternmtional Traffle in Arnn.
You

=== Page 666 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
You may be 1nterested to know that sinoe July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued l1censes for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to Chine 1n the value of $14,218,523.21 and to Japan
1n the value of $10,793,865.38.
with reference to the bombing of civilian popula-
tions and the probable danger to Americans and American
interests abroad, the Seoretary of State has stated
publioly on repeated occasions that this Government con-
demne the bombing of civilian populations or its material
encouragement. The Government's condemnation of this
practice has been expressed directly to all mamufaoturers
and exporters in this country of airplanes and aeronauti-
oal equipment.
w1th reference to the matter of presenting claims
against the Japanese Government for losses and damages
sustained by American nationals as a result of the acts
of Japanese forces in China, I have to inform you that
shortly after the outbreak of the present hostilities
this Government notified the Japanese Government that 1t
would be under the necessity of looking to that Govern-
ment for compensation for sueh losses and damages as
might be sustained by American mationals to the extent
thmo

=== Page 667 === (confidence 0.93)
that liability therefor exists under accepted principles
of international law. American mbassy and consular
offices in Chine have been furnished with specifie in-
struet1ons regarding the procedure to be followed with
respect to olaims filed by American nationals and they
have also been requested to furnish American nationals
1n China who desire to file olaime with a mimeographed
statement which has been prepared with a view to assisting
claimants in properly preparing their claims.
If it 1s desired to present for the Department's
consideration claims for losses sustained by yourself
or the organization with which you are assoclated, which
your letter does not 1dentify by name, such olaim should
be prepared in the light of the suggestions contained in
that statement, a copy of whioh 1s enclosed. If olaims
are to be prepared in China by a representative of the
mission, they should be filed in the nearest American
Embassy offiee or American consulate; if prepared in the
United States they may be forwarded direet to the De-
partment.
sineerely yours,
A true p
OR15
For the Beeretary of state:
the signer arigi=
NOV 17 1938. PM
nal.
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chies
Orfio ef Arme and Manitiens Control
1. Joims Resolutic
An
2. Pamphles.
Thew
ONARVH:GH:SS
11/15

=== Page 668 === (confidence 0.98)
MUNTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
NOV111938
THE LEGAL ADVISER
November 12, 1938
FW 894.24/1440
CA - Mr. Ha1g:
Miss Christenson of Far East left the attached let-
ter with me on Thrusday on the understanding that it re-
quired consideration by this office and also by your of-
fice. So far as questions relating to international re-
894.24/440
sponsibility for property destruction and to claims are
concerned the writer may be advised as follows:
"With reference to the matter of presenting
claims against the Japanese Government d losses
and damages sustained by American nationals as a
result of the acts of Japanese forces in China, I
have to inform you that shortly after the outbreak
of the present hostilities this Government notified
the Japanese Government that it would be under the
neceseity of looking to that Government for compen-
sation for such losses and damages as might be sus-
tained by American nationals to the extent that
liability therefor exists under accepted principles
of international law. American Embassy and coneular
offices in China have been furnished with specifio
instructions regarding the procedure to be followed
with respeot to claims filed by American nationals
and they have also been requested to furnish Ameri-
can nationals in China who desire to file claims
with a mimeographed statement which has been pre-
pared with a view to assisting claimants in properly
preparing their olaims.
F
"If it is desired to present for the Depart-
ment's consideration claims for losses sustained
by yourself or the organization with which you are
associated, which your letter does not identify by
name,

=== Page 669 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
name, such claim should be prepared in the light
of the suggestions contained in that statement, a
copy of which is enclosed. If claims are to be
prepared in China by a representative of the mis-
sion, they hould be filed in the nearest American
Embassy office or American consulate; if prepared
in the United States they may be forwarded direct
to the Department."
B. . English
Le:BME:MCM:SS

=== Page 670 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.51/599
FORsooklet
FROM
) DATED..Sept...22..1938.
TO
NAME
1-1127
894.24/ 441
REGARDING:
Japan's ability to finance purchase of war materials:
Booklet prepared by Chinese Council for ¿conomic
Research, entitlei -.

=== Page 671 === (confidence 0.81)
CCT
cetober o,1
Hon. Franklin D. Foosevelt,
President or the united states of Anerict.
Washington, D. .
Dear ir:
1 heve the nonor to i e i his tetter e
e itie rerdin  dnoe invei n or hine T ne
von are e ous/ en  Ione  i ive it our serions
old sin
a tcution. I petieve or to te of A rice
894.24/442
suen a abition - no one  sed c.
oct1o,
m
FA
FILED
11
Enc

=== Page 672 === (confidence 0.91)
MUNITIONS
201 14 1938
PETITION TO THE PRESIDEIT OF THE O.TTED STATF O.
THE JAPAHESE IHVASICT OF C THA
WHEREAS, the United States of America and many other
nations have indicted Japan as the violator of the Nine-
Power Treaty and the Kellogg Pact, in the prosent Sino-
Japanese conilict, fonented by tue Military Farty of
Japan, and h:s reoeately rotested arainst the bombings
of undefended Chinese cities a tne unnecesscry sl ughter
of Chinese noncomb: tants, and
HEREAs, we feel put to shane that American raw ma-
terials are being, used to man facture weapons of war for
Japan, American planes are bein: used to cariy American-
made bombs for the destruction o1 Chinese civilian pon-
ulation, American sheils are louding Japanese uns, and
America is sunnlying t Janan huco quantities of scran-
iron, oil, trucks and other materials used in the fur-
therance of the war, over and aveve the emount: of our
normal trade of recent vears, and
"HEEA, wo syaoathizo with tne Chinese neonle in
their desire to build u an indenendent, domocratic state,
an end gravely threatened by the present agrossion of
Japan, and deplore the trafiic  hich makes it possiole for
certain American interests to profit from the wanton de-
struction of the innocent victins of Jenanese aggression,
THEnEFOnt, we the undersigned resnec fully petition
the President of the inited States, in accordance with the
princinle of his Good Neignbor enunciation, and in the
interest of the peonle of the United States, China, and
Japan, to ake every practical means, direct or indirect,
to bring to an end a traffic from our country whicn is
compelling us to be a partner in the destruction of the
Chinese people.
A.GSmich, West Plaing, mo.
signatures-Address
 T Yac Geath
qrace Iones West Plaino, Mo
Ethel Hosleee - Wear Deaus Mo
s .
Hariet Haskell - Me st Plains, Mo.
M.t. Grismes -Willes Spp. Me.
albut Bofun.- Keat P, Mo.
0J4132
Ein huln,
U
Blarshe Pinehony
Sakestom
4
rok Rmee

=== Page 673 === (confidence 0.74)
ekney West  lass thd
taskell, tst an. mo.
1938
a l. inthr
thete
N. B. Itodge esilain Mo.
Roge heming Hot Opring Aik
C.2h. Pofe thal Plain Mo
n Kansds, hawrena,Kana
Saroh Fi Trrree Meat Plana no
Zuh mid
ogar Willlano
N.a. Carfenter
L. Chanpace
HReckurth
lhangh
S.J. Ritehior
J.F. Park.
Frca Relay
Nitter Weis
odWt P
Mro o.d. Terr. Wut laiono. a H. Giffith
Gaul anford
Heebut Hetguald, Weatin.
. K. Marti
Mrs. IDenneth Ogle,,
Cherter Ramsey
RaJ.BdN
Medet Ohn Wormer- Veedthain, ats-
Carty Johm ron Weit Plang the
Clarence Renfo. Prandwiks,m.

=== Page 674 === (confidence 0.96)
etober 29 1938.
Im reply refer to
CA 894.84 Haho21, . w.ut al
My dear Mr. Haskell:
By referenoe from the White House, I acknowledge
the recelpt of your letter of Ootober 8, 1938 enclosing
a petition signed by a mumber of individuals in regard
894.24/442
to the export of war and other materials to Japan.
Your courtesy in furniahing the President with this
petition 1s greatly appreciated.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, amending
the Joint Resolution approved August 31, 1935. You will
observe that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution pro-
vides that whenever the President shall find that there
exists a state of war between or among two or more foreign
states he shall proolaim such fact. Should the Presidemt
issue a proclamation finding that a state of war exists
F/A
between Chine and Japan the expert of arms, ammumitiem,
and
Mr. W. W. macakell,
West Plains, Misseuri.

=== Page 675 === (confidence 0.96)
and implements of war to both those countries would
immediately be prohibited by the terms of the Neutrality
Act. In the absence of such a proolamation, however,
there exists no legal authority for preventing the export
of arms either to both those countries or to Japan alene.
I may add that the primary purpose of the Joint
Resolution of May 1, 1937, 1s to keep this country out
of war. The question as to whether and when the provisions
of the Joint Resolution ahall be invoked 1s properly left
to the sound disoretion of the President. In deciding
whether he should invoke the Joint Resolution in a partiou-
lar situation, the President must take into account various
faotors and partioularly the broad, general interests of
this country and its nationals. In the present situation
in the Far East, the President has concluded that, in the
light of all the facts and oiroumstanoes, when weighed
from a prectioal point of view, it would mot be to the
best interests of this oountry and our people as a whole
to invoke the provisions of this Joint Resolution.
The Neutrality Aot, moreover, does not authorize
the President or the Searetary of State under any eiroum-
stanees to prohibit the export of commodities other than
arms, ammmnition, and implements of war. The artieles
aaa

=== Page 676 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
and materiak which are considered to be arms, ammunition,
and implements of war are emmerated in the President's
Proelamation of May 1, 1937, whioh 1s set forth under
Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet International
Treffto an Arms.
You may be interested to know that since July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued licenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war to
China 1n the value of $14, 265, 554.11 and to Japan in the
value of $10,793.865.38.
I may add, with reference to the bombing of civilian
populations and the probable danger to Americans and Ameri-
oan interests abroad, that the Seoretary of State has stated
publicly on repeated occasions that this Government condemne
the bombing of civilian populations or its material enoourage-
ment. The Government's condemnation of this praotice has
been expressed direotly to all manufacturers and exporters
in this country of airplanes and aeronautical equipment.
Sincerely yours,
Charles W. Yost, Assistant Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
5
1. Jeims Reselutien.
feled origi-
2. Pamphlet.
pnt
OCT 29 1938.
CA:RVH VIC DO/26
Faw

=== Page 677 === (confidence 0.93)
STATE BOARD
BOARD
COURT SMITH, WARDEN
OF
OF
PRISON TERMS AND PAROLD
ON DIRECTORS
Dvm F. Bu. Cheirmss
.President
ALFRED C. SCHMITT.
S
DIRECTOR OF
S
CALIFORNIA STATE PRISON
21
F
AT SAN QUENTIN
938 0061
October 17, 1938
Rerzn To
Fux No.
Secretary Cordell Hull
Department of Foreign Affairs
United States of America
10129/38
Washington, D. C.
RUH: ore
Dear Secretary Hull:-
894.24
Through other organizations I have voiced
894.24/443
my opposition to the sale of war materials to the Japanese Gov-
ernment, which war materials an used to defeat and exterminate
the Chinese people. What deeply grieves me is that we sent mis-
sionaries to China and Japan to convert these peoples to the
Christian religion, and the Christian religion stands against
war, and then our Government permits the sale of war materials
to the Japanese nation so that the Japanese can carry on a most
ruthless war against an innocent people.
In yesterday's local paper there is shown
a picture of a Japanese ship loading lead, purchased from the
citizens of the United States that it may be used to mold bull-
ets with which to exterminate the Chinese. We as individuals
cannot do anything to stop this procedure, but it is within the
power of our Government to do so. I would herewith again voice
my protest against this wicked and inhuman procedure of our
people being permitted to make money out of this wicked war again-
st the Chinese people. God cannot look with favor on a Government
that will permit that. Surely we as a people are not so poverty
FILED
stricken that we have to resort to such inhuman traffic.
if
C5
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
12
A
Cordially,
4
001 20 1938
Tr
F
alfredc. fehmitt.
Depariment of Stale
ACS/N
Come to CALIFORNIA for the Golden Gate Intarnational Exposition
1939
Fabruary 18 to Dacamber 2
1939

=== Page 678 === (confidence 0.96)
Detober 81 1938.
My dear Mr. Sehmitt:
The reoeipt is acknowledged of your letter of
Ostober 17, 1938 in regard to the export of war and
894.24/443
other materials to Japan.
There is transmitted herewith a copy of the Joint
Resolution of Congress approved May 1, 1937, commonly
referred to as the Neutrality Act. It will be observed
that Seotion 1 (a) of this Joint Resolution provides
that whenever the President shall find that there exists
a state of war between or among two or more foreign
states he shall proolaim such faet. Should the President
1ssue a proolamation finding that a state of war exists
between Chine and Japan, the export from this country of
axms, ammunition, and implements of war to hath Chimm
smd dammn weuld be immediately prebibited. In the abseace
Mr. Alfred C. Sebmitt,
Direeter ef Library and Department
of Religione Aetivities,
Callferais State Prisem,
F/A
San Qmemtin, Califernia.

=== Page 679 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
of such a proclamation, there 1s no statutory authority
for preventing suah exports.
In determining not to 1ssue a proolamation, the
Prèsident has exeroised the discretion vested in him by
the statute. He oould not fail to reoognize that the
primary purpose of this statute 1s to keep this country
out of war, and he, of course, felt obliged to take into
account all the pertinent conditions and ciroumstanoes.
Incidentally I may stress the fact, in view of what is
above stated, that a proolamation would have placed an
embargo on the shipment of the material mentioned not
only to Japan but to Chine.
The Neutrality Act, moreover, does not authorize
the President or the Seoretary of State under any cir-
oumstances to prohibit the export of commodities other
than arms, ammunition, and implements of war. The
articles and materials which are considered to be arms,
ammunition, and implements of war are enumerated in the
President's Proalamation of May 1, 1937, which 1s set
ferth under Part II of the enolosed copy of the pamphlet
Internetlonal Traffle in Arme. It will be noted that lead
is me) ineluded amons such artieles and materials. There
is se statuse mew in existemee which would autherise the
Presidoms

=== Page 680 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
President or the Becretary of State to prohibit the
export of lead to Japan or to any other foreign country.
You may be interested to know that since July 1,
1937, the Department of State has 1ssued lioenses for
the export of arms, ammunition, and implements of war
to China 1n the value of $14, 265, 554.11 and to Japan in
the value of $10,793,865.38.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Joseph C. Green, Chief
Office of Arms and Munitions Control
Enolosures:
1. Joint Resolution.
2. Pampblet.
QCT 31 1958.
true copy of
the signed origi-
a!.
5
Pnt
CÀ:RVH:VIC
10/29
