894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., May 2, 1935 - March 17, 1938 (File 1006), part 3 of 3
ID: 894.00-1006-3   Pages: 510   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-21/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20May%202%2C%201935%20-%20March%2017%2C%201938%201006-part-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 8, 1937
WTT:
D:
8KIT:
Despatch No. 2271 from Embassy, Tokyo,
"Interpellations in the Onening Diet
Sessions of February 15 and 16":
In the opening Diet session inter-
pellations were made which reflect dis-
satisfaction in the Diet with mounting
military expenditures and with the army's
participation in and interference with
politics, esnecially its successful
blocking of the formation of a cabinet
by Ugaki. There was also criticism of
Japan's position to improve relations
with China.
COMMENT:
In regard to the last noint it is
worthy of note that the remier's reply to
an inter. ellation inicates an intention
to solve Sino-Janar ese problems gradually,
a nolicy to which circcrstances would
seem to leave no alternative.
894.00/703
TB/DLY

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.91)
7E
DIVISION OF WESTERN
EUROPEAN AFFAIR
MAR 2 3 1937
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ANSe
DEPARIMEN! OF SIAL!
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
WE
1937 MAR 4 AM 11 26
AMERICAN EMBASSY
09y0, February 17,1937.
ANDOORDS
No. 2271.
SUBJECT:
LTETLLA IONS L TL OPELING DIET SESSIONS
OF FELRCARY 15 AMD 16.
894.
894.00/703
ni
32
891
- MiD
oni
2
A
e
FOLID
The Honorable
X
The Secret ry of Stete,
Washington.
Sir:
I h ve the honor to report tht t a number of in ter-
estine nd si mificcnt interpellations were made in the
Februry 15 and February 16 sessions of the Diet, which
F/Q
bouy hed been prorogued on Junuary 21 and was reconvened
on Februtry 1s. These interpellations had principally to
do with the following to ics: the internal political
situation, es ecially with reference to the Army's participa-
ti on
a

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
tion in politics; government finance; Soviet Russia; and
Chine. Although both the Government and the Army have been
severely criticized in the Diet interpellations, a situa-
tion of an explosive nature such as that brought about by
Hamada's attack on the Government in the Diet's session
of January 21 and Generul Terauchi's awkwerd reply, has
thus far been avoided.*
1. The Intornal Politic: 1 Situation.
Mr.  ts jiro Moizumi of the Minseito was the first
interpellator at the opening session of the Diet on Janu-
ary lu. he asked way rremier layashi had requested men
belonging to the political  arties to resign from their
orties when ho offered them Cabinet posts, to which the
Prelier eplied vaguely th: t he had considered this step
"appropriate". Interpellated concerning the need for
freedom of speech and of the press as the basis for the
expression of "the will of the people ", General Hayashi
replied tnt t he was untirely in accord with Mr. Koizumi's
ideas.
Dr. tsujiro ehara of the Seiyukai stated that in
the understandine of the ceneral public the Army had been
responsible for the collapse of the Hirota Cabinet and
that the public hed wanted the formation of a cabinet by
Goneral Uguki, adding significantly that he would like to
know why the foimation of a Cabinet by General Ugaki
would hn ve disturbed the unity of the Army, as alleged
by
* imbassy's despatch No. 2241 of February 1, 1937.
697

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
by military leaders. According to the newspaper versions
of Premier Hayashi's reply to Uehara, the Premier either
avoided answering these questions or answered them nly in
vague teras.
On February 16 Mr. Chokichi Miyawaki, of the Seiyukai,
interpellated first the avy Minister and next the War Min-
ister concernine discipline in the defense services and in-
terference by the Navy and the Amy in politics and diplo-
macy.
Admiral Yonai, the Navy Minister, replied that
the problem of diseiyline seemed to be more peculiar to
the Army then to the Wavy, that there was no worry on this
score as reg rds the Navy, which endeavored at all times
to be faithful to the will of the mperor. The Navy Min-
ister's answer was reportealy greeted with cheers from all
sections of the House. Tne War Minister, General Sugiyama,
replied to teha 's uestions by stating that since the
appointmont of Genor 1 Lerauehi as War Minister in the
Mirota abinet the rmy had been striving to the best of
its ability to assure perfect discipline in the Ammy; that
in his opinion diseipline was not yet perfect but that he
intended to mtke even reater efforts to bring about per-
fect discipline; that the Army authorities were strictly
pronibiting interference in politics by "the military in
general"; and that nevertheless as a State Minister he
believed it lis duty to ive voice to his views on state
affairs. The Fremier supported General Sugiyama, assert-
ing that while a soldier should not participa te in politics
it wes only a pert of a State Minister's duty to do so.
With

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
With regerd to a pertinent question from Mr.
Miyawaki concerning the responsibility of the Army for
the outbreak of the February 2o Incident, the War Minister
said that the Army repented the affair but that concern-
ing its causes there were "many points on which the people
would do well to admonish one another". Again teking the
rostrum, Mr. Miyawaki said that he was quite satisfied with
the reply of the Havy Minister and that the War Minister's
answers seened satisfactory on the whole.
Reitelaulng the points already raised in previous
interpullations, Mr. Tetsutaro Hemano of the Minseito asked
why the my had opposed the formation of a Cabinet by
General gaki oven before he had indicated his platform,
why Premier Hayashi excluded political party men from the
new Cabinet, and whether in holding "so many concurrent pos ts"
the Tremier was imitating fascism. To the first question
the War Min ster replied somewhat speciously that the Army
had not interfered with the efforts of General Ugaki to
form a Cabinet but that the candidates for the office of
War Minister closen y the three chiefs of the Army had all
declined appointment to this positi n. In reply to the
second and third questions Premier Hayashi denied that
politicel party men had been excluded from the Cabinet
and that in holding concurrent portfolios he wished to
imitate the fascists.
Another leading question was put to the Government
by Mr. Hemano, viz., what would be done in case the re-
forms said by the Army to be suited to the needs of the
times were not in consonance with the wishes of the pub-
11c

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
lic as expressed by the Lower House of the Diet. Ap-
parently this question was side-stepped by the Govern-
ment.
2. Government Finance.
Mr. Yuki, t.e Finance Minister, was interpellated
as to the concrete measures that would be adopted by
the Government to remedy certain financial evils, in
particular the one-sided relationship between the enormous
national defense expenditures and the small appropriations
for the stabilization of the livelihood of the people, and
also the difficulty of continued absorption by the nation
of public bonds. In skillfully worded replies the Finance
Minister stated that he vas much concerned about the lack
of equilibriun between the funds for armaments and those
for stabilication of the people's livelihood and asked the
Diet for a little more time in which to study the matter,
porticulc ly tre tuestion of local srants to the impover-
ished farming comaunities. The Finance Minister added
that in his belief all should cooperate with the defense
services "without opposing them and without bowing before
them."
In reference to the absorption of publie bonds,
Ir. Yuki adnitted thct the solution of this question was
growing more difficult but asserted that it depended not
only on the ability of the peo le to save but also on con-
fidence in national finances.
Both on Febru ry 15 and February 16 the Finance Min-
ister steted that he could not foretell with accuracy
the future of nation 1 finances and that there seemed to
be no help for the unbalanced budget, for which the
"conditions

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
"conditions in society todcy are responsible." He explain-
ed that he proposed to take a miadle course between that of
the late Mr. Takahashi and that of Dr. Baba, stating further
"though I do not know Whether I shall succeed". According
to Domei, the new Finance Ilinister's frankness was greeted
with approving lauchter by the members of the Diet.
3. Soviet Russia.
As concurrent Minister for Foreign Affairs, Fremier
Hayashi was interpellated by Baron Sakatani in the House
of Peers concernin the Governnent's views on the Soviet
Union's proposal for a non-aggression pact with Japan and
also concerning the border disputes between the Soviet Union
and "Manchukuo". The Pranier replied that his Government
had no intention at the moment of concluding a non-aggression
pact with the Soviet Union and that "Manchukuo"-Soviet frontier
guestions were bein gradually solved on the spot.
4. China.
In reply to questions concernin the Government's diplom-
acy vis-à-vis Chia, Fremier Hayashi admitted that Japan's
previous policy hed led to misunderstanding among the Chinese
of "Japan's true intentions", stated his belief that the re-
lations between the two countries should be made "serene" in
order to dispell all such misunderstanding, and expressed
the hope that definite problems that had arisen between the
two countries would be solved cradually, explaining that it
was his intention to begin with concrete problems. The
Premier's remarks about China would seem to connote a con-
templated change in Japan's former policy toward that country,
which

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
-7-
which aimed at the imiedicte settlement of all
pending issues as a whole.*
Concusion
It has already been reported to the Department
thet Generel Hayashi's s eech before the House of Peers on
the morning of February 15 was a manifestation of a desire
on the part of the Jabinet to cooperate wi th the Diet and
nut to dissolve it.** An analysis of the Government's
guarded und tactful replies to the severe criticism voiced
in the two days' Dict interpellations would indice to that
the Govermaent's attitude co tinues to be conciliatory. To
til ap sa t ces, the govermaent in tends to have its own
way and at the stme time to chdesvor to aveid an open clash
with the politicel arties in the Diet and the consecuent
ocsibility of ahother Cabimut crisis.
2
Thore are uhelosed clip in s from the Ja  wmms of
Februay 1o  t . sR of Febru ry 16 d 17
conceriin: t.e Diet i.terpellations discussed in this des-
utcn.
The closie er the peuch tomorrow mornine prevents my
incl din in this  es aten an account of an intorpellation
by the vetevan perllamonterian P. Ozaki on comoral policy
wahich is scleduled for this afternoon and is anticipated
with wide interest owing to the outsposen liberal convictions
held by r. Czaki. Howev r, the abassy will endeavor
to
* Ea  ssy's despatch No. 2266 of February 16, 1937.
**Embassy's tolegram No. 57 of Fobruary 15, 1937.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.93)
-8-
to cover IIr. Ozaki's interpellation in a separate
despatch if there is time for this tomorrow.
Respectfully yours,
S
Jos p. J. Grew.
Enc losures:
1/2 As steted.
803
GDA:C

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No.l, to despatch
No.2271, dated Feb. 17,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Monday, Feb. 15, 1937.
Misunderstanding Of Chi-
"To clarify the meaning of our
Then, Finance Minister Toyotare
Yuki replied and maid that there
Continental poliey." Baron Sakatani
nese Leaders Of Japan's
said. "will be very important in the
varlous different things to be don
under the present condition of the
present international situation. The
Attitude Regretted
Ioperial Messige given in 1933
country. but to do mo there l m
other way but to adöpt the staps et
sticssed the importanee of basing
our diplonatic policy on internation-
bonds and of increasing taxes.
POLICY IS EXPLAINED
al justice but this principle has not
been fully executed. In our relations
was made after fully considering the
with the Sovict Union. the Moscow
necessity of increasing productior
thorites ae pegatdine Japan as
unproving international balance and
Viscount Watanabe Is First
heagh he i an tavader and 1 t
suppressina commodity prices," ha
he tht the Solet 1 on has no
said "Plans that might cause un-
Interpellant, Followed By
ill teeling ent Japon in vie o
resi to the people or unfavorable
hoer prp al of non aggression
effects on markets have been avoid-
Baron Sakatani
 d he nster of the Chi
ed from the financial plan of the
n h to Manehon
government"
1heion  b
Public Doubt Tax Plan
Viscount Chifuyu Watamabe,
Kenkyukai, was the first inter-
greally improved if both sides cast
Baron Sakatani rose again and
away all suspicions and fears."
said that the public have muoh doubt
pellant today in the House of
Then touching upon the Chinese
as to the object of the tax increase
Peers after the conclusion of
situation, Baron Sakatani said thnt
plan of the present cabinet. "The
Premier General Senjuro Hava-
the anti-Japanese movement is be-
Takahashi policy almed at the gra
shi's address.
ing utilized as a tool for unifving
dual reduction of bond issues, and
China. For improving the relation
Dr. Baba planned to effect tax in-
Viscount Watanabe requested a
between the two countries it is ne-
crease of ¥800,000,000 and the 
reply to his question that he had
cessary for the both to conciliate.
Lional bond issue of 1,000,000,000.
put to the Hirota Cabinet, declar-
Premier Hayashi, in replying to
But what is the object of the pre-
ing that the latter had had no
Baron Sakatani. said that the pro-
gent Cabinet? I am glad to hear that
posed financial plans of the govern-
the continental policy does not have
opportunity to reply. He particular-
ment will not cause any bad effect
aggressive meanings. But a friend
ly said that although the Gosern-
on finance and economics of the
who recently returned from a visit to
ment has been de la tng the estab-
country.
('hina says that the Chinese are
lishment of friendly relattons with
Continental Policy Explained
fearing that Japan might invade into
China. Japan's desire for friendship
"The term Continentai policy is
Manchoukuo. Jehol, North China
is being misunderstood by China.
vague, but I think it means develop-
and finally the entire territory of
Misunderstanding In China
ments in the Asiatic Continent," said
China. I wish the government will
Premier Hayashi replied that the
Premier Hayashi. "The development
fully consider this situation," the
Government's diplematie policy had
in the continent, or our attitude to
Baron continued.
already heen explained in his
China is clear and just, and there is
Premier Hayashi replied / that
address. but regretted that there are
no possibility of being misunder-
Japan has no intention of invading
some misunderstandings in Chin.
stood. It is hoped that the Soviet
into China, and that he hopes that
regarding Japan's attitude. Further
will truly understand Japan's post-
the misunderstanding of other n
the Premier stated that it is his in-
tion and cooperate for stabilizing the
tions on this point would be imme
tention to foster the development of
peace of the Far East. The existence
diately removed.
Constitutional polities according to
of a non-aggression treaty does not
The House adjourned at 12:15 p.m.
the terms of the Constitution. and
necessarlly mean that friendly rela-
The House of Representatives met
to encourage the worship of lmpe-
tions will he maintained. as proved
at 1 p.m. and heared the addresse
rial Ancestors and the respect to the
by cases in foreign countries. Unless
of the Premier and Foreign Minister,
Emperor. but he has no intention o
the Soviet Union changes its
and Finance Minister Toyotaro
slightening foreign culture and civi-
threatening attitude. the Japan.
Yuki. The interpellants scheduled to
lization.
Sovlet relations will not be improved.
take the floor were Messrs. Matafire
Baron Yo-hiro Sakatanl. Koyu
At present. I have no intention of
Koizumi. Minselto. Yetsujiro Uye-
Club, was the next interpellant. He
concluding a non-aggression pact
hara. Selyukai. and Koku Kawasak
asked at itst whether the Govern-
with the Soviets. In improving the
Minselto.
ment fully studiea in planning the
relatlon with China. I Intend to be-
tax imerease plans whet eflect they
kin with concrete problems and pro-
would bring on the condition of the
ceed pradually. I mupport the re-
country and particularly financial
ductlon of national defense expenses
and economic situations. Then, re-
from the standpoint of establishing
ferring to diplomatic preblems,
world peace and lightening the pub.
Baron Sakatani aid that during the
lla burden, and at the mame time I
term of the former cabinet, the Sou-
hope that the powers of the world
thern Advance policy had been very
would at a proper moment discuss
lcudly announced and it has caused
armament reduction. However. I
many misunderstandings in foreign
have no intention whatever to start
cruntries, but the explanation given
a naval construction rivalry by
by the former Foreign Minister
building more ships than the mini-
Arita had cleared all such misunder-
mum requirements for the national
standings.
defenee."

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.2, to despatch
No.2271, dated Feb/7,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, Feb. 16, 1937.
YUKI GAINS APPLAUSE OF HOUSE
BY FRANKNESS ABOUT FINANCES;
NOISE STIRRED BY WAR MINISTER
Premier Says He Asked Men to
The galleries were packed to capa-
city when the House was called to or-
Leave Parties Because
der at 2:07 o'clock, more than an hour
later than scheduled because of a pro-
It Seemed Fitting
posal by Mr. Hamada that he be al-
lowed to refute the allegation that he
had insulted the army in his inter-
PLATFORM
HELD
VAGUE
pellation on January 21 had to be dis-
posed of through negotiations.
Premier Hayashi then repreated the
Kawasaki Afraid Defense Ex-
administrative addresses as Premier
and Foreign Minister he had given in
penditures Will Mount to 80
the morning in the Upper House.
Finance Minister Yuki followed with
Per Cent of Budget
his address. The silence that prevailed
as he read from his manuscript was
broken with applause after he declar-
FOREIGN POLICY DEBATED
ed national defense and stabilization
of the national livelihood to be "like
the two wheels of a cart," but as he
A member of the House, Mr. Ku-
ended there were cries of "What have
nimatsu Hamada, of the Seiyukai,
you done with the relief for the rural
communities?" and "You have done
was the outstanding figure during the
nothing for local relief!"
interpellation on the administrative
Speaker Kojiro Tomita announced
addresses in the House of Represen-
tlat the Cabinet change had cancelled
tatives on January 21 that led to pro-
all previous requests for the privilege
to interpellate and that he would re-
rogation of the Diet and the resigna-
ceive new requests.
tion of the Hirota Cabinet, but yester-
Koizumi Speaks
day, when the Diet resumed its labors
Mr. Matajiro Koizumi, of the Min-
after a lapse of 25 days, it was a
seito. took the rostrum as the first in-
member of the Government who
terpellator. It is the mission of the
new Cabinet. he started, to dispel the
drew the most applause, Finance
gloomy political atmosphere brought
Minister Toyotaro Yuki.
about by the collapse of the Hirota
With frankness that surprised the
Cabinet. Examining the policies of the
House, he admitted that he could not
Government. he took up first the ques-
foretell with accuracy the future of
tion of parliamentary politics and cited
passages fror: the Premier's statement
national finances. There was laugh-
on his Cabinet's platform.
ter, but it was free of malice, when
His colleagues in the Minseito seats
he said that some items that were in
applauded when he declared:
the Hirota Cabinet's budget have been
"The political parties have made very
great contributions to the development
postponed and others abandoned and
of constitutional politics in this country.
that some of the retained items will
It wou'd be a grave mistake merely
not actually be used.
to point to their defects in utter
When he declared that all should
disregard of this."
co-operate with the military in over-
"Why," he said, "did Premier Haya-
shi ask party men to leave their par-
coming current difficulties without
ties when offering them Cabinet
opposing them or following them
posts?"
blindly, the applause became loud,
Turning to diplomatic issues, Mr.
Domei reports, and there were both
Koizumi enumerated failures of the
cheering and clapping of hands when
previous Cabinet and emphasized the
he left the rostrum after making an
need for a homogeneous diplomatic
policy. He wished to hear the con-
appeal for toleration of his explana-
victions of the Government. Admin-
tions. Before the interpellations,
istrative renovation is urgently needed,
however, when he made his admin-
he continued, and thus the curtailment
istrative address, there were accusa-
in the grants to the local governments
tions that he had betrayed the far-
opposed. He championed the cause of
for financial adjustments cannot but be
mers.
freedom of speech and the press, which
Sukiyama Makes Request
he declared to be the basis for ex-
The other high spot of the session
pression of the will of the people.
was a request by War Minister Haji-
Premier: By the constitutional poli-
me Sugiyama to the members of the
tics peculiar to Japan, we mean the
House to change their conception of
embodiment of the principles of the
the necessity of national defense.
Japanese State and the Constitution
There was some noise on the floor at
peculiar to our country in the prac-
this, but it subsided without any ap-
ce of politics.  asked men to leave
proach to creation of a situation simi-
lar to that between Mr. Hamada and
War Minister Hisaichi Terauchi on
January 21.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
8
their parties because I thought that
is the opinion of the Government? I
would be appropriate.
think that in order to enforée a na?
In the enforcement of diplomatic
tional policy with regard to foreign
policy. I hope that the Government
relations it is necessary to establish
and the people, embracing both the
policy toward Manchukuo, decide on
military and the civilian populace, will
policies toward China and the Soviet
act as one in order that perfect effi-
Union, stabilize East Asia and conclude
ciency may be developed. I hope that
a joint defense agreement against Com-
what is called people's diplomacy may
munism in the Far East. What does
be exercised to the fullest extent.
the Foreign Minister think of such a
"The policy of administrative reno-
prczram?
vation has been embodied in the 1937-
Premier: Unworthy though I am, I
33 budget, but I hope to carry out the
beljeve that I am discharging fully the
policy on every possible occasion. It
responsibilities of assisting His Majesty
is most important to achieve equili-
in the administration of the State. I
brium in the burdens of the people,
asked party men to leave their parties
and thus I hope to rectify as much
when joining my Cabinet because I
as possible the existing lack of it. This
thought that best under. the prevailing
will make up for postponement of the
circumstances and not because I dis-
grants for adjustment of local finances.
regarded the parties.
"As regards freedom of speech and
In diplomacy, I hope to do the best
press, I am entirely in accord with
I can by co-operating with all quar-
your view."
ters. With your views regarding poli-
Dr. Etsujiro Uehara, of the Seiyu-
cies toward Manchukuo, China and the
kai, then took the rostrum.
Soviet Union, I am entirely in agree-
Explanation Asked
damental necessity of concluding a pact
ment, as I am with regard to the fun-
Uehara: I shall request the Premier
for joint defense against Communism.
to explain the classic platform enun-
(Another version quotes him as saying
ciated by him and the remarks he
he is giving consideration to the con-
made on the train while going to the
clusion of such a pact.)
Agreement Brings Titters
Ise Grand Shrines. for I consider them
The frequent reference of the Pre-
quite incomprehensible.
mier to his agreement with the views
Article 3 of the Imperial Constitution
of the interpellator brought titters
provides that the Emperor is sacred
from the floor.
and invioable. This signifies total
Dr. Uehara again took the rostrum
freedom from responsibility, substan-
and pressed the Premier for a de-
tially, spiritually and morally. Where
finite commitment on the evils of sec-
there is responsibility. there can be
ret diplomacy, and the latter replied
no sanctity. Thus all responsibility
with his usual brevity, says Domei,
for administrative affairs must be
though it does not record what he
borne by the Premier. Under no cir-
stated.
cumstances can he say or suggest that
The next interpellator was Mr. Katsu
political responsibility falls on the Em-
Kawasaki, of the Minseito, who con-
peror. What does the Premier think
centrated on financial and economic
of this?
questions.
The general public understands that
Kawasaki: * * * Finance Minister
the army was responsible for the col-
Yuki speaks of having withdrawn
lapse of the Hirota Cabinet. What is
Y269,000,000, but what does he mean by
the view of the Premier?
"withdrawn?" Does he mean that this
The general public desired the forma-
amount has been postponed, or has it
tion of a Cabinet by General Kazushige
been totally cancelled? Unless this is
Ugaki. but the army "put in a side
made clear, we cannot examine the
lance." and General Ugaki's efforts
budget intelligently.
proved abortive. I wish to know why
As a result of the formulation of his
it would have disturbed the unity of
policy by Mr. Yuki, 150,000,000 has
the army had General Ugaki formed.
been deleted from the funds to be
a Cabinet. I hope that the Premier
granted to local governments for fiscal
will 1ke this opportunity to dispel all
adjustments, on which the agrarian
suspicion and doubt.
communities had been counting heavi-
Though a Premier-designate must
ly The military and naval budgets
await the recommendation of the
have come to occupy 49 per cent of
triumvirate of the army before choos-
the total national budget, and 80 per
ing his War Minister. why did Pre-
cent of the fresh demands are those of
mier Hayashi ask party members who
the fighting services. He can hard-
were candidates for Cabinet posts to
ly take exception if we say to him that
leave their parties? By doing so. did
he is strong toward the weak and weak
he not ignore the parties, despite his
to the strong—too much so, in
assurance that he respects constitu-
fact. * *
tional politics?
At this rate, in six years we shall
Relations Lopsided
have a budget in which 80 per cent will
What is thought of the lopsided rela-
go to the army and the navy and only
tion between national defense and
20 per cent for general administration,
stabilization of the living of the people?
with all measures for easing the liv-
I believe that stabilization of the na-
ing of the people forced out of sight.
tional livelihoed must be based on
This enormous national defense expen-
thorough representation of the will of
diture is required by the needs of
the people. What does the Premier
the situation and justifled by
think?
the stringency of international rela-
Armaments should be subservient to
tions. It is true that expansion of ar-
diplomacy, in my opinion. Diplomacy,
maments seems to be a worldwide ten-
moreover, must be neither secret nor
dency, but comparison with Great
heterogeneous. If the views of the For-
Britain, the United States and the
eign Office and the War Office are an-
Soviet Union will show that there is
nounced abreast of each other, unity
no other country that is making sac-
in diplomacy cannot be expected. What 

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
rifices as great as those we are for
"Among the amounts withdrawn
and it was to contributg to
arms expenditure. • •
from the budget, there are some that
that I took the
Fitting Basis Wanted
have been postponed and others that
Commerce and Industry.
Unless national defense is based on
have been cancelled," the Finance Min-
best to smoothen the
sound finances, there can be no secur-
ister continued. "There are even some
such important raw
ity. Unless national defense is based
amounts on the budget sheet that can
iron and oil."
on industry. its future cannot be gua-
be deleted because they will not be
On the motion of Mr. Azuma Mat
ranteed. It is about time that our na-
used in practice."
naga, Minseito. the sion w
tional defense was set properly on the
Goodwill Displayed
journed at 5:48 o'clock unt 1 o'cloo
basis of our economic strength.
This display of honesty on the part
his afternoon, when Dr. Masataka Ot.
At this point. Mr. Toyokichi Tabu-
of Mr. Yuki brought laughter, the
Seiyukai. will interpellate on finansi
chi, of the Second Lobby. so forgot
news agency reports, but it was sea-
ind economic questions, Mr. Taneo
himself in his enthusiasm for what Mr.
soned with goodwill.
yazawa, of the Minseito, on indu
Kawasaki was saying that he cheered
"Expansion of armaments really can-
and agrarian policies and relief
so loudly that the interpellation could
not be avoided," he went on. "As na-
maller industrialists and businessmen.
not be heard. Speaker Tomita ordered
tional defense is the shield of the na-
Mr. Chokichi Miyawaki, Seiyukai
him to leave the chamber. In con-
tion, it is my belief that we should
lational defense. Mr. Tetsutaro Ham
tinuing. Mr. Kawasaki addressed him-
co-operate with those who guard the
:o. Minseito, on constitutional govern
self to the War and Navy Ministers.
shield without opposing them and with-
nent and the evils of self-satisfied
Kawasaki: Has the F23.000,000 each
out bowing before them and that we
ureaucrats and Mr. Kozo Matsumura,
λithdrawn from the army and naval
should unite with them in surmount-
Seiyukai, on industrial policies.
budgets been postponed or cance!led?
ing the difficulties facing the nation."
If it has been postponed. the ¥100.000.-
At this, applause started that rapid-
000 or so that is postponed year after
ly grew.
year in the total budget will mount
"Absorption of public bonds is stead-
to an enormous sum. With the indus-
ily growing more difficult," Mr. Yuki
trial capacity we now have. postpone-
said, 'but its limits depend on not only
ment is inevitable. At the same time.
the future of national defense is being
the ability of the people to save but
also confidence in national finances and
menace greatly by the sky-rocketing
hopes regarding the future of the bond
of prices as a result of the inflation
brought about by the boom in the
policy. I hope you will excuse me
munitions industry. Has neither the
with this kind of explanation."
War Minister nor the Navy Minister
The whole House applauded and
cheered as he returned to his seat.
any intention of saving that ¥23,-
000.000?
After a brief reply by the Premier,
The interpellator then turned to
which Domei says was quite formal,
Finance Minister Yuki. asking for en-
the War Minister took the rostrum and
lightenment on the increased taxes
stated:
"The demands of the army are the
and the Government's policy for coping
minimum needed. If the budget is
with rising prices. To correct the ten-
considered too big and must be cur-
dency of funds to flow into produc-
tailed, how can we carry out our poli-
tive enterprises at the expense of other
cies toward China and the Soviet
enterprises, he suggested that planned
Union? I hope you gentlemen will rec-
economy be adopted to equalize the
tify your conception of the necessity
use of funds.
for national defense."
Bond Sales Menaced
At this display of what was felt to be
Kawasaki: The tax increases. the
a menacing attitude, the whole House
demand for industrial capital. the in-
was in an uproar, says Domei, but Mr.
vestments in Manchuria and China in
Kawasaki saved the situation by re-
accordance with our continental policy
turning to the rostrum for his counter-
and the steadily worsening condition
reply.
of fcreign trade are all affecting ad-
Candor Appreciated
versely the consumption of public
Kawasaki: I must voice my respect
bonds. Under the circumstances, is the
for the candor with which Finance
Government confident that all of the
Minister Yuki has replied. (Turning to
ponds to be issued in the next fiscal
the War Minister) You misunderstand
year will be absorbed? **
me. If the State requires it, we are
The Exchange Control Law is hurting
prepared to hand over the entire na-
imports of cotton and wool and mak-
tional budget for defense, but I think
ing exports difficult. The proposed
this is no time for such a step. As
export control tax is vicious from the
the Manchurian incident expenditures
standpoint of the idea involved and is
are those required for maintaining
calculated to exercise control that is
peace and order in Manchuria, I wish
useless. It is entirely contrary, more-
to know if there is no way of eco-
over, to the spirit of the national policy
nomizing on them. It is hoped that
for advancement of foreign trade.
the army will adopt an attitude of
* * • I don't see why you should take
co-operation in order that it will be
on yourself so much of the heritage
able to realize the great aim of national
of Dr. Baba.
defense.
To realize national defense in the
At these soothing words from the
broad sense (turning to the Premier),
veteran interpellator, Domei reports,
I believe that there is need for es-
the debutant War Minister grew red in
tablishing a policy to assure adequ-
the face. No reply by him is recorded.
ate supplies of pig iron and oil. What
Finance Minister Yuki had to add to
do you think? What convictions and
his previous remarks the following:
measures have you in mind for relief
"The Exchange Control Law is aim-
of the poor who will find themselves
ed at preventing temporary speculative
at the end of their ropes because of
imports. I wish to watch developments
the munitions inflation?
for the time being."
The Finance Minister replied, "To be
The Minister of Commerce and In-
very frank about it, I must say that
dustry, Vice-Admiral Takuo Goto,
I have no clear prospects for the fi-
spoke briefly:
nancial future."
"I have taken a deep interest in the
Someone shouted, "Of course not."
problem of a policy on raw materials,
There was a note of astonishment in
this raillery, says Domei.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No.2276_dated Feb./7,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Wednesday, Feb. 17, 1937.
ROLE OF ARMY IN POLITICS
AGAIN CRITICIZED IN DIET;
WAR OFFICE HEADS CONFER
vice-president of the Hochi and Fin-
in the functions of the Bank of Japan
Miyawaki Finds Sugi-
ance Parliamentary Counselior, was
accompanying the change of its gov-
granted the floor.
ernor?"
"The Yuki financial policy. which is
Minister Replies
yama's Replies Fairly
a revision of the Baba policy. embodies
Finance Minister Yuki replied;
many of our claims." he started.
"I am really much concerned about
Satisfactory
"Though the current political fluctua-
tions are much to be regretted, we
the lack of equilibrium between the
should rejoice at this alteration of the
funds for stabilization of the people
former Finance Minister's policy. At
living and those for armaments.
the same time, it is very regrettable
think that adjustment of local debe
DISCIPLINE BEING SOUGHT
that the grants for adjustment of local
 very important in order to overcome
finances have been slashed, leaving the
the stringency in the farming com
farming communities in their plight.
munities, and thus hope that you w
Yuki Confesses Concern Over
"The phrase 'semi-wartime finances'
allow us a little more time in which
is apt to be regarded as an indication
to study the question of local grants.
Relation Between Defense
that financial measures are being
"In revising the budget, emphasis
adopted in order to prepare for war.
was placed on reduction of expenses
and Stable Living
It also implies that diplomacy can be
likely to make worse the balance of
dispensed with. It is necessary to
international payments. All possible
guard against such impressions. Na-
haste was made to submit it to the
tional defense. in my opinion, should
Diet to give as much time as possible for
RELIEF QUESTION RAISED
be aimed at preventing war. What is
deliberation on it.
the view of the Finance Minister?
"As for the future, I can say very
"Japan must base its defense program
little, as I stated yesterday. The con-
Criticism of the army comparable
on its own strengh. To harmonize
ditions in society tcday are respon-
the necds of the farmer and the re-
sible for this state of affairs, and there
to that which caused trouble last
quirements of the army, the economie
seems no help for it. I propose to
month was raised again in the House
power of the peopl: must be strength-
take a middle course between the
; of Representatives yesterday after-
encd. for it is the axle of the wheels.
policy of the late Mr. Takahashi and
noon. Mr. Chokichi Miyawaki, Sei-
To make productive power adequate,
thit of D:. Baba, though I do not
yukai, interpellated the War and
consideration must be given not only
to seeing that factory facilities are suf-
know whether I shall succeed."
This brought laughter and applause.
Navy Ministers, demanding informa-
ficient but also to assuring a supply
Before leaving the rostrum, Mr. Yuki
tion on what has been done in the
of raw materials. In short, develop-
said that he agreed with Mr. Ota that
army to correct the situation reveal-
ment of industry is essential. What is
reform of the Bank of Japan should
ed by the February 26 ineident and
your opinion?
Price Issue Raised
be in accordanc with the needs of
the time, the Nichi Nichi reports.
assailing interference by the military
"The Government has revised the
Mr. Ota again spoke, expressing dis-
in politics and diplomacy.
budget with a view to keeping prices
sulisfaction with the discrepancy bey
Showing skill, he called first on the
down. but will :his be helped by re-
tween the burden on the cities and
Navy Minister, who won cheers from
ducing the grants to local governnients?
that on the farming villages and with
the House when he said that there is
It is not permitted to leave the budget
as it is in anticipation of postponement
the tax increases. Mr. Yuki did not
volunteer a response, according to
no problem of disciplining in the
of some items. Nor is it constitutional.
Domei
navy, which endeavors at all times
Finance Minister Yukis' attitude is out-
Seiyukai Members Leave
to be faithful to the will of the Em-
rageous. for it confuses State finances
Mr. Taneyu Miyazawa, Minseito, wes
peror.
reasonable to include in the budget ap-
with private economy. It is quite un-
the next interpellator. He had hard-
ly started before the Seiyukai seats
The War Minister replied that the
propriations for the plans of State
began to empty, showing, says the
army leaders have been striving to as-
management of the electric tower in-
news agency. that their occupants
sure perfect discipline. It is not yet
dustry and extension of the period of
were much more interested in the 
perfect, but the efforts will be continu-
compulsory education without any as-
organization of their party following
ed. He voiced repentance for the Feb-
surance that the plans themselves are
IDr. Suzuki's resignation than in the
ruary 26 incident but said that there
plausible. especially when taxes are be-
interpellations of members of other
are many aspects of its causes on
in:g increased to provide revenue.
parties.
which the people would do well to ad-
What have you to say about this?
"Finance Minister Yuki's revision of
monish one another. Interference in
"What financial plans have you to
the budget compiled by the previous
politics by the military is prohibited.
meet the situation that may possibly
Cabinet is very appropriate," Mr. M-
he continued, but as a State Minister
result from the increases in national
yazawa stated, "but what plans has
it is the duty of a War Minister to
defense expenditure and public bonds
voice his views on State affairs.
Mr. Miyawaki thought the Wa. Min-
in contrast to the decrease in the ex-
penditure for stabilizing the living of
payments are tending to increase. How
ginning this year, our internationl
ister's reply satisfactory on the whole.
the people? I take it that the expenses
does the Government intend to contrel
Galleries Packed
for general administrative renovation
the situation? Has it any intentlon of
The Lower House was nearly half
will grow smaller and smaller, but
establishing an exchange equalization
an hour behind time because of dis-
what is the Government's opinion?
cussion in Seiyukai ranks of the re-
"Have you any plans regarding in-
"To assure abundance of raw mat
signation of President Kisaburo Suzuki
vestments in private industries and in
rials and prevent prices from soarin
when it was called to order at 1:25
Manchuria outside the budget appro-
productive power is to be increasjed,
o'clock. The galleries were packed, Do-
priations? What is the reason for re-
is claimed, but how and in what ord
mei reports, not so much in expecta-
ducing Government payments to the
The Government speaks of increed
tion of an exciting session as because
South Manchuria Railway Company?
exports, but our articles are cheap
of a desire to see the new building.
What is this reform that is to be made
cause of the low cost of labur.
Dr. Masataka Ota, Seiyukai, former
final analysis, the

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
taxes must be borne by the masses, as
must the effects of vicious inflation.
junior officers that politics had been
The recent unfortunate in
Is it not the objective of administra-
abused in the past, thus inciting army
had their roojs in the
tive renovation to lift such heavy bur-
men to interfere in politics.
terance of the military.
dens from the shoulders of the labor-
Rescript Recalled
ister or the Navy Mini
ing masses? What- does the Premier
'One may see in history that when-
an example in bis owé
think?"
ever the military seized political power
to have the reply of
Relief Issue Raised
the times were very restless and un-
ister first."
This brought a sprinkling of ap-
easy. It was for this reason that the
This calling on the
plause in the proletarian seats. Mr. Mi-
great Emperor Meiji cautioned the mili-
before the War Minister was
yazawa next wished to know what the
tary against interference in politics.
as a clever maneuver, say
Government intends to do about reliet
Even in a time like the present, when
the chamber was in an uproar
for the smaller industrialists and bu-
universel manhood suffrage is practic-
plause for the interpellator.
sinessmen who make and handle the
ed. soldiers in active service are for-
Navy Minister Mitsumasa Yonal
bulk of the nation's industrial pro-
bidden to vote and prohibited from
the rostrum.
ducts. Are laws to be adopted regu-
participating in political campaigns in
"The navy is striving for the
lating department stores and retailing
uniform."
ity of the Far East in the spirit of
in general? He also asked if there is
There was whispering in the ears of
menace and non-aggression," he
no intention of separating the Central
War Vice-Minister Yoshijiro Umezu at
ed. "As for the details of its plans
Depository for Commerce and Industry
this point. says Domei.
so doing and the budget estimates,
from the Industrial Bank and of
"There are some ill-advised persons."
shall not dwell on them here at length,
guaranteeing smaller industrialists
Mr. Miyawaki continued, "who talk of
but it is far from our minds to cam-
and businessmen against losses. Con-
the present situation as different from
pete with the navies of other Power
cluding his speech, he wanted to know
that when the Emperor Meiji granted
or to possess the same large fleets as the
what is going to be done for the far-
the Rescript to the Army. That is a
greatest naval Powers."
mers.
great mistake. The Rescript of the
At this, members cheered.
Finance Minister Yuki told him that
Great Meiji is a document of the high-
"The problem of discipline," he cn
the cheap-money policy of the Hirota
est order and valid for all eternity.
tinued, "seems to be more peculiart
Cabinet will be continued; Commerce
Only a few men in the army, however,
the army than to the navy. and  
and Industry Minister Takuo Goto, that
are interfering in po!ities; most of them
as the navy is concerned there seems
favorable consideration is already being
shrink from such action. If the army
little to say. We have endeavored'at
given to all of his suggestions to help
leaders do not take a firm stand against
all times to be faithful to the will of
the smaller industrialists and business-
this minority. I fear very much that
the Emperor and to live up to His
men, including adoption of laws re-
a situation of unfathomable seriousness
Majesty's expectations. As far as the
garding department stores and other
may arise.
navy is concerned, there is no worry
retail establishments; Agriculture and
"There was a time when a War or
on this score. At any rate, we shall
Forestry Minister Tatsunosuke Yama-
Navy Minister was considered a mere
do our best in the future as always."
zaki, that matters for relief of the far-
soldier or sailor, and the people liked
All sections of the House joined in
mers are being pushed; Premier Ha-
that. Nowadays. a War Minister not
the applause that' followed this reply.
yashi. that investments in Manchuria
only participates in politics but has
War Minkter Speaks
will be encouraged if they are needed
come to interfere in the affairs of
War Minister Hajime Sugimura then
and that the Government is anxious
other Ministers and even in election
took the rostrum.
to stabilize the living of the people.
matters. urging dissolution of the Diet
"As regards national defense expen-
and Home Minister Kakichi Kawarada.
and the like. And all they do is done
diture," he said, "the 1937-38 budget
that concrete measures to lighten the
under the beautiful name of national
tells the story. I cannot give you de-
burdens of the farmers are being
defense in the broad sense and reno-
tails about the figures as they belong
studied.
vation of general administration.
in the category of military strategy.
Mr. Miyazawa objected that agree-
"If other Ministers should lay claim
"There seems hardly any need to
to speak concretely on the outlook for
he wanted to know if the Government
velopments. The Finance Minister re-
chamber when the next interpellator
rose, Mr. Chokichi Miyawaki. Seiyukai.
He desired the War and Navy Ministers
defense expenditures, feeling that the
present relation between such expendi-
ment with his views was not enough;
had concrete plans or merely wished
the Diet to say nothing and watch de-
plied that plans are under consideration
but have not yet been made sufficiently
definite to be explained.
More animation was visible in the
Animation Shown
not mean that the army can do what-
ever it pleases. If it thinks so, it
the chamber and cheers of éncourage-
affairs of other Ministers, what would
half-baked opinions? Just because
could not be more nistaken."
to agriculture in the broad sense, edu-
cation in the broad sense. commerce
and industry in the broad sense, et
cetera, and should interfere in the
happen? If one is faithful to his duty.
what need is there for him to air his
people nowadays are unable to speak
their minds about the army, it does
This brought applause throughout
are many points on which the people
ability to assure perfect discipline. I
I intend to make even greater efforts
the army is itself repentant, but con-
cerning its causes I think that there
would do well to admonish one an-
all been striving to the best of our
do not think that it is yet perfect, but
to bring that about.
other.
the military in general. we are strict-
dwell at length on the problem of dis-
cipline in the army. Since the time of
the previous War Minister, we have
"As regards the February 26 incident,
"As for interference in politics by
tures and the economic strength of the
ment.
ly prohibiting it, as was assured by
nation cannot continue.
Military Diplomacy Hit
the previous War Minister. As a mem-
"The army has appropriated enormous
"It is also an outrage that military
ber of the Cabinet and a State Min-
sums for maintenance during the 1937-
38 fiscal year," he went on, "Are they
diplomacy should be practiced on the
ister, however. I believe it my duty to
voice my views on State affairs. It is
for the purpose of increasing the num-
pretext that the ordinary diplomacy is
part of my devotion to State affairs to
ber of divisions? If so, how many divi-
weak-kneed. If the harmony between
do so."
sions are to be added?
the army and the people were lost and
Premier Hayashi stated briefly: "Of
"After the unfortunate incident, War
the people grew cool toward the army.
course a soldier may not participate in
Minister Terauchi demanded that the
what would happen to national defense?
politics, but it is only part of his duty
disciplining of the army be left to his
discretion. and the Diet trusted him.
Now what emergency measures have
been taken. and what fundamental steps
have been adopted with regard to the
matter. I hope that as much detail as
possible will be given. I want to know
how the insurgents have been punished.
as well as how those who aided them,
those directly in command of them and
those responsible for not preventing
their action have been punished. ***
"Having permitted such a serious
outbreak to occur, it should have been
incumbent on the army to take rigor-
ous measures of self-repentance and
self-discipline in order that there
might not be another outbreak, but
in this connection there have been ex-
tremely regrettable developments. It is
most unfortunate for the army. the
strict discipline of which has been
broken. that the incident should have
resulted from the declaration of some

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
by holding so many concurrent posts, is
orders, and it would thus
for a State Minister to do so."
imitating the Fascists? Why does a
ent if he were not in
Mr. Miyawaki returned to the ros-
Cabinet that professes to strive for
"We believe that some sort of
trum and said:
clarification of the national polity lack
ticipation in political affairs by at
"I am very well satisfied with the
an exclusive Education Minister?"
the leaders of the army is neo
reply of the Navy Minister. and I be-
Mr. Hamano criticized the Govern-
a long-range view is to be tak
lieve that the people wil! be satisfied.
ment as an organization of "bureau-
the army's tasks, but participation
War Minister Sugiyama's answers seem
crats who come like the wind and go
politics by army men in general
satisfactory on the whole. Even if they
like the wind."
of course not be permitted."
are only a few, however, there are
"At frequent intervals the army
Home Minister Kakichi Kawan
members of the army who do interfere
speaks of reforms suited to the needs
replied as follows:
in politics, and it is devoutly to be
of the times,' but what happens if
"Under constitutional government,
hoped that the leaders of the army
something which the army considers
will take even greater pains than in
fitted to the needs of the times is not
spected, but what requires. control
the past to correct their mistaken ten-
so considered by the public? The Low-
must be controlled. As to what con
dency. Unless it be absolutely essen-
er House is the best possible place for
stitutes disturbance of public peace
tial from the standpoint of national de-
proper and impartial expression of
and order, we must judge from prevail-
fense, it is hoped that the military will
political views. constituted as it is of
ing conditions. We regret that ill
attempt no interference in other af-
representatives of all classes and strata
advised officials have violated person
fairs. I want to have the Premier reply
of the people. What is the opinion of
al rights, and we hope strictly to pre
on the necessity of establishing dip-
Premier Hayashi. who professes to res-
vent such matters in the future.
lomacy based on solid national defense.
pect parliamentary politics, * **
Every care will be taken.
Co-operation Wanted
"The recent rise of the bureaucrats
All Loyal to Throne
"It is our hope," General Hayashi
can be traced to the practice of the
Saito Cabinet. which had no definite
"The various officials of the Govern-
answered. "to avoid provocative atti-
policies of its own, of listening to the
ment are all working in the spirit of
tudes and to try to co-operate with
opinions of the bureaucrats bout it
loyalty to the Throne and service to
other Powers in all things."
and making them the foundation of its
the nation. I think that this is the
ended without mishap. Domei com-
Mr. Miyawaki's interpellation thus
ing of the ordinance guaranteeing the
status of Government officials has in-
latform of policies. The strengthen-
only way in wheih they can be pre-
vented from falling into dogmatism of
ments. though the whole assembly was
on tiptoes. expecting at every moment
creased the evil not a little."
Bureaucracy. he went on, is neces-
self-satisfaction."
Justice Minister Suehiko Shiono
to see trouble between the parties and
the army over the question of discip-
speech, and he cited the suppression of
sarily accompanied by suppression of
stated that inquiries have been made
throughout the country to ascertain
line.
Mr. Tetsutaro Hamano, Minseito. was
General Yasakichi Hayashi when Gen-
the statement made by Lieutenant-
whether there have been any viola-
tions of personal rights and that efforts
given the floor.
eral Ugaki was trying to form a Cabi-
will be made to prevent such violations.
"What was the reason for the army's
net. He also recalled the promotion
The War Vice-Minister then rose and
opposition to the formation of a Cabi-
of the prefectural police chief of Ni-
said:
net by General Ugaki even before he
igata. whom the prefectural assembly
"Mr. Hamano has said in his speech
had indicated his platform or policies.
had impeached, to the post of chief of
that I called on Premier Hayashi and
and what was the reason for Premier
police in the Hokkaido Government.
recommended that he exclude party
Hayashi's anxiety to fill the fighting
leclaring this to be a challenge of the
men and the political parties. but that
posts before he had revealed his plat-
sureaucrats to the people. In conclud-
is absolutely without foundation. I
forms. What was the reason for revis-
ing his interpellation, he referred to a
wish to state here definitely that I
ing the Cabinet regulations so that only
number of violations of personal rights
never even thought of doing so."
a general or lieutenant-general in act-
in various parts of the country. none
Premier Hayashi spoke:
tive service can be appointed War
of which is made specific by Domei.
"As regards exclusion of party men
Minister?
and asked the Government's explana-
and the parties, the matter is as Vice-
"By military discipline, we under-
tion.
Minister Umezu has said. Posts are
stand perfect observance of the sys-
Interference Denied
being held concurrertly by Cabinet
tem of command and non-participation
"It is a misunderstanding" War Min-
members not because we wish to imi-
in politics. but the army's attitude in
ister Sugiyama replied, "to think
tate the Fascists but for other reasons.
causing the abortion of General Ugaki's
that the army interfered with the ef-
I believe that the principle of our Gov-
e'forts to form a Cabinet constituted
forts of General Ugaki to form a Cabi-
ernment should be to respect the Con-
E
great interference in politics. How
net. While he was trying. the three
stitution. matchless in the world, and
about that?
"What was the reason for refusing to
chiefs of the army selected in council
the army's candidates for the office of
to practice the constitutional politics
peculiar to our country. We hope to
I
let party men join the Cabinet? Ac-
War Minister. but all the candidates
prevent self-satisfied or dogmatic poli-
cording to press accounts. War Vice-
men be excluded from the new Cabi-
are unable to work together as a result
Minister Umezu called on Premier
net because army men and party men
of the difference in their views on the
Hayashi and recommended that party
erals and lieutenant-generals in active
service because it is absolutely neces-
declined appointment.
sary in this age of change and swift
progress to have as War Minister an
officer who knows at first hand the
"War Ministers are limited to gen-
nounced at this point that Mr. Nori-
tomi Mitsui had tendered his resigna-
tion as a member of the Lower House
for "personal reasons." He also stated
that the Government had notified the
tics on the party of the bureaucracy."
Vice-Speaker Tadahiko Okada an-
k
ls
c
f
a
a
tx
current situation. How about it?
conditions in the army. A reserve
House that Mr. Miyawaki's speech con-
Size of Cabinet Noted
officer would have difficulty in exer-
tained points which infringe the record-
"Is the presence of only nine mem-
cising control over the army. The
ing rules. If such points are found
h
bers in the Cabinet, including the Pre-
mier, an indication that there will be
for matters pertaining to military
War Minister is also partly responsible
on inquiry to exist, he added. they
will be struck from the stenographic
az
some reforms in the administrative sys-
record of the proceedings. At this, the
tem. or does it mean that the Premier.
House adjourned.
T

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No1171, dated Feb./7,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, Feb. 16, 1937.
PEERS HEAR DENIAL
Opening the interpellation, Viscount
Chifuyu Watanabe, of the Kenkyukai,
recalled that on January 21 he had
OF DESIGNS ON CHINA
addressed several questions to the
Hirota Government which he would
like to repeat. He had not meant to
take the preceding Cabinet to task
when he voiced the questions, and it
was in the same spirit that he wished
Premier Also Says Non-Aggres-
to put them to the new Cabinet, ac-
sion Pact With Soviet Not
cording to Domei.
In a broad sense, he said, the Gov-
Intended Now
ernment is talking about promoting
Sino-Japanese relations, but the Gov-
ernment would appear to be taken ad-
YUKI ADMITS TAX BURDEN
vantage of by the Chinese Government.
Does this not result from the Govern-
ment's failure to establish a definite
Watanabe and Sakatani First-
policy toward China?
Fascism Inapplicable
Day Interpellators in
The Fascism witnessed in Europe is
not applicable to Japan, he continued.
Upper House
What does the Government think about
it? What are the Government's con-
victions with regard to encouragement
(Premier's speech on page 2)
of moral education?
Interpellation in the House of Peers
Premier: With regard to the policy
yesterday morning touched on foreign
toward China. I think there have been
policy, especially with regard to China
not a few points that have created mis-
understanding among the Chinese. I
and the Soviet Union, the tax increases,
think relations between the two coun-
possible Fascism in Japan. education
tries should be made serene in order
and extension of the sphere of business
to dispel all such misunderstanding. As
for the question of a dictatorship, our
of the Bank of Japan.
country will carry on the parliament-
In reply, Premier Hayashi indicated
ary politics peculiar to it, as I pointed
that Japan still has no intention of con-
out in my address, and I can assure
cluding a non-aggression pact with the
you that anything like following for-
U.S.S.R., does not mean to invade North
eign trends will absolutely not be con-
China and will work to remove Chinese
sidered. With regard to the educational
misunderstanding. Fascism is impossi-
question. mental training will not be
ble here, he added, for Japan is going to
treated lightly, and whatever Western
adhere to its own peculiar parliament-
knowledge is necessary will be provid-
ay politics. As for education, neither
ed in order that education may develop
moral nor intellectual training will be
in a healthy manner. I would have
lighted.
moral and intellectual educations in
Finance Minister Toyotaro Yuki admit-
parallel.
ted that the fiscal measures presented by
Baron Yoshiro Sakatani, of the Ko-
the Government are not perfect but
seikai. interpellated next. Past tax
pieaded that there had not been time
increases. he said. were invariably
enough in which to do better. Reform
preceded by formulation of definite
of the regulations of the Bank of Japan
financial plans. The present increase
must be studied, he said, because eco-
does not seem to be accompanied by
nomic conditions today require that it
such a plan. What effect, he asked.
function as something more than the
will the increased taxation have on
central agency for accommodation of
ccononic circles and commodity pric-
commercial funds.
es? The financial authorities would do
Specches Take 16 Minute;
well to enlighten the public on what
The House was called to order by its
the future holds in store. He also
President, Prince Fumimaro Konoe, at
pointed out that when Mr. Seihin Ike-
10:07 o'clock. Premier Hayashi deliver-
da was named Governor of the Bank
ed his administrative speech in 10
of Japan the Finance Minister indicat-
minutes and took another six minutes
ed an intention to change the bank's
for his address as Foreign Minister.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Ikeda Felt Suitable
ousiness policy. He wished an expla-
I selected Mr. Ikeda for Governor of
nation.
the Bank of Japan because I thought
Turning to foreign policy, Baron
the post should be taken by a man of
Sakatani noted the frequency of re-
experience who would be well receiv-
ferences to "continental policy" and
ed in many circles. Having just taken
over the work, he has not had suff-
"southward policy." Are not such
cient time in which to study thorough-
terms liable to give an impression of
ly the business policy of the bank.
aggressive intentions? Should not the
Many years have passed since its re-
principle to govern foreign policy em-
gulations were enacted, and economic
bodied in the Imperial Rescript of 1933
conditions have changed greatly. Thus
(when Japan left the League of Na-
there is necessity for reform. Accord-
tions) be followed in a thorough man-
ing to its regulations, it engages prin-
ner?
cipally in the discounting of com-
Justice Possibly Lacking
mercial notes as the central organ for
The Soviet Union has been propos-
the accommodation of funds for com-
ing a non-aggression pact with Japan.
mercial purposes. Conditions today
he continued. If there were under-
are such that it should be the central
standing between the Soviet Union
financing organ of the nation, and it
and Manchukuo, there would prob-
is with this in view that I intend to
ably be few border disputes even if
examine its machinery.
the border were not demarcated. In
Baron Sakatani returned to the ros-
China. it may be wrong to use the
trum. The late Finance Minister Kore-
slogan of "resist Japan" to unify the
kiyo Takahashi followed the policy of
nation, but is Japan not somewhat
gradually reducing the bond issues, he
l'tking in justice toward China? At
pointed out, but Dr. Eiichi Baba, his
the moment, added defenses are in-
successor, decided both to increase tax-
evitable. requiring that the people
es and to issue more bonds to obtain
funds with which to carry out the so-
bear a heavy burden. If international
called seven major national policies of
relations could be improved, this bur-
the Hirota Cabinet. What is the aim
den might be lightened.
of the Hayashi Cabinet in making in-
Premier: The Government has no
creases? The so-called continental
intention at this moment to conelude
policy gives the impression to China
a non-aggression pact with the Soviet
that its territory is to be invaded, and
Union.Manchukuo-Soviet frontier
as a result there is the anti-Japanese
questions, however, are being gradual-
movement. The interpellator wished
ly solved on the spot, I believe. I re-
to hear the Premier's views on this.
alize that for the maintenance of peace
Finance Minister: The contemplated
in East Asia the true intentions of the
increases in taxes are for repletion of
Empire must be made clear to China.
national defense and stabilization of the
but at the same time the anti-Japan-
national livelihood. The increase in
ese movements that are hampering
deficit bonds is inevitable because so
Sino-Japanese co-operation should be
much is required for national expendi-
remedied. The feeling between the
ture.
two countries should be mitigated,
Premier: The Government has been
ind it is hoped that definite questions
interpellated repeatedly by Baron Sa-
:an be solved gradually. It is also
katani about its continental policy.
roped to achieve military preparedness
Japan has not even the inkling of an
with the least possible burden on the
intention to invade North China. To
eople. and efforts will be made to
dispel at once such a misunderstand-
void as far as possible anything like
ing. efforts will be made for closer re-
I naval race.
lations between the two countries.
Finance Minister: The tax increases
The session adjourned a few ninutes
were devised with a desire not to place
before noon.
: heavy burden on the people or da-
nage economy. Because of lack of
time. the Government was unable to
arry out the minute examination of
the budget that it wished, but with a
view of averting further rises in com-
modity prices and undesirable effects
on international payments the Gov-
ernment has reduced the budget com-
piled by the previous Government by
Y270,000,000. I do not, however, con-
sider the revised budget entirely satis-
factory. Adequate attention was given
to the scheme to increase taxes, and
some revision has been made. though
I am sorry to state that the increases
will place a burden on the people. 1
trust that you will appreciate the
sincere intentions of the Government
in this matter.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2273.
Tokyo, February 18, 1937.
SUBJECT: NEW PARTY MOVEMENT IN JAPAN.
894.00
1937 1 27
is.
J
894.00/704
oui-miD
FE(38)
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
18in
I have the honor to report that a movement is gaining
strength in Japan for the formation of a new political party,
apparently to be composed of the rightist, or nationalist,
elements of the nation and to be supported by and to support
the military.
Although the situation is still nebulous, it appears that
two opposing "fronts" are developing in Japan. One is the
Nationalist (Military or Fascist) Front, which apparently will
be composed of the military, the reactionary element of the
people, and certain politicians who have fascist leanings.
FILFD
The other is the so-called "Popular Front" and will, according
F/G
11

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
to present indications, be composed of the existing poli-
tical parties, the proletarians and members of financial
and industrial groups. The Popular Front is not yet or-
ganized, although in l936 the proletarians, consisting of
various farmer-labor groups, organized a union to oppose
fascism and military expansion. As there is almost no
material available as yet upon which to base a discussion
of the Popular Front, this despatch will deal primarily
with the development of the Nationalist Front.
Nationalist sentiment has always been strong in Japan,
although for fifty years or more past the growth of demo-
cratic ideas and institutions has to some extent obscured the
idea of extreme nationalism. After the Manchurian Incident
of l93l, which aroused the patriotic ardor of the people and
inspired them with a new sense of national power, nationalist
sentiment gained new vigor, although it remained in an
inchoate state, without political power and little opportunity
to express itself except by acts of terrorism, such as the
incidents of May 15, 1932, and February 26, 1936. In recent
months, however, circumstances have altered, and it now ap-
pears that the nationalists groups are tending to amalgamate
for the purpose of obtaining political authority.
Perhaps the most powerful factor impelling the unifica-
tion of the nationalist groups for political purposes lies
in the outspoken enmity between the Army and the existing
political parties, especially the Seiyukai, the Minseito
and the Shakai Taishu-to, or Social Masses Party. A section
of the Army is undoubtedly opposed to democratic institutions,
while

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
while almost the whole Army is definitely opposed to govern-
ment by the political parties. This opposition, which has
been steadily growing in strength during the past few years,
now threatens so to disrupt the governmental machinery that
its smooth functioning will soon become impossible. The
Army (or at least the Itagaki section of the Army, which is
backing the movement for the unification of the nationalist
groups) desires the formation of a political party which will
be able to control the government and which will work with,
and not in opposition to, the Army.
Another factor which has inspired the nationalist groups
to political activities consists of the "national crisis" -
the possible contingency of war. In preparation for the war
which they believe to be impending, the military desire to
place Japan's industries and finance on a "semi-wartime"
basis - a step which is meeting with strong resistance from
the industrialists, financiers and the liberal elements of
the government. In order to force their economic plans on
the nation and to meet the so-called "emergency situation",
a radical change in government will probably be necessary. It
appears that this change is now under contemplation and will
be effected, if possible, by the formation of a strong nationa-
list political party against which the people and the liberal
elements in the government will be powerless and which will
therefore monopolize the government.
It is also believed that the failure of previous attempts
to foist a sort of military dictatorship upon the nation,
such as was tried at the time of the incident of February 26,
1936,

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
1936, has a bearing upon the present plans to form a nationalist
political party. The extreme nationalists in the Army are
beginning to realize that attempts to alter the present scheme
of government in Japan from above are hopeless, meeting as
they do the strong resistance of the populace. They now
realize that, as in Italy and Germany, the leaders of the
nationalist movement must be supported by a strong, organized
section of the people themselves before radical steps can be
taken. The formation of a nationalist party would appear
to be intended for the purpose of demonstrating to the nation
that any change in government which may take place in the
future was accomplished by the will of the people, as expressed
by the new party.
The success of the fascist party in Italy and of the nazi
party in Germany also appears to have inspired the nationalists
in Japan to new activities. There has been a slow but steady
trend toward a Japanese variety of fascism in Japan, and the
marked success of such systems in European countries has un-
doubtedly accelerated the movement here.
The present leaders of the nationalist movement are chief-
ly retired Army or Navy officers or leaders of reactionary
groups. Lieutenant-General Yoshiji Tatekawa and Vice-Admiral
Shozaburo Kobayashi are generallyreported to be the principal
backers of the movement, but the organizers are Colonel Kin-
goro Hashimoto, Colonel Junichiro Kobayashi, Major-General
Genkuro Kudo (all retired Army officers), Mr. Mitsuru Toyama
(the well-known reactionary leader), Mr. Tanenori Irie, Mr.
Kyuzo Takayama and Mr. Masuzo Yoshida, all of reactionary
groups.
Other prominent persons interested in the movement
are reported to be Prince Sanetaka Ichijo, Major-General
Baron

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
Baron Takeo Kikuchi, Baron Iwakusu Ida and Mr. Teisuke
Imaizumi.
The first large step toward unification of the rightist
groups was taken by Colonel Hashimoto in October last, when
he formed the Ninpon Seinen-to, or Japan Young Men's Party.
This is an association of the more promising young men
selected from the various reactionary groups, organized for
the avowed purpose of inaugurating a nationalist political
party. Colonel Hashimoto has adopted fascist methods, with
uniforms and flags. The Nipron Seinen-to flag is a white
circle in a red field ( the reverse of the Japanese flag)
which Colonel Hashimoto states signifies that the members of
the party "in the white heat of the sun are to serve the
Emperor with blood-red patriotism". More of Colonel Hashi-
moto's views will be given later as explanatory of the ideo-
logy of the nationalists.
During 1936 some leaders of reactionary groups organized
the Ishin Seido Kenkyu-kai, or Research Association for the
Imperial Restoration System. A conference was called by this
association on December 15, 1936, which was attended by most
of the leaders mentioned before in this despatch. The princi-
ples advocated at this conference were (1) the establishment
of a government of the Imperial Way, (2) the destruction of
the existing political parties, and (3) the organization of
a richtist political party. The conference decided to call
a general meeting on December 21, 1936. This general meeting
was attended by some two hundred persons, who elected Baron
Ida as chairman. Colonel Hashimoto proposed a resolution
1n

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
in which he brought out the following points of policy:
1. Establishment of governmental administration under
the Imperial Way.
2. Movements for pure constitutional government.
3. Destruction of political power based on individualism,
democracy, materialism and utilitarianism.
This association appears to have taken no further open
steps toward the formation of a political party since the
meeting on December 21.
In addition to the above-mentioned
two associations, however, some eighty-two reactionary groups
of lesser importance are known to be working together for
the abolition of the existing political parties under the
name of the "Kokutai Yogo Rengo-kai", or Federation of National
Constitution Defense Associations. None of the three associa-
tions, or amalgamations of reactionary groups, seems to have
come forward with a definite plan for a political party as
yet, but Colonel Hashimoto, in a newspaper interview, stated
that the party would be formed and would have its candidates
for seats in the Lower House of the Diet by the time of the
next general election, which he thought would not take place
for three years.
The ideology of the nationalists is not entirely clear.
It is claimed by the leaders of the movement that their ideas
are not based on fascism or national socialism, but on "Nippon
Shugi", or the Japanese principle. This principle has never
been clearly explained, and does not seem to be entirely com-
prehensible to the leaders themselves. Essentially, however,
it appears to advocate the Imperial rule and to be opposed to
any

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
any sort of democratic regime. It seeks to unify the people
and the national strength under the Emperor. It is as ab-
stract and vague as the principles advocated in former years
by General Araki. Its character can perhaps best be under-
stood through the following statement of Colonel Hashimoto,
made to a HOCHI reporter in October last:
"Britain, the United States and France are the
sinking sun at dusk. They no longer have the driving
force of the past. National Socialists and Fascists
are the crescent moon against the evening sky, only
sharp. The Soviets are a bright star of early night,
its rays of light long, but adequate only to illumin-
ate a corner of the sky. Things can revive only in
the mornin sunlight of Great Japan.
"Fascism is only the crescent moon, just sharp and
cold. I have nothing to do with this sort of thing.
I am looking far and wide for pure-hearted youths to
work for the cause of the Imperial nation whose polity
is to write itself in letters of fire in the eight
cycles of the universe."
The strength of the nationalist movement in Japan lies
in the fact that it has one outstanding objective - the des-
truction of the existing political parties and the establish-
ment of one powerful nationalist party which would have a
monopoly of the government. In this respect, and in the fact
that it is opposed to democratic institutions, it resembles
fascism. But unlike fascism, it has no definite economic
platform and, in fact, no concrete proposals in regard to
government, finance or industry. In this lies its great
weakness. When the nationalist party (should it ever come
into existence) attempts to define its policies, it will pro-
bably be found that there are as many ideas as there are
members of the party, with the result that, once it has
achieved its principal object of abolishing the present poli-
tical parties, it will split into dozens of factions. However,
Colonel

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.84)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March s, 1931.
Deratr
SK
o inrle. the deo aleh and.
Ind s

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.93)
—
DIVISION OF WESTERN
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
ENE7.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2274
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 18, 1937
SUBJECT: INTERPELLATION BY MR. YUKIO OZAKI.
937  1 27
C
894.00/705
11
O.N.L.ANDM
A
Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
In pursuance of the concluding paragraph of the
Embassy's despatch No. 2271,/February 17, 1937, I have
MMAR
1/
the honor to transmit herewith a newspaper report of
interpellations and replies on February 17 in the House
of Representatives of the Japanese Diet, including parti-
cularly the interpellatory speech of Mr. Yukio Ozaki,
distinguished liberal.
Mr. Ozaki's very able speech was given the rapt
attention
F/G

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
attention of the packed House, and was met with general
applause. Its reception was respectful and thoughtful,
and the Government's reply was restrained. There was no
disorder in spite of incisive criticism contained in the
speech.
Outstanding among the points made by Mr. Ozaki are
(1) that the appropriations demanded by the army are not
necessary for defense, (2) that the agreement with Germany
against communism was an error, (3) that Japan's policy
toward the Soviet Union should be friendship, (4) that
no external emergency in the Far East exists, and (5)
that the Japanese army does interfere, and should not
interfere, in the conduct of politics. The last point
he effectively elaborated by asserting that in first rate
nations the military are limited to their special fields
and that in second and third rate nations (Spain at the
present time cited as an example) where the military
interfere in politics the result is disaster. Mr. Ozaki
drew attention to the fact that when the Japanese War
Minister expresses a view in the Cabinet, from somewhere
in the army there comes an arbitrary voice of political
criticism.
Mr. Ozaki's speech is the featured news in today's
Japanese newspapers.
Respectfully yours
Enclosure:
Joseph C. Grew
1/ Clipping, "If There's
Crisis, It's at Home",
JAPAN ADVERTISER,
February 18, 1937.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
CC:m
803
Ucc

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No./, to despatch
No. 2294, dated Feb.18,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, Feb. 18, 1937.
IF THERE'S CRISIS, IT'S AT HOME,
mere verbal ssurances. If we put
heart into it. China mus e
shake hands with us"
OZAKI SAYS IN INTERPELLATION;
Remarks Applaudedt
Rapping the table, he recalled 
days following the vietery over Ch
PACT WITH GERMANY CONDEMNED
students poured into thés coumry
siuly its civilization. The t
tu riendship with Chinahe
lies in reciprocal sincerity.
Diet's Oldest Mëmber Asks Why
and more unbearable. Why must it be
burden on the people will grow mort
punctuated his remarks
"In these circumstances," he contié
ed. "what is this claim that in vlew
There Is Great Need for
So?
"Sccond, I wish to know whether
of the prevailing situation  h
this inevitablity of increased military
abroad our national defense exe
Added Armaments
expenditure comes from outside the
tures must be increased? I find l
country or from within.
ficult to see any reason for it."
"Third. if it comes from outside, I
He turned to the necessity of friend-
URGES AMITY WITH CHINA
wish to find out whether it comes by
ship with Britain. the United State
land or sea.
China and the Soviet Union.
"Fourth. if defense is required on
"Once in the past." he declared, "the
War Minister Blames February
land and sea. I take it that it will be
Soviet Union and Germany were con
impossible to meet all requirements on
sidered the two great Communist 
26 Incident on Corruption
the strength of our nation alone. What
tions. In about 1931 or 1932, the Com-
of Politics
is your opinion?
Opponent Implied
intinist Party in Germany won about
6. (0 voles. Although Germany h
"Fifth. as long as you speak of na-
at present turned into a Faseist State
HAYASHI BELIEVED SINCERE
agrinst whom we are to defend our-
tional defense. there must be someone
of Communism is very marked there.
under the Hitler regime, the influence
selves. Shall we need the same strength
It is quite beyond comprehension that
as this opponent, or must we have
our nstion should join hands with such
It is difficult to see what need
greater strength?
a nation. If Communism can be defeat
there is for inereased expenditure on
"S'xth. I understand that there is a
ed by armed force, the influence af
national defense, the Government was
difference between a sense of security
Nichiren could have been broken by
told yesterday afternoon by Mr.
armaments. but what do you say?
in national defense and repletion of
the armed foree of the Kamakura camp
ment. but the Nichiren t
Yukio Ozaki, 77-year-old indepen-
"Seventh. what will be the conse-
kned strength under persecution and
dent who has been a member of every
quenses of the German-Japanese anti-
we have i: now as strong as ever.
Diet since the first, in the outstanding
the House of Representatives.
interpellation of the day's session of
Comintern pact?
to sk You say that the purpose of
the pact is to defend ourselves against
"The'e are the questions that I wish
Communism Soccety is filled with dis-
content and dissatisfaction. But in the
that are apt to become hotbeds of
"We have in Japan various cla
If there is a national crisis, he
Communism. but what effect will it
Soviet Union. the general headquar-
osserted, it must be domestie, but
mly have on our defense against
ters of Communism. this doctrine is
surely the Hayashi Cabinet is cap-
able of overcoming it. He blamed
Comnunism? What will be its effeets
on the So et Union I understand that
it is advantageous to Germany. but I
rectding. Such a foolish doctrine can-
not take root in our country. How
shamefu! it is that you gentlemen who
the army for the May 15 and Feb.
do not think it can be of any advantage
profess to have the Japanese spirit
ruary 26 incidents and charged that
to Japan. In what direetion is Japan's
cannot break up a doctrine like Com-
there is little indication of the dis-
diprom tie polhey to be developed?
munism!
ciplining which the army authorities
What dipiomtte polhey is to be main-
Absurdity Stressed
say they have been enforeing, for
tamesd"
"In relations with the Soviet Union,
borro the strength of a foreign coun-
"How absurd it is that Japan must
army men still interfere in polities.
why do w not conelude a non-aggres-
try in order to combat Communism,
In the foreign field, he advocated
sion pact if the Soviets propose it in-
that it must conclude a pact with
friendship with China and the Soviet
stead of merely being frightened over
Germany for such a purpose! How in-
Union and assailed the Japanese-
Communtsm? Should the Soviets break
consistent it is that we must enter into
the pact. Japan could always take a
a treaty with a country whose Em
German anti-Comintern accord, claim-
firm stand."
peror. Kaiser Wilhelm II. is sealed up
ing that Japan has no need of for-
He advised a similar attitude in re-
i Holland. from where nobody now
eign assistance in combatting Com-
lations with Great Britain and the
thinks of calling him back to the
United Siates. according to Domei,
Throne. in order that we may pro-
munism.
which dows not give his actual words,
ttc: our national structure!
In reply, the War Minister declared
and cont.nued:
Nowadas uch words a cri'
that "the corruption and dissipation of
"What gives us concern about re
'semi-wartime and 'emergeney period'
polities were the motive and cause" of
lations with China is that our policy
are in yogue. but I do not see what
the February 26 incident.
toward that nation is not established.
At the sume tame. what China is afraid
they rea y mean. There is, I am aware,
a real crisie tn Europe. But when in
Everybody Attentive
of is the poliey we may take toward
the Far Fast is there a crisis? Follow-
Mr Ozaki took the rostrum with an
it in the next moment. If we show-
ing the Manchurian incident, the
air of quiet dignity. says Domei. and
ed to them a solid and reliable policy.
League of Nations threatened us with
he had the attention of the whole as-
it is not impossible that the Chinese
economic sanctions. but what were its
sembly.
would open their hearts to us. Though
50 or more members able to do to us?
"I am well aware." he began. "of
we cannot let them have their way
They were unable to take any action
the sineerity and solemn honesty of
with regard to their claim to recovery
because they themselves were in a erl-
Premier Hayashi and therefore am
of lost territory. for Manehukuo is a
sis. It was not because Japan's eco-
confident that he will engage in righte-
child borne by Japan at the risk of
nemic strength had made greet ad-
ous politics.
the nation's destiny in the Sino-Japa-
vances but because Europe itself was
"First, I wish to hear the reason for
nese and Russo-Japanese War, I do
on the verge of a crisis. The European
the great increase in national defense
not see why we cannot arrive at some
nations couk not lift a finger a
expenditure. It is claimed that the in-
conciliatory agreement with the Chi-
us. There is a saying about the 
crease is unavoidable because of pre-
nese on other matters. If Sino-Japa-
on the opposite shore. The re in the
vailing conditions at home and
nese friendship is really to be foster-
abroad. but I want to know why it is
od, we should strive for it from the
unavoidable. If new increase here-
bottom of our heart, not through
neccssity for expanston of
after cannot be helped. as you say, the

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Army Dificult
"What of conditions at home? Per-
hape-there is a far graver crisis in our
Dubious About Crisis
domestic administration than is assum-
ed on the outside, but Premier Hayashi,
with the strong personnel of his Cabi-
net, should be able to surmount any
domestic crisis that may exist. I fail
to see why it cannot. In such circum-
stances, we must regard the army as
being quite a difficult entity to deal
with. But when the political parties,
which cross the path of the army at
many points, are so meek about it, I
do not see why there should be any
clash."
This gave rise, says Domei, to titters.
"The army or navy cannot lift a
finger except by exercise of the su-
preme command prerogative of the Em-
peror," Mr. Ozaki continued, "but in
these days we find that in many cases
army men are moving about of their
own volition. In all first-class nations,
the army and navy observe strictly the.
limits of their competencies. When
we come to second-rate and third-
rate nations. we see that the armies
and navies have come to have a say
about politics in general. Spain is a
good example, and hence there is a
horrible civil war in that country. It
is only in recent years that army men
have acted without the command of
His Majesty the Generalissimo. No-
body ordered the May 15 or February
26 incidents.
"The army would do well to repent.
close its door and remain silent even
when moved by necessity to speak out.
There is talk, to be sure. about dis-
cip!ining the army. and from this it
might seem that an attempt is being
made to be repentant. We fail, how-
ever, to see any indication of it.
Change All Domestic
"In brief. Japan has seen externally
Mr. Yukio Ozaki, veteran liberal member of the Diet, who took the
no change in its foreign relations since
Government to task in a speech lasting one hour and 45 minutes in the
the outbreak of the Manchurian in-
House of Representatives yesterday afternoon
cident. What has altered is the situa-
ticn at home since the May 15 inci-
not good and at that rate there can be
Domei says that the House became
dent. This change has centered in the
nō renovation of general administra-
oored from this point on. Mr. Ozaki
army. The February 26 ineident was
tion, for it's too lukewarm, et cetera.
liscussed the untenability of the issue
an event which we must deeply dep-
thus denying the words of the War
of redistribution of colonies in con-
lore. The army may have tried to
Minister. It appears that there are
nection with the German-Japanese pact.
excrcise caution nd self-discipline.
extremely authoritative persons some-
When he sat down after speaking for
but it was that army that hindered the
where in the army. Not only the War
an hour and 45 minutes, there was a
attempt of General Ugaki to form his
Minister but even public opinon is be-
storm of applause.
Cabinet. Even when General Haya-
ing guided by some of these illustrious
Hayashi Gives Reply
shi was looking about for a War Min-
personages. In my 60 years of poli-
Replying briefly to Mr. Ozaki, Pre-
ister the army prevented him from ob-
tical life, never have I seen such great
mier Hayashi stated that the mounting
taining the sort of Minister he desir-
personages as they appear to be. Ne-
cost  armaments is necessary to en-
ed. How can this power be appropri-
ver have I heard of any group of peo-
hance national security in the face of
ately limited? I shall not ask for a
ple directing the whole trend of public
increasing international danger.
reply, but I hope that the Government
opinion with a word or gesture. If
"Since the Manchurian incident o-
will study the question carefully.
such powerful persons have the en-
curred," he said, "the international
"According to the reply made by the
thusiasm and fervor to guide politics.
situation has been in such a delicate
Premier yesterday. the War or Navy
I most earnestly wish they would come
state and international tension so acute
Minister has the right as a member
into the open. take off their uniforms
in many instances that, it has seemed,
and assume the reins of government.
the merest touch of a finger would be
of the Cabinet to express his politi-
We shall be willing to follow their
sufficient to cause an explosion. It is
cal views, but as his funetion is to
leadership.'
desirable naturally that outstanding in-
assist the Premier he is absolutely
Umezu Stiffens
ternational difficulties first should be
not authorized to publish his politi-
At this sarcasm. Domei says. War
submitted to diplomatic solution, but
cal views and force them on the
Minister Sugiyama's expression did not
such efforts have not always been suc-
Government. In ine papers. such
change. and he continued to listen at-
cessful and. the Government believes
statements requent!y appear as 'The
tentively. But other army members of
a corresponding increase in armaments
army is watching closely the attitude
the Government committee, including
is indispensable for national security."
of the poltical parties.' If these re-
Vice-Minister Yoshijiro Umezu. stiffen-
The Premier said that the Govern-
ports are mistaken. the anmy should
ed.
ment has never claimed that inde-
quickly nmske the papers correct them.
"The army says it needs money."
finitely increasing armamenits would
As it has never done so. it would seem,
Mr. Ozaki continued, "but the essential
realize perfect netional defense. "We
that such reports are not all erroneous.
need is men. Japan has a population of
merely believe that repletion of arma
"Again, when a certain view is ex-
only 70.000.000; the Soviet Union and
ments to a certain extent is impera-
pressed by the War Minister at a Ca-
China have hundreds of millions. The
tive," he said.
binet meeting, the opinion comes from
cssential factor of the navy is money, Referring to the anti-Comintern
somewhere in the army that that is
but Britainn and the United States out- pact. he replied: "It appears that the
strip Japan in wealth by the 'difference
interpellator is laboring under a mis-
between clouds and mud.' There is no
understanding over the German-Japa-
comparison."
Inese agreement. The object of this

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
understanding is not to borrow the
Gold Shipment Prepesed
strength of a foreign nation to fight
Mr. Matsumura suggested that it may
against Communism at home, but it
prove simpler to ship sold abroad to
is to join hands internationally to eli-
purchase foreign exchange and propos-
minate Communism from our doors."
ed the autonomous control of the ex-
Army Repentant
ports and importers guild. The in-
War Minister Sugiyama said that the
creasing commodity prices, he went on,
army is thoroughly repentant over
are the result not of any temporary
the February 26 incident and promis-
phenomenon, but of the Government's
ed that every effort is being made to
policy drastically to accumulate arma-
perfect discipline within the service.
ments. Laborers and farmers will suf-
"As to the causes and motives of
fer most from the higher prices, he
the incident," he said, raising his voice
said.
to a higher pitch, "I shall endeavor to
Commerce and Industry Minister
give you a frank answer: they were
Godo replied that plans are being
the corruption and dissipation of the
made to consolidate the country's eco-
political interests."
nomic relations with Manchukuo in
At this point, Domei reports, the War
every field, notably those of iron, coal
Minister was applauded with cries of
and aluminum. The fuel policy has
"That's right! Absolutely!" from the
been curtailed, he said, because "the
Tohokai and independent members.
necessity has been recognized of re-
"I am not one to regard the army's
examining the Imperial Fuel Company
action as justifiable, of course." he con-
bill."
tinued. "But in regard to their mo-
Finance Minister Yuki then rose and
tives. I think that there are points from
said:
which we all may derive a lesson much
"Among the causes of increasing
to our own profit."
prices.. there is the question of cur-
The remainder of the interpellations
rency. Thanks to the measures de-
yesterday was postponed when the
signed to cope with the situation which
War Minister finished speaking and
are being taken by the Bank of Japan,
the meeting was adjourned at 7:07
however. there has been so far no
o'clock.
inflation."
The first interpellator yesterday
The exchange management ordinance
afternoon was Mr. Kozo Matsumura, of
is aimed to prevent speculation over
the Seiyukai. who assailed the mono-
the importation of war supplies, he
poly system as opposed to individual
went on. Thus a few importers may
enterprises. questioned the Govern-
be suffering from its effect, but it
ment's continental policy, referred to
would be incorrect to claim that such
the mounting commodity prices and
inconveniences are widespread. To
urged the readjustment of foreign
cope with the rising prices, artificial
trade relations.
means will be employed whereever
"Any practice of State socialism such
possible, he asserted.
as State ownership of the industries
Hayashi Assures Speaker
should be avoided," Domei quoted Mr.
Premier Hayashi assured the Seiyu-
kai member that the Government has
Matsumura as stating. "One look at the
no intention of extending State man-
Government's tobacco monopoly, the
agement to all industries.
Government's management of the
"If there is any proposal for a world
telephone service and other such Gov-
conference for the discussion of eco-
ernment enterprises shows that they
nomic redistribution. we shall be glad
all are failures. Such a proposal as
to participate." Domei quoted the Pre-
State ownership of the power industry
mier as stating.
must be absolutely withdrawn. Even
Mr. Matsumura took the rostrum for
in the Soviet Union and Germany.
a second time and, after he was re-
where economie control is strietly ob-
plied in turn by Commerce and In-
served, the question of harmony be-
dustry Minister Godo and Finance
tween the State and private enterprises
Minister Yuki. the speaker was fol-
has a primary position. Where is the
lowed by Mr. Shigeo Moriya, of the
Hayashi Cabinet's guiding principle for
Showakai. Mr. Moriya questioned the
the country's industria! progress?"
Government over its Manchurian policy
Parley Aims Asked
and drew replies from War Minister
Sugiyama and Mr. Yuki in his capacity
The Government's continental policy.
of Overseas Minister.
he went on, boils down to the question
Mr. Jotaro Kawakami. of the Social
of obtaining raw materials. Is the Gov-
Mass Party, was the next member to
ernment prepared to participate in a
rise. Domei reports, amid cheers of
world economic conference designed to
encouragement.
"Of late various dark clouds have
promote that end? Or, failing that, has
been hovering over the country in the
the Government any plan to convoke
path of the February 26 ineident," he
an Imperial economic conference to ad-
began. The best and quickest way to
just economic relations among Japan,
chieve perfect discipline in the army,
Manchukuo and the minor possessions
of the Empire?
The speaker also questioned the
Commerce and Industry Minister over
the reduction of its budget by Y13.-
000,000 representing almost the entire
appropriation for execution of the na-
tional fuel policy.
"The readjustment and expansion of
foreign trade facilities," Mr. Matsu-
mura went on. "are necessary for the
promotion of our Manchurian trade.
The previous Cabinet studied various
schemes designed to prevent a con-
flict in this field. Has the present
Cabinet any intention of doing so, too?
"The exchange management intro-
duced by Finance Minister Baba in-
vited foreign suspicion and caused the
exchange market to suffer at home
through violent fluctuation. Does Fi-
nance Minister Yuki intend to remedy
this situation by revoking the law be-
fore July 31, when it is scheduled au-
tomatically to expire?"

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
I believe. would be to make a thorough
Direct taxation has been made
report of the facts in the Diet and to
heavier by the new Finance Minister,
await the people's judgment. Have the
he pointed out, asking whether this is
army authorities any intention of an-
a permanent policy and, if so, whether
nouncin such a report?"
such a policy would not add to agri-
Feeling of Unrest Caused
cultural difficulties.
As Mr. Kawakami pushed nis inter-
As Mr. Kawakami glared at the
pellation with a keen accent. Domei
Finance Minister and hurled the chal-
reports. a feeling of uneasiness seemed
lenge at him, Domei states, Mr. Yuki
gradually to pervade the hall. He con-
continued to listen with dignified quiet.
tinued:
Mr. Kawakami next questioned Home
"There are among the defendants of
Minister Kawarada and Premier Haya-
the February 26 incident several who
shi briefly, respectively on labor con-
have not yet been punished. Why?
ditions and administrative policy.
"There are many dubious points re-
Replying. War Minister Sugiyama
garding the statement of reasons for not
said that he was not at liberty to dis-
close full details of the February 26
committing to court-martial Mr. Fusa-
nosuke Kuhara. There are also in
incident, but hoped that he would have
circulation many reports indicating
an opportunity to do so in the future.
There is no foundation for the charge
that high army officers had dealings
with the insurgents during the inci-
that the army hindered or prevented
dent. but these officers have not been
General Ugaki from forming a Cabinet,
made to submit to examination."
Again expressing his desire that the
he declared.
General Sugiyama stated that dis-
army publish details of the uprising.
solution of the munitions works union
was enforced by the army to perfect
Mr. Kawakami said:
discipline. "In the army," he said ac-
"The army claims that the formation
cording to Domei, "the commanding
of a Cabinet by General Kazushige Uga-
system must be homogenous through-
ki would defeat the aim of diseiplining
out the ranks, from top to bottom. The
workers realized the truth of this prin-
the service. If that is true. to what
ciple and voluntarily dissolved their
extent has the task of enforeing dis-
organization."
cipline within the army already pro-
Finance Minister Yuki emphasized
gressed? The army has compelled em-
that he was not a defender of cap-
ployes of Government munitions plants
italism and pointed to his reduction
to withdraw from their union in the
of the consumption taxes in the bud-
name of army disciplining. This act
get. "Adequate national defense is the
clearly violates the frecdom of associa-
most urgent question of the day," he
tion which is guarantecd by the Con-
declared." Stabilization of national life
stitution. 1 wish to know what was
is most important from this standpoint,
the real motive."
for this ideal the promotion of pro-
Defense Ideals Asked
duction and overseas trade are neces-
Touching on the question of the re-
sary. The Government's financial
lationsh:p between national defense and
policy is based chiefly on these prin-
agrarian conditions. he said:
ciples."
"It was the testimony of the May 15
case defendants that. unless agrarian
misery is alleviated. national defense
will be weakened. That the army con-
siders this point important was later
shown in its pamphlet titled National
Defense in the Broad Sense and Pro-
posals for Strengthening It.
"It appears that the 1937-38 budget
and this claim of the army are directly
opposed to each other. The number
of tenant farm disputes has reached
unprecedented figures. The farmers
are groping in the depth of poverty.
Everyone is crying: 'Save the farmers!'
Has the army no intention whatever
of conceding part of its huge budget
for the sake of salvation of the pov-
erty-stricken farmers?"
Turning to the Finance Minister. Mr.
Kawakami declared that. compared to
the financial program of Dr. Eiichi
Baba. Mr. Yuki's plans appear to lack
any guiding principle. "Does the Fi-
nance Minister believe that, by cutting
the small sum of Y270.000.000 from the
huge budget. he can prevent inflation?"
he asked.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
61-1
7E
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
COPlES SENT TO
U
U.N.J. ANDM.LD.
This telegram must be
FroM Tokyo
closely paraphrased
Dated March 5, 1937
before being communicated
to anyon . (A)
Red'd 9:48 a.m.
en
Secretary of State
794
Washington
894.00/706
77, March 5, 6 p.m.
one
In my initial talk with the new Foreign
Minister today Mr. Sato expressed regret that he had
had no direct experience in Japanese-American affairs
but he feels that our mutual relations must be largely
influenced as in the case of other countries by Japan's
relatiors with China. The inister therefore proposes
first of all to study the Sino-Japanese situation with a
view to bringing about a marked improvement in thos e
relat ons and having especially in mind the effect
4 1 197
of such an improvement on Japan's relations with the
rest of the world.
Two. The Minister is perhaps unduly optimistic
with regard to the possihility of achieving so desirable
a purpose without oventually embroiling himself with cer-
tain elements of the military, yet on the other hand the
policy which he envisages would appear to coincide with
F/G
the general aim of the Hayashi Government already
enunciated and almost certainly must reflect the talks
which he has alrendy had with his colleagues in the Cabinet.
Three.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
61-2
U -2- #77, Mar. 5, 6 p.m. from Tokyo
Three. Judging by articles in the Japanese press
cnalyzing the Sian incident thoughtful Japanese recognize
that any realignment in China which might now succeed the
present Nanking Government must be more hostile to Japan
and an unprovocative attitude toward Nanking is therefore
wise. Furthermore, the aggressive policy and tactics
recently pursued by Japan n China have signally and
ignominiously failed to produce desired results. Sato's
remarks to me would app car to substantinte our belief that
the Cabinet recognizes the present need for a more
moderate course of procodure.
Four.
. I know Sato fairly well personally and
bolicvi that our relations will be of the best.
Rupeatod to Poiping.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
61-3
(OONIDDNTIAL)
PARAPERASE
STRICTLY CUNFIDENTIAL
A telegram (No. 79) of Mareh 5, 1937, frem the
cam Ambessader at Tokye reads substantially as folloms:
During the course of the Amerieen Ambesseder's fires
talk with r. Sato, the mew Minister for Foreigm Affairs.
on Mareh 5, the Minister expressed regret that he was with-
8
out direet experienee in Japanese-American effeirs. The
Minister is of the opinion, however, that,as im the ease of
other countries,relations between the United States and Japam
must be influenced to a great extent by the relatioms of Japam
0
with China. It is the Minister's plan, therefore, first to
study the Sino-Japanese situation with the idee of improving
those relations to a marked degree and keeping in mind espee-
1ally the effeot which such improvement would have on the
relations or Japan with the other countries of the world.
Although Mr. Sato is perhaps rather too optimistie as to
the possibility of putting into effect so desirable a purpose
without sooner or later becoming embroiled with certain factioms
of the military, it would appear that the polioy which he con-
templates coinoides with the Hayashi Government's general aim
as already announced and refleots almost certainly the conver-
sations which he has had already with the other cabinet members.
Articles in the Japanese newspapers analyzing the ineident
at Sian indicate that thoughtful Japanese realize that any
realignment which might take the place of the present Nanking
régime must be more unfriendly to Japan and that therefore it
is wise to pursue toward the Nanking Coverament an umprovoca-
81v0

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.95)
STRICILY CUNFIDENTIAL
-2-
tive ettitude. Also, Japan's recemt aggressive sassies
and poliey with relation to Chine have failed igmumimieusly
and eoaspieuously to achieve the results desired. the
STRICILY CUNFIDENTIAL
Ambassador feels that his belief that the Japaneme Cabimet
realizes the need at this time for a more moderate sourse
of action is substantiated by Mr. Sato's remarks as outlimed
above.
The Ambessador believes that his relations will be of
the best with the new Minister for Foreign Affeirs with
whom le is personally fairly well acquaintec.
894.00/706
eg.c.
FE:E
FE
III-6-37

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVIOF
WE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EUROPLAN
AR10 1937
U
This teleguom must be
Paris
DEVARTMEN
closely paraphrased
FROM
before being communicated
Dated March 5,1937
to anyone. (A)
Secretary of State
Washington
x.)
OF
SIAIE
SECRETARY
300, arch 5, 11 a.n.
894.00/707
MAP 8- 1937
COLFIDENTIAL.
NOTED
Hassigli told me last right that he considered
the a p cintment of Sato, recently Japar se Ambassador
here, as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Japanese
Gevernment a very hopeful development. He said that
the moreign Office had found Sato honest and straight-
crwara viti moderate vieos. His information is that
Sato leid down his own conditionn which were agreed to
becore he accepted the post and that he will be anything
but a pubber stamp. Massigli added that if Sato had beer
Forein Minister there would have been no diversities
Japanere Agreement last  ovember and that he believed
Sato would be able to "attenuat " the effects thereof.
GE ILd
WILSON
C:0
F
G
1.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.76)
twacch 20'37
JWB
ZuyH
To wote.
Quur

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.88)
Grade
cemversdtion.
Nanking, Jenwary me, lo0v.
Geßeral Chene Chun, Minister for Fareigm affeie.
and Mr. Johnaon.
12
resent: ur. Pook.
4
sterororein
thbin
situation in Japun.
The Ninlcter for orein Affaire outlined to me the
894.00/708
altustion tuuro, ststlne that Cenorel Ugaki had been ro-
queeted by the hn eror to organizc a new Goveriment. He
sald thut, whilo it was true that the army had been n-
willing to sun: ort General Uguki in tie orgunization of
a Calinet because of lmcir resentment aainst him for
having roduced the slze of the army when he was Minister
of war, he thougnt that eventually the Army would aive
Its aupport to General aki, for he believed that Gon-
eral Ugaki had a very wide support politically and m
industrialists, and even with the Mevy in Japes, and
MAR 82 1937
FILED
that the Army could hn dly afford to carry ite epposision
to the point where, alone, it could be aseused er having
prevemted the formetion of a Geverammens.
Zeleea Truales
sepiespeiping n oge.
A que oopy

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
No. 469
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL,
1937 MAR 5 PM 2 34
HARBIN, MANCHURIA, January 30, 1937.
894.00
TONS
AND RECORDS
P SNT TO
O.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
SUBJECT: EDITORIAL COMMENT ON THE-POLITICAL
SITUATION IN JAPAN.
894.00/709
THE HONORABLE N
bis
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
VA
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose herewith a copy of my
despatch No. 303, dated January 30, 1937, addressed to
the American Embassy, Peiping, on the subject of
"Editorial Comment on the Political Situation in Japan."
Respectfully yours,
Yurye D. famont
Fb
George D. LaMont,
American Consul.
Edclosure:
dopy of despatch No. 303, January 30,
1937, to the Embassy at Peiping, with
its enclosure.
In quintuplicate.
800
HMB:av
F/G

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
Emelosure to despateh No. sos,
January 30, 1937, from George D.
Ameriean Consul, Harbin, emtitled
"Editorial Comment on the Politieal
Situation in Japm."
HARBIN NICHINICHI (Japanese
SOURCE:
language da1ly), January 30
1937.
Translated by the Amerioan
Consulate General, Harbin.
EDITORIAL
(translated in part only)
EXIT UGAKI AND IAT NEXT ?
General Ugaki had to quit beoause of the head-on oppo-
sition by the army. It was impossible for the army to
achieve or maintain its discipline under General Ugaki, who
holds the political idea of democracy, and is supported by
men of the same thought; namely party-men and plutoorats.
The propo sed wholesale reorganization of the administrative
system could not be hoped for either.
The clash was the last and dcisive battle between libe-
ralism and autocracy, and the misoarriage of the Ugaki
Cabinet is virtually the funeral knell for democracy, which
has ruled the country in one form or other since the Meiji
era. The new Government should therefore be one of entire-
ly different politioal principles from that of the three
preceding coalition Government. To speak plainly, it
should be a more powerful and more rightist one than the
coalition, whoever be the man to form it.
The democratio thought, however, is still deeply
rooted among the nation, while the anti-democratic idea has
not yet grown enough. One false step will give rise to
uncontrollable confusion throughout the country. It is
hoped that the army authorities, who constitute the head-
quarters of the anti-democratic foroe, will lose no time
in drawing up and showing the nation a conarete plan for
a stabilization of the situation.
****兴☆

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
COPLES SENT TO
1-1336
FROM
O.N.I.ANDM.I.D.
MJD
Tokyo
This telegram must be
Dated March 13, 1937.
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Rec'd. 12:25 a. m.
to anyone.(B)
eh
Secretary of State,
Vashington.
894.1
894.00/710
87, March 13, 11 a. m.
It is currently rumored in Tokyoaiplomatic circles
that Sato accepted the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs
on the condition that the Japanese Army agree to the
abolition of the East Hopei Autonomous Government. It is
impossible to confirm this rumor and its truth or felsity
can o ly be determined by developments.
Repeated by mail to Peiping.
GREW
McL
FIT
LP
3
F/FG

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.90)
BIDENTIAL)
CONFIDEN
PALAPERAOE
A telogrem (Ne. 87)  Mareh 15, 10, 
American Ambessedor et Tokye reads substantially es
CONFIDENTIAL
fellows:
In diplomatie cireles in Tokye there is e rumer
current to the efreet that a conditiom preeedemt to the
acseptanee by Sato of the position of Minister for
Foreign Affairs was thet the abolitiom of the East
OBF
Hopei Autonomous Government be agreed to by the Japamese
army. whether this is true or not cam be determimed
only by developments as it is not possible to sonrirm
the rumor.
894.00/710
NIT
Egc.
FE: EdC
FE
2.m1
III-13-37

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
WTT:
March 19, 1937
EHP:
LOMT:
STIT:
In despatch Ho. 2914 from tle mbassy at
ondon, therton reorts a conversation with
a Toreign  ffice official viving his internre-
tation of develonments in Jaran as affecting
relations with "rent Britain and the Inited
tates.
This ooficial recards the risine cost of
livin in Jaran os one of tl e main reasons
wich in uce t e militar sts to accent sato
as  oreimn inister. Ye feels that in the
persor of bate tie Jananese liberals, long
sunoressed, now have a mouthniece, at  ato
in order th strenot' en tle nosition of the
liberals is meiny acpreaches to "reat Britain
and the n ted  tetes, particularly in rerard
to trade arreements, and tiat Japan misht now
be willin- to coonerate wit other powers in
matters reieting to china.
(n t'e wole the viows of the British
Foretgn off ce orficial seem sound, but it
is believed, contrary to the view exnressed
by him, that one of the important elements
in the weakenine of the nosition of the
Jananese militarists is that Yanchuria has
not nroved te be the source of economic
streneth th at they promised it would be.
04.:11/711
JB/Y

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.87)
EMBASSY OF THE
WE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LONDON, March 10, 1937.
No. 2914
AF
SUBJECT:
Memorandw of conver satbhs eealines kth
MAR 2 3 1687
CONFIDE.TIAL
DEPARTMENT OF SIAIL
791.
10 26
O
894.00/711
E W
OFFICE OF ECOMONIC 
MAR 25 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STUTE
2
Zokyo
LASTERN AFFAIRS
Nanky
A
honoralle
The secret r of stte,
en
 ,
Sir:
1 have the honer to rerer to the Depertment's tele-
rem o. 74 ci .arcn 6, 12 ..oon. na in this conmection
1/
to forward me. or au of conversution wi th a member of
the Forei n crrice aeuline vit. events in the Far East,
APR 1 1937
FILD
more p rticulorly since t e a cint ent of lbessador
Sato us rorein secret ry in Jayan.
Res ectf lly yours,
For te
Ray Atherton,
Enclosure:
Counsel or of Ebasoy.
F/G
eorendum
RA/Hm

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
2914
from the Embassy at London, England.
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
FOR THE AMBASSADOR
FROM LR. ATERTON
In the course of a luncheon with a ranking officer
of the Forei n Office today, he referred to the long
expecteu increase in tre cost of living in Japan which
a parently was having considerable effect there now.
In his inter ret tion, t is rise in the cost of living
was one of the ain reasens which induced Japanese mili-
tarists to permit te appointment of Ambassador Sato as
Forein Secretary.
Subo,Noath
Undoubtedly, in the o inion of this officer, Ambassa-
dor Sato mad been iven certain assurances as to policy
before he was willing to accent a post in the Cabinet.
Thus it could well be claimed that the a pointment of
Sato was the turnin of a  e in Japan and the Liberal
element tiere, which had so lon been entirely over-
whelmed, was at lest findin & mouthpiece. In the view
of the Forein Office, if this liberalization of Japanese
policy is to persist, it must be nurtured.
Ambassador
Sato himself prob bly realizes this and for that reason,
des ite the inherent risks, is makint approaches both to
the United States and to Great Britain. In this connec-
tion, reference was made to a report appearing in the
papers today of an economic mission which Japan is send-
ing to the United States and Europe, including Britain.
This press report reads:
"It is expected that the mission will seek
to open discussions for the lowering of barriers
against Japanese exports. It may possibly seek
V
a renewed

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
1
a renewed discussion on markets with Britis
interests, includin t ose of the cotton in-
dustry.
The ission leaves Je an this month, and
t e rime :ini ster Las asked r. Chokyuro
Kadono, vice- resident of the Okura Kumi
Tone of tle bi gest Ja anese exporting com-
bines), to head it.
.r. meaono has undertaken similar missions
before a c conaucted te reliminary negotiations
(P)
for tie Je enese Cotton .ission to this country
in 1953-4. e is 69 years of a e and was
trained as an en ineer before he entered the
Ckura firm in 1897.
Te  ission wi ll incude three member
fr. Tokio and two fro Mansai, and the selec-
tion lies been made by the Japanese Eoononio
Fe eration. e party will attend the con-
ference of the Intern tioncl Chember of Com-
werce at Derlin in June and will also visit
the.rinci el uropean countries."
Specifically referrine to what it was hoped this
iission  it acco. lish, wlich if successful would
undoubtedly contribute to the strength of the new
Forein Secretary, my Jorei n Office informant ex-
pressed the o e tit anclester cna Osaka ight
reac un reement, not merely upon those colonial
mrets t .ic the Japanese atte pted the lest time
to li it tieir discussions, but an areement wich
woulu incluue world textile markets. Such an agree-
ment ust include China as well.
And my Foreign
office infor: ant was not averse to the hope tiat the
present iit be a oment in wich Jepan would be
willing to cooperate with other forein powers (un-
doubtedly the British Government was in his mind)
in the Cuinese situetion.
y Foreign Office informant referred to publio
statements

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
个
statements of Ambassador Sato since he had taken of-
fice which would tend to ∞nfirm such a belief.
In the o inion of this officer, the military
policy of Japan up to now had not been unsuccesful;
it had rovided a  rket of 30 million people in
anclhuria Lor Jepanese oods, wich was a creat
asset to Japan today,  articularly other markets
be n deliited.
True, 9 e day ancnuria might
rove e li o lity, but at ths resent time it was
an ever increasing esset.
Thus, with no failure
be ind them, it was d ubtful, in the opinion of
this ofricer Whether Sato vould be in a position
to ake any ove wlich would impinge on the free
will of the Japanese Mevy end Army.
For this
reason the uestion of the 14 inch-16 inch un
.ieht merely co by default.
2
In conclusion, y informant pointed to the re-
4F
marks of ir. Shudo, the Japanese Commercial Attaché
NB
in Berlin, s eaking in Ceneva, in which he is al-
leged to have stated that the prices of raw materials
were more importent to Japan than the prices of food
stuffs, nd that those nations which lacked colonies
must not be debarred from trading with those areas
which other netions held under mandate.
r
y general impression of the remarks of my Foreign
Office informant was his satisfaction with the appoint-
ment of Ambassador Sato, in that cooperation might
prove possible with Japan in the Fer East, more es-
pecially in removing possible hindrances in the de-
velopment of China as a profitable market.
P.A.
RA/

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 19, 1937
TT：
LHD:
esratch o. 2283 of February 26,
1937, from the mbassy at Tokyo forwards
a translation of an internellation in
the Jouse of henresentatives by Mr. Yukio
Ozaki, who after noting that Janan had
been under a military administration for
seven hundred years down to the end of the
Tolkugawa period nointed out that with the
sunerior military organization of today
if the neople permit a military administra-
tion the army can more easily imnose its
will unon the nation. In such case, he
asks, wi at will be the fate of the Tirone
and tre people. Te advocated prosecution
of all military officers cuilty of pub-
lishin~ nolit cal namphlets other than those
under the sinature of the Minister of ar.
94. 0/712
7:/

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.89)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2283.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 26, 1937.
994.00
SUBJECT: DIET I. TERPELLATION, MR. YUKIO OZAKI.
594-022
894.00/712
C:!
en. m
L.
101!
2
yFE(381)
C
A
x
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
In continuation of the mbassy's despatch No. 2274,
February 13, 1937, re orting an interpellatory speech by
Ir. Tukio Ozaki in the lower house of the Japanese Diet
on February 17, 1937, I heve the honor to submit the
folloving translation from the official report which adds
C
mentioned despatch. Toward the end of Mr. Ozaki's speech
he stated (in translation):
Nothing
G

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Nothing is easier and more pleasing to junior
officers than to interfere in politics, while protected
by their uniforms, against a background of arms. So
pleasing to them is this role that they are apt to run
amuck and finally to ruin the state. (Applause.) The
more they operate so, the more easily will the state
and the people be handled at their pleasure. That
would impose a military administration. The history
of Japan for seven hunured years beginning with the
Kamakura period and continuing to the last days of
the Tokugawa shogunate is ample proof of what is the
nature of a military administration. (Applause.) That
period of military administration in old Japan was
the result of a sally forth on the political stage by
military men backed by arms. Today the military or-
ganization is nearer perfection; and if today the
people permit a military administration the men of
the army will find it easier to impose their will
than in the days of the Kamakura and Tokugawa military
regimes. hat will then be the fate of the Throne?
What indeed will be the fate of the people? Nothing
is more sincerely to be üreaded, and I fervently
hope this change never comes.
.ilitary men might be ellowed to take part in
politics, but if they do so they should assume a civi-
lian status. So long as they vear the uniform they
might be allowed to make investigatory studies, for
any of the ministers of state, but their activities
must not exceed this limit. hen obnoxious writings
appear anong the peo le, the authorities lose no
time in arresting and prosecuting under the criminal
law those who are responsible. In recent years the
army has published many pamohlets; if there be necessity
for any further publishing by the army, all such pub-
lications shoula be over the signature of the liinister
of Jar. (Applause.) Any military pam hlets published
without the signature or the ar Minister should be
looked upon as cts of insubordination by junior offi-
cers, end should be prosecuted under the ordinary cri-
minai rovisions. If this action be not taken, what is
Military discipline? (Applause.)
I reconmend this subject to militery men. I have no
intention of estranging the people from the army. My
reconmend tion is to the army, for the army's benefit.
I an fearful that, if things sre allowed to take their
present course, a split between the army end the people
is inevitable. (Applause.)
Perheps the gentlemen of the military here present
have not yet had occasion to hear it, but, according to
my information, whenever the good lady of a certain family
has lapses of excessively obdurate wilfulness, she is
referred to by the members of the family as "the army".
(Laughter

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
(Laughter and applause.) I find this shocking.
I find it even frightening. When to indicate
wilfulness and great arrogance, the head of the house
and the children call the good lady the army, and
this being whispered about with tremulation as a
secret causes others (not housewives, you may be
sure, but husbands) to sey "Oh, we have that kind of
a person in our house too" -- when there are not a
few housenolds in which persons who are unreasoning
and wilful are nicknamed the army -- this is a state
of effairs which I res ectfully submit is worthy
of the army's anxiety. I am not one to favor an
estrangement between the army and the people, and
it is only concern on this score wnich has led me
thus to speak frankly.
Respectfully yours,
No.
Joseph C. Grew.
803.
CC:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 10, 1937
TT:
EHD:
SKF
In despatch No. 2290 of February 17,
1937, the Embassy at Tokyo renorts an inter-
pellation by r. Seigo Hakano, a leader in
the House of the chauvinistic Tohokai party.
Fe advocated continuing armaments and
asserted that Tanan was heing treated with
dinlometic contemnt even by hina. The
remier, in renly, acreed trat the renletion
of national dofense was necessary and
denied that Japan was pursuing a rolicy of
submission to the powers.
Te mbassy believes that Nakane ideas
are not renresentative on ti e oninion of
most iet members.
894.00/713
JP/PLY

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF WESTERN
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
MAR 2 3 1937H
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
2okyo, Japen
No. 2290.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
February 27, 1937.
SUBJECT: DIET INTERPELLATION OF MR. SEIGO NAKANO.
894.00
ni
894.72
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.L. ANDML.J.D.
894.00/713
102:nF=(381)
A
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Jashington.
Sir:
I heve the honor to report that Mr. Seigo Nakano,
leader of the chauvinistic Tohokai (Eastern Association),
FTRD
n
made a lengthy interpellation in the Lower House of the
Diet on February 18 which stands in strong contrast to
Mr. Ozeki's interpellation of the day before*.
Mr. Nakano made the following statements: that in
his opinion military expenditures must continue to in-
crease, especially in view of the pressure "being exerted
every
* Embassy's despatch No. 2274, February 18, 1937.
705
F
Q

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
every day against Japan from all sides"; that although
the Government has been criticized for its failure to
stabilize the national livelihood such stabilization
can be effected only when security on Japan's fron-
tiers, particularly the "Manchukuo"-Soviet Russian
border, and adequacy of national defense are assured;
that it must be the duty of all Japanese subjects to
bear the heavy burden of the moment in order that
the nation may gein security forever; that Japan
should have advanced on Manchuria at the end of the
World War when the Powers were exhausted but that
instead it scrapped warships, reduced the number
of Army divisions, and pursued dreems of disarmament;
and that it was time for Japan to stop "serving Great
Britain in the name of Anglo-Japanese friendship."
Finally, the intpellator asserted that Japan was
being tre ted vith diplomatic contempt even by China
and asked what the attitude of the Foreign Office
was toward Greet Britain and the United States,
countries ich it placed far a ov: China.
In reply to these interpellations, Premier
shi agreed, of course, the the repletion of
national defenses was essential. He added that it
was a mistake to call his diplomatic policy one of
subnission and that he was only anxious to deal with
foreign Powers in a spirit of cooperation and not in
a uarrelsome spirit.
Mr. Nukano's interpellations by no means re-
present the oninions of most Diet members. However,
they

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
they do represent the ideas of a limited number of
nationalistic members of the Diet.
It will be recalled that Nakano was one of the
persons rumored by the Jepanese press to have re-
ceived part of the Yen 3,000,000 alleged to have been
distributed as bribes in Japan by Mr. Castle, American
Ambassador to Japan at the time of the London Naval
Conference of 1930, in order that the Japanese might
accept the Treaty.
Respectfully yours,
20
Joseph C. Grew.
803.
GDA:c:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Embassy, Moscow.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 19, 1937
TT:
MI
SCH:
In despatch No. 2291 of March 1, 1937,
the mbassy at Tokyo encloses a translation
of ten written interpellations by Yukio
Ozaki in the louse of Hepresentatives, which
dealt chiefly with the internal political
situation and the army's part therein. The
outstencing rcint in these interpellations
wa that the army's obstructing the for-
mation of a cabinet by refusing to furnish
s war minister amounts to disobedience of
the Emperor's wishes. le also suggests
that it woul be to the interests of the
nation if the mperor would select the
Premier cirectly rather than uron the
Genro's recommendation.
JONTT:
Between 1931 and up to a year ago it
woul Irve been impolitic 'f not dangerous
for Vr. zaki to heve been so outsroken.
.14
tiis

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.90)
A-A
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2291.
Tokyo, March 1, 1937.
SUBJECT:
MR. YUKIO OZAKI'S QUESTICNNAIRE ADDRESSED TO THE
CABINET.
594.00
    3
ONI
D
894.00/714
c
Cofiug in FE(3 81)
COPIES
NN
LA
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1705
With reference to the Embasoy's despatch No. 3274 of
OBF
February 18, 1937, concerning r. Yukio Ozaki's Diet in-
terpellation of February 17, I have the honor to report
by r. Ozaki on February 27 is,in some of its aspects,
2
even more significant than were the oral interpellations
Perhaps the most outstanding point raised by Mr. Ozaki
in his memorandum is that the Army's assumed right to ob-
struct the formation of a Cabinet by refusing to furnish a
War Minister amounts to disobedience of the Emperor's wishes.
In Mr. Ozaki's opinion, as expressed in his questionnaire,
such an attitude on the part of the Army is an insult to
7
and

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
and serious disregard of the Imperial prerogative of ap-
pointment and dismissal of high Government officials. The
following note-worthy statements are made by Mr. Ozaki
in this connection: "Established precedent demands that,
except in cases of illness or truly unavoidable circumstances,
no subject of the Emperor is privileged to decline the Im-
perial Order. This is a point which is especially borne
in mind by soldiers. .......... It goes without saying that
the appointment of a Minister of War falls within His
Majesty's prerogative, the exercise of which no subject of
the Emperor is privileged to obstruct, or hinder."
Another important point in the memorandum is Mr. Ozaki's
suggestion to the Emperor that it would be more in the in-
terest of the nation for the Emperor directly to select a
Premier-designate rather than upon the Genro's recommenda-
tion.
hile r. Ozaki's oral interpellations of February 17
were concerned with both the Government's foreign and domes-
tic policies, his written interpellation is confined to
the internal political situation, with stress being laid
on the Army's part therein. In his first seven questions
Mr. Ozaki takes up the Army's interference in politics, and
hence with the Imperial prerogative, which led to the resigna-
tion of the Hirota Cabinet, the difficulties encountered by
General Ugaki in forming a new Cabinet, and formation of
the present Cabinet by General Hayashi allegedly after con-
sultation with General Terauchi and Admiral Nagano, who
had already resigned as War and Navy Ministers, respectively.
MT.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
Mr. Ozaki makes the specific statement that, according
to available "external" information, it appears that
the Emperor was desirous of General Ugaki's succeeding
in organizing a Cabinet.
Questions 8, 9, and 10 deal with the proposed abolish-
ment of the Genro system and the direct selection of a
new Premier by the Emperor himself.
So far it is not known whether the Government will
take any action on Mr. Ozaki's questionnaire or what form
this action will assume, if taken.
1/
There is enclosed THE JAPAN ADVERTISER's translation
of Mr. Ozaki's questionnaire, which was originally published
in Japanese by the TOIYO MICHI NICHI of February 28.
Respectfully yours,
Noreth
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1/ As stated above.
803.
GDA:c.g.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.I , to despatch
No199/ , dated March 1,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Monday, March 1, 1937.
A translation of the questionnaire
solving the Diet for a number of times
from the Nichi Nichi follows:
over a period of the next two or three
First question: Why are the true
years. On the other hand,if the Gov-
facts that caused the Hirota Cabinet's
ernment severely antagonizes the par-
resignation being kept a secret?
ties and makes an enemy of both of
It is rumored that. after a member
the two major parties in the Diet, it
of the House of Representatives on
will find it impossible to enforce its
January 21 submitted an interpella-
principal policies, such as the arma-
tion in the Diet. the War Minister,
ment expansion plan and the bills re-
General Hisaichi Terauchi, demanded
lated to this program.
dissolution of the Diet. whereupon
Terauchi's Honor Sald at Stake
the Premier decided that it would
It was natural that the Navy Minister
be better for the Cabinet to resign.
declared opposition to dissolving the
There is hardly any need to point
Diet, in view of the importance the
out that the members of the House
navy is attaching to the armament ex-
of Representatives of the Diet are
pansion program and the navy's desire
elected by the nation to represent the
to have this program speedily approv-
popular wi!l and that, therefore, the
ed by the Diet. On the same grounds,
Hirota Cabinet would not have been
it is natural to assume therefore that,
justified in dissolving the Diet unless
if reports were true that the War Min-
it had undeniable proof that, since
iser was determined to cause dissolu-
the previous general election, condi-
tion of the Diet, his reasons were dif-
tions had arisen causing the Diet no
ferent and concerned something more
longer to function as a representa-
vital than the need for arms. If there
tion of popular sentiment. Had the
were such reasons, the nation wishes
Cabinet been in possession of such
to know them.
proof. its intentions should have been
Had the War Minister suddenly ask-
clearly announced before the Diet
ed the Government to dissolve the Diet
met. The suggestion that some quar-
as the result of exception he took to
ters planned to declare that the Diet
the speech of Mr. Kunimatsu Hamada,
did not represent the people imme-
despite the fact that this address ob-
diately after its reopening as ground
viously contained nothing more wei-
for disso!ution does not hold logie
ghty than the arms expansion program.
and could not have convinced the na-
that would have implied that the War
Minister resorted to conduct that
tion.
Knowledge of Facts Demanded
would have disqualified him as a Min-
Had any isolated member of the
ister of State. From the known per-
Cabinet wished to dissolve the Diet,
sonality and qualities of Count Hisa-
it would have been the Premier's duty
ichi Terauchi, no one is convinced that
1o dis uade the Minister in question,
this was the case, which supports the
or. that failing. to cause his resigna-
theory that hidden facts were behind
ton so that the Cabinet could carry
his action. Publication of these facts is
on. The contention that resignation of
incumbent upon the Cabinet in order
the War Minister may cause difficul-
to uphold the honor of Count Te-
ties bx cause of difficulty in obtaining
rauchi.
Third question. What were the facts
and seriously makes light of the Im-
5 successor amounts to an insult to
that prevented General Kazushige
perial prerogative of appointment and
Ugaki from forming a cabinet?
dismissal of high officials in the Gov-
When the Hirota Cabinet resigned,
crnment's service. Established prece-
in accordance with precedent, the Em-
dent demands that, except in cases of
peror ordered Prince Kimmochi Sai-
illness or truly unavoidable cireum-
onji, the Genro, to submit to the
Throne the name of a suitable candi-
stances. no subject of the Emperor is
date for the next premiership. Prince
der. This is a point which is especial-
privileged to decline the Imperial or-
Saionji recommended General Kazu-
shige Ugaki. It had been well known
ly borne in mind by soldiers.
that General Ugaki had opposition
Hirota Cabinet was obliged to tender
It is therefore unthinkable that the
from a section of the army. Prince
its resignation because it was convin-
Saionji therefore ought to have recom-
ced of its inability to find a succeeding
mended him to the Throne after deli-
War Minister. The suggestion natu-
berating carefully upon the steps to
rally arises then that there were some
be taken to eliminate the opposition.
hidden facts which caused the Premier
and General Ugaki. on his part. sub-
and all his colleagues to resign. The
sequently should have accepted the
nation demands knowledge of those
Imperial command to form a cabinet
facts and it is the new Government's
after deciding in what way to weather
duty to announce them without de-
the storm.
lay and without any omission. The
Grave Fear Expressed
Nonetheless, both personages neg-
people wish to know the facts fully so
lected this procedure, with the out-
change may be repeated in the future,
that no sueh ineomprehensible Cabinet
come that the General was finally
inflicting anxiety upon the Imperial
prevented from executing the Imperial
command. General Ugaki was pre-
mind and causing embarrassment o
vented from executing the Imperial
the entire country.
command by the opposition of arn:y
Second question: What were the
officers, who are supposed to be train-
reasons that reputedly prompted the
ed most in the duty of obedience to
former War Minister to demand the
His Majesty the Emperor. It is em-
Diet's dissolution?
phatically deplorable that General
The foundations of the political
Ugaki's failure to fulall the Emperer's
parties, built up during the past 60
years. cannot be undermined by dis-

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
command inevitably caused the fear
cause of the fricticn between the Pre-
orming a Cabinet including the candf-
that Imperial authority may have been
mier-designate and a section of the
dates proposed by them.
affected.
army. No loyal subject of the Em-
Disunity Seen
The present Cabinet is duty bound
peror may look upon such a state of
These reports, if altogether true,
to publish fully all the facts relating
affairs without profound regret. Jf
would indicate that serious disunity
to General Ugaki's unsuccessful efforts
there were more reasonable grounds
exists within the military service. The
in order to remove any popular mis-
that prevented the Premier-designate
nation, however. feels that some facts
understanding which may exist in this
from forming a cabinet. it is clearly
have been withheld and is eager to
connection and thereby to enhance the
the present Government's duty to
learn the whole truth which led to the
glorious authority of the Throne.
publish these facts in full detail.
compromise between General Hayashi
Fourth question: Why has the Ca-
'Incidents Show Danger'
and the outgoing Ministers of Navy
binet failed to curb political opinion
Sixth question: Why has the nation
and War.
among the army?
not known the authors of political
Eighth question: Does the Cabinet
to form the succeeding Cabinet, it was
persistently reported in the press that
the army, following a conference of
the "Big Three" generals, had decided
While General Ugaki was attempting
were informally announced respec-
the opinion of the War Ministry and
the opinion of the Navy Ministry
tively by the two Ministers concern-
opinion within the army?
On January 30 and on February 1,
an amendment of the system of ap-
intend to recommend to the Throne
pointing a Premier?
ment and dismissal is considered to be
The Imperial prerogative of appoint-
not to submit a candidate for War Min-
ed. On these dates, however, both
the most important of all the Emperor's
ister in the new Government. It goes
the War Minister and the Navy Min-
prerogatives. Others are exercised
a Minister of War falls within His
without saying that the appointment of
Majesty's prerogative, the exercise of
cred their resignations and therefore
had disqualified themselves to act as
ister in the Hirota Cabinet had tend-
through the advice and services of high
officials, responsibility for which is
borne by the Cabinet. During a period
which no subject of the Emperor is
mouthpieees for either service. No
of Cabinet reorganization, technically
newspaper reports at the time tended
to create the belief that the three
privileged to obstruct, or hinder. The
other person was permitted to express
fense services. any one doing so being
political opinion representing the de-
there is no Cabinet in force to assist
His Majesty and assume the respon-
sibility for national policies.
highest officers of the army were ob-
liable to punishment by law.
During a period of Cabinet reor-
structing the task of forming a cabi-
Such conditions are indicative that
ganization, it is customary for the
net. It is eminently unfortunate that
the problem of military reform has
Emperor to ask the Genro for assis-
such a turn of conduct should have
fallen short of its mark. It is signi-
tance in selecting a new Premier. This
been ascribed in any way to those
ficant that no member of the army
system originated in the days when
serving in the Imperial army.
has ever been punished under the
clan government was in force. Today,
Opinion Said Given Illegally
army crimina! law prohibiting the par-
such conditions no longer are in ex-
The "Big Three" in the army include
ticipation of armymen in political af-
istence and politically no intervening
the Minister of War. the chief of the
fairs. Military officers are most re-
force is permitted to function be-
Army General Staff and the Inspector.
motely related to polities and are even
tween His Majesty and the people. In
General of Military Education. By th
without the right to vote. In spite of
view of this, the interests of admin-
time the army was engaged in opposi-
this. reports allege that their suggest-
istration may be served more satis-
tion to Generaǐ Ugaki. General Terau-
ions were made through an improper
factorily were it made the usage,
chi had already resigned as War Min-
channel to the person who was trying
while a cabinet is being formed. for
ister and was awaiting an Imperial de-
to execute the Imperial order to or-
the Emperor directly to exercise His
cision with rezard to this act. Under
ganize a Cabinet.
Majesty's prerogative.
these circumstances. the War Minister
The serious danger of armymen's par-
Ninth question: Is the Cabinet in
should have confined his aetions to
ticipation in political questions was de-
favor of direct exercise of the Im-
submitting a formal apology to the
monstrated by the May 15 incident
perial prerogative for selection of a
Throne for his failure to assist His
and by the February 26 incident. Un-
new Premier?
Majesty and should have refrained
less the task of disciplining the army
The status and mission of the Gen-
from expressing his opinion on alt
is carried out thoroughly and without
ro are provided neither in the Con-
matters save those direetly relating to
delay, the nation will have no assur-
stitution, nor in any other law. The
his retiring office.
ance that such ineidents will not again
Genro in the past have been a group
The press frequently has published
take place in the future. The precise
of outstanding statesmen, whose re-
aiticles mentioning the so-called.
stage to which this task has progres-
commendations to the Throne, al-
opinion of the entire army. or of the
sed should be clarified by the Cabinet
though some times not above critic-
army's unified will. Under no cir.
without delay in order to appease the
ism. have not been called into legal
camstanees are armymen permitted tc
popular mind.
question. Prince Kimmochi Saionji
express their opinion on political af-
Seventh question: What are the
now is the only surviving elder of
fairs. not to mention matters con-
actual cireumstances which enabled
this group. The Prince's advices to
nected with the organization of a
General Hayashi to form the present
the Emperor in recent years have not
cabinet. Such actions are clearly
Cabinet?
always satisfied the public, especially
prohibited by the army regulations
Although it is advisable for the Pre-
the circumstances and manner in
and violation is punishable under the
mier-designate carefully to consider
which General Ugaki was recommend-
army criminal law. There can exist
the selection of his Cabinet members.
ed by him to the Emperor as candi-
no opinion, therefore, of the army as
over-reliance upon the recommenda-
date for the premiership. It is clear
a whole relating to political subjects.
tion of others amounts to transferring
now that, since the recommendation
or to the organization of a new cabi-
the task of fulfilling the Imperial order.
of this person resulted in such an un-
net.
By doing so, he may become liable to
fortunate outcome, the Prince owes a
The so-called opinion of the entire
the criticism of making light of the
duty to assume responsibility.
army obviously is the opinion of only
Imperial prerogative. It is reported
Change Suggested
a section of army members who, in
that General Senjuro Hayashi, during
It is with awe that I venture to sug-
violation of this provision. have in-
his attempts to form a Cabinet, con-
gest to His Majesty that it would be
dulged in political opinion and ex-
sulted the War and Navy Ministers,
more in the interest of the nation for
pressed them through specch and do-
who already had tendered their resig-
His Majesty directly to exercise the
cuments. On what ground has the
nation, and asked them to recommend
Imperial prerogative for selection of a
Cabinet failed to take action against
their successors. A temporary hitch
Premier-designate without the Genro
this glaring violation of law?
occurred in the efforts of Cabinet form-
being called upon to submit a recom-
Fifth question: Is it true that ful-
ing when these Ministers proposed can-
mendation.
fillment of the Imperial wish by
didates whom General Hayashi did not
Tenth question: Is the Cabinet will-
General Ugaki was prevented entirely
expeet. It may be recalled with awe
ing to consider a change in procedure
by the army?
that this situation caused His Majesty
of Imperial recommendation sub-
available. it appears that the Emperor
As far as external information is
night. several important statesmen. who
to summon to the Palace, late in the
stituting the Genro system?
In the event Prince Saionji should
was desirous of General Ugaki's suc-
were called upon to advise the Throne.
surrender his special position, a poli-
ceeding in organizing a cabinet. That
GeneraI Hayashi finally yielded to the
tical position would arise in' which it
the Emperor's wishes failed to pre-
service Ministers and succeeded in
would be proper for His Majesty, dur-
vail would indicate that His Majesty
ing a period of Cabinct reorganization,
was obliged to make a concession be-
to consult the Speaker of the House of
Representatives and the President of
the House of Peers, who would sub-
mit their advige impartially to the
Throne as representatives of the po-
pular will. Under such a new system,
both officials of Parliament would act
within the bounds of strict neutrality
in recommending the choice of Pre-
mier to the Throne.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TT：
March 19, 1937
HP
In desratcl c. 223 of Lerch 1, 1937,
Tolyo rerorts proceedines in the  iet be-
tween Pebruary 17 and Pebruary 28.
nterpeilaticns on the internal nolitical
situat:or reflect c ssatisfaction with the
arny's interfererce in politics. On several
occas ons tie ar minister denied that the
arny had blccked the formation of a cabinet
by ralti, but on one cccas on le confessed
that the comnander of tie cendarnerie, act-
ing under orders from the .ar inister, had
stonned Ugaki's car end advised him to de-
cline tle Emueror's conmand to form a cabinet.
In re ly to one internellation, the Navy
Winistor seith that Jepan's nuvel streneth
must be sucl as to mare it imrcssible for any
fore on cver to enre e ir araressive onera-
tions n t e vestern  acific. Le also de-
clarea tiat clt) ourb the navy had a certain
neaceful scheme, t' e deteian of wl ich he
couse not diseicce, t'e novy lad ro such
scl cre as t e alleved acrreasive "southward
oxrans on nclicy". nteruellations on
foreisn nelicy reveal considerable entagonism
to irest ritain: tie nite tates was
scarcely mentiore ; in connection with the
eti erlards cne  erher advccated negotiating
for e porretual lesse by Janan ir utch lew
inea: and in cennect:e with china ecenomic
cooneraticn was stressed.
TY

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.93)
1
DIVISION OF WESTERN
EURUPKAN AFFAIR
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
MAR 2 3 1937
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2293.
Tokyo, March 1, 1937.
SUBJECT:
DIET INTERPELLATIONS FROM FEBRUARY 17 TO
FEBRUARY 28 INCLUSIVE.
11 43
894.00/715
PNTTO
944.00
AFTER
A
T
42
findon
The Itagus
The Honorable
H3
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Embassy's despatch No.
713
2271 of February 17, 1937, I have the honor to submit a
report on the more important Diet interpellations from
Februery 17 to February 28, inclusive.
Ever since the delivery of Generel Heyashi's
tactful initiel speech before the House of Peers on
February 15 and the adoption of a careful policy by
the
F/G

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
the Government in replying to s everely critical inter-
pellations, as evidenced by the interpellations and the
replies of the first two days of the present Diet session,
the Government has maintained a conciliatory attitude
toward the political parties. Although for the past
ten days the Diet session has been relatively quiet,
the political perties have continued to criticize the
Government on a number of issues. It would seem, however,
that the interpellations have been made almost solely for
the purpose of political debate and not in an intent to
overthrow the Hayashi Cabinet or even to obstruct its
budgetary plans.*
For the purpose of convenient reference, the inter-
pellations are divided into five headings: internal
political situation; foreign policy; economic conditions;
Government finance; and labor.
1. Internal Political Situation.
Interpellated concerning the clarificetion of the
national polity end plans for administrative renovation,
Premier Hayeshi replied that for the promotion of the
national spirit, politics and education must be permeated
with the idea of the worship of the Divine and adoration
of the Emperor, and that he hoped to s tudy the plans for
administretive renovation left by the Hirota Cabinet
and formulate his own lans, retaining whatever was
commendable in the original proposals. On another
occasion the Premier emphatically denied that he con-
sidered the present non-perty Cabinet as the only form
of
* Embassy's despatch No. 2294, March 1, 1937.
71

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
of Government that would fulfill the requirements in-
herent in "the parliamentary politics peculiar to Japan".
He explained that by "parliamentary politics peculiar
to the nation" is meant the taking into consideration
of the difference between the provisions of the Con-
stitution peculiar to Japan and those of the Constitu-
tions of foreign countries, a still very vague explanation
of the phrase.
After the violent attacks launched during the first
two days of the session, Diet members continued to make
lengthy interpellations criticizing the interference by
the Army in politics but obtained little concrete satis-
faction from the Government.
On February 17 Mr. Jotaro
Kawakami of the Sociel Mass Party asserted that the best
and quickest way to aclieve perfect discipline in the
Army would be for the Government to make a thorough re-
port of the facts
of the February 26 Incident in the
Diet and to await the "people's judgment."
General
Sugiyama, the War Minister, replied that he was not at
liberty to disclose the full details of the February 26
Incident but hoped to have an opportunity to do so in
the future.
Replying to an interpellation on February 22, the
War Minister denied that the Army was opposed to the
existence of the political parties but added that the
Army wanted to work with the people to do away with the
corruption and other evils of the political parties.
Although pressed to do so, General Sugiyama evaded an
explanation of what he meant by the "corruption and
other

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.95)
-4-
other evils of the political perties".
ei21937
On the same day Mr. Ryozo Makino, Seiyukai, avowed
that there was an unknown and "invisible" element in
NB
the Army which was dictating to its upper stratum. Mr.
F.S
Makino stated by inference that it was this "invisible"
Scal
juki
element in the Army which was responsible for the Amy's
lack of discipline and its interference in political af-
fairs. As far as the newspapers indica te, neither the
Premier nor the War Minister vouchsafed any reply to this
interpellation. With reference to the War Minister's
frequent assertions that discipline in the Army cannot
be finished until administrative renovation is achieved,
111
Mr. Giiji Yamamasu, Minseito, remarked that if
this were
11
the case there would never be establishment of complete
discipline in the Army because there would always be need
for reform of the administrative system. The Premier's
reply to this interpellation was worded vaguely and had
no significance.
On several occasions the War Minister denied that the
Army had interfered with the formation of a Cabinet by
General Ugaki. On February 24, however, General Sugiyama
tacitly admitted this interference when he confessed in
reply to en interpellation that Lieutenant-Gencral Kesago
Nekajima, Commander of the Gendarmerie, acting on the
orders of the War Minister, had stopped General Ugaki's
automobile on January 25 and advised him to decline the
Imperial command to form a Cabinet.
As compared with the Army, the Navy has received
relatively little attention in the Diet sessions. On
February 22 an interpellator stated that the nation had
not

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
not so much confidence in the Army as it had in the
Navy. Questioned as to whether the naval strength of
the country was besed on imaginary enemies or on
strategic standards, the Navy Minister replied that
Japan's naval strength must be such as to meke it im-
possible for any foreign Power to engage in aggressive
operations in the Western Pacific and that this naval
strength was designed to facilitate the enforcement of
national policies. At the same session, Admiral Yonai
declared that although the Navy had a certain peaceful
scheme, the details of which he was not in a position to
disclose, the Navy had no such aim as the alleged aggressive
"southward expansion policy".
2. Foreign Policy.
(a) Soviet Russia.
The interpellations from February 17 to February 28
have revealed nothing new with respect to the Government's
policy toward Soviet Russia.* In keeping with the policy
of the former Cabinet, the War Minister told the House of
Peers on February 22 that the increasing strength of Soviet
armaments in the Far East was one of the reasons for the
insistence of the Japanese Army on expansion of armaments.
Interpellating the Premier on February 25, Mr. Toyokichi
Toyoga, Minseito, made the suggestion that for the es-
tablishment of peace in the Far East Japan might join
hands with the Soviet Union to present a strong front
against Great Britain, "which is interfering too much in
Far Eastern affairs". General Hayashi replied evasively
that
793.84/8529
* Embassy's despatches No. 2266 of February 16, 1937, and
No. 2271/of February 17, 1937.
894.00/703

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
that it was the Government's avowed policy to strive
for peace in a spirit of co-existence and co-prosperity.
(b) China.
The Government continued to stress the desirability
of reaching a rapprochement with China based on economic
and cultural ties and to deny that Japan had territorial
designs on North China.* Interrogated concerning the Army's
ideas on North Chine, the War Minister stated that the with-
drawal of the Japanese troops from that region at the time
of the Jehol expedition demonstrated clearly that the Army
has no territorial ambitions in North China. He went on to
state that in his belief amity between China and Japan must
begin with economic cooperation, which the Army actively
advocated. Answering a question on Japanese plans for the
economic development of North China, General Sugiyama told
the interpellator that the Government was considering the
cultivation of cotton, development of the electric power
industry, mining of salts for industrial use, and advance-
ment in North China of the Japanese cotton spinning industry.
With regard to the concrete measures to be adopted by the
Government for cultural undertakings in China, Mr. Horino-
uchi, the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, stated that
the Government intended to take more practical steps in
this direction. Asked if loans should not be made to
China, Mr. Horinouchi replied that China unfortunately
had not asked for a loan in recent years but that if it
did ask for one the matter would be studied carefully.
(c)
793.94
* Embassy's despatch No. 2281, of February 25, 1937.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
(c) Great Britain.
Little attention has been paid to Great Britain
in the Diet proceedings except in the interpellation
mentioned above and in that concerning the Keelung in-
cident, which elicited a nebulous sort of reply from
the Government.* The only other interpellation of note
concerning Great Britain was one mede on February 28
by Mr. Hyogoro Sakurai, Minseito, who professed the
belief that there might be some need for Japan to lay
aside its traditional friendship taward Great Britain,
which country had become "increasingly indifferent".
The Premier replied that there was need to convince
Great Britain of Japan's position in the Far East.
(a) The United States.
It should be noted that the Diet proceedings have
been almost completely devoid of mention of the United
States. On February 2, however, Mr. Toyoda, Minseito,
deflecting the course of his interpellation on Soviet
Russia, stated that the United States Navy League was
spreading harmful propoganda concerning the two countries;
that the United States was concerned about Japan because
it misinterpreted Japan's continental policy as one of
aggression; and that those giving this false impression
were the military and diplomatic authorities on the spot.
The interpellator asked if the Japanese Government had
any intention of inaugurating "people's diplomacy" between
Japan and the United States to clear up these misunder-
standings
* Embassy's telegram No. 61 of February 24, 1937.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
standings in the latter country. Premier Hayashi answered
that he fully agreed with the interpellator on the need
for instituting "people's diplomacy."
(e) The Netherlands.
At a budget meeting on February 28, Mr. Sakurai sug-
gested the possibility of concluding a non-aggression
pact between Japan and the Netherlends with a view to
promoting Japenese in terests in the Netherland East Indies
and also a possible proposal for obtaining a Japanese per-
petual lease in Netherland New Guinea for colonization pur-
poses. The Pre ier replied to the first question by stating
that Japan had no territorial embitions in the Netherland
East Indies but was trying to develop Japan's economic and
commercial interests in that region through peaceful means.
According to Domei, General Hayashi offered no reply to the
second question.
With respect to Japan's foreign policy in general
Premier Hayashi stated on February 25 that whatever was
done on diplomatic lines should be done frankly and that
the Government's foreign policy would depend not only on
econcmic diplomacy but also on cultural and peace diplomacy.
3. Economic.
Both on January 17 and on January 24, in answer to
interpellations regarding state management of indus tries,
the Government stated that it had no intention of extend-
ing state management to all industries. There has been
an incessant clamor on the part of Diet interpellators
for the withdrawal by the Government of the former Cabinet's
proposal

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
proposal for state control of the electric power industry,
but this matter has apparently not yet been decided. On
Februery 24, in denying that the Cabinet intended to control
the entire economic system for the sake of nationel defense,
the Premier admitted that some industries requiring it would
be controlled but added that the spirit of individual enter-
prise would not be restrained. In this connection, War
Minister Sugiyama declared that the Army did not desire
state control of the munitions industry.in times of peace.
4.
Government Finance.
As in the first two days of the Diet session on
February 15 and 16, the political parties continued to
criticize the Government on the gro und that the military
expenditures in the proposed bu get for 1937-38 were too
large and that there was too great a disproportion between
these expenditures and those set aside for stabilization
of the livelihood of the people and in particuler for finan-
cial aid for the farming and fishing communities. There
has also been criticism of the proposed taxes on the s core
that they will increase the financial burdens on the masses.
Among the more pertinent interpellations concerning
the Government's future financial policy was one made on
February 19 by Mr. Giichi Masuda, Minseito, who asked the
Government if it had any intention of presenting bills for
a permanent system of grants to the farming communities,
if it proposed to make radical changes in the local and
national tax systems, and if it had any plans for remedying
the

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
the evils of the present income tax. The gist of the
Finance Minister's reply to these questions was that
the Government was considering these metters carefully
and could give no definite answers at the present.
Another interpellation of interest was made by Mr.
Chosaburo Mizutani of the Sociel Mass Party on the
OB
same day. He accused the Finance Minister of resort-
ing to sophistry when he stated that he had no clear
financicl prospects for the future, declared that social
unrest would not be elimina ted until the capitalistic
system had been completely ove rthrown, and interpreted
yidu
the appointment of Mr. Seihin Ikede as Governor of the
Bank of Japan as a step toward financial Fascism.
Mr.
Yuki's replies were evasive.
Mr. Jitsutaro Okamoto, Minseito, questioned Finance
Minister Yuki on February 25 regarding the heavy military
expenditures provided for in the Government's proposed
budget. He asked if the Cabinet intended to continue the
practice observed last fall of fixing the appropriations
for the Army and the Navy at the stert of the drafting
of the budget and shaping those of the other brenches of
the Government in proportion thereto. The Finance Minister
answered reassuringly that he would like to avoid "thinking
in such a mechanical manner" and intended to compile the
budget by a proper balance of bond issues, defense ex-
penditures, and other necessary factors. However, Mr.
Yuki did not state that there would be any material re-
duction in the budgets of the Army and the Navy. Although
the Cabinet promised that the Army and the Navy would not
spend

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
spend during the fiscel year but would defer to the next
year Y46, 000,000 of the sums allotted to them in the
budget for 1937-38, this amount was included in the bud-
get as presented to the Diet by the Heyashi Cabinet.
This procedure met with criticism in the Diet on Febru-
ary 27 as being unconstitutional.
5. Labor.
Interpellators belonging to the proletarian parties
on February 21 charged that the proposed export tax to
provide funds for the control of trade would most likely
find its way to the shoulders of the workers. The Gov-
ernment did not answer this assertion directly. In reply
to an inquiry on the same day as to whether the Cabinet,
as an answer to foreign charges of social dumping by
Japan, had any intention of enforcing the 42-hour work
week stipulated in the International Labor Treaty, the
Home Minister stated that the Government had no inten-
tion of adhering to the Treaty at present.
Conclusion.
It is thought that the majority of significant Diet
interpellations have already been mede and that for the
remainder of the session the paramount issues will be
discussion of the Government's budget and enactment of
legislation. Despatches on these subjects will be sub-
mitted to the Department as developments occur.
Respectfully yours,
803
Joseph C. Grew.
GDA:C
Copy to Embassy, Moscow;
n
n
Peiping.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.93)
E
OFFICE OF ECOMONING ADVISER
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
APR 3 1937
OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2294.
Tokyo, March 1, 1937.
SUBJECT:
POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN JAPAN,
994.00
FEBRUARY 17 to 28, 1937.
1
95
894.00/716
REGER
DEPARTENT
V4
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
72
M
In continuation of the Embassy's despatches No. 2268
705
and No. 2274/of February 18, 1937, I have the honor to
report that Japanese politics in the period February 17
considerations:
(1) It is generally accepted that the budget
A
will pass.
FURO
(2) Statements against the army seem admoni-
tory only, for the present.
(3) The question of political reform has been
kept alive, but in indefinite form.
(4) Monetary tension has been eased.
(5) Army assignments and promotions show
F/G
dominant

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
dominant influence of the moderate army element,
with deference to the Itagaki group.
The scene of activity in the Diet shifted to the
budget committee of the lower house, where, in spite of
894,00/715
considerable questioning (Embassy's despatch No. 2293,
March 1, 1937), the budget is expected to pass as pre-
sented by the Hayashi Cabinet, or with only unimportant
modification. Neither in the press nor in the Diet has
any effort been launched aiming at defeating the budget
or materially reducing its large military items. The
Cabinet appears confident of success, and its attitude
toward interpellations is one of generous conciliation
rather than necessary concession.
Anti-army expressions of opinion (Embassy's despatches
8440712
4.714
894.0715
No. 2283, February 26,1937, and No. 2291 and No. 2293,
March 1, 1937) are tinged by a similar tacit acceptance
of the thought that, at least for the present, the army
shall not be interfered with but is simply to be warned.
But, as warnings, the expressions continue strong. The
effort appears to be intended to forestall apprehended de-
velopments. These warnings conmonly take the form of state-
ments to the effect thet any tampering with constitutional
parliamentary government would alienate the army from
popular sympathy.
Premier Hayashi, addressing the budget committee on
February 23, paid tribute to the army-sponsored plan of
political reform of the government, though he put important
decision in the matter off till an indefinite later date.
The

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
The Fremier stated that the Cabinet legislation bureau
is weighing plans for the establishment of a body for
unification of national policy. It is well known that
the Itagaki group of the army is advocating the creation
of a general affairs board (on the model so effective in
Manchuria), which would no doubt mean in practice a
paralleling of the cabinet by an army-controlled decision-
making administration even less amenable to Diet influence
than is the cahinet at present. Hayashi has not seen fit
to put a stop to this agitation but has temporized by re-
ferring it for further investigation. In general the Pre-
mier has dealt with the Diet interpellations with considera-
ble skill by indicating sympathy with the points of view
presented, yet without comnitting the Government to speci-
fic measures. He has clearly tried, with success, to avoid
creatin: open antagonisms by the nature and tone of his
replies.
Finance Minister Yuki has been successful in inspiring
confidence in his capacity for controlling the financial
situation, and a consequent easing of monetary tension
has been noticeable. The public has been prepared for
gold exports in the near future, not as an inevitable re-
sult of foreien exchange complications but as a consequence
of Japan's possessing unneeded gold from the activity in
recent years of Japanese gold mines. The Bank of Japan
is holding specie reserves greatly in excess of currency
security requirements (if the yen is calculated at its
present exchange value) and a considerable profit can be
realized by selling some of this cold abroad at a higher
price

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
price (in yen) than was paid for it in Japan, at the
same time stabilizing the yen exchange and possibly
reducing interest charges by buying up some of the
high-interest loans floated abroad.
Announcement on February 24 of the regular periodic
list of assinments and promotions in the army is worth
noting because of the importance of military questions to
politics. The changes were briefly summarized in the
Military Attaché's report o. 8669, February 26, 1937. No
spectacular chenges are included in the list; it has the
appearance of being the work of impartial officers of
regular, moderate inclinations, and has been so accepted by
the public. It should be observed that Premier Hayashi's
respect for Lieutenant General Itagaki and his group is
reflected in the assinment of several of them to division
commands previously reserved for officers longer graduated
from the military academy. The assienment of these several
officers is not so marked a promotion as to indicate favorit-
ism, but it is a substantial advance which definitely does
show that the Itagaki group has the support of this adminis-
tration, whatever the political restraints called for by
political exigencies. It will be recalled that Itagaki
was layashi's first choice for war minister.
During the period under review publicity was given
to the Coneo basin pact as a precedent which Japan might
well advocate for development into a general principle
guaranteeing to all nations equal access to colonies (Em-
bassy's despatch No. 2289, February 26, 1937).
A military and naval secrets bill has been placed in
the

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.91)
- 5 -
the hands of the Cabinet for presentation to the present
session of the Diet. The press reports that the bill is
an improvement in constituting a clearer definition of
offenses, with less latitude left in enforcement.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
800.
CC:g
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
n
1n
1n
ioscow.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARIMENT
DEPARTMENT/OF STATE
SIRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Division of
DeR
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AARD7
arch 16, 1937
Department of State
Political Developments in Japan
MAR 17 1937
NOTED
Mr. Becretary.
On March 8 and March 11, 1937, the new Japanese
894.00
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Sato, in the course of
statements in the Diet on foreign relations, observed that
respect by Japan for the rights of other countries in China
and fair dealing with China by Jepan would react favorably
894.00/717
upon Anglo-Japanese and American-Japanese relations. He
mentioned the need of starting with a fresh point of view
in dealing with China, and advocated negotiating with China
on a basis of equality and in a conciliatory spirit. He
declared that if Japan did not want a crisis in its foreign
relations this could be avoided at any time. Sato's comment
on the question of a crisis contradicts a stetement made by
the Prime Minister when, while concurrently Minister for
Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister said that the situation
in the Far East since the Manchurian incident "might expldte
V
at any moment".
Although Sato's statements appear to have been well
received in Japanese financial and business circles, exception
has been taken to some of the statements by members of certain
groups in the Diet and in the army, expressly on the ground
that Sato lacked a clear conception of Japan's domestic and
F/F
foreign
11
G

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
foreign circumstances and that his views were at variance
with those of the Prime Minister. On March 12, in the Budget
Committee meeting, the Foreign Minister, probably under the
pressure of these criticisms, made a qualifying statement,
and the Prime Minister and the War Minister also made state-
ments denying that there were material discrepancies between
their views and those of the Foreign Minister.
These developments reveal the internal conflict which
is aroused in Japan by the outspoken assertion of liberal
views. They indicate, however, that the wisdom of past
policy is being more openly called into question in Japan,
and that the colleagues of the new Foreign Minister recognize
the necessity of making a fresh start if Japan is to break
through its present impasse with China and improve its
relations with Great Britain, Soviet Russia and the United
States. It remains to be seen whether the proposed fresh
start will influence the attitude of the Japanese army
leaders in Manchuria and north China and affect objectives
as well as methods of policy.
Following upon the announcement by the British Govern-
ment of the appointment of Sir Robert Craigie to be Great
Britain's Ambassador to Japan, there came from Tokyo
yesterday press reports stating that in Japan this move is
interpreted as possibly foreshadowing resumption of efforts
toward negotiation of an agreement for naval limitation.
This information is significant as indicating that the
Japanese

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
-3 -
Japanese are not indifferent in regard to the subject of
naval limitation. This Division continues of the opinion,
several times previously expressed, that, given time, the
situation in Japan is likely so to develop as to create an
attitude on the part of the Japanese political public
favorable toward entering upon (or even initiating) sug-
gestions that there be held an international conference or
conferences for the purpose of negotiating agreements toward
regulation of international relations in the Far East and
the Pacific Ocean.
3m.m.N.
FE:JWB:SKH/REK

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
A ril 8, 1957
JWB:
Ce mbassy's despateh Ye. 33l1 of
March 16, 1937, ives an account of an
interpellation in the Tiet by a lr. Sakurai,
who suggested to the Premier that tre Japa-
rese Government consider the question of
opening negotiations with the Netherland
Government with a view to securing a per-
petual lease of Hetherland New Guinea for
purposes of colonization. le sugcested
that, in order to  reclude any susnicion
of territorial aggression on the part of
Japan, a non-aggression pact between Japan
and t'o Hetherlands be concluded.
in reply the remier sain that in
general he shared the views of Ir. Calurai,
and promised t' at tre su-restion would be
iven careful attention. le imbossy states
that tle exact nature of :r. Sa'urai's
proposal in regord to Hew minea is not
entirely clear, but t at t would seem to
imply in effect the sale of tre territory
to Japan, ament being on the installment
plan. The mbassy states that the dis-
cussion brouglt out the fact that the Japa-
nese lovernment recognizes the necessity
of reaceful economic develorment in the
South Seas, while at tle same time iving
consideration to the position and feelings
of other.countries interested in the
territories.
The

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
The mbassy considers tlat there is a
hint of a veiled trreat in the attention
which was given by the Premier to the sug-
cestion and tlat the interpellation and
reply carried the implication of a notice to
the Hethorlands that Janan must obtain
control of territories in tle bouth Seas
throul reaceful and legal means if possible.
 do not tl ink tiat the Embassy is
warrerted in rawine tl is inference from
the interoellation in cuestion. It would
seer to me ti et tie remior's renly is the
usual formal and non-commital answer iven
to any one o the many fantastic sugrestions
advanced on the floor of tie Piet.
C94.00/718
TTXDIY

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2311.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 16, 1937.
894.00
SUBJECT: JAPAN'S "SOUTHWARD ADVANCE" POLICY.
not
756.94
P 1 40
1
894.00/718
Coky an Fe(e)
A
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
雾
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Embassy's despatches Nos.
1652
1798, dated Apri1 30, 1936, and 1847, dated May 15, 1936,
on the subject of the "southward advance" policy ad-
vocated by certain sections of the Japanese nation, in-
cluding the Navy, I have the honor to report that some
phases of this policy were discussed in the Diet re-
cently.
At a meeting of the budget committee of the Lower
House on February 28, 1937, Mr. Hyogoro Sakurai, of the
Minseito,
F/FG

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Minseito, addressed an interpellation along interest-
ing lines to General Hayashi, the Premier and then
Minister for Foreign Affairs. He said that Netherland
New Guinea, which is larger in erea than the main
island of Japan, has not yet been fully developed.
He offered the suggestion that the Japanese Govern-
ment consider the question of opening negotiations
with the Netherlands Government with a view to se-
curing a perpetual lease of Netherland New Guinea
for purposes of colonization, thereby relieving the
pressure of population in Japan. In order, however,
to preclude any suspicion of territorial aggression
and in order to promote Japanese interests in the
Netherland East Indies, he suggested the conclusion
of a non-aggression pact between Japan and the Nether-
lands.
In reply the Premier said that in general he
shares the views of Mr. Sakurai. Japan has no terri-
torial designs on the Netherland East Indies, but the
Japanese Government is endeavoring to develop Japan's
economic interests in the South Seas by peaceful
means. In shaping policies to this end, the Premier
added, the Government must take into careful con-
sideration the position and feelings of the other
parties. In regard to the question of a lease of
New Guinea, the Premier said that the Government had
not yet studied the matter but he promised that the
suggestion

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
suggestion of Mr. Sakurai would be given careful at-
tention.
Mr. Sakurai also brought up the question of Japa-
nese immigration into the Netherland East Indies. He
said that the number of Japanese immigrants was limited
to 800 (presumably annually) and asked if the Jepanese
Government would negotiate for a larger quota. Mr.
Horinouchi, the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, re-
plied that the Japanese Government had already sub-
mitted such a request.
Mr. Sakurai then said that the Japanese Government
should take steps to counteract the effects of propaganda
which was being disseminated in the Netherland East In-
dies and elsewhere in the South Seas, charging Japan
with aggressive designs in the Philippine Islands.
Premier Hayashi replied merely to the effect that Japan
has no such aims.
From the Japanese version of the interpellations
and replies, the exact nature of Mir. Sakurai's proposal
or suggestion in regard to New Guinea is not entirely
clear. It appears that he had in mind some sort of a
permanent or perpetual lease of all of Netherland New
Guinea, whereby for a stipulated annual rental payable
to the Netherlands, Japan could administer the terri-
tory and develop it for the benefit of Japan. This would
imply practically a sale of the territory to Japan, pay-
ment being on the installment plan. On the other hand,
Mr. Sakurai suggested that, in order to avoid any sus-
picion of territorial ambitions, Japan conclude a non-
aggression

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
aggression pact with the Netherlands, while the Premier
asserted that Japan has no territorial designs on the
Netherland East Indies. The two ideas seem to be con-
tradictory.
As the JAPAN CHRONICLE pointed out in an editorial
in the issue of March 3, 1937, Japan's "southward advance"
policy has hitherto been very vague as to the territory
covered by the policy and the objectives of that policy,
it not being clear whether Japan wanted only trade and
economic opportunities or actual acquisition of terri-
tory. Mr. Sakurai's interp ellations and the replies
of the Premier have shed some light on the subject, as
the discussion brought out the fact that the Japanese
Government recognizes the necessity of peaceful eco-
nomic development by Japanese in the South Seas, while
at the same time giving consideration to the position
and feelings of the other parties interested in the
territories.
Mr. Sakurai's proposal, which may appear somewhat
fantastic, seems to have been taken seriously in some
quarters. The ASAHI reported on March 1 that definite
action in regard to the possible lease of Netherland
New Guinea by the Jananese Government, as well as action
in regard to Japan's peaceful economic expansion into
other parts of the Netherland East Indies, would await
the return to Japan of Mr. Kazue Kuwashima, formerly
Chief of the Bureau of Far astern Affairs of the
Foreign Office and newly-appointed Minister to the
Netherlands, who, before proceeding to his new post,
18

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
is making a tour of the Netherland East Indies.(In
this connection, it is of significance to note that
this is the first time that a Japanese Minister to
the Netherlands has been sent to the Netherland East
Indies to acquire first-hand knowledge of those islands
before taking up residence at The Hague.) On March 9
the ASAHI reported that, according to information which
had reached the Japanese Foreign Office, the Dutch
people had apparently misunderstood Japan's real in-
tentions in regard to the Netherland East Indies,
because all of the newspapers in the Netherlands were
voicing strong opposition to Mr. Sakurai's suggestion
that Japan acquire a lease of Netherland New Guinea.
In regard to the practical aspects of the matter,
the Embassy has been informed by a Dutch official re-
sident in the Netherland East Indies that the Japanese
probably would be no more successful in colonizing
and developing Netherland New Guinea than have the
Dutch. The Japanese already possess several con-
cessions in the territory and have been drilling
(as yet unsuccessfully) for oil and have been ex-
perimenting with rubber and other plantations. The
island is very mountainous and is inhabited by wild
tribes, rendering penetration into the interior ex-
tremely dangerous, while the coastal plains are most
unhealthy. It is very unlikely that the Japanese,
accustomed to the temperate climate of Japan, would
be able to colonize and work in the territory, any
more

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.96)
-6 -
more than they have in Formosa. According to this
official, Mr. Sakurai is interested in some of the
Japanese concessions in Netherland New Guinea, and
his suggestion probably was made from interested
motives.
While the suggestion of Mr. Sakurai, therefore,
appears to be impractical and even somewhat fantastio,
it seems to the Embassy that there is a hint of a veiled
threat in the attention which was given by the Premier
to the suggestion. It will be remembered that the
premier, in reply to Mr. Sakurai's interpellation,
said that in general he shared the views of Mr. Sakurai,
and that while Japan has no territorial designs
on the Netherland East Indies, the Government will
give careful consideration to Mr. Sakurai's sug-
gestion that Japan lease Netherland New Guinea.
The interpellation and reply carry the implication of a
notice to the Netherlands that Japan must obtain con-
trol of territories in the South Seas through peaceful
and legal means (such as a lease) if possible. No
indication was given as to what means would be employed
if the peaceful and legal means failed to produce the
desired result.
Rospectfully,yours,
52..
800.
Joseph O. Grew.
ERD:r
Copy to Legation, The Hague
11
" Consulate General, Syaney.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apri1 13, 1937.
Tokyo's 2316 of March 18 reviews
proceedings in the Diet during the period
march 1-l6. In the words of the despatch
"little of interest has taken place in
that body excepting the anticipated
passage of the Government's budget bill".
Apparently the Embassy considered it
necessary to write a despatch covering
this period whether or not events of
importance had transpired.
TT/REK

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.94)
E
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
844.00
Tokyo, March 18, 1937.
NO. 2516.
894.032
SULJECT: DIET PROCLEDINS FROM RCH 1 TO MARCH 16.
894.00/719
L1J
5
心
15
A
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
Since March 1, When the last despatch on the
subject of interpellations in the Diet was written,
little of interest has taken place in that body
excepting the anticiputed passage of the Government's
budget bill by the House of Representutives and the
delivery by Mr. Sato, newly appointed Minister for
Foreign Affairs, of three important speeches on
foreign
F/FG

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
foreign affairs.*
Interpellators have spasmodically continued to at-
tack the Government on the following grounds: that the
Army has interfered too much in politics; that the
Government h&s made little or no concrete provision for
the stabilization of the livelihood of the people; and
that the Government has no well-defined foreign policy.
The Premier continued to handle the political parties
with tact and skill, agreeing in principle with the
arguments aavanced by them but not committing his Govern-
ment to any concrete measures.
Of more interest than the interpellations have been
certain Governnent replies. On March 2 General Umezu
stated that matters concerning military comnand and or-
ganization should not be discussed in the Diet, which
had no right to touch t e Imperial Irerocative in this
respect. In answer to an interpelletion on March 1s the
War LMinister asserted somewhat equivocally that the people
should inform the Arny of their opinions and cooperate
with it in overcoming current difficulties. Despite the
fact that the Mar Minister hed on several occasions ad-
vanced as the principal need for increased military ex-
penaitures the exponding armaments of the Soviet Union in
East Asia, on March 1 General Sugiyama declared thet the
increase of the Soviet Army's forces in the Far East
would not menace Japan and that the present Japanese
defenses would be sufficient to cope with the Soviet
Army in the Far East.
The Director of the Haval Affairs
894.08/715
Bureau
*
Embassy's despatch No. 2293, March 1, 1937, and
Embassy's desputch No. 2294,March 1, 1937.
716

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Bureau of the Navy Ministry stated on March 2 that
there was no need for Japan to alter its third replenish-
ment program of naval construction because of the re-
cently announced British and American naval plans.
On March 1 the War Minister said that the suggested
amalgamation of the War and Navy Ministries was impracti-
cable because the aims of the two ministries differed
from the standpoint of strategy. On March 5 Premier
Hayashi frankly admitted that the priority of defense
appropriations made it impossible to provide more ade-
qu: te relief in the ferming areas.
The Premier agreed
to an interpellation in a session of the Budget Com-
mittee of the House of Peers on March 13 that national
defense in the narrow sense should be left to the mili-
tary and in the broad sense to the rest of the Government.
General Hayashi went on to expl in thct if the idea of
netiunal defense were better understood by the public
the military authorities might afford to remain silent
and tht the seeming offici usness of the Army sprang
from its unalloyed motives of acquainting the nation
with the requirements of modern defense.
In criticizing the German-Japanese anti-Comintern
acreement an inter ellator asserted on March 13 that to
say that this agreement was aimed against the Comintern
and not a inst the Soviet Union was incomprehensible
logic. In reply to this interpellation Mr. Horinau chi,
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, admitted that there
was a special relationship between the Comintern and
the Soviet Union and that if the Soviet Administration
was

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
was connected with the Comintern benind the scenes the
pe ct must naturally be applied to the Soviet Government
also.
The Governient's tuuget for the fiscal year 1937-
1933 cmounting to Yen 2,815, 000, 000 was passed by the
House of Re re ente tives on Mareh 8 and sent to the House
of Peers, which will most likely pprove it in its present
form. The debate which preceded the pussage of the bud-
get in the Lower House wes, on tne pert of the two major
political p rties, obviously only an attempt to put their
views on record, since the Minseito and the Seiyukai ap-
proved the budget with u overwclaing ma jority.
Three sigmifieent s eeches sn Jupan's foreisn policy
were made by Me. Sato, the LMinister for Forein Affeirs,
on march 8, March 11, and march l2.* These speeches
reflected Mr. Sato's lon train ng in international law
and hies unf milicrisy with dolestic politicel problens.**
His rencrks on Soviet-Juptnese und Sino-Japanese relations
are discussed in the mb: ssy's despt tches No. 2517 and
2318 of Maren l, respectively. A section of the Army
severely criticized the speeches while, according to the
YoMIURI of Maren ls, the Havy Minister announced that the
Havy concurred with nd was sym athetic toward Mr. Sato's
ideas on forein policy. The statements which particularly
angered the Army were those made on March ll: "Whether
Japan is confronted with a war crisis or not depends en-
tirely upon the determination and attitude of Japan" and
"if Jupun so Wills, such a crisis can be averted." At
a
794.00
109
110
* Embassy's telegrams No. 85, March 11, No. 86, March 12,
and 1.0. 90, March 13///1
** Embassy's despatch No. 2513, March 17, 1937.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
a Budget Committee meeting of the House of Peers on
March 12 the Minister for Foreign Affairs qualified
these statenents by saying that he meant that Japan
should avoid a positive challenge to another Power
and not that it snould tolerate any provocation.
The only bill that has thus far been approved by
both houses is the bill for the revision of the law
providin for the protection of the Hokkaido aborigines.
After the close of the Diet session the mbassy will
prepare a digest of the legisletion enacted and will
submit separate despatches on the more important laws.
Res pec tfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
803
GDA:C
Copy to abassy, Leiping;
Copy to mbassy, Moscow.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.95)
Divislon of
FAR EASTIRN AFFAIRS
10
DEPARTMENT OF STATE- 1937
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Depart
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRG
193 APR2 PM 3 35
March 31, 1937
S
Mr. Secretary:
DIVISION CF
-1 1937
COMMUNICATIONS
Political crisis in Japan.
AND RECORDS
On March 30, the Japanese Government sudde
894.0
not
solved the House of Representatives and set a general
election for April 30. According to the Japanese
894.0312
Constitution, the Diet must be convened within five months
of dissolution. The present Cabinet will presumably remain
in office until the new Diet meets, when the composition of
the latter will largely determine whether the Cabinet will
894.00/720
remain intact, be reconstructed, or resign.
Although the Diet had passed the budget, the super-
ficial issue upon which dissolution was based was the
failure of the Lower House to act on various Government
measures.
Cur Embassy at Tokyo reports that probable underlying
causes for dissolution were the Government's impatience 
2861
Contantin
with bickoring with the present political parties and the
Government's hope of obtaining increased support from th
CC
development of the new army-led party movement.
Dissolution of the Lower House was evidently unfore-
seen by the press. This fact illustrates the extent to
which political movements in Japan take place under cover.
In this connection, it will be recalled that the Japanese
Ambassador some months ago expressed his opinion to an
1F
officer of the Department that the present Cabinet would
F
G
be short lived.
m.m.1t.
JWB/DLY

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DER
APR 7 - 1937
DIVISION OF-AR EASTERN AFFAIRS
7E
ON
FAR LAST RH AFFAHSO
CONFIDENTIAL
April 3,
APR 5 - 1937
The S1tuatlon in the Far East
NOTED
Mr. Secretary:
During the week in review, the Japenese Govern-
ment dissolved the House of Representatives and set
a general election for April 30. (This development
894.00/721
was discussed in FE'S memorandum of March 31, 1937,
to the Secretary).
There have been no reports during the week to
indicate that developments of special significance
have taken place in China.
897
SKH
APR 10 1937)
FEIJCV:VCI
FILED
F/FG
1

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GRAY
1w
Tokyo
1—1336
FROM
Dated Apri1 10, 193.
Recta 9:50 a.m.
宏
Secretary of State
COPIES SENT TO
Washington
B
U.N.I. AND M.I.D.
894.
11
21！
In view of the general election to be held on April
894.2
30, the Cabinet this evening issued an outline of its gener-
894.00/722
al policiest According to the press they are in brief as
follows:
On. rundamental educational reformation including
thorough clarirication of the national policy.
Two. heform of the parliamentary system and adjust-
ment of administrative organs including the establishment of
a central i  ureau and reform of the governmental person-
nel systom.
Three.
Establishment of a national diplomatic
polity.
Four. Repletion of national defense and preparation
for generl  ilization.
Five. Fstablishment of a social policy including
improvemoent of the national physique, organization of social
irsurance s stems, improvement of the welfare of the work-
ins classes, t cetera.
F/FG
Six

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
1w, 2, No. 107, April 10, 9 p.m, from Tokyo
Six. Development of national strength through the
self supply of iron, liquid fuels and other raw materials,
. through synthetic development of industries, through control
and unification of electric resources through expansion of
communications et cetera.
Seven. Rehabilitation of agrarian, forestry and
fishing industries.
Eight. The adjustment of fiscal conditions by re-
formation of the system of taxation, prevention of an un-
due rise in prices, adjustment of supply and demand of goods,
securing of sources of raw materials, expansion of foreign
trade, development of s hipping and encouragement of emi-
gration.
Comment follows by despatch.
GREW
WWC

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
761.94/959
FOR .....Tel..#1l?...1lam
894.00/
FROM
China
(..Lochart) DATED Anr..12..1937
TO
NAME
1-1137
723
REGARDING: Soviet Cons l General at Harbin anticipates incidents on
tie Russian border or in Suiyuan prior to the Japanese
general elections of pril 30, designed to strengthen
the rmy's argument s. He asserts that Manchukuo and
inner-liongolian troops are moving toward the Suiyuan
border. (uotes tele ra. cf april 9, 3 p.m., from Harbin)
πb
22

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.94)
4
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 2, 1937.
No. 2346.
SUBJECT: DIET INTERPELLATIONS OF LM. YUKIO CZAKI.
894.00/724
894.00
52
2
1A
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
FLUD
Washington.
1937
Sir:
F/B
I have the honor to refer to the mbassy's despatches
705
112
No. 2274 of February 18, No. 2283 of February 26, and No/2291
of March 1, 1937, concerning Mr. Yukio Ozaki's oral and written
interpellations to the Government.
Mr. Ozaki's 10-point questionnaire submitted to the Cabi-
net on Februcry 27 was answered in very vegue terms by the
Premier in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE. These questions dealt with
internal

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
internal political affairs, particulerly with the interference
of the Army with the functioning of the Cabinet and the pre-
rogatives of the mperor.
On March 8 Mr. Ozaki adaressed a second questionnaire to
the Governnent embodying 12 points concerned principally with
Japan's foreign policy, which brought several significant ans-
wers from the Cabinet Ministers. In reply to the question as
to whether Japan could in the Government's opinion maintain
equelity with or superiority to the Soviet Union and China in
land armanents, and Great britain and the United States in
naval armaments, the War anu avy inisters asserted that
Japan did not desire to copete with the Powers in the ex-
pansion of armacments. In another question, Mr. Ozaki asked
if the Government had no intention of "freming concrete
policies instead of marshalling vague and incomprehensible
epithets". The Fremier's answer shed no light on the subject.
In answer to the query as to whether the Japanese Govern-
ment intended to consider Germany's demand for restoration of
its pre-war colonies, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said
that his Governient had no intention whetsoever of ∞nsider-
ing the return to Gemm ny of the South Seu Mandated Islands.
-r. Ozaki asked to be informed what country the Premier had
in mind when he spoke of the possibility of "the touch of a
finger causing an explosion". The Premier replied that his
phrase described the situstion which had existed for some
time on the borders of "icnchukuo", thus indicating that the
country he hed in mind was Soviet Russia. The Ministers for
War, Navy, and Foreign Affairs answered
Mr. Ozaki's last
and

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
and twelfth question by stating that it would be futile at
present for Japan to propose negotictions for an interna-
tional agreement on the limitation of armements.
1/
There is enclosed a clipping from the JAPAN ADVERTISER
of March 25 which sets forth Lir. Ozeki's 12 questions and
the Government's replies tereto.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
803
GDA:C
Enclosure:
1/ As stated above.
Copy to Embassy, Peipine;
1n
18
n
MoscoW.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. ', to despatch
No.2346, dated9pr 2.,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, March 25, 1937..
JAPAN WON'T YIELD
country's prestige and guarantee the
Return Not Considered
peaceful existence and development of
Mr. Ozaki's seventh question
the Empire, and they are not directed
whether the Government intends
specifically at any nation. In view of
consider Germany's demand for restora
ISLES TO GERMANY
national conditions, geographical en-
tion of its pre-war colonies. In reply,
vironment and the present interna-
the Foreign Minister writes:
tional situation, war preparations
"The Government has no intention
cannot be limited to one direction
whatever of considering the return to
only. Were there a defect in either
Germany of the South Sea Mandated
service, advantage would be taken of
Islands. The principles of the open
Foreign Minister Makes Asser-
it by other countries, and therein
door and equal opportunity have been
tion in Reply to Ozaki's
would lie dangers leading to war.
maintained in them. and further ef-
Under present conditions, perfect na-
forts will be exerted in that direc-
Questionnaire
tional defense can be attained only
tion."
through preparedness in the two ser-
Eighthly, Mr. Ozaki wished to know
vices."
what country the Premier had in mind
ARMS TALKS HELD FUTILE
Thirdly, Mr. Ozaki asked if the.Gov-
when he spoke of the touch of a finger
ernment thinks it can maintain
causing an explosion. The Premier
equality with or superiority to the
answers:
Sugiyama Writes Rise of Mili-
Soviet Union and China in land
"In view of Japan's special mission
armaments and Britain and the United
as the stabilizing force in East Asia,
tary Dictatorship Not Even
States in naval armaments. The reply
it will endeavor to maintain perma-
of the War and Navy
Ministers
nent peace in this area and also to Be
Dreamed Of
follows:
on friendly relations with the various
"As is stated in the answer to the
Powers in order to brighten the di-
second question. it is desired to carry
plomatic horizon. The situation sur-
The Government has absolutely no
out war preparations on the minimum
rounding Manchukuo since the Man-
, intention of considering the return to
basis essential for autonomous national
churian incident is such that frontier
Germany of the South Sea Mandated
defense, not to compete with the
disputes have not ceased and there
Islands, Foreign Minister Naotake Sato
Powers in expansion of armaments.
still exists danger of occasional clashes,
has informed Mr. Yuklo Ozaki, inde-
Thus the aim is not to obtain parity
which is a matter of great regret. The
pendent member of the Lower House
or superiority in forces in comparison
expression 'one touch is liable to set
Aho has served every term since the
with the forces of other nations. This
off an explosion' describes this situa-
Diet was established, in reply to
the Government has stated on several
tion."
one of the 12 questions submitted by
occasions.'
Mr. Ozaki asked what the War Min-
him in writing to the Government
Power Must Be Developed
ister meant in saying that the February
several weeks ago.
Fourthly, Mr. Ozaki asked if national
26 and other incidents were caused by
War Minister Hajime Sugiyama, and
security and war preparations are al-
political corruption. The War Min-
Navy Minister Mitsumasa Yonai join
ways parallel. The two service Min-
ister's reply follows:
with the Foreign Minister in replying
isters reply:
"The cal'ing of attention to the res-
to another question that the Govern-
"Perfection of national defense can-
ponsibility for corruption in political
ment is as desirous as ever of a fair
not be attained by perfection of mili-
circles does not mean that the army is
international agreement on disarma-
tary preparations alone, but by devel-
attempting to avoid its own responsi-
ment but believes that any move in
opment of co-ordinated national
bility. Facts about political corruption
this direction would be futile at pres-
power."
need not be pointed out here."
ent because of the world situation.
Mr. Ozaki's next question was whe-
Merger Not Intended
Mr. Ozaki's first question, asking if
ther the Government has no intention
Tenthly. Mr. Ozaki asked if the War
the Government intends to inerease
of framing concrete policies "instead
and Navy Ministries will be merged.
taxes again and continue to issue large
of marshalling vague and incompre-
The reply of the War Minister is that
bond issues, is answered as follows by
hensive epithets." The Premier's an-
no consideration is being given to such
the Finance Minister:
swer follows:
a merger.
Considerable expenditure will be
"The Government has made public
In his 11th question. Mr. Ozaki in-
required for some time to perfect na-
its platform and clarified its general
quired what the Cabinet thought about
tional defense and take other mea-
policy. and it will exert further efforts
the need to prevent emergence of mili-
sures because of various domestic and
for enhancement of the national fort-
tary rule. The answer, by the War
external circumstances. and the nation
must recognize this. Thus it is con-
sidered unavoidable to increase the
unes."
Government believes the anti-Comin-
Sixthly. Mr. Ozaki inquired if the
Minister, follows:
"It has been stated several times
revenue from taxes and issue bonds in
tern pact with Germany useful in pro-
that healthy development of parlia-
considerable amounts for the time be-
tecting the national polity and if it
mentary politics in accordance with
ing. The Government has shelvcd the
intends to strengthen it. The Foreign
the peculiarities of the country is ar-
taxation reform planned by the previ-
Minister replies:
cdently desired. The appearance of a
ous Cabinet and has decided to carry
"As the destructive operations of the
military dictatorship has never been
out a provisional plan of incrcasing
Comintern, which run counter to the
dreamed of."
taxes. To make them perfect, it in-
national polity, are international in na-
The final question was whether the
tends to reform both the national and
ture and as prevention of such activi-
Government has no intention of pro-
local taxation systems."
ties through international co-operation
posing an international agreement on
Specific Aim Denied
was recognized as the most effective
limitation of armaments. The For-
The second question had to do with
measure, the Government concluded
eign, War and Navy Ministers join the
the identity of the nation likely to
the agreement with Germany, the prin-
reply:
wage war against Japan. The War
cipal target of the Comintern maneuv-
"The Government is prepared to co-
and Navy Ministers answer:
ers. Efforts will be made to achieve
operate with the same fervor hitherto
"The preparations of the army and
good results in accordance with the
manifested in attainment of an inter-
the navy are aimed at the minimum
purpose of the agreement through pro-
national agreement on disarmament
perfection necessary
to protect the
per operation of it."
that is based on fairness and justice.
nationalstructure,
maintain
the
Such is the current world situation,
however, that attainment of the ob-
jective would have to be recognized
as hopeless at this moment even if the
Government took the initiative in the
matter."

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
793.003/869
FOR ...Memorandum
State Department
Far Eastern Division
894.00/725
FROM
(...)Myera...) DATED..Apr11.24,..1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Situation in Far East: week ending April 24, 1937.
In Japan, the Government appears to be marking time pending
the outcome of the election on April 30, 1937 of members of
the House of Representatives.
FRG.
725

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.94)
62-1
7
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
GRAY
Tokyo
1-1336
FROM
Dated May 3, 193
Recid 10:20 a.m
184
AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
COPIES SENT
1937
Washington.
ANDMI
REK
8.
594.00
122. Ney 3, 6 p.m.
894.00/726
Embassy's despatch 2367 April 16, 1937 last paragraph.
One. ho Japanese press interprets the returns of the
general election of April 30 as a distinct defeat for the
Hayashi Government. In the new Lower House the seats of the
opposition partios, the Minseito and Seiyukai total 354 or
22 less than in the previous House; those of the opposition
Shakai To ishuto 37 or 19 more than previously; those of the
Government-suporting Kokumin Domei and Showakai 30 or 7
less than proviously and those of the lesser groups and
independents 45 or 10 more than previously.
197
Two. A mollifluous declaration by the Cabinet today
states that b cause regeneration of the Diet is the
dornerstone o! governmental reform the Lower House was
disselved a month ago; that the Government looks to the
newly eleete members to be guided by a spirit of self-
sacrifice in developing the constitutional system
peculiar
F
0/

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
62-2
-2-
JR
#122, May 3 6 p.m., from Tokyo.
peculiar to Japan; that this hope is generally entertained
by the people; and that the Government will continue on its
way confident of the nation's support of the Government's
earnest desire for perfect cooperation with the people.
Three. The Hayashi Cabinet is apparently determined to
remain in power as long as possible but the measures which
it will take to accomplish this purpose in the face of the
declared oppcsition of the major parties remain obscure.
However, it is probable that the Hayashi Cabinet can remain
in office until the extraordinary session of the Diet
(probably in August) as the Government can claim that the
election failed to show a popular mandate for Government
by either the Minseito or the Seiyukai which have nearly
equal representation in the new house. The Shakai Taishuto
made impressive gains but still lacks strength enough to
hold the balance of power for either major party. The
Embassy is therefore of the opinion that the temper of
the New House will be restrained although superficially
blustering because of its realization of the futility of
attempting to insist upon a party Government in the face of
the opposition of the military.
Repeated by mail to Peiping.
GRE
CSB

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
x
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 12, 1937
SKH:
This despatch discusses the announced
policies of the Hayashi Cabinet. The
Embassy's comment may be outlined as
follows:
In general the nolicies (which are
listed on nage two of the despatch) repre-
sent idealistic aims rather than concrete
proposals and, as the press noints out,
express almost impossible hopes. They
anpear definitely to noint in the direc-
tion of furtrer efforts to regiment the
nation on a semi-wartime basis and toward
a totalitarian state.
The policies of the Hayashi government
co not apnear to differ greatly from those
of the Hirota govermment. The obvious
explanation is that the same military in-
fluence dominated the two cabinets.
The Embassy considers it unlikely that
the Cabinet will be able to carry into
execution many of the policies which it has
anncunced. It seems certain that the Diet
will remain recalcitrant, and the Cahinet
will therefore either be compelled to re-
sign or to dissolve the Lower House again,
-- an unlikely step in view of the
criticism of the last dissoluticn. A
possible third course of acticn is for the
Cabinet

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Cabinet to bow to circumstances and be
satisfied with the execution of a few of
its plans.
894.00/727
WTT/DLY

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2359
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 14, 1937.
894.00
SUBJECT: POLICIES OF THE HAYASHI CABINET.
 Copy  FE(381)
B
FAR EASTERN AFFAIKS
A
4-1937
5
Department of State
2
N
No
193 MY
dyi
894.00/727
mID
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.L. ANDM. I.D.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
With reference to the Embassy's telegram No. 107,
nounced policies of the Hayashi Cabinet, I have the
1/
honor to enclose herewith a clipping from the JAPAN
17 1937
ADVERTISER of April 11, 1937, containing a translation
of the eight points of policy as issued by Domei. The
ADVERTISER translation has been checked with the Japanese
text as published in the vernacular newspapers and has
been found to be substantially correct.
It
F/FG

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
It will be remembered that the Hayashi Dabinet
dissolved the Lower House of the Diet and suspended
the session of the House of Peers on March 31, 1937,
claiming that the Lower House lacked a correct under-
standing of the national situation and lacked sincerity
in dealing with the Government's measures. A general
election will be held on April 30, thirty days after the
dissolution of the Lower House, and the Cabinet has now
placed its policies before the people in order to meet
the coming election.
The policies, which may be classified under the
headings of (1) fundamental educational reform and
thorough clarification of the national polity, (2)
reform of the parliamentary system and improvement of
administrative organs, (3) establishment of a concrete
national diplomatic policy, (4) perfection of armaments
and preparation for a general national mobilization, (5)
establishment of adequate social policies and stabilization
of the living of the people, (6) promotion of national
strength through the development and control of industry,
(7) rehabilitation of farming and fishing communities,
and (8) adjustment of taxation, prevention of an undue
rise of prices and improvement of the balance of inter-
national payments, are somewhat more concrete than the
original policies announced shortly after the formation
of the Cabinet (Embassy's 43, February 6, 11 a.m.) but
are still generally considered to be too vague and mean-
ingless. It will be noted that no concrete measures are
suggested, except the establishment of a central delibera-
tive organ in the Cabinet for the purpose of promoting
a

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
a thorough clarification of the national polity, and
the possible establishment of central administrative
organs for the promotion of aviation and the reform
of the Government personnel system. The other policies
include no concrete proposals and, as has been pointed
out by several of the newspapers, express almost impossible,
idealistic hopes rather than feasible policies.
One point, however, induces reflection in regard to
the policies. It will be noted that the policies include
provision for the establishment of a deliberative organ
for the clarification and the thorough permeation among
the people of the national polity and for the enhancement
of the national spirit; for the perfection of armaments
and the preparation for a general mobilization of the
nation; for self-sufficiency in iron, liquid fuel and
other industrial materials; for the control of the elec-
tric power industry; for the propagation of the idea 
solidarity among the farming and fishing villages; and
for the control of prices, the adjustment of supply and
demand of materials, etc. These policies (or suggestions)
would appear definitely to point to a further attempt
to regiment the nation on a semi-wartime basis and ap-
parently to work toward a totalitarian state. As several
of the vernacular newspapers point out in their edi-
torials, the policies enumerated by the Hayashi Cabinet
do not differ greatly from those previously announced
by the Hirota Cabinet. The newspapers are inclined to
blame this on a lack of originality and intelligence
in the Hayashi Cabinet, but the Embassy is rather in-
clined to ascribe this similarity in policies to military
influence

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
influence. Neither of the two cabinets probably has
been able really to formulate its own policies and
the plans announced by both cabinets were undoubtedly
to a large extent dictated by the military. The in-
tention to work toward a Japanese variety of a totali-
tarian state is certainly contemplated by the military,
and there can be little doubt that similar policies
will be announced by each succeeding cabinet as long
as the military influence continues to dominate the
Government.
It is largely because of this fact that economic
and financial circles are dissatisfied with the announced
policies of the Hayashi Cabinet. They are inclined to
place considerable importance on the fourth policy,
namely, the perfection of national defense and prepa-
ration for general mobilization. They believe that this
policy points to the formation of a semi-wartime system
and are somewhat fearful as to the methods which the
Government will employ in the execution of this policy.
Financial circles are reported to be of the opinion
that the fiscal policies ennounced in the eighth item
of policy are vague, idealistic, and appear to have
been taken from some text book on economics. They believe
that the Cabinet will find difficulty in attempting to
carry out this idealistic program and are inclined to
resent the fact that the statement of policy tends to
attribute the rise in prices solely to speculation and
ignores the factor of credit expansion caused by huge
Government expenditures. Economic circles had believed
that

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
that, through the efforts of Mr. Yuki, Minister of
Finance, the Hirota Cabinet's policy of stricter
control would be modified by the Hayashi Cabinet,
and consequently they are disappointed by the indi-
cation that the Hayashi Cabinet will follow the same,
if not more, drastic measures in this connection.
These circles point out that strict control of the
nation's economic system is not consistent with the
policy of the expansion of production in Japan.
The Hayashi policies were not greeted with en-
thusiasm by any of the vernacular newspapers. The
ASAHI on April 1l, editorially pointed out that the
Cabinet is attempting the impossible when it offers to
reform the taxation system and stabilize the liveli-
hood of the people while at the same time incurring
enormous expenditures for the perfection of armaments,
rehabilitation of the farming and fishing communi-
ties, reform of the educational system, etc. The Cabinet
would have to perform magic to accomplish these ends.
But, according to ASAHI, the Hayashi Cabinet will not
live long enough to put its policies into effect. The
YOMIURI, on April ll, stated that the policies are all
imitations of the Hirota Cabinet and express no definite
ideology. Moreover, at the moment it is important to
take definite action, not to enumerate impractical poli-
cies. The CHUGAI SHOGYO on April 1l, editorially ex-
pressed the opinion that the policies of the Hayashi
Cabinet are senseless unless the Cabinet can carry them
into

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
into practise. No cabinet, much less the present one,
can possibly carry all the policies into execution, but
the Hayashi Cabinet has now promised the nation certain
things, and must do its best against great odds. The
KOKUMIN, on April 1l, stated that the policies are
too vague and are mostly legacies of the Hirota Cabinet.
There is no definite expression of concrete policies,
but on the other hand, this is the usual practise with
all cabinets. The IYAkO, on April 1l, stated that the
policies are lacking in originality. The proposal to
establish a central administrative organ for aviation
is a good plan, but the Cabinet will not live long
enough to accomplish this purpose. The HoCHI, on
April 1l, pointed out that the policies of the Hayashi
Cabinet show that the Government intends to lead the
country into a semi-wartime status. The Government,
however, has given no concrete indication of how it
intends to tide over the crisis and perfect national
defense.
Apparently in an effort to indicate to the nation
that the Government is sincere in its intention to carry
into execution its statement of policies, it was announced
after the Cabinet meeting on April 13, that the Cabinet
had definitely decided on three measures for immediate
action. The three measures consist of the establishment
of a national policy organ to implement the policies
already announced, the establishment of a commission to
renovate education and clarify the national polity, and
the issuance of instructions to the Army, the courts
of

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
of law, the post-offices, and other public organs coming
into contact with the people, to simplify their admin-
istrations and to be more courteous toward the publio.
(This last measure is in pursuance of the last clause
of the second item of the announced policies). The
national policy organ mentioned above is presumably
the so-called "Planning Board" which has been under
discussion for some time past in Japan. The exact
status of the Planning Board is not yet clear, al-
though for a time it was rather generally believed that
this board, which was to plan and coordinate all national
policies, was intended to be a sort of super-cabinet,
the ministers of state being relegated to the position
of administrative officers only. In this form the
Planning Board (which is one of the Army's pet ideas)
would appear to have been intended as the central policy
organ of a totalitarian or fascist state. Recently,
however, the vernacular newspapers have stated that the
Planning Board is now intended to be only a sort of
deliberative council, and that the actual authority
for deciding upon and execution of policies will remain
in the Cabinet.
It is not believed that the Hayashi Cabinet will be
able to carry into execution many of the policies which
it has announced . It was confronted before with a re-
calcitrant Diet, and there is no good reason to believe
that the nert Diet will be more compliant. The Cabinet
will therefore either be compelled to resign before
hardly

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8-
hardly more than starting its program, or will have to
dissolve the Lower House again (an unlikely step in view
of the criticism of the last dissolution) and try to
obtain a more complaisant Diet, or will have to bow to
circumstances and be satisfied with the execution of a
few of its plans. Some of the plans (those which do
not require budgetary appropriations) can be put into
effect by Imperial decree. This method of obtaining
its objectives has already been started, as mentioned
above, but the great bulk of the policies of the Cabinet
require considerable sums for execution, and it is im-
probable that the next, or any readily foreseeable
Diet, will, in view of the fiscal condition of the
country, grant large sums for the schemes of the present
Cabinet.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
800.2
ERD:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Cad

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.l, to despatch
No.2359, dated April 14, 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Sunday, April 11, 1937.
Amperial sanction was received for
the platform, and it was then publish-
ed in the following form:
"On the basis of the Cabinet plat-
form previously announced, the Gov-
ernment means to pursue the follow-
ing policies in giving material form to
that platform:
'1. To effect renovation of educa-
tion and culture. Various measures to
renovate education and schooling shall
be enforced, the period of compulsory
attendance extended, general reforim of
the school system realized and author-
itative machinery for deliberation on
thorough permeation of the concept of
the national polity and enhancement of
the national spirit.
"2. To effect renovation of politics
and improvement of administration.
The systems of the two Houses and
the election system shall be improved
and the administrative machinery ad-
justed in order to keep pace with the
advance of national fortunes, with
creation of central machinery for ad-
ministration of aeronautics. revision of
thc personnel system and renovation
of various administrative procedures
in the interests of public convenience.
"3. To make concrete a diplomatic
policy based on national unanimity.
"4. To advance the perfection of ar-
maments and preparations for general
mobilization of the nation.
"5. To assure adequate social polic-
les and stabilize the living of the peo-
ple. The physical standards of the
people will be improved, various social
insurance systems established, the wel-
fare and prosperity of workers advanc-
ed, working power sustained and in-
creased and national life stabilized.
Self-Sufficiency Aimed
"6. To effect co-ordinated promo-
tion of industry and expansion of na-
tional strength. Steps will be taken
to achieve self-sufficiency in iron.
liquid fuel and other staple industrial
materials. Various industries will be
promoted, smaller industries and busi-
ness encouraged and subsidized. the
control of the electric power industry
strengthened and various communica-
tions facilities improved and expanded.
"7. To resuscitate the farming and
fishing villages. Policies will be estab-
lished in connection with farming and
and agricultural insurance. Agrarian
industries will be spread over the
land. production conditions in agricul.
ture. forestry and fishing improved.
the idea of solidarity among the farm-
ing villages propagated and resuscita-
ton of the farming. forestry and fish-
ing villages striven for.
"8. To adjust the tax systems and
improve the price situation and the
balance of international payments
Equilibrium will be sought in the
burdens of the people. Taxes common
to the national and local systems will
be adjusted and reformed in order to
obtain the revenue necessary for the
existence and development of the
State. Steps will be taken to restrain
the increase of domestic prices caused
by speculations operations, adjust
fundamentally the relations between
the demand and supply of materials,
obtain sources of raw materials, ad-
vance foreign trade, develop shipping
and encourage emigration and thus to
improve the balance of international
payment

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 12, 1937
JVB:
SKH:
Tokyo's No. 2364 of April 16, 1937,
renorts on a new movement to form
a rightest nolitical party which would
provide the necessary support to the
government, or rather, to any administra-
ticn under military dominance.
The Hayashi Cabinet discovered that
it could not function properly witrout the
support of the Lower House. hccordingly,
in the hope that a new party willing to
act as a rubber stamp for the government
would grow out of tle movement by a group
of politicians to that end, the Cabinet
obtained the cissolution of the Tiet.
lowever, the public and press lave shown
onrosition to the idea of the new party,
in the belief tl.at it would lead toward
a dictatorship by the military. Nc first
rank rolitician could be nersuaded to
lead tre pronosed narty.
It is the Embassy's view that if
the rerier dissclve the Lower House with
the hope that a new government party would
row out of tre situation, he miscalculated
tre sentiment of the nation.
PR:WTT/DLY

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1937 MAY 7 DM 3 24
No. 2364.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Y Tokyo, April 16, 1937.
14S
SUBJECT: NEW PARTY MOVIMENT INS JAPAN.
opymFE(381)
894.00
LASTLN AFFAIRS
193
bui- mip
894.00/728
COPIES SENT TO
U.N.I. ANDM.LD.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
patriotic societies for the formation of a rightist or
MAY 2 17
ported by and would support the military. This par-
ticular movement among the reactionaries appears to be
quiescent at the moment, but in the meantime another
movement to form a new political party has appeared.
The new movement differs from the previous movement
in
F/FG

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
in that it is being fostered by professional politicians,
but its purpose appears to be much the same as that of
the other movement, namely, to provide the necessary
political support to the military or to administrations
under military dominance.
This new movement for the formation of a rightest
political party has come into prominence since the
Hayashi Government obtained the dissolution of the Lower
House of the Diet on March 31, 1937. The Hayashi Cabinet
had discovered that it is difficult, if not impossible,
for a cabinet to function properly without the backing
of the majority of the members of the Lower House of
the Diet. In this connection it should be understood
that the Japanese Diet differs from parliaments in most
other countries in the world, in that it is not properly
a law-making body. Laws are comparatively rarely intro-
duced into the Diet by the members themselves. The Diet
is rather a law-passing body, concerned with examining,
discussing, and passing or rejecting bills placed before
it by the government in power at the moment. It is
essential, therefore, to any cabinet to have sufficient
support in the Diet to insure the passage of its measures -
otherwise the Government is unable to carry out its legis-
lative and administrative progrem.
After the formation of the Hayashi Cabinet, it at
first appeared that the Diet would simply harass the
Government, but towards the close of the session it
became clear that the Lower House of the Diet was be-
coming distinctly obstructive. Dissolution of the Lower
Houge

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
House was therefore ordered, apparently with the hope
that a new party willing to act as a rubber stamp for
the Government would spring into existence before the
general elections on April 30. Activities were imme-
diately started by a group of politicians toward this
end. Those prominently mentioned in the press as con-
cerned with the formation of the new party are as follows:
Yonezo Maeda, Seiyukai and former Railways Minister.
Zembei Horikiri, Seiyukai.
Chikuhei Nakajima, Seiyukai.
Ryutaro Nagai, Chief Secretary, Minseito.
Seiichi Aoki, Showakai.
Keisuke Mochizuki, Showakai.
Tatsunosuke Yamazaki, formerly Showakai and present
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry.
Count Hideo Kodama, Minister of Commerce and Industry.
Seigo Nakano, Tohokai.
Kiyoshi Akita, formerly Speaker of the Lower House.
Dr. Ichiro Kiyose, Kokumin Domei.
Count Yoriyasu Arima, Kenkyukai (House of Peers)
Fumio Goto, former Minister for Home Affairs.
Toyotaro Yuki, Finance Minister.
It appeared to be the intention of the organizers
that the new party should be formed with some of the smaller
political parties, notably the Showakai, the Kokumin Domei,
and the Tohokai as its nucleus, and that the party should
attract to it members of the Seiyukai and Minseito who
were dissatisfied with the attitude of their parties, and
who "appreciated the significance of the present situation".
It

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
It is not clear what connection, if any, exists between
the proposed party and the reactionary bodies, but ac-
cording to the CHUGAI SHOGYO the reactionary societies
are not displaying a great deal of interest in the new
party movement.
The movement appeared to be progressing rapidly
until about a week ago, when it became apparent that the
opposition to the new party was gaining considerable
strength. This opposition seems to be based on a general
belief among the people that the new party indicates a
trend towards a dictatorship. If it becomes possible for
a premier to organize a party to protect and perpetuate
his own interests, a dictatorship could easily arise.
The discussions in the newspapers indicate a general
opinion that sound parliamentary practise requires that
any government in power be opposed by some of the political
parties. Moreover, it soon became apparent that the new
party would attract very few of the members of the old
established parties. Even the members of the old parties
who were formerly inclined to break their allegiance and
take part in the formation of a new party have been an-
tagonized by the Government's arbitrary dissolution of the
Lower House and are now inclined to adhere to their old
allegiances and to present a common front opposed to the
Government.
On April 18, according to the press, Premier Hayashi
called on Prince Fumimaro Konoye, reportedly to ask him to
head the new rightist party. Prince Konoye, however, ap-
parently refused to give a definite reply. After the interview
the Prince said to newspapermen that the Premier desires
the

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
the establishment of an ideal party, which he apparently
hopes will be composed of the reformist elements in the
nation and of members of established parties who appreciate
the current situation in the same light as does the Govern-
ment. After the apparent refusal of Prince Konoye to head
the new party it was runored that Mr. Toyotaro Yuki, the
present Finence Minister, or Mr. Koki Hirota, the former
Premier, would be approached on the subject. The CHUGAI
SHOGYO, however, believes that Prince Konoye will even-
tually be prevailed upon to head the new party. In a
newspaper interview, Mr. Yuki denied his connection with
the new party, and stated his belief that the new party
would not materialize before the general election.
It having been found to be difficult to establish
the new party before April 30, it appears that the Govern-
ment has now adopted other tactics in regard to the future
composition of the Lower House. The members of the Cabinet
are now apparently hoping that a sufficient number of
candidates more or less in sympathy with the ideas and
objectives of the present Government will be returned at
the general election. The Premier announced on April
10 that he had no intention of taking positive action
for the formation of a new party and that he would be
satisfied if the new Diet proves to be a gathering
of members of the reformed parties. On April 1l, Dr.
Shiono, the Minister of Justice, said that it was no
concern of the Government whether the Seiyukai or the
Minseito obtained a majority in the Lower House or
whether a new political group controlled the Diet, but
it was important that a majority of the members have a
fu11

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
full and correot understanding of the prevailing situation.
The Government therefore hopes that as many representa-
tives as possible with a real conception of the prevailing
situation will be elected. Mr. Yuki, the Finance Minister,
also said that it did not matter if there was the same
distribution of seats in the Lower House as before the
election, so long as the parties seem to realize the
gravity of the situation.
The new party movement has not met with much support
from the press or the public. The public generally seems
to be on the side of the established parties, apparently
because it resents the arbitrary and uncalled-for dis-
solution of the Lower House. The newspapers are watching
the situation with interest but, with few exceptions,
are not inclined to boost the movement for a new party.
The TOKYO NICHI NICHI, on April 13, expressed itself
as in favor of a new party because it will give the Govern-
ment much needed political support and will give the
supporters of the layashi Cabinet an opportunity to register
their opinions and to indicate clearly the general senti-
ment of the nation in regara to the issue.
At the moment it does not appear that the new rightist
party will come into existence before the general election
on April 30, but there a pears to be no doubt that ad-
vantage will be taken of this election to aid the movement.
The new party will probably appear after the election.
It seems certain that the Premier dissolved the Lower
House with the hope that he could form a new Government
party out of the political chaos resulting from the
dissolution

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.95)
- 7-
dissolution, but he miscalculated the general sentiment
of the nation and was disappointed in his hopes. As
General Hayashi himself frequently affirms, he is just
a soldier and knows nothing of politics.
Respectfully yours,
Noh.
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
ERD:r
人

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 10, 1937.
rB
MU
This despatch describing t
the progress of the campaign
for the election of a new
Japanese House of Represen-
tatives was written before
the eleotion, and is of small
interest now.
um

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
Ack
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2367.
Tokyo, April 16, 1937.
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE ELECTION CAMPAIGN TO APRIL 16, 1937.
994.00
PAN EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.00/729
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Six:
994.5327
In pursuance of the Embassy's despatch No. 2350,
April 2, l937, I have the honor to submit the following
report of the progress, to the present date, of the poli-
tical campaign for the election of a new Japanese House
of Representatives.
Promptly after the dissolution on March 31, persons
13 1937
began to register as candidates in the various election
districts, to stand for the 466 seats comprising the
AYM
Lower House. Such registrations have been mostly in the
names of the previously existing political parties, al-
though ten percent of the total number of candidates
registered
F/FG

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
14
registered by the close of April^are independents who
1/ have never held seats in the Diet (enclosure No. 1). In
respect of registration of candidates thus far, this
election is not markedly different from previous cam-
paigns.
On April 10 the Cabinet issued a platform which
in no way served to clarify the situation (Embassy's
telegram No. 107, April 10, 9 p.m.). Like previous
statements of policy, it was so worded in generalities
as to be useless for defining a logical political cleavage,
doing nothing more specific than generally calling for
improvement in all directions - better education and
culture, better administration, better diplomacy, better
armaments, better living, better industry, better rural
conditions, better taxes. But although the content of
the platform is worthless, there is one circumstance with
regard to its issue which should be noted: it was issued
as a platform which the Cabinet desires candidates to sup-
port. This platform is a corollary to the Premier's in-
vitation to men in politics (or who may be induced to take
up politics) to support the Government. Its object is to
make campaigning easy for friends of the Government.
The parties were not slow in going to the attack. On
April 13 the Seiyukai gave out a denunciation of dissolu-
tion and of the Hayashi Cabinet. The party statement up-
braids the Government's pose of having dissolved the
Lower House because of bad faith in obstructing legislation,
and declares that if refusal to defer blindly to the Govern-
ment is to be branded as bad faith then constitutional
politics

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
politics and respect for public opinion are nothing
but a hoax. It emphatically asserts the necessity
of respect for the Diet by the Government.
2/
The Minseito joined the cause with a statement
issued on April 15. The Minseito likewise castigates
the dissolution as an outrage without precedent in the
history of constitutional government. The party calls
upon the voters to vote Minseito as a public demand for
resignation of the Hayashi Cabinet. The problem of
planks for a platform is more difficult because of the
Government's having used, a few days before, most of the
platitudes of the political vocabulary. The Minseito
Party nevertheless puts itself on record in favor of bet-
ter defense and better living for the people.
The Shakai Taishuto (Social Mass Party) has gone
into the campaign with clearer definition and presentation
of political ideas than any other party. On April 14,
at a rally in Tokyo, was announced a platform denouncing
the enormous military budget, the trend toward fascism,
and the shameless ineffectiveness of the major political
parties, and calling for nationalization of basis indus-
tries, prevention of rise in prices, and control of the
Diet by the workers. In addition to putting up twenty-two
candidates with previous diet experience, forty-one new
candidates have already been registered on the Shakai
Taishuto ticket.
The present general election held the possibility
of being a historic one, but the failure of the parties
to join together threatens, at the present writing, to
reduce

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
reduce this cempaign to the customary formless futility.
The Hayashi Cabinet's attitude toward the Diet was
high-handed, and if the major parties were willing to
go to the country in unison on that one issue the weight
of the resultant protest could not be ignored, even in
Japan. But neither the Seiyukai nor the Minseito are
so disinterestedly devoted to the concept of constitu-
tional politics. Hayashi's advisers no doubt counted
on this discord when they favored dissolution. The
Premier probably thought that by a general election he
would gain time without great risk; and as far as the
campaign has now gone it looks as if he was right. A
likely outcome of the election of April 30, in the Em-
bassy's opinion, is this: Some increase in Shakai Tai-
shuto members of the Lower House. (not enough to require
their admission to the Government); some increase in in-
dependents and small party members, among whom the Govern-
ment could find supporters; a falling off of the Minseito
and Seiyukai. With such an outcome the Government would
have no great cause for concern. A non-party cabinet
has been possible heretofore, and it would continue with
greater justification should popular support of the major
parties be weakened. Meantime, with a core of Government
supporters in the new Diet, fascist party preparations
for the subsequent election could steadily advance.
Respectfully

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.95)
- 5 -
Respectfully yours,
o
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1/ "Candidates Likely To Exceed Number In Last Election",
JAPAN TIMES, Apr11 15, 1937.
2/ "Minseito Appeals To People To Vote Government Down",
JAPAN ADVERTISER, APri1 16, 1937.
800.
CC:g
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
n
to Embassy, Moscow.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No.1 to despatch
No.2367 dated Apr11 16 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Thursday, April 15, 1927.
Candidates Likely
ToExceedNumber
In Last Election
Of 818 Registered Up To Mid-
night Wednesday, 503 Are
Former Members
Contrary to the expectation that
the candidates at the coming general
electfon will be much smaller than
at past elections, the number of
those registered reached 818 at mid-
night Wednesday, while the total at
the last election held on !'bruary
20 last year was 876. It is :hus like-
ly that the candidates wil: surpass
the number at the last election.
Because of the existing conditions
and particularly of the fact that the
Government is desiring to obtain
support in the Lower House, it was
at first thought that many new
names would appear in the list of
candidates. But so far. candidates
proposed by the estabitshed parties
are predominating. out f 818 can-
didates, only 315 are now to the
House of Representatives and 503
are former members.
Candidates for electfon to the
House of Representatives registered
up to midnight yesterday are as
follows:
(A)
(B)
(C
(1D)
Minseito
57
188
16
261
Seiyukai
72
155
42
269
Shakaitaishuto
41
20
2
63
Showakai
10
22
4
26
Kokumindomei
6
11
3
20
Tohokat
10
9
19
Proletariat
3
1
4
Other factions
i
1
38
Independent
15
9
198
Total
.315
426
77
8:8
Note:-(A) New candidates;
(B)
Members of 70th Diet; (C) For-
mer Members: (D) Total.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. to despatch
No.1367 dated Apri1 161937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Friday, April 16, 1937.
MINSEITO APPEALS
irrespective of their importance or tri-
"4. Government Has Impaired 
viality in the short period of 40 days.
sage of Important Bills. The national
It must assume the serious responsi-
health insurance bill was thegle
'bi'ity for thus abusing the function
TO PEOPLE TO VOTE
of the Diet. That it should attempt,
ented in the last session:
moreover, to blame the Diet for its
could be more deserving of pity
own mistakes is a cowardly and crafty
life than the inability of the s
GOVERNMENT DOWN
move that cannot be allowed to re-
main unimpeached.
receive proper medical care be
of poverty. We cannot stand by
"2. Government Destroyer of Na-
allow the existence of even one
ticnal Unanimity. But the Diet has
sufferer. We therefore did our
been dissolved. The arrow has been
to achieve passage of the bill. There
sped from the bow. The people must
were, to be sure, the interests of the
Party Joins With Seiyukai in
fight for their rights.
doctors, co-operative societies and
Co-operation Given
pharmaceutical industrialists to com
Impeaching Cabinet for
"Since the time cf the Saito Cabinet,
sider, but we sought to adjust them
our pariy has been doing its best to
properly and succeeded in having the
Diet Dissolution
co-operate with the Government in
bill passed by the Lower House. With
the conduct of State affairs in view of
the people, we hoped with all our
the extreme gravity of the times and
hearts that it would be passed by the
UNANIMITY SAID BROKEN
the absolute necessity of attacking the
Upper House also, but the Government
difficulties becetting the nation in the
dissolved the Diet at the very instant
spirit of national unanimity. Looking
that the measure was about to be ap-
Hayashi Regime Accused of
back on the ccurse we have taken, we
proved in a plenary session of the
find that this fair and equitable at-
Upper House. Thus it was the Gov-
Slighting Stabilization of
titude moderated the dangerous situa-
ernment that prevented the passage of
tion at home and abroad and averted
important bills necessary for stabiliza-
People's Living
viclent reforms and that we thereby
tion of the people's living. If the
fulfilled cur great mission of safe-
Government had waited a day or twb,
guarding constitutional government. In
the bills on air defense, revision of
RALLY BEING HELD TODAY
the face of the difficulties confronting
the law on protection of military seé-
us. there can be no doubt that con-
rets, the iron industry, farming land
fusion and disorder in the political
and liquid fuel would have passed both
The Minseito, dominant party in the
situation would result if the people
Houses.
last Diet, lined up yesterday with the
or political parties lost their presence
"I. Existence of Hayashi Cabinet
of mind. But what does the Govern-
cannot Be Permitted. The ravages of
Seiyukai in impeaching the Hayashì
ment do but deliberately dissolve the
the present Cabinet have been out-
Cabinet for its dissolution of the
Diet without justification and smash
rageous. We cannot permit a.Cabinet
House of Representatives last month
the spirit of harmony between Gov-
not founded on the will of the peo-
and appealing for support in the
ernment and people. thereby derang-
ple and not supported by the Diet.
April 30 general c'ection as a token
ing national unanimity? Surely the
people cannot allow such a wrong to
years have been of the most gloomy
The Governments in the past several
of the public's agreement with its con-
go unpunished.
character. The time has come to dis-
tention that the Cabinet must resign.
"3. Repletion of National Defense and
pel gloom, revive enlightened politics,
The party placed its convictions on
Stabilization of the Living of the Peo-
renovate general administration and
record in a statement issued in pre-
plc. Repletion of armaments and
stabilize the living of the people in ae-
paration for its Kwanto rally this
stabilization of the national life are
cordance with the advance of the na-
afternoon in the Hibiya Public Hall.
the most urgent matters of the mo-
tional fortunes. To achieve these, deep
The most urgent matters of the mo-
ment. But the present Cabinet took
understanding of the people and their
ment, it said, are perfection of na-
the reckless attitude of concentrating on
support are essential. We hereby de-
tional defense and stabilization of the
national defense, slighting the problem
clare our convictions in taking to the
living of the people. The Hayashi
of stabilization of the people's living.
political field and ask for the co-ope-
Cabinet recognizes the first, but ignor-
Livelihood Menaced
ration and support of the masses of
es the second, it charges. The peo-
"The living of the people today is
the nation for the sake of our land
ple must fight for their rights and
extremely menaced. The people are
and constitutional government."
see that the Cabinet dces not go un-
suffering from rising prices and increas-
punished.
ing tax burdens. Relief must be pro-
Outrage Said Unprecedented
vided at once. But the Government
The full statement follows as given
abandoned the policy of equalizing the
by Domei:
burdens of the people, reduced to ¥70.-
"1. Dissolution an Outrag? Unpre-
000,000 the grants for adjustment of
cedented in History of Constitutional
local finances. halted tax reforms de-
Government. The Diet was suddenly
signed to equalize burdens in the na-
dissolved on the last day of the ses-
tional and local systems and carried
sion.
An outrage without precedent
out a most unfair scheme of tax in-
in the history of constitutional govern-
creases. We Minseito members in the
ment was thus committed. Having
Diet pressed the Government and made
dissolved the Diet and thus trampled
it increase to ¥100,000,000 the local
underfoot important bills, the Gov-
grants and promise to effect stabiliza-
ernment now seeks to shift the res-
tion of the people's living, setting the
ponsibility onto the shoulders of the
next fiscal year as the time limit for
political parties and force its own
this. Thus we did our best in the Diet
dogmatic judgment on the people. What
session to reflect the will of the people
action could be more unconstitutional?
and live up to the trust they had
The de'ay in the discussion of bills
placed in us.
in the Diet session was a result of
the Government's lack of a party in
the House and its inability to find full-
time Ministers for many portfolios.
Despite the difficulty of conducting
administration smoothly in view of the
large number of Ministers holding
concurrent posts, the Cabinet sought
to have the Diet pass some 80 bills,

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.95)
Division of
LEASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 3 - 1937
De
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFARnt of Stat
MAY 1-1937
May 1, 1937
CONFIDENTIAL
OF
STATE
MAY 3- 1937
The Situation in the Far East.
NOTED
S
Mr. Secretary:
In China, there occurred during the week in review
894.00
no significant political developments.
In Japan, there was held yesterday (April 30) the
election of members of the House of Representatives, but
no definitive information in regard to the results of
894.00/730
the election has as yet been received.
Although it is not possible to foretell what action
the present Government will take if the election proves
adverse to it, as is generally expected, there would
appear to be a number of courses open to the Government,
as follows: (1) to continue in power notwithstanding an
adverse vote; or (2) to dissolve the House cf Repre-
sentatives as soon as the House convenes (under the
Constitution the Diet must be convened within five
months of the date of dissolution of the former House
of Representatives, or in this case before August 30,
1937); or (3) to resign; or (4) to reconstruct the
Cabinet by bringing in party representatives with a
view to strengthening the support of the Cabinet in the-
FILED
House of Representatives.
6
1369
F
dy
11
G

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
afrie 30,1937
FAR LASTERN AFFAS
DCR
FAREAST
Department of State
ATE
Jarpan:
S
12
The Hach Between the Army and the Political Parties
P
The clash between the militarists and the political parties,
1--
u:
which wastaged the very day the Diet reconvened for business after
the year end holiday, was not unexpected. For several months evidences
ofdicsatfsfaction with the army's domination and interference in po-
1 tical affairs had been growing more apparent, not alone among the
pgiticians but amcng other sections of the public as well. A severe
drubbing of the Government for allowing the army to dictate to it had
been predicted, but no one had supposed that a parliamentary crisis
with ramifications extending into an uncertain future vould be pre-
cipitated so soon.
The immediate cause of the clash was an interpellation by
Kunimatsu Hamada, Seiyukai leader and former Speaker of the Lower House.
After the speeches of several Ministers had been booed at by the rep-
894.00/73
resentatives, the veteran parliamentarian, amid cheers from the benches,
attacled the army's policies both at home and in Manchuria, its diplo-
matic activities, lack of discipline and interference in politics, the
unprecedented budget caused by military demands, and called the Hirota
Government the most unpopular the country had had in 30 years. The
War Minister, General Terauchi, made an angry rejoinder and accused
Hamada of insulting the army. The latter then offered to commit
harakiri if the insult were proved; otherwise Gencral Terauchi "must
take full responsibility." The session ended abruptly in an uproar,
and that same day the Government obtained the Emperor's permission to
prorogue the Diet for two days, after sidestepping the War Minister's
demand that it be dissolved. Two days later the Government resigned
because negotiations -- the Navy Minister, Admiral Nagano, taking a
prominent part -- to effect a coapromise between the army leaders and
the Lover House of the Diet had been unsuccessful.
The army's temper is indicated in the following excerpts from
an official statement issued by the War Office on January 22, the day
after the Diet was prorogued. "Under the present conditions," it said
"it is impossible for the army to cooperate with political parties for
administrative reforms . . . their ideas are negative and . . . abso-
lutely opposed to the reform tendencies . . . arisen since the February
26th incident . . . Political parties have alvays considered party in-
terests and intrigues and . . . not the interests of the people."
After consulting with his advisers the Emperor asked General
Kazunari Ugaki, former Governor General of Korea and several times
War Minister, to form a government. The Premier designate energetically
attempted to carry out his sovereign's order, but after five days was
compelled to admit defeat, because the army leaders refused to name a
Minister of War for the nem cabinet. Their ostensible reason was ina
bility to control the anti-Ugaki element in the army. This element
FOTHD
is kmom to be the Kwantung Army faction, headed by Lieutenant General
Seishiro Itagaki, then Chief of Staff of that force. Another obscure
reason was hinted, namely, certain breaches of army discipline with
which his name is connected, probably unfustly. The military's real
-16160-
F/FG

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
objections, however, were based on General Ugaki's kmown moderate views
and his cardinal blunder of 1925 when, as Minister of War, he assented
to the army's reduction by four divisions. It mattered not that his
appointment had the hearty approval of every importent section of Japa-
nese public opinion except the army-influenced reactionary societies
nor that the military faction was accused of flouting the Emperor's
will. Not all the army was opposed to General Ugaki. but the Itagaki
faction simply would not have him; hence his failure. The Japanese
political system provides no way around such an obstruction, short of a
personal intervention by the Emperor, which is extremely unlikely.
General Ugali, as a rebuke to the militarists, resigned from the army
officers' retired list.
The Emperor's choice for the Premiership finally fell upon
General Sen juro Hayashi, War Minister during part of the Okada regime,
whose efforts to rid the army of politics brought about the assassina-
tion of one of his chief War Office assistants, Lieutenant General
Nagata, on August 12, 1935, and, indirectly, the following February 26th
incident. Because he had kept free of factions, hovever, he was ac-
ceptable enough to the army leaders and no special objection to his
appointment was raised on the outside.
General Hayashi formally presented his cabinet to the Emperor
on February 2. It contains no party representatives except one who was
obliged to resign his political affiliations in order to accept office,
and several ministers hold two portfolios concurrently, an ominous
presage of the cabinet roform urged by the army. Its strongest member
is General Gen Sugiyama, the War Minister, and its most popilar member,
so it has developed, is Toyotaro Yuki, former President of the Indus-
trial Bank cf Japan, for personal reasons and because he has made an
attempt at budget retrenchment.
The Diet, which had been prorogued during the cabinet crisis
and while the new Hayashi Government was reconsidering the budget pre-
pared by the preceding regime, reconvened on February 15 under the un-
precedented circumstance that there was not one member of the Lower
House to support the Government. General Hayashi's speech in his con-
current rcles of Premier and Foreign Minister contained nothing of out-
standing importance and the Government's statement of policy was a
masterpicce of ambiguity, couched -- perhaps purposely -- in the cld
classical language, which added to its impressiveness but did not aid
the people's understanding of the issues involved.
The following four days were taken up by members' interpella-
tions of the Government, covering a wide rango of topics such as
national defense, the rumored formation of a political party of Fas-
cistic leanings, governmental reorganization, and control of industry.
The interpellations were pointed, but restraint was evident on both
sides, the Diet not wishing to force dissolution and the Government
being desirous of securing approval of the budget. The War Minister
said in part: "The desire of the army to improve armaments is not
based on any presumption of war. The army believes, on the contrary,
that adequate armaments will prevent war." In outlining a six-year
program of expansion, however, he stressed Japan's need of increased
armament to counter Russia's military preparations in the Far East.
This is the favorite thesis of the Itagaki faction.
-16161-

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
The most vigorous interpellation was a speeck. by the distin-
guished liberal. Yukio Ozaki, now in his 78th year. A member of the
Diet ccntinuously since its organization in 18s0, his life had been
threatened more than once by extremists who objected to his fearless
and outspoken utterances. On this occasion, speaking for one hour and
forty-five minutes, he challenged the necessity for such a great in-
crease in Japan's military expenditures; ridiculed the German--Japanese
anti-Comintern pact; asked why Japan did not conclude a nonaggression
treaty with Russia; urged the formulatior of a better and more con-
sistent policy toward China and the cultivation of friendship also with
the United States. Great Britain. and Russia. He questioned the use of
the words, "crisis," "semiwar time," and "emergency period." so much
used by the army to justify increased military expenditures, and as a
crowning defiance of the War Office he rebuked the army's interference
in politics, saying that only in second-rate countries do the army and
nary dominate the Government. The replies of the Premier and the Minis-
ter of War were vague generalities asserting that a serious international
crisis existed in the Far East but failing to give logical explanations
of the situation. Ozaki's courageous speech may have enlightened the
Japanese public on nationel issues, but it did not min army tolerance
for the politicel parties, as subsequent events proved.
General Hayashi aroused surprisa when he appointed Naotake
Sato, Ambassador to France. as Foreign Minister on March 3. A diplomat
of the Shidehara school whose words and acts had inspired profound
respect among his foreign colleagues in Paris and elsewhere, he seems
somewhat out of placa in a cabinet diminated by the military. The
appointment indicated a swing from one extreme to the other on the Pre
mier's part, for his original selecticns for the posts of War and Navy
Ministers were Lieutenant General Itagaki and Admiral Suetsugu. both of
the aggressive militaristic type. He was dissuaded from including
either of these men in his cabinet in any capacity, thereby probably
averting a political upheaval with incalculable consequences.
Sato's initial speeck in the Lower House of he Diet. advo-
cating relations with China or a besis of equality, brought jeers from
party leaders and criticism from the arry. He was forced to recant
somewhat, saying the proposed policy did not mean an attitude of suh-
missiveness; but the caliber of the man was indicated when (according
to press report) he asked, "Having become a great nation, why does
Japar not show a more steadfast attitudo becoming a great people?"
Continuing, he said, 'If those in power discarded petty tactics and
walked down a broad highway, people would have confidence and the
powers would not have reason to mistrust Japan's policy. It is our
hope so to walk along a broad highway openly with our national policies."
Observers are pondering whether this refers to Japan's army-dictated
policy toward autonomy movements in China. At any rate. the recent
relaxation of Japanese pressure on China is probably due in part to
Sato's influence as well as to a more general realization that the for-
mer policy of force has not paid.
Finance Minister Yuti's efforts brought about a reduction of
approximately Yen 269,000,000 in the original budget rstimate, yet the
total. Yen 2. 769,200,000. is higher than that of 1936-37 by about Yen
458,000,000 -- in other words, the highest in Japan's history. The
army and navy each accepted a reduction of Yen 23.000,000 in the nature
f a "postponement." The parties were scmewhat eppeased ty the Finance
-16162

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
Minister's efforts at retrenchment and discard of certain taxation
plans, and the budget was passed without alteration on March 29. The
army and navy al1otments are Yen 704,900,000 and 658,600,000, respective-
ly, or about half of the total.
Two days later the Diet was suddenly dissolved, ostensibly
because the political parties were using bargaining tactics and ob-
structing legislation. They did not "appreciate the current situation,"
the Premier said. The real reason, of course, was the military's de-
sire to teach the parties a lesson and forestall further opposition to
their plans. According to law a general election must be held within
30 days and the campaign is in progress at this writing. It is dis-
tinguished by having no vital issues at stake on either side; that is.
none has been openly formulated. The Government has issued a statement
of policy almost as vague as that announced when it took office, but
has no known candidates in the field. The two major parties are rest-
ing their respective causes on opposition to the Government as a result
of the dissolution of the Diet for inadequate reasons. The minor
parties are welcoming the election as an almost sure means of increasing
their representation in the Diet. As one observer has said, it is a
pure example of what Premier Hayashi called the "constitutional govern-
ment peculiar to Japan."
There are, in reality, some very vital issues pending, but
the present ferment in Japanese thought has prevented their concrete
statement. Without doubt, there are Fascistic tendencies in the army,
notably in the Kwantung Army or Itagaki faction which has gained prac-
tically complete control of Manchouluo and put its theories of State
control into practice there. This group believes war with Russia is
inevitable and insists that money must be forthcoming to prepare the
army for it. A few cautious men in the military hierarchy, sensing
the public's dissatisfaction vith the army's expansionist program,
averted an Itagaki-controlled cabinet, but there is as yet no assurance
that the program for greater State control at the expense of parlia-
mentary authority can be forestalled indefinitely, despite the brave
words of liberals like Yukio Ozaki, Kunimatsu Hamada, and Foreign
Minister Sato. The parties have not regained their former prestige
with the people and even in the heyday of their influence lacked the
power wielded by political organizations in democratic countries; hence
they are not in a good position to awalten the people to what looms
ahead.
The greatest menace to parliamentary government in Japan now
is the current attempt to form a new party of Fascistlike character
which will do the bidding cf its army mentors. Rumors of the formation
of such a party have been current for some time and were given greater
substance by Premier Hayashi's announcement following the Diet disso-
lution in which the folloving significant sentences occurred. "I think
there would be nothing wrong should the Government decide to cooperate
with a new party that might come into cxistence and support it," he
declared. "The Government has not yet considered whether it should
take positive action in the direction of forming a new party. It would
be good if a party ready to support the Government came into being of
its own accord." The Itagaki faction is known to be promoting the
formation of such an organization, but apparently couid not bring it to
pass in time for the coming election. Prince Konoe, President of the
House of Peers (Upper House of the Diet) is reported to have refused
-16163

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
an invitation to head the new party, and no other leader of comparable
stature has been mooted.
Even if this party should be created, it would not be the
servant of a dictator like Mussolini or Hitler. The Japanese political
systen with a venerated Emperor at its head does not stimulate the rise
of a single leader who vould or could dare to appropriate any of the
Imperial authority, theoretical though much of it is. The purification
instituted by the army in self-defense since the February 26th inci-
dent and normal transfers of officers, moreover, have dispersed the
direct-action groups vhich clamored for a military dictatorship.
General Itagari himself nov has a routine command at some distance
from Tolyo.
Other circumstances militating against a Fascist state of
the European model in Japan are the character of the Japanese people
and the absence of specific conditions such as those prompting the rise
of the German and Italian dictatorships. Japanese have long been sub-
ject to thought control and regimentation and the exaltation of the
fanily and the clan above the individual. In that sense, Japan has
been a Fascistic state fcr somc time.
The attitude of the Japanese Navy in the present situation
and in the further bid for power which the army will certainly make is
uncertain. The Minister of the Navy tried to mediate to save the
Hirota Governmcnt from dissolution but vithout success, as already men-
tioned. The navy hierarchy forestalled the appointment of Admiral
Suetsugu and offered the higher ranking and more popular Admiral Yonai
in his placo in an attempt to keep the Hayashi Cabinet moderate. Yet
it was Admiral Yonai who took the lead in bringing about the dissolu-
tion of the Diet finally. This is interpreted to mean that the navy,
while averse to some of the army's policies, is not wholly in favor
of parliamentary government. Whether the navy would support action to
promote its much talked of "Southvard Advance" policy in opposition to
army-directed moves for expansion on the mainland remains one of the
imponderables in the present situation.
Of more immediate interest is the effect the country's eco-
nomic condition may have on the militarists' plans. An alarming rise
in commodity prices began toward the end of 1936 which has resulted in
an epidemic of strikes such as Japan has not seen for a number of
years. The higher cost of living had not tended to reconcile the
pecple to the enormously increased budget, due mostly to army and navy
demands, particularly because none of the crises so much heralded by
the military has vet occurred. The Hayashi Government's decision to
shelve certain tax plans has eased the situation temporarily, but will
only result in larger loans to cover the budget deficit. These long
continuing budget delicits constitute a greve wealness in Japan's
economic structure, as is well kmown.
The general election campaign is now nearing its end and when
this article appears in print the Japanese electorate, numbering pos-
sibly 15,000,000, will have registered its choice at the polls. An
overwhelming victory for the political parties has been predicted, but
this must be discounted in view of the very recent appeal of the Im-
perial Ex-Servicemen's Association to its 3,000,000 members, exhorting
them to vote "in accordance with the military spirit" for those
-16164-

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
candidates vho realize the necessity of strengthening national defense
and who know the gravity of the situation at home and abroad. The
political parties are denouncing this action as "another example of
military interference in politics" but the inherent loyalty of the
former recruits may prompt them to follow the association's behest.
The appeal would make it appear that a considerable number of candi-
dates favoring army views is in the field, but no information on this
point is available.
What will the militarists do if the parties do win a de-
cisive victory? One guess is that the army will compel further dis-
solutions and general elections until a Diet villing to do its bidding
is obtained. The strength of the opposition to such procedure is un-
assessable at present, but the near future should see important de-
velopments in this clash betwecn the military and the parties.
-1616.5

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
STATF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DCR
81937 DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY
May 5, 1937
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 7-1937
Mr. Secretary:
Department of State
NOTED
The Parliamontary BIections in Japan
894.00
The parliamentary elections in Japan, held on
April 30 following the dissolution of the Lower House on
March 30, have resulted in the return of a heavy majority
in favor of the two large parties avowedly opposed to the
cabinet of General Hayashi. The press, both in Japan and
in this country, interprets the outcome as a distinct
894.00/73
defeat for the Cabinet. The Cabinet is now faced by the
choice between resignation and an attempt to remain in
power through the extraordinary session of the Diet which
under the Japanese Constitution must be convened no later
2
than the latter part of August.
It seems apparent that the Cabinet, which is dominated
by the military, has no immediate intention of resigning,
despite the adverse vote. The measures which it will take
to remain in power, in face of the declared opposition of
the parties and in face of the overwhelming anti-govern-
ment vote of the people, remain obscure. The military
leaders behind the Cabinet, in their determination to
remain in power, may be planning to resort to an
indefinite number of subsequent dissolutions, or to some
F/FG
other device, to defeat the parties and to nullify the
ordinary workings ofparliamentary government.
It

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
It may develop, however, that some form of balance
may be reached between the parties and the Government. The
parties are aware of the futility of attempting to insist
upon a party government in the face of military opposition;
the Cabinet has just sustained a severe loss of prestige
by the adverse popular vote and may well desire to avoid a
struggle with the Diet. Out of this situation the Japanese
genius for compromise may effect a modus vivendi which
would enable the Cabinet to remain in power even after the
Diet convenes.
The press in this country has hailed the outcome of
the elections as a rebuke to the military and as a portent
of a resurgent liberal spirit. Although it is true that
militarism is less popular now than during the past few
years, it would be fallacious to regard the vote as a
victory of liberalism. Actually, the recent elections
should be interpreted more as a repudiation of the Hayashi
cabinet than as an indictment of the military. The fact
that the voting was very light may be taken as evidence
that the national consciousness has not been deeply
stirred, as it would be by an important national issue.
In any event the military are far too strongly entrenched,
both in public esteem and in the system of government, to
be affe cted very seriously by the outcome of this election.
WTTVDLY
n.m.A

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
DER
ROIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 1 1 1937
DIVISION OI
Division of
CONFIDENTIAL
May 8, 1937.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Si tu tion in
the Far East.
MAY 12 1937
MAY 11
rtment of State
Mr. Secretary:
NOTED
In China, there occurred during the week in review
no significant political developments.
In Japan, the election of members of the House of
894.00
Representativee on April 30 resulted in the return of a
heavy majority in favor of the two large parties avowedly
894.00/733
opposed to the Cabinet of General Hayashi. Notwith-
standing the resulte of the election it appears that
the Cabinet has no immediate intention of resigning.
The Embassy at Tokyo reported that on May 6 the
Japanese Foreign Minister made to foreign press corres-
pondents a statement in regard to his foreign policies.
According to the press he stated with regard to China:
"The best approach is to clear the atmosphere by solv-
ing minor outstending problems." This program would
imply the abandonment of the efforts of the previous
Japanese Government to obtain China's acceptance of
general principles (which principles were the cessation
of all anti-Japanese movements in China and China's active
FILED
collaboration wi th Japan; cooperation among Japan, China
and "Manchukuo"; and Joint Sino-Japanese action ageinst
communism). In view of the situation in Japan it is ob-
G
the support it i ll receive from the Japanese military.
FE:MSM:VCI

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.93)
63-1
OFFICE OF ECOXMOONG ADVISER
MAY 21 1937
HF
DIVISION OF
KLP
MAY 1 9 197
Tokyo
Dated May
DIVISION
EUROPEAN AFPAR
OF SASTEN
1-1336
FROM
Rec'd. 11:40 a.m.
894500
MAY 19 157
RR
TMEN
TA
COPIES SENT TO
Sedretary of Stat
U.N.I. AND M.I.D.
AN
TE
Washington.
OO NGISI AF
2001
131, Hay 17, 8 n.m.
H
人
Addrossing the Conference of Prefectural Governors today
894.00/734
the Premier expressed the political generalities previously
reported in his statements of policy, and said tha the
Government expects the cooperation of the newly elected
House of Representatives in the public interest. The
Foreign Minister delivered a long and important speech the
substance of wrich follows:
One. Anti-Japanese sentiment in China is widespread.
The lanking Government itself uses the growing spirit of
nationalism by urging cessation of internal hostilitie
in order to resist foreign aggression. China is pro-
MA
87 1937
gressing in unification. Japan harbors no aggressive
designs. The Japanese Government hopes to create a more
harmonious atmosphere by fresh personal contact, cultural
cooperation, inter-dependent economic relationship founded
upon common interests.
F/FG
Two. ilitary construction and war industries in the
Soviet Far East are being pushed with vigor and speed.
The

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
63-2
-2-
131 from Tokyo - May 17, 8 p m.
The trials of January and August in Russia show that the
country's internal condition is complicated. Japan is trying
to eliminate unnecessary friction. Unnecessary friction
has arisen through treatment of Japanese officials and
subjects by Soviet officials and through complaints against
Japanese treatment of Soviet officials. It is desirable that
Japanese prefectural governors exercise care in this regard.
Three. It is highly desirable to secure firmly Great
Britain's friendship. lHot a few questions with regard to
China and trade require solution between Japan and Great
Britain.
The Japanese Government is exerting its (*) to
solve them.
Four.
Relations with the United States are satisfactory
on the whole. Japanese expanding export trade has caused
difficulties viich have been gradually resolved by mutual
understanding. The Economic Mission now touring the Unitei.
States is expecting to enhance this friendly atmosphere.
The Murchison Mission resulted in a satisfactory agreement.
I hope that Japan and the United States, whose economic
relations are complementary, will continue to collaborate
in the task of preserving peace in the Pacific..
Five. The agreement of last Hovember with Germany
against the Conmunist International is simply a continuation
of Japan's invariable policies against all Communist
movements

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
63-3
-3-
131 from Tokyo - May 17, 8 p.m.
movements. This agreement is of the greatest value and
significanoe.
Six. International trade is essential to a densely
populated country like Japan. The restoration of freedom
of trade and the opening of sources of raw materials whiph
the Japanese Government has on all occasions advocated is
an assertion of our right of national existence. Japanese
representatives abroad must be oonstantly vigilant against
obstruction of Japanese exports.
Seven. Treatment of Japanese abroad depends in part
on treatment of foreigners in Japan. Prefectural
governors are requested not to treat foreigners with too
great rigor simply because they are foreigners.
To Peiping by mail.
HPD
GREW
(*) Apparent omission

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.97)
A-S
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 11, 1937
The immediate value of the subject
matter of the despatch from the Embassy
at Tokyo, No. 2390 of Anr11 30, 1936, en-
titled "Foreign Minister Sato's Basic
Economic Views" has been impaired by the
fact that Sato is now out of office, but
none tie less his views are believed to be
of intorest as representative of a large
section of Jananese feeling, even among the
so-called liberal group, on the question
of the need of Japan for the removal of
international obstacles to Japan's economic
development.
The pamphiot, o closed witl the despatch,
containin Lr. vato's arer entitled "The
roblem of opulation and Industrialization
in Janan" rena by hin on January 27, 1936,
In Pa  is is adequately summarized in the
Cespatcl. r. Sato quctes from Sir Samuel
lHoare's statements to the League of Nations
Assemb1y, Sontember 11, 1935, which
Mr. Sato cl aracterizes as revealing com-
rlete understanding. He elso quotes from
an article by Colonel Iouse entitled
"Wanted - A ew Deal Among Nations",
LIBFRTY, September 14, 1935. A reprint
of this article which lir. Sato commends
in his statement was made by the Foreign
Office together with a translation which
the mbassy says has become part of the
required reading of men in the Japanese
Foreign Service. This is werthy of note.
A

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
A copy of the renrint is enclosed with
the despatch.
Sato's aproach to the problems of
Japan's world position is studious and
restrained. He does not advocate terri-
torial readjustmont but looks to further
Japanese industrialization supported by
access to raw materials and to markets.
He suggests that it is always better to
negotiate than to take refuge in distrust
and abstention, and that worst policy
woulc be to oprose the est against the
bast.
There is enclosed an article from
the ASAlI which indicates that the Foreign
Minister plans to present to the June
meeting of ile League of Nations committee
on raw materials a protest arainst such
controls as the practical mononolization
of Malayan tin, Columbian cil, and
Chilean saltpeter, against exclusion from
African and South Seas exploitation, and
arainst tariffs and economic blocs.
=94.00/735
E: JB/LY

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.95)
11579
1157
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
WE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2390.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
TA
Tokyo, April 30, 1937.
D2
994.00
SUBJECT: FOREIGN MINISTER SATO'S BASIC ECONOMIC VIEWS.
SA
Coim (wich 1ofent 2)
AC/C
RECORDING DSK
FILE - WHB
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.00/735
NOT TO BE PUELIGHED AS
CIT CSTERN AFFAIRS
OFFICIAL INFORMATION.
DIPAPIMENT OF STATE
DVISION OF
COMMUNNERECORDS
The Honorable
PUBON
NAY 1 8 1937
The Secretary of State,
Jashington.
Sir:
At various times in the past years Mr. Naotake Sato,
present Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs, has ex-
pressed the conviction that a satisfactory adjustment of
foreign relations requires a fairer international dis-
tribution of natural resources. Although as an actual
guide in foreign policy this thought is no doubt not so
effective in the Foreign Minister's mind as are the
working principles discussed in the Embassy's despatch
No. 2312, March 17, 1937, the Embassy nevertheless is
of opinion that the subject merits close study. This
F
/FG
opinion

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
opinion seems to the Embassy particularly warranted
if consideration is being given to the question of
participation in any international economic conference.
On April 21, 1937, the Foreign Minister attended,
and addressed, a farewell banquet to the economic mission
which is shortly to leave for America and Europe(Em-
bassy's telegram No. 119, April 23, 4 p.m.). It was a
large function and several cabinet ministers were present.
Mr. Sato in his address stated that since 1927 the free
trade principle has lapsed, that very recently there
is noticeable a trend in the direction of its re-
establishment, and that Japan desires to join the move-
ment toward economic internationalism. Mr. Sato's
words, in their Japanese text, were not simply a plea
for lowering of tariff barriers, although that was their
apparent primary a plication; they were construable as a
statement in favor of some broader (though undefined)
removal of international obstacles to economic develop-
ment.
The following day, at a dinner at the Embassy, a
member of my staff (Mr. Coville) took occasion in con-
versation with the Foreign Linister to express interest
in the address at the economic mission farewell. Mr.
Sato responded immediately with the remark that what he
had had in mind was the basic thought expressed by
Colonel Edward M. House in certain articles published
in 1935. Mr. Sato and Lir. Coville then discussed the
form in which Colonel House's opinions had been presented
in

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
in the Japanese press, and in the course of the con-
versation the Foreign Minister stated that he would
send to Mr. Coville two publications bearing on the
subject. They have since been received and copies are
enclosed with this despatch: one is a Japanese Foreign
1/
Office reprint of Colonel House's article entitled "Wanted --
A New Deal Among Nations" (LIBERTY, September 14, 1935),
accompanied by Japanese translation; and the other is
"The Problem of Population and Industrialization in Japan",
a paper by Mir. Sato himself, read on January 27, 1936,
before the Centre d'Etudes de Politique Etrangère, Paris,
when Mr. Sato was ambassador to France.
The fact that the Foreign Office has seen fit to
translate and to print for its use the Colonel House
article is in itself worth noting. There are indica-
tions from time to time that the article has become
part of the required reading of men in the Japanese
foreign service, and it is probable thet the Foreign
Office staff has devoted detailed study to some plan
in harmony with the House principles. What those prin-
ciples are is no doubt well known to the Department:
"Germany, Italy and Japan need reservoirs into which
to pour their man power and from which to draw those
necessities and raw materials which nature denied them ....
I do not recommend annexation by force ........There are
still vast waste places throughout the earth. Why not
allow the Japanese to make them productive? ....Just as
social peace cannot prevail without some adjustment of
the

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
the capitalistic system, so international peace cannot
be preserved without drastic territorial readjustments.
Great Britain, France, Russia and the United States must
receive Italy, Germany and Japan on terms adjusted to
present world conditions and recognize their insistence
upon being given their proper part of the colonial re-
sources of the world. Chaos and catastrophe will be on
us unless those that have among the Powers are willing
to share in some way with those that have not." (Quoting
is from enclosure No. 1; the Embassy does not possess an
original copy of the issue of LIBERTY in which the article
was printed.)
By comparison with Colonel House's dogmatism, Mr.
Sato's approach to the problems of Japan's world position,
in his address of January 27, 1936 (enclosure No. 2), is
studious and restrained. Territorial readjustments are
not the solution aavocated; for remedy Mr. Sato looks
to further Japanese industrialization, supported by
access to raw materials and access to markets. He opens
the address with a discussion of Japan's population growth,
which subject he treats with commendable soundness. In
this matter he follows Professor Teijiro Ueda of Tokyo
(one of the most thorough of Japanese scholars of the
social sciences), and quotes with apparent approval
the opinion of Professor Ueda that there is already evi-
dence pointing to the cessation of increase in the popu-
lation of Japan in the not very distant future. Mr. Sato
believes this is for the best, and puts himself down as an
advocate

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
advocate of birth control and lowering of the birth rate.
This, however, as he points out, is no solution of the
problems arising from the large numbers of children already
born; and he takes the estimate of from 210,000 to 290,000
new arrivals annually in the labor market as the approximate
number to be expected each year for the next twenty years.
He then finds emigration and agrarian reform impotent as
remedies, and states that the solution must be found in
further industrialization.
The address then moves on to ex lanatory statements
about Jepanese industry in refutation of charges of low
wages and living standards, and in refutation of the state-
ments of alarm with which Japanese trade expansion has been
greeted abroad. Lir. Sato points out that in 1934, the year
of latest available statistics, Japan's exports were only
three and one-third percent of total world exports . Pursuing
the argument of the inevitability of further industrializa-
tion of Japan, Mr. Sato proceeds: "...it is indispensable
for Japan to have access, on the one hand, to raw materials
whiclh, apart from copper and coal, she lacks almost en-
tirely, and, on the other, to outlets for her manufectured
goods. Raw materials and foreign markets -- here are two
problems which have often in the past been the cause of
dangerous conflicts. They can become dangerous again if
the Powers, small as well as great, do not make a concerted
effort to destroy the cause of the evil." Mr. Sato next
quotes from Sir Samuel Hoare, then British Foreign Minister,
statements (to the League of Nations Assembly, September 11,
1935) which Lir. Sato characterizes as revealing complete
understanding:

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
-6 -
understanding: " 'Abundant supplies of raw materials,'
said Sir Samuel Hoare, 'appear to give peculiar advantage
to the countries possessing them. It is easy to exaggerate
the decisive character of such an advantage, for there are
countries which, having little or no natural abundance,
have yet made themselves prosperous and powerful by in-
dustry and trade. Yet the fact remains that some countries
either in their native soil or in their colonial territories,
do possess what appear to be preponderant advantages; and
that others, less favored, view the situation with anxiety.
..So far as His Liajesty's Government is concerned, I
feel sure that we should be ready to take our share in an
investigation of these matters . . . I suggest that the
emphasis in the terms of reference should fall upon free
distribution of such raw materials among the industrial
countries which require them, so that the fear of exclu-
sion or monopoly may be removed once and for all.' "
Mr. Sato passes to the vital importance of markets,
and says: "Some authorities . . . . add that it would be
singularly dangerous for the maintenance of peace to
close territories or to monopolize colonies. For my
part, I would not go so far. Peace is not to be troubled
except in the most extreme cases. The problems of daily
life will be solved by our statesmen, who will know how
to avoid conflicts of a purely economic origin." Mr.
Sato then quotes from Colonel House and commends him.
In conclusion Mr. Sato bespeaks a policy of good under-
standing and cooperation in the economic field: "A policy
of this kind can assume many forms: it is incompatible
neither

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
neither with a return to freedom of exchange, nor with
a maintenance of certain measures of restriction; it
can be expressed through a distribution of markets among
rival countries or by the allocation to certain countries
of certain categories of supplies or again by the assignment
of quotas in each market . . . It is always better to ne-
gotiate than to take refuge in distrust and abstention . . .
I repeat that the worst policy would be to oppose the West
against the East."
So much for the Foreign Minister's expression of his
fundamental convictions with regard to the economics of
Japan's foreign relations. It is not the purpose of the
Embassy to distort the importance of these politico-eco-
nomic ideas, to express which Mr. Sato is not the first
Japanese. Un the other hand, Premier Hayashi was unquestion-
ably cognizant of Mr. Sato's opinions before he was invited
into the Cabinet, and there is some weight to the evidence
that the Foreign Minister holds these views at the present
time, while in his high office. The attitude of the Japa-
nese Government toward the situation prevailing in the
Congo Lasin is one manifestation (Embassy's despatch No.
2280, February 26, 1937).
3/
A recent article in the ASAHI (see third enclosure) further
indicates that the Foreign Minister plans to present to the
June meeting of the League of Nations committee on raw
materials a protest against such controlsas the practical
monopolization of Malayan tin, Columbian oil, and Chilean
saltpeter, against exclusion from African and South Seas
exploitation, and against tariffs and economic blocs.
The

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
The Hayashi Cabinet's tenure of office is not
entirely secure, but, short of resignation of the
whole Cabinet in some Diet impasse at least several
months distant, Mr. Sato's position appears fairly
solid. Even in event of Cabinet resignation, Mr. Sato
might well serve in the following Cabinet also. That a
man of his temperament and experience can be Foreign
Minister under the anomalous present administration led by
a soldier who is defiant of the Diet is another example
of the surprises which litter Japanese politics. Mr.
Sato is a studious man, not at all an alarmist. A disci-
ple and admirer of the late Dr. Inazo Nitobe, who was
for many years the country's most noted internationalist,
Mr. Sato has a wide following among Japanese scholars.
He is completely convinced of the rightness of his policy,
which he sees as simply commonplace, common sense justice,
eventually destined to acceptance because of its reason
ableness. He is a man of great determination.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
inx2g2)
Enclosures: 1. "Wanted - A New Deal Among Nations,"
reprint by Japanese Foreign Office,
December 20, 1935.
2. "The Problem of Population and Industrializa-
tion in Japan," by Naotake Sato, published
by the International Association of Japan
(Nippon Kokusai Kyokai)
3. Clipping, "Sato LMay Advance Resource Theories,"
710.
JAPAN ADVERTISER, Apri1 24, 1937.
CC:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping, with enclosures 1,2, and 3.
Copy to Embassy, Moscow, with enclosures 2 and 3.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
SATO MAY ADVANCE
RESOURCE THEORIES
Three Principles Considered for
Submission to League Raw
Materials Committee
Fereign Minister Naotake Sato plans
to advance three basic principles at the
June mecting of the League of Nations
committee on raw materials, namely,
freedom in the acquisition of raw mate-
rials. freedom in the exploitation of
raw materials and freedom of trade and
commerce.
The first principle is based on the
contention that raw material markets
are virtually monopolized by a number
of nations. which in general keep the
door closed even in peace time, says
the Asahi. The expioitation and ex-
portation of Malayan tin, Colombian
oil. Chilean saltpeter and other raw
materials are under strong control.
which constitutes a menace to countries
not rich in resources. Raw materials
should be distributed on a fair basis,
Minister Sato is expected to argue.
Restrictions on the people who have
the power to exploit the undeveloped
resources of Africa and various islands
in the South Seas are contrary to the
welfare and prosperity of mankind, the
Foreign Minister believes, the paper
continues.
Formation of economic bloes and
erection of tariff walls have greatly
decreased the freedom of trade and
commerce. and there is an urgent
necessity for breaking down such a
condition, the league committee is to be
told.
Mr. Yasundo Sudo, commercial se-
cretary attached to the Embassy at Ber-
lin. will represent Japan at the meet-
ing. He also attended the committee's
March meeting. Mr. Sudo has been
instructed to come to Japan for a con-
sultation on the raw materials ques-
tion. the paper adds.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to
despatch No. 2390 of
April 30, 1937 from
the Embassy at Tokyo.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
WANTED—A NEW DEAL
AMONG NATIONS
By Colorel Edward Mandell House
From the "Liberty", September 5, 1935.
"Italy must expand or explode." This
statement was made by Il Duce to George
S.lvester Viereck some years ago. The legions
of Mussolini marching into Africa may lay
the foundation for a new Roman Empire great
enough to give the Italian people a chance to
breathe. If Mussolini succeeds, Italy will
expand in Africa without exploding in
Europe. Let us hope that this may be done
without improperly exploiting the rights of
other people.
What Mussolini said of Italy holds true
equally of Germany and Japan. Every
statesman will admit in private conversation
that Germany, Italy and Japan need reser-
voirs into which to pour their man power and
from which to draw those necessities and raw
1

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
materials which nature denied them. But
the great possessing nations—Great Britain,
France, the United States, and Russia-are
unwilling to grant to their less fortunate
fellows more than crumbs that fall from their
colonial table.
Hate, suspicion, and economic disaster
walked in the trail of the so-called Peace
Treaty of Versailles. The Peace Treaty de
prived Germany of all her colonies; it did
not fulfill the 'colonial promises made to
Italy, and Japan was held in check. As a
result, Germany produced Hitler, the over.
compensation of her inferiority complex;
Mussolini stirred up trouble in Europe; and
Japan is looking for her easiest and most
effective channel into which she may pour her
superfiuous population and trade. There can
be no stability until the vital demands of
these three great nations are met. I do not
recommend annexation by force, nor the
ruthless exploitation of native populations,
but some satisfactory arrangement should be
reached.
Would not Gernany be less likely to boil
over if she got back the colonies mandated to
her enemies? There are, possibly, certain
2

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
regions that, for vital and strategic and other
reamons, cannot be returned. But all legiti-
mate German wishes might be met by various
devices.
For one thing. it should not be impossible
to revive the agreement between England and
Germany made shortly before the World War.
It is generally understood that there was a
provisional treaty already initialed by the
British Foreign Minister, which gave Germany
the right to acquire by purchase the Portu-
guese colonies. If the Reich receives some of
its old colonies, and if she can purchase the
Portuguese colonies and maybe the Belgian
Congo, Germany will be kept busy. Her
thoughts will not steal toward her neighbor's
property in Europe (although certain adjust-
ments in the East wonld still be advisable).
he will exploit her matchless energy for the
commereial penetration and cultivation of a
large colonial empire. It was Bismarek him-
self who urged this policy to keep Franee from
Iscoming too restless after her defeat in 1871.
It was Bismarck who aided France to acquire
more colonial territory. The world cannot
deny to the German what it freely gave to the
Frenehman.
3

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
A contented Germany and a coutented Italy
will be more effcient guaranties of world
peace than any pacts or treaties, secret or
avowed. The problem of Germany and of Italy
is important to the United States Isecause the
worid is a living whole. The problem of Japan
is of even more immediate consequence to our
country.
Most Westerners look upon the Japanese as
the most likely breeders of serious interna-
tional trouble. They recognize parts of Central
Europe as disturbing areas, but it is felt,
rightly or wrongly, that with the Great Powers
bent on peace. any trouble arising in this part
of our mundane sphere may be localized.
With Japan it is different. Japan cannot
be controlled. It looks as if she it inds to
carry out any policy that appears to her l .d.
ers as of benefit to the country's larger pur
poses. Already meveral major moves lave been
made in this direction. One was the with-
drawal from the League of Nations in order
to have unrestricted action. Another was the
notice that she had no intention of renewing
the Washington Naval Treaty.
From my point of view both were mistaken.
My sympathy is largely with the Japanese
4

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
and what they seem to have in mind. But I
think they are choosing the wrong time and
the wrong methods of bringing it about. The
world is in too much turmoil now. It needs
composure if it is to right itself. Let the
constructive forces at work in almost every
country succced, and what Japan desires will
come about easily and naturally.
It is understandable that Japan should wish
the dominating influence in the Far East, and
she has a right to demand an outlet for the
crowded population within her restricted
borders. There are still vast waste places
throughout the earth. Why not allow the
Japanese to make them productive and add
to the wealth and happiness of mankind?
Heretofore such things have been accomplished
by war, but we want no more wars of aggres-
sion. Why not me whether the problem can-
not lx worked out to matisfy the Japanese
without antagonizing other Great Powers?
I have had the opportunity to discuss the
problems of Japan with some of the wisest
of her statesmen. These conversations have
opened my eyes to certain facts which I had
hitherto only dimly perceived. I had been
somewhat prejudiced against Japan by the
5

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
clamor of her militarista, and by her refusal
to cooperate with other nations. Today I
see the situation in a different light.
There are two opposing groupe in Japan,
one led by the younger militarists, and the
other by such mature statesmen as Count
Makino. The situation there is not very dif-
ferent from what it is elmewhere among the
Great Powers, including the I'nited States.
Blatant propaganda for increasd armaments
on land and sea makes the public believe that
the mafety of their country is in danger.
Until recently, an overwhelming proportion
of the Japanem desired peace and believed
that it could be arsured hy a decreame in
armaments rather than by violent inerease.
This opinion may still be in the majority. I
hope it is, but the militarists are more noisy
there, just as they are here.
The militarists are isolationists. Clamor
ing for a big army and a big navy, they want
to live without interference, or cooperation
with the rest of the world. If this party
gains control, trouble will amost certainly be
the result. But I have contidence in the sober
judgment of the masses of Japan, and if we
do our part, the future will see us working
6

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
with them for a common purpose.
This can never be done by taking a narrow,
isolated and wholly melfish view. If we and
other nations contemplating policies based on
unenlightened national egotism should carry
out these intentions, failure is inevitable. It
may sound well to insist upon living withim
ourselves and being self-supporting. A pro-
hibitive tariff may seem mound economic
sense. A refusal to take any part in discus-
mions and wettlements of international pro-
blems may seem wise. But, as a matter of
fact, it cannot be done by such a nation as
the United States. Isolation is manifestly
mot our destiny.
In almost all countries there is a strong
sentiment for isolation. With human society
organized as at present this is practically
impossible. If complete chaos should be the
outcome of the present disturbance, and we
should evolve a different scheme for carrying
on the world's affairs, this might be done.
But if we plan to right our problems and go
on in mome such way as we have in the past,
we need more rather than less international
cooperation. India, China, and perhaps even
Russia, might exist and be content to live
7

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
entirely on their own resources, but not
Americans. If isolation, autarchy, narrow
nationalism, is the best that our virile, cour-
ageous, highly educated, one hundred and
thirty millions of peoples can do with the
wealth and the machinery they have created
from their mines, from their factories and
from their land, then the American experiment
is not worth while -we have not justified our
existence.
I refuse to be a pessimist. America is not
at the end but at the beginning. It is my
belief that steadily we will advance along the
path we have chosen. We will make the
world a better place in which to live, and lift
mankind to a higher and better plane.
We cannot refuse to be our brothers keep
ers; we cannot "disinterest" ourselves in
Europe and Asia. Chance, destiny, or fate
-call it what you will—has given us an
opening to take leadership in the effort
toward the betterment of our race. If we
heed the isolationists, we shall become the
China of the Western World. I say this with
all respect for the Chinese. They are a re-
markable people, with a unique civilization
behind them, but their theory of government
8

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
is centuries behind the times. They cannot
cope with the thought of the rest of the worl
or of their virile neighbors, the Japanese,
who are becoming more modern than the
Western peoples themselves.
The yellow race, led by its most progressive
members, will coalesce eventually. It is
desirable that this bloe almost invineible if to
the weight of numbers is added the new
impetus which China as well as Japan has
received from the Western world—should not
be imbued with antagonism against the white
race. But it will be thus imbued if we are
unwilling to envisage a new deal interna-
tionally as well as nationally.
Germany will be dissatisfied until she
regains what the exile in Doorn has called
her "place in the sun." The tension in
Europe will lead to new disasters unless the
imperial urge of Mussolini has the oppor-
tunity to spend itself on African soil. Japan
will see red until her crying needs are ack-
nowledged. The four Powers possessing the
world- Great Britain, France, Russia, and
the United States must realize that mankind
can no tonger le governed by the adage, "He
that hath, to him shall be given: and he that
9

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
hath not, from him shall be taken even that
which he hath."
Just as social peace cannot prevail without
some adjustment of the capitalistic system,
so international peace cannot be preserved
without drastic territorial readjustments.
Great Britain, France, Russia and the United
States must receive Italy, Germany. and
Japan on terms adjusted to present world
conditions and recognize their insistence upon
being given their proper part of the colonial
resources of the world. Chaos and catastrophe
will be upon us unless those that have among
the Powers are willing to share in some way
with those that have not.
10

=== Page 171 === (confidence 1.00)
NEW DEAL AMONG
NATIONS
By Prince Fumimaro Konoe
From the “Liberty", December 4, 1935.
The greatest problem posed for humanity
is how to secure lasting peace for the advan-
cement of mankind. From time immemorial
thinking men of all countries pondered this
problem. Opinions have been expressed,
movements have been launched.
Yet the solution has not been found, the
eternal quest still goes on. Today, we are
confronted with the need for a reëxamination
of the conceptions and contrivances which
have been advanced for world peace. We are
bidden to find a new approach to the old
question, we must devise a new system based
upon a new idea.
What, then, is the matter with the prevail-
ing peace system?
In the past the world has devoted much
11

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
attention to the methods of preserving peace,
but has been inclined to ignore the causes
which threatened it.
Prior to the World War the chancellories
of Europe strove to keep peace by maintain-
ing a balance of power among the leading
nations. That ended in failure.
After the war the statesmen hoped to
preserve world peace by a system of collective
security embodied in the League of Nations.
The result has hardly measured up to the
expectation. Europe has continued to be
haunted with a sense of insecurity. Not only
that, but war has virtually started in East
Africa embroiling two nations who are both
members of the League.
Peace, then, is as much a matter of devis-
ing methods or systems as it is a question of
dealing with the causes which are at the
bottom of international friction. The peace
pacts and non-aggression treaties, noble in
conception and useful in practice. have not
dissipated fears of war, because they faited
to take full cognizance of those causes.
Universal brotherhood and common happi-
ness are the ideal of mankind. In our
struggle towards that goad we most hear in
12

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.88)
mind that there are some peoples which are.
un der the existing world order, denied the
opprortromity to develon their native capacity
ad to fulfil their mission as independent
nr They fel That their national exis
to t ro tled. their natural development
t! orted. To them it is a matter of life and
How to den! with such peoples is the first
qie  ion which must be selved in the interest
of peaee And the proper approach to this
en s  a conderation of how to secure a
mmore equitable  ment by all nations of
land, raty meteriods and other resources which
aro c iet to the eistenee and legitimate
developnert of each.
Under the eig world order. the ap
prortionment of sueh essentinl resources has
Lo mnde bey prful nmations with little
ro d for tre nrent meeds and cooobilities
ef ler formmmnte merione or peoodles. Te
rot potable exe.mple in oee n odern times is
ho r ior tment whieh follow ed the World War.
The  un rlative result of such mabdistribution
ex erding over centuries is a recurrent dis
to hnr of international relations. The for
le mrintenance of the status quo in the
13

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
distribution of land and resources musi in-
evitably remain a source of international fric-
tion and conflict.
If the above premise is true, the road to
peace is not far to seek. It seems to lie in
the mutual recognition among all nations of
the peculiar and especial needs, requirements,
and positions of cach, with a view to meeting
legitimate aspirations for peaceful develop-
ment on the part of those progressive yet
unfortunate nations whose naturai capacity
for advancement has been checked by their
lack of the necessary resources.
It, then, behooves the fortunate nations,
which are blessed by the status quo, to be
prepared to readjust their fortune and to share
their happiness with the unfortunate nations
whose existence has been made dificnlt or
whose natural growth has been checkmated by
the same status quo.
It is not wise to fill old bottles with new
wine. Metaphorically, new wines have been
and still are formenting in our modern world
in tie shape of once backward or dormant na-
tions now conscions of their innate abilities
and demamnding a due share in the benetits
which they think have monopolized by the
11

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
powers who happened to appear before them
upon the stage of world politics. Cram them
down in the old bottle of the status quo, and
the bottle may burst.
Thus the process of equalization seems to be
at work. It cannot be repressed without dis
astrous consequences. The only wise way is
to guide it into the right channel.
Colonel Edward M. House refers, in his
admirable artiele, to Japan's withdrawal from
the League of Nations and her renunciation
of the Washington Naval Treaty.
It will be recalled that Japan disagreed
with the League of Nations on the question
of maintaining the peace of Eastern Asia, and
that the disagreement brought about her with
drawal from the League. Had the League had
a clearer understanding of the Far Eastern
situation and of Japan's peculiar position
therein, it might not have adopted the mea-
sures which forced us out of its own fold.
Unfortunate as our withdrawal from Geneva
appeared to be, it at least caused the League
to ponder and reflect on the problems of the
Far East. Because of it, the League today,
it seems to me, has a better appreciation of
these problems.
15

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
Japan's renunciation of the Naval Treaty
of Washington furnishes another event whose
real import has not fully been appreciated by
the western world. Japan is in this respeet
actuated by a sincere desire to effect a sub-
stantial reduetion in naval armaments with
its corollary of lightening the financial bur-
dens now weighing upon all tax ridden na-
tions. If the powers under-taned Japan's
motive as well as the mission imposed upon
her by reason of her peculiar position in the
Far East, they will not fail to appreciate the
stand she has taken on the naval question.
It is refreshing to see so enlightened an
American statesman as Colonel House frankly
recognize defects in the peace policies hereto-
fore followed by the leading powers, and
openly urge a new deal in the readjustment
of international relations. He seems to think
that emphasis should be laid not so much
upon the system of maintaining peace as upon
the method of eliminating the factor. which
menace peace.
Among nations, as among individuals, the
"haves" always resist the clamors of the
“have nots", however justitiable such clamors
may be. But to resist them indefinitely and
16

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
uncompromisingly would spell disaster to
peace, to civilization, to humanity itself. By
common consent foremost among the nations
that Fave" are the United States of America.
Great Britain, France, and Soviet Russia,
follos ed. perhaps, by a few other countries.
The time seems to be at hand when great,
rich. powerful nations, animated by a spirit
of noblesse oblige, should face the problem
squarely and courageously, and do their part
in the establishment of a new and lasting
peace.
17

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.78)
真飼に考意し新たなる恒久的平和の確立い口に買獣すべき時期が来たのではないかと思ん
衆論の一致せる所であるが、是令言裕にして強大なる諸岡が大調の様度を示し右川題を刃敢目
来するととになるであらう。世界の強火間と稱すぺきは米英卵蘇共い仙の話岡である事
とするが、際限もなく且些も安協せす之を抑ぶする時は平れ、文明、否人初全敵に悲惨事を招
も得たる世界の強大國は現状に満足せざる諸図の要求は其の道理の如何を間はか之に従んまい
を除去する必要に着験せられたるは確かに遠見であると思ん。個人間に於けると同様何ものと
に国際間の「ニュー・ディール」をお張し単に平和継持の校酬のハならナ平和を身風する根源
命とと光分に認識するにだては日本の海取問題に動する主張をぬ解するであらう。
な目的に出たものであつた。若し列強にして日本の此なを玩味し日本の東頭にだける立場と使
る日本が事條約を貴葉したのは出来る丈取備を制限して岡に負校の郵減を計らうとするに築
かの細くである日本の華府像約勝察も敵米が日本の風意と光分結解しなかった事例の一でも
建識なる米國政消家ハウス大佐が岡際平和継持に動する従來の方液の映ぶとホ爪に認めの敢
★

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.80)
は少くとも時盟に反省の横分を興へるに跡以は今日極東間題に付従前に比しぬ解の度を増した
置は取らなかつたであらう。然しい本の姉盟院退は不幸なる川来事であつたかも知れないが之
が東頭の事態を正當に認嫌して将たとせば日本をして説退のこむなきに立至らしめるが如き指
に於ける平和を継持するはに途に脚盟を此退するの飲儀無とに亜つたのである。若しぶ時跡凹
及せられて居るが滿洲事硬起るや日本は東亞平和継持の間題に就いて聯盟と見解を異にし東頭
からすして唯善導するの外はないのである。へウス大佐は日本の聯盟此退及華府像約腹乗にす
國を現状維持の普革に詣込まんか術ぶは必すや破裂するであらう
依り獨占せられ居ると考ふる列谷にいせんことを要求するに至つた諸國である若し是等諸
自覚でおつたが今や其の木然の能力に覚め、偶然世界政治の舞楽に先立つて登場した列強に
ざるか父は仲び得ざる不幸なるに成とよのゃ痛ゃ分たねばならぬ。
人類の水平運動は世界の随所に見られる。恰渡たる結果を避けんとせば此の運動は抑訓すぺ
「新酒は伴れに盛るぺからよ。」而して新いにふぺきは近代進取諸開にして、停ては未聞無
三

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.81)
状に滿足する幸福たる諸剛は先づ其の領有する領土竝に貴源と間節し現狀の下に於ては生き得
願中に添ふため各民状の立場要求及使命を相五に認めるに在るであらう而して之が爲には現
必要なる貴源の訣加に制把されて自然の進展力を叫まれつつある不幸なる諸園の平和的發展の
必然岡際間の反いを増し間突を来すばかりである
る紛議を捕き起して居る有様である此の不均衡な分属の現状を力を以て維持せんとすれば
右の好適例である。過去激世紀に見る屢次の不均術な分属の結果は同奈間係に反映して湖々た
無く強大國が撞に決定した所である。大戦後棒和會議に於ける側土資源の調節は近代に於ける
上必要なる重要要案の一層公示なる分屬である。
如何に神過すべき乎。而して先づ考恵せねばならぬのは側土及原料等画家民族の存在又は貴員
問題である之は平和の樹立に当って最光に解決して瞳かねばならぬ間場である。是事民族と
やし右の説に真理と達めるならぱ平和に至る遠は容易に發見し得る。即ち進取的ではおるが
然るに世界の現状を見るに見浄領上原料等の所属は不幸なる諸同の要求及能力に何の画慮

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.73)
れ其の自編の書展が姉けられっつあるものと考へて居る。之は當談国民に取っては賞に死活の
しての使命と建成し得ぶる國比もあるととと覚知せぬばならぬ。是事同地は同家的生存を隠ま
界の現状に鈴ては共の園有の能力を教揮し得ざる心族もあれば父現状の下に在ては岡立圖家と
としやなかった
意に基き有用の役割をなしては居るが紛争の原いに光分の考慮を拂つて居ないので戦きの身威
の機源を除夫することに分めねたらぬ。は而大破後の小飛條利之は不侵時係約は高何なる想
中東阿弗利加方面には事實上の被端水同か孔師同中の二之に指まて居る
豫期した効果を發揮し得ないのである。所くて派洲の此局よ人彼後終始不安定でおつて他方今
制度により世界の大小図を網陽する岡際帰烈によつて世界の平和を罪行せんとしたが未だ最初
としては洲の平和を維神せんとしたが終に失敗にった世界大神後此界の政者はに同保證
人親の理想は四海川胞共存共榮の平印卿を現出するにある然し此の理想進成に常っては世
故に平和の維持を考慮するに當つては取に小和い校間の開明のみたらす更に逃んで国野紛争
三

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.83)
を除去するととを忘れた気味があつた世界大戦前に在ては比洲の岱政者は勢力の均衡を基礎
然らば現行平和権持の方像は何山に決間がある手
ければならぬ。
居る我々は如何にしても此の古い間題に針し新しき観念に戒いて平和維持の方策を考案しな
られて居る斯くて我ャは従来の平和継持の親念並に方策に再檢討を加ふるの必要に直面して
運動を起しもし諸種の計術をも考栄した然し未だに解決の鍵は見川されゃ研兄は依然継細せ
るかに在る。古往今來各岡遊多の誰者は此の間題解決と願求して深く研究し意見をぬ表し實際
想ふに従來平和維持の間題に就ては事ら平和維持の機端が考究せられて平和を仲成する機顔
我人親に取つて最大なる間題は人類の向上遠歩のため如何にして世界恒久の平和を確保す
國際ニュー・デイール（米龍ッペティ十二月四日）
近
衡
三

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.80)
今日長人が直西してみるより遠かに荘しい此風と総事とがそ人を見録ふでおらう。
と運めねばならぬ。持分多き大岡がョり不過な諸岡と何とか其の持分を分け合ふに非すんば
伊獨口に接し、目之等三岡が世界の植民地資源に付公當たる配分を受けんことを主張する
思ひ切つた領土的再調節なくしては保ち得まい美佛術米は世界の現狀に適した條件で
宛も社何的平和がさ本主後組織の何事かの調頼なくしては保たれないと同様、図際的平和も
二

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.80)
ん有せざる者は其の有せる物とも撃はれん
早次の金言に支配されるものではないことを理解せねばならぬ。日く「有する者には興へられ
であらう世界を占有して居うと稱して不可なき四大圃、英岡佛國露岡及米岡は人新が蚊
は、新たなる静事を意起するであらう。日本は共の切なる要求が認められる迄は憤激を続じる
あらう。歐洲の緊張はムッソリュの赤國的雄心が阿弗利加に於て鎖解される機會を得るに非れ
ぱ、右の敵意は生するであらう。
的に結ると同様に岡際的にも這んで「ュー・ダィーん」（新親時直し）の考慮を青じなけれ
かと思はれる右闘結が、白色人隠に謝して敵息と抱かないことと吾人は望む。然もそ人が岡内
たる其の人口の強味の上に更に日支剛間が西洋から受けた新たなる刺戦が加はれば功んど無敵
属途はドールンの亡命者書病帝が「日向の席」と呼んだ所のものと回牧する迄は満足せぬで
黄色人種は共の中で最達歩的な強族に増事せられ、完観に於て大同国結するであらう。調然
o

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.76)
れ其の自然の書展が姉かられっつあるしのと考へて居る。之は當談側民に取っては賞に死治の
しての使命と連成し得ぶる国比もあるととと覚知せぬばならぬ。是等國民は同家的生存を問ま
界の現状に鈴ては其の園有の能力を發揮し得ぶる心族もあれば父現状の下に在ては獨立國家と
としやなかった
意に基き有用の投割をなしては居るが紛争の原山に光分の考慮を拂つて居ないので歌みの身減
の機瀬を除夫することに努めねたらぬ。は門大砂後の不職條利父は不侵時係約は高何なる想
中東阿弗利加方面には事實上の端本開か國中の二之に指まて居る
豫明した効果を發揮し得ないのであ。所くて派洲の政局は大載後終始不安定でおつて他方今
制度により世界の大小岡を網陽する岡際帰によつて世界の平和を維行せんとしたが未だ最初
としては洲の平和を維神せんとしたが終に失敗にった此界大神後此界の政者は共同保護
人類の理想は四海同胞共存共榮ので和郷を現出するにある。然し此の理想達成に常っては世
故に平和の維持を考慮するに常つては取に小和い校園の開明のみたらす更に巡んで岡際紛争
三

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.82)
と除去するととを忘れた系味があつた世界大戦前に作ては比洲の爲政者は勢力の均衛を基礎
然らば現行平和推持の方散は何山に決所がある手
ければならぬ
居る我々は如何にしても此の古い間題に針し新しき観念に来いて平和維持の方策を考案しな
られて居る。斯くて我々は従来の平和継持の親念並に方策に再檢討を加ふるの必要に直面して
運動を起しもし諸種の計術をも考案した然し未だに解決の鍵は見川されず研光は依然継細せ
るかに在る。古住今來各岡幾多の誰者は此の間幽解決を願求して深く研究し意見を發表し實際
想ふに従來平和維持の間問に就ては事ら平和維持の機闘が考究せられて平和を仲成する供頑
我人親に取つて最大なる間題は人類の向上進歩のため如何にして世界恒久の平和を確保す
國際ニュー・ディール（米臨ッペチィ十二月四日所）
近
衛
三

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.81)
ない。又四作人自身よりも一肝近代的になりつつある最嗣たて共の隣岡の本人の思湖に動机
立派た國民であるが、共の政治理論は教世紀も時代理れである。彼等は外岡の思潮に動折しれ
あらう。余は支那國民に光分炸被を拂つた上斯く何ふ。彼等は通去に於て特異の文明を持つた
指導する触地を奥へた。再人だし孤立キ遊者のけに従ふならば、米國は西洋の支那と化するで
偶然、運命宿命ー共の名稱は間はぬがー斯るものが我図民に我が同種族向上のための努力と
き而してョッ遊き城に向上せしたる恐怖である。
人が自ら週んだ途を済へ進むべきを何する吾人は世界を一層住みよい所とし、人親をッ高
没却するものである。
そ非義を探るのが精々とするならば米図人の分作は無似値であり、吾人は自らの生れの意義と
高の来園人がを違其の鏡山工場。及上地から作り川した宿と組織とえ以て長立も達、自給種
吾人は兄弟の守者たるを拒絶し得ぬと同様に敵猫巳及亜細亞に就て無闘心」であり得ない。
余は断じて悲観論者にはならたい。問は行詰つては居らぬ。仕事は之からである。余は吾
九

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.83)
るかも知れないが、米岡は然うは行かない男性的で、元気な、而して救りの高い一に三千
は一層必要でおる印度光那及恐らくは落西さへも全然自いてにつて生作し目滿足し
ながら現在の諸問題の解決をり従來吾人の探り來つた方法を維持せんとする以上同際協力
問題を鷹理するため異つた機構を作り出すことになれば孤立も成は川求るかも知れない。然し
は孤立は實際上不可能でおる若し現今の紛風の結果企然混池たる状悠を現じ然る後世界の
見賢嫌と思へるかも知れない話し米国の如き国家は断じて断る方嫌を取り得ない。孤立は明
的調戦は経済的の好分別と聞えるかも知れない國際問題の肘議と解決とにき加と担むのは一
敗にる長立と自給自足に終始すべしと主張することは戒は聞えが立いかも知れない禁止
位の眼味なる利己主義に立脚する政策を抱慢しつつ右の考を實施しようとしてもそれは必然失
殆んと練ての國に孤立を可とする強い然情がある。然し現在の如き組蔵の人親吐令に取つて
おは狭陸な利己一片の見解を抱いてぬては決して達し得ない。我聞い竝に他の開にが自開本
人

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.92)
乗の通告であった
動きが敷回行はれた一は行動の自由を保つための國際聯盟脱退であり、他は華府海軍條約廢
目的に役立つと認める政策は皆之を遂行せんとするの風がある。而してに此の方向に大きな
局限し得るものと考へられておる。
面倒な地域とされておるが共の當否は兎も仰列強が平和を望める以上此の方面の紛半は
に至つては我図に取って一呼直接の影響がある。
界は暉然たる一個の生間であるから獨伊の間題は米図に取つても重要なのである。日本の問題
滿足せる伊太利とは如何なる密約にも公約にも優る有效な世界平和の保證となるであらう。世
あつた。吾人は寛大に佛蘭西に興へた所のものを獨逸に拒むことは川來ない。滿足せる獨逸と
余の見る所に依れば右は雨つながら医策である。余は大體日本岡民竝に日本図民の抱いてる
日本に就ては然うでない。日本には制御が利かない。日本は其の指導者達が荷くも自図の大
西洋人は概ね日本人を目して重大な図際間題誘發の張本人ともなしてみる。中歐の或方面も
五

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.94)
マルク其い人であつた。佛關西を扱けて植民地を獲得させるに努めたのもビスマルク共の人で
八七一年の敗戦後佛蘭西をして過度の焦燥に走らしめぬために此の政策を唱道したのはビス
無比の精力を廣大た植民帝図に對する商業的侵潤と開拓の努力とに使用することとならう。一
な念もなくならう（尤も東歌に於ける若干の領土調整は依然望ましいかも知れぬ。獨逸は其の
如きを買收し得たならば獨逸は他を顧る暇も無くなり歐洲に在る其の隣國の所領を窺ふ様
解せられてみる。若し舊植民地の若干の返却を受け更に荀萄牙植民地乃至は白耳義領コンゴの
の協定は當時既に英國外相の假署名を經獨逸に補萄牙領植民地買收補を與へたものと一般に
あらうが種々工夫すれば獨逸の正當な希望は悉く容れる途もあるであらう。
憤激も鎮まるのではなからうか。中には死活的な戦略上の理由其の他に依り返還不能の地域も
き土人の押取は動めない。然し何等か満足の行く取極は作らるべきものときへえ
一例を舉ければ大職直前、英獨間に結ばれた協定を復活することも不可能ではあるまい。此
若し獨逸が大戦営時の敵國の委任に師した植民地の若干の返還を受けたならば恐らくは共の

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.90)
得べき通路を求めるに至つた。
ツソリ二は歐羅巴に於て事端を惹起し日本は其の過剩人口と商品とを最容易且有効に注入し
逸はインフイリオリティ・コンプレツクス（自己賤視の猛反撥としてヒツトラーを産みム
の全植民地を奪ひ取り伊太利には約束した植民地を與へ丈父日本は妨害を受けた。其の結果獨
なかった。
露西亞等の大領土國は彼等程熟まれざる諸國に對して自國植民地の殘着しか與へるととを肯じ
とを其處から抽出すべき貯水池を要することを認めておる。然し乍ら英帝國、佛蘭西、米國及
私的談話に於ては獨逸伊太利及日木が其の人的勢力を注入し日自國に訣如せる必需品と原料
あらう。吾人は右が他図民の利益を不當に使すことなく行はれんことを望む。
此等三大國民の緊急要求が容れられる迄は安定はあり得ない。余は強力に依る併合や假借な
憎悪と疑惑と經濟的災厄とがヴエルサイュの所謂「平和」條約に踉隨した。平和條約は獨逸
ムッソリ二が自國に就て言つたことは獨逸と日本とに就ても均しく當嵌る政治家は何れも
三

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.94)
知れない。ムツソリニが成功すれば伊太利は歐洲に於て爆發せす、阿弗利加に於て膨眼するで
利加進出は伊太利図民に息禮の機會を與へるに足るだけの廣大な新羅馬帝國の悲礎を作るかも
ジ・シルヴエスター・ヴイレツクに對して言つた言葉である。ムツソリニの率みる伊軍の阿弗
「伊太利は膨眼するか然らずんば爆發せざるを得す」とは數年前ムッッリニが評論家ジョー
平和會議の當時ウィルッン大統領の懐刀として活躍したのは周知のととである。
らすんば世界の平和を維持するととを得すとの趣旨を述べたものである。ハウス大佐が
執筆に係る論文で領土と資源とに恵まれた國は然らざる國に適當の分前を與ふべく然
左に譯出したのは本年九月五日發行の米國週刊リバティ誌上に掲載せられたハウス大佐
ー國際ニュー・ディールの必要
エドワード・マンデル・ハウス大佐
二

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.90)
附同上英文
Ⅱ國際二ュー・デイール…近
I國際ニュー・デイールの必要……エドワード・マンデル・ハウス大佐……二
目
次
衛
公……11

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
情
事
際
國
(464)
領土及資源再調整論
昭和十年十二月二十日
Ⅱ近
エエドワード・マンデル・ハウス大佐
外務省情報部
公

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 1, 1937
MA:
The Japanese Cabinet is reported to
have approved the establishment of a pro-
posed Planning Board (Kikakucho). It
appears that the Board is to incorporate the
Cabinet Inquiry Bureau and will have com-
prehensive functions. It is apparently
designed to meet the needs of a planned
economy, and seems to be in part a
manifestation of the military demand for
administrative reform which has persisted
since the February 26 Incident of 1936.
The Embassy comments that it is
impossible to state at the moment whether
or not the government hopes to make
the Planning Board the central organ of a
future fascist government. Until the pro-
posed Board assumes more concrete form there
is no reason for speculating in detail about
its personnel and powers.
894.00/736
W1
FE:WTT/DLY

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.93)
FIOE OF EDOMONNG ADVY
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
5 19370
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIC
17 P11 37
No. 2395.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 30, 1937.
SUBJECT: PROPOSED JAPANESE PLANNING BOARD.
894.00
COPIES SENT TO
noto
U.N.I.ANDM.LD.
894.002
Dietrihutior Cherk
1
Gr
MID
For
on1
894.00/736
Civi:
PAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
Fh
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
J3mc
Sir:
894.00/260
In despatch No. 1332, May 31, 1935, the Embassy
2
reported the creation of an advisory body of the Japanese
JUN 12 1937
FLED
Government, subsidiary to the Cabinet, designated as the
Naikaku Chosa Kyoku (Cabinet Inquiry Bureau). In dospatch
793.9+/8274
No. 2070, October 3, 1936, the Embassy discussed a plan
proposed on September 22, 1936, by the then Minister of
War, contemplating the consolidation, under a new minister
without portfolio, of various existing bureaus for investi-
gation and coordination of legislation and administration.
I now have the honor to inform the Department that the
Cabinet
F/FG

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Cabinet is reported to have reopened the matter by ap-
proving the establishment of a Kikakucho (Planning Board)
which is to incorporate the Cabinet Inquiry Bureau and
assume more comprehensive functions.
Proposals in l936 of administrative reform, of which
the War Minister's plan of September 22 was the climax,
were superseded in the public interest by a succession
of more important questions (relations with China, the
Cabinet change, Diet dissolution), and nothing was heard
of them for several months. Hirota successfully dodged
the issue, and was saved by other events from having to
take it up again. Premier Hayashi, a military man, ap-
parently has no interest in avoiding it; suddenly the
Cabinet is reported to have taken active steps in this
army-favored matter, without any spurring from the public.
Until an official decision is actually made (which
has not yet been made) there is no reason for speculating
in detail about the personnel and powers of the proposed
1/
Planning Board. A clipping enclosed herewith lists many
important men in finance and business who have been sug-
ested by Domei as likely members. It would appear that
the Board is a project proposed to meet the needs of a
planned economy in a manner which no existing body can;
and it would appear that it is in part a manifestation
of Premier Hayashi's conviction that the ordinary political
institutions of Japan are inadequate to the governmental
leadership which he believes is essential to the modern
needs of the nation. It is impossible to state, at the
moment, whether or not the present Government hopes to
make

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
make the Planning Board the control organ of a future
fascist government.
The past two weeks have, in fact, brought forth
a multitude of suggestions for new commissions and bureaus.
Among them are a new propaganda bureau for the Cabinet,
a central economic council, and a commission on the rise
of prices. The phenomenon is a reasonable consequence of
distrust in the constituted political machinery. Edi-
torial opinion generally reflects impatience with the
multiplicity of organs proposed.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800.2
CC:r
Enclosure: Clipping, "Ministers Approve Flans for
Board to Study Policies," JAPAN ADVERTISER,
April 20, 1937.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1 , to despatch
No.2395 , dated Apri130 ,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, April 20, 1937.
MINISTERS APPROVE
and economic authorities in the ooun-
try. He would avoid the bureaucratic
element "thet commonly runs such
PLANS FOR BOARD
organs."
Formal announcement of the names
of the members is expected about the
middle of May, simultaneously with the
TO STUDY POLICIES
inauguration of the Planning Board.
The news service lists the following
as being the most likely members:
Candidates Suggested
Mr. Seihin Ikeda, Governor of the
Bank of Japen; Mr. Kenkichi Kagami,
Imperial Sanction to Be Sought
member of the House of Peers and
After Detailed Regulations
chairman of the board of directors of
the Nippon Yusen Kaiaha: Baron Sei-
Adopted
nosuke Goh, member of the House of
Peers; Mr. Masatsune Okura, member
of the House of Peers; Dr. Eiichi Baba,
ex-Minister of Finance; Mr. Hachi-
YUKI LIKELY
PRESIDENT
saburo Hirao, ex-Minister of Education
and president of the Kawasaki Dock-
i. yard Company; Mr. Noboru Otani, pre-
Formal Decision Also Reached
sident of the Nippon Yusen Kaisha;
Dr. Tamaki Makita. chairman of the
on Outline of Central Eco-
fboard of directors of the Mitsui Min-
nomic Council
ing Company: Mr. Ginjiro Fujiwara,
president of the Oji Paper Company;
Mr. Shingo Tsuda, president of the
REPORT MADE TO THRONE
Kanegafuchi Spinning Company; Mr.
Katsutaro Inabata. member of the
House of Peers and president of the
Inabata & Company; Mr. Kenji Ko-
The general rcgulations for two new
dama, ex-president of the Yokohama
Cabinet organizations, the Planning
Specie Bank; Mr. Manzo Kushida,
Board (Kikakucho) and the Central
director-general of the Mitsubishi Go-
Economic Council (Chuo Keizai Kaigi)
shi Kaisha; Mr. Takashi Isaka, presi-
dent of the Hotel New Grand and pre-
were formally approved by the Cabi-
sident of the Yokohama Marine and
net yesterday morning. The detailed
Fire Insurance Company; and Mr. Cho-
regulations, being drafted by the chief
kyuro Kadono, president of the Tokyo
secretary of the Cabinet and the di-
Rapid Transit Company.
The expenses of the board will be
rector of the Legislative Bureau, are
between ¥50,000 and ¥600,000, accord-
to be acted on before the end of the
ing to the Nichi Nichi. Most of this
week, following which Imperial sanc-
will be provided by the appropriation
for the existing Inquiry Bureau. but
tion will be sought, according to Do-
about ¥50,000 will have to be taken
mei. At least the board will start func-
from the second reserve fund. An
tioning early next month.
appropriation may be asked of the
A report on the decisions was sub-
special Diet session to be called after
mitted to the Throne by Premier Ha-
the election.
yashi in the afternoon.
Premier to Give Orders
The presidency of the new board,
On orders from the Premier, the
which will be built around the Cabi-
board will draft plans for important
net Inquiry Bureau, will be held con-
State policies with a view to harmoni-
currently by a State Minister, and Do-
zing them and attach reasons for its
mei is certain that it will be Finance
recommendations. Domei says. It will
Minister Toyotaro Yuki. Under him
also examine policies suggested to the
wi!l be a vice-president and a staff
Cabinet by the Ministers and make
of about 50 men. including 20 inves-
recommendations concerning them.
tigating commissioners, a chief secre-
Advice will be given by it on the ap-
tary, 15 secretaries and clerks.
propriations necessary for the execu-
Kaya, Aoki Mentioned
tion of policies.
Finance Vice-Minister Okinobu Kaya
The Central Economic Council de-
and Mr. Kazuo Aoki. vice-president of
cided on yesterday will deliberate on
the Cabinet Manchurian Bureau, are
co-ordination of basic economic poli-
mentioned as candidates for the vice-
cies for Japan and the colonies under
presidency of the board. Mr. Kiichi Sa-
the chairmanship of the Premier. Its
watani, Scuth Manchuria Railway Com-
vice-chairman will be the president of
pany director who was considered a
the Promotion Board, and its chief
likely choice several days ago, is said
secretary will be the vice-president of
to find acceptance of the post difficult.
the board. The rest of the personnel
Some of the commissioners will be
will be selected from men outside the
choscn from officials in various Min-
Government.
istries to contribute to close reletions
The Asahi claims that the Promotion
vetween the board and the Ministries.
Board will be given as its fürst tak
Others will be found outside the Gov-
the formulation of a five-year in-
ernment. As necessity arises, special
dustrial program for Japan, Kore
committees to study special questions
Manchukuo and Formose, dovetailing
will be formed of experienced men.
it with the five-year program already
Premier Hayeshi is said by Domei to
elaborated by Manchukuo and the pro-
attach the greatest importance to the
gram being carried out in Korea.
personnel of the Council and desires to
have hs members the highest industrial

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
EA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 20, 1937
This despatch reporting in regard to
the Japanese elections was written on
May 1, on the day following the elections.
It adds very little to what is already
known in FE.
Only about sixty percent of the
qualified voters exercised their right,
showing that the public was apathetic.
The most illuminating declaration in this
colorless campaign was made by Finance
Minister Yuki, who is more and more
proving himself the outstanding personality
of the Hayashi Cabinet. Mr. Yuki stated
that after the elections the Government
will assist the formation of a new party
by men who share the Government's views,
and that if necessary the Government will
thereafter not hesitate to dissolve the
Diet again. The Embassy interprets this
statement as meaning that the Government
is determined not to permit the old
party system of Government to return.
894.00/737
W21
WTT/DLY

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
3517 P1 1 40
No. 2402.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 1, 1937.
SUBJECT: FIRST REPORT ON JAPANESE ELECTIONS.
894.00
In U S A.
For
7E(381)
Divlsion of
894.00/737
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 1 8 1937
The Honorable
OFFICE OF ECOMN 
The Secretary of State,
JmyMAY 20 1937
Washington.
DÉPARTMENT OF STE
Sir:
A general election throughout Japan for choice of
members of the House of Representatives was held yesterday,
April 30, 1937. Partial reports thus far are in no way
startling or significant in change. Public interest was
not great, and abstention from voting reflected the athy
atorage of forty percent of the qualified voters absmaihed;
Bocause of delay of the ship carrying the pouch
scheduled
F/FG

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
scheduled to leave today, this despatch will be held
1/
open to enclose a clipping from tomorrow morning's press,
with partial election results.
The last two weeks of the campaign offered few
developments to modify the statements of the Embassy's
1729
despatch No. 2367/of April 16, 1937, reporting on the
campaign until that date. No party stepped forward to
accept the Premier's open invitation for champions. No
definition was offered by the Cabinet as to what, if any,
result of the election would be taken as defeat. No
promise was made of the Government's future course con-
tingent upon the elections. No indication was given by
the Cabinet as to how the voters might register either
support or protest. In fact, no convincing argument was
offered in substantiation of the oft-heard high moral
exhortation to vote.
In the absence of issues, the Government unctiously
confined its efforts to insisting on clean elections.
When the Minister of Commerce and Industry made an in-
nocuous forecast to a newspaper reporter to the effect
that one of the major parties might lose ten seats or so,
the Metropolitan Police notified the newspapers that the
Minister's statement could not be printed -- might be
prejudicial to the free elections.
The most illuminating declaration in this colorless
campaign was made by Finance Minister Yuki, who is more
and more proving himself the outstanding personality of
the Hayashi Cabinet. Mr. Yuki stated that after the
elections the Government will assist the formation of
a

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
a new party by new men who share the Government's views,
and that if necessary the Government will thereafter
not hesitate to dissolve the Diet again. He also stated
that the Government's chief object in the dissolution
was the disciplinary effect on the members of the House
of Representatives. Perhaps if he had spoken with even
greater frankness he would have clarified the actual
situation by saying: Non-party government since 1932
has been better than the party government before that time;
we shall not permit a return to party government; with
time we can form a new party and control the Diet; mean-
time, if the Diet should by chance get out of hand, there
can be another change of non-party cabinet, and nothing
lost; but whatever happens we shall not go back to the
old party system.
A reply given by the Premier to a question in the
Privy Council suggests that the new Diet will be con-
vened in August, and that the Government hopes that the
session can be confined to ten days or so.
Respectfully yours,
JophS. Jur
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
EncLosures:
1. Clipping on election returns, JAPAN ADVERTISER,
May 2, 1937.
2. Clipping, "Hayashi's Intention Not Clear
To Konoe," JAPAN ADVERTISER, April 24,
1937.
3. Editorial, "The Last Week," JAPAN ADVERTISER,
April 24, 1937.
800.
CC:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Copy to Embassy, Moscow.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2402 dated May 1, 1937
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser
May 2, 1937.
SOCIAL MASS ALREADY ASSURED
MORE SEATS TH AN IN LAST DIET
WITH COUNTING NOT COMPLETE
Minseito Leading With 107
30 Candidates Known Victors,
Members, Followed by Sei-
Compared With Only 20
yukai With 102
in Last House
CABINET PLANS DECISIONS
ALL UP IN TOKYO SUCCEED
The Social Mass Party was the
Old Parties Finished
"The time of the established parties.
stellar performer in Friday's elec-
the Seiyukai and Minseito, is gone for-
tion. By 8:30 o'clock last evening,
ever; it is now the time for our party.
with the counting of ballots com-
In view of the gravity of the current
pleted in 70 of the nation's 122 con-
situation and the importance of our
stituencies with 279 members, it had
primary mission, we shall not be over-
confident about our victory but shall
won 30 seats in the House of Rep-
reflect and make every effort to streng-
resentatives, 10 more than before last
then the party in order to meet the
month's dissolution. Two other mein-
wishes of the masses. We hereby
bers were regarded certain.
pledge ourselves to bring about reno-
The Minseito led, with 107 men
vation of administrative matters with
the support of the entire nation."
already elected and 29 more relative-
Mr. Isoo Abe, chairman of the cen-
ly certain, followed by the Seiyukai,
tral executive committee of the party.
with 102 elected and 21 more be-
is quoted as follows by the Nichi
lieved certain. The standings at
Nichi:
"I did not hear the spedches of
11 o'clock follow:
others. but I can say from my own ex-
Elected Certain
perience that the emphasis of the So-
Minseito
cial Mass Party on stabilization of the
Seiyukai
107
29
living of the people is the chief rea-
Social Mass
102
21
son for its advance. The Seiyukai and
Minor Groups
Showakai
30
12
2
2
said how they propose to achieve it.
Minseito and the Hayashi Cabinet talk
about stabilization, but they have not
Tohokai
4
0
We have.
Minor Groups
5
3
"Look at the Meiji Renovation! As
Independents
15
4
4
3
semurai returned their property to the
many as 300 feudal lords and 100,000
Emperor. Capitalism in Japan has
come to about the same pass. I said in
All in Tokyo Win
279
62
my speeches that unless the capitalists
Every one of the eight candidates
return their wealth to the Emperor the
put up by the party in Tokyo Prefe-
living of the people will not
ture was successful. Of the 31 seats of
be stabilized. From now on the
the prefecture's seven. constituencies.
Social Mass Party will advance like a
cight were taken, three more than in
schooner when the wind is favorable."
the last election. The Minseito lo.st
Seiyukai's Gains Seen
four seats, and the Seiyukai on:. The
Interviewed late in the afternoon.
two not taken by the Social Mas
Mr. Seijun Ando, chief secretary of
candidates went to independents.
the Seiyukai, made the following
Of the 801,757 votes cast in the pre-
comment, according to Domei:
fecture on Friday, the Social Mass
"The returns at 4 o'clock show that
Party won 172,807, the Minseito 282,030
Seiyukai has gained in Tokyo (sic).
and the Seiyukai 203,967. Last year.
Osaka, Kyoto, Kanagawa, Tochigi, I-
when 96,139 votes were polled, the
baraki, Tottori and Nagano by ove
flgures were 145,170 for the Social
seat each and in Shimane by two
Mass, 370,484 for the Minseito and 270.-
seats, though it has lost two seats in
790 for the Seiyukai.
Aichi and one in Toyama, leaving a
net gain of seven seats. The indica-
The chief secretary of the Social
tions are that we shall see an increase
Mas, issued yesterday aftéwnoon a
in our Diet members. At any rate, if
statement of which Domel gives the
we combine with the successful mem-
substance as:
bers of the Minseito we shall still
The overwhelming victory of our
wield an overwhelming majority in the
party in the election throughout the
House. This shows the extent to
which the will of the people has been
alienated from the Government, on
whom it is incumbent to list to the
voice of public opinion as thus defini-
affairs of Japen.
tely expressed."

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2, to despatch
No.2402, dated Mr 1 ,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, April 24, 1937.
HAYASHI'S INTENTION
"The public does not seem to be
much interested in the coming elec-
tion," the Asahi quotes him as saying.
NOT CLEAR TO KONOE
"That is because the recent dissolu-
tion of the Diet was unusual and its
purpose not clear. The Government
has no party supporting it, moreover,
and the Seiyukai and Minseito are
Peers' President Sees No Solu-
merely attacking its attitude-as uncon-
stitutional because the Diet was not
tion in New Dissolution
d'ssolved as a result of differences
over policies. The Government has no
or Resignation
organization to cope with such a situa-
tion. There, I think, lies the reason
for the general lack of enthusiasm for
PARTY VICTORY PREDICTED
the election.
"Judging from the current situation,
it seems obvious that the Minseito and
Formation of Big Political Body
Seiyukai are gcing to retain their
majority in the election. It is still
to Support Cabinet Con-
unknown what the Cabinet will do in
that event. A section in it is said to
sidered Difficult
be advocating another dissolution, but
I do not know whether the Cabinet
has the determination for such a step.
Admitting that political predictions
If the Diet were dissolved again, it is
are difficult under present conditions.
hard to conceive of any change as the
Prince Fumimaro Konoe, President of
result of another election as long as the
the House of Peers, suggested to re-
existing Election Law remains in force.
Significance Menaced
porters yesterday that the Cabinet may
"On the other hand, the significance
have in mind something other than a
of the sudden dissolution carried out
second dissolution of the House of Re-
by the Cabinet would become nil were
presentatives or resignation following
the Government to retreat because of
the April 30 election.
unfavorable results in the election.
He did'not know whether the Cabi-
Thus it is not difficult to surmise that
net is determined on another dissolu-
tion but doubted if a second election
there may be some other game to be
would greatly alter the political line-
played by the Government.
up unless changes were made in the
"Various reports are being circulated
Election Law. Resignation of the Cabi-
about a new party, but nothing can
net because of election results un-
be said at the moment about what
favorable to it, however, would mean
kind of party may be born after the
loss of the significance of last month's
election. It is hard to imagine, how-
dissolution of the Lower House.
ever, that a new party of any import-
Formation of an important new
ance can be formed under the Hayashi
party under the Hayashi Cabinet. he
Cabinet. It might at best be a party
said, is not easily imagined. At best.
of about 50 members, including those
only about 50 members could be re-
.of the Showakai and Kokumin Domei
cruited. including those of the Sho-
and some independents.
wakai and Kokumin Domei.
"If the Minseito and Seiyukai win
On Way to Wedding
the majority in the election and the
Prince Konoe was interviewed on the
present Cabinet resigns, one may
train taking him with Princess Ko-
think of the emergence of a Minseito
noe to Kyoto for the wedding today
and Seiyukai coalition Cabinet. but I
of Count Kosho Otani, Lord Abbot of
am of the opinion that realization of
the West Hongan Temple, and Miss
such a Cabinet is still difficult under
Yoshiko Tokudaiji, for which they are
current political circumstances."
the go-betweens.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3, to despatch
No2402, dated  Man1 ,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, April 24, 1937.
Diet anew when it meets, (3) make
The Last Week
a new attempt to form a third party
after the election, or (4) compromise
With the closing of the registra-
with the political parties so as to
tHon of candidates for election to the
obtain a working basis in the new
new House of Representatives at
Diet.
midnight last night, the election
campaign entered into its final week.
In accordance with constitutional
There can be no doubt as to the re-
practice in Occidental countries, the
Gult of the voting and the Hayashi
Government in the event of an over-
cabinet which acted rashly in dis-
whelming defeat would probably re-
solving the Diet may well have
sign, but this is not necessarily the
cause to regret its action. Certain
case in Japan. There is no indica-
tion at the present time that the
it is, that in the event of the ex-
pected victory of the major political
Hayashi Government intends to quit
parties, the Government will find
although quite obviously no such in-
itself in a difficult predicament.
dication could be given prior to the
election without prejudicing the
At the close of registration last
Government's position. It remains
night there were 826 candidates
to be seen what will be the extent
entered as contestants for the 466
of the Government's defeat which
seats in the Lower House. The fol-
must be largely the determining
lowing table gives the number of
factors.
candidates registered for each party
If the Government should decide
and the party's strength in the last
House of Representatives at the time
to remain after the election, it must
of dissolution on March 31st.
face the Diet late in June or early
in July and the major political par-
Candidates Members of
ties have already announced they
Minseito
..267
registered
last Diet
205
intend to introduce a vote of non-
Seiyukai .....265
171
confidence which need not bring
Social
Mass
down the Government but which the
Party
18
Government could hardly ignore. It
Showakai .... 36
25
would be logical for the Government
mei
Kokumin Do-
12
therefore to devote its efforts in the in-
Tohokai ...... 20
9
tervening time between the election
Miscellaneous
and the meeting of the Diet either
and indepen-
to the formation of a third party
dents .........152
25
which would assure it of sufficient
Vacancies
1
support in the new House or to nego-
826
466
tiating with the major political par-
The trend of the parties is pretty
ties to assure itself of sufficient sup-
well known so that it may be figured
port for the passage of the most im-
portant government bills.
that the opposition to the Govern-
If present indications are taken
ment includes the Minseito, the Sei-
into account, it is unlikely that the
yukai and the Social Mass Party,
Government will be any more suc-
while the Government's supporters
cessful in its efforts to form a third
include the Showakai (the nucleus of
the Government's support), the Ko-
party after the election than now.
kumin Domei. the Tohokai and most
Successful candidates of the major
of the independent candidates. On
political parties are not likely to be
this basis, it may be calculated that
enticed into any third party, although
of the 826 candidates in the field the
it is possible that they may be amen-
opposition includes 598 candidatres
able to a compromise with the Gov-
and that there are at most 228 candi-
ernment which would make it
dates likely to support the Govern-
possible for the cabinet to have its
ment.
main legislative program enacted
This calculation does not indicate
during the short session. If the
the outcome of the election for Min-
Government is not successful in
seito and Seiyukai leaders estimate
either of these moves, it would have
no choice but resignation or dissolu-
that their parties will gain about 380
tion of the Diet.
seats in the new Diet and if some
30 seats are obtained by the Social
This is the confused political situa-
tion that exists as the alection ap-
Mass Party, this will leave only 56
proaches. But whatever the outcome
seats for the remainder of the par-
it is to be hoped that the Govern-
ties made up of government sup-
ment will take due account of public
porters.
opinion which must be a guiding
In the event of the victory of the
factor under any constitutional form
political parties, the Government
of government.
may take any'one of four courses.
It may (1) resign, (2) dissalve the

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
THE PROBLEM OF POPULATION
AND INDUSTRIALISATION IN JAPAN
LE PROBLÈME DE LA POPULATION
ET L'INDUSTRIALISATION DU JAPON
By
NAOTAKE SATO
Published by
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF JAPAN
894.
TOKYO ~ 1936
.00
PRINTED IN JAPAN

=== Page 209 === (confidence 1.00)
THE PROBLEM OF POPULATION AND
INDUSTRIALISATION IN JAPAN
I wish to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the very kind
words with which you have introduced me. I wish to ex-
press also my thanks to the Study Centre for having given me
to-day this opportunity of addressing such a distinguished
audience. I must confess that I rather hesitated before decid-
ing to accept its invitation, for I am neither an economist nor
a jurist; indeed, I can give you only opinions based on a
diplomatist's personal experience. If I am speaking here to-day.
it is because ! was tempted to lay before you two problems
which are particularly important not only to my own country.
but also to the improvement of international relations. I should
like to repeat, however, that the reflections which I am submit-
ting for appraisal by French scholarship are quite simple. My
object will be attained if I am able to call attention to certain
aspects of these problems.
I.
THE POPULATION QUESTION.
Growth of Population.
The total area of the Japanese Empire is 675,118 square
kilometres. Japan proper, however, has an area of only
1) Address deiivered by Mr. Naotake Sato. Japanese Ambassador to France
at the meeting of the members of the Centre d'Etudes de Politique Etrangère
Jan. 27, 1936 with M. André Siegfried, membre de l'Institut, professeur au
College de France, presiding.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
LE PROBLÈME DE LA POPULATION ET
L'INDUSTRIALISATION DU JAPON
Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président, des paroles trop
aimables par lesquelles vous venez de m'accueillir; et je re-
mercie le Centre d'Études de l'occasion qu'il me donne de
prendre la parole aujourd'hui devant un auditoire si distingué.
J'avoue que j'ai hésité avant d'accepter cette invitation: je ne
suis ni orateur, ni économiste, ni juriste; la seul chose que je
puisse vous apporter, ce sont les réflexions qu'inspire à un
diplomate son expérience personnelle. Mais je me suis laissé tenter
par l'occasion de poser devant vous deux problèmes particulière-
ment importants non seulement pour mon pays, mais pour
l'evolution des rapports internationaux. Je répète que ce sont
de simples réflexions que je soumets à l'appréciation des
savants français. Mon but serait atteint si je pouvais
contribuer à attirer leur attention sur certains aspect de ces
problèmes
1.
LA QUESTION DE LA POPULATION.
Accroissement de la population.
L'Empire japonais a une superficie totale de 675.118
kilomètres carrés; mais le Japon proprement dit ne compte que
(1) Conférence faite devant les membres du Centre d'Etudes de Politique
Etrangère, le 27 janvier 1936, par M. Naotake Sato, Ambassadeur extraordinaire
et plénipotentiaire du Japon en France, sous la présidence de M. André
Siegfried. Membre de l'Institut, Professeur au Collège de France

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
382,314 square kilometres, with a population of 69,251,265,
according to the census of October 1, 1935. These figures
show that in Japan proper, that is to say, in the most im
portant and thickly populated part of the country, the density
of population is considerable, namely 181 inhabitants per
square kilometre. This is a high density, even when compared,
for example, with the density in Belgium-the most thickly
populated country in the world—which, in 1934, hadi a popula-
tion of 271 inhabitants per square kilometre. In Belgium,
however, the ratio of arable land to the total area of the
country is 403 to 1000, whereas in Japan the ratio is only 155
to 1000. Thus, in proportion to cultivable area, the density of
population is far greater in Japan than in Belgium, the
statistics for 1933 showing densities of, respectively, 1120 and
670 inhabitants per square kilometre of arable land.
Moreover, the population in Japan is not stationary. It
is rapidly expanding. In recent years, the total number of
inhabitants has increased by about one million a year, and it
is generally held that the rate of annual increase-approximately
12 per thousand—will be maintained for some time to come.
According to the figures worked out on this hypothesis, in
thirty years' time Japan will have a population of one hundred
million inhabitants. It has been said that Japan has an Oriental
birth-rate whereas her death-rate is tending towards the
European level. According to this theory, Japan must expect
an enormous and, indeed, limitless increase of population in
the future. If this view were true, Japan would be like a vast
boiler destined sooner or later to explode.
The study of demographic movements is far from simple.
It calls for special qualifications and complicated calculations.
I must confess at the outset that such a study is not within
-2一

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
382.314 kilomètres carrés et le nombre de ses habitants s'élève
à 69.251.265 suivant le recensement du ler octobre 1935. Si
l'on examine cette population du Japon proprement dit, c'est-
à-dire celle de la partie du pays la plus importante et la plus
dense, l'entassement des habitants parait considérable: exacte-
ment 181 personnes par kilomètre carré. Ces chiffres sont
déjà élevés si, par exemple, on les compare au pays dont la
densité de population est la plus forte du monde, c'est-à-dire
la Belgique qui avait, en 1934, 271 habitants par kilomètre
carré. Mais la portion arable du territoire belge s'élève à 403
pour mille, tandis que celle du Japon n'est que de 156 pour
mille. C'est done ce dernier qui dépasse de beaucoup la pre-
mière pour la densité de la population, calculée par rapport à
la surface de terre cultivable: en effet, tandis que la Belgique
a seulement 670 habitants par kilomètre carré de terre arable,
le Japon en possède 1.120 (statistiques de 1933).
De plus, la population du Japon n'est pas stationnaire;
elle augmente rapidement, et l'accroissement annuel a atteint,
ces dernières annèes, environ un million. On pense générale-
ment que le taux de l'accroissement annuel - 12 pour mille
environ — persistera encore longtemps. D'après les calculs faits
selon cette hypothès:, la population du Japon atteindrait dans
30 ans, le chiffre de 100 millions. D'aucuns disent que les
Japonais se multiplient au taux de la natalité orientale, tandis
que le taux des décès se rapprocherait, chez eux, du niveau
européen. Ainsi l'augmentation de la population japonaise
serait, disent-ils, non seulement immense, mais vouée à une
progression sans borne. S'il fallait accepter cette vue, le Japon
ne serait autre chose qu'une chaudière qui éclatera tôt ou tard.
L'étude du mouvement démographique est fort difficile. Elle
demande une compétence spéciale et des calculs compliqués.
Je dois avouer tout de suite qu'une telle étude n'est pas de
-2一

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
my competence. But in my country, as elsewhere, much
attention has been given to this question and, particularly in
the last five or six years, a number of important studies of
the problem have been made. A distinguished friend of mine,
Professor Ueda of the University of Commerce in Tokyo, does
not share the opinion which is prevalent abroad in regard to
an unlimited increase in the population of Japan in the future.
As a result of a thorough statistical enquiry which he has
undertaken, he has come to the conclusion that the number of
inhabitants in Japan will reach its maximum limit toward
1970, when the population would be about S0 millions. Pro-
fessor Ueda links up this demographic situation to the in-
dustrial revolution. In Europe the rise of industrialism led for
a time to a rapid increase of population in the reproductive
age-groups. Later on, however, the birth-rate declined. In
Japan a similar phenomenon may be expected. The period of
industrial revolution occurred in Japan at the beginning of the
present century, causing an increase of population. Yet in
recent years the birth-rate has already shown a tendeney to
decrease. Several Western countries which, thirty or forty
years ago, had a population expanding at a rate of more than
thirty-five per thousand, experienced a cessation of increase
after a decade or two. Professor Ueda considers that the same
phenomenon will occur in Japan in the not very distant future.
The latest figures published by the official Bureau of Statistics
certainly indicate that the population is no longer increasing
at so great a rate as a few years ago; from 36 per thousand
in 1920, the rate had fallen in 1934 to less than 30 per
thousand.
I must leave to the experts the task of studying the
de.nographic movement of my country. I do note, however,
一3-

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
ma compétence. Mais chez nous, comme en d'autres pays, on
est préoccupé de la question et, depuis cinq ou six ans surtout,
on a fait sur ce sujet d'importants travaux. Mon éminent ami,
le professeur Ueda, de l'Université de Commerce de Tokio, ne
partage pas l'opinion qui prévaut à l'étranger concernant un
accroissement futur illimité de la population du Japon. Grâce
à une minutieuse étude statistique qu'il a faite, il est arrivé à
la conclusion que le nombre des habitants atteindrait une limite
maximum vers 1970. Il s'élèverait alors à peu près à 80
millions. Le professeur Ueda met ce phénomène démographique
en rapport avec la révolution industrielle. En Europe, cette
révolution a eu comme conséquence, pendant un certain temps,
l'accroissement rapide de la population en âge de se reproduire;
mais, plus tard, il y a eu diminution de la natalité. Il en serait
de même au Japon. Celui-ci a passé par l'époque de la révolu-
tion industrielle au début du présent siècle. Il en est résulté
un accroissement de la population; mais on constate déjà une
baisse du taux des naissances dans ces dernières anné's.
Parmi les pays occidentaux, plusieurs ont accusé, il y a 30 ou
40 ans, un accroissement de population de plus de 35 pour
mille, et ces mêmes pays ont subi un arrêt de cette aug-
mentation au bout de dix ou vingt ans. Le professeur Ueda
pense qu'il en sera de même au Japon dans un avenir qui ne
serait pas très éloigné. Et en effet les derniers chiffres qui
viennent d'étre publiés par le Bureau officiel de Statistique
montrent que l'accroissement annuel de la population n'a plus
la même ampleur qu'il y a quelques années: de 36 pour mille
en 1920 il est réduit à moins de 30 pour mille en 1934.
Je dois laisser aux spécialistes le soin d'étudier le
mouvement démographique de mon pays. Mais qu'il s'agisse
一3-

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
that, whether we consider 100 million inhabitants in thiry
years' time or 80 millions in 1970, the figures are in either
case enormous for a country having an area of only 382,314
square kilometres, or approximately that of Poland. I must
repeat that I am dealing only with Japan proper, and that I
am leaving aside Chosen (Korea) and Taiwan (Formosa) so as
not to make this analysis more complicated. In any case it
is clear that, both politically and economically, Japan proper
constitutes the essential element of our national life.
In these circumstances the question which arises is, what
remedies can be applied to this excessive growth of popula-
tion? There is, in my opinion, a preliminary question which
must be answered before any remedies can be discussed in the
case of a country like Japan, should any restriction be placed
on an excessive and too rapid increase of population?
Let me digress here to point out that it is never
possible to determine exactly the number of inhabitants which
constitutes the maximum population for a given country. The
number varies widely with geographical, political, economic
and social conditions. A highly industrialised country, able to
live on its foreign trade and to import foodstuffs and raw
materials for its industry, can support a far larger population
than is possible for a country of the same size but entirely
dependent on agriculture. Now Japan is an industrial country,
although about half her population is still agricultural. She
can support to-day a much greater number of people than
would have been possible seventy years ago, when the country
was still living exclusively on its agricultural production. It
follows, therefore, that the statement that the present level and
rate of increase of population in Japan are excessive, can be
made only in a vague and general sense. Likewise, a com-
一4一

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
de 100 millions dans trente ans ou de 80 millions en 1970, je
dois constater que ces chiffres sont, dans tous les cas, énormes
pour un pays qui n'a qu'une superficie de 382.314 kilomètres
carrés, à peu près celle de la Pologne. Je ne parle toujours
que du Japon proprement dit; je laisse de côté Chosen (la
Corée) et Taiwan (Formose), afin de ne pas trop compliquer
cet exposé: d'ailleurs c'est évidemment le Japon proprement
dit qui est l'élément essentiel de la vie nationale, au point de
vue politique et économique.
Dans ces conditions, on se demande quels sont les re-
mèdes à apporter à l'accroissement excessif de la population.
Mais avant de discuter de ces remèdes, il y a lieu, selon moi,
de poser une question préalable: Est-ce que, pour un pays
comme le Japon. li restriction de l'accroissement excessif et
trop rapide s'impose?
Il me sera permis de dire d'abord, entre parenthèses, que
lon ne peut jamais déterminer exactement le nombre d'habitants
qui constituerait un maximum de la popalation pour tel ou
tel pays. Ce nombre varie beaucoup selon les conditions
géographiques, politiques et économiques. Un pays très in-
dustrialisé, qui a la possibilité de vivre de son commerce
extérieur, qui peut importer les denrées et les matières premières
nécessaires à son industrie, pourra nourrir un nombre d'habitants
beaucoup plus grand qu'un pays de mêmes dimensions, qui
dépend uniquement de l'agriculture. Le Japon est un pays
industrialisé, quoique près de la moitié de sa population tire
encore sa subsistance de l'agriculture. Il peut aujourd'hui
contenir beaucoup plus d'habitants qu'il y a 70 ans, époque
où le pays vivait encore exclusivement du travail des champs.
Si donc on affirme que la population actuelle du Japon et
son taux d'accroissement sont excessifs, cette affirmation ne
peut avoir qu'un sens très général et assez vague. De
même la comparaison de la densité de sa population avec
-4一

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
parison of the density of Japanese population with the demo-
graphic situation in other countries can be only of relative and
limited significance. Such a comparison would not help to
determine the population level which Japan might reach at a
given period without experiencing any political or economic
inconveniences.
Birth Control.
As for the desirability of restricting the annual increase
of population in Japan, opinion in my country is divided. I
count myself among those who would have the rate of in-
crease brought down to a reasonable k vel in order the better
to ensure the general happiness of the people. (i am leaving
aside here all considerations of national defence 1 have
particularly in mind the value of family and social welfare. A
family obviously lives in greater cass when it has fewer
children. The same is true with a country. In general. a
country is better off when it is not too thickly populated: life
becomes more and more difficult as the number of inhabitants
increases, and the balance between cost of living and inlividual
incomes becomes less and less casy to maintain. I conclude.
therefore, that, if it were possible, without disturbance. to
bring down the present increase of about a million inhabitants
a year to 500,000, Japan would gain greater case of existence
in her internal as in her external affairs. Unhappily, the
problem is not so simple as 1 could desire. To attain the
higher standard of welfare, the necessary measures to reduce
the rate of expansion of the population to a certain level should
have been taken place fifteen or twenty years ago. For want of
preventive measures adopted in time—and at the beginning of
一5一

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
celle des autres pays ne peut avoir qu'une portée relative et
limitée. Cette comparaison ne permettra pas de déterminer le
niveau de la population que le Japon pourra, à une époque
donnée, contenir sans inconvénient politique ou économique.
Controle des naissances.
Quant au désir de restreindre l'accroissement annuel
de la population au Japon, les avis sont assez partagés
chez nous. Mais je suis de ceux qui souhaitent ramener
à un niveau raisonbble le taux de l'accroissement pour mieux
assurer le bonheur du peuple. Je laisse de côté, en ce
moment, toute considération de défense nationale. Je pense
surtout à la valeur du bien-être familial et social. Une famille
vit certainement plus à l'aise si elle a moins d'enfants. Il en
cst de même pour un pays. D'une manière générale, un pays
a plus d'aisance lorsqu'il n'est pas trop peuplé; l'existence
devient de plus en plus dificile à mesure que le nombre des
habitants augmente; l'équilibre entre le coût de la vie et les
revenus individuels se maintient plus difficilement. Ma con-
clusion est donc que, si l'on pouvait ramener sainement
l'accroissement annuel de la population japonaise-qui est
d'environ un million—au chiffre de 500.000, le Japon béné-
ficierait d'une plus grande facilité d'existence aussi bien à
l'intérieur du pays qu'à l'extéricur. Malheureusement le pro-
blème n'est pas aussi simple que je le désirerais. Pour réaliser
cette aisance, il aurait fallu, il y a 15 ou 20 ans, prendre les
mesures nécessaires pour ramener à un certain niveau le taux
d'accroissement de la population. A défaut de mesures
préventives prises en temps utile — au début de ce siècle,
一5一

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
this century we had not yet given any attention to birth con-
trol, which, indeed, was not yet very widespread in the West
at that time-we are faced today with figures which are
already very high. Possibly the present population of Japan is
not to be regarded as excessive. for the reasons already ex-
plained. It is none the less true that at present many young
people are looking for employment. and that for many years
to come we shall have to witness a continuation and aggrava-
tion of this state of affairs. Professor Ueda, whom I have
already quoted. estimates that from 210.000 to 290,000 men
and women come into the labour market each year to swell
the avalable supply -a phenomenon that must be expected to
continue for another twenty years. This. according to the
same authority, represents the most important factor in the
Japanes: demographic situation. Yet it canno: be moditied by
such means as the postponement of the age of marriage or
birth control. the immediate effect of which is merely to
lighten the burdens of the younger generation.
The facts which I have just mentioned are not such as to
render life easy in Japan. Everyone has to strive very hard
to earn a living, and the circumstance that each year the
employment market regularly increases by two or three hund-
red thousands, naturally does not make for an improvement of
the workers' standard of living. In fact, average rates of wages
in th: various industries have fallen appreciably in the last tew
years. Tables showing this downward tendency are given in
the International Labour Orfice's notable publication on " In-
dustrial Labour in Japan. Fortunately, the internal cost of
living has fallen to an even greater extent than wages, so that
author of the report quoted above was able to draw the con-
1 Geneva, 1933, page 03, Table XLIII et seq.
一i一

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.98)
en effet, on ne s'occupait pas encore, chez nous, du "Birth
Control", qui n'était d'ailleurs pas très répandu non plus en
Occident — nous nous trouvons aujourd'hui en présence de
chiffres déjà très élevés. Peut-être la population actuelle du
Japon n'cst-elle pas excessive pour les raisons exposées tout à
l'heure. Mais il n'est pas moins vrai qu'à l'heure actuelle
beaucoup de jeunes gens sont à la recherche d'emplois, et
pendant de longues années encore nous devrons assister à la
répétition. à l'aggravation de ce phénomène. Le professeur
Ueda, que j'ai déjà cité, évalue de 210 à 290.000 le nombre
d'hommes et de femmes qui apparaissent annuellement sur le
marché du travail et y viennent augmenter la main-d'œuvre
disponsible. Ce phénomène devrait se prolonger pendant 20
ans. C'est là, selon ce savant, l'élément le plus important du
mouvement démographique japonais et il ne saurait être modifié
par des moyens tels que le mariage tardif ou le "Birth Con-
trol", ce dernier n'ayant pour effet immédiat que celui d'alléger
les charges de la jeune génération.
Les faits que je viens d'exposer ne sont pas de nature à
rendre la vie facile au Japon. Tout le monde cherche à
grand peine à gagner sa vie et le fait que, chaque année, le
chiffre de ceux qui demandent du travail augmente régulière-
ment de 2 à 300.000, ne facilite naturellement pas l'amélioration
du niveau de vie des travailleurs. Aussi les salaires moyens
des ouvriers, dans diverses industries, sont-ils en baisse sensible
depuis quelques années. On trouve dans une publication re-
marquable du Bureau International du Travail, Le Travail
industrie! au Japon", des tableaux qui démontrent cette tend-
ance à la baisse. Heureusement, le coût de la vie à l'intérieur
du pays a baissé dans une proportion plus forte encore que les
salaires, de sorte que l'auteur de l'ouvrage cité a pu conclure
(1) Genève. .933, page 213, tableau XLIII et suivants.
li

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
clusion that the standard of living of Japanese workers has a
rising tendency due to an increase in real wages.
It is obvious, however, that, if the supply of labour were
less abundant, wages could have been maintained on a higher
level and the welfare of the workers would have been better
assured. Thus we are brought back again to the question of
restricting the increase of population.
Let us assume that Professor Ueda is right in thinking
that Japan must face for the next twenty years an annual in-
crease of two to three hundred thousand in the demand for
employment. The question of birth control is not immediately
relevant here, since the demand will come in that period from
the yowng generation already born. Yet it seems to me that
a reasonable restriction of the increase of population is in
many cases indispensable in order, first of all, to lighten the
material burdens of the present population in the near future.
and, secondly, to attenuate in the more distant future the
difficulty which we are exp riencing to-day, that is, an over-
supply of the labour market.
I perceive here, however, another factor which I have
not so far taken into account and which puts the problem in
an entirely new light in such a way that I am not able, 1
confess, to find a satisfactory solution : I refer to the question
of the population of Japan in relation to demographic
movements in certain other countries. We have as neighbours
countries which are formidable in size, population, natural
wealth, abundance of raw materials, etc. In each of these
respects they are well ahead of Japan. One of these neigh-
bours, for example, with her teeming millions of people, has
succeeded in surviving through several millenia in the midst
of calamitous difficulties. Flanked by a neighbour of such
-- 7-

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
que le niveau de vie des ouvriers japonais a tendance à s'élever
par suite d'une augmentation des salaires réels.
Mais il va de soi que, si la main-d'euvre était moins
abondante, les salaires auraient pu être maintenus à un niveau
plus élevé et le bien-être des travailleurs mieux assuré. On se
retrouve donc de nouveau devant la question de la restriction
de l'accroissement de la population.
Admettons, avec le professeur Ueda, que le Japon aura
à faire face à une augmentation annuelle du chiffre des
demandes d'emplois de l'ordre de 2 à 300.000 pendant 20 ans,
et cela en dépit du contrôle des naissances, puisqu'il s'agit de
jeunes gens déjà nés. Il me semble que, tout de même et dans
tous les cas, une restriction raisonnable de l'accroissement de
la population est indispensable pour alléger tout d'abord, dans
un avenir proche, les charges matérielles de la population
actuelle, et ensuite pour atténuer, dans un avenir plus lointain,
les difficultés que nous éprouvons aujourd'hui, à savoir la
surabondance de la main d'œuvre sur le marché du travail.
J'aperçois cependant un élément dont je n'ai pas encore
tenu compte et qui pose le problème sous un aspect tout
nouveau, de telle sorte que je ne puis trouver, je l'avoue, de
réponse satisfaisante: c'est la question de la population du
Japon en relation avec le mouvement démographique de certains
autres pays. Nous avons pour voisins des pays formidables
sous tous les rapports par leurs dimensions, leur population,
leurs richesses naturelles, l'abondance des matières premières,
etc. .. . A tous ces points de vue, ils dépassent de beaucoup
le Japon. L'un de ces voisins, par exemple, avec des centaines
de millions d'habitants, a su se conserver, à travers des
millénaires, au milieu de calamités et de difficultés inouies.
Dans le voisinage d'un tel pays, possédant des forces potentielles
一7一

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
immense potential strength, Japan would become economically
negligible if, with a standard of living too high in relation to
that of her neighbours and a relatively high scale of wages.
her population were to decline or become stationary. Most of
the industries which had formerly flourished in Japan would
run the risk of being transferred to the neighbouring countries.
Already in the last twenty years several Japanese spinning
mills have been either transferred to, or established on, the
continental mainland. Other mills and factories and other
manufacturers would follow that example if the economic and
political situation were to favour the movement, and they
would compete effectively with the industries established in
Japan.
Remedies for Overpopulation.
For these reasons, which I have had to state far too
brieffy, I am unable to contemplate without hesitation the idea
of a contracting Japanese population, however desirable it may
be to bring it about for the progress of civilisation, a diminu-
tion of the supply of labour, a rise in the wage-level and the
greater welfare of the masses. I frankly admit that I have
not yet found any satisfactory escape from so cruel a dilemma.
Let us set aside for a moment the problem of restricting
the increase of population, and turn to the question of how
overpopulation and its effects are to be dealt with to-day.
I have already said that absolite overpopulation, that is
to say, the extreme limit beyond which a country could no
longer support its population, exists only in wholly exceptional
cases. The highest number of inhabitants which a country
can sustain being a function of a great variety of conditions.
the term overpopulation which is currently applied to Japan is
not, in my opinion, appropriate and may give rise to erroneous

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
immenses, un Japon qui verrait sa population diminuer ou rester
stationnaire, avec un niveau de vie trop élevé par rapport à
celui de ses voisins. avec un taux de salaires relativement
haut, n'existerait plus économiquement. La plupart des indust-
ries jadis florissantes à l'intérieur du pays risqueraient de se
transportnr chez ses voisins. Plusieurs filatures japonaises de
coton ont été, les unes créées, les autres transférées sur le
continent depuis une vingtaine d'années. D'autres usines,
d'autres fabriques suivraient cet exemple le jour où les con-
ditions économiques et politiques le permettraient, et ces usines
et ces fabriques viendraient concurrencer efficacement l'industrie
du Japon.
Remèdes a la surpopulation.
Ces considérations. que j'ai dû exposer trop brièvement,
m'empêchent d'accepter sans hésitation l'idée d'un fléchissement
de la population japonaise, si désirable qu'il soit de provoquer,
pour le progrès de la civilisation, la diminution de l'offre de
main-d'ocuvre, le relèvement des salaires et l'accroissement du
bien-être des masses. J'avoue franchement que je n'ai pu
trouver, jusqu'à ce jour, de solution satisfaisante pour me
dégager d'une si cruelle contradiction.
Laissons de còté, pour le moment, le problème de la
restriction de l'accroissement démographique et posons la
question: comment combattre actuellement la surpopulation et
ses effets?
J'ai déjà dit que la véritable surpopulation, c'est-à-dire la
limite extrême au delà de laquelle un pays ne pourrait plus
nourrir sa population, n'existe que dans des cas tout à fait
exceptionnels. Le chiffre le plus élevé des habitants qu'un pays
peut contenir étant en fonction de conditions extrêmement
variées, le terme de surpopulation que l'on applique couram-
ment au Japon ne convient pas, selon moi, et peut créer une
impression erronée. Si j'emploie pourtant ce mot, c'est seule-
ment dans son sens relatif, pour simplifier l'exprcssion, et sous

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
impressions. If I use it, I do so only in its relative sense for
the sake of simplicity and subject to the qualifications which
I have outlined.
Emigration, agrarian reform, the development of industry
and foreign trade, and birth control are commonly suggested
as remedies for overpopulation.
There is no need for me to examine here in detail the
first two remedies. A mass movement of population from one
country to another can scarcely be contemplated under ex-
isting international conditions. In any case an annual emigra
tion of twenty or fifty thousand or even a hundred thousand
people would not serlously contribute towards a solution of
the population problem in Japan. As for agrarian reform.
although it may be of considerable importance in preventing
an excessive concentration of the population in big towns.
yet it can only be regarded as a subsidiary solution, particularly
in a country possessing a comparatively small area of arable
land. On the other hand, limitation of the number of births
may be of great importance to Japanes: demographic move
ments in the future, but I am inclined to think, with Professo:
Ueda, that it can only be of secondary importance when it
comes to solving the actual problem of overpopulation in
Japan. It cannot be expected to produce appreciable results
until a rather remote future. The really urgent question is.
how to provide for the needs of at least 200,000 young men
and women who annually reach the age of activity. We are
thus led up to a means which can permit the provision of
employment for the younger generations and the sustenanc
of a rising population: I mean the industrialisation of the
country and the development of its foreign trad. This is the
question which we must now consider.
-9-

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
le bénéfice des considérations que je viens d'exposer.
Comme remèdes à la surpopulation on indique couram-
ment l'émigration, la réforme agraire, le développement de
l'industrie et du commerce extérieur, enfin le contrôle des
naissances.
Je n'éprouve guère le besoin de m'étendre ici sur les deux
premiers remèdes, car on ne peut envisager, dans les conditions
internationales actuelles, un mouvement en masse de la popula-
tion d'un pays vers un autre pays. L'émigration de 20 ou
50.000, voire de 100.000 personnes par an, ne saurait contribuer
sérieusement à résoudre le problème de la population au Japon.
Quant à la réforme agraire, bien qu'elle ait une importance
considérable afin d'éviter la concentration excessive de la
population dans les grandes villes, elle ne peut être considérée
que comme une solution auxiliaire dans un pays surtout qui
ne possède qu'une faible surface de terre arable. Pour ce qui
est du quatrième procédé, le contrôle des naissances, il peut
avoir beaucoup d'importance pour le mouvement démographique
futur du Japon, mais je pense comme le professeur Ueda qu'il
n'a qu'une portée accessoire lorsqu'il s'agit de résoudre le
problème actuel de la surpopulation japonaise. Il n'aura de
résultats appréciables que dans un avenir assez éloigné. La
question urgente se posant ainsi: comment subvenir aux
besoins de cette jeunesse qui accède chaque année au domaine
de l'activité avec un accroissement effectif de 200.000 au moins?
Nous sommes ainsi en face du moyen qui peut permettre de
trouver un emploi à la jeunesse et de nourrir la population
croissante : c'est l'industrialisation du pays et le développement
de son commerce extérieur. Telle est la question qu'il nous
faut aborder maintenant.
一9一

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
II.
INDUSTRIALISATION AND FOREIGN TRADE
Faced with the urgent problem of an increasing popula-
tion, successive governments and public opinion in Japan have
become more and more convinced in the last forty years that
the country could no longer depend solely upon agriculture.
ani that an intensification of the industrialisation of the
country and a development of home and foreign trade would
henceforth be indisp nsable to the maintenance of national
life. This new policy was to cause Japan to seek in industry
and commerce the resources required to provide the people
with the means of living. We have thus striven to manu-
facture everything required for internal consumption with the
objcct of reducing the quantum of imports, for a chronically
unfavourable trade balane, was tending constantly to increase
our foreign indebtedness. A few figures will show the develop
ment of industry in Japan. In 1859, the total number of
factories employing at least ten workers did not exceed 2.259;
in 1933, the figure had risen to 31,293. In the same period
the number of workers of bo h sexes had increased from
220,128 to 1,747.418.
Industrial Cost-Prices.
Once we had made suflicient progress in the manufacture
of various commodities, we began to search for outlets in
foreign countries. During the great war, we passed through a
brief period of intense commercial expansion. That, however.
was but a transient experience which not only came to an end
10 -

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
II.
L'INDUSTRIALISATION DU PAYS ET
LE COMMERCE EXTÉRIEUR.
En présence de la question pressante de l'accroissement
de la population les gouvernements successifs et l'opinion pub-
lique se sont de plus en plus persuadés, depuis près de quarante
ans, que le pays ne pouvait plus dépendre uniquement de
l'agriculture et que, pour assurer l'existence nationale, il était
désormais indispensable d'intensifier l'industrialisation du pays
et de développer le commerce intérieur et exterieur. Cette
nouvelle politique devait amener le Japon à s'efforcer de puiser
dans l'industrie et le commerce les ressources nécessaires pour
procurer au peuple les moyens de vivre. On s'est efforcé de
fabriquer tout ce qui est nécessaire à la consommation intérieure
en vue de réduire la masse des importations, car la balance
commerciale, sans cesse défavorable, tendait à accroitre con-
stamment nos obligations vis-à-vis de l'étranger. Quelques
chiffres montreront l'évolution de l'industrie japonaise. Le
nombre total des fabriques occupant au moins dix ouvriers ne
dépassait pas, en 1889, 2.259; en 1933 ce chiffre est passé à
31.293. Le nombre des travailleurs des deux sexes, qui s'élevait
en 1889 à 220.138, a atteint en 1933 le chiffre de 1.747.418.
Les prix de revient industriels.
Lorsque nous eûmes fait des progrès suffisants dans la
fabrication d: diverses marchandises, nous nous mimes à la
recherche de débouchés extérieurs. Nous avons déjà connu,
pendant la grande guerre, quelques années d'expansion com-
merciale intense. Mais ce n'était là qu'une activité passagère
qui non seulement disparut après la guerre, mais qui devait
一10一

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
after the war but resulted in years of crisis. In the last six
or seven years, we have made a great eifort to rationalise
certain branches of our industry and to reduce to a minimum
the costs of production. Rationalisation, which was a dire
necessity for our industries, was to have the salutary effect of
developing our exports which has been noticeable in the last
two or three years. This tendeney has no doubt been favoured
by the depreciation-amounting to 65 -of our currency on
the exchange market as an inevitable consequence of the
embargo on gold. Nevertheless. without the rationalisation of
production and marketing, it would have been difficult for our
industry to produce under conditions favouring a d: velopment
of exports. Moreover, our export trade had already begun to
improve before the fall in the value of our money took place.
The year 1935 was the first in the annals of our foreign trade
since the great war, in which the trade of Japan proper
showed a slight excess of exports over imports. This oc-
currence is of great significance for a country which has been
for so long a debtor in international commerce.
The intensive and rather abrupt introduction of Japanes.
products in foreign markets has caused much criticism and
anxiety in various commercial and governmental circles abroad.
Here and there the fear of Iosing markets has been the
occasion of all kinds of recrimination. In various quarters
there have been references to social dumping, and accusations
of long working hours, starvation wages, etc. These problems.
however, have been closely examined by competent observers
and we now know from their impartial studies that the
charges brought against my country under these various heads
were based, whether deliberately or otherwise, on exaggerations
and distortions of the facts.
-11-

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
aboutir à des années de crise. Depuis six ou sept ans, nous
avons fait un grand effort pour rationaliser certaines branches
de notre industrie et réduire au minimum les frais de pro-
duction. La rationalisation, qui était pour nos industriels une
dure nécessité, devait avoir un côté salutaire : le développement
des exportations qui s'est affirmé depuis deux ou trois ans.
Sans doute cette tendance s'est trouvée favorisée par la baisse
de la monnaie nationale sur le marché des changes, conséquence
inévitable de l'embargo sur l'or; cette baisse est allée jusqu'à
652o. Mais sans la rationalisation de la production et de la
vente, il aurait été difficile de produire dans des conditions
permettant le développement des exportations. D'ailleurs
l'amélioration de notre exportation a commencé avant la baisse
de la monnaie. L'année 1935 est la première dans les annales
de notre commerce extérieur depuis la grande guerre où nous
ayons pu, pour le Japon proprement dit, enregistrer un léger
excédent des exportations sur les importations. Le fait est très
significatif pour un pays qui était si longtemps resté débiteur
dans le comimerce international.
Mais l'introduction intensive et brusquée de certains
produits japonais sur les marchés étrangers a suscité beaucoup
de critiques et d'inquiétude dans divers milieux commerciaux
et gouvernementaux. Parfois la crainte de perdre des marchés
s'est traduite par les récriminations les plus diverses. De
différents côtés, on a parlé de dumping social, on s'est élevé
contre les longues heures de travail, les salaires de famine,
etc. . . . Ces divers problèmes ont été examinés de près par
des observateurs compétents et l'on sait aujourd hui, par leurs
études impartiales, que les accusations portées sur ces différents
points contre mon pays se fondaient sur des faits que, volont-
airement ou non, on exagérait ou déformait.
-11一

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
For fuller details, I must refer to the exhaustive enquiry
on this subject made by the International Labour Office, the
organisation best qualified to undertake such a study. I have
had occasion already to quote a remarkable report by that
Offic in which detailed information is given on economic
conditions in Japan, and, in particular, on working hours, the
standard of wages, the cost of living, etc. The conelusion to be
drawn from these studies and statistics is that the living con-
ditions of Japanese workers are not quite as bad as is generally
stated in the West. Wages are not fixed on a starvation
level, for the cost of living remains very low. M. Fernand
Maurette. Assistant Director of the International Labour Oflic,
who has carried out on the spot an extremely thorough in-
vestigation, makes this declaration:
From an analysis of the total yearly expenditure per
family in various countries, "it will be seen that when the
Japanese workers have paid for their food, they still have a
larger amount of money to spend on clothing, housing and
amusements than those of all other countries except the
United States. Thus, the question of social dumping demands
serious investigation. .... It cannot b. settled simply by
study of the prices of goods and wage rates. Allowance
must be made for a number of other elements, and an accurate
idea of the standard of living in any particular country can
never be formed unless the manner of life of the population of
that country is also studied." Having quoted this passage
from M. Maurette's penetrating study, I have nothing more to
add to explain the conditions of labour in Japan. I may say
in passing, however, that his remarks reflect a profound
Socral Aspects of Industrial Development in Jpan. I. L. O. Studies and
Rep rts. Series B. No. 21. Geneva 1931, p. 55.
—12

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
Je dois renvoyer, pour tous les détails, à l'enquête ap-
profondie faite sur ce sujet par le Bureau International du
Travail, qui est l'organe le plus compétent pour se livrer à
cette étude. J'ai eu l'occasion de citer déjà l'ouvrage remar-
quable du Bureau, dans lequel on trouvera des renseignements
très précis sur la vie économique du Japon, en particulier sur
la durée du travail, le coût de la vie. . . . De ces études et
statistiques se dégage la conclusion que les conditions d'ex-
istence des ouvriers japonais ne sont pas aussi mauvaises
qu'on le dit couramment en Occident. Les salaires ne sont pas
des salaires de famine, car le coût de la vie se maintient très
bas. M. Fernand Maurette, sous-directeur du Bureau Inter-
national du Travail, qui s'est livré sur place à une étude
extrêmement minutieuse, nous affirme':
Du tableau des dépenses familiales en différents pays, "on
peut conclure qu'il reste aux travailleurs japonais, après leurs
dépenses de nourriture, plus d'argent à dépenser pour le
logement, le chauffage, l'éclairage, le vêtement et les distractions
qu'aux ouvriers d: tous les autres pays, sauf peut-être des
Etats-Unis. Aussi la question du dumping social demande-t-elle
un très sérieux examen.. . . Elle ne peut être simplement
réglée par un examen du prix des denrées et du taux des
salaires. Il faut tenir compte de tonte une série d'autres élé-
ments, et jamais l'on n'étudiera exactement le niveau de vie
d'un pays si l'on n'étudie en même temps le genre de vie de
ce pays."
Après la lecture de ce passage emprunté au remarquable
ouvrage de M. Maurette, je n'ai rien à ajouter pour expliquer
les conditions du travail au Japon. Je dirai simplement que
ces lignes reflètent une rare compréhension des éléments du
1) Aspcct soc.aux du dévcloppement industricl au Japon. B. I. T., Etudes et
Documents, série B, n' 21, Genève, 1931. p. 57.
-12-

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
understanding of the factors of the problem.
Since the manner of living of a people is not capable of
being abruptly modified, the actual conditions of life in Japan
will remain what they are to-day for many years to come and.
consequently, the conditions of labour will not undergo any
substantial modification for a long time.
In a study entitled Memorandum on Japanese Com-
petition "', another eminent economist, Dr. T. E. Gregory,
• Professor in the University of London, has recently shed new
light on the conditions in which Japanese competition is taking
place. He points out that the inequality of standards of life
has long been in existence and has not prevented Western
merchants from placing on the markets of the East the pro-
ducts of their manufacture. This is true, and the explanation
lies in the fact that the high wages of the West have b.en
balanced by a high productive power. In fact, the Occident
still possesses to-day technical superiority and an intellectual
training difficult to surpass: with such formidable assets,
pessimism and anxiety on its part would not be casily under-
stood.
In the case of Japan, Professor Gregory has noted that
efficiency and productive power have developed much more
quickly than wages and the standard of living, though the
latter have, of course, also moved upwards. He points out
that the differences are much greater in cost prices than in
wages. The standard of life in Japan is not really low in any
absolute sense; it is not the case that it has not risen or that
it is not capable of rising in the future. These, however, are
not the decisive considerations. The decisive consideration is
the co-existence of a relatively high (and rising) standard of
1) London. March 1935.
-13-

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.98)
problème.
Comme la façon de vivre d'un peuple n'est guère
susceptible de se modifier brusquement, les conditions de vie
actuelles des Japonais resteront encore pendant de nombreuses
années ce qu'ellcs sont et, par conséquent, les conditions du
travail ne subiront pas, de longtemps, de modifications sensibles.
Un autre économiste éminent, le Docteur T:-E. Gregory,
professeur à l'Université de Londres, vient d'apporter, dans
son étude Memorandum on Japanesc Competition', de nouvelles
clartés sur les conditions dans lesquelles s'exerce la concur-
rence japonaise. Il fait remarquer que l'inégalité des niveaux
d'existence existe depuis fort longtemps et n'a pas empêché
les Occidentaux d'importer sur les marchés orientaux les
marchandises qu'ils fabriquaient. C'est très vrai et c'est parce
que les hauts salaires d'Occident correspondaient à un rende-
ment (levé. En fait, l'Occident possède encore aujourd'hui une
supériorité technique et une formation intellectuelle qu'il est
difficile de surpasser; et alors, avec un actif aussi formidable,
on comprendrait mal qu'il se laisse aller au pessimisme et à
l'inquiétude.
Ce que remarque le professeur Gregory au sujet du
Japon, c'est que l" efficiency ", la puissance productive, s'est
accrue plusvite que les salaires et le niveau d'existence, qui ont
pourtant monté eux aussi. Il fait remarquer que les différences
dans les prix de revient sont plus grandes que les différences
de salaires. Le niveau d'existence au Japon n'est pas réellement
bas, en un sens absolu; il n'est pas exact qu'il ne se soit pas
élevé, ou qu'il ne puisse pas s'élever encore; mais ce n'est pas
là l'essentiel. Le facteur décisif, c'est la coexistence avec ce
niveau de vie d'un pouvoir producteur relativement haut.
(1) London, March 1935.
-13一

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
efficiency with a standard of life low in relation to that
efficiency. In making this very significant point, Professor
Gregory recognis's the importance of the special aptitudes of the
Japanese people. These aptitudes are, I think, partly inherited
and partly the product of recent efforts. They represent a
potential force, to be found also among the great peoples of
the West, which is independent of the standard of life. What
Professor Gregory has perceived here is an essential fact, as
inherent quality.
Important as the factor of labour is in the determination
of cost prices, in the case of Japanese industry it is more than
counterbalanced and its influence is attenuated by the payment
in depreciated national currency for the purchase abroad of
raw materials which are almost totally lacking in the country.
In another publication, M. Maurett: has noted the dis
advantageous aspect of the situation. The point is often over
looked in discussions on Japanese production.
Exports.
It would not have been possible for Japan to play a passiv.
role in economic life. She has been obliged to make efforts in
order to improve her commercial balance. She has had to con
struct manufacturing plants and factories in order to produce
commodities for which she had previously been dep.ndent upon
imports. To-day her industry is sufficiently developed to
enable her to export manufactured goods. To th: diffusion of
Japanese products at cheap prices is often attributed the
decline in the sale of European products which has been
accentuated during the last few years. Yet I am convinced
1) Tour du Pacifique. Paris, 1934. p. 161.
-11 --

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
Cette remarque est très importante; le Professeur Gregory
reconnait l'importance des aptitudes d: peuple japonais. Je
pense que ces aptitudes peuvent être en partie héréditaires,
provenir cn partie d'efforts récents; ce potenticl, qui se
rencontre aussi chez les grands peuples d'Occidents, est in-
dépendant du niveau d'existence. ll y a là un fait, une qualité
propre. que le Docteur Gregory constate.
Mais si la part du travail compte beaucoup dans la
détermination du prix de revient, elie est surpassée et son
influence compensée, dans le cas de l'industrie japonaise, par
le paiement que celle-ci doit effectuer en devises nationales
dépréciées pour l'achat des matières premières qui lui font
presque totalement défaut. M. Maurette, dans un autre ouvrage,
relève ce coté désavantageux de la situation(. On le néglige
souvent lorsqu'on parle de la production japonaise.
Les exportations.
Le Japon ne pouvait pas rester passif dans le domaine
économique. Il lui a fallu faire des efforts pour améliorer sa
balance commerciale. Il lui a fallu construire des manufactures et
des usines pour fabriquer des marchandises qu'il avait jusqu'ici
demandées à l'importation. A l'heure actuelle, son industrie est
sufsamment développée pour lui permettre d'exporter des pro-
duits manufacturés. On attribue souvent à la diftusion de
marchandises japonaises bon marché la mévente des produits
européens, qui s'es: accentuée depuis quelques annécs. Mais je
suis persuadé qu'il faut chercher ailleurs la cause directe de
cet état de choses: le pouvoir d'achat a baissé dans la plupart
des pays, notamment dans les colonies, par l'effet de la crise
(1) Tour du Paoftquc, Paris, 1934, p. 164.
-14 -

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
that the direct cause of this state of affairs must be looked
for elsewhere: purchasing power has fallen in most countries,
especially in the colonies, as a result of the world crisis.
Native populations, for example, have no longer been rich
enough to buy European products. They have shown a pre-
ference for goods the prices of which correspond more closely
with their resources. The export of Japanese products is thus
the consequence of diminished purchasing power, an not the
cause of the decline in the sale of European products. Is it
not even possible that the situation in the colonies would have
been aggravated during the depression if the native populations
had been unable to obtain goods at cheap prices? Perhaps
one may hope that the development of prosperity in the
various countries will enable them once again to make their
purchases from various sources. It would surely be ex-
aggeratedly pessimistic to found one's judgment of econom
potentialities solely upon an experience of a period of gener l
restrictions.
There is besides a fact that is too often forgotten whnen
the competition of Japanese goods with European products
considered, namely, that my country occupies but a mod
place in the total export trade of the world. In 1934 th
latest year for which figures are available-Japanese expo
r presented only 3.31% of total world exports: the Unt!
States' fraction was 11.02, that of Great Britain, excludin
India and the Dominions, was 10.47%; that of France, 6.1
The exports from Japan were approximately the same as th.
from Belgium (3.28%). These statistics show how far !
true it is to represent Japanese trade expansion as a r
tide threatening to swamp every market. The reality is m:
less dramatic and hardly justifies the cries of alarm wh
一15-

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
mondiale. Les indigènes, par exemple, ne se sont plus trouvés
assez riches pour acheter les produits européens; ils leur ont
préféré les marchandises dont le prix est plus en rapport avec
leurs ressources. L'exportation des produits japonais est donc la
conséquence de la diminution du pouvoir d'achat, et non la
cause de la mévente des produits européens. Peut-être même
peut-on penser que, pendant la période de crise, la situation se
serait trouvée aggravée dans les colonies, si les indigènes
n'avaient pu se procurer des produits à bon marché. Et peut-
étre peut-on espérer que le développement de la prospérité
dans les divers pays leur permettra d'acheter de nouveau des
marchandises de provenances variées. Ce serait en effet un
pessimisme exagéré de juger des possibilités économiques
d'après la seule expérience d'une période de restrictions
générales.
Au surplus, il y a un fait que l'on oublie trop souvent,
lorsq'on parle de la concurrence faite par les marchandises
japonaises aux produits européens: c'est que, dans l'ensemble
des exportations mondiales, mon pays occupe une place
modeste. En 1934 -- la dernière année dont les chiffres soient
connus — les exportations du Japon n'ont représenté que 3.31%
du total des exportations; la part des Etats-Unis était de
11.02; celle de la Grande-Bretagne, sans l'Inde ni les Domi-
nions. de 10.47; celle de la France, de 6.14; l'exportation
japonaise est sensiblement égale à celle de la Belgique:
3.28%. Ces chiffres montrent combien on est loin de la vérité
lorsqu'on représente l'expansion commerciale nippone comme
une sorte de marée qui submergerait tous les marchés. La
réalité est beaucoup moins dramatique et ne justifie pas les
cris d'alarme que l'on a poussés. Encore convient-il d'ajouter
一15一

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
have been uttered. It must also be remarked that the great
mass of Japanese sales is directed towards Asia, and that the
proportion of Asiatic purchases has recently grown: in 1933,
they accounted for 50% of the exports from Japan, whereas
in 1934 they represented nearly 54.
If it be admitted that the industrialisation of a country
is an urgent necessity springing from the growth of the
population, it follows that it is indispensable for Japan to have
access, on the one hand, to raw materials which, apart from
copper and coal, she lacks almost entirely, and, on the other.
to outlets for her manufactured goods. Raw materials and
foreign markets-here are two problems which have often in
the past been the cause of dangerous conflicts. They can be-
come dangerous again if the Powers, small as well as great.
do not make a concerted effort to destroy the cause of the
evil.
The Problem of Raw Materials.
How do these two problems present themselves in the
case of Japan? Let us take first the question of raw mater
als. In 1934 Japan has imported raw cotton, wool, oil. cis:
iron. cellulose and rubber to a total value of 1,107,167,000 yen.
or 48.5% of the total imports for that year. All these produc's
are indispensable for Japanese industry. It will be easv
understod, therefore, why we are secking to ensure our fn
acctss to the market for raw materials and why we are firn
oppos d to any attempts which may have been made to pl:
obstacles in the way of our purchases.
The distribution of raw materials among the varie
countries is so unequal that some possess them in abunda
and can derive large profits from them and at the same tit
-16

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
que la masse des ventes japonaises se dirige vers l'Asie, et que
la proportion de ces achats de l'Asie s'est accrue récemment : ele
représentait, en 1933, 50% du total des exportations japonaises
et, en 1934, près de 54%.
Si l'on admet que l'industrialisation du pays est une
nécessité impérieuse né: de l'accroissement de la population, il
est indispensable que le Japon puisse s'assurer, d'une part, les
matières premières qui lui font presque complètement défaut,
en dehors du cuivre et du charbon, et, d'autre part, des
débouchés pour l'écoulment de ses produits manufacturés.
Matières premières et débouchés extérieurs, voilà deux pro-
blèmes qui ont été souvent, dans le passé, la cause de
dangereux conflits. Ils risqueraient de le devenir à nouveau si
les puissances, petites et grandes, n'unissaient leurs efforts
pour détruire la cause du mal.
Le problème des matieres premieres.
Comment se présentent c.s deux problèmes pour le
Japon? Prenons d'abord la question des matières premières.
En 1934, le Japon a importé du coton brut, de Ia laine, du
pétrole, de la fonte, de la cellulose, du caoutchouc, pour une
somme globale de 1.107.167.00J yen, représentant 48.5% des
importations totales de l'année. Tous ces produits sont in-
dispensables à l'industrie japonaise: il est donc bien com-
préhensible que nous cherchions à nous assurer le libre accès
du marché des matières premières et que nous nous soyons
fermement opposés aux tentatives qui out pu être faites pour
mettre obstacle à ces achats.
La répartition des matières premières entre les divers
pays cst tellement inégale que les uns les possèdent en abon-
dance et peuvent en tirer de gros revenus, tout en fournissant
-16—

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
keep their own industries fully supplied, while other countries,
although their very existence depends upon their industries.
must look all over the world for the materials they need but
which they can sometimes obtain only at exorbitant prices
because of the localisation of production. Such a state of
affairs can help only to create and to develop a fe ling of
anxiety in those countries which are the victims of this
situation.
On this question of the distribution of raw materials, we
have heard recently a remarkable address, the importance of
which cannot be exaggerated. I reter to the great speech
which Sir Samuel Hoare, then the British Secretary of State
for Foreign Affairs, delivered on September 11, 1925 at a
plenary session of the Assembly of the League of Nations. 1
may be permitted to recall certain passages:
"Abundant supplies of raw materials." said Sir Samuel
Hoare, “appear to give peculiar advantage to the countries pos
sessing them. It is easy to exaggerate the decisive character
such an advantage, for there are countries which, having littl
or no natural abundance, have yet made themselves prosp rois
and powerful by industry and trade. Yet the fact remains
tha: some countries, either in their native soil or in the
colonial territories, do possess what appear to be preponder:
advantages; and that others, less favoured, view the situation
with anxiety.
" Especially as regards colonial raw materials, it is p
unnatural that such a state of affairs should give rise to !
I st exclusive monopolies be set up at the expense of th
countries that do not possess colonial empires. It is clear
in the view of many this is a real problem. And we sho
be foolish to ignore it. It may be that it is exaggeratel.
-17-

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
à leur propre industrie tout ce dont elle a besoin, tandis que
les autres, bien que leur existence même dépende de leur
industrie, doivent aller chercher partout dans le monde les
choses dont ils ont besoin et ne peuvent parfois se les procurer
qu'à des prix exorbitants, parce que la production en est
localisée. Un tel état de choses ne peut que contribuer à créer
et à développer un sentiment d'inquiétude dans les pays qui
sont victimes de cette situation.
Sur cette répartition des matières premières, nous avons
entendu dernièrement un discours remarquable dont on ne
saurait exagérer l'importance, c'est celui qu'a prononcé sir
Samuel Hoare, alors secrétaire d'Etat des Affaires étrangères
de Grande-Bretagne, à la séance plénière du 11 septembre
1935 de l'assemblée de la Société des Nations. Vous me
permettrez de vous en rappeler quelques passages:
" L'abondance des sources de matières premières — dit sir
Samuel Hoare -- semble donner au pays qui les possède des
avantages particuliers. On exagère parfois l'importance d'un
tel avantage, car il existe des pays qui, n'ayant que peu de
matières premières, ont réussi pourtant à bâtir leur prospérité
et leur puissance sur l'industrie et le commerce. Mais il reste
vrai que certains pays possèdent, soit sur leur territoire métro-
politain, soit dans leurs colonies, des avantages naturels que
d'autres pays, moins favorisés, considèrent avec inquiétude.
“En ce qui concerne particulièrement les matières premières
coloniales, il est assez naturel que l'on craigne l'établissement de
monopoles exclusifs aux dépens des pays qui ne possèdent pas
d'empire colonial. Pour beaucoup d'esprits il y a là un pro-
blème; il serait insensé de vouloir l'ignorer. Il se peut qu'on
en exagère l'importance. Il se peut qu'on l'exploite pour
-17-

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
may be also that it is exploited for other purposes. None the
less, as the question is causing discontent and anxiety, the
wise course is to investigate it, to see what the proposals are
for dealing with it, to see what is the real scope of the trouble,
and if the trouble is substantial to try to remove it."
These words are full of political sense. They go to the
very root of the problem. They reveal a complete under-
standing of the situation of those countries which are not
provided with natural wealth. But that was not all. Sir
Samuel Hoare continued as follows:
"The view of His Majesty's Government is that the
problem is economic rather than political and territorial. It is
the fear of monopoly, of the withholding of essential colonial
raw materials that is causing alarm. It is the desir, for a
guarantee that the distribution of raw materials will not be
unfairly impsded that is stimulating the d.mand for further
enquiry.
"So far as His Majesty's Government is concerned, I
feel sure that we should be ready to take our share in an
investigation of thes. matters."
After suggesting that an enquiry should be instituted
into raw materials obtained from colonies. including pro
tectorates and mandated territories, Sir Samud Hoare con-
cluded in these terms:
"I suggest that the emphasis in the terms of reference
should fall upon frse distribution of such raw material among
the industrial countries which require them, so that th: fear
of exclusion or monopoly may be removed once and for all."
Many disagreements among industrial nations would be
climinated if Sir Samuel Hoare's views were shared by all the
countries endowed with raw materials. Rarely has so im-
-18--

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
d'autres fins. Mais puisque la question provoque des inquiétudes
et du mécontentement, il vaut mieux l'étudier, voir quelles
propositions on formule pour la régler, examiner quelle est
l'étendue réelle du malaise, et si ce malaise est sérieux,
essayer de le faire disparaître."
Ce sont là des paroles pleines de sens politique. Elles
touchent le fond même du problème. On y trouve une com-
préhension parfaite de la situation des pays qui sont dépourvus
de richesses naturelles. Mais ce n'est pas tout. Sir Samuel
Hoare continue:
" D. l'avis du gouvernement de Sa Majesté, le problème
revêt un caractère économique plutôt que politique et territorial.
Ce que l'on redoute, c'est de voir se créer des monopoles, c'est
d'étre privé de matières premières coloniales essentielles. Ce
que lon veut, cest obtenir la garantie que la distribution des
matières premières ne fera pas lobjet de discriminations
injustes.
" En ce qui concerne le gouvernement de Sa Majesté, je
suis certain qu'il sera disposé à une étude de ces questions."
Après avoir suggéré qu'une enquête devrait être faite
concernant les matières premières provenant des colonies, y
compris les protectora's et les territoires sous mandats, sir
Samuel Hoare conclut en ces termes:
"A mon avis il faudrait, dans les instructions données,
insister tout spécialement sur la libre répartition de ces matières
premières entre les pays industriels qui en ont besoin, de façon à
écarter définitivement toute crainte d'exclusion ou de monopole."
Bien des désaccords entre nations industrielles se trouverai-
ent éliminés si les vues de sir Samuel Hoare étaient partagées
par tous l's pays dotés de matières premières. Rarement on a
-18-

=== Page 245 === (confidence 1.00)
portant a declaration been heard from the mouth of a res-
ponsible statesman. Such statements cannot but contribute to
a clarification of the situation of countries which feel real
apprehension at the prospect of a lack of raw materials. I
do not know in what way substance can be given to Sir
Samuel Hoare's idea concerning an investigation of the un-
equal distribution of raw materials, but its importance for the
future solution of the problem can already be endorsed from
this moment.
I read only yesterday in the press that in the British
House of Commons an extremely important debate had taken
place on this question of the distribution of raw materials. I
have not yet had time to study the debate closely, but I can
say even now that the problem is to-day at the forefront of
current politics.
The Marketing Problem.
A reorganisation of the distribution of raw materials.
although of capital importance, does not constitute the only
problem to be solved if one is trying to dissipate the sense of
uneasiness in a country like my own. There is another pro-
blem which, under the modern system of production, calls for
a simultaneous solution. That is the problem of the re-
organisation of world markets.
No country can live on its industry if external outlets
are closed to its production, except in the case of a country
which possesses a vast home market; even so, it is difficult to
imagin that, in present-day circumstances, any country could
1 The debate took place in the House of Commons on February 5. 1936.
on a motion by Mr. Lansbury, former Leader of the Labour Party, for the
convening of a new international economic conference which would deal with
access to raw materials and markets, as well as with emigration.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.99)
entendu, de la bouche d'un homme d'Etat responsable, une
aussi importante assertion. De telles paroles doivent contribuer à
éclaircir la situation des pays qui éprouvent une véritable
appréhension devant la perspective de manquer de matières pre-
mières .Je ne sais sous quelle forme pourra être concrétisée l'idée
de sir Samuel Hoare concernant l'enquête sur la répartition
inégale des matières premières, mais, d'ores et déjà, on peut
enregistrer son importance pour la solution future du problème.
Je viens de lire, hier même, dans les journaux, qu'à la
Chambre des Commnnes britannique, des débats extrêmement
importants se sont engagés sur ce sujet de la répartition des
matière premières.
Je n'ai pas encore eu le temps d'étudier de près les
débats, mais je puis remarquer déjà que le problème passe au
premier plan de l'actualité politique.
Le probleme des marches.
Mais la réorganisation de la répartition des matières
premières, bien qu'elle soit d'une impo:tance capitale, ne con-
stitue pas le seul problème à résoudre si l'on veut faire dis-
paraitre l'inquiétude des pays comme le mien. Il y a un autre
problème qui, dans le régime moderne de la production,
demande une solution simultanée: c'est le problème de l'orga-
nisation des marchés mondiaux.
Un pays ne pourra pas vivre de son industrie si les
débouchés extérieurs sont fermés à sa production, à moins
qu'il ne s'agisse de pays qui possèdent un marché intérieur
extrêmement vaste, et même pour de tels pays il est difficilement
concevable qu'à l'heure actuelle ils puissent se passer de
1 Il s'agit des débats engagés aux Communes à Londres, le 5 février 1936,
sur la motion présenté par M. Lansbury, ex-leader du Labour Party, con-
cernant la convocation d'une nouvelle conférence économique internationale qui
s'occuperait de l'accès aux matières premières et aux marchés, ainsi que de
l'émigration.
-19-

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.98)
do without external outlets. Yet, since the Great War, ob-
stacles to the freedom of trade have been multiplied : customs
barriers have been raised higher and higher; in spite of the
good intentions of their authors, quota systems have created
some serious obstacles to the development of international
exchanges: and there has recently been revived the system of
barter, a system more deplorable than the others because it
brings the exchange system almost to a standstill, a system
which in our days can be described even as shameful, for, if
I open my dictionary, I find it defined as the most primitive
form of commerce. Some authorities rightly declare that a
country is qualified to possess a vast territory and fourishing
colonies as long as it leaves them open for free exchange;
but that, as soon as it closes them to foreign commerce
and adopts measures of restriction detrimental to the trade
of foreign countries, such meisures so far as countries not
possessing a large territory or sufficient colonies are con-
cerned, are practically tantamount, from an economic point
of view, to a loss of their own territory or colonies.
The same writers add that it would b: singularly dangerous
for the maintenance of peace to close territories or to mo-
nopolise colonies. For my part, I would not go so far. Peace
is not to be troubled except in the most extreme cases.
The problems of daily life will b: solved by our statesmen,
who will know how to avoid contlicts of a parcly economic
origin. It is none the less desirable that the political leaders
of every country should consider the views of the other count-
ries and acquire a proper understanding of their vital needs.
And it is no less certain that, in present-day circumstances,
the policy of protectionism can not be completely discarded.
Yet I am convinced that it is to no one's advantage to ex-
-20-

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
débouchés extérieurs. Or, depuis la grande guerre, les obstacles
au libre commerce se sont multipliés: barrières douanières de
plus en plus élevées; systèmes de contingentement qui, en
dépit des bonnes intentions de leurs auteurs, ont créé de sérieux
obstacles au développement des échanges internationaux; enfin
ce système du troc, récemment ressuscité, régime déplorable
entre tous parce qu'il paralyse grandement les échanges, je
dirais même régime honteux pour notre siècle car, si j'ouvre
le Larousse, j'y trouve la définition suivante: "La forme la
plus primitive du commerce, c'est le troc." Certains auteurs
aflirment avec raison qu'un pays a qualité pour posséder un
vaste territoire et des colonies florissantes aussi longtemps qu'il
les laisse ouverts au libre échange, mais dès l'instant où il les
ferme au commerce étranger, il apporte des restrictions des-
tructives de ce commerce, ces mesures ont, pour les pays qui
ne possèdent pas de large territoire ou de colonies suffisantes.
des conséquences qui équivalent à peu près, au point de vue
économique, à ce que serait pour les pays nantis, la perte
même de leur territoire ou de leurs colonies. Ces auteurs
ajoutent qu'il serait singulièrement dangereux, pour le maintien
de la paix, de fermer les territoires ou de monopoliser les
colonies. Pour ma part, je ne vais pas aussi loin. La paix ne
saurait être troublée que dans des cas tout à fait extrêmes.
Les problèmes de la vie quotidienne seront résolus par les
hommes d'Etat, qui sauront éviter les conflits d'origine purement
économique. Mais il n'en est pas moins désirable que les
hommes politiques de chaque pays entrent dans les vues des
autres pays et prennent une juste compréhension de leurs
besoins vitaux. II n'est pas moins certain que, dans les cir-
constances actuelles, la politique protectionniste ne saurait être
complètement écartée. Mais je suis persuadé qu'il n'est du
profit de personne d'exclure, en totalité ou en partie, les autres
一20—

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
clude, either wholly or in part, the other countries from one's
market.
Before coming to a conclusion, I cannot pass over in
silence an article published in an American review" which has
produced a very deep impression in Japan. The article in
question is written by that distinguished and universally
known stateman, Colonel Edward House. It is (ntitled " Wanted
A New Deal among Nations". The writer of this article
considers, fist of all. the political and c onomic needs of
certain countries and he explains the urgent necessity of
arriving at new arrangements among the different nations. I
shall refer here only to that part of his argument which deals
with my own country.
After representing Japan as a country which escapes
from the control of the great Powers, Colonel House recalls
two initiatives taken recently by my country: one is the
withdrawal from the League of Nations in order to have un-
restricted action; another is the denunciation of the Washington
Naval Treaty. Both of these moves were, according to him,
mistakes. Though his sympathy is largely with the Japanese
and what they seem to have in mind, he thinks that they are
choosing the wrong time and the wrong methods of bringing
it about. The world is in too much turmoil now. It needs
composure if it is to right itself, and Colonel Hous: thinks
that, if the constructive forces at work in almost every country
are allowed to succeed, what Japan desires will come about
easily and naturally.
"It is understandable," declares Colonel House. " that Japan
should wish to have a dominating influence in the Far East,
and she has a right to demand an outlet for the crowded
1. "Liberty", New York. 14 September, 1935.
-21-

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
pays de son marché.
Avant de conclure, je ne puis passer sous silence un
article publié dans une revue américaine', et qui a produit au
Japon une très grosse impression. L'article en question est dû
à l'éminent homme polit:que universellement connu qu'est le
colonel Edward House. Il est intitulé: " Wanted a new deal
among nations" (De nouvelles directives s'imposent dans les
rapports entre nations). L'auteur envisage tout d'abord les
besoins politiques et économiques de certains pays et il explique
la nécessité urgente d'aboutir à de nouveaux arrangements entre
les différentes nations. Je ne parlerai ici que de la partie de
son exposé qui traite de mon pays.
Après avoir représenté le Japon comme un pays qui
échappe au contrôle des grandes puissances, le colonel Edward
House rappelle les deux initiatives prises récemment par mon
pays: l'une, le retrait de la Société des Nations dans le but
d'avoir les mains libres; l'autre, la dénonciat on du traité de
Washington, actes qui, sclon lui, furent tous deux des erreurs.
Tout en assurant les Japonais de sa sympathie pour leurs
aspirations, il estime que le moment qu'ils ont choisi est in-
opportun et leur méthode défectueuse. Le monde est actuelle-
ment en pleine agitation; il lui faut un temps d'arrêt pouf
qu'il puisse se redresser, et le colonel Edward House pense
qu'il est nécessaire que les forces constructives en action dans
la plupart des pays réussissent pour que le Japon voie ensuite
se réaliser aisément et spontanément ce qu'il aura désiré.
"Il est compréhensible — dit le colonel Edward House —
que le Japon désire avoir une influence prépondérante en
Extrêmc-Orient et il a le droit de demander un débouché pour
la masse de sa population confinée dans un territoire trop
(1, Liberty, New-York, 14 septembre 1935.
-21-

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
population within her restricted borders. There are still vast
waste places throughout the earth. Why not allow the Japan-
ese to make them productive and add to the wealth and
happiness of mankind? Heretofore such things have been
accomplished by war, but we want no more wars of aggression.
Why not see whether the problem cannot be worked out to
satisfy the Japanese without antagonising other Great Powers?"
After observing that there are in Japan two opposing
groups, one led by the extremists, and the other by the men
of mature opinion, Colonel House expresses his confidence in
the sober judgment of the masses of Japan, and he adds:
"If we do our part, the future will see us working with
them for a common purpose. This can never be done by
taking a narrow, isolated, and wholly selfish view. If we and
other nations contemplating policies based on unenlightened
national egotism should carry out thes: intentions, failure is
inevitable. It may sound well to insist upon living within
ourselves and being self-supporting. A prohibitive tariff may
seem sound economic sense. A refusal to take any part in
discussions and settlements of international problems may seem
wise. But, as a matter of fact, it cannot be done by such a
nation as the United States. Isolation is manifestly not ou:
destiny.
The writer concludes with the following passage:
" The yellow race, led by its most progressive members,
will coalesce eventually. It is desirable that this bloe - almost
inevitable if to the weight of numbers is added the new
impetus which China as well as Japan has received from the
Western world—should not be imbued with antagonism against
the white race. But it will be thus imbued if we are un-
willing to envisage a new deal internationally as well as
—22一

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
étroit. Il existe encore de vastes territoires à travers le monde.
Pourquoi ne pas permettre au Japon de les rendre productifs
et d'augmenter ainsi la fortune et le bonheur du genre humain?
Jusqu'ici ces choses se sont faites par la guerre, mais nous ne
voulons plus de guerre d'agression, Pourquoi ne pas se de-
mander si le problème ne pourrait pas être résolu à la satisfac-
tion des Japonais, sans susciter l'antagonisme d'autres grandes
puissanccs?"
Ayant constaté qu'il y a au Japon deux courants d'opinions
opposées: l'un dirigé par extrémistes, l'autre par des hommes
pondérés, le colonel Edward House manifeste sa confiance dans
le bon sens des masses japonaises, et il dit:
"Si nous faisons notre devoir, je suis certain qu'à l'avenir
nous travaillerons en commun pour le même but. Cela ne peut
être réalisé si l'on s'en tient à l'étroitesse de vues, à l'isolement,
à l'égoisme pur. Si nous et les autres nations, envisageant une
politique fondée sur un égoisme national aveugle, nous acharnons
dans cette politique, la faillite est inévitable. Il peut sembler
que l'on a trouvé un: bylle formule lorsque l'on prétend vivre
pour soi et ne compter que sur soi. Un tarif prohibitif peut
paraitre sensé économiquement. Un refus de prendre part à la
discussion et à la solution des problèmes internationaux peut
sembler sage. Mais, en réalité, cela ne peut étre fait par une
nation comme les Etats-l'nis. L'isolement n'est manifestement
pas notre destinée."
L'auteur conclut par le passage suivant:
"La race jiune, dirigée par ses membres les plus pro-
gressifs, se coalisera sans doute. Il est désirable que ce bloc.
dont la formation est presque inévitable - puisqu'au poids du
nombre s'ajoute cette nouvelle impulsion que la Chine comme
le Japon ont reçue de l'Occident — ne soit pas imprégné d'une
idée d'antagonisme contre la race blanche. Mais il en sera
imprégné si nous nous refusons à envisager une nouvelle
méthode sur le plan international aussi bien que sur le plan
22一

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
nationally."
I leave to my distinguished audience the task of weighing
for themselves the impression which this article may have
produced upon them. It is natural that arguments which are
at once so courageous and so clear should have produced in
Japan a feeling which it is impossible to describe. So
penetrating an understanding of the situation in the Far East,
so firm and bold a declaration, emanating from a mar of
Colonel House's experience of political realities and who enjoys
great prestige throughout the world, have aroused warm
enthusiasm and great admiration in my country. For my own
part, I have been happy to observe that it has been possibl
more or less at the same time both to listen to Sir Samuel
Hoare's great address and to read Colonel House's article.
Each of these two statesmen was giving expression to the
same concern, and their ideas may be an effective contribution
to a new political orientation in international relations.
III.
CONCLUSION.
I come now to my conclusion.
I have attempted to explain the conditions in which my
country has seen her population increase and her industry and
trade develop. To provide our growing population with the
means to exist, we have had to create work which industry
alone has been able to give us. Industrialised Japan has
extended her manufactures. She imports great quuntities of
raw materials and transforms them into commodities which
she exports. Our manufacturers feel that they are able to
23

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
national."
Je laisse à mes distingués auditeurs le soin d'apprécier
eux-mêmes l'impression que cet article a pu produire sur eux.
Il est naturel que les arguments du colonel Edward House, à
la fois si courageux et si limpides, aient causé au Japon une
sensation impossible à décrire. Une telle compréhension de la
situation en Extrême-Orient, un exposé aussi ferme et aussi
hardi, émanant d'un homme qui a l'expérience des réalités
politiques et qui jouit dans le monde d'une grand prestige, ont
suscité chez nous un vif enthousiasme et une grande admira-
tion. Quant à moi, j'ai été heureux de constater qu'à la même
(poque on a pu entendre le grand discours de sir Samuel
Hoare et lire l'article du colonel Edward House. Ces deux
hommes politiques ont obéi aux mêmes préoccupations et leurs
idées peuvent contribuer efficacement à une nouvelle orientation
politique dans les rapports internationaux.
III.
CONCLUSION.
Je puis maintenant conclure.
J'ai essayé d'expliquer les conditions dans lesquelles mon
pays a vu s'accroitre sa population, se développer son industrie
et son commerce. Pour faire vivre notre population croissante,
nous avons dù créer du travail, et seule l'industrie a pu nous.
en donner. Le Japon industrialisé a étendu ses fabrications. Il
importe de grandes quantités de matières premières et les
transforme en marchandises qu'il exporte. Nos fabricants ont
le sentiment qu'ils peuvent lutter avantageusement sur les
-2-

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
compete with advantage in the foreign markets. The rapid
introduction of our prolucts on the world market, however,
has aroused criticism and caused anxiety. Now there must
be justice for all men. Japanese manufacturers, being obliged
to secure an access to a world market where European and
American industrialists had long had their place, have made
great efforts to produce at low prices. The Japanese people.
brought late into contact with the civilisation of the West.
have had to assimilate its methods rapidly in order to make
up for lost time.
I met last year an aged and distinguished French industri-
alist, who, I grieve to say, has since died, and who spoke to
me in substance as follows:
"Japanese competition, which certainly came somewhat
suddenly, but which represents the magnificent result of the
persistent efforts of a whole nation, has revealed to us Oc-
cidentals how much the old world has become accustomed to
comfort and easy profits Japan cannot be repronched for
producing cheaply. What we need is to be shaken and
aroused to make the same effort."
This was the sincere admission of a man of experience.
I would not wish it to be unpalatable to a French audience,
yet it must give food for serious reflection to any enlightened
and impartial mind.
Embarrassed by this new competition, the old world is
raising economic fortifications: it is constructing an enclosure
of customs barriers, and it is building up walls of quotas
without pausing to consider the difficulty of reconciling this
system with the most favoured-nation clause of international
treaties. In spite of the energetic criticism which can be
levelled against this ingenious system. we look upon it as a
-21-

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
marchés étrangers, mais cette introduction rapide de nos
marchandises sur ces marchés a soulevé des critiques et provo-
qué des inquiétudes. Il faut être équitable envers tous. Les
fabricants japonais, obligés de s'ouvrir un accès sur le marché
mondial où les industriels européens ou américans avaient depuis
longtemps leur place, ont fait de grands efforts pour produire à
bon marché. Le peuple japonais, entré tardivement en contact
avec la civilisation d'Occident, a dú assimiler rapidement ses
méthodes pour rattraper le temps perdu.
J'ai rencontré, l'année passée, un vieil et éminent industriel
français, décédé, hélas! depuis cette époque, et qui me déclara
en substance:
"La concurrence japonaise, qui fut certes un peu soudaine,
mais qui représente le magnifique résultat des efforts persistants
de tout un peuple, nous a révélé à nous, Occidentaux, com-
bien le vieux monde s'était habitué à l'aisance et aux gains
faciles. On ne peut pas reprocher au Japon de produire à bon
marché. Ce qu'il faut, cest nous secouer, nous réveiller et
accomplir le même effort."
Tel est l'aveu sincère d'un homme d'expérience. Je ne
voudrais pas qu'il sonne mal aux oreilles françaises, mais il
doit faire réfléchir sérieusement tout esprit éclairé et impartial.
Gêné par la nouvelle concurrence, l vieux monde élève
des fortifications économiques: il construit l'enceinte des barrières
douanières; il bâtit enfin les murailles du contingentement,
sans s'attarder à la difficulté de concilier ce système avec la
clause de in nation la plus favorisée, qui reste inscrite dans les
traités. En dépit d's critiques énergiques que l'on peut
opposer à cet ingénieux système, nous y voyons une
-21一

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
de jacto institution regarded by some countries as an im-
perious necessity. At the same time we ask for a recognition
of our no less imperious right to assure for our people the
possibility of existence. Although the old world may be
pleased to close up to outside traffic not only its metropolitan
territories but also its overseas possessions, it will not thereby
promote the general welfare.
Perhaps I may be permitted to quote once more Colonel
House and Professor Gregory. In an article which appeared
last November" Colonel House sounded a new note of warn-
ing. The attitude of the statesmen in Europ、 and America
toward Japan is still influenced, he said, by prejudices for
which a basis no longer exists. . . . The development of
transportation facilities, the diffusion of a system of education
which white civilisation has spread throughout the world, have
wrought a revolution that embraces even the jungle. . . . It is
wholly problematical what part Japan will assume in the great
readjustment of the races. If we play our hands well, it may
be that she will find her best interests on the side of the
white races. . . . But the conflict which threatens can only be
definitely avoided if the people of the white race come to
realise that they must treat the other races as equals. If they
do not do so, concludes Colonel House, they are preparing a
most terrible conflict.
My own view is that a danger of this kind can be
avoided. I believe in the possibility of fruitful collaboration
between the West and the East. Yet such collaboration must
be prepared on a basis of mutual understanding.
The point which Professor Gregory has so fully under-
stood is the advantage to everyone of a policy of good under-
1) Liberty, 30 November, 1935.
-25-

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
institution de fait qui apparait comme une nécessité impérieuse
à certains pays. Mais nous demandons aussi que l'on recon-
naisse notre droit non moins impérieux d'assurer à notre
population la possibilité de vivre. Si le vieux monde se plait à
fermer, non seulement ses territoires métropolitains, mais ses
possessions d'outre-mer au trafic extérieur, cette mesure
n'accroîtra pas le bienêtre général.
Peut-être me sera-t-il permis de citer encore une fois le
colonel Edward House et le professeur Gregory.
Dans un article du mois de novembre dernier", le colonel
Edward House a jeté un nouveau cri d'alarme: l'attitude des
hommes d'Etat d'Europe et d'Amérique à l'égard du Japon est
encore inspirée — dit-il - par des préjugés qui n'ont plus de
fondement. . . . Le développement des moyens de transport,
la diffusion d'un système d'éducation que la civilisation blanche
a répandu dans le monde entier, ont provoqué une révolution
qui s'étend jusqu'à la jungle. . . . On ne sait quel rôle le
Japon jouera dans ce grand mouvement de réajustement des
races; si notre politique est bonne, il se peut qu'il trouve
que son intérêt est solidaire de celui des races blanches. ...
Mais le conflit qui menace ne peut être véritablement écarté
que si les peuples de race blanche se rendent compte qu'ils
doivent traiter les autres peuples comme des égaux. S'ils ne
le font pas — conclut le colonel Edward House — ils préparent
le plus terrible conflit.
Pour ma part, je crois qu'un danger comme celui-là peut
être évité; je crois à une collaboration féconde de l'Occident
et de l'Orient. Mais encore faut-il que cette collaboration soit
préparée par un effort de compréhension mutuelle.
Ce qu'a très bien compris le professeur Gregory, ce
sont les avantages que peut présenter pour tous, sur le
1) Liberty, 30 novembre 1935.
—25-

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
standing and co operation in the economic field. A policy of
this kind can assume many forms; it is incompatible neither
with a return to freedom of exchange, nor with a maintenance
of certain measures of restriction; it can be expressed through
a distribution of markets among rival countries or by the
allocation to certain countries of certain categories of supplies
or again by the assignment of quotas in each market.
It is not possible for me, of course, to make a choice
between the various measures surveyed by this English
economist. The point which I should like to emphasise is the
idea of the necessity for co-operation. It is always better to
negotiate than to take refuge in distrust and abstention. What
I can affirm here is that my country will always be found
ready to take part in discussions.
I repeat that the worst policy would be to oppose the
West against the East. No effort must be spared to establish
the vital requirements on both sides. I have had no other
object this evening than to outline to you with all frankness
some of those necessities. I am convinced that when the
nations have better understood each other's needs and aspira-
tions, economic peace-that peace to which everyone aspires -
will have been assured.
-26-

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
terrain économique, une politique de bonne intelligence et de
coopération. Cette politique peut prendre bien des formes; elle
n'est incompatible ni avec un retour à la liberté des échanges,
ni avec le maintien de certaines mesures restrictives; elle peut
trouver son expression soit dans une répartition des marchés
entre les pays rivaux, soit dans l'attribution à certains pays
de certains catégories de fournitures, soit dans une assignation
de contingents sur chaque marché.
Il ne m'appartient naturellement pas de faire un choix
entre les divers procédés que passe en revue l'économiste
anglais. Mais ce que je veux retenir, c'est l'idée d'une co-
opération nécessaire. Il vaut toujours mieux négocier que se
réfugier dans la méfiance et l'abstention. Ce que je puis dire,
c'est que l'dn trouvera toujours mon pays prêt à causer.
Je le répète, la plus mauvaise politique serait d'opposer
l'Occident à l'Orient. Il ne faut pas ménager les efforts pour se
rendre compte des nécessités vitales des uns et des autres. Je
n'ai pas eu ce soir d'autre object que de vous exposer, en
toute franchise, quelques unes de ces nécessités. Je suis persuadé
que, lorsque les peuples auront mieux compris leurs besoins et
lurs aspirations, la paix économique sera assurée, cette paix
à laquelle tout le monde aspire.
—21-

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.94)
特命全權大使佐藤尙武
日本の人口問題及工業化問題
日本國際協會發行

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.86)
即ち一平方に付正しく一八一人の制合なり今之を世界に於て最大人密度を有する自耳義が一九
人口密度最も大なる部分たる帝國本士の人いを檢討さる時は人いの集中夥しきものあるを見るべし
之寸一九三五年十月一日施行國勢調查二依以其四人日六九二五一二六五人六其の重要性と
進展に對し特に重大なる意義を有する二問題を提出し以て佛國識者の攻究に資せんとす。
は僅かに個人的經驗による思案に過ざす唯此の機會を得て單に我國に對してのみならす岡際關係の
學者にも非ざる予は元來今日の招請を受諾するに當り躊躇を禁じ得ざりしものにして以下述ぶる處
演するの機會を與へられたる外交問題研究學會の好意之謝す能辯の才なく經濟專門家仁非寸將又法
日本帝國は全領域六七五一八軒半方之見寸乃帝國本十は三八三一四將平方之數ふる仁過
命長シーグフリード教授の懇篤なる歡迎の辭に對し深厚なる謝意を長し本日紳上淑女諸彦の前に講
日本の人口問題及工業化問題
第一人口問

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.79)
ことしたっ
內容である於江湖の參考這之今同二英譯和譯之併也上梓十る
の下に巴里外交問題研究學會に於て佐藤大使の試みたる佛語講演の
本書昭和十一年一月二十七日丁二日
昭和十一年九月
はしがき
日本國際協會
シーゲッリード教授司會

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.81)
本問題を檢討寸ろに先立ち一先決問題の提起を必要と信す即ち日本の如き國にとり過度急速なる人
本たるべさものは日本本さたること明かいれはいん
は之を省略し以て本說述の複維化を避けんと寸蓋し政治的經濟的見地より觀て日本國民生活の悲
ざる國にとり異常のものなることを指摘せざるを得す手は怖く日本本士に付てのみ説き朝鮮菩灣
萬となるべしと云ふも何の道此の數字は波蘭のそれに等しき三八三三一四籽平方の面積より有せ
の研究は之を寺門家に委せんと欲するも三十年後に一億に達すべしといひ或は一九七の年に八下
付三十六人なりしものが一九三四年には下人に付三十人以下に下降せ手は我國に於ける人日現象
近數字の示寸處に依れば每年の人口増加率は數年前に比し既に同から一九二○年に於て千人に
上田教授は日本に於て為遠からざる將來同樣の現象之見るべしと論本事實内閣統計局公表の最
付三十五人以上の人曰增加之見たる國赤ろ斯る諸國十年或注二十年の後に以右增加の停止初りた
に近年に於ては出生率の下降を見るに至れり泰西諸國中に於ても今より三四十年以前には干人に
と同樣の經過をとるべく日本は其の產業革命時代之現世紀初頭仁終八其の結果人目増加したるも既
革命の結果一定期間中壯年人日の急速なる増加を見たる必程なく出牛率の減退赤りたるが日本も之
しとの結論に到達したり上田教授は右人目現象之産業革命と剛聯し考察したり歐洲に於て産業
右の如き非態に於て人いの激増に處さ對策如何の問題は當然提起せらろ處なり然れども子は

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.88)
の結果日本人口は一九七年頃に至り最大限度に到達寸べく其の頃に於ける人口は約八千萬となるべ
於ける際限なき増加に關し外國に於て行はる意見と說を同じくせ寺同教授は詳細なる統計的研究
六年來本問題に付重要なる研究發表せられたり予の畏友東京商科大學上川教授は日本人口の將來に
ざろことは勿論なるも我國に於ても一般に該問題に慎重考慮た拂へること他國に同じく殊に最近五
れば日本は正に爆裂せんとする光鑑と異ならざるべし
増加は單に莫大なるのみならす際限なき上昇の途を迎るものと云はる若し此の見方にして正しとす
東洋的出生率を以て倍加し他方其の死亡率は歐羅巴的標準に近づくべければ日本に於ける人口の
基きなされたる算定によれば日本人口は茲三十年間に一億に達すべし一部の論者に依れば日本人は
而して右年増加率ー千人に付十二人は一般に今後永らく持紙寸るものと考八られおりこの假定に
日本の人口は靜止せるものに非すその増加の速度極めて大にして毎年の増加數は近來約百出に達す
地一軒平方に付六七○人を數ふるに過ぎざるに日本は貸に一一二○人を算す一九三三年調査加之
に人れて計算するときは人密度に於て日本は著しく自耳義を超過するを見るべし卽ち自耳義可耕
の制合は千分の四○三なるに日本のそれは千分の一五六に過ぎざる開係上可耕地而積の割合を考慮
三四年一料平方に二七一人を算したるに比するも可なりその率高きのみならす自耳義に於ける可耕地
人口間題の研究は極めて困難なるものにーて特殊の能力と複維なる算定を要す予がその適材に非

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.85)
る困難を威じおり父一方每年二卜出乃至三十出の求職者増加を見るの事貸は理の當然として勞働者
して壯年階段の負控輕減な齋らすに過ぎさるなり
するものにして、右は晩婚父は産兒制限の如さ手段を以て総改するを得す産兒制限は直接の結果と
て此の現象は尙今後二十年間持績すべし右教授の說に從八以實に日本人口問題の最重要點は茲に存
授の詐量するところによれば每年勞働市場に押寄する求職男女數は二十一出乃至二十九萬なり而し
めつありて尙永年に涉りこの現象を線返へし悪化せしむることなるべきは事貸なり前掲上田教
口は前に述べたる理山に依ら必すしも過大なりと云ふを得ざるべし。併かも今日多くの青年は職を求
に於ても左迄普及しおらす斯くて今日既に著大なる數に直而することなれり尤も日本現在の人
期に豫防手段を探ることなく今世紀の初頭に於ても尙我國に於は産兒制限を行はす當時は西洋
以前に於て人口増加率を一定標準に定むる爲に必要なる方策之誰也ざるべかるしなり適當介効の時
不幸問題に予が欲する如斯く簡單に非本此の生活の安易を齋さんが爲には今よう十五年二十年
に五十出になすことを得ば國の内外に於て其の生活著しく樂となるべしと論決せんとするものなるも
費之個人收入の均衡の維持一府困難となる一斯て手は若一日木人曰年增加數一約百萬一之順調
はその人過剥ならさる時一時大なる餘裕を得べ人増加するに應じて生活は困苦を増し生活
上述の如き事情は國民の生活を容易にする態のもに非本凡て其の生活資料を得んが爲に妙からざ

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.86)
供を有する家庭が一時裕福に生活し得ることは疑なく國に取りても同様にして概話的に云は一國
に於ては暫く國防に開する一切の考是た省さ特に家庭的庇命的福祉の僧値に付論ぜんとす少き子
福祉を一附確實に保障するがため人口増加率之合理的なる標準に止めんと寸る者の人なるが本講演
可能なるべし
す之を以て日本が一定の時期に政治的或は經濟的の不便なく養ひ得る人口の標準を決定すること不
之と同樣に日本人目密度を他國の夫れと比較するも右比較は相對的限定的なる指示を與ふるに過ぎ
率の過大なるを云爲するもこは極めて一般的にして可成り漠然たる意味を持ち得るに止まるべし
前全然農業にのみ依りたる時代に比し遙かに多くの人口を支ふるを得從て日本の現人口とその増加
半數は未だに農業を以て生計を立ておれるもて業化されたる岡にして今日に於ては今より七十年以
同じ廣表を有する農業にのふ依存する國よんは遙かに大なる人いな養ひ得べし本は其の人いの約
國民は其の對外貿易によ生活し得父之の工業に必要六る物資原料之自由に輸入し得る如き岡は
と云ふべ右數字は地理的政治的並に經濟的條作に從必著く變化すべく高度に工業化され
口増加の制限は窮迫せりや否やの問題これなん。
日本人口の年々の増加を制限すべしとの要望に付ては我國に於て意見可成り分れたり予は図民の
抑々斯々の國にとり人口の最大限をなすべき數を正確に定むることは決して行ひ得べきものに非す

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.78)
やんんす。
べき滿足なる解決を發見し得ざりし次第を茲に卒直に告自せざるを得す
増加が文明の進化の爲如何に望ましき事なりとするも手は今日に至る迄此の大いなる矛盾より脫す
止を主張するものに對し遊かに贊成寸るを得ざらしむ假令勞働者の減少勞銀の引上及大衆の福祉
と有効に競手するにぞるべし。
經濟的政治的事情が之を許寸に於ては他い上場亦此の例に做くやがては此等工場は日本の工業
來日本の紡績業にして或に大陸に創設せられ或は移轉せられしい赤るに見て明かなり而て他日
破滅の外なかるべし國内にて緊榮せし業の大部に隣國に移轉するの危險に曝さるべきは二卜年
仁して人口は減少若くに停止し生活標準以隣國民に比一通かに高く貨銀率亦然りとせんか所詮經濟的
難に遭遇しつ尙能く其の生作之保持した斯如く強大なる潛勢力之有する國に隣接寸六我日本
遙かに我を凌駕しおれ此等二箇國の一以數億の人口心離し過去數下年來凡四る天災地繡若くは困
然資源及原料豊饒等凡四る點仁於之極めて膨大心る二簡の隣國を有し此等の凡べての點に於て彼等は
個の隣接國に於ける人口異動との開係よち見たる日木い人口間題なり我日本は人領土面積天
予は暫く人口増加制限問題を離れ過剩人口問題及び其の結果に對寸る解決法如何の問題に付き論
此等の考慮は茲には極めて簡單に殺述さるに止めたるも實に予たして日本人いの減少若くは増加停
1-

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.88)
より問題を提供するものにして予自身之に對し未だ滿足なる回答を見出し得ざるを自認す之實に數
も人口増加の合理的制限は避く可らざる處なりと思考せらる。
遠き將來仁對しては現時日本が遭遇せる困難卽ち勞働市場に於け乃求職者過剩問題解決い爲より寸る
すと假定せん併かも何れの場合に於ても近き將來仁對一て以現存國民の物質的負擔輕減の爲將父
に誕生せる青少年に關するものなるが故に産兒制限の行無に拘ら幸求職者増加問題に直面せざるを得
せられたるべきは論を俟たす茲に於て人は再び人口増加制限問題に直面せざるを得ざるなり。
昇の傾向を有す一との論結に遠せしめたる所以なり。
合を以て下向せり是即ち該書の著者をして「日本の勞働者の生活標準は實質的勞銀の増加により上
物は此の低下傾向を岡示せる表を揭ぐ。然るに幸に國内に於ける生活費は勞働者の貸銀より大なる制
示せりILe Travail industricl duJapon"(日木に於ける工業勞働）（註)と題する國際勞働事務局刊行
の生活標準改善を困難ならしむ。斯くして過去數年來勞働者の平均報酬は各工業部門共著しき低下を
然れども予に茲に未だ考最を加へざりし重要なる一新事實あるを認む而して右事貸は新なる視角
今上田教授の說に從以日本は今後二十年間每年二十萬乃至三十萬の勞働者增加問題を控へ且つ既
然れども勞働者數にして一肝少數なりしならんには勞銀は一附高く其の幸福は一段確實に維持保證
（建一九三三年壽府出版第二頁第四三表以下諸表參照
6

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.81)
の貿易隆盛期を經驗したるは事貸なるも夫は單なる一時的景氣に過ぎさして戰後忽ちにーて消散せし
年の一七四七四一八に逃したり。
が一九三三年二は三一二九三二達し男女勞働者數以一八九九年の二二○一三八よ一九三三
如實に示寸べし。十人以上の勞働者を使用する工場數は一八八九年には僅か二二五九に過ぎざりし
る貿易尻は外國に對する我貨務を斷え寸増加せしめたればなり。下記數個の數字は目本の工業進步を
必要なる各種商品の製造に努力し依て以て輸人量輕減に力むるを要したり。蓋し絶えす我方に不利な
段を給するに必要なる資源たらしむべく努力するの餘儀なきに至らしめたり。吾人は先づ國内消費に
缺くべからざる條件なりとなすに在りさ果然此の新政策に我日本なして商工業を以て人民に生活手
を確保せんが爲には最早單二農業に八依存方るの時に非本元工業化促淮及國外質易振興こ之必要
れり以ド本問に付研光せんしす。
人は靑年子女に職を與八以て年々膨服する國民之養ふの策即業化と外國質易振興仁直而するに至
各種商品製造に於て相當發展を遂ぐるに及次吾人は海外市場搜案仁者下也り日本以大戰中數ケ年
人口增加の緊四心之開題二直而約四十年來歷代政府及一般興論以漸次龍信來札以國民生存
第工業化と外國易

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.87)
の増加を以て勞働市場に殺到する青年子女に職を與八之を救濟するの方法如何の點に存す斯くて吾
ふす。産兒制限は遠き將來に於てのみ相當の効果を齋すべく見實緊急の問題は毎年少くとも二十萬
決なる現實の問題に對しては唯單に補助的効果おるに過ぎ幸と考ふるに於て子は上川教授と意見を同
於ては補助手段として考量せらろに過ぎ本對照策の第四即ち産兒制限は我日本の過剩人口問題解
事改良に就て見るもそは人口の大都市集申防止い爲には著しき効果あるも耕地而狭少なる國に
二萬五萬乃至十萬に及ぶ移民と雖も其の人日問題い有効なる解決に資するものに非ざればなり。農
民の他國に對する大最的移動は之を像想し得ざるいみならす毎年百前人の増確を見る我日本にとり
制限等指示せらる。
明を簡易化する爲の相對的意味に於て且つ叙上の若慮に則て之を爲すに高る次第を附言す
得す寧ろ誤りたる印象を與ふるものと云ふべし併かも尙ほ手が此の川語を用ふる所以のものは説
るを以て日本の場合に於て一般に使用さる「人口過利一なる用語は予を以て言はしむれば其の當を
に過ぎざるは既に述べたる所なり。一國が包合し得べき最大人口數は極端に異なれる條件に支配さる
予は右對應策中最初の二項に言及するの必要おるを見す何となれば現下の國際情勢に於て一國々
人口過剩對應策として一般に）移民（）農事改良（）業及外國買易振興並に四）產兒
真の意味に於ける人口過剩即ち一國が其の人口を養ひ得る最大限に全く例外的の場合にのみ存する

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.80)
附言せんとす。
之に附加すべき何物をも有せす唯右の一節は間題の根本義に對一稀に見る了解を反映すとの一言を
働事務局次長っエルナン・モーレット氏注確證して曰く註
に關する詳密心る參考資料は本書中仁之之見出得心此等の研究及統計仁然日木勞側者の生
予は先刻同事務局の推賞寸べき著書之引用之る於勞側時間勞銀生活費等日本仁於ける經濟生活
國民の生活様式の念激なる縫化が可能ならさるが如く日本人の現在の生活狀態も亦將來永く現狀を
モーレット氏の著書より引用せる以上の一節は目本に於ける勞働狀熊を說明し得て餘りあり予は
に一國の生活様式を同時に考究するに非ざる限り其の生活程度の正確なる檢討は容易なら寺云々
及勞銀の研究のみに依り解決され得るものに非す其の他多くの條作を考虚せざるべからざるが故
ばすと結論し得べし一概にソシアル・ダンピングといふも本問題は深悲なる檢討を要し單に物價
服及慰安等に光つべき余裕の大なること恐らく北米合衆國を除く外の如何なる國の勞働者之に及！
「世界各國勞働者以家計統計表之一監寸以日本以勞働者於食費支辨の後作居保溫照明衣
() Asps n Idstri 

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.76)
ると否とに拘ら幸縫造詩張せられたる事實にくこと明かなれり。
題注權威方觀察者の嚴重二檢察寸乃所而一元其の公平周查山結果此等批邪法故意心
之云し或は勞働時開の長き仁過之之攻聲或注勞銀の飢餓的之謝罵二此等諸問
安の種之時け市場喪失の恐怖は應々種々維多なる抗辯長れ或注ソシアルダンピン
りし岡にとりて真に意味深長の非貸たらすんばからき
輸出超過を見たる年度なりき同年の輸出超過は國際貿易に於て久しに死り輸人巡過國の地位にお
價下落前既に其の曙光を認め得たり。一九三丘年は日本本七に取り大戰以來嘗て經驗せざりし若干の
き輸出膨服を可能ならしむる狀態を招致するの困難なり！や必せん他方我目本の對外輸出改善は圓
に達せる下落に依りて助長せられたるは明かなるも生産及販賞に開する合理化なかりせば斯くの如
ち之なり勿論該傾向が金輸出禁止の當然の結果たる邦貨の爲替市場に於ける下落六丘パー七ン卜
を忍びて實現せる合理化は他の一而には彼等に有益なる結果を齋したり此處雨三年來輸出の膨服即
部門を合理化し其の生産費を最低限に縮減すべく大いに努力する所方りき我が工業家が多大の苦痛
のみならす遂には數ケ年にる恐慌に到達せざるべからざりしなり。六し年以來人は我し業の或
予は此等の點仁關下る詳細仁就て以最權成方る調查機關國際勞働事務局の取調に委ねんと欲す
然札と外國市場仁於ける日本商品の殺到的出現注商業界或以政府當局側仁對大い心る批雖と不

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.86)
事態は更に深刻化せしならん父恐らく各國はその繁榮の増進に依り再び各地方の原産商品を購買し
洲品賣捌不振の原因に非す恐慌時代に若しも士民にして安價に物品を購入し得ざりしとせば恐らく
資力に相應する價格の日本品を悅ぶに至りたり是故に日本商品の輸出は購買力減少の結果にして歐
て殊に植民地に於て購買力激減せる非貸之なり例八ば上民は最早歐洲品を購ひ得る余裕なく彼等の
るも予はこの事態の直接原因は他に之を求むべきなりと信寺即ち世界恐慌の結果火多數の國に於
たり。數年前より顯著となれる歐洲品の賣行不振の原因之應々廉價なる日本商品の跋屈に歸する者お
を製造するの必要に迫られたるが現時に於ては日本工業は其の製造品を輸出し得る程度迄發達を遂げ
なりし貿易上のバランスを改善せんが爲努力を必要とし大小工場を設け從來輸入に仰ぎみたる商品
るなら。
一著書に於て事態の不利なる方面を指摘す註此の事實は日本産業を語るに際し度々等閑に附せら
缺乏せる原料品を下落せる日本貨を以て購人する關係上其の効果は相殺せらるーしッ卜氏は他の
べく元來生活標準とは獨立的のものなり是即ちグレゴリー博上の確認せる事實特質ならとす。
日本は經濟の領域に於て受働的地位に止ることを得ざりしなり日本は大戰末期より輸入超過紋き
然し乍ら生産費の決定上勞働の寄與する部分大なりとするも目本工業の場合に於ては國内に殆んど
(四）一九三四年、巴里刊行Tour du Pacifique”第：六四頁

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.86)
一部は遺傳的にして一部は最近の練歴に山るものと考ふ此の浴勢力は西歐の大國民間にも見出し得
所言は極めて重要にして畢竟同教授は目本民族の能力の重要性之認識寸るものなり予は此の能力は
決定的因子は此の生活程度之比較的高生產力小兩立也る點仁懸と教授の右
が過去に於之向上也るこたく將來亦然之斷定寸るは當ら本然れ行の照は開題の根本に方ら
所以之指摘し且つ曰く日本の生活程度以絕對的意味に於元實際上低一謂から寸父生活程度
したるより遙に念速に上昇せるものなる…とた説けり即ち生赤費の差が勞銀の差よりも更に大なる
斯の如き強味を有し乍ら尙且つ前途を悲親し不安を抱く理山を解するに苦まざるを得ざるものなり。
たればなり。西洋は今日猶技術の優越と智的素養とを保持し他の追從を許さす果して然らば吾人は
市場に輪出する妨とはならざりしと云へり蓋し西洋に於ける高貸銀は高度の勞働効程に比例しおり
と東洋との間には久しき以前より生活程度の差異存したるも併かも西洋人がその製造せる商品を東洋
如何なる條件に於て日本の競爭が行はるかに付明晰なる解答を下せり。同教授の所說に依れば西洋
維持すべく從つて其の勞働狀態も著しき殺化を蒙ること今後久しきにり之なかるべし。
日本に關するグレゴ一教授の所說は能率換言せば生產能力は勞銀並に生活程度が夫自身向上
是亦知名の一經濟學者たる倫敦大學グしゴリー教授は一日本の競爭に開して注なる研究中に於て
()九年月出版 Momorardum on Japnese Competition
12
一

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.90)
本會議場に於てなされたる當時の災外務卿サー・サミユエルホーアの演說之なり。同卿は言ふ
かしむるに役立つのみ。
ざれば入手し得ざることすらあり斯る事情は不平等なる分配の發牲者たる國家に益々不安の念を抱
處其の必要原料を探案するを要し時には生産の地域的に局限せらる結果法外の價格を支拂ふに非
ては必要なだけ之を供給し得るに反し、他の國は自國の存立が其の工業に懸れるにも不拘世界中到る
斷平として反對せんとする所以を了解すること困難ならざるべし
のなるが故に吾人が常に原料品市場の自由開放を主張し之が購人に障碍を設けんとするが如き企には
にして同年輸入總額の四八五パー七ントに當れり而して此等の原料は總て日本業に不可缺のも
四年日本の輪入せる棉花羊毛石油銑鐵八八プ護謨等は總計一一○七一六七○四
樹立するに成功せる國あればなり然し或岡のみが其の本岡父は其の植民地内に天悪を辛けそれに
誇張せらるへことあり、何となれば原料を有すること妙くして、然も商し業に於て繁榮と勢力とを
吾人は原料分配問題に關し最近極めて重要公る演說を聞け夕一九三五年九月十一日國際聯盟總會
各國間原料分配の不平等甚しく爲に或國は原料を豐富に所有し且つ巨利を博し自國産業に對し
右兩問題が目本にとり如何なる意義を有寸るや之研究せんに先づ原料問題に付之を見るに一ん…
「原料脊源の豊富は其の所有國に特殊の利益を與ふる如く見ゆ、斯の如さ利益の重要性は時として

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.77)
國たるを間に本列國が一致協力禍根之除くに努力するに非ざれ再び紛介原因たる事たきを保せ寺
す。原料並に岡外販路の二問題は過去に於て應々危險なる紛弁の原因たりしものなり大國たると小
する原料の購人確實なる之要すと同時に他而自國生產品の販路之確保寸る非必要不可缺の條作なりと
には日本輪出總額の五パー七ント一九三四年には五四ー七トに達世
アシアの購買最最近頓に増加せること之附し得べし卽ち諸國向日本の輸出額は一九三年
が警鐘を亂打せるは寧乃早計と云べし加之日木品輸出の重要六る部分はジア大陸に向けられ父
如く謂ひ振らすことの如何に眞實より遠きのなるかを小すものなり實際は前く深階ならす世人
卜に著しく接近せり如上い數字は日本の從易發展を論寺るに際一怡も凡心ろ市場に押寄する洪水の
及自治領を除き一四し佛は六一四パー七ントにして本の輸出は自耳義の三・二八パー七ン
の輸出は世界輸出總額の三七卜示に過然るに米國い分英は印度
我國が寧乃劣勢なる地位を山むるに過きざるここたり
るは餘りにも誇張せる悲親論と謂はざるを得や。
得るに至るを期待し得べし。何れにせよ一般的緊縮時代の經驗のみを以てして經濟的可能性を断定す
一國の工業化が人口増加の必然的要求なりと世ば日本の爲に而銅石炭之除之自國に殆んと缺除
加之日本品の歐洲品に對する競乎を論するに當り應々忘却せらる非貸おり之は世界輸出總額中
九三四年（統計判明七る最近の年）日本

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.89)
を一掃せんが爲解決を要する唯一の問題には非此の他近代的生産機構に於て同時解決を要する一
を占むるに至りたる事貸は之を確認せざるを得すと信す。
れり住予は未だ本件討議を充分研究するの時間を有せざるも本問題が現今の政治問題中第一位
ぐさん信や。
化せらるへやを知らさるも本問題の解決上重要なる意味を有するものとして今より豫断し誤なかる
し。予は不平等なる原料分配調査に闘するサーサミユエル・ホーアの着想が如何なる形態の下に且體
り右の言は原料不足の危惧に會ひ深甚なる關心を有する國々の貸狀を明かならしむるに効果あるべ
轢は消減すべく斯の如き重大なる斷定を貴任の衝にある政治家のいより聽さたることは極めて稀な
然れども原料分配の組織變更問題は夫れ自身頗る重要問題なるに相違なきも日本の如き國の不安
予は昨日の新聞紙上に於て原料分配問題に關し英國下院に於て極めて重要なる討議のありたるを知
サー・サミユエル・ホーアの見解にして原料に悪まれたる諸國の容るい處とならばー業國間幾多の軋
特に重きを罰き以て排他的獨占に對する危惧を一掃すべきなりと考ふ。
達妓に謂ゆる英國下院の討議とは一九三六年二月五日勞働常前首領ンスべリ氏の動議に基き原料品及び市場問題並に
「予は岡際會議參列者に與ふる剛令中には各工業國間に於て其の必要とする原料の公平なる分配に
が働問題等を審議すべさ國際會議の開催を討議せるるのた指す。
17

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.89)
通したる後サー・サミュエル・ホーアは次の如さ言を以て其の演說を了したり
し完全なる理解を有するものと云ふべしサー・サミュエル・ホーアは更に進んでいく
保護領委任統治地域をも合める植民地より來る原料の調査に關し國際會議を開催すべきことを態
英國政府の闘する限り右諸問題の研究を辭せさるべきを確信す。
不公平差別的なる分配の目的とならざる保障を得んとするにあり。
所は獨占實現せられ重要なる植民地原料の供給斷たることにあり人々の欲する所は原料問題が
「英國政府の見解に依るに本問題は政治的領十的色彩よりも寧乃經濟的色彩を帶ぶ人々の惧る
右は深長なる政治的意味を有する言葉にして問題の核心に觸れ天然資源を缺除せる岡の狀態に對16
ぐ～試むくさなら。ー
方策を講すべきやを考へ不安の貸情を究め而て此の不安が重大性を有するならば之を消散せしむ
し併し苟も此の問題にして不安と不平とを醸すものなる以上寧ろ進んで之を研究し如何なる解決
或は其の重要性を誇張するものあらんまた之をば他の目的の爲に利川せんとするものもおり得べ
然なり多數人にとり玆に難問の存するあり之に對し不開心を裝はんとするは非理なり中には
對し自然の恵を享くること少き他國が焦態を感することも亦事貸なり。
殊に植民地原料に關しては植民地を有せざる他岡の損害に於而獨占せらるいを處るはかなり當

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.87)
び立直ほるが爲には平靜を必要とす而てエドッードハッ大佐は日本が容易且つ自然にその希望
べる時期が事宜に適せすその執れる方法誤まれりとなす世界は現在動搖の絶頂にあり世界が再
佐の意見に依れば剛つながら誤謬なりと稱す日本人の抱懷する熱望に對し同情を寄せ乍らもその選
る二つの措置に言及せり一は自山行動をとる爲にせる國際聯盟脫退他は華府條約廢葉にして同大
設けら。予は此處に目本に開する叙述の部分に就いてのみ説述すべし。
づ最初に或二三の國の政治的及經濟的要求を考察し各國家に新なる協定之遂ぐるの緊密なる所以を19
にし 「國際=ーィーの必要 (Wanted A New dal among Nations) る は光
に付言及せんと欲す。問題の論文は世界的に著名なる政治家ドードハウス大佐の筆になるもの
るも予は今部的或は一部的に自との市場より他國を排斥せんとする政策を探るは何人の利益にもあ
ましきことたるを失はす現時の狀況に於ては保護政策の完今に除去せられ得ざるは巳むを得すとす
各國政治家が他國の立場に立ちて考八其の國の死活に係る要求に對し正當なる理解を介することは？
日本は最早大岡の制御に甘んせざる岡なりとしエドッード・ハウス大佐は我岡により最近執られた
() Librty, New York 14 September 1935.
結論を下すに先立ち手は米國の一雜誌註に揭載世られ日木に於て大なる反舞を與八たる一論文
一

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.87)
題は純經濟的原因より生づる紛乎を防壓する術策を知る政治家に依りて解決せらるを信す、然れとも
してはそこ迄極言を憚かるものにして平和の攪亂せらるは非常特別の場合に限らる。日常生活の間
著者は進んて謂ふ凡こ領士を閉鎖し植民地を獨占するは平和維持上之より危險なるはなしと予と
的見地よりみれば略自國領上乃至植民地そのものを喪失せふと同の結果を意起さしと此の書の
禁壓的制限を加ふる瞬間より此等の處置は宏大なる領上乃至光分心る植民地を行せざる國に對し經濟
自由貿易に開放し置く限り此等の地域を保有寸る資格あり然も右地域を外國貿易に對し閉鎖し
如き言を爲す而て其の言ふ所理由あるを認むべし目く一岡の廣人なる領七と繁榮せる植民地とを
制度に關する定義として一商業の最も原始的なる形態即ち物々交換なりとおり父或る著者は次の
予は更に之を難じて現世紀に於ては恥づべき制度なりと云はんとむ武みにうルース辭典を開くに同
せしめたり近年復活せる物々交換制度に至りては交易を麻揮せしむる最も慨歎すべき制度にして
る一方にて割當制度は制度制定者の善意は之を認むべしと寸るも國際受易の發達に甚大なる障壁之生
んど想像され得ざることなり然るに大戰後自由通商に對する障碍志しく増加し開稅障壁は漸次高ま
り工業に依り生活するを得ざるべく後者にありても現時に於て國外市場なしに濟きせ得ることは殆
問題あり即ち世界市場の構成問題是なり
外國市場が一岡の生産品に對し閉鎖さるときは其の國は極めて廣き図内市場を行する國に非さる限

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.94)
動向に對し貢献する處亦顯著なるものあらん。
難し、右兩政治家は將に同一の憂慮を抱けるものにして彼等の思想が國際關係に於ける新しき政治の
じうしてサー・サミユエル・ホーアの名演説を聽きエドワード・ハウス大佐の論文を讀むを得悅び禁じ
述を聞き日本闕民は大なる感激に打たれ歎賞措く能はざるものあり予自身に至りては殆んど時を同
驗を有し世界的聲名を有する人の口より極東の非情に對する斯の如き理解併も確信あり大膽なる論
ドワード・ハウス大佐の議論が日本に於て偉大なる反響を起せしは蓋し當然なり現貸なる政治の經
予は聽衆諸賢に於て自ら右論文によう得たる印象を反覆沈思せられんことを望む。勇敢明快なる工
は敵意を生するは蓋し必然ならん」
吾人にして國内に於けると同様國際間に於ても進んてニー・ディールの考最を肯んせざるに於て
必然なるべく、而して吾人は斯の如き剛結が自色人種に對し敵意を抱かざらんことを望む併かも
の重壓に加ふるに更に日支兩岡が西洋より受けたる新たなる刺戟を以てせば右團結の達成は殆んど
「黃色人種は同人種中最も進步的なる種族に指導せられ究極に於て大同團結するに至らん人口
筆者は次の如く結べり。
第三結
論
一

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.94)
認めたる後エドワード・ハウス大佐は日本人の思庶分別に信頼を表して曰く
を實現せんが爲には先づ多數國内に活動中の建設的勢力の成功すること肝要なりと考ふ。
米國の如き國家は断じて斯る方策を取るべからす孤立は明かに吾人の運命に非らす。
と見え得べし、國際問題の討議と解決とに參加を拒むは見賢策と思はるやも知れす、然れども
孤立と自給自足に終始すべしと主張するは或は聞え良きやも知れす禁止的關稅は經濟的の好分別
蒙昧なる利己主義に立脚する政策を抱懷しつ右の考を貸施せんとするも夫は必然失敗に終らん
狭隆なる利己一片の見解を抱きては決して達成せられざるべし我國民並に他の國民が自図本位の
「吾人若し我が爲すべき所を爲さば彼等は將來我等と共に共通の目的の爲協力するに至らん右は
日本に於ける二つの相對立せる思潮即ち一は極端派により他は穏和派によう率ひらるものあるを
研究するも可ならすや。」
せす他の大國の敵意を招かすして併かも日本岡民を滿足せしむる様本問題を解決し得るや否やを
する理由何れにありや從來斯る事は戰爭に依りて成し遂げられたるも吾人は此の上俊略戰爭を欲
存す日本人をして此等地域を生産的のものと爲さしめ人類の富と幸福とを増進せしむるを不可と
つある人口の吐け口を要求する權利あることも理解し得べし世界には未だ庶大なる未開の地域殘
同大佐は言ふ「日本が極東に於て支配的勢力を欲する譯は理解し得べく又狭隘なる領士に溢れつ

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.88)
月他の一記事（注に於て八ウス大佐は新たに倣告を發していく
増進する所以に非すと云はざるを得す
對して其の本岡のみならき海外屬地をも閉鎖せんとするが如き事方らんか夫は決して全世界の福祉を
や人の權利が均しく緊要なることを承認せんことを要求さるものなり若し傳世界にして外岡質易に
緊要と思考せらる事質を認むるに各ならす然とも人は他國も亦我岡民の生存を保證せんとする
定せり勿論人と雖も此の珍らしき制度が辛酷なる批評の餘地を存するに拘らす尙或國にとんては
割當制度の如きは條約に明記せらる最惡國民條款と剛々調和せしむるの困難を顧みる暇なく之を設
同時に聰明公正なる一般人七をーて深自間自答せしむる所かるを信せんとす。
す吾人の政策にして當を得ば日本も其の利益が自人種の利益と一體を爲すと考ふべし吾人を
を誘起せら…人は未だ人種問題解決なる一大運動に於て日本が如何なる役目を演するやを知ら
の發展自色人の文明が全世界に播布せし教育制度の普及は遂に僻遠未閒の地に至るまて一の革命
新たなる競乎に苦しめる舊世界は關稅障壁次で制當制度を設定して經濟的要寒を補強一たり然も
歐米政治家の日本に對寸る熊度は今尙ほ既に根據を失ひたる偏見により動かされ居れか…交通
()Liberty, 30 November 1035.
2

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.88)
すにあるのい
めたり居人は日本に對し廉價生産を咎むるを得す歐洲人の採るべき途は啓解蹶起同一の努力を爲
結果にして夫は實に我々歐洲人をして如何に供世界が安逸と容易なる利潤に慣れたるかを自覺せし
に對し大要たの言を爲せり
せる時間を取足さんが爲念速に西歐の方法を叫嚼せざるべからざりしなり。
者は廉價なる生産の實現に粉骨碎身之努めたり近れ馳せに西歐文明に接したる日本岡民は其の空費
るを要す歐米工業家が永年其の地位を占めみたる世界市場への登場を餘儀なくされたる日本製造業
對する我商品の念激なる進出は幾多の批難と不安を誘發せり、然れども人は凡べてに對して公平な
形せしむ我製造家は外岡市場に於て充分有利に競介し得べき自信を有するに至れるも此等市場に
かしなり工業化されたる日本は漸次其の製造を擴張し多量の原料品を輸入して之を輸出商品に緩
く人口を養はんとすれば之に職を與へざるべからす而て職を與へんが爲には工業に倚る外他に途な
之實に老事業家の作らざる告自なり予は此の告自が佛國民の耳障りとなることなきを希望すると
日本の競介は確かに唐突的なりしに相違なきも併かも今國民の俗むことを知らざる努力の潑刺たる
予は客年佛蘭西の或る菩名なる老工業家ー惜い哉同氏今や逝いて亡しーに而接したるが當時彼は予
予は如何なる事情の下に日本の人口増大し其の商業發展せるやを説述するに努めたり増確し行
22

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.91)
昭和十一年九月十二日發行
昭和十一年九月八日印刷
不
發行所
製
許
題問口人の本日
題問化業工及
書通會協際國本日
東京市魏町區丸の内二の十二
輯二十七百第
社團法人
印
印
發編
刷所
刷人
行集
東
東
東京市日黑區中日黑三
人
京市芝區南佐久間町
京市芝區南佐久間町
定價三十錢
本國際協會
研
中
赤
電报
活粹
丸束
川
松
の京
内五
文
四
五
11
补
六
六
八
1
九九
四送
三
錢料
香香
七社
七郎
0
之

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.94)
仰する經濟的平和は保證せらるべし
説述するを目的としたるに過ぎす各國民が互に他の必要と希望を充分了解したる時始めて萬人の汲
互に他の緊急の慾求を了解せしむべく最善を盡すべし今夕の講演は此等慾求の或者に付最も卒直に
るや遠し而て予は我日本に關する限り常に會談の用意ある事を聲明するものなり
の強調せんとする點は將に國際協力の問題なり猜疑と不作爲に逃避する相互會談折衝するに及ばざ
度の制限手段の維持とも兩立し得べく或は競乎國間に於ける市場の分配特定國に對する特定種類
を各方面に齋し得べきやの問題なり該政策は種々の形式を取り得べく自由貿易への復歸若くは或程
の可能を信するものなり、唯此の協力たるや相互了解の非礎の上に築かるべき事多言を要せす。
予は繰返して言ふ最悪の政策は洋の東西を區別し相對抗せしむるにありと、吾人は各岡民をして
グレゴリー教投に依り最も能く徹底せられたる處は相互理解及協調政策が經濟上如何に大なる利益
予をして言はしむれば此等紛爭は尙ほ同避し得べく、予は依然豊かなる東西兩洋の有意義なる協力
事妓に出ざるに於ては自人種自ら最も戰慄すべき闘爭を川意しつあるものと断すべし。云々」
脅威する紛平は白人種が他人種を平等に取扱ふに至らざる限り之を廻避する事所誰不可能なるべく

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.60)
日本品口

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.96)
64-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MJP
A portion of this
Tokyo
telegram must bE closEly
paraphrastdbefore bEing
Dated May 31, 1937
Rec!d 9:30 am
00
794.
Secretary of State,
of araphs
Vashington.
COPIES SENT TO
94.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
8
U.N.I.ANDMLD.
RUSH
zoax
Department of State
141, May 31, 7 p.m.
The Hayashi Cabinet rEsigned this afternoon.
ThE next cabinet will probably contain a few m nisters
taken from the parties, in rEsponsE to a concerted
894.00
drive by thE parties during the last few days. ThE
decision of resignation followed soon after a strong
public statEment y PrincE KonoE that thE Hayashi
Cabinet should havE admitted somE ministers taken from
33
8
thE partiEs immediately after thE Election.(END GRAY)
High JapanEsE authoritiEs attributE thE situation to
a serious Error of political judgment on thE part of
the Premier.
193
GREW
RR
F/FG

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.92)
64-2
CONFIDENTIA
PARAPERAOE
Telegram Be. 141 ef May S1, les9, frem the Ameriom
Ambassador at Tokyo reads substantially as follewe:
CONFIDENTIAL
20
Om the afternoon of May Sl the Mayashi Cabines re-
signed. The mext cabinet will probably comtaim a fow
LOBR
ministers taken from the parties, in response to a com-
certed drive by the parties during the last few days.
The decision of resignation followed soom after a strong
publie statement by Prince Konoe to the effeet that the
Mayushi Cabinet should have admitted some ministers takem
from the parties immediately after the elestion. A grave
mistake
thaméer in political judgment by Hayashi is the eause ef
29.2.1.
the present situation in the opinion of high Japamese
authorities.
Naka
sato. Na
894.00/738
eg.s.
FE: Egd
FE
-m.m1
V-1-37

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
GRAY
Tokio
1—1836
FROM
Dated June 1, 1937
4
Recid 7:25 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
Divis
FAR EASTETAN AFPAIRS
COPIES SENT TO
PU.N.I.ANDMI.D.
RUS.
143, June 1, 7 p.m.
894.00/739
Press exxtras announce that Prince Konoye has been
chosen to form a new Cabinet. Confirmation and interpre-
tation vill follow.
GREW
McL:RR
1881
NI
2
F/FG
11

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
65-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
1-1836
GRAY
FROM
Tokyo
Dated June 1, 1937
Rec'd 12:45 p.m.
Secretary of State,
COPIES SENT TM
Division
Washington.
U.N.I.ANDM.I.A
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.00
144, June 1, 10 p.m.
1739
Departrmeny of State
nite
Embassy's number 143, June 1, 7 p.m., confirmed.
894.00/740
Prince Konoe has undertaken the formation of a
894.007
Cabinet and is generally expected to be successful.
Taking into account available information and in
view of the fact that the military-controlled Hayashi
Cabinet resigned with the evident purpose of forestalling
an unruly Diet, it appears likely that Konoe will attempt
to form a Cabinet in which the War, Navy and Finance
Ministers will remain in office and the Minsedoto and
Seiyukai vill be represented.
I an informed that Konoe is trying to persuade
27
Hirota, his personal friend and political adviser, t
become Foreign Minister. If the latter feels that the
present is too soon to reenter politics it is generally
expected that Sato, who was selected by Hayashi on
Hirota's recommendation, will remain or that Konoe himself
F/FG
will take the position.
GREW

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 9, 1937
JVB:
JOT?
SKH
The ist of this despatch from Tokyo
is that little or no progress appears to
have been made toward the establishment
of a proposed new political party which
would support the administration.
The despatch points out that the two
present major parties represent no ideals and
have no real political objectives. They
are entirely opportunist organizations
seeking to obtain political power, and are
groups of men banded around outstanding
chieftains. In view of the insistent demand
in certain quarters that parliamentary
government be given some meaning, there is
some expectation that the present parties
will break up and that the component
elements will be reunited into narties
which may be characterized as "liberals"
and "conservatives".
894.00/741
WTT/TLY

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.94)
4
THE FOREIGN SERNACEV
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1937 JUN ! PM 1 43
No. 2423.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 14, 1937.
SUBJECT: NEW PARTY MOVEMENT IN JAPAN.
COPIES SENT TO
894.00
U.N.I.ANDM.I.D
For Distribution-Check
894.00/741
10
ani
miD
CokymFE(381)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
AIUN - 2 1937
Department of State
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
728
No. 2364, dated April 16, 1937, on the subject of the
movement to establish a new party, of a reactionary tinge
and designed to support the present Cabinet or similar
N
FLLED
future Cabinets, and to report that little or no progress
appears to have been made during the past month toward
the establishment of the proposed new party.
in the meantime, however, rumors have appeared that,
out of the present welter of politics in Japan, two new
parties will emerge. It is well known that the two major
political
G

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
political parties in Japan, the Seiyukai and the Min-
seito, have no decided political color. They have at
21.F
times posed as the representatives of certein classes
of the population, such as the agriculturists and seri-
culturists, or of the merchants and bankers, and at
other times they have been known to be supported by and
to support one or the other of the great financial groups,
but they have not in recent years adopted any definite
political color, such as conservative or liberal. The
members of the parties themselves comprise all shades of
political complexion, ranging (according to a Seiyukai
member of the Lower House) from extreme liberalism to die-
hard reactionism. In the past there has been little
tendency for these various elements in the parties to
separate, as the parties simply consisted of groups of
men banded together for the purpose of obtaining poli-
tical power, with the perquisites that such power gives.
During the past year, however, the increasingly-
important conflict between the forces of reactionism or
fascism and those of liberal parliamentarism has developed
fissiparous tendencies within the parties. While the
parties as units are opposed to the Hayashi Cabinet and
are striving for a return to strict parliamentary govern-
ment, many members of the parties are individually in
sympathy with the Hayashi regime and its policies. The
politicians are now beginning to perceive that parlia-
mentary government is meaningless unless the parties
represent some shade of political complexion and can give
the

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
the people an opportunity to express their desires in
regard to the character of government through their votes.
The futility of elections when the parties have no de-
finite complexion was well illustrated by the election
of April 30, 1937. The Government had dissolved the
Lower House as a disciplinary measure and a general
election was necessary. But there were no issues in-
volved upon which the people could vote. Consequently,
after an apathetic election, the people returned to the
Diet much the same class of men as those who had been
members when the House was dissolved. The Government
had put up no candidates, and the people had had no
opportunity to express their desires. The parties claim
that the election resulted in a victory for parliamentary
practice and a defeat for the Cabinet, but it is difficult
to see how the election could have produced any result
other than the election of the party candidates.
These factors have tended to divide the parties
within themselves into factions which, for the want of a
better term, might for the present be called "liberals"
and "conservatives". It is impossible to state at the
moment how far this tendency has gone and what the eventual
out-come will be, but many political observers in Tokyo
believe that the present parties will break up and a
liberal and a conservative party will emerge from the
resulting chaos. Japanese domestic politics will certainly
be vastly improved should this move eventuate.
Respectfully yours,
800.
ERD:r
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Joseph c? Grew.
T

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 11, 1937
JWB:
MH:
This despatch from Tokyo discusses
the result of the election of April 30.
As the results of the election are fairly
well known in FE, and as the situation
following the election ras been consider-
ably changed since the resignation of the
Hayashi Cabinet, you may wish merely to
glance through the despatch.
It is suggested, however, that you
read the enclosure (No. 2), which is an
editorial from the JAPAl ADVERTISER
entitled "And So hat?". This article
gives some extremely interesting
comments on the election and on the
political cutlook.
894.10/742
wm
FE:WTT/DLY

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DEPAFORMEHETATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1937 JUN 1 PM 1 42
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DIVIEYOF
Nokyo, May 15, 1937.
ANDLADS
No. 2428.
SUBJECT: JAPANESE ELECTION, APri1 30, 1937.
894.00
894.00/742
fi.T
In U SA.
Dui
nuiD
COPIES SENT TO
U.N.I. ANDM.I.D.
x0
Coty in FE(38)
Division o:
FAR EASTEON A
The Honorable
3m
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
737
In despatch No. 2402 May 1, 1937, the Embassy
made a preliminary report, on incomplete returns, of
the Japanese general election of April 30, 1937. Numeri-
cal results and certain comments were embodied in telegram
726
No. 122, May 3, 3 p.m. These communications the Embassy
now supplements by the present despatch.
The
F/G

=== Page 299 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
The eleotion returns are not surprising. A tabulation
1/2
enclosed lists them in detail. The notable result was the
large gain (though still ineffective in the total) of the
Shakai Taishuto (Social Mass Party). The percentage of
control of the newly elected House by the various groups is
as follows, in comparison with the old House which ended on
March 31, 1937:
Percentage
Percentage
of New House
of Old House
Minseito
38%
44%
Seiyukai
37%
37%
Shakai Taishuto
8%
4%
Showakai
4%
5%
Kokumin Domei
3%
3%
Tohokai
3%
2%
Other parties
2%
1%
Independents
5%
4%
The Kokumin Domei and the Showakai are the only parties
now supporting the Government. In the new House they con-
trol, between them, thirty seats(6 1/2% of the total).
The Japanese press generally has chosen to echo the
clamor of the parties to the effect that the eleotion is a
defeat for the Hayashi Cabinet. The Premier, in two separ-
ate statements to the press, has refused to accept that in-
terpretation. He says that the returns were not a surprise
to the Government, that the Government had no intention of
going out and winning the election. In this he is supported
by the figures: had every single candidate put up by the
government-supporting parties been eleoted, only fifty-six
seats

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.97)
2
2
-3-
seats would be under control. It is clear that the Premier
thought it desirable to call a general eleotion without hav-
ing as objeot to win control of the House of Representatives
through Government parties.
The fact appears to be that the issue which underlies
present Japanese politics is the issue whether or not the
country shall return to government by party - that is, the
practice of choosing cabinets from the party dominant in
the Lower House of the Diet, a practice abandoned at the time
of Inukai's assassination on May 15, 1932. The Hayashi Cabi-
net is for continuation of non-party government; there is
really no other political principle to which the present
administration is definitely tied. The parties now loudly
insist upon return to party government, but their tone is
apt to be more moderate by the time the new Diet is convened
in the course of the summer. Reflection on the experience
of January 1937 should make the parties less impulsive.
Hirota fell before the Diet blast, but Ugaki was blocked, and
the cabinet that came in was in not the slightest degree a
concession to the party principle. If Hayashi be likewise
foroed out there is no indication whatever that the present
temper of the military would concede a bit more; it would be
a change from one non-party cabinet to another with nothing
gained.
Dissolution was an act of discipline. The new election
has affected the political atmosphere very little. As yet
there

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
there is no threat to the life of the Hayashi Cabinet.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800
CC:C
Enclosures:
1/ Clipping, "Results of General Eleotion,"
JAPAN ADVERTISER, May 4, 1937.
2/ Clipping, "And So What?", JAPAN ADVERTISER,
May 4, 1937.
3/ Clipping, "Government to Push Policies,"
JAPAN ADVERTISER, May 4, 1937.
4/ Clipping, "Quality of Parties Yet to be Tested,"
JAPAN ADVERTISER, May 13, 1937.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping;
Copy to Embassy, Moscow.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. /, to despatch
No.2428, dated May 15,1937.
from'the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, May 4, 1937..
RESULTS OF GENERAL ELECTION
om
0t ino
Fix No.
int
eikal
oc as
Shokai
Tohka
parties
seats
Kwanto:
a
b
c
a
b
c
a
b
.1
b
c
a
b
c
a
a
c
.a
Tokyo
31
11
22
2
16
8
15
0
3
0
6
1
3
9
Kanagawa.
11
4
6
6
5
6
3
0
0
1
Saitama
11
3
6
3
5
6
6
1
1
2
1
3.
Chiba
11
6
7
5
5
5
0
2
0
Ibaraki
11
3
4
4
4
6
3
2
4
3
0
1
2
Gumma
9
4
5
5
3
4
3
1
0
3
Tcchigi
9
4
7
6
4
6
3
2
0
1
Yamanashi.5
1
2
1
1
2
1
0
2
3
2
1
1
Tohoku and the Hokkaido:
Hokkaldo. 20
16
9
6
12
8
0
1
1
2
Aomori
6
2
4
2
3
5
3
0
2
0
1
0
1
0
Iwate
7
2
2
1
5
8
5
0
2
Akita
7
4
5
4
2
4
2
1
2
0
1
0
Miyagi
8
3
4
3
3
4
4
2
0
0
1
0
1
0
2
Yamagata
8
2
4
2
4
4
4
0
1
1
2
0
6
Fukushima
11
6
8
6
4
9
8
1
0
1
Tokai:
Shizuoka
13
5
9
5
6
7
6
2
0
2
0
2
23
Aichi
17
7
10
6
4
11
6
1
3
4
2
28
Mie
9
4
5
5
4
6
3
0
1
0
1
2
1
15
Gifu
3
6
4
4
6
5
1
0
1
15
Hokushin:
Nagano
13
6
9
8
3
5
2
1
3
2
3
2
1
3
1
23
Niigata
15
8
8
7
4
8
4
2
1
2
2
2
0
1
0
2
1
23
Toyama
6
4
4
3
2
4
3
8
Ishikawa
6
3
4
3
2
4
3
1
3
11
Fukui
5
2
2
2
2
2
1
1
Kinki:
Kyoto
11
7
8
8
3
4
2
1
2
0
15
Osaka
21
8
12
11
5
7
4
6
4
2
0
1
6
1
35
Shiga
5
2
2
2
2
3
2
0
1
0
1
Nara
5
2
3
3
2
2
1
0
1
2
0
1
Wakayama.
6
2
4
2
3
4
3
0
1
0
1
0
1
3
Chugoku:
Hyogo
19
7
11
10
7
10
7
4
4
1
0
2
0
2
Okayama
10
2
3
3
6
6
6
1
2
1
1
0
Hiroshima.
13
6
7
7
4
5
3
0
3
5
3
6
2
0
2$
Yamaguchi
9
1
2
1
5
7
6
0
1
2
2
1
1
2
Tottori
4
2
2
2
1
2
1
1
0
0
0
Shimane
6
3
5
5
3
3
1
Shikoku:
Kagawa
6
1
4
4
3
4
2
1
2
1
1
Kochi
6
2
4
3
2
3
1
1
1
0
1
1
2
1
Ehime
9
5
6
5
4
5
4
0
0
1
0
2
Tokushima.
6
2
4
3
2
2
2
2
2
Kyushu:
Fukuoka
18
5
6
4
6
12
8
3
4
2
0
1
1
1
2
Saga
6
3
4
4
3
4
2
0
Nagasaki
9
3
5
4
4
5
3
0
1
1
0
0
Oita
3
3
3
4
6
0
0
0
Kumamoto.
10
1
3
1
5
5
5
0
4
4
0
Miyazaki
5
1
2
1
1
4
2
1
2
1
1
1
Kagoshima. 12
2
3
5
11
7
1
2
4
3
0
1
2
Okinawa
2
2
2
2
3
2
0
2
1
2
1
Total ...466
179 264 205
175 290 172
37
66
20
19
36
24
11
20
11
11
20
9
9
47
5
25
104
18
Note: "a" denotes number of men elected.
"b" denotes number of candidates.
"c" denotes number of members in Diet at time of dissolution.

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2, to despatch
No 2428 , dated May 13 1987.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, May 4, 1937.
And So What?
and the Government the parties,
wards a new deal with
Friday's general election has yielded
probably with about equal justifica-
there is something more th
much the results that were expected.
tion. It seems evident, however, that
ing towards a new deal
The Minseito has lost 26 seats while
the main reason was the fact that,
U.S.S.R., there is a revival
the Seiyukai has gained four. Th
the voting was likely to have
movement towards rapprd
Social Mass Party, with 37 seats, has
little effect in view of the Govern-
with Britain. And all these
more than doubled its strength. The
ment's talk of re-dissolution, of the
quite definitely would not be
Diet.
supporters of the Government, in
by the establishment of an imp
various degrees and under various
It can be said, however, that the
sive authoritarian facade in`domesti
nomenclatures have at most only 64
public verdict was indicated in the
politics. It would invite foreign
seats. The former house was dis-
month before the election took place.
suspicion where that suspicion is nót
solved because, according to Govern-
Either Government leaders them-
wanted.
ment leaders, it had an inadequate
selves, or people very close to them,
But if strengthening the authori-
understanding of the present situa-
did their utmbst to get a new party
tarian facade looks, in all the cir
tion. From all the surface evidence,
formed. The possible leaders, Prince
cumstances, like both an unpopular
the present House is much the same.
Konoe and Mr. Hirota, refused to
and injudicious move, strengthening
Nevertheless, after consultation with
come forward. - That Prince Konoe
of democracy seems just about as
the Privy Council and Palace officials,
refused to assume the responsibility
untimely. The present parties may
the Hayashi Government has decided
in such circumstances is clear proof
be able to get rid of the present
to remain in office, merely issuing an
of his judgment that an anti-parlia-
Government, but that is the most
appeal for cooperation to the newly-
mentarian slogan was not an effec-
they can do. That is the most that
elected House.
tive one to take to the country at
the public would back them in doing
And so what? The immediate
this time.
and the most the "unseen powers"
answer to that question lies with the
That much is clear. Authoritarian
would let them do.
Government and its sponsors, with
orms are not popular at the present
And so what? The answer would
the managers of the Seiyukai and
time with the nation at large. The
really seem to be "not much." The
Minseito, with the leaders of the
reasons are composite. There is a
Hayashi Government might attemp
Army and Navy and with the Elders
vague feeling arising out of the cir-
another dissolution coupled with its
whose perpetual function it is to read
cumstances of the anti-Comintern
hinted revising of the electoral law,
and translate as best they can the
pact that this particularly flirtation
but that process seems unlikely to go
writing on the wall. The ultimate
with Fascism was internationally bad
far for the reasons stated above. The
answer, of course, lies in that writ-
usiness and internally put over with
Government might resign and leave
ing, and even the detached foreign
too much mystery to please a public
the revising to a stronger company,
observer can address himself to the
which traditionally likes good ad-
but even then it would have to
task of reading that part of it which
vance notice. Again, the authoritarian
be restricted. The parties might be
is plainly written. A few things
doctrine is associated in many
offered and accept places in a new
surely stand out plainly, whatever
people's minds with methods of re-
Government or even in this one, but
else may be obscure.
pression.
it seems more than likely that the
The first of these is that a sort cf
While the authoritarian doctrine
present system of compromise gov-
vote of confidence has been given to
does not at the moment suit the
ernment has still a long life before 1.
public, it suits hardly any further the
parliamentary politics within certain
present purposes of authority, that
limits, a vote given partly on Friday,
is to say of real and more or less
but mostly during the preceding
permanent authority. Those purposes
month. Friday's electors, in fact, de-
are, after all, plain enough. They
clared themselves against a Govern-
are to expand armaments and in-
ment which had treated the Repres-
dustrial capacity in order to produce
entatives with such scant respect,
those armaments, while leaving com-
even though they did not consider
petent financiers, as represented by
the Representatives capable of con-
Messrs. Yuki and Ikeda, a free hand
ducting the affairs of nation. In other
to find the necessary money in what-
words, the nation's vote was more
ever way they choose. But side by
anti-Government than pro-parties.
side with these clear purposes, which
Again the 25 per cent of the elec-
torate that did not vote at all offers
have received general recognition,
there are others of a newer but
also some indication as to popular
sentiment. All sorts of reasons have
equally clearly discernible, character.
They are purposes of international
been advanced for the abstentions,
the parties blaming the Government,
appeasement. There is groping to-

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.3, to despatch
No.2428, dated May 15, 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, May 4, 1937.
GOVERNMENT TO PUSH POLICIES,
HAYASHI AVERS IN STATEMENT;
CO-OPERATION OF PEOPLE HOPED
radically different from thatof
The Premier's statement, issued in
Statement Expanded
Government. The impertant thi
the form of a talk to the press. is
In a press conference at his official
to judge what the attitude of the
given as follows by the Nichi Nichi:
residence last night, Premier Hayashi
members will be, and what the eh
"Looking at the prevailing situation
expanded his earlier formal statement
cumstances will be when the specia
at home and abroad, we find decidedly as follows, according to Domei.
session is convoked.
formidable the task of steering our
"The Government, as announced in
course through it. To surmount the
today's statement, will study the pre-
diffculties, we believe that there is no
sent Cabinet's own policies and face
seeks to establish constitutional gov-
alternative but to eliminate vaciliation.
the special session of the Diet with
ernment in its proper form, rectifying
though guarding against radicalism at
them. As this Cabinet has no Govern-
parts where foreign ideas have ds
the same time, and carrying out re-
ment party the situation is different
torted thein. The Cabinet thinks that
forms suited to the trend of the times.
from what it would be if a Govern-
it must strive to realize this aim with
ment party had been defeated by the
renewed effort.
ed my Cabinet and faced the 70th
"I received the Great Command, form-
Opposition in the election. Thus there
Voting Law Revision Not Decided
is no reason why the Cabinet should
"In this connection there is the pro-
session of the Diet in that spirit. Be-
coming aware that renovation of the
immediately decide its fate.
blem of fundamentally revisdingth
"The meaning of the dissolution of
clection law. Is such a fundamental
rative reform and a step toward mani-
Diet was the key to general administ-
the Diet was that if men most suited to
revision needed, and if needed, when
festation of the principles of the Im-
the times were elected, all would be
should it be made? These and other
perial Constitution, I petitioned the
well. The Government now thinks that
questions must be answered. We have
Throne for dissolution of the Diet
such men have been elected. In the
not yet decided on whether a revision
after careful deliberation that trans-
special session, the Government hopes
bill should be presented to the specml
cended consideration of momentary
expediencies.
to present concrete policies to men who
will co-operate. Therefore until the
session.
"We shall try to fill the three Cibint
Shared by All
Government has heard the views of
vacancies as soon as possible. We shalk
"The general election has been car-
each member of the House, it will not
emphasize ability and character. 
ried out in a perfectly fair and up-
decide its next step. It will not rush
hope to secure the Education, Railwa
right manner. It is our supreme de-
into a decision simply because of anti-
Government utterances on the part of
15. I am not thinking of negotiatin
and Overseas Ministers by about M
spirit of submerging self and dedicat-
ing it to the public cause, hoist high
sire that the members of the House
who have been elected will, in the
naturally been talk about resignation
some of the members.
"At Cabinet meetings, there has
with the parties on the matter in the
present circumstances.
"My views about the political par-
the ideals on which our nation was
en bloc, but the result of the discus-
ties have not changed since I forme
founded in accordance with the prin-
sions has been as announced in the
situation which then necemitated no
my Cabinet. I cannot belleve that th
ciples of our national polity, promote
statement. I myself, have not thought
development of the constitutional gov-
about resignation en bloc.
party men to make up the Cabinet has
ernment peculiar to our country and
Diet May Be Dissolved
entirely changed. The Goverament has
attain real results in assisting the Em-
"Until the special session of the Diet,
no wish to antagonize the parties, but
the parties are saying that they and
peror in conducting legislative affairs
the Government will go on as before,
the Government are enemies /The
of the State with a correct under-
studying policies most needed in view
situation in this sense may be con
standing of the emergency nature of
of the prevailing situation. It may be
the times.
shared by all in every walk of life who
"I believe this hope is one that is
cial session. but it may be that the
that a vote of non-confidence will be
brought up by the parties at the spe-
ideas as the Government, but I h
party would emerge, with the san
sidered worse.
"It would be a fine thing if a new
have in mind the welfare of their
parties will come to recognize that
no intention of forming one my
country.
some of our policies are necessary to
Formation of a new party im the
"It is the intention of the Govern-
deal with the prevailing situation.
ent political situation would be
ment sincerely to administer and
"Thus we cannot tell what is going
tremely difficult."
serve the state with the convictions
to happen until we have actually en-
just mentioned and to carry out those
tered the special session. Whether the
policies considered most urgent in view
Diet will be dissolved again or the
of the stringent times. It is hoped
Cabinet will resign en bloc, all depends
that the people will understand fully
on the situation then.
its true intentions and co-operate
"It is possible that the Diet will again
with it for advancement of the na-
be dissolved if the new members'
tional fortunes in the spirit of na-
conception of the prevailing times is
tional unanimity."

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4, to despatch
No.2428, dated May15,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, May 13, 1937.
QUALITY OF PARTIES
at that time. At this juncture, there
fore, I am not considering resignation.
"Although the two major parties
gained an overwhelming majority, It
YET TO BE TESTED,
remains to be asked whether qualita-
tively they represent the general will
of the people. We must give careful
PREMIER DECLARES
thought to this matter. I do not think
the true attitude of the parties can be
known before we have straight-from-
the-shoulder talks with them on na-
tiona! policies in the special session of
the Diet in order to ascertain what the
Hayashi Awaits Diet Session to
general will of the people really
amounts to. We have not considered
Ascertain Attitude of Min-
whether we shall dissolve the Diet a
second time, depending on the attitude
seito, Seiyukai
the parties take.
"We wish to open the special session
as soon as possible, but we must first
NOT THINKING OF QUITTING
consider how long it will take us to
formulate the various important bills
that are to be presented. We have not,
Government Not Contemplating
yet decided when the session will be
convoked or how long it will last.
Election Law Revision by
Election Law Studied
"As we have been urged from many
Ordinance at Present
quarters to undertake revision of the
Electfon Law in the light of the April
election, the authorities concerned have
MINISTER HARD TO FIND
been ordered to study the matter. I
cannot say whether I intend to present
an Election Law revision bill to the
The Minseito and Seiyukai may
specia! session. Some people have urg-
quantitatively represent the general
ed us to revise the law by an urgent
will of the people. but it remains to
Imperial ordinance. but the Govern-
ment has no intention just now of tak-
te seen whether they do so qualita-
ing such a step.
tively. Premier Hayashi said yesterday
"I wish to appoint a full-time Educa-
in a press interview in which he as-
tion Minister as soon as possible, but
various circumstances make the selec-
serted that he is not considering re-
tion difficult. A man may be suitable
signation.
as an individual but not from the
He was interviewed at the Educa-
standpoint of the Cabinet as a whole.
tion Ministry. where he occupied his
Another may be someone I wish very
office as Education Minister for the
much to cbtain but find not available.
first time in a long while in accord-
I am not thinking in the present politi-
cal situation of political equilibrium
ance with a decision to be there on
Wednesdays. according to Domei. Ear-
ister and am anxious only to obtain an
in the selection of an Education Min-
lier. he met with Vice-Minister Shun-
able and suitable man. If possible, I'
saku Kawahara and other officials to
wish to appoint the Education Minister
discuss the proposed extension of
and the other Ministers yet to be nam-
compulsory schooling and other mat-
ed at the same time, but there is no
ters.
absolute need for it. Perhaps the ap-
The Premier declared that the Cabi-
pointments will be separate.
net will face the coming special ses-
"It is my hope in estab'ishing the
sion of the Diet and has not yet con-
Cultural and Educational Commission
sidered dissolving it in the event of
to be able to obtain the opinions on
opposition from the parties. No date
national principles of the ablest men
for its convocation has been fixed,
in their respective lines in order to
but it is desired to have it as soon
renovate culture and education and
as possible. 'He denied that the Gov-
to formulate po!icies that will mani-
ernment is considering revision of the
fest the true character of Japan in
Election Law by Imperial ordinance.
politics, economics and other fields. I
Decisicn Made Long Ago
have a tentative list of members,.but
"It is said in some quarters," the
I cannot say whether the names will
Premier is quoted as having stated.
be announced in a few days or not.
"that as the Seiyukai and Minseito
"We also took up at today's minis-
gained an overwhelming majority in
terial meeting the question of exten-
the general electicn and are showing
sion of compulsory schooling, but as
themselves markedly anti-Government
the budget question is involved I can-
the Cabinet should consider whether to
not tell at present whether a bill re-
resign or not. Such a state of affairs
garding it will be presented at the
was fcreseen when the Diet was dis-
special session of the Diet."
solved, however, and whatever deci-
sicn the Cabinet might take was taken

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.93)
AMERIGAN CONSULATE GBNERAL,
HARBIN,MANOMURIA, 
UBJECT: EDITORI L COLMENT ON THE POLITICAL
SITUATION IN J PAN.
The Honorable
Nelson Trusler Johnson,
Amerieen Ambassador,
Peiping, China.
sir:
I have the honor to enolose a translation of a pertion
of an editoriel whioh appeared in this morning's HARmIN
NICHINICHI, whieh displayed considerable satisfaetiom over
the failure of General Ugaki to form a Cabimet.
This editorial, whieh of course may be eonmidered as
voieing the opinion of the local military, is ehierly
sigmifieant in that it deplores demoeraey and erults ever
the vietory which the rightist elements have apparently
wea in Japan. The editerial wes obviously written befere
the designation of Gezeral Hayashi as Premier wes make pmb-
1se.
Rempectrully youre.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.96)
66-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JR
GRAY
1-1896
FROM
Tokyo
Dated June 3, 1937
Rec'd 7:42 a.m.
Secretary of State,
COPIES SENT TO
Washington.
U.N.I.ANDM.1.U
894.00
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
note
B
145, Junc 3, 5 p.m. /740
894.00/743
Departront of State
894.002
My tclegram No. 144, Junc 1, 10 p.m.
Wo have just learned by telephone from the Foreign
Office thct Eirota has accepted tho Foreign Affairs 
portfolio. The reappointment of Ministers of War and
of the Navy has becn confirmed. Kaya, now Vice Minister
of Finance, has acceptcd the Ministry of Finance.
It is gonorally oxpectod that the formation of the
new cabi et will be completed beforo end of the day.
GREW
WTTC:RR
JUN LU 1937
F/G

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
67-1
COPIES SENT TO
U.N.I.A
TELEGRAM RECEIVET
JUN 7 1937
JR
DEPARTMENT OF STAID
This telegram must be.
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
fore beingormunicated
Dated June 4, 1937
to anyone. (A)
FROM
Secretary of State,
Washington.
UN4-1937
14ε, June 4, 1 p.m.
NOTE
JUN 7 1937
894.002
My telegram No. 145 June 3
One. As of early this morning Konoe required only
the formal acceptance by Kaya of the Finance portfolio
894.00/744
to complete formation of the new Cabinet. It is expected
that after Kcya has ascertained the character of the
economic policies to be followed by the new Cabinet he
will give his acceptance, and that formal investiture
of Cabinet will take place today.
Tm.. Tho selection of Konoe as Premier has been
JUN 10
FILJD
popular, the comment most generally heard being that the
selection of the person favored over all others by public
opinion is a significant indication of trend toward more
normal condition. However, in one of his first statements
after receiving command to form a Cabinet, Konoe announced
that, although he would endeavor to include in his
cabinet two members of the political parties (which he has
done), they would be selected on the basis of their
personal merits and not as representatives of the parties.
F/F
This statement has perceptibly cocled the ardor with which
the parties acclaimed the news of Konoe's appointment.
G
There

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
67-2
-2-
JR #148, June 4, 1 p.m., from Tokyo.
There seems to be little doubt but that the parties now
possess a destructive power, but their inability to put
forward an intelligent and constructive program leads most
observers to believe that Konoe's present great popularity
warrants his avoiding too close a sort of association
with the parties.
Three. The disclosure of composition of the new
Cabinet has had an adverse effect upon the enthusiastic
response of the press to selection of Konoe.
Four. Comment by press and by individuals is that the
continuance in office of present Ministers of War and
Navy indicates that increased armament and doctrine of
"increasing power of industrial production" favored by the
armed services are to be among the Cabinet's policies.
In business circles the appointment to the Home Ministry
of Baba, whose views on finance are considered to be unsound
as well as unorthodox, is regarded with apprehension.
Although it is reported that Kaya will if appointed follow
the policies of his predecessor, it seems doubtful whether
he has sufficient prestige and force to counteract the
probable endeavors of Cabinet officers previously mentioned
to give effect to policies leading toward more rigid state
control over industry and toward uncontrollable financial
inflation.
Five. The collapse of the Hayashi Cabinet of itself
has

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.98)
67-3
3a
JR #148, June 4, 1 p.m., from Tokyo.
has eliminated certain elements of uncertainty and the
formation of a new Cabinet will undoubtedly tend to
stabilize political and economic conditions. I shall
withhold further effort at interpreting significance of
the present change of government until the policies of the
Konoe Cabinet have been disclosed and discussed in the
press.
Six. I hope to have an opportunity to call next week
on Hirota.
Soven. lease make available copies to Commerce and
Treasury.
To Peiping by mail.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.91)
(DAL)
67-4
PALAPLLALE
At an early heur en June 4 Prince Xense needeé emáy
Kaye's fermal ecceptanse of the pest of Xinister of Fimense
to complete the orgamisation ef the mow Cabinet. after
Eaye has become asquainted with the charaster of the esenemie
8
pelieies whieh the mew Cabinet will pursme it is astieipated
94。
he will accept the Finance pertfolle and that en June 4 the
00
fermal iavestiture ef the Cabinet will be held.
Kenee's appeiatment as Prime Mizister has pleased the
力
Japenese people, the most frequently heard comment being
that a trend toard a more mormal condition is sigmiried by
the seleetiom of she persen whem publie epinien savered
abeve all ethers. Konee stated, hewever, soen after having
been commanded to form a Cabinet, that altheugh he would try
to have twe mombere of the politieal parties in the mew Gabi-
met (he has done this) their pereonal merits weuld be the
basis fer their inelusion rather than the fast that they
represented the parties. The enthusiasm voieed by the par-
sies at the news of Konoe's appointment has eseled mesies-
ably sinee this statement was made. Although she parsies
seem now to possess a destruetive power, mest ebservers are
of the opimion in view of the inability of the parties to
present a construstive and intelligemt program that the
present sreet popularity of the Prime Misister weald justify

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.94)
一一
with the yarttes.
somposition of the Cabimet.
Individual and press eomment is te the effeet that tme
retentiem in offise of the present Mavy and far Ministess
shows thet she Cabimet fevors ineressed armament and the des-
trine of "increasing power of industrial preductiem" éesiseß
by the army and mavy. apprehension is felt in busimess sireles
on acsount of the seleetion of Baba as Home Minister as mis
views on finanee are considered to be both unerthodez and um-
sound. It is said that if Kaya is appointed Minister ef
Finance he will sontinue the polisies of his predecesser.
However, it appears doubtful whether Kaye has foree and pres-
tige enough to counterast the attempts whiek will probably be
made by the Mimisters of War and Mavy and the Home Minister to
bring about a strioter eontrol by the state over industry ems
to carry out policies which would reault in wmcontrollable
finanoial inflation.
Certain elements of uneertainty have been done away with
by the fall of the Hayashi Cabinet and undoubtedly the ferme-
tion of the now Cabimet will have the effeet of stabilising
conditions, both pelitieally and economieally. I mkall defer
endeavoring further to isterpret the meening of the shange in
sovarament until the mew Cabinet's pelisies have beea maée

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.87)
mom and heve been diseuseed in the some
expect that naxt week I aell be afrereed esn eg
to pay a visit to the Ninister fer Fereige affairs
(mirota).
894.00/744
4211
a.c
FE:EOC
FE
mm.1
VI-5-37

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.92)
June 7 1957
In reply refer to
73-894.00/744.
CONRIDENTIAL.
The Secretary of State presents his complimenss to
the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and eneleses
894.00/744
for his confidential information e paraphrase of a sele-
gram (No. 148) of Jume 4, 1937, from the Amerioam Ambas-
sador at Tokyo in regard to the new Japanese Cabinet.
Enolosure:
Paraphrase.
egs
PEIBGO
VI-5-39
F/FG
 7 .939

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.93)
June 7 1957
In roply refer to
1E - 894.00/744.
CONFIDENTIAL.
The ecretary of t t presents nis complimonts to
the Honorable the ecretaiy uf ommerce and enoloses
for his confidentiel informat ion a paraphrase of a tele-
894.00/744
grem (No. 148) of June 4, 1937, from the mer1oan mbas-
sador at Tokyo in regard to the new Japanese Cabinet.
nolosure:
Paraphrase.
LA
yx: do
H.F
VI-5-37
JUN 7 :937
SRA

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 8, 1937.
Mr. Bullitt became very well
acquainted with Mr. Sato (who was
for a long time Japanese Ambassador
to France and is now Japanese Minis-
ter for Foreign Affairs) in Paris.
Mr. Bullitt tells me that he formed
a very high regard for Sato, that
Sato was extraordinarily well
informed, very broad in his perspec-
tive, moderate in his views,
critical of the military element
in Japan, and very desirous that
Japan follow a policy of moderation
and friendliness toward other
countries.
SECRETAF
MAF
FE:SKH/ZMK
NFD

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.94)
11
FARIMENT OF STA
THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE
WASHINGTON
1937 JUN 11 AM 10 18
June 10, 1DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JIVSION OF
REOEIVED
HonoMuolt Cordald Hull,
Secrttary of State,
JUN 1 0 1937
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
894.00
1744
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
I thank you for your communication of the
seventh, transmitting a paraphrase of a telegram
894.00/745
(No. 148) of June 4, 1937, from the American Ambas-
sador at Tokyo in regard to the new Japanese Cabinet.
I have read this with interest.
Very sincerely,
心
4
DANIEL C. ROPIR
Secretary of Commerce
5
F/FG

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 19, 1937
JWB:
MSM:
In this despatch from Tokyo the
Embassy discusses various public utterances
of Mr. Sato, the then Foreign Minister and
endeavors to analyze his views toward
foreign affairs. The despatch is of some
interest desnite the change of government
in Japan. You may wish to glance through
it noting especially the marked portions,
and the first enclosure.
In the oninion of the Embassy,
Lir. Sato continued to be confident of the
efficacy of discussion and reason in the
solution of Janan's international problems.
However, there is noticeable in this
attitude toward China a certain stiffening,
which is probably accounted for by
pressure from the army.
Note that in Sato's opinion "Relations
with the United  tates are satisfactory
on the whole", and that "Problems arising
from Japanese expanding trade have
gradually been reduced by mutual under-
standing".
994.00/746
Wm
PE: TV/DLY

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2443.
Tokyo, May 28, 1937.
SUBJECT: RECENT SPEECHES BY FOREIGN MINISTER SATO.
Ff (381)
894.00
Check
Division of
1iT
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
3
In U S A.
MD
DNL
JUN 16 1937<
miD
Osmmc
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.J.D.
8
6
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
7
Washington.
8940/734
As reported in the Embassy's telegram No. 131, May
1/
Affairs, on May 17, 1937, delivered a speech on foreign re-
lations to the prefectural governors of the country
2/
assembled in Tokyo. On May 24 he addressed a banquet of
the Tokyo Jiyu Tsusho Kyokai (Tokyo Free Trade Association).
JUN 21937
FILED
On May 26 in conversation with me he made certain remarks
which were reported in the Embassy's telegram No. 137, May
3/
26, 1 p.m., and set forth in a memorandum herewith. The
purpose of the present despatch is to review these various
statements in order to determine how far the estimates
embodied
F/G/

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
794.00/116
embodied in the Embassy's despatches No. 2312, March 17,
854.00/735
1937, No. 2390, Apri1 30, 1937, and No. 2410, May 11, 1937,
794.00/122
need to be modified.
Analysis leads the Embassy to these conclusions:
first, that Mr. Sato continues confident of the efficacy of
discussion and of reason for the solution of Japan's inter-
national problems, and in such discussion is ready to admit
that Japan has faults to correct; second, that he continues
to view these problems as chiefly economic; and third, that
a certain stiffening is noticeable in the Foreign Minister's
attitude toward China.
894.00/734
Mr. Sato's May 17 speech (Embassy's telegram No. 131,
May 17, 8 p.m.) was of such importance that the Foreign
Office released a complete text in English, given in enclo-
sure No. 1 herewith. The speech was carefully prepared and
comprehensive in scope, and (aside from statements of merely
local applicability) had substantially the following con-
tent:
The national policy of Japan is (1) inter-
national justice, (2) stability of eastern Asia,
and (3) common prosperity of all nations. Im-
portant to Japan's international position is the
strengthening of the inseparable relation with
Manchuria and improvement of relations with China
and the Soviet Union.
Relations with China have been impeded by
incidents of the past year. United opposition
against Japan is the current slogan in China;
anti-Japanese sentiment is a pawn of domestic
politics there, and even the Nanking Government
exploits it by urging internal harmony for the
particular purpose of resisting foreign aggres-
sion. And it is a fact that Chinese unification
is making progress. Japan's designs in China
are not aggressive, and that must be made clear.
The Japanese Government seeks greater harmony
through frequent personal contact and through cultural
and

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
and economic cooperation, looking to an inter-
dependent economic relationship in the common
interest.
In relations with the Soviet Union the
Japanese Government is trying to eliminate
unnecessary friction. Cessation of mistreat-
ment of Japanese by Soviet officials has been
requested, and Japanese authorities reciprocally
should also be careful. Soviet Far Eastern arma-
ments are being hastened.
Friendship with Great Britain is highly
desirable. A number of problems with regard
to China and with regard to trade require solution.
The Keelung incident settlement and the perpetual
lease agreement have eased the atmosphere, and
the visit of Prince and Princess Chichibu to London
is adding to Anglo-Japanese friendship.
Relations with the United States are satis-
factory on the whole. Problems arising from
Japanese expanding trade have gradually been re-
solved by mutual understanding. The visit of
American cotton industry representatives resulted
in the conclusion of an agreement satisfactory
to both sides. The Japanese economic mission
now in America should enhance such friendly at-
mosphere. Japanese-American economic relations
are complementary, and on that foundation I hope
collaboration for the preservation of peace in
the Pacific will be continued.
With Germany Japan concluded in November 1936
an agreement against the Third Communist Inter-
national, because the Comintern declared Japan
and Germany the objectives of its sovietizing
campaign. This agreement is of the greatest value
and significance.
Freedom of trade and access to raw materials,
always advocated by the Japanese Government, are
fundamental to Japan's claim to the right of
existence. Untrammeled trade and economic inter-
course is the prime requisite of peace.
Japanese foreign trade in 1936 set a new
record of five and a half billion yen, but is
still less than four percent of the world total.
Meantime other countries have been vigilant in
imposing restrictions. But the plea for removal
of barriers is gaining ground. The March meeting
of the League of Nations commission on raw materials
disclosed that several countries support Japan's
contentions.
In the Foreign Minister's speech on May 24 the salient
points

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
points are (1) a reiteration of former Foreign Minister
Hirota's statement that there would be no war during his
tenure of office, (2) further emphasis of the importance to
Japan of having freer access to foreign raw materials and
foreign markets, and (3) admission that standards of living
of some classes of Japanese labor are unsatisfactory and
should be studied by the authorities. This speech, not
attempting to be so comprehensive as that of May 17, gives
more play to what are evidently Mr. Sato's inner convictions,
and simply adds weight to the conclusions stated in the Em-
854.0073.5
bassy's despatch No. 2390, April 30, 1937, that Mr. Sato,
far from being an alarmist, comes to his duties determined
to ohtain by opendiscussion international acceptance of fur-
ther increase in Japan's foreign trade, as well as of the
corollary requirements of such increase. The Foreign Minister
desires that Japan approach its international problems in a
studious, intelligent manner, and as evidence of good faith
in favoring this approach he is willing to admit that not all
the right is on Japan's side.
But with regard to China it appears that Mr. Sato has
already come up against difficulties. There are indications
that in this field of foreign relations he has alrdady ac-
knowledged that something more is called for on Japan's part
than an insistence on intelligent discussion. Speaking on
May 17 he was content to temper his general tone of friendliness
toward China merely by making clear parenthetically that Japan
has noted Nanking's deliberate exploitation of the anti-Japanese
movement. By May 24 Mr. Sato found it wise (possibly prompted
by others) to include in his speech the statement that although
war

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
War is never profitable Japan must be willing to fight
when honor and prestige are at stake. Then, by the time
of my conversation with him on May 26 (telegram No. 137,
3/
May 26, 1 p.m., and enclosure No. 3 herewith), he was ready
to admit the possibility that a grave view would have to be
taken of the relatively unimportant incident at Swatow (ar-
rest of a Japanese police officer and detention for a few hours).
This growing firmness with regard to China on the part of
a foreign minister who is bending every effort toward open-
minded foreign relations is probably a significant indication
of the direction in which any Japanese foreign minister, no
matter how liberal, must give way to a bent of Japanese
foreign policy which has been fixed by the events of the last
years beyond the possibility of voluntary alteration. So
fundamentally has the Japanese army grounded the standing of
Japan in China on the display of force that it is now difficult
to visualize how that attitude can be appreciably changed.
Respectfully yours,
Sosth6
oseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1/ Clipping, "Sato Asks Caution in Soviet Matter,"
JAPAN ADVERTISER, May 18, 1937.
2/ Clipping, "Prevention of War Is Sato's First Aim,"
JAPAN ADVERTISER, May 26, 1937.
3/ Memorandum of conversation with Japanese Foreign
Minister Sato, the Ambassador and Counselor Dooman,
May 26, 1937.
4/ Memorandum of conversation with Japanese Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs Horinouchi, May 26, 1937.
710.
CC:g
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
cohc
1n
n
Moscow.

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1 , to despatch
No.2443 , dated May28,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, May 18, 1937.
SATO ASKS CAUTION
take a comprehensive and co-ordinated
view of the whole international situa-
ing war industries is being pushed
forward with utmost vigor and
tion and especially that we should
On the other hand, the internal poll
strengthen our inseparable relations
ical situation of that country apper
IN SOVIET MATTERS
w.th Manchukuo and work for the ad-
to be quite complicated, judging from
justment of our relations with China
the so-called anti-revolutionist con-
and the Soviet Union.
spiracy trials of last August and of
"As regards our relations with
January of this year.
China. it is regrettable that, owing to
"The Japanese Government is trying
a series of unfor:unate incidents that
to climinate all unnecessary friction
Governors Told to Give Assist-
have occurred with'n the past year, the
hetween the two countries and at the
ance in Eliminating Un-
sclution of those various pending issues
which is necessary for the amelioration
same time to solve pending issues relat-
ing to sueh important questions as
necessary Friction
of Sino-Japanese relations is being de-
layed.
those relating to fisheries, the North
Saghalien concessions and the Man-
"As you know. united oppositon
chukuo-Soviet border commissions.
GERMAN ACCORD UPHELD
against Japan has become nowadays
something like a current slegan in
However, unnecessary friction has
arisen more recently owing tó the fre-
China. The Southwestern regime.
quent occurrence of untoward inci-
Foreign Minister Agrees With
hostile to Chiang Kai-shek, is openly
dents concerning the treatment of our
committed to an anti-Japanese policy.
officials and residents and of our ships
Hull on Relation of Trade
Chang Hsueh-liang, on the ocasion of
at the hands of Soviet authorities, and
the Sian incident a short while ago,
also complaints and incidents regard-
to Peace
sent out a cireular telegram calling for
ing our treatment of Soviet officials
an immediate declaration of war against
and Soviet ships in Japan. We have
Japan. It is clear that anti-Japanism
asked the Soviet Government to see to
Foreign Minister Naotake Sato called
is being made not infrequently a pawn
it that such things do not happen in
on the prefectural governors in thcir
the game of Chinese domestic poli-
the future. and I wish that you will
conference yesterday to aid him in his
Hes.
also be careful in this matter.
efforts to eliminate unnecessary fric-
Nationalism Exploited
British Friendship Wanted
tion with the Soviet Union by being
"The Nanking Government itself, tak-
"From the standpoint of our foreign
careful in the treatient of Soviet of-
ing advantage of the newly awakened
relations in general, it is highiy desir-
ficials and Soviet ships. about which
-pirit of nationalism. is urging upon
able to secure firmly our friendship
he admitted there have been com-
the people the cessation of internal
with Great Britain. However, there
plaints. A request has been made to
hostilities for the sake of resisting for-
are not a few points requiring adjust-
the Soviet authorities that they like-
gn aggression and is thus endeavoring
ment in connection with the questions
wise try to avoid ineidents involving
to consolidate its own position. Indeed
of China and of trade, and our Gov-
Japanese residents and ships.
we should not overlook the consider-
ernment is making efforts to dispose
able success of the Nanking Govern-
of these problems. It is most gratify-
He also asked that the governors
ment in bringing various local regimes
ing that at this time when, through
help in making foreigners who visit
under its control. in rehabilitating its
the settlement of the Keelung inci-
Japan acquainted with Japanese cul-
finance through monetary reforms and
dent of last October and the solution
ture and to be not too rigorous in
undertaking various constructive works
of the long-pending issue regarding the
dealing with them. mere trifles often
with foreign loans. The settlement of
perpetual lease system, the atmosphere
aftecting greatly the nation's foreign
the Southwest problem and the out-
has been greatly eased, the visit of
relations.
come of the Suiyuan affair and the Sian
Their Imperial Highnesses, Prince and
The Foreign Minister reviewed rela-
incident all seem to show China's pro-
Princess Chichibu. is providing fur-
tions with various countries. Japan
gress toward unification.
ther impetus to the cultivation of
wants to have the Chinese understand
"Now it may not be amiss to say that
Anglo-Japanese friendships.
that they are mistaken in crediting this
the anti-Japanese sentiment in China
"Our relations with the United States
country with aggressive designs and to
is at least partly traceable to misunder-
are. I may say, satisfactory on the
create an atmosphere, of harmony.
standing on the part of the Chinese
whole. With the advance of our for
Amity with Great Britain is wanted.
who suppose that Japan harbors ag-
eign trade in recent years, sundry dif
and relations with the United States
gressive designs on their country. Of
ficulties have arisen between the two
are on whole satisfactory.
course. we have no such designs, and
countries, but they have been gradually
He agreed with the American Sec-
we will make clear our true intentions
disposed of through mutual under
retary of State, Mr. Cordell Hull, that
to the Chinese and try to improve
standing of each other's position. The
"an untrammeled growth of trade and
Sino-Japanese relations. In view of
coming of American cotton industry
econdmic activities of every nation is
circumstances such as those stated
the prime requisite of establishing in-
above. the Japanese Government is
in the conclusion of an agre
ternaticnal peace."
planning to create an harmonious at-
satisfactory to both sides. Our 
Opportunity Welcomed
inosphere between the two nations
mic mission now touring in Amerion
The address of the Foreign Minister
tnrough more frequent personal con-
expected to accomplish much to
in the translation provided by the For-
tacts and promote their cultural and
the enhancement of this friendly
eign Office follows in full:
economic co-operation and thereby to
mosphere. As Japan and America
"I am happy to have this opportunity
establish between the two countries a
neighbors whose economic relatie
to address the governors' conference on
nutually interdependent economic re-
complementary, I hepe that the
recent developments in our country's
lationship founded upon the common
foreign relations and convey to you
interests of the peoples.
what I hope you will do to help forward
our foreign policy. It is the nat.onal
"The Soviet Union, which has recent-
Soviets Expanding Arms
to collaborate in the task of
peace in the Pacific.
policy of Japan to uphold international
ly been devoting its efforts to the de-
German Part Upheld
justice, to establish the stability of East
velopment of light industries under
"As for Germany, you know
Asia and to bring about common pro-
the so-called 'Second Five-Year Plan,
concluded with that country l
sperity to all nations. In consonance
is from next year to focus its attention
ember an agreement guarding
with th's purpose, our foreign policy
upon the continuous industrial growth
is formulated so as to bring about ad-
and the cultural advancement of the
justment of our relations with other
people in accordance with the Third
Powers and the advancement of our
Five-Year Plan.' The Soviet Govem-
national fortune by carrying out the
ment is seeking to effect an expansion
programs embodying the unanimous
of armaments aleng with repletion of
will of our people. Today the con-
the nation's economic strength. In the
ditions of the world remain unsettled
Far Eastern possestions of the Soviet
as ever, and in order to improve and
advance our country's international
lated to our country.
pesition it is important that we should
strueting military

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
sary to devise means of defense of an
international character. That was the
Burma, the Netherlands Indies, Aus-
promise, however, was not reached
reason why we concluded w.tn Ger-
tralia, et cetera, which have resulted
until recently because of certain dif-
many, which faced the same danger.
in the present satisfactory trade re-
ficulties involved in the question of
the anti-Comintern agreement for the
lations with them. Negotiations with
compensation for the surrender of the
purpose of common defense. Viewed
a vicw to translating these relations
privilege of non-payment of ta
from the situation. both internal and
into formal treaties or agreements are
The delay of settlement having pro-
external, of our country. this agreement
now in progress. There are not a few
duced many baneful effects upon the
is of the greatest value and significance.
other pending trade questions, namely,
finance of the districts concerned and
It is expected that great benefits will
with Turkey. Italy. Siam. Central and
also upon tax-payers in general, the
result from effectual operation of the
South America and other countries,
Government first carried out, with
instrument, and the Government relies
over which negotiations are now in
view of expediting the settlement,
upon your co-operation concerning its
progress.
compulsory collection of the taxes in
application at home
All Must Co-operate
arrears upon the lands under he per-
"It goes without saying that inter.
"The Foreign Office authorities are
petual lease system. This gave a start,
national trade and economie nter-
and. after arduous negotiations with
course are essential to all countries. es
thus continuously putting forth their
the countries concerned, we have suc-
pecially to a country like ours. which
utmost efforts im all directions for the
ceeded at last in concluding treaties of
is thickly populated but not endowed
develo,pment of our foreign trade. For
the same purport with all the coun-
sufficiently with natural resources. The
that purpose. aside from suen civilian
tries interested by which the system
restoration of freedom of trade or the
of perpetual lease w'!l be liquidated
opening of the sources of raw materials.
co-operation as is obtainable through
on April 1. 1942. The contents of these
which the Japanese Government has
the exchange of visits of economic
agreements have been communicated
on all available occasions advocated.
groups like the economie mission re-
to the local authorities, and I under-
can be deemed as an assertion of our
cently sent to China and the similar
stand that instructiuns have been
right of national existence. It is our
mission which has recently gone to the
issued by the Ministers concerned re-
earnest desire to co-operate with all
United States and will also go to
garding the measures to be taken by
nations in order to contribute toward
England. it is of course essential to
the local authorities. I hope that in
economic development of the world
maintain co-operation among various
carrying out these agreements you
and to share in common prosperity
branches of the Government. It is ne-
will see to it that the letter and spirit
with them. It is my belief that the
cessary for Japan so to secure and
of the instruments are duly observed.
ensuring of an untrammeled growth of
nation is the prime requisite of est-
ablishing international peace.
trade and economic activities of every
encourage its industries and foreign
trade as to enable them to meet satis-
factorily the general conditions of the
international economic situation or the
individual measures adopted by vari-
to say that public opinion constitutes
our policy without a strong support
ine background of foreign policy and
that we cannot conduct successfully
"Finally, I think it hardly necessary
a new record last year of ¥5.500.000.-
000. The first semester of this year is
of late a steady inerease. establishing
value of world trade, it has witnessed
trade amounts in value to only a lit-
tie less than 4 per cent of the total
"Despite the fact that our foreign
Trade Still Crowing
in charge of matters pertaining to
desire that you. as governors who are
various industries on the s,pot. will
bear in mind the present economic
ous Powers. And for this purpose the
utmost and concerted effort of the
whole nation is required. Such are
the circumstances. It is my earnest
of public opinion at home. And in
order to foster healthy public opinion,
it is. I believe, very necessary to give
rounding our country and to promote
better understanding on their part re-
our general public accurate and ad-
equate knowledge about the whole as-
pect of the international situation sur-
crease as compared with the corres-
expected to show even a further in-
situation of the world as well as the
position of our country and act in ac-
garding the orientation of our foreign
policy. The Foreign Office is doing
ponding period of last year. Yet, on
cordance with the aims I have eluci-
its utmost in order to propagate know-
the other hand. there has been no
dated.
ledge about the international situa-
change in the attitudes of various for-
"Now, the chief aim of the so-called
tion and to enlighten public opinion
eign Powers in instituting restrictions
international cultural work is to pro-
concerning our people constantly and
of all sorts against foreign trade to
pagate abroad the essence of our na-
directly. will join efforts with the
meet the existing international situa-
tional culture and to foster thereby a
Foreign Office in this regard."
tion. especially in their attitude of
correct understanding in foreign coun-
keeping watch against our growing ex-
tries toward Japan. One of its means
port trade. Fortunately. however. the
is to make foreigners visiting these
plea for the removal of trade barriers
shores acquainted with. and appre-
is gaining ground among nations. as
ciate fully. the true nature of our
may be seen from the currency accord
culture; and I hope you will extend
of last year among England. the Unit-
all possible facilities to these visitors.
ed States and France in connection
"I would like to state in addition
with the devaluation of the franc. or
that in view of the necessity of the
from the meeting of the economic and
overseas expansion of our people for
financial commission of the League of
the advancement of our national wel-
Nations and from the conference of
fare it is the policy of our Government
the Pan-American Union. Moreover. it
to permit our nationals to settle over-
became clear at the meeting of the
seas as freely as possible, subject to
League of Nations commission on raw
the national laws of the countries of
materials, held in March this year. that
their entry. As regards the treatment
not a few countries are in agreement
of foreigners coming to this country,
with our claims as mentioned before.
you all know that mere trifling affairs
The realization of these claims being.
may sometimes affect not a little the
however, considerably difficult at pre-
external relations of our country and
sent, it is inevitable that. in order to
also influence the manner of treatment
maintain and promote our trade and
accorded by foreign governments to
commerce. we should be compelled to
our nationals residing in their coun-
take appropriate steps as occasions de-
tries. I ask you, therefore, to use
mand against obstructive measures of
caution in the future as hithertofore.
other Powers directed against our ex-
and not to be too rigorous in treating
ports. In this connection. I may say.
foreigners merely because they happen
the present condition is such that, as
to be foreigners.
Japan's economic strength expands,
Perpetual Leases Solved
problems more or less important arise
"Turning now to the question of the
one after another in all parts of the
perpetual lease system, which had
world and our officials abroad are con-
been a pending question for many
stantly kept busy negotiating over
years past, the Government conducted
them. For instance. as you all know.
negotiations with the Governments o.
we carried on trade negotiations for
the countries concerned with a view to
the past several months with India,
obtaining its final settlement. A com-

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclgsure No. 2, to despatch
dated May28, 1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, wednesday, May 26, 1937.
PREVENTION OF WAR
IS SATO'S FIRST AIM
Foreign Minister Outlines Atti-
tude Toward Problems in
Tokyo Address
Stressing that the starting point of
Japanese diplomatic policy should be
to prevent war, Foreign Minister Nao-
take Sato gave an outline of his atti-
tude toward problems affecting Japan
externally and internally in an address
before the Tokyo Free Trade Associa-
tion at the Bankers' Club Monday, the
Asahi reports.
"War is never profitable," he said.
"However, once the honor and prestige
of our country are injured, we must be
willing to fight. It may be the opinion
of some that Sato would yield to a
foreign country even in such a moment,
but I wish only to follow the normal
path of diplomacy until the last mo-
ment, if the worst is to come.
"When Mr. Koki Hirota was Foreigr
Minister. he said there would be no
war while he was in office. My view
is the same as his, and such a determi-
nation is necessary for those who have
charge of diplomacy.
"Our population is growing year by
year. The best solution of that pro-
blem seems to lie in the development
of domestic fortunes. The only alter-
native is to secure and exploit raw
material resources in foreign lands and
to demand the open door policy for
Japanese goods. By universal recogni-
tion of this demand. peace could be
established and war exterminated. This
point will be maintained by Commer-
cial Attache Yasundo Shudo, who will
attend the second meeting of the raw
materials and resources committee at
Geneva next month.
"Japan's foreign trade is being ob-
structed by numerous barriers. To re-
move these barriers, foreign trade
should be carried on in the spirit of.
fair play. In this, the first question
that arises is labor conditions. It
would never be profitable for a nation
to compete with foreign goods by sacri-
ficing its laborers.
"Criticism always has been directed
against labor conditions in our country,
and we have always explained the dif-
ference in the living standard and the
Japanese family system. Also we have
always maintained that Japanese labor-
ers are not inferior to those of other
countries. However, there are cases
in which I am forced to admit that
Japanese laborers' living standards can-
not be compared with those of labor-
ers in other countries. I believe this
point should be given more considera-
tion by those in charge of administra-
tion."

=== Page 327 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 3 to despatch
No. 2443 dated May 28, 1937,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation
May 26, 1937.
Mr. Naotake Sato, Minister for Foreign
Affairs
The Ambassador and Mr. Dooman.
Subject: Sino-Japanese Relations.
I called on the Minister for Foreign Affairs this
morning to present Mr.Dooman.
After a brief conversation, during which the Minister
for Foreign Affairs referred in terms of gratification to
the improved state of relations between the United States
and Japan, he supposed that the disturbed relations between
Japan and China were probably causing uneasiness in the
United States and thus impeding the placing of the relations
between the United States and Japan on a stable and satis-
factory basis. The Foreign Minister then continued sub-
stantially as follows:
The greatest difficulty in the way of re-
solving the problems pending between Japan and
China lies in the inability of the various ele-
ments in Japan to agree upon a common point of
view, "various quarters within the Army", es-
pecially those at Tientsin and HsinKing holding
certain opinions to which he could not subscribe.
He was nevertheless hopeful that it would be
possible to proceed with plans to open negotia-
tions with the Chinese Government in the not
too distant future, perhaps some time during
the

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
the first half of June. He was, however,
somewhat apprehensive with regard to reaction
in Japan to reports of two unfortunate incidents
having recently arisen, one being that of the
firing by vessels of the Chinese Customs Patrol
on Japanese fishing vessels, and the other an
attack upon a Japanese consular policeman at
Swatow by the Chinese police. Nevertheless,
Mr. Kawagoe is to leave on about June 10 for
Nanking, and he is to be instructed to open
negotiations as soon as practicable with the
Chinese Government.
IMr. Kawagoe had asked to be relieved of
his post as Ambassador to China. There is no
other person at the present time qualified and
in a position to represent the Japanese Govern-
ment in China, and therefore he (Mr. Sato) had
persuaded Mr. Kawagoe to return to China. It
is quite true that the previous negotiations
carried on by Mr. Kawagoe with the Chinese
Government had been unsuccessful, but those ne-
gotiations had been instructive to Mr. Kawagoe;
and it was felt that Mr. Kawagoe's previous ex-
perience in negotiations with the Chinese Govern-
ment would be helpful to him in endeavoring to
lead the forthcoming negotiations to a mutually
satisfactory conclusion.
The conversation then concluded with an exchange of
amenities.
J.C.G.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to despatch
No. 2443 dated May 28, 1937,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation
May 26, 1937.
Mr. Horinouchi, Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs
The Ambassador and Mr. Dooman.
Subject: Sino-Japanese Relations - Swatow Incident.
After my call this morning on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs (see separate memorandum of conversation), I pre-
sented Mr. Dooman to the Vice Minister, Mr. Horinouchi.
1.11
Mr. Horinouchi appeared to be somewhat agitated over
the occurrence of the two incidents affecting relations be-
tween Japan and China mentioned by the Foreign Minister.
Mr. Horinouchi said that no detailed report had been received
with regard to the alleged firing by Chinese Customs Patrol
vessels on Japanese fishing vessels, but that the facts of
the incident at Swatow, where a Japanese consular policeman
was said to have been injured by the Chinese police, were as
set forth in despatches appearing in the papers this morning.
It was his impression that a grave view would be taken in
Japan of the Swatow affair. He remarked that he was at a loss
to understand why the Chinese Provincial authorities had taken
such a rigorous position. He explained that a regulation had
been issued by the Provincial authorities requiring that all
foreign residents register with the Chinese police. The
Japanese policeman concerned had been staying at a Japanese
inn at Swatow and had informally made known to the Chinese
police his place of residence. He then moved to the house
of a Japanese merchant and had informed the Chinese police,
presumably by telephone, of his change of residence. The
Chinese

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Chinese police insisted that he fulfill the requirements
laid down in the Provincial regulations above-mentioned,
but the Japanese policeman had refused, for the reason that
he was, first a foreign national enjoying extraterritorial
rights, and second, he was a Japanese Government official.
The Chinese police then visited the house in which he resided
and demanded that the Japanese policeman proceed with them to
the police station. The Japanese policeman refused, an al-
tercation followed and he was forcibly seized by the Chinese
police, taken to the police station and handcuffed. The
Japanese Consul succeeded in obtaining the man's release after
several hours' detention.
Mr. Horinouchi then went on to say that the Japanese
Government is expecting to enter into negotiations with the
Chinese Government looking toward the settlement of several
issues of long standing, but that there was some possibility
of the opening of negotiations being delayed by the occurrence
of the Swatow affair.
I expressed regret that there should have occurred at
this time any incident which might prejudice the development
of friendly relations between Japan and China.
After a brief conversation of a personal nature, Mr.
Dooman and I withdrew.
J.C.G.

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
JNDER SECRET
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUN2 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATEDIVISI
DEPART
RECEIVED
June 7, 1937.
JUN 14 1937
Composition of the new Japanese Cabinet.
note
Mr. Grew telegraphed on June 4 that Prince Konoye,
894.002
the new Prime Minister, required only the formal acceptance
by Mr. Kaya of the Finance portfolio to complete the
formation of the new Cabinet. According to the press
Kaya's acceptance was subsequently received and formal
89
investiture took place on the same day.
94.00/747
A memorandum on the selection of Prince Konoye as
Prime Minister was prepared by FE under date June 2.
Mr. Hirota, the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, was
formerly Prime Minister and also Minister for Foreign
Affairs. Ambassador Grew reports that in his initial
interview on June 7 with Mr. Hirota, Hirota asked the
Ambassador to tell the President and the Secretary that
his guiding policy in conducting Japan's relations with
the United States would be based upon the exchange of
messages with the Secretary in 1934. With regard to
Sino-Japanese affairs, Hirota stated that his three points
were
1. Recognition de facto, if not de jure, by China
F/FC
of "Manchukuo";
2. Cooperation between Japan and China in economio
matters;
G
3. Japan to cooperate with China in military
measures to be directed toward eradication of communist
elements.

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
were too abstract for present circumstances and that he,
therefore, proposed to find concrete solutions of the
various outstanding problems between Japan and China.
Three of the new ministers, Lieutenant General
Sugiyama, Minister of War; Admiral Yonai, Minister of the
Navy; and Mr. Shiono, Minister of Justice, are hold-overs
from the previous cabinet. Mr. Ryutaro Nagai, Minister
of Communications, and Mr. Chikuhei Nakajima, Minister of
Railways, are party leaders of the Minseito and the
Seiyukai, respectively.
The Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Eiichi Baba, who
was Minister of Finance in the Hirota Cabinet, is a pro-
ponent of the expansion of expenditures and of the exten-
sion of state control of industries. Ambassador Grew
expresses doubt whether Mr. Kaya, the new Minister of
Finance, has sufficient prestige and force to counteract
the probable endeavors of Baba and other Cabinet officers
to give effect to policies leading toward more rigid state
control of industries and toward uncontrollable financial
inflation.
Mr. Yoshino, the Minister of Commerce and Industry, is
devoted to the development of Japan's industries. He is
practical and relatively friendly to foreign interests.
The three remaining ministers are little known outside
Japan. Mr. Yasui, the Minister of Education, is a career
bureaucrat who was previously governor of Osaka Prefecture;
Count

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Count Arima, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry,
is an expert on agricultural policy; and the Minister of
Overseas Affairs, Mr. Sonyu Otani, has a strong Buddhist
background, being a son of Count Otani, Abbot of Honganji,
who has been conspicuous in Japanese colonization activities.
Mr. Otani is a member of the House of Peers.
Ambassador Grew reports that the disclosure of the
composition of the new Cabinet has had an adverse effect
upon the enthusiastic response of the press to the selection
of Prince Konoye as Prime Minister. Comment by the press
and by individuals is that the continuation in office of
the present Ministers of War and of Navy indicates that
increased armament and industrial mobilization are to be
among the Cabinet's policies. The Ambassador believes,
however, that the collapse of the Hayashi Cabinet of
itself has eliminated certain elements of uncertainty and
that the formation of a new cabinet will undoubtedly tend
to stabilize political and economic conditions.
FE:JWB/DLY

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
A
June 29, 1937
Tokyo's No. 2454 of June 3, 1937, re-
views briefly the events which transpired
during the l19 day incumbency of the Hayashi
Cabinet and afforde certain interesting
interpretations as to the occasion and the
significance of the resignation of the
Cabinet.
It is the view of the Emhassy that the
primary purpose of the resignation wes, by
throwine this sop to the parties, to fore-
stall an attack on policy and more funda-
mental opposition in general.
The occasion of the resignation appears
to have heen the unanticipated statement
given to the prese on May 29 by Prince
Konoye to the effect that the refusal of
Hayashi to ad it to the Cahinet memhers
of the parties victorioue in the recent
elections had led to the impasse and that
party men mipht well he admitted to the next
cabinet. This lest statement is interpreted
as impliedly suggesting Konoye's availahil-
ity for the post of Prime Minister.
It is the view of the Emhessy that the
resignation did not constitute a sweeping
victory for the political parties nor an im-
portant turning point in present day politics.
It does, however, mark a modest step forward
1n the government of Jaoan by non-mi?itary
elements

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
elements and may demonstrate to the military
should the letter be aware of the lesson
contained in this resignation that "national
objectives can be gained more economically
under the guidance of a premier of greater
political ecumen than General Hayashi" and
that the political parties have "regained
a certein measure of destructive strength"
so that they may not with impunity be
treated in the cavalier manner attempted
by General ayashi.
894.00/748
FF.JHL/DLY

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2454.
Tokyo, June 3, 1937.
SUBJECT: FALL OF THE HAYASHI CABINET.
894.08
note
54
Dietr tution-Cherk
S
137 UN 2 2  1
M/D
894.002
ON1
PIES SENT TO
U.N.I. AND M.J.D.
894.00/748
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OF STAT
JUN 2 8 1937
B
Department of State
The Honorable
20
1037
VA
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir!
738
On May 31, 1937, as reported in my telegram No/ 141,
May 31, 7 p.m., the entire Japanese Cabinet, under the
premiership of General Senjuro Hayashi, submitted its
FILED
resignation. The Emperor accepted the resignation, sub-
ject to continuation of duties until the installing of
a new cabinet.
1/
The Hayashi Cabinet's period in office has been one of
the shortest in Japanese parliamentary history. Genoval
Hayashi received the Imperial command on January 29, 1937,
and the ceremony of installing was performed on February 2.
On February 15 the Diet resumed its sessions and proved
fairly
G

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
fairly cooperative. March 3 Mr. Naotake Sato took over
the duties of foreign minister, performed until that time
by Premier Hayashi himself. The important action required
of the Diet was the passage of the 1937-1938 budget, which
was carried through on March 30. Dissolution of the House
of Representatives came the very next day. In spite of the
comparatively cooperative mood which the House had shown,
the Premier explained the dissolution as an act of discipline;
and the inconsistency in this explanation did much to alienate
public sympathy from the Hayashi Cabinet. The consequent
general election was held on April 30, following a campaign
in which the Government studiously avoided any statement of
platform or of support of candidates which could make the
voting a measure of the electorate's acquiescence in or opposi-
tion to the Government. This formless election brought in
an indecisive result, with a new House of Representatives not
conspicuously different from the previous one (except that
the small Social Mass Party succeeded in doubling its seats
to eight percent of the total). The Premier publicly de-
clared that the result of the election was about as expected
and that his Cabinet would continue in office. The two major
parties, about equal in number of seats and neither controlling
an absolute majority, then commenced a campaign to bring about
the defeat of the Hayashi Cabinet during the Diet session which
must convene not later than August. The newspapers kept the
matter continuously before the public.
For several weeks there was no indication of the opinion
of Japan's inner circle of statesmen with regard to Hayashi's
contention

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
contention that no change of policy or of cabinet was required
by the result of the election. But on Saturday, May 29, out
2/
of the blue, Prince Konoe, president of the House of Peers,
told newspapermen that the refusal of Hayashi to admit mem-
bers of the victorious parties as cabinet ministers, after
the election, had led to a conflict impossible of compromise.
He also planted a discreet suggestion about admission of
party men in the next cabinet, well calculated to invite at-
tention to himself as a logical prime minister in the present
contingency.
Action followed, and quickly. At one o'clock on Monday,
May 31, Premier Hayashi went to the Palace after a regular
cabinet meeting, as is usual. From the Palace he proceeded
to call on the president of the Privy Council, after which
a special cabinet meeting was immediately called and the
resignation decision reached. I am informed by a wholly re-
liable Japanese official that the possibility of resignation
had not been suggested at the cabinet meeting in the morning,
and that General Hayashi had disclosed his intention to re-
sign only as a result of his conversation at the Palace with
a high personage, presumably the Emperor.
General Hayashi as Premier has been handicapped by some
vague thinking on the subject of the political parties, vague
thinking which was responsible for his primary error, the
March 31 dissolution of the House of Representatives. Perhaps
first attracted by the hope of thereby playing into the hands
of the movement for a new, dominating, military-guided party,
he apparently came to the decision in the conviction that
dissolution

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
dissolution (and the implied threat of further dissolutions
whenever necessary) would have a disciplinary effect and
make the Diet less obstructive of the desires of the Govern-
ment in the future. Discipline of the parties came to be
Hayashi's political formula, even publicly expressed.
It is quite true that the influence of political parties
in Japan is emasculated - or at least greatly restricted -
by the constitutional structure and tradition of the country,
but it is apparently not true that the parties can be over-
ridden with the frank, openly stated casualness of General
Hayashi. Some formal concessions,however nominal, are
called for. During the last days it would appear that the
Emperor's advisers have been able to convince the army group
that a more considerate handling of the parties is desirable.
The inner circle, however cognizant of the power of the military,
is not ready to accept endless disciplining of the Diet, en-
forced by dissolutions and the threat of dissolutions. This
thesis the army group seems now to accept with the qualifi-
cation that a change of cabinet entail the smallest possible
change of policy.
The primary purpose of the resignation of the Hayashi
Cabinet, in the Embassy's opinion, is to throw to the parties
a sop which will work to forestall more fundamental opposition.
A change of cabinet is conceded for the purpose of heading
off an attack on policy.
The exit of Premier Hayashi marks a step forward, modest
though it be, in non-military weight in the governing of
Japan.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
Japan. In point of major policy the fall of the Hayashi
Cabinet does not constitute an important turning point.
Its real lesson, if the military wish to heed it, is that
national objectives can be gained more economically under
the guidance of a premier of greater political acumen than
General Hayashi. It is not a sweeping victory for the poli-
tical parties, in which the public still has no great faith;
but it has demonstrated that the political parties have re-
gained a certain measure of destructive strength which must
be included among the factors determining future developments.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures
1/ Clipp1ng, "Hayashi's Regime Second Briefest,"
JAPAN ADVERTISER, June 1, 1937.
2/ Clipping, "Second Dissolution After Diet Meets
Doubted by Konoe," JAPAN ADVERTISER
May 30, 1937.
800.2
CC:g
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1, to despatch
No.2454, dated June3 ,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, June 1, 1937.
HAYASHI'S REGIME
Ryutaro Nagai, at that time chief sec-
retary of the Minseito, and Mr. Chi-
kuhei Nakajima, leader in the Seiyu-
kai. He offered them Cabinet posts
SECOND BRIEFEST
but only on condition that they with-
draw from their parties. Both re-
fused. and the parties felt that they
had been treated unfairly. Mr. Tatsu-
nosuke Yamazaki left the Showakai
Only Katsura Cabinet in 1912-
to become Minister of Agriculture and
Forestry.
13 Remained in Office
With only eight instead of the usual
13 members. the Cabinet was in-
Shorter Period
stalled on February 2. The posts of
Foreign, Education, Overseas. Railway
and Communications Ministers were
3 POSTS NEVER FILLED
held concurrently by the Premier and
other Ministers. On February 4, the
Diet was prorogued for seven days to
Budget Reduction and New Ad-
give the new Cabinet time in which to
prepare to face it. A platform enun-
ministrative Machinery Major
ciating the following five planks was
Achievements
issued on February 8:
1. Manifestation of the national po-
lity.
The Hayashi Cabinet held office for
2. Sound development of the con-
119 days, a period shorter than that of
stitutional politics peculiar to Japan
and consideration for public opinion.
any other Japanese Cabinet except
3. Pursuance of a diplomatic policy
Prince Taro Katsura's in 1912-13, which
designed to bring stability to East
lasted only 62 days. It was installed
Asia and co-prosperity among nations.
on February 2 following the resigna-
4. Adequacy of armaments for en-
forcement of national policies and
tion of the Hirota Cabinet on January
promotion of productive power.
23 and the failure of General Kazu-
5. Synthetic development of in-
shige Ugaki to form a Cabinet.
dustry, accompanied by appropriate
Its achievements were reduction of
measures of protection and control.
the 1937-38 budget drafted by :he Hi-
Sugiyama Appointed
rota Cabinet. downward revision of
The War Minister, Lieutenant-Gen-
the tax increases and establishment of
eral Kotaro Nakamura, went to a hos-
pital with intestinal typhus and resign-
three consultative agencies: the Plan-
ed on February 9, being succeeded by
ring Board, the Provisional Price Po-
General Hajime Sugiyama. On the
licy Commission and the Education
same day. Mr. Seihin Ikeda, former
and Culture Commission. In foreign
managing director of the Mitsui Gomei
affairs. it settled the Keelung affair
Kaisha, was made governor of the Bank
with Great Britain, exchanged notes
of Japan. succeeding Mr. Eigo Fukai,
with foreign governments for abolition
and in his appointment was seen an
of the system of perpetual leases in the
indication of Finance Minister Toyotaro
old treaty ports and engaged in con-
Yuki's determination to deal realistic-
versations with Great Britain and the
ally with financial and economic prob-
Soviet Union for improvement of re-
lems. Count Hideo Kodama became
lations.
Communications Minister on February
General Senjuro Hayashi. former
10.
War Minister. received the Imperial
On February 11, Premier Hayashi
command to form a Cabinet shortly
broadcast a speech to the nation in
before midnight on January 29. There
which he deplored rivalry among the
was at first an indication that he
people.
would organize a Government of right-
The Diet, which had again been pro-
wing inclinations under the influence
rogued on February 10, resumed its ses-
of his chief ass'stant in lining up Min-
sion on February 15. Despite a num-
isters, Mr. Shinji Sogo, president of
ber. of highly critical interpellations,
the North China Development Com-
the Premier and his Ministers display-
pany. Service leaders objected, how-
.ed a conciliatory attitude, promising
ever, to his requests for Lieutenant-
to give consideration to most of the
General Seishiro Itagaki, chief-of-staff
many demands and complaints that
of the Kwantung Army, for War Min-
were voiced. In response to the pres-
ister and Admiral Nobumasa Suetsugu.
sure of the Minseito and Seiyukai, the
Supreme War Councillor, for Navy
Government increased by 30,000,000
Minister, with the result that Mr. So-
the appropriation for grants for adjust-
go's assistance was discarded.
ment of local finances.
In his negotiations with prospective
On March 3. Mr. Naotake Sato, Am-
Ministers. General Hayashi saw Mr.
bassador to Paris, was installed as For-
eign Minister.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
2
Estimates Approved
studying the causes
The House of Representatives ap-
March 8 and the supplementary esti-
proved the 2,815,000,000 budget on
chock it.
Diet members of the 
mates on March 26, the day after a six-
day extension of the session. The
House of Peers completed action on all
May 11. The next day, the Pres
budget measures on March 30. At that
time friction developed between the
told interviewers that the Minselte
Government and the parties over the
Seiyukai might quantitatively repres
insistence of the latter that their bills
the general will of the people but
for revision of the Election Law, which
it remained to be seen whether they
the Lower House had approved. be
so qualitatively. He denied thst
pushed through the Upper House. The
was considering resignation. 
Government protested that the mea-
sures provided for only part of the
major parties, with the result that their
needed revision and were motivated by
chief secretaries agreed on May 15 to
selfish considerations. As a result of the
unite in working for the fall of the
dispute, a number of Government bills
Cabinet.
were held up in the Lower House,
The Cabinet set up on May 14 the
though time was left in which to act
Planning Board, with Finance Minister
on the most important of them.
Yuki as president.
Dissolution of the Lower House was
Addressing the conference of.pretec-
ordered on March 31. In explaining the
tural governors on May 17, the Pre-
move, Premier Hayashi said that it
mier gave the impression that he still
was a step toward reform of the Diet,
had no intention of yielding office. At
made necessary because the parties did
a dinner he gave for the governors in
not fully "appreciate the current situa-
the evening, he declared that for 40.
tion." He wished to carry the issue to
years he had been thinking that the
the people.
behavior of the parties was not in line
"I think." he added. "there is no
with the national polity peculiar to.
question of what the Government
Japan. In response to this, Minseito
should do if the result of the election
leaders issued the next day a statement
showed that our conception of the
in which they accused him of damag-
situation is wrong, or if the new Diet
ing the spirit of the national polity, for
were the same as the old even though
the parties had developed in accordance
our conception of the situation were
with the wish of the Emperor Meiji
endorsed."
that affairs of State be decided on the
Parties Indignant
basis of public opinion.
The Minseito and the Seiyukai, the
Showakai Dissolves
major parties in the Lower House, im-
On May 19, the Premier told the press:
mediately assailed the dissolution as
that he regarded himself as an umpire
unwarranted and unconstitutional. Co-
between liberalism and nationalism and
operation between them in fighting the
was paying no attention to criticism of
Government was arranged, and the in-
his policy. The Showakai, which was
dignation over the dissolution not only
generally reputed to be the Cabinet's
checked disintegration within the par-
only organized support in the Lower
ties but gave them new solidarity.
House, was dissolved on May 21 to set
There was talk of a new party that
an example for the other. parties in
would support the Government. Dis-
working for national unity, and its
cussion of it reportedly took place be-
head, Mr. Keisuke Mochizuki, later was
tween the Premier and Prince Fumi-
said to have advised the Premier to
maro Konoe, President of the House of
resign to end the political strife, which
Peers, whom the promoters wanted to
he considered harmful to the nation.
head it, but the movement came to
Meanwhile, sentimen't''in the Upper
nothing.
House gave evidence of turning
On April 11. the Government issued
against the Government. Meetings of
a platform of eight reform policies
the Doseikai, Dowakai and the Koyu
which it asked that candidates for
C!ub agreed that the Cabinet should
seats in the Lower House support. It
resign.
also indicated that it would establish
Two rightist leaders, Eleutenant-Gen-
machinery to convert these policies
eral Ycshitsugu Tatekawa and Vice-
ntc conerete pl ns.
Admiral Shosaburo Kobayashi, both re-
The clection was held on April 30.
tired, advised the Premier on May 22 to
and the Minseito and Seiyukai. which
remain in office and carry out his
had definitely campaigned against the
reform policies.
Cabinet, won together 354 of the 466
Last Monday, the Cabinet approved
seats in the Lower House. They ani
the plans for the Educaton and Cul-
the Social Mass Party at once demand-
ture Commission, given the task of
ed that the Hayashi regime be termin-
propagating the proper concept of the
ated in response tc the will of the peo-
national polity and promoting the na-
ple. On May 3, however, the Premier
tional spirit.
issued a stutement in which he declar-
Returning from a trip of Kyushu,
ed that the Government meant to push
War Minister Sugiyama gave the im-
head with it policies, asked that the
pression in an interview on Thursday
ation give uraninous suppot and in-
that the Cabinet should continue at
ticated that the choice between a sec-
least until the special Diet session. He
cn disso:ution and resignation of the
hinted, however, that it should resign
if faced with a motion of non-con-
Cabinet in the event of opposition
fidence.
1rcm the Diet would not be decided
On Friday, the Seiyukai and Min-
unti: the spetial Diet session started.
seito held a joint rally to clarify their
On the same day, the Privy Council
intention to strive for the downfall of
found faul: v.ith seypra ;aspects of
the Hayashi Cabinet and the forma-
the Government's plen to create the
tion of a truly nationl government.
Planning Board, to belentrusted with
Prince Konoe, returning from the
the formulation and co-ordination of
Kwansai, told the press Saturday
important national policies, compelling
evening that the conlict between the
the Government to make changes.
parties and the Cabinet had gone so
Resignation Urged
far that a compromise seemed out of
Diet members of the Minseito on
the question and that a second dis-
Risy 7 heard President Chuji Machida
solution of the Lower House was not
likely. The organizer of the next Ca-
rasert that the Cabinet must quit.
binet, he predicted, will probably en-
The Cabinet set up an, May 10 the
list party members ins their private
Price Policy Commission, charged with

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 , to despatch
No2454 , dated June3,1937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Sunday, May 30, 1937..
SECOND DISSOLUTION
The situation wculd not have come
to such a pass had the Government,
out of regard for the result of the -
neral election, in which it appealed to
AFTER DIET MEETS
the public, negotiated with the par-
ties to have them contribute niembers
to the Cabinet and at the same time
DOUBTED BY KONOE
reconstructed the Cabinet. Now that
the movement among the parties for
the overthrow cf the Cabinet has gain-
ed ground and the Cabinet itself is
divided into two camps, one proposing
a firm attitude toward the parties and
Upper House President Inti-
the other counselling moderation, it is
next to impcssible to bring the Gov-
mates Government Will Be
ernment and the parties to terms.
Po!icies Hampered
Forced to Resign
"In the circumstances, it is only na-
tural that national policies, whether
they have to do with domestic or for-
PEERS
WON'T
MEDIATE
cign matters. should be hampered. If
nothing is done, the Government and
the parties will clash, with the result
Cabinet Criticized for Not Ap-
that the latter will introduce a mo-
tion of non-confidence. It might be
proaching Parties Follow-
argued that there is no need for the
Government to resign in such a con-
ing Election
tingency, but circumstances are such
as to make it highly unlikely for it
to ask a second dissolution of the
PRINCE BACK FROM TRIP
House of Representatives.
"It would be interesting to inquire
into the reasons for the firm attitude
Circumstances are such tha: it is very
of the Cabinet toward the parties. A
unlikely that the Cabinet will ask for
number of factors have combined to
make it deal firmly with them, but
a second dissolution of the House of
I think that the political conditions
Representatives, Prince Fumimaro Ko-
existing when the Hayashi Cabinet was
noe, President of the House of Peers
formed contributed to the Premier's
and reputed choice of those desirous
insistence that party men anxious to
enter the Cabinet sever all connec-
of a new political party as its lcader,
tions with their parties. I wonder
stated last evening when interviewed
what conditions the organizer of the
on the train returning him to Tokyo
next Cabinet will attach to the en-
from a trip to the Kwansai.
trance of party men into his Cabinet.
Discussing the confrontation of the
He might consider their entrance in
Cabinet and the political parties, he
their private capacity.
admitted that a compromise at this
ernment and the parties is such that
"The bad b'ood between the Gov-
date is next to impossible. The Upper
Upper House circles will be reluctant
House can hardly consider the role of
to attempt mediation. Let us calmly
mediator.
Prince Konoe thought that the Cabi-
watch developments. I have no inten-
tion of meeting immediately either the
net made a mistake by not approach-
Premier or Prince Saionji."
ing the parties immediately after the
election with a proposal that they con-
tribute members to a reorganized
Cabinet.
Cellision Seen
"Acccrding to the newspapers." Do-
mei quotes Prince Konoe as saying,
"the Government is thoroughly firm in
its attitude toward the political parties,
and the parties seem to have become
fixed in their determination to drive
the Cabinet from office.. If rnatters are
left to take their own courss. a head-
on collision between the Government
and the parties appears inevitable. But
I am interested in knowing whether
the Premier has 'taken a firm resolve.'

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 29, 1937.
Tokyo's No. 2466 of June 10, 1937,
relates to the significance of the apooint-
ment of Foreign Minister Hirota as head
of the Planning Board.
The ordinance, a copy of which is en-
closed with the despatch, is so vague in
its terminology and generalities that a
clear conception of the functione of this
Board may not be obtained from an examina-
tion of the ordinance. It would appear,
however, that the Board is, generally, de-
signed to he a conrdinetor of government
policy. It is to submit to the Cabinet
budget estimates relating to important
policies and, upon request hy the Premier,
is to examine important projects proposed
to the Catinet.
In view of the desire of the militery
for the establishment of the Planning Board
as a national policy-forming hody, the ap-
pointment of Mr. Hirota as head of the
Board takes on particular significance.
The military had favored Dr. Baba as head
of the Board, whereas Japanese financial
interests had favored either Mr. Kaya, the
present Minister of Finance, or Mr. Yoshino,
present Inister of Commerce and Industry,
for the office of the head of the Planning
Board. Consequently, the appointment of
Mr. Hirota

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
..r. Hirote, being & compromise between the
desires of the military and of the financial
interests, would appear to constitute only a
limited concession to the demands of the
military. The Arny has not as yet had its
vay in the selection of the personnel of
the body.
In view of the fact that the functions
of this Board are not cle rly defined, it
is di ficult to predict the influence which
may be exerted by the Planning Boerd in the
administration of the Konoye Cabinet.
894.00/749
21
FE:JHS/DLY

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
W6L7-19374
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2466.
Tokyo, June 10, 1937.
SUBJECT: HIROTA APFOINTED HEAD OF PLANNING BOARD.
894.00
F.- Distribgtrom-Cheek
Y
o
For
Iu U S. A.
ONI MID
Copayin FE (JB)
COPIES SENT TO
Divisio of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
O.N.I. ANDM.L.D.
NUN 28 1937
B
894.00/749
The Honorable
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
DEPAR
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
OF STATE
Sir:
On June 7, 1937, Premier Konoe focused public atten-
tion on the Planning Board (Kikakucho) by appointing
oreign Minister Hirota as its head. The Planning Board
山
was established by Imperial ordinance (translation enclosed
1U0L10 1937
herewith) last month, on May 13, while the Hayashi Cabinet
was in power, and there has been considerable interest in
the question whether or not the board would be continued
by the present Konoe Cabinet, which has just come into
office.
The ordinance itself does not much help the reader
toward comprehending what are to be the functions of the
board. Aside from stating what shall be the rank of the
officials
F/FG

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
officials appointed to the board, the ordinance indulges
only in generalities with regard to function. Apparently
the board is designed to be a coordinator of government
policy. When requested by the Premier, it is to examine
important projects proposed to the Cabinet; it is to
submit to the Cabinet budget estimates relating to important
policies; it is to have access to all the governmental de-
partments for any information required. All in all, the
powers of the board as set forth in the ordinance are so
vague as to be useless. How important the Planning Board
is to be awaits the test of the next months.
The Department is already aware that there has been
pressure from the politically minded among the Japanese mili-
tary, extending over the past year or two, for the creation
of organs of government in Japan to parallel the already
established administrative structure in some way which would
permit the military more directly to carry out political re-
forms, particularly projects of state socialism. The Embassy's
734
despatch No. 2395/ April 30, 1937, and previous despatches
discussed this tendency. Now, with a new and popular premier
recently raised to office, whose dominating concern seems
to be to maintain balance and harmony between the various
conflicting forces of Japanese politics, it is apparent that
the desire of the military to make something of a national
policy body is to be respected. But on the other hand the
appointment of Mr. Hirota as head of the board shows that
it is a limited concession. The leaders of the Japanese
Army have favored as head of the board Dr. Baba, who proved
himself

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
himself one of their friends as Finance Minister in the
Hirota Cabinet by bringing in a budget which included all
the demands of the military. Dr. Baba is distrusted by
Japanese business and banking, and Prince Konoe wisely re-
fused to make him Minister of Finance in the present Cabinet.
He was nevertheless admitted to the Cabinet as Home Minister.
Japanese financial interests have been in favor of either Mr.
Kaya, the present Minister of Finance, or Mr. Yoshino, present
Minister of Commerce and Industry, for the office of the head
of the Planning Board. Prince Konoe has chosen to settle
the issue by naming to the office Mr. Hirota, who is a com-
promise choice. Because Mr. Hirota is a former premier, his
appointment could hardly be opposed by those who desire to
make the Planning Board an important organ. On the other
hand Prince Konoe could not have made a wiser choice if he
has in mind quietly side-tracking the Planning Board by the
process of making it imposing in personnel and then overlook-
ing it in practice.
There is almost nothing to show what part will be played
by the Flanning Board in the administration of the Konoe
Cabinet, which is just commencing. So far, the Army has not
had its way in the personnel of the body. It is a vaguely
defined organ, the real functions of which must inevitably
depend upon what the Government from now on actually does
make of the board.
2/
An editorial comment is.enclosed.
Respectfully yours,
ChG.
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
Enclosures:
1/
Translation of Imperial Ordinance No. 192,
May 13, 1937, Organization of the Kikakucho.
2/ Clipping, "The Planning Board, "editorial, JAPAN
ADVERTISER, June 10, 1937.
800.2
CC:g
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2466 dated June 10, 1937,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation by the American Embassy, Tokyo, of a notice
in Japanese in the KAMPO, Japanese Government official
gazette, No. 3106, May 14, 1937, page 385.
h:g
Imperial Ordinance
Having consulted the Privy Council
We sanction the organization of the Kikakucho, and hereby
order that this be promulgated.
Imperial Sign Manual.
May 13, 1937.
Prime Minister Senjuro Hayashi

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
Imperial Ordinance No. 192.
Organization of the Kikakucho.
Article 1. The Kikakucho shall be placed under the
control of the Prime Minister and deal with the following
matters:
(1) Formulation of important policies and draft plans
relating to the coordination of such policies, undor ordors
of the Prime Minister, and submission of same with explana-
tion thereof.
(2) Examination of important draft policies presented
to the Cabinet by the various ministers of state, and sub-
mission to the Cabinet of analysis and opinion in regard
thereto.
(3) Investigation concerning coordination of major
policies.
(4) Submission to the Cabinet of budget estimates
relating to major policies, with analysis and opinion.
The Kikakucho call upon the various governmental de-
partments for information and explanation whenever deemed
necessary for the execution of the forogoing paragraphs.
Article 2. The Kikakucho shall comprise the follow-
ing personnel:
President.
One vice president (of chokunin rank).
One private secretary (of sonin rank).
Twenty full-time investigators (of sonin rank, but five
may be of chokunin rank).
One

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
One full-time secretary (of sonin rank).
Fifteen full-time assistant investigators (of sonin rank).
Two full-time managers (of sonin rank).
Forty full-time subordinate officials (or hannin rank).
The president shall be appointed from among the Ministers
of State by Imperial order.
The private secretary shall be appointed from among the
higher officials of the Kikakucho.
Article 3. In addition to the investigators stipulated
in the foregoing article, investigators may also be appointed
by the Cabinet from among high officials of the governmental
departments concerned, by request of the Prime Minister sub-
mitted to the Emperor.
Article 4. The Kikakucho shall have standing counsellors
who shall deal with the affairs of the Kikakucho at all times.
Standing counsellors shall be appointed by the Cabinet
from among high officials of chokunin rank in the governmental
departments, by request submitted by the Prime Minister to
the Throne.
Article 5. The Kikakucho shall have counsellors who
shall deal with affairs of the office.
Counsellors shall be appointed by the Cabinet from among
persons of special knowledge and experience.
Counsellors shall be accorded the same treatment as offi-
cials of chokunin rank. However, such counsellors as hold
offices in other governmental dopartments shall be ranked ac-
cording to such other offices.
The

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
The term of service of counsellors shall be two years.
However, in special circumstances they may be released from
service at any time even before the expiry of such term.
Article 6. The Kikakucho may set up committees to in-
vestigate matters of special character.
Members of such committees shall be appointod by the
Cabinet from among persons of special knowledge and experience,
by request of the Prime Minister submitted to the Throne.
The committee shall terminate upon the completion of in-
vestigation of such special matters submitted.
Article 7. The president shall direct the affairs of
the Kikakucho, supervise officials of the various soctions,
and exorcise full authority in the appointment and dismissal
of officials of hannin rank.
Artice 8. The vice president shall assist the president
in the direction of the affairs of the Kikakucho.
Article 9. The private secretary shall deal with confi-
dential affairs under the orders of the president.
Article 10. Examiners shall conduct investigations and
draft plans under orders of senior officials.
Article ll. The secretary shall conform with orders of
senior officials.
Article l2. Assistant examiners shall assist examiners
in the conduct of investigations and the drafting of plans
under orders of senior officers.
Article 13. Managors shall conform with orders of senior
officials.
Article l4. Subordinate officials shall be responsible
for

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.97)
-4 -
for miscellaneous duties under orders of senior officials.
Supplementary Rule.
The present ordinance shall be put into force from
the day of promulgation.
The Naikaku Chosa Kyoku (Cabinet Inquiry Bureau) shall
be abolished.

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2, to despatch
No.2466 , dated June 101937.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, June 10, 1937.
The Planning Board
It is by no means indicated that
brought it to an end, much to the
because the Hayashi Cabinet planned
relief of all concerned.
The appointment of Mr. Koki
to submit the above mentioned pro-
The Hayashi Cabinet, pursuing the
Hirota as head of the Planning Board
jects to the Planning Board, the
renovationist spirit, created no tes
solves the first difficult problem
Konoye Cabinet will do likewise.
than three commissions including the
The Planning Board is there to work
Price Fixing Commission, the Plan-
which arose to confront the new Ko-
out schemes submitted to it but the
ning Board, and the Culture and
noye cabinet. It is now common
new Government has not yet had the
Education Commission. The Price
knowledge that Army leaders wanted
time to consider what projects it will
Fixing Commission which was estab-
Mr. Eiichi Baba, the Home Minister,
submit to the Board.
lished in the middle of last month
to head the Planning Board but that
As established by the Hayashi
never had a chance to get down to
Cabinet, the composition of the Plan-
business before the sudden resigna-
financial circles manifested opposition
ning Board was unimpressive, being
tion of the cabinet, the Planning
to his appointment. Prince Konoye
made up of a number of minor Gov-
Board which was born about the
then apparently had in mind to ap-
ernment officials including principally
same time faced the same fate, as
point either Mr. Okinori Kaya, the
heads of Government departments,
did also the Culture and Education
Finance Minister, or Mr. Shinji Yo-
and the Board was not therefore ex-
Commission.
shino, the Minister of Commerce and
pected to evolve any sensational
It is evident from the history of
Industry, to head the Planning Board
schemes but to be the agency for
the past two or three years that
but this would have meant a swing
working out in detail broad projects
these super-commissions have been
in the opposite direction and the
submitted to it by Cabinet Ministers.
of little value. They have repres-
Premier thereupon compromised by
Japanese Governments during the
ented the universal desire for reform
naming Mr. Hirota, considered well
past three years have successively
without accomplishing the reforms.
qualified as a former Premier to deal
busied themselves with establishing
Whether the successive Governments
with important internal questions
special commissions and bureaus as
ever intended that they should be
aside from his specific duties as For-
cabinet "super-structures". These
more than a "facing", it is impossible
eign Minister.
have been created in response to a
to say, but the fact is that they
The Planning Board is a potentially
widesprcad desire for reform and as
never functioned effectively.
important body but just how great a
ngencies to give effect to reforms
Whether the Planning Board, to
role it is destined to play in the
which have never actually been
which so much importance is now
affairs of the nation remains obscure.
brought about. It is recalled that the
being attached, is to prove an effec-
The task of the Planning Board, as
Okada cabinet established the Cabi-
tive agency for formulating reforms
explained at the time of its creation
net Inquiry Council and the Cabinet
or not, is in the realm of conjecture.
in the closing days of the tenure of
Inquiry Bureau, the former com-
The fact is that the Planning Board
office of the Hayashi cabinet, is to
posed of a list of prominent states-
exists and can be used if the Gov-
work out plans for carrying out im-
men who were expected to function
ernment is so minded. There lies its
portant national policies submitted by
in an advisory capacity to the Gov-
importance.
Ministers at cabinet meetings. It
ernment. This was very generally
was made known more or less offi-
referred to as a "Brain Trust", a
cially by the Hayashi cabinet that the
term modelled on the early Roose-
projects to be submitted to the
veltian example. Neither the Cabi-
Planning Board would include. .a.
net Inquiry Council nor the Bureau
drastic revision of the electoral law;
accomplished anything concrete and
the establishment of a Ministry of
the former was abolished by the
Aviation such as has been rumored
Hirota Cabinet and the later by the
for some months past; the creation
Hayashi Cabinet when it established
of a Ministry of Hygiene to promote
the Price Fixing Commission.
the physical well-being of the nation
The Hirota cabinet, which followed
as a measure of national defense; and
upon the Okada cabinet, established
the formulating of a five year in-
the Diet System Inquiry Commission
dustrial and economic program em-
which held a number of meetings
bracing both Japan and Manchukuo
last December in the course of which
and which, it was predicted, would
ideas for reform of the Diet were
bring about "a gradual turn in
put forward, but the Commission
Japan's economic policy from a
never reached any decision before
controlled cconomy to a deliberately
the downfall of the Hirota cabinet
planned economy".

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
JUL 12 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1937
NOTED
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFF
NR. WELLES
June 29, 1937.
Tokyo's No. 2469 of June 11, 1937,
presents certain considerstions touching
upon the viability of the Konoye Cabinet
installed on June 4, 1937.
It is the view of the Embassy that a
reescnably Tone tenure of office may be
expected by and of the Konoye Cabinet.
Although in the light of the resignation
of the Hayashi Cabinet "The inflence of
the parties, though real, remeins primarily
destructive", and although the joint
Minseito-Seiyuka1 committee for the over-
throw of the Hayashi Cahinet declared at
ite final meeting that the new Cahinet's
stand in regard to the parties was regret-
teble in severel respects, it would appear
that the Konoye Carinet may rely upon the
cooperation of the Minseito and the Seiyukai
parties. One of the several indications
advenced in support of this view is the
fact thst the ahove-mentioned committee
stated at the same final meeting that the
parties should give the Carinet their moral
cooperation.
There would appear likewise to be
grounds for the bellef that the new Cabinet
may also count upon the support of the
military. The Emhasey alludes to the fact
that Prince Konoye, prior to accepting the
task of forming a cabinet, obtained the
consent of the Army and Navy to the
continuance in office of General Sugiyame
and

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
and Admiral Yonai, this consent constituting
therefore an expression of confidence in
the new Premier on the pert of the army and
Havy rather than an approval of the
individuals appointed as inisters of War
and of Navy.
Adverting to the weaknesses of the
new Cabinet as constituted, the Embassy
alludes to the anpointment of Dr. Baba
es .inister of Home ffeirs. The selection
of Dr. baba has been viewed with apprehen-
sion by business men end financiers. Also,
it is to he remarked that the unsatisfactory
state of health of the present Fremier may
possibly preclude & long tenure of office
on his part.
The view has been privately
expressed by several Japenese that Hirota
is being groomed to renlece Honoye should
such contingency arise.
004.00/750
FE:JH~/DLY

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.96)
NTERNATIONAL
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2469.
Tokyo, June 11, 1937.
SUBJECT: KONOE CABINET INSTALLED JUNE 4, 1937
JUL 7- 1937
894.00
noto
MR. WELLES
894.002
JUL 12 1937
NOTED
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.LD.
Division of
894.00/750
JUU
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AHUN 2 8 1937
B
The Hogorable
Department of State
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
ASSISIANT SHCRETARY
Sir:
OF STATE
Caprnet (despatch No. 2454, June 3, 1937), a new Japanese
Cabinet was installed with the following composition:
FILED
001
201937
of Peers.
(p.)
Foreign Minister: Mr. Koki Hirota, member of the House
of Peers, former Premier and Foreign Minister.
Home Minister: Dr. Eichi Baba, member of the House of
(.44p.1
Peers, former Finance Minister (Hirota Cabinet).
OBF
Finance Minister: Mr. Okinobu Kaya (Vice Minister of
F/FG
Finance under Finance Minister Yuki in the
Hirota Cabinet).
Minister

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
ORF
Minister of War: General Gen Sugiyama, continuing in
office.
Minister of Navy: Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai, continuing
in office.
/ Education Minister: Mr. Eiji Yasui, Governor of Osaka
prefecture.
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry: Count Yoriyasu Arima,
member of the House of Peers.
Minister of Commerce and Industry: Mr. Shunji Yoshino,
former Vice Minister of Commerce and
Industry (Hirota Cabinet).
/ Minister of Communications: Mr. Yutaro Nagai, a Minsoito
member of the House of Represontatives,
former Minister of Overseas Affairs.
Minister of Railways: Mr. Chikuhei Nakajima, a Seiyukai
member of the House of Representatives.
of the House of Peers.
 Minister of Justice: Mr. Suehiko Shiono, continuing in
office.
Immediately following the first meeting of the new Cabinet,
held on the same day, Prince Konoe issued to the press a
statement asking for the cooperation of the nation. Matters
of political policy were not touched upon. The evening of
the same day Prince Konoe addressed the nation by radio, and
his words were notable for their directness and simplicity.
He announced it would be his policy in foreign relations to
seek international justice, and in domestic relations to
seek social justice. It was a wise appeal for the peoples'
confidonce.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
confidence, in a manner quite unknown to former Premier
Hayashi whose attitude was that explanations to the people
with regard to government policy are not necessary. How-
ever, Prince Konoe's radio address does not constitute a
political platform. He stated, in fact, that he could not
yet announce concrete points of the new Cabinet's platform,
and he left the public with the impression that the policy
of the Cabinet is to meet questions as they arise rather
than to seek to carry out a formulated platform. The radio
address contains no promises, but it was spoken to the
people at large as partners in the interests of government,
and as such its dominant tone was generally appreciated by
the public.
An attitude of acceptance of the new administration
by the Minseito and Seiyukai parties was indicated by an
action taken by them on the day of installation of the Konoe
Cabinet. The joint Minseito-Seiyukai committee for the over-
throw of the Hayashi Cabinet not only disbanded, but in its
final meeting agreed that while the new Cabinet's stand with
regard to the parties is regrettable in several respects,
the parties should give the Cabinet their moral cooperation.
This is one of several indications that the major parties
will not be troublesome in the next session of the newly
elected House of Representatives. The Diet has been ordered
to convene on July 23 and to be in session for fourteen days.
Although the Konoe Cabinet contains but one minister
taken from the Seiyukai and but one minister takon from the
Minseito

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Minseito party, both in loss important ministerships, the
loud clamor of the political parties against former Premier
Hayashi because of his disregard of the results of the
general election appears to have been succossfully dissipated.
The influence of the parties, though real, remains primarily 
destructive.
In his public statement following the installation of
the Cabinet, Premier Konoe did not attach any conditions to
the Minseito and Seiyukai appointments. There had been an
earlier apprehension that representatives of the parties
would be accepted as cabinet ministers only upon the condition
of their not being recognized as representatives of their
parties. Prince Konoe decided against any such requirement,
and the apparent satisfaction of the parties with the new
administration is partly attributable to that fact.
The notable weakness of the Konoe Cabinet is its inclu-
sion of Dr. Baba as Minister of Home Affairs. The military
like Dr. Baba for his proven willingness as Minister of
Finance in the Hirota Cabinet to accede to all their demands.
Prince Konoe successfully resisted pressure for Baba's re-
instatement as Finance Minister, but made the concession of
admitting him to the Cabinet in another office. As Home
Minister Dr. Baba will no doubt have to do with projects
advocated by the military in furtherance of their ideas of
state socialism, and this is no doubt the reason why Japanese
business men and financiers are openly apprehensive about
his appointment. It is feared that Dr. Baba will be an agent
of

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
of the military eloment in promoting plans for expansion
of rigid state control over industry and for exponsive
schemes which will strain the country's credit and re-
sources.
The question of military and naval approval or dis-
approval of the composition of the Cabinet was relegated
to the background by the acceptance, early in Prince Konoe's
negotiations, of posts in the new Cabinet by both the War
Minister and Navy Minister of the Hayashi Cabinet. This
marks a new turn in the procedure of forming cabinets as
compared with the last few years. It is perhaps a signi-
ficant change. Prince Konoe, before accepting the task of
forming a cabinet, first obtained the consent of the Army
and Navy to the continuing in office of General Sugiyama
and Admiral Yonai. This consent thereby became an expression
of confidence in Prince Konoe as Premier rather than an appro-
val of the individuals to fill each post in the cabinet.
That the Army and Navy were willing to give this consent in
advance of determining the personnel of the cabinet is proof
of an important change of outlook toward their part in poli-
tics. It is not likely that, when he obtained the consent
of the Army and Navy, Prince Konoe was either willing or
able to disclose the entire composition of his still unformed
cabinet.
A few individuals in the new cabinet are of special in-
terest to the American Government on account of their part
in foreign relations. The new Foreign Minister, Mr. Koki
Hirota (Embassy's telegram No. 151, June 7, 2 p.m.), stated
when he received me on June 7 that his guiding policy in
relations with the United States will be the ideas ombodied
1n

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6-
in the 1934 exchange of messages with the Secretary of
State (see the Department's release to the press under
date of March 20, 1934). He took occasion also to state
that the three-point policy toward China which he announced
when formerly in office is too abstract for the presont re-
quirements of relations between Japan and China, and that
instead of an approach to those relations from the viewpoint
of that policy he will seek concrete solutions of the out-
standing problems with China. Mr. Hirota apparently recognizes
that broad statements of policy toward China are of doubt-
ful value, and that a solution of such problems one by one is
to be preferred. (Copy of memorandum of my conversation with
Foreign Minister Hirota is enclosed).
The new Minister of Commerce and Industry, Mr. Shunji
Yoshino, (Embassy's telegram No. 149, June 4, 5 p.m.) is a
practical, realistic, and competent business administrator
who understands the needs of and is friendly to foreign com-
mercial interests. When he served previously as Vice Minis-
ter he proved himself sympathetic to the suggestions of foreign
oil interests in the solution of their difficulties.
Although the life of cabinets is dependent upon sudden
changes in the relations between political elements, some
of which do not appear on the political stage, it is perhaps
worth recording that the expectation of a long tenure of office
by the Konoe Cabinet is very general. Several Japanese have
expressed to me privately, however, their fear that Prince
Konoe may be unable because of the unsatisfactory state of
his health to bear the heavy burden of his office. They are
of

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
of the belief that Hirota is being groomed to replace
Konoe should such contingency arise. Prince Konoe brings
to his office the high prestige of rank and conspicuously
successful parliamentary experience. Although not yet
forty-six years old, his name is well known to the public
and he has general popular support. His success in avoiding
enmities during his political career is now bearing fruit,
when the particular requirement of a premier seems to be
to smooth out factional differences.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1/ Copy of memorandum of conversation, the American
Ambassador and the Japanese Minister for Foreign
Affairs, June 7, 1937.
800.2
CC:g
Copy to Embassy, Poiping.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2469 dated June 11, 1937.
Conversation
June 7, 1937.
The American Ambassador, Mr. Grew,
with the Minister for Foreign Affairs,
Mr. Hirota.
Japanese-American Relations
In my initial talk today with the new Foreign
Minister, Mr. Hirota said that the exchange of good will
messages between Mr. Hull and himself in 1934 would be
his guiding principle in conducting Japanese-American
relations, and he asked me to convey this fact to the
President and to Mr. Hull.
Sino-Japanese Relations
I asked Mr. Hirota whether he visualized any new
departure in conducting Sino-Japanese relations. The
Minister said that conditions had canged since he was
last in office and that his "three points" were too abstract
for present circumstances. He proposed therefore to try
to find concrete solutions of the various issues out-
standing between the two countries.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/8889
Telegram #217,.6 p m
SEE
FOR
FROM Japan
Grew
) DATED July.21.1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
SPO
Sino-Japanese con lict in Wanpinghsien area: developments.
REGARDING:
Possible succession of Prince Konoe by General Sugiyama
as Premier, if the present situation in North China
continues difficult, discounting Hirota as a possible
successor.
Aa

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.96)
F
JR
A portion of this tele-
Tokyo
gram must be closely
paraphrased before being
Dated July 21, 1937
communicated to anyone.
(A)
Rec'd 10:30 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
217. July 21, 6 p.m.
CONFIDENTIAL.
(GRAY) Cne. A foreign informant who is regarded as
reli able and well informed today conmunicated to us the
following infoneation and views:
Two. Informant understands, on reliable authority,
793.
that Frinee  onoe's illness is real and not feigned and
that, if the present situation in North China continues
0
力
difficult or grows worse, he will rcign as Premier and
be succeeded by General Sugiyama. When Hirota was suggested
8
8
as a pos ibility, infornant repeated that Sugiyama will
8
follow Prince Konoe.
Three. Informant confirmed the estimate of our
Military Attache that the Japanose mobilization to date
has been partial as it has affcct d some and not all
divisions and only increased somewhat the strength of
units instead of raising them to war strength.
He also confimmed the estimate of our Military Attache
that only a part of a division (probably a reenforced
brigade of the sixth division) and some transport and
communications troops have gone to North China from Japan
proper

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
JR #217, July 21, 6 p.m., from Tokyo.
proper; that about a division has gone from Chosen and
that about a reenforced brigade of Japanese from the
Jehol garrison of the Kwangtung Army has gone. Informant
believes "on unofficial information", that in addition
to the above about a division of the Kwangtung Army has
gone. The Military Attache has no knowledge of this
last movement.
Four. Iniormant characterizes the situation in North
Chine as "negotiations progres ing vith armed intervention".
(END RAY).
ivo. Informant agrees with William H. Chamberlin
that Sovict Huc ia will do nothing in a military way to
help China ue to intornal effects of the purge.
Six. hoports from foreign instructors with the
Chinese Army showing the comparatively few divisions
(5 or 6) of that force and Chinese troop movements and
dispositiors to cato lead infomant to believe that
China does not (repeat not) intend to fight Japan seriously.
Military Attache agrees vith informant. He also agrees
that Japan wishes to avoid war but is prepared to use
whatover force is necessary to insure Chinese execution of
the agreement of July 1l and to give General Sung Che Yuan
enough to encourage him to resist the extension of Nanking
influence in Forth Chine nd advance toward practical
independence of the Central Government.
Repeated to Peiping.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/752
793.94/9487
FOR .._..Memorandum
SEE
State Department
Far Eastern Division ( Hornbeck) DATED Aug 10, 1937
FROM
TO
NAME
1—1127
Sino-Japanese situation.
REGARDING:
Question "to fight or not to fight": Stating that the finencial
factor alone will play little part in Japan's decision, which
will be made by the armed forces; not by the diplomats, the
bankers and the business men. Corments on Japan's victorous
military background, etc.
FRG.
7

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.96)
AW
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 24, 1937.
J
Tokyo's 2519 of August 3 states that
General Mazaki, who had long been suspected
of complicity in the military revolt in Tokyo
of Februery 26, 1936, has been sentenced to
six years imorisonment for his part in that
affair. In the Embassy's opinion the principal
significance of the sentence passed upon Mazaki
is that it manifests continued determination
on the nart of the high military command to
maintain discinline in the army.
The despatch sets forth that in the
shaning of foreign policy there may be at
present differences in opinion rut that there
is no evidence thet since the beginning of
the Horth China Inciient there has been in
progress a struggle over the carrying out of
that policy as it relates to China.
W41
FE:WTT: VC

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894,00
No. 2519.
Tokyo, August 3, 1937.
SUBJECT: ARREST AND TRIAL OF GENERAL MAZAKI.
37  2 2 06
GOMMUNICATIONS
RDS
LL
For Distritrion Check
Frmide
T.fi.T
For
In U.S.A
894.00/753
oui
MID
U.N.L.2NDMA.D
CONFIDENTIAL
AUG 3 0 1937
Smc
MR.
WILSON
FAR FASTERR ALAIRS
Division 01
B
The Honorable
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
In informal letters dated May 2, 1936, and May 16,
1936, to the Chief of the Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
I made brief mention of the rumored arrest of General Mazaki
ASSITANT SECRETARY
beause of alleged complicity in the incident of February
1936. I now have the honor to state that, according
AUG311937
OF STATE
a reliable informant, General Mazaki was recently sen-
ced by a court martial to six years' imprisonment.
OF STATE
A member of my staff was today told by a former minister
a
the Japanese Foreign Service, who is today the executive
F/G
officer

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
officer of a private association analogous to the Foreign
Policy Association, that the court martial sitting on the
case issued sentence about three weeks ago, but that the
sentence was not to be made publio until after the comple-
tion of the present extraordinary mession of the Diet. In
view of the serious turn which the North China Incidont has
taken, the informant thought it likely that publication of
the sentence would be still further deferred.
It may be recalled that sentence of execution was car-
ried out on fifteen of the seventeen officers who led the
revolt of February 26, 1936. The informant stated that the
two former officers who had not been executed gave conclu-
sive evidence at the court martial that General Mazaki had
previous knowledge of the plans of a revolt, and that he
had, in fact, given the ring-leaders encouragement; that
the prosecuting officer demanded a sentence of ten years'
imprisonment; but that the court, taking into account
General Mazaki's "advanced years and distinguished services,
considered six years' imprisonment adequate punishment.
Assuming that the foregoing information is true, it
is not unlikely that commentators and publicists will,
upon publication of the results of the trial, seek to read
into such results a greater significance than the facts
would warrant. The first and primary effect upon the Japanese
public of the Revolt was to restore confidence in the Army as
an organization completely responsive to the commands of
the Emperor - and, therefore, restore confidence in the Army's
discipline. It is my opinion that the principal significance
of the sentence passed upon General Mazaki is that it manifests
continued

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
continued determination on the part of the high military
command to maintain discipline. By somewhat involved and
tortuous processes of reasoning, it might perhaps also be
interpreted as reflecting intention to keep the Army out
of internal politics; but it would be, in my opinion, quite
illusory to contend that the results indicate the trend in
struggle between the "liberal element" and the "reactionary
element" in the shaping of foreign policy. I have heard it
said that the Emperor, at the instance of Mr. Matsudaira,
0B1
Minister of the·Imperial Household, and of other personal
Hinhi
advisers, gave approval to the actions of the Japanese
Government in North China on condition that effort be made
to avoid aggravation of the situation. If that is true,
there is an element in Japan which is endeavoring to exer-
cise restraint on the rapidity with which the extremists
would wish to have the "Continental Policy" developed, but
there is no evidence that, since the beginning of the North
China Incident, there has been in progress any struggle over
the carrying out of that policy.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800.
EHD:g/c
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.89)
2
WILLIAM L. GODFREY
IST LIEUT. QM-RES.

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.96)
September
POSTAL UNION LI
DIVISION OF
LOS ANGELES.CALIFORNIA
COMMUNICATIONS
W. L. GODFREY AGENCY
California-Western States Life Bldg.
POD AORNOWLADGMENT
715-17
995 Market Street
San Francisco,Calif.,AugDpmaion
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF.
Ms4MWpie
994.00
Honorable Franklin D.Roosevelt,President,
Diviston
Whi te House,
Washington,D.C.
5P1-1937
My Dear Mr.President:
Kindly note the enclosed and return
same to me if this has previously been brought to your
894.00
attention.I have had this in my possession about three
or four years,same was given to me by one of my employ-
ees who was a Chinese Interpreter at Angel Island for
about eighteen years,he has been in the employ of this
office since shortly after the World War,he was in Sib-
eria with the Canadian forces just prior to the time he
went to work here.
I decided to bring this to your att-
ention for whatever it may be worth to you and our U.S.▲.
in the present situation that exists in China.I would ass-
ume that you already have this knowledge in your possession,
so if you find it of no use to you,I would appreciate your
71007
returning it to me.
I am also enclosing one of my son's
cards,he is in the employ of the U.S.Government Depot at
Jeffersonville,Indiana,he has been there over fifteen years,
and just left here last Monday for a return trip to Jeffer
sonville,after a nice visit with us in San Francisco,he drove
out in his car wi th his wife and two daughters.I also have a
sister Katie B.Godfrey who has worked in the U.S.Post office
at Mitohell,Indiana for many years,I believe ahe secured her
position during the first administration of President Woodrow
Wilson.
Wi th every good wish,I am,
Very truly yours
WSoofrer
W.L.Godfrey

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.95)
September 41907
Im reply refer to
FE 894.00/754
894.00/754
Mr. W. L. Codfrey,
715-17 California-Western States Life Building.
995 Market Street,
San Francisco, California.
sir:
The White House has referred to t he Department for
reply your letter of August 20, 1937, enolosing a dooument
which purports to be a strategic map of the Pacifio area.
The document has been carefully examined, and 1s
herewith returned to you in compliance with your request.
F
Your courtesy in sending this document is appreciated.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
m.m.1).
Maxwell M. Hamilton,
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Enclosure:
Map of the Pasifio area.
SEF 41937.
WTT
FE:WTP:VC
/FE
9/8

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.97)
DPIES SEN
6
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OP THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1937 SE? 7 PM I2 38
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.00
NTIONS
Tokyo, August 18, 1937.
AID REGORDS
NO. 2551.
SUBJECT:
COURT MARTIAL SENTENCES FOR THE CIVILIAN PAR-
TICIPANTS IN THE FEBRUARY 26 INSURRECTION.
894.00/755
MiD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
SEP15 1937
OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
SEP 1 7 1937
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatches
894.001635-
894.00/666-
No. 1707, March 5, No. 1746, March 20, No. 1935, July 8, and
894.00/667
No. 1952,/July 22, 1936, concerning the participants in the
Incident of February 26, 1936.
According to an announcement made by the War Ministry on
August 14, on that day the Tokyo Court Martial sentenced to
death
F/G

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
death Zei Nishida and Kazuteru Kita, civilians, as ring-
leaders in the February 26 insurrection, and sentenced Tetsuya
Kamekawa and Teruo Nakabashi, also civilians, to life imprison-
ment and three years' imprisonment, respectively, for partici-
pation in the affair.
The War Office's announcement stated further that a part
of the plot was Nishida's plan to ask General Mazaki to be
head of a new military government in view of the fact that
the General was "highly respected" by the plotters. In this
connection reference is made to the Embassy's despatch No.
2519 of August 3, 1937, concerning the arrest and trial of
General Mazaki.
Respectfully yours
Nosyth 2. Fr
800
Joseph C. Grew.
GDA:C
Copy to Embassy, Peiping;
n
18
11
Nanking;
18
11
1n
Moscow.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/181
SEE
FOR...Das...152
FROM ....Kobe
(..Scatt.) DATED ..Aug111932.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Military and Political Matters in Japan. Kobe:
Letter written to the American Ambassador in Tokyo
with reference to -. Transmits copy of.
vm

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/180
SEE
FORDe8P._153
894.00/ 757
FROM ...
Kobe
Scott
) DATED..Aug..131937
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Military and Politicel Matters in Japan. Kobe:
Letter written to the American Ambassador in Tokyo on -.
Transmits copy of.
vm
757

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/ 758
894.20/182
Despo #154
SEE
FOR
FROM ......Kobe
(....Scatt......) DATED..Aug..17.1937
TO
NAME
1-1187
Military and politicel matters in Japan. Kobe:
REGARDING:
Letter reporting to the Ambassador concerning -.
Transmits copy of.
vn
758

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/184
SEE
FOR
Desp.#165
894.00/759
FROM
Kobe
Scot t
DATED
Sept.13,1937
111kb/11
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Political and Miiitary Matters in Kobe,Japan:For-
wards copies of his letter of Sept.13,1937,to
the Ambassador,reporting on -.
F/mR
rpg
5,9

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/183
Desp.#184
SEE
FOR
894.00/ 760
FROM
Kobe
Scott
DATED
80pt.10,1937
N01111
NAME
1—1127
Political and Military Matters in Japan:Submits copies
REGARDING:
of his confidentiel report to the Ambassador,concern-
ing these matters.
F/vR
fpg
7
2
0

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.95)
68-1
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THET
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
937 00T 18 PM 2 21
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, September 29, 1937
No. 2608
SUBJECT:
COURT MARTIAL AND ACQUITTAL OF GENERAL MAZAKI.
F94.00
P AE
I sEA
894.00/761
0c12 01937
ONI MID
A-M/C
COPHES SENT TO
Division of
IAH EASTERN AFAIRS
JC10937
B
Department of State
The Honorable
F/MR
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatches
1752
1755
No. 2519 of August 3, 1937, and No./2551 of August 18, 1937,
and to previous despatches concerning the trial of General
Mazaki and the participants in the Incident of February
1987
26, 1936.
For the alleged reason that the evidence was considered
C
insufficient for conviction, on September 25, 1937, the
Tokyo Court Martial acquitted General Jinzaburo Mazaki of
the charge of having aided the rebels in the uprising of
1/
February 26, l936. There is encloseda clipping from the
JAPAN ADVERTISER of September 26, 1937, containing the Tokyo
Court Martial's statement with regard to its decision, as
given in translation by Domei.
It

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
68-2
-2-
It would appear from this statement that the Court
Martial was in possession of ample evidence to convict
General Mazaki not only of complicity in the Incident but
also of having lent moral encouragement to the insurgents,
if not of having given them active aid. For example, as
admitted by the Court Martial, General Mazaki had full
knowledge of the "Showa Restoration" movement as far back
as the summer of 1935; he had frequent interviews with the
plotters from December l935 until the outbreak and was well
aware of their aims; and he let it be known to the plotters
that he was bitterly opposed to his dismissal in July 1935
from the post of Inspector General of Military Education and
to the death sentence pronounced against It. Col. Aizawa on
May 7, 1936, for the murder of Major General Nagata on
August 12, 1935, thus contributing to the unrest of the
insurgents. Furthermore, he was infcrmed by one of the rebels
at about four-thirty o'clock on the morning of February 26,
1936, that the Premier, the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal,
and others were to be attacked, and he subsequently interceded
with the higher authorities of the War Office in favor of the
insurgents, stating that he "understood very well the spirit
in which the rebels had acted."
It is probable that despite the apparently conclusive
evidence against General Mazaki the Court Martial found it
advisable to acquit him in view of his distinguished career
and of the unfavorable repercussion that might have resulted
from convicting him at this time of national emergency.
The NICHI NICHI of September 25 quoted a War Office
spokesman as having said that the disposal of General Mazaki's
case had ended the consideration by the Tokyo Court Martial
of the February 26 Incident. In this connection, it should
be stated that Zei Nishida and Kazuteru Kita, who were sen-
tenced to death on August 14, 1937 (Embassy's despatch No.
2551

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.96)
68-3
-3-
2551 of August 18, 1937), as ringleaders in the insurrection,
were executed on August 19, as announced by the Ministry of
War.
Respectfully yours,
Nose h 6. f
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
Clipping from JAPAN ADVERTISER, September 26, 1937.
800.
GDA:mg

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
68-4.
Enclosure No. /, to despatch
No. 2608, dated Sept.29,19
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Sunday, September 26, 1937.
MAZAKI DECLARED NOT GUILTY
OF PART IN 1936 INSURRECTION;
EVIDENCE JUDGED INADEQUATE
t-Martial Disposes of Last
Freed by Court-Martial
894.00/761
of February 26 Incident
Defendants
PLOT KNOWLEDGE SHOWN
Former Inspector-General of
Military Education in Sym-
pathy With Rebels
LOOKED UP TO BY THEM
General Jinzaburo Mazaki, former
Supreme War Councilor and Inspec-
tor-General of Military Education,
was yesterday acquitted by the To-
k·o Court-Martial of the charge of
ing aided the rebels in the up-
ng of February 26 of Iast year.
General Jinzaburo Mazaki, former
Supreme War Councilor, has been
The evidence offered was considered
acquitted by the Tokyo Court-
insufficient for conviction, according
Martial of the charge of participa-
to an announcement made by the
tion in the February 26 incident,
ar Office.
the evidence being judged insuffi-
Evidence was obtained that Gen-
cient for conviction.
eral Mazaki had full knowledge of
On July 31. the War Office made
the movement among younger of-
public the sentencing of six more offic-
ficers of the army for the so-called
ers to prison terms, one for life and
Showa Reformation, which culmi-
the others for from four to six years.
nated in the incident, that his op-
On December 14, it was announced
that the Tokyo Court-Martial had not
position to his dismissal as Inspector-
indicted Mr Fusanosuke Kuhara, pro-
General of Military Education con-
minent Seiyukai leader and wealthy
tributed to the unrest of the insur-
industrialist, the evidence being con-
sidered insufficient, but had decided to
gents and that, after the outbreak,
turn him over to the civil procurators
he voiced understanding of the spirit
on suspicion of having sheltered one
in which they had acted and promised
of the rebels.
to do what he could for them. But
15 More Sentenced
evidence was lacking that he acted
On January 19, the sentencing of
seven officers and eight civilians to
definitely to aid the insurgents.
prison terms ranging from 18 months
Incident Now Closed
to five years was made known. Two
The disposal of General Mazaki's
civiliams were fined for violation of
the publication Law, and 13 were ac-
case ends the consideration of the Feb-
ruary 26 incident by the Tokyo Court-
quitted.
Martial, the Nichi Nichi quotes a War
On August 14, the War Office an-
Office spokesman as saying.
nounced that two civilians had been
The announcement of the acquittal
sentenced to death, another to life
imprisonment and a fourth to three
was the sixth regarding the disposal
.years'imprisonment.
of persons involved or suspected of
The statement of reasons for the deci-
having been involved in the incident.
sion to acquit General Mazaki, as given
It was learned on Juls 8 of last
by Domei, follows:
year that the special military tribunal
"As a result of investigation of the
set up to try the rebels had sentenced
facts of the indictment, the Tokyo
to death 13 officers and four civilians,
Court-Martial finds the prisoner, in ac-
to life imprisonment five others and
cordance with Article 403 of the Mili-
to shorter prison terms 54. Forty-
tary Court Martial Law, not guilty of
seven were acquitted.

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
the crime with which he was charged
the ev!dence being insufficient. Hence
Lieutenant-Col
the judgment of acquittal has been
handed down.
"General Mazaki was appointed sub-
bureau of the War
lieutenant in the infantry on June 27.
officers loudly acclain
1898, and was promoted to the rank of
ed deed and gradually
general on June 19, 1933. He was p'aced
conclusion that behind the dimmis
on the waiting list on March 6, 1936,
and on the reserve list on March of the
spiracy of statesmen close to th
same year.
Throne and financiers and that, as they
"During his long military career, he
were beings above the law and so
occupied various important posts. As
beyond any measure taken in 
princlpal of the Military Academy, he
cordance with law, there was need for
endeavored to train the students in the
recourse to direct action transcending
spirit of the national principles and the
the laws of the land in order to over-
concept of the Imperial House. At the
throw the conspirators in high places
same time, he made it the fundamental
and bring about national renovation
principle of his guiding policy to place
through urging part of the upper
emphasis on action in parallel with
stratum of the army to take a hand
learning.
in the situation. This movement daily
Much Concern Felt
grew in intensity.
"When he looked at the domestic and
Preparations Made
ir.ternational situations, he was con-
"Beginning about December, 1935,
cerned over the friction between the
Koji Muranaka, Asaichi Isobe, Kiyo-
military and civil services and between
sada Koda, Yasuhide Kurohara and
those in high place and those in low
Zensuke Shibukawa began preparing
places. He also was aware of serious
for their coup, considering it necessary
defects in national defense and war
to act before the officers and men of
preparations, which he feared would
the 1st Division left for Manchuria.
entail disadvantages in supporting
Taking advantage of the trial of
diplomacy. The only manner in which
Lieutenant-ColonelAizawa, they
the situaticn could be remedied, it
launched a bitter attack on the
seemed to him, was to bring about the
privileged classes and eulogized the
formation of a truly strong Cabinet that
action and spirit of the defendant with
would possess the moral force and poser
a view to arousing sympathizers to
necessary for enfercement cf national
action. In full knowledge of what
policies. He was accustomed to vcicing
was going on, General Mazaki did the
concern over the possibility that, if
following:
weak and wavering men occupied high
"1. When Lieutenant Katsuo Tsu-
places in the Government and showed
shima called on him in December,
themselves weak in diplomacy, there
1935. General Mazaki said that he had
could be no guaranteeing that there
done his best while Inspector-General
would not be bloodshed. the future of
of Military Education and could not
the nation being so beset with sources
bring himself to take a conciliatory
of worry.
attitude toward his dismissal, which
"Among junior officers who deeply
he had opposed to the last. He also
said that he was being greatly per-
respected and venerated General Ma:
secuted by the authorities but saw the
ki, a movement gradually gained impe-
necessity of considering the Emperor-
tus for overthrowing the so-called privi-
organ theory with renewed earnest-
legec' classes and effect a Showa Re-
formation for reorganization of the
ness.
"2. When General Mazaki, on about
State. Captain Kiyosada Koda, Cap-
December 24, saw Asaichi Isobe and
tain Koji Muranaka. Intendant-Captain
Captain Saburo Ogawa at his home.
Asaichi Isobe and Lieutenant Yasuhide
he told them with some show of heat
Kurihara. all disciples of General Ma-
that Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa had
zaki, were influenced also by the sedi-
given his life to the cause of opposi-
tious doctrines of Terujiro Kita and
tion to the change in the Inspector
Chikara Nishida, who advocated that
General of Military Education and that
one should stop at nothing to effect
he himself, though not prepared to go
the so-called Showa Reformation, ille-
so far. had stoutly opposed the change
gal methods being justified by the lofty
until the last moment. Captain Ogawa
nature of the cause.
declared that if the national polity
Dismissal Criticized
c'arification issue and the Aizawa trial
"Thus these men gathered together
did not progress to the satisfaction of
with comrades and conspired in fre-
those working for renovation of the
quent meetings, and at the same time
State he feared there would be blood-
they endeavored to win converts to
shed. General Mazaki told his two
their doctrine of action. When, in
visitors that there was ample reason
Ju!y. 1935, General Mazaki was reliev-
for such fear but that if he said as
ed of the post of Inspector-General of
much he would be in the embarrassing
Military Education and appointed to
position of one regarded as an insti-
the Supreme War Council, Koji Mura-
gator of junior officers.
nama. Asaichi Isobe and others began
Sympathetic With Aizawa
to criticize bitterly the policy of the
"3. General Mazaki on December 28.
authorities in dismissing their teacher
receiving a report on the progress of
from that important position.
the agitation for clarification of the
"In full knowledge of this dangerous
national polity, commented that the ef-
atmosphere, General Mazaki himself
forts of junior officers in this connec-
expressed resentment over his dis-
tion were still lacking in the proper
missal to Major-General Sukekuro
zeal. Again with a show of heat, he
Hirano and others who frequented his
repeated that he had opposed to the
home and declared to them that the
end the change in the post of Inspec-
authorities had acted unfairly in
tor-General of Military Education, and
making the change. Koji Muranaka,
he praised the spirit in which Lieute-
Asaichi Isobe and others thus dis-
nant-Colonel Aizawa rose to act. With
tributed seditious literature in which
him, he expressed deep sympathy. He
they denounced the military authorities
also said he would stand as a witneas
for having changed the Inspector-
in the Aizawa trial in connection with
Ceneral of Military Education. This
the Supreme Command issue. It would
added fuel to the fire of the move-
be a good thing, he said, for Genaral
ment among junior officers for the so-
Jotaro Watanabe, the new Insp
called Showa Reformation.
General of Military Education, to
tire.

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
"4. In January of 1936, General Ma-
Sakichi Mitsui, counsel for the defense
zaki reiterated to Lieutenant-Colonel
can 
"He then laft the.
ficial residence.
of Lieutenant-Colonel Aizawa, that he
Rescript Sald Noce
had opposed the change in the post of
"2. When he went to the
Inspector-General of Military Educa-
about 10 o'clock the same morni
tion, told him what had led up to the
told War Minister Kawashima
change and gave assurance that he
office of the Chief Aide-de-Cam
wculd be glad to take the witness
the insurgents would never
stand in the Aizawa trial. In Febru-
without an Imperial Rescript omdle
ary, when Lieutenant-Colonel Mitsui
them to. He pressed this point strong-
called on him, he received an account
ly on others who were present.
of the intensification of the movement
"3. That evening, General, Maak
among junior officers resulting from
friction in the army and the impasse
attorney, in the official residence of the
in State administration.
War Minister that things were not gomes
"5. On January 28, Asaichi Isobe
too well, though he had gone to the
called on General Mazaki at his home
Palace to do what he could for the
and promised to do his best with re-
insurgents, and asked him to calm the
gard to the Inspector-General issue and
insurgents as best he could.
asked for campaign funds of ¥1,000, or
"4. On February 27, the insurgent
even ¥500. Genera! Mazaki promised
officers, in accordance with telephone
to obtain the money.
instructions from Terujiro Kita and
"Junior officers then gathered in va-
Chikara Nishi, who told them that the
rious places in the city and prepared
spirits had informed them that Men
to act. They got in touch with Cap-
are lacking, but there is the valiant
tain Ichitaro Yamaguchi, Terujiro Ki-
General Mazaki, in whose hands the
ta. Chikara Nishi and Tetsuya Kame-
Army of Justice should plage every-
kawa and made arrangements for Te-
thing,' decided to entrust to him the
tzuya Kamekawa to enlist the support
settlement of the situation. They then
of General Mazaki nd Admiral Eisuke
sought an interview with members of
the Supreme War Council. At about
Yamamoto immediately after action
4 o'clock in the afternoon, in the pre-
had been taken and for Ichitaro Yama-
sence of General Nobuyuki Abe and.
guchi and Chikara Nishida to negoti-
General Güchi Nishi, councilors, Gen-
ate with influential men for achieve-
eral Mazaki saw 17 or 18 insurgent
ment of the renovation objective.
officers, who told him that they would
Attacks Made
leave the settlement to his discretion.
"Finally, at dawn on February 26,
General Mazaki replied that they should
Koji Muranaka. Asaichi Isobe, Kiyo-
do so unconditionally, as he would
sada Koda, Teruzo Ando, Katsuo Tsu-
sincerely do his best to remedy the
shima and Yasuhide Kurihara rose in
situation.
arms with some of the officers and
"With regard to the foregoing facts,
men of the Imperial Guards Division
General Mazaki denied portions that
and the 1st Division, attacking states-
were unfavorable to him, but corrobo-
men close to the Throne, members of
rating evidence gave ample proof of
the Cabinet, et cetera.
their validity.
"During the incident, General Ma-
"On the other hand, evidence is lack-
zaki's actions were as follows:
ing that he acted as above to aid the
"1. At about 4:30 o'clock on the
insurgents. Thus in the final analysis
the court-martial has found that the
morning of February 26, he received
case against the defendant is untenable
a visit from Tetsuya Kamekawa, who
and, in accordance with Article 403 of
had called two or three times previ-
the Military Court-Martial Law, has
ously to report on the disquieting
pronounced his acquittal."
movement among junior officers, and
learned from him of the uprising. Ka-
mekawa said that the Premier, the
Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal and
others were to be attacked, and he
hoped that the general would act on
behalf of the junior officers, convey-
ing to him the wish of the insurgents
that he save the situation after the
insurrection. Haviug thus been in-
formed of the incident, unprecedent-
ed since the founding of the Imperial
army, General Mazaki was considering
what should be done when he was
summoned by the War Minister by
telephone. He went to the Minister's
official residence (where some of the
rebels were gathered) at about 8
o'clock and there:
"Received a report on the armed
uprising of Asaichi Isobe and others
and was asked to give his assistance
in achieving the aims of the rebels,
'to which he replied: 'I understand
quite well the spirit in which you
acted.'
"Read over, during the meeting be-
tween War Minister Yoshiyuki Kawa-
shima and Koji Muranaka, Asaichi
Isobe, Kiyosada Koda and other leaders
in the insurrection, the manifesto of
the insurgents, their demands and the
list of their names and received from
Kiyosada Koda a report on the ob-
jectives of the raids and an outline
of the troop movements, to which
he responded with: 'As I understand
very well the spirit in which you act-

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/ 762
SEE...793.94.Conference/163
FOR
Te1 509.2pm
FROM .
Janan
Grew
DATED Nov. 2.1937
TO
NAME
1—1127
apo
REGARDING:
Political Affairs - Japan.
Reports concerii changes contenpl: ted in Government machine-
ry in order to place Japen cn as conplete a war basis as
pos:ible.
mr
F
894.09

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/191
Desp.#184
SEE
FOR
894.00/ 763
FROM
Kobe
Scott
DATED
Oct.23,1937
1k6/11b11
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Military Matters in Kobe,Japan: Report to the
Ambassador at Tokyo,in regard to -.
fpg

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 290 (Diplomatic) Tallinn, October 25, 1937.
Subject: Transmitting Resumé of an Article
on Japan which has Appeared in the
Estonian Press.
48
894.00/764
DEPARTMENT
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
OF STATE
QF STATE
894.
USA
D
F/MR
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to transmit herewith a resumé
of an article written by A. I. Tammsaare, an Esto-
nian author of some note. The article is one of
a series being written by Mr. A. H. Taunsaare. The
other articles are descriptive of conditions in
Japan, and do not directly pertain to international
politics

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
politics. Lir. Tannsaare has prepared to date in
all five articles on Japan, the résumé enclosed per-
taining to the one entitled: "Japan and the Japanese".
The other four pertain to the following subjects:
(1) Japanese industries, with particular reference
to the cheap comnodities produced in Japan; (2)
Low standard of living in Japan, supplemented by
statistical material; (3) Introduction of Western
Luropean methods into Japan, which have succeeded
industrially, but not socially; and (4) Description
of Japanese character, social life and the position
of wonen in Jajan.
A. H. Ta umsaare is the pen name of Mr. Anton
Hangen, concoming whom a confidential biographic
sketch is being prepared at this office and will
shortly be furmished the Department. It appears
that Mr. Hansen is a voluainous writer, with no
particular political leaning.
Upon inquiry at the Press Bureau in the Foreign
Office, I have been inrormed that the article, of
which a resumé is enclosed, has in nowise been in-
spired officially nor has it any official endorsement
on the part of the Estonian Government. In fact,
the Estonian Goveruient has not had occasion to ex-
press itself in respect to the present Far Eastern
conflict. It is evident, however, that it wishes
to take a neutral attitude in a matter which does not
directly

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
directly concern it.
Respectfully yours,
Wall A. Seonaed.
Walter A. Leonard
Chargá d'Affaires a.1.
Enclosure:
1/ kesuné of an article
written by A.i. Tammsaare.
File Ho. 800
WAL/to
In quintuplicate to the De artment.
Copies to liga anl launas.

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.92)
oditorial, bears the
othe Means", and the wrtter In a foot
dtoates that his chief sources or inrormati
mentioned:
"Japan in der. Welt" -by Anton Zischka
Japan
- by Arthun J. Bro
Japan
Generale, Geishas
und Gediohte"
by A. E. Johann
Buddna";"Das
Japanbuch
by Lafcadis Hear
"Japan und dre
Japaner"
by Dr. Karl Hausi
"In Japan"
by Eduana Wiidha
"Japan wke es. "1str  by Friedrtch Ktemadn
"Die Idealé des
Ostens"by Kakuzo Okak
Immediately under the, heading or thexeait
appears a aketch map of Japan with the geo
namea in German. A picture of Mount Fudjia
with the article.
The author opens hid anticle by stating
was United Statesi guna that forced Japen to
ports to. the Shipping of the Weatern World
the groat World Powera whroh impreesey
the world with its military Dower
ta ancompliahed umprecenidented-prog
density.ur

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.94)
ready settled, Japen organized 
phn won the wan with Imperiel Russ
beoame a world factor But the article
it wed Boon to rind out that ita victerm
by the United States.  Not only the Unitet
and England, but also France, Germany
lands awoke to the bare truth that inge
arival had riaen in the Far East and in the
The article also states that theiJap
very aggrieved to find that their viotory wr
Russie had brought them nothing of materlal
Many officers committed "sepuku"or haraki
protest, while the general blame was puton
States which was a rioh country with plenty p
and which exploited both the Oentral end
America. Why should the United Soapes stop
and become an obatacle in the way of the st
Japanese?
When some ten years later, the world
she right moment appears to have arrivod fon th
Jananese to obtain what they could 
Portsmouth Treaty. After having doo
Gormamy, the Japanese occupied a maze or amail
Pacific isles which formerly belonged to Germ
Then Japan drafted certain 20 points, and want
China to accept them. Again the United States
England intervened with the result that ghina did
not have to give up its independenee i Howevet, Jepan
never gave up its. aima. During the World wary it
had built up a navy and enlarged its industries
As the result of these circumstanoos the Manohuluo.
State was established under Japanese influenee
now, while the attention of the Big Powers of Turorg
has been attracted to developments in Ethionla and
Spain, Japan is carrying out the invasion of Chira.
The author finds that to all appearanoes-itids
not China, or any other territorial poasetalons
adjecent to Japan, which constitute the chiar
for the Japanese, but it is the United St
already at the Portsmouth peaoe parleya hed
most potential inrluence in preventing Ja
obtaining the spoils of its victongIt
United States which, after the terminatioh
World.War, convokad the conference For ths
of naval armaments, at mhiah the Jabenese
and the United Stabes navies were Ii
of 3: 5: 5. When a Few years latert
ference taok place, Jaran came forth
that the ratio,of the namces befi
Other Powers not agreeingt
and eventually resigned
its energieaJooAnor

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.91)
ideel across the seve
tinents, even thoughw
trod a Divine stookWe aray
okemented by Admiral.Takahashi: Amei
Word frcm the abybs of the modern material4
That all the above utheranoes
"ear","Japan Must Conquer America" hate had
Arculation of hundreds of thouaands opieas
The article further states shat thesa
have found their echo in the United stat
saidi "Japan is our most dangerous amemy
at least 50 new better eguipped spocial girhl
in arder to reduce to ashes tho Japanese Capihs
and the Japanese industrial oentersrThat
United States is eatablishing airplane baseagd
Alouthtan isles in the North, and om the Hawalt
tsles in the South. However, both thes
points are too far awky from the heart otrs
airplane base is-underconstruotion on tha ia
Wake, some 3,CoO kilometera from Tokio thi
uninhabited. To make the Iine of blookadd
Pacipic complete, the necessary preparataond
here the United States are planning't
will have to-be'seen yet.
pheauthor,further

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.93)
ith'the Unitea States.
Iteelf a souroe of raw materials as wear
righ natural redources and  populdtion or
500 000,000, was exact1y the out1et.Only
has been conguered and a source therob
for materfal indepondence, could Japal th
1ng arma wibh the United States,
it would take the United States stili are
before it.would have Ita atupendous anmament
realized, Japan is making use of this intorit
order to carry out the necessary preparations
fight for life and death.
WAL/EH/to

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 2, 1937.
Consul Soott's letter to
the Ambassador reporting what
appears to be an unreserved ex-
pression of views of a Foreign
Office official are worth read-
ing. These views are confirma-
tory of the growing anti-British
attitude in Japan, of Japan's
contempt for the Nine Power
Conference, and of the feeling
that settlement of the China
question will be long drawn out.
FE:JWB: SMJ

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.94)
No.
189
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
PA  SA
COHHUNIATIONS
2
DIVISION OF
Kobe, Japan, November 1, 1937.
EVED
6
29
ST NSO
In U S A
ONI
MID
SUBJECT:
Political Latters in Kobe, Japan.
1-1085 GPO
894.00
EJL
FA LASTERN AFFAIRS
THE HONORABLE
894.00/765
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
Deparidlent ot Srat
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
As of possible interest to the Department, I have
the honor to enclose a copy of my strictly confidential
letter of November 1, 1937, reporting to the Ambassador
conoerning political matters in this district.
Respectfully yours,
Wiulnop Rsion
Vinthrop R. Scott
American Consul
DEU1937
Copy of letter to merican
limbassador, Tokyo, November
1, 1937.
800
WRS/hjs
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
F/G

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.96)
800
WRS/hjs
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 189, November 1, 1957
"Political Matters in Kobe, Japan" from Consul
Winthrop R. Scott, Kobe, Japan.
Kobe. Japan
November 1, 1957
ir:
ns of possible interest to the Pmbassy I  ave the
honor to report the following remarks made by Mr. Fumio
Hiura, a Japanese foreign service offiper now on duty
in the Latin merican vivision of the mmerican Section
or the Foreign Office.
Yesterday I attended a luncheon given by the
Brazilian Consul General in Kobe. Among the guests was
Mr. Miura, a olose personal friend of the Coneul General.
Over the coffee oups the convsrsation drifted to the war
in China. There were no British present. In a running
conversation Mr.  iura made remsrks whieh in substanee
were as follows.
Referring to the recent demonstration of three
hundred students before the British Embassy in Tokyo, he
stated that foreigners could not realize the growth of
anti-British feeling in Japan; this he said was unfortunate
but entirely natural as Japan's diffieulties in China were
greatly augmented by England's attitude, England, he said,
is now playing her old game of matohing one country agminst
another for her own advantage. She feels that her vast
Asiatio interests are reasonably safe as long as she can
keep Japan and China fighting: in every way she is
"ogging" Ohina on, supplying money to Nanking, and other
support of both a moral and physioal kind; the Foreign
ofrie

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.93)
2
Office, however, is fully aware of what England is doing
and alive to the danger in the situation. England's
game in Asia, however, is a dangerous one for her and
Japen is not being fooled not even the common people.
ith respeet to merion Mr. Viura alleged that the
Toaonesr underetoo
100118
nglish in-
way oourreu
ieeu
minimun by Ju mu. Referrlne to Iresident noosevelt's
Chica o addrees he said that Japan was not resentful
as it was felt the speeoh was largely for home con-
sumption and indecu this assumption was confirmed by
later pronounoements. He referred very bitterly to the
Brussels conference in terms somewhat as follows:
If a feu old men in a In hats and frock coato
think thev are  oin to sit in Brussels an: settle Asia's
destiny they are sadly mistaken.
He added that the China question must be settled now
once and for all at whatever goat definitively. Japan
can not accept interference from other powers. Aotually
Jupan wunts China to be frienw'ly. He added "We want the
friendship of the Chinese peonls; this is evidenoed by
the fact that every effort is made to treat Chinese
residents in Japan with every consideration." "And will
the destiny of sia be settled by the end of the year as
the Osaka business men prediot?" asked one of the guests.
"No, it is going to be a long drawn out affair", replied
Mr. Hiura.
It is realized that there is nothing particularly
new or original in Mr. Miura's remarks which possibly are
only his own views and not a refleotion of the official
views of the Foreign Offioe. Also they were probably
sivon

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.91)
一3
given partly for the purpose of having them reported to
Amerioa. However, after disoounting these points they
are still indicative I believe of a Japanese view
point in certain quarters and certainly the bitterness
with which Mr.  iura attaoked England was made in a way
which left no dount in the  ind of his hearers as to
TLC
A true copy of
Lse sigped gogi-
"al.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/766
SEE...81l.43.Council..on._Foreign
FOR
#2650
Relations/155
FROM .....Japan
(... Grew.
...) DATED ... Nov..5,..1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
SPO
REGARDING:
POLITICAL HANDBOOK OF THE WORLD to be published by Council
on Foreign Relations.
Encloses copy of reply to request of Council for corrections
F/MR
on section dealing with Japan.
1w
72

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.88)
Tolye, Neveer , 
to. 2650.
BUBJECT: MATARI.L POR TOLITICAL NANDBOOK.
The Honorable
The eeretary of teto
Fashington
siri
11
I have the honor to tranmit herewith copy of the
reply which the mbassy is mendine to a request from Mr.
Valter . Mallory, exeoutivo direetor of the Coumeil on
Porelen Selations under date of Catober 1, l9s7 to mes-
geet sorreotions in the section on Japan in the polrtides
RANDBCOX Y TE RLD.
The original of the reply is being sent siseet to the
Cowneil on Torelgn Reletione; the present dempeseh is for
the Department's information only.
Respeetfully yours,
Joeeph G. Grow.
Enclosure!

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.83)
The American Ambensader. Wr. Crew, to She Bmeentive
Direetcr, Council on Foreign Relatlons, Wr. Wallory
Soungil os vurefpn valatiune
o5 set esth
trat
T.c shaeey has your letter of cetober l. lo0y
and ensloses herewith a correet d text whion ls mug-
gested to brins op to date the seetion on Japen in
the YOLITICAI  RODOUT F THE WOELD. FOr YOUP DONS
edition. De beve noted your statement that you will
not quote or refer to the Zobecsy'e easlstanes in
any way, and shat the Axbassy is undertaking no
responsibility in supplying this informasion.
Very traly youre,
XITICAL

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.82)
Cepitals Tokyo
areat 2so,6ss eqeare milos (inolmdins peseeesions)
28.442.000 (1950 c0n000).
Appointeday ,1037
rom10r
rince Jumimaro Ronoye
(Teikoku Gikm1)
HoUeF oP PERAr, upper chamber
HO.S OF REPRESRMTATIVEE, lower ehember
(Kizokuin)
(Ohoglia)
Members for life by reacon of rank - 70; Sleetion of April S0, l9sv (fer
membere fer life by Imperial eppeint-
four years)
ment - l25; balance elected from and
by speetel growpe for peven yesrs.
Speaker: Shoj1 Zoyems (Minsetto)
Preeident: Count YorihLee Wotmudeira
Ropresontatlon**
Pasties

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.84)
Eatil some twelve yeare sgo the rleht to vote wae dee
pendest upon a payment of a diveos Dational taz, Tue
electorate was divided in a cemerel way aloms she linem of
The eleetiom
the leoal or buelmess interests of tme veters.
aended
11 remove the tax clirisin
qu of he wiry
rosigmed in Janbory l937 rollowing an atteck in the Homge of
Reprosentotives.
enerel Fezushlge Ugaki wae named so form
a mow cabinet and wee s jopulad cholos, tut he was blooked
by tho military.
Conoral sajure ayacht, a non-perty cou
servative srmy offioer,
conmeotions. After the anmuel budget wae paseed by she Diet
at the end of Haron l937 he had the Sovee of Represemtativos
disselved, cnd the consequent soneral -leesion was Reld on
April 30. No party recalved an avsolute majority, Cn pay &
the soncye cabimet sucoecded that of Cenerel Hayasbl. The
ehief purpose or the change was prosably te give she goverm-
mest a wider bams of populer support is antioipation of she
aeed of national unity in the event of complications is
Zoseign releticne. The Konope cabinet has seem liked by tho
ant cabimet minlstore were sakem from emem of a

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.80)
A Monbe, Yor two yeare prior ve loss éhe Mimeeiso es
an abmolute majcrity in the Houce of leprosentetivem, but in
the gomerel eleetion of February 20, l9s2 the persy call to
second plece, ite rival, the Selynkal, obtatning a majerity.
In the goneral eleetior or rebruury c0, l9ss it agein trimmpheds
daddo0d Wer
contrelled by th uin
melte party.
edorel olootion ot april 30, l95y tho
Vineeito loat sose twenty-s!x cests though still remaimine
the lereest perty
e Houee er Represoatatives, with lo.
The perty coneraily anjeys the support of tho uphan mnd in
besimeae end the industricl claas. it cdyoestes nesional
eeoncmie  laanin sns eoonoay of national and local expemdi-
ture. Shen munotary questions were an important politieal
1ssue the Hinseite perty sdvoested the gold standerd. In
ferelen affaire it hos given rull support to the horoye gaworn-
ment in ite pursuil of poliey in and with regard to Ohime.
08
Leadere: Chuj! cachids (president of the party and for-
o8F
werly Minister of Commeroe and Industry), Gotaro Cgawa (fer-
merly Mielater of Commeree and Induatry). Kejiro calte
(foserly apeaker of tne Sase of sepresentattee), Retktes
T'enpoml (fommerly Misteter of Commelessßemsls Ie
()

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.73)
then promier, Tauyoshi Imukai, by a group of maval erfieere
and militery oadete. In the politioal oriels whioh remulsea
a super-party eabinet wes inctalled. In the genoral eleosion
of February l9se the elyukal party lost to the Vimeeite. Im
P     。
N
eet hane Liay.
Leedere:
Tebir
nur of 
Gonia Chkune
108110
(
C
more (rorerly reter 
(forwerly Miulstor cr : Inenee, e leter ci ailveyo). ane
Teljive Yenemoto (forerly iplster or criculture and Porestry).
1
II colel os nrty) mtil a row yoore
ago there were three er four eo-called proleterian parties of
secialletic or sowwnistin flavor, but weey were. subjected to
Pigoroue police interference. The only ono whioh bee sur
vived le the hakel Telehuto, the best otganimed and the ment
coderate of then all. hic party made e sycotroular qmim in
she senerel slestion of Februery l9ss, capturiss l8 eeate in
the Mouee or epemventutivos; in tte génarel aleemion f
April se, aos? the vissony me repmetet, sate tme wienà

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.74)
savccasaà posce ana nee espreseed oppoatezón to mamem
ekpanelon; but in tco prosest stete of fecelen sffaize
the perty has nos boen vodal on thoso seores.
Imedere: Iso Abe (Cheirman of tho Contral Mmeeutive
Comsitteo),
Hieaehi Abe (seeretary of the partyi, Motm-
1
t
i binet
the Dlet, mooly
of the Mineelto, domertod to join the now parey.
In th
genetel eleetion r lose it ctt fred tut rirteee seate is
the lst.
urin loas povorel or r reinent eeabore o
o n rr s ne vnr o the
Koeumin Somel hed cnly eleven seats in the Houee of Bepro-
seatetives. Ta Semeatie pellcy it sdvooates abendonmens of
fres initiative in businose, cstatlieament of cemtrelly sen-
trolled economy, ant replevement of the oo tnst by e meslomhi
counell of state. Its foralen celloz in bamed upon the
Bestre to eotablisn Japen's hogemony ever the Criont.
Levderat Feneo dechi and Tentro Kizone.
Pomogil: In ay l9se Selge Makemo, cme of the leadere
as the Eokuain Domal, broke amer and crgealmed a meparase
pana, the Tohokas, miak matere elat dse la he toe
antetires. Thls totel wee im

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.74)
Chaurinistis:
maht ahimbun
asaki Shimbun)
all Japaneme nowapap
kge Melmiehi Shiabus Tery call slroulation.
ralyu Chimbun
Bensational;mall ei
ent ztont
connational;

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.78)
Rein at Zaniz
201151956 2123919
Britieb; crisiual; imfluonsial
0. 0. miéne tss.
Englisk losamsso pepep in
Dir.)
weatern Japan.
A.2.Touna (z4.)
wils oireuldtion.
Indopendect:
1D。
Gmake Fiji
01 po
Commereinly
emnll eiroule-
(Uaara)
10n。
ka entonihimbun
Independent: popular: lurge
lmora Oke (P7es.)
(Caks)
eireulation in weetern Jsran;
hingore Tekaienl
oxce:lent newe servloe? rane
(Rd.)
Anelian adits
Shin Alomi
(Magcya)
tlon lc Watoye and nelghbor-
Tamakn (.)
in cities.
Yokohena  cyeti
aimpo (ldeet paper in Yozoheme
chiro Miyeke (Prop.
(Yosohass)
rood sommeretal paper.
. Tasemoto (Sd.)
Centemporary
Jaran
Politicul and cconomie; de-
Foreign ffaire
(quartorly)
sigaed so inrorm opimion and
esceistion of
influsnee it favorably to
J=pen (Fub.)
Japan; subsidized by the
Foreign Orrice; in English.
Trans-Facific
Feliticel, sconomie, and
(Feely)
svetel; in Snglich.
NETSAOXDCY
hont; arriltated with

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20/195
SEE
FOR
FROM
Kobe
Scott
) DATED
Nov. 18. 1937
694.00/767
TO
NAME
1-1127
OPO
REGARDING: Political Affairs - Japan.
Encloses letter to Enbassy reporting military matters in
Kobe, also states effort is being made to improve relations
between Japen and England.
mr
7

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.98)
874.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/11664
FOR
Te1 #644.6pm
SEE
Japan
Grew
) DATED
Dec161937
FROM
NAME
1-1127
PO
TO
894.00/ 768
Sino-Japanese conflict: Conference between government and
REGARDING:
Imperial Headquarters in progress, reportedly, discussing
matters of high national policy. If concensus of opinion
reached, the Cabinet will, tomorrow, consider requesting
that Emperor call a conference in near future. Ambassador
is inclined to view that declaration of war is not immi-
nent.
FRG.
8

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.96)
MBo
Tokyo
A portion of this telE-
gram must bE closEly
Dated December 16, 1937
paraphrastd bE:orE being
communicated to anyonE.
14
(B)
REcd 10:23 a.m.
SEcrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
894.00
644, DEcEmbEr 16, 6 p.m.
(GRAY) Our 595, DEcEmbEr 4, 8 p.m.
A confErEncE bEtwEen thE GovErnment and ImpErial
Headquarters which bEgan on thE 14th and was continued
yEsterday and today is reported to bE discussing matters
of high national policy. It is gEnerally understood
that if a concensus of opinion can bE rEached thE CabinEt
will tomorrow consider rEquesting that the Emperor call
a confErEncE in thE nEar futurE. (END GRAY)
In viEw of thE trEnd of discussion in thE press
which is spEculativE and of cErtain information brought
11664
to mE, I am inclined to think that a dEclaration of war
is not (rEpeat not) imminent.
GREW
DDM:HPD

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.86)
6 FRISBIE PLACE
RECEIVED
CAMBRIDGE
FAM LASTLAN ALLAINS
DEFARTMENT OF STA
MASSACHUSETTS
60 31 1937
Ldy o 2a
Sta5
594.00
Eus'd
J.C.
Washngn
AND RECORDS
individual on on State Sipartimert coned do
alont Du arest I Barnes Ashnioto
894.00/
in dapan? She is u nare and beautefal
person and is wridaly knonm and
Loved in Me Uhinted STats. She isn frind
mine and Ddo urt dae to urith
6
to hen for feau o making tu posction
8
fn
JA
5re.28.1987

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.92)
804.00/769
F/A
LEO1 - 5 NVP

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.85)
HU
FO
[5]
Rail.
and
S
C
DNIE
N
2,50
Pr
es
MO
gram
CK
and 1
ects
mana
of In
the
lice d
e in
day.
n in
large
rsies
worl
bold
impre
tern
ect t!
gles
lte
and
Dnie
size.
recti
L. C
ink-
In
er's
whot
115
the
OV
conv
re-
has
11er
Sovie
isk-
diff
he
doub
renl
east.
co-
Ratl
ed
(an)
ign
vic:.
A
1p1-
ant
thro
scho
.w
(11
Times W de Worid
with
1P)
ARRESTED BY JAPANESE
cust
for
1(1
of
Baroness Shizue Ishimoto
WAN
the
100
P
d
ToKYO. Dee  (P Only two
Sibe
wonrn ate known to have been at
tas
ested n the rece tatds tha' net
ed 3o susprcted aitats
They
7
11
Batess Sharle shumot.
the
wid anown n the ntet Stater.
hvd
11
and Tak, Hirabay sha. a wnte
shei
1
The Baroness a graduate er 
nex
P.ss a chool. 1s a dire t ared
Stet'
Jpseomen
w.1t1
L. ledia
pme beiee  ar
111
1.!1
testwdtefthe
1.~.
1
M...
enal
11
!
ndratly
WIST
xn woulletn kep
1
!...
bn
wi
KSWINTERHABITAT
THE LARGE SHRIMP
I Fisheries Will Send
!
 to Search Warm.
V…x
P1:1:1:

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.98)
January 5 1938
My dear Mrs. Cannon:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of De-
cember 28, 1937, in regard to the arrest of Baroness
Shisue Ishimoto.
You will be glad to note that a press despatoh
894.00/769
from Tokyo dated December 31, which appeared in the
January 1 issue of the New York Times states that
Baroness Ishimoto was released on December 30.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Joseph W. Ballantino
Aoting Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Mrs. W. B. Cannon,
6 Friabie Place,
CR
JAN 5 1938]
Cambridge, Massachusetts.
eg.c
FE:EGC:HES
FE
1-4

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.99)
NEW YORK TIMES
January 1, 1938.
PEERESS LEFT COLD
BY PRISON IN TOKYO
Literally, Because Baroness
Ishimoto Had Unheated Cell
"I'hey wanted to kapw why I ad-
and Pickle and Rice Diet
vocated birth controf-was it for
anti-militarist motives," she maid.
"I explained it was for the sake of
BARED 'DANGEROUS' IDEAS
poor Japanese mothers who could
not afford to have more children.
Other sessions were given to quee-
tioning from many angles about
Queried About Conditions When
capitalism, private property, labor
unions, communism and fascism.
Troops Come Home, She Told
and also about Kanju Kato [Labor
member of Parliament who was
Police 'People Will Be Poor'
also selzed in the Dec. 15 round-up)
whom I have known many years,
and other detained persons. None
By HUGH BYAS
of those I know are Communists or
Communist sympathizers. They are
Special Cable to Tms Níw York Tims.
not Reds; at most some might be
TOKYO, Dec. 31.—Rice, pickles
called Pinks. Many of them are in-
and bean soup for breakfast; rice,
telligent working people interested
pickles and vegetables for midday
in social progress. They would be
dinner, and rice, pickles and vege-
correctly described  liberals of
the Left wing perhaps, but certain-
tables for supper-these were the
ly ncither as Communists nor 
short and simple menus in the de-
revolutionaries.
tention prison where Baroness
"They askcd many questions
Shidzue Ishimoto was held for a
ahout what would happen when the
soldiers came home.'The war is
fortnight on suspicion of harbor-
costing a lot of money and the peo-
ing dangerous or near-dangerous
ple will be very poor,'I said."
thoughts or because she knew some
In the Baroness's opinion, the raid
people who might. The Baroness, a
was not motivated by a Comunist
revival. which does not exist, but
prominent feminist and birth-con-
as a warning to pacifists and lahor
trol advocate, was suddenly released
advocates against the day when the
Thursday and instructed not to
soldiers return.
leave Tokyo.
The January issues of five Left
"I came out tired, cold and hun-
wing magazines have been sup-.
pressed to prevent discussion of the
gry," she said, "but the experience
recent mass arrests.
was very interesting. I had a small
room six feet hy nine. It was un-
The reference to the "dangerous
heated, but I had put on plenty of
thoughts" section of the Tokyo po-
clothes. Writing and reading were
lice relates to a stringent law under
forbidden. Luckily I do not smoke
which any agitation unwanted by
and do not mind healthful food such
the authorities may be punished.
as our farmers eat the year round,
hut when you have said it's health-
ful you have sald all.
"The only weapons I possessed
were some hairpins and these were
removed."
The Baroness had been taken in
the couse of a nation-wide raid at
8 A. M. on Dec. 15. A warrant was
shown to her, her house was
searched and papers, books and
even hack numbers of Japanese
magazines were removed for scru-
tiny.
She was questioned four times
during her detention. but third-de-
gree methods were not used. The
examiners were policenien of some-
what superlor training attached to
the "dangerous thoughts" section
of the metropolitan police.

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 9, 1938.
JWB
Tokyo's No. 2722, January 6, 1938, (by
Mr. Dooman) discussing the decline of party
politics in Japan, is instructive and may
well be read in its entirety.
It is pointed out that Japan is now on
a war footing and that the consciousness of
the consequences of failure at this time,
coupled wiiù the moral opposition to Japan
of the greater part of the world, has
developed a sense of national unity not
conducive to political factionalism.
The evolution and decline of Japanese
political parties is reviewed and the situa-
tion until recently discussed. Then follows
a discussion of the present situation, in
which it seems that parties are crystallizing
along new lines, the Social Mass Party on
the left and a Nationalist Party on the right.
However, as a result of an extensive roundup
of Communists at the end of 1937, in the
course of which leading spirits of the
Social Mass Party were arrested, the develop-
ment of this party has been impeded.
The real bases for parties exist in the
conflict between medievalism and modern
thought. It has been possible up to now to
preserve medieval thought among factory
laborers.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
laborers. However, out of the war is grow-
ing a heavy metals industry, the artisans
of which are men prone to think along modern
lines. The writer believes that when there
comes into existence a substantial number
of such modern thinking workmen, there will
be solid ground for a real two-party system
in Japan.
FE: Langdon: SMJ

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.94)
69-1
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2722.
Tokyo, January 6, 1938.
SUBJECT:
TRENDS IN JAPANESE
PARTY POLITICS.
Mh. HO MB:CK
EB 101939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
.1
31
SGVCOONY
lui
19938 AN PM
894.00/770
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
HAN21938
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
Whatever may be the label put on the conflict with
China, it has led to the placing of Japan on a war basis.
85198
About one million men are estimated to be with the colors,
and every form of national effort is being subordinated to
the attainment in as short a time as possible of military
and political objectives in China.
There is taking place,
as a normal consequence of the mustering of Japan's mater-
ial and spiritual resources, a change in virtually every
F/FG
aspect of Japanese life.
There is a pervading conscious-
ness

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
69-2
-2-
ness of the consequence of failure in the present effort,
and that consciousness, stimulated by the disapprobation
and moral opposition of the greater part of the world, has
developed a sense of national unity which does not nourish
political factionalism. It is not being suggested that
the decline of political parties in this country can be at-
tributed entirely to the conflict with China, which in the
larger sense began, not in July 1937, but on September 18,
193l; that trend really falls within a trend with a wave-
length of far greater amplitude.
Japan as a world power is still in a transitional
stage.
It renounced me ievalism eighty years ago, and al-
though amazing progress has been made in "things that are
of the earth earthy", and although there have been advances
in certain social problems, notably in the position of the
womanhood of the country, there has not been sufficient time
for dilution by purely natural processes of archaic spirit-
ual and moral ideas.
There are J:panese still living who
wore armor and fought with bow and arrow.
The "revolt of
youth" after the World War was considered to be something
of a phenomenon in America and Europe, but, ever since the
middle of the Nineteenth Century there has been in Japan a
chronic revolt of each new generation against its predecessor.
The impact of events and new ideas varies with the individual
and with the measure of medievalism he has inherited and as-
similated.
The political struggle in Japan, therefore, is
primarily a struggle between generations, and not between
classes.
During a period of forty years after the establishment
of

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
69-3
-3-
of the Diet in 1890, there appeared to be a substantial,
if slow, progress out of military oligarchy, through bu-
reaucracy, and toward constitutional democratic government.
The first twenty years were the concluding decades of the
Meiji Era, one of the most brilliant epochs in Japan's his-
tory, and from the point of view of progress they were the
most important decades. Behind a "modern" political facade,
an extra-constitutional group of powerful personages -- the
so-called Elder Statesmen -- r led the country, but as time
passed and these personages grew older or died, men came who
performed in plain view on the political stage. These flour-
ished and gained inf uence, and around them collected the
minor political fry.
It was from such agglomerations that
the "old line" parties developed.
They were not, however,
associations of persons animated by a comon political objec-
tive, but rather they were loosely formed groups of which
each member was bound to its leader under a tacit agreement
by which the leader gave patronage and in return he was giv-
en support.
In l913 there occurred the first change of
government arising out of defeat in the Lower House on a
vote on a Government measure, and by force of repetition
there evolved the beginnings of a tradition -- for the Con-
stitution is silenton this point -- of a parliamentary sys-
ten.
A further impulse in this direction was given by a
tendency which became marked during the second decade of
this century for the parties to divide along the lines of
conflict of interest between the industrial and agrarian
Owing to circumstances which
elements of the population.
need

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
69-4
-4-
need not be gone into in this despatch, the land-owning
classes tended to support the Seiyukai, and the perversity
of politics made the Minseito the instrument of their op-
ponents.
The two parties thrived so long as men with capacity
for leadership, such as Count Kato and Mr. Hara, could be
found to fill the shoes of such political geniuses as
Count Okuma and Prince Ito; but when they died their places
were taken by party wheel-horses with nothing to raise them
above the common ruck.
Personal leadership, the element
which created p rties and gave them cohesion, was lost, and
they have since been beset with factional jealousies and
strife.
To add to their troubles the venality and corrup-
tion which existed on a wide scale in politics were brought
to light by a series of prosecutions conducted with cour-
age by the law-enforcing authorities against a number of
politicians of no small importance, including former Cab-
inet officers. The disclosures of the immorality of the
politicians, in contrast with the standards enforced among
public servants, especially Army and Navy officers, have
created such mistrust and suspicion of party politicians
that no competent observer today seriously believes that
these parties can be rehabilitated without reforms so
drastic as to change them out of all recognition.
There appeared in the meantime two new elements in
the political situation. The adoption in 1924 of
universal manhood suffrage made possible some concerted
expression

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.99)
69-5
-5-
expression for liberal thought. There was at first a
general movement of the newly enfranohised toward the parties
then existing, but these were firmly controlled by conservatives.
In their disillusionment, they found much that was attractive
in advanced Marxian thought, or they turned to the Second
International, or again to the ideas of the British Labor Party.
Each of these various groups produced a party, and from the
three there finally appeared the Social Mass Party. At the
opposite end of the political scale an effort was being made
to bring together a large number of reactionary and nationalistic
groups. These are the lineal descendants of the faction in
the Shogunete who agitated, under the Prince of Mito, to
"Drive out the Barbarians." Some of these groups are completely
disreputable and, under the guise of patriotism, exist only
for blackmail and bullyragging. The most important is the
notorious Amur (more commonly translated as the Black Dragon)
Society, the head of which is the equally notorious Mitsuru
Toyama, a colorful and venerable political adventurer.
Until quite recently the indications were strong that a
basis was being formed for the revival of government by
political parties -- not by the old-line parties, which are
not divided by any difference of political doctrine worth
mentioning, but by the Social Miass Party on the left and by
a Nationalist Party in process of creation on the right.
The Sôcial Mass Party gained considerably in respectability
when, some weeks ago, it purged itself of the Moscow element
and eliminated from its platform certain planks which the
Moscow element insisted upon when the party was formed.
on
the other hand, Certain progress was apparently made toward
unification

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.98)
6 9-6
-6-
unification of the nationalistic groups by the promoters
1oshi
of this idea, the most indefatigable of whom is Mr. Shiratori
(who obtained considerable publicity during the Manchuria
Incident as the "Foreign Office Spokesman"), as indicated
by the fact that Toyama, Prince Sanjo, a kugé, or one
of the ancient nobility, and Admiral Yamamoto, a retired naval
officer, issued jointly a manifesto advocating the formation
of a Nationalist Party. The stage seemed set for interesting
developments, but during the closing days of 1937 the police
undertook an extensive round-up of "Communists" and among
those gethered in was Mr. Kaju Kato, a member of Parliament
and one of the leading spirits of the Social Mass Party, who
was arrested as he returned from making a "comfort visit" to
the soldiers in China! This has led to further upheavals in
the Party, and it is now difficult to say what the future will
bring.
The collapse of party politics after almost fifty years'
effort can be attributed in the finel analysis to ignoring the
real bases for political divergences. These bases exist in the
conflict between medievalism and modern thought. The mechaniza-
tion of industry is affecting every aspect of Japanese life and
is bringing in its train a horde of new problems which in
advanced countries would be primary political issues. Instead,
they heve in effect been banned from the political arena, and
effort is being made witn the cooperation of the politicians to
solve them within the fremework of what the press is pleased
to call "Jananese tradition and polity. An example from the
particular will clarify this generality: The cotton spining
and weaving industry is the most important industry in the
country

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
69-7
-7-
country. The fact that the operatives are largely young
girls recruited from the farms, that they are indentured
for a period of years, and that they are housed in dormitories
and paid a low wage is well known. This arrangement works
admirably in the interests of both the mill operators, who
are supplied with cheap labor, and the landowning classes,
whose tenants obtain added income, but at the same time it is
admirably calculated to preserve medieval concepts and to
prevent the inevitable -- a desire by labor for a greater
share in the profits of industry.
These conditions lead to the observation that it is
unlikely that a two-party system can rest on solid ground
in Japan until there comes into existence a substantial
number of trained mechanics and artisans employed in
mechanized factories. Unlike the native artisans, working along
manual lines, they divest themselves readily of feudal concepts
of relations between employer and employee, and what is also
to the point, they are apt to have more schooling than the
average laborer. One of the results of the war with China is
a growing heavy metals industry, and as aftermath of the war
there might well be introduced into Japanese politics a new
honesty and vigor.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
800
EHD:v
Copy to Ambassador Johnson.
n
" Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.93)
70-1
2519
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.5
Tokyo, January 6, 1938.
No. 2727.
SUBJECT: NEW YEAR ESSAGES OF JAPANESE OFFICIALS.
894.00/771
2
38   1 29
Coky1
HEI
101
AT
vin of
LA..J
AC
1938
x4
The Honorable
FE3 9-193
The Secretary of State,
FTLED
F/MR
Washington.
Sir:
Enclosed with this despatch are copies of trans-
lations as published in the JAPAN ADVERTISER of the public
messages released on January 1 by Japanese officials, in
accordance with the prevailing custom of new year pronounce-
ments.
All the messages maintain a tone of optimism. Most
put in a word for renewed exertions by the nation, and some
forecast

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
70-2
-2-
forecast 1938 as a year of greet importance in the destinies
of Japan.
1/
Premier Konoe speaks with a sense of impending renaissance,
changes in 1938 more significant than the Meiji restoration
period or the Russo-Japanese war. He says that Japan's effort
1
is to help China recover from degeneration, and that nothing
short of such recovery is vital to Japan's own security. There
is probably a warning of further government control when the
Premier states that Japan must more fundamentally mobilize
the whole strength of the whole nation for the objectives of
the state. In discussing China he holds out an invitation
to a new régime. He asserts that responsibility is keenly
felt for mishaps to British and American vessels on the
occasion of the fall of Nanking.
The Foreign Minister calls attention to the Sino-Soviet
non-aggression pact as a political guarantee of continued
supplies to China o1 Soviet munitions. He expresses pleasure
over the amicable settlement of the PANAY incident, and an-
V
ticipates continued friendship with the United States as a
good neighbor. Mr. Hirota expresses gratitude for the friend-
ly attitude of Germany and Italy, and soft-pedals the anti-
comintern accord by ascribing its significance to cultural
relations. He speaks with favor of Italian recognition of
"Manchukuo", and of exchange of notes of recognition between
"Manchukuo" and the F ranco régime in Spain.
2/
The Home Minister, Admiral Suetsugu, glorifies the vic-
tories in China and admonishes preparation for protracted war,
asserting that the international situation confronts Japan
with

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.98)
70-3
-3-
with difficulties in the years ahead.
Finance Minister Kaya speaks as if pleased with the
results of emergency financial measures thus far and pleads
for diminution in populer consumption.
4/
The message of Mr. Yuki, the governor of. the Bank of
Japan, has ore to say than Mr. Kaya's. Although finding
the operation of emergency measures satisf ctory he points
out that more money was put in circulation by the govern-
ment in 1937 than in 1936, and that in 1938 the sum must be
larger still. He admits that absorption of government bonds
has not been fully satisfactory, he favors maintenance of
the foreign exchange rate, and he anticipates that the coming
year, though not one of panic, will be one of recession.
Mr. Yoshino, Minister of Comnerce and Industry, states
()
that Japanese imports for eleven months through November
5
exceeded exports by ¥ 650,000,000 and that the adverse balance
in 1938 will be worse. He urges economy in consumption while
keeping open the im ortation of essentials, and in general
betrays no reat concern for the present condition of the
country.
6/
The Minister of Agriculture and Forestry gives himself
particularly to exhorting the rural population to continued
sacrifices. He is however frank enough to indicate that in
rural districts the people are beginning to feel shortages in
labor, agricultural machinery, fertilizers, fodder, and oil.
New year messages would ordinarily be optimistic rather
than otherwise, but even making full allowance for this na-
tural bent it still remains unlikely that the dominant views
of the officials of the government are other than those ex-
pressed.
The nation is confident. Hostilities in China have
progressed

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.98)
70-4
-4-
progressed rapidly and successfully, and the serious economic
load necessary therefor has been borne with very little domestio
hardship. It is in the country districts that the burden will
in all probability fall with the greatest impact, but that ef-
fect can be deferred for some time, and has not yet become a
pressing problem. Two convictions appear to prevail among the
people and among the men in office: first, that Japan is at
grips with problems of prime importance in the country's history;
and second, that the nation is equal to the task.
Respectfully yours,
Somnfth . om
Joseph C. Grew.
CC:C
800
Enclosures:
Clippings from the JAPAN ADVERTISER, January 1, 1958,
as follows:
1.
"Konoe and Hirota Stress Diplomacy in 1938
Messages";
2.
"Suetsugu Pleased by Spirit of 1937";
3.
"Kaya Asks Support of Finance Policy";
4.
"Economic Support Stressed by Yuki";
5.
"Yoshino Cites Need of Pushing Exports;
6.
"Difficulties Ahead, Arima Warns Nation":

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
70-5
Enclosure No. ,1to despatch
No.
dated Jan. 6, 1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, January 1, 1938.
KONOE AND HIROTA
Germany and Italy, by their friendly
attitudes since the China outbreak.
have won the gratitude of the whole
Japanese nation, the Foreign Minister
STRESS DIPLOMACY
says at the beginning of and repeats
at the erd of his paragraph on rela-
tions with them.
894.00/771
The Premier's message follows in
IN 1938 MESSAGES
full:
"At this beginning of the new year,
let our whole ation express most res-
pectfully our felicitations on the health
and prosperity of the Imperial Family.
Premier Regrets 'Dogmatic Pre-
Year Significant
'To Japan. 1938 will prove even more
judice' of Those Giving
sigr. ificant than the year of the Meiji
Restt ratior or the years of the Russo-
Help to China
Japanese War. A: the time of the Re-
steration. Japan was concerned with
nothing beyond domestic reorganiza-
YEAR HELD IMPORTANTEST
tion. Through the Russo-Japanese
War, it made its appearance as an im-
plicitly recognized Oriental Power. But
Foreign Minister Says Un-
today Japan is at once progressive and
international. and its actions have
reasonable British Attacks
worldwide effects bearing directly on
peace and war and tomorrow's world
Not Understood Here
cuiture.
"Iis real intention at present is to
help China to recover from its degen-
AMITY WITH U.S. GROWING
cration and thus to provide an unshak-
able foundation for the development
and stability of East Asia in order
to make it one of the mainstays in
Foreign relations receive prominent
true organization of world peace. In
attention in the New Year messages t
fact. Japan has grown so big that no-
the nation of Premier Konoe and For-
thing short of this would serve the
eigr Minister Koki Hirota.
purpose of assuring its own security.
"The standing of 1938 in history is
Prince Konoe. asserting that 1938 wil!
left for future historians to record. but
prove more significant to Japan than
the Japanese of today will give the
even the year of the Meiji Restoration
year significance and consummate its
regrets "dogmatic prejudice" in some
significance. Any progress in any age
will meet with opposition from obseu-
parts of the world that manifests itself
rantist influences. Japan's attitude to-
in the idea that the way to solve the
day is receiving sympathetic encourage-
Sino-Japanese problem is to assist
n:ent from progressive nations. but
strong resistance and even pressure
China. Japan is receiving "sympathe-
from the group of those believing in
tic encouragement from progressive
maintenance of the status quo. Thus
nations." he says. "but strong resist-
Japan must expect to pass through
ance and even pressure from the group
many more stages before achieving
of those believing in maintenance of
the glory of its ultimate victory.
the status quo."
Nation Must Mobilize
Mr. Hirota reviews the complications
"Japan can only march ahead. To
in foreign relations since the China
overcome international difficulties as
outbreak. Despite Japan's disavowal
peacefully as possible. it will reed a
of any intention of disturbing British
gigantic reservoir of national power.
interests, he states, some British are
For this purpose. it must mobilize, more
attacking Japan unreasonably. The
organically than at present. the whole
failure of the Japanese to understand
strength of the whole nation on be-
their attitude has been inevitable. He
half of the objectives of the State.
urges Great Britain to have faith in
"The experience of the past six
Japan.
months has shown what the Japanese
Feelings Disagreeable
people can do. With firm conviction
By giving the impression that "So-
that our task can be accomplished and
viet munitions supplies to China have
been guararteed politically," the Sino-
with accurate appreciation of our cir-
cumstunces, we must prepare more
Sovict non-aggression pact has arous-
thorourghly than ever for a long bat-
ed "disagreeable feelings" in Japan, ac-
cording to the Foreign Minister. The
the.
continued refusal of the Soviets to
"After the fall of Nanking, the Na-
conclude a new fishery convention is
tional Government of China fled in
to be regretted.
dispersion into the Yangtze hinterland,
Japanese-American relations, in Mr.
where to all intends and purposes it
Hirota's opinion, have improved con-
appears to have degraded into a mere
siderably of late, and Japen looks for-
ward to maintenance of friendship.

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No2 , to despatch
No. 2727, dated Jan. 6, 1938.
from-the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, January 1, 1938.
SUETSUGU PLEASED
"It is incumbent upon us to offer our
sircere gratitude and appreciation to
those killed in action on the China
fronts. We extend, at the same time,
BY SPIRIT OF 1937
our most profound thanks to the united
national unity 'behind the gun.'
"Now the whole Japanese nation wel-
comes the new year. the thirteenth
year of Showa, 1938. with nation-wide
Spiritual Mobilization a Suc-
joy over the meritorious victories.
However, we are still very far from
cess, Says Home Minister's
the ultimate objective of the present
campaign, that is firm establishment of
Holiday Statement
a lasti.:g peace in the Orient through
a co-operation between Japan and
China. We must. under the circum-
WARNS OF LONG CONFLICT
stances, prepare for a protracted war-
fare. Although Nanking is now in the
Japanese hands, General Chiang Kai-
Admiral Pleads for Continued
shek and his clique are still avowedly
for a lasting resistance against Japan.
Co-operation in Foreign and
We must therefore push on with our
punitive campaign with unabated vig.
Domestic Fields
or. Reflect.on on the present inter-
national situation readily will con-
vince us of the fact that a number
Satisfaction over the response of the
of difficulties beset the national destiny
natio. to the movement for spiritual
of Japan in the years to come.
"It goes without saying that the en-
mobil'zation is expressed in the New
t:re nation must redouble its efforts
Year's message of the Home Minister
to surmount every difficulty that beset
Admiral Nobumasa Suetsugu.
it. Complete co-operation. both in the
fields of foreign and domestic affairs
"I sincerely congratulate the nation
of the State is vital.
on achieving its desired objectives."
said the Admiral, as quoted by Domei.
"The spectacular development of a
proper national spirit within the short
peried since its inauguration can be at-
tributed only to the traditional attitude
of Nippon in the face of a national
crisis.
"Sin:e the China incident broke out
last July. the Imperial Japanese army
has been seoring record victories over
the Chinese in spite of the odds. The
vast North China area has been placed
under the Japanese control. while in
the south. Shanghai. and in December
Nanking. the enemy's capital. were cap-
tured. Such a feat is worth being re-
corded in the world's military annals
in capital letters.
"By dint of this brilliant military
feat accomplished by the Imperial
army, the world Powers have come to
recognize the immutable position of
Japan as the stabilizing factor of the
Far East. This is to be attributed to
the august virtues of the Emperor as
well as to the unswerving loyalty and
biavery of the Imperial officers and
men.

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3, to despatch
No.2727 , dated Jan. 6, 193
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, January 1, 1938.
KAYA ASKS SUPPORT
"Among other requisites, we must
enforce economy in consumption so
as to enlarge our importing power for
OF FINANCE POLICY
raw materials necessary to carry out
the hostilities, use substitutes for war
materials, and reduce Japan's payments
in her invisible foreign trade.
"In my New Year address, I here-
Finance Minister Expresses
with express my wishes for a stronger
support of the nation to the financial
Confidence, Based on Reac-
and economic policy of Japan.
"With my wishes for the ever-con-
tion to 1937 Measures
tinuing prosperity of the Imperial
family, I also pray for the success and
glorious victory of the Japanese forces
PLEADS FOR
ECONOMIES
who are loyally carrying out their
military operations in China.
"Nanking, the capital of the enemy,
New Year Message Hails Public
fell into the hands of the Japanese
forces only four months after Japan
Reception of Laws So Far
determined to carry out punitive ope-
rations against China last August. It
Laid Down
is an endless pleasure to greet the
new year following such a glorious
victory.
Necessity of stronger support by the
"The successful achievement of the
whole nation for the Government's fi-
planned objective of the present ope-
nancial policy to achieve the complete
rations in the China incident will pave
the way to ensuring lasting peace in
objectives of the current warfare is the
the Orient. It is one of the vital duties
keynote of the New Year's message of
imposed on the Japanese nation to
the Finanee Minister. Mr. Okinori Ka-
achieve our historical undertaking,
therefore the nation must make every
ya. as reported by Domei
effort for this purpose at any cost."
"In view of the delicate international
relations centering about the China
incident," he said. "together with the
reckless determination of General Chi-
ang Kai-shek to continue resistance to
Japan. the nation behind the gun
hould leave no stones unturned to
solve a! problems arising from pro-
tracted hostilities. Especially must we
have wide popular support for the Gov.
ernment's financial policy which is
formulated to meet such an emergeney.
"So far, various phenomena in the
financial and economie fields have met
with favorable reaction. We are in-
spired with confidence in this respect.
The nation must be unified and re-
double its backing of various measures,
including underwriting of nationat
bonds and small-value national de-
bentur's to finance the hostilitles.

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. , Sto despatch
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, January 1, 1938.
ECONOMIC SUPPORT
"The absorption of Government
bonds was not fully satisfactory, but
was not necessarily bad.
Thanks to the rally behind the gun.
STRESSED BY YUKI
tonds sold heavily, especially patrio-
tic bonds.
Emergency Laws Effective
Development of finances in 1938 de-
pends on the progress of the China
Governor of Bank of Japan
trouble. Japan's military campaign
has reached a temporary cessation, as
Reviews 1937 Finances in
a result of the fall of Nanking, but
the future cannot be foretold easily
New Year Message
However, Japan's original national
strength is destined to be fully dis-
played by the current emergeney.
GREATER PRODUCTION SEEN
"The emergeney capital readjustment
law is beginning to show its effects,
and results this year will be more
Official Says Absorption of Gov-
prcnounced than last year. Distribu-
ernment Bonds Not Fully
ion of money by the Government this
year will be wider and heavier than
Satisfactory
last year. as the emergeney budget in-
creases.
The money will find its way into
Governor Toyotaro Yoki. of the Bank
the money market. so that the pre-
of Japan. in his New Yee messige
vailing stringency will naturally be
stressed the need for the people to ex-
alleviated. If this is fully realized,
ert every effort to economically sup-
economic activity will be spectacular.
port the country's po'iey in China and
Meanwhile, the emergeney export-im-
to wholebeartedly place themselve.
port readjustment law and the ex-
'behind the gun." His message. which
change control law wili be appropri-
was issued yesterday through Domet.
ately worked out. Proluctive expan-
sion will be realized, and there will
follows:
"Looking back on the financial sit-
be no need to fear an inflationary
uation in 1937, demand for capita! was
boom of an malignant form.
aroused mainly for perfection of the
"It goes without saying that the
Reaction Predicted
defense program, and the demand be
paramount importance to maintain and
came greater ith the deveiopiment of
develop national strength is to increase
the China incident.
Japan needs to enlarge its produe-
the nation's productive capacity. To
tion, for which money has been amply
attain this object. development of eco-
demanded. The supply and demand of
Japan must be accomplished at any
nomic resources in territories close to
goods and capita! were nearly balanced
cost. The encouragement of export
throughout the year, and financiers of
trade in also necessary to get money
the country co-operated with nationa
policies.
to buy goods from abroad.
"The setback seems to have come
"Emerg ney economie measures were
from the economic situation abroad.
adopted by the Government along the
Although nothing as the universal pa-
lines of war-time policies. fo!lowing the
nic in 1929 is likely to take place. I
progress of the Sino-Japanese conflict.
am of the opinion that reaction will
The measures are working satisfactori-
follow. Japan must secure overseas'
ly. due to the facts that Japan's ne.
markets, supplying cheap but good ar-
tional strength as a w hole has inereased
ticles.
considera:ly and its foundations have
"It will be dangerous for Japan to
been firmly consolidated.
see the prices of its exports rise. The
Money Distribution Heavy
maintenance of the exchange rate will
"Money distributed by the Govern-
not only prevent prices from going up.
ment in 1937 was much arger than for
but will contribute toward the sound
the year before. Demand for capital
working of finance and economy."
grew to fall in line with industrial ex
pansion and settlement of accounts
with foreign countries which came be-
cause of the unusually heavy iinports.
"The money market was naturally
affected by this situation and tense-
ness preva.led. Due. however, to ap-
propriate measures taken by the Gov-
ernment and the Bank of Japan. no-
thing serious happened. Demaed for
mency inereased heavily toward the
end of the year, but because of the
willingness of the Bank of Japan and
other financial institutions to lend anv
amount needed the situation passed
peacefully.

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.99)
No.2727 , dated Jan.6, 1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, January 1, 1938.
YOSHINO CITES NEED
"For this purpose. the projected ex-
pansion of productive power of Japan
is absolutely necessary in munitions
and related important industrial ac-
OF PUSHING EXPORTS
tivities.
"In this connection. the Government
is doing its best to increase domestic
productive power by special legislation
especially in metalic, machinery, che-
Minister of Commerce Also Asks
mical. oil. coal and other industries.'
Turning to the trade situation dur-
for Expansion of Production
ing 1937. Mr. Yoshino cited figures up
to the end of November showing an
in Emergency
excess of imports over exports
amounting to ¥646.635.000 with the ex-
ports totaling ¥3.034.865.000 and the im-
POINTS TO TRADE FIGURES
ports. ¥3.681.500,000. He also forecast
an increase in the import margin in
1938 due to ammunition needs and ex-
Nation Urged in New Year Mes-
pansion of produetive power.
"We must spare as much as pos-
sage to Tolerate Hardships
of Control Plans
sible even those commodities actually
needed to check their imports." he
said. "Simultaneously. we must try
In a New Year's message to the
to have necessary goods imported
sncothly without inviting inflation."
business worid. the Minister of Com-
Explaining that various kinds of
meree and Industry. Mr. Shinji Yoshi-
incasures have been enforced to res-
no. call, on the entire nation to use
trict imports and exports by means of
domestie prodt.ets and substitutes
the Trade and Related Industry Read-
manufactured within Japan for the
justinent Aet and the provisional Dis-
prometion of national welfare.
posal of Imported and Exported Arti-
Mr. Yoshino also stresses the neces-
cles Law. the Minister urged the na-
sity of inereasing exports to aid in
tion to tolerate hardships accompany-
balancing international payments and
ing such regulation.
to inerease the national capacity for
"Any readjustment of materials can-
importing necessities. The Minister
not be accomplished by the Govern-
took note of the faet that the Gov-
ment alone. It is an indispensable
ernment hed adopted measures for in-
condit.on that the nation co-operate
creasing exports by establishing trade
with the Government's policy," he as-
museums at prineipal markets and by
serted.
sending
important trade missions
abroad.
The year-end message urges co-
cpcration for sound development of
domestie business. reminding the na-
tion that modern warfare was fought
in no small degree upon the economic
battlefield.
"There can be no doubt." he said.
"that a high morale is fundamental
for victory in war. But the outcome
largely may be influeneed by whether
the nations ai war can supply the ne-
cessary materials. Accordingly. we
must first of all produce abundant
supplies.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure N6 , to despatch
No:?727, dated Jan: 6, 1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, January 1, 1938.
DIFFICULTIES AHEAD,
"However. I desire to call the at-
tention of the country to the fact that
the results of rural administration as
obtained so far warrant no optimism
ARIMA WARNS NATION
for the future. Many more reper-
cussions, of a diverse nature, of the
China incident are yet to be experiene-
ed and overcome. It is necessary that
every rural population therefore at this
griculture Minister Urges Re-
opportunity should renew its deter.
minat.on not to shrink.from the fu-
newal of Determination to
ture.
"General apprehension at first was
Cope With Hardships
that the requisitioning and comman-
decring of war materials and military
horses from the country would dis-
DEAL OF PEACE STRESSED
organize rural communit.es and conse-
quently at once lower their capacity
for production. Mainly due to the
New Year Message Also Em-
fact, however, that the China inciden:
occurred during the slack season of
phasizes Importance of Ration-
agricultural activit.es, the immediate
alizing Rural Production
effects of the hostilities on farmers
were neither serious. nor extensive
Because of this condition, it is not
Count Yoriyasu Arima. the Minister
to be taken for granted that the fu-
ture course is casy. To cope with the
of Agriculture and Forestry. in his
future, it is necessary for rural districts
New Year message to the nation and
to resort to various measures econo-
particularly rural and fishing communi-
mically to strengthen their position.
ties, urges preparedness for the future
such as strengthening the labor sys-
and renewal of national determination
tem. utilization of livestock side by
to surmount additiona! obstaeles which
side with machines and 1ools, rational
are certaim to arise as a result of the
re-distribution of fertilizers and con-
China incident.
servation of fodder and oil. Together
After greeting the nation on the oc-
with such efforts, encouragement
casion of the New Year, the message
should be given to gencra! co-opera-
goes on:
tion among farmers and fishermen"
"Ever since my assumptlon of the
Demand to Increase
portfolio of Agriculture and Forestry
The statement then declares that a
in the Cabinet in June jast. I have
heavier supply of general goods, in-
endeavored to promote the develop-
cluding food and clothing. will be re-
ment of rural communites through
quired as a result of the China inci-
exploitation of natural resources and
dent, and continues:
through a sound expansion of the
"In view of the emergeney, it is of
country's economic power.
the utmost necessity to encourage the
"Once the current Chin incident
export of agrarian and fishing goods
occurred, however. the Government
and to curb the upward tendency of
was compelled to place the country on
imports from foreign countries."
a wartime system in order to drive
To achieve this purpose, the Min-
home its program of chastising the
ister's statement suggests three cours-
lawless Chinese armies and establish-
es: improvement of production tech-
ing permanent peace in the Far East.
nique and the development of sub-
Thus. the Government of necessity had
stitutes and. in line with the latter.
to modify its original program toward
saving and rational distribution of
rural communities in line with such
materials.
policies needed to cope with the criti-
A section toward the end of the mes-
cal situation.
sage is devoted to emphasizing the im-
Stabilization Sought
portance of most effectively utilizing
"While on the one hand. obtaining
military horses so as to cause mini-
from rural coamunities various war
mum effects on rural comnunities.
supplies and such necessities for the
The message closes by saying:
army as horses for military use. the
"With Japan about to establish ever-
Government, at the same time. spared
lasting peace in the Orient as stabiliz-
no efforts directed to consolidate the
ing power. I an glad to have this
lvelihood and productive power of
opportunity of celebrating with you
the country's farming and fishing po-
the advent of the New Year. Again
pulation.
deeply realizing the important role to
"I am happy to report that, in con-
be discharged by the situation facing
junetion with the unreserved co-opera-
the country. I express my carnest de-
tion of rural com.nunities with the
sire that a new stage may be marked
Government, these measures of the
for the devclopment of rural society
Administration have succeeded in
to minister to the promotion of our
checking to a large extent various un-
national prosperity."
favorable results of the incident.

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.92)
71-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
7Pap-
八
1-1336
JR
FROM
A portion of this tElEgram
Tokyo
must bE closely paraphrased
D1
beforE being communicated
Dated FEbruary 14, 1938
to anyonE. (A)
Rec'd 9:05 a m.
ehe
25
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
W
794.0
105, FEbruary 14, 6 p.m. (GRAY)
see
894.00/772
OnE. Snsational rumors arε current that. thE political
794.20
partics arE so strongly opnosed to a bill to "mobilizE
national resources" which is shortly to bE presented to
the Diet by the Government that a political crisis of thE
first order might bE precinitatEd. It is my purposE in
presenting thE following EstimatE to bE hElpful to thE
Department in wEighing dEspatches on this subjEct from
American correspondents.
Two. ThE bill is now being drafted by thE National
E0 17 1938
Planning Board and thE BurEau of Legislation and its
prEcisE tErms arE, therEforE, not known. ThE GovernmEnt
has, however, bEen informally Explaining thE principal
fEaturEs of thE mEasurE to mEmbErs of thE Diet and has
madE it clear that thE purposE of thE bill is primarily
to placE under thE control of Imperial headquarters in timE
of war or of "incidents" virtually all forms of productivE
F/A
industry. Oppositicn is bEing Expressed by various
parliamentary

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.97)
71-2
-2- #105, February 14, 6 p.m., from Tokyo.
parliamentary ElEments to thE proposEd delegation to thE
ExEcutivE of authority to apply such control along with
thE authority to imposE by ExEcutivE ordinances rEstrictions
in various other ways on thE right of privatE initiativE.
It is being affirmEd that thE mEasurE is intended to bE
a prεludE to thE introduction of an authoritarian form of
Government. (END GRAY)
ThrEE. ThE suggEstion has bEEn thrown out that thE
political partics will makE thE prEsentation of the bill
an occasion for a definitE stand against thE incrEasing
control over Government by thE army which is rEportedly
insisting upon thE Enactment of thE bill. TherE sEEms to
bE no doubt but that thE scattErEd remnants of thE so-callEd
liberal Element arE gathering togEther to defend as far
as posribl: thE right of privatE initiativE. WE understand,
however, that their opposition is concentrated on thE
fact that thE bill is being drafted with too broad a pEn
and will providE for thE dεtails bEing filled in by
ExecutivE ordinances. It is still too Early to say whEther
or not thE army will agrEE to the bill being madE morE
Explicit. H wEver, a prominent member of thE Diet informed
us today that hE ExpEctEd that thE bill would Eventually bE
approved after ExtensivE alteration.
GREW
WC:RR

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.95)
71-3
PIDINTIAL]
PARAPURASE
A telegram (no. 105) of February 14, 19ss, from the
Amerieam Ambassador at Tokyo reads substantially as fol-
10000
Semmmtional rumors are ourrent that the politieal
parties are so strongly opposed to a bill to "mobilise
netional resourees" which is shortly to be presented to
8
6
the Diet by the Government that a politieal arisis of
f
00
the first order might be precipitated. It is the Am-
bassador's purpose in presenting the following estimate
7
to be helpful to the Department in weighing despatohes
P
on this subjeet from American correspondents.
The bill is now being drafted by the National
Planning Doard and the Dureau of Leg1slation and its
preeise terme are, thereforo, not mown. The Government
has, however, been informally explaining the prinoipal
features of the measure to members of the Diet and has
made it olear that the purpose of the biil is primarily
to place under the control of Tmporial headquarters in
time of war or of "incidents" virtually all forms of
produetive industry. Opposition is being ex ressed by
various parliamentary elemonts to the proposed delega-
tion to the exeoutive of authority to apply suoh control
along with the authority to impose by executive ordinances
restrictions in various other ways on the right of private
initiative. It is being affirmed that the mearure is in-
tonded to be a prelude to the introduction of an authori-
tarian

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.94)
8
tariom form of goverrment.
Thare hes been put out the suggestion that the
presentation of the bill will be used by the political
parties as an oscasion for a definite stand against the
army's inereasing control over the Government. The
ammy is reported to be insisting that the bill be en-
asted. It seems certain that tho scattered remmants of
the so-ealled liberal element are getting together for
the purpose of defending the right of private initiative
as far as possible. It is the Ambassador's understand-
ing, however, that those opposing the bill are coneen-
trating on the fact that the bill is being written up
with too broad a pen and will provide for the filling
in of the detaib by exocutive ordinances. It 1s not
possible to say as yet whether the army will agroe to
the bill's being drafted in more explicit form. The
Ambassador was informed, however, on February 14 by a
prominent member of the riet that it was his oxpecta-
tion that after conaiderable alteration tho  ill would
eventually be approved.
804.00/778
ATUN?
898.
FE:EC:HES
FE
2-16

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.94)
JWB
72-1
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
GRAY
JR
1-1236
FROM
Tokyo
Dated March 8, 1938
DT
REc'd 10:30 a.m.
Secretary of StatE,
inshington.
159, rch 8, 8 p.m.
WAA
894.00
Ceis
My 149, rc: 5, noon.
OnE. ThE friction bEtvEEn thE GovErnmEnt and thE
894.00/773
politic l purties vhich flared up in discussions on
nation-l mebilization bill during thE first week of
in thE lant fEw days. A spEcial
Mirch cnmE to  hEd
Cobinet meeting held latE Saturday night Morch 5 was
folloved by a series of conferences with party leaders
as  result of vhieh both of thE leading partiEs replEdgEd
sunnort to thE CovErnment.
Tro. DespitE thE reneved ssurances of thE political
portits on Sund y Hareh  thot they would support thE
Government, which hs relaxEd thE political tEnsion,
thE elcetric powir control bill, one of the principal
PTT
Government bills in thE nresEnt sEssion, was amended on
1 
ond y in the Lover HousE in a manner clEarly
unsatisfactory to the Government. Moreover thE partiEs
F/M
continuE to usE obstructionist tactics on thE national
mobilization

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.97)
72-2
-2- #159, March 8, 8 p.m., from Tokyo.
mobilization law now in committeE.
ThrEE. Efforts continuE toward thE Early formation
of a singlE national party on thE basis of thE Existing
groups. A majority of thE leaders of thE two principal
parties thE Minseito and thE Seneyukai, appEar to havE
indicated willingness to support their parties identity
in a singlE party, realizing that they havE but two
alternatives: Either becomE ☐ part of thE singlE party
or facE comnletE Extinction through thE crEation of an
EntirEly nE": political grouping sponsored by the
Government. Most observers arE agreed that Prince
KonoE would bE favorably inclinEd to thE lendErship of
thE nE party dEspitE refusals in Earlier stages of thE
devElopment of thE singlE porty movement.
GREW
RR

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00/774
SEE123.Bullitt.William.C./382
FOR#1267
FROM
France
Bullitt
) DATED
Nov.23, 1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
SPO
REGARDING: Visit of Ambassador Bullitt to War saw. Memorandum of
conversetion between the Ambassador and the Japanese
Ambassador to Poland. Ambassador Sakoh stated that no
one in the Jepenese Government today knew the status of
Japan's policy with regard to China. He expressed the hope
of himself and members of his Government that the Japanese
mili tary men would get out of Central and Southern China
and negotiate for peace by granting autonomy to the
five Northern Provinces.
Memorandum of conversation between Ambassador Bullitt and
General Geering in Berlin. Goering expressed the belief that
the Japanese aim in China was to organize the Northern
Provinces as a base from which to attack the Soviet Union, since
it was obvious that this attack was inevitable due to the
geographical position of Vladivostok.
SEE enclosure No. 2, page 1, and enclosure No. 8. page 10.
C
tfv
O
G
File

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.94)
5222
IWS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EG
1-1836
GRAY
FROM
Tokyo
Dated March 5, 1938
Rec'd 10:36 a.m.
894.00/775
D
SecrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
las
A
A
149, March 5, noon.
Our 105, February 14, 6 p.m.
OnE• ConsidErablE friction has rEcently dEvElopEd
bEtwEen thE GovErnment and thE political parties.
894.
MEEtings of thE Lower HousE of thE Diet and of committEEs
havE frequently bEen marked by disorders and by violent
dEnunciation of thE GovErnmEnt on thE chargE of attempt-
ing to circumscribE pErsonal liberties and privatE
initiativE.
Two. TherE havE beEn a series of incidents recently
tending to sunport that chargE. A fortnight ago thE
MAR 0-1933
offices of thE political parties wErE forcibly occupied
PILED
by members of an anti-communist association which has
bEEn dEmanding thE dissolution of thE partiEs and thE
policE failEd to afford adequatE protection. ThE lEader
of thE Social Mass Party was physically assaulted a few
days ago, prEsumably by a reactionary. An army officer
F/M
appEnring bEforE a committeE of thE Lower HousE to Explain
the

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.98)
5223
-2- #149, March 5, noon, from Tokyo
thE National Mobilization Act improperly harangued thε
committEE and when interrupted ordered a member to
"shut up". ThesE and other incidents along with
lEgislation drafted by thε Government pointing toward
restriction of privatE initiativE and pErsonal libErties
havE created widEspread suspicion that an Element within
thE Government, headed by HomE Minister Suetsugu and
covertly EncouragEd by thE PrimE Minister,. is aiming at
bringing about changes along totalitarian lines in thE
political and social structurE of thE country.
ThrEE. Although thE critioism by thE political
partiEs of thE HomE Minister is vEhement somE of it is
thEatrical and donE for Effect. His resignation is bEing
dEmandEd but it rEmains to bE sEEn whether thE PrimE
Minister who is tied to Suetsugu by obligations of
personal friEndship will agrEE to sacrificE him. I am
reluctant to makE forecasts on JapanesE political dEvElop-
mEnts but it sEEms that thE indications arE strong that
thE political parties will not at this timE, when thE
nation is involved in hostilities with China and is Ex-
ternally in a gravE position, press thE Government to a
point wherE a political crisis of thE first magnitudE
would dEvelop. On thE other hand I ExpEct that thE Govern-
mEnt will makE to thE partiEs somE gEsturE of appeasEment.
Repeated to Shanghai for Hankow.
GREW
RR:CSB

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
D VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Larch 31, 1958.
JB
To note marked passages
in the uttached espatch
from Shan hai in regurd to
a Jupanese ury order cunceling
a previous order of punishment of
Jupumese soldiers, a parently in-
cludin   ose mished for in-
Praction of disci line in China.
Phe cli ing contains noth-
ing of interest not included in
the dos te .
An

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.96)
NO. /2/2
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL,
Shanghai, China,  Fobruary 12, 1938.
894.3
894.20
Announcement in Tokyo of Cancellation
SUBJECT:
of Army Order of Punishment.
mulh vi m
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
NA
WASHINGTON.
r001
SIR:
DT
I have the honor to invite the Department's
894.00/776
1/
despatch from Tokyo, published in today's NORTH CHINA
DAILY NEWS (British), stating that a Japanese army
order has been issued canceling a previous order of
punishment issued in connection with offenses com-
mitted prior to February 1l, 1938, in favor of those
soldiers who had on that date already been punished
or who were still undergoing punishment or whose
MAR
FILED
punishment had been postponed or otherwise not executed.
Paragraph five of the clipping states that it is
1938
believed the order includes soldiers punished for
infractions of discipline in China. If this order has
not already been brought to the attention of the Depart-
ment it is thought this news despatch may be of interest
F/M
in connection with the execution of any order of
punishment
1-1221

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
punishment which may have been issued against Japanese
soldiers involved in offenses against American citizens
or the American flag in China.
Respectfully yours,
C. E. Gauss
American Consul General
Enclosure
1/- Clipping from THE NORTH CHINA
DAILY NEWS of February 12, 1938.
800
HHS MB
In Quintuplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Hankow.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure No. 1 to despatch No. /2/2 of C. E. Gauss,
American Consul General at Shanghai, China, dated
February 12, 1938, on the subject: '"Announoement in
Tokyo of Cancellation of Army Order of Punishment."
SOURCE:
THE NORTH CHINA DAILY NEWS (British),
February 12, 1938.
SATURDAY,
FEBRUARY
Japanese Empire
Day is Enhanced
By Mass Amnesty
Citizenship Rights Restored
to 300,000 People
LEADERS OF TOKYO ARMY
REVOLT INCLUDED
Tokyo, Feb. 11.
Three hundred thousand Japanese,
including 150,000 political offenders,
have been reinstated to full citizenship
by an Imperial Amnesty issued to-day
on the occasion Empire Day which
marks the 2,598th anniversary of the
Accession of Emperor Jimmu, Japan's
first Ruler, and the 50th anniversary
of the promulgation of the Constitu-
tion.
Death sentences have been com-
muted to life sentences, while life
sertences have been commuted to im-
prisonment or penal servitude for
twenty years. Those already serving
time have had their terms commuted
to half the original sentences.
The former Capt. Ittaro Yamaguchi
and six other leaders of the revolt in
Tokyo on February 26, 1936, have had
their life sentences commuted to
twenty years' imprisonment, while the
former Naval Sub-Lieutenant Kiyoshi
Koga and three other naval officers,
who were involved in the assassina-
tion of the then Premier, Baron
Inukai, and other crimes in the ter-
rorist demonstration on May 15, 1932,
have had the remainder of their
sentences commuted by one quarter.
An Army orde announces the
cancellation, from o-day, of "an
Army order of punisament issuèd
in connection with olfences com-
mitted previous to ebruary 11
in favour of those who lave already
been punished or who are still under
soldiers punished for infractions of
discipline in China.
Japan's Rise to Power
In celebration of to-day's double
event, the Japanese newspapers drew
meteoric rise to the position of a
particular
Japan's
first-class
Power. Among other
things, they point out that Japan's
greatness is evidenced by contrast
of the Budget of 1868, which totalled
20500000 with that_of 1038 which

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.97)
Japanese Emplte
Day is Enhanced
By Mass Amnesty
REVOLT NOE
Theee hundred theus
Accession of Emperor Jimmu, Jasan's
first Ruler, and the foth annivermary
of the promulgation of the Constitu-
tion.
Death sentences have been com-
muted to life sentences, while life
ser.tences have been commuted to im-
prisonment or penal servitude for
twenty years. Those already serving
time have had their terms commuted
to half the original sentences.
The former Capt. Ittaro Yamaguchi
and six other leaders of the revolt in
Tokyo on Pebruary 26, 1936, have had
their life sentences commuted to
twenty years' imprisonment, while the
former Naval Sub-Lieutenant Kiyoshi
Koga and three other naval offcers,
who were involved in the assassina-
tion of the then Premier, Baron
Inukai, and other crimes in the ter-
rorist demonstration on May 15, 1832,
have had the remainder of their
sentences commuted by one quarter.
An Army ordes announces the
cancellation. from
o-day. of "an
Army order of punisament issuéd
in connection with oences com-
mitted / previous to
obruary 11
in favour of those wke ave already
been punished or who an still under
p hin  whoepunishment
... be exempted. postponed, sus-
pended o otherwise not exeçuted."
This order believed, includes
soldiers punished for infractions of
diseipline in China.
Japan's Rise to Power
In celebrazion of to-day's double
event. the Japanese newspapers draw
particular attention to
Japan's
incteorie rie 1o the position of a
Power. Among
other
things, they point out that Japan's
greatness is evidenced by contrast
of the Budge: of 1868, which totalled
Y.30,500.000, with that of 1938. which
totals Y.7.860,000.000- made up o1 the
ordinary Budge1 of Y.2.860.000,000 and
the "China
Incident" Budget of
Y.5 000,000.030.
Editorials in the Japanese news-
papers emphasize that the nation
must make fresh efforts for the
enhancement of national prestige and
to bring about stabilization of the
situation in East Asia.
To-day's celebrations
in Tokyo
were conducted ashore. afloat and
aloft. Over 200,000 citizens, mostly
students and members of the Young
Men's and Young Women's associa-
tions. paraded through the stroets
and converged at the plaza in front
of the Imperal Palace. Forty civilian
aeroplane: visited Tokyo to take
part in
the celebrations, while
all the
and the
Sumida River were in
full dress.
At 10 o'clock this morning, all
Japanese citizens in Tokyo stopped
their work and, facing the Imperial
Palace. paid a minute's silent tribute
to the Emperor.—Reuter.

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
:arch 29,1958
Reference Tokyo's 2800, March 3,
1938- "Economic obilization Biil".
The Emoassy's comnents on this bill
aud little to our present kno.leage
of the mobilization bill. as to
the translation of he text of the
bill, it is my belief that the bill
was amenaed on wo rurther occasions
berore rinal passage.
jongs

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
To: yo, arch 3, 1938.
Ho. 2800.
SUBJMCT:
CCU. TC CTLTC LL.
89.4.0
894.20
Division of
B
S
894.00/777
The Honorable
The Secretary (I state,
.aonin to..
MAR 31 193
TLHD
Sir:
772
Supplementing my telearom 105,/Februery 14, 1938,
1/
6 p.m., there is tranmitted herewith the J VRTIsms
translaticn of the bill which is now under consideration by
the Jane e e Diet to ive the Goverrment authority to carry
cut, in time of war or "incicent" similar to war, a general
economic mobilizaticn of the nation's resources and man power.
F/M
The

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
The bill was drafted by Government agencies (the Planning
Board and the Eureau of Legislation) and is offered to the
Diet as a Government measure.
工.
The bill is of the nature of enabling legislation.
Its aim is to ive the Governrent the autlority to control
the people and the procuction of the country in such a way
as best to serve war cbjectives. The provisions of the bill
cenerally are limited by the ualification of (a) necessity
to ceneral mobijizaticn and (b) time of war or incident similar
to war. Within the limite of thece twe ualifications the
powers which the enacted bill would grant to the Government
are sweepin. such powere extend to the drafting of Japan-
ese pubject: rer eneral mobilization enter rises; to control
of Japanese juricical persons; to determination of wages
end labor concitichs; to the settlement of lebor disputes;
to full pomer cver im orts, exporte, and customs tariff; to
the exproprietion of coode, plants, land, houses, mining
pro erties, water ri. itu; te fixiny of transportation charges;
to limitaticn or what can be published; to a vocational census;
to fixing storing requirements; to giving compensation; to
eranti subsicies; to the control of any business or enter-
prise necessary to mobilizatior; and to the control of any
goods or services necessary to mobilization. Carrying out
of the provisions would be by ordinance. A mobilization
compensation commission is provided for. Punishments for
violations are stipulated.
工I.

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
工I.
In studying this bill three articles of the Japanese
constitution snould be recalled. Article 5 states that the
Emperor exercises the legislative power with the consent of
the Diet. It is in pursuance of this article that the mobili-
zation bill is being presented to the Diet for enactment like
any ordinary law. Two other articles, not invoked in the
present instance, nave heretofore been generally thought of
as the basis for emergency action: articles Sl and 70.
Article 3l states thet the constitution's guarantees of
certain civil rights to subjects shall not, in time of war
or national emereency, limit exercise of powers appertaining
to the ereror. Article 7o statos that when the Diet can not
e convoked, and in event of urgent need for the meintenance
of public safety, the lovernment may teke all necessary
firancial measures by means of crdinance; but the matter shall
be submitted to the Diet at its next session. Should the
Diet at such subsequent session refuse approval, those
financial measures would, from the date of such refusal,
cease tc be effective.
工II.
The mobilization bill in its generaj form is said to
date fron some ten years eco when Jepan, like other countries
which desired to profit by the lessons of the war of 1914-1918,
studied plans for wartime economic mobilination to keep pace
with military requirenents. Such lans as were drafted ten
yeers

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
years ago were not made public, but in February 1938
the Government allowed to be printed in the newspapers
a draft of a mobilization law, with the announcement
that the currert session of the Diet would be asked to
enact it. This trial balloon provoked vigorous protest
to certain featur s, and several alteraticns were made
before the Cabinet passed on the craft described at the
beginning of this despatch and in enclosure 1. The bill
submitted to the Liet ciffers fron the eerlier newspaper
draft in several poirt. Four erticles have been deleted
vhich in the newspa er dr ft provided for (a) restriction
or prohibition f meetings er organizing, and for (b)
suppression of offendin newsnarers.
 further concession
in the bill as com ered with varlier draft is that there
is rovision for a mobilization commission to advise on
measures to be taken under authority of the act; and state-
ments have been made in the Diet by the Government promising
that Liet members woulc be well represented in this commission.
IV.
The Liet's reception cf the bill has been marked by
lengthy interpellation end by discussion which, in the
anemic political traditions of recent years in this country,
can be classed as vigorous. Fron the com.encement a number
of Diet members were suspicious of the bill, and this attitude
was not dispelled on finding the Governnent spokesmen poorly
informed about its many articles. Premier Konoe stayed away
at first, avowing a colf, and the discussion wandered ir-
regularly

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
regularly for lack of authoritative statement. Only on
March 2 did the situation, from the Government's point of
view, markedly i prove: on that day the Fremier personally
attended the meeting of the Lower House committee studying
the bill, replied to interpellaticns in able manner, and
calmed accumulating disquiet.
The report of the weeting, which is illuminating
throughout, ives evidence of the ap rehension which the
2/
bill has aroused (enclosure 2).
Several interpellators
expressed corcern lest enactment of the mobilization bill
lead on to fascism and e dictetorsnip. Prenier Konoe
replied affirming inability to believe that Japan vwill at
any time adopt any political fcrm that has become prevalent
abroad, and asserting that Japan's Imperial rulers are surety
apainst disaster. n interpellation about the impending
canger of e one-party move ent the Fre ier dodged by reply-
ing that the questicn wiether contendine parties or a single
party fer the whole nation be desirable must depend on the
prevaili s situetien; and the evasive nature of the answer
seems to confirm the vie tiat this question is too big an
issue for a Japanese in hi h orfice to meet directly and
frarkly. Considerable pressure was put on Konoe by inter-
pellators who urged the point that articles 31 and 70 of
the constitution rovide all the authority which is necessary
for energencies, unlees the bill has a covert purpose of
usherin in a totalitarian régine; ana to this the Premier
kept reaffirming that he considers it much preferable to
seek the Diet's approval for measures the need of which can
be

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
1
be foreseen, and to keep the emergency prerogative of
the Emperor for unforeseen contingencies which are always
possible.
V.
Successfully disarming as was Premier Konoe's eir of
frankness before the com:ittee, it can haraly be said that
he replied in complete candor. If Japan has ahead a long
and difficult task in carrying to completion the policy upon
vhich the country has launced on the continent, some political
discontent on the part of the classes on whom the burden will
fall heaviest is surely to be expected. In that contingency
the coverning of Janan will be a less difficult task if there
is no necessity of subnitting to subsequert Diet sessions
emergency measures taken under article 7o, and no necessity
of defending other acticns taken under the Imne ial preroga-
tive. Crdinances issued under the enabling legislation of
a mobilization law would not come un for subsequent approval:
the Dict would have hac its only say in enactine the sweeping
provisicns of the bill. It is not difficult to imagine many
not improbable situstions in the years ahead when the covern-
ors of Japan would be materially aided, in their confronta-
tion of the Jepenese  eonle, by the very relief which this
bill promises - relief from the necessity of dealing with
the Diet in the manner wi ich would be required in the ab-
sence of this legislation.
VI.

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
VI.
The mobilization bill's prospects for enactment can
only be surmised from the known attributes of Japanese
politics and from the opinion of observers and a few high
Japanese. At best the Diet does not have great independence,
and in times like tiese there is added pressure of public
opinion for full support of measures for the prosecution of
the hostilities. Prince Konoe is a popular premier, and the
presentation of the bill is well timed. The Government still
can call on the method of conmromise to cut off a few un-
essentials of the bill as a olite concession if required. It
would be difficult at the present juncture to find basis for
believing that the bill will be defeated.
Althou h the Diet has shown a disposition during the
present session to contest legislation presented by the Gov-
ernment which would, ii eracted, circumscribe personal rights
and private initiative, any assumption that such opposition
reflects a rowtn of discontent with the Government's conduct
of foreien reletions or of its foreign policies takes on the
color more of speculation than of deduction fron facts.
Respectfully yours,
800
Joseph C. Grew.
CC:C
Enclosures:
 1/ Clipping, "Mobilization Lill Presented to Diet in
Amended Form," JAPA ADVERT1SER, February 20, 1938.
Clinping, "Konoe Vigorous in Upholding General Mobiliza-
ticn Bill," JAPA ADVRTISER, March 3, 1938.
Cony to Ambassador Johnson.
Cony to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No./ , to despatch
No.280o , dated March3,1938
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Sunday, February 20,,1938.
MOBILIZATION BILL
As laws are already in force restrict-
ing the constitutional rights of "liberty
of speech, writing, publication, public
PRESENTED TO DIET
meetings and associations," critics of
the bill were suspicious of the follow-
ing two articles in the original draft:
"Article 20. In time of war, when
IN AMENDED FORM
found necessary for national general
mobilization, the Government may, in
accordance with the provisions of an
Imperial ordinance. issue necessary
orders for the restriction or prohibition
of meetings or mass movements.
Major Parties to Have Three or
Suspension Provided
Four Members Each Inter-
"Article 22. In time of war, when
found necessary for national general
pellate on Details
mobilization, the Government may, in
accordance with the provisions of an
Imperial ordinance, suspend the pub-
GOVERNMENT IS OPTIMISTIC
lication of a newspaper when its sale
or distribution has been prohibited
twice or more within 30 days or twice
Original Provisions Regarding
or more consecutively in accordance
with Article 23 of the Press Law or
Public Meetings and Publi-
the stipulations of the second para-
graph of the previous article (see
cations Deleted
Article 20 of the revised draft).
"The competent local government au-
thorities may confiscate newspapers
COMMISSION TO BE SET UP
printed for the purpose of sale or dis-
tribution in violation of suspension or-
ders given under the previous para-
With the original provisions for res-
graph."
triction of public meetings and sus-
Both of these articles have been de-
pension of newspapers and other pub-
leted, as well as two articles providing
penalties for violations of them.
lications deleted to lessen the opposi-
Another concesion embodied in the
tion to it the bill for general mobili-
revised draft is provision for the estab-
zation of the nation in time of war
lishment of a body to decide on ap-
was submitted yesterday to the House
plication of the proposed law, to be
of Representatives. where the Govern-
called the National General Mobiliza-
tion Inquiry Commission, which will in-
ment faces rigorous interpellation on
clude Diet members and representatives
it that is expected to last at least two
of private interests.
days.
A translation of the bill for general
The Minseito and the Seiyukai plan
mobilization of the nation follows:
to send three or four men each to the
Article 1. The national general mobi-
lization referred to in this law is the
rostrum to ask questions on every de-
control and utilization of personal and
tail of the measure. Despite the op-
commodity resources to display most
position which they will manifest,
effectively the entire force of the nation
centering largely in the wide authority
for the purpose of attaining the object
the bill gives to the Government to act
of national defense in time of war (in-
under Imperial ordinances, the Gov-
cluding incidents of the nature of war).
crnment is optimis:ic, Domei reports.
Article 2. The gereral mobilization
and believes the bill will be passed
goods referred to in this law are the
without much debate in either House.
following:
To facilitat: its passage. Premier Ko-
1. Arms. warships. ammunition and
noe, President Masao Taki of the Plan-
other military goods.
ning Board and other Government
2. Clothing. focdstuffs. beverages and
leaders will continue the efforts they
feed necessary for national general
have been exerting for the past se-
mobilization.
veral weeks to assure Diet members
3. Mcdical supplies. medical instru-
that their fears regarding the bill are
ments and pparatus and other hygi-
unnecessary.
enic gocds. as well as hygienic sup-
Alterations Made
plies for horses, necessary for national
Before adopting the final draft on
general mobilization.
Friday, the Cabinet made a number of
4. Vessels. aircraft, rolling stock,
changes to meet objections to the mea-
horses and other transportation facili-
sure. According to the original word-
ties necessary for national general mo-
ing. the proposed law could be enforc-
bilization.
ed "in time of war or an incident."
5. Communications facilities neces-
In answer to criticism that the term
sary for national general mobilization.
"incident" is too ambiguous. the Gov-
6. Materials for civil engineering
ernment has altered the phrase to read
and building purposes and those for
"in time of war (including incidents
lighting purposes necessary for na-
of the nature of war)."
tional general mobilization.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.99)
7. Fuel and electric power necessary
Articlc 8. In time of war when na-
for na:ional general mobilization.
tional general mobilization is found
8. Industrial materials. machinery.
necessary, the Government mey, in ac-
machine tools, equipment and other
cordance with provisions of an Imperial
goods required for the production, re-
ordinance, give necessary orders in
pair. distribution or preservation of
connection with the production, repair,
materials mentioned in each of the
distribution and transfer of general
foregoing paragraphs.
mobilization materials, as well as in
9. Materials o:her than mentioned
connection with their disposal. use,
in each of the foregoing paragraphs
consumption, possession or moving.
necessary for national gener2l mobili-
Article 9. In time of war when na-
national general mol
zation to be so designated by Imperial
tional general mobilization is found
neopssary, the Governm
ordinance.
necessary, the Goverrment may, in ac-
cordance with the provisions
Enterprises Listed
cordance with provisions of an Imperial
perial ordinance, restrict
Article 3. The general mobilization
ordinance, restrict or prohibit exporta-
businesses referred to in this law are
tion or importation, or order exporta-
the following:
tion or importation, impose export or
1. Business pertaining to the pro-
import tariffs or increase or decrease
duction, repair, distribution, export,
export or import tariffs.
of facilities belonging to general m
import or storage of general mobiliza-
Article 10. In time of war when na-
lization enterprises.
tion materials.
tional general mobilization is found
Article 17. In time of war when ma-
2. Business pertaining to the trans-
necessary. the Government may, in ac-
tional general mobilization is found
portation tnd communication necessary
cordance with provisions of an Im-
necessary, the Government may, in ac
for national general mobilization.
perial ordinance. use or expropriate
cordance with the provisions of an Im-
necessary for national general mobili-
zation.
4. Business pertaining to sanitation,
3. Business pertaining to financing
necessary. the Government may, in ac-
cordance with provisions of an Imperial
general mobilization goods.
tional general mobilization is found
Article 11. In time of wan when na-
perial ordinance, give orders for es
among owners of enterprises of or dif-
ferent from the same category of gen
eral mobilization enterprises, causins
tablishment of a controlling agreement
veterinary at:ention for horses and re-
ordinance. restrict or prohibit the es-
them to secure permits concerning
lief necessary for national general mo-
tablishment of. increase of capital of
changes or closing. and give order
bilization.
merger of change of objects of, and
that enterprise owners, participating or
5. Business pertaining to education
flotation of debentures of ccmpanies,
not participating in the respective con?
and training necessary for national ge-
or the calling in of second or sub-
trolling agreements, to abide by such
neral mobilization.
sequent payments of unpaid shares. or
agreements.
6. Business pertaining to inquiry
give necessary orders relative to dis-
Article 18. In time of war when na-
and research necessary for national
position of profit. depreciation and
tional general mobilization is found ne-
general mobilization.
other accouting. or give necessary
cessary. the Government may, in ac.
7. Busness pertaining to information
crders to those in charge of business
ordance with the provisions of an Im
or enlighteniment and propaganda ne-
concerning the use of cepital.
erial ordinance. order the owners o
cessary for national general mobiliza-
Exceptions Provided
nterprises of the same category o:
tion.
Article 12. In time of war when na-
different categories of general mobili-
8. Business pertaining to guarding
tional general mobilization is found
zation enterprises to establish guilds
necessary for national general mobil-
necessary. the Government may pro-
for the purpose of controlling those
ization.
9. Enterprises necessary for national
ordinance concerning the inerease of
vide separate regulations by Imperial
enterprises.
The guilds mentioned in the previous
ed by Imperial ordinance other than
semeral mobilization to be so desrgrat
capitalization or flotation of deben-
tures to roise funds for the equipment
cal persons.
paragraph shall be organized as juridi-
those mentioned in each of the fore-
of companies hich will manage gen-
When those who have been ordered
going paragraphs.
eral mobilization enterprises, in spite of
to establish guilds. as stipulated in
Artiele 4. In time of war when ra-
the provisions of Articles 200 and 210
Paragraph 1. neglect to do so, the Gov-
tional general mobilization is found
of the Conmercial Code.
ernment may take necessary action
necessary the Government may, in ac-
Article 13. In time of war when
against them in connection with the
cordance with the provisions of an
national general mobilization is found
drafting of the articles of such guilds
Imperial ordinance. draft subjects of
necessary. the Government may, in ac-
and their establishment.
the Empire and cause them to be en-
cordance with the provisions of an Im-
When the guilds f Paragraph 1 have
gaged in general mobilization enter-
perial ordinance, use or control or ex-
been established. the Government may,
prises. Application of the Conscription
propriate p lants. working establish-
in accordance with the provisions of an
law however. is not to be interfered
ments belonging to undertaking of
Imperial ordinance, permit those quali-
with.
general mobilization enterprises. or
fed for membership become member:
Article 5. In time of war when na-
other facilities and the entire facili-
of those guilds.
tional general mobilization is found ne-
ties or part of them that could be used
The Government shall order the
cessary, the Government may, in ac-
for such purposes.
guilds of Paragraph 1 to have their
cordance with provisions of an Im-
In using or expropriating those faci-
members establish regulations for the
perial ordinance, cause subjects of the
lities mentioned in the previous para-
control of their respective enterprises
Empire, juridical persons of the Em-
graph. the Government may, in ae-
and secure permits for changes, and
prises by the nation or local public
conducting general mobilization enter-
pire and other bodies to co-operate in
such establishiments to be supplied
cordance with the provisions of an Im-
perial ordinance, cause employes of
control regulations of the guilds.
may order members to abide by the
Necessary items concerning guilds of
bodies.
with or operate such patented inven-
tions or registered utility models al-
Paragraph 1 shall be provided in an
Imperial ordinance.
necessary, the Government may, in ac-
tional general mobilization is found
Article 6. In time of war when na-
ready in operation by those establish-
ments.
In time of war when national general
tional general mobilization is focnd ne-
Article 19. In time of war when na-
cordance with provisicns of an Im-
mobilization is found necessary. the
cessary, the Government may, iA ac-
perial ordinance, give necessary orders
Government may. in accordanee with
cordance with the provisions of an
concerning the use of employes, their
employment or dismissal and wages
the provisions of an Imperial ordinance.
use or expropriate land, houses and
orders in connection with prices,
Imperial ordinance, issue necessary
and other labor terms.
other working facilitics necessary for
transportation charges, storage rates,
Labor Action Authorized
general mobilization enterprises.
insul ance fees, lease charges and work-
Article 7. In time of war when na-
Article 14. In time of war when na-
ing costs.
tional general mobilization is found
tional gencral mobilization is found
Article 20. In time of war when na-
necessary, the Government may, in ac-
necessary. the Government may. in ac-
tional general mobilization is found
cordance with provisions of an Im-
cordance with provisions of an Im-
necessary, the Government may, in ac-
perial ordinance, give necessary orders
perial ordinance, use or expropriate
cordance with provisions of an Im-
for the prevention or settlement of
mining rights. sand-mining rights and
perial ordinance, issue necessary orders
labor disputes, the closing of work-
rights concerning use of water.
for the restriction or prohibition f
shops, suspension of work or labor and
Article 15. When the expropriated
matters printed in newspapers or other
restriction or prohibition of actions in
rights and facilities as provided in the
publications.
other labor disputes.
two previous articles are used no lon-

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
The Government nmay prohibit the
Article 28. The Government, when
sale or distribution of or confiscate
issuing orders in accordance with sti-
Article 17 or of Paramraph 4 of 
newspapers or other publications vio-
lating the restricted or prohibited items
pulations of Articles 22, 23 and 25, may
compensate losses or grant subsidies in
control agreements or control res
in the previous paragraph and regard-
accordance with the provision of an
Imperial ordinance.
violating orders stipulated in Artiele 1t
bilization. In that event. the Govern-
ed as hindering national general mo-
sation stipulated in the previous two
Article 29. The amounts of compen-
or Paragraph 5 of Article 18.
4. Those who do not store in 'vio-
ment may also confiscate the original
articles and the disposal prices stipu-
lation of the orders stipulated in Arti-
forms.
lated in Article 15 shall be decided by
cle 23.
Article 21. When found necessary
the Government after approval is given
5. Those who do not produce, repair
for national general mobilization, the
by the General Mobilization Compen-
or provide facilities in contravention of
Government may. in accordance with
sation Commission.
the orders stipulated in Article 2.
the provisions of an Imperial ordi-
Regulations concerning the General
Article 35. Those offending against
nance, cause subjects of the Empire or
Mobilization Compensation Commission
the three previous articles be punish-
those employing or using subjects of
shall be provided in an Imperial or-
ed with both prison terms with hard
the Empire to report on items pertain-
diance.
labor and fines.
ing to thelr vocational ability. or
Article 30. The Government shall
Article 36. Those whose offense falls
examine the vocational ability of the
supervise those enterprises whose pro-
under the following shall be impri-
subjects of the Empire.
fits shall be guaranteed or to which
soned with hard labor for not more
Article 22. When found necessary
subsidies shall be granted in accordance
than one year or fined not more than
for national general mobilization, the
with the provisions of Articles 26 and
Y1,000:
Government nay, in accordance with
28, or may dispose of or issue necessary
1. Those who refuse to accept the
the provisions of an Imperial ordi-
orders accordingly.
expropriation stipulated in Article 
nance, issue necessary orders pertain-
Article 31. When found necessary
or refuse to engage in the businesses
ing to the training of technicians ne-
for national general mobiliza'ion, the
stipulated in the same article.
cessary for national general mobiliza-
Government may collect reports as sti-
2. Those violating orders stipulated
tlon to schools, training institutes
pulated or cause competent Govern-
in Article 6.
plants, working places. those in charge
ment officials to inspect necessary plac-
¥3,000 Fine Stipulated
of facilities found appropriate for the
for the purpose of examining condi-
Article 37. Those whose offense falls
training of techntcians, or employers
tions of the particular business, ac-
under the following shall be fined not
of those who are to be trained.
count books or other items.
more than ¥3,000:
Article 23. When found necessary
Penalties Provided
1. Those violating orders stipulated in
for national general mobilization, the
Article 32. Those who export or im-
Article 22.
Government may, in aceordance with
port or attempt to export or import in
2. Those not establishing programs or
the provisions of an Imperial orlinance.
ontravention of the stipulations of
not conducting drills in contravention
cause those producing or selling or im-
Article 9 shall be imprisoned with
of orders stipulated in Article 24.
porting general mobilization goods to
hard labor for a term not more than
3. Those not conducting experiments
store a fixed quantity of such goods.
or research in contravention of orders
raw materials or materials of such
three years or fined not more than
stipulated in Article 25.
goods.
Article 24. When found necessary
¥10,000.
In the case of application of the pre-
under the following shall be fined not
Article 38. Those whose offense falls
Govetument may, in accordance with
for national general mobilization. the
vious paragraph, the Government may
confiscate the imported or exported
more than ¥1,000:
contravention of orders stipulated in
1. Those not establishing guilds in
the provisions of an Imperial ordi-
goods or those to be imported and ex-
Paragraph 1 of Article 18.
nance, cause owners of genera! mobi-
lization enterprises or in time of war
those who shall be cattsed to execute
ing to the offender. If all or part of
such goods cannot be confiscated, the
ported in the possession of or belong-
posals stipulated in Article 30.
2. Those violating the orders or dis-
3. Those neglecting to report as sti-
general inobilization enterprises. to
establish programs pertaining to gen-
valent value.
Government may collect their equi-
pulated in Article 31. or giving false
eral mobilization or conduct neces-
Article 33. Those whose offense falls
reports.
Article 39. When a newspaper vio-
sary drills based on such programs.
under the following shall be impri-
lates the restriction or prohibition
Research May Be Ordered
soned with hard labor for not
stipulated in Paragraph 1 of Article 20,
Article 25. When found necessary
more than three years or fined not
the publisher and the editor, in the
for national general mobilization. the
more than ¥5,000:
case of a newspaper, and the publisher
Government may order those produeing
1. Those violating the restriction or
and the author, in the case of other
or repairing general mobilization ma-
prohibition of orders stipulated in Ar-
publications, shall be imprisoned with
terials or those in charge of experi-
ticle 7.
hard labor for a term not exceeding
menting and research organs to carry
2 Those violating orders stipulated
two years, or imprisoned for not more
out experiments and research work.
in Article 8.
than two years. or fined not more
Article 26. When found necessary for
3. Those not exporting or importing
than Y2,000. In the case of a news-
national general mobilization the Gov-
in contravention of the orders stipu-
paper, the person who was actually in
ernment may, in accordance with the
lated in Article 9.
charge of editing and the person who
provisions of an Imperial ordinance.
4. Those rofusing, hindering or try-
signed his name to the article pub-
guarantee a fixed profit or grant a
ing to avoid the expropriation or use
lished shall also be subject to the fore-
subsidy within the scope of the budgei
of general mobilization goods stipu-
going punishment.
to those in the business of producing
lated in Article 10.
Article 40. Those who hinder execu-
or repairing general mobilization ma-
5. Those refusing, hindering or try-
tion of the confiscation stipulated in
terials. In such event. the Govern-
ing to avoid the expropriation or use
Paragraph 2 of Article 20 shall be im-
ment may cause such parties to pro-
or control. or refusing the loan of
prisoned with hard labor, or imprison-
duce or repair general mobilization
employes, of facilities, land or working
ed for not more than six months, or
materials or cause them to provide fa-
goods stipulated in Article 13.
fined not more than ¥500.
cilities necessary for national general
6. Those violating orders stipulated
Article 41. The combined offense
mobilization.
in Article 19.
stipulation of the Criminal Code shall
Artiele 27. The Government may, in
Article 34. Those whose offense falls
not be applied to offenses of the pre-
accordance with the provisions of an
under the following shall be impri-
vious two articles.
Imperial ordinance, compensate losses
soned with hard labor for not more
Article 42. Those refusing to let the
caused through the stipulations of Artt-
than two years or fined not more than
competent authorities conduct inspec-
cles 8. 10, 13 or 14; orders issued per-
¥3,000:
tions as stipulated in Article 31 or
taining to exports and imports sti-
1. Those violating the restriction or
hinder or try to avoid such inspection
pulated in Article 9; orders issued con-
prohibition or orders stipulated in
shall be imprisoned with hard labor not
cerning the financing of capital or ac-
Article 11.
more than six months or fined not
cepting. buying or flotation of negotia-
2. Those violating the restrictions or
more than ¥500.
ble securities stipulated in Article 11.
prohibitions or orders stipulated in
or orders issued for the establishment.
Article 16.
expansion or improvement of facili-
ties stipulated in Article 16.

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Articles 43. Those neglecting to re-
tories where this law is not enforced.
port in contravention of the stipula-
Punishments of this law shall also be
tions of Article 21, or refuse to sub-
applied to subjects of the Empire com-
mit to inspection or try to avoid it.
mitting offenses in territories where
shall be fined not more than ¥500 or
this law is not in forçe.
held in detention.
Article 50. A National General Mo-
Leakage Penalized
bilization Inquiry Commission will be
Article 44. When those engaged in
established for the purpose of investi-
the general mobilization enterprises
gating subjects posed by the Govern-
give out secrets of Government offices
ment concerning important itens per-
pertaining to general mobilization
taining to the enforcement of this law
enterprises instructed by the compe-
(excluding military regulations). Re-
tent Government office. or steal such
gulations for the conmission shall be
secrets, shall be imprisoned wiith hard
provided in an Imperial ordinance.
labor for not more than two years or
Supplementary provisions: The date
fined with not more than Y2.000. When
of enforcing this law shall be fixed by
public officials or others in office give
an Imperial ordinance.
out or steal secrets of Government
The Military Munitions Industry Mo-
offices pertaining to general mobiliza-
bilization Law and Law No. 88 of 1937
tion enterprises instructed by the com-
shall be abolished.
petent Government oflices. they shall
be imprisoned with hrard labor for not
more than five years.
Article 45. When public officials or
others in office give out or steal se-
crets pertaining to the enterprises of
juridical persons or those engaged in
the suid enterprises. they shall be im-
prisoned with hard labor for not more
than two years or fined not more than
¥2.000.
Article 46. Those who have received
bribes or demanded or made such pro-
mises in connection with the duties of
members of guilds established in ac-
cordance with the provisions of Para-
graphs 1 and 3 of Article 18 shall be
imprisoned with hard labor for not
more than two years. Therefore. those
who have committed an unlawful ac
or those who have attempted to com
mit n unlawful  of considerable
extent shall be imprisoned with hard
labor for not more than five years. In
the case of the previous item, bribes
received shall be confiscated. or when
the entire anount or part of it cannot
be seized. an equivalent value shall be
collected.
Article 47. Those mentioned in the
first item of the previous article who
have given bribes. proposed or promis-
ed to do so shall be imprisoned with
hard labor for not more than two
years or fined not nore than Y503.
Those who have committed the of-
fenses of the previous paragraph who
surrender themselves to the authorities.
may have their punishments lightened
or exempted.
Article 48. Iu addition to those who
have been punished for the offenses
committed mentioned in Articles 32 to
to 34. No. 2 of Article 36. Article 37.
Article 38 and the first part of Article
43. in connection with the businesses
of representatives of juridical persons.
or agents of juridical persons or in-
dividuals. employes and other employ-
es. the juridical persons or the indivi-
duals shall also be punished with the
major or minor fines stipulated in the
various articles.
Article 49. The stipulations of the
previous article are also applicable to
offenses committed in territories where
this law is not in foree by represen-
tatives of juridical persons. agents and
employes and other employes of juridi-
cal persons having head offices or prin-
cipal offices in territcries where this
law is enforced. Agents of others.
employes and other employes having
domiciles in territories where this law
is enforced shall be subjected to the
punishments stipulated in the foregoing
article for offenses committed in terri-

=== Page 467 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 2, to despatch
No.18od, dated March 3, 1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, March 3, 1938.
KONOE VIGOROUS IN UPHOLDING
GENERAL MOBILIZATION BILL;
SAYS PEOPLE EXIST FOR STATE
"The presentation of the national
Premier Regrets Absence and
general mobilization bill to the Diet
has created great uneasiness among
Voices Respect for Commit-
the people. To liquidate this appre-
tee Deliberations
his convictions regarding the bill. The
hension, I hope the Premier will state
main point giving the people concern
is, I think, the doubt as to the res-
DENIES FASCIST INTENTION
pect for the spirit of the Constitution
involved in the way in which the bill
is formulated. How about it?"
Measure Considered Entirely in
Premier Konoe placed both his hands
Keeping With Parliamentary
on the table and spoke. The steno-
graphic record of his reply follows:
Government
"Before replying to Mr. Sakurai's
interpellation, I wish to say a word
about my absence. I regret extremely
SAKURAI, UEHARA SPEAK
that at a time when a bill of such mo-
mentous importance had come before
the House I was unable to attend the
The Government's defense of its
plenary session and have been absent
from the committee meetings until to-
bill on general mobilization of the na-
day. Even in bed, I followed the ac-
tion was strengthened yesterday with
counts of your earnest deliberations on
the return to the Diet of Premier
the legislation in the stenographic re-
Konoe, recovered from his illness. He
ports of the proceedings and in news-
papers. and I greatly appreciate and
attended the session of the House of
admire your sincere zeal in discharging
Representatives committee debating
your duties.
the measure and in vigorous terms
Discussion Welcomed
declared the proposed law entirely
"Now, the bill before us is pregnant
with issues from the constitutional and
constitutional and devoid of Fascist
other viewpoints. I hope you will
intent.
continue to discuss all these issues
He admitted the existence of a
with the utmost thoroughness. General
Fascist undercurrent in Japan but
mobilization. after all, cannot be
voiced conviction that Japan will con-
achieved without the co-opcration of
tinue to be governed by the Con-
the people. Unless there is true un-
derstanding of this bill on the part of
stitution and will not assume any
the people. perfect operation of its
political form found in other coun-
measures will be impossible. Discus-
tries.
sion of the bill in all its bearings
Dr. Etsujiro Uehara, Seiyukai, one
should be very effective in deepening
the understanding of the people with
of the outstanding interpellators of
regard to it.
the day, calied attention to the ten-
"I respect the zealous discussion of
dency to regard the State and the
the bill undertaken in the past several
people as existing solely for the sake
days, and the Government is prepared
of national defense. National defense
to explain the bill to the fullest extent
in reply to your interpellations. In
exists for the sake of the State, the
tendering apologies for my absence, I
Premier told him, and the people
wished to state this as my attitude to-
also exist for the State. This brought
ward the Diet deliberations on the
bill.
much applause.
"In reply to the question posed by
Good Impression Made
Mr. Sakurai, this is what I have to
The Premier's replies made a better
say:
impression on the committee than had
"His interpretation that to entrust to
been expected, according to the Asahi,
Imperial ordinances matters of supreme
and there is a belief in Government
importance having to do with the
quarters that the prospects of the bill
rights and obligations of the people so
have brightened.
extensive in scope violates the spirit
The entrance of Promier Konoe into
of the Constitution has been put for-
the committee room at 10:05 o'clock
ward often in the past several days.
electrified the group, according to Do-
As the Government authorities have
mei, but he himself showed no emo-
reiterated, it is impossible to predict at
tion. He looked tired and would not
this moment what form a possible fu-
have come had the committee not
ture war would take or which Power
exerted so much pressure on the Gov-
would be our enemy. In the circum-
ernment in Tuesday's session.
stance, prompt and swift measures
Mr. Hyogoro Sakurai. Minseito, be-
would have to ie taken in accordance
with the exigencies of the situation as
gan the interpellation by stating:

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
they arise. It seems impossible, there-
lation that in Article 50 a council is
fully on it in the spirit of h
fore, to set forth in law concrete meas-
provided to which the Government will
co-operation. I am anxk
ures that would be taken correspond-
refer matters. What are the matters
quintessence of the bill be
ing with the myriad changes that
to be referred to the Council?
would develop in the course of a war.
Still Under Study
are to advance be made clear.
For another thing, it would be greath,
President Masao Taki of the Planning
"The people received a great shock
known to foreign Powers. I believe
have mobilization plans in the concrete
that the mandating of so much powers
to the disadvantage of the State to
to Imperial ordinances is inevitable in
the circumstances.
Uneasiness Understood
members of the Upper and Lower
Houses, officials and private individu-
ed:
als of influence. It is planned that the
Board answered that "they are still
being studied," and the Premier add-
"The council is to be composed of
reason the impression prevails among
this bill, such bills as that on State
management of electric power will
dwindle to insignificance, and for this
the mobilization bill would be present-
ed to the Diet. On the enforcement of
when the rumor first circulated thet
"On the other hand, I am aware that
quite large. As to the exact propor-
number of Diet members should be
the people that another Enabling Act
to entrust so many matters of serious
after the manner of the Nazis is before
importance to Imperial ordinances might
tion, the matter is still under study."
Mr. Sakurai then resumed the inter-
the House.
make the people extremely uneasy.
pellation:
Would Remove Fears
The outlines of the present bill as
"With regard to the machinery for
'If the Konoe Cabinet remains in office
drafted by the Planning Board had
enforcement of the mobilization law,
until the law is invoked, perhaps well
more such provisions, but as a result
War Minister Sugiyama made a reply
and good, but there is no telling what
of Cabinet discussions and other con-
yesterday. It seems that the various
sort of Government may emerge. Just
sultations those which it was thought
measures to be undertaken by Imperi-
now there is a vicious undercurrent
best to delete were deleted. and an
al ordinances are not to be enforced
which is making the people uneasy. I
important provision was added that in
by this central machinery mentioned
think that to eliminate such an under-
considering the invocation of such Im-
by the War Minister but through the
current of thought should form the
perial ordinances they should be re-
various Ministries and the central and
premise to enforcement of the present
ferred to a National Mobilization
local administrative structures. Thus
, bill."
Council composed of members of the
I think that extensive reforms in these
Premier Konoe answered:
Upper and Lower Houses and influen-
admiristrative structures and improve-
"It is true that such an undercurrent
tial men of all circles so as to eliminate
ment of personnel ought to be carried
exists, but the nation is undoubtedly
causes of uneasiness as much as possi-
out beforehand. At least radical re-
being governed by the Emperor-grant-
ble.
vision of the civil service appointment
ed Constitution. There will be no
cught to be effected now. I have heard
exception to the rule that. whatever
entertain fear that some dreadful ideo-
"It seems that some of you gentlemen
that the present Cabinet is ready to
the circumstances. the nation must be
logy lies behind the legislation or that
carry out revision of the appointment
governed by the articles of the Con-
the Government is attempting to re-
ordinance but fears the opposition of
stitution. I cannot believe that Japan
pudiate the Diet or ignore the Constitu-
the Privy Council. As we the people
will adopt at any time any political
will support the Government, it is
form that has become prevalent in for-
bilization law has been considered by
tion. But legislation of a general mo-
hoped that it will not hesitate to carry
eign countries."
the Bureau of Resources for the past
decade or more owing to the gradual
realization that. in the light of the
it out."
Premier Konoe responded:
"The Government is giving every
imagine that the nation would fall in-
"It is only proper to be unable to
But Dr. Uehara continued:
World War the entire resources of the
consideration to revision of the ad-
to the situation of some foreign coun-
nation would have to be concentrated
in prosecuting the warfare characteris-
ministrative structure in connection
with enforcement of the present law.
trics. In times of national emergency,
national strength must be exercised to
shows that the bill is not a sudden
gy or a certain prevailing tendancy of
tic of modern conflicts. This clearly
product of the so-called Fascist ideolo-
depend on the administrative structure
to : large extent. The cause of general
uncasiness lies partly in the question
indertaken appropriately or not will
for whether the enforcement can be
the fullest extent. But the Constitu-
tion is formulated so as to be appli-
cable in both wartime and peace.
Emergency Imperial ordinances are not
the period.
Nazi Parallel Denied
whether the existing administrative
to be shunned, and also the Constitu-
tion can be made efficacious to the full
"Moreover. the law is to be appli-
structure is adequate for enforcement
by proper manipulation. How about
cable only in wartime or a situation
Covernment is considering radical re-
of general mobilization or not. The
it?"
quite akin to wartime. The view has
form of the official system, and the
Premier Disagrees
been advanced that it is another form
Legislative Bureau is now drafting a
Premier Konoe did not agree:
of the Nazis Enab'ing Act. but as the
hill or the purpose. I am entirely in
"The future international situation
bill is to be applicable manly in
aereement with the interpellator, there-
cannot be predicted in any way. It is
wartime it is entirely different in na-
f re, as to the necessity of carrying out
quite doubtful whether sudden pre-
ture from the Enabling Act. which is
g neral reform in the official system in
paration for it when the time comes
applicable in peacetime. Furthermore,
conncction with enforcemènt of the
would prove adequate. Emergency Im-
I be!ieve that it is more consonant with
present bill."
perial ordinances ought to be issued
the spirit of the Constitution to seek
Inconvenience Noted
when absolutely unforeseeable situa-
approval of the Diet at least as to the
Mr. Sakurai next complained that
tions arise. The present bill is aimed
outlines of the measures to be adopt-
"the people are experiencing much in-
at obtaining the approval of the people
ed in a Jaw beforehand than to issue
convenience because of the division of
at least on matters which can be pre-
emergency Imperial ordinances or to
foreign trade and other affairs between
dicted at present. Promulgation of the
invoke the Imperial prerogatives in
the Finance Ministry and the Ministry
present law would not prevent invo-
times of emergency by which to effect
of Conmerce and the Industry."
cation of emergency Imperial ordi-
national general mobilization.
Vice-President Kazuo Aoki of the
nances or the Imperial prerogatives.
"I hardly need to reiterate that in
Planning Board replied:
But those things are exceptional. It seems
the administration of the nation the
"That seems inevitable from the
contrary to good practice to reverse
fundamental spirit of government
standpoint of administrative technique,
the order of things and apply excep-
must be respect for the Diet and ob-
but where reform is needed we are
tional measures first. Does it not
servance of the articles of the Con-
studying with a view to undertaking
seem consonant with good practice to
stitution and administration strictly
it."
regulate matters that can be predicted
This is my reply to the interpellation."
within the bounds of the Constitution.
floor at this point, but, Mr. Takejiro
Mr. Takao Saito. Minseito, sought the
and to apply such regulations first?"
Dr. Uehara resumed:
"I am glad," Mr. Sakurai said, "to
Ni hioka, Seiyukai. appealed to him to
"On the constitutional issue, I shall
have such a full and thoroughgoing
wait until after the interpellation of
interpellate the Justice Minister an-
exp'anation from the Premier, espe-
Dr. Uchara, scheduled to take the
other time. Now I wish to know whe-
cially with regard to the expression of
floor next.
ther there was any trouble about con-
his political convictions.
Dr. Uehara began:
vocation of special Diet sessions at the
"That details of the Planning Board's
"The presert bill embraces the whole
time of the Sino-Japanese, Russo-Ja-
draft have been rectified by the Cabi-
of natioral life and because of its
panese and German-Japanese wars?"
net is only what should have been done
sheer import nd seriousness it should
Major-General Isamu Yokoyama, head
in any case, but there are still matters
be considcred epochal or revolutionary.
of the general affairs department of
that necd not be left to Imperial ordi-
It is hoped that both the Government
the Planning Board, replied:
nance in the bill as it stands. On the
and committeemen will deliberate care-
other hand, it is at least some conso-

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.99)
"In the Sino-Japanese, Russo-Japa-
nese and German-Japanese wars, there
was no pomsibility of Japanese terri-
shall be conducted in accordance with
such a bill be presented to the Diet
the articles of the Constitution.
"The next questions were why should
I consult the stenographic record,
ed with regard to the proesed
Mr. Ichiro Komo, Seiyukal, int
"I cannot guarantee eack
tory being bombed from the air, but
and cause so much uneasiness among
Major-General Yokoyama, In
in any future war the danger of this
the people and, as changes in the in-
is very real. We are likely to have air
ternational situation cannot be predict-
a while ago, made so bold as to s
raids immediately on the opening of
ed today, why cannot emergency exer-
'In times of emergency, railway Mpe
hostilities. This is the fundamental
cise of the Imperial prerogatives be re-
may be destroyed by bombs in an
difference between past and future
sorted to in case of need. Now, the Im-
raid, preventing members of the 
wars. It may even happen that mem-
perial prerogatives should be invoked
from attending the emergency 
bers of the Diet may not be able to
only when a tetally unexpected sit-
attend a special session of the Diet
uation arises necessitating emergency
cisely the duty of the army to prevent
because railway lines have been des-
measures. The situation envisaged in
such a thing from taking place. I hear
troyed in an air raid."
the mobilization bill can be foreseen
that recently there have been many
Said Children's Talk
on the whole, and matters which can
cases of correcting the stenographic
"We are not here to listen to such
be so foreseen have been embodied in
records, and I hope the chairman will
children's talk about wars," Dr. Uehara
the body of the bill for the Diet's ap-
warn the Government committee
retorted. "I desired to know the
proval. I believe that to let the peo-
member to make a correction."
opinion of the Government on this
ple know to a certain extent the con-
Mr. Giju Manabe, Minseito, asked
matter because I think that. however
tents of the law is good from the
the Premier through the chairman
stringent, the situation could not be
standpoint of constitutional govern-
whether he would be well enough to
such that a special session of the Diet
ment. The enforcement of the law
attend the afternoon session and was
could not be held for the sake of na-
does not bar invocation of emergency
told he would attend. The committee
tional administration.
Imperial ordinances or emergency ex-
then recessed for lunch.
"I believe that national defense
crcise of the Imperial prerogatives."
Ikeda Takes Rostrum
exists for the sake of the State and
Inspiration Sought
With resumption, Mr. Hideo Ikeda,
people, enabling them to rest in se-
Dr. Uehara pressed further:
Minseito, asserted:
curity and enjoy the good things of
"I think the machinery for enforce-
"The people have various doubts as
life. There is a tendency just now to
ment of national general mobilization
to the mobilization bill. This is be-
hold views implying that the State and
in wartime ought to be distinguished
cause they fear that the Constitution
people exist for the sake of national de-
from the machinery for administration
peculiar to our country may be in
fense. How about it?"
in peacetime. In the United States or
some manner be altered through the
"National defense exists for the sake
France. nothing is concealed from the
adoption of such measures as are em-
of the State." the Premier asserted in
people in peace time except military
bodied in the bill. I recognize the ne-
response. The people also exist for the
or naval secrets. In Japan. however.
cessity of setting up such rules as are
sake of the State."
as in Germany or Italy. almost every-
contained in all the articles of the bill
At this, applause went up from va-
thing concerning general mobilization is
from Article 21 on in wartime, but
rious parts of the assembly.
conccaled even in peacetime. Is the
the articles before that are all clearly
Dr. Uehara then asked Prince Ko-
Premier imitating Italy, Germany or
provided for in Article 31 of the Con-
noe's views on the machinery for en-
the Soviet Union in methods of se-
stitution. There is no need of setting
forcement of the mobilization scheme.
crecy, or Britain or the United States
down such articles anew. Moreover,
The reply, taken from the stenogra-
in their methods of public discussion?"
the whole law is entrusted to Imperial
phic record, follows:
The Premier said:
ordinances. This makes the intentions
"The central machinery for enforce-
"The bill seems to be suspected of
of the Government quite indefinite."
ment of the present law will be the
holding the possibility of bringing on
Premier Konoe responded with:
Cabinet. The Premier takes the re-
dictatorial politics, but in view of the
"Emergency exercise of the Imperial
sponsibility for supervision of nation-
consequences of the Great War we
prerogatives as provided for in Article
al general mobilization. He presides
have framed it on the basis of the
31 of the Constitution will be requir-
over the Plainning Board in the hand-
circumstances peculiar to Japan by
de regardless of any other law or or-
ling of general affairs connected with
studying the measures of other nations
dinance that might be legislated. En-
national general mobilizatio., while
and adopting the gocd and rejecting
forcement of the mobilization bill,
the various Ministries undertake af-
the bad."
therefore, would not in the least
fairs under their respective jurisdic-
Dr. Uehara was not ready to drop
hamper the exercise of the Imperial
tions.
his subject, continuing with:
prerogatives. I believe, as I have so
"The responsibility of the Govern-
"Recently there has been a group of
often reiterated, that to prepare the
ment for wartime national general
people who have spread the propa-
people for wartime by legiglating a
mobilization will not be one whit dif-
ganda that political parties should be
mobilization law beforehand is to be
ferent from the responsibility of the
done away with and a single national
faithful to the principles of constitu-
Government in peacetime. Administ-
party substituted. The motive is not
tional government."
rative machinery in wartime has been
purely for the sake of national un-
Mr. Ikeda was not convinced and
under study for some time before now.
animity but is for the purpose of bring-
said:
The Government is also considering
ing about Fascist government. Noth-
"Article 31 of the Constitution sol-
establishment of special machinery to
ing can be more mistaken, being cal-
emnly exists. It is not a dead letter.
fit the scope of the possible war or
culated to destroy constitutional gov-
The Government ought to undertake
to expand the existing machinery or
ernment. Public opinion can only be
mobilization on its own responsibility
to establish entirely new machinery.
reflected in Diet politics. which is poli-
in 'accordance with that provision. Is
Constitution Eternal
ties founded on public discussion, poli-
not the bill mistaken in form, at least
Uehara seem quite reasonable in view
"The points giving concern to Dr.
tics of reason and politics of judgment.
Those who are plotting to reduce it
tion peculiar to Japan?"
from the standpoint of the Constitu-
of the tendency in some quarters. But
all into a single party are merely try-
Views Different
the Imperial Constitution solemnly ex-
ing to reduce Japan into a dictatorial
The Premier told him:
ists for all time. Above. we have His
State like Germany. Italy or the Soviet
"I have no objection to the interpel-
August Majesty. If this were a Con-
Union. National unanimity cannot be
lator's demand that the Constitution
stitution like Germany's or Italy's. set
attained by any system with a single
must be respected. It is only on the
up by power from below or by vio-
nationa! party. What are the views of
matter of the exercise of the Imperial
lence, a situation like this would be a
the Premier regarding Diet polities?"
prerogatives and some other matters
serious matter for the national prin-
Parties Practicable
that we hold different views."
ciples and for the laws of the land.
The Premier was ready with:
Mr. Ikeda concluded with:
But we have the Constitution granted
"That the Diet can function very
"If the Government holds a differ-
by the Great Emperor Meiji. and we
smoothly with the existence of politic-
ent view, I wish it would explain it so
have His August Majesty above us.
al parties in the conduct of constitu-
that we can be satisfled as to its valid-
Thus we cannot conceive of any such
tional government. meny of our pre-
ity. We are not unwilling to rectify
situation arising in this country. There
decessors have demonstrated by prac-
our views if the Government can recti-
zan be no change at any time in the
tice. and there can be no doubt on
fy them. We cannot understand, no
principle that national administration
that score. Whether a single party for
the whole nation is good or contend-
ing parties are good must depend on
the prevailing situation."

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
matter how we try, why matters which
Points Left Untouched
cause they lack the funds to
are set forth in law must then be en-
'The points at issue are that the pre-
with it.
trusted to Imperial ondinances. I wish
sent bill has too many things entrust-
The Commerce and Industry
to avoid useless controversy, and thus
ed to Imperial ordinances and that it
replied:
I hope the Premier will think well
is difficult to reconcile it with Article
"The penalties have been made
on this point and make a reply that
31 of the Constitution. The Govern-
or less severe because that thed
will convince us."
ment has thus strayed from the point.
been instances in which violatios
Mr. Yuzo Itano, Seiyukai, was the
For instance, the general mobilization
have been committed deliberately a
next interpellator, saying:
enforcement regulations which have
comparison between profit and penalty
"The War Minister told us yesterday
just been sent into the House by the
was made and profit found werth the
that the mobilization law will not be
Government can just as well be legis-
penalty. The seriousness of the issue
applied in the present China incident,
lated now without being left to Im-
involved has persuaded us of the need
and it is easy to see that the existing
perial ordinances. They are not such
for more or less severe penalties."
Munitions Industry Mobilization Law
rules as would be altered by war con-
Uehara Speaks Again
suffices to cover al! the needs of the
ditions but cre quite solid and definite
Dr. Uehara again took up Article
times. Therefore, will not the rules for
in nature."
31 of the Constitution:
and all the following artic!es be enough,
peacetime preparations in Article 21
"What I meant to say was that if
Mr. Aoki explained:
framed the bill with a view to avoid-
"It seems that the Government has
for in wartime Article 31 of the Con-
Article 31 of the Constitution is to be
ing exercise of the Imperial preroga-
stitution would suffice for exercise of
made an issue of now it ought to have
tives in Article 31 as much as possible.
the Imperial prerogatives for emer-
been an issue of at the time of enact-
How about it?"
gency measures? This particular article
ing the various other provisional laws.
Justice Minister Suehiko Shiono de-
The matters embodied in the enforce-
nied it with:
ent from those of other countries. As
makes the Japanese Constitution differ-
ment regulations cannot be set forth
"That is not the thought behind the
in this way 'we already have rules that
can be applied in wartime, there is no
be changed to suit conditions that may
in laws because they could not then
exercise of the Imperial prerogatives
legislation. In u artime the emergency
need to imitate legislation of other
arise."
is not alone in being invoked. Pre-
essential points as to what should be
are possible to prepare for beforehand.
tion cannot be predicted. However, the
done in national general mobilization
people to give spontaneous co-opera-
tion."
countries."
Only in this way can we expect the
Premier Konoe reiterated:
"Changes in the international situa-
he said. "As to the second. he is in-
reserve the question."
issue with regard to the first point,"
dulging in utter sophistry, but I will
again to ask if enforcement of the law
would not be very expensive. Finance
Minister Kaya admitted that it would.
"Mr. Aoki is mistaking entirely the
"The Government is insisting that
Mr. Sakurai was given the rostrum
Mr. Sakuda was not to be shaken.
seek to undertake wartime emergency
measures by means of rules other
ment of the Imperial prerogatives to
parations beforehand are necessary, and
these we have embodied in the bill."
that it is "a clear case of infringe-
than Article 31 of the Constitution."
time preparations to be prepared for
Dr. Uehara still was of the opinion
The Justice Minister said:
"It is within the category of peace-
May Apply to Incident
the substance of the present bill be left
wartime beforchand. Is it not exactly
Vice-President Aoki of the Planning
to Imperial ordinances because in that
what a Government responsible for as-
Board added:
way emergencies can be met with more
sisting the Emperor in the conduct of
"The interpellator has said that the
"But if that is so, when taking urgency
flexibility," Mr. Sakurai continued.
State affairs should do?"
Mr. Hidco Ikeda, Minseito, helped
Government has stated the law will
measures under Article 70 of the Con-
Dr. Uehara with:
not be applied during the China inci-
stitution it would rot do to submit
"What we mean is that there can
dent, but the fact is that if need should
appropriations to the Privy Council
be no other way of suspending the
arise it will be applied in the China
incident too. We believe it part of the
sion because there would be no time
for it. How do you get around this?"
for Imperial reference on each occa-
rights and obligations of the people set
forth in Chapter II of the Constitution
responsibility of the Government to be
prepared beforehand, not leaving the
"The appropriations will be asked of
The Finance Minister answered
except by invocation of the Imperial
prerogatives under Article 31 and not
that all wartime rules should be tran-
measures to be taken until war actual-
the Di! in a special session as soon as
sferred to the Imperial prerogative
!y starts. The varous provisional laws
pmiule, but pending its convocation
commands."
initiated, in the present situation have
they will be covered by the reserve
Dr. Uehara repeated his Imperial or-
been enacted in that spirit of pre-
paredness. Also, there is precedent for
fund."
Profit Question Raised
dinance mandate thesis, and the issue
was bandied to and fro between him
such preparations."
Mr. Sakurai asked the Commerce
and Justice Minister Shiono and Mr.
But Mr. Itano read from the steno-
and Industry Minister about disposal
Aoki. As there seemed to be no end
graphic record to prove that the War
of profits under Article 11 of the bill
of the debate, Mr. Takejiro Nishioka,
Minister had said on Tuesday that the
and was told:
Seiyukai, moved that the committee
law will not be applied in the China
"There were instances in the Great
council meet to discuss ways to speed
incident.
War. Some firms paid dividends of 10
the proceedings. The committee ad-
"What is this insolence on the part
and 20 per cent owing to the munitions
journed at 5:16 o'clock.
of the Government committee mem-
inflation. It is in order to prevent such
ber," he asked, "in suggesting that we
profiteering that the State will exercise
would t=ke exception to the mobiliza-
appropriate adjustments so that part of
tion bill in particular when similar bills
the profits may be utilized for fur-
have been passed?"
therance of the State's welfare."
Mr. Aoki replied merely that "the
Regarding industrial control, the Min-
Munitions Industry Mobilization Law
ister said:
and the present bill are similar in na-
"We shall strive to bring about
ture, though the latter is of more ex-
spontaneous control among the enter-
tended scope."
prisers themselves as much as possi-
Finance Minister Okinori Kaya voic-
ble. In wartime, however, it would be
ed the opinion that it is better "to
difficult to depend entirely on auto-
have measures prepared beforehand
nomous control. Moreover, uniform
than to set them up in wartime."
control cannot be obtained by auto-
Mr. Kotaro Sakuda, Minseito, open-
nomus means. Thus Article 8 and others
ed the next interpellation with:
rule that the State shall control in-
"The replies of the Government do
dustry."
not answer the questions. We are not
Mr. Sakurai thought the penalties
saying at all that general mobilization
too severe, especially as they may ap-
is not necessary. It is precisely be-
ply to persons violating the law be-
cause we recognize its necessity that
we are trying to make all doubts
clear. Mr. Aoki has just said that it
is strange that we should be raising
the constitutional issue now when we
have not done so in the case of the
various other provisional laws, but this
is totally irrelevant.

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.77)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-"[-25
U: m. wreen,
7 tih yo woed
tid tti urtu
(not the digent)
intantny
HKe

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PA
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 24, 1938.
Despatch no. 2798 from Tokyo regarding a
Janan Advertiser interview with Ceneral Araki is
of Interest. Amons other ideas the General em-
phasized the self-sufriciency of Japanese thought
and rlitical n ilosonhy, and in reference to the
anti-Communist pact assertec that Japan's partici-
nation therein was based on the usefulness of the
pact and not on a spiritual background shared with
the Fascist states of Turone. The Advertiser
headlined the interview "Janan's Link to Fascism
ixnedieney, Says Araki". The following day the
journsl puhlished a letter from Araki in which
w :le acmitting that the interpreter may have used
ie word exped iency, Arali said he had not meant
to inly any sac ifice cf moral princinles to
facil tate scme enis. Later the interviewer,
Mr.  lend bussell, ard vis interpreter, were sum-
mone tc Ara i's residence, where they were con-
fronted hy tle :ererel and two men obviously
nolitical ruffians. Those two latter took charge
of the interuiew and after some minatory prelimin-
aries entered into a discussion regarding the
drawir u of a further explanatory statement for
publication in the Advertiser. The statement was
drawn ur and published.
Ihr. Russell's interpretetion of the incident
is that it suggests that there are groups in Japan
aiming at keeping the General's rocord clear in
order that he may be used as the head of some
political movement, probably reactionary, seeking
tre cisplace ment of the present political parties
by a sin la crvenization.
The

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
The interview, which together with its at-
tendant circumstances ives an excellent idea of
Japanese montal an roach to political amd military
matters and of the attitude toward life itself,
makes exceptionally interesting reading and seems
to be an aimirable piece of reporting. The inter-
view reveals in epitome the s iritual insniration
animatin: Jupanese mil tary leadershin. eneral
Ara'ri's toneral thesis was as follows:
The present conflict is a world crisis that
has its foundetions in the inequalities of the
Treaty of Versailles, whloh has brought about de-
velo ments more serious than the World War it-
s-l. The orld lar was a three-cornered struggle
amon ascism, Democracy and Jommunism, and it
would not have be n possible to make American
hoys f: tt if tley had not been made to believe
that t ey were fi htiny the battle of democracy.
Thile the Janenese soldier never questions the
Trmeror's cone and to Pi -ht, the ideal which might
cause the Emperor to sond his troons into con-
flict is the Way of Janan--justice and humanity.
while there mi ht be mishehaviour by r soldiers,
this does not alter the fact that they go will-
inmly into the ficht under the motivation of the
hi hest ideals. Japan believes that there should
be a mutual siarin of resnonsibility among all
strata of scciety and that their relatlons to
each other should be r elorocal, balanced and
en itable. I am not forgetfal that America has
rad its spiritual leaders and that it started
o:t
in a new world by divestinn itself of confus-
ins traditions and by settin- up new ideals.
That

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
That ccnce tion of America drowns out minor
causes of ill fooling toward America. Returning
to the thina cuestlon, as the hand of the
Jomintern reecred toward us, Janan had to do
somot: n- to defend itsel. I regret that
America seems so indifferent to the menace of
Jommmism. Some day America will be sorry that
it did not act in time to combat the movement.
Renorts re arding the alleged atrocities com-
mitted by Junenese solclers In hina anpear to be
oxarrerat o, but if there have been cases of mis-
behaviour I regret it most sincerely. I know for
a fact that the officers are encouraging their
men to be s:ninathetie and humane toward the Chi-
nese of the conquered areas. If it is true that
 er- ave been excesses by the Jananese, it is a
natural reaction areinst the Tungchow massacre of
last cctober enr t e  eavy losses during the cam-
pairm around s anthai. Put there is no vengeance
of that sort in the code of Janan's soldiers.
Victory without rousin resentment is the motto
of our forces.
In the West all thou ht is iven to orraniza-
tiou, system, and pules. Janan moes to the other
extrome. le bel eve the way to handle Japanese
is to cive tho cirection and leave the process
to themselves. e attaci more importance to the
s Irit that mot vates them than to do-this and
lon't- o-t at rles. I an often amazed at some
of the lecalistic turnin's of the Western mind.
(The Heneral gave two or three illustrations of
his thou ht on ti is point.) For a while I con-
templated -oin~ to America in an attempt to tell
your

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-4-
your country about the Way of Japan, but I have
about given up that hope. I am sure I could
never convince t em in America now that I am not
a monster.
P1.00/778
FE:Baliantine:us

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
225
-2-
The original interview was first granted by General
Araki to Mr. Frank Hedges, an American newspaper correspondent
long resident in Tokyo. Mr. Oland D. Russell, at present
a member of the staff of the JAPAN ADVERTISER, asked Mr.
Hedges if he could accompany him. This was arranged, and
both Mr. Hedges and Mr. Russell attended. Mr. Hedges has
continually uphela Mr. Russell's report of what was said, and
there has in fact been no direct questioning of its accuracy.
Mr. Russell is an experienced newspaperman who was news
editor of the JAPAN ADVERTISER a number of years ago, went
to New York where he served until recently as cable editor
of the NEW YORK WORLD TELEGRAM, and is now in Tokyo on leave
of absence for e few months vith & commission from Little,
Brovm and Company to write a book about the Mitsui family.
While temporarily in Tokyo his services are being availed
of by the JAPA! ADVEnTISER in a part-time capacity.
On the part of General Araki the interview itself was
arranged largely by a certain Kumasaki, who acted also as
the General's interpreter. Mr. Kumasaki is an experienced
linguist, brother of a former officer of the Japanese foreign
service, and is often used by government departments at
Tokyo in foreign contact work.
Among other ideas General Araki put considerable emphasis
on the self-sufficiency of Japanese national thought and
political philosophy, and in reference to the Japan-Germany-
Italy pact against communism made a good deal of the assertion
that Japan's participation is motivated by the anti-communist
usefulness of the pact, not by a spiritual background shared
with the fascist states of Europe. The ADVERTISER raised this to
headlines

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.99)
5226
-3-
headlines in the words "Japan's Link to Fascism Expediency,
Says Araki."
The paper immediately received a letter in General
Araki's name admitting that the General's interpreter
might have used the word expediency in the interview, and
stating that he in fact had no intention of conveying the
meaning of a sacrifice of moral principles to facilitate
2/
some end. The following morning, February 5, this letter
was printed on the front page, as the interview had been.
Later in the day (February 5) the ADVERTISER office
received a telephone message, purportedly from General
Araki's household, stating thet the General woula like to
see the editor of the paper, Mr. Wilfred Fleisher. It
was explained thet it would be difficult for the editor
to come at that time but that Mr. Russell would be glad
to call upon the General. In discussing the time when a
conversation could be arranged ir. Russell suggested a
meeting a few days hence, but was told in peremptory manner
that it would be to the interest of the paper to comply
immediately. A meeting that evening at the Tokyo Club
was agreed to. When ir. Russell appeared with his inter-
preter at the Tokyo Club at the agreed hour he found a
message there directing him to proceed to the General's
house. Arriving at the residence Mr. Russell and his
interpreter overheard a heated discussion going on in an
adjacent room, at the conclusion of which the General,
flanked by two men obviously ruffians, came out to the
reception room where Ir. Russell and his interpreter were
waiting. The General appeared plainly embarrassed and began
in

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.99)
5227
-4-
in an apologetic manner, whereupon his escorts took
matters in their own hands and coming up to Mr. Russell
said that things would soon be hard for Mr. Fleisher's
Jew paper and that it might just as well close down now.
These remarks were accompanied by some pushing and obvious
efforts to give the impression of threatening physical
violence. Mr. Russell asked what objections to the
paper's policy he could report to Mr. Fleisher, and the
conference got down to its immediate purpose. The General's
two attendants referred to the interview with General Araki
as reported in the ADVERTISER of February 4. After hearing
their suggestions Mr. Russell drew up a statement (later
3/
published on the morning of February 7), and this was
finally agreed to after a discussion between the General's
men, in which the General was practically overlooked, according
to Mr. Russell's account.
Thereupon Mr. Russell mentioned General Araki's statement,
in his letter of February 4 commenting upon the interview
as published, that the General was impressed with the accuracy
with which the interview was rendered into English. When
this comment by Mr. Russell was translated into Japanese the
General's attendants were infuriated. It was obviously their
first information of the letter and they immediately demanded
explanations of General Araki. The subsecuent discussion
seemed to disclose that the letter was the work of Mr. Kumasaki.
After some time it was agreed that in spite of the letter the
ADVERTISER should nevertheless print the statement just
drafted by Mr. Russell.
Mr. Russell next drew attention to the fact that he had
cabled his interview to the United States and that it had
already

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.98)
228
-5-
already been published. This aspect, to Mr. Russell's
surprise, caused no interest. The men stated that the
reaction abroad is a matter of no importance, and pointed
to the reaction within Japan as their only interest. There-
upon the conversation ended and the ADVERTISER printed the
statement agreed to.
Mr. Russell's interpretation of the incident is that it
suggests that there are groups in Japan aiming at keeping
General Araki's record clear in order that he may be used
as the head of some political movement, probably reactionary,
aiming at the displacement of the present political parties
by a single organization. The evidence of the Japanese in-
terpreter who accompanied Mr. Russell is that the General's
two attendants were unmistakably of the organized ruffian
class which is by all odds the most dangerous to deal with
in Japanese life. Even when General Araki was Minister of
War he was largely a figurehead for other leaders, and there
is plausibility in the estimate that he is still thought of
for a similar use again by certain groups having extremely
reactionary plans for the solution of Japan's present difficul-
ties. Such groups would wish him to keep clear of any public
statements which might tend to alienate fascist sympathies.
Ponth o. frem
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1. Clipping,
"Japan's Link to Fascism Expediency, Says Araki,"
JAPAN ADVERTISER, February 4, 1938.
2. Clipping,
" 'Expediency' Explained by Araki,"
JAPAN ADVERTISER, February 5, 1938.
3. Clipping,
"Araki Says Japan Has Spiritual Ties With Italy,
Germany,
JAPAN ADVERTISER, February 7, 1938.
4. Clipping, "The Spiritual Link", editorial,
JAPAN TDMES, February 8, 1938.
eets
Copy
to Embassy, Peiping.

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.99)
d
Enclosure No. I, to despaten
No.1798, dated March2,1938
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Friday, February 4, 1938.
Japan's Link to Fascism
Expediency, Says Araki
By Oland D. Russell
Japan's close relations with Germany
of that. it is leading to developments
and Italy at present are solely the re-
more serious and abnormal than the
sult of a common antipathy toward the
World War itself which it was sup-
Communist International and are in
posed to stop.
no wise due to any spiritual alignment,
"The World War, as you may not
General Baron Sadao Araki. former
readily susp:ct, was really a three-
War Mirister. asserted in a lengthy
sided struggle. It was a confliet
interview yesterday with a representa-
among Fascism, Democracy and Com-
tive of The Japan Advertiser.
munism."
If there had been no such common
The General smiled as his pro-
enemy. the present accord might not
noun:cments tock an obviously epig-
ever have come into effect, he said.
rammatic turn
There is no voluntary disposition on
"Why three-sided? Because it was
Japan's part to embrace whole-heart-
not only a materialistic clash but a
edly a Fascist ideology for its own
thought clash. And yet all the coun-
ends. If is rot incorrect to say that
trics who took part in the World War
for Japan the new tripartite alliance
were countries of so-called Democra-
is a simple matter of expediency, said
tie institutions."
the General. He made it clear that
His interviewer objected that Amer-
Japan has its own row to hoe in the
ica's belief was far from that; that
Far East and has the determination as
America believed it was fighting the
well as the spiritual inspiration to go
arch-enemy of Democracy in fighting
it alone if need be. If amity and a
Germany.
common excharge of irformation facil-
Japanese Need No Inspiration
itate Japan's war on Communism,
"Ah. but that is what America re-
then there is good in the Rome-Berlin-
quired its people to believe." the Ge-
Tokyo axis.
General Araki waved his cigar in
neral replicd. "Unless you believed
that you would not have been abl? to
General is a remarkably persuasive
mphatic gestures as he spoke. The
make the American boys fight. In the
alker. even though his language was
campaign to direct America's thoughts.
not that of his interviewer. He makes
the actual Democratic institutions of
Germany were overlooked. You had
hts points with a clarity and a con-
to believe that if Germany won
viction that transcends mere lingual
America's own Democracy would have
differences.
been threatened."
The General is 60 years old. His face
The interviewer broke in with a
is unlined. He has been described as
somewhat pointed questicn.
a mystic. but his are not a mystic's
"Does Japan require its boys to be-
eyes. They are direct, straightforward
lieve anything false or misinterpreted
and uneoncealing. They convey no
to get them to fight?"
suggestion of the occu't. His mustache
When the question was translated.
is black and bristles outward and lati-
the very thought caused the General
tudinally. It is a mustache that talks
to flare a bit. His eyes darted quickly
with the General. He received his in-
to the interpreter as if there might
terviewer in the small, crowded West-
ern-style room at his home in Hatagaya,
have been an implied insult. His face
Shibuya Ward. He was in uniform
grew stern as he launched into his ans-
with the shoulder tabs of a general
wer:
and one decoration, the First Class
"The Japanese soldier needs no ins-
Order of the Rising Sun. over his
piration to fight. The Emperor's word
heart.
of command is enough to send them
As he talked. the General sat on the
into battle. They neyer question why
very edge of his chair. Yet it was not
or how."
a nervous posture. One elbow rested
The General was importuned to see
on a chair arm, and he leaned upon
the foundation for such a question—
it but he punctuated his thoughts with
the possible reflection upon America's
a hunching forward of his shou'der.
fighting spirit in the World War. He
It was the sitting stance of a man who
readily perceived the point, and lean-
can relax without losing alertness,
ed back on his chair-arm to continue:
mental or physical.
"What is the ideal which might cause
"Does the General find these times
the Emperor to send his troops into
exciting, in spite of his semi-retire-
conflict It is the Way of Japan—jus-
ment from actual servic??" That was
tice and humanity. The fact there
the opening question, and probably
sometimes might be misbehavior, or re-
none other could have suited the
grettable acts by our soldiers—and I
General so well.
have found nothing to substantiate such
"Retired?" He hunched forward.
reports still does not alter the fact that
"Th? distinction between 'active' and
they are ordered into action. and go
'retired' doss not affect the real sol-
willingly. under the motivation of only
dier's spirit. How could a soldier of
the highest ideals.
Japan retire in times like these?
The Way of Japan
Sees World Crisis
"Japan's idea of justice and humanity
"The pr:sent conflict is not simply
comes to this: that the rich shall
Sino-Japanese as it is so often des-
sympathize earnestly and constructively
cribed. This is a world problem, a
with the weak. In other words. Japan
world crisis. that has its foundations
believes there should be a mutual
in the inequalities of the Versailles
sharing of responsibility, that the in
peace treaty. That was a treaty to
bring world peace. but did it? Instead

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
ter-locking relations of all strata of so-
Can't Substantiate Atrocities
ciety shall be reciprocal, balanced and
As the interview went on, the frag-
equitable."
rant odor of onions was wafted in from
"Isn't that the goal of President
the direction of the kitchen. The Gen-
Roosevelt?" the General was asked.
eral's lunch soon would be ready.
"As for the alleged atrocities com-
"It is," he granted, "and a worthy
mitted by Japanese soldiers in China,"
goal. I am not forgetful that America
he resumed. "I can say only that J
has had her spiritual leaders. Washing-
have had no chance to confirm them.
ton, Lineoln and Wilson were some of
The reports appear to be exaggerated.
these. But what Japan admires most
There have been big headlines and
about America is that its people, start-
sensational stories. Possibly there have
ing out in a new world successfully
been sporadic cases of some misbe-
th:rew off old. confusing traditions and
havior. If they are true, and I don't
created their own new ideals. That con-
know that they are. I regret it most
ception of America in Japan drowns
incerely. My very heart aches at the
out any and all minor instances of ill
thought.
feeling betwecn the two countries.
"There have been great numbers in
Naturally. there have been instances
the fighting. The death toli has been
when it might be doubted if America
greatest among the Chinese, but con-
was acting in good faith toward Japan.
sidering the deadly effects of modern
When Commodore Perry came to this
instruments of war, the numbers 
country. his mission was interpreted in
the battefie'ds and the relatively short
the best of faith at the time. and yet
time in which the engagements go on,
a deep study of the historical manu-
'he fatalities have not been high. There
scripts shows clearly cnough that
have been numerous cases of Japanese
Perry's gocd intentions were of the
troops sharing their food with Chinese
surface type. If Japan had not ac-
prisoners and civilians. I know for a
ceded peacefully to his requests, be
fact that the officers are encouraging
was ready to open fire on the country.
their men to be sympathetic and hu-
Japan Likes America
mane toward the Chinese of the con-
"Yet all that. and even the California
quered areas.
question, tends to be submerged in the
"Assuming that it is true—and I
light of Japan's general fe ling toward
don't know that it is—that there have
America. Japan deep down in its heart
been excesses by the Japanese. I would
likes America—and I an not saying
venture they are due to two factors,
that because you are Aa ican. There
a natura! reactior. against the Tung-
is evidence aplenty a:ct nd. A good
chow massacre of last October and the
percentage of Japan's rcdern institu-
heavy losses during the Japanese cam-
tions are founded on America: in-
paign around Shanghai. But there is
fluence. And Japan has had no cause
no vengeance of that sort in the code
to regret that."
of Japan's soldiers."
Returning to the Chin: question.
Points to Rescript
General Araki was at pains to correct
General Araki pointed to the famous
certain impressions that had got abroad.
Imperial Rescript given to the Japa-
'The world is apt to interpret Japan's
ese army by Emperor Meiji. The
actiens in China in the light of aggres-
Rescript in gold lettering was promir-
sion and land-grabbing." he said. "But
ently displayed in a gold frame over
this is the true picture: as cariy as six
the m'ntle. He rose and stcod straight
or seven years ago. when Japan severed
as he read the famous words of the
it: conneetions with the League of Na-
Emperor admonishing so!diers to be
trons. it made clear that it intended to
brave, loyal and obedient.
fight the encroachment of Communism
"But all this." he explained "is sum-
in the East. The positien of Manchuria
med up in this one word. 'makoto.'"
is such that it plays an important part
Above the Reseript. in another. heav-
In Japan's battle against Communism.
ier gold frame. a single. large Chinese
As the hand of the Comintern reached
ideograph was displayed on paper bear-
toward us from Outer Mongolia. Japan
irg the Imperial crest. That was "Ma-
had to do something to defend itseif.
koto" which is poorly trarslated. said
U.S. Warned of Red Menace
the interpreter as "Faith and Sineerity,"
"One of the greatest mistakes Japan
or more literally. "word-carry-out."
ever made in the first place was to
"Victory without rousing resentment,"
extend recognition to Soviet Russia."
said General Araki. "is the motto for
The interviewer mentioned the late
our forces in China.
Shimpei Goto.
The General was reminded of his
General Araki laughed, with a depre-
fondness for dismissing Western coun-
cating shrug.
tries as being too "material" for ab-
It was at this point that he explain-
stractions of this rature. Would he
ed Japan's joining the Rome-Berlin
elucidate?
anti-Comintern pact as being a matter
Explains Materialism
of expediency.
"Materialistic is not exactly the
"I regret." he said. "that America
word." he said. "Iean to convey
seems so indifferent to the menace of
only this: that in the est all thought
1
Conumunism. Some day America will
is given to organization: system. rules
be sorry that it did not act in time
and modus operandi.The Teutonic
races. for example. go  the extreme
to combat the movement.
in laying down precedents, legalism,
"Soviet Russia claims to be a Demo-
cracy where everything is done in the
rules, et cetera
The Angio-Saxon
public interest. Yet it is a fact that
races are less irclined to do so. but
both are in contrast to the Way of
5,c00.000 farmers-producers of needed
Japan. Japan goes to the oher ex-
commoditios-were allowed to starve to
death a few years ago. And who
treme, the spiritual extreme. We be-
knows how many have been killed in
lieve the way to handle Japanese is to
the various purges? I'l! admit that fi-
give them direction and leave the pro-
gure seems incredible. I didn't believe
cess to themselves. We attempt to
it nyself. but when I was War Min-
attach more importance to the spirit
ister I had it investigated and found
that motivates them rather than do-
it was conclusively proved. News-
this and don't-do-that rules. I am often
papers didn't print all of that. Largely
often amazed and even fail utterly to
because the facts , ere suppressed and
comprehend some of the legalistic turn-
if such reports had appeared they
ings of the Western mind."
would have strained the readers' cre-
dulity."

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
The General cited two incidents that
Veritable Museum
had been told to him to illustrate his
Over the mantle, as has been des-
failure to grasp Western thought.
cribed. were the framed Rescript and
A friend of his who had been abroad
Makoto. Below was a clock housed
in a bronze reproduction of the Kudan
told him of to Japanese women who
war museum. Nearby were two bronze
were being driven down a busy street
horses and a China porcelain horse,
in a certain city. Due to the congestion
mounted by warriors. From one cor-
and possibly other circumstances, their
ner two huge turtles stood like min-
iature army tanks. Above them was
ehauffeur struck another woman, a pe-
an almost life-size wooden statue of a
destrian who was a well-known voea!-
youthful spear-grasping soldier of Old
ist. The Japanese women were almost
Japan.
overcome with grief. but they had the
In another corner was a suit of an-
car stopped and saw that the injured
cient samurai armor. A huge sake
woman was lifted in and had their
gourd sat on a pedestal. Against an-
 chauffeur rush her to a hospital. Her
other wall were two gold screens, one
injuries fortunately were not serious.
of them the background for a huge
but as she lay in the hospital for a
piece of polished natural wood nearly
weck or so. the Japanese women call 
five feet tall; A cabinet was filled with
frequently  ith flowers and other gifts
a small but exquisite jade collection.
to express their sympathy.
This cabinet ' as surmounted by a
Victim Brought Suit
stuffed falcon, and another stuffed bird
When the victim left the hospita', she
resembling a pheasant. The walls
brought suit for damages against the
displayed two pictures of fero-
Jacancse. The verdiet was for the vie-
cious tigers; a remarkable re-
tim. and. according to the General's in-
production of Mt. Fuji and a
formant, the court's reasoning was that
framed silk Japanese flag. Over a mo-
there must have been negligenee and
dern and new cabinet radio was an-
responcibility on the part of the Japa-
other glass case containing two huge
nese women or they would not have
silver cups of Chinese design.
been so excessive in demonstrations of
In another corner, farthest from
their anxiety.
what might serve as the tokonoma,
The second story was the case of a
was a bronze bust. standing no
governess who called daily at the heme
straighter and no less the embodiment
of a man to teach his children. On
of all the Araki principles. than the:
General himself. And probably just
eaving the house one day, she and a
maid reached for the governess' coat
as imperishable.
at the same time and accidentally
caused a valuable ornamental dish to
fall from the all. The head of the
household brought suit against the
governess for damage, and, after all
the evidenee was heard. the finding
was that the maid and governess were
equa'ly responsible and should be
equally assessed the damage. Thereupon
the householder confiseated the wages
of cach and continued them in his crn-
ploy so he would be sure of collect-
ing.
General Araki shook his head in
perplexed amusement at the curious
finding, of the court and the even more
incomprehensible actions of the liti-
gants.
"All legalisms." he said. "The West
abides by such legalisms. That's what
I mean by materialistic."
Refers to Hcadlines
In conclusion, General Araki picked
up a facsimile reproduction of head-
lines from Američan newspapers. In
bold type they laid alleged atrocities
a: the feet of Japan and made out the
Japanese to be a rampant force of
savages in China. Down among the
headlines was the photograph of Gen-
cral Araki in full-drcss uniform.
"Look at that." he said, with a smile.
"They seem to lay it all on me. For
awhile I contemplated going to Amer-
ica in an attempt to tell your country
about the Way of Japan, but I've about
given up hope. I'm sure I could never
convince them in America now that I
am not a monster. I'd still líke to go.
but I imagine it would do little good."
And with a courtly bow the General
ccncluded the interview. It was long
past his lunchtime.
The room where the interview took
place was a veritabie museum of an
eminent soldier of Japan.

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2, to despatch
No.8798, dated March 2,1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturday, February 5, 1938.
READERS IN COUNCIL
"Expediency" Explained
by Araki
To the Editor,
Reading the English version of my
interview published in today's edition
of your valuable paper, I have been
impressed by the accuracy with which
it has been rendered into your langu-
age. There is ce point. however.
which I would like you to further
clarify a little.
It is the part bearing on the Italo-
German-Japanese Pact against the
menace of Communism. You have us-
ed the word "expediency." which my
interpreter might in fact have used or
my remarks. if boiled down, might
have amounted to that. I fear how-
ever this word is liable to be inter-
preted in the light of a "sacrifice of
mora! principles for the sake of facili-
tating some end."
I do not mean that, or to disparage
the value or character of the Anti-
Comintern Pact. O:ly I meant to lay
emphasis on the fact that the conclu-
sion of this pact was not a gesture of
defiance against the political idcology
of the democratic countries. but that
its sole inducement was the common
fear of the danger of the eneroachment
of Cemmunism. cnd that, therefore, if
such fear had not existed, such a paet
might rot have been coneluded. Is
this what you understand by "expedi-
eney?"
Wishing you would clarify this point
a little further.
SADAO ARAKI
Tokyo. February 4, 1938.

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3, to despatch
No.2798 , dated March 2, 1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Monday, February 7, 1938.
Araki Says Japan
Has Spiritual Ties
With Italy, Germany
G neral Baron Sadao Araki has
asked The Japan Advertiser to am-
plify an interpretatlon ccnveyed to
an interviewer from The Advertiser
last weck on the subject of Japan's
joining the anti-Comintern pact with
Italy and Germany. In addition to
sharing a common antipathy toward
the Communist International. Japan
entered the pact, says General Ara-
ki, becatc of certain natural, spiri-
tual affinities with the two Fascist
countries; and there was in no sense
a feeling of "expcdiency.' as stated
in the interview, which might sug-
gest "sacrifice of certain moral prin-
ciples for the sake of an end." The
three Powers, the General believes,
share a great deal of spiritual ideo-
logy and therefore there was no
question of material interests involy-
cd in the sense of a simple matter
of expedieney.

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No., to despatch
No.2798 , dated March 2, 1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Tuesday, February 8, 1938.
who are prepared to twist the
spiritual being. Heis
The Spiritual Link
most innocent statement into a
he is our soul. Conse
sinister significance. Thus the
have no need of th
It is a common trick in the
other day General Araki was re-
which has played so p
sphere of international diplomacy
ported as having stated to the
part in the realization'of
to seek to sow seeds of distrust
press that the basis of the Anti-
tional spirit of Germany
and dissension between those who
Comintern Pact was expediency;
Italy.
are in alliance together. And this
a statement that was at once seiz-
It was this that General
trick is being continually prac-
ed upon by unfriendly critics as
was expressing, no matter
tised at the present time against
implying that the Pact involved
words he used. We are
the Anti-Comintern Pact by those
"a sacrifice of certain moral
with Italy and Germany by
whose interest it would be to see
principles for the sake of an end."
mon devotion to the peculiar
it weakened or dissolved. Time
It is not surprising that General
tional spirit that each of us
and again tendencious reports ap-
Araki felt it his duty immediately
sesses, and which is to each on
pear in the press suggesting thai
to correct his statement, for, if
us an inspiration. That is the b
Germany or Italy is not acting
there is one thing more certain
of the Anti-Comintern Pact in
fairly by Japan, more especially
than another, it is that this Pact,
which we are united. It is the 
in regard to the Sino-Japanese in-
so far from sacrifieing any moral
pression of the profound moral
cident; those who are responsible
principle is definitely based on a
principle that only by devotion to
for them being very careful to
moral principle of the deepest
its eternal soul can a nation fulal
imply that the pact which links
piritual significance.
a destiny that will at one and the
these two countries to Japan is of
But, first, as to the reasons
same time raise it to its highest
such a comprehensive character,
which led General Araki to mak-
possibilities and contribute to
that, if in each and every activity.
ing any statement at all and to
just and lasting world peace.
not only on the part of the three
cmploying what he now realizes
Precisely because Communism is
nations themselves, but also on
was the somewhat ill-judged word
the direct antithesis of this, being
the part of all their nationals,
"expedieney." Both Germany and
based on national disintegration
there is not absolute unanimity of
Italy have forms of government
and a materialistic conception of
purpose, then one country or the
which are very much the same,
equality, we three nations are
other is playing false to the rest.
and which can be covered by the
fundamentally agreed in opposition
to it. Each of us may have to fight
Now that is all utter nonsense.
word Fascist. But Fascism is
Germany, Italy and Japan are
rather a matter of expediency
Communism to no small extent in
linked together for the specific
than of principle. The principle
his own way; but so long as we
are actually fighting against Com-
check the machinations of the
purpose of doing all they can to
sought to express is that each
that both these two countries have
munism, we are proving loyal to
cach other as members of the Anti-
Comintern. They are not even
linked together in a common
nation, to be great, must be link-
ed together by a spiritual unity.
Comintern Pact.
hostility to any one country; they
That spiritual unity was sadly
It would by no means incorrect-
certainly are not pledged to con-
ly describe the situation if we
duct their foreign relations in
lacking in both Italy and Germany
stated the matter thus. Germany,
identically the same way. Ac-
under their old regiines, where
Italy, and Japan each have their
cordingly, cach one of the three
various disruptive forces such as
respective national interests to
partners in the Anti-Comintern
Radicalism, Socialism, and especial-
serve, and because that involves
Pact may at different times and
ly Communism, were setting class
antagonism to a common enemy, it
in different circumstances, pursue
against class, citizen against citi-
is expedient that we enter into 
zen, and all against anything like
Pact. Yet, since the word "expedi-
its own policy strictly from its
a national life of ordered moral
ent" has so many unfortunate con-
own nationaf point of view. The
decency. The expedient both these
notations, especially one that sug-
one thing that each has a right to
countries devised to defeat the
gests an absence of moral principle,
ask from the others is that none
enemies of spiritual unity was that
it would be better to express our
shall pursue any policy that is
form of government generally
relation in such a way that the rest
likely to impede the one object
known as Fascism.
of the world cannot possibly be
they have in common, namely to
But with Japan the case is very
under any misconception. Accord-
check the activities of the Comin-
different. We possess the sanme
ingly, we prefer to say that, al-
tern. In this respect Japan can
ideal of a spiritual national unity
though Germany and Italy differ
be trusted to play her part loyal-
that Germany and Italy possess,
from Japan in their form of Gov-
ly, and she has faith in her part-
only that with us it goes down
crument, yet fundamentally we all
ners to play theirs and not to
even deeper into the furthest
agree in possessing the common
allow any considerations of either
reaches of history and the deepest
moral principle that each natio
political or economic expediecy
roots of the human heart. More
must be true to its own. national
to cause them to swerve from the
than that, we are fortunate in that
spirit and fight against anything
straight path.
our spiritual principle of national
that would corrupt or deny or op
Yet even as we attempt to de-
life is inextricably linked with our
pose that spirit. The link be
fne our joint relationship, we
form of government. We have as
us then is easentially
must be on our guard against ever
the head of our state the Emperor
one.
watchful, ever cunning, enemies,
who is the very life of all our

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.94)
a
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
89
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 23,1938.
—LDS
10
PA/H.
You may wish to glance
through this interesting des-
patch on Wartime Thought Control
Exhibit in Tokyo.

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.99)
230
-2-
The exhibit is one illustration of the many means
being currently employed in Janan to sustain support in
public opinion for prosecution of the Government's for-
eign policy. Its principal theme is that opinion abroad
is manufactured, and that where such foreign opinion is
anti-Japanese it has been made so by organized effort.
There is of course no sugeesticn that opinion in Japan
is amenable to like iniluences.
It is noteworthy that from Germany Japan has now
taken over as new motif the campaign against the Jews.
In the exhibit the Jews are identified with the Communist
International, are described as having effective world-
wide orcanization, and are represented as having sinister
power in the control of the news. That this propaganda-
stimulus can be thou ht potentially valuable by Japan,
which has no Jewish cuestion, is a :rovoking reflection
on the susceptibilities of tie human emotions.
The py mania was deliberately fed by the exhibit.
Increasing sus icion to ard forei ners and annoyance by
would-be patriots is probably to be expected as the war-
time psycholcy grows herearter.
The moet disturbing symptom to be observed in this
exhibit, as also in the present trend of the press and
thought in Japan, is the un ualified acceptance of a world
alignment of countries in hostile systems. Japan no longer
sees herself as a country workirg out a solution of prob-
lems confined to one part of the earth:
more and more
the thought is being built up that Japan is party to a
world-wide crusade against communism.
The pact between
Germany,

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.98)
5231
-3-
Germany, Japan, and Italy is bearing fruit in the field
of thought. In 1931 and 1932 the public mind was guided
to think of Manchuria as the life-line of Japan; later it
was pressed to see that a Chine not friendly to Japan could
not be tolerated. Now the propaganda stage is further ex-
panding.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
820.02
CC:C
Enclosure:
1/ Clipping "Bis Crowds Attend Propaganda Exhibit,"
JP. VRTISMR, Fobruary 27, 1938.
Copy to labassy, Teiping.

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.99)
C
Enclosure No./, to despatch
No799 dated March3, 1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Aavertiser.
Tokyo, Sunday, February £7, 1938.
BIG CROWDS ATTEND
dent of ine Japan Police Association
and closely identified with Rotary in
Tokyo, requesting that officials of the
Cabinet's Information Bureau be ad-
PROPAGANDA EXHIBIT
vised of the true nature of Rotary.
Spies are everywhere, asserted one
flaming sign over a series of five Japa-
nese scenes. In the first scenes card-
board dancers, of whom the men are
chiefly foreigners. are shown having a
Display Sponsored by Cabinet
gay time in a Tokyo "sport club." Be-
Information Bureau Leaving
ware of men who dance too many
times with the same girl the beho'der
Tokyo for Osaka
was warned, for this is a favorite trick
of spies seeking information from un-
suspecting girls. The usual trick of
SPY
ACTIVITIES
SHOWN
these men is to "ask the girls to go
somewhere with them." It is well
known, because of the prevalence of
Comintern Said to Work
Japanese women aid spies. continued
Red propaganda activity, that many
Through Havas, Reuters, Inter-
the sign. Therefore the utmost care
shou'd be taken.
national P.E.N. Club
The train is another favorite place
for spying, asserted the next sign, over
a train scene showing a group of Japa-
Uncounted thousands of students,
nese talking excitedly while a very
English-looking gentleman with walrus
housewives, military men. businessmen
mustache listens intently behind a
and others during the past two weeks
newspaper. "You never know when.
gained some conception of the ro'e of
without intent, you are going to dis-
close something of value to the spy,"
ideas in wartime b, visiting the war-
the sign stated. "He gathers up pieces
time thought control exhibition spon-
of information here and there. Espe-
sored by the Cabinet's Information
cially from casual talk by members of
Bureau in the Takashimaya depart-
soldiers' families, he can learn how
ment store. where they saw the tricks
the war is going."
of foreign spys. propaganda methods
Workers Must Be Careful
and an ideological analysis of the na-
The next scene was a munitions fact-
tions.
ory. with a few men idling about and
Tokyo had its last opportunity yes-
trash-picker salvaging a paper here
terday to see the exhibit. at least for
and there. Beware, read the sign.
the time being. but it is being sent to
even of the trash-picker, who may be
Osaka. where it will be shown from
a spy in disguise. From ore serap of
March 8 to 15 in the Nankai Taka-
paper, he may be able to learn some
shimaya Department store. and later to
secret of national defense. Workmen
other cities in which arrangements
in these factories must be especially
have yet to be made.
careful not to give away secrets.
Those who visited the exhibit. In-
Even in the crowds saying goodby
cluding Prince Chichibu and Premler
to soldiers leaving a station for the
Konoe, saw a display in black and
front, spies are to be found. said the
white shown the devious ways by
next sign, showing a foreigner in the
which the Comintern. England. France
background. of a flag-waving crowd
and the United States are endeavoring
hastily taking notes about the soldiers'
to defeat the aims of Japan. The Co-
uniforms. equipment and destination.
mintern. working through worldwide
He even may be plotting a train wreck.
Jewish organization utilizes Reuters.
the inscription added.
Havas. Eurovean and Chinese news-
The last of the group showed a spy
papers and foreign correspondents for
climbing furtively over a back wall
spreading news against Japan, visitors
after blowing up a factory. In the
warned. International groups such as
United States during the World.
Esperanto associations and the Inter-
War. many attempts were made to
nationa! P.E.N. Club are also aiding the
blow up factories. the sign recalled.
Comintern's anti-Japanese thought bat-
By the side of the exhibit was a
tle, points out the poster, which shows
series of photographs showing a cap-
that even Freemasonry has some Jew-
tured spy. looking very despondent.
ish connections which make it one
and his equipment, a radio broadcast-
medium for Comintern propaganda. In
ing set. in a trunk.
England. France and the United States.
Exhibits showing the methods of
bankers. politicians and discussion so-
spies followed: letters with secret mes-
cieties have combined in their fight
sages underneath stamps. men on
against the aims of this country. the
whose shaved heads messages have
beeen written. hiding places in false
display claimed.
Rotary Stricken Out
teeth. fountain pens and strings of
beads and inside neckties, buttons and
Rotary International was on the ori-
false eyes.
ginal chart of organizations under fire.
Chinese Propaganda
but local Rotarians succeeded in con-
Chinese Propaganda posters played a
vineing Prcmier Konoe that the name
large role in the exhibit. One showed
should b? removed. Mr. Hachisaburo
several Japanese soldiers, guns in hand
Hirao. former Education Minister new-
displaying a group of captured priso-
ly appointed economic adviser to the
ners and a group of tied Chinese
Japanese forces in North China and
wornen. each holding a baby and
former governor of the 70th district of
unclothed except for a pair of highly
Rotary International. comprising many
colored shorts. Another showed 
clubs in Japan. Korea, Formosa and
huge body of Japanese soldiers, highly
11
Manchukuo. called on the Premier
armed. fleeing in terror before a group
with Mr. Shigeru Matsui. vice-presi-
of Chinese men and women armed

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.99)
only with sticks, farming rakes and
England, Soviet Recede
knives.
Another large lighted exhibit show-
Nearby was a group of Communit
ed the changing spheres of influence in
flags and a charred piece of clothing
the Orient. First on the scene appear-
bearing Russian writing captured from
ed England, shown by a green light
Chinese troops and a series of Soviet
that covered India, then Shanghai and
posters, one of which shows a master-
the coast of South China. France fol-
ful Chinese leading the Asiatic and
lowed covering Indo-China. Then the
Negro peoples in a drive which tram-
United States. with a large purple cir-
ples banks and soldiers underfoot while
cle at Shanghai and another at Tien-
a non-Aryan capitalist shouts in an-
tsin. Finally arrived the Soviet Union,
ger.
which covered Manchukuo, Outer
Posters of the new Chinese regime
Mongolia, Inner Mongolia and North
depicted the transformation of the Chi-
China with red, except for the Ameri-
nese character. In another corner, a
can sphere. Then Japan, in yellow,
series of exhibits on small stages show-
wiped out the Soviet red in Manchu-
ed propaganda methods during the
kuo, Inner Mongolia and North China
World War. In one is an artist's studio
and the British green on the central
in Paris, labeled the head of the French
and southern coast except for Shang-
propaganda bureau, where dolls with-
hai and Canton. But it did not dis-
out legs and arms and with mangled
turb at all the two purple American
bodies were made wholesale and photo-
spheres of influence.
graphed to provide propaganda pictures.
Propaganda has changed the map of
As an example of the wild stories
the world read the sign above a dis
that spring up in wartime there was
play setting forth the effectiveness of
a large display on the reported death
speech, and 'writing. Included was a
of Admiral Osami Nagano in the center
picture of Mr. William Randolph
of which was a huge picture of Mr.
Hearst, who. by the effectiveness of his
Rlman Morin of the Associated Press
propaganda caused the Spanish-Amer-
and Mr. Ray Marshall of the United
ican War, it was explained. Under a
Press hearing the Admiral deny his
picture of Lincoln was an explanation
death.
of the effect that Harriet Beccher
Changes Shown
Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin had in
A revolving exhibit showed seenes in
starting the Civil War, Bismark and the
Kaiser were so skillful at propaganda
China: a school in which a Chinese
read another sign, that they convinced
teacher is lecturing against Japan. the
the German peop'e that France was
Japanese and Chinese trenches, the Chi-
going to attack them.
nese being half-filled with girls in
bright dresses comforting the troops,
and Japanese troops in the countryside,
one soldier bouneing a Japanese-flag-
waving Chinese baby on his knee while
other children play peaceably about
and an officer presenting a candy bar
to another child.
The differenee between youths filled
with Red ideas and good youths was
shown in a series of activities. The Red
youths discussed their plans, went out
to win converts, agitated from soap-
boxes and were arrested. The good
youths discussed their plans, prayed,
worked hard and in the evening at the
setting of the sun went to bow before
shrines.
A huge lighted exhibit showed the
world divided into ideology camps
anti-Cominterns. anti-Comintern syin-
pathisers. neutrals. Reds and Red sym.
pathisers. Red neon li ht flashed pas:
back and forth among the members of
the Red group. and equally rapid yel
low flashed among members of the
anti-Comintern group.
Listed as Red were France. Czecho
slovakia. China, Outer Mongolia. th
Soviet Union and Republican Spain
The Red sympathizers included Mex-
:co. Chile, Ecuador. Greece and Jugo
slavia. Neutrals were the United
States, Great Britain. Canada, Panama.
India, Iran, Egypt. Norway. Swcden
Denmark, Holland, Switzerland. Aust-
alia and the Philippines.
The anti-Comintern countries were
Japan. Italy and Germany, and anti-
Comintern sympathizers were Manchu-
kuo, Brazil. Peru, Nationalist Spain.
Portuga!, Hungary. Finland. Siam. the
Shanghai area. Austria, Poland. Bel-
gium. Albania, Rumania. Bulgaria,
Peru, Bolivia. Argentina, Uruguay,
Paraguay, Estonia, Lithuania and Lat-
via.

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2815.
Tokyo, March 18, 1938
SUBJECT: MOBILIZATION BILL.
894.00
52
894120
S
2
(1)
0
01110
Wa
5
DT
Divisioy of
1B
FAK EASTEHRAL/AINS
The Honorable
894.00/780
The Secretary of State,
x
Washington.
The mobilization bill which was the subject of
the Embassy's despatch 2800, March 3, 1938 was passed by
the Japanese House of Representatives on March 16 with-
APR8-1938
FILED
out amendment. The bill is now under consideration in
the House of Peers,where it is expected to meet little
real opposition.
Opposition in the House of Representatives was at
first loud, but the politicians had to give way in spite
of their blustering. The concessions were small and
left the bill unchanged. The Government in the course
F/M
of

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.98)
今
- 2 -
of debate accepted an undertaking that the mobilization
commission authorized under article 5o to advise on
measures to be taken in applying the act will be com-
posed in majority of Diet members. This commitment
need hardly embarrass the Government, inasmuch as the
commission is advisory only, and the entire Diet, in-
cluding the Peers, gives a wide choice of appointment.
By way of face-saving for the politicians the Lower
House concurrently adopted a resolution urging the
Government (1) to avoid resort to ordinances for establish-
ing regul tions capable of embodiment in laws for Diet
consideration, (2) to reform the civil service, and (3)
to renovate diplomacy.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew
800.Japan
CC:g

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.92)
894.00/781

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.91)
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
NE
Qeaka, Japem, Mareh 14, 1938.
TMENT OF STATE
1938
SPRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
894.00
The Honorable,
OF
NS
Joseph.C. Crow,
ir:
I have the honor to report, as or poasible int erest to
the Embassy, a somowhat unusual ooourrenoe during my attendanee
meeting of the Oaaka Rotary Club.
894.00/78
I was invited by r. Gentaro kada, Ex-outive Direotor of
thé Naigei Cotton  inning Company, a gontleran who has always
b on most friendly towards the Consulate, end who has lived a
number of years abroud, to at end o meeting of the Rotary Club
8
held on Maroh 1l, l938. r. wade stated that the meeting was an
2
ordinary one, and that he desired me to have the opportunity to
meet the business leaders who compose the mombership.
I attended the meeting on the date mentioned, was given the
plase of honor at the resident's table, and was introduced by
AP
him to the membership. I noknowledged the introduetion witn e fow
FILED
心
werds, my remarks no having been sent to the Department sinee
3
they did not constitute a specch of any mature, but merely thake
for the opportunity to ettend the meeting.
Shortly after my introdwetiem, the chairmam ef the pregrem
π
Gemmistee aaaouneed that Mr. D. N. Sajay woule make a ahors teik.
I learm that Mr. Sahey is an Indian Matiemalist restdems in Koke
the hes writsen e mumber ef esti-British artieles fes she lseel
prese  ts. l ss et 1
11

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.90)
. sabey talked tor tairty mimten ia Jagenese.
ebvioualy wisn eenalderable feelins md eophesle. sse
ot udd the Jees lage I  e 
tener of his remarks. Upon talking to Tapamese apeezias Ames
ieems whe had been present at the meeting, I learned shat
Mr. sahay's spesoh had been a vielent denunsietiem ef Gress
Britaim and a ples for the cooperation of the colored reses
in eliminating Occidental influences in the Fer Kast.
I received the impressien that Mr. Okade, Mr. C. Maede,
the president of the olub, end some of the other members, wese
rather embarrassed by Mr. Sahay's speeek and were probably
wmaware that such a speech was to be made.
Although the matter is of reletively mmall impertetmee,
I have deemed it advisable to report it so the mbessy in the
event that any comment might arise coneerning the meeting.
Very respectfully yours,
George A. Makinson,
American Consul General.
800
GAN/kek
Original to the Embassy,
Three copies to Departmont,
Cme copy to Supervising Consul Ceneral.

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 14
bbe
JHB
The enclosure tc Osaka's despetch
to tie mbaesy ut Tokyo of March 17
sets ferth no new lacts. Hovever,
it quotes illut tretione to show
thet Christianity is suffering
increusine adverse pre. : ure in
T.
THI

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.92)
DCR
Copy for Degartman.
ARIA CAT
Osnka, Japan, Haroh 17, 1038.
COPIES SENT T
894.0
LANDWLD
Subjeot: Encloaing report ontitled " iberal Ohrietlanity
42
uspeot in Japan
25020
Tokyo.
air:
I have the honor to onolose a report entitled I1-
894.00/783
beral Christianity Buspect in Jaan" whioh may be or in-
tereat to the mba ay.
Vory respeotfully yours,
George A. Kakinson,
Amorican Consul General.
840.4/800/360
GAN/GLJ
Distribution:
Original to Kmbassy, Tokyo.
3 copies to Department.
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
1 copy to riles.
F/A
APR 231938
FILED

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.95)
LIBERAL SIRISTIANITY PUOBOT XI
Japan's aggressive oxpanslonlam in Asie bas been
severely criticised by western oountries, chierly tho
where demooratic forms of government are in power and
Christian ideology still plays a prominent role.
This has been a souroe of irritation to the Japamess
and has tended to strengthen the ardent nationalism which
has always been an outstanding oharaoteristio of this
country.
Japanese nationalism does not jibo with western liberal-
1sm. Here the acce ted doctrine is that the Emperor is d1-
vine and that the people oxist in order to serve the State.
The western (Christlan) idea teaohes that there is a loyalty
higher than loyalty t the tate and that might is not nodoe-
sarily rixht. Consequently, vith the nation at var and with
the great ma jority f the ruling olasses, inoludine the mils-
tarists whose influenoo 1s nov at its zenith, dyed-in-the-wool
nationalists, liberalism in all its forms is suspeot.
inoe the original "anohoukuo" inoident press and other
forms of censorshi, control and repreasion have been material-
ly inore sed and "thought-control hawks" or spies have boon
planted everywhere. Cenuine comaunista have of course long
been anathema and have received short shrift at the hande of
the publie authorities, but of late the police round-ups
have grown more frequent and have dras ed in many soores or
people whuse "orimes" would not be punishable in demooratio
countries. In other words, in addition to the arrest of
genuine communists many others have been porseouted, lany
1bos

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.95)
laber leaders, liberel writere ema
voise eren the mildest oritisien of weeml
sions or mustons have beon branded as "red" mnd alee
pasirists, League or Mations supporters and ottee
sive thinkers they have been made to suffer for theis be»
liefs. As a result, liberalism today has been pretsy wall
ferreted out of all publio life, inaluding the State edu-
eational system. Rowever, thero still remains one group
where liberal thoughts still prevall. This is the Chrissims
grour and includes Japanese Christians, foroign missionaries
and the ohurches and educatienal institutions under their
sway.
This group has nover received any ofriolal eneourage-
ment. Indeed among many influential reactionaries it has
always been looked upon with askance as something alien to
the Japanage spirit, but withal it has boon permitted to go
its way unohallenged. Now however, with the ountry at war
and pas ions inflamed, the situation with rospeot to this
group has taken a deoided turn for the worse. Though still
quietly oarrying on they are now suspeot and very evidontly
worried - seemingly not without good reason. Here it is
well to note that the suspioion leveled against this group
arises boonuse of two reasons. Cne is the basio philosopby
of Christianity, whioh teaohes that Christ is divine and that
ho alone should have onets loyalty. The second, and perhape
the more potent reason for suspioion, is that Christianity
has been the chief agenoy through whioh liberalim has beem
introducee into Japan. Moreover, it has been introduced
chiefly by missionaries from Ameriea and Great Britain, the
wo

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.92)
atien to mest Zapaese liberals aad 1t ta to th
and lemdership.
Incidenta in riatian Sahcale nd Iactitatione
Since the advent of aggressive matiozalism in shíe
sountry Doshiahe University at Xyoto, the foremost mrist-
lan edmcatiomal Lastitution in Japan and lons meted fer its
liberaltam, has had more than its share of unfaverable yeb-
lieity. In fast, it may be justly desoribed as the fosal
poins of attack of those resetionaries who oppese assdemis
freedom and all other forms of liberalism. Founded in lars,
this institution is entirely owmed and controlled by the Jay-
enese Congregational Chureh, though it has always had a fair-
ly large American teaching staff. Its comstitutiom contaims
no referenee to the Imperial Resoript on Rdueation (issued 15
years after Doshisha's founding). On the contrary, it has
two artieles, among others, whieh have come in for widespread
sritieimm. These articlss read in effest: "The meral teach-
ing at Doshimha shall be founded upon Christian primeiples"
and "This artiole regarding the foundation of moral teashing
1s unohangeable".
Brief referenee to some of the unpleasant "imeidemts"
in whieh the college has lately been ixvolved may met be out
of place here. The first incideat, the so-ealled "shrime af-
fair" had its beginning in the prank of a matiomalissieally
minded student. It seens thet a new aymasium was beins areet

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.96)
of Dr. Yemse, Japam's foremost entomologist and presidemt ef
the universisy. This was earried to the ears of the yeums
army offisers assigned to the college as military inssrecters.
They promptay and indignantly protested the "insult". The up
shot was shat President Yuasa rescinded his order and permit-
ted a shring to be placed in the posision or honor. Is this
incident, it is well to note, there wes no outside interfem-
ense either from the oivil or military authorities. The omly
military men involved were the junior officers servine as in-
struotors at the college. However, the publicity given the
affair did accentuate the demand, both within and without the
institution for a olaririoation or the relationship or Doshi-
she to the national polity.
The next opisode saw the Ministry of Edueation foreing
the summary diamissal of two or three temchers from the pre-
paratory department of the institution for "radioal thoughts".
Next followed the affair when at some formal ceremony
the curtain before the Emperor's pertrais, after beins raised,
refused to come down. Apparently the cord controlling the
ourtain was not properly adjusted. it any event President
Tuasa aried unsuccessfully to get it down. It would not come
so the Emperor's portrait romained uncovered for the darasiem
of the eeremonies. Immediately afterwards an army offieer
came forward, gave the cord a hard yank, and dewn same the
surtain. Onee again Dr. Yuase was accused of disrsspeet.

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.96)
their presence on the fasulty end resigmed mis presidemsy.
As successor to Dr. Yuase the trustees were seriously
considering Dr. Nishio, head of the Coagregational Chures
in Japan and long a lecturer at the university. Thpugh net a
motable liberal, his ideas were nevertheless too advansed
for some of the more reactionary members of the faeulty and
alumni, so that his prospective appointment was not entire-
ly welocome. Early in January, before his appoimtment had
been derinitely decided upon Dr. Nishio took a prominemt
part in an evangelistie meeting in Osaka. Here, during the
eourse of his speech, he unwittingly misquoted an Imperial
poem. This trivial and unintentional error had grave com-
sequences for Dr. Nishio. His miaquotation was noticed by
severaxhostile mombers of the audience, inoluding an alum-
nus who had long been advocating seoularization of the in-
stitution and it is understood had recently bought a se-
cond-rate newspaper in Osake in order to air his views. As
soon as the error was noticed Dr. Nishio offered a eomplete
and obviously sinoere apology but this failed to satisry the
reactionaries. The next morning the alumnus publioist print-
ed an exaggerated and strongly biased adcount of the affair,
and presumably tipped off the polios. At any rate, Dr.
Nishio was summoned to the gendarmerie headquarters to ex-
plain his position. Released several days later he resign-
ed his leeturemhip and is now out of the runming for the
presideney of Doshishe. Apparently nothing seriously im-
erimimasing

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.94)
Matatine developed durine she eee er te. ie
liee quessieming, but it ls sigmirlenat thet In reie
alm the head of the gondarmerie isswed a statememt te the
effest tmat Japenese Christians must realise that in Sape
the State oomes first,
Amother prominent Japanese arrested after attendims
shis meeting in Osake was a retired surgeon gemeral of the
Imperial Army. In some quarters it was asserted shat he
was arrested because he had attributed his rise to the rank
of Surgeon General to the influence of Christianity. Another
version, hovevor, denied that his arrest had any thing to do
with his religious conviotions. It explained that he was
temporarily detained because he had stated that a certain
general in aotive service had syphillis.
In considering the situation at Doshishs it is well to
romember that although the unrest at Doshithe has recently
attraoted more :attention it 1s not exaotly new. There has
long been a sizeable opposition element both within the
faoulty itselr and among the student body and the alummi.
Originally, the oprosition faction was composed almost en-
tiroly of those who dislike liberalism. Lately, howwver,
another d1ssatisfied element has come to the front and it
1s belioved that this new element is largely responsible for
the prement troubles at Doshisha. Although this new element
has ohosen to base its attacks largely on such aharges as
"disrespeot", "Leso Majesty", and "laok of loyalty", such
charges soom to bo merely useful coloring material. There
is something deepert moro fundamental, at the root of the
Doshisha troubles. Opposition to liberalism today is a se-
oondary

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.97)
iom stands for the nationalization of Christiamity and womla
weleome seeularization of Doshisha.
In an effort to plaoate this group the college trustees
last year drew up and published a forzal statement to the
effeet that Doshisha was founded upon both Christian and Ja-
panese principles and that these two are not ineompatible.
This concession however failed to satisry the reaotionaries
and their agitation has continued. Aocordingly the beard of
trustees has recently been giving the matter further attontiom.
It is believed that the next sop to the opposition will be the
inworporation of a deolaration of adherence to the Imperial
Rosoript on Bduoation. It is known that there is a difference
to
of opinion among the trustees es/the compelling need for this
step, and although no derinite announoement has yet been made
it seems probable that this important step will be carried
through in the very near futuro. It is known that represen-
tatives of Joshisha have conforred with ofrioials of the Min-
istry of Education in Tokyo on several rocent oceasions and
that the conforences conoerned the measures to conoiliate
the opposition at Doshisha. In this connestion it is in-
teresting to note that only a fortnight ago certain news-
papers announded that Doshishe was about to renounce its
basis of Christianity. This brought a prempt denial, a uni-
versity spokesman deolaring:
"Doshisha has in no way altered its Christiam
charester. In keeping with she spirit of the times,
steps are under way to imeorperate in its sonssi-

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.93)
10001007...
ial promeumeememts and, en
siase this was tacisly agreed upon a year ase by all seme
stories of more drastic changes aro quite without foun-
aasiom?
Although the cenferemees with the Winistry of Benee-
sios orfieials are common knowledge it is said that the ef-
fieials made no demands of any sort, that they merely ofror-
ed susgestions for placating the opposition. However, it is
reported on what appears to be exoellent authority that ome
of the high ranking educational offioials did say to ome of
the university spokesman that while "Chrissianity may be
sood for other countries, it is bad for Japan". He elucidated
his moaning by adding: "The unique position given to Ohrist
in the Christian religion makes it difrioult for Japanese so
accept the divine origin of the Imperial line and the divime
sharaeter of the descendents of that line".
Those who have given the matter some thought are inelin-
ed to believe that the forthooming amendment of Doshisha's
eonstitution pledging adherence to the spirit of the Imperial
Reseript on Edueation will aehieve its purpose, that is, it
will silence the opposition, at least for the tim being.
There are various other educational institutions in the
Kwanse1 (western Japan) founded and condueted on Christian
principles and employins missionary teachers from Britain and
11

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.94)
merien, bet as far as ema be asertatse,
year or two, and at least ome, Kobe Gollege, aa almd
to say, a year ago it altered its constitution. Tmis
resulted fron an informal, and it is believed friendlyy mag-
gestion from & Winistry of Iducation inspestor to the efreet
that the college might avoid trouble in the future ir iss
constitution, whioh read "The teaching at this ebllege smaill
be founded on Ohristian principles and in mecordamee with
the Imperial Resoript" be altered so that there would be no
oppertunity for invidious comparisons between "foumded on"
and "in accordance with". After mome months of rerleotion
the ofrioial's advioe was taken and the constitution now
reads either "the teaching is founded on thristian primel-
ples and the Imperial Resoript" or "the teaching will be in
accordance with Christian prinoiples and the Imperial Ros-
oript.
other Inoidents
During the few days last December while Dr. Nishio
was detained for quostioning his house was searohed by the
gendarmerie. Nothing seriously ineriminating was found,
though the police did evinee considerable interest in his
correspendence relating to the resent return to the United
States of a Mr. Frank Cary, an American missionary in Otara,
Hokkaido.
Oary had been aoting as pastor at the Japamese shurch
there besause no Japanese pastor was available. As delogate
of this chureh he attended a resemt mestins of the Japapess
pastors of this denomination at Okayamm. as this meestns

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.95)
10
approval secured. Subsequently, ca his vetarm to Csare
a Japanese pastor of the same dencmination alse atatiencé
in Hokkaide, a man of ardent mationalimm, visised him and
threatened that if he did not leave Japan he would pakliak
in all Japanese newspapers the statement that Cary was a
pacirist, that he was acting pastor of sush and such Ja-
paness shurch, and that he was maintained here as a miesion-
ary by such and such Ameriea mission. Cary, after sonsult-
ation with Japanese and foreign leaders of the denomimation
in Japan, decided that it would be best for the ahurah and
the misslon if he left thie country for the time being. Ao-
cordingly he went on furlough two years Before this wam dus.
As far as is known r. Sarey is the only foreign mis-
sionary to be praotically "run out" of Japan, but it is be-
lheved that several others who went home on furlough in
the early part of last year have not returmed; it is assumed
that either they have been held baok by their missionary
boards at home or that they thomselves have not considered
it wise to return at this timo.
The case might also be cited of an Ameriean missiomery
residing in dakayama eity who has been requested on three
different cccasions for a written and sigmed statemens of
his views on the ourrent Sino-Japamese hostilities. This
request has come from a member of the foreigm Section of
the prefectural poliee. The requested stasement was alse

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.93)
22
mristasity te the Japasese pallty.
Marlynin the present month twe womem empleyedme
sake in Eyoto were suddenly notiried thet their servleew
would no longer be required. One of the ladies invalvée
is an American and a relative new-somer to the temckime
starf. The other is British and has been employed by the
temching steff for 37 years. It is not known what, 15
anycompensation was offered the Axerican r for
her dimmissal, but in the oase of hor British colloagus
it is understood that the authorities have given her mered
ly 3 months Malary. In the oase of à Japanese with 3?
years serviee it is believed that the dismissal bomus
would have beon at the rate of one month's pay for avery
completod year of sorvice.
Loonomy is given as the reason for the sudden dis-
missal of these two toachers. In the case of the American,
goonomy may, indeed, have been the motive. But in the
case of the British woman, it is believed that her lack
of sympathy with Japan's campaign of aggression in China
wesghed heavily against her. At any rats, it is reporsed
that some littlo time back an ofricial from Tokyo visited
her and explained that in view of her long residenee in
Japan and her understanding of British payehology he wish-
ed to oonsult with her re methods of making Japamese pro
paganda more sffective. She quiekly showed herselr to be
out of sympathy with the Japanese positiom and the ofrieiml
left. Nothing has since been heard from him, but is is
felt that this inoident may well be behind the teaohere
41m10001

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.95)
I
It is maported that a new regulation infores im
Xyoto, whieh may eventually be applied throughout the
mation, provides that only one muddhist organization
mh ahe Jalvation Army may solieit subsoriptioms for
charitablo and philanthropio work.
Also from the mame oity it is reported that the po-
liee have rofused to issue a new permit to the only Tor-
ean congregation in yoto for the use of/new shuroh
whieh they have just butlt. Tho same souroe olaims that
the Education Ministry in Tokyo has refused to issue e
oharter to tho Tokyo Sohool for the Dear and Blind and
has let it be known that ths authorities are disinolimed
to grant charters to any additional educational institu-
tions founded on Christian prinoiples.
Catholio Churon in Strons Position
Until a comparativoly recent time the Catholie
Church in Japan aroused considerable popular suspieion,
the ohiaf reason being thet it was known to be subser-
vient to a foreign ecolesiastical hierarohy. Lately,
however, there has been a marked ahange in both the pu-
blie and the ofrieial attitude so thas the Catholie
Church is having no trouble with the question of the re-
lationship or Churoh and State. The reasons for the
strong position of the Catholie Chureb are (1) the Po-
pe's espousal or the Japamese side in the Sino-Japamese
cearliet, (2) the resent appointment of a Japanese as
arehbishop of Tokyo, this exalted ofriee havikg been
previously held only by Europeans, and (3) the reeent com-
elusion of the Italian-Japanese anti-Comitern paet. In

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.90)
-2
mest 1s lo Laturestine to
hdr ey w at the assenn to a Yesen
Camaluaiem
Although a good many intelleetuals have rum afeul
of the poliee, their troubles seem to be due to immis-
sreet liberal talking rather them to the fast thas they
are Christians. There doesn't zeem to be any ofrieial
attitude towards Ohristianity. No doubt many govera-
ment leaders eppose Christianity as in conrlict vith
Japanese prinoiples, yet nevertheless no active stops
have been taken so far to ropresskt, and it would ap-
pear likely that this situation will remain umohanged
unless the Sino-Japanese hostilities take a turm for
the worse, in which event it is possible that Japenese
Christians and foreign missioneries will be subjeeted
Ito considerable ofricial pressure.
George A. Makinson,
Amerioan Consul Genoral.
/00/360
