894.516 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Japan, Banks. Banking., July 29, 1947 (File 1589)
ID: 894.516-1589   Pages: 5   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.516-financial-conditions-budget-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
1355
File

IRVING TRUST COMPANY
ONE WALL STREET
NEW YORK 15, N.Y.

F. HARTMAN
VICE PRESIDENT

July 29, 1947

DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JUL 31 1947
BJM 8/4/47

Mr. Edwin M. Martin, Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
Room 18, Old State Department Building
Department of State
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Martin:

With reference to our letter of June 25 to the Department of Commerce regarding the resumption of foreign exchange transactions by Japanese banks and the present status of the Yasuda Bank, Ltd., Tokyo, we understand that the inquiry was directed to you.

It has now come to our attention through press sources that the Korean Foreign Exchange Bank, Ltd., Seoul, Korea, has begun operations. We are desirous, therefore, of supplementing our original inquiry with the request that the questions raised concerning banks in Japan be applied, also, to banks in Korea. For your convenience, these questions are restated as follows:

1. Under what conditions do native Korean banks now function?

2. Are there at present any plans which envisage permission for these banks to resume transactions involving foreign exchange?

3. In particular, what is the current status of the Korean Foreign Exchange Bank, Ltd., Seoul.

Your kind cooperation in this matter will be most helpful, and any assistance that you may be able to give us, of course, will be for our own confidential use.

Yours very truly

F. Hartman
Vice President

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Office of International Trade
Washington 25, D. C.

July 14, 1947

IT-1040-JPV

Mr. F. Hartman, Vice-President
Irving Trust Company
One Wall Street
New York 15, N. Y.

Dear Mr. Hartman:

Reference is made to your letter of June 25, 1947, in which you request information with regard to the conditions under which native Japanese banks now function, plans in prospect with regard to such banks resuming transactions involving foreign exchange, and the current status of the Yasuda Bank, Ltd., of Tokyo, Japan.

Since this is a policy matter relating to the permitted activities of Japanese banks under the direction of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan (SCAP), your letter is being referred for consideration or appropriate action to Mr. Edwin M. Martin, Chief, Division of Japanese and Korean Economic Affairs, Room 18, Old State Department Building, Department of State.

If this Division can be of additional assistance, please call upon us again, either directly or through our New York Regional Office located on the 60th Floor, Empire State Building, Mr. L. L. Murch, Regional Director.

Very truly yours,

Charles K. Moser, Chief
Far Eastern Division

JFVance:elc
cc New York Office
Dept. of State
OIT files (2)
OIT # B 242192

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
AUG 12 1947
May 1 - 7
894.516/7-2947
CS/A
894.516/7-2947

In reply refer to
JK

My dear Mr. Hartman:

Reference is made to your letter of June 25, 1947 to the Department of Commerce which has been referred to the Department of State for reply, and to your letter of July 29, 1947 to Mr. Edwin M. Martin of this Division. You request information regarding the conditions under which native Japanese and Korean banks now function, plans for these banks to resume foreign exchange transactions, and specific information regarding the status of the Yasuda Bank, Ltd. of Japan, and the Korean Foreign Exchange Bank, Ltd. of Korea.

In respect to your first question on native Japanese banks, the operations of these institutions are now confined to the domestic Japanese economy. All relations between Japanese banks and their former external branches and correspondents have been severed, and their external assets are either vested or blocked by the governments of the areas in which they were located. However, subject to the regulations of the Japanese Government outlined below, Japanese banks have, generally speaking, been permitted to carry on ordinary commercial and investment banking operations within Japan, subject to the blocking of certain accounts such as those of nationals of former enemy countries other than Japan, prohibited societies or organizations in Japan, and accounts owned or controlled by persons residing outside of Japan. These latter accounts include those of United Nations' Nationals which have been blocked for purposes of protecting these funds, pending their return to their legitimate owners. Banks as other institutions and individuals in Japan, are not permitted to transact business in foreign currencies, or in any evidences of ownership of Japanese external or foreign exchange assets.

The most important restrictions imposed by the Japanese Government on domestic banking institutions, are contained in the Emergency

Financial

Mr. F. Hartman,
Vice-President,
Irving Trust Company,
One Wall Street,
New York 15, N. Y.

A true copy of the signed original. DCR

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

Financial Measures adopted in February 1946, and the Financial Institutions Reconstruction and Reorganization Law of October 1946. The Emergency Financial Measures were adopted as an inflationary control device, and did not in themselves impair the assets of the financial institutions. They consisted of a currency conversion program accompanied by the blocking of deposits, and restriction of withdrawals therefrom to certain stipulated monthly amounts. The Financial Institutions Reconstruction and Reorganization Law was adopted pursuant to the extraordinary tax imposed by the Japanese Government on war claims against the government. Since this tax, which was in effect a cancellation of a very high percentage of war insurance and war indemnity claims against the government, resulted in the loss by the banks of part of the credit extended to industrial and insurance companies, it resulted in quite drastic reductions in the assets of financial institutions which had, of course, to be offset by corresponding write-downs of bank liabilities, including deposits. In order not to interfere unduly with normal banking processes, bank assets and liabilities have been divided into two categories of accounts, the first of which consists of the smaller deposits, and the second assets which are relatively free from restriction as to withdrawals, and which have been guaranteed by the Japanese Government. The second category of deposits and assets cannot be utilized at this time pending complete appraisal of the impact of the extraordinary tax program.

In Korea, prior to the liberation of that country, nearly all banks and financial institutions were branches of Japanese organizations. The Japanese interest in these institutions has been vested in the Military Government of Korea, and, in general, these branches are now operating autonomously under Military Government supervision. As in the case of Japanese banks, however, their activities are confined to domestic business. It is not believed that any important strictly native banks have yet been established in Korea. No program of blocked accounts, similar to the Japanese, has been involved in Korea.

Regarding your second question on plans which envisage the resumption of foreign exchange operations by banks in Japan or Korea, it is anticipated, of course, that eventually foreign exchange rates will be established between the Japanese yen, the Korean won, and the dollar and other foreign currencies. It is impossible to state at this time just when this may be accomplished, although the matter is under continuous study, both here and in the theater. At present, financial conditions are not sufficiently stable to permit the establishment of exchange rates with any degree of assurance that they would not require early revision. In the meantime, limited private foreign trade has been reopened in both Japan and Korea, with

all

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
1355

- 3 -

all the imports and exports and transactions relating thereto being carried on in dollars and other foreign currencies.

With regard to your question concerning the current status of the Yasuda Bank, Ltd., it continues to rank among the five top private commercial banks in Japan. However, as a subsidiary of the Yasuda Holding Company (Yasuda Hozensha), it was placed on the "List of Restricted Companies" as prescribed by Imperial Ordinance No. 657, 1945. Prior approval of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers is therefore required for transactions affecting the capital and capital assets of the company; transfer or lease of the business; entrance into a new field of activity; payments (other than salary); donations, or loans to officers; payment or declaration of dividends (except those paid out of earned income and not in excess of 5 percent of the paid-up capital per annum); and expenditure of funds or borrowing for any purpose except normal operating expenses.

The Korean Foreign Exchange Bank, Ltd., as you may know, has just been established by Ordinance of the Military Government, Korea, for the purpose of facilitating foreign trade transactions between Korea and foreign countries. It will act on behalf of the Military Government to maintain accounts in dollars and other foreign currencies, and to transmit and receive from its appointed correspondents and other approved agents, bills of exchange and other documents in connection with imports from and exports to Korea. In view of the recent establishment of this institution, it is not possible to furnish complete information on its organization and methods of operation at this time.

I trust that the information furnished above may be of some assistance to you. You will, of course understand, that many important aspects of the questions you raised cannot be adequately covered in this brief outline. If you should desire further information or wish to examine some of the Ordinances and regulations affecting these problems, I would be glad to make the necessary documents available to your representative should you care to have him call to pursue the matter further.

Sincerely yours,

Roswell H. Whitman
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese &amp; Korean Economic Affairs

OK
12 47 P.M.
AKO

JK:OJMcDiarmid: mw 8/4/47

OPD
NA
WHB
GHB
A-H
2564
