894.014 Government. Mandates, Recognition., Japan, Territory. Maps, August 7, 1947 (File 1591)
ID: 894.014-1591   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.014-government-mandates-recognition-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
OTHER OFFICE
SECRET
General Hilldring
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
See Sr. Mandate
DATE: August 7, 1947
TO: The Secretary
FROM: A-H: General Hilldring
SUBJECT: United States Position Reference Ryukyu Islands
XR 740.00119 (Japan)
Control
1. In paragraph 8 of the Potsdam Declaration it is stated that "Japanese sovereignty shall be limited to the islands of Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu, Shikoku and such minor islands as we determine". The Nansei Shoto (Ryukyus) under this declaration might reasonably be considered minor islands and allowed to remain under Japanese sovereignty or might with equal reason be detached from Japan.

2. A firm United States Government position on the disposition of some of these islands has not yet been determined. Now that we are pressing for an early conference to draft the Japan peace treaty such a position should be established as promptly as possible.

3. At a conference on October 22, 1946, at which were present the President, Mr. Byrnes, Mr. Patterson, Mr. Forrestal, Admiral Leahy, General Vaughn, Admiral Nimitz and General Hilldring, the President decided, with the concurrence of all present, that the Japanese Mandates and all other islands detached from Japan other than those covered by existing international commitments would be placed under trusteeship.

4. The positions of the three Departments and the JCS on September 17, 1946, when the question was last discussed at SWNCC, were:

|  Name | State Department | War and Navy Departments and JCS  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  Nansei Shoto (Ryukyus) |  |   |
|  a. Northern Ryukyus southward to approximately 27°N (just north of Okinawa) | Should be returned to Japan and demilitarized. | Might well be returned to Japan and demilitarized.  |
|  b. Southern Ryukyus | Should be returned to Japan and demilitarized. (A summary of the reasons for this position is attached as Tab "A".) | Should be placed under ordinary trusteeship with the United States as sole administering authority with Okinawa and minor adjacent islands designated as strategic areas.  |

SECRET FILE
894.022/8-747

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.87)
-2-

5. As no conversations with War and Navy have been held on this subject since the latter part of 1946 it is not improbable that these Departments may now be willing to go along with our position. I therefore recommend that you (1) confirm that the State Department position as outlined above meets with your approval and (2) authorize me to hold informal conversations with War and Navy Department officials with a view to obtaining their approval of our position.

Tappene (2) above.

Regarding (1) Tami in some doubt is to whether or not stores realise demands solution advocated by War and Navy Depts. The State Dept. promotion to logical from may point of view except possibly that we directed with preceding sentence.

SECRET

FE:JKPenfield:hst

HJB

Le

EUR

JAA

SPA

A

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET

# POLITICAL ARGUMENTS FOR RETENTION OF THE RYUKYU ISLANDS BY JAPAN

The purely political arguments in support of the State Department's position, expressed in SWNCC 59/1, 24 June, 1946, that the Ryukyu Islands should be retained by Japan may be summarized as follows:

1. The Ryukyu Islands have been administered as an integral part of Japan since 1879, and have been politically subordinate to Japan for over three centuries. They were not acquired by "violence and greed". The inhabitants of the northern islands are virtually indistinguishable from Japanese, and the inhabitants of the central and southern islands, though possessing certain distinguishing racial characteristics, are closely related to the Japanese in language and culture. Japan's legal right to the islands rests firmly on grounds of historical possession, nationality, propinquity and ethnographic and linguistic similarity.

2. Acquisition of any part of the Ryukyus, outright or under the guise of a strategic trusteeship, would be directly contrary to our professed policy of opposing territorial expansion by any nation. A demand for control of the Ryukyu Islands, 7,000 miles from our shores off the China coast, without legal or moral right except the right of conquest, might seriously undermine America's moral prestige before the UN and throughout the world.

3. Apart from the effect on general, world opinion, American acquisition of the Ryukyus would undoubtedly be regarded by the Soviet Union as a provocative threat, unnecessary for the supervision of Japan and without conceivable purpose except in preparation for a war with the Soviet Union. Just how strong the Soviet reaction would be or in what specific ways it might manifest itself would be hard to predict, but an important new cause of suspicion and mistrust would have been created.

4. Control of the Ryukyu Islands, possessing a poverty-stricken population of 840,000, seventeen times the native population of the former Japanese Mandated Islands, would require a considerable financial outlay by the United States, and would involve this country in the thankless task of governing close to a million people of totally alien culture and outlook.

SECRET
