894.011 Government. Mandates, Recognition., Japan, Constitution., November 7, 1945 - February 16, 1949 (File 1695)
ID: 894.011-1695   Pages: 392   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.011-government-mandates-recognition-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
NOV151
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES FOLITICAL ADVISER
OF BTATE
Tokyo, Japan, November 7, 1945.
Personal and Ccnfidential.
Dear Dean:
We are very much worried over the question of the
revisicr cf the Corstitutior hic is otviously one of
the most vitally importart questions with which the
Americar authorities av to deal. Koroye has sent
Frofessor Takagi to us to say that several draft articles
have beer: prepared and to asl for consultation and ad-
vice, but we have beer ordered by General MacArthur not
-745
to proceed with the discussions. We learned privately
that Konoye's commiitee, as mirht be expected, is taking
a line in its drafting to perpetuate the imperial system
in a way which in our cpirion will in practice prevent
the development cf a really free and democratic govern-
ment.
Som days ago General IacArthur asked me to draw up
a statement in regard to the uestion of the revision of
the Constituticn artially for the rurpose of clearing
the air in the matter rut primarily with a view to meet-
ing recent Joviet ard Pritish criticism of him. He asked
re to corsider whether suc!: statorent should be issued
by re or by him, and the implication was that he would
wish me to issue it because it would thereby have a less
CS/V
formal character and wo:ld not be in the nature of a
directive to the Japarese Government. Ne drew up such
a statement, and I enclose a cory herewith. Subsequently,
the General turned his attention to the question of an-
swering the Herald Tribune's criticism of him. (Editorial
8
dated
6
h
The Honorahle Dean Acheson,
Under Secretary of State,
Washington.
11

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
103
- 2 -
October 31 in regard to Konoye's activities in regard
to the Constitution and General LacArthur's connection
therewith.)
I was heartily in favor of issuing some statement
along the line of that enclosed in order that the Japanese
officials corcerned, the Japanese press and the Japanese
public might gair some clear idea of what is wrong with
the presert Constitution from the democratic point of
view. It is obvicus to us now that General LacArthur,
or his Chief of Staff and other members of the Bataan
Clut wo act as his irivy Council or genro--wish if pos-
sible tc keer the State Departrent out of this matter.
I earwhile, we learred from Japanese sources privately
that Honoye's comrittee expects to have a complete draft
prepared before the end of this morth to submit to the
Goverrent, and it seers to re that i we are to get
our ideas abroad before a draft is published with all
the trimmirgs of imperial sarction, etc., some action
toward ac ieving our purpose si culd be taken at once.
For, it goes without saying, any attempt to cause cor-
rection o a draft orce rrepared  ith irperial sanction
will reet with dif iculties anl will cause unfortunate
political repercussions which can nct help but militate
arail t cur long terr objectives.
I accordirgly su gest that a statement along the
lines cf the erclosed be released to the press by the
Depart ent. I an uite willing to take the responsibility
of havinf it r-leased as a rerort tc the Secretary from
re; ir any case if the language is retaired it would be
recogrized by "eadquarters. Release will, of course,
cause sore irritation in  eadquarters as does every pro-
nouncement on polic: matters by officers of the Depart-
ment, but such irritation, I believe, is more thar offset
by the salutary efects  such pronouncements have in re-
minding eadquarters ard others that policy is made at home
and that, after a l, the raking of foreigr policy is cen-
tered in the Departnent of State. Your far ous statement
of September 19 or 20 did a lot of good here and continues
to dc good, ard wile it did rot enhance our personal wel-
come, I believe t' at, looking back, t' ere is no question
but that it strengt'enei our position ard made it possible
for us to achieve a certair independerce from the chain of
command

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
104
- 3 -
command without which our job here would be almost
completely empty.
I would not bother you with this if I did not
regard it as an extrerely important matter.
Yours sircerely,
George Atcheson, Jf.
Enclcsure:
Draft Statement to
th Fress Jutmitted
to General acArthur
or: l:cver ber 1, 1945.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
105
DRAFT STATEMENT TO THE PRESS
There has recently been indication in both the
foreign and Japanese press of some confusion as to the
American attitude toward the revision of the Japanese
Constitution--a question which is now squarely before
the Goverrrent and peorle of Japan.
I would say that the key is tc be found in Para-
graph 1c of the Fotsdan Declaration which provides that:
"The Japarese Government shall remove all
obstacles to the revival in strengthening of
democratic ter.dencies alon the Japanese people.
Freedon of sre ch, of religion, and of thcught,
as  e'l as respect for the fundar ental human
rig!ts shall be established."
The merical. attitude is also manifest in one of
the well-nown ultirate objectives of United tates pol-
icy in regard to Japan:
Tc bril: alcut the ever.tual establishment
of a peaceful ard resp nsirle Government which
will respect the rights of (t! er states and
will surrort the cbiectives o? the United States
as r flected in the ideals and principles of
the Charter of the United Nations. The United
tates desires that this goverrment should
conform

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
..
106
- 2 -
conform to principles of democratic self-
government, but it is not the responsibility
of the Allied Iowers to impose upon Japan any
forr of Goverrrent not suppcrted by the freely
expressed will of the people.
This leave: no roon. for uncertainty as to the purposes
of the Jupreme Co nander and the pol:cie: of the United
tates--they are orne and the sare. Reference to "prin-
cirles c derccratic self-governrent" requires no elab-
oration. Certairly to all /mericans, and just as assuredly
to mary other peor les in rany parts of the world, its mean-
iig is as unclouded as the simple words of Abraham Lincoln
y whic Americans live--"Gov rnment of the people, by the
peole end fer the people."
Jecretary Iyrres said in his V-J Day statement,
"Attitudes of : ind carnot be charged at the points of
bayonets or merel: by the issuar.ce of edicts."
e do nct. seel: tc im ose at bayonet point any partic-
ular attitude o mind urcn the Japarese or upon any people;
we do not seek to im: ose upcn the Japanese a corstitution
writter in the mericen larguage to cor forr to imerican
goverrrental ramework.
hat we hore and expect is that
the Japanese Goverrment ari people, ho are showing de-
sire to fcllow a de.ccratic way of life, will press forward
in their

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
107
in their own best interests to a comprehensive demo-
cratic reform of the organic law of government. Before
the occupation can be terminated, the Allied Powers are
to decide whet: er cur cbjectives hav beer attained; it
i: for is to male clear to the Japanese reorle now our
convictiors a: tc the basic fuults of the existing order.
it i, fundar.er.t:1 that nc der.ocratic government can
exist except upon a fra ewor! of law making that govern-
rcl.t responsible to :I electcrate expressive of the free
will o' the whole nation an' providing that the executive
be respersiblc to, anl derive frcr, the electorate or a
le iclative body flly representing the electorate.
It is not de ocratic t at the House of Representa-
tives--tie only orgai. o the natirnal Goverr ent which
no/ uryorts to re: resert a ortion of the peorle--func-
tics in chains t'at are as heavy as they are short and
is subject tc dissclution and re-election at the dictate
of higher aut ority: that the Cabinet is not responsible
to the peoples' representatives and there is no rule under
which the Cabinet must have their confiderce, or fall;
that the elected men bers o. the Diet, although they pur-
port to represent the peo le whose taxes support Govern-
mert and its instrumentalities, do not have full control
of firancial erd budgetary iatters.
It is not

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
108
- 4 -
It is not democratic that all fundamental human
rights shculd be so emasculated as to leave the people
at the sorry mercy of centralized and arbitrary police
interfer nce in their daily living, or that the minds
of their childrer. sh uld be shaped into cast-iron moulds
by arbitrary certralized cortrol of education; that non-
7
Jajarese should be excluded from even these limited re-
stricted "rig ts;" that the reor'e should be without
judicial recourse for the protection of t eir rights
agairst t'e Goverrment; that there is no provision for
ir eachrent or rectll of high officials.
It is rot de ccratic tiet a  cuse of Feers, repre-
serting but a  all ard highly privileged class, should
be able to thwart the visl.es of the people as expressed
through elected re resertatives; that a body such as the
Frivy Council, res: onsible r.either to Diet nor people,
shou d hav: ower to dictate policy and over-ride the
executive branch o? the peo: le's government.
It is r.ot denccratic that the military, through lack
of constituticnal definition of their powers, should be
free of control by the people's representatives.
It is not det ccratic that freedo of thougTand speech
and religion slicul1 b: strangled by enforced adherence to the
idea that any hunar being is divine or smothered by ob-
servance

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
109
- 5 -
servance of Shinto or other particular religious or
pseudo-religious rites.
There carnot develop in Japan any government worthy
of being called demccratic unless the Cabinet is chosen
ith the advice and corsent of, and is made responsible
tc, a legislative body fully represertative of all Japa-
rese : en and or en; unless legislative measures may be
passed withcut cverning veto by higher authority; unless
the elected le islature may initiate constitutional amend-
ments, approve or disapprove those initiated by higher
authority, crd re uire the Chief of tate (if he retains
this privilege) tc introduce ar.endr ents put forward by
the Cabinet with the approval of the legislative body;
unless the Chief of tate acts in important matters on
the advice of a Cubinet respcrsible to such legislative
bedy within the framework of la M.ich represents the
fee will of the peorle.
In the .esterr. world we have struggled forward a
long way into the era of the common man.
The dawn of this era is spreading through the East.
..c want its light to shine also cr the peorle of
the islands of Japan.
rut the apar. se themselves must seek and find the
light.
The great

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
110
- 6 -
The great majority of the Japanese people--so long
cruelly suppressed, so long inhumanly wrought into un-
thinking and submissive tools by the military--are still
cowed and inarticulate.
It is the respcr sibility of the Japanese authorities
to foster the rarid develoment among all Japanese of the
spirit of de ocracy. nd, ith the aid of the people who
strive to thin!, and in acccrd with the peoples' will and
their best irterest , it must re-forr the governmental
structure and cure the defcrmed spirit of the State which
the rilitary slave-rasters in the unhappy past sc success-
fully Ierverted to the :ad co: cept of Japanese world con-
quest.
it is the resrorsibility of the Japanese Government
to prove to the orld that Japan ill quickly heed the
de:: nds of our unsought and untcld sacrifices and will
er erge rcn. the ruincu; rast tc beccre both capable and de-
serving of "erbers ip in th: rew Corr cnwealth of Naticns.
In conclusion, : again refer to the tecretary's
statemert:
". . . ivertually e exrect to see emerge
in Jaran a governrent, broadly based on all ele-
ments in the population, which will be peacefully
incliled and which will resrect the rights of
other nations

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
111
- 7 -
other nations. We and our Allies shall be the
judges as to whether the government which
does emerge will or will not contribute
to the peace and security of the world. We
shall judge that government by its deeds, not
by its words."

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
112
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Telephone
Memorandum of Conversation
OFFICE OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE: November 20,
1945.
suBJECT: Japanese Constitutional Reform
ary
DC
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Tawen-ling Tsui,
Firat Secretary,
Chinese Embassy,
and
Mr. J. K. Penfield
COPIES TO:
894.
Mr. Tsui called this morning. I told him that I
had been asked to inform him, witn reference to Ambas-
aador Wei's recent inquiry of Mr. Vincent, that we had
checked w1th Mr. Atcheson in Tokyo, who informed us
1-2045
that ne knew of no British or Americen technicians
working with the Japanese on constitutional reform. I
further explained that Prince Konoe called on Mr.
Atcheson but thet, as both Gen ral MacArthur and Mr.
Atcheson felt that it would be preferable to refrain
from discussing constitutional reform with the Japanese
until the Japenese Government itself formally submitted
somethin: on the matter, it was decided to have no
CS'LE
further conversstions on the working level with any
Japanese on this subject.
NOV2 71945
FILED
DCR . NE Unt
FE:JKPenfield:hat
Ana).7
R
0.1
Dis:

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
120
CENTER SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ISION
DCG-R
727
ACTION:F
INPO:
S
Tokyo via War
0
C
Dated November 29, 1945
SA
SA/M
Rec'd 2:08 p.m.,30th
SPA
894.01
EUR
DC/L-C Secretary of State,
FC
OIC
Washington.
INI
OPI
PL
171, November 29, 1945
DC/R-2
file-1
According to Japarese press Cabinet Constitutional
Revision Committee arrived (ZA-9857) at "moral
-2945
conclusion" November 24 and plans to cpiits raft by
middle of January for vurrasuiun to now Diet.
While it 1s stateu liat conmittee'E intentior. 1s
to decrease 1mperial prerogatives and strengther.
democratic features by guaranteoing popular rights,
as well as strengthening powe. of Diet," there is to
be no change in the pasic laws of the Japanose state,
comprised in the first four articles which specify the
perpetuation of the Empire system, the sovereignty
EC 201945
2.7
and inviolability of the Empire and the rule of
Articic 9, providing for 1mperial ordnances with-
50
out Diet approval, 1s to be abolished, as well as
Article 1l giving the Emperor supreme command of the
Army and
PLAIN

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
121
• PLAIN
-2-#171, November 29, 1945, from Tokyo via War.
Army and Navy, and Article 12 vesting the Emperor with
pover to determine the organization of the Army and Havy.
Arttcle 13 ("The Emperor declares var, makes peace
and concludes treaties") 1s to 1o rovisei to permit Diet
partic:pation. Rights and dut1as of subjects "may be
stipulated more comrehensively."
Article 31 under vaich rizhts of subjoots may be
suspended may be dropped from the Constitution.
Membership of Upper House will be decreased and
provislon made for approval by Lower House of changes in
House of Peers lav.
Article 71 w1ll be revised so that Cabinet will
resign on failure of budget to pass.
Privy Coumc1l will undergo drastio changes" and
changen will be sought in regard to the judiciary
in oracr to "zuarantee fully the peoples rights."
ATCHESON
Du
PLAIN

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.87)
BE21
RESTRICT
RESTRICTED
Ndl:ra
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION W. D. G.B
MILITARY ATTACHE REPORT JA
Subjece llinduetn Standurd" ditori.1 on ev J nece
KNGX No.55C1.020
Conntitution
(Drtef deacatpatve cile)
From M. A.  :1, In ic Report No. -171-w Date 1rch 124
Source and deg of rellability:
5A.2
o.: Prss: rcon.1 Jont cts
L
 1 -4  -2  
 Hre crful umnary of report, ccntaining substance suocinetly stated: include
ispertnt fect, camce, placer, datre, ete.
1. t.cned mdix. it mitorial in the 9 arch 40o
ie o the hinduslian standerd, Calcutt. Thia trticlo
u ors o : su juct stuvy of uhe con: titution granted
t  nere  e li.d Uccupvionl Comander. It is
init :n. toorou. ly n ntir rican it of riting and
ivs : dr . i.r  ion lt th constitution ranted
t nse i co rittn to rev nt ti ir ever becaaim
in i.: nnt: if-onin oer. rticle oes on to
t te . t t:r ron im t rntin of e ty
894.011/3-1446
co ciion t   s een iven the J. puse it to Jurther
   it lic iis of  Jnitdt tes in Lue uiidin
rin t n un creful ui
r ic n  vice s oulu  eco e one illar and
t rin  i or ican orim Lolicy.
co.nt:
:  oi n tnlard is inity a pro
  vi--vi  ounist or n. Ihe infertion s
to  r's  tris is sinitoly -l vluation nd ims
en vor le out in continual ro- a in  n. conce uently
nui-ric n nti- riti sh olicy.(e ) Luia port
15 n 2 Pole srs cont 30 cer 35
12  na y 46, : ub ct - iriso stitade tord n lo-aurican
Lo n.
M iniust n t nderd, rior to n do Lion o  pro
itroImioto I
oli  ro-in; tt o. tnd to ai In  to
succ. n in x nt politicai it. It is tnou ht that
 o.  conte  uo in ticre the rusult or
MIS 249760
irvet in: tructions iro the ss is . ncy in Inuie. The
(Ana Ur)
itor, r. t unir , is livsd  ve prsonally
nonest n. r incere in o policies  a vocates us liat
*Polec ?
ninven hn cilnd
Route
Prop
Roution pa tclom fer use in M. I. D. The section Indicating tha dirtribution will place a check mark in the
Jap Spe
L part of tie rciriento' box in case one copy caly is to so to him, or will iadicato the sumber of copies in case
lub
more tha  cne should be sent. The nicecege conter of the Intelligence Branch till draw a cirele around the box of
Spoo Dist 1
the recipikne to vhich the particulhr copy to to po.
ONI 5
AGF
AAF
ASF
A C of S
Chigf
Eur-Air.
For East
N. Amor.
Air
Diascm.
AIC
FLBR
oss
G-2
IG
RS 2
State D
FS 1
MAS0.
CIG
Roc. Scc.
ONI
BEW
CWS
ENG.
OPD
ORD
Sig.
State
QMG
Enclosures:
S
M
Tr.ns..itto: ith oriiiki only.
Polee 1
Route
Prop; Jap Spe; Láb
RSC.UCT.D

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
Office Memorandum - UNITEd STATES GOVERNMENT
DATB:
Apr11 1, 1946
TO
Mr. Borton - FE
FROM
Mr. Johns on - FEC
SUBJECT:
General MeCoy thought that there were sug-
gestions contained in this letter addressed to him
by Mr. Milton Patterson Thompson which might be of
interest in connection with the study of the Japanese
Constitution. I pass them on to you for such use as
you may consider proper.
N.T. Jhu
Attachment

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
THE ARMY AND NAVY CLUB
WASHINGTON 6. D. C.
Marçh 20, 1946.
Ceneral Frank Ross McCoy,
Chairman, Far Eastern Commission,
Washington, D. C.
Dear General McCoy:
While I have not examined the text of the new Japanese constitution, I
have been wondering if its clause purporting henceforth to abolish war as an
instrument of national policy implements such a prohibition with any punitive
provision for Japanese subjects who might violate it.
This aspect would seem to be of the essence. Without appropriate san-
ctions or "teeth," any such proscription might well prove to be only a pious
homily, capable of adroit circumvention in practice. It would afford an acid
test of the bona fides of the professed outlawing of war by the Nipponese. of
course, even the most rigid provision for the punishment of individuals would
be no guarantee against the abuse of power by future meglomaniacs. It neverthe-
less would be a further salutary contribution to the creation of a sorely needed
system of international morality. It must come to be recogmized that a breach
of the international peace is as much, or more, of a crime as disturbing the
peace in municipal law. This is the great objective of the Nurnberg trials, as
0
you know. Their task would be facilitated if there had been more established
public law and precedents applicable to individuals in such cases.
My thought is that study should be given to the inclusion in the new Jap-
anese charter of safeguards which would save it from the crippling defect of
the Kellogg-Briand Pact. The latter merely renounced war, with reservations.
Nc penalities for violations were specified; neither was enforoement machinery
provided. Itseffectiveness naturally was so reduced as to make it of only
nominal value, more moral than real.
The constitutional lawyers may interpose objections to such a clause as
I propose. It would be an innovation, indeed revolutionary. It is inextricably
interwoven with the abridgement of sovereignty, which is the heart of the whole
question of prewenting war. But it should not present insuperable obstacles.
For one thing, the present is an unprecedented opportunity, which may never re-
cur, when Japanese sovereignty is inoperative and that nation is under the com-
plete control of the United Nations, to effectuate such a wholesome principle.
Its application to Japan (and to Germany in due course) could serve as the most
vital milestone in the, if not prevention, then restriction of war.
After defining crimes and fixing punishment, the next matter calling for
careful consideration is the providing of facilities for the trial of Japanese
citisens, including officials, who might offend in this respect. The error,
either by silence or indirection, should be avoided of allowing them to be tried
by their own national courts, which procedure made a farcical miscarriage of
justice of the trials at Leipsig of presumably guilty Germans after World War I.
An excellent solution might well be for any such future culprits to be tried
by the International Court of Justice. This, also, would be promotive of the
prestige and power of the United Nations Organisation, to the support of which

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
THE ARMY AND NAVY CLUB
WASHINGTON 6. D C
we are pledged.
I do not hold with those persons who claim that the above doctrine is
inharmonious with the duty of military and naval officers to obey orders. It
is just such specious reasoning which has made possible the notorious activities
of the predatory German General Staff and the pathological Shintoism and the
Samurai. A higher standard must be established. The world must come to accept
the Anglo-saxon principle of jurisprudence that law is binding on all individuals,
who must be amenable to it. uch law is illustrated by the aharter of the United
Nations and, let us hope, the revised Japanese constitution.
Heretofore, no sooner would the hostilities of one war cease before the
sand in the hour glass would begin running out anew, with another holocaust
as the end result. That pattern must be broken. The foregoing proposal, while
not a panacea, is another step in that direction, - in man's slow march from
the law of the jungle to that of peace and security under law.
The preceding portion of this letter was drafted several days ago. I
wished to review it before sencing it. For I was aware of the vulnerability
of my proposal. In consequence, I was most interested to read only last night
a thesis put forward by Yalter Lippmann which squares with and offers a means
of implementing the oregoing question of providing sanctions for any individual
Japanese who mirht violate the anti-war clause of their new constitution. Mr.
Lippnann's idea is developed in a forthconing book, "How To Enfore International
Agreenents," a condensation of which is available in "The Reader's Digest" for
April, where 1 saw it.
His plan is ai ned at the devising of means to prevent the improper use of
the atomic bomb, a roal whi ch goes hand in hand with the preceding one of prevent
ing the futare waging of war by the ipponese. Indeed, r. Lippmann postulates
this means as a basis for the prevention of all wars. He, too, is concerned with
the control of iniivi duals, inelu ing officials, upon whom world laws would
directly operate. As he reminds us, "The Uni ted Nations have embraced the prin-
ciple that 'crines are always comaitted by persons' and that 'only sanctions
which reach inivi hals can peicefully and effectively be enforced.in
Dombtless you saw the statesmnlike article of r. Stimson in the arch
issne of arper's agazine" peliog wdth the o  ortunity of fered by the
at de po b to i a rove interrati mal reLations.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.81)
Larchmont Gables,
Larchmont, N.Y.
April 16, 1946
r. Gorco:.0 10,
Divi i r o. Jult rel letiols,
es rt. It or Strte,
"ar in, tor,..
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
er.o: .
1ierirsyou inro
pii
trtt ou roreleprofitoble
1  ritir you soory in the hope that
o youio  tvis constitution
ou       r dt . To yo.
1 l irtoreste ir. e  iore o it thet (eel vith
invici sivil ri,,  li  to. tucy them care-
rul y. 1 Laii c r eirt it ry uel, t erefore, if you
on ene o1
 knve rot otiver  y ho  of aking a
vi: it to de an.
eou  a r soo ortunity,
SS
11You1.0
V
JUN 2 0 1946
FILED
Very sin cersly yours,
Toru Matannot
Poru : atsumoto
NE
OIC OCCUPIED TREAS SIVI
(ADO)
ArR: 91946
Rev.
Dhac.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
JUN 10194
In reply refer to
ADO
894.011/4-1646
My dear tr. Matsumoto:
The reosipt is acknowledged of your letter
of April 16, 1a46, addressed to Mr. Gordon Bowles.
in which you reguest a copy of the draft consti-
tution of Japan, partioularly the section demling
with civil rights.
In reply you are informed that the Department
of State does not have available any copies of
this deoument for distribution. Nowever, you
will find enclosed a copy ef a broadesst version
of that seetion of the draft which deals with
civil rights.
Sincerely yours,
Acting Chief
Japan and Korea Branch
G
Division of Oocapied Areas
V
Enclosure:
Copy of Proposed
Japenese Constitution
Mr. Toru atsumoto.
Larchmont Gables,
Larchmont, New York
at: FAsaubler, r./

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Larchmont Gables,
Larchmont, N. Y.
April 16, 1946
Mr. Gordon Bowles,
Division of Cultural Relations,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Bowles:
I hope that this letter finds you in good
health and spirits. I trust that you have had a profitable
trip to Japan.
I am writing you today in the hope that
you have in your possession a copy of the revised constitution
of Japen which is on the agenda of the new Diet in Tokyo.
I am keenly interested in the sections of it that deal with
individual civil rights, and would like to study them care
fully. I shall appreciate it very much, therefore, if you
would send me one.
I have not yet given up my hope of making a
visit to Japen. If there should appear some opportunity,
will you let me know?
Very sincerely yours,
/8/ Toru Matsumoto
/t/Toru Mateumoto

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, April 26, 1946
OIC COCUPIED /REAS DIVISION
No. 395
(ADO)
H
DC/R
sco.
mrment of Stala
Copgmtainern AD
SUBJECT:
Revised Draft of Japanese Constitution
181L
RANC
11946
7+℃
The Honorable
The Sacretary of State
Washington
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission'e despatches
No. 311, Mrch 19, 1946 and No. 322, March 25, 1946 trane
mitting copies of the official English and Japanese texts of
the Japanese Government's draft constitution, and to enclose
copies in triplicate of the revised draft, written in collo-
quial Japanese end containing a number of minor substantive
changes, made public by the Government April 17. Efforts
to obtain official texts have been unavailing, but it is
believed that the enclosed reproductions printed by the
Asahi (in Japanese) and Nippon Times (in English) of April
18 are accurate in every respect.
In announcing the revised draft to the press, Director
IRIYE Toshiro of the Legislative Bureau stated that collo-
quialization of the new constitution and the use of hire-ne
instead of kata-kana-the form hitherto employed for official
documents-were for the puroose of facilitating study of the
document by the largest possible number of people, before it
was introduced by the special session of the Diet scheduled
for mid-May. He intimated that the text had been based on a
plan submitted by the Society for People's Language, a private
organisation headed by YAMAmOTo Yuzo, well-known novelist and
playwrite, devoted to simplifying the Japanese language. He
stated that the principle of colloquialization will be applied
to all laws and regulations promulgated in future. It was his
view that the draft, now before the Privy Council, would be
aporoved by that body without amendment.
JUL 1 6 1946
DOR NF Unit
The
FILED
CS/A

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
The substantive changes embodied in the revised draft are
as follows:
Article VII
The list of functions of state performed by the Emperor
on behalf of the people is extended to include "Attestation of
instruments of ratification and other diplomatic documents as
provided for by law".
Article XLIx (Article L in new draft)
Changed to permit convokation of the House of Councillors
during national emergencies when the House of Representatives
has been dissolved and its successor has not yet been elected.
Legislation enacted by the House of Councillors under such cir
cumstances must subsequently receive the aporoval of the Diet.
The Article now reads:
"Then the House of Representetives is ordered diss-
olved, there must be a general election of members of the
House of Representatives within forty (40)days from the
date of dissolution, and the Diet must be convoked within
thirty (30) days from the date of the election. When the
House of Representatives is ordered dissolved, the House
of Councillors must, at the same time, be clomed, except
that the Cabinet may in time of national emergency convoke the
House of Councillors in emergency session.
"Measures enected at such session shall be provisional
and shall become null and void, unless agreed to by the
House of Representatives within a period of ten (1o) days
after the opening of the next session of the Diet.
Article LII (Article LIII in new draft)
Changed to permit secret meetings of either House of the
Diet when desired by two-thirds or more of the members present.
The pertinent clauses of the Article now read:
"Deliberation in each House shall be oublic. However,
a secret meeting may be held where a mejority of two-thirds
or more of those members present passes a resolution therefor.
"Each House shall keep a record of proceedings. This
record shall be published and given general circulation, ex-
cepting such parts of proceedings of secret session as may be
deemed to require secrecy".
Article LXIII
Changed to provide that new Prime Ministers designated by
the House of Representatives shall take office if the House of
Councillors fails to make desimation within 20 days, time in
recess excepted, after the House of Representatives. The
Article now reads:
"The

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
42
一 3 -
3
"The Prime Minister shall be designated by a resolution
of the Diet. This designation shall precede all other businees.
"If the House of Representetives and the House of Councillors
disagree and if a joint committee of both houses, provided for by
law, cannot reach an agreement, or the House of Councillors fails
to make desi mation within twenty (20) days, exclusive of the
period of recess, after the House of Representatives has made
designation, the decision of the Fouse of Representatives shall
be the decision of the Diet".
Article LXVI
Changed to provide that the retirement age of inferior judges
shall be determined by lam, inestead of being met in the constitution
at 70 years. The Article now rends:
"The judges of the inferior courts shall be appointed
by tre Cabinet from a list of persons nominated by the Suprome
Court. All such judges shall hold office for a term of ton
years with privilege of reaprointment, provided that they shall
be retired upon the attainment of the age us fixed oy law".
Chapter II (Supplementery Provisions)
Four additional Articles dealing with matters of a non-recur
ing nature inserted as follows:
"Article XCVI. This Constitution shall be enforced
as from the day when the period of six months will have elapsed
counting from the day of its promulgation.
"The onforcement of laws necessary for the enforcement
of this Constitution, the election of members of the House of
Councillors and the procedure for the convokation of the Diet
and other preparetory procedures necessary for the enforcement
of this Constitution may be executed before the day prescribed
in the preceding paragraph.
"Article XcvII. As regards those who hold peerage on
the effective dete of this Constitution, their title shall remain
velid for their lives, but no right of peerage shall from thie
time fort! embody within itself eny power of government.
"Article XcvIII. If the House of Councillors is not
constituted before the effective date of this Constitution, the
House of Representetives shall sit as the Diet on that date and
until such time as the House of Councillors shall be constituted.
"Article XcIx. The term of office for half the members
of the Mouse of Councillors serving in the first term under this
Constitution shall be three vears. Members falling under this
category shall be determined in accordance with law".
Press

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
Press reaction to the colloquialization of the now constitu
has been uniformly favorable. The following views qroted frem
editorial in the Nippon Times of April 20 regarding the subetantive
changes of the revised draft, however, are representative of a
considerable body of informed opinion:
"Although some well conceived improvements have been made,
there are still some s tructural defects, some sections are still
not too logically arrarged, some passages are still too wordy and
redundant, some provisions are still rether fragmentary and in-
adequate while other provisions are still too obviously of topical
interest and do not heve the lasting and univereal quality which
the provisions of a permanent constitution should possess."
The same editorial states:
"Even with the heightened interest in politics during the
recent electoral campaign the candiastes and the voters remained
altogether too ap:thetic to the vital problem of the constitution.
while working themselves into excitement over far less important
issues".
It is regretted that efforts to obtain the official texts of
the revised draft constitution and shortage of clerical help have
caused delay in transmission.
Respectfully yours,
Georre Atcheson, Jr.
心
Enclosures:
10
1. Text of Revised Japanese Draft
Constitution, Asahi of April
18, 1946 (in triplicate)
2. Text of Revised Japanese Draft
Constitution, Nippon Times of
4pr11 18, 1946 (in triplicate)
Original and ozalid to Department
801.1
RAFeareyims

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.67)
44
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 395 dated April 26, 1946
from the United States Political Adviser for Japan. Tokyo.
on the, subject "Revised Draft of Japanese Constitutiom"
い、立その他の政の上で、最大のを要とする
にはする民の開利については、公共の画はに反しない
黒士すべては、人としてされる生命、由
用してはならぬのであって、に公共ののためにこれを利
十この法にる由はの不の
法にる本明入は、ことのできないの
同十同民は、すべての基本的人編の事何を訪げられないこの庫
るその他の最力のはは、昨されないの交論は
は、他との曲の紛めの解決の手ねとしては、なくにこれを
九論し半冊の飛動だる時単と、武力による蔵勝文は武力の行面
くはすゃことは、調の親決にかなければならない。
し、又は、、し
六大赦、、別、刑の行のること
第三章國民の權利及び義務
第二章 最爭の地棄
十 ては、の
十すては、のこによう、そのに
に立して、いけれはなに
にるそのねの事にしては、は、人のと回の
、、
一十 は、し、
十回人、のはしたに、、
は、これとしてはならないのは、これとしてはな
、し
い
十しい
十 
とれ、不はせたい
十一 人 D

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.76)
あるいては、出

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.69)
調なあるとしたらせには、対は、公しないでこれをけふこと
第七十八の対判決は、公でこれい
かしないかるる
所は、一の、、又は分に
は、中、これきすることぬでない
し仕されることなでとる回し、法話のまのる年にした
にようて、内でこを任命するそは、任期十年と
九十110
第九章 改正
第八章地方自治
RLLS
第九十八　この出行の書、
七
れたとは

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. e to Despatch No. 395 dated April 26, 1946.
from the United States Political dviser for Japan, Tokyo.
on the subject "Revised Draft of Japanese Constitution"
CRAPTER 1
CHAPTER 1
THE EMPEROR
RENUNCIATION OF WAR
Article I The Emperor shall be
Article IX. War, as a sovereign
the symbol of the state and of the
right of the nation, and'the threat
unity bf the people. deriving his
or use of force, ls forever renounced
position from the sovereign will of
as a means of settling dieputes with
the people.
other nations.
Article 11. The Imperial Throne
The maintenance of land, , and
shall be dynastic and succeded to
air forces, as well as other war
againet fgr sponeoring su.a p
in accordance with the Imperi
potentia:, will never be authorised.
tion.
House Law passed by the Diet
The right of belligerency of abe
Article xVI. No perpon shall bo
Article II1 The advice and ap
state wild not be recognised.
held in bondage of any kind. 
proval of the Cabinet shall be re-
CHAPTER 3
quired for all acts of the Emperor
RIGHTS AND DUTI OF
punishment for crime. ta prohbited.
in matters of state. and the Cabinet
THE PEOPLE
Article XVII. Freedom of thought
shall be responsible therefor.
Article X. The people shall not
and conselence shall be held i
Artic'e IV. The Emperor sha!!
be prevented from enjoying any of
violable.
perform only such state functions
tre fundamental human rightw.
Article XVIII. Preedom of reli-
as are provided tor in this constitu.
These fundamental haman rights
g'on la guaranteed to all. .No rell-
tlon. Never shall he have powers
guaranteed to the people by this
gious organisation shal reosive amg
related to government.
constitution shall be conferred upon
privileges from the Sae, mer
The Emperor may delegate his
the people of this and future gone
ercise any politieal autbertty.
functions as may be provided by
rations as eternal and invielate
No pereon shall be sompetté:t
law.
rights.
take part in any religious mst, eale-
Article V When, n accordarce
Article XI. The enjoyment of the
bration, rite or practice.
with the Imperia House Law, a
freedoms and rights guaranteed to
The State and ite orgame shall 
regeney is established. the Regent
the people by this constitution shall
frain from religious educationer an
shall exerelse his tinctions in the
re maintained by the eternal vigi-
other religious activity.
Emperor's name. In this case.
hee of the people. and the people
Article XIX. Freedom of 
paragranh one of the preceding art-
shall refrain from any abuse of
bly, asociation. speh  
cle will be applicable.
these freedoms and rights and shall
and all other forms of expression
Article VI Tne Emperor shall
niways be responsible for utilising
are guaranteed. No censershdp shal
appoint the Prime Minister as de-
them for the public welfare.
be maintained, nor shall the seoreey
signated by the Dlet
Article XII. All of the people
of any means of communlomtion be
Article VII The Emperor. w'th
shall be respected as individuals,
violated.
the advice and approval of the
and their rignt to life, liberty, and
Article XX. Every penson sball
Cabinet, shall perrorm the fow rg
the pursuit of happine shall,
have freedom to choose and change
functions of state on behalf of the
within the limits of the public wel-
his residence and to choose ha oc
people:
fare. be the supreme considaration
cupation to the exbent that it doms
Promulgation of amendmente of
in legislation and in governmental
not interfere with the publie wel.
the constitution, laws, cabinet orders
affairs.
fare.
ind treatiss.
Article XIII. All of the people
Freedom of all persons to move to
Convocation of the Diet.
are equal under the law and there
a foreign country and to divet
Dissolution of the House of Re.
:hall be no discrimination in poli-
themselves of their nationality shall
presentatives.
tical. eponomic. or social relations
be inviolate
Proclamation of General Election.
because  race. creed, sex, vocial
Article XXI
Academie froadom
Attestation of the appointment
status. or family origin. No peer.
is guaranteed.
and dismissal of Minisiers of State
age shal! be granted. No privilege
Articie XXII Marriage shall be
and other ofßelals as provided for
-hall accompany any award of based only on the mutual consent
by law. and of full powers and
honor decoration or any distinction. f both sexes and it shall be main.
credentials of Ambassadors and
nor shall any such award be valid
 through mutual cooperation
Ministera.
Iuvond the lifetime of the indivi.
with the equal rights of husband
Attestation of general and speciai
(dual who now hoids or hereafter
and wife as a basis. Laws shall
amnesty, commutation f punish-
ment reprieve, and restoration of
rights
Awarding of honors.
may receive it.
inaltecable right to choose their
publie officials and to dismiss them.
Article XIV The people have the
be naoted considering choide. of
and other matters pertaining to
tance. choice of domicile, divorce
spouse, property rights, inheri-
Attestation of instruments of ratt-
All public oficials are servants
marriage and the family from the
ments as provided for by law.
feation and other diplomatie docu-
Roceiving forelgn ambassadors
of eny special group.
of the whole (ommunity and not
In all elections. secrecy of the
starripoint of individual dignity
and the essential equality of the
and ministers.
ballot shall be preserved inviolate.
sexes.
Performance of csremonial fune-
ror shall any voter be answerable.
tions.
oublicly or privately, for the choice
Article VIII No property can be
he has made
given to, or recelved by, the Im-
perial House, and no gifts can be
made thereby. without the authorwa.
tion of the Diet.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.92)
 Article XX151. In all apheres of
Article XxxiV. In all crimipal Atéle XLV.
life. laws sbell be desigmed for the
promotion and wstension of social
right to a speedy and public trial
welfare and security. and of public
by an impartial tribunél.
bealth.
He shall be permituj full oppor
members arrested before th
Article XXIV. All poople shall
tunity to examine all lanesse. and
have the right to receime an equal
education corrspondent to his abili.
sory proceas for obtaining wit-
demand of the Houss.
ty. as provided by law.
nesses on his behaif at public ex-
Article XI.VII. Membere of both
All people shall be obligated to
pense.
'Houses shall not be held liable out
Insure that all of the children under
Atall tumes the accused shall
side the House for speeches, debates.
hts protection rrceive elementary
have the assstance of competent
or votes cast inaide the House.
education. Such education shall be
counsel who shall. if the accused be
Article XLVIII. An ordinary ses-
free.
own ufforts. be assigned to his use
unable to secure the same by his
son of the Diet shall be convoked
Artide XXy. All people have the
once per year.
right to work Standards for work.
by the government.
Article XIIX. The Cabinet may
be xed by law The exploitation of
children shall be prohibited
ing conditions, wages and hours shall
solf
be compelled to) testify against htm-
Article XXXV. No person shall
No confosion hall be admitted in
call extraordinary sessions of the
Diet. When a quarter or more of
the total members of either house
Article XXVI The right of work.
evidence if made under compulsion.
makes the demand, the Diet must be
called into session.
ers to organize and to bargain and
torture or threat or after prolonged
Article L. When the House of
act collrtively guaranteed
arrest or detention.
Representatives is ordered dissolved.
Article XXVII. The righa to own
No person shall be convieted or
there must be a general election of
property is inviolable. but property
punished in cases where the only
members of the House of Represente-
ights shall be defined by law. in
proof against him a his own con
tives within forty (40) days from
conformity with the publi welfare
bession.
the date of dissolution, and the Diet
Private property may be taken for
Artici• XXXVI. No person shall
must be convoked within thirty (30)
public use upon just compensation
be held criminally liable for an act
days from the date of the election.
therefor
Aitucle XXVIII. No person shalI
committed, or of which he ha been
which was lawful at the time it was
is ordered dimolved. the House of
When the House of Representatives
be deprived of life or liberty. nor
acquitted, nor shall b in any way.
('ouncillors must, at the same time.
shall any otner criminal penalty be
be placexi in double jeopardy.
be closed, except that the Cabinet
imposed. except ccording to proce
dure established by law
CHAPTER 4
THE DIET
may in time of national emorgoncy
convoke the House of Councillor in
Article XXIX No person shall
be denied the right of access to the
Article XXX VI1. The Diet shall be
emergency mession.
courts.
the highest organ of stete power. and
Measures enacted at such session
Article XXX No person shall be
shall be the wle law-making author.
shall be provisional and ahall be-
apprehended except upon warrant
lly of the State.
rome null and vold. unle agreed
issued by a competent judicial of
Article XXXVIll. The Diet shall to by the House of Representatives
ficer which specifies the offense with
(onsist of two hous. namely the within a period of ten (10) days
which the person is charged. unless
House of Representatives and the after the opening of the next ssion
he is apprehended whil. commit-
House of Counelllors.
of the Diet.
tog a crime
Article XXXIX Hoth Houses shal)
Article L.I Each Hour shall
Acte XXXI No person shall Le
constst of elected members represen
Judge disputes related to qualifica-
arrested or detained without being
lative of all the people.
tions and elections of its mombers.
at once informed of the chharges
The number of the members of
However in order to deny a soat
against him or without the imme
eh House shall be fxed by law.
to anv member. it is necessary to
diate pr vilege of counse). he shall
Article X1. The gualiticaions of pass a resolution by a majority of
not be detaned a thout atdequate
elecors ant members tor both two thitds or more of the members
cause ant upot demand of an per
Houses shall be tixed by law How-
son sich cause matst he ummediate
ever there shall be no diseriminaton
Article L11 Busines cannot be
ishwn in pen u m  p
be aue ot ace. (reed  socla transacted in elther House unless at
senee are the peenee   ccon
status or ramil oigin
least one th:rd of the total member.
e!
Artue le X1d The tetm of oflice of mp is present
Arte XX the
member- of the Hoese of Represen
All matters shall be decuded. in
people t nme
tatives hall be 1 voars How ever rat louse. bv a majority oil those
pae and eflet e the wm may be terminated efore preent except as elsewhere provid-
sehes az m t he ea disoin of n he Constitution In cas ot
 e H Rea
 he presiding officer shall de
e onl tot probabi c md Article X1.1 The term ot oftice
de the ssue
partieulard ebe he he nembers of the House of
An de Lin Delhoeraton in each
ardhee pCoumeallorhall be stx year Ele
foo sthall be pubhe However a
ed o exeett  vger o r oon to ha ne memberhalt ake
sectet meetrng may be held where
XXX
tce erery theear
 majority of two-thirds or more of
Fah earchot sere t de
Arocle XLlil Matter- pertening
those mermters present passes a re
made upon sepe w
tor the ce  oempetent
to the method of election of mem solution herefor
her of hen Houst, eloral dis. Fach House shall keep a record
e an method of voting shall of pro eedings Thus record shall be
rubtished and given general cireula-
Ale XtV Vo ersn shal be non. exeepting such parts of pro
perrmitted to be a membet of both credings of secret session as may be
ouse smuitaneousty.
deemed to requtre secrecy.
l pon demand of one-fifth or more
Artcle XLV Members of both
of the members present. votes of
Houses shal receive appropriate an
the member, on any matter shall
! payment from the nationa)
be present. votes of the members
treasury in accordance wath the law
be recorded in the minutes.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.91)
Articte LIy.- Bach Houee shat
sélect its oin preaidens. and other
CHAPTER
'offcials.
THE CABDNET
Bech House shall esteblisn its
rulas pertatning to meetings and
shall be vested in the Cabinet
proceedings and internal disciptine
Article LXIL The Cabinet shall Artlale Lxi. The 
may punish members for disorderly
consiet of the Prime Minlater. who Bate. during shete mure
conduct. However. in order to
shall be its head, and other Minia-
expel a member. a majority of two-
ters of State as provkled for by law.
witbout the odneen of the Prame
thirds or more of those members
The Cabinet. in the exercise of
Minister. but the right to sake that
present must pass à rasolution
executive power, shall be collectively
action is not impaired hereby.
theroon.
responsible to the Diet.
CHAPTER 6
Article LV. A bill becomes a
Article LXIll. The Prime Minis.
law on passage by both Houses. ex-
er shell be designated by a resolu-
JUDICIARY
cept as otherwiae provided by this
tlon of the Diet. This designation
Article LXxri. The whole judi-
Constitution.
shall precede all other business.
cial power is vested in a Supreme
A bill which is passed by the
If the House of Representatives
Couri and in such inforlor courts
House of Representatives, and upon
and the House of Counclllors dis.
as are astablished by law.
which the House of Counclllors
agree and if a joint committe of
No extraordinary tribunel shall
makes a dectsion different from that
both houses. provkded for by law.
be established, nor shall any organ
of the House of Representatives.
cannot reach an agreement or the
or agency of the Executive be given
becomes a law when passed a second
Hous• of Councillors fails to make
final judicial power.
ttme by the House of Representa-
designation within wenty (20) days.
All judges shall be independent in
tives by a majority of two-thirds or
exclusive of the period of recess.
the exercise of their conscience and
more of the members present.
after the House of Reprerentatives
shall be bound only by this Con-
Fallure by the House of Couneil.
has made dosigpation. the decision
stitution and the laws enacted pur-
lors to take fnal action wjthin sixty
of the House of Representatives
suant thereto.
(80) days after recelpt of a bill
shall be the decision of the Diet.
Article IXXIII. The Supreme
passed by the House of Representa-
Article 1.XIV The Prime Min-
Court s vested with the rule-
tives, tmne in recenn excepted. may
ister shall with the approval of the
making power under which it deter-
he determined by the House of Re-
Dtet. appoint the Ministers of State.
mines the rules of procedure and
presentatives to constitute a rejec.
The scond paragraph of the pre-
of practice. and of matters relating
tion.
ceding article shall apply to this
to attorneys, the internal discipline
Article LV!. The budget must
approval.
of the courts and the administration
fitrst be submitted' to the House of
The Prime Minister may remove
of judicial affalrs.
Representatives.
the Ministers of State as he chooses
Public procurators shall be sub-
Upon consideration of the budget.
Article .XV. If the House of Rep
ject to the rule-making power of the
when the House of Councillors
resentatives passes a non-confidence
Supreme Court
makes a decision different from that
resolution, or rejects a confidence
The Supreme Court may delogate
of the House of Representatives.
resolution. the Cabinet shall resign
the power to make rules for inferior
and when a joint committee of both
en masse. unloss the House of Repre-
courts to such courts.
Houses. provided for by law, can-
ntatives is dissolved within ten
Article 1.XXIV. Romovals of
not come to an agreement, or in the
day
judges shall be accomplished by
case of failure bv the House of
Artcle 1.XVI When there is a
judicially declared mentally or
public impeachment only unles
(ouncillors to take fnal action
vacancy in the post of Prime Min-
within forty (40) davs. the period
ister, or upon the convocation ot the
physically imcompotent. No dis-
of recess exchuded. after the receipt
Diet after a goneral election the
ciplinary action shall be administer-
of the budget passed by the House
Cabinet shall resign en masse
ed by any executive organ or
of Representatives. the dectsion of
Artcle ,XVII In the cases men-
agency.
Article LXXV. The Supreme Court
be considered the decision of the
the House of Representatives will
toned in the two preceding articles.
the cabinet shali continue its fune-
shall consist of such number of
Diet.
cons untul the time when  new
judges as may be determined by
law; all such judges shall be ap-
Article I.Vil The second para.
Piime Minis er is appointed
graph of the preceding article ap-
Artete LXVIII The Prime Minis.
pointed by the Cabinet and shail be
plies also to the Diet approval re-
ter represenung the Caonet suhe
iured upon the attainment of the
quired tor the conclusion of trea-
mns bills reports on general naton
are as fixed by law.
the
at aftats and tor eign reatons to the
The appointment of the judges of
Artele I VIII Each House may
Diet and exeterres superviston and
e Supreme Court shall be review-
condoct nvestugations in telation to
ontror e va ous admr
1  the people at the first general
national affairs and mas compel the
hranches
ton o the House ot Repres-
presence and testimons of witnesses.
Vde 1. XIX Tie Cabome
1:
yowe thernt
and he productmen of records
adon to oher gene ne
 l be revieed again
Artcle LIX. The Prime Minister,
te m ton hall
nt general electon ot the
and the   sters of Siate mas t
nthe
dutt affal ot state
Lap e of ten years. and in the same
tor theleg
Conctede ueates
Mandge toierg aRan
in ases mentoned n the fore-
méer meteaftet
hal a
pg perar when the marority
111
 voter show that they favon
nust at pedt w n the eerce
of the Diet
1    
the disinissat of a judge concerned.
 al be dismissed.
exr
abehed  a amnrepev
Matters pertaining to the review
Artlere 1X T. Dc
mentroned in the foregoing para-
 an umpeachment cor me
Prepar te ooget and psent 
prophs shatt be preseribed by law.
nemrsof boh House n e
to the Diet
All such judges shail receive. at
pregepe
Enact cabinet o dets in order to
regular. stated intervals, adequate
agasr whom remev oreredm
carry our the provisions o: tnis Con
ompensation which shall not be
have eee mattated
strution and of the law However.
decreased during their terms of
Matters eatng to mbearhment
 canrot nclude penal provisions in
hat be porded law
such cabinet orders unless autbor.
tt.
zed by such iaw.
Decide on general amnesty spectal
amnesty commutation of punish.
ment. reprieve. and restoration of
rights

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.93)
Article Lxxvi. The judges of
Artcle LxxVI. A nal aads
the inferior courts shall be ap-
all expenditures and revanses of the
or. part thereof. contrary to
vointed by the Cabinet from alit
State ahall -be made amnualiy by 
vlajons hereof, shall have
of persona nominated by the Bup-
board of audit and submiteed by the
or validity.
rame Court. All such Judges shall
Cabinet to the Diet during the acal
Article XCV. The Emperer or
hold office for a tdrm of ten years
year immediataly following the
Regent, the Ministara of sate
with privilege of reappointment
period covered.
membersor the Dlet judgee,à
provided that. they shall be retired
The organisation and competency
other public officials have the b
upon the attainment of the age as
of the board of audit shall be deter-
tion to respect and uphold this 
fixed by law.
mined by law.
stitution.
shall receive. at regular. stated in-
tervals, adequate compensationwhich
The judges of the in'erior courts
Cabinet shall report to the Dlet and
tervals and at least annuaily the
Article LXXXVII. At regular in.
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVIBION
' CHAPTER 11.
shall not be decreased during their
the people on the state of national
Article XCVI. This Constitution
terms of office.
finances.
shall be eníorced as from the day
Article LXXVII. The Supreme
(ourt is the court of last resort
with power to determine the con-
LOCAL SELF GOVERNMENT
CHAPTER 8
have elapsed counting from the day
when the period of six months will
of its promulgation.
stitutionality of any law. order.
Article L.XXXVIII. Rogulations
The enactment of laws necessry
regulation or official act.
concerning organization and opera-
for the enforcement of thie Consti-
(pntucted and judgement declared |principle of local autonomy.
Article LXXVIII Trials shall be
fxed by law m accordance with the
tions of local publle entitles shall be
th? House of Councillors and the
'ution, the election of members of
unanumously determines publietty to
pullicly Where. however. a court
be dangerous to public order or
morals. a trial may be conducted
orivatels but trials of political of-
( offenses volving the press.
their dellberative organs. in accord.
entities shall establish assemblies as
ance with low.
local public entities, the members of
The chief executive officers. of al!
Article LXXXIX. The local public
dures necessary for the enforcement
Diet and other preparatory prece
of this Constitution may be exodu
procedure for the convocation of the
ed hefore the day prescribed in the
recrting paragraph.
i caes wherein the rights of
their legislative assemblies, and such
Article XCVII. As regards tho
people as reserved in Chapter 3 of
other local officials as may be deter-
who hold peerage on the effective
lhis (onstitution are in question.
mined by law shall be elected by
date of this Constitution. thelr tithe
-hall be conducted publicly without
direct popular vote within their
shall remain valid for their 'live
exception
reveral communities.
but no right of peerage shall from
CHAPTER 7
Articie XC. Local pubiic entities
this time forth embody within it
FINANCE
shall have the right to manage their
elf any power of government.
Article 1.XXIX. The power to
property. affairs and government
and to frame their own charters
Councillors is not constituted before
Article XCVIII. If the house of
administer national finances shall
within such laws as the Diet may
the effective date of this Constitu-
be exercised as the Diet shall de-
enact.
tlon, the House of Representatives
termine.
Article XCI. A special law. ap-
shall sit as the Dbet on that date
Article LXXX No new taxes
piicable only to one local public
and until such time as the Hous
shall be imposed or existing ones
entity. cannot be enacted by the
of Counclllors shall be constituted.
modified except by law or under
Diet without the consent of the
At icle XCIX. The term of offo
such conditions as law may pres.
majority of the voters of the local
for half the members of the Houe
cribe.
public entity concerned, obtained in
of Councillors serving in the frst
be expended. nor shall the State
Article LXXXI. No money shall
accordance with law.
term under this Constitution shall
obligate itself except as authorized
CHAPTER 9
be three years. Mumbers falling
under this category shall be deter-
 the Diet
AMENDMENTS
mined in accordance with law.
Article LXXXII. The (abinet
Article XCIH. Amendments to thas
Article ( The Ministers of Stat
for  consideration and decision
n annual budget for each fiscal
shall prepare and submit to the Diet
Constitution shall be initiated by the
Diet, through a coneurring vote of
two-thirds of all the memiers of
tatives and judges in office on the
effective date of this Constitution,
member, of the House of Represen-
 de tor untoreseen deficienetes
ear
Arree L.XXXIII. In order to
submitted to the people for ra tie.
each House and shall thereupon i
tion, which shall require the athrm.
occupy postlons corresponding to
and all qther public officials who
-urh positions as are recognized by
te autmoozed ny the Det to be ex-
r luiget a reserve tund may
cast at a special reterendum heteon
tive vote of a majortiy of all votes
heir positrons automat teally on the
 Coeuntirn shall not forfeit
pote rn the tesponstbily of
or a such election as the Diet shall
fective date of this Constitution
Se Cone
T C s held ac-
sprecity
untes otrerwrse spectled by law.
Amendments when so ratitied shd
When hewever uecessors are elect.
unmediately be proclaimed hy 
ed or appe nted urvier the provi.
AEXXXIV
11n1
s an ntegral part ot pos co
Emperor in the name he p
ehet a matter
tons of h Conteutron they shall
on
1ur
CHAPTER 10
The oe tm all
SUPREME LAW
natonal easury. and allown.
Artele XeHn. The tondarrenta
d expense ot the imperta
homan rights by this Constm
bod adefined hy law shall
guaranteed to the people of fo
pratet  the Dier in the
tesul from the age-old struggie ot
anoea oudget
man to be free. They have survived
Aueie 1 XXXV No pubhe money
the exacting test for durabilityn t
 property shail be approprtated
crucible of ti ne and experience. an
 the use. benelit or support of
are conferred upon this and future
any vstem of religion, or religious
generations in sacred trust, to De
notutton or assoctation, or for any
held for all time inviolate.
abl ducational or benevolent
Article XCIV. This Constitution
uunposes not under the control of
and the laws and treatles made in
Pubih authority
pursuance hereof shall be the su
preme law of the state and no public
law or ordinance and no imperial
rescript or other act of government.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
ca
C-3
TO
: FL - Mr. Vimcent
DATE: May 3, 1946
SUBJECT:
SWNCC 228/2
Committee 3 (Comstitutiomal and Legal Reforms) of
the Far Eastern Commission comsidered the Appendix to
SWNC0 228/2 (Principles Goverming the Machinery for the
Adoption of a New Japanese Comstitution) at its meeting
on May 3, 1946. As the United States member of the
Committee, I stated that as my Gevernment had mot yet
approved the paper, I would have to reserve my position
on it. After a lengthy disoussion on paragraph 2(b)
as a result of a proposed amendment by the Soviet mem-
ber, the Committee voted to delete the entire paragraph.
The Committee then considered ohanges suggested in
8
paragraph 2(o) by the United States member of the Steer-
6
ing Committee. After further disoussiom the Committee
voted to delete all of paragraph 2 but adjourned before
agreement could be reaohed as to a possible substitute
0
for paragraph 2. The United Kimgdom member suggested
11
the paper consist of paragraph one only, which the
United States member supported but the Committee felt
9
such a paper would be too vague. Most members of the
3
Committee, however, favored a statement to the effeot
that the present Diet should not be permitted to appreve
the new Constitution. The Committee 1s to meet Monday
afternoon, May 6th to consider an alternative for para-
graph 2.
The New Zealand representative presented the follow-
ing proposal which was tentatively supported by the United
States member:
"It will not be in accord with the principles
of paragraph l(a) and 1(c) 1f the new Constitution
1s either considered or adopted solely by the
present Diet."
The French member suggested the following:
"Disposition should be taken to ensure that
any new constitution will, after a year of trial,
be conrirmed expressly by the electorate in an ap-
Dropriate manner."

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Other members suggested a simple statement to
the efreot that:
"The present Diet cannot be oonsidered as
the last Japanese authority for the approval of
the new Comstitution."
It is suggested that the United States member
might support at the next meeting of the Committee
the New Zealand proposal, and 1f umable to seoure
agreement on that, to suggest the following:
"While the present Diet 1s adequately repre-
sentative of the freely expressed will of the
Japanese people to permit it to disouss any
proposed drafts af a new Constitution or to
establish any neoessary interim measures for
the operation of the government of Japan prior
to the final adoption of a new constitution, a
new Diet should be elected for the final ap-
proval of a new constitution for Japan.
JA:orton:m

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
affur-dip t0 stredc 208f2
1. The machimery fer the adoptiem ef a mew Gomstitutien
sheuld be sueh as to easure that the denstitution, when
fimally adopted, is, in faet, a free expressien ef the
will of the Japamese people. To this end, the fellowing
prinoiples should be observed:
Adequate time and oppertunity should
be allowed for the full disoussiom and comsidera-
tion of the terme of the new Comstitution.
b. Complete legal oontinuity from the Com-
stitut1om of 1889 to the new Constitution should
be assured.
. The new Constitution should be adopted im
such a manner as to demonstrate that it affirma-
tively expresses the free will of the Japaaese
people.
2. The following comments are made in elaboration of
the above prinoiples, not in a reatriotive sense, but to
indioate some of the methode by which the prinoiples may
be applied:
. Full discussion and consideration would be
assisted by publioised hearings at whioh testimony
from lndividuals and groups oould be reoeived and
weighed.
b. In order to preserve the necessary legal
gontinuity a "projeot" could be submitted by the
Emperor to the new Diet under provislons of
Artiole 73 of the Constitution of 1889. This
projeot would authorize the Diet to adopt what-
ever measures may be necessary for the operation
of the government of Japan prior to the aoceptanoe
of a new Constitution and to enaot suitable pro-
cedures for the oonsideration and adoption of 
new Cometitutlon. These measures should be in
eneral conformity with the "Baslo Prinolples
for a New Japanese Constitution . The projeot
should be passed by the Dlet in accordanoe with
r+1cle 73.
. The doronstration of the will of the
people could be provided by special election to
 conatituent Assembly and/or by s referendum at
some lue time after the Constitutlon had been
roluoed in fin form.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.92)
45
5/9/46
sunce
MEXORAL DIN
CAON THE STATE
REPARTHER
kendk or Ivide
894.011/5-946
It 1s requested that the Committee consider as
a matter of urgenoy, the attached proposed tele-
grem to General MaaArthur from the United States
Government.
J. H. Hilldring
State Department Member
State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee
Attaohment.
11.1
Proposed telegram to
894.011/
General MaoArthur.
15.946
JA:HBorton:mp
6-8-46

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.93)
48
TOPSSORET
PROPOSED TELEORAN TO GEBERAL NACARTEUR FRON UNITED
STATES GOVERNNENT
URAD 60606 of 4 Nay hae mot beem tranemitted te
FEC. This Goveramemt appreolates the faet that your
persenal interest in the problem of comstitutional re-
ferm in Japan makes it extremely diffieuls fer you to
find an offieer in a pesition to express in detail your
views om that subjeet. This Governmemt alse realises
the diffieulties inheremt in she release, evem fer a
very limited perled, of one of your key effieers fer
liaison purpeses with the Far Fastern Cemmisslem. It
1s also resegaised that the politieal situatiem is se
fluid that a comprehemsive understanding of it sammet
be aehleved eaelly. Furthermore, this Governmemt is in
somplete agreement with yeur statememt that "a more
profitable relationship between BCAp and the Cemmlssien
1s largely dependeat upon a better appreeiatiem ef the
related responeibilities of each in the administratiem
of the oooupation".
Suoh differenoes of opinion as now exist between
most of the governments represented on the Commission
and 3CAp concerning these "related reeponeibilitles"
will be of continued embarrassment not only to this
Government but aleo to you, and it is belleved that these

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
47
-8-
differemees ceald be srsatly minimised if a esmter
offleer of your starf whe enjeys your peresmel eem-
fidenee is givem an eppertumity to express alreetly
and at length te the Commissiem your vlews met cmly
on the immediate probleme of the Cenatitutiem but
also on the broader questiem of the respemsibilities
of SCAp and of the Cemmtesien. The despateh of smch
an officer to Washington at shis time, evem fer a
short period, would also emable yeur represemtative
to obtain a elearer pleture of the vlews of the Com-
missiom in regard to these same matters. This Gov-
arnmemt believes that sueh personal comtasts will be
of great assistanee te all concerned and are of a special
importanee at the present time, and oonsequently urges
that you again serlously consider the request of the
Cemmission as outlined in wCL 37080.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
48
519/46
Sigqner
hnec
MEMORANDUM
FROM THE STATE
PEPATHERT
894.011/5-546
It 1s requested that the Committee consider
the attached proposed revislen to sWN00 228/2.
J. H. Hilldring
State Department Member
State-War-Navy Coordimating Committee
Attaohment.
DOR - NE Unit
Proposed revision
to SWN00 228/2.
894.011
6
JA:HHorton:mp
5-8-46
FE
946

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
49
PROPOSED REVISION TO SWNO0 22O/2
2. If she Japamese people shoula desire to
adopt a new Gonstitution through the medimm of a
constituent assembly, a specially eleeted Diet,
or a popular referemdmm, they should mot be ale-
oouraged from so doing.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.95)
FEC DEVELOPMENTS SERIES #6
TO
Mr. Vimcent
DATE: May 13, 1946
FROM
Mr. Borton
SUBJECT:
FEC Aotion Referenoe Criteria for the Adoption
of the New Japanese Const1tut1on (SwNCc 228/2)
At the special meeting of the FEC this morning
the Commission voted to adopt paragraph one of the
attached, with minor changes indicated, as a polioy
directive on criteria for the adoption of a new
Constitution.
In accordance with 1nstruotions from SWNCC,
General McCoy stated that paragraph two of the attach-
ed was unacceptable. After considerable discussion
within the Commission, in which Ambassador Loudon
of the Netherlands took the lead in urging that a
more specific definition be given as to what the Com-
mission would believe to be the expression of "the
free will of the Japanese people", General McCoy
presented the following: "Ir the Japanese should
b
为
desire to adopt a new Constitution through other
media than the present Diet, they should be given
0
every opportunity to do so, provided that complete
legal continuity is maintained from the present Con-
stitution of 1889 to the new Constitution." This
statement was in substance agreed to by SWnCc at
5
1ts last meeting on May 9. While the New Zealand
-13
and Canadian representatives felt the statement
should be stronger, they were willing to go along
with 1t, but Mr. Novikov refused to aocept 1t, and
f
his motion that Committee 3 further consider para-
2
graph two of the attached, together with the United
States proposal, was accepted by the Commission.
In the course of the disoussion General MoCoy
pointed out that General MaoArthur had stated on
two separate occasions and that the Seoretary of
State had made a similar statement, that the Com-
mission should "approve" the new Constitution. General
McCoy had already besn made aware of our approach to
the problem that affirmative action by the Commission
was not necessarily called for, and we still may be
able to hold to this positlon by quoting the exact
wording of General MacArt ur's atatement and that
of the Seoretary, but I an afraid the other members
of my Committec will voint to General MoCoy's etate-
ments in t! e future.
8
JA:ARorton:mp

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.92)
theynew Gonstitution.
. Complete legal continuity 
188g to the new Gonatitution mhoud he
L. The new Comatitution shoule b 
manner as to demonstrate that it arrm
the free will of the Japanese people.
It will not be in accordance with pranoiples
the new Constitution 1s sither considered or adepte
the present Diet. The present Diet should be, hovemm
to initiate popular and governmental disqussion ant
Donstitution. Since, however, the Japanese people die
the present Diet to serve ms a Conatituent Assembly it w
necessary for them in due time to eleat eisher a. Gopet
sembly or a new Diet ebarged primarily wite the teal
a Gonstitution, Tollowang the formulation of a Ou
new Diet or by a Conasitaent Assombly, the Japene

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
545-4691
50
Sffice Men
STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE:
6-12-46
to : C - Mr. Cohen
nom : FE - Mr. Vincent
SUBJECT :
Dear Ben:
There are attached for your information 3
documents on Far Eastern problems which are of
854.011/6-1246
particular interest. The paper on "Adoption of a
New Japanese Constitution" has been submitted to
SWTICC by the tate member, but S:/NCC has as yet
taken no action on it. In view of the complex-
ities of this problem and the involvement of
both the Far Eastern Commission and SCAP, I pre-
sume you and r. Byrnes may wish to read this
paper. The other two documents concerning horea
and Japanese reparations may be of use to you in
case either of these topics come up for discus-
sion in Paris. I don't mean to suggest that any
effort should be made to initiate disoussions but
if the subject should be broached by the Russians
themselves these documents will serve to indi-
cate what our current thinking is.
The paper on korea is in the form of a memo-
randum from me to the ecretary. Attached to it
is a recent policy statement of the State Depart-
ment concurred in by the War and lavy Depart-
ments and transmitted to horea.
The paper on Japanese reparations is in the
TOP SECN
form of a memorandum from r. Barnett of JK to
General lilldring and myself. No formal State
Department position has as yet been adopted on
r. Barnett's proposals but General Hilidring
and 1 are both ready to support them.
T.c.√.
MAY 19 1949
FE:JCVincent:AIM
FILED
C

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
TOPSECHET
TOP SEORET
SWN00 228/3
11 June 1946
Page8 20 - 40, 1no1.
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COIMITTEE
UNITED STATES POLICY IN REGARD TO THE
ADOPTION OF A NEW JAPANEBE CONSTITUTION
Note by the Secretaries
The enclosure, a study on the above subject presented by
the State Hember, 1s circulated for consideration by the
Comnittee.
ALEXANDER D. REID
B. L. AUSTIN
HAROLD W. MOSELEY
Secretariat
Cubmotled to SWNCC
is yet
1944

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
Kemorandum by the State Xa
THE PROHLIA
1. The problem is to determine United States polidy
1ssues in regard to the adoption of a new Constitution for J
FAOTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEA
2. See Appendix "".
DISCUSSION
3. Sce Appendix "B".
CONCLUSIONS
4. It is concluded that the drart statement in Appendix
and the draft message in Appendix "D" are statements of United
States policy on the several issues which have arisen as to the
adoption of a new Japanese Constitution.
RECOMIENDATIONS
5. It is recommended that:
a The State-War-Navy Coordinating Comaittee approve the
statement of United States policy in Appendioes "g" and 
b. The statement of policy in Appendix "D" be forwardme
to the President for transmission to General MecArthur fo
his information and guidance.
Q. Appendix "c" be forwarded to the United States
of the Far Eastern Gommission for his guidamoe in the
ation of a statement for the Commission on the at
position in msference to the autharisy of

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
53
TOP SEORET
APPENDIX "A"
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
1. On 7 March 1946 General MacArthur made a publio
announcement which read in part as follows:
"It is with a sense of deep satisfaction that I am
today able to announce a decision of the Emperor and
Government of Japan to submit to the Japanese people a
new and enlightened Constitution which has my fuli ap-
proval. This instrument has been drafted after pains-
tal:ing investigation and frequent conference between
members of the Japanese Government and this headquarters
following my initial directive to the Cabinet five months
ago."
2. The Preamble to this draft Constitution reads in part
as follows:
"We, the Japanese people, acting through our duly
elected representatives in the National Diet, determined
that we shall secure for ourselves and our posterity the
fruits of peaceful cooperation with all nations and the
blessings of liberty throughout the land, and resolved
that never again shall we be visited with the horrors of
war, through the action of government, do proclaim the
sovereignty of the people's will and do ordain and estab-
l1sh this Constitution founded upon the universal prin-
ciple that government is a sacred trust, the authority
for which is derived from the people, the powers of which
are exercised by the representatives of the people and
the benefits of which are enjoyed by the people and we
reject and revoke all constitutions, laws, ordinanoes
and rescripts in conflict herewith.
3. On March 12, 1946 Secretary Byrnes was asked 1f the
proposed Japanese Constitution had been submitted for approval
to the other major Allied powers before publication. He
replied that according to his information 1t had not been sub-
mitted and stated that the Japanese Constitution had been drawn
up by the Japanese Government under its right to do so. He
further stated that "before the Constitution beoomes oonsti-
tutionally effective it will in some way or other oome before
the Far Eastern Commission."
4. The Far Eastern Commission adopted a polioy decision
on March 20, which was tranamitted by the United States Govern-
ment as a directive to the Supreme Commander on the

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.90)
54
TOP SECRET
of a Japanese Constitution. This directive stated in part
follows: "The opening sentences of this draft proposed ar
Constitution of March 7, 19467 1ndicate to the Commission that
it will be presented to the first session of the Japanese Diet
which will be chosen at the forthcoming general eleotions. The
Conmission therefore assumes that this and possibly other texts
will be debated in the Diet and that amendments may be offered
and perhaps other proposals introduced." "....The Commission
desires that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers make
clear to the Japanese Government that the Far Eastern Comais
sion must be given an opportunity to pass upon the final draft
of the Constitution to determine whether it 1s consistent with
the Potsda: Declaration and any other controlling document
before it 1s finally approved by the Diet and becomes legally
valid.
"The Commission believes that in this way hasty aotion
by the Japanese Diet will be prevented and time given for all
elements inside and outside the Diet to consider tils very im-
portant question and to brin to that consideration all avail-
able tou  t produced by the freely expressed will of the
Japeerople.
"Io tuls coun etion, a Commleel n notes the cacour-
1
 tSupreme Commenaer's
draft
a pre oned constitution hns his
11
popehensive that the ap-
A t Jpse ublie and taken
topot eue drr tae approval or the
Power Pe ae ntet  e CoAasion.
"as sues is t neeuss 1 t, case and as the Comais-
sion  ous ot vant to take any notion in regard to this or any
other druft Conatitution that ni t rejudice Japanese public
opinion for or against eny proposal of this nature, it considers

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
appropriate manner make it known to the Japanese publie
while this draft or a proposed Constitution is a documest
obvious merit and is available now for consideration and stufy
the fact that it is a draft prepared by the Government does not
preclude favorable consideration of other proposals or drarts
which may be submitted to the Diet for study and comparison.
5. SCAP attempted to meet the wishes of the Far Eastern
Commission in his address at the opening session of the Allied
Council for Japan on April 5, 1946. He said:
"This proposed new Constitution 1s being well and
freely discussed by the Japanese people, who show a
healthy disposition to subject all provisions thereof
to critical public examination through the media of
press and radio. Re ardless of changes in form and
detail, which may well result from this open forum of
public debate and the ultimate consideration or the
National Diet and the Allied Powers, ir the underlying
principles remain substantially unchanged when finally
adopted, the instrument will permit development in Japan
of a democratic state fully conforming to existing
Allied policy."
6. In answer to a communication to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers from the Chairman of the Far Eastern Com-
mission requesting that the Supreme Commander send a member of
his staff to inform the Commission on the plans of the Japanese
Government for the adoption of the Constitution and to disouss
with the Commission broad questions relating to a new donstitu-
tion for Japan, General Maaarthur replied on May 4, 1946 to the
effeot tlat a key officer could not be released for such purpose
without impairment to the command. soAp further stated that it
had been his purpose, 1n conformity with the prinoiples laid
down at Potsdam and subsequent American policy deoisions, to
take no formal action on any constitutional reform finally
adopted by the Japanese people if it conformed reasonably to
existing Allied policy. No such formal action was contempl
in order to avoid any implication arising, even frem the
ties of approval by the Allied Powers, the

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.92)
56
TOP SECRET
from Allied pressure. SCAP further pointed out that the
policy decision thus far handed down by the Far Eastern
sion in te matter of constitutional reform has had the effoot
of reversing this all-important policy provision by its requir
ment of the formality of its approval as a prerequisite to the
final adoption of any constitutional reform by the Japanese
people. He added further that such a requirement will completely
negate the express purpose underlying the aforestated polloy
that the drafting and adoption of the Constitution be done "in
a manner w ich will express the free will of the Japanese
people".
He concluded that wiile the Commission has the right
of review of any action taken by the Supreme Commander which
involves its own policy decisions within its jurisdiction, it
has not the ower, in his belief, to require prior approval of
any action taken either by the Supreme Commanoer or the Japanese
Governaent to implement, fulfill or enforce the terms of sur-
render and that it appears clear that the function of the Far
Eastern Commission in the matter of constitutional reform for
Japan is limited to the formulation of guiding policy within
the fraievork of the Potsdam Decltration and the surrender
terme.
H concluden tat he bellevs the Commission could
renter o  t er servie to the  of emocracy than to
  apahee Governmet peope, as he proposes to do,
dureuplete freedom to
te situation
ped to determine
v: meet Ail1 o standards.
toJoi Cniefs o Staff
(C
) Scap iter t  wan suctually imposstble to
reprerent
ror te Far Eastern Commis-
Ro oided thet e nnd
no comoetent to not as his
deputy in puch broad mattere, tnt these questions are handled

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
57
TOP SEOR
by him personally and that there is no reason why he
the Commission radiographic or written information in an
any questions which may be up for claririoation. He conol
that such a plan "should fully solve the problem if the mole
purpose underlying the Commission's request 1s to secure factul
information and the views of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers. If, however, more basic issues are involved, it
would seem advisable that the defense of the American position
should not be undertaken merely by SCAP from Tokyo but primarily
by the American Government in Washington."
8. At 1ts eleventh meeting on May 13, 1946, the Far
Eastern Conmission approved the following set of criteria for
the adoption of a new Japanese Constitution which were trans
mittcd to SCAP:
"The criteria for the adoption of a new constitution
should be such as to ensure that the constitution when
finally adopted, is, in fact, a free expression of the
will of the Japanese people. It 1s recommended that, to
this end, these three principles should be observed:
"a. Adequate time and opportunity should be allowed
for the full discussion and consideration of the terms
of a new constitution.
"b. Complete legal continuity from the constitution
of 1889 to the new constitution should be assured.
"c. The new constitution should be adopted in suoh
a manner as to denonstrate that it will affirmatively
express the free will of the Japanese people."
9. The Commission's committee on Constitutional and Legal
Reforms is now considering a paper on "Basic Principles for a
New Japanese Constitution" presented by the United States mem
and based on swNcc 228/2. The Comuiss1on has not yot farmall
begun its consideration of the draft constitution referred

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.94)
58
TOP BEORET
APPENDIX "B"
DISCUSBION
I. In view of the divergent opinions held by the Far Easter
Comaission, SCAP, and the United States Government or variou
United States officlals in regard to the methods appropriate for
adopting a new Japanese Constitution and in regard to the ap
ence of the Far Eastern Comm1ssion to pass upon the new Constit
tion, it appears desirable to formulate an offioial United Stato
position on these issues.
II. The Far Eastern Commission by formal action in whioh the
United States representative conourred, has taken the following
positions:
1. "The Commission desires that the Supreme Commander for
the Al ied Powers make clear to the Japanese Government that the
Far Eas ern Commission must be given an opportunity to pass upon
the final draft of the Constitution to determine whether 1t 1s
consistent with the Potsdam Declaration and any other controlling
document efore it is finally approved by the Diet and bucomes
legally valid", that adequate time should be allowed for 1ts dis-
cussion, and that favorable consideration should be given in the
Dic to any pr posals or drafts other than the draft constitution
prepa a  the loverament (Merch 20).
"e Far E ter. Commiesien request ite Chairman to ask
mmander to senl a monber or hie staff to Washington
omat st   the plane of the Japanese Gov rnuent
tis f a sonetitution, and alse to diseuss with the
Comatal brond quenti ms r totine to a new Constitution for
(11 10,110).
5. "ade puate tim and uppertunity should be allowed for the
ful iseunsien and consideration of the terns of a new
Cu.3t1tut1o..
Complete legel continuity from the Constitution of 1389
to e mow Conatitution should be secured.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
59
The new Constitution should be. adopted in
as to demonstrate that it will afrirmatively exprese the
of the Japanese people." (May 13).
General Macarthur has stated that 1t 1s impossible to
officer of his staff to coneult with the Far Eastern Commiesion
and the Commission has received no assurance that adequate time
will be allowed for a full discusslon of the Constitution and h
the methods of its adoption will be such as to express the free
will of the Japanese people.
The members of the Far Eastern Commission are generally di
turbed over what appears to them to be a disregard of their view
and considered judgments, in this as well as in other matters, by
the United States Government and by the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers. They regard as unfortunate SCaP's public approval
of the draft Conatitution officially presented by the Japanese
Cabinct but which is widely believed to be essentially tho work of
General lacArthur's Headquarters, and they are apprehensive that
this draft will be rushed through the present Diet without adequate
discussion and that it will not express the free will of the Japan-
esc pcople. Probably all members of the Far Eastern Commission,
except the United States member, are re dy to vote for a policy
decision steting that tne new Constitution should not bo either
const lured or pdopted solely by the present Diet.
Nearly all
members of the Far nstern Commiselon believe that the Constitution
shoul  finally appreved by another Diet, a conatituent assembly
or  reforendum.
The members of the Far Fastern Commieeion generally regard the
new Constitution as a vital factor in the cstablishment of a demo-
cratic nd punceful Japan and are ineruasingly insistent on their
right to ensure that the me thods for ite adoption shall provide for
an ex ression of the free will of the Japanese people, and that
the Far Eastern Commission shall pass upon the Constitution before
1t is voted on by the Diet.
apparently -- although this cannot be.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
stated positively - the members of the Far Eaatern Co
peot that passing upon the Constitution will take the fo
official approval of the draft submitted to them.
III. SCAP agrees with the Far Eastern Commission on one prinotp
but diff rs with the Commission on most issues regarding the
adoption of a new Japanese Constitution.
1. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and the
Commission are agrecd on the prinoiple that the new Constitution
should oxpress the free will of the Japanese people, but they
differ on the applicntion of the principle. SoAP believes that the
principlo properly applied would prevent the Far Eastorn Commission
from passing upon the Constitution; the Far Eastern Commission re
lies on the same principle to authorize inaistence on full
consideration and discussion.
2. SCAP maintains that the Far Eastern Commission has only
the function of formulating policy, and that SCaP and not the Far
Enstern Commission has the authority to determine whethor or not
the policy has been properly 1mplemented. As the FEC polioy deo1-
sion of March 20, stating that the FEC should have an opportunity
to paas on the Conatitution, was sent to sCaP as a directivo by
the United States Govornment, SCaP complied with the directive in
his nddruss to the Allied Council on April 5, but he stated later
that ne did so reluctantly, eince he believed the policy wns in-
coriuct.
3。
SCat believ's that the Far Eastern Commission should pase
on the draft Conatitution after the Diet has adopted it and not
before; and that the Far Eastern Commission has no authority to
express a formal ap roval of the Conatitution but is limited to
disapproving it in case its provisiona should not be consistent
with Potsdem and other requirements.
This view is based on the
obligation to avoid interfering with the free expression of the
will of the Japanese people. Furthermoro, SCaP is convinced that
the decision of the Far Eastern Commission on March 20 has the

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
effect of reversing the polioy that the Japeness
as much freedom of action as possible in forming thets
Constitution and reforme should not be imposed from witho
4. The Diet, SCaP states, 1s the proper medium for
final adoption of the Constitution. a second Diet or a
Constituent Assembly or a popular referendum would bo unnecems
and unwiso.
5. SCAp insists that speed 1s essential in adopting a now
Constitution, while the Far Eastern Commission beliovcs that
adequate consideration is a more important faotor.
6. SCAP gave his public approval to the draft Constitution
which was ofricially presented by the Japanese Cabinot, and has
failed to satiefy the members of the Far Eastern Commission that
he will ensure that proper time and opportunity will be afforded
for discussion in the Diet of other proposals and drafts.
7. SCAP has declined to send a stafr ofrioer to oonsult
with the Far Eastern Commission on the ground that no one can be
spared and that no one could adequately represent SCAP.
IV. The position of the United States, as expressed officially
by the United States representative on the Far Eastern Commission
and unofricially by various United States ofricers, is between
the positions held by the Far Eastern Commission and by SOAP.
1. The United States Government, through the United States
representative on the Far Eastern Commission, concurred in the
decisions and requests of the Commission whioh stated that the
Conmission should have an opportunity to pass on the Constitution
before it should be finally adopted by the Diet, that adequate
time should be allowed for the consideration of the pending
drart Constitution presented by the Japanese Cabinet and of any
other proposals and drarts, that methode should be provided to
ensure that the new Constitution expressed the free will of
Japanese people, and that sCap should send a liaison ofri
consultation with the Far Eastern Commission.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
63
.2. There is widespread apprehension within
Government that SOAP may permit the pending drart Consts
be rushed through the present Diet without adequate stuiy
discussion. They believe that the new Constitution should
finally adopted through media other than the present Diet,
provided such procedure should be acceptable to the Japanose.
In rogard to neither of these points has any assuranoo boen
received from SCAP.
3. The United States Government is desirous of oo-operating
with the Far Eastern Commission so far as this can be done consi
tently with United States interests and polioies. In regard to
the nothods for the adoption of the Constitution this Government
believes that United States interests and policies pormit a good
neasure of cooperation, and that if this cooperation is not
effccted the United States nay find itselr opposed by the ten
other States on the Far Eastern Commission, with unfortunate
results on SCAP's administration of Japan.
4. On the other hand, the United States reprosentative on
tho Far Eastern Commission and other United States ofricials aim
to support SCAP within the proper limits of his authority. The
United States representative will not concur in any FEC polioy
docision which would result in a directivo to sCAp requiring
him to insist on media other than the Diet for the adoption of
the Conatitution, sinoe such a decision would recognize the
authority of the Far Eastern Commission to implement polioy and
by publicly foroing SCaP to reverse his previous deoisions
would tend to embarrass and dieoredit him. The United States
position 1s that, in all matters, the proper authority or SoAP
should be respected and his prestige maintained.
5. As to the authority of the Far Eastern Conmission in
regard to the adoption of a new Japanese Constitution, the
Seoretary of State said on March 12 that "before the Constitution
becomes oonstitutionally effective it will in some way or othen
come before the Far Eastern Commission." In thie respest 

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.93)
64
TOP SECRET
United States Government supports the position of the Far
Eastern Conmission. It should, however, be the view of this
Government, in accordence with the position of General
MacArthur, that the competence of the Far Eastern Conmission to
pass upon the Constitution is limited to ascertaining whother
the Constitution is inconsistent with the requirements of the
Potsdan Declaration and any other controlling docunents, and
that the new Japanese Constitution will become effoctive when
it has fulfilled the Japanese constitutional provisions unless
the Far Eastern Comniasion finds that the Conatitution fails
to meet Potsdam and other requirements. This viow is stated
at roater length in Appendix "C".
V. Since ther is a diverrence of views among the Fer Eastern
Conmission, the Supreme Com ander for the Allied Powers, and the
United States Governmunt as to many issues in regard to the
adoption of a nuw Japanese Conatitution, and since the United
States Government has adopted no policy on many of those 1ssues,
it appears advisable that the poliey sct forth in Appendices "C"
and "p" be appr vee as Uuited states poliey and that the
Prusioent b re p are to aopreve end to treaemit to boneral
At
83228/3
Ap. cnd1x "B"

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
i5
TOP SECRET
APPENDIX "C"
Proposed Statement by United States Representative 
The Far Eastern Commission
on
The Function of the Commission in Passing
on the New Japanese Constitution
1. The Japanese Government and people are competent to
adopt c new Constitution provided it is approved in accordance
with Japanese constitutional requirements and is consistent
with the provisions of the Terms of Surrender, including the
Potsdan Declaration, and of other controlling documents.
The Potsdam Declaration contains the following statements
which describe certain features which must characterize a new
Japanese Constitution: (1) "The Japanese Government shall
remove all obstacles to the revival and strengthening of
democratic tendencies among the Japanese people. Freedom of
speech, of religion and of thought, as well as respect for the
fundcnental rights, shall be established"; (2) "The occupying
forces of the Allies shall be withdrawn from Japan as soon as
these objoctives have been accomplished and there has been
established, in accordance with the freely expressed will of
the Japanese people a peacefully inclined and responsible
Governnent".
2. The Far Eastern Commission has the function "to
formulate the policies, principles, and standards in conformity
with which the fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under
the Terms of Surrender mcy be acconplished".
Tho Far Eastern Commission, therefore, has the authority
to detornine the principles and standards in accordance with
which the new Japanese Constitution should fulrill the pro-
visions of the Potsdam Declaration.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
2
TOP SEORET
3. The Far Eastern Commission has the right to pass
a new Constitution to determine whether it is consistent with
the provisions of the Potsdam Declaration and of pertinent
policy decisions of the Far Eastern Conmission.
The Secretary of State, on March 12, 1946, stated that
"before the Constitution becomes constitutionally effective it
will in some way or other come before the Far Eastern Commission".
The United States representative on the Far Eastern Commission
joined with the other representatives on the Commission in voting
for the following provision: "The Commission desires that the
Supreme Conmmander for the Allied Powers make clear to the Japanese
Government that the Far Eastern Commission must be given an
opportunity to pass upon the final draft of the Constitution
to determine whether it is consistent with the Potsdam Declar-
ation and any other controlling document before it is finally
approved by the Diet and becomes legally valid".
4. The competence of the Far Eastern Connission "to pass
upon the final draft of the Constitution" is linited to deter-
mining whether the Constitution is consistent with the Potsdan
Declaration and any other controlling documents. The Conmission
appears to have been given no authority to "pass upon" the draft
Constitution in any other respect or for any other purpose.
5. Since the Japanese Government and people are compotent
to adopt a new Constitution provided it is not determined to be
inconsistont with certain provisions prescribed by the Allied
Powers, a draft Constitution will in due course become effective,
unless the Far Eastern Commission finds that it is not con-
sistent with the Potsdam Declaration and other requirements.
There is no provision for a formal approval of the Constitution
by the Far Eastern Comnission. In fact, acceptance, amenament
or rejection by the Far Eastern Conmission of each section or
paragraph would itself violate the intention of the Potsdam

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SBORET
Declaration that the new government in Japan must be
"in accordance with the freely expressed will of the 
people".
6. When the Far Eastern Cormission passes on the draft
Japanese Constitution, the Commission may conclude that it 1s
not consistent with the Potsdan Declaration and other require-
ments and may insist on adequate changes in the draft. If the
Commission does not find that the draft is inconsistent with
those requirements, the draft Constitution, in cccordance with
the conipetonce of the Japanese Government and people to adopt
a new Constitution, and without fornal action by the Conmission,
will becone effective after it has fulfilled Japanese cone-
titutional provisions.
7. It would be advisable for the Far Eastern Commission
to pass upon the Constitution just before rather than just
after it has been adopted by the Diet. This is the view of the
Far Eastern Cormission, as expressed in its policy decision of
March 20. The best time night be after the Cormittee of the
Wholc, if the Diet has this procedure, has passed it, but before
the full Diet has voted on it.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
68
TOP SECRET
APPENDIX "D"
To
General MacArthur:
1. In view of the obligations of this Government under the
Potsdam Declaration, the policy decision of the Far Eastern Com-
mission of May 13th, and other commitments, it 1s deemed advisablo
to inform you of cur position in regard to these obligations and
our views on the several issues which have arisen as to the ad-
ontion of a new Japanese Constitution.
2. This Government is in full accord with the desire ex-
pressed in your recent communications that a new Japanese Const-
1tution should express the free will of the Japanese people and
accordingly concurred in the policy relative to criteria for the
adoption of a new Japanese Constitution, which was unanimously ap-
proved by the Far Eastern Commiss1on on May 13, 1946. We believe
that to achieve this objective and to implement this policy de-
cision you should take such action as is necessary for the Diet
to give ample time to a detailed consideration and full discussion
of the pending Cabinet draft, any other drafts, and all amendments
presented.
3. It was recently reported that the Japanese Government expeoted
the Diet to adopt a new Constituion by the end of June at the
latest. It is difficult, as you heve stated, to determine in ad-
vance the length of time necessary for the consideration of the
Constitution. This Government, however, believes that a period of
threc or four weeks from the time of the introduotion into the
Diet of thc Constitution is much too short. It is contrary to pre-
cedent in the United States where State Constitutions have required
on the average nearly three and one-half months consideration in
the rcspective Constitutional Conventions. It 1s also contrary to
precedents in Europe where the Constituent Assemblies after the
8000 229/3

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.94)
69
TOP SECRET
first World War took on the average sixteen months each to
their. work.
4. Consideration of the Constitution limited to as shor
time as has been suggested would be widely interpreted as ovidon
that the new Constitution had been pushed through the Diet and th
it did not express the free will of the Japanese people. Such a
result would not be to the interest of the United Statos, would
give risc to widespread public criticisms and would furthor embar-
rass our clations with our Allics since many members of the Far
Eastern Commission would undoubtedly wish to disapprove tho adoption
of a Constitution in this manner.
5. Further, this Government believes that it would bo cdvis-
able, provided it should be acceptable to the Japanesc, to have the
new Consti ution receive final ratification by some media othor
than the present Diet: that 1s, by a specially elected Constituent
Assembly or another Dict clccted with the Constitution as a cam-
paign issuc, or a popular refercndum. In spite of pressurc for the
adoption of such a proccdure from practically all other monbers of
the Far Eastern Commission, General McCoy has made it clour in the
Comainsion that the United stater will not permit you to be om-
barrasn a y a pelicy scinion vhich would rrquire a constituent
assenbiy, o se cond pict or a referendum.
Hovever, a fina' a proval
of t c tatien by ither a con tituent Assembly or pefemondum
or Tine vith Axerionn precedents. Ao you pre well
ar,1
"nited rtatr ince ao ut leoo the normal procedure
tor t e tion or stet conrtitution: har been, first, a con-
atitaslonnt convertlon nd secand, the cupmission to the pcoplo
for a vl of the com titatton frored by the convention.
Europe mo rm conntit  tone have normally been framed by bodies
specifical'y elected ror the purnose of framing constitutions, and
the recent draft constitution for France was submitted to a popular
referendum.
A constitutional convention or a public referendum

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
TOP BEORET
would give additional opportunity to the Japanese to
new conetitution, would largely remove the appre
our Allies that the Conatitution is being rushed to
fication, and would be an additional safeguard against any
quent Japanese claim that the Constitution did not exprees the
free will of the Japanese people. If any of these methods shoul
be followed, provisions would need to be adopted to mako the pro
cedure constitutional and to assure legal continuity from tho
existing Constitution to the new Constitution, whioh might be of-
fected in accordance with Article 73 of the present Constitution.
Article 73 is in Annex7. It 1s believed that these provisions
would bo necessary in order to prevent later insistence by Japen-
cse constitutional lawyers or ultra-nationalists that the new
Constitution had been imposed on the Japanese from without, that
1t had no standing in law and hence should be considered null and
void.
6. This Government believes therefore that it would bo ad
visable for you to discuss this matter with suitable Japancso
leaders tnd make clear to them that there 1s no objection to
final ratification of the Constitution by a constituent asscmbly
or cecond Diet clected cxpressly for the purpose, or a reforendum.
7. An to the nuthmrity of the Far Eastorn Commission in re-
gard   adoption of a new Japanese Constitution, the Secrctery
of Strt
id on Mnreh I that "before the Constitution becones
con i tlonally erreetive it will in some way or other come before
the P F Eartern Comeiarton".
This Government was a particinant
in thy adontion by th Par Enntern Commission on March 20 of a
policy ccinion which contained the following statement:
"the
Commlenl n Jesires that the Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powers
make clear to the Japanese Government that the Far Eastern Com-
mission nust be given an opportunity to pass upon the final draft
of the Constitution...". In the view of this Government, 'the com-
SWNCC.228/3
Annendix "D"
37

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
71
TOP SECRET
petence of the Far Eastern Commission to pass upon the
1s limited to ascertaining whether the Constitution is ano
tent with the requirements of the Potsdam Deolaration and y
controlling documents, partioularly a probable polioy decision
the Far Eastern Commission, now pending in committee, on "Basio
Principlcs for a new Japanese Constitution", which, if adoptod by
the Con ission, w1ll doubtless be based on SWncc 228. Tho Com-
mission would not in our judgment be authorized to pass upon the
Constitution in the sense of accepting, amending, or rojcoting
each scction or parngraph.
If the Far Eastern Commission should
conclude that the Constitution did not fulfill the requircncnts
of controlling documents it would doubtless sc state. Our position
1s that the new Japanese Constitution will become effectivo when
it has fulfilled the Japanese constitutional provisions unless
the Fer Eastern Commission finds that it has failed to mect
Pots-
dam and other requirements.
8. Ye belicve it would be in order for the Far Eastern Com-
mission to pass upon the draft constitution just before rather
than just after it has been adopted by the Diet. The best time
might be after the Committee of the Whole, if the Diet has this
proceaure, has passed it, but before the full Diet has voted on
it. Ir the Far Eastorn Commiscion should conclude that the draft
Conatitution in certain rennccts did not meet the requirenents
ret  in the contrellinr decumente, the Japanese could make the
e tment  phanper berere rather than after the Diet
rered it.
e. o have rone into thi subject ot such length both be-
cause t  meare advi ble to make clear the viewe of this Govern-
ment in p nd to the ao ropriate procedures to be followed in the
adoption of a new Conetitution ana because the issue as to the
method of the adoption of the new Japanese Constitution is ccusing
this Government inercasing concern in its rolations with the ton
other states on the Far Eastern Conmission. These states in the

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
72
TOP SEORET
main arc giving strong support to your administration and
presentatives of these states have expressed great admiration
your achievements in Japan. They have, however, a growing im
sion that the United States Government 1s giving soant attention
to their views and considered judgements on those matters which
are clcarly within their competence. With this situation in mind.
we belicvo that it should be made clearly known in Japan by means
which you deem appropriate, that every opportunity will be afforded
for anple debate on the Constitution and for an adequate expression
of the frec will of the Japanese people by methods already desoribed
which will be cons1stent with normal American procedure and ao-
ceptablo to the Japanese. This Government strongly believos that
such opportunities should be afforded and also finds itself in
agrecncnt : ith the other states on the Far Eastern Comnission on
this principle.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
73
TOP SECRET
ANNEX TO APPENDIX "D"
THE PRESENT CONSTITUTION OF JAPAN
CHAPTER VII
SUPPLEMENTARY RULES
ARTICLE LXXIII. When it has become necessary in future to amend
the provisions of the present Constitution, a projeot to that ef-
fect shall be submitted to the Imperial Diet by Imperial Order.
In thc above case, neither House can opcn the
debate, unless not less than two-thirds of the whole number of
Members are present, and no amendment can be passed, unless a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the Members prescnt 1s
ottnincd.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
JK
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
DDWSLON OF FAR
6
June 21, 19
TOP SECRET
JUN 2 1 1946
-Mr. Acheson:
Subjeot: Dr.
ary on
Adoption or Japanese Constitution.
Dr. Evatt's fears that the new constitution may be
rushed through the Diet in a few days are not, I believe,
warranted. Generals McCoy and Hilldring conour in this
belief, but the unfortunate situation is that we could
not give Dr. Evatt categorioal assuranoe that the Diet
will not adopt the constitution hastily. The kid glove
treatment of General MaoArthur has resulted in no olear
fingerprints. Those that we have are as follows:
The FEC policy decision of warch 20 stated that
"The Commission ... assumes that this and possibly other
texts (of the draft constitution) will be debated in the
Diet and that amendments may be offered and perhaps
other proposals introduced."
94.011
It is assumed that SCAP felt he was meeting the
wishes of the Commission when on April 5 he stated to
the Allied Council that "This proposed new Constitution
is being well and freely discussed by the Japanese
people, who show a healthy disposition to subjeot all
provisions thereof to critical public examination
through the media of press and radio. Regardless of
changes in forn and detail, which may well result
from this open forum of public debate and the ultimate
16-2146
consideration of the National Diet and the Allied Powers,
if the underlying principles remain substantially
unchanged when finally adopted, the instrument will
permit development in Japan of a democratic state fully
conforming to existing Allied policy."
On ay ll the Far Eastern Commission approved a
set of criteria for adopting a constitution, one of
which was that "adequate time and opportunity should
be allowed for the full discussion and consideration
of the terms of a new constitution". These criteria
were sent to acArthur in the form of a directive.
In perso nal communication with r. Peterson and
General LcCoy, General MacArthur has indicated that
"speed is of the essence" in the matter of adopting
the Japanese constitution, but he has also said that
it will probably require several months debate in the
Diet

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Diet before adoption. Actually, the Japanese Diet could
adopt the constitution in the matter of a few days. It
seems highly improbable that it will. But General MaoArthur
has issued no order requiring full debate and has given
the FEC no olear indication of his attitude toward the
directives issued him in this matter.
If you are called upon to give Dr. Evatt a reply
I would suggest that you inform him that General MaoArthur
has directives, based on FEC policy decisions, oalling
for adequate consideration of the terms of the new con-
stitution; and that it must be assumed he will aot in
accordance with those directives in assuring adequate
consideration in the Diet of the draft constitution.
Related to the adoption of the constitution is the
FEC position that the Commission must pass on any new
Japanese constitution to determine whether the consti-
tution is in conformity with the general objectives set
forth in the Potsdam Deolaration and the Terms of Surrender.
General Macarthur, while taking issue with this position
of the FEC on grounds that it is inconsistent with the
proviso that the constitution represent the freely expressed
will of the Japanese people, has indicated a willingness
to comply with the FEC decision.
SWNCC has prepared a paper which contains a polioy
statement to be made by General McCoy to the Commission
setting forth the American attitude on "The Function of
the Commission in Passing on the New Japanese Constitution."
This statement will go into some detail on various phases
of the constitutional issue. A copy will be sent to
General wacarthur for his guidance. It was originally
intended that the President would write a letter to
General wacArthur setting forth our position. This idea
has been dropped on grounds that it was "undignified" for
the President to ∞mmunicate "advice" to MacArthur and
that it would be improper for the President to "instruct"
him because in his position as SCAP he is properly subjodt
to direction by the FEC through the medium of directives
transmitted by this Governnent. It was therefore decided
that the statement of policy should go to General MoCoy
with a copy to General wacArthur in the "hope" that it
would have the desired effeot.
JV.
FE:JCVincent:AIM

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
77
STANDARD PORÃP NO.
TO SECRET
6-26-46
DATE:
TO
A-H - r. Hilldring
FROM :
FE - r. Vincent
SUBJECT :
Basic Principles for a N ew Japanese
Constitution.
r. acheson at this morning's
894.011/6-2446
meeting stated that he would be for
Draft (B) hereunder and that in the
case of a vote he would prefer to face
the possibility of a British veto
of (B) rather than have us change
our support to Draft (D) and face
the possibility of adverse votes by
those representatives opposed to (D)
and in favor of (B) which would include
the representative of the Soviet Union
with his veto power. However, Mr. Acheson
indicated that it would be preferable
to work out some compromise paper which
could at least receive majority support
including the support of the 4 members
having veto power.
Jc√.
Jc.v.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
78
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
DIVDBION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 24, 1946
U - r. Acheson:
JUN 2 4 1946
Subject: Japenese Constitution
nese governmental reforn with particular reference to
basic principles for a new Japanese constitution.
Paper (.) is fron an early SiNcc paper pre-dating
the advent of FEC.
Faper (3) is an FEC cormittee re-draft of the early
S. CC paper.
Paper (C) is a drustically simplified British paper
or the sane subject.
Paper (D) is, as it states, a reconciliation of the
3ritish original paper to meet the views of some of the
FEC cocmittee members.
The Guestion of the adoption of a paper is now
actively before the FEC and will probably come up for
con ideration this week. unly Fapers (B) and (D) are
being currently considered. (B) is considered a satis-
factory substitute for (a) by many committee members.
Ihe British, I understand, have withdrawn (C) in favor
of (D) und therefore (C) is of interest only in showing
the greut latitude which the sritish were willing to
grant the Japanese in the matter of a constitution.
Almost any constitution could be made to square with
the broad terms of the Britisih originel paper.
4 members of FEC favor Paper (B). They are, if I
am correctly informed, ustralia, New Zealand, the
Netherlands, anu the Soviet Union. 4 members favor
Paper (D). They are Great Britain, the Philippines,
France, ind India. The Jnited States and Canada members
have reserved their position. The Chinese apparently
will vote for either pe per but would, I believe, vote
for the one for which we vote.
I have discussed this matter with General iilldring,
with members of General cCoy's staff, and with representa
tives of the war Departnent. Either draft is acceptable
to
TOP SECRET

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
11
-2-
to the War Department. General MoCoy, I am told, favor
Generel Hilldring has a "leaning" towards (B) but would mot
make an issue of the matter if unanimity oould be aohieved
for (D).
I prefer (B) primarily because it represents our think-
ing in the matter and it vould seem to me that we would
look a little foolish at this date if we came out for the
modified British draft when we have 4 members in favor of
the draft which incorporates our original ideas.
The argument against (B) is that it is too detailed
and also that it seems to keep alive the question of whother
there shall be an Emperor in Japan when it is assumel that
the Japanese have already settled that issue, at least for
the time being. I do not consider tnis a valid objection.
Draft (B) still represents our thinking on the matter,
would be favored by a majority if we and the Chinese stood
by it, and provides a more precise measuring stick for the
Japanese constitution, guite aside from the so-called "dead"
Emperor issue.
The British have said that they would veto (B). It
seems to be assumed, without definite knowledge, that the
Russians would veto (D). I would be willing to support (D)
if by so do ing we could avoid any veto. But if there is
to be a veto, I would prefer that we stand by (B) on the
issue. as a matter of fact, + have my doubts that the
British in the last an&lysis would veto (B) provided some
small concessions are made to their point of view. On the
other hand, I have a feeling that Australia and New Zealand
would be right out in front voting with a Russian veto
of (D) if the Russians decided on a veto.
I have been asked to put the question before you.
The question is whether we continue to stand for (B).
facing the possibility of a British veto, or whether we
switch to (D) and take a cinance on adverse votes by the
Soviet Union, Australia, New Zealand, and possibly the
Netherlands. ie shall, of course, continue to work for
a draft agreeable to all concerned but if this fails I
would like to have your advice on our stand.
J.√.
FE:JCVincent:ALM

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.91)
80
ENCLOSURE
REFORM OF THE JAPANESE GOV RNMENTAL SYSTEM
1. It is suggested that!
a. The Supreme Com ander should indioate to the
Japanese authorities that the Japanese governmental
system should be reformed to accomplish the following
general objectives:
(1) A government responsible to an electorate
based upon wide representative suffrage;
(2) An executive branch of government deriving
its authority from and responsible to the elector-
ate or to a fully representative legislative body;
(3) A legislative body, fully representative of
the electorate, with full power to reduce, increase
or reject any itens in the budget or to suggest
new items;
(4) No budgut shall become efrective without
the express aperoval of the lezislative body;
(5) Guarantee ef fundament 1 civil rights to
Japanes mut jeets  to all persons within Japan-
ese jrisietion;
) p ptr lir la inent
1ei .l: a. praet-
ensitrona
manner hich
preethetree
prere pecple.
Tothe ul   or  verrmet in Japan
is to be estanlioned oy t treely expressed vill of
t Japne le the  Paperor
institution in its present fon. is not considered con-
sistent viih the roregoing guueral objectives.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
Institution is not to be retai
guards against the institution will
requirod but the Supreme Commander should
Japanese that the constitution should be
form to the objectives listed in a above and to
speciric provisions;
(1) That any other bodies shall possess only
temporary veto power over legislative measures in
cluding constitutional amendments approved-by the
representative legislative body, and that such body
shall have sole authority over finanoial meaouromy
(2) That the Ministers of State or the memberm of
a Cabinet should in all cases be civilians;
(3) That the legislative body may meet at will
d. The Japancse should be encouraged to aboliah the
Emperor Institution or to reform it along more demoorats
lines. If the Japanese decide to retain the Institut
of the Emperor, however, the Supreme Comriander should
also indicate to the Japanese authorities that the
following safeguaras in addition to those enumerated
in a and c above would be necessary:
(1) That the Ministers of State, chosen with th
advice and consent of the representative legislati
body, shall form a Cabinet collectively respoasibi
to the legislative body;
(2) That rhen a Cabinet loses the confidene
the represontative logislative body, it mnet
resign or appeal to the eleotoratos
(3) The Emperor shall aot in all
only on the advice of the Cat

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
(5) me Cabinet shail
(6) The entire income of the
shall be turned into the publio trea
penses of the Imperial Household shall
by the legislature in the annual budget
2. Only as a last resort should the Suprene Co
the Japanese Government to effect the above listed rofor
the knowledge that they had been imposed by the Allio w
materially reduce the possibility of their acceptance an
port by the Japanese people for the future.
3. The effectiveness of governmontal reforme in prew
the resurgencc of military control in Japen will depend in
large measure upon tho acceptance by the Japanese people of tn
entire program. In the implom ntation of allied polioy on
the roform of the Japanose Government, the Suprame Commandor
for tho Allied Powers must take into account thc probleme
scquence and timing, as well as measuros whioh might be a
to propare the Japancsc pcople to accept the cha.ges, in ordo
to insure that tho ruforns arc lasting in strongthoning rep
sontativo government in Japan.
4. This paper should not be released for publioation
eventual release of a statement of allied policy on the rordr
of the Japenese Government should be coordinatud with the
rome Commander for tho Alliod Powers in order not to impe
accomplishmcnt of such reforns in Japan itselr.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.94)
BAUIO YRTHUTLLES ZOR
1. The Japaness Constitution should 
iue ror:
.  representative governwent bused upon unt
surfruge consisting of:
(1) An exucutive doriving its uuthority fro
und responsible to either the luctorute or
representative legislative body;
(2) A lsgisluture, fully representutive of
olectcrute, whioh should huve full lugislative
including full control cver raising of piblio
und uxpunditure of public funds;
b. The estublish ent of n independent judiciur
c. The guartantee or fundamentul civil righta to ul
use und to uli persons within Jupunese jurisdiction
Japunese shall enjoy cqual rights bufore the luw und no
speciul priviicges of purticulur sociul roups suoh 
nobility shull be ullowed;
d. The populur uluction or heuds or institutions or aou
governlent such ss prefectures, citius, tons ld vill
e. Tho populur clection of looul ssomblies such 
fecturul, city, town, und villuge.
£. The udoption of constitutional anundments in  mn
which will give urfuct to tho freely uxpressed will
Jupalusu puoplu.
2. Though tho ultiute form or governwont in
estublisnud by the frouly uxprossed will of tho
tho retention of the Euporor Inatitution in
tpunul fora ls not considered con

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.88)
Ir the Jupanemu puoylo deaidd
is not to be retuined, copmtitutionul
stitution will obviously not bo required, but
will have to conrorm to tho ruquiroments or
also provide:
a. Thut tne legislature shal. huve sole authobity
ncici ousures and uny other orgun shall possess only
temporury vuto power over other lugislutive woasures;
p. That the prine minister and the ministers or state uil
of whon shall e civili ns und of whom a majority, inoluain
the prime inister, shull  sulucted fron the Diot, hu
rorn  Cubinst coilectively rusponsibie to the logialutur
If  systen of coverm ent is dopted wherby the ohier
ex cutive is lucted to that ofrice by the people. the pro
vision th.t rm jorit uf th Cabinut mombers shell be
chosen Pron. the legislature should not necessurily epply
2. Thet the lugisletive orcan shell have the power to meet
at v.iil.
4. If the up nose decido to rutuin the Institution or the
 rur, th roi owin s Pogurds in ddition to those enunerated
1 ai  bovvil. e neessery:
t i s cuinee P the legislature
 tluetorate;
.The Enperor shall
s  o e nrorred en hin by the
e e.ses in ccordance
viv ur ll militury uuthority
 . t1 XI, XII, XIII, nd XIV of
t ut1889;

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.92)
yof the Luportal no
proyorty or the Stuto. The exponsee
hold shell oe appropriated ty the legialuture
budgut.
5. The rutuntion of the Irivy Council cnu the House
in their presunt furi. nu ith their present powers is mot
sidered cunsistent vith the roruguing general objuotived.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.93)
ENCLOBURE
VIEWS OF THE UNITED KINGDCM ON THE BASTO PRTHOT
A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTTO
1. It can be contended that only drastio change in
present Japanese political and social system will prevent
mergence of Jpanese militariem. But this must be balanoed
aainst the desirability of ensuring that a form of government 
established which has good pros ecte of surviving the withdrawa
of Allied fcrces.
2. Allied requirements need not necessarily involve the
revocation of the Constitution of l889 which containe provisions
for its cwn amenument. If Allied requirements can be represented
us a "Second Restcration" of the true spirit of the constitution
they miht well stand a betier chance of lasting acceptance by
the Japanese.
3. If the Constitution were retaired, its amendment at
Io et in the rollowing respects would be essential:
a. the Cabinet to be responsitle to the Diet;
. a nin propurtion of Cabinet Ministers, including
toe Minicters or war and Navy, if any, to be elected members
or the Lower House;
S. the Impurial Ordinence requiring that the War and
vy inistere must be a General and Admiral on tne Active
Lat to be r scindea Tuey are to be civilians;
"Pow r or the Purs " to be strene thened;
xee tiv pow pe e Eaperor to be exercised
ndvie r  Cainot;
 tmp rer's initiative as re arus amendments of
dortitatien o  exereised only on the advice of the
10

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
A RECONCILLATION OF THE UNITED KINGD
ON BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR A MW JAPAN
The Far Eastern Conmission, mindful or its obl
that Japan should have a peacefully inolined and rodp
Governnent ana that all obstacles to the revival and 
f aenocratio tendencies should be renoved, decides, a
policy, that the following basic principles shall govern the
fornation of a new Japanese Constitution:-
1. Soverign power resides in the people.
2. The Constitution shall be so franed as to provido 
represontative governnent based upon universal adult surrreg
which the Cabinet shall be responsible to the Diet. All
Cabinet nenbers shall be civilians ana à high proportion of then
shall be elected nenbers of the legislature. The legislature,
fully representative of the clectorate, shall have full legislati
Wers, including fuil control over the raising of publio revenue
ri the expenaiture of public funds.
3. An incepenuunt juciciary shall be established.
4. The funuientul civil rights of all persons within
Juap ncse jurisdiction shell be Euarantceu. All Japanese
i tionals shall enjoy uquul rights before the law.
5. Institutions of local govurnient shall, as far as
possible, be on an elective basis.
6. The Head of the State shall have only such powers 
proviued for in the Constitution and shall exercise those
only on the advice of the Cabinet.
7. Constitutional cuendnents shall be adopted 1n
W. ich will give effeot to the freely expressed willto
J: nanose people.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.94)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
DC/R
D
3 July 1946
The ionorable James F. Byrnes
3
Secretary of State
x
Washington,D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Comnission
provide that one of the funotions of the Commission should be
to "formulate the policies, princioles and standards in conformity
894.001/7-346
with which the fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the
Terms of Surrender may be accomplished."
It is further provided that when such decisions are made
by the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government shall
prepare directives in accordance with the policy decisions of the
Commission and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander through
the appropriate United States Government agency."
At the eichteenth meeting of the Far Eastern Commission
held at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D.C., on
2 July 1946, the enclosed policy decision relative to Basic Principles
For A New Japanese Constitution, was unanimously approved.
As Socretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I have
been instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of the
Commission, in order that the appropriate directives may be prepared
and transmitted to the Su rene Commander in accordance with the
Terns of Reference.
In adopting the enclosed statement of policy the Commission
apreed that it shouli be released to the press, but expressed a desire
that the Sut rere Commander decide whether he would prefer to release
the enclosure himselr in Tolyo ur have it released by the Far Eatern
missi n in washin ton. An exe rt trom the mintes of the eihtee
01

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
-2 -
meeting of the Commission relative to this matter is enolosed for
your information. I should appreciate it if these views of the
Commission could be transmitted to the Supreme Commander along
with the directive based upon the enclosed policy decision, and
if his decision could be made known to the Commiesion as soon as
practicable.
Respectifully yours,
Telom /ru
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Enclosures

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.90)
EXCERPT FROM MINUTES OF EIGHTEENTH MEETING
OF THe FAR
EASTERN COMMISSION
ITEM 2 - BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR A NHW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION (FEC-O31/19)
*
*
*
*
AR. COLLINS moved and MAJOR PLI.. SOLL seconded the
motion that the Commission a prove FEC-O31/19 with the under-
standing that the policy decision would not be released to the
press until after the Supreme Commander had received the United
States directive and had deoided whether the polioy should be
released in Tokyo or in Vashington. The motion was unan1-
mously approved.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
89
July 8, 1046
MEMORANDUN FOR THE SEORETARY. SWNOO
Subjeot: Direetive Regarding Basie Prinoiples for a
New Japanese Constitution.
There is enolosed a draft direetive prepared on
the basis of a poliay deeision unanimously approved
at the •ighteenth meeting of the Far Eastern Commissiom
on July 2, 1946, under the provisions of paragraph II,
A, 1, or its terms of referenee. It will be noted
that the poliey deeislon is quoted verbatim im the
enclosed druft direotive.
894.011/7-346
It is requested that the enolosed direetive be
forwarded to the Joint Ohiefs of Staff for trnnemianion,
1f the direetive in their opinion satisfaetorily
expresses the poliey deolsion of the Far Bastern
Commlssion, to General Maoarthur for his guidanoe in
accorduice with paragraph III, 1, of the torme of
referenoe of the Commigeion.
J. H. Hilldring
State Member
State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee
Enolosure:
Draft Directive.
JA: ALDunning/pm
PE
7/3/46

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.96)
90
DRAZY RIRNRTIVE ZHAM HOR YY EAY
Polleving statement of peliey, adopted by Pm0, 2 July 196s,
1n aceerdanee with paragraph II, A, 1, of its terme of
referenee has been reeeived from State, War and Mavy Depart-
meats for transmissiom in acserdaaee wish peregreph III, 1,
should take apprepriate steps somsistent with the direetives
tranemitted 1n wAn 82394 and w0L 43814 to 1meure that any
Comstitutiom adopted by the Japamese conforms to the prim-
siples set forth im this statement:
Uort. 1. The Japamese Constitution should reeogmise
that sovereigm power resides in the people. It should be
so framed as to provide for:
2. A representative government based upon univereal
adult suffrage consisting of:
(1) Am exeoutive deriving its authority from and
responsible to either the eleetorate or a fully
representative legislative body;
(2) A legislature, fully representative of the
electorate, which sh uld have full legislative
powers, 1noluding full control over raising of
publie revenue and expenditure of publie funds;
b. The establishment of an independent judiolary;
The guarantee of fundamental civil rights to all
Japanese and to all persons within Japanese Juris-
diotion. All Japanese shall enjoy equal rights before
the law and no speeial privileges or partioular soeial
groups suoh as the nobility shall be allowed;
d. The popular eleotion of heads of institutions of
local government suoh as prefeetures, cities, towns and
villages;
I. The popular elestion of local assemblies such as
prefestural, clty, town, and village;
I. The adoption of constitutional amendments in a
menner which will give effeot to the freely expressed
will of the Japanese people.
2. Though the ultimate form of government in Japan 1s
to be established by the freely expressed will of the Japanese
people, the retention or the Emperor Institution in its
present constitutional form is not considered c nsistent with

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
91
the foregoing general ebjeetives. Gonsequently, the Japanese
should be eaeoareged se abelish she Eaperor Institation er
to reform it aleng mere demeeratie llmes.
3. If the Japaaese people decide that the Baperer
Institusion is mos to be retaimed, sonstitational mafeguarés
against the imstitution will obviously met be required, bat
the sonstitutiom will have to conform te the mequirements of
paragraph 1 and shall also provide:
a. That the legislature shall have sole autherity ever
fimaneial measures and any other organ shall pessess
only a temporary veto power over other legislative
measures;
b. That the prime minister and the mimisters of state,
all of whom shall be civilians and of whom a majorisy,
including the prime mimister, shall be seleeted from
the Diet, shall form a Cabimet colleotively respomsible
to the legislature. If a system of govermment is
adopted whereby the chier exeoutive is elested to that
ofrice by the people, the provision that a majority of
the Cabinet members shall be chosem from the legislature
should not nesessarily apply;
I. That the legislative organ shall have the power to
meet at will.
4. If the Japanese deeide to retain the Institutiom of
the Emperor, the following safeguards in additiom to these
enumerated in 1 and 3 above will be meeessary:
When a Cabinet loses the confidenee of the legls-
lature it shal either resign or appeal to the elestorate;
b. The Emperor shall have no powere other tham those to
be conferred on him by the new Constitution. Me shall
act in all cases in accordance with the adviee of the
Cabinet;
Q. The Emperor shall be deprived of all military authority
such as that provided in Artioles XI, XII, XIII, and
XIv of Chapter 1 of the Const1tut1on of l889;
d. All property of the Imperial household shall be
deolared property of the State. The expenses or the
Imperial household shall be apuropriated by the
legialature.
5. The retention of the Privy Counoil and the House of
Peers in their present form and with their present powers
is not c neidered o nsistent with the f reg ing general
objeotives.
UN.UCTE.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
PC/R
The attached is certified to be the official text
of a document unanimously adopted at the eighteenth meeting
of the Far Eastern Commission, held at 2516 Massachusetta
Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C. on 2 July 1946.
894.011/7-346
Lugh Dy dapley
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Washington, D. C.
3 July 1946
iunce
JUL 181946
FILED
了

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE
BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
1.
The Japanese Constitution should recognize that soveroign
power resides in the people. It should be so framed as to provide
for:
a.
A representative government based upon universal adult
suffrage consisting of:
(1) An executive deriving its authority from and
responsible to either the electorate or a fully
representative legislative body;
(2) A legislature, fully representative of the
electorate, which should have full legislative
powers, including full control over raising of
public revenue and expenditure of public funds;
b.
The •stablishment of an independent judiciary;
0.
The guarantee of fundamental civil rights to all Japan-
ese and to all persons within Japanese jurisdiction. All
Japanese shall enjoy equal rights before the law and no special
privileges of particular social groups such as the nobility
shall be allowed;
d.
The popular election of heads of institutions of local
government such as prefectures, cities, towns and villages;
e.
The popular election of local assemblies such as pre-
fectural, city, town, and village.
f.
The adoption of constitutional amendments in a manner
which will give effect to the freely expressed will of the
Japanese people.
2.
Though the ultimate form of gevernment in Japan is to be
estabiished by the freely expressed will of the Japanese people, the
retention of the Emperor Institution in its present constitutional
form is not considered consistent with the foreroing general objeotives.
Consequently, the Japanese shoule be eneourared to abolish the Emperor
Institution or to refora it alonr more demoeratie lines.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
3. If the Japanese people decide that the Emperor Institution
is not to be retained, constitutional safeguards against the institution
will obviously not be required, but the constitution will have to oonform
to the requirements of paragraph 1 and shall also provide:
a.
That the legislature shall have sole authority over
financial measures and any other organ shall possess only a
temporary veto power over other legislative measures;
That the prime minister and the ministers of state,
all of whom shall be civilians and of whom a majority,
including the prime minister, shall be selected from the
Diet, shall form a Cabinet colleotively responsible to
the legislature. If a system of government is adopted
whereby the chief executive is elected to that office by
the people, the provision that a majority of the Cabinet
members shall be chosen from the legislature should not
necessarily apply;
0.
That the legislative organ shall have the power to
meet at will.
4. If the Japanese decide to retain the Institution of the
Emperor, the following safeguards in addition to those enumerated in
1 and 3 above will be necessary:
a.
When a Cabinet loses the confidence of the legislature it
shall either resign or appeal to the electorate;
b. The Emperor shall have no powers other then those to be
conferred on him by the new Constitution. He shall aot in all
cases in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet;
C.
The Emperor shall be deprived of ell military authority
such as that provided in Articles XI, XII, XIII, and XIV of
Chapter 1 of the Constitution of 1889;
d.
All property of the Imperial household shall be declared
property of the State. The expenses of the Imperial household shall
be appropriated by the legislature.
5.
The retention of the Privy Council and the House of Peers
in their present form and with their present powers is not considered
consistent with the foregoing general objectives.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.94)
DG
92
suncc 7/8/46
Num
July's, 1946
MEMOR-NDUM TOR THE BEGRETARY, BWNOQ
Subjest: Release of Statewent of Polley Regarding Basie
Prinolples for a New Japansse Constitution,
approved by Far Eastern Commlssion on July 2. 1946.
894.011/7-346
(FEC-031/19)
In reference to the statement of poliey regarding
Busio Principles for a New Japanese Constitutiom waaml-
mously approved at the eighteenth meeting of the Far
Eastern Commieslon on July 2, 1946, tm Seeretary
General of the Par Eastern Commission has requested
that the Supreme Commander be informed that in adopting
this statement of poliey, the Far Easterm Commission
agreed that it would be released to the press, bat
expressed a desire that the Supreme Commander deside
whether m would prefer to release the statement of
polioy himself in Tokyo or have it released by the
Par Eastern Comsission in Washington.
The Seeretary General stated thet it would be
appreciated if the Supreme Commsnder's deelslon could
be made known to the Commlssion as soon as praetieable.
It is requested that the Joint Chiefs of stafr transmit
the enolosed communicatiun to General MacArthur.
J. H. Hilldring
State Member
State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committeo
Enclesure:
Com unication to
Ceneral MacArthur.
an7
JA:AL.Dunn1ng/pm
Fr.
7/3/46

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.95)
93
BARKO PRINGIPLES POR A BRY JAPABESE GOTRKAXRZION
Ia refereaee to the statement of pelley regarding
Basie Prineiples for a New Japanese Geastitatien wmam
mously appreved at the eighteenth meeting ef the Far
Bastern Commission on July 2, 1946, the Beeretary
that the Supreme Commander be informed that in adepting
this statement of peliey, the Far Easterm Commissien
agreed that it would be released to the press, but
expressed a desire that the Supreme Commander deside
whether he would prefer to release the statement of
poliey himself in Tekyo or have it released by the
Far Eosterm Commission in Washington.
The following is an exoerpt from the mimutes of the
eighteemth meeting of the Far Eastern Commission:
MR. OOLLINB mOVeD and MAJOR PLIMBOLL
seconded the motion that the Commiesion appreve
PE0-051/19 with the understanding that the
poliey desision would not be released to the
press until after the Supreme Gommander had
recsived the United states direetive and had
deeided whether she pelley should be released
1n Tokyo or in Washington. The motion was
un unimously approved.
Your recommendations and comments on the abeve
would be appreeiated.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.93)
ADDR ICAL OCATIN TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WAGINSTON  D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
SEARET/CONTROL
July 8, 1946
MEMORANDUM
Coal
To:
FE - John Carter Vincent
x
From:
894.001/7-846
Subjeot:
ORI Report No. 3788 - Japanese Progress Toward
Constitutional Reform
Enclosed herewith is a copy of ORI 3788 Japanese
1
Progress Toward Constitutional Reform. This paper, whioh
110.7NNCC
covers one aspeot of the goneral researoh program on Japanese
(14r)
reorientation, was requested by Mr. John K. Emmerson in mid-
June for use in SWNCC discussions of American polioy toward
Japanese Constitutional Reform. It analyzes the developments
leading to the publication of the Cabinet draft Constitution,
CS/W
evaluates the Cabinet draft and those of the politieal parties
in terms of US objeotives, and considers te probloms raised
for US policy by developments in Japan and the attitudes of
states represented in the FEC.
894.011
SEERMT/OONPROL

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.93)
File: Jae: Conslti
Retum to HB
STANDARD FORM 
Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO
:FE and JA
DATE: Augus t 23, 1946
FROM : JA: H. Kullgren
J
sUBJECT: Japanese Progress Toward Constitutional Rrorm.
This study 1s valuable for the clarity and attention to
Central
significant detail with which it traces the progress of th
Japanese and the Allied Powers toward Constitutional refor.
Since the Potsdam Decleration and the White House State-
ment of September 6 called for the democratization of Japan 1/
but did not provide for constitutional reforms, SWNCC formulated
certain prerequisities for achieving this democratization in
the Jananese constitutional structure.2/
.
The existing Constitutlon and basic laws by which it 1s
ω
Returned to
implemented conflict with SWNCC policy specifically (1) in
their sunport of Imperial divinity, (2) their establishment
of an executive not responsible to an elective body, (3) their
creation of a legislative extremely limited in power and not
adequately responsihle to the general electorate, and (4) in
their failure to guarantee civil rights. 3/
Since surrender a number of changes, brought about by
Allied or by Japanese action, include the guarantee of civil
liberties, an alteration in the composition of the executive,
the disassociation of Sninto from the State, and the Emperor's
renunciation of divinity. 4/
Also prior to the publicatlon of the Government's draft
of the Constitution the three leading political parties pre-
sented their views which, iespite their vagueness and dirference
of opinion, seemed agreed on the establishment of cabinet
responsibility to the leglslature, the enhancement of the
power of the Diet, the retention of the bicameral system with,
however, the lower house superlor in power to the upper, and
C
the abolition of th- Privy Council. Their major differences
S
lay in t ir epproach to the questions of civil liberties and
of t: location of eovereintv. 5/
On thew ole te draft snoneored ty the Japenese tovern-
ment meets th: reou:rements advaneed by Swsee although clarifi
FW 894.011/
cation f certoia ints is leslral le. /
aster. Jommiesion desire
Jonrtitu'ion : e delayed, the
ens otreeted toward
fo Consttturlonal
Whether

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
Whether the U.S. supports or opposes such preventive
action depends upon the assurance it has (1) that the draft
Constitution accepted at this time achieves Allied objectives,
(2) that procedure has been faithfully followed, (3) that
postponement of ratification would be more advantageous in
enhancing popular understanding of constitutional problems
and (4) that the maximum agreement on policy towerd Japan
within the FEC would be attained by further postponement. B/
This study, after weighins the ros and cons of the
problem, indicates that postponement would be of dubious
value. 9/
上/pp. 1-：
/pp. 2-5
7D.-

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, July 9, 1946.
DC/R
No. 495
CB
1946
SUBJECT: Draft Constitution Proposed by the Japan Communist Party.
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
1
two copies of the Japanese language version of a proposed Consti-
tution for Japan published by the Japan Communist Party on June 29,
2/
1946. There is also enclosed a copy of a report, as published in
the July 2, 1946 edition of the Nippon Times, on the salient points
of this draft Constitution.
This Mission has made no translation of the Japanese document
894.011/7-946
in view of the acute personnel shortage with which it is confronted.
REPORTING SENVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
221946
1/ Two copies of Japan Communist
Party's proposed Constitution
for Japan (Japanese language
version).
SEP 3 1946
2/ Copy of Nippon Times news item
FILED
regarding proposed Constitution,
edition of July 2, 1946.
CS/V
1n

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 495, dated July 9, 1946, from
the United States Politisal Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Draft Constitution Proposed by the Japan Commumist Party."
NIPPON TIMES, July 2, 1946
DRAFT ONSTITUTION PUBLISHED BY REDS
Advocate Republican Form of State and Abolition of
Emperor System
The Japan Communist Party on Sunday published its draft constitu-
tion advocating the abolition of the Emperor system and the establish-
ment of a republican form of Government.
In mmking the draft Constitution public, the Communist Party in a
statement said that it wished to submit its draft constitution to public
discussion prior to submitting it to the Diet.
In its preamble, the draft constitution of the Communists described
the Emperor system as "incompatible with the maintenance of freedom and
happiness of the Japanese peoples and declared that only through the
adoption of a republican form of Government will "the Japanese people be
able to create a society where there will be no room for exploitations".
The draft constitution, however, made no reference of the controversial
issue regarding the renunciation of war.
Article one of the draft constitution, which is titled "The Con-
stitution of the Japanese People's Republic," places the sovereignty of
the state into the hands of the people. Other salient points of the
draft constitution included the following:
(1) All persons shall be equal before the law of the state and
shall possess all fundamental human rights guaranteed under the consti-
tution.
(2) The Imperial Family system and the Peers system shall be
abolished.
(3) Women shall have equal rights as men in every field of life.
(4) Laborers shall be guaranteed by the state to have the right
to own a home, receive education and an appropriate vacation.
(5) All persons over 18 years of age shall have the right to vote
and he elected. Elections will be held under a proportional representa-
tive system, and the Diet shall consist of one house.
(6) The Diet shall supervise and guard the sovereignty of the
people.
(7) The Diet shall elect a 25-men committee whose chairman shall
represent the republic.
(8) All judges shall be elected by the Diet.
(9) Local governments shall be established on a self-governmenting ba
(lo) Police and all other public officials shall be elected.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 495, July 9.
1946, from the United States Politioal Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject: "Draft Com-
stitution Proposed by the Japan Communist Party".

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.86)
定憲法によって法制化さ小て為たやに天皇が絕対權力を握人民の權徹有的劉
と財産の大規模な破壞人民大衆の悲俊み方七窮之之剛師
天皇制支剛制毛の無帝
第九章
第八章
第十
第六章
第五章
第四章
第三章
第二章
第一章
新憲法八草案
地方制度
國家財政
國
人民の其本的權利と義務
口本人民共和国
前
前
目
法
府
文
次

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.70)
まっ坂くことを近ふそのじある。
約ち平和愛好口家の恒久の親時をかため世思の平和人類の無限の同
川っっ政治的悲怖之紹者的窮之と文化的貧困からの完全な解放
させわいら入国は国際社会に名與言本る当然の位四道を占めるだ
防止人民窮極的解放入入道之確害方小日人民民
教を占める勤労人民大衆を帝
聖本的人權の確立人民政的自由 保障之人民の經清的福世應
榮にく友愛定的強めるのである
仁之曰近隣植民地半植民地諸國力解放對不る最大降半
のための權取と抑压の体制として勤労人民に君臨し政治的如隷的無利狀
国
として軍時と官僕によって武裝さ、資本
二十
111
14八

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.65)
わか党日行動綱領及本憲法の不也一切の卦的
十相曰人制寄生的大十地所有
必党の望とろ日大衆的民主主義的計議曰
わが党曰之口新憲法草案を発表七全人民大衆
新憲法草案發表仁陳して
日本共產堂中央委員会憲法委

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.76)
四
一切以權取制度加根絕
現至四容之之力為社会主義社会通
聲明した通りである
した後この問題を人民投票正問小て決定する方針であると日わが党かねて
命の課題加達成さ八三後上口現定具体的條件
義の微を阻書まる。少くとそで
政
止きあが人民共和政存が実現し人民力衆の民主的教旨徹
三
從って矯权的身分制度としての皇室
と

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.75)
第七條
第六條
第五條
第三條
第二條
第一條
日本人民共和國の主投口人民秋
日本國曰人民共則
上門地政治的經清的主正日社全的特权
日人民人平
日本人民其和國分經口封的生的地所制の
第一章日本人民共初國
第二章人民四基本約雄及義為

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.77)
第十七條
第十六條
第十五條
第十四條
第十三條
第十二條
第十一條
第十條
語で陳述する權利を保障さい為
被告人日如人な場合曰主年謙の禮利之保障事件の資料曰つ之精通末為稱利之法曰本之自圗
に不利益自白口よて日有罪之又口刑四刻
若く日不当仁長期上曰る抑留又日拘禁の後の自自日小と據
人民日身仲八不可侵支信障何人裁到所の法定曰檢
人民に信仰と良心の自由之保障又ろため宗教と国家
民主主義的大衆四体の国際的連聚の自由日保障助
共建策物通信平段そ他二の权利王行使耳ろた少必要百物貞的條件損供去
二の奴利至保障するために民生主義的政堂与公仁大衆因印到用
成行進の完全な自申を認めらいる
義的坤言論出版集会結社刀自由支有常仙爭議及乙示
られた者に対してのみ効力を有する
25

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.76)
第三十條
第二十九條
第二十八條
第二十七條
第第二十六條
第三十五條
第二十四條
第二十三條
第二十二條
第二十條
第二十條
第十九條
第十八條
寡歸云公生見の生活と权利日園家およ公共回休
法律曰ぐてる
社ため必要な場合には法律によって制限さる
受刑者を舍正被拘禁者に討て進步的民主義的出
訓日受刑者の共和曰市氏と一ての社会的西教育之目的文ろ刑
受刑者の取极公曰人道的で方成なな受刑者の常任見と常仰時間日金の傳條件為基と
ならない
国家日裁判の結果無罪の宣告支うけた被告人し日精神四貞照償
死刑はニいを庵止てる
ち刑罰は犯罪の重要こに応じて科せらいる何人も同の行陽のために二度處四則さるはな
とんな行為もおらかじめ法律によて之に詳ろ四罰則を定た王なけ刑罰を科也
加重すっやうな取扱を行った公務員はその貴仁問曰
2

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.73)
第三十五條
第三人條日本人民共和国曰人民の科学的研究云術的創造の自由左保証一人民本中之能創意の辰
第第三十七條
第三十六條
第三十四條
第三十三條人民曰休農の权利左王之二の權利日一通四十時向勞仍制一週一日一年二周向以有明制休差
條労仰の期間及條件は常他者の健康人格的威嚴又は家庭生活を破壊する千のであって日なな十八
集四十一發
第四十日本人民共知口に居住する外口人の必要百權利曰法律によって保障い為
第三十九條
は加るね利をもっ
人民口曰本人民天和口の憲法王道字し法律王履行し社金的義務を励行し共諸規則過
曰木人民尹一國日民主主義的活動民族解放運動學術的動故外曰人
玄期研所實餘所專問的教有機南文化芸術諸施設支
全業家けそ經宮の便宣のた被傳者就學を妨不得
健康相談所產院保育所等の設備上の常仰之休息の利傳
ための諸施設ちらびに労仰諸法規によって保障さいる
才以下の末成年者けその身心の発達を阻害する労他にみして保護さ十六不以下の幼少年労仰は禁止さ
住宅を保證さろね利を持のね利曰家
せの他団体行動を不るね利日保障さる被傭者け企業の經営
確保労他諸法規によって保障る

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.78)
才五十條国會は四年の任期を以て送挙される
十四十九條代議員はその選举区の選拳民に対して報告の義務を員入送举氏大律規定從
沐四十八條代議員選举比例代表制八基き平等直接祕密普通进举
才四十七條代議員とて送挙さ川か代議員を送拳十3資格比政去權相
第四十六條口本八民共和回の立法権は風会だけが二小を行使す3
才四十五條国会時法律の定める定員數からなる代議員にって構成さる
第四十四條国会は次の事項を管掌する
才四十三條国会は主権を管理し人民に対して責任を員小
十四十二條日本人民共和国の最高の口家我図は國会である
議員を召還寸る事か出來る
件によるいかなる差別制限をえ加られない
十各種專門委員会の設置
十會計檢掩院長任命
九人民から提出川請願書の裁
本人民共和口最高檢事仕命
七曰公常任幹事会の誤拳曰會休会中おて常任幹事卷仰諸
六政府首席力任免と首席よ3政府員の任免の確認
三憲去の变更王修正
二憲法の実行の臨視
内外曰政に関する基本方策の決定
大律の制定
第三章國會

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.76)
中五十三條 因会の会期は年二同を原則とする臨時国会は口会常任幹事会決定邦代議員三分
才五十七條口会詳長一名副計長二名之送拳し詳事の進行口会內の秩序謝時
第五十六條国会におけ議事はすべて公開とする
中五十五條太律は閏会にお之代議員の單紀多數決にって成立曰會常任幹事会議長
沈五十四條自會は代議員数の三分の二以上の出席によって成立する
斗六十四條口会常任幹事会は次の事貞き管学る
十六十三條口公常任幹事会日詳長去公副許長各一名己選本許長口日本人民天和曰義
第六十二條口今以二十五名の口会常任幹事会之送挙寸子
十六十一條總送拳施行後三十日以内に前口会常任幹事会は新口会を召集寸る
オ六十條口会の任期か滿了才か又は口云が解散れた場合三は四十日以内總送が施行
オ五十九條口会には代評員おの三分の二以上の決評に基づき解散き告示十る紙限
煙会は必要と認めた傷合にはすべての問事に関して
心書記の署名を見って公布される
いこ以上の要求によって召集される
書類を提供す了義務を持？
とし次の口会の同意き要する
一口会召集およひ解散標退李地行の公告
gs
查向委員会ちよ心檢查委員会を任
会の要求い応じて心要な資料と

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.64)
第六十九條政府次年七四十
第六十五條念期小
五赦兼權入行使
二口会休公下政府首席上政府員住第確認

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.68)
第七十五條曰家則政天年分發度香
第七十四條政府周公
第七十三條
第七十條祖
第七十一條曰家定理三臣公必要十
第七十條
大政府權限上關事方問題上き各者訓令指令王三江地方議会天定
王對外因係三般的指導
四卷附風丁子特別委員会于仁正事務局組織
会計檢查院の組織之權限口法律よって定められる
ふ。
会計授查院長曰公任命於取務遂行曰会責住き貞
政府命令正日人民和曰今領成
第五章
国家政

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.73)
第九十條
第八十九條
第八十八條
第八十七卷
第八十六年
第八十五卷
第十
第十
第十
第十六條
第六章
公 夫夫力行政機関を送任寸行政機開は夫議行政機
下級檢事局検事日最高檢事局検事確認言經上級檢事局かを任命
事日五年の任期をもって国会により任命される
余山初曰人方法律直止確に通字するの直監見するにある
あり法律にのみ服從する
所判宮は夫々地方議会推薦に基き夫夕の地域民信段宗
官曰国令の推薦基書人民の信任投票五年の任期
周議決之命今を発布
会天夫力行政機國分活動統轉地方予節議通
小相國はその領土內仁地方制度府野市縣等を認め地方制度基
判は人民基本的權利尊重根本精神
地六文部力活動臣地方權力機関行政合致下
第四十條第四八錄基年十百通拳去通卷方議公
そ
地方制度
裁判所地已秋判所によって行はれる

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.73)
第百保
第九十九
第九十八條
第九十七條
第九十六條
第九十素
第九十四潔
第九十余
第九十二條
第九年憲法改正
本人民六 因 其和政体破如よ符權的真分制度復法應法改正对象
いて三み上多教をもって探釈さればならない
曰本人民哲私國 憲法の改正は国会代議員三分の三以上の出席により開会之れる風合而
曰未人民和同地方上級議会代議員三分の二以上の同意をもて憲法改正提案權を
日本人民共和固憲法の改正発案積七国会三屬十る
同機備として周着する二とを阻止する
紫責行その署官已域外人民によて遂出北警察剛度分官僚的支
いも器至を要求する推利がある
議公口公務員の動を監視し議会確認によって執行機関長が任見する公務員に対
人民は公務員の龍免を議会その他の公共機関に要求する権利をもっ
行政機関の公務員中議会によって任冤されるもの外口行政機関長力任免する
国家日公務員及公その家族に必要な生活手後至保障する
公務員は原潔を言とし一切の汚辱行為職権濫用行為をすることを嚴禁される

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAGE
PRIORITY
From:
GHC SCAP Tokyo sgd Mac Arthur
To:
War Department fop WDSCA
Nr:
2 07239
8 July 1946
Reurad W 93298. Thcge is no 1nconsistency between the
basic principles coverning constitutional reform approved by
the Fer Eastern Comndsai or on July 2 and those previously
prescribe? by the Un!ted States Government and ScAP. As con-
sequence, the drart const:tution now under consideration by
the Diet nt the inatancc of the Japanese Government conforms
in every respect to the basic princlples outlined and sorupu
lous care will be exercised to insure that the constitution
finally acopted hy the Dict contains no provision inoonsist-
7-10
ent thereuitl. It would al car, however, that the public re-
lease of tie directive, at this timo would be grave, if not
fatal, srpor.
The Junanece Government and people, by virtue of the
tion Leen evolving their cwn forn of government and, with
the advice of and cons Itati on with SCAp, voluntarily bave
been moving covard cons atulonal reforn designed to pro-
duce a thoroughly demourulic state. The publication, under
these circumstences, of a restrictive and mandatory directive
such as that contained in W I 25073 would tend to provcke a
revulsjon of the Japanese people against any such reform,
irrespcctive of its terms, aa the voluntary character of
the work nov in process wculd instantly become clothed with
the taint of Allied force. It would vitiate the requirement
contained in the Potgdan deolaration, and fundamental to all
subseguent policy enunciated on constitutional reform, in-
MC-IN-54106
(2 Ju1 46)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
INCOMING CLEAR MES
PRIORITY
Page 2
From: . GHQ SCAP Tokyo sgd MacArthur.
Nr:
Z 07139
8 July 1946
cluding that of the Far Eastern Commission (wCL 43814), that
any such action must be responsive to the free will of the
Japanese people. It would not only seriously threaten the
gains already made in the democratization of Japan but would
materially increase the hazards and difficulties whioh yet
confront the occupation. I, therefore, recommend most earn-
estly that this directive be regarded with the*
which invariably surrounds diplomatic. procedure under con-
ditions of eguivalentey.
End.
* Being Serviced.
ACTION: CAD
INFO : JCS, Adm Leahy, CG AAF, D/I, D/PO, CAD(State),
Adm Nimitz, Mr Petersen, C of S
MC-IN-54108
(9 Ju1 46) DTG 081241Z
1s
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAG
PRIORITY
SUPPLFMENTARY COPY
  Arthur
01
10 July 1946
of ensnge to read:
earnestly that this
ret1on which
rure under conditions
894.01
Seprre er
JCAD
7-10
ACTION: CAD
INFO
JC/S, Am Leah.  AF. D/, D/PO, CAD (State),
Adm lma Arerron  of S
MC IN 54704
(0812417
se
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.96)
95
July 12, 1946
MEIORANDUN FOR THE SECRETARY GENERAL,
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
Subjeot: Views of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Pewers on the Publio Release of Statement of
Polioy Regarding Basio Prineiples for a New
894.011/7-
Japanese Constitution, approved by the Far
Eastern Comm1ssion on July 2, 1946.
In reply to your letter of July 3, 1946, 1n regard to
the above subjeot, there is emolosed, for the information
of the Far Eastern Commlesion, a copy of a message from the
1046
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers oonoerning the
question of the release to the press of the statement of
polioy regarding Basio Prinolples for a New Japanese Consti-
tution approved by the Far Eastern Cemmiesion on July 2,
1946.
S
Enolosure:
Copy of message from
the Supeme Commander.
0
aiv
JA:ALDunning:mls
7-12-46

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.94)
96
BeLesURs
of the Japanese Geveramemt conferes in every reapees to ts
basie priaciples ostlined and serapaleee sare will be emese
appear, however, that the publie release of the direstive,
at this time would be grave, if net fatal, errer.
The Japanese Gevernment and peeple, by virtue ef the
tion been evolving their owm form ef gevernmemt and, with
the advice of and consultation with sCar, volumtarily have
teen moving toward constitutional referm desigmed to predace
a thoroughly democratic state. The publieatiem, mmder these
cireumstancee, of a restrictive and mandatory direetive wemle
tend to provoke a revulsion of the Japanese people agaimst
any such reform, irrespective of its terms, as the velemtary
character or the work now in process would imetantly beeome
clothed with the taint of allied force. It would vitlate the
requirement contained in the Potsdem deelaration, and fumde-
mental to all subsequent polioy enunoisted on sonstitutiomel
reform, ineluding that of the Far Fastern Commissiem, that
any such astion must be responsive to tis free will af the
Japanese people. It would not only eerlously threeten the
Gains slready made in the demooratizatien of Japem bus would
materially increase the hasards and difriculties which yet
confront the ocoupation. I, therefore, recommend most earm-
estly thet this directive be regarded with the same diseretiem
whioh invariably surrounds diplomstic procedure under cem-
ditions of equivalent delicsoy.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.95)
94
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DC/R
SWN-4521
10 July 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE STATE MEMBER, SWNCC:
Subject: Release of Statement of Policy Regarding
Basic Principles for a New Japanese Con-
894.011/7-1046
stitution, approved by Far Eastern Commis-
sion on July 2, 1946.
Reference 1s made to your memorandum on the above
subject dated 3 July 1946 and received by the Secretar1at,
SWNCC, on 9 July 1946.
The text of this memorandum and the enclosure thereto
were transmitted to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for dispatch
to SCAP on 9 July 1946 by the Secretary, SWNCC. However,
by the time the memorandum had reached the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, SCAP had replied to a cable transm1tted by the War
Department covering the same subject (CM-OUT 93298, July.
1946). In view of this action, informal concurrence of the
Department of State was obtained to the return without
action by the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the above memorandum
together with a copy of SCAP's comments.
Attached is a copy of a message containing Scap's
reply and a supplement thereto, which are forwarded for
.CS/V
any action deemed necessary by the Department of State.
menah Seuy ge FeC
1Ju440 H1)
12°
A. dD. Reid.
A. D. REID,
JUL 181946
Secretary
FILED
Enclosures:
MC-IN-54108 (0 Ju1 46)
MC-IN-54704 (10 Ju1 40)
7.1646

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.92)
99
S.GNED & RECEIVED
IN SWNCC
1/73/46
Rr.car
July 13, 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY SWEOO
Subjeot:
Consultation With the Supreme Oommander
teparding Helease to Press of Polioy
Statement on Haslo Prinolples for a
New Japanese Constitution.
The Far actern Commlamion, acting under paragraph
VI of ita Terme or sference, whiah provide that the
894.0
Comalaelon "mey make suon arrangementn through the
chcirmen es may bc practicable for consultatlon with
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers", requested
1ts ohairman on July 11, 1946 to congult with the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers on the matter
referred to in the enolosure.
it 1a reouested thet the sttaohed enclosure be
forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for tranemission
to the suorene Commnnder For the Allied lowers.
J. H. Hilldring
State Jepartment Member
State- nr-Navy Coordinnting Committee
S

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
99
The substance of your resemmendatiens that the
Par Fastern Cemmissien s peliey desisiem en Baste
Primeiples fer a New Japanese Cemstitutiem should mat
be released te the press at this time" was siremlated
to the Commiss1on on July 10, l94s amd was comsidered
by the Commission at its nineteenth meeting em July 11.
1946.
The Commission agreed to accept your reeommemeatiem
not to release the polioy statement at this time but
it was also of the opinion that the statememt should,
as a matter of prinoiple, be released at an early date
and inetructed its Chairman to consult with you with
a view to determining the dete when release to the
press would be appropriate. You are therefore requested
to advise in advance the date hich you would approve
for releece of the policy decision.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
11 July 1946
Major General J. H. Hilldring
RECEIVED
Assistant Secretary of State
JUL15 1946
131946
State Department
DO
Washington, D.C.
Dear General Hilldring:
In his letter of 2 July 1946 transmitting to the Secretary of State
the polioy decision of the Far Eastern Commission on Basic Principles for a
New Japanese Constitution (FEC-O31/19), the Secretary General asked, as the
Commission had requested, that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
be consulted with respect to the question of the release to the press of
the Commission's polioy decision.
The reply of the Supreme Commander, in which he recommended that
the policy statement not be released to the press "at this time", was
oiroulated to the Far Eastern Commission on 10 July 1946 as FEC-031/24.
and was considered by the Commission at its nineteenth mmeting on
11 July 1946.
The Commission agreed to accept the Suprome Commander's
recommendation not to release the policy statement at this time, but it was
also of the opinion that the statement should, as a matter of prinoiple, be
released at an early date and instructed me to consult with the Supreme
Commander with a view to determining the date when release to the press
would be appropriate.
I am accordingly forwarding this decision to you with the request
JUL 16 1946
that you have it transmitted to the Supreme Commander, and that you ask him
FILED
to advise the Far Eastern Commission, through me, prior to the date when he
would approve the release of the polioy decision on Basio Prinoiples for a
New Japanese Constitution to the press.
894.
Sincerely yours,
15:
Fircenla tweeary
mrd
Frank R. MoCoy
Chairman

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
C.1
SWN-4534
12 July 1946
DU
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
Subject: Directives Transmitted to SCAP
by the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Enclosed are three copies of Directive, Serial
No. 54, transmitted to SCAP by the Joint Chiefs of
894.011
Staff. Copy No. 1 is for transmittal to the Far
Eastern Commission and Copies No. 2 and 3 are for
the files of the State Department.
/7-1246
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
d. D. Reid.
A. D. REID,
Secretary.
Encls.
1194
Cny No. 1, 2, and 3
of Serial #54
JUL 11946
FILED
TE
1246

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
Serial No. 54
COPY
6 Ju1y 1946
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
The following statement of policy, edopted by the Far
Eastern Commission on 2 July 1946 under the provisions of para-
graph II, A, one, of its terms of reference has been received
from the State, War and Navy Departments for transmission to
you as a directive for your guidance in accordance with para-
groph III, one, of those terms of reference. You should take
ppropriate steps consistent with the directives on Draft
Constitution for Japan* and Principles Governing the Machinery
for the Adoption of a New Japanese Constitution,** to insure
that any constitution adopted by the Japanese conforms to the
principles set forth in this statement:
"1. The Japanese Constitution should recognize that
sovereign power resides in the people. It should be so
framed as to provide for:
. A representative government based upon universal
adult suffrage consisting of:
(1) An executive deriving its authority from and
responsible to either the electorate or a fully
* Serial No. 36
** Serial No. 47

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
representative legislative body;
(2) A legislature, fully representative
electorate, which should have full legislative
and expenditure of public funds;
b. The establishment of an independent judiciary;
c. The guarantee of fundamental civil rights to all
Japanese and to all persons within Japanese jurisdiotion.
All Japanese shall enjoy equal rights before the law and
no special privileges of particular social groups such as
the nobility shall be allowed;
d. The popular election of heads of institutions of
local government such as prefectures, cities, towns and
villages;
e. The popular election of local assemblies such as
prefecturel, city, town, and village;
f. The adoption of constitutional amendments in a
manner which will give effect to the freely expressed will
of the Japanese people.
2. Though the ultimate form of government in Japan is to
be esteblished by the freely expressed will of the Japanese
people, the retention of the Emperor Institution in its
present constitutional form is not considered consistent with
the foregoing general objectives. Consequently, the Japanese
should be encouraged to abolish the Emperor Institution or
to reform it along more democratic lines.
3. If the Japanese people decide that the Emperor In-
stitution is not to be retained, constitutional safeguards
against the institution will obviously not be required, but
the Constitution will have to conform to the requirements
of paragraph 1 and shall also provide:
a. That the legislature shall have sole authority over
a temporary veto power over other legisletive

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
b. That the Prime Minister and the Ministers of
all of whom shall be civilians and of whom a majority
Diet, shall form a Cabinet collectively responsible to
the legislature. If a system of government is adopted
whereby the Chief Executive is elected to that office by
the people, the provision that a majority of the Cabinet
members shall be chosen from the legislature should not
necessorily apply;
c. That the legislative organ shall have the power to
meet at will.
4. If the Japanese decide to retain the Institution of the
Emperor, the following safeguards in addition to those enum-
erated in 1 and 3 above will be necessary;
a. When a Cabinet loses the confidence of the legis-
lature it shall either resign or appeal to the electorate;
b. The Emperor shall have no powers other than those
to be conferr3d on him by the new Constitution. He shall
act in all cases in accordence with the edvice of the
Cabinet;
c. The Emperor shall be deprived of all military
authority such as thet provided in Articles XI, XII, XIII,
end XIv of Chapter 1 of the Constitution of 1889;
d. All property of the Imperial household shall be
declared property of the State. The expenses of the Imper-
ial household shall be appropriated by the legislature.
5. The retention of the Privy Council and the House of
Peers in their present form and with their present powers
is not considered consistent with the foregoing generel
objectives."

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.97)
700
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
12 July 1946
CONFIDENTIAL
Honorable John H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear General Hilldring:
1/7-1246
At the 19th meeting of the Far Eastern Commission on July 1l
the question of the authority of the Far Eastern Commission to
approve a new Japanese Constitution was raised again. The matter
has been under consideration by the Commission for some time in
general terms, but was brought specifically to a head at yester-
day's meeting in such a way as to demand prompt resolution. I
would therefore appreciate it if you could arrange for me to have
at an early date a statement of United States policy on the subject
of the authority of the Far Eastern Conmission to approve a new
Japanese Constitution for the guidance of the American delegation
on the Commission.
TE
as a possible position for the United States in this connection
FI amcenclosing a draft which I hope you may find helpful in giving
CS/V
Opoli in Begard to the Authority of the Far Eastern Commission to
Approye a New Japanese Constitution" is one which seems to me and
C
OEPTE
my advisers adequately meets the issue, and which I think also
E
R
stand a goodchance of being supported by the other governments
reprented the Commission.
A
or your information the following immediate background is
FILED
pertinent to the issue. At the Commission meeting on July ll the
enclosed paper, FEC-031/23, "Provisions for the Review of a New 
Japanese Constitution", was up for consideration. of the ll rep-
sentatives on the Commission, 10 were prepared to accept this paer.
The Soviet representative alone dissented and insisted that the paper
should include an additional paragraph on the subject of the authority
aF VI Tnit
of the

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
101
CONFIDENTIAL
General John H. Hilldring
Page 2
12 July 1946
of the Commission to approve the new Constitution. Such a second
paragraph had been a part of the paper, but had been deleted prior
to consideration of the paper by the Commission because it had been
impossible to agree on its language..
The deleted second paragraph read as fallows:
"The new constitution, unless previously disapproved
by the Far Eastern Commission, will in due season
after promulgation become the legal successor of
the present constitution without awaiting final re-
view by the iet and the Far Eastern Commission in
terns of the foregoing paragraph."
This paragrapn had been accepted in the Steering Committee, again
with 10 representatives concurring, but with the Soviet represent-
ative insisting that its language be changed to read as follows:
"The new constitution, unlees previouely disepproved
after approval by the Far Eastern Commission, will
in due season after promulgation becone the legal
successor of the present constitution without await
ing final review by the Diet and the Far Eastern Com-
mission in terms of the foregoing paragraph."
It was the hope of the Steering Committee, in deleting this con-
troversial second paragraph, that the Commission could approve the
review principle embodied in the first paragraph.
The Soviet statement at the Commission meeting on this subject
is enclosed for your information. Your particular attention is
invited to the 5th paragraph of the Soviet statement, in which the
position is taken that a new Japanese Ccnstitution can go into
effect only after it nas positively been approved by the Far Eastern
Commission and after a consequent United States directive to this
effect has been issued to the Supreme Comnander.
Very sincerely yours,
Firann weea
Frank R. McCoy
Chairman

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
102
SOVIET STATEENT
on the
AUTHORITY OF THE FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
TO APPROVE A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
The paper FEC-O31/23, wnich is submitted for our consideration
today, in its original form contained two paragraphs and out of these
the first paragraph covered the provisions for the review of a new
Japanese constitution while the seoond one dealt with the provisions
for its going into effect. Now we are offerred to adopt only the
first paragraph of that document concerning the provisions for the
review of tie constitution.
I wish to state here that the Soviet Delegation, taking into
account some of the considerations wnich have been expressed here,
is prepared to concede witn respect to the last sentence of the
first paragraph and accept the wording which was suggested by the
U. S. Delegation. But I am unable to consent upon the exclusion from
that document of its second paragraph. It is my view that the question
of provisions for the constitution's going into effect cannot be divorced
from the question of reviewing it, and logically it should inevitably
precede it. Tnere is not much sense in speaking of now and when and
who is going to review the constitution unless we come to a preliminary
agreament on how and when it goes into effect.
At the last meeting of the Commission the Soviet Delegation pro-
posed to make an amendment in the original second paragraph to the effect
that the new Japanese constitution prior to its going into effect should

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
103
come for approval by the Far Rastern Commission.
This suggestion of the Soviet Delegation was contended by some
of the members of the Far Eastern Commission. The Sovist Delegation
considers it necessary to give a complete clarity to this question
as it is of fundamental importance and upon its solution it will be
dependent whether the Far Eastern Commission intends to live up to
the spirit and letter of the Moscow decisions of the Three Ministers
in respect to the scope of its jurisdiction.
In the Soviet Government's view it is doubtless that such question
as the new Japanese constitution's going into effect does fall under
the provisions of the Article 3, Part III of the Moscow decisions,
wnich provides that substantial changes in the Japanese constitutional
structure are subject to agreement within the Far Eastern Commission.
This question is one of those upon which the U. S. Government should
necessarily issue a directive to the Supreme Commander after an appropriate
consultation with the Far Eastern Commission and after reaching in the
Commission an agreement on acceptability of the Japanese constitution
from the viewpoint of application of the principles of the Potsdam
Declaration. After this only, the Japanese constitution approved as
complying with the principles of the Potsdam Declaration can go into
effect. A different approach to the question would be contrary to the
Moscow decision re arding the terms of competence of the Far Eastern
Commission.
In stating this point of view and bearing in mind the extreme im-
portance of this question, the Soviet Delegation invites all the repre-
sentatives of the member-nations of the Far Eastern Commission to define
-2

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
104
their position on this question and state formally their viewpoint
regarding the Far Eastern Commission's prerogative to approve, in
accordnce with the Moscow decisions of the Three Ministers, the new
Japanese con:ticution as the necessary prerequisite of the latter's
oin into eifect.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
1.5
POHEJHINELAL
UNITED STATES POLICY IN REGARD TO THE AUTHORITY
OF THE FAR EASTERN COMMISSION TO APPROVE
A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
1. The Japanese Government and people are competent to adopt a
new Constitution provided it is cnacted in accordance with Japanese
constitutional requirements and is consistent with the provisions of
the Terms of Surrender, including the Fotsdam Declaration and of the
policy decisicns of the Far Eastern Commission.
The Potsdam Declaration contains the following statements which
describe certain features wnich must characterise a new Japanese Con-
stitution: (1) "The Japanese Government shall remove all obstacles to
the revival and strengthening of democratic tendencies among the Jape-
nese people. Freedom of speech, of religion and of thought, as well
as respect for the fundamental rights, shall be established"; (2) The
occupying forces of the Allies shall be withdrawn from Japan as soon as
these objectives have been accomplished and there has been established,
in accordance with the freely expressed will of the Japanese people a
peacefully inclined and responsible Goverment".
2. The Far Eastern Commission has 'the function "to formulate the
policies, principles, and standards in conformity with which the fulfill-
ment by Japan of its obligations under the Terms of Surrender may be ac-
complished".
The Far Eastern Commission, therefore, has the autnority to deter-
mine the principles and standards in accordance with which the new
Japanese Constitution should fulfill the provisions of the Potsdam De-
claration.
The Far Eastern
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
100
2
The Far Eastern Commission determined these principles and
standards by a policy decision, FEC 031/19, adopted on July 2, 1946.
3. The Far Rastern Commission has the right to pass upon a
new Constitution to determine whether it is consistent with the pro-
visions of the Potsdam Declaration and of pertinent policy decisions
of the Far Eastern Comnission.
The Secretary of State, on March 12, 1946, stated that "before
the Constitution becomes constitutionally effective it will in same
way or other come before the Far Eastern Commission". The United
States representative on the Far Eastern Commission joined with the
other representatives on the Commission in voting for the following
provision: "The Commission desires that the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers make clear to the Japanese Government that the Far
Eastern Commission must be given an opportunity to pass upon the
final draft of the Constitution to determine whether it is consistent
with the Potsdam Declaration and other controlling documents before
it is finally approved by the Diet and becomes legally valid."
4. The competence of the Far Eastern Commission "to pass upon
the final draft of the Constitution" is limited to determining whether
the Constitution is consistent with the Potsdam Declaration and other
controlling documents, including the policy decisions of the Commis-
sion. The Commission appears to have been given no authority to
"pass upon" the draft Constitution in any other respect or for any
other purpose.
5. The Terms
CORFEDEMPIAL

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
107
-3-
5. The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission and
of the Allied Council contain no provision, either expressed or im-
plied, that a new Japanese Constitution requires the approval of the
Far Eastern Commission.
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission state
(III,3):
"The U. S. Government may issue interim directives
to the Supreme Commander....provided that any direotives
dealing with fundamental changes in the Japanese consti-
tutional structure....will be issued only following con-
sultation and following the attainment of agreement in
the Far Eastern Commission."
This requirement bars the United States Government from issuing an
interim directive dealing with fundamental changes in the Japanese con-
stitutional structure, and provides that any directive dealing with the
subject must follow the attainment of agreement in the Far Bastern Com-
mission. The recent directive to SCAP containing the "Basic Principles
for a New Japanese Constitution" (FBC O3l/19), a policy decision adopted
by the Far Eastern Commission on July 2, 1946, was sent in accordance
with this section of the Terms of Reference. There is nothing in this
section, however, which requires that a directive must be issued to valid
ate an action of the Japanese Government, such as the adoption of a new
Constitution, which is within the competence of that Government pro-
vided the action is not inconsistent with existing requirements of the
Allied Powers.
The Terms
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.97)
108
-4
The Terms of Reference of the Allied Council state (section 6):
"If, regarding the implementation of policy decisions of
the Far Rastern Commission on questions concerning....fundamental
changes in the Japanese constitutional structure....a mamber of
the Council disagrees with the Supreme Commander (or his Deputy),
the Supreme Commander will withhold the issuance of orders on
these questions pending agreement thereon in the Far Rastern Com-
mission".
This requirement is applicable solely to instances when the Far
Eastern Commission has issued a policy decision concerning a fundamental
change in the Japanese constitutional structure. It does not require
the Far Eastern Commission to issue any policy decision on the subject.
It therefore does not stipulate or imply that a new Japanese Constitu-
tion must receive the approval of the Far Rastern Commission.
6. Since the Japanese Government and people are competent to adopt
a new Constitution provided it is not inconsistent with the provisions
preseribed by the Allied Powers, a draft Constitution will in due course
become effective, unless the Far Bastern Commission finds that it is not
consistent with the Potsdam Declaration and other requirements. A formal
approval of the Constitution by the Far Kastern Commission in the sense of
acceptance, amendment or rejection by the Commission of each section or
paragraph would violate the intention of the Potsdam Declaration that the
new government in Japan must be established "in accordance with the freely
expressed will of the Japanese people".
7. When the Far Eastern Commission passes on the draft Japanese
Constitution, the Commission may conclude that it is not consistent with
the Potedam
CONFEDSNTDAL

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.97)
109
-5-
the Potsdam Declaration and other requirements and may insist on ade-
quate changes in the draft. If the Commission does not find that the
draft is inconsistent with these requirements, the Draft Constitution,
in accordance with the competence of the Japanese Government and people
to adopt a new Conttitution, and without formal action by the Commission,
will become effective after it nas fulfilled Japanese constitutional
prcvision.
CONFTDENT LAL

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.96)
1/21
2.211946
FAR EASTERN COMBIISSION
PROVISIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
(Reference: SC-012/12; FEC-031/20; FEC-031/21)
Note by the Secretary Genoral
1. The enclosure. a proposed policy statement relative
to provisions for the review of a new Japanese constitution,
approved by the STMERING COMITTEE at its twentieth meeting, 9
July l946, is forwarded herewith for the consideration of tho
Far Eastern Commission.
2. The Soviet member reserved his position on the enolosure.
3. The New Zealand member took no part in the vote on the
enclosure.
NELSON T. JOHNSON
Secretary General

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
ENOLOSURE
PROVISIONS FOR THE REVIEI OF A NEW JAPANESE COHE
In order that the Japanese people may have an oppors
after the new constitution goes into effect, to reconsider i
the light of the experience of its working, and in order that
Far Eastern Commission may satisfy itself that the constitution
fulfills the terns ' the Potsdam Declaration and other oon-
trolling documents, 1: Commission decides as a matter of polioy
that, not sooner then oe year and not later than two years after
it goes into effect, the situation with respect to the new
constitution should be reviewed by the Diet. Without prejudioe to
the continuing jurisdiction of the Far Eastern Commission at any.
time, the Commission shall also review the constitution within
this same period. The Far Eastern Commission, in determining
whether the Japanese Constitution is an expression of the free
will of the Japanese people, may require a referendum or some
other appropriate procedure for ascertaining Japanese opinion with
respect to the Constitution.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.94)
112
TO
AH - Mr. Heneman
DATE:
July 15, 1946
FROM :
- Mr. Roiochauer ED
SUBJECT:
Authority of the Far Eastern Commission to Approve a
New Japanese Constitution
The attached policy statement entitled "United States Policy
in Regard to the Authority of the Far Eastern Commission to Approve
Fr 89401
a New Japanese Constitution" has received the approval of Mr.
Penfield for FE and Mr. Emmerson for JA.
Ch
VHH
FW
894

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.92)
July 15, 1946
SEmET
MENORANDUN FOR THE BECRETARY GENERAL
FAR RASTERN COMMISSION
In accordanse with 1nstrustions of July 12, 1946,
From the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee,
there is enclosed a direotive to the Supreme Commamder
for the Allied Powers regarding Basie Primeiples
for a New Japamese Semstitution to be filed with
the Far Eastern Commission under the previsione
of paragraph III, 4, ef its terms of referenee.
8
4
1..
-1246
Enclosure:
Copy No. 1 (certified) or
Direotive to Supreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers,
Serlal No. 54.
894
JA:ALDunnting/pm
-一
1246

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.89)
July 13, 1946
Serey tree'd a
Hu
Menorandum for the Secretary of SNCC
From: The State Member
RE8
United States Policy in Regard to the
Adoption of a New Japanese Constitution
Reference: SWNCC 288/3
It is recommonded that the Enclosure be substituted
for Appendix "C" of SWNCC 288/3. It is further recommended
that the paper be revised to elixinate Appendix "D»,
804.011
paragraph 5 b of the Recommsendations and any other r
ferences to Appendix "D" appearing in the paper.
m
JOHN H. HILLDRING
State Member
3
X
7
osele

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.92)
113
5365-910
GNED Q HEUEIVED
IAONDO
TOP SECRET
July 22, 1946
MHHORANDUM FOR UNITED STATES WEMBER.
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
In accordanoe with 1nstruotions of July 16, 1946
from the State-wer-Navy Coordinating Committee, there
894.011/7.
is enolosed for the guidance or the United States
Member, Far Eastern Commission, in preparing a state-
ment or United States Pelioy for the Commisslon regard-
ing the adontion of a new Japanese Constitution, a
-1646
copy or wN C 228/8 on United States Poliay in Regard
to the Adoption of a New Japanese Constitution,
informelly anproved hy the State-War-Navy Coordinating
Comm1ttre on July 16, 1948.
J. IH. Hilldring
Assistent Jecretary
Coni
ihcloeure:
894.011/7.16
Copy of 3WNC 228/8.
JUL
JA:ALDUnnAng:mls
7-22-46
TOP SECRET

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.95)
5365910
TOP SECRET
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-4552
16 July 1946
Jile
01946
MENT OF STATE
MEIORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
7-2√=46
Subject:
United States Policy in Regard to
the Adoption of a New Japanese
Constitution.
References:
a. SWNCC 228/3
α
5
By informal act1on on 16 July 1946 the State-War-
Navy Coordinating Comm1ttee approved the Appendix of
SWNCC 228/7 as a United States pol1cy 1n regard to
the adoption of a new Japanese Constitution.
It 1s recuested that Copy No. 51 of the approved
policy (SW CC 228/8) be forwarded to the United States
Member on the Far Eastern Commission for his guidance
-1
in the preparation of a statement for the Commission
regerding the adoption of a new Japanese Constitution.
Copy No. 50 of the approved policy 1s attached herewith
4
for information and guidance of the Department of
9
State enc for appropriate implementation.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
udy
JUL 251946
J. X. HILLDRING,
FILED
State Department Member
Inclosure:
Copy Hos.50
51
SW:0C 228/8
750131
DR/SH
2-7-75

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SECRET
BWN00 228/8
16 July 1946
Pages 54 - 57, 1ncl.
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
UNITED STATES POLICY IN REGARD TO THE
ADOPTION OF A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
References:
a
SWNCC 228/3
Note by the Secretcries
1. The enclosure, a United States polioy in rogard to the
adoption of a new Japanese Constitution, 1s ciroulated for in-
formation and guidance.
2 This policy was approved by the Stcue-War-Navy Coordin-
ating Committee on 16 July 1946 and was forvurded to the United
States member on the Far Eastern Conmission for his guidance in
the preparation of a statement for the Commission regarding the
adoption of a new Japanese Constitution.
3. In view of the action taken by the Committee in this
matter, reference a 1s hereby renoved from the sWncc agenda.
ALEXANDER D. REID
B. L. AUSTIN
RAYMOND E. COX
Secretariat
TOP SECHEL

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.98)
ENOLOSURE
UNITED STATES POLICY IN REGARD TO THE
ADOPTION OF A NEN JAPANEBE CONSTITUTAS
1. The Japanese Government and people are oompetent to
adopt a new Constitution provided it is enaoted in ocordance
with Japanese ccn:ilutional requirements and is consistent
with tile provisions of the Terms of Surrender; inoluding the
Potsdam Deolaration and of the policy decisions of the Far
Eastern Commission.
The Potsdam Declaration contcins the following state
ments which describe certain features which must charaoterize a
new Japanese Constitution: (1) "The Japanese Government shall
remove all obatacles to the revival and strengthening of demo-
cratic tendencies among the Japanese people. Freedom of speech,
of religion and of thought, as well as respeir for the funda
mental rights, shall be established"; (2: "The occupying foroes
of the Allies shall be withdrawn from Japan as soon as these
objectives have been accomplished end there has been established,
in accordance with the freely expressed will of the Japanese
people a peacefully inclined and responsible Government".
2. The Far Eastern Commission has the funotion "to formu-
late the policies, principles, and standards in conformity with
which the fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the
Terms of Surrender may be accomplished".
The Far Eastern Commission, therefore, has the authority
to determine the principles and standards in accordance with
which the new Japanese Constitution should fulrill the provisions
of the Potsdam Declaration.
The Far Eastern Commission determined these prinoiples
and standards by a policy decision, FEC O31/19, adopted on July
2, 1946.
3. The Far Eastern Commission has the right to pass
new Constitution to determine whether it is

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
 TOP 3ECRET
provisions of the Potsdam Declaration and of pertinent pola
decisions of the Far Eastern Commission.
The Secretary of State, on March 12, 1946, stated th
"before the Constitution becomes constitutionally effeotive it
will in some way or other come before the Far Eastern Commi
slon". The Unit States representative on the Far Eastern
Commission j j vi:n the other representatives on the Comai
sion in votigor he following provision: "The Commission
desires tht t Surrcme Commander for the Allied Powers make
clear to the opo ose Government that the Far Eastern Commis-
sion must be given an opportunity to pass upon the rinal draft
of the Constitution to determine whetier it is consistent with
the Potcdan Declaration and other controlling doouments before
it is finally approved by the Diet and becomts legally valid.
4. The competence of the Far Eastern Comanasion "to pass
upon the finel draft of the Constitution" is liaited to deter
mining whether the Constitution is consistent with the Potsdam
Declaration and other controlling documents, including the
policy decisions of the Commission. The Commission appears to
have been civen no authority to "pass upon" the draft Constitu-
tion in any other respect or for any other purpose.
5. The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Comnission
and of the Allied Council contain no provision, either expressed
or implied, that a new Japanese Constitution requires the ap-
proval of the Far Eastern Commission.
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission
state (III,3) :
"The U.S. Government may issue interim direotives to
the Supreme Commander....provided that any direotives
dealing with fundamental changes in the Japanese consti-
tutional structure....will be issued only following con-
sultation and following the attainment of agreement in
the Far Eastern Commission.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.96)
thée regussement bere the Tase
tesuing an interim disective dealing wim fum
the Japanese constitutional structure, and previe
direotive dealing with the subjeot must fellew to
of agreement in the Far Eastern Commission. The eeem
Constitution" (FEC O31/19), a policy decision adopte  
Far Eastern Commission on July 2, 1946, was sent in aocera
with this section of the Terms of Reference. There 1s nothing
in this section, however, which requires that a direetive must
be issued to validate an action of the Japanese Government, such
as the adoption of a new Conetitution, which 1s within the com-
petence of that Government provided the action is not inoonaist-
ent with existing requirements of the Allied Powers.
The Terms of Reference of the Allied Counoil state
(section 6):
"If, regarding the implelentation of policy decisions
of the Far Eastern Conmission on questions conoerning.....
fundamental changes in the Japanese constitutional
structure....a member of the Council disagrees with the
Supreme Commander (or his Deputy), the Supreme Commander
will withhold the issuance of orders on these questions.
pending agreement thereon in the Far Eastern Commission.
This requirement 1s applicable solely to instanoes when
the Far Ecstern Commission has issued a policy decision conoern-
ing a fundanental change in the Japanese constitutional struo-
ture. It does not require the Far Eastern Commission to issue
any policy decision on the subject. It therefore does not
stipulate or imply that a new Japanese Constitution must receivo
the approval of the Far Eastern Commission.
6. Since the Japanese Government and people re cogetent
to adopt a new Constitution provided it is not ineonsiste 
the provisions presoribed by the Allied Povers, a arert
tution will in due course become effeetive, unlese
Eastern Gommission rinés that i3 ls no

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
，TOPSEORT
Potsdam Doclaration and other requirements. A formal
of the Constitution by the Far Eastern Commission in the momm
of acceptance, amendment or rejection by the Commission of each
section or paragraph would violate the intention of the Potsdam
Declaration that the new government in Japan must be established
"in accordance with the freely expressed will of the Japanese
people".
7. When the Far Eastern Commission passes on the draft
Japanese Constitution, the Commission may conclude that it is
not consistent with the Potsdan Declaration and other require
ments and nay insist on adequate changes in the draft. If the
Commission does not find that the draft 1s inconsistent with
these requirements, the Draft Constitution, 1n accordance with
the conpetence of the Japanese Governnent and people to adopt a
new Constitution, and without fornal action by the Commission,
will becone effective after it has fulfilled Japanese constitu-
tional provision.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
BWN-4589
DC/R
23 July 1946
Rie
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
894.011/7-2346
Subject: Messa;e transmitted to ScAp by
the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Enclosed are three copies of a message dated
15 July 1946 transn1tted to SCAP by the Joint
Chiefs of Staff. Copy No. 1 is for transmittal
to the Far Eastern Commission and Cop1es No. 2
and 3 for the files of the State Department.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Comnittee:
A. dD. Reid.
A. D. REID,
Secretary
Enclosure
memo fu SiFeC
HD
FILFD
SECRET

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
SWN-4589
Memo for Sec State
(Mr. Penfield)
For signature of
COLONEL REID
SECRET

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.96)
COHSULTATION VITH T P
RIELEASE TO PRS OP POLTOTPA
PRINCIPLEB POR A W JAPAB 
At the request of the State, War and Navy Departmeats
there is transmitted to you the following message, received from
the State Department with the statement that the Far Bastern
Commission, acting under the final sentence of paragraph VI, 1,
of its terms of reference, requested its chairman on 11 July
1946 to consult with you on the matter referred to therein:
"The substance of your recommendation that the Far
Eastern Commission's policy decision on basic prinoiples for
a new Ja anese constitution should not be released to the
press at this time was circulated by the Commission on 10
July 1946 and was considered by the Commission at 1ts 19th
meeting on 11 July 1946.
"The Commission agreed to accept your recommendation
not to release the policy statement at this time but it was
also of the opinion that the statement should, as a matter of
princi le, be released at an early date and instructed its
chairman to consult with you with a view to determining the
date whcn release to the press would be appropriate. You are
therofure requested to advise in advance the date, which you
would alirove for release of the policy docision."

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.89)
July 25, 1946
894.011/7-2346
SECRET
MEMORANDUN POF THY BEORETAPY GENERAL,
FA LISTERJ CONVISBICN
In accordance with instruetions of July 28, 1946,
from the Atate-War-Navy Coordinating Committee, there
in enclosed a oopy of a messago dated July 15, 1946,
trinamittec to the Bupreme Comunder for the Allied
Po ere by the Joint Chicfo of steff with referenee
to Conaultation with the Supreme Comaander Regarding
Relense to freer of Policy Ets tement on lnsic
CS/V
Frinciples for a New Jupaneee Oonatitution, to be
flied vith the Far Eustern Comnlspion.
J. H. hi:larine
Anaistsrt Seoret-ry
0o No.ert11ed
3
Jern. Dun Pne /pa
6

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.93)
114
7/29/46)
MEHORANDUN FOR THE BECHETARY. BINGC
Subjeot:
Communiontion from Chairman of Far Eastern
Commission for transmittal to the Supreme
Commander for the Allled Powers.
894.011/7-2946
The Fsr Eastern Commission, acting under para-
traph VI of its Terme of Referenoe, whicn provides that
he Jomm1ssion "may meke such "rrangements through the
cnairmun as may be praotioable for oonsultation with
the Supreme Commander for the Allled Povers", requested
1ts chairman on July 25, 1946 to consult with the
supreme Commander for the Allled Powern on the matter
referred to in the enclosure.
it is rrouested trat the attaahed enolosure be
forwarde to the Joint Chiefe of  tafr for transmiesion
to the cupreme Commender for the Allied Powere.
J. H. Hilldring
State Depertment Member
State-War-Navy Coordinating Co mitteo
ncPure.
a
2946
A-H
JA:ALDunn1ng:m16
7-26-46
t03

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.94)
n5
LLLOLLLE
the primeiples contained in the Petsdem Deelaratiem and im tae
Cemmission's policy declslon comcerming the eonstitutiem.
FEC O31/19. To facilitate this consultatiom the Commisslen
requests the Chairman to eonvey to the Sapreme Gommender the
substance of the following cemmunication and to state to him
that the Commission would greatly appresiate his vies en the
questions raised therein.
1. The Fer Eastern Commission is making a prelimimary
whioh is now befere the Dist, to determine whether the peesemt
in its statement of polioy en basio principles and by the
comments whioh the Supreme Cemmander may wish to make en the
points raised in this preliminary study weuld be mest helpful
to the Commission's werk.
2. In the course of this preliminary study dangks have
arisem as to whether in certain respeets the drafs sesstitu-
tion satisfies the criteria established by the Commissiem in
1ts statement of policy on basie principles (Fm0 OS1/19).
The fellowing examples may be cited:
(a) Cabinst. FE0 D31/19 provides that a majerity
of the Hinisters ef State, inoluding the Prime Minister, shall
be seleoted from the Diet. The draft constitution dees met
now provide for this principle of seleotion.
(b) guffrage. FEc 031/19 provides that the Japamese
appears doubtful whether the draft constitution makes
dequate provision in this respect. While Artiele xxxIx
states that "both Houses shall consist of eleeted members,
representative of all the people", it is a question whether
this provision is suffieiently specifie to fulfill the require-
ment of FEC O31/19. Furthermore, 1t might be pointed out
that.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.93)
en suck gromnds as ago, etesatien, property, er sassss.
has been cenfronted with a aumber ef eppesing views. the
drart somstitution provides in the Preemblel "We, the
adequately meets the provision ef PEc osl/19, legal epimiem
has been presented to the Commission to the effeet that a
preamble is merely a declaratory and explanatory statemems.
the function of whiah is net to confer pewer and whese
Saprese Court has so held with respect to the Preamble ef
the United States Constitution. The legal pesitiom im Jagam
coneluslon on the basis of the Preamble of the Neiji Cemstl-
tution because it has had the force of an Imperial edfes.
Article I also contains a referemce to sovereigaty. Is
the unity of the peeple, deriving his pesitiem frem the
fulfills the provisions in the basio prineiples regarding
severeignty.
To avoid all doubts on both peimts, it has beem smsgessel
that it should be clearly stated in the body of the somstisw-
tion that "sovereign power resides in the peeple."
TheGem
mission would value the Supreme Commamder's view.
3. The further question arises as to whether the drafs
sonstitution accords with the Potsdam Deslaratien.
(a) The draft eonsti tution leaves several lmpertens
matters to be enacted in subsequent laws, a situatiem which
makes it difficult to determime the full implieatiem of the
articles cemeerned. Examples are the Imperial Mense Law
(Artieles II and v), the compesition and mesheds ef alestiem
of the two Houses (Ühapter IV), and the Jeint eemmistees
o8 bo

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.96)
in
of beth Leases (Artielee LVI, LVII and LXIII). TBe Gom
reelisee that meny ef these mattere may preperly be lers s
Deelaration te inelude in the cemstitutiem the basie previa
geverming some of these matters, such as the eompesisiem af
the House of Couneilors.
(b) The Commissiem would raise the query whether
Artiele LIv of the draft sonstitution should net set out elearly
the grounds on whiah a member of the Diet may be expelled, in
order to prevent this artiele from being used to exolede
representatives of minority groups.
(e) In regard to Artiole LXIII, the Commission
queries whether the seleetion of a Prime Minister should net
be a matter for the House of Representatives alone, rather
than for both Houses. This procedure would accord with prao-
tiee in other demooratic governments where the exeoutive is
responsible to the legislature, and would seem to follow
naturally from Artiole LXV.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
REPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
120
Department of State
Chorge Depertment:
Weshington
CONFIDENTIA
Cherge to
7.
1135
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AUG6 1946
5am
TOKYO
430
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
CINCAFPAC C 63473 "For Secretary of State", 
894.011/8-646
mt extremely valuable and useful both  DEPT and
US delegation FEC. Substance  immediately made
available FEC.
FEC Committee on Constitution  gratified that
attempts  secure amendment  present draft would be
made as indicated  (B) and (C). Irrkxmrmam
uestion was ralsed  FEC meeting July 25 conoerning
method by which SCAP would inform appropriate officials
xt Jap GOVT of FEC policy decision on basic principles
CS/V
for Constitution. Chairman Pro Tem General Hilldring
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
assured Commission t SCAP would take such steps as
(OFFICES ONLY)
he might deem appropriate axxhrixaxmx and that informal
894.0
inquiry would be made of SCAp to ascertain what action
had been taken. We have assumed here that where
appropriate SCAP has communicated FEC policy with respect
a Constitution in form of suggestions to appropriate
f
Jap orficials so that any necessary changes might be
incorporated

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.90)
PREPARINO OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
WIKL INDICATE WHETHER
Colleet
GLASSPIGATION OF
Department of State
MESSAED
Charge Depertment:
123
Weshington
CONFIDENTIAL
Cherge to
-2
incorporated into draft before its final passage by Diet.
Further comments this matter would be helpful 
US delegation.
War DEPT advises no answer yet reoeived tels W94544
and W94701.
Achesm
acting
(8(40)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
WHH
OR
dep
AU.
JA:JKEmmerson:ml8
FE
A-H
8-2-481

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.97)
ROUTING SLIP
A-H
Gen. Crain
Mr. Gross
Mr. Cameron
G-A Secretariat
J-K Secretariat
Mesars. Moselsy &
Gardner
SWNCC Directorate
Division I
Division II
Division III
Mr. Cramer
Mr. Forno
Mrs. Buckley
Mr. Heneman
Mr. Hemmendinger
Mr. Rudlin
Mr. Frank
Mr. Stout
Mr. O'Sullivan
Mr. Collins
Mr. Fierst
Mr. Weidman
Mr. Claxton
Mr. Easton
Mr. Lewis
义
Records Sectian
Appropriate Action
Preparation of Reply
Information
Conment or Conourrence
3eeNote
irther Assignment
Note and send to file
Dispatch to:
File
Log
ORIGINATOR
/8/46
DATE:
Suspeure
18/46
104

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.94)
U
AN
CR
Ia reply refer to
JA
My dear General Eahols:
There is enelosed a draft message whieh refers to
a CInCArPAc telegram "For the Seeretary of State" cemmemt-
ing on the request of the Far Eastern Commissien fer
consultation on matters pertaining to the Japenese draft
Constitution. The mesaage inferms General NasArthur ef
a query raised at the Commission meeting ef July 2s
regarding the methods used to make kmown to the Japanese
Government the Commission's poliey desision en basie
prinoiples for the Japanese Censtitution and requests
further comment.
It would be appreclated if this message could be
transmitted by the War Department to General MaeArthur.
Sinoerely yours,
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary
Enclosure:
Draft message.
Mejor General Cliver P. Echols.
Direotor, Civil Affairs Livision,
har Department,
Washinxton 26, D.C.
JA:Jl
FE
A-
7-32-03

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.97)
ADDRESS OPIACIAL COAMUNICATION TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINETON D. C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to
JA
My dear General Echols:
There 1s enclosed a draft message which refers to
a CINCAFPAC telegram "For the Seoretary of State" comment-
ing on the request of the Far Eastern Commission for
consultation on matters pertaining to the Japanese draft
Constitution. The message informe General MacArthur of
a query ralsed at the Commission meeting of July 25
regarding the methods used to make known to the Japanese
Government the Commission's policy decision on basio
principles for the Japanese Constitution and requests
further comment.
It would be appreciated if this message could be
transmitted by the War Department to General MaoArthur.
Sincerely yours,
J. H. Hilldring
Asslstant Secretary
Enclosure:
Draft meseage.
Major Jeneral Cliver P. Echole,
Director, Civil Affairs Divieton,
FORVICTORY
War Department,
BUY
Washington
ABONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
CINCAFPAC C 63473 "For Seoretary of State", has
proved extremely valuable and useful both to STÁTE
DEPT and US delegat1on FEC. Substance was immediately
made available FEC.
FEC Committee on Constitution was gratified that
attempts to secure amendment to present draft would be
made as indicated in (B) and (C). In this conneotion
question was raised in FEC meeting July 25 concerning
method by which SCAP would inform appropriate offioial
of Jap GOVT of FEC policy decision on basic prinoiples
for Constitution. Chairman Pro Tem General Hilldring
assured Commission that SCAP would take such steps as
he might deem appropriate in thie matter and that in-
formal inquiry would be made of SCAP to ascertain what
action had been taken. We have assumed here that where
appropriate SCAP has communicated FEC polioy with
respect to Constitution in form of suggestions to
appropriate Jap officials so that any necessary changes
might be incorporated into draft before its final passage
by D1et.
SCAP's further comments this matter would be helpful
to US delegation.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.92)
118
B=le
August 12, 1946
MIMORANDUM POR THE CHAIFMAN.
FAR LASTIRR COMNIHSION
On July 30, 1946 the Cha1rman of the Far Easte:m
Commiesion sent a coneultetive message to the Bupreme
Commender for the Allied Powera regarding points
ralged by membere of the Far Fastern Jommission in
their preliminary atudy of the draft of the now
Jananese Constitution. The Supreme Commander for the
Allied rowers on July P6, 1946 made eertain commemta
on the ubject which vere communicated to the Chaireem
of the Far Lestern Commission on July 29, 1946. There
1s enclosed a message dated August 2, 1946 from the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers waieh further
discusses the points ralsed in the Chairman's comeult
tive mescage.
It 1s requested that the Chairman of
rastern Commission make thie message avail
members of the Far Lastern Conmisslon.
J. . Hilldring
Assistant Seoretary
1
9
4
8
9
6
knolosure:
Meesage from BCA,
 2,1948
S
946
√
JA: ALDunnyng:mle
EoR

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.94)
Ca. A dential.
CINCAPPAC C 63473 "Tor Searetary of State, hes
proved extremely valwable and useful beth to 
DEPT and US delegation FEC. Substamee wms immediately
made available Ftc.
FEC Committee on Constitution wes gratified that
attempts to seoure amendment to present draft would be
made as indicated in (B) and (C). Im this conneetiom
question was raised in FEC meeting July 25 comoeraing
method by whieh SCAp would imferm apprepriate offielals
of Jap GOVT of FEC policy decisiom on basio primeiples
for Constitution. Chairman Pro Tem Gemeral Hilldring
assured Commission that SCAP would take such steps as
he might deem appropriate in this matter and that im-
formal inquiry would be made of SCAP to ascertain what
actlon had been taken. We have asnumed here that where
appropriate SCAP has communicated FEC poliey with
respect to Censtitutien in form of suggestions to
approprlate Jap offioials so that any neeessary changes
might be ineorporated into draft before its fimal passage
by Diet.
 Further comments this matter would be helpful
to Us delegation.
RRE
Usav Depl adoices
telegiams
W94544 and W 94701
/40)

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.97)
119
ENCLOSURE
2 August 1946
The folloving comments are made with respeet te the
points raieed by membera of the Far Eastern Commission:
(2A) It was considered here that the existing require-
ment in the Draft Constitution that the Prime Mimister must
be designated by the Diet and approval of the Diet mmst be
obtained to the appointment of all Ministere of State
satiafied the underlying intent of Far Eastern Cemmission
Policy in point. Should this not be so regarded by the Far
Eastern Comtisalon, I strongly urge the amendment of ite
policy. A rigid requirement that the Prime Minister and
majority of Ministers of State must be seleoted from member
ship of the Diet would be unwise, as sueh requirement would
deprive the Je: anese Government of the serviees, in ministe-
rial capacities, of wany men of possibly higher qualifieation
than mignt be found in the legislative body. It would tond
to limit democratic process ratner than advance it. It 1s
an unusual end arbitrary reetriction upon government whieh I
doubt can be found in any governmental system in the wwrld.
The existing reguirement in the draft constitution that the
Prime Minister must be designated by the Diet and approval
of the Diet must be obtained to the appointment of all Ninisters
of State should satisfy every reasonable requirement of deme-
cratic procees in such matter.
(2B) Wh1le I have felt that articles 39 and 40 of the
Draft Constitution provide adequate safeguard against improper
electoral discrimination, I understand that the soeoifie pro-
hibition egainst disorimination in artiole 40 1s being ex-
tended by the Japanese themselves to embrace education, property
and income. I do not feel that the specifie inolusion or "age"
would be wise or warranted. The age at which persons reech
mature political thought 1s for the people themselves to
determine through the normal evolution of law, just as 1s
the age at which a person might be ter eù "adult". In the
case of the Japanese people, the present electorsl lar pro-
vides 19 se the minimum uelirying age, but whether thi be
fixed ae et present or at 25 as formerly would anply to ell
classee of the teole and hence there 1s no "discrimination"
within the ordinarily eccepted use of the term. On the other
hand, if such a orovislon were incoroorated in the constitu-
tion, confuslon inevitably would result in determing the
electoral a e necessary to sotlafy the same.
(ac) In the course of tre unrestrained debate on the
proroseu constitution no urocceding in the National Diet,
considerabl argument nas een wivanceu su porting the
uroviaion

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.96)
120
-
previpien that a ... of the movereign position should be
made in the bedy of the constitution itaelr, although it is
generally asknowledged by best legal opihion that in Japam
the provisiems cf the preamble would be as mandatery upem
the people as would be the articles that follow. It is y
understanding that, to settle this controversial point, it
1s probable thai the Japanese wiil amend the Draft Cemstitu-
tion in order that it opecifioally reaffirms in one of the
artioles thereof that the sovereign power resides in the
people. Heference questions raised your paragraph 3:
(A) I am of the opinion that the 1mplementing legisla-
tion referred to should not be included in the comstitutiom,
as such detailed matters of government might better remain
susceptible to change, as conditions renuire, by normal
legislative process rather than be handicapped by the meees-
sity for extraordinery constitutional amendment. The laws
designed to imclement any constitution finally adopted, such
as the Imperiel Household Law, will of course be closely
sorutinized by SCAP to determine that they are not inoonsist-
ent with any principle laid down at Potsdam nor with the
conetitution iteelf;
(b) I am of the opinion that the specific grounds om
which a l1et member may be expelled finds no appropriate
place in the constimtion. Under normal practioe, a legisla-
tive body is left free to make rules governing the qualifiee-
tions of its own members. The Draft Constitution provides
that the expulsion of a member of the Diet may be effeeted
only by a 2/3 vote of its members present, and such provisiom
would appear to provi e reasonable safeguard against arbitrary
aotion by ma jority groups;
(C) wuestion concerning the seleotion of the Prime
Minister 1s believed to be aoademic in the view of the pro-
vislons of artiole 63 of the Draft Constitution providing that
where en irreconci sble difference of opinion exists between
the two houses on suon ecleotion, the deolsion of the House
of Representatives ehall be that of the Diet. In this connee-
tion there ie some possibility that in the constitution finally
adopted provislon will be made for a unioameral legialature.
Throughout the queries of the members of the Far Eastern
Commission, there appears to be some indicstion of a tendency
to attempt

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
121
-A
to attempt to ebtaln a perfection in cemstitutiemel gevermmemt
whiah we would not seem to be at liberty to insist upem in
implementatien of the Petedem requirement fer the establish-
memt of a democratio state. In this comneetien, sighs sheuld
not be lest of the fast that the entire constitutiemal amend-
ment process now wnder way 1s one by the Japanese Geverament
and people, and that the sole justification for our intervem-
tion is to ascertain that the steps taken lead toard desired
demoeratization. I am sure that the Far Eastern Commissiom
1s equaily cognizant with me of the sensitive and delieate
positlon which the Allled Powers oocupy in the effort to
seoure for Javan a democratic constitution whioh will be
fact worth more than a mere sorap of paper. For this reason
it 1e essential to avoid the slightest unnecessary display
or show of foroe underlying our effort, or the insistence
upon perfection in detail among several demooratic alternatives
against Japanese objeotions. Suoh action on our part vould
vitiate our very aim and urposr to secure adoption of a cen-
stitution hioh not only expresses the free will of the Japamese
neople but which wili command th-ir allegiance long after the
withdrawal of Allied Forces.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.95)
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTLE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-4655
6 August 1946
LEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
,(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
Subjeot:
The Views of the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers on the Text
of the New Japanese Constitution.
The enclosed message from the Supreme
894.01
Conmander for the Allied Powers in reply to
the communication from the Chairman of the
Far Eastern Comnission is forwarded to the
Department of State for trensnittal to the
Far Eastern Comniesion at the request of the
1/8-646
Joint Chiefs of Staff.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
A. D. Reid.
A. D. REID,
Secretary
Enclosure
Copy IIC IN 51728
tor Shanumain fEe
'H6
fil
aeD
894.011
OCK
NE Onit
AUG 1 6 1946
1
Ca

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
From:
CINCAFPAC, Tokyo, Japan signed MaaArthur
To:
War Department for WARCoS for Joint Chiefs of St
Nr:
Z 11571
2 August 1946
Reurad WCL 31783 August 1st, the following commonts
are mnde with respect to the points raised by members of the
Far Eastern Commission:
(2A) It was considered here that the existing
requirement in the raft Constitution that the Prime
Minister must be designated by the Diet and approval of
the Diet must be obtained to the appointment of all Ministers
of State satisfied the underlying inteno of Far Bastern
Commission Policy in point. Should this not be so regarded
by the Far Eastern Commisaion, I strongly urge the amendmont
of its policy. A rigid requirement that the Prime Minister
and majority of Ministers of State must be selected from
membership of the Diet would be unwise, as such requirement
would deprive the Japanese Government of the services, in
ministerial capacities, of many men of possibly higher
qualification than might be found in the legislative body.
It would tend to linit democratic process rather than advance
it. It is an unusual and arbitrary restriction upon
government which I doubt can be found in any govermmental
system in the world. The existing requirement in the draft
constitution that the Prime Minister must be designated by
the Diet and approval of the Diet must be obtained to the-
appointment of all Ministers of State should satisfy every
reasonable requirement of democratic process in such mattor.
C IN 51728
(4 Aug 46)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.97)
INCOMING CLEAR MESS
Page 2
From:
CINCAFPAC, Tokyo, Jepan signed MacArthur
Nr
Z 12571
2 August 1946
(2B) While I have felt that articles 39 and 40 of
the raft Conatitution provide adequate safeguard against
improper electoral discrimination, I understand that the
specific prohibition against discrimination in artiole 40
io being extonded by the J panese themselves to embrace
educstion pi operty and income. I do not feel that the
spec Ific iuclualon of "age would be wise or warranted. The
age at which pereons. reach mature political thought is for
the peoole themselves to determine through the norma1
evolution of law, just as is the age at which a persdn might
be termed "aduit"
In the case of the Japanese people, the
present electopal law provides 19 as the minimm qualirying
age, but whether this be fixed as at present or at 25 as
formerly would apply to all classes of the people and hence
there 1s no "discriminatlon" within the ordinarily accepted
use of the term. On the other hand, if such a provision
were incorporated in the constitution, confusion inevitably
would result in doterming the electoral age necessary to
satisfy the same.
(2C). In the course of the unrestrained debate on
the proposod constitution now proceeding in the National
Diet, considerable argument has been advanced supporting the
proposition that addof the sovereign position should
be made in the body of the constitution itself, afthough
it is generally acknowledged by best legal opinion that in
Japan the provisions of the preamble would be as mandatory
upon the people as would be the erticles that follov. It
is my understanding that, to settle this controversial point
1t is probable that the Japanese will amend the Draft
MC IN 51728
(4 Aug 46)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.98)
INCOMING CLEAR MESS
Page 3
From:
C INCA!PAC. Tokyo, Japan signed MacArthur
Nr:
2 11571
2 August 1946
Constitution in order that it specifically reaffirms in one
of the articles thereoi that the sovereign power resides in
the peuple Reference queations raised your paragraph 3:
(A) I n of the opinion that the implementing
Legislation eferred to should not be included in the
conscitutlon s aich detiled matters of government might
better remain susctptible to chenge, as conditions require,
by normal leglalative process rather than be handicapped
by the necessity for extraordinary constitutional amondment.
The lews designen to implement any consiitution finally
adopted, uch as the Imperlal Household Lav, will of course
be closely scrutinized by SCAp to determine that they are
not inconaistent with any principle laid down at Potadam
nor witn the constitution itself;
(B) I um of the opinion that the specifio
grounds on which n Diet member may be expelled finds no
appropriate place in the constitution. Under normal practice,
a legislative body is left free to make rules governing the
qualifications of its oun members. The Draft Constitution
provides that the expulslon of a member of the Diet may be
effected only by a 2/3 vote of 1ts members present, and
such provision would appear to provide reasonable safeguard
against arbitrary uction by majority groups;
(C) Question concerning the selection of
the Prime I inister is believed to be academic in the view
of the provisions of article 63 of the Draft Constitution
MC IN 51728
(4 Aug 46)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSIFTED MESSAGECENT
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAGE
Page 4
From:
CINCAFPAC. Tokyo, Japan signed MacArthur
1
1157
2 August 1946
providing thet where en irreconcilable difference of opinion
exists between the two louses on such selection, the decision
of the liouse of Representatives shall be that of the Diot.
in thi: connection there is some possibility that in the
constliurion ficlly sdopted provision will be made for a
unicore: tegt cure.
Throughout the queries of the members of the Far
E stern Cormission there appsars to be some indication of
a tendency to attempt to obtain e perfection in constitutional
govern ent which we would not seem to be at liberty to
insist upon in inplementation of the Potsdam requirement for
the establiahmont of a iemocratic state. In this connection,
sight should not be Lost of the fact that the ontire con-
stitutional Frendnent process now under way is one by the
Japanese Government and people, and that the sole justifica-
tion for our intervention is to escertain that the steps
taken lead toward desired democratization. I am sure
that the Far Eastern Conmission is equelly cognizant with
me of the sensitive and delicate position which the Allied
Povers occupy in the effort to secure for Japan a democratio
constitution which wil! be fact worth more than a mere acrap
of paper. For this reason it is essential to avoid the
slightest unnecessary display or show of force underlying
our effort. or the insistence upon perfection in detail mong
several democratic alternatives egainst Japanese objeotions.
Such action on our part would vitiate our very aim and
purpose to secure adoption of a constitution vhich not
MC IN 51728
(4 1up 46)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CEN
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAO
Page 5
From:
CINCAFFAC. Tokyo, Japan signed NacArthur
Nr:
7 11571
2 August 1946
only exprosses the free will of the Japanese people but
which will command their alleglance long after the with-
drawal ot Allied Forces.
End
'As received.
ACTION: JCL
INFO :
AAF, Am Leeby, CAD, ID, Adm Nimitz, P & O, ASW,
CSA
MC IN 51728
(4 mug 46)
)DTG C212297 VC
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.96)
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-4658
7 August 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penrield - FE)
Subject: Message transmitted to Scap by
the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Enclosed are three copies of a message dated
30 July 1946 transmitted to SCAP by the Joint
894.011/8-746
Chiefs of Staff. Copy No. 1 is for tranemittal
to the Far Eastern Commission and Copies No. 2
and 3 for the files of the State Department.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
A. D. Deid.
A. D. REID,
Secretary
Enclosure
meno t ky sen, Fee
1. Qd 46'SED
AUG 20 1946
FILED
894.011
8-746

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
30 Ju1y 1946
MESSAGE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POM
CONSULTATION WITH THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE
ALLIED POWERS ON THE TEXT OF THE CONSTITUTION
The following communication from the Far Eastern
Commission, forwarded through its chairman under the provisions
of paragraph VI, 1, of its terms of reference, is transmitted
to you at the request of the State, Var and Navy Departments:
"The Far Eastern Commission requests the chairman of
the Commission to arrange for consultation between the
Commission and the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
regarding the fulfillment by the draft of the new Japanese
constitution of the principles contained in the Potsdam
Declaration end in the Commission's policy decision concerning
the constitution, FEC O3l/19.* To facilitate this consul-
tation the Commission requests the chairman to convey to the
Supreme Commander the substence of the following communication
and to state to him that the Commission would greatly appre-
cinte his views on the questions raised therein:
1. The Far Eastern Commission is making a preliminary
study of the draft of the new Japanese constitution, which
is now before the Diet, to determine whether the present
* Serial Nc. 54.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
dreft satisfies the oriteris este
in its statement of polioy on basic prt
Potsdam Declaretion and other controlling
comments which the Supreme Commander may wish to
the points raised in this preliminary study would
helpful to the Commission's work.
2. In the course of this preliminary study doubts 
arisen as to whether in certain respects the draft con-
stitution satisfies the criteria established by the Com-
mission in its stetement of policy on basic prinoiples
(FEC 031/19). The following examples may be cited:
(a). Cabinet. FEC O31/19 provides that a majority
of the Ministers of State, including the Prime Minister
shall be selected from the Diet. The draft constitutio
does not now provide for this principle of seleotion.
(b). Suffrage. FEC O31/19 provides thet the Japanes
Government be 'based upon universal adult suffrage.'
It appears doubtful whether the draft constitution
makes adequate provision in this respect. While Artiol
39 states that 'both Houses shall consist of elooted
members, representative of all the people' it is a
question whether this provision is sufficiently speoifio
to fulfill the requirement of FEC O31/19. Furthermore,
it might be point out that, though it is provided in
Article 40 of the draft constitution that in respeot
of the qualifications of electors for both Houses there
should be no discrimination because of race, creed, ,
social status, or family origin, the door is apparently
left open for discrimination on such grounds as a,
education, property, or income.
(c). Sovereignty. FEC O31/19 provides that 
constitution should recognize that sovereign
resides in the people.' The Commission ts
whether the draft constitution fulfill

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
and has been confronted with a
The draft constitution provides in the
the Japanese people ... do proolaim the
the people's will.' Aside from the question as to
whether this clause adequately meets the provisios 
FEC O31/19, legel opinion has been presented to the
Commission to the effect that a preamble is merely
declaratory and explanatory statement, the funotion of
which is not to confer power and whose provisions are
not a source of obligation. The United States Supreme
Court has so held with respect to the preamble of the
United Stetes Constitution. The legal position in Japan
is more obscure, as it is impossible to draw a satis-
factory conclusion on the basis of the preamble of the
Meiji constitution because it has had the force of an
imperial edict.
Article 1 also contains a reference to sovereignty.
It resds: 'The Emperor shsll be the symbol of the State
and of the unity of the people, deriving his position
from the sovereign will of the people.' It is doubtful
whether this article, which deals with the status of
the Emperor, adequately fulfills the provisions in the
basic principles regarding sovereignty.
To avoid all doubts on both points, it has been
suggested that it should be clearly stated in the body
of the constitution that 'Sovereign power resides in
the people.' The Commission would value the Supreme
Commander's view.
3. The further question arises as to whether the draft
constitution accords with the Potsdam Declaration.
(a). The draft constitution leaves several importam
matters to be enacted in subsequent laws, a situa
which mekes it difficult to determine the full 
cation of the articles concerned.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
Imperial House Law (Articles 2 and 5)
and methods of election of the two Mouses
and the joint committees of both Houses
57 and 63). The Commission realises that
matters may properly be left for detailed
by subsequent legislation. It queries, however,
it would not better accord with the Potsdam Declarati
to include in the constitution the basic provisions
governing some of these matters, such as the compositio
of the House of Councilors.
(b). The Commission would raise the query whether
Article 54 of the draft constitution should not set out
clearly the grounds on which a member of the Diet may
be expelled, in order to prevent this article from
being used to exclude representatives of minority
groups.
(c). In regard to Article 63, the Commission queries
whether the selection of a Prime Minister should not be
a matter for the House of Representatives alone, rather
then for both Houses. This procedure would acoord with
practice in other democratic governments where the
executive is responsible to the legislature, and would
seem to follow naturally from Article 65."

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.90)
August 12, 1946
SONX
MENORANDUN TO THE SECRETARY GENERAL,
FAR KASTERN CONMISSION
In ascordance with instruetione of August 7, 194s,
894.011/8-746
from the State-War-Mavy Coordinating Commtstee, there
1s enelosed for the files of the Far Basterm Gemmissiem
a copy of the consultative message, dated July 30, l94s,
sent by the Chairman, Far Eastern Commission, te the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, regarding
points raised by members of the Far Eastern Commission
in their preliminary study of the draft of the new
Japanese Constitution.
I. H. Hilldring
Assistant Seoretary
Enoloeure:
2
Copy No. 1 (certiried).
Message to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied
Powers.
OF
11

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.92)
AUG 1 2 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Angust 9, 1946
SEARET
MENORANDUN FOR THE CHAKNIAN,
FAR KASTERN GONDNISSION
With referenee te the sonsulsative message of the
894.011/8
Chairman, Far Easterm Commission, to the Sapreme Cemmemder
for the Allied Povers regarding poiats raised by members
of the Far Eastern Commission in their prelimimary study
of the draft ef the new Japanese Constitution and to
the answer of the Supreme Commander for the Allled
94
Powers of July 26, 1946, on the subjest, there 1s enelesel
For the information of the Ohairman, Far Eastern Commissiem,
a further message from the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powere comprising his additional comments on
these points.
It is requested that the Chairman, Far Eastern
Commission, taks whatever aotion he may deem approprlate
regarding the enelosed message.
894
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary
18.946
Enolosure:
Mossage from BCAP,
August 2, 1946.
12
H13
Po
Eon

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.91)
125
AUG221946
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM FOR THE BEORETARY GENERAL,
FAR EASTERN CONMISSION
In referenoe to the question ralsed at the meeting
of the Far Eastern Comm1ssion on June 25, 1946, eon-
cerning the method by whioh soap would inform appropriate
894.
officials of the Japanese Government of Par Eastern
Comaisslon poliey decision on Basie Prinoiples for a
New Jtpenese Constitution, the Politloal Adviser to
BoAt has assured the Department that where approprlate
0
SCAP ha: communioated Far Raetern Commission poliey
046
witn respeet to the Constitution in the form of suggestions
to appropriate Japanese ofriolais, so that any nesessary
ohanges might be inoorporated into the drart before its
C
S
rapal psege by the Diot.
/HH
mnt , tha
8
9
J. H. Hilldring
Asalstant Secrotary
151
0
J

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.90)
Dride
126
ONED & RECEIVED
Ye
ih Minly
August 13, 1946.
MEMORANDUN FRON THE STATE DEPARTHENT
COGITTEE
Subject: Coneultation by the Far
894.011/8-1346
Eastern Commission with
SCAP on the Text of the
Constitution
It is requested that the Committee consider, as a
matter of urgenoy, the enolosed draft paper on the
above subject.
J. H. Hilldring
State Department Member
State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee
894
n
JA:HBorton:het

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.95)
127
COBSULTATIOS BY TEE PAR RADTENS GONNISSIOS
WITH THE SUPRNE OSNNANMER FOR THE ALLIED
POWERS ON THE TEXT OF THE CONSTITUTIOS
THE PRORLEN
1. The problem is to determine the peliey ef the United
States with respect to General'MaeArthur's request that the
Far Eastern Commission amend its peliey requiring that the
Prime Minister and a majority of Cabinet members beleng to
the Diet.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. See Appendix "A".
CONCLUSIONA
3. It is conoluded that:
a. The United States member of the Far Eastern Gommissien
should request the Commission to amend its policy in referenee
to qualifications for Cabinet members.
b. If the Cemmission votes formally to refuse to reeon-
sider its policy, the United States member should refrain from
voting and should not veto the motion.
o. If a formal statement 1s presented to the Commission
to the efrect that the Commis ion adheres to its previous polioy
decision that the Constitution should contain a provision re-
quiring the Prime Minister and a majority of the Cabinet to be
members of the Diet, the United States member of the Far
Lastern Commission should agree to such a statement.
REOOMMENDATIONS
4. It is recommended that, after their approval by the
State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee, the State Department
transmit the conclusions in paragraph 3 to the United States
member of the Far Eastern Commission for his guidanee.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.96)
129
APPENDIX *A
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEN
L. On Jume 28, 1946 the Par Fastern Cemmissien
unamimously approved a policy decision on "Basie Primeiples
for a New Japanese Constitution" whioh inoluded the follewing:
"...the Constitution...shall also previde that the
prime minister and the ministers of state, all of whem
shall be oivilians and of whom a majority, ineluding
the prime minister, shall be seleated from the Diet.
shall form a Cabinet colleotively responsible to the
legielature."
2. On July 25, 1946, after a preliminary study of the
draft of the new Japanese Conatitution, the Far Lastern Com-
misslon requested 1ts chairman to communieate with the Sapreme
Commander for the Allied Powers. This communioatiom contaimed
the following:
"The Far Eastern Cemmission 1s making a prelimimary
study of the draft of the new Japansse constitutien, which
is now before the Diet..."
"In the course of this preliminary study doubts have
arisen as to whether in certain respeots the draft
constitution satisfles the oriterla established by the
Commission in its statement of polioy on basic prinoiples
(FEC-O3l/19). The following examples may be oited:
"(a) Cabinet. FEC-O31/19 provides that a majority
of the ministers of state, inoluding the prime minister.
shall be selected from the Diet. The draft constitution
does not now provide for this prinoiple of seleotion.
. A reply from General MaoArthur, transmitted to the
Commission on 30 July 1946 stated:
"For information and suoh use as you may desire.
hereunder ar- my comments on the items enumerated for
consultetion:
"2.(a) Cabinet. I believe the limitation that the
Prime Minister snd a majority of Ministers of State must
be selected from membership or the Diet is unwiee ms
such requirement would leprive the Japanese Government
of the

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.90)
129
Lo not to be found vthin our om goveraental apot
and I deubs 1f it can be fomnd in any povermeental apobum
in the werld. The existing requirement in the aeere
constitutien that the Prime Minsster must be Gesigmasen
by the Biet and appreval ef the Diet mast be abtasase
to the appeintment ef all Ministers ef state wald
satiefy every reasonable requirement ef demeeratie
preeess in such matter."
4. Oa August 2, 1946, General NacArthur made the Fellou
ing further eemmemts en this peint:
"It was cessidered here that the existing require-
mont in the Draft Genstitution that the Prime Mimister
must be desigmated by the Diet and appreval ef the aet
must be ebtained to the appointment of all Ministere of
State satisfied the underlying latent of Far msterm
Cemmissien poliey in poist. moule this met be se ro-
garded by the Far Tastera Cemmissien, I strengly urge
the amendment of ite peliey."
5. At ite 27th meeting en August a, 1946, Gemmitsee
No. 3: Censtitutiemal and Legal Referm, the Umisel seases
nember brought General NaeArthur's request to the attentiem
ef the Gommittee but the Gommistee refusel te rescmstder thse
poiat and appreved, with the Uaited states member reservang
his positiem, the felleving statement fer imelmsien an e
ceasultative message (s0-0l2/16):

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
130
-8
"(a) Gakinnk. In referemee to the pelley decisien
of the Jammissten that "the prime minister and ministers
of state, all of whom shall be eivilians and of whem a
majority, inoluding the prime minister, shall be selestel
from the Diet, shall form a Cabinet eelleetively reepemsible
to the leg1slature" (r00-031/19), the Commissiom desired
to strengthen the dependence of the exeoutive upen the
Diet and to ensure that the exeoutive wuld not be eem-
posed entirely of persons without direct obligatioms to
the eleetors.
"The Commission has considered this point very eare-
fully, and during the oourse of ite disoussions took
note of the fact that most countries, where parliamentary
systems are in operation similar to that envisaged fer
Japan, have adopted either in practice or in their Con-
stitutions the prinoiple that all of the ministers of
state should be members of the legislature.
"The folloving 1s a brief summary of the prineipal
reasons why the Commission inserted in it theiprovision
referred to:
"(1) In the parliamentary system of government
the direct responsibility of the Cabinet to the legimla-
ture is fundamental. This is best secured ir the ministere
of state are members or the legislature.
"(11) It is essential to provide, within the
limits of posaibl- action under the Potsdam Deolaration
and other controlling documents, safeguards againet the
regaining of power by bureauorats and reactionery elements.
Thee situation would be much less likely to occur if a
majority

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
131
majority ef the eabinet ministere were themselves
answerabl.e te their eleetors.
"(111) Furthermere, in the partieular ease of
Japan, where the Diet has been traditionally subordimate
to the exeeutive, it is essential to provide a frameverk
which enhanees the influenoe of the Diet and ensures ite
control over the executive.
"Bome members of the Commission were strongly of the
opinion that all cabinet ministers should be members of
the Diet, but the Commission reakized the'partleular
relevance to Japan of the point made by the Supreme Oem-
mander, namely, that such a limitation "would deprive the
Japenese Government of the services, in ministerial
capacitiee, of many men t possibly higher qualifioations
then might be found in the leglslative body." Honee the
Commission decided as a matter of policy that only a
majority of the ministers of state need be mmbers of
the Diet and oonaiders that this requirement gives suf-
fioient freedom of ohoice and at the same tiu? enhances
the essentially demooratio structure of the vonetitution.
In view of the faot that Japan has not folloved this
practice in the psst, it is impossible to rely upon
estehlished procedure to ensure that it will be followed
in the future, snd the Commissior adheres to ite previous
polioy eclsion trat the Conetitution shoulr contsin a
ur vieion on this point.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.90)
132
Angust 15, 1946.
XEORNEDUN PRON THE STATE DEPARTHERET
COMMIT.T
Subject: Consultation by thr Fur
Eustern Commleeion with
sOAr on the Toxt of the
Constitution
It is reyuested that the Committee consider, as a
xatter of urgeney, the enolosed draft paper on the
above subject.
J. H. Milldring
State Depurtment Member
Stat:-ar-Navy Coordinating Commituee

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.95)
CONSULTATION BY THE FAR KADTERN GOSNISSION
WITH THE SUPREHE CONNAEDER POR THE ALLIED
POWERS ON THE TEXT OP THE CONSTITUTION
THE PROBLEN
1. The problem 1e to determine the peliey ef the Uaited
States with respeot to General Maearthar's request that the
Far Kastern Commission amend its peliey requiring that the
Prime Minister and a majority of Cabinet members beleng to
the Diet.
EAOTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEN
2. Bee Appendix "A.
CONOLUBIONS
3. It is ooncluded that:
a. The United States member of the Far Eastern Cemmiesien
should request the Commission to amend its poliey in referenee
to qualirications for Cabinet members.
b. If the Commi-sion votes formally to refuse to reeen-
sider ite policy, the United states member should refrain frem
voting and should not veto the motion.
o. If a formal statement 1s precented to the Commission
to the efrect thnt the Commis ion adheres to its previoue polioy
decieion thut the Conetitution mhould contain a provision re-
quirine the P ime Minister and a majority or the Cabinet to be
members of the Diet, the United States member of the Par
Eaetern Commisplon should aree to suoh a atatement.
RECOMMENDATIONS
4. It is recommended th:t, after their approval by the
State-W r-Nevy Coordinoting Committee, the State Department
transmit the conclusions in paragraph 3 to the United States
member of the Far Emetern Commlesion for his guidanee.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.95)
APPENDIX A
PACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEN
L. On Jume 28, 1046 the Par Rastern Cemmiesion
unanimously aoproved a peliey decision en "Basle Primeiples
for a New Jananese Constitution" whieh inoluded the following:
"...the Conetitution...shall also previde that the
prime minister and the ministers of state, all of whem
shall he eivilians and of whom a majority, inoluding
the prime minister, shall be seleated from the Diet,
shall form e Cabinet colleetively responsible to the
legielature."
9. On July P8, la46, after a preliminary study of the
Araft of the nev Japanene Con-titution, the Far Testern Com-
wiesion requested its chairman to communicate with the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers. This sommunication contained
the following:
"The Far Eastern Commisslon is making a preliminary
study of the draft of the new Japanese constitution, whioh
is now before the Diet..."
"In the course of this preliminary study doubte have
arisen as to whether in certsin respeots the draft
constitution satisfies the criteria established by the
Commission in its statement of polioy on basie prinoiples
(FFC-O31/19). The following examples may be olted:
"(a) Cabinet. FsC-O31/19 prov1des that a majority
of the ministers of state, inoluding the prime minister,
shall be seleoted from the Diet. The draft conetitution
does not now provide for this principle of seleotion."
?. A reply from General acarthur. transmitted to the
Comm1esion on 70 July 1946 stated:
"or informetlon and such us- ns you may desire,
hereunder ar- my commente on the items enumerated for
corpultntion:
"2.(m) Cabinet.  belleve the limitation that the
Irime inister and a majority or Ministers or Stmte must
ce sel-oted from tembershi- of the  i-t is unwise es
suon requirement would eorive the Japan-er lovernment
of the

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.89)
found La the legislatave bety. It so an pest
arbitrary restrietion pen goveranent which eerteinãy
and I Roubt if it can be found in any governmental ayetem
in the werld. The existing requirememt in the awers
constitution that she Prime Minister must be desigmesed
by the Diet and appreval ef the Biet must be abtaised
to the appointment of all Mimisters of state womld
satiefy every reasenable requirement of demeerasse
preeess in sueh metter.
4. On Aagust 2, 104s, Gemeral NacArthr made the fellem
ing further comments on this point:
"It was considered here that the existing reguise-
Bent in the Draft Ceastitutien hat the Prime Mimister
must be designated by the Diet and appreral of the Baes
must be obtained te the appeintment of all Ninistere of
state eatisfied the underlying intent ef Per Ehstere
Commissien poliey in peint. meuld this met be me pe-
garded by the Far Eastern Cemsissien, I strengly wage
the amenement of ite polley."
6. At 1se s7th seeting en August 8, 1946, Gommistee
Re. S: Cemstitutienal and Legal Reform, the Umited Ssates
member brought General NaeArthur's request to the attentien
of the Commistee but the Gommittee refused to receneider. this
point and appreved, with the Daitel states sember recerving
his position, the felleving statement fer imelmsion in a
ceasul tetive message (s6-0l2/15):
().

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.93)
1
1
-8-
"(a) ahias. In referemee to the peliey dectsten
of the Comatssten that "the prime minister and ministers
of state, all of whom shall be eivilians and of whem a
majority, inoluding the prime minister, shall be selestel
from the Diet, shall form a Cabinet collectively respemsible
to the legislature" ("FC-031/19), the Commission desired
to etrengthen the dependence of the exeoutive upen the
Diet and to ensure that the executive would not be eem-
posed entirely of persons without direot obligatiome so
the eleotors.
"The Commission has considered this point very eare-
fuily, and during the oourse of its disouselons took
note or the faot that most countries, where parllamemtary
syatems are in operaticn similer to that onviseged for
Japan, have adopted either in praotice or in sheir Con-
stitutions the principl- that all of the ministere of
etate snould be menbers cr the leglalnture.
"The following le a brief summary of the prineipal
remmons why the Commission ineerted in it the provision
referred to:
"(1) In th parliementory cy-tem of government
the direct resnonslbility f the Cabinet to the logisle-
ture te funda entr. This is best seoured if the ministere
or at te are membere or t  lealrlature.
(ii) It is resential tc provide, within the
:imite of poesible sotion under the Potsdem  eoleration
an other controlline docrnte, eafe guerd egeinet the
regalnin or po er y bureauornts nd reeotion-ry elemente.
Ihes situstlon would  much lees lik-ly to ocour is 
majority

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.91)
-
majerity ef the eabimet ministere were themselves
answerable to their oleotere.
"(111) Furthermore, in the partieular ease of
Japan, where the Diet has been traditionally suberdimate
to the exeautive, it is esnential to provide a framevork
whian enhanees the influenee of the Diet and ensures its
control over the expcutive.
"Bome members of the Commission were strongly of the
opinion that all sabinet ministers should be membere of
the Diet, but the Commission realized the'partioular
rel evanee to Japan of the point mace by the Supreme Cem-
mander, namely, that suah a limitation "would deprive the
Jananese Government of the services, in ministerial
carncitier, of many men s possibly higher qualiriostione
then miant be found in the leglslative body." Hemee the
Comminsion decired -s - matter of polloy that only a
ma jority of the minieters of state need be membere of
the Diet and oonsiderm that this requirement gives suf-
rici nt freedom of ohoice nnd at the ssme time enhanees
tre easentinlly democratio structure of the onetitution.
In view of the fact that Japen has not followed this
pro tice in the pmet, it ia imposeible to rely upon
et li hed procelure to enaure that it will be followed
n  fut re, ar the ommimslon adheres to ite previous
1cy pciaton rat the onntitution should contain a
vn
01nt

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNIOATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STAY
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
Action-FE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Info:
S
A-B
PL
U
A-H
EUR-X
LE
SPA
DC/R
UG23 1946
EUR
OCD
DC/L
SPD
London
ITP
FC
ESP
CY
Dated August 27, 1946
OFD
OIC
PLAI
OPI
Rec'd 3:16 p.m., 27th
PWA4 VIAPREW
E
Offioe of
S
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
PW5 LONDON 34
27 125
AUG 2 8 1946
PRESS SECSTATE WASAINGTON
Department of State
7793 TWENTYSEVENTH TIMES EDITORIAL ON ACTION OF JAPANESE HOUSEOF
REPRESENTATIVES IN ATTEMPTING NEW CONSTITUTION EXPRESSED GENERAL
SATISFACTION WITH TREND OF DEVELOPMENTS IN JAPAN PERIOD IT SAYS
STEP IS IN HARMONY WITH RECENT REPORT OF GENERAL MACARTHUR ON CON-
DITION OF OCCUPIED JAPAN COMMA WHERE INSTEAD OF SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES WHICH MANY EXPERTS HAD FEARED THE PEOPLE SEEM ENGR-
OSSED IN NOVEL POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS ON DEMOCRATIC LINES COMMA
AND WHERE TRAIALS OF WAR CRIMINALS HAVE COMPLETED POPULAR DIS-
CREDIT OF OLD LEADERS PERIOD TIMES CONSIDERS IT PLAIN THAT JAP-
ANESE PEOPLE WANT NEITHER REVOLUTION NOR REACTION BUT ORDERLY
DEVELOPMENT PERIOD IT BELIEVES THAT PREMIER YOSHIDA REPRESENTS
COMBINATION OF CAUTIOUS ACTION AND ADVANCED IDEAS CURRENTLY IN
VOGUE PERIOD EDITORIAL SAYS COMPLAINT IS STILL MADE AGAINST
GOVERNMENT THAT PROCEEDS OF TAXATION ARE TOO LOW AND THAT
CONTRAST BETWEEN LOT OF FEW RICH AND MANY POOR IS AS STRIKING
AS EVER PERIOD IT IS ALSO COMPLAINED THAT GOVT HAS NOT REGULARIZED
NEW RIGHTS OF LABOR PERIOD TURNING TO ALLIED CONTROL COMMA TIMES

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
PLAN
-2- 7793, August 27, 1946 from London
FRICTION PERIOD AMERICAN REPRESENTATIVES SHOW SOME FEAR LEST
RUSSIAN INFLUENCE BE USED TO PROMOTE COMMUNISM COMMA BUT WHILE
VOCAL THIS SECTION CF OPINICN IS
VERY SMALL AND IS NOT LIKELY
TC WIN MUCH SUPPORT PERIOD EDITORIAL SAYS COLON QUOTE THE MAIN
BURDEN OF THE ALLIED OCCUPATJON CONTINUES TO BE SHOULDERED
BY THE US COMMA AND  HE STEADY IF SLOW PROGRESS OF THE COUNTRY
A.ONG THE DIFFICULT PATH LEADING TO NORMAL NATIONAL LIFE TESTIFIES
T THE CENERAL SUCCE:S OF THE POLICIES PURSUED PERIOD UNQUOTE
EDITORIAL REFERS TO AMERICAN SUGCESTION OF TWENTYFIVE YEAR TR-
EATY TO FOLLOW OCCUPAFION OF JAPAN COMMA AND FAVORADLE BRITISH
AND CHINESE
REACTIC IS AND RUSSIAN FAILURE TO REPLY COMMA AND
CONCLUDES THAT COLCN LUOTE SOME SUCH SCHEME SEEMS DESIRABLE IN THE
I' TERESTS NOT ONLY OF THE UN TED NATIONS BUT OF JAPAN HERSELF COMMA
FUR IT WOULD ENSURE T AT THE PROGRESSIVE TENDENCIES OF WHICH THE
NEW CONSTITUTION AFFOI DS AN
ILLUSTRAT ON WOULD BE CIVEN FULL TIME
TO TRANSTORM THE OUTLCOK OF THE NATION UNQUOTE
GALLMAN
L/32OF
LOTDON

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.94)
TOP SECRET
ofri∞ of
WAR DEPARTMENT
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
A0529 1946
WASHINGTON
DIRFR
Departmer.' of State
28 August 1946
A-H
MEMORANDUM FOR Mr. Ernest Gross
State Department
We have just received the following message
from General MacArthur:
"Reurad WX 98569 August 27th. Concur in proposition
8
that draft constitution passed by lower house be con-
sidered as "final draft" for purposes of 20th March
directive as there is little likelihood that any
change in principle will be advocated by the House
of Peers. Your assumption that present legislative
process will continue at least through l3th September
is a practical certainty."
DeanRuak
Dean Rusk
Special Assistant to the
Secretary of War
894.
757131
DA/SH
11
OP FILE

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.94)
133
246
MENORANDUM YOR THE CHAIRNAN,
FAR KASTERN COMMIBSION
In referenee to the question raised by the British
representative of the Far Eastera Commission em whether
or not deletion of the phrase "other than hereditary
894.011/9-146
estates" in Artiole 88 of the presemt draft ef the
Constitution means that "hereditary estates" of the
Imperial family beeome Imperial Mousehold Property and
therefore revert to the state, there is enelesed a
message dated September 1, 1946, frem the Bupreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers whis is in reply to the
question raised by the Britieh represemtative.
It 1n requested that the Chairman of the Far
Eastern Commission make this message available to the
members of the Far Eastern Commisslon.
CS/HH
J. H. Milldring
Assistant Seeretary
Enolosure:
Message from BCAr,
F94
September 1, 1946
JA:HLory/pm
F2
9/5/46
113
ERE

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.91)
34
1 September, 104s
Language ef Artiele se incerperated la ecastitution
at my suggestien te senform to requiremeats ef Para ém
Far Kasterm Cemmissien peliey deelsion of July ad.
Property of Emperer subjeet te taxation same as that of
any other Japanese sitisen.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.96)
135
PARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Sopt. 26, 1946
JA
Mr. Borton
Will you draft reply? I think we
should clarify point that FEC will not
pass upon implementing legislation in
draft stages. Perhaps we should discuss
this with Dean Rusk.
All.
894.01119-2446
SEP 27 1946
DEPAHIMENT OF STATE

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.95)
136
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
September 24, 1946
The Honorable William L. Clayton
Acting Secretary of State
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
As you are aware, the Far Eastern Commission has been consider
/9-2446
ing the Japanese Draft Constitution officially during the past sever-
al weeks. During this period the various representatives on the Com-
mission have been stating the positions of their respective govern-
ments. They have frequently pointed out that important matters which
normally would be included in a Constitution, such as the composition
of the House of Peers, are to be determined by subsequent legislation.
It has been the general opinion that such implementing laws should be
119FEAC
made available to the Commission for review since they would be an es-
C
sential part of the new constitutional structure which is being erected
S
AI
in Japan. The Commission believes that it is competent to pass upon
both the new Constitution and the implementing laws to ascertain whether
they are inconsistent in any respect with the Potsdam Declaration and
E3
the policy decisions of the Far Eastern Commission.
I have agreed with the other members of the Commission in thr
point of view, and accordingly stated at the 24th Meeting of the Com-
mission on August 28, 1946, and again at the 26th Meeting on September
19. 1946, that subsequent implementing legislation would be filed with
DCR NE Unit
the
11.
ga
1151

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
137
-2-
the Commission by the United States Government and that the Commission
might pass a policy decision in regard to any aspect of implementing
legislation which the Commission agreed was inconsistent with the prin-
ciples of the Potsdam Declaration or relevant Commission policy deci-
sions.
Your attention is invited to this commitment on behalf of the United
States Government. It would be my understanding that the following pro-
cedure is in order. Draft implementing legislation on important subjects
would be filed with the Commission as it is submitted to the Diet. The
Commission may review such legislation if it involves policies within
the jurisdiction of the Commission, and may pass a policy decision in
regard to it if the commission should deem such decision necessary to
make the legislation consistent with the Potsdam Declaration and the pol-
icy decisions of the Far Eastern Commission. Such a policy decision would
be sent to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers through the usual
means of a directive issued by the United States Government.
A list is enclosed of the titles of bills reported in the Japanese
press as constituting the principal items of implementing legislation
for the Constitution. I understand that these bills are to be intro-
duced at an extraordinary session of the Diet this fall. These might
be requested from the Supreme Commander for file with the Commission as
the first step in honoring our conmitment.
Sincerely yours,
Frank R. McCoy
Chairman
Enclosure:

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
138
List of Bills on Implementing Legislation
1. Cabinet Law (NAIKAKU HO)
2. National Diet Law (KOKKAI HO)
3. House of Councillors Law
4. Imperial Household Law
5. Partial Amendment Bill or the Civil Code
6. Partial Amendment Bill on the Criminal Procedure Law
7. Partial Amendment Bill on the Court of Justice
Organization Law
8. Public Procurator's Office Law
9. Plebiscite Law for Discharging Judges
10. Judges Impeachment Law
11. Finance Law
12. Partial Amendment Bill on the Criminal Code
13. Court Law
lh. Specia? tegulations Concerning Administrative Suit
15. Law for Protection of Fundamental Human Rights

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.96)
139
Office Memorandum · Unted StATes GOVErNMENT
DATE: 10-9-46
TO
: A-H: Mr. Gross
FROM :
JA: Mr. Borton
SUBJBCT :
There 1s attached a draft reply
to General McCoy's letter of
September 24 as a poss1ble basls for
diecussion with Mr. Rusk of the
War Department.
11
JA:HBorton:min

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
140
DRAFT LETTER
My dear General McCoy:
In reference to your letter of September 24, 1946 to
the Acting Secretary of State concerning the discussions in
the Commission on the Japanese draft Constitution and related
subjects, I note with interest the faot that you have stated
to the Commission on two separate occasions that subsequent
1mplementing legislation of the Constitution would be filed
with the Commission by the United States Government and that
the Commission might pass a policy decision in regard to any
aspects of implementing le 1slation which the Commission
agreed was incons1stent with the Potsdam Declaration or
relevant Commission policy decisions.
I also note that you believe the appropriate procedure
18 to file with the Commission dreft implementing legislation
on importent subjects as it is submitted to the Diet, that
the Commission might review such legislation if it involves
policies within the jurisdiction of the Commission and might
pass policy decisions in regard to 1t 1f the Commission deems
such action necessary.
While I asree with the statements you have made before
te Commicnton tat tn lem ntinr leslslation would be filed
with the

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.95)
141
8
-2
with the Commission and that the Commission has the right to
pass a policy decislon within its competence in regard to
such legislation, I question the advisability of enoouraging
action by the Commission on drafts of such legislation.
While it would be advantageous for the Commission to reoeive
draft legislation for its information, 1t would be unfortunate,
if the Commission were to assume that it had the right to
make policy decisions on implementing legislation prior to
its enactment by the Diet. Any such right of rev1ew of draft
1 lslation, as opposed to legislation which has been enacted,
Would inevitably place the Commission in the position of
interferring with the normal legislative processes in Japan.
It would be consistent with the statements you have made
before the Commiss1on and with the authority of the Commis-
sion under its Terms of Heference, for the Commission to
review such legislation after it had been enacted providing,
of course, that cuch a policy decision was within the Commis-
sion's competence. Naturally, such policy decisions would
be transmitted to SCAP through the estaolished channels.
I have noted your enclosed titles of bille consituting
the principle items or implementin legialatton for the
Jonstltution and sur est that  request from coat for such
Leiulatron me ntt  made thr a con sultetive
nPBe

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.96)
142
-3-
message to SCAP from you as Chairman of the Commission. If
you agree with the interpretation stated above I would suggest
that such a message might include a statement or understanding
of the jurisdiction of the Commission in referenoe to imple-
menting legislation.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Secretary of State:
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary
CArLBortontEls

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
143
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON B. D. C.
CONFIDENTIAL
1 0ctober 1946
The Honorable William I. Clayton
RECEIVED
Acting Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
COT-1946
DC
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Comission pro-
vide that one of the functions of the Commission should be to
"formulate the policies, principles and standards in conformity with
which the fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the Terms of
Surrender may be accomplished."
894.011/10-146
It is further provided that when such decisions are made
by the Far Eastern Comnission, "The United States Government shall
prepare directives in accordance with the policy decisions of the
Commission and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander through
the appropriate United States Government agency."
Confidential Fi
At the twenty-eighth meeting of the Far Eastern Commission
held at 2516 lassachusette Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C., on
25 September l9l6, the enclosed policy decision relative to Purther
Policies Relating to e New Japanese Constitution was unanimously
approved.
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I have
been instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of the
Commission, in order that the appropriate directives may be prepared
and transmitted to the Supreme Commander in accordance with the Terms(D
of Reference.
Your attention is invited to a second enclosure, an excerpt
from the minutes of the twenty-eighth meeting of the Far Eastern Com-
mission on 25 September 1946, as indicating the circumstances under
wnich the enclosed policy decision was approved.
Sincerely yours,
Neleon Trurtutues
OC1 9 -1946
Nelson T. Johdson
Secretary General
Enclosures:
VF Unit
(a) Policy Decision.
(b) Excerpt from Minutes.
10-14℃

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.92)
FAR EASTERN COMGSION
WASENOTON &. D. C.
IFAT
RROEIVED
OCT-9 1946
The attached copy of a document unanimously
OFFICE OF
adopted at the twenty-eighth meeting of the Far
Commission, held at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest,
Washington, D. C., on 25 September 1946, has been com-
pared with the original text and is certified to be a
true copy.
894
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Confidential File
Washington, D. C.
1 October 1946
JuNce

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCIOSURENAN
FURTHER POLICIES RELATING TO A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
The Far Eastern Commission reaffirms its previous
decision, taken in FEC-031/19, Basic Principles for a New
Japanese Constitution, that all cabinet ministers should be
civiliane, and further decides as a matter of policy that the
House of Councillore should not have any predominance over the
House of Representatives. Tne Commission considers essential
its continuing right to scrutinize the implementing logislation
very carefully to insure that such predominance is not
established.
FEC-087/9

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
144
ENCLOSUREB
EXCERPT FROM THE MINUTES OF THE TWENTY-KIGHTH MEETING
OF THE FAR EASTERN COMMISSION ON 25 SEPTEMBER 1946
ITEM 5 - STATEENT BY CO MITTEE NO. 3: CONSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL REFORM,
ON FEC-O87/5, SOVIET PROPOSAIS CONCERNING THE DRAFT CONSTITU-
TION (FEC-087/6)
SIR CARL BERENDSEN moved pro forma and MR. VESUGAR seconded the
894.011/10-146
motion that the report of Committee No. 3 on the amendments to the draft
constitution proposed by the Soviet representative in FEC-087/5 be
adopted. In the light of the discuscion and action recorded below, SIR
CARL BERENDSEN, with the consent of Mr. Vesugar, later withdrew his pro
forma motion.
THE COnISSICN considered seriatim the statement of Soviet views
(FEC-087/5) in regard to the draft constitution, together with the re-
port by Committee No. 3 on these views (FEC-087/6).
ADMIRAL RAMISHVILI moved the adoption of paragraph 1 of FEC-O87/5
as follows:
"The Sovereign power of the people should be defined in the consti-
tution more precisely and clearly. The provision to the effect that
'sovereign power resides with the people' should constitute a separate
Article and have no connection with the definition of the role of the
Emperor."
The motion lapsed for lack of a second.
AD IRAL RAiISHVILI moved the adoption of the first sentence of
paragraph 2 of FEC-087/5 as follows:
"The Diet should have the right to afpoint not only the prime min-
ister, but also the remaining ministers of the Cabinet."
The motion lapsed for lack of a second.
DR. KOO moved and MAJOR FLIMSOIL seconded the motion that the prin-
ciple in paragraph 2 of FEC-087/5 that "All the ministers should be
civilians

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
145
civilians" be adopted, in the light of the favorable report on this
point by Committee No. 3.
SIR CARL BERENDSEN said that unanimous agreement on thie principle
already existed. He pointed out that the Commission had already laid
dowm this principle in its statement of basic principles for a new Jape-
nese constitution (FEC-O3l/19) and that the Supreme Commander, according
to the communication from him (FEC-087/8) considered earlior on the
agenda, had obtained the agreement of the Japanese Government to this
principle. SIR CARL said that he realized that the Soviet representa-
tive entertained doubt as to whether the Diet would include the desired
provision in the constitution. He thought it not likely that the Diet
would challenge the authority of the Supreme Commander in this manner,
and he suggested that steps to meet such a contingency need not be taken
now.
GENERAL MCCOY said that, although the principle had been included
in the statement of basic constitutional principles, there was no harm
in reaffirming it.
The motion by Dr. Koo was carried unanimously.
AD IRAL RAMISHVILI moved the adoption of paragraph 3 of FEC-O87/5
as follows:
"iembers of the Supreme Court should be elected by the Diet for 5
years service."
The motion lapsed for lack of a second.
ADMIRAL RAMISHVILI moved the adoption of paragraph 4 of FEC-O87/5
as follows:
"The Article concerning regency should be worded in the sense that
regency is established on the principle of the free expression of will
of
Encl. "B"
-2-

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
146
of the people with whom the sovereign power resides. Such prineiple of
establishing the regency is in compliance with the spirit of the Pote-
dam Declaration and also with the decision of the Far Eastern Comission
on 'Basic Principles of a New Japanese Constitution,' in whioh it is
stated that 'the Japanese people should be encouraged to abolish the
Emperor Institution or to reform it along more democratic lines.w
The motion lapsed for lack of a second.
ADMIRAL RAMISHVILI moved and DR. DE KAT seconded the motion that
paragraph 5 of FEC-087/6 be adopted as follows:
"The Committee agrees that the House of Councillors should not have
any predominance over the House of Representatives and considers that it
will be essential to scrutinize the implementing legislation very care-
fully to ensure that such predominance shall not be established.
1he motion was carried unanimously.
SIR CARI. BERENDSEN moved and MR. VESUGAR seconded the motion that
the Commission reaffirm its previous decision taken in FEC-031/19,
Basic Principles for a New Japanese Constitution, that all cabinet
ministers should be civilians and decide as a matter of policy that the
House of Councillors should not have any predominance over the House of
Representatives and that the Commission state that it considers essen-
tial its continuing right to scrutinize the implementing legislation
very carefully to ensure that such predominance not be established.
The motion was carried unanimously.
THE CO:MISSION unanimously agreed to table FEC-087/6.
ADMIRAL RAMISHVILI presented the following formal statement:
"Proceeding from the desire to bring the draft of the Japanese Con-
stitution into full compliance with the Potsdam Declaration and the de-
cision of the Far Eastern Commission: FEC-O31/19, the Soviet Delogation
has made the following proposals at the 26th meeting of the Far Eastern
Commission:
(a) The provision to the effect that 'sovereign power resides in
the people' should constitute a separate Article, and not in connection
with the definition of the role of the Emperor.
(b) To
Encl. B"
-3-

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
147
(b) To recognise the right of the Dist to appoint not only the
prime minister but also the remaining Cabinet ministers.
(c) All the ministers, including the prime minister, should be
civilians.
(d) The members of the Supreme Court ahould be elected by the Diet
for 5 years service.
(e) The Constitution Article concerning regency should be worded
in the sense that regency is established on the principle of the free
expression of will of the Jaranese people with whom the sovereign power
resides.
(f) The USSR Delegation doesn't insist on the unicameral system
provided the House of Councillors has no predominance over the House of
Representatives.
"The Soviet Delegation is convinced that the above proposals are
in full accord with the principles set out in the Potsdam Declaration
and with the decisions of the Far Eastern Commission: FEC-O3l/19, and
represent the recessary provisions of a truly democratic Constiution.
"However, the proposals of the Soviet Delegation under (a), (b),
(d) and (e) have been rejected by the majority of the members of the
Far Eastern Commission.
"Under these circumstances, the Soviet Delegation, acting on be-
half of the Government of the USSR, states that it does not consider it
possible to approve the draft of the Japanese Constitution, as the lat-
ter, without inclusion of the above-mentioned proposals, does not comply
with the principles set out in the Potsdam Declaration nor with the de-
cision of the Far Eastern Commission: FEC-031/19.
"The Soviet Delegation reserves its right of criticism and consid-
eration in future of the questions concerning the Japanese Constitution."
Encl. "B"
-4-

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.94)
148
DIRECTIVE
R.ECEIVED
OCT-S 1946
OHIEF
1. The following directive prepared by the Department of State
to implement the policy adopted by the Far Eastern Commission on
25 September l946 under the provisions of paragraph II, A, 1 of its
Terms of eference has been received from the State, War and Navy
Departments for transmission to you for guidance in accordance with
paragraph III, 1 of those terms of reference.
2. The Far Eastern Commission reaffirms its previous decision,
taken in FEC-O31/19, Basic Principles for a New Japanese Constitution,
that all cabinet ministers should be civilians, and further decides
as a matter of policy that the House of Councillors should not have
F.N
any predominance over the House of Representatives. The Commission
considers essential its continuing right to scrutinize the implementing
74.
legislation very carefully to insure that such predominance is not
Confidential Fe
established.
0
3. See War-X for supplementary explanation of above.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
SUPPLEMENTARY CABLE
The directive forwarded you in War-Y, to which this message is a
supplement for your information, was passed under circumstances some-
what different from normal Commiasion procedure.
You will note that in the directive the Commission reaffirms its
previous decision that all cabinet ministers should be civilians. This
reaffirmation was agreed after receipt of your message (War-Z) to the
effect that you had persuaded the Japanese Government to write such a
provision into the Constitution. There was some question within the
U. S. Government as to whether there was any need to send such a re-
affirmation to you as a directive in view of your statement that you
had taken the necessary steps. In view of the fact, however, that you
have taken this action and consequently no harm can be done by repeat-
ing this policy to you, and of the further fact that the Commission
expects their reaffirmation to be conveyed you, the reaffirmation is
included in the directive in order that the United States may fulfill
its obligations with the Commission according to paragraph III, 1 of
the Terms of Reference of the Commission.
As to the Commission's other decision, that the House of Councillors
should not have any predominance over the House of Representatives, there
was similarly some question in the U. S. Government as to whether the
Commission was merely making a statement of its owm intentions or whether
it intended this policy to be conveyed you as a directive. Since this
matter will be of some concern to you in any case, and since you should be
aware of the Commission's concern in this connection, again, this policy
decision is being transmitted you as a directive in accordance with para-
graph III,l of the Terms of Reference.
The last sentence of the directive, with respect to implementing
legislation, is another matter of which you should be aware in order
that there may be appropriate coordination between the Commiasion and
yourself.
In accordance with paragraph III, 4 of the Terms of Reference, the
U. S. Government intends to file with the Commission only the directive
which is being sent you but not repeat not this supplementary cable.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.93)
149
KENORANDUN FOR THE SEOBETARY SUICO
Subjeot: Opinion of United States Government and the
Chairman of the Far Eastern Commission on
Direstive Relative to Further Polieies
Relating to a New Japanese Constitution.
With reference to the dreft direetive prepared on
894.011/10-146
the bi sis of a polioy deoision unanimously upproved at
the  Bth meeting of the Far Eastern Commisslon on
September 25, 1946, relative to Purther Policies
Relating to a New Japanese Constitutlon and forwarded
to the Beeretary, Swno0, it 1s requested that the en-
olosed message be forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of starf
for transmission to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers for hie information.
Conluential
J. I. Hilldring
Assistams Seeretary
F
Enolosure:
ω
Draft Message to the
Supreme Commander for
the Allied owers
6
87

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.93)
150
BAZRNESSAGE TO ESAP
21/ stato
It is the opinion of the t
and the Chalrmam or the Far Easterm Commissien that
the direetive sent to you in WAR
based on a
poliey desision of the Far Eastern Comsission taken at
its meeting of September 25 does not require any spesi-
fie astion by you. However, 1t has been forwarded te
à
you as a direstive in view of the obligation of the
United States Government under paragraph III, 1, of
the terme of referenoe of the Commission.
You will note that the Far Eastern Commission
re:ffirms its previous desision that all eabinet ministers
should be civilians. The Commisslon had been informed
of your aotion in persuading the Jspanese Government
to anend the Constitution ascordingly and therefore it
was olear that no further action wae neeessary. Rowever,
the United atates delegate saw no objeetion to the
Comnission's going on resond as reaffirming its pre-
vious decision.
with regard to the deeislon that the House of
Councilors should not have predominanee over the Mouse
of Ropresentatives, you wili note that the only aetion
the Commission contemplates in this matter is to sore-
linize the lmplomenting legielatiom. Consequently, is
1s the opinlon of the United states Government and the
Chalrman of the Far Tastern Comaission that no motion
by you is requirea other than supplying the Commission
with toxts of such lep1 latlon when they are eubmitted
to the Diet.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.92)
151
1019/46
MENORANENL POL THE SEGRETARX SWIOS
Subjest: Directive Relatite te Parther Pelicies Relating
to a Mew Japanese Constitution.
There ls enelosed a draft direetive prepared on
the basis of a policy desision unanimously approved
at the ?8th meeting of the Far Eastern Comaiseion on
September 25, 1946, under the provisions of paragraph I1,
A, 1, of its terms of referenee. It will be noted thas
the poliey desision is quoted verbatin in the enelosed
draft direetive.
It 1s requested that the enelesed direetive be
forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of Stafr for transmission
894.011/10-746
to General Meearthur for nis guidanee in aeeordanee
with paragraph III, 1, ef the terms of referemee of the
Far Eastern Commissien. It is assumed that if the
Joint Ohiefe of starf ave any question regurding the
draft direetive they will refer the matter to the
State Department for olaririeation before tramemissang
a direetive on the subjeet.
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Seeretery
C
Enolosure:
S
/HH
Draft Direotive
894.011
4V
11
0
746

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.95)
152
BRAFT DIREOTIVE FRON JOS TO SEAP
RELATIVE TO PURTHER POLIGIES RELATINS
TO A HEY JAPANESE GONRRITTZION
The follewing direetive, propared by the State
Department te implement the poliey adepted by the
Far Eastern Commission on 25 September 1946 under the
provisions of Paragraph II, A, 1, of its terms of
referenee, has been reeeived from the State, War,
and Navy bepartments for tranemission to you for guidemee
1n accordanee with Paragraph III, 1, of those terms
of referenee:
"The Far Lastern Commission reafrirms its previous
deelsion, taken 1n FEc-05l/19, Direetive Serial Me. 
Basic Prinoiples for a Mew Japanese Constitution, that
all cabinet ministers should be eivilians, and further
decides es a matter of poliey that the Mouse of Coun-
cilore should not have any predominanee over the Kouse
of Representatives. The Comsission eonsiders essential
1ts oontinuing right to sorutinise the implementing
legielation very earefully to insure that such pre-
dominanoe 1s not established.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.96)
153
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
10-1946
DC
SWN-4807
8 October 1946
FARFAIRS
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
Deta
Subject: Amendments to New Constitution
for Japan.
Reference:
MC-IN-52490
(7 Oct 46).
894.01
At the request of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
the enclosed messege from the Commander in Chief,
Americen Forces, Pacific 1s forwarded to the
1/10-846
Secretary of State for his information.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
, h. Moseley,
J. H. HILLDRING,
Chairman
Enclosure
OCT 1 4 1946
994.o1n
FILED

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
ARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAGE
OPERATIONAL PRIORITY
From:
CINCAFPAC Tckyo Japen
To
Var Depertment for WARCOS JCS info copy to Mr Petersen
Wr:
2. 20663
7 October 1946
The Heuse of Peers on 6 October by standing vote of
298 to 2 nassed proposed new constitution for Japan with
fojiowing amerdusnts and revisions:
1. 't cre are few minor changes in Japanese text of
preanble, but they are stylistic changes only which do not
ajter Engiish translation.
2. Aticle 15 is vevised to read: "The people have
the inalienable right to choose their public officials and
to dismiss them.
"All pubiic officiaIs sre servants of the whole com-
munity and not of any special group."
"Univerual adult suffrage 1s gueranteed with regard
to the election of public officials.
" In ais clections. secrecy of the ballot shell be
proserved inv:olate, nor shall any voter be anawerable,
3. Article 59 is revised to read: " A bill becomes a
law on passago by both houses, except as otherwise provided
by the Constiution."
"A bill which is passed by the House of Representa-
tives, and upon which the House of Councillors makes a decision
MC-IN-52490 (7 0CL 46)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.92)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAGE
OPERATIONAL PRIORITY
Page 2
From.
CINCAPPAC TokyO Japan
Nr:
2 20663
7 October 1946
differcnt from ttwt or the House of Representatives becomes
e law when paspec a second time Dy the House of Representa-
tives by a maj  ity of 2/3 or more of the members present."
"Tte p ovision of the preceding peragraph does not
preclude the Hr of Fepreaentatives from calling for the
meetiug o  Jsitt Com tieu of both houses as provided
For b. dow
"Fel a by the Horse of Councillors to take final
eot on vn o days arter rect ipt of a bill passed by the
Fouso of Ipre entati vea tine in recess excepted, may be
detd e ot Reprerentetives to constitute a
re jeetion"
4. An cle 66 is revised to read:
"The cabineu shall consist of the Prime Minister,
vho phal) be i s head and other ministers of state as pro-
ided for  law.
"The P ime Minisuor and otner ministers of state shall
be civil:ans
"The cab net, in the exareise of executive power,
shell be colleetively responsible to the Diet".
House of Repres atetives thi: date by standing vote
of 342 to 5 edopted new veralon with emendments approved by
upper house. rior to this final action by House of Repre-
10-11-52490
(9045)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.93)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAGE
OPERATIONAL PRIORITY
Page .3
From:
CINCAFPAC TokyO Japan
Nr:
20663
7 October 1946
sentatives members of lower house constitution committee had
deliberated of all changes adopted by House of Peera."
fhi, ends all legislative action on constitution.
Action b: Privy Counoil and dete of promulgation will
be reported
Promuigation not expected prfor to 2o Ootober.
End.
190:
Ao
CAD
Adalras. Pimitz
P & O
CSA
H0-1:-52490 (7 00t 46)
DTG: 0709512
jjf
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.94)
fhe
FE
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
10-29.46
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DC/A
SWN-4828
16 October 1946
ME ORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
Subject: Directives Transmitted to SCAP
894.011/10-1646
by the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Enclosed are three coples of Direotive,
Serial No. 60, transmitted to SCAP by the Joint
Chiefs of Staff. Copy No. 1 1s for transmittal
to the Far Eastern Commission and Copies Nos. 2
and 3 are for the files of the State Department.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
A. D. Reid.
A. D. REID,
Secretary
eFEC
Enclosures:
46HD
Co y Nos. 1, C, ana 3
110
rial Ho. 30
FILED

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.97)
:7
2
Serial No. 60
COPY NO.
10 0ctober 1946
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
FURTHER POLICIES RELATING TO A NEW
JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
The following directive, preparcd by the State Department
to implement the policy adopted by the Far Eastern Commission
on 25 September 1946 under the provisions of paragraph II, A, 1,
of its terms of reference, has been received from the State,
War, end Navy Depurtm nts for transmission to you for guidance
in accordance with paragraph III, 1, of those terms of
reference:
"The Fa: astr rn Commission reaffirms its previous
decision, taken in Fac-03l/ly,* basic principles for a new
Jananese Constitu: ion, thet all cabinet ministers should be
civilians, and furtier decides as a matter of policy that the
House of Councilore should not have eny predominance over the
House of Rceit: citat vcs. The Commission considers cssential
its continuing right to scrutinize the implcmenting legisla-
tion very carciully to insure that such predominance is not
established."
3er1a1 No. 54.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
0CT 21 1016
894.011/10-1646
NESORANDUN FOR THE SEGRETARY GENERAL,
FAR KASTERN OONDIISSION
In accordanee with lastruetiens of ateber 16,
194s, from the State-War-Kavy Geerdimating Gemmittee,
there is enelesed a certified eepp ef a airestive,
Serial No. 6o, to the Supreme Cemmander fer the Allled
Powers regarding Purther Pelieies Relating to a New
Japanese Constitution, te be filed with the Far Eestern
Commisslon umter the predislons of paragraph III, é, of
its Terms of Reference.
S
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Sesretary
Enclosure:
Copy No. 1 (oertifiod) or
Direotive to Supreme dommander
for the Allied Powers,
894.011/10.1644
Seriel No. 60.
JA: ALDuthing/sg
FE
10-17-46

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.93)
160
OUT 24 194
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY SWNCC
Subject:
Dreft Directive Regarding Provisions
For the Review of a New Japanese
Conatitution.
894.01
There 1s enolosed a draft direotive prepared
on the basis of a policy decision unanimoualy
epproved at the 3oth meeting of the Far Eastern
Comm1ssion on October 17, 1946, under the prov1sions
of paragranh II, A, 1, of its Terms of Referenee.
It will be noted that this polioy declsion is
quoted verbatim in the enclosed draft direotive.
It le requested that the enolosed direotive
be forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for trans-
miesion to General MacArthur for his guidanoe in
-1746
accordance with paragraph lii, 1, of the Terme of
eference of the Far Lastern Commission. It 1s
asaumed that if the Joint Chiefs of staff have any
questlon regardin? the draft directive they will
refer the matter to the state Department for clar1-
fication before tranemitting a directive on the
sub ject.
J. H. Hilldring
Agsistant Secretary
101090:
roft
irective.
41
A:ALDHAOANML
-1-46

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
161
DRAFT DIHECTIVE REOARDING PROVISIONS
FOH THE REVITW OF A NTW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
The following direotive, prepared by the State Depart-
ment to 1mplement the policy adopted by the Far Fastern
Comm1ss1on on 17 Cctober 1946 under the prov1s1ons of
Paragraph II, A, 1, of its Terms of Reference, has been
reoeived from the State, Nar, and Navy Departments for
transmission to you for your guidance in acoordance with
Paragraph lII, 1, of those Terms of Referenoe:
"1. The new constitution, whioh will in due
season after promulgation become the legal successor
of the present conrtitution with such changes as
have been made or may be made as a result of con-
sideration and polioy decision of the Far Eastern
Commission, shell be eubject to further review by
the Diet and the Far Eastern Commiasion in terme
of the following paragraph.
"2. In order that the Japanese people may have
an opportunity. arter the new conetitution goes
into effeot, to reconsider it in the light of the
exnerience of its working, and in order that the
Far rastern Commisslon may satiefy iteelf that the
constitution fulfills the terms of the fotadam
-ecloration and other controlling documents, the
ommission decides es a matter of policy that, not
sooner than one yenr and not later than two yeare
after it goee 1nto effect, the situatlon with respect
to the new constitutlon should be reviewed by the
Diet. without prejudioe to the continuing juris-
diotion of the Fer tastern Commlssion at any time,
the ommission shall aleo review the constitution
within this eame period. The Far Eastern Commis-
lon, 1n Jetermining hether the Japanese constitu-
tion 1e on exnression of the free 1ll of the
Japonese eo le, may require a referendum or some
other spuro riate procedure for ascertaining Japanese
inin with resuect to the constitution."
31/4

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.91)
162
ACT 24 946
CONEIDENTIAL
KEXORANPUN FOR TKE LEOAETARY. BYELO
Subjeet: Commumleation frem the Chalrman of the
Far Kastern Commisslon For Tranemistal
to the Supreme Commander fer the Allied
Powers.
894.011/10-1746
The Par Eastern Cemmission, aeting usder paragraph
VI of its Terms of Referemee whick previdee that the
Cokmisslon may make such arrangements throngh the Chair
man as may be preetieakle fer scaseltatiem with the
Supreme Commander for the Allled Pewerss requested its
Chairman on Oetober 1?, 194s, to esasuls with the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers regarding the sime and
manner of issuanee of the poliey deeisien on the Pre-
visions for the Review of a New Japanese Constitutiem.
There is melosed a draft sonsultative message en
this subjeet.
It is requested that the enelosure be forwarded te
the Joint Chiefs of Staff for transmission to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers.
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Seoretary
Enolosure:
Draft Meseage.
10-21-46
J=√

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
163
REQUEST FOR CONBULPATION WITH THE SUPRENE CONNANDER
FOR THE ALLIED POWERS REGARDINS PROVISIORS FOR THE
REVIEW OF A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
Before the poliey decislom regarding Previsiems
fer the Review of a New Japanese Genstitutiem (diree-
tive forwarded to the Supreme Commander fer the Allied
Powere as War) was fermerly appreved by the Far
Lasterm Commissiom om Oeteber 17, 194s, Ambassader
Makis, Amstralias Represemtative om the Far Eastern
Commlssion, stated with referenee te the ammemmeement
of the poliey decision that the Australian view was
that the aanouseement shomld take plase imedlately
following its adoption. However, kr. Nakin agreed
that the Supreme dommander should be sonsmlted sm the
question of publleaßion. Sir Carl Berendsen, the New
Zealand Representative, expressed gemeral agreememt
with the views of Xr. Makin.
The U. 3. member made the foreal statemeat to the
effeet that the U. S. was prepared to agree to the
poliey deslsion "provided that the Oommission at some
subsequent meeting and after cbtaining the view of the
Supreme Commander will consider a time and mamner of
lssuanoe of the polioy decision mbodied ia the paper."
General NoGoy moved and kr. Nakin sesomded the
motion that the Commission adept the peliey desisios
regarding Provislons for the Review ef a New Japanese
Constitution with the understanding that the Chairmam
be authorized to consult with the supreme Commander to
determine his vievs regarding the time and manner of
1ssuanoe of the polioy decision and that after the
Supreme Commander's viewe had been reeeived the Com-
mission would reconsider the time and manner of smch
issunnoe. The motion was carried unanimously.
In acoordance with the above, the views of the
Supreme Commander are requested as to the time and
manner of the issuanoe of the polioy deolsiom regard-
1ng Provislons for the Review of a New Japanese Don-
stitution.

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.96)
157
FAR EASTERN CO
Juanes
TMENT
100146
WASHINGTON .
10101
OCT251946
STATE
CD
File
FETATE
10-2841
17 October 1946
The Honorable Dean Acheson
Aoting Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear ür. Secretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission provide
that one of the funotions of the Commission should be to "formulate
894.011/10-1746
the policies, principles and standards in conformity with whioh the
fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the Terms of Surrender
may be accomplished."
It is further provided that when such decisions are made by
the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government shall prepare
direotives in accordance with the policy decisions of the Commission
and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander through the appropriate
United States Government ageney."
At the thirtieth meeting of the Far Eastern Commission held
at 2516 bassachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C., on 17
October 1946, the enclosed polioy decision relative to Provisions for
the Review of a New Japanese Constitution was unanimously approved.
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I have
been instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of the Com-
mission, in order that the appropriate directives may be prepared and
transmitted to the Supreme Commander in accordance with the Terms of
Reference.
Before the enclosed policy decision was formally approved by
the Commission, the United States member made a formal statement, recall-
ing the position of his government to the effect that the United States
was prepared to agree to the enclosed policy "provided that the Com-
mission at some subsequent meeting and after obtaining the view of the
Supreme Commander will consider the time and manner of issuance of the
policy decision embodied in the paper." The United States member's
statement explained that the enclosed polioy would be forwarded to the
United States Government to be transmitted as a directive to the Supreme
deutial Pue
194.011/1
Commander in the usual fashion. At the same time the Chairman would
request the Supreme Commander to express to the Commission his vieas
to the time and manner of issuance of the enclosed policy decision
TLED
After the views of the Supreme Commander have been received, the Ca
mission would then be in a position to consider the time and mannerof

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2 -
the issuance of this policy decision.
The Commission agreed to the proviso of the United States
member and authorized him to consult with the Supreme Commander in order
to obtain the Supreme Commander's views on this subject. I am enolosing,
for your information and guidance, a copy of the draft minutes of the
thirtieth meeting of the Commission covering this action.
The Chairman has acoordingly instructed me to request, in his
behalf, that the United States Government, in transmitting the enolosed
policy decision to the Supreme Commander, at the same time inform the
Supreme Commander of the Commission's disoussions as set forth in the
enclosed excerpt from the draft minutes and request his views with
respect to the appropriate time and manner of issuance of the polioy
decision enclosed herewith.
It is requested that the enolosed policy decision, as well as
the formal consultation accompanying it, both be olassified as oonfi-
dential.
Sincerely yours,
Nelson T. Johnson
SecretaryGeneral
Enclosures

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.93)
3
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASBACHUSETTS AVENUNE. N. W.
WASHINGTON . D. C.
The attached copy of a document unanimously
adopted at the thirtieth meeting of the Far Eastern
Commission, held at 2516 Lassachusetts Avenue,
Northwest, "ashington, D. C., on 17 October 1946,
has been compared with the original text and is
hereby certified to be correct.
Telron ge
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Vashington, D. C.
17October 1946

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
PROVISIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
1. The new constitution, which will in due season after
promulgation become the legal successor of the present constitution
with such changes as have been made or may be made as a result of
consideration and polioy decision of the Far Bastern Commission,
shall be subjeot to further review by the Diet and the Far Eastern
Commission in terms of the following paragraph.
2. In order that the Japanese people may have an opportunity,
after the new constitution goes into effeot, to reoonsider it in the
light of the experience of its working, and in order that the Far
Eastern Commission may satisfy itself that the constitution fulfills
the terms of the Potsdam Declaration and other controlling doouments,
the Commission decides as a matter of policy that, not sooner than
one year and not later than two years after it goes into effeot, the
situation with respect to the new constitution should be reviewed by
the Diet. Without prefudice to the continuing jurisdiotion of the
Far Eastern Commission at any time, the Commission shall also review
the constitution within this same period. The Far Eastern Commission,
in determining whether the Japanese constitution is an expression of
the free will of the Japanese people, may require a referendum or
some other appropriate procedure for ascertaining Japanese opinion
with respect to the oonstitution.
FEC-031/40

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
158
EXCERPT FROM THE MINUTES OF THE THIRTIETH MEETING OF THE FEC. 17 OCT. I
CONFIDENTIAL
ITEM 4 - PROVISIONS FOR THE REVIEN OF A NEN JAPANESE CONSTITUTION (PEC-O5IA)
GENERAL MoCOY said that informal consultation participated in by
the Australian, Soviet, and United States representatives had resulted in
the agreement by those three on the present version of the review paper.
MR. MAkIN said that the only remaining difference of opinion was
as to the time of announcement to the Japanese of the adoption of the review
prinoiple. He recalled that ever since the original proposal for review was
made by Dr. Evatt the general opinion on the Commission had been that annoumoe-
ment should follow immediately upon adoption of the policy by the Comission.
The United States Government, however, had sinoe doubted the wisdom of this
course and had advocated postponement of announcement. The Australian view,
he continued, was that announoement of the policy should take place im-
mediately following its adoption. To delay announcement, he pointed out,
might lay the Commission open to the charge from the Japanese that it had
broken faith by not declaring to them the existence of the review provision,
211.0110-1746
particularly since the Japanese were planning elaborate ceremonies to
celebrate the new constitution.
Despite this conviotion on the part of his government, MR. MAKIN
said, he was prepared, in order to secure unanimous adoption of the paper,
to consent to delay in the time of the announcement to the Japanese of
adoption of the policy. He agreed that the Supreme Commander should be
consulted on the question of publication. He urged, however, that suoh
announcement take place as soon as possible, and that it not be delayed
later than the date of promulgation of the constitution.
SIR CARL BERENDSEN expressed general agreement with the viows
of lir. Lakin. He also expressed general agreement with the present dooument
and was, indeed, pleased to see that the Commission had reached an agreement
on the affirmation of the principle of review. He asked what diffioulties
the United States Government now saw in connection with the immediate announoe-
ment of the adoption of this paper. He conceded that it would have been unwise
to announce such a policy while the constitution was under consideration by
the Japanese Diet and he granted, furthermore, that it might be unwise to
announce the decision before promulgation of the constitution. However, he
said, he could not understand why the United States Government deemed it unwiso
to announce the review principle at the time of promulgation, and he asked
for an explanation of the United States position on this point. GENERAL MoCOY
replied that numerous reasons had existed for the United States position.
One of these reasons had been consideration for the diffioult position of
the Supreme Commander who had felt that nothing should be done whioh, in the
oyes of the Japanese, would condemn a constitution at the moment of ite
adoption by them. Other reasons for the United States position had been of
a legal nature, and these points had now been met by the present version of
paragraph 1.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
159
CONFIDENTIAL
GENERAL MoCOY presented the following formal statement:
"At the meeting of the Commission on September 2lst, I stated
that my Government is prepared to accept the Review paper provided
that the Commission at some subsequent meeting and after obtaining
the view of the Supreme Commander will consider the time and manmer
of issuance of the policy decision embodied in the paper. That iss
if the pending paper is approved by the Commission, as we trust it
will be, the next step, after transmitting this paper as a polioy
decision to the United States Government for communication as a
directive to the Supreme Commander, will be to request the views
of the Supreme Commander as to the time and manner of issuanoe of
this policy decision. After the views of the Supreme Commander have
been received, the Commission will then be in a position to consider
the time and manner of the issuance of this policy decision.
"After this Review paper is passed, I should be pleased to be
authorized to consult with the Supreme Commander in order to obtain
his views on this subject."
DR. PATTERSON asked whether the reservation respecting "issuance"
meant that the forwarding of a directive to the Supreme Commander would be
delayed. GENERAL MoCOY replied that the directive to the Supreme Commander
would go forward immediately, but that the time of issuanoe in Japan and
publicity was a question for continued consideration when the views of the
Supreme Commander had been received.
GENERAL LoCOY moved and MR. MAKIN seconded the motion that the
Commission adopt FEC-031/40, with the understanding that the Chairman be
authorized to consult with the Supreme Commander as to the Supreme Com-
mander's views regarding the time and manner of issuance of the policy
decision and that after the Supreme Commander's views had been received
the Commission would reconsider the time and manner of such issuance. The
motion was carried unanimously.
GENERAL MoCOY said that the foreoing views of kr. Makin and
Sir Carl Berendsen would be communicated to the Supreme Commander at the
time of requestin his views as to the time and manner of issuance of the
policy decision.
- 2 -

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.97)
NOY 41946
CONFIDENTIAL
NEL:ORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY. SWNCC
Subjects
SWN-4854, October 25, 1946 Concerning
Transmission of Messages Dated
October 10 and 18 for Transmittal to
the Far Eastern Commission.
894.011/10-2546
In reference to the transmittal of a copy of a
message to SCAP dated October 10 which contains comment
by the Department of state and the Chairman of FEC
on a directive regarding further policies relating to
a new Japanese Constitution, as this message was of
an explanetory nature and was drafted at the instigation
of the Department of state and the United States Member
of FEC and was not requested by FEC, it is considered
unwise to transmit copies of this message to the FEC.
Consequently, copy No. 1 of the message to SCAP dated
October 10 end forwarded in your memorandum, sWN-4854,
of October 25, 1946 1s returned herewith. Copies No. 2
and 3 have been retained for the Department of State
files.
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant ecretary
894
nslocure
Copy Nc. 1 of message
to CAl.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.96)
Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: 10-30-46
SWNCC - Mr. Noseley
TO
FROM
JA - Nr. Borton
SUBJECT :
Attached memorandum.
Reference your memorandum of
October 25 to Mr. Penfield and your
remark that I had advised Colonel
Field that I thought copies of the
message dated October 1 should be
made available to FEC, I am afraid
that there has been some m1 sunder-
standing on this matter. Apparently
I was not clear as to just what
Colonel Field was referring to in
his conversation with me as I do not
feel it advisable to transmit to
FFC a message such as this one which
was designed to explain FEC action
further to General MacArthur and
was written for U.S. Government use
and not that of Fic. You will note
there is a memorandum from
Ceneral Hilldring attached returning
copies of the  ressape of ober 18.
FILED
194€
113
rtenn1

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.96)
CUPY FOR DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER POR JAPAN
Tolyo, October 23, 1946.
Mise Anna Rothe,
Editor, Carrent Blegraphy,
Noted
The H. W. Wileom Company,
950-972 Univeraity Avanue,
109
Now York 52, Now York.
Dear Miss Rothe:
I have received your letter of September 6, l946, malesing
tear sheets of the September iasue of Currank Blagrmhy and re-
questing information us to any errors of fact therein.
Your publication is new to me and I have no lmowledge of its
policies or tendencies. However, in response to yeur reqeest, I
may say that arrors of fact whiah I find in the tent are mmerous.
Many of them are minor and perhaps not worthy of eorrestiem at
this late date. Among the less sdnor I my mentien the fellewing:
In the first paragraph General Meatrthur is raferred to as
head of the Oocupation Forces in Japan. General MasArthur is
Supreme Commender for the Allied Powers in Japan and as sueh is
Commander in Chief of the Ocoupation Foroes. The Commanding
General is Lieutenant General Eichelberger.
You mmy wish to check the historical acouraay of the begin-
ning of the fourth paragraph: "At the and of 1942, whem Japan was
making more gains in her war against Chine while armed alasbes
occurred between Chinese Government and Comunist treops....".
Incidentally, I went to Chungking in May 1943 not 1942 and was
United States chargé d'affaires there from May to September and
also for a period 1n 1944.
The statemant that Ceneral Hurley "effected his removal
together with othar members of the Chungking embasay...." is
incorrect. Pureuant to the general policy that Pereign Service
officers not serve more than two sumers in Chungking and in
response to my on desire not to remain in Chungking-request for
an axpression of which had been made in Deceabar 1944--I roceived
orders traneferring me from Chungking in March, before the inoident
occurred

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
ocourred to whiah General Hurley raised publie ebjestien.
Your statement of General Hurley's omplaint might also be
corrected. As Mr. Byrnes made clear before the Semate Foreign
Relations Committee I had ment a telegram to Washingten which, in
the light of the developing situation, suggested a change in tae-
tioe for discussion with General Hurley.
In the next paragraph the statement of General Maaarthur's
title is inoorrect and I believe that the referenoe to a statement
by the Under Seoretary is not entirely in place, especially as the
lifting of it from its context gives emphasis to an ineorrect im
plioation.
In the same paragraph there is a quotation purperting to
outline my duties. I do not know where this quotatien has come from
as I have never seen any much instruction.
In the following sentence there is a statement that the
"General had overstepped his bounds as a military commander in
issuing & polioy-making statement without consulting Washington".
I know of no foundation whatsoever for this sentence. I believe
that if you would read the provisions of the Mosoow Cemumique of
December 27, 1945, you would obtain a olear picture of the role of
the Supreme Comander in the regime of control for Japan and as the
representative of the Allied Powere here.
In the naxt paragraph the Allied Counoil for Japan is stated
to represent the Far Eastern Commission. This is inoorrect. e 
roading of the Loucow Commmique will also clarify this matter.
At the end of the paragraph in question the statement that nowe-
paper men criticised me for a "tendanoy to impugn the Soviet delegate"
eto., is inoorrect to the extent that such criticiam has been voiced
by mome newspapers but by no means all or even a majority.
The manifesto" stated in the next paragraph to have been "adopted
by the Japanese" apparently refers to a petition presented by a com-
mittee in charge of the May Day demonstration, it was not a potition
adopted by the Jaanose people and it spoke for only a mall group.
The statement that I said it had originally been draan up by a foreign
power is not correct.
In the next paragraph the statement that I branded a Soviet
labor

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
Laber leglalatien pregram as Commanistic is alse inesrvest as will
appear from a study at the reserd. The statement that tmearther
dealared that one of the Soviet recemmendatiens, a prepesel that
werkere be allowed te take over plants alosed donm by omere, was a
vielatien of private property rights" is alse imsssreet. Cemeral
Macirthur has never made any such statemant. Per an eeeurate
asesunt of the other matters mest iemed in that paregreph I weuld
alee refer you to the mioutes of the metinge. As now estlined the
mtters eovered in the paragraph are net correstly stated and give
rise to wide misinterpretation.
The statement of the Sesretary of State in regard to the Marley
affair was published in the State Department malletin which eam
readily be obtained frem the Department. Mimutee of the mestinge of
the Allied Coumsil fer Japan are, it is believed, aceessible in the
offise of Mr. Erle R. Diekever in the Department of State.
Sincerely yours,
George Atcheson, Jr.
Copy to: Department of State,
Washington.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
October 25, 1946
FE
Mr. Penfield,
Your particular attention is invited to the
copies of the messages sent to SCAP which set
forth the comments of the Department of State and
the Chairman of FEC. You will recall that this
was sent as a separate message to make comment on
the FEC Directive regarding further policies re-
lating to a new Japanese Constitution.
4
Some question has been raised whether copies
of the messages should be sent to FEC for regular
distribution because they merely represent comments.
However, Mr. Jorton has advised Col. Field that he
is of the opinion that they should be made avail-
able to FEC. I merely call this matter to your
attention in order that you may determine whether
they should receive the usual distribution.
Copies of the directive which this message
refers to were sent to you a few days ago in the
usual manner for transmittal to FEC.
H. W. Moseley

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.95)
..CONFIDENTIAL
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
10
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SWN-4854
25 Ootober 1946
894.011/10-2546
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
Subject: Copies for the Far Eastern Commission
of Messages to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powera.
×1694.0031
Enclosed herevith are three copies each of the
messages dated October loth and l8th, which were
transmitted to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Copy No. 1 1s
forwarded for transmittal to the Far Eastern Commisslon
and Coples No. 2 and 3 are for the files of the
NOV 7 1946
Department of State.
FILED
NFIDENTIAL FILE
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
894.011
V. N. Waely
H. W. MOSELEY
Secretary
0-2546
Enclosures
JOF NF Un
9
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
File
WASHINGTON, D. C.
11-8.46
SWN-4869
31 0ctober 1946
MEMORNDUM FCR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
Subject: Directives Trensmitted to SCAP
by the Joint Chiefe of Stafr
Enclosed ere three coples of Directive, Serial
894.011/10-3146
No. 62, tronsmitted to SCAP by the Joint Chiefs of
Staff. Copy No. 1 is for tranemittal to the Far
Eastern Comm1sston and Cop1es Nos. 2 and 3 ere for
the files of the State Department.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinetin Committee:
N. Wi Moseily
H. W. MOSELEY,
Secretary
NO. & 1946
FILED
1146
H

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
COPY NO
Serial No, 62
28 0ctober 1946
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
DIRECTIVE REGARDING PROVISIONS FOR THE REVIEW
OF A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
The following directive, prepared by the State Department
to implement the policy adopted by the Far Eastern Commission
on 17 October 1946 under the prov1sions of paragraph II, A, 1,
of its terms of reference, has been received from the State,
War, and Navy Depertments for transmission to you for your
guidance in accordance with paragraph III, 1, of those terms of
reference:
"1. The new constitution, which will in due season
after promulgation become the legal successor of the present
constitutlon with such changes as have been made or may be
made as a result of consideration and policy decision of the
Far Eastern Commission, shall be subject to further review by
the Diet and the Far Eastern Commission in terms of the
following paragraph.
"2. In order that the Japenese people may have an oppor-
tunity, after the new constitution goes into effect, to re-
consider it in the light of the experience of its working,
and in order that the Far Eastern Commission may satisfy
itself that the constitution fulfills the terms of the Potsdam
Declaration and other controlling documents, the Commission
decides as a matter of policy that, not sooner than 1 year

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
and not later than 2 years after it goes into effect, the
situatlon with respect to the new constitution should be re-
viewed by the Diet. Without prejudice to the continuing
jurisdiction of the Far Eastern Commission at any time, the
Commission shell also review the constitution within this
same period. The Far Eastern Commission, in determining
whether the Japanese constitution is an expression of the
frec will of the Japanese people, may require a referendum
or some other &ppropriate procedure for escertaining Japanese
opinion with respect to the constitution."
-2 -

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.95)
DM
NOV5 1946
BESTRIOTER
MEMORANDUM FOR THE BEORETARY GENERAL,
FAR EASTKAN COMMISSION
In mcoordanoe with inatruotions of Ootober 31,
1948 from the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee,
894.011/10-3146
there is enolosed a oertified oopy of a direative,
Serial No. 62, to the Suprme Commander for the
Allied Powers regarding Provislons for the Review
of a New Japanese Constitutlon, to be filed with the
Far Fastern Comission under the provislons of
paragraph III, 4, of 1ts Terms of Reference.
J. H. Hilldring
Asslstant Seoretary
Enolosure:
Copy No. 1 (oertified) of
ireotive to theSupreme Commander
for the Allied Powers,
erial Nol 62.
JA:ALDunning:8g
11-1-48K

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.96)
164
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
PLAIN
Pontrol 595
13
LIF.
Rec'd November 2, 1946
Action: FB
3:40 p.
Info:
FROM: Tokyo
Office of
3
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
0
TO:
Socretary of State
ESP
A-H
DIRPCTOR
NO:
495, November 1
Department of State
SA/M
OCD
Asahi daily is requesting each member Allied Council
DC/R
to make statement on new constitution for special supplement
November 3, date constitution will be promulgated. Under-
894
stand Soviet and Chinese members have assented and accor-
dingly responsive to this request, with concurrence General
MacArthur, I am giving Asahi statemont as follows:
"The new constitution is being promulgated against a
background of far reaching stops which have been taken
in the past 14 months in Japan's progress from defeat to
domooracy. New political parties have arisen, the press
hus made vigorous use of 1ts new froedom, the franchise
ras ber oxpanded among men and extended to women, the
jabor movoment has been liberated, the tenant farmer has
been given new hope in ownership of the land he vorks, all
:Len and women have become free to think and speak and
9
assemble and worship.
The constitution gives now substance to these developments
and creates essential framework for a demooratic life. It
is of profound significanoe that the new constitution
comes into being through a Diet whose members hold their
seats an a result of the free eleotions of April of this
year. It is of profound significance that all aspects of
constitutianal revision have long received wide discussion
in the press, in the govt and among the people. The Japanese
people have learned that the past betrayed them and that
their hopes lie in a new kind of future. The framework
for democracy erected by the new constitution is the gate-
way to that future. There of course remains much to be
NOV 18 1946
accomplished. In final analysis the Japanese people
FILED
wmust make their own way along the road from defeat to
democracy.
PLAIN
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
11.5
PLAIN
-2- #495, November 1, from Tokyo
democracy. Tho future of democracy in Japan now rests
squarely on the houlders of the Japanese people and
their leaders fheir achievement of full success will
be in the interests of the world at large as well as in
heir own interests. I am confident that the Japanese
poople may iook hopefully to a democratic future."
ATCHESON
JM:AGA

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.94)
166
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, Movember 8, 1946
UNRESTRICTED
295
W/00
o. 685
AON 9
DEPARTMENT
SUBSECT:
Chinese Suggestion to Change Date of Praulgution of
PORTING SERVIUL!
DIVISION OF FOn...
NOV 13 1946
New Japanese Constitution.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
xK740.009C
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a letter, October 25, 1946,
from Lieutenant General CHU Shih-ming, Chinese Member of the Allied
Council for Japan and Chief of the Chinese Mission here, on the subject
KK
of the date for promilgation of the new Japanese constitution, and a
copy of my reply, October 31, 1946, as Chairman of the Allied Council.
/JA
General Chu suggests that November 3, the date on which the
Japanese commemorate the birthday of the late Emperor Meiji, is not
208
an auspicious day for promulgation of the new constitution. The
IFE
reason for this suggestion is stated to be that the Meiji period is
1JK
remembered by the Japanese people chiefly for the success achieved
201C
in the expansion of their empire, marked as this period was by two
60CD
aggressive wars against Japan's continental neighbors.
1C16
1DRF
In my reply, which had the concurrence of General MacArthur, I
1 FEC(LKD)
stated that this day was chosen because the Emperor Meiji was mainly
responsible for the first Japanese constitution. I also stated that
the choice of this day does not appear to have any far-reaching sig-
nificance and that it does not seem desirable that steps be taken to
intervene.
Wau
CS/HH
Respectfully yours,
George Atcheson, Jr.
894.011
Enclosures:
DEC 9-1946
FILD
1. From Lieutenant General Chu,
October 25, 1946 to Ambassador
George Atcheson, Jr.
2. From Ambassador George Atcheson, Jr
11-246
to Lieutenant, General Chu, Odtober 31.
Original and hectograph to Department
801.1
WJSebald:1h
0:
R2C
Dis

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.99)
167
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 685 dated Nevember . 1946 frem the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tekye, on the mabjeet
"Chinese Saggestion to Change Date of Promulgation of New Japamese
Constitution".
COPY
CHINESE MISSION IN JAPAN
TOKYO
October 25, 1946
His Excellency
George Atcheson, Jr.,
Chairman, Allied Council for Japan,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Ambassador,
According to reports appearing in the Japanese newspapers, the
new constitution of Japan will be promulgated on November 3, which
is the day set by the Japanese for their annual celebration of the
Meiji-setsu or Meiji festival. Marked by two aggressive wars against
Japan's continental neighbors, the Meiji period is remembered by the
Japanese people chiefly for the success achieved in the expansion of
their empire. It is suggested for this reason that November 3 is
hardly an auspicious day for the promulgation of the new constitution
which is intended to serve as the political foundation of a democratic
Japan. If you concur with me in this interpretation, I hope that
means will be found to persuade the Japanese Government to select
a more auspicious day for the event.
Yours very sincerely,
/s/ Chu Shih-ming

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch No. 685 dated November 8, 1946 from the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the mubjest
"Chinese Suggestion to Change Date of Promulgation of New Japasese
Constitution".
COPY
ALLIED COUNCIL FOR JAPAN
TOKYO
Office of the Hember
for
The United States of America
October 31, 1946.
Dear General:
With reference to your letter of October 25, 1946, concern-
ing the selection of November 3 as the date for promulgation of
the new Japanese Constitution, it is my understanding that this
day was chosen by the Japanese Government because the Emperor
Meiji was mainly responsible for the first Japanese Constitution.
It does not seem to me that the choice of this date has any
far-reaching significance and, in my opinion, it would accordingly
not seem desirable that steps be taken to intervene in what is re-
garded as a matter for local administration.
Yours very sincerely.
/s/ George Atcheson, Jr.
His Exceilency
Liouionant General Chu Shih-ming,
etc.. etc., etc.,
Chief, Chinese Mission in Japan,
Tokyo.
Info copies: CinC
c/s
Govt Sec
Sec Genl, ACJ
AG

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
De/
File
SWN-4873
4 November 1946
11-20-146
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
mennf UanPEC
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penrield - FE)
11-st-yc
Subjeot: Consultation on Directive Regarding
HeD
Provisions for Review of a New
Japanese Constitution
At the request of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the
894.011/11-446
attached message from the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers 1s forwarded to the State Department for
tranamittal to the Chairmen of the Far Eastern
Commission.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
N. H. Aheley
H. W. MOSELEY,
Secretary
Encloeure

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.94)
168
1946
MENORANDUN POR THE CHAIRMAN,
FAR LASTXRN COMNISSION
894.011/11-446
with referenee to the consultative message of
the Chairman of the Far Fastern Gommission to the
Supreme Commander for the Allled Powere, dated
Ootober 29, 1946, regarding the tims and manner of
1ssuanee of the Var Kastern Commissiom peliey
decision on the Provisions fer the Review of a New
Japanese Constitution, there ls emelesed a sopy ef
a message from the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers dated Movember 1, 1946.
It is requested that the Chairman make this
message avallable to the mmbere of the Tar Easterm
Commission.
CS/A
J. H. Milldring
Assistant Seoretary
Enolosure:
Measage from BCAP,
Nowember 1, 1948.
JA: ALDadning: sg
894.611
11-5-48
FE

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.90)
169
BEBLRiynn
1 Nevember 100e
I have reeesved the sugreastea of the Pas Rastern Gemnle-
alon that 1ss peliey deolalen e
peliey deslsien Ln referenee merely providee that seme time
te the now coastitution sheuld be revlewed by the Diet"; that
the Far Lastern Commiasion chall reviow the comstitetien within
a refereadum or some other apprepriate prosedere fer aseertals-
Las Japanese eplaion with respeet to the eenstitution; it
the now constitution has beem Ln offeet for one yeer. It Is un-
from ite effeetive date far any ehange er mmamkment that exper-
leaee may swggest or etherwise may be prepesed, mnd that the
pewer of review or alteration of the lastrment, or the enfesee-
meat of any meaure to oubjeet it to addisienal teets of publie
opinion, 1s inherent in the power of eseupation itself, and will
so remain as long as the Allled Contrel ef Japan ls maiataimed.
Throughout the developmemt of the new comstitutiom, metiem
has been largely avelded whieh might be eoastreed as eempaleesy
preeess in erder that mething might megate er eempremise the
free charaeter esseatial if the lastrement ls te live. The
tried to avold. And for what purposet It would lastantly be
vlowed La the publie mind as a diaplay ef faree by the Allaed
18e expression of the popular will by the eosreive throut of
external foree thereby implied. It would redsee the very essemes
of durability upon whiah the iastrument has been built to a frail
skeleton of temporary expedlence overshadewed by the threat of
foreed abrogation or revision at the point of Allied bayomets,
with an open and contimming invitation to the forees of remetion
to coneerve and extend their politieal strength against the time
that, taking advantage or its very terms, preseure might be
brought upon the Diet or the people direet to destroy the con-
stitutlon and restore the old order whiah Allled pollay seeks
pormanently to suppress.
ne the haruful effeot or suoh publiolty is ms patently elear
as any benefit therefrom to the Allled case ls obeoured, I most
strongly reoommend agaimst any sueh prooedure at least until the
proposed year of experlence hae passed and the Far Eastern Com-
misslon feels that the situation then existing oalls for affirma-
tive aotion.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
File
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DCM
1-20-46
SWN-4874
5 November 1946
f
MEIORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
Subject: Copies for the Far Eastern Commission
of Messcges to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers.
894.011
Enclosed are three copies of a message trans-
nitted to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Copy No. 1 is for
tranc..ittrl to the Far Eastern Comnission and Copies
/11-546
Nos. 2 and 3 are for the files of the State Department.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
H. W. Mrelay
H. W. MOSELEY,
Secretary.
Enclosure
CONFIL
ncemo fu Jeaggen, FEC
DENTIAL FILE
NOV 20 1946
FILED
(.T.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 252 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO
29 October 1946
MESSAGE TO THE SWPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
CONSULTATION BETWEEN THE FAR EASTERN COMMISSION AND THE
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS REGARDING THE
TIME AND MANNER
OF
ISSUANCE
OF
THE
POLICY DECISION ON
THE
PROVISIONS FOR THE
REVIEW
OF
A
NEW
JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
The following communication by the Chairman of the Far
Eastern Commission was received from the State, War, and Navy
Departments for transmittal to you.
"Before the policy decision regarding provisions for
the review of a new Japanese constitution (Serial No. 62)
was formally approved by the Far Eastern Commission on
October 17, 1946, Ambassador Makin, Australian representa-
tive on the Far Eastern Commission, stated with reference
to the announcement of the policy decision that the Austral-
ian view was that the announcement should take place immedi-
ately following Its adoption. However, Mr. Makin agreed
that the Supreme Commander should be consulted on the yues-
tion of publication. Sir Carl Berendsen, the New Zealand
representative, expressed general agreement with the views
of Mr. Makin.
"The U.S. Member made the formal statement to the
effect that the U.S. was prepared to agree to the policy
decision 'provided that the Commission at some subsequent
meeting and after obtaining the view of the Supreme Commander
will consider a time and manner of Issuance of the policy
decision embodied in the paper.'

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
"Ger.eral McCo, moved and Mr. Makin seconded the
motion thit the Co'mission adopt the policy decision re-
garding provision: for the review of a new Japanese consti-
tution w th the inderstanding that the chairman be authorized
to const lt with the Supreme Commander to determine his
views regardine the time and manner of issuance of the policy
decis!on and tha: after the Supreme Commander's views had
been received th Commission would reconsider the time and
mannor of such i. ruance. The motion was carried unanimously.
"In acc id ise with the above, the views of the Supreme
Commander are .e uested as to the time and manner of the
issuance of th licy decislon regarding provisions for
the review of a n:w Japanese constitution."

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
170
TO
: FE - Mr. Vincent
DATE:November 5, 1946
A-H - Mr. Gross
Files
Central
FROM
JA - Mr. Borton
SUBJECT:
Time and Manner of Issuance of Far Eastern Commission
Policy Statement on Review of Constitution.
4.011/11-546
In my report on pending problems on Japan of November 4,
I noted that the Chairman of the FEC had requested, at the
FEC meeting of November 1, that Committee #3 prepare a state-
ment for the Chairman to use as basis for a consultative
message between the Chairman and SCAP on the question of
issuance. Committee #3 met on November 5 at whioh time the
following arose:
(1) After general discussion of SCAP's reply to FEC
in which he strongly recommended against publication of the
policy decision at least for a year, the Committee decided
to transmit for SCAP's information verbatim extracts of the
minutes of FEC meetings of October 3l and November 1, with
a view to informing him of the reasons why several members
of the Commission favor 1ssuance by SCAP of the FEC decision
in the immediate future.
(2) The United Kingdom member proposed that a policy
decision of the Comnission be transmitted to SCAP as follows:
"The Commission considers that it is now neceesary to acquaint
the Japanese pl with the terms of the policy decision of
October 17th and request the United States Government to
direct SCAP to communicste the terms of the Commission policy
formally to the Japanese Government before the date of the
meeting of the special session of the Diet on November 25."
(3) There was considerable difference of opinion as to
whether discretion should be left to SCAP and the Japanese
Government to determine whether the Japanese people should
be told that any such decision was that of the Far Eastern
Commission. No decisive vote was taken on this point.
(4) Representatives of China, the Netherlands, the
Philippines, and the United States concurred in the proposal
that further consultation be undertaken with SCAP on the time
and manner of 1ssuance of the pclicy decision and that his
DC/R
viws be obtained on the various alternative methods as to
894.
how the statement might be 1ssued.
Anal
(5) This proposal was opposed by other members of the
Committee who argued that such consultation had already taken
Rev
place and had produced no favorable result, that SCAP's message
disregarded

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
171
-2-
disregarded the decision of the Commission and implied that
he was opposed to the policy deoision, and that if any aotion
was to be taken on November 25 there was not suffio1ent time
for consultation.
(6) The Committee voted 7 to 4 in favor of a polioy
decision being issued to SCAP by the U.S. Government order-
ing him to inform the Japanese Government of the contents of
the FEC decision on review of the Constitution.
(7) The divergent views of the Committee will be
presented to the Commission when it next meets, probably
on November 14.
It was obvious from the tone of the discussion that
many members of the Commission, notably U.K., Australia,
France, New Zealend and U.S.S.R. feel strongly that a further
directive should be sent to General MacArthur covering the
question of time and manner of issuance of the policy on
review of the Constitution. The question arises as to
whether:
(1) U.S. member of the FEC should be instruoted by
SWNCC to veto any attempt to issue a policy decision
on the question of time and manner of issuance of
the review paper;
(2) SWNCC should prepare a draft of a consultative
message to SCAP on this subject which would be aoceptable
to the United States and which could be submitted to
the Commission at its next meeting;
(3) Any other alternative action should be taken.
HB
JA:HBorton:mls

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.90)
NOV 7 1946
MENORANDUN POR THE SEORETARY GENERAL,
FAR EASTERN CONMISSION
In accordance with instruetions of Movember 5, 1966,
894.01
from the Btate-War-Havy Coordinating Committee, there is
enolosed for the files of the Tar Tasterm Dommission, a
oopy of a consultative message from the Chairman of the
Far Eastern Commission to the Supreme Commander for the
Allled Povers dated Oetober 29, 1946, regarding the time
and manner of issuamee of the poliey deeision on the
546
Provislons for the Review of a New Japanese Constitutiem.
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Searetary
C
(Em amon
c3
Enolosure:
3
Copy No. 1 (sertified) of
6
Message to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers
011
JA: ALDunning: 8g
11-0-46
FE
546

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
File
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DC/R
11-446
SWN-4886
7 November 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
Subject: Consultation on Directive Regarding
Provisions for Review of a New
Japanese Constitution
894.011/1
At the request of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
the attached messege from the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, correcting CM IN 129 previously
furnished by SWN-4873, 1s forwarded to the State Depart-
-746
ment for trenamittal to the Chairman of the Far Eastern
Commission.
For the State-WarNavy Coordinating Committee:
H. W. Wrelly
H. W. MOSELEY,
CONFIDEN
Secretary
Enelosure
7

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.96)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SUPPLEMENTARY COPY,
CONFIDENTIAL IVI
URGENT
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED. HANDLE AS CONFIDENTIAL
CORRESPONDENCE PER PARAS 511 and 60a, AR 380-5
From
CINCAFPAC Tokyo Japen 3gd MacArthur
Po.
War Department for Joint Chiefs of Staff
Nr
C 66818
1 November 1946
15t oo ge ? Jine 5 the following:
"i would instantly be lewed au the public mind as a display
of furce by the Allled powers
It would destrcy the free
character of the charter n it3 expression of the popular
will by the (cerc!ve threat of externa) force thereby im-
plied It would rurluce the reny easence of durability upon
which the instrumen: has Deun ouilt to a frail skeleton of
temporary expedience
End
note:
Supplementary copy of CM IN 129 (1 Nov) JCS
AOTION:
JCS
 NFO :
AAF, Adm Laahy, A3W CAD, ID. Adm Nimitz, P&O,
SW (Mr Rusk). CSA
CM IN 1097
(5 NOv 46)
DTG 010405Z
mk
47
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.89)
172
4K
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
F5
d
Unrestricted
No.718
Tokyo, November 1, 1946
SUBJECT: Amendment: to Japanese Government Draft Constitution
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Passed by the House of Representatives and the House
DIVIBION OF FOREIGN
of Peer s.
894.
B-1946
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to refer to
this Mission's aespatch No. 296, March 8, 1946, with which wa
trensmitted a copy of the Japanese Government Draft Constitution,
and to enclose copies of the English translation prepared by
Government Section, Gener al Headq arters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, of the changes in the original ver sion passed by the
House of Representatives enu the House of Peers.
111
2146
11r
E
Enclosure:
IFE
Copy of transletion,
UA. E
as stated.
1JK
1
Original & hectograph t Depart ent
1
801.1
ICIC
GAAbbey: mf
1FC
1 DRI
I FECEND
.IA
3(Wa
1 Mavy
894
CS
mno

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
173
Baclesure no. 1 to despatch no. 718 dated Nevember21 . 1946 frem the
Uaited States Pelitical Adviser fer Japan, Tekye, e the mabjeet "Amend
ments to Japanese Government Draft Censtitutiom Passed by the Meuse of
Representatives and the House of Peers."
The following changes in the original translated versiem  the
new Constitution for Japan were approved by the House of Represemtatives
on 21 Angust, 1946:
Preamble - no change.
CHAPTER I
Article l. The Emperor shall be the symbel of the State and ef
the unity of the people, deriving his position from the will of the
people with whom resides sovereign power.
Article 2. No change.
Article 3. No change.
Article 4. The Emperer ahall perforn only such acts in matters ef
State as are provided for in this Constitution. Never mhall he have
powers related to government.
The Emperor may delegate the performance of his acts
in matters of State as may be provided by law.
Article 5. When, in accordance with the Imperial House Law, a
regency is established, the regent shall perform his acts in matters
of State in the Emperor's name. In this case, paragraph 1 of the pro-
ceding article will be applicable.
Article 6. The Eaperer shall appoint the Prime Minister as
designated by the Diet.
The Emperor shall appoint the Judge to head the Sapreme
Court, as designated by the cabinet.
Article 7. The Emperer, with the advice and approval of the Cabinet,
shall perform the following mots in matters of State on behalf of the
people:
Promulgation of amendments of the Constitution, laws,
Cabinet orders and Treaties.
Convocation of the Diet.
Dissolution of the House of Representatives.
Proclamation of general election.
Attestation of the appointment and dimissal of mimisters
of State and other officials as provided for by law, and of full powers
and credentials of Ambassadors and Ministers.
Attestation of general and special amnesty, commatatiom
of punishment, reprieve, and restoration of rights.
Anarding

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
174
Eaclosure No. l to
Tokyote No. 718.
November 21, 1946.
-2
Awarding af honars.
Attestation of instruments of ratification and other
diplomatic documents as provided for by law.
Receiving foreign Ambassadors and Ministers.
Performance of ceremonial functions.
Article 8. No change.
CHAPTER 2
Article 9. Aspiring to an international peace based on justice and
order, the Japanese people remounce war forever as a severeign right of
the natiem and the threat or use of force as a means of settling die-
putes with other nations.
For the above purpose, land, mea and air ferces, as
well as other war potential, will mever be maintained. The right of
belligerency of the State will not be recognised.
CHAPTER 3
Article 10. The qualifications for Japanese citisenship mhall be
deternined by law. (new article)
Old Articles 10, 11, 12 renumbered as 11, 12, 13. Ne change.
Article 13. Renumbered as Article 14, and in lieu of senteace:
"No peerage shall be granted", the following sentence is inserted:
"Peers and pearage mhall not be recognised."
Article 14. and Article 15 renumbered as 15 and 16. No change.
Article 17. Every person has the right to sue for redress apre
vided by law from the State or a public estity, in case he has saffered
damage through illegal act of any public official. (new article)
Old articles 16 through 22 inclusive, no change except renumbered
as 18 through 24.
Article 23. Renumbered 25. All poople shall have the right to
maintain the minimum standards of wholesome and cultured living.
In all spheres of life, the State shall use its
endeavors for the promotion and extension of social welfare and security
and of public health.
Article 24. Renumbered 26. All people shall have the right to
receive an equal education correspondent to their ability, as provided
by law.
All peeple shall be obliged to ensare that all of the
children under their protection receive elementary education as provided
for by law. Such education mhall be free.
Article25.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
175
Baolosure No. 1 to
Tokyo' . No. 719
ovember 21, 1946.
-3
Article 25. Renumbered 27. All people have the right and the
obligation to work. Standards for working conditions, wages, heurs,
and rest shall be fixed by law. The exploitation of children mhall
be prohibited.
Articles 26 and 27. Renumbered 28 and 29. No change.
Article 30. The people are liable to taxation as fixed by law.
(new article)
Old Articles 28 through 36 inclusive. Renumbered as 31 through
39. No change.
Article 40. Any person, in case he is acquitted after he has
been arrested er detained, may sue the state for redress as provided
by law. (new articlo)
CHAPTER 4
Old Articles 37, 38, 39. Renumbered as 41, 42 and 43. No change.
Old Article 40. Renumbered 44. The qualifications of electers,
and members of both houses shall be fixed by law. However, there shall
be ne discrimination because of race, creed, sex, social status, family
erigin, education, property or income.
Old Articles 41 through 50, inclwsive. Remumbered as 45 through
54. No change.
Old Artiole 51. Renumbered 55. Each house shall judge disputes
related to qualifications of its members. However, in rder to deny a
seat to any member, it is necessary to pass a reselution by a majority
of twe-thirds or more of the members present.
Old Articles 52 through 55, inclusive. Renumbered 56 through 59.
Ne change.
Old Article 56. Renumbered 60. Time limit of 40 days changed to
30 day.
Old Article 57. Renumbered as 61. No change.
Old Article 58. Renumbered 62. Each house may conduct investigations
in relation to government, and may compel the presence and testimony of
witnesses, and the production of records.
Old Articles 59 and 60. Renumbered as 63 and 64. No change.
CHAPTER 5
Old Articles 61 and 62. Renumbered as 65 and 66. No change.
Old Article 63. Renumbered 67. The Prime Minister shall be
designated frem among the members of the Diet by a resolution of the
Diet. This designation shall precede all other business.
ILthe

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.97)
176
Enclosure Ne. 1 to
Tokyo'o 1o. 718
Nevembergl,'1946
-4
If the House of Representatives and the House of Councillers
disagree and if a joint committee of both houses, provided for by law.
cannot reach an agreement, or the House of Councillore fails to make
designatien within 10 days, exclusive of the period of recess, after
the House of Representatives has made designation, the decision of the
House of Representatives shall be the decision of the Diet.
Old Article 64. Renumbered 68. The Prime Minister shall appeint
the ministers of State. However, a majority of their number must be
chosen from among the members of the Diet.
The Prime Minister may remove the ministers of State as he cheeses.
Old Articles 65 through 71, inclusive. Renumbered 69 through 76.
CHAPTER 6
Old Articles 72, 73 and 74. Renumbered 76, 77 and 78.
Old Article 75. Renumbered 79. The Supreme Court ahall consist
of a Judge who is its head and such number of judges as may be determined
by law; all such judges excepting the judge who is its head shall be
appointed by the Cabinet.
The appointment of the judges of the Supeme Court shall be reviewed
by the people at the first general election of the House of Representatives
following. their appointment, and shall be reviewed again at the first
general olection of the House of Representatives with a lapse of 10 years,
and in the same manner thereafter.
In cases mentioned in the foregoing paragraph, when the majority of
the voters show they favor the dismissal of a judge coicerned, he shall
be diemissed.
Matters pertaining to the review mentioned in the foregoing
paragraph shall be prescribed by law.
The judges of the Supreme Court shall be retired upon the attain-
ment of the age as fixed by law.
All such judges shall receive, at regular stated intervals, adequate
compensation which shall not be decreased during their terms of office.
Old Articles 76, 77 and 78. Renumbered as 80, 81 and 82. No change.
CHAPTER 7
Old Artißles 79 through 83 inclusive. Renumbered as 83 through 87.
No change.
Old Article 84. Renumbered 88. All property of the imperial
household shall belong te the State. All expenses of the imperial
household ahall be appropriated by the Diet in the budget.
O1d Artiakes 85,a86 and 87. Renumbered 89, 90 and 91. Ne
change.
CHAPTER B

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.97)
177
Enclesure No. 1 to
Tokyos No. 718
Nevember 21, 1946.
-5
CHAPTER 8
Old Articles 88 and 89. Renumbered 92 and 93. Ne change.
Old Article 90. Renumbered 94. Local public entities shall
have the right to manage their preperty, affairs and administration.
and to enact their own regulations within such laws as the Diet may
enact.
Old Article 91. Renumbered 95. No change.
CHAPTER 9
Old Article 92. Renumbered as 96. No change.
CHAPTER 10
Old Article 93. Renumbered as 97. No change.
Old Article 94. Renumbered 98. This constitution shall be the
supreme law of the State and no public law or ordinance and mo imperial
rescript or other act of Government, or part thereof, contrary to the
provisions hereof, shall have legal force or validity.
The treaties concluded by Japan and establiahed laws of mations
shall be faithfully observed.
Old Article 95. Renumbered 99. The Emperor er the Regent, as
well as the Ministers of State, the members of the Diet, judges, and
all other public officials have the obligation to respect and upheld
thi. constitution.
CHAPTER 11
Old Article 96. Renumbered as 100. No change.
Old Article 97. Deleted.
Old Articles 98, 99 and 100. Renumbered as 101, 102 and 103.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.97)
178
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo'. No. 718
November , 1946.
-6-
The following changes in the translated version of the new
Constitution for Japan, in addition to those changes made by the
House of Representatives on 2l August, were approved by the House
of Peers on 6 October: It was then referred back to the House of
Representatives which approved it without further change on 7 October.
PREAMBLE
There were a few minor changes in the Japanese text of the Preamble
but they were tylistio changee only which did not alter the Bnglish
translation.
l. A new provision was inserted after the second paragraph of
Article 15: "Universal adult suffrage is guaranteed with regard to the
election of public officials."
2. The following clause was included (after paragraph 2 of Article
59): "The provision of the preceding paragraph does not proclude the
House of Representatives from calling for the meeting of a joint
committee of both Houses, as provided by law."
3. ▲ new provision was inserted after the first paragraph of Artiele
66: "The Prime Minister and other Ministera of State shall be civilians."

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
Office Memorandum
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO
: FE - Mr. Vincent
DATE: November 25, 1946
FROM : JA - Mr. Emmerson
suBject: Authority of the Far Eaßtern Conmission in Regard to
Implementing Legislation.
3EC.098
As you will note by the attached FEC document,
the Australian Representative at the meeting of the
Commission on November 2l formally raised the question
of the procedure by which the Commission would pass
upon legislation to implement the Japanese Constitution.
Major Plimeoll stated that he was not raising the
question in the spirit of criticism but only to place
it upon the record and to be sure that the Commission
would have ample time to examine draft leg1slation
qu
hefore 1ts enactment by the Japanese Diet. General
MacCoy stated that every effort was being made to
obtain copies of Japanese araft legislation and that
the War Department had sent an official to Tokyo to
look into the matter of obtaining all necessary drafts.
It 1s apparent that most members of the Commission
take for ranted that they will be permitted to examine
and pass upon imolementing legislation. Nothing has
been said in any Commission meeting to indicate that
8
the United States Government might oppose such a course.
In fact, Genersl MacCoy has on at least two occasions
ind cated thet the Commission would have the opportunity
h
tg examine draft leislation and to pass a policy de-
diricn if such legislation were found to be inconsistent
0
th Potsdam or controllin documents.
dev
Itis understood however that the War Department
does not agree with the assumption by the Commission of
Ca
this authority to review legielation while it still 1s
11-2546
in draft form.To obtain a United States poeition 1t
will therefore be necessary to resolve the differences
between the State and Wer Departments. Since the
Australian Representative has officially raised the
question end since the Commission so far has assumed
that it possesses this right, it appears necessary to
obtain such a United States position at the earliest
possible moment. It is hoped that it will be unnecessary
to take this question to SWNcc; however, as the basis
for a SWNCC documentu:if necessary, we have prepared the
attached draft paner while ffirming the right of the
FEC to

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
FEC to pase upon draft legialation solely for the purpose
of determining its consistency with Potedam and controlling
documents and FEC declsions,
r also suggests
that formal liaison be set up between SCAP and FEc. It
1s believed that if such liaison vere to function
efficiently, much or FEc's anxiety over implementing Conmisies's
pressing for oclicy decisions considerably lessened.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.97)
Competence of Far Eastern Commission with regard to Legis-
lation ImpIementing the Japanese Constitution
THE PROBLEM
1. To determine competence of Far Eastern Commission
to pass upon legislation passed in implementation of the
Japanese Constitution, and methods of dealing with such
legislation.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. See Appendix "A".
1
DISCUSSION
3. See Appendix "B".
d
894.011
CONCLUSION
4. It is concluded that:
a.
The Far Eastern Commission may pass policy
dec sions which formulate policies, principles, and
standards to ich legislation implementing the
Japanese Constitution must conform.
b! The Far Eastern Commission may review draft
legislation at any time subsequent to its introduction
into the Japanese Diet solely for the purpose of deter-
mining whether such legislation is inconsistent with
the Fotsdam Declaration, controlling documents or
decisions of the Far Eastern Commission.
c. In order that there may be continuing consul-
tation between SCAP and the FTC on the subject of
implementing legislation and that both FEC and SCAP
may be completely informed of developments in the
Japanese Diet and FEC respectively, formal liaison
be established between FEC and SCAP to consist
of an officer selected by SCAP to be sent to

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
Washington and a representative of FEc (presumably a
member of the Seoretariat) to be attached to SCAP in
Tokyo.
d. If the Far Eastern Commission determines that
a draft law 1s inconsistent with the Potsdam deolara-
tion, other controlling documents or a decision of the
Far Eastern Commission, it may pass a policy decision
to this effect.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5.
the conclusions in paragraph 4 above be tran to the
United States member, Far Eastern Commission, for his
guidance.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX "A"
Facts Bearing on the Problem
1. Excerpts of Report of Committee No. 3 on its Study
of the Draft Constitution (FEC O87/2):
"b. Implementing Legislation.
The Committee notes
that the draft Constitution leaves many matters to be
determined by subsequent legislation. This is of
particular importance with regard to the status of
the House of Councillors. The Committee considers,
therefore, that if such matters are to be left for
determination in subsequent legislation, drafts of
such lepislation should be made available for the
Far Eastern Commission as soon es these drafts are
submitted to the Diet."
2. Excerpts from Ninutes of the 24th Neeting of the
Far Eactern Cormission, Aupust 28, 1946.
"With respect to paragraph b, Implementing Legis-
lation, of FEC-O&7/2, GENERAI NCCOY said that it was
now the reneral understanding that drafts of legisla-
tion before the Diet would be made available to the
Commission."
3. Excerpts from Minutes of the 26th Meeting of the
Far Eastern Commission, September 19, 1946.
"GENERAL ICCOY stated that his Government favored
a constitution comprised of general principles which
would depend for their execution on subsequent imple-
menting legislation. Such implementing legislation,
he said, would be filed with the Commission and the
Commission might approve a subsequent policy dectsion
on any aspect of implementing legislation which seemed

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
to violate the principles of the Potsdam Declaration."
4. In a policy decision approved by the Far Eastern
Commission on September 25, 1946, the Commission referred
to its right to scrutinize implementing legislation to
ensure that predominence of the House of Councillors over
the House of Representatives is not established.
"The Far Eastern Commission reaffirms its previous
decision, taken in FEC-031/19, /Directive Serial No. 547
Basic Principles for a New Japanese Constitution, that
all cabinet ministers should be civilians, end further
decides as a matter of policy that the House of Council-
lors should not have any predominance over the House
of Representatives. The Commission considers essential
its continuing right to scrutinize the implementing
legislation very carefully to insure that such
predominance is not established."
5. On April 12, 1946 the chairman of FEC requested
the U.S. Government to consult with SCAP on the subject
of sending to washington a staff officer to confer with
the Commission on the subject of constitutional reform.
An excerpt from the State Department's reply (FEC O318)
follows:
"a reply has now been received from General
MacArthur in which he states that he is in full agree-
ment with the need for e closer working arrangement
and understanding between SCAP and the Commission
and stands ready to do everything in his power to
further this end. He states, however, that it is
impossible for him to send an officer to act as his
deputy in the broad matters involving constitutional
reform, as he has given his personal attention to
this question and there is no officer in a position
to express in detail his views."

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3-
6. The Australian Representative on the Far Eastern
Commission on November 21, 1946 raised "the question of
the procedure whereby the Commission can discharge its
function in repard to leglslation to implement the
Japanese Constitution in accoruance with the Commission's
dec1sion of
pol1cy of 25 September 1946 (FEC-087/9)".
(FEC-098, 15 November 1946). The matter of 1mplementing
legislation has also been placed on the agenda of the
steering Committee of the Far Eastern Commission for
preliminary consideration.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX "B"
DISCUSSION
1. The Far Eastern Commission, by its terms of refer-
ence, may formulate policies, principles, and standards in
conformity with which the fulfillment by Japan of its
obligations under the terms of surrender may be accomplished.
Among these obligations of Japan 1s the passage by the
Japanese Diet of legislation implementing the Constitution
which itself has been enacted in conformity with Far
Eastern Comrission policy decisions. It therefore follows
that the Far Eastern Commission may pass policy decisions
with regard to implementing legislation as it has done in
the case of the Constitution.
2. hen legislation implementing the Constitution
is introduced into the Japanese Diet, it is assumed that
copies of draft bills vill be sent as a matter of informa-
tion bv SCAP to the Commission. Any member of the Commis-
sion should have the right to bring before the Commission,
or an appropriate committee thereof, provisions in such
draft legislation which such member may deem to be incon-
sistent with the Potsdem Decleration, the controlling docu-
ments, or decisions of the Far Eastern Commission. The
Commission thereupon may examine such draft legislation
solely for the purpose of deciding this question of con-
sistency. It may not redraft Japanese legislation, suggdst
additions to laws, or take any action beyond that described
above.
3. If the right of the Far Eastern Commission to
review implementing legislation is conceded, as stated in
2 above, the question to be determined is whether this
review should take place before or after the legislation

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
is enacted by the Japanese Diet. If the Far Eastern Com-
mission, by formal voting procedure, decides thet a provi-
sion of a draft law introduced into the Diet is inconsistent
with Potsdam, controlling documents, or policy decisions
of the Far Bastern Commission, it may pass a policy decision
to that effect as the basis for a directive to be sent to
SCAP. If such a directive is sent to SCAP while the legis-
lation in question is still under consideration by the Diet,
it will be possible to obtain necessary changes bv SCAP
action, before the legislation is finally enacted by the
Diet. In such instances, the action of the Far Eastern
Commissicn will not come to the public notice of the
Japanese and no action will be necessary which would in
fact declare invalid laws enacted by the duly constituted
representatives of the Japanese people in accordance with
the Constitution. In the case of the Constitution, the
Far Eastern Commission was able to scrutinize the draft
and to make certain suggestions which resulted in changes
in the draft obtained without publicity or derogation to
the legal legislative rrocesses in Janan.
4. If the Far Eastern Commission should decide,
after a law is duly enacted by the Japanese Diet thet such
law is inconsistent with controlling documents or Far East-
ern Commission policy decisions, it thereby assumes the
right to veto and declare invalid acts of a legislative
body set up under a Constitution passed in conformity to
decisions of the Far Eastern Commission. Such action on
the part of the Fer Bastern Commission would render the
Diet powerless in the eyes of the Japanese people, would
destroy public faith in the organs of government estab-
lished under the new constitution, would discourage the

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
growth of democratic processes and would strengthen elemonts
which might at some future time endeavor to repeal the con-
stitution and laws established under it. If the Far Bastorn
Commission had taken e ction following final passage of the
Constitution in the House of Peers, the result would have
been exactly that which SCAp hes been so anxious to avoid,
the open dictation to the Japanese Government by the vic-
torious powers tc invalidate a constitution duly enacted
bv representatives of the Japanese neople. In the case
of implementing legislation, the exercise of the Far
Eastern Commission's right to d etermine the consistency
cf such legisletion after its enactment, would obtain
the same result unless the United States were to use its
veto to prevent the action. If, however, the United States
accepts the principle that the Far Tastern Commission has
this right of review, it can use its veto power only on
the  erits of the case, and not to negate a principle
which it has accepted.
5. Although SCAt refused to send a liaison officer
to confer vith the FEC on the subject of the Jap Constitu-
tion, he did so on the grounds that there wes no officer
in SCAp Headouarters in a position to express General Mac-
Arthur's views in detail. It is not believed that SCAP
would necessarily object to continuing liaison, the purpose
of which wculd not he to choose individuals who would speak
for SCAP in Washington or for FEC in Tokyo but to assure
efficient exchange of information and full end free exchange
of views between FEC and SCAP. General NacArthur's expres-
sion of Fagreement with the need for a closer working ar-
rangement and understanding between SCAP and the Commission"

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
and his statement that he "stands ready to do everything
in his power to further this end" suggest that he might
be agreeable to liaison of the type proposed in this paper.
6. It is envisaged that formal liaison would result
in more efficient servicing of FEC w'th draft documents
and information on legislative developments in Japan.
Provided with full information, end e better opportunity
for informal consultation, there would be less likelihood
that the Commission members would come to the point of
pressing for rolicy decisions on points in implementing
legislation. Discussions in FEC meetings have revealed
that the principel concern of most members is that of
being informed well in advance of legislation under
consideration in the Diet. They do not wish to be
surprised by & fait eccompli as they were in the case
of the Constitution.
7. In view of the fact that the Australian Repre-
sentative of the Far Eastern Commission has officially
reised the question of FEC procedure toward implementing
legislation, it 1s necessery that the United States Gov-
ernment formulate a decislon in regard to this matter.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.92)
179
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
UNRESTRICTED
Tokyo, December 4, 1946.
89
NO. 754
Del
SUBJECT:
atements Concerning New Japanese Constitution by
dembers of Allied Council for Japan.
DIVNORIGN
P RTMENT OF SI
The United States Political Adviser lias the honor to refer
to this : ission's tele,ram 495, November 1, 1946, transmitting a
statenent on the new constitution of Japan, and to enclose copies
131946
of statements by the Chairman and United States liember of the Al-
lied Council for Japan, r. . Macmahon Ball, British Commonwealth
Member, and Lt. en. . . . Robertson, Commander-in-Chief,
894.011/12-446
British Commonwealth Occupation Force, and a translation of a
statement by r. Yorkson . T. Shen, Deputy for the Chinese Mem-
her of the Allied Council. Th re is also enclosed a copy of a
statement on this same sul ject made b General of the Army
Deulas liacArthur. No statement Was made by the Soviet Member
of the Council.
AFE
Enclosures:
10
1. Press item, Hippon Times, lio ember 3,
TLE
25PB
1946, statement by .r. Atcheson.
2.
Press item, Hippon Times, Novembor 4, 1946,
GOCD
statements y r. W. Macmahon Fall, British
501C
Comonwealth Member and ly Lt. Jen. H. C. I.
1c/G
Robertson, Cine of the ritish Commonwealth
2SPA
Occupation Force.
1 DRF
3.
Press item, Asahi, No: ember 4, 1946,
1 FEC(ER)
statement byr. iorkson. . Shen, repre-
sentati e of Jlinese Mem! er, in translation.
14.
Press item, ippon Times, Noveml er 4, 1946,
3War
statenent y Genera1 MacArthur.
I Mavy
8
24
CS/FLED
Oriinal and hectograph to Department.
JAN 16 1941
801.1
C1
WJSebald:lh:dph
Smh
Mur
D

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.96)
180
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 754, dated December 4, 1946 from
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo on the subject:
"Statements Goncerning New Japanese Constitution by Members of
Allied Council for Japan".
Source: Nippon Times
November 3, 1946
LEN CONSTITUTION HOLDS ROSY PUTURE,
ATCHESON DECLARES
Allied Jouncil Read Stresses Si gnificance
of Revised State Charter
Anlassad r Jeore Atcheson, Jr., hair an ani . S. member of
the Allied Jouncil for Japan, toda all: the new Constitution a
"ateway" to a n Pature for o Japan se.
The Ambassalior, oment marking the promulation of the
listerie charter, cpeossed confidence that the "Japanese people may
leek hopefully to a lomperatie futuro".
Atcheson's statement follows:
"The new onstitution is lein roml ated against a background
of far-reachin steps which have Ieen taken in the past 14 months in
Japan's ro poss from dereaut to lemoeraey. New political parties
have risen, ie  ress has maie virous use of its new freedom, the
fra.chise has been expanled anon men and extended to women, the la-
Ior  ovement has been lilerated, the tenant farmer has been given new
hope in ownership f the land e works, all men and women have become
free to think and speak and asseml le and worship. The Constitution
ives new substanees to those developments and creates essential
framework for a demoeratie life.
"It is f rofound si ificance that the new Constitution comes
into bein through a Diet vhose memlers hold their seats as a result
of the free elect ons of April of this ear. It is of profound sig-
nificane that all aspects of Constitutional revision have long re-
ceived wide discussin in the press, in the Government and among the
people. The Japanose people have learned t at the past betrayed
the and  at their hopes lie in a new kind of future. The frame-
work for demoerac. reeted 1. t'e new Jonstitution is the gateway
to that future. There of course renairs much to be acconplished.
In final anal sis the Japanese people ust make their owm way along
the road from defeat to denoscracy. The future of democracy in Japan
now rests s puarel. on the shoul lers f the Japanese people and their
leaders. Their achievenent f full success will be in the interests
of the world at lar e as well as in their owm interests. I an con-
fident that the Japanese people may look hopefully to a democratic
future."

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure No.. 2 to Despatch No. 754, dated December 4, 1946 from
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo on the subject:
"Statements Concerning New Japanese Constitution by Members of
Allied Council for Japan".
Source: Nippon Times
November 4, 1946.
HOPES FO NEM JAPAII EXPRESSED TY ENYOYS
ust Make Own Jay to Democracy-
ene al ol rtson also issues
statement.
Toio (s), Movem er 3.- oth the United States and Dritish
al ors  e Allic oncil for Japan emphasized the fact that the
Jap an se peo: le "ust al their owm way alon the road from defeat
to lo loeracy in state onts isc red on the occasion of the promulga-
ti  of the: new constitution, ovm er 3.
Ail assador leor  Atcihcso, Allied vouneil chairman and Ameri-
can mem ur, expressed confidonce tl a the Japanese people "may look
hopefall to a pomoeratie future".
W. Hacmahon all,  ritisi. em er, said the day "will mark the
le innin of a new eo  in Ja, tn's history.
ollovin, is the statement a' ' Hacmahon Iall:
"on food will in u country will hope that this third day
of Hoveml or, 1)46, will  ar he innin f a new epoch in Japan's
history. We all live  o morld anrt it is the responsibility of all
nations and partie larl.  J n' nei hbors in the Pacific, to do
overythin in thoir pover o hol un! ncourage the Japanese people to
use the new constitutio s un strwaent to establish a society in
whichh ll n an' woer will mjoy eonemic security, social justice
and men' l freedom.
" we should regarl tol s a da f opportunity rath er than
as a la  aeliove pnt. o one can foretell today whether this pro-
ml at  vill e orel a notal lo event of the occupation period or
whet'er t vill mark the wyer enee ? a ner Japan. While other na-
tions ca lp the Japanone eople to achieve a Letter kind of nation-
al liu, is te lon rm: this country's destig will ie decided by the
Japanese people themselves. Today provides them with a historic oppor-
tunity."
The statenent le Ail assador Atcheson appe ored in full in the
Sunday issue f the Hippon Times.
OSOISSUES SAE
The followin statenent on the now Constitution was issued by Lt.
Gen. H. . . Rovertson, the Conmander-in-Chief f the Tritish Common-
ealth Occupation Force, on the same occasion.
"Pro ulgation of this new Constitution for Japan is welcomed as
another step forward toward the oal of peace and individual liberty,
which is the only foundation for true democracy.
ur ritish form of iemocracy is the oldest in the world today.
This new Constitution,by the fact that it makes Japan a democratic state
with a soverein at the head, is modelled on our own British principles.
Although it

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.94)
Page#2
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 754
December 4, 1946
"Althouh it may vary in detail, its iasic organization will
Le the sa e, Consequentl, its workin will be watched with parti-
cular interest ly all peoplcs f the reat Eritish Jommonwealth of
nations to which  and al? troops lelong.
"Present da ritish parlianentar practice and law have been
evolved I trial an! error throu  the centuries. They protect the
individual and other fundamental human ri  ts, and these have now
been written into this new Japanese Jonstitution.
"With us, freedom, vhich is the natural right of every man,
woman ant chhild in t' ritish Jonnonwealth, is linked to an un-
written devotion to ti kin, thns joinin our independent peoples
in a reat and friendly unity. so too can it be with Japan, if
tc road now shining strai it and lear ahead is followed with
steadfast determination.
" renounein war, Japen is follovin, the example of the
denocracies, and is so joinin in tlis contribution to the future
of e world.
"ineorporat   t s article in the constitution is an im-
portant fa:tor in all future relations vith other peoples and na-
tions.
"Lut it is well t) roneml r alvays, that it is deeds, not
words, that are most inaportant. Japan has abolished the old
feuialism ly the words of the new Jonstitution, but it is by
its leeds under tho nevw Jonstitution that the new democratic
Japan will le jud ed."
一

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 754, dated December 4, 1946 from
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo on the subject:
"Statements Concerning New Japanese Constitution by Members of
Allied Council for Japan.
(Translation)
Source: Asahi
November 4, 1946.
FERST STEP TOWARD IREAT WORLD NITY
Ly Yorkson C. T. Shen.......
Temporary Aetin Chief of
hinase :ission.
As I have a sallow kmowlele f constitutions, I wish to refrain
fron critieizing the revised Japanese Constitution at this time. At
the request of the Asahi, howover, I siall express my personal view
below.
The Japanese onstitat on is not free from short and imcomplete
points. uencrally spealin, however, it nay be called a great demo-
cratic code. Jo mared wit!. the despotic Heiji Constitution, it marks
an epoch-makin revision, anl ma le re arded as a progressive con-
stitution.
The preanl lo f tlo revisei onstitution reveals a great democra-
tie s irit. hereaf'ter, tho Japanese peopl, must observe this law as
the nation's pledge.
Today when t is rom for liscussion on the Emperor system
in hapter I, criticism must le reserved. At any rate, it is note-
worthy that the ystic natu o the mperor is wiped away, and the
soverei nty of the people is cl rl, laid dovm.
As to the renunciation  var i hapter II, it is most admirable
to t writer ho has advocated for  any ears absolute opposition to
a ressive var an! the aloliti n f armanents f world powers. This
is an important step toward  reat unit of the world, and is worthy
of praise as bein coapatil le viti the spirit of the United Nations.
That the Japanese peo le are rou! f this provision as the first
event in the Constitutioral istory of the world is natural. It is
hopel that this renunciation of war will ponetrate into the internal
adininistration f t)e country, anl tht Japan will le thorough-going
in marchin, toward the new oal of world peace. Otherwise, she will
not le al le bo escape cron the criticism that an able proclamation
has been male as an inovital le pesalt f defeat in war.
All othr Clapters are iortant. Alove all, Shapter VIII
that provi les autonoiry of local overnment is important as it is the
Pasis f a le cocratic country. I hopo that the Japanese people who
have lcen lon accustomed to centralined overnment vill realize its
importance as soon as possil le. (It lay le said in this connection
that the reat prieiples of the chin se epublic are lased upon
local autonony) in si rt, tc new onstitution is the foundation
upon wich a new peaceful Japan is relilt. Unless the government
and the people ave th convicti n and seal to understand and prac-
tice cai articl t code, any democratic law created with pains-
takin efforts vill le nothing iut a decoration. There is a saying
in Clina: "A umal le person is responsille for the rowth or ruin of
a country." Needless to say, treat is the responsibility of the
Japanose peoplo. Thore is anothor sayin in hina: "The country
disappears, vhile mowntains and rivers re ain." It is hoped that
the ruined country with mountains and rivers remaining will be re-
constructed by this ner: Constitution as soon as possible.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
181
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 754, dated December 4, 1946 from
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo on the subject:
"Statements Goncerning New Japanese Constitution by Members of
Allied Council for Japan".
Source: Nippon Times
November 4, 1946
LMaCARTHUR'S STATE ENT HAILS NEW
CONSTITUTION AS LIG STRIDE TO PEACE.
General Douglas MacArthur, on the eve of the promulgation
of the new Japanese constitution, issued a special statement
characterizing the charter as a reat achievement toward orld
peace, goodwill and normalcy. The statement said:
The adoption of this lileral charter, together with other
progressive measures enacted lby the Diet, lays a very solid founda-
tion for the new Japan. Like the product of all human endeavor,
it has its frailties but by and lar e it shows how far we have
come since the hostilities ended. It represents a great stride
forward toward world peace and oodwill and normalcy."

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
12 December 1946
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable Dean Acneson
Acting Secretary of State
B
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission pro-
vide tnat one of the functions of tne Commission snould be to
"formulate tne policies, principles and standards in conformity with
waicn the fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the Terms of
894.011/12-1246
Surrender may be accomplisned."
It is furtner provided that when such decisions are made
by the Far Eastern Commiseion, "The United States Government shall
prepare directives in accordance with the policy decisions of the
Commission and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander through
the appropriate United States Government agency."
At the thirty-seventh meeting of the Far Eastern Comnission
neld at 2516 Massnciusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C., on
12 December 13+6, the enclosed policy decision relative to Issuance
of the Policy Decision on Review of tre Japenese Coustitution was
unanimously anproved.
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Comnission, I have
been instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of the
Commission, in order thst the appropriate directives may be prepared
and transmitted to the Supreme Commender in accordance with the
Terms of Reference.
Sincerely yours,
Kelen (nualme
CONFIDENTIA
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Enclosure
1

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISGION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON B. D. C.
The attached copy of a document unanimously
adopted at tne tnirty-seventu meetiug of the Far Eastern
Con nission, held at 2516 Massacnusetts Avenue, Northwest,
Wasnington, U. C.. on 12 Jecember 1946, has been cowpared
with the original text and is certified to be a true copy.
Telem 
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Wasnington, ). C.
12 Decewber 1946

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
ISSUANCE OF THE POLICY DECISION ON REVIEW OF
THE JAPANESE CON STITUTION
1. The terms of tne policy decision contained in
FEC-O3]/41 (Provisions for the Review of a New Japanese
Constitution, approved on 17 October 1946 and forwarded to
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers on 28 October
1946, Serial #62) snould be formally communicated to the
Government of Japan.
2. The Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powers should
be informed that the tine and manner of public announcement
of this policy decieion ale still being considered by the Far
Eastern Commission.
FEC-099/3

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.96)
182
DEC 1 6 1946
CONFIDENTIAL
In reply refer to
JA
MEXORANDUM FOA THE SEORETARY SWECC
Subject:
Draft Directive Regarding Issuanee of the
894.01
Folloy Feclslon on Review or the Japanese
Constitution.
Trere ls enclosed n draft direotive prepared on the
basie of u volicy deolsion unanizously apcroved at the
"7th meeting of the Fer Eaetern Coum sslon on Desember 12,
1948, under the rovielons of purngranh I1, A, 1, of ito
/12-1246
terme of reference.
It le recuested trnt the anolosed direotive be
forwarded to the Joint Crlefs of Stafr for transmieslon
to Generrl hacirtrur for ris guidenoe in acoordanoe
with caragr ph III, 1, of the terms of referenee of the
Far Eastern Commlsslon. It ls emsumed that Is the
Joint Cnlefe of staff rave uny question rogarding the
draft directive they will refer the matter to the
State Depertment for clarlficatlon before transmisting
a directive on the subject.
J. H. Hilldring
Asslstant Secretary
Enclosure:
Draft Directive
FILE
12/18/46

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.95)
183
DRAFT DIRECTIVE REGARDING ISSUANCE OF THE
POLICY DECISIOR ON REVIEW
OF THE JAPANESL CONSTITUTION
The following directive, prepared by the State
Bepartment to implement the poliay adopted by the Far
Eastern Commlssion on 6 December l946 under the provisieme
of Paragraph II, A, 1, o f its terms of referemee, mas
been received from the State, Yar and Navy Departments
for transmlssion to you for your guidemee in aseordanee
with ?arngraph Il1, 1, of those terme of referenee:
"I. The terme of the polioy decieion sontalned
in F3C-Osl/Al (Provislons for the Review of a Now
Ja"anese Conetitution, apnroved on 17 Cotober 1946 and
forwarded to the Supreme Commander for the Allled
owers on ¿8 Gctober 1946, Serial #62) should be for-
uslly consuniosted to the Government of Japan.
"2. The time and mnner of public announeement
of tnis policy decision are still being consldered by
the Far Eastern Comuisslon."

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-4989
18 Deoember 1946
usi menh
PEE
2/12/20/46
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
Subject: Polioy Toward Announoement of the
894.011/12-1846
Provislons for the Review of the New
Japanese Constitution
References:
a. FEC O31/41
b. SWNCC 228/12
By 1nformal act1on on 18 December 1946 the State-
War-Navy Coordinating Comm1ttee approved SWNCC 228/12,
a copy of which 1a enclosed.
It 1s requested that the conclusion in the approved
CONFIDENTIAL
paper be forwarded by the Department of State to the
U. S. member on the Far Eastern Commission as a state-
ment of the U. S. position.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
N. U. Woreley
J. H. HILLDRING
Chairman
7
Enclosure
Copy No. 50, SWN0C 228/12
CONEDENTIAL

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
50
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
18 December 1946
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
DECISION ON SWNCC 228/12
POLICY TOWARD ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE PROVISIONS FOR THE
REVIEW OF THE NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
Note by the Secretaries
By informal action on 18 December 1946 the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee ar proved SWNCC 228/12.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
Secretariat

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
50
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
SWNCC 228/12
12 December 1946
Pages 76 - 84, incl.
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
POLICY TOWARD ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE PROVISIONS FOR THE
REVIEW
OF
THE NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
Note by the Secretaries
The enclosure, a study presented by the State Member, SWNoc,
is circulated for consideration by the Conmit tee.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
Secretariat

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE
POLICY TOWARD ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE PROVISIONS FOR THE
REVIEW OF THE NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
THE PROBLEM
1. To determine the U. S. position with respeot to the
publication of the policy decision contained in Enclosure "A"
of FEC O31/41 (Appendix "A").
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM AND DISCUSSION
2. See Appendics "A" and "B".
CONCLUSION
3. It is concluded that the U. S. position should be as
follows:
"The U. S. Government will not agree to the publioation
of the Policy Dccision contained in FEC O31/4l until,
after consultation with General MacArthur, the U. S.
Government concludes that such publication is consistent
with U. S. foreign policy and the accomplishment of
Allied objectives in Japan."
RECOMMENDATIONS
4. It is recommended that:
a. SWNCC approve the statoment of the U. S. position
as set forth in the Conclusion; and
b. The Conclusion be forwarded by the Department of
State to the U. S. Member on the Far Eastern Commission
as a statement of the U. S. position.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "A"
CONFIDENTIAL
FEC-031/41
23 October 1946
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
PROVISIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
(Reference:
FEC-031/40)
Note by the Secretary General
1. Enclosure "A", a decision of policy relative to pro
visions for the review of a new Japanese Constitution, was
unanimously approved by the Far Eastern Commission at its
thirtieth meeting on 17 October 1946.
2. The letter of transmittal of the Secretary General
forwarding this decisior on behalf of the Far Eastern Commission
to the Acting Secretary of State of the United States Govern-
ment in accordance with the Termo of Reference, 1s oirculated
herewith as Enclocure "B".
3. The letter of trar.smittal also represents in itself a
consultation with the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
with regard to the time and manner of issuance of Enolosure "A".
4. In addition to the enclosed policy decision the text of
Item 4 of the minutes of the thirtieth meeting of the Commission
was forwarded to the Acting Secretary of State.
5. The attention of all concerned is invited to the
classification of this document which prohibits the dissemination.
of the information contained therein to unauthorized persons or
to the press.
NELSON T. JOHNSON
Secretery General
FEC-031/41

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE"A"
PROVISIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF A NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
1. The new constitution, whioh will in due season after
promulgation become the legal successor of the present constitu-
tion with such changes as have been made or may be made as a
result of consideration and policy decislon of the Far Eastern
Commission, shall be suuject to further revlew by the Diet and
the Far Easterr Commission in terms of the following paragraph.
2. In order that the Japanese people may have an opportunity,
after the new constitution goes into effeot, to reoonsider it
ir. the light of the experience of its working, and in order that
the Far E stern Commisslon may satiafy itself that the constitu-
tion fulfills the terms of the Potsdam Declaration and other
controlling doouments, the Commiesion decides as a matter of
policy that, not sooner than one year and not later than two
years after it goes into effect, the situation with respect to
the new constitution sh-uld be reviewed by the Diet. Without
prejudice to the cortiruing jurisdiotion of the Far Eastern
Commission at any time, the Commisslon shall also review the
constitution within this same period. The Far Eastern Commission,
in determining whether the Japanese constitution is an expression
of the free will of the Japanece people, may require a referendum
or some other appropriate procedure for ascertaining Japanese
opinion with respect to the constitution.
FEC-03141
Enjosure "A"

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ENCLOSURE"B"
17 Ootober 1946
The Honorable Dean Acheson
Acting Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Beoretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission provide
that one of the functions of the Commission should be to "formu-
late the policies, prinoiples and standards in conformity with
which the fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the Terms
of Surrender may be accomplished."
It is further provided that when such decisions are made by
the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government ahall
prepare directives in accordance with the policy decisions of
the Commission and uhal transmit them to the Supreme Commander
through the appropriate United States Government agenoy."
At the thirtieth meeting of the Far Eastern Commission held
at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Waghington, D. C., on
17 October 1946, the enclosed polioy decision relative to Prov1-
sions for the Review of a New Japanese Constitution was unanimous-
ly approved.
As Secretary Genercl of the Far Eastern Commission, I have
been inatructed to foward this deoision to you on behalr or the
Commission, in crder tra the appropriate directives may be pre-
pared and transmitte to the Supreme Commander in accordanoe with
the Terms of Reference,
Before the enclt sed policy decision was formally approved
by the Coamission, ire United States member made a formal state-
ment, recalling the position of his government to the effeot that
the Únited States was prepared to agree to the enolosed polioy
"provided that the Commission at some subsequent meeting and after
obtaining the view of the Supreme Commander will consider the
time and manner of issuance or the policy decision embodied in
the paper". The United States member's statement explained that
the enclosed polioy would be forwarded to the United States Govern-
ment to be transmitted as a directive to the Supreme Commander in
the usual fashion. At the same time the Chairman would request
the Supreme Commander to express to the Commission his views as to
the time and manner of issuance of the enclosed policy decision.
After the views of the Supreme Commander have been received, the
Commission would then be in a position to consider the time and
manner of the issuance of this policy decision.
The Commission agreed to the proviso of the United States
member and authorized him to consult with the Supreme Commander
in order to obtain the Supreme Commander's views on this subject.
I am enclosing, for your information and guidance, a copy of the
draft minutes of the thirtieth meeting of the Commission oovering
this action (Annex to Appendix "A").
The Chairman has accordingly instructed me to request, in
his behalr, that the United States Government, in transmitting
the enolosed polioy decision to the Supreme Commander, at the
same time inform the Supreme Commander or the Commission's dis-
cussions as set forth in the enclosed excerpt from the draft
minutes and request his views with respect to the appropriate time
and manner of issuance of the policy decision enolosed herewith.
It is requested that the enolosed polioy decislon, as well
as the formal consultation aocompanying it, both be olassiried as.
confidential.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ANNEX TO APPENDIX "A"
"ITEM 4 - PROVISIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF A NEW JAPANESE CONSTI-
TUTION (FEC-031/40)
"GENERAL MCCOY said that informal consultation participated
in by the Australian, Soviet and United States representatives
had resulted in the agreement by those three on the present
version of the review paper.
"MR. AKIN said that the only remaining difference of
opinion was as to the time of announoement to the Japanese of
the adoption of the review principle.
He recalled that ever
since the original proposal for review was made by Dr. Evatt
the general opinion on the Commission had been that announcement
sh uld follow immediately upon adoption of the polioy by the
Commission. The United States Government, however, had since
doubted the wisdon of this course and had advocated postponement
of announcement. The Australian view, he continued, was that
annruncement of the policy should take place immediately follow
ing is adoption. To delay announcement, he pointed out, might
lay the Commission open to the charge from the Japanese that
it had broken faith by not declaring to them the existenoe of
the review provision, particularly since the Japanese were
planning elaborate ceremonies to celebrate the new constitution.
"Despite this conviction on the part of his Government,
MR. MAkIN said, he was prepared, in order to secure unanimous
adoption of the paper, to consent to delay in the time of the
announcement to the Japanese of adoption of the policy. He
agreed that the Supreme Commander should be consulted on the
question of publication. He urged, however, that such announoe
ment take place as soon as possible, and that it not be delayed
later than the date of promulgation of the constitution.
"SIR CARL BERENDSEN expressed general agreement with the
views of Mr. Makin. He also expressed general agreement with
BWNCC 228/12
- 80 -
Annex to Appendix "A"

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
the present dooument and was, indeed, pleased to see that the
Commission had reached an agreement on the afrirmation of the
prinoiple of review. He asked what diffioulties the United
States Government now saw in conneotion with the immediate
announcement of the adoption of this paper. He conoeded that
it w uld have been unwise to announce such a polioy while the
constitution was under consideration by the Japanese Diet and
he granted, furthermore, that it might be unwise to announce
the decision before promulgation of the constitution. However,
he said, he could not understand why the United States Govern-
ment deemed it unwise to announce the review principle at the
time of promulgation, and he asked for an explanation of the
United States position on this point. GENERAL MCCOY replied
that numerous reasons had existed for the United States position.
One of these reasons had been consideration for the difrioult
position of the Supreme Commander who had felt that nothing
should be done which, in the eyes of the Japanese, would condemn
a constitution at the moment of its adoption by them. Other
reasons for the United States position had been of a legal
nature, and these points had now been met by the present version
of paragraph 1.
"GENERAL MCCOY presented the following formal statement:
'At the meeting of the Commission on September 2lst, I
stated that my Government 1s prepared to acoept the Review
paper provided that the Commission at some subsequent meeting
and after obtaining the view of the Supreme Commander will
consider the time and manner of issuance of the policy decision
embcdied in the paper. That 1s: If the pending paper 1s
approved by the Commission, as we trust it will be, the next
step, after transmitting this paper as a policy decision to
the United States Government for communication as a direotive
to the Supreme Commander, will be to request the views or the
Supreme Commander as to the time and manner of 1ssuance of this
policy decigion. After the views of the Supreme Commander have
been received, the Commission will then be in a position to
consider the time and manner of the 1ssuance or this polioy
decision.
After this Review paper 1s passed, I should be pleased to
be authorized to consult with the Supreme Commander in order to
obtain his views on this subject.'
SWNCC 228/12
-81-
Annex to Appendix "A"
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
"DR. PATTERSON asked whether the reservations respecting
'1ssuance' meant that the forwarding of a direotive to the
Supreme Commander would be delayed. GENERAL MCCOY replied that
the directive to the Supreme Commander would go forward immedi-
ntely, but that the time of its 1ssuance in Japan and publioity
was a question for continued consideration when the views of
the Su eme Commander had been received.
"GEINERAL MCCOY noved and MR. MAKIN seconded the motion that
the Conmission adopt FEC-031/40, with the understanding that the
Chairman be authorized to consult with the Supreme Commander as
to the Supreme Commander's views re arding the time and manner
of 1ssuance of the policy decision to the Japanese, and that
afcer the Supreme Commander's views had been received the
Conmissior would reconsider the time and manner of such 1ssuance.
The motion was carried unanimously.
"GENFRAI MCCOY caid that the foregoing views of hr. Makin
and Sir Sarl Ferendsen would be communicated to the Supreme
Commander at the time of requestine his views as to the time
an.d mmner of iesuarnce of the policy decision."

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "B"
PROVISIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF A NEW JAPANESE
CONSTITUTION: REPLY OF THE SUPREME COMMANDER
FOR THE ALLIED POWERS TO CONSULTATION
I have received the suggestion or the Far Eastern Commission
that 1ts policy decisior regarding Provisions for the Review of
a New Japanese Constitution might be made publio. The purpose
underlying such a suggestion is obscure. As the polioy decision
in reference merely provides that some time after 18 months and
before 30 months "The situation with respect to the new consti-
tution should be reviewed by the Diet"; that the Far Eastern
Commission shall review the constitution within the same period;
and that the Far Eastern Commission may require a referendum or
some other appropriate procedure for ascertaining Japanese
opinion with respect to the constitution; it prescribes no aotion
whatsoever for at least 18 months or until the new constitution
has been in effect for one year. It is unrealistic in its
failure to recognize the inesoapable facts that by its very
terms the constitution is constantly before the Diet from its
effective date for any change or amendment that experience may
suggest or otherwise may be proposed, and that the power of
review or alteration of the instrument, or the enforcement of
any measure to subject it to additional tests of public opinion,
is inherent in the power of occupation itself, and will so
remain as long as the Allied Control of Japan is maintained.
Throughout the developme nt of the new conatitution, aotion
has been largely avoided whioh might be construed as compulsory
process in order that nothing might negate or compromise the
free character essential if the instrument 1s to live. The
publication of referenced statement of policy on the other hand
would inevitably result in just what we have thus scrupulously
tried to avoid. And for what purpose? It would instantly be
viewed in the publio mind as a display of force by the Allied
Powers. It would destroy the free oharaoter of the Charter and

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
its expression of the popular will by the coersive threat of
external force to be implied. It would reduce the very essonoo
of durability upon whioh the instrument has been built to a
frail skeleton of temporary expedience overshadowed by the
threat of forced abrogation or revision at the point of Allied
bayonets, with an open and continuing invitation to the foroes
of reaction to conserve and extend their political strength
against the time that, taking advantage of its very torms,
pr ssure might be brought upon the Diet or the people direot
to destroy the constitution and restore the old order which
Allied policy seeks permanently to auppress.
As the harmful effect of such publicity is as patently olear
as any benefit thercfrom to the Allied case is obscure, I most
stongly recommend against any such procedure at least until the
pronosed year of experience has passed and the Far Eastern
Conmission feels that the situation then existing calls for
affirmative action.
SWNCC 228/12
- 84-

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.95)
1946
SECRET
No.350
To the
United States Politioal Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo, Japan.
2-2
The 3eoretary of State enoloses for the informa-
-2046
tion of the Politioal Adviser copies of SWNCC papers
as listed below.
DCF NF Un
1
Enclosures:
1. SWNCC 228/12, copy no. 36.
2. 8WNCC 236/30, copy no. 45.
3. Corrigendum to Status of
Papers dated 5 December,
copy no. ?.
C
(1
0
5
0
2-2046
FE:HSTumae
FE
JA
12-19-46

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
FE
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DC/R
SWN-4999
23 December 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
Subject: Directivee Tranemitted to SCAP
by the Joint Chiefe of Staff
CONFI
Enclosed are three coples of Directive, Serial
894.011/12-2346
No. 66, tranemitted to SCAP by the Joint Chiefs of
Staff. Copy No. 1 1s for tranamittal to the Far
Eastern Commieslon and Copies Nos. 2 and 3 are for
the files of the State Department.
For the State-War-Navy Coordineting Committee:
N. W. Wozeley
H. W. MOSELEY,
Secretary
Enclosures:
Copy Nos. 1, 2 and 3
of Berial No. 66

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.97)
2
CONFIDENTIAL
· COPY NO.
Serial No. 66
18 December 1946
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
REGARDING ISSUANCE OF THE POLICY DECISION ON
REVIEW
OF THE
JAPANESF
CONSTITUTION
The following directive, prepared by the State Department
to implement the policy adopted by the Far Eastern Commission
on 6 December 1946 under the provisions of paragraph II, A, 1,
of its terms of reference, has been received from the State,
War and Navy Departments lor transmission to you for your
guidance in accordance with paragraph III, 1, of those terms
of reference:
"1. The terms of the policy decision contained in
FFC-034/41 (Provisions for the Review of a New Japanese
Constitution, approved on 17 ociober 1946 and forwarded to
che Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers on 26 Occober
1946),* should be formally communicated to the Government
of Japan.
"2. The time and manner of public announcement of this
policy decision are still being considered by the Far
Eastern Commission."
* S0l N0. c

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.88)
In reply refer to
Jh
CONFIDENTI.L
ORANDUN FOR THI CECRETARY GENETLL.
FAR EACTEHN COMMISLION
In :ccordanoe with 1nstruotions of December 23,
1946, fron the state-wer-Navy Coordinating Committee,
there le enclosed u certified copy of a direetive,
2-2346
Seriel No. 66, to the Bupreme Jommander for the Allied
Powere regarding Issuenee of the rolicy Deolelon on
Hevlr f the J aneee Conetitution, to be filed with
the atern Comaiasion under the provisione of
pa ra. IlI, 4, of its Terme of Referonce.
J. H. Hilldring
aplstant Seoretary
nclcaure:
C
Cosy No. 1 (certified) of
uir ctive to the Auprome
vo nder for the Ailied
o ers. 'eriel No. 8r.
10
2
me
4
1:/26/48
4
5

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.93)
DeA
181
In reply refer to
JA
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR EASTEHN OOMMISSION
894.011/12-2746
In accordanoe with instruotions of December 18,
1946, from the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee,
there is enolosea a "statement of United States Poliey
Toward nnounoevent of tne rrovisione for the Reviow
of the New Japanese Conatitution", somprising the sub-
tance or the conolusions of SwNcc 288/12, whioh was
approved informally by the Stute-war-Navy Coordinating
Commiitee on Dooomber 18. 1946.
In olsousslons on thie subjeet in the Far Eastern
Comnisslon, the United Ststes Member should be guided
by tie enolosed stutement of United Staten positlon.
J. H. Hilldring
nealstant Seoretary
Enolosure:
tatement of u.s. oliey.
C
1/.6/46 

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.95)
185
STATENENT OF UEITED STATES POLICY TOWARD
ANNOUNCENENT OF THE PROVISIONS POR THE REVIEW
OF THE HEN JAPANESE CONSTITYTION.
It 1s eonoluded that the U.B. position should be
ao follows:
"The U. B. Government will mot agree te the publi-
cation of the Poliey Deeision eontained 1n Frc Oßl/4l
until, after sonsultation with Gemeral MaeArthar, the
U.S. Government soncludes that such publieatiom is
conslstent with U.S. foreign poliey and the sscomplish-
ment of Allied objeetives In Japan."

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.98)
F4PEC101
TO
JA - Mr. Borton
DATE: December 31, 1946
PROM :
Le - C. E. Snow
SUBJECT:
Constitutionality of the Laws Implemarting the Japanese Constitution
1. You have asked Le for an opinion on the constitutionality"
of the Laws Implementing the Japanese Constitution,--in particular
of the Imperial House Law (FEC-lOl) and the Law for the Election
of the House of Councillors (FEC-lOl/1).
2. For the purpose of this opinion it is understood that you
intend to raise no question under the present Constitution of
Japan (February 1l, 1889) but that you refer only to the New Consti-
tution adopted by the Japanese Diet on November 3, 1946. So far as
the Constitution of 1889 is concerned, the New Constitution itself and
the Implementing Laws stand on the same footing. Both were enacted
by the National Diet, which declares itself to be the duly elected
representatives of the Japanese people. If the Diet has the power,
within the present Constitution, to enact a new Constitution, 
fortiori it has the same power to enact the implementing legislation
without which the New Constitution cannot be made to operate.
f
3. The New Constitution, by express provision, looks to the
passage of implementing legislation. Art. X provides that the quali-
94.0
fications for Japenese citizenship "shall be determined by law".
Art. II prcvides that the Imperial Throne shall be succeeded to
"in accordance with the Imperial House Law passed by the Diet".
Art. XLIII provides that the number of the members of each House
"shall be fixed by law". Art. XLIV provides thet the qualifications
of electors and members of toth Houses "shall be fixed by law"; and
Art. XIVII, that matters perteining to the election of members of both
Houses, electoral districts, and method of voting, "shall be fixed by
2
law". Until the requisite laws referred to by these Articles have
-3144
been passed, no new Diet, which is described as "the highest organ of
State power" and the "sole law-making authority of the State" can
be ever elected. Consequently, it is provided, in Art. C, that the
enactment of laws necessary for the enforcement of the Constitution;
the election of members of the House of Councillors and the procedure
for the convocation of the Diet "and other preper: tory procedures",
may be executed before the effective date of the enforcement of the
New Constitution. The implication is clear thet such laws can be
possed by the present Diet.
4. In

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
4. In this connection attention is invited to the pro-
vision in Art. CIII that members of the House of Representatives
and other public officials in office on the effective date of
the Constitution shall not forfeit their positions on such effeo-
tive date, nor until their successors are elected unless otherwise
specified by law". This provision clearly looks to a continuation
of the powers of the present government to the effective date of the
New Constitution with a carry-over to provide opportunity for elections
under the New Constitution.
5. Art. XCVIII of the New Constitution provides that the
Constitution "shall be the supreme law of the State", and that
no public law contrary to the provisions thereof "shall have legal
force or validity". Art. LXxxI designates the Supreme Court as the
court of last resort with power o determine the constitutionality
of any law, and Art XCIX enjoins on Emperor, Diet and Judges the
obligation to urholc the Constitution. Consequently, any implementing
legislation designed to carry over the effective date of the Constitu-
tion must be examined to make sure thet its provisions are not contrary
to the provisions of the Constituion. It is understood that you do
not desire Le to uncertake this examination at this time.
2
Le:CESnow:lml

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
F2C101
Office MemOrandum · UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Dishilnid 0 FBC 27s/47.
TO
: JA - Mr. Borton
DATB: January 2, 1947.
FROM
Le - C. E. Snow
SUBJECT:
Constitutionality of the Laws Implementing the Japanese
Constitution.
2-3146
1. You have asked Lé for an opinion on the "constitution-
ality" of the Laws Implementing the Japanese Constitution,--
in particular of the Imperial House Law (FEC-lOl) and the Law
for the Election of the House of Councillors (FEC-lOl/1).
2. For the purpose of this opinion it is understood
thet you intend to raise no question under the present
Constitution of Japan (February 11, 1889) but that you refer
only to the New Constitution adopted by the Japanese Diet on
November 3, 1946. So far as the Constitution of 1889 is
concerned, the New Constitution itself and the Implementing
Laws stand on the same footing. Both were enacted by the
National Diet, who declare themselves to be the duly elected
representatives of the Japanese people. If the Diet has the
power, within the present Constitution, to enact a new
Constitution, a fortiori it has the same power to enact the
implementing legislation without which the New Constitution
cannot be made to operate.
9
3. The New Constitution, by express provision, looks to
the passage of implementing legislation. Art. 2 provides
that the Imperial Throne shall be succeeded to "in accordance
with the Imperial House Law passed by the Diet". Art. 43
provides that the number of the members of each House "shall
be fixed by law". Art. 44 provides that the qualifications
of members of both Houses and their electors "shall be fixed
by law"; and Art. 47, that electoral districts, methods of
voting, and other matters pertaining to the method of election
of members of both Houses "shall be fixed by law". Until
the requisite laws referred to by these Articles have been
passed, no new Diet, which is described as "the highest organ
of State power" and the "sole law-meking organ of the State"
can be even elected. Consequently, it is provided, in Art.
100, that the enactment of laws necessary for the enforcement
of the Constitution; the election of members of the House of
Gounillors and the procedure for the convocation of the
Diot and other prep&ratory procedures", may be executed
Cat
before

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
before the effective date of the enforcement of the New
Constitution. The implicetion is clear that such laws can
be pessed by the present Diet.
4. In this connection &ttention is invited to the
provision in Art. 103 that members of the House of
Representetives and other public officials in office on
the effective date of the Constitution shall not forfeit
their positions on such effective date, nor until their
successors are elected "unless otherwise specified by
lew". This provision clearly looks to a continuation of
the powers of the present government to the effective date
of the New Constitution with & carry-over to provide
opportunity for elections under the New Constitution.
5. Art. 98 of the New Constitution provides that the
Constitution "shall be the supreme law of the State", and
that no public law contrary to the provisions thereof
"shall have legal force or validity". Art. 81 designates
the Supreme Court as the court of lest resort with power
to determine the constitutionality of any law, and
Art. 99 enjoins on Emperor, Diet and Judges the obligation
to uphold the Constitution. Consecuently, sny implementing
legislstion designed to carry over the effective date of
the Constitution must be examined to make sure that 1ts
provisions are not contrary to the provisions of the
Constitution. It is understood that you do not desire Le
to undertake this examinction at this time.
1e:isnow:fje

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.98)
TO
: S - Mr. Secretary
DATe: February 6, 1947
FROM
SUBJECT:
Publication of FEC Policy Decision on Review of New Japanese
Conetitution by Japanese Diet and Far Eastern Commission.
1. The attached telegram of February 4 (Tab A), from
General MacArthur, is in answer to a request from the War Depart-
ment for his views on the advisability of publishing the FEC
policy decision, approved by FEC on October 17, 1945, relative
Files
Central
RM/R
This Document
to the review of the new Japanese Constitution by the Japanese
Diet and the Far Eastern Commission some time between the first
and second year after the Constitution goes into effect. The
two previous telegrams on this question which General MacArthur
requests be laid before you for your personal attention and con-
sideration are attached as Tabs B and C.
Must Be Returned to
2. As a result of SCAP's desire that no publicity be given
the FEC policy decision on review of the Constitution, the U.s.
member of FEC agreed to the decision with the reservation that
the Commission would consider the time and manner of 1ssuanoe of
the decision at a subsequent meeting. On November 20 the U.s.
member or FEC, under pressure from other members of the Commis-
sion for full publicity for the decision, agreed to request SCAP
formally to advise the Japanese Government of the contents of
the FEC decision. On December 17, SWNCC concluded that FEC's
policy decision should not be published until after further con-
sultation with General MacArthur.
3. On January 10 an AP despatch from Tokyo presented in
garbled form the FEC decision under reference. It 1s felt that
indefinite postponement of the announcement to the Japanese of
the FEC review decision in the future will render the FEC liable
to the accusation of bad faith for having kept the decision a
secret. On the other hand, if the Japanese are informed now
that their new Constitution will be subject to review by the
Diet and the Commission within two years, those elements in
Japan generally interested in the development of demooratic ton-
dencies will be encouraged to make the Constitution operate as
democratically as possible, or change it along more demooratic
lines. For these reasons, the State Department presented to
SWNCC on January 24th a paper advocating early publication of the
FEC rev1ew dec1s1on (SWNCC 228/13 - see Tab D).
4. If you agree with the conclusions set forth in the
SWNCC paper referred to above, you may wish to discuss this
matter at the next meeting of the Secretaries or have General
Hilldring press for adoption of the Department's position in
2-647
the next SWNCC meeting.
JapanrseAtiu
JA:HBorton:mls

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
OFFICE
DEPARTMENT
10475
8-
Mr. Secretary
SUBJECT: Publication of FEC Policy Decision requiring
Review of New Japanese Constitution by Japanese
894.011/2-1947
Diet and FEC.
1. When the new Japanese Constitution came before the FEC, all members
approved the Constitution, but on condition that it would be reviewed by the
Diet and by the FEC not sooner than one year or later than two years after it
to
became effective. The United States Government concurred in the Decision, th
the reservation that the FEC would consider at a subsequent meeting the timeS
and manner of publication of the Decision.
2. Members of the FEC have urged that the Decision be published in Japan.
The U. S. Government agreed to request SCAP formally to advise the Japanese
Government of the contents of the FEC Decision without requiring that it be
published. General MacArthur has complied with this request.
3. General MacArthur has opposed publication of the Docision in Japan
for reasons set forth in radios C-66818 dated 1 November 1946 and C-67341 dated
18 November 1946 (TAB A). He has asked that these radios be brought to your
personal attention. General MacArthur fears that publication in Japan would
have disastrous consequences in that it would undermine public confidence in
the Constitution and would be construed as a threat of Allied intervention.
4. In January 1947, an AP dispatch from Tokyo discussed the FEC Decision
in garbled form. Members of the FEC thereupon again urged that the text of the
Decision be published in Japan. However, General MacArthur still opposes this
course(Radio CX 69727, dated February 4, 1947 - Tab B). General MacArthur states
that while he has no objection to publication of the Policy Decision outside
of Japan, his objection to its publication in Japan still holds as previously
expressed.
DC/R
5. RECOMMENDATIONS
17
a. In the light of General MacArthur's objection to publication of t
subject, it is recommended that the U. S. Government adhere to its reservation
and not agree to an FEC Decision requiring General MacArthur to publish the
D
Decision in Japan.
u
2-1947
b. It is recommended that the U. S. Member of the FEC be authorized
agree to the publication of the Review Decision outside of Japay
NHH
J. H. Hilldring
Enc
Tabs, ▲ & B
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON B. D. C
S
ETARY
ASSISTANT
A.H
February 10, 1947
FEB 19
GENERAI H/AABING
ARTMENT OF STA
Dear General:
I enclose for your consideration a thoughtful letter that I
have just received from Major J. Plimsoll of the Australian Dele-
gation to the Far Fastern Commission.
This letter, which is dated February 7, has a bearing on the
894.011/2-1947
question of publication to the Japanese people of the fact that
the new Japanese constitution is to be reviewed by the Japanese
Diet not sooner than one year and not later than two years after
it goes into effect.
Very truly yours,
Firunk
teoy
11
Frank R. McCoy
Chairman
Fnclosure
Maj. General John H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary of State
for Occupied Areas
Room 278, State Department
Washington 25, D. C.
894.011
2.1047

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
0
AUSTRALIAN EMBASSY
-P
Y
Washington, D. C.
7 February, 1947
Major General Frank R. McCoy,
United States Representative,
Far Eastern Commission,
2516 Massachusetts Avenue,
Washington, D. C.
Dear General McCoy,
It is reported in the Washington "Star" today that General MaaArthur
has taken action to secure a new Diet election in Japan as soon as prae-
ticable after the present sessions of the Diet.
This would seem to make it essential that the Japanese people should
be informed as soon as possible of the Far Fastern Commission's decision
that the new Japanese constitution should be reviewed by the Diet not
sooner than one year and not later than two years after it goes into ef-
fect. In casting their votes, the Japanese people should know that they
are voting for a Diet which may have the task of revising the constitu-
tion. They should also know this sufficiently in advance for the matter
to be discussed during the election campaign.
You will recall that in the past General MacArthur has laid great
stress on the fact that the new constitution was adopted by & Diet
elected in a campaign where the constitution was an election issue. For
example, in his public statement on 21 Jume, 1946 (FFC 031/14), the
Supreme Commander said: *...the last election, which qualified the
members of this diet, was held with the government draft constitution
squarely before the people and under the paramount consideration that
those elected would be charged with the duty of acting thereon. Few
elections in modern times could be regarded as more truly democratic,
reliable and expressive of the free will of the people. As a consequence
the diet which emerged therefrom is fully representative and qualified to
express the will of the people on this issue." General MacArthur made a
similar point in his reply to the Far Eastern Commission, which was circu-
1ated on 4 June, 1946, as FFC-031/11.
It would, therefore, seem desirable that in the coming elections the
Japanese people should be equally aware of the fact that they may be
voting for the body which will revise the constitution.
I hope that these views will be of some assistance to you in your
present consideration of the publication of the Commission's decision on
the review of the constitution.
Yours sincerely,
/s/ J. Plimsoll
J. Plimsoll
Australian Delegation
Far Eastern Commission

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-5172
27 February 1947
usmembe
MENORANDUH FOR THE SECRITARY OF STATE:
Subject: SWIICC 2 8/13
894.011/2-2747
At 1ts 54th Meet1ng on 19 February 1947 the
State-Wer-Navy Coordinating Committee, with the
War Member abstaining from voting, approved SWNCc
228/13 after amending. A cony of the approved
paper is enclosed herevith.
It is requested that the Department of State
forward the Conclusion in paregraph 4 thereof to
the U.S. Member of the Far Eastern Commission as
a statement of the U.S. position in this matter.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff have been requested
to notify SChr of this Conclusion.
For the 3tate-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
til Moa ly
J. H. HILLDRING,
Chairman
Enclonure
Co1y No. 51, 3. 28/13
CONCIDENTIAL

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
COPY NO.
26 February 1947
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
DECISION AMENDING SWNCC 228/13
POLICY TOLARD ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE PROVISIONS FOR THE
REVIEW OF THE NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
Note by the Secretaries
1. At its 54th meeting on 19 February 1947 the State-War-
Navy Coordirating Committee, with the War Member abstaining
from voting, pproved SWiCC 228/13 after amending.
2. Holders of SW:CC 228/13 are requested to suostitute
the attached revised page 85 for the one contained therein and
cestroy the superseded pace by burning.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
Secretariat

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
SWN0C 228/13
27 January 1947
Pages 85 - 88, 1nc1.
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
PUL CY TUWARD ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE PROVISIONS FUR THE
PIVIEW OF THE W JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
References:
a. SWNCC 228/12
b. Ser. Directive 62 frem JCs to
SCAP (page 455-A, Vo1. IV, SWNC
Summary of Acticns and Decision
C.
Ser. Directive 66 from JCS to
SCAP (pages 455-B, 455-C, SWN00
Summary f Actirns and Decisione
Noto by the Secretaries
The enel sure, presented by the State Member, SWNcc, 1s
ciroulated for consideration by the Committee.
F. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LUWRANCE
Secretariat

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
CCNFIDENTIAL
ENCLUSURE
POLICY TOWARD ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE PROVISIONS FOR
HE REVIEW OF THE NEW JAPANESE CONSTITUTION
THE PROBLEM
1. To determine the U. S. position with respect to the
publicrtion of the policy decision contained in Enclosure 
of FEC 031/41 (Aprena1x "A").
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. Sec Appendix "A".
DISCUSSION
3. See Appendix "B".
CONCLUSION
4. It : concluded that the U. S. position sh. uld be
as follow :
"The U. S. Government withdraws its objection to
the publication outside of Japan of the policy decision
contained in FEC O3l/4i and will not oppoce a motion
in the FEC to publish the decis on outside of Japan
provided the release of the decision to the press by
the FEC will not be ma e until 48 houro after receipt
of notification from SCAF of the receipt of FEC's
decision."
RECOMMENDATIONS
5. It is recommended that:
a. SWNCC approve the statement of the U.S. position
as set forth in the Conclusion; and
b. The Conclusion be forwarded by the Department of
State t, the U.S. Member on the Far Eastern Commission
as a statement of the U.S, position.
C. SCAP be notified by the JCS of the above
Conclusion.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
CUNFIDENTIAL
APPENDIX"A"
1. Enclosure "A" of FEC O31/4l reads as follo
"1. The new constitution, which will in due
after promulgation become the legal suocessor of the
constitution with such changes as have been made or
made as a result of consideration and policy decision
Far Eastern Commission, shall be subject to further
by the Diet and the Far Eastern Commission in terms or
following paragraph.
"2. In order that the Japanese people may have n
opportunity, after the new constitution goes into efreot
to reconsider it in the light of the experience of it
working, and in order that the Far Eastern Commissior
mey satisfy itself that the constitution fulrills the
of the Potsdam Declaration and other controlling dooume
the Comnission decides as a matter of policy that, not
stoner than ore year and not later than two years after-
it gres into effect, the situation with respeot to the
new constitution should be reviewed by the Diet. Without
prejudice to the continuing jurisdiction of the Far East
Commission at any time, the Commission shall also reviow
constitution within this same period. The Tar Eastern
Comnission, in determining whether the Japanese Constitut
1s an expression of the free will of the Japanese people
may require a referendum or some other appropriate prooed
for ascertaining Japanese opinion with respeot to the
ccnstitution."

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
CONCIDENTIAL
APPENDIX "B"
1. At least one press leak has occurred with
FEC réview decision, as indicated by the AP despatoh
Tokyo under date of January 10, 1947, text of which was 
lated tc FEC as MI-O75.
2. All members of the FEC with the exception of the un
States mcmber have expressed themselves in favor of publioati
of the review decision.
3. Further press leaks are likely to occur, with the
result that garbled versicns, such as the Ap story mentioned
above, will be published. The Commission will be called upon
deny or verify such reports and will be placed in an inoreasin
embarrassing position if it cannot make the facts known.
4. With the passage of time, it becomes more probable
that questicns will be asked in parliamentary bodies of the
governments represented on the Far Eastern Commission with
regard t( the Commission's examination of the Japanese
Constitutirn and to its authority of review, Commission member
have stated that Ministers cannot refuse to anewer such questions
when they are publicly asked.
5. Anncuncement to the Japanese of the review decision
after a long perind has elapsed following promulgation of the
Constitution will render the Commission liable to the accusation
of bad faith for having kept the deoision secret and will
produce an extremely bad psyohological effect upon the Japane
Un the other hand, if the Japanese are informed before the ne
Constitution goes into effect that it will be subject to
by the Diet and the Co mission within 2 years, the Commim
cannot be accused of taking action which it wishes to
from the Japanese. Those elements in Japan genuinol

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
1. At least one press leak
FEO réview decision, as indicated by the Ar
Tokyo under date of January 10, 1947, text of w
lated to FEC as MI-075.
2. All members of the FEC with the exception or
States member have expressed themselves in favor or pubi
of the review decision.
3. Further press leaks are likely to occur, with th
result that garbled versicns, such as the AP story mention
above, will be published. The Commission will be called
deny or verify such reports and will be placed in an inore
embarrassing position if it cannot make the facts known.
4. With the passage of time, it becomes more probabl
that questicns will be asked in parliamentary bodies of the
governments represented on the Far Eastern Commission with
regard t( the Commission's examination of the Japanese
Constitutirn and to its authority of review, Commission memt
have stated that Ministers cannot refuse to answer suoh questic
when they are publicly asked.
5. Anncuncement to the Japanese of the review decision
after a long period has elapsed following promulgation of the
Constitution will render the Commission liable to the accusatio
of bad faith for having kept the decision secret and will
produce an extremely bad psychological effect upon the Japanese
On the other hand, if the Japanese are informed before the now
Constitution goes into effect that it will be subject to rovi
by the Diet and the Co:mission within 2 years, the Commimmic
cannot be accused of taking action which it wishes to oonn
from the Japanese. Those elements in Japan genuinely in
in the development of demcoratic tendencies will be enos
by this aséurance that the Conetitution will bo 
BWNCC 228/13
87

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.96)
OLLFIDENTIAL
light of its actual working, and will do all in
make it cperate as democratically as possible or to
changes along more democratio lines.
6. It is not belleved that publication of the polios
decision will be inconsistent with U.s. foreign polioy or
hinder the achievement of Allled objectives in Japan. sino
the U.S, Government is committed tr the policy decision ite
the only questicn now tr be decided is the time and manner 
publicatirn. Fcr reasons stated above, it is believed that
publication is to be preferred cver delayed publication.
Japanese reaction to publication long after the Constitution
into effect is likely tr be extremely unfavorable in whioh
the Allied cojectives f the cccupatirn might weil be hindor

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.92)
SQXRINETIAL
MAR 1 2 1947
011/2-2747
004.011/8-2747
MEMORANDUN FOR THE UNITED STATES MENBER,
FAR EASTERN CONNISSION
In acsordance vith instruetiens er Pebreary 87, 194t,
from the State-War-Mavy Goordinating Committee, there
1s encloced for the informatlon of the United states
Member of the Far Esstern Commissien a statement ef
the United states positlom with respeet to the
Announcement of the Provisions fer the Review of the
New Japanese Constitution, comprieing the sonelusions
of Swn00 228/18 whioh was passed by the state-War-
n
Navy Coordinating Committee on February 19, 1949.
CS/V
Assistant Seeretary
E
Eaclosure:
Statemens er U.S. Peliey.
A:ALDarhing/pm
FE1.8
·CR
3/12/47
P.
M!
QUAFLRENXIAL

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N.W.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
A-H
20 March 1947
MAR 2 0 1947
RESTRICTED
GENERAL HILLDRING
The Honorable Dean Acheson
Acting Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The Far Eastern Commission at its fiftieth meeting on
20 March 1947 adopted, with the New Zealand Representative abstain-
894.011/3-2047
ing from voting, the following motion:
"That the Far Eastern Commission release to the prese
outside Japan its policy decision on Provisions for the
Review of a New Japanese Constitution (FEC-O31/41, trans-
mitted to the Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powers on
28 October 1946 as Serial No. 62)."
In voting for the adoption of this motion, the United States
Representative stated that the release would take place forty-eight
hours after receipt of notification from the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers of his receipt of the Far Eastern Commission's
decision to this effect.
I have been instructed to forward the Commission's de-
cision to you with the request that you transmit it to the Supreme
Commender and notify me as soon as it has been received in Tokyo.
The Chairman would be grateful if this could be handled as
a matter of urgency.
Sincerely yours,
Nelen mTuen
CS/R
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
894.0111
MAR 2 5 1947
alr
FILED

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.96)
Suggested message to Macarthr.
N. B.
Commission's action was not a formal polioy decision, and therefore
text of communioation to Macarthur is not a forml directive and
does not have to be filed with Commission under forml Term of
Referenoe prooodure.
FAH EAS.EHN COMMLS1ON AT FIFTIETH MEETING 2O MARCH APPROVED WITH
NEW ZEALAND ABSTAINING MOTION TO RELEASE TO PRESS OUTS IDE JAPAN
COMMISS ION POLICY ON HEVTEW OF JAPANESE CONST ITUTION TRANSMITTED TO
YOU ON OCTOBER 28 1946 AS SERIAL NUMBER 62. RELEASE TO PRESS WILL
TAKE PLACE 48 HOURS AFTER RECEIPT HERE OF NOT IFICATION OF YOUR
RECE IPT IN TOKYO OF THIS DECIS ION. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF REC IPT
OF THIS MESSAGE ACCORDINGLY REQUESTED.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.94)
Dc/Ree
SGNED
MAR 20 1947
In reply refer to
RESTRIOTED
MEMORANDUN FOR THE SEORETARY SWHOO
Subjeot: Hessage regarding the release to the
894.
press outside Japan by the Par Eastern
dommission of its polioy deeisiom en
Provisions fer the Review ef a New
Japanese Constitution.
1
The Far Fastern Commission at its firtieth meeting
on March 20, 1947 n4opted, with the New Zealand Repre-
sentative abataining from voting, the folloving motions
"That the Fer Fastern Commission release to
2047
the prese outeide Japan its poliey decimiom em
rovislons for tle Review of a New Japamese
Constitntlen (rm0-O3l/41, tranmitted to the
aupreme Commamder for the Allled Powers om Ootober
28, 1946 as ar1a1 No. 62).
It is requested that this decision of the Far Easterm
Commisslon be ferwarded to the Joint Chiefs of staff for
transmission to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Pewers.
It 1s also requested that the Bupreme Gemmamder for
the Allled Powers be informed that in veting for the
adoption of this motion, the United states Representative
stated that the release would take plaee ferty-eight
hours after receipt of notification frem the Supreme dem
mander for the Allied Powere of his reeelpt of the Far 
Eastern Commission's decision to this effeet. Therefere,
aeknowledgment of the recelpt of this message is requestedd
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Beeretary
OR
1947 P.M.
RESTHHOTED
MAR 20
418
NA:ALDunn1ng:3/20/47
FE

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.92)
AL.D
alio
The New York Times
TIMES SQUARE, NEW YORK 18, N. Y.
LACKAWANNA 4-1000
894.011/5-194
May 19, 1947
Mr. Hugh Borton, Chief
Division of Japanese Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
Dear Ir. Borton:
There may be a copy for sale of the complete text of the
constitution of Japan which was passed last October and voted on by the
Japanese people this month, but we have been unsuccessful this afternoon
in our efforts to locate it. ould you be so good as to send us one for
our library files? e would appreciate it very much indded.
Thanking you,
t Mis
Yours very truly,
lella
Sanklen
Fsfrant
AFFAIRS
894.
ESTATE
alx
JUN2
NORTHEAST
The
5-1949
DEPARTMENT OFY
''ALLTHE NEWSTHATS FITTOPRINT'

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.94)
AY 28194
In reply refer to
NA
My dear Miss Franklin:
With referenoe to your letter of May 19, 1947
in whion you request a oopy of the text of the
constitution of Japan for the library files of the
New York Time, there 1s enolosed a copy of thie
5.
dooument.
17
Sincerely y ure,
Hugh Borton
Chief
Division of Northeast Asian Affairs
Enclosure:
Constitution of Japan
Miea Preeda B. Pranklin. Librerian
Tre New York Times
Times Square,
Yor
N.Y.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.78)
coued Lesent
NA N Lo

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.91)
In reply refer to
L 894.011/1-848
My dear ar. Hall:
In accordanon with the requeat oontsined in your
letter or January 5, l94n, I am ennlosing a cony or the
Conetitution of Japan.
Strcerely youre,
For the Pecretery or tate:
Leonard R. Cowles
Aoting Ohier
Publio Viewa and Inquirles Seotion
Division of Pubiio Liaison
nolosure:
Publicat1on 2836.
Pr.arnal
5921 Montga.
1/15/48
PL:GBFUCKD:ETO:A

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.95)
NORRS
D-997
1946
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIS
No. 143
FAR FATAR
CONPIPTITIAL (For Department Use Only)
Subject: Interpretation of Japanese Constitutiom by Official Mead-
quarters Pronouncement.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
APR3 1948
Washington.
sirg
y尺
I have the homor to forward herewith copy of an artiele which
appeared in the Mippon Times of Pebruary 25, 1948, regarding a eem-
894.002
ference given to the press by a member of the Government Sestiem of
this Headquarters, in which he criticised the fact that, whem the
Katayama Cabinet recemtly submitted its resignatiom, report of the
resigmation was made to the Eaperor.
The Headquartera: spokesman is reported to havs comdemmed Japas-
ese bureaucrats for attempting to use the Emperor during the resest
Cabinet crisis, which brought about the resignatiem of the Katayame 
Cabinet, im a manaer not justified by the Constitution. The majusti-
fied wtilisatiom of the Eaperor occurred whem the late Katayame Cabimet
submitted its resigmation to the Esperor in accordamce with treditiemal
Japanese practice wader the Meiji Constitution. It may be moted that
this is the first oceasién under the new Comstitutien whem a questiem
could have arisen in connestion with a Cabinet resignatiem. The spekes-
mam, in consequence of this Headquarters? attitude on the questiom,
recemmended amendment of Article 7 of the present Constitutiom to
prevest misuse of the Imperial system by a bureaucracy which, he stated,
tortured the attestation function assigned to the Emperer by Artiele 7
CS/V
by permitting the Cabinet to report its resignatiom to the Threme.
The concern of this Headquarters over the matter is allegedly based
upon the fact that no mention of such a practice can be found in the
new Constitution. The spokesman stated to an officer of this Nissiem Q
that the outgoing Cabinet had apparently felt impelled to sabeit its 
by Article 7 of the Constitution. In only two articles of the Cemsti-
p
tutioa, Articles 69 and 70, is meation made of the resigmation of the
Cabinet, resignation en masse being stipulated in case of a men-eemfide
resolution of The House of Representatives or of a vacamey in the pest
of Prime Minister. No mention, however, is made of the orgam te whieh
constitutional prectice, that the act of resignation is parely admisis-
trative in character and that it does not iavolve the Bmperer is amy mm
COFIDETIAL

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.98)
kyos 143,
March 4, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2-
In pronouncing upon the report of the Cabinet's resimation, the
Headquarters' spokeman left undecided the questiom whether or mot the
Prime Minister, whose appointment as well as the attestatiem thereof is
made by the Emperor, may not alone report his own resignation to the
Throne. In the light of Article 6 of the Constitution, which mpowers
the Emperor to appoint the Prime Minister, and of Article 68, which in
turn powers the latter both to appoint and to remove Ministers of
State, such a separate and distinct act of resignation would not appear
out of question. Article 70 would then render necessary the subsequent
resignation of the remainder of the Cabinet en masse. The possibility,
however, of the Prime Minister's standing apart from the rest of the
Cabinet in this respect would seem to have been rejected by Japanese
officialdom itself in the present case. The special relation of the
Prime Minister to the Emperor through the appointing power does not
appear, therefore, to entail any special consequence with regard to
procedure of resignation, and it may be assumed that a report by the
Prime Minister to the Throne of his own resignation would have been met
with the same disapproval as has been shown for the report of the entire
Cabinet's resignation.
It was also disclosed by the spokesman to an officer of this Mission
that the concern of Government Section over this matter had been en-
gendered by information which, in that Section's view, indicates that
pre-war, nationalistic elements in and around the Government are striving
to re-establish the Emperor in his pre-war position of authority.
Notwithstanding this consideration and the apparent intention of the
spokesman's pronouncement, that Japanese constitutional practice shall
eschew reporting a cabinet's resignation to the Throme, we are unable to
comprehend how a constitutional interpretation rendered in this manner
could have legal validity other than that which might tmporarily be
conferred by the authority of the Occupying power. We furthermore believe
that this action constitutes a dangerous precedent for interpretation of
the meaning of the Constitution by fiat in the post-Occupation period,
and that it may give rise among the Japanese to an undesirable belief
that their organic law means what "higher authority" wishes it to mean,
thereby undermining the entire conc ept of constitutional and democratic
government.
Respectfully yours,

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.97)
COMPIDDETIAL
Japan, Tokye, en the sbjeet "aker
mont".
(COPY)
EXCERPT FRON MIPPON TDMES, FEBRUARY 25, 1948
MISUSE OF EMPEROR SYSTEM BY BUREAUCRATS IS FLAYED
SCAP Spokesman Urges Amendment of Art. 7 of Con-
stitution to Prevent Abuses
A SCAP Government Section spokesman Tuesday charged "Imperialist-
minded" Japanese bureascrats are heading toward usurpstion ef the
sovereignty of the people through attmpts to return the Emperor
system to its old status.
Guy J. Swope at a press conference bitterly condemmed bareameresy
which he said tried to use the Eaperor during the recent Cabinet srisis
beyond his true position as a ceremonial "symbol of the State and ef
the unity of the people" under the mew Constitution.
He recommended amendment of Article 7 of the Constitution te
prevent misuse of the Emperor system by a bureaucracy which tortured
the "attestation" functien ascribed to the Emperor by permitting the
reporting to the throne of the Cabinet resignation--not a world sem-
cerning which can be found in the Constitution.
He said: "The events of the last fortnight indicate a tendemey to
mbroil and abuse the imperial institution in the same mammer whick
brought Japan to the disaster of war and defeat. For some curieus
reason reports were made to the Eaperor on matters which the Throse,
under the Constitution, has no concern whatsoever.
Hr. Swope mphasised that the Katayame Cabinet had no business to
report to the Emperor before resigning.
He said: "The Constitution provides for attestatiom of appeistmemt
and dismissal of ministers of state. Attestation consists is the mere
authentisation of the fact...is purely ceremonial and symbelical...has
no political consequence.
"If the word 'attestation' can be tortured by a bureamcreey steeped
in the tradition of monarchic rule as to permit the reporting to the
Throne of the resignation of a Cabinet..ethem it is pessible fer sech
Imperialist-minded bureaucrats eventually to usurp the sovereigmty of
the people which is the fountainhead of the Constitutiom."

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVY
OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Office of U.s. Political Adviser D
for Japan
Tokyo, April 27, 1968.
No. 249
UNCLASSIFIED
Subjoct:
Statement on First Anniversary of Japan's New Censtitutiem.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose a opy of a statement which I gave
FE
to the International Newe Service for publication in the Yamiuri
0
Shimbun on the occasion of the first anniversary on May 3, 1948 af
OCD
the enforcement of Japan's new Constitution. This statement was
PClR
issued in my capacity as Deputy for the Supreme Commander, Member
a.E.
C/A
for the United States and Chairman, Allied Council for Japan, and
has the approval of General MacArthur.
0
AIL ITES RANCH
PM 4
Respectfully yours,
RECENED
DC/M
6.Beace
5
18 MAY5
W. J. Sebald
Encl
Copy of statement.
1948 MAY 6 PM 12 46
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
RECE
Original and osalid to Department
801.1
WJSebald:1h
UNCLASSIFIED
An

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 249 dated
April 27, 1948 from the Office of the
United States Political Adviser fer
Japan, Tokyo, on the subjest "State-
ment on First Anniversary of Japan's
New Constitution".
UNCLASSIFED
(COPY)
STATEMENT BY MR. WILLIAM J. SEBALD, DEPUTY POR
THE SUPREME COMMANDER, MEMBER FOR THE UNITED
STATES AND CHAIRMAN. ALLIED COUNCIL FOR JAPAN.
In looking back over the year which has passed since the enforee-
ment of Japan's new Constitution, it is at once apparent that the
Japanese people are keenly aware of the priceless possession which
is in their hands. Personal freedom, equality of opportunity, the
guarantees of freedom of speech, of religion, and of thought, as
well as respect for the fundamental human rights, are principles for
which other peoples, too, have striven throughout the centuries. I
can only hope that in the future which lies ahead, the Japanese people
wdll tenaciously maintain these principles and uphold and preserve
the deep and rich philosophy which forms the basis for their Constitution.
I would therefore say to the Japanese people: be ever on the alert
for false leaders who, in the mme of your Constitution--your most
precious asset--would seek to destroy the freedom upon wich your
democracy rests.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.85)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
26 dct.
Far wifo
0 ym ofre, 1 , boll

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.94)
Litermpeseell
droftidhy 0:202
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
n/29/t1-2me
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON B. D. C.
Ootober 25, 1948
Dear General:
Lay I invite your attention to a commitment made by the Far
894.011/10-2548
Eastern Comnission wiich obli -ates it to review the Jananese Consti-
tution berore . ay 7. 1949.
This commitment is contained in tne FEC policy decision,
Prov: sions for the Review of a rew Jaranese Constitution, passed Oc-
tober 17, 14e, the second ara: ra h of whi ch reads:
"In order tit the a: arese people may have an
opportunity, alter the new constitution oes into effect,
to reponsi er it in te li it of the experience of its
workin, nd in or ler that tnd ar astern Commission
3
may salisiy itself that the constiti tion f.Ifills the
terms of tle I otsdam Declaration and otier controlling
docurents, the Commissi n decides as a matter of policy
that, not sooner than one year and not later than two
years after it roes into ef'ect, the situation with re-
100 86
spect to the new constitation should be reviewed by the
CS/
Liet. itout pr judice to the continuin jurisdiction
of the Far Eastern Commission at any time, the Commission
shall also review the constitution within this same period.
B
The Far Eastern Commission, in deternining whether the
Jainest corstitution is an exnression of the free will
of tne capunese peple, muy require a referendum or some
other e  ropriate procedure for ascertaining Japanese
oinion with respect to the constitution."
The Japanese Constitution went into effect on May 7. 1947. The
period witnin which the Far Lastern Connissicn should review it therefore
expires on Hay 7. 1949.
I do not propose to initiate this review in the Commission.
ther m-nbers, how ver, mu, o so, since the subject has recently been
unter ciscussion y some of them, anc the Comnission has a standing
894.
NOV9 1948
DCR
The Honorable Charles E. Saltzman
FILED
Ass stant Secretary of State.
Lashington, D. C.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
committee on the Japanese Constitution. The leaders of the two Houses
of the Diet, also, according to press reports, have recently agreed
to appoint a joint committee to study the Constitution with a viow to
its possible revision.
Since it is probable that proposals for the amendment of the
Japanese Constitution may shortly be made wi thin the Diet or by mem-
bers of the Commission, and thus become a subject of discussion in the
Commission, it would appear to be in the interest of the United States
to be prepared to state its views on any such proposals. Our Govern-
ment itself may decide to su  est amendments of its own to the Japanese
Constitution.
In view of this obligation on the Far Eastern Commission to
review the Japanese Consti tution before ay 7, 1949, and the resulting
obli ation on the inited states uovernment to participate in this re-
view, may I query whether you mi ht deem it advisable to initiate
within the Departmen a study of the Japanese Constitution in order to
determine the views of the inited States as to its revision and as to
any specilic amendments.
Sincerely yours,
Fvreay
11
Frank R. HcCoy
Chairman

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.97)
0C12 9 1948
Dear General McCoy:
94.011/10-2548
Thank you for your letter of October 25 regarding
review of the Japanese Constitution. I  glad you
brought this to my attention and I am taldng the neces
sary steps towards determination of a U. S. positiom in
the matter.
Sincerely yours,
CS/B
Charles E. Saltmman
Assistant Secretary
The onerel
2
894.011
3685

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
FAR EASTERN COMIMESSION
2516 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.
Washington 8, D. C.
October 25, 1948
Dear Ceneral:
May I invite your attention to a commitment made by the Far
Eastern Commission which obligates it to review the Japemese Comsti-.
tution before May 7, 1949.
This commitmont is contained in the PEC policy decision,
Provisions for the Review of a New Japanese Constitation, paased do-
tober 17, 1946, the second paragraph of which reads:
"In order that the Japanese people may have an
opportunity, after the new constitution goes into effeet,
to reconsider it in the light of the experienoe of its
working, and in order that the Far Eastern Comissiem
may satisfy itself that the constitution fulfills the
terms of the Potsdam Declaration and other controlling
documents, the Commission decides as a matter of poliey
that, not mooner than one year and not later than two
years after it goes into effect, the situation with re-
spect to the new constitution should be reviewed by the
Diet. Without prejudie to the contimuing jurisdiotion
of the Far Eastern Commission at any time, the Commission
shall also review the constitution within this same period.
The Far Eastern Comission, in determining whether the
10-2848
Japanese constitution is an expression of the free will
of the Japanese people, may require a referendum or some
other appropriate procedure for ascertaining Japanese
opinion with respect to the constitution."
The Japanese Constitution went into effect on May 7, 1947. The
period within which the Far Eastern Commission should review it therefore
expires on May 7, 1949.
I do not propose to initiate this review in the Commission.
Other members, however, may do so, since the subject has recently beem
unuer disoussion by some of them, and the Commission has a standing
The Honorable Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
365

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
comaittee on the Japanese Constitution. The leaders of tho twe Heuses
of the Diet, also, according to press reports, hwe recently agreed
toappoint a joint comittee to study the Constitution with a viow to
its possible revision.
Since it is probable that proposals for the amendment of the
Japanese Constitution may shortly be made within the Diet or by m-
bers of the Commission, and thus become a subjoct of discussion in the
Commission, it would appear to be in the interest of the United States
to be prepared to state its views on any such proposals. Our Govern
ment itself may decide to sufgest amendments of its own to the Japanese
Constitution.
In view of this ol Ligation on the Far Eastern Commission to
review the Japanese Constitution before May 7, 19l9, and the resulting
otligation on the United States Government to participate in thi r-
view, may I query whether you mi ht deem it advimable to initiato
within the Department a study of the Japanese Constitution in order to
determine the views of tie Unite States as to its revidon and as to
any specific amendments.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Frank R. McCoy
Frank R. McCoy
Chairman

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.96)
Geneanl Snow
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE:
11-2-40
SUBJECT:
Review of Japanese Canstitution
PARTICIPANTs: Mr. Bulloek - Nember of Australian Delegation to Fmg
Mrs. Dumning - NA
COPIES TO:
Mr. Bishop - NA
Mr. Allison - FE
General Snow - L/P
Nr. Claxton - 0
Mr. Rudlin - 0
1-1408
After the meeting of the Steering Committee on November 2,
1948, Mr. Bullock called to my attention the fast that under
the policy dec1sion passed by the FEC on Oetober 17, 1946,
Provisions for the Review of a New Japamese Constitutien, the
FKC was due to review the Japanese constitution befere May 7.
He pointed out that at present his government did not feel that
any substantive modification was necessary in the constitution
and therefore hoped that the review could take plase as harmon-
lously as possible. Mr. Bullock gave me a eopy (attaehed) of
the draft consultative wessage with suAp on the review of the
Japanese constitution, which he stated he had mentioned te
Mr. Alllson in an earlier conversation on the subjeet. He stated
that after disoussing this draft with Mr. Allison and Mr.Bishep.
he proposed to submit it to the FEC in the near future. He
added that he had drafted the message with a view to making it
as platable as possible to SCAp.
it will be noted that the draft message states that the
poliay deelslon "imposes on the FEC an obligation to review
the constitution". Sueh a view is open to question as it 1s
a possibility that the FEC may decide not to review the sonsti-
tutlon. LI understand that Ggneral Snow is working on that
question at the present time
Attaohment.
FE:NA:ALDunningImle

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FORM NO.
Central
To : L/P - Mr. Snow
FROM : O - Mr. ClaxtonR
susjrcr: Revlew of Japanese Constitution
XR
Pursuant to the agreement reached at
sa Returned to
the meeting in my office on October 26,
will you please take responsibility for
894.011/10-2848
preparing, in consultation with other
appropriate offices of the Department,
a statement on the questions raised in
General McCoy's letter to Mr. Saltzman
of October 25, copy attached, regarding
revlew of the Japanese Constitution.
This statement should, of course, be pre-
pared in the light of present U. S. policy
on Japan as well as of the commitment made
by the FEC.
CC: OFD - Mr. Barnett
NA - Mr. Allison
POS - Mr. Schuler
50
ARudlin:wc
69

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.92)
(00)
Rnsft Ceassltatire ee
1. The Far Eastere Cemmissien considere that the time se maes
apprepriate fer the review of the Japasese Ceastitatiem as
previded for ia Pelicy Decision FEC-#31/43 and 1s gratiraed
to learn from reports from Japam that the Japamese Gevermmemt
1s censidering the establlahment of a Diet committee te -
quire into the review.
2. Since FEC-031/43 also Lmposes on the Far Eastera Cemmlssien
an obligation to reviev the Constitution, the Far Easterm dem-
misslon is now preparing to commence its werk and latends to
consult with the Supreme Commander on the issmes as they arise
1n Commlssion discussions.
3. As a preliminary step the Far Eastern Cemmiesiem weuld be
grateful for any views of the Supreme Cemmander based en his
own excerlenoe of the operation of the new Constitutien, whsch
womld assist the Far Eastern Commission in disaharging its
responsibility of aseertaining whether the Constitution dees
1n faot:
(a) Fulrill the terms or the potsdam Deelarasiem and
ether controlling documents and
(b) Express the free will of the Japamese peeple.
4. The Supreme Cemsiander will of course also appreelate the
impertance or the Far Eastern Commlesion being kept infermed of
the progress of Japanese diseussions.

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
Rm/R - Mary Shaffer
In cleaning out files I have
called Mr. Ramey and find that original
of this was never recorded. Please
index and file.
L/FE - LMLennemann
EL 3878

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.85)
R
This copy
to the T
Nevenber 8, 1948
TOs
0 - r. Balt
FROM:
L/P - C. B. Bmow
3
SmJEOT: Revdew of the Japenese Constitution
1. In view of the faet that the Par Rasterm Commissiem hes
ommitted stealr to a review of the Japasese Cematitatiom (rme-csa/40).
to take plase met Later than two yeare after the Gometitutien wout
the Japanese Comstitmsiom (Pec-Osz/14) in arder to dotermime the vem
9-FEA
donod
2. Attao ed is a draft review of the Japanese Comstitutieng
894.011/11-848
sidered particularly in the light of United States comstitartional
prestise.
CS/T

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.85)
Ghaten X - The 
Under the Japanese Comstitatien the Raperée ls retadmed
provided for in the Comstitutien, and has me pemere related to
government. All of the aete of the Eaperder previded fer by the
Comstitution are mmerated in Artiale 7, and  pertesmed mith
the advice und approval of the eabimet. Exeept fer the ceaveeatden
and dissalution of the Dist, they are coafimed to este of premalgatdon,
proslemation and attestetion, and to the reesiving of fereigm ambesse
ceremonial fmetions. No dimimertion of the pomers mither of the
sovereigm people or of the government are seem in the maimtesemse
of the imstitution of the Eaperer. His pesition is amalegeed to
that of the British Throme, and somment as to the details of the
provisions govermi g the imstitation can best be meke by the Umited
Kingdom member of the Far Fastern Commirsion.
Cha II

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.93)
1
Chanter  - Lamaatie a lar
for the eomplete destreetion of Japam's mr-making pomer, nd the
prevention of a re-araing for war. hs a matter of lam, hemever, the
chapter does not seomplish ite purpose. It is qaite fatile, im a
constitation whieh is at any time mabjeot to mmendent by the beet,
with retificstion by popul r referemdum, to attempt to limds the rights
and pomers of the pegple. It is mo reel limitatiem to deelare im
sush a constitutiom that "the Japemese peeple ferever remesmee war es
of the state will not be recognised", when at amy time the peeple may
amend the Constitution and reassume the sovereigm righte whieh they
bave "forever renounced". kuch more to the point would be a previsiem
prohibiting the Emperer, the Diet, or the Cabimet, either or all of
them, to main ain land, air or naval forees or to deelare war. It
will be borne im mind that in the United States Constitatiem the right
to declare war, to reise and suppert armies, to previde and maistaim
a navy, and to ma e rules  r the goverment and regalatiom of the
land and maval f rees, is expressly put in the Camgrese (arte 1, Bes. 8).
and the President 1s made Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Mavy
(Art. II, Sec. 2). There would seem to be mo reesom why the Japasese
Constitution should not reverse the process and remeve all these
function: from the Diet and the Cabimet, thas reserving to the Japamese
peorle these sove eign powers, of which no momber of molemm comstitetienal
pronouncements can permanently deprive them. Resolutions of the sert
found in Chapter 1I, however apprepriate for a peace-treaty, are mot
approprinto for a constitution, whioh is a proper vehiele for limiting
the powers or governmont, but not for limiting the powers of the sovereigm
poorlo.
Chaptar III

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.90)
of Chapter III:
b) It sa

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.88)
Thdle Oapter I appeene aa the ne hand to loane the thndhd
persess who, for purposes of adainistrative efrleiemey, sheuld be
appeinted by the emsoutive brameh of the govermment, rather them
alooted by the people.
It is moted that Article 37 provides for trial in erimimal
that the trial is mot mquired to be hald in the ddetrdet where the
erime mas ccmmitted. It is assumed that trial by fary may met be
suited to Japamese politieal and scsial exviresmeat.
Article 40 would be entirely weworkable in eny Amerieem furisdietiem.
It apparently provides that any persen who is arrested er deteined en m
acomsation of erine, and who is afterwards acquitted, may sme the state
ful prosecutiom for crime which was acecmpemied by arreet er deteatdemr
would be follewed mutomatically by a suit fer demages. This previsiem
would seem to interfere with proper administratiom of the erimimal lew.
and he proper protection of the public fron the type of aeemsed shese
contimmed liberty pending trial might endanger life and preperty.
ChanterD

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.85)
Shta Ω - Th Maé
Artiale 44 loeves the fixing of qualiricatione for members of
1v.
Artiele 90 provides for exemption of mombere frem arrest, The
emestment the extent of the privilege.
Ne eemment is embaitted on the previsions for disselutiem of the
by the United Xingdem member of the FmC.
Artiole 56 fixes the quorum of both Houses at eme-third of the
over the Nonse of Counelllers and over the Emeoutive in mattere of
Gomstiturtion

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.95)
Goastitation, a bill veteed by the Mouse of Coumeillers may meverthe-
lose besone a law 1f repessed by so amell a propertiom as tee-adathe
of the total momberahip of the Honse of Ropresentatives, provided
that enly ome-third of the memberakip shamse to be present. Bader
the Amerieen rale, an erder to everride the Presidenttal vete, an
absolute twe-thirds majerity of the whale membership is meeessary.
Artioles 60 and 6l previde somplete primmey for the Homme of
Represent:tives in the matter of the bedget and the ratifleatdem of
treaties. Not only must they be first submitted to the Mouse of
Represemtatives (as in the case of all bills fer raiaing revemme in
the U.S. Comstitution, Art. 1, See. 7), but they matomatieally beeome
law in the event of a disagreement between the two houses or of failure
by the House of Councillors to act within thirty days. This is
partioularly sigmifieant in the matter of treaties, simee the U.s.
Constitution pleces the treaty-making pewer in the President, with
the advice and consent of the Senste, providing that two-thirds of
the Semetors present conour (Art. 2, See. 2).
Article 64 provides for an "1mpeechment court", set up by the
Diet from among the members of both Houses, without aay speeifleetiem as
to mmber or the proportion from eaeh House. This is a sigmifieest
variation from the provisions of the U.s. Constitution whieh give to
the House of Represent:tives the sole power of impesehment (Art. 1, Ses. 2),
and to the Senate the sole power to try all impesehments and previded
that no person shall be convicted without the comourremee of tme-thirds
of the members present. It is obvious that the American mystem preseats
the greater protection to offioers of State, and that the Japamese
provision, when considered in conmection with the primaey of the House
of Hepresentetives in matters of legislation and the mall querm re-
quired, gives great opportunity for impeaehment proceedings before a
small kangaroo court set up by a small proportion o the House ef
Representatives, and with a hand-pioked membership largely from that
House. T is may be e striking exmmple of the subordination of the
Exooutive to the legislative contemplated by Article 4l, and constitutes
a positive insecurity of the exeoutive from encroachment by the legis-
lative.
Chapter y

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.86)
Shantar I - Tthe sahtuet
a similar syetes.
Chapter I - Ladiaiary
The objeotive of Chapter VI is to ereate a Supreme Court as a
aay las, arder, regulation or effieial eet (Art. 81), meeh en the
all jadges shall be imdependent in the earsise of their conseiemsse end
during goed behavior (Art. 3, See. 1). It should also be moted that
Artiole 79 of the Japanese Constitution aleo prevides that the Jedges
of the Buprome Court shall be retired tapem the attatmmoat of the age
as fixed by law" -- whioh affords amother oppertamity to the legislative
branch to emaroach on the Judieiary, this time by legialative emastmest
shortening their temare of effiee.
Chanter YII

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.76)
Chentat  - hasa a
Artdate 95 proridee that a apeatal Lan, appisestte anty to
me lesal pahise antdtr, commat be amested by the Bdet without
the soneent of the majerity of the vetere of the leeul enbety
soncorned, abtatned in aoeerdanse with law. It is qusstiamed
whother or not this previsiem might at some time make impessble
Legialation applieable anly to ane loeality, and whiek mdgbt, fer
selrish reasene, be eppesed by a majerity of the veters ef that
l0eal1ty.

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.97)
DC/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandumy of Coversation
DATE: November 10, 1960
suBJEct: Australian Proposal To Send Draft Coneultative Message to SoAp
Regarding Review of Japanese Constitution
PArticipAnts: Mr. H. W. Bullock, Second Secretary, Australian Embassy
Mr. J. M. Allison, Deputy Director, FE
Mr. C. E. Snow, L/P
Mr. W. A. Rudlin, O
Mrs. A. L. Dunning, NA
COPIES TO:
Dr. Blakeslee, FEC
Mr. Bishop, NA
Mr. Claxton, O
Mr. Schuler, POS
89
Mr. Bullock, member of the Australian Delegation to the Far
Eastern Commission, called on Mr. Allison at 4:30 p.m. on November 10,
l948, in order to discuss a pro osed draft consultative message to
SCAP regarding the review of the Japanese Constitution, which he was
planning to submit to the FEC in the near future.
xK
Mr. Allison stated to Mr. Bullock that he considered it a
possibility that the FEC might decide not to review the Constitution.
-1048
He pointed out that a message to ScAp at this time seeking his views
on the subject seemed premature. He noted that, according to the
policy decision passed by the FEC, only the Japanese people and the
FEC were authorized to review the Constitution, and not SCAP. He
also pointed out that a message requesting Scap to state his vtewe
C
S
on a subject, the creation and development of which he was largely
responsible for, would place SCAp in an embarrassing position.He
B
added that it would be wise to delay a consultative message to ScAp
until specific questions had been raised in the course of discussion
in the FEC.
Mr. Bullock stated that he had not thought of these implications
and stated that he would postpone presenting his draft message to the
FEC until he had spoken to membere of several other delegations. He
OCS NE U
pointed
2580
D1st

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
pointed out that his Government was taking a partioular interest
in the matter as Dr. Evatt had been largely responsible for the
passage of the polioy decision on the review of the Constitution
in the FEC. At present he did not believe that his Government
had any substantive changes to propose. Rather it hoped that a
review could take place as harmoniously as possible. He inquired
as to how discussion could be initiated in the FEC other than by
aubmitting to the Commission a proposed consultative message to
SCAP. General Snow pointed out that the best procedure might be
for the various delegations first to review for themselves the
Constitution and its implementing legislation in the light of
the Potedam Declaration and FEC polioy decisions and then to
submit specific issues which they wanted reviewed or as to which
they wanted information. It was noted that the US Government
would make every effort to provide any information requested from
its own files in Washington and if necessary would communicate
with SCAP for this purpose.
General Snow suggested that discussion could be initiated
on this subject by reactivation of Committee II. He noted that
the members of this committee could meet and either discuss the
constitution generally or discuss specific questions raised in
the course of studies conducted by the various delegations.
Mr. Bullock seemed impressed with this suggestion and
informally indicated that he might follow such a couree.
In the course of the discussion those present discussed
the unfortunate effect that any sudden and etartling changes in
the Japanese Constitution might have on the Japanese people. It
was agreed by all, including Mr. Bullock, that any modification
of the Constitution should be considered in terms of its effect
on the Japanese people and that for this reason changes should
be kept at a minimum.
Qen
FE:NA:ALDunning:pm:clh

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
TO
: MA - Mr. Bishop
DATB:11/30/48
FROM : NA - Mrs. Dunning
SUBJECT:
Review of Japanese Constitution by FEO
Problem
Position to be taken by US Government in FEC regarding
review of Japanese Constitution by that body.
Facts Bearing on the Problem
1. The FEC on October 17, 1946 passed a policy decision
providing that:
"In order that the Japanese people may have an
opportunity, after the new consitution goes into
effect, to reconsider it in the light of the experience
of its working, and in order that the Far Eastern Com~
misslon may satisfy itselr that the constitution ful-
fills the terms of the Potsdam Deolaration and other
controlling documents, the Commission decides as a
matter of polioy that, not sooner than one year and
not later than two years after it goes into effeot,
the situation with respect to the new constitution
should be reviewed by the Diet. Without prejudice
to the continuing jurisdiction of the Far Eastern
Commission at any time, the Commission shall also
review the constitution within this same period.
The Far Eastern Commission, in determining whether
the Japanese constitution is an expression of the
free will of the Japanese people, may require a
-3048
referendum or some other appropriate procedure for
ascertaining Japanese opinion with respect to the
constitution.
2. Mr. Bullook of the Australian Embassy called on
Mr. Allison on November 10, 1948 in order to disouss a
proposed draft consultative message to SCAp regarding the
review of the Japanese Constitution whioh it was understood
he was planning to submit to the FEC in the near future.
Mr. Allison stated to Mr. Bullook that he considered it
a possibility that the FEC might decide not to review the
Constitution and that according to the polioy decision
only the Japanese people and the FEC were authorized to
review
TOP SECRET

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
-2
review the Constitution, and not SCAP. Mr. Bullook was
persuaded by this argument not to prooced with submitting
his draft message to the FEC. He pointed out, however,
that his Government took a partioular interest in this
matter as Dr. Evatt had been largely responsible for the
passage of the policy deolsion on the review of the Con-
stitution in the FEC. In reply to Mr. Bullock's inquiry
as to how disoussion might be initiated in the FEC, Gen-
eral Snow suggested the reactivation of Committee IIl
(Memo of Conversation, November 10, l948, attaohed).
3. At the request of the Australian member of the
FEC, a meeting or the Committee III, Constitutional and
Legal Reform, has been called for Thursday, December 2
at three o'clock.
4. Paragraph 12 of NS0 13 provides that:
"12. Internal Political and Economio Changes.
Henceforth emphasis should be given to Japanese assimi-
lation of the reform programs. To this end, while
SCAP should not stand in the way of reform measures
initiated by the Japanese if he finds them consistent
with the overall objectives of the occupation, he
should be advised not to press upon the Japanese Gov-
ernment any further reform legislation. As for re-
form measures already taken or in process of prepara-
tion by the Japanese authorities, SCAp should be
advised to relax pressure steadily but unobtrusively
in the Japanese Government in connection with these
reforms and should intervene only if the Japanese
authorities revoke or compromise the fundamentals
of the reforms as they proceed in their own way
with the process of implementation and adjustment..."
5. Artiole 96 of the Japanese Constitution provides:
Disoussion
The Us Government in agreeing to the polioy decision
on the review of the Japanese Constitution has estopped
1tself from contending that the FEC does not have the com-
petence to review the Constitution. While the Us Govern-
ment 1s committed to a review of the Constitution by the
FEC, it would be highly desirable from our point of view
for the FEC to agree that such a review is not necessary.
However,
TOP SECREI

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
-2
review the Constitution, and not SCAP. Mr. Bulleek was
persuaded by this argument not to proceed with submitting
his draft message to the FEC. He pointed out, however,
that his Government took a partioular interest in this
matter as Dr. Evatt had been largely responsible for the
passage of the polioy decision on the review of the Con-
stitution in the Fxc. In reply to Mr. Bullock's inquiry
as to how disoussion might be initiated in the FEC, Gen-
eral Snow suggested the reactivation or Committee IIl
(Memo of Conversation, November 10, 1948, attached).
3. At the request of the Australian member of the
FEC, a meeting of the Committee III, Constitutional and
Legal Reform, has been called for Thursday, December 2
at three o'olock.
4. Paragraph 12 of N80 13 provides that:
"12. Internal Political and Economic Changes.
Henceforth emphasis should be given to Japanese assimi-
lation of the reform programs. To this end, while
SCAp should not stand in the way of reform measures
initiated by the Japanese if he finds them consistent
with the overall objectives of the ocoupation, he
should be advised not to press upon the Japanese Gov~
ernment any further reform legislation. As for re-
form measures already taken or in process of prepara-
tion by the Japanese authorities, SCAP should be
advised to relax pressure steadily but unobtrusively
in the Japanese Government in connection with these
reforms and should intervene only if the Japanese
authorities revoke or compromise the fundamentals
of the reforms as they proceed in their own way
with the process of implementation and adjustment..."
* Artiole 96. Amendments to this constitution shall
be initiated by the Diet, through a conourring vote of two-
thirds or more of all the members of each House and shall
thereupon be submitted to the people for ratifioation,
which shall require the afrirmative vote of a majority of
all votes cast thereon, at a special referendum or at
such election as the Diet shall specify.
Amendments when so ratiried shall immediately be
promulgated by the Emperor in the name of the people, as
an integral part or this Constitution.
for the frc to agree that such a revlew 1s nou wo--
However,
JP SEOHLI

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRE
-3
However, in view of the strong objections to the
Constitution recorded in FEC discussions of two years ago,
it is not likely that the FEO will?agree to review the
Constitution. It is more than likely that definite pro-
posals will be made to change the document.
Should this be the case, it 1s evident that para-
graph 12 of NSC 13 precludes the Us Government from either
taking positive action in the FEC to amend the dooument
or accepting changes proposed by other governments unless
such changes are supported by the Japanese people. Two
factors stand out. First, the Japanese Constitution 1s
an American-inspired document based on the western poli-
tical philosophy. Secondly, whatever may be our views
regarding this partioular dooument or the philosophy on
which it is based, there 1s little doubt that this doou-
ment represents ideas xtraneous to Japanse oulture,
political heritage and traditional practice. The present
Japanese Constitution, unless modified to accord with
fundamental Japanese ideas, will have as little success
as the Weimar Constitution of the German Republio.
It would merely exaggerate the situation for the FEO
to change the Constitution so as to make it conform in
all aspects with the constitutions of the politioally
sophisticated western democracles. Rather it is now up
to the Japanes& to work with the dooument, absorb as much
of it as they can, modify it to meet their needs and amend
it on their own according to provisions contained in the
Constitution. Should a movement arise among the Japanese
people to change the Constitution at this time, I see no
reason why the Us Government should object prov1ded it
does not endanger the overall objectives of the occupation
in Japan. The Japanese, however, have shown little interest
to date in the general problem of constitutional amendment
and there appears to be considerable feeling that any
amendment, other than terminological clarification, would
be premature at this point. In August and September,
there were indications that a Diet committee was to be
established to study the constitution, but to date the
actual establishment of the committee has not been conrirmed.
Should certain members of the FEC propose that a
referendum be held at this time, it 1s suggested that, des
pite the fact that NSC 13 does not preclude such action,
the Us oppose such action on the ground that there is
adequate provision in the Constitution for amendment. As
tated
IOP SECREI

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.95)
- 4 -
stated above, the Constitution 1s an American-inapired doou-
ment and any number of votes cast by the Japanese against
the document, however emall, would merely supply ammunition
to those who oppose the American potition in the occupation
of Japan.
Recommendetiona
It if recomimended that the

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.96)
s/R
DEC 3 1948
894.011/12-
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUN FOR THE UNITED STATES MENDER,
FAR EASTERN CONMISSION
5
With referenee to the question of the review of the
Japanese Constitution by the Far Easterm Gemmissiem, the
United States member 1s authorized to adept a firm pesitien
(a) that the Far Easterm Commission sheuld as imeomspiememe-
ly as possible and with a minimum of debate review promptly
3
the Constitution and (b) that the Far Eastern Cemmissiem
within the purview of the Far Easterm Commisslom without
any further investigation or action (sueh as requiring a
referendum or any other procedure to determime Japamese
public opinion) on the part of the Far Easterm Cemmissiem.
He is authorized to support this pesitiom by poiating
out inter alla that:
1) The United States Government weleomes this reviev
of the Japanese Constitution by the Far Eastern Cemmissiom
under the terme of FEC-O31/40 in order that the Far Easterm
Commission may satisfy itselr that the Constitutiem fulrills
the terms of the Potsdam Deolaration and other comtrolling
documents. His Government feels this review ean and should
be accomplished promptly and without attracting undue
publio attention.
2) The United States wishes to point eut that the
establishment of a peacefully inclined and responsible
government in Japan as envisaged by the Potsdam Deelara-
tion has required changes in Japanese habits ef thought,
action and organization and that it is mow important to
give the Japanese people opportunity freely to assimilate
the shanges. Amendment by a foreigm authority to the
fundamental bases of any mew government could only produse
uneertainty and retard any process of assimilatiom. the
Japenese should be eneouraged to regard the Constitution
as their
CONFIDENTIAL
432℃

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.97)
CONPIDENTIAL
-2-
as their ewm and any detrastiom from that feeling sheuld
be serupalously aveided. At this time, the requiring of
amendments te the Constitution by the Far Easterm Semmissiem
or the suggestiom of shanges, or any uaneeessary step by
a foreigm amthority derogatory to the freely expressed will
of the Japanese prople would la the eyes ef the Japamese
detrect seriously from the basie validity of their Goasti-
tution.
3) The United States Government has carefully examined
the Constitution on its own part and considers it to fulfill
the terms or the Potsdam Deelaration and other eontrolling
doouments.
4) The United States Government eonsidere 1t 1e the
res onsibility of the Japanese people to amend the Com-
stitution if and when amendment is desirable or meeessary.
5) The United States acoordingly feels that it 1s um-
desiruble that the Far Eastern Commission should at this
time propose amendments to the Japanese Constitution,
require a referendum for ascertaining Japanese opinion
with respeet to the Constitution or take any other similar
aotion. The United States feels thet the Par Eastern
Commission should promptly determine that the Japanese
Constitution meets all requirements within the purview
of the Far Eastern Commission.
6) The United States Government will be glad to hear
the opinione of the other membere on the subjoet.
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Seoretary

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MINUTES OF MEETING
DATE: December 7, 1948
SUBJECT:
Review of Japanese Constitution
PARTICIPANTS: HA - : r. Bishop
OFD - ir. Barnett
0 - I.r. Claxton
rs. Dunning
POS/J - r. Schuler
Ir. Rudlin
COPIES TO:
rarticipants
894.011/12-748
A meeting was held in  r. Claxton's office, December 1, 1948 to discuss
the uS position to be taken in FEC with regard to review of the Japanese Con-
stitution. r. Bishop submitted for FE and NA a recommendation (copy attached)
as to the instructions to be furnished the US Member.
It was agreed that the position set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the
recommendations should be adopted. r. Bisnop was of the opinion that we should
now take the firm position, as indicated in para 3, that we would accept no
recommendations for changes in the Constitution and accept no proposals for
action in FEC beyond those set forth in para 1. General Snow, lr. Claxton and
Ir. Barnett agreed that tis would probably be our final position but thought
that it should not be taken officially at this time and not until we had had
the opportunity to hear what changes or action other countries might prpose.
After considerable iscussion it was agreed that in the unlikely event at
member of FEc made an overvhelmingly convincing case for a change in the Co
stitution or for action by FEC the US would of course consider such case. 
was arreed therefore that in order not to foreclose tiis possibility and to
avoid the appearance of takin an unalterable position in advance of reew
of the matter in the FEC, paragraph 3 of the econmendations could be omitted.
894.01
It was felt that the s position would be adequately described in this respect
by para 1 of the ecommenuations. It was further agreed that the US Member
snould advance argunents as to why revision of the onstitution would be un-
necessary and uncesirable and that the memorandum of instruction should outline
such an argument
6211
Md
C
WoRARudlin:mwc
S
J
甲

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Recommendations
It is recommended that the US Member be instructed:
1) To adopt a firm position that the FEC should, as incon-
spicuously as possible, and with minimur of debate, review promptly
the Constitution and reach a determination that that Constitution
meets all requirements within the purview of the FEC without any
further investigation or action (such as requiring a referendum or
any other procedure to determine Japanese public opinion) on the
part of the FEC.
2) To state that the US Government considers that it is the
responsibility of the Japanese to amend the Constitution if and when
amendment is desiratle or necessary.
3) To accept no recommendations proposed by the FEC for changes
in the Constitution and to accept no proposals for any action by the
FEC beyond that set fortn in paragraph 1.
FE:NA:ALDunning:jh:clh
432

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.98)
CONSTITUTION CF JAPAN
Wo, the Japenese peoplo, acting through our duly elected representa-
tives in the National Diet, determined that we shall secure for ourselves
and our posterity tha fruits of peaceful cooperation with all nations and
the blosoingo of liberty throughout this land, and resolved that nover
again shall we be visited with the horrors of war through the action
of gcverrment, do proclain the sovereignty of the poople's will and
do ordain end establish this Constitution, fcunded upon the universal
principle that government is a sacred trust the authority for which
is derived from tho pecple, the powers of which aro cxercised by the
represontatives of the poople, and the bonefits of which are enjoyod
by the people; and we reject and revoke all conetitutions, laws,
ordinances, and rescripts in conflict herewith.
Desiring poaee for all time and fully conscious of the high ideale
controlling human relationehip now stirring mankind, wo have detorminod
to rely fer our security and survival upon the justico and good faith
of tho poace-loving pooples of the world. We desiro to occupy an
honored place in an international society dosigned and dodicated to the
proservation of peace, and the banishment of tyranny and slavery.
oppression and intolerancc, for all time fron the earth. We recognize
and acknowledgc that all peoples havo the right to live in pcace, frea
from fear and want.
We hold thet no puoplc is rcsponsible to itself alone, but that
lawe of political morality are universal; and that obedience to such
laws is inoumbent upon all peoplos who would sustain their cwn
sovereignty and justify their sovercign relationship with othor porploa
To thoso high principles and purposes wo. the Japaneso Peoplo,
pledge our natioual honor, dotorminod will and full resources.
1

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
CHAPTER I
THE EMPEROR
Article I.
The Emperor shall bo the symbol of the state
and of the unity of the people, deriving hie position from the sovereim
will of the people.
Article II.
The Inperial Throne shall be dynastic and
succcedcd to in accordance with the Inperial House Law passed by the Diet.
Article III.
The advice and approval of the Cabinct shall be
required for ell acts of thc Enperor in matters of state, and the
Cabinet shall be responsiblc therefor.
Article IV.
The Enporor shall porform only such state
functions as are provided for in this constitution. Never shall he
have powers related to gcvernment.
The Emperor may delegate his functions es mey be provided by law.
Articlo V.
When, in accordance with the Imperial House Law,
a regency is established, the Regent shall exercise his functions in the
Empcror's name. In this case, paragraph ono of the precoding article
will be applicaolc.
Articlc VI.
Tho Emperor shall appoint the Prime Minister
as designated by the Dict.
Article VII.
Tho Emperor. with the edvice and epproval of the
Cabinet, ahall porforn the following functions of state on behalf of the
people:
Promulgation of amendments of tho constitution, laws, cabinot
ordere and treaties.
Convocation of the Diet.
Dissolution of the House of Reprosentatives.
Proclamation of genural electione.
Attestation of tho appointment and dismissal of Ministers of State,
Ambassadors, and other officials as provided for by law.
Attestation of general and special ammesty, commutation of
punishmont, reprieve, and restoration of rights.
Awarding of honors.
Receiving foreign ambaseadors and ministers.
2

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.98)
Performance of cerenonial functions.
Articlo VIII.
Imporial House, and no receipts and disbursemente can be made thoreby.
without the authorization of the Diet.
CHAPTER 2
RENUNCIATION OF WAR
Articla IX.
lar, as a sovercign right of the nation, and the
threat or usc of fcrcc, is fcrover roncunced as a means of settling
disputce with other netions.
The meinterarco of lard, son, and air forces, as well as other
war potential, will never be authorizcd. The right of belligeroncy
of the state will rot bo recognized.
CHAPTER 3
RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE PEOPLE
Article X.
Tho people shall not be prevonted from enjoying
any of tho fundamertal human rights. Those fundamontal human right
guarantecd to the people by this constitution shall be conforred upon
thc pooplo of this und future generations as oternal and inviolate rights.
Article XI.
The enjoyment of the frecdoms and rights
guaranteed to the people by this constitution shall be maintainad by
the ctcrnal vigilance of the pecple, and the poople shall refrain from
any abuse of these freedoms and rights and shall always bc rosponsible
for utilizing them for the public welfare.
Article XII.
All of thc peoplc shall be respocted as
individuals, and their right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness shall, within the limits of tho public welfero. be the
aupremc consideration in legislation and in governmental affaire.
Article XIII.
All natural persons ere equal under the law
and there shall bo no discrimination in political, economic, or social
rolations bocause of raco, crced, sex, sociel status, or family origin.
No right of pecrage shall from this time forth embody within itsolf any
national or civic power of government, nor shull pocrage oxtend boyond
the lives of those now in being. No priviloge shall accompany any ward
of honor, decoration or any distinction; nor shall any such award be
valid beyond the lifetime of tho individual who now holds or horeafter
my receive it.

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.94)
Article XIV.
The pecple have the inalienable right
choose their public officials and to dismiss them.
All puolic officials are servants of the whole community and not
of any special group.
In all elections, secrecy cf the ballot s all be preserved in-
violate, nor s all any voter be erawerable, publicly or privetely, for
the choice ho hes made.
Art Iclc XV.
very person ras thc right of peaceful petition
for th redrese of damage end cther mettors, for the removal of publio
officialn an! fcr t eractment, re cal or amendmert of laws, ordinances
or rugulaticns; nor shrll any perscn ba in ary way discriminated gainet
for sponscrins such a petiticn.
Article XVI.
Ho persor shail bo reld in bondage of any kind.
Involurtary aorv:tude, eycect as punishmert fcr crime, is prohibited.
articla XVII.
Fre dom of thought and censcience shall be
held irviolabl..
Article XVIII.
Fr  dom of religior. io uarantoed to all. No
reli.,ivis organization sholl receive any privilese from the State, nor
exercis eny politicti outhority.
No rerron shall be compollei tc take part in any religi us act,
celebratio., ritu, or practico.
The Stt te an ita oratns shall refrain from ruligious educetion or
any cthor roligious activity.
Articlo .IX.
Fr. dom f aasmhly, ass ciatin, spacch, and
prees and all ther f rms f expressier are arcntoei. N, cone rehip
shell bo maintciled, nr shall the sccrecy  f ary mears of communication
be vi lated.
Article X..
v ry pureon shall havo fre dom to chooso and
change hia residence und to ch ac his ocripation to the oxtent that it
Coos r t inturfere with tne public welfare.
-re dom of all permons to move to a for isn country and to divest
themsclvos f their nationality shall be inviclate.
Articlo XXI.
acadexic frudom is guararteed.

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
Article XXII.
Marriage shall be based only
consent of both sexes and it shall be maintained through mutust 
operation, with the equal rights of husband and wife as a basis.
shall be enacted considering choice of spouse, property rights, inhorit
ance, choice of domicile, divorce and other matters pertaining to
marriage and the family from the standpoint of individual dignity and
the essential equality of the sexes.
Article XXIII.
In all srheres of life, laws shall be designed
for the romotion and extersien of social welfare and security, and of
public health, freedon, justice and cemccracy.
Article XXIV.
Every person shall have the right to receive
an equal education corresponding to his ability, as provided by law.
Every person shall be cbligated to insure that all of the children
under his protection receive elerentary education. Such education shall
be free.
Article XXV.
All rersons have the right to work. Standards
for workine corditions, wages and hours shall be fixed by law. The ex-
ploitation of children shall be prchibited.
Article XXVI.
The right of vorkers to organize and to
bargain and act collectively is fuaranteed.
Article : XVII.
The riht to om property is inviolable, but
pronerty rights shall be defined by law, in conformity with tho public
welfare. Frivate prorerty may be taken for public use upon just com-
pensation therefor.
Article XXVIII.
No person shsll be apprehended except upon
warrant issued by a competent judicial officer which specifies the
offense with which the person is charged, unless he is apprehended while
committing a crime.
Article XXIX.
No person shall be arrested or detained
without being at once informed of the charges against him or without the
immediate privilege of counsel: he shall not be detained without adeguat
cause; and upon demand of any person such cause must be immediately shown
in open court in his presence and the presence of his counsel.
5

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
Article XXX.
No person shell be deprived of life or lib
nor shell any criminel penalty be imposed, except according to proood
established by the Dict, nor shall any person bo denicd the right of
access to the courts.
Articlo XXXI.
The right of the people to be secure in their
porsons, horcs, papors and effects egeinst entrics, searches end seisure
shell not be inpired except upon warrant issucd only for probeble cause.
and perticulsrly dcscribing the place to be seerched and the pereon or
things to bo seized.
Each search or seizure shell bc medo upon sopsrate varrant issued
for the purposc by a compotent judicial officer.
Article XXXII.
The infliction of torture by any public officer
and crucl puntshments are absolutely forbiddon.
Article XXXIII.
In ell criminal cascs the accused shall enjoy
the right to e speedy end public trial by en impertiel tribunal.
He shell be permitted full opportunity to examine all witnesses,
and he shall heve the right of compulscry process for obtaining witnesses
on his bohalf at public expensc.
at all tincs the accused chell have tho essistance of competent
counsel who shall, if the accuscd be uncblc to sccure tho same by hi
own efforts, be assigned to his use by the governmont. No person shall
be placed in doublo jeoperdy for the seme crime.
Article XXXIV.
No porson shell bo compelled to testify againet
himself.
No confession siall be edmitted in cvidonco if made undor compulaion,
torture or thrcat, or efter prolonged errest or detention.
No person shall be convicted or punished in cases where the only
proof against him is his own confession.
Article XXXV.
No person shell bo held criminally liable for
an act which was lerful et the tine it was committed, or of which he 
been acquitted.
6

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.97)
CHAPTER 4
THE DIET
Article XXvI.
The Diet shall be the highest organ of
power, and shell be thc sole lew-making authcrity of the State.
Article XXXVII.
The Diet shell consist of two houses, namely
the House of Representatives and the House of Councillurs.
Article XXXVIII.
Bcth Houses shall consist cf elected member,
represertative of all the pecple.
The nwiber of the members of each House shall be fixed by law.
Article XXIX.
The qualificeticns cf electors and members for
both Hcuses shall be fixed by law. However, there shall be no dicrimin
tion becuuse cf scx, rece, roligion, or sccial status.
Article XL.
The tern of office of memters of the House of
Representatives shall be 4 yeers. Hcwever, the term may be terminated be
fore the full term is up. by diesolution of the Hcuse of Reprosentatives.
Article XLI.
Matters pertaining to the method of election of
members of both Houses, eloctorel districts, and method of voting, hall
be fixed by law.
Article XLII.
The term of office of the membere of the Honse
of Councillors shell be six ycers, except for half the members merving in
the firat term. Electicn for half the membere shell take place every three
years.
Article ALIII.
o perscn shall be permitted to be a member of
both Hcuses simultaneously.
article XiIV.
Members of both Houses shell receive appropriate.
annual payment from the naticnal treasury in accordance with the law.
Article λLV.
Except in cuses provided by law, members of both
Houses shall be excmpt from arrest while the Diet is in session. Any mem
ber arreated befcrethe pening of the sessicn shall be freed during tho
term of the mession upon demand  f his House.
Article XLVI.
mombers of both Houses shall not be held liablo
cutside the House fcr speeches, debates, or votes cast inside the Hcume.
Article XLVII.
The Diet shall be conyoked at least once e
year.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.96)
Article XLVIII.
The Cabinet may call oxtraordinary
of the Diet. When a quarter or more of tho total members of it
makes the domand, the Diet must be called inte session.
Articlo XLIX.
When the House of Rapresentatives is arderod
dissolved, there must be a general election of membors of the House of
Representatives within ferty (4c) days from tho dato of dissolution, and
the Diet must bo convckod within thirty (3) days from tho date of the
electior. Whon the House of Representatives is ordered dissclved, the
House cf Councillors must, at the same tie, to closed.
Article L.
Each Huso shall judgo disputes related to
qualifications and cl.ctions f its members.
Ir. crder to dory a s at to anyono certifi d to havo buen elected,
it is neccssary to pas: a rosolutior by a maj rity of two-thirds or more
of the membors prement.
Article II.
Busincss cannot be transacted in either House.
unlcss et loast sna-triru of the total mumbership is prosont.
all mattors shall o decidcl, in each Housc, by a maj rity of those
precent, c cept as clesewhure pr vided in the C nstitution. In case of a
tio, th. prosidirg fficer shall decide tho issuc.
Article LII.
Doliberation in cach Housc shall be public. No
accrot meetings shall to hold.
Each House shull kop e rcord f proccudirgs. This record chall
be puslished and distritutud to the public.
Upor domarl of on -fifth or more of the mimburs preaont, votes of
tho members on any matter shall b rec rded in tho minutes.
Articlo LIII.
Each Hous.. eholl sclcct its own presidont and
other officiala.
Each House shall cstatlish its rulus and r guletions pertaining to
moatings and procoodings, and may punish mombers for disordorly conduct.
Howev.r, in orier to pel a momber, a maj rity of tvo-thirds or more of
those members prosurt must pass a resolution thercon.
Article LIV.
A pill bocomes a lew on passage oy both Housos.
excopt as othorwisc provided by this Constitution.
A bill which is passod by the House of R presentatives. and rojoc

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.97)
by the House of Councillors, becomes a law when passed  ee
the House of Representatives by a majority of two-thirds or mpre
members present.
Feilire by the Fouse of Councillors to take final action within
sixty (60) days after receipt of a bill passed by the House of Repre-
sentatives, time in recess excepted, mey be determined by the House
of Representatives to constitute a rejection.
Article LV.
The budget must first be submitted to the House
of Represertatires.
"pon consideretion of the budget, when the House of Councillors makes
a decision different fr:m that of the House of Representatives, end when
a joint comitt e of both H uses, provided for by law, cannot come to an
agreemert, the iecision of the House cf Representatives will be considered
the decisior of the Diet.
article LVI.
The second paragreph of the preceding article
epplies elso to Dict apprcval required for the conclusion of treaties.
and internetionel corventions end agrcements.
Article LVII.
Eech Heuse may conduct investigations in re-
letion to netionel effeirs, and may compel the presonce and testimony of
witnesses, end the prcdicticn of records. In sich cescs, cach House can
punish, in accordance with law, those who do not comply with the demende.
Article IVIII.
The Prime Linister, end the Ministers of Steto.
mey, at eny tine, apreer in either House for the purpose of debating on
bills, regerdless of whether they ere members of the House or not. They
must axpcar when their prcsence is reuuired in crder to give answers or
explenetions.
Article LVIX.
The Diet shall set up an inpeachment court from
the menbers of buth Houees for the purpose of trying those judges againot
whom removel procerdings heve been inatituted.
Matturs relating tc impeachment shall be provided by law.
Article LX.
The House of Representatives shall sit as the
Natiunal Diet immediately upon the effective date of this Constitution
and until such time as the House of Councillore shall regularly be com
stituted.
9

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
CHAPTER 5
THE CABINET
Article LXI.
Executive power shall be vested in the Cabin
Article LXII.
The Cabinet shall consist of the Prime Miniet
who shall be its head, and other Ministers of State as provided for by 
The Cabinet, in tho excrcise of exccutive power, shall be colloctively
rosponsible to the Diot.
Article LXIII.
The Prime Minister shall be dosignated by a
resolution of the Diet. This designation shell precede all other business.
If the house of Represertatives and the House of Councillore disagree
and if a joint committeo of both houses, provided for by law, cannot
reach an agreemert, the decision of the Houso of Representatives shall
be the decision of tho Dict.
Article LXIV.
The Prime Minister shell, with the approval of
the Dict, dosignate the Ministers of Steto. Tho second paragreph of the
preceding article shall apply to this approval.
The Prime Minister mey decide on tho re oval of Ministere of State
as hc chooses.
Articlo LXV.
If thc Houso of Fey rcsentetives passes a
no-confidonce resolution, or fails to pass a confidence resolution, the
Cebinet shall resign en masse, unless it diss lvos the House of
Ropresentetivos within ton days.
Article LXVI.
When there is a vacancy in the post of Prime
Minister, or upon tho convocation of thc Dict (fter a genoral election.
the Cabinct shall rosign on masso.
Article LXVII.
In the cases mentione? in tho two precoding
articles, the Cebinot shell continuc its functins until the time when
e now Prime Minister is appointed.
Article LXVIII.
The Prime Ministor, rorosonting the Cabinet,
submits bills, roports on general national effairs and foroin rolatione
to the Diot, end exercises supervision and control over various edmiaier
trativo branches.
10

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.94)
Arttcle LXIX.
The Cabimot, in addisson
administrative funotiors, shall:
Administer the law faithfully: conduct affeirs of stmtes
Menage foreign affairs.
Concludo troatios, internationel convontions and agreemonte
it shall obtein prior or, doponding on circumstences, subsoquent epp
of tho Dict.
In accordrnce with standards osteblished by tho Diet, administor
the civil servicc.
Fropere tho sudget, and prosont it to tho Dict.
Enact end promulgato orders end rogulotions in crder to carry out
tho provisiors of this Conatitution nd of tho law. However, it carnot
includo porei provisions in such crders rnd reguletions unloes nuthorisod
by auch low.
Docido on gor ral amnosty, spucicl amresty, commutation of purishmort,
ropricvc, end restoretion cf rights.
Articio LX.
All lews end crdors shrll be signed by tho
compotant Mirister cf Steto, end courtersigned by tho Primo Miristor.
Arti:lo LXXI.
The Mirictors of State, during thoir tonuro
of office, shall rot bo sut iect to logal nation vithout the consort of
tho Prino Vuviser, but the right to teke that notion is not impairod
horoby.
11

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.95)
CHAPTER 6
JUDICIARY
Article LXXII.
The wholo judicinl powor is vosted in a Supromo
Court and in such infurior courts es tho Dict shell cstablish.
No cxtraordinary tritunel shell bo ostablished, nor shell any oran
or agoncy (f the Executive be given finel judicirl pewer.
all jude's shall b. indepondent in the cx rciso of thoir conscionce
and shall b bound only by this Constitution end the lrwe onacted purouant
thereto.
Articlo LXXIII.
The Suprome Court is vusted with tho rulo-meking
power under whieh it duturmir:s the rulus of procedure and of prectico.
end cf matters rolating to ettcrnoys, the internel disciplino of the
courts, tho administraticn of judicial affairs, end such othur mattore
es may propcrly effect tho fro: cxercis, of the judicial powor.
Public procurs tors shall bo subj ct to tho rule-meking power of the
Suprem Court.
The Suprem. Court mey del gato the powor to meke rules for inforior
courts to such ccurts.
Articlo LXXIV.
Romovels of judg-s shell bo accompliehod by
public imperchm rt only unl ss judicielly doclsred montelly or physically
incompotont. Nc disciplinary cction shell be rdministored by any
ex cutivo organ or agoncy.
Articl LXXV.
The Supreme Court shall consist of such numbor
of judgus as mey be determined by law; all such judgus shell bo appointud
by tho Cabinut end shull bo rotired upon the etteinmont of the ago of
70 yers.
Tho cppointm nt of the judges of the Suprome Court shell bo reviowed
by the peopl at tho first gon ral cl ction of tho Houso of Ropromontetivos
following their eppointment, and shall be roviuwed agpin et tho firet
gen rel ol. ction of the House of Rupresuntstivos efter a lepso of ton
years, end in the semo mennor theroafter.
12

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
In cascs mentioned in the foregoing paragreph, when the majority of
the voters show that they fevor the dismissal of a judgo concerned, he
shall be dismisscd.
Metters pertaining to thc review mentioncd in the foregoing paragraphe
shall be prescribed by law.
All such judgcs shall recoive, at reguler, stated intervale, adequate
compensetion which shall not be decreesed during their terms of office.
Article LXXVI.
The judgcs of the inferior courts shall be
appointed by tho Cabinet frcm a list of persons noninated by tho Suprome
Court. All such judges shall hold office for a torm of ton years with
privilego of reappointment and shell receive, at rcgular, statod intervale.
edcquate compensation which shcll not be docreased during their terms of
office. No judge shall hold offico after attaining the age of 70 years.
Article LXXVII.
The Supreme Court is the court of last resort
with power to dotermine the constitutionelity of any law, order.
regulation or official act.
Article LXXVIII.
Triale shall be conducted and judgment declerod
publicly. Where, however, a court unanimously dctormines publicity to be
dangcrous to public order or morals, a trial may be conducted privately.
but triale of political offonsos, offonscs involving tho pross, and cases
whorein the rights of the peoplo as reserved in Chepter 3 of this
Constitution are in question, shall be conducted publicly without exception.
13

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.97)
CHAPTER 7
.FINANCE
Article LXIX.
The power to administer national fix
shall be exercised as the Diet shall determine.
Article LXXX.
No new texes shall be impcsed or existing
ones modified exceot by actin f the Diet cr under such conditions
as the Diet may prescribe.
all taxee in effect et the time this Constituticn is promulgated
shell c ntinue to be crllected under existing reguletirns until
chenged r m dified by the Diet.
Article LXI.
Nc mcney shell be expended, nor shall the
State ctligate itself, except es auth rized by the Diet.
article LXXII.
The Cabinet shall prepare and submit to
the Diet for its consideretirn and decision an enmual budget for
each fiscel year.
Article LλXIII.
In crdor to privido f'r unforusuen
deficiencies in the budget a reserve fund may be authcrized tc be
expended uprn the resp nsitility of the Cabinet.
The Cebinet shall be held accounteble to the Diet for all
payments fr n the reserve fund.
Article LXXXIV.
All prcperty f the Imperial Husehold.
ther then the horeditery estates, shall belrng t: the Stete.
The inc me from ell Imperial properties shell be paid into the
natirnal treesury, end ellowences end expenscs cf the Imperial
Huseh ld, es defined by lew, shall be appr priated by the Diet
in the ennual budget.
Article LXXV.
ir public m' ney or property shall be
apprrpriated f r the use, benefit ur supp rt of eny systom cf
religion, r religi us institutirn or asscciation, r fer any
charitable, educational cr benevclent purpcses not under the
c ntrol f the State.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.96)
Article IxxxvI. A final audit of all expenditures and
revemues of the State shell be made anmually by a board of
audit and submitted by the Cabinet to the Diet during the
fiscel year immediatoly following the period covered.
The organizatirn and competency of the board of audit
shall be determined ty the Diet.
Article LXXXVII.
At rcgilar intervals and at least
anmually the Cabinet shall report tc the Diet and the pecple
on the state of natirnal finances.
GHAPTER 8
LCCAL SELF GCVERENT
article LXXXVIII.
Reguletions concerning orgenization end
operetins of locel putlic entities shell be fixed by law in
acccrdance with the principle cf local eutonray.
article LXXXIX.
The lccel public entities shall establish
assenulies es their deliberative crgens, in accordance with lew.
The chief execitive officere of ell locel public entities,
the members of their legielative essentlies, end such cther local
officials es mey le determined oy lew shell be elected by direct
popular vote within their severel cranunities.
article XC.
L:cal putlic entities shall have the right
to manego their property, effeirs end government and to frane their
own charters within sich laws esthe Diet may enict.
article XCI.
A special law, rrplicable cnly to cne local
public entity, cannot be enected by the Diet without the coneent of
the mejority of the voters of the local putlic entity concerned.
obtained in acccrdance with law.
15

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.98)
CHAPTER 9
AMENTMENTS
Artiole XCII.
Amondmer.ts to this Constitution shall be
initiated by the Diet, through a concurring vcto of two-thirds of all
the members of oech House and shell thoreupon be submitted to the people
for ratification, which shall require the affirmetive vete of a majority
of all votcs cast thereon at such election es the Diet shall specify.
Amendments when so retified shell immediataly be procleimed by the
Emperor, in the rame of the Poople, as en integral pert of this
Constitution.
CHAPTER 17
SUPREME LAW
Article XCIII.
This Constitution and the laws and treaties
made in purauance hereof shall be the supreme lew of the state and
nc public law or ordinance and nc imperial rescript or other act of
governmont, or part thereof, contrary to the provisions hercof, shall
have logal force or validity.
Article XCIV.
The fundamental humen rights by this Constitution
guaranteed to tho people of Japan result fron the age-old struggle of man
to be free. They havo survived the exacting test for durability in the
crucible of time and experience, and are conferred upon this and future
generatione in sacred trust, to be held for all time inviolate.
The Enperor or tho Regent, the Ministers of Stato, the mombers of
the Diet, judgos, and all other public officials have the obligetion to
respect and uphold this Constitution.
CHAPTER 11
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
Article XCV.
The Ministere of State, membore of the Diet,
judgee and all other public officials in office at the time of the
enactment of this Constitution, shall ramain at their poste in accordance
with existing provisions of law regardless of the provisions of thie
Conssitution, until their successors are elected or appointed.

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.96)
TO
0-r. Saltzman
DATE: December 10 1948
FROM : L - The Acting Leral Adviser 
Files
Central
sUBJECT: Consultative .ossage to SCAF on teview of the
Japanese Constitution
894.0
1. A revicw of the Japanese Constitution by the Far Eastern
Conission after one year's trial and before the conclusion of
the second year is reccribed by a policy decision of the Far
Lastern Jomission taken Cctober 17, 1240 (FEC-031/40). On motion
Returned to
of tie Australian member, Comrittee 3 of the IEc, on Constitutional
and Le al teform, nas been callea torether for the purpose of be-
inin the review. The ormittee has voted, with only the United
States oppo. in: ane the U.S.S.. abtaining, to send a consultative
2-1048
nessa e to the Supreme Co: mancer, tor the purpose of apprising him
as  matter of courtesy or tne un ertaking to review and to request
Lis assistence o wy or infonttion on the worling out of the
Constitntion in actual rectice, and on the progress of a review
w. ras icen initiate. te Japene e biet. he United States
menre c the coitee was instructe to oppose the consultative
meseere on the roune that it was premature. Hevertheless, a
Graft of a consultetive message was prepared, voted 9-1 ana sent
to the teerin co.nittee, ich has returned the message to
CS/W
Committee  for redraftin. e question now arises whether the
.. member of Jommittee 3 s.ould assist in the redraft, or take
a position in opposilion to any message at all; and whetner as
the rorait cones up to the Steering Committee and to the Com-
missio. itself tne .s. shoul. persist in its opposition to the
point or vetoing the consultative message.
view
2. 1t is the  of the ctine Leral Adviser that the
United States over:ment should collaborate with the other Govern-
ments represente: on the Far Eastern Conmnission in the preparation
of a mutually satisfactory consultative message to SCAP in connec-
tion w1tn the current review of the Japanese Constitution by the
Far Eastern Connission. Tne following reasons are suggested for
this opinion:
a. The
894.011
17
12-1048

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.93)
-2
a. The United States Government, along with the other
governments represented on the FEC, stands committed
to this review by the FEC, through participation in
the adoption of FEC-031/40, providing for the review.
b. The only rensonatle way to proceed with this review
is to proceed i. tie light of actual experience in
Japan vith the operation of the Constitution in
rac ice,  d of SCAp's opinio as to the existence
or non-existence of any defects in the Constitution.
This infermation can only be secured through SCAP.
This method is also the most consonant with Tnited
Stetes' interests, since SCAF will undou tedly take
the posili tt no actio. l. the FC is presently
nooe.
c. le he inforantie can te  cume from SoAF by the
nit S a c  Pormally ana through its own
riv  c, e oth r members of tis Fo have
 it prop rly take. e positi tiat they prefer to
secure the informatio rectly fro SCAF through
their ... accesr to CAr.
d. It would te unthinkalle for tie U.S. at this time to
tenyt to eny to the EC either t. is information or
irnct occes: to SCAr. Sc is not an officer of the
s. al e, rt   r  Com ander for al of the
alliec Iowe s,  Us Unit d Stetes is not legally
utitled to inrist on a vnilateral api roach to SCAP,
or to 's y direct access to tie other allied Powers.
e. Hine   eleven Iows.s are firmly united in the desire
For a cousultati ssege to SCAP,  those nine are all
friends cf te it St tes on whem e shall have to
r t liti ate defeat of any resolutions in the
Fic for amendments to the .aranese Constitution. It
vould be selseles: to alienate ti.ese friends on this
issue and to rerd our own motives in ti.e matter of
this reviey suspect befor ve nave even begun the review.
f. e cannot prevent the co sult tive message even if ve try,
unlec: by cr veto  the Fc itself. To exercise the
power oi veto on such: a thoroughl. immaterial issue as
this  uld be extrenely unwise, if, indeed, ve have the
legal pover to veto a purely procedural matter like a
consultative messge.
g. Ye

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
g. We can best exert our influence and protect our
own interests in the matter of this message by
cooperating in the draft of the message. If we
are not going to veto it we should not instruct
our represent tives on the working committee to
sit back and let the others do the drafting. We
are likely o get a much less acceptable message
if we do not cooperate in ti e draft.
It is the edopted position of the .S. Government
that the revi w should be accomplished as promptly
an inconspecuously as possible. This cannot be
achieved by going headlong into a fi ht over the
first immaterial issue that arises.
1. Reference ims ceen me de in tnis connection to
NSC-13/?, pararrar: 9. The Acting Legal Adviser
sees not n~ inconsistent witn NSC-13/2, paragrapi: 9,
in a consultative message from the Far Eastern Com-
rissio. to SCAi, on e matte so obviously "within
the purview of te Far Sastern Commission" as the
prosent review of the Ja: anese Constitution.
3. 1t is reconmenied that the U.. epresentative be instructed
to offer assistance in the preparation of a consultative message to
Soip whic can elicit inior ntion contributing to the U.S. desire
to corplete tie iet and incons icuous review of the Japanese Con-
stitubion.
L:L/:CESnow:1ml
12-9-48
0:udlin:mwc 12/10/18
P0515
GD
ciand wall
Pa...it
her 5 ohules.

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
DRAFT OF MESSAGE TO CENERAL MaCARTHUR
The Far Eastern Commission has begun a review of the Japane
Constitution, as provided in FEC-031/41. The Commission appreciates
that the initiative in any amendment of the Japanese Constitution
belongs to the Japanese and desires to proceed in its review in the
light of the development of Japanese opinion on the Constitution.
It is un erstood that the Japanese Diet has set up an organization
for the purpose of initiating a review. The Commission would appreciate
information as to the progress of the Japanese review and any information
as to how the Constitution has operated in practice which the Supreme
Commander believes may be of assistance to the Commission in its review,
together with any comments the Supreme Commander may desire to make.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
THE SECRSTARY OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
December 14, 1948
YE.EC
 OANDU FO? THE ITED STATES :ELBER, FAR EASTERN COLNISSION:
Subject: Review of the Japanese Constitution
Files
Central
teference is made to the proposed draft of a consultative
messege to SCAP b the Far Eastern Conmission on the Review of
the Japanese Constitution which was forwarded to the Steering
Conittee b conu.ittee ..o. 3 on becember 10 and wiich reads as
follo.s:
"The Far Eastern Conission has begun a review of
xR
the Japanese Constitution as provided in FEC 031/41.
De
The commission would appreciate any comments the Supreme
PR
Commander  ay desire to make, together with any informa-
894.011/12-1448
tion which the Supreme Commander believes nay be of
assistance to the Commission in its review of the
Constitution."
The s : uml er is aut orized to endeavo to have this message
revised so as to read substantially as follows:
......, togetner ith any inrormation which the
Supreme Commander believes may be of assistance to the
Conmis:ion in satisfying itself that tnis Constitution
fulfi lls the tom's of the Potsdam Leclaration and other
controlli:n documents."
if the Committce refuses to accept this amendment, the US
umber is authorized to accept the rait in its original form.
Chilande S. llastanz
CS/T
 alter Wilds
poputy Assstant Secretary
For Occupied Areas
50

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.96)
M.Roden
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: O - Mr. Claxton
DATE: December 6, 1948
FROM : FE - Mr. All1son
suBjecT: Review of the Japanese Constitution by the Far Eastern Commissiem
My attenticn has been called to General Snow's memorandum
of December 3, 1948 to General McCoy on the meeting of Committee
No. 3 on the Japanese Constitution in which it 1s stated that
the US member with the assistance of the UK member, prepared
a subetitute draft of a message to SCAp, which seemed to sat-
1sfy the Australian member as well as the entire Committee.
Authorization is now requested for the US member to formally
approve this draft message.
Reference is made to the agreement as to the Us position
on the review of the Japar se Constitution by the FEC reached
by the State Department Committee on FEC at its meeting on
December 1, 1948 (and formalized into the memorandum for the
U3 member s1gned by Mr. Saltzman on December 3, 1948, but
68
which had unofficially been transmitted to the Us member
prior to the meeting of Committee No. 3) that the US member
should
"adopt a firm position (a) that the Far Eastern
0
Commission should as inconspicuously as possible
and with a minimum of debate review promptly the
Constitution and (b) that the Far Eastern Commis-
sion should determine that that Constitution meets
all requirements within the purview of the Far
Eastern Commission without any further investiga-
tion or action (such as requiring a referendum or
448
any other procedure to determine Japanese publio
opinion) on the part of the Far Eastern Commission."
In view of this established position FE 1s unable to
agree that the draft message (attached to General Snow's
memorandum) be transmitted to SCAp or thet any similar aotion
be taken by the FEC.
gpa
DED
FE: Na: ALDunning: clh
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.98)
PORM NO. 
TO
: NA - Mr. Bishop
DAT: January 28,
FROM : NA - Mrs. Dunning
SUBJECT:
Proposed Instructions for US Member on Review of Japanese
Constitution
SCAP's reply to the FEC consultative message on the
review of the Japanese Constitution was circulated to the
FEC on January 27 and referred to Committee III for consid-
eration. In anticipation of the discussion to take place
in the Committee, the question has arisen as to the inter-
pretation to be placed on the following section of SCAP'
1/1-2849
reply:
"Upon receipt of FEC-O3l/41, I formally
communicated the same to the Japanese. Govern-
ment and since then numerous conferences have
been held between this Headquarters and Japanese
Executive and legislative officials on the pro-
cedure to be followed in such a review. We urged
that a joint committee of the Diet be appointed
to study the matter. Despite this, however, the
Japanese have shown a strong disinclination ser-
iously to consider modifications at this time,
holding firmly to the view that a much longer
CS/W
period should elapse before subjecting the doou-
ment to the test of mandatory Japanese review."
You will recall that the FEC policy decision on the Con-
stitution provides that "not sooner than one year and not
later than two years after it (the Constitution) goes into
effect, the situation with respect to the new Constitution
894.011
should be reviewed by the Diet."
It
17
1-2849

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.96)
-2 -
It 1s anticipated that other members will inquire if the
Seeoveaein
Japanese Diet has fully complied with the
"mandatoryLnaziew
in the FEC policy decision to review the situation with respeot
to the Constitution.
General Snow has indicated that the section quoted above
from SCAp's message cannot be legally construed as meaning that
the Japanese Diet has completed its review of the Constitution.
It is his view that the matter is still under consideration in
that
Japan and 1t might be necessary for the FEC or the US Government,
at a later date, to request SCAp for further information. He also
pointed out while the Us is entitled to take the position that
SCAP has made every reasonable effort to carry the FEC policy
decision, it is theoretically within the competence of the FEC
duist
to request SCAp to s that the Japanese Diet adequately review
the Constitution mer fully.
In view of the developments that might follow were General
Snow's views to be accepted, I consider it politically advisable
that the US take the position that Japanese Diet has fulfilled
the intent of the FEC policy decision. Any pressure exerted by
the FEC or SCAP to force the Diet to take further action on the
Constitution in view of its obvious disinclination at this time
could have no other effect than to introduce and element of
political instability into a situation already beset with diffi-
cult economic problems.
Furthermore

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.92)
一3
Such a positlon would also have the effect of curbing
discuasion in the Commission on this question. There would
then be no doubt as to exercise of the veto by the Us were
the other members of the FEC to 1ns1et tnat SCAP direct the
Jepanese Diet to review the Constitution more fully. Encourage-
ment of diecusslon 1n tre FEC and suggestion of further con-
eultative messages between the FEC and SCAP on tnis subject
1s hardly cone1stent with the provieion in NSC 13/2 regarding
complement the 1netructions already given to the Us member
to adopt a firm poeition (a) that the Far Eastern Commission
should as inconspicuously as possible and with a minimum of
debate review promotly tre Constitution and (b) thet the Far
Eaetern Commiselon ehould determine trst trat Constitution
meete all reculrements within the purview of the Far Eaetern
Commiesion without any furtrer investigetion or action (such
ae requiring a refercndum or any otner procedure to determine
Jatorese nublie inl or tre art or tre Fer Eaatern
111.111.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Files
Central
TELEPHONE
Memorandum of/Conversation
DATE: Fobruary 16, 1949
Review of Japanese Constitution.
SUBJECT:
Mr. Bullock - Australian Embassy
PARTICIPANTS:
8
Mrs. Dunning - NA
COPIES TO:
Mr. Bishop
Mr. Bullock called this morning and informed me that 'He how
had instructions from his Government as to the course he was to
pursue in the FEC with reference to this subject. His Govern-
ment generally agreed with the view expressed by SCAP in his
reply to the FEC consultative message that Allied intervention
to effect changes in the Japanese Constitution at this time was
CS/W
inadvisable. However, his Government took the view that the
Japanese should be encouraged to take an active interest in
their own constitution and that to date the Japanese Diet had
not fulfilled the provision of the FEC policy decision that
"... not sooner than one year and not later than two years
after it goes into effect, the situation with respect to the
new constitution should be reviewed by the Diet." Mr. Bullock
felt that SCAP should encourage the Japanese Diet Committee to
meet and consider this matter. I stated that it was my personal
view that the Japanese Diet had fulfilled such provision.
/Cognizant of (1) the inability of FE and L to reach agreement
on this question several weeks ago and (2) the letter sent by
Mr. Allison to Mr. Sebald concerning this very problem, I thought
there would be no objection to my making this statement on a
purely personal basis. You may be interested in reading a memo
894.011
that I drafted on this very problem on January 28, 1949. In
spite of L's objections and in view of subsequent developments,
17
I feel that an active advocation of the position therein set
forth would have had the effect of curbing this protracted
discussion in the committee
—16
So far as the FEC is concerned, Mr. Bullock thought that
the committee should discuss the views of the member governments
on

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
on various provisions of the Constitution. While he did not
contemplate that the FEC would pass any formal policy decision
on this subject he thought that the views expressed might be
sent informally to SCAP for his guidance. I indicated that the
minutes of meetings were always sent to SCAP.
He furthermore stated that he was considoring proposing
that the FEC send out another consultative message to SCAP
thanking him for his prompt reply, indicating its general agree-
ment with his views on the Constitution, informing him that the
FEC plans to discuss various aspects of the Constitution and
that the summary of these discussions would be sent informally
for his guidance, and suggesting to SCAp that the Diet Commit-
tee meet and review the situation with respect to the Constitu-
tion. I expressed a personal lack of enthusiasm for any
further consultative messages as being completely unnecessary.
Mr. Bullock concluded by stating that he hoped a meeting
of the Constitution Committee could be arranged for early next
week so that the FEC might complete their review as soon as
possible. I expressed complete agreement with the latter objec-
tive. He added as a footnote that he had the agreement of
several other delegations in his proposed suggestions.
In view of this conversation it is recommended that
1) the Department adopt the firm and final position that
the Japanese Diet has fully complied with the provision in the
FEC policy decision to review the situation with respect to the
Constitution;
2) should L and O continue to object to the FE position,
which was made manifestly clear at the time the question was
under discussion, and perhaps cite Mr. Allison's letter to
Mr. Sebald as recognition of a weak legal position, FE should
take the position that this letter was merely an attempt to
settle harmoniously an intra-Departmental controversy and that
since no reply has yet been received and in view of the fact
that a US position is urgently required, political considera-
tions must outweigh all others.
aeD
FE:NA:ALDunning:fhh
