894.20219 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Panama Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., April 26 (File 1174)
ID: 894.20219-1174   Pages: 137   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20219-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Panama, April 26, 1933.
V
No. 1504
SUBJECT: Japanese in Panama.
COPIES SU
O.N.I. AND
F/HS
894.202.19
894.20219/21
ATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
MAY 3 1 1933
FILED
Sir:
I have the honor to report that Mr. Nelson
Rounsevell, American editor of the PANAMA AMERI-
CAN, on April 21, 1933, inaugurated in that paper
and in its Spanish section, EL PANAMA AMERICA, an
anti Japanese campaign.
It is Rounsevell's contention that the local
Japanese colony working in Panama as fishermen,
barbers, shirt makers, merchants and restauratuers
are

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
are here not in order to make money but in order to
carry on espionage against the United States and,
should friction between the Uni ted States and Japan
at any time arise, to resort to sabotage of the Canal.
He also claims that there are twice as many Japanese
in the two terminal cities of Panama as are registered,
or as were legally admitted. In February, 1932, the
Chief of the Police and Fire Division of the Panama
Canal made available to this Legation a census of
Japanese nationals living in Panama City and Colon.
The number of adult males listed in Panama City, ac-
cording to the census, totalled 132 and in Colon 39,
or a total of 17l. The division into occupations of
these Japanese was given as follows:
PANAMA
Fishermen - 28, operating two launches and
six sail boats.
Barbers - 90, employed in 37 shops.
Merchants - i0, employed in 4 shops.
Restauratuers - 4, one restaurant.
COLON
Barbers
35
Restauratuers - 1
Shirt makers - 3
According to figures which Mr. Rounsevell claims to
have secured there are at least 280 Japanese barbers
alone in the two cities, and he stresses the fact that
these, as well as other Japanese, are young men of mil-
itary bearing and that none of the Japanese in Panama
appear to be in the slightest degree interested in mak-
ing a living from their occupations, with the possible
exception of the fishermen.
On

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
On April 23 the PANAMA AMERICAN charged that on
the previous day a Japanese named Amaro made a speech
in the waterfront district claiming that Japans sole
interest in Manchuria and China was to protect those
territories from the "Yankees". I have been unable
to check the accuracy of this report.
In addition to the various newspaper clippings from
the press which are enclosed herewith, I also have the
honor to enclose a copy in translation of a memorandum
handed to me last March (1933) by Dr. Julio Arjona, a
leading Panamanian attorney, in which he makes charges
similar to those of Rounsevell.
Respectfully yours,
ByNamo
Roy T.'Davis.
Enclosures :
1/Clipping from the Panama American of April 21.
2/Clipping from El Panama America of April 21.
3/Clipping from the Panama American of April 22.
4/Clipping from El Panama America of April 22.
5/Cartoon clipped from the Panama American of April 22.
6/Clipping from El Tiempo of April 22.
7/Clipping from El Diario de Panama, of April 22.
8/Clipping from the Panama American of April 23.
9/Clipping from the Panama American of April 24.
10/Clipping from the Panama American of April 25.
11/Clipping from El Panama America, of April 25.
12/Further clipping from the Panama American of April 25.
13/Copy of Memorandum sent to Legation by Dr. Julio Arjona,
in March, 1933.
14/Translation of above.
800-Japan (800 Panama)
STM.P

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
molosure No./. to Despatch No. /50 4. of April 2.1933.
Clipping from THE PANAMA AMERICAN of April 21, 1933.
Rambling, Gambling and Publishing
By NELSON ROÚNSEVELL
To some it is a mystery why BRITISH nationality secms to
be so much more deeply ingrained into its subjects than that of
other countries - our own, for instance.
To those who have traveled widely and lived long in foreign
lands the mystery is not so great. The answer being that even
in the most remote corners of the earth a BRITISHER, no mat-
ter how obscure or unknown individually, always has protection
of the BRITISH FLAG, and an injury, threat or injustice to one
or more of its minor subjecte — anywhere in the world — i
immediately made the CONCERN OF THE EMPIRE.
The lengths to which Great Britain has recently gone in de
fense of and in offering NATIONAL PROTECTION to her sub
jects charged in Russia with sabotage, is typical. No other coun-
try in the warld, if my observation of precedents be correct,
would take the daring action that Great Britain has to save those
relatively obscure workingmen involved in difficulties with
powerful foreign government.
And that is why Britishers, the world over, are a bit more
cockey, more unconcerned, more SURE OF THEMSELVES than
the rest of us on foreign soil. They KNOW, and so does the rest
of the world, just how far Britain will go in defense of its most
humble subject against injustice and in preventing wrong being
done them.
We will now watch with interest the attitude of the United
States Government in the case of the two AMERICAN soldiers
arrested Wednesday in China, charged with "PHOTOGRAPH-
ING JAPANESE TROOP MOVEMENTS." But it will require
a long stretch of the imagination to picture the United States
going to the extreme in protective measures in defense of those
two soldiers that Great Britain has gone in the case of her sub-
jects charged with Sabotage in Russia. Let us hope, however.
that she DOES.
It is pertinent to remark in this connection that JAPS
HAVE BEEN PHOTOGRAPHING AMERICAN "TROOP
MOVEMENTS," FORTIFICATIONS AND NAVAL OPERA-
TIONS ON THE ISTHMUS OF PANAMA FOR A DECADE.
And I have yet to hear of one being ARRESTED, slapped on the
wrist, or even told to "GET THE HELL OUT OF HERE."
On Sundays, holidays, and all kinds of days — seven days
a week, if you want to know the truth — JAPS — deep chested.
broad shouldered youths who display MILITARY TRAINING
in the rery step and gesture — roam the Canal Zone AT WILL
— S. CHING and PHOTOGRAPHING — and have been
sailing in fishing (?) boats, DAY AND NIGHT FOR TEN
YEARS over the waters of Panama Bay — and I have yet to
hear of ANYBODY, even as much as saying out loud "WHAT IN
HELL ARE YOU FELLOWS DOING HERE?"
In recent years the back streets of Panama and Colon have
filled up — quietly and without any apparent notice being taken
of it — with JAP barber (7) shops — some of which don't eut
enough hair in a month to pay their rent.
Who has taken note of the surprising number of JAP shirt
(7) factories that have sprung up, almost over-night in Panama
and Colon? And, I ask you  who ever caught one of them SELL-
ING A SHIRT?
I have personally strolled into several — meraly out of idle
ourioaity.-Show cases filled with silk shirts, camouflaging an
obscure holesin-thewall. Two or three SEWING MACHINES
ranged around the wall - seated in front of which, with legs
44.9

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
If those JAPS were actually dependent upon MAKING or
SELLING SHIRTS for a living and to pay rent, would they let
a prosperous lookng Gringo who apparently wanted a shirt, get
out of their store without at least TRYING to sell him one?
Not on your life. They would be BUTTONHOLING Grin-
goes on the sidewalks, just as the East Indians do on Front
Street and Gentral Avenue, and DRAGGING ahem inside in ef-
forts to make a SALE.
And so I have for some weeks strolled into and out of those
JAP SHIRT (?) SHOPS without having one question asked of
me and without having opportunity to ask them a question. And
I can show you JAP BARBER (?) SHOPS in Panama and Colon
that do not SHAVE enough customers in a week to pay their
light bills — and in which there are TWICE AS MANY BARB.
BERS (?) as there are BARBER CHAIRS.
And those are the birds who held up CHARLES and ANNE
LINDBERGH for days during the progress of their spectacular
and daring trang-Pacific flight — PIONEERING IN AVIATION
because they had a CAMERA in the plane and had flown OVER
Japanese fortifications.
And now those despoilers of LIBERTY and FREEDOM in
CHINA, who send SPIES to Panama by the hundred, arrest
couple of American soldiers for."PHOTOGRAPHING TROOP
MOVEMENTS!"
If the United States does not go to equal or greater lengths
in DEMANDING THE RELEASE and in giving NATIONAL
PROTECTION — in the fullest sense and meaning of the word
— in behalf of those two American soldiers that Great Britain
has gone in defense of her subjects in Russia — then there is
soincthing wrong with AMERICA'S GUTS.
And if somebody does not soon arise OFFICIALLY and de-
mand to know what in hell so many JAPS — without visible
means of support or apparent reason or legitimate occupation
ARE DOING ON THE ISTHMUS OF PANAMA — then THE
PANAMA AMERICAN will not only ASK the question, but will
ANSWER it  well.
FISHERMEN? — BAHI — SHIRT MAKERS? — POOHI
BARBERS? — LIKE HELL THEY ARE!
And what kind of  SLEEPING POTION has b!
ur famous G-2 and our bo sted Naval Intelligenceo
videly advertised SECRET SERVICE that here — at the  ast
crucial vortex of America NATIONAL DEFENSE - JAPS —
who ARREST buck privates for PHOTOGRAPHING TROOP
MOVEMENTS IN CHINA — are permitted to organize and
operate in Panama the most complete and elaborate SPY SYS.
TEM that has ever functioned on foreign soil — WITHOUT
MOLESTATION. and, so far a is ow apparent, WITHOUT
EFFECTIVE surveillance or interference.
And this JAP organization — this JAP ARMY OF OCCU.
PATION (armed as would appear, with razors, sewing needles
and fish hooks — and occupationed as fishermen, tailors and
barbers) is todav TWICE AS NUMEROUS as officialdom has
any knowledge or record of - and ten times as ALERT as the
average American might suppose — NUMEROUS ENOUGH
TO DESTROY THE CANAL IN ONE HOUR ANY NIGHT
THEY MAY CHOOSE TO DO SO — and this IN SPITE OF
ANY PRECAUTIONS our Generals and Admirals have yet taken.
Too preoceupied at Quarry Heights with determining how
to sell three-point-two beer and with usurping the authority of
GIVILIAN COURTS and white-washing JACK-LIGHT cases to
pay any attention to a vary REAL and threataning JAP MENACR
o the Isth

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.2. to Despatch No. /504. ofApril 26 - 1933.
Clipping from EL PANAMA AMERICA of April 21, 1933.
EXISTE EN PANÁMA SISTEMA
DE ESPIONAJE DEL JAPON
Las barberías y camiserías son apenas un ligero 'ca-
mouflage' de los agentes del servicio secreto ja-
ponés. El Canal puede ser destruído por ellos en
una hora, afirma Nelson Rounsevell
Por NELSON ROUNSEVELL
Para algunos es un MISTERIO el por qué de que la nacio-
nalidad INGLESA parezca ser mucho más hondamente impresa
en sus "sujetos" que en los de cualquier otro país: la nuestra,
por ejemplo.
Para aquellos que han viajado mucho y han vivido por
largo tiempo en países extraños este misterio no es muy grande.
La respuesta es que aún en los más remotos rincones de la
tierra un INGLES, no importa lo obscuro o desconocido de su
personalidad, siempre tiene la protección de la BANDERA
INGLESA y toda injuria, amenaza o injusticia hacia uno o
varios de sus súbditos — en cualquier parte del mundo — es
inmediatamente tomada COMO COSA PROPIA DEL IMPERIO.
A los extremos a que ha ido recientemente la Gran Bretaña
en defensa o en el ofrecimiento de PROTECCION NACIONAL
a sus súbditos acusados de espionaje en Rusia, es un ejemplo
típico. Ningún otro país en el mundo, si mi observación de pre-
cedentes son correctos, habría tomado esa acción abierta que
Inglaterra ha tomado para salvar a aquellos trabajadores, rela-
tivamente desconocidos, envueltos en dificultades con un po-
deroso gobierno extranjero.
Y por ello es que los ingleses, sobre el mundo, son un poco
más SEGUROS DE SI MISMOS que el resto de nosotros en
tierras extrañas. Ellos SABEN y el resto del mundo también,
hasta dónde irá-Inglaterra en defensa de su más obscuro ciu-
dadano contra toda injusticia evitando que se le haga cualquier
daño.
Ahora vigllaremos con interés la actitud del gobierno de
Ios Estados Unidos en el caso de los dos soldados AMERICANOS
arrestados el miércoles en China, acusados de "FOTOGRAFIAR
LOS MOVIMIENTOS DE LAS TROPAS JAPONESAS." PerO ello
requerirá un gran esfuerzo de la imaginación para pintarse a
los Estados Unidos yendo al extremo de las medidas protec-
tivas en defensa de esos dos soldados tal como Inglaterra lo
ha hecho en el caso de sus súbditos acusados de espionaje en
Rusia. Esperemos, sin embargo, ver si lo hace.
Es conveniente recordar en relación con este incidente que
LOS JAPONESES HAN ESTADO FOTOGRAFIANDO LOS MOVI-
MIENTOS AMERICANAS, LAS FORTIFICACIONES Y OPERA-
CIONES NAVALES EN EL ISTMO DE PANAMA POR DIEZ
AñOS. Y todavía no he oido decir que alguno de ellos haya sido
ARRESTADO o apresado o que se le haya ordenado "LARGUESE
DE AQUI", a causa de sus actividades.
En los días domingos, días civicos o en cualquier otro día-
siate dias a la semana si quieren saber la verdad - LOS JAPO-
NAMIENTO MILATAR en sus pasos y en cada uno de sus ges-
tos, transitan por la Zona del Canal A SUs DESEOS — to-
mando apuntes y fotografiando - y han estado saliendo
GUIEN Ies diga en Vos alta: "QUE DEMONIOS ESTAN UST
DES HACIENDO AQUIT"

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
2
Quién ha tomado nota del excesivo número de camiserias
(?) japonesas que se han multiplicado, casi en una noche, en
Panamá y Colón. Y, les pregunto: quién los ha encontrado
jamás vendiendo una camisa?
Personalmente he penetrado en varias de ellos, solamente
por curiosidad. Estanterías y vidrieras llenas de camisas de
seda, disfrazando el verdadero fin de dicho establecimiento. Dos
o tres MAQUINAS DE COSER colocadas junto a las paredes y
sentados frente a ellas, con las piernas indolentemente cruza-
das, hombres maliciosos, vigilantes y astutos, de excelente cons-
titución física que me parecen más que simples fabricantes de
camisas, OFICIALES NAVALES Y MILTARES. Me he dirigido
a una vidriera y a otra, demostrando gran interés en las
CAMISAS mientras que los japoneses PERMANECIÉRON INDI-
FERENTES.
SI ESOS JAPONESES dependieran exclusivamente de la
FABRICACION o VENTA DE CAMISAS para vivir y pagar sus
rentas, dejarían ellos que un gringo, aparentemente rico, nece-
sitando una camisa, ABANDONARA su tienda sin hacer EL MAS
LEVE ESFUERZO por venderle una?
Jamás lo harían ustedes. Ellos estarían ATAJANDO a los
gringos en las aceras tal como lo hacen los hindúes en la Calle
del Frente de Colón o en la Avenida Central en Panamá y
tratarían de hacerlos entrar a sus establecimientos, para ven-
derles ALGO.
Pero estos japoneses, al cóntrario, no prestan atención a
un cliente conveniente. Ni se mueven siquiera de sus sillas situa-
das frente a sus máquinas tranquilas, ni alzan la vista para
ver si Ud. necesita o no una camisa. Y para qué lo han de
hacer? Si ellos venden las camisas que tienen allí solamente
como un disfraz tendrían sencillamente que COMPRAR OTRAS
MAS.
Y así, en más de una ocasión y durante varias semanas
entré y salí de ESTAS CAMISERIAS (?) JAPONESAS sin que
se me preguntara algo y sin tener a la vez, la oportunidad de
hacerlo con ellos. Y yo les puedo mostrar BARBERIAS (?)
JAPONESAS, tanto en Panamá como en Colón, en donde no se
AFEITAN clientes suficientes durante una semana para pagar
sus cuentas más pequeñas y en las cuales hay BARBEROS EN
NUMERO DOBLEMENTE SUPERIOR AL DE LAS SILLAS DE
TRABAJO QUE EXISTEN ALLI.
Y estos son los "pájaros" que detuvieron a Charles y a
Anne Lindbergh varios días durante el desarrollo de su espec-
tacular vuelo trans-pacífico, porque tenían una cámara foto-
gráfica en el aeroplano y habían volado sobre las fortificaciones
japonesas.
Y ahora, estos despojadores de la LIBERTAD en China, que
envían ESPIAS por centenares a Panamá, arrestan a una pareja
de soldados americanos por "FOTOGRAFIAR LOS MOVIMIEN-
TOS DE SUS TROPAS"!
Si los Estados Unidos no toma todas las medidas extremas
y DEMANDA LA LIBERTAD y OFRECE LA PROTECCION NA-
CIONAL — en el más amplio sentido de estas palabras — a
estos dos soldados americanos tal como lo ha hecho Inglaterra
en favor de sus súbditos en Rusia — entonces hay algo malo
EN AMERICA.
Y si alguien no se levanta pronto OFICIALMENTE y pide
se le explique qué demonios HACEN EN EL ISTMO DE PANAMA
tantos JAPONESES sin visibles modos de sostenimiento, o razón
aparente o ocupación legítima, entonces el PANAMA AMERICAN
no Sólo HARA ESA PREGUNTA sino quo la CONTESTARA
TAMBIEN.
PESCADORES? BAH! CAMISEROS? POOH! BARBEROS
COMO EL MISMO DIABLO LO SON!
Camiseros y barberos — dando paseos por caminos solita-
rios detrás de Pueblo Nuevo en las tardes de los domingos —
CON CAMABAS FOTOGRAFICAS POP COROZAL Y FORT
CLAYTON. Qué piensan Uds. de ésto?

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Y qué cláse de BEBIDA PROVOCADORA DEL SUEÑO han
tomado nuestro famoso G-2 y nuestro célebre Naval Intelligence
y nuestro ampliamente conocido SERVICIO SECRETO que aquí
— en el más importante punto de la DEFENSA NACIONAL DE
LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS — los JAPONESES — que ARRESTAN
soldados por FOTOGRAFIAR LOS MOVIMIENTOS DE LAS
TROPAS EN CHINA — pueden organizar y operar en Panamá
el más completo y excelente SISTEMA DE ESPIONAJE que ha
funcionado jamás en un suelo extraño — SIN SER MOLESTA-
DOS, y hasta donde parece aparente — SIN VIGILANCIA O
INTERFERENCIA EFECTIVA?
Y esta organización Japonesa — ESTE EJERCITO JAPONES
DE OCUPACION (armado, como, aparece, con barberas, agujas
de coser, anzuelos y ocupados como pescadores, sastres y bar-
beros) es hoy DOBLEMENTE NUMEROSO que las unidades que
aparecen en los records oficiales — y diez veces más ALERTA
de lo que supone
ericano: SUFICIENTEMENTE NUMERO-
SO PARA DESTRULEL CANAL EN UNA HORA, CUALQUIER
NOCHE QUE SE LES ANTOJE a peSar DE CUALQUIER COSA
QUE NUESTROS GENERALES Y ALMIRANTES hayan hecho
para evitarlo.
Demasiado preocupado está Quarry Heights determinando
cómo ha de vender la cerveza 3.2, usurpando la jurisdicción de
las cortes civiles antes de prestar atención a la VERDADERA
Y REAL AMENAZA JAPONESA EN EL ISTMO.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
nolosure No.3 to Despatch No./304, of April 26. 1933.
Clipping from THE PANAMA AMERICAN of April 22, 1933.
WHAT ARE 70 JA
the Chetsey Club course. Only
the winner, Hedley Leek, an
SHOPS DOING IN
eight handicap player, who 
turned a fine 6d net, was in fa-
vor of it.
Before the tournament four
professional stars, Percy Allis
Willam T
280 BARBERS
convinced th
A majority
Sandy Herd,
and Ted Ray, played an
barbers are e
the Japanese government or are
engaged in other lines of busi-
OPERATE SHOPS
ness too shady to warrant pub-
licity.
A Jap barber on Central Ave-
nue — despite the depression —
WITHIN CITY
was able to purchase a race
horse at Juan Franco. He is
probably the only barber in the
world to own a thoroughbred
racer, even if it did not cost
Pay No License And Have
him more than $500.
An average of four Japs oc-
Small Patronage,
cupy each barber shop locally.
In other words, what are 280
Survey Shows
Japanese barbers doing in Pan-
ima City? Some of these Japs
(By Winston Jay Lung)
know as much about the ton-
Dotting the streets of Pana-
sorial art as I do of medical
ma City at advantageous sites
science.
are approximately seventy Jap-
Most Jap barbers have bsen
anese barber shops, a survey re-
here three or four years. They
vealed yesterday.
invaded Panama at the height
None of these shops pay mun-
of Japan's expansion program,
icipal taxes, despite a law that
now being pushed by a
requires each one to pay a
stick" policy. They range from
monthly sum of $2. The Japs
18 to 40 years of age.
claim they are "professionals,,'
It is conservatively es imated
and therefore, do not come
that there are twice as many
within the law.
Japanese barber shops in Pan-
Although their prices are
ama as the entire number of si-
lower than those of other bar-
milar establishments operated
bert of the capital, the Japs do
by Americans, Panamanians,
not enjoy a flourishing trade.
West Indians and Chinese.
In Calidonia, No. 170 is a Jap
Despite this, however, they
seem to have no financial wor-
barber shop operated by
two
youngsters who arrived about
ries.
A stroll along Central Avenue,
six months ago, while in that
same district, House No. 180 is
Chorrillo, Calidonia and the side
streets of this hospitable city—
a shop that has been establish-
ed for about twenty years. It is
where Japanese barber shops
claimed to be the oldest Jap
are lined up like war tanks pre-
paring for an olfensive — will
barber shop on the Isthmus.
Itwas suggested yesterday
reveal to the casual observer
that it would not be a bad idea
scores of neatly dressed, squat
for the Panama police to keep
ty sons of the Mikado reclining
an eye on some of the innocent
looking little Jap barbers in this
may be entitled, "The Japanese
Spy Bystem," or "Japan's Plan
locale whenever the drug traffic
problem is under investigation.
For World Conquest.
On North Avenue, No. 52 is a
Citizens of every other na-
tlonality have been under the
Japanese barber shop run by
watchful eye of the law some
two Nipponese who have been
tane or another, it was pointed
here four or five years. For days
out, and the Japs should not be
the place in quest of a hair-cut
over-looked.
or a shave. Yet the two Japs
live on, eating and sleeping in
apparent comfort and ease.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
Enolosure No. 3 to uspatch No.4, of april .
1933。
clipping from T. 1Ama hic..N of pril 22, 1933.
WHAT ARE 70 JAPANESE
SHOPS DOING IN PANAMA
A majority of observers a
280 BARBERS
convinced that local Japanese
barbers are elther subsidized by
the Japaneso goveinment or are
enga red : other te of bu
OPERATE SHOPS
ne.
hieity
A Jap barbet on Centa: A
nue despite the dep:t to
WITHIN CITY
was able to purchase a race
horse at Juan Franco
He is
probably the only barber in the
world to own a thoroughbred
racer, even if it dld not cost
Pay No License And Have
him more than $500.
An average of four Japs oc-
Small Patronage,
cupy each barber shop locally
Survey Shows
In other words, what are 280
Japanese barbers doing in Pan-
uma City? Some of these Japs
(By Winston Jay Lung)
now as much about the ton-
Dotting the streets of Pana-
sorial art as I do oi medical
ma City at advantageous sites
science.
are approximately seventy Jap-
Most Jap barbers have ben
anese barber shops, a survey re-
here three or four years. They
vealed yesterday.
invaded Panama at the height
of Japan's expansion program.
None of these shops pay mun-
icipal taxes, despite a law that
now being  ished by a "big
requires each one to pay a
stick" polics. They range from
monthly sum of $2. The Japs
18 to 40 yea of age.
claim they are "professionals.,
It is conse. tively es imated
and therefore, do not come
that there are twice as many
within the law.
Japanese barber shops in Pan-
Although their prices are
ama as the entire number of si-
lower than those of other bar-
by Americans. Panamanians,
milar establishments operated
bert of the capital, the Japs do
West Indians and Chinese
not enjoy a flourishing trade.
In Calidonia, No. 170 is a Jap
Daspite this, however, they
barber shop operated by two
peem to have no financial wor-
youngsters who arrtved about
mes.
six months ago, whle in that
A stroll along Central Avenue,
same district. House No. 180 is
Chorrilio, Calidonia and the side
a shop that has been establlsh-
streets of this hospitable city-
ed fot about twenty years. It is
whüre Japanese barber shops
claimed to be the oldest Jap
are lined up lke war tanks pre-
barber shep on the Isthmus.
It was, suggested yesterday
that it would not be a bad ides
soores af neatly dressed, squat
for the Panama police to keep
an eye on some of the innocent
looking little Jap barbers in this
locale whenever the drug traffic
problem is under investigation.
Citizens of every other na-
Monality have bean under the
watchful eye of the law some
oui, and the Japs should not be
over-looked.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4. to Despa tch No. /59 of Apri1 6. 1933.
Clipping from EL PANAMA AMERICA of April 22, 1933.
LAS BARBERIAS JAPONESAS ESTAN
ALINEADAS EN FORMA IGUAL A LA
DE TANOUES DE GUERRA
(Por Winston Jay Lung)
Muchos observadores t'enen
Regadas en las calles de esta
el convencimiento de qu: los
capital, en puntos estratégicos,
barberos japoneses estén sub-
hay aproximadamente setenta
vencionados por el Gobierno ja-
barberías japonesas, según un
ponés o están mezclados en ne-
recorrido que hice ayer.
gocios muy obscuros para que
Ninguna de ectas barberías na
trasciendan al público.
ga impuesto municipal alguno,
Un barbero japonés que tvene
no obstante que existe una dis-
su establecimiento en la Aveni-
pesic ón legai que obliga a cada
da Central —no obstante la de-
una à pagar la suma de dos ba!-
presión económica— pudo com-
toa, mensua es. Los japoneses
prar un caballo de carrera en
a evan cue ellos son 'profesio-
Juan Franco. Frobabemente es
na.es" y que, por lo tanto, no es
el único barpero del mundo que
tán comprendidos en la ley.
posee un pure-sang, aún si no
Aun cuando sus tarifas son
ie ha costado nmás de quinientos
más bajas que las de otros bar-
ba.boas.
beros de la capita!, los japoneses
Un promedio de cuatro japo-
no realizan un negocio produc-
neses ocupan cada barbería de
tivo .No obs ante, parece que no
esta ciudad. En o.ras palabras:
tienen preocupaciones financie-
que ha en doscientcs ochenta
ras.
barberos japoneses en esta capi-
Un recorrido a lo largo de la
ta:? Mucnos de estos nipones
Avenida Central. Chorrillo, Ca-
saben tanto del arte de la pelu-
lidonia y las calles transversales
queria como yo de la ciēncia
de esta urhe hospi alar'a, don-
médica.
de 'as barheria: janoresas están
Casi todos estos barberos ja-
alineadas como tanques de gue-
poneses residen aqui desde hace
rra listos para la ofensiva, :e-
tres o cuatro años. En otras pa-
velará al observador que grupos
labras, han invadido a Panamá
de hijos del Mikado, nítidamen-
cuando Japón comenzó a poner
te trajeados, descansan en có-
en práctica su programa expan-
modas sillas, leyendo libros que
sionista. Su edad fluctúa entre
puede que leven por título "El
dieciocho y cuarenta años.
Sistema de Espionaje japonés",
Un cálculo conservador indi-
o "el plan del Japón para la
ca que el número de las barbe-
conguista del mundo."
rías japonesas en esta capital
En la Avenida Norte, No. 52,
es dos veces mayor que el de los
hay una barbería japonesa ad-
establecimientos
simiares ad-
ministrada por dos nipones, quie
ministrados por
norteamerica-
nes residen aquí desde hace cua
nos, panameños,
antillanos y
tro o cinco años. Los días pasan
chinos.
sin que se haya visto a person:
En Calidonia, casa número
alguna entrar a ese lugar para
170, hay una barbería japonesa
cortarse el cabel'o o afeitarse.
administrada por dos jóvênes q'
No obstante, los dos japoneses
l'egaron al Istmo hará cosa de
viven leyendo, comiendo y dur-
seis meses, en tanto que en el
miendo confortablemente, se-
mismo distrito, casa número 180.
gún parece.
hay otra que está establecida ha
ce como ve'nte años y la cual,
según se dice, es la barberia ja-
ponesa más antigua degPanama.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.87)
Emclosure No.5, to Despatch No.1504, of Apri1 26, 1933.
Clipping from THE PANAMA AMERICAN of April 22, 1933.
BETTER OPEN YOUR EYES, UNCLE!
四
NGIGHTS

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
Clipping from EL TIEMPO of April 22, 1933.
NINGUNA BARBERIA DE PANAMA
PAGA IMPUESTOS AL MUNICIPIO
Alegan que son profesionales y se niegan a pagar to-
da clase de impuestos.—No sólo son, pues, los ja-
poneses los que no pagan impuestos al erario
municipal.
sobre barberias, existe una situa
Las barberías Japonesas, no
cion curiosa. Las barberias siem
son las únicas que no pagan e
pre habian pagado el impuesto al
correspondiente impuesto al mu.
municiplo; pero últimamente,
nicipio; ningún establecimien:o
con mutivo de que el Concejo
de esta naturaleza paga en la ac-
tató de aumentarles ese impues
tualidad dicho impuesto, sin que
lo, un vivo les abrió los ojos, y
la nacionalidad tenga nada que
los barberos protestaron del al
hacer en el asunto.
za. Y no sólo eso, sino que se de.
Esto to decimos no por defen.
clararon el 1ebeldía y alegando
der a los barberos japoneses ae
que ellos son profesionales al
los cargos de espionaje que les
igual que los doctores y los den-
hace un colega, sino que desean
tistas (antiguamente los barbe.
do averiguar lo que hubiera en e
ros eran también todas estas co-
asunto del pago del impuesto de
sas) se niegan a pagar no sóle el
las barberias nos dirigimos esta
alza sino cualquier impuesto.
mañana a la Tesorería Munieipal,
Y esta situación existe hace
en donce se nos informó lo ante.
meses, sin que se haya soluciona,
rior.
do. El asunto está ahora en el
En relación con el impuesto
despacho del gobernador de la
provincia. a quien corresponde-
ré decidirlo.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
nclosure No.7. to Despa tch No./504.of April 24 1933.
Clipping from DIARIO DE PANAMA of April 22, 1933.
NELSON ROUNSEVELL Y
EL ESPIONAJE JAPONES
Panamá, abril 22 de 1933.
el señor Rounsevell? No ha ser-
Señor Director de
vido él toda su vida desempeñan-
DIARIO DE PANAMA.
do ese triste papel? No recuerda
Presente.
su expulsión de Chile, penosa
Muy distinguido señor:
historia relatada por él mismo
En la edición castellana del
como una gracia a su vida de
Panamá América de ayer y en
vagabundo inquieto?
la edición de hoy, he visto publi-
Pues bien, señor Director, no
cado sendos artículos que co-
es mi objeto distraer la atención
rresponden a los señores Nelson
de usted en un asunto que talvez
Rounsevell y. Winston Jay Lung,
no le suministre el interés ne-
Presidente. y redactor, respecti-
cesario, pero la razón de esta
vamente, del referido periódico
si llega a penetrar en el conte-
y. que se relacionan con las acti-
nido, en el fondo mismo de los
vidades de los ciudadanos japo-
artículos de los señores Roun-
neses residentes en esta capital
sevell y Lung, se justifica cuando
y en el resto de-la república, a
se trata de imponerle al gobier-
quienes se suponen espias de
no panameño mediante censura
aquella poderosa nación enclava-
disimulada la necesidad de seguir
da en la regióndel Asia.
de cerca las actividades de los
Las producciones de los seño-
ciudadanos japoneses residentes
res Rounsevell y Lung franca-
en la capital como en el resto
mente que no tienen otra impor-
del país, sirviendo de cancerbero
tancia que la de meramente espe-
de los intereses de los Estados
culativa, es decir, la de intere-
Unidos. El Presidente del Pa
sar a los lectores del menciona-
namá América, hombre que todo
do periódico, defensor de los in-
lo critica y que en todo se mete.
tereses norteamericanos en:nues-
que a veces finje defendernos
tro país, a vivir bajo el peso de
para luego atacarnos con virulen-
las noticias sensacionalistas, pe
cia imperdonable, o es un hom-
ro carentes en lo absoluto de la bre a quien la edad está ven-
substancia indispensable para sa- ciendo hasta llevarlo a los dis-
tisfacer la verdadera misión que loques, o es un empecinado
le corresponde, en su calidad de "chauvinista" que engaña a los
vocero de la opinión pública y panameños con una taza de té
de un órgano registrado bajo el bien almibarada, para clavarle a
pátrocinio de las leyes paname sus espaldas una estocada en e!
ñas.
corazón de su soberanía.
Para mi, como para el résto
Si los japoneses establecidos
de las personas de fino criterio, en el país no se les ha compro-
el escándalo del Panamá Amúri- bado tácitamente que sirven de
ca no tiene otra razón explica- espias de su gobierno, si tienen
ble que la de "espia al servicio tituadas sus barberías a través
de los Estados Unidos" en el te-
de las avenidas y calles de esta
rritorio bajo la jurisdicción
ciudad. entregados a sus faenas
irrestricta del gobierno nacional.
cotidianas. si resultan respetuo-
El caso de los ataques bruscos
sos de nuestras leyes y de nues-
contra la colonia japones resi-
tras autoridades, contrario de la
dente en el pafs, tiene una ana-
manera ue proceden los norte-
logía casi similar a la campaña
americanos, juzgo que la cam-
realizade hará unos años por el
naña contra los primeros em-
Panamá América contra las con-
prendida por los señores Roun-
sevell y Lung, debe ser desesti-
tánico Eliot Alves. en relación,
mada por el gobiernó panameño.
sino estoy mal informado. con
O somos un pafs soberano, libre
las minas del Remance situadas
de imposiciones extrañas y fa-
cultades pa
nuestras pronias
que según los conmentarios a raíz
determinaciones, o es que el Pre
sidente del Panamá América nos
geniero Florencio Harmodio A-
supone un protectorado de los
Estados Unidos cuyos movimien-
tienen que operarse confor-

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. S. to Despatch No. /54. of Apri1 26 1933.
Clipping from THE PANAMA AMERICAN of April 23, 1933.
Rambling Gambling
and Publishing
By Nelson Rounsevell
Wlwaye a Rambler. For Yeare & Gambler. Nou a Publlban
Here is a concrete example of exactly what I was driving
at when I referred at some length Friday to the JAP MENACE
IN PANAMA, and in the page-one cartoon yesterday captioned
"BETTER OPEN YOUR EYES, UNCLE:"
The Panama water-front down near the market, where
scores of JAPANESE FISHING (?) BOATS daily unload their
cargoes of fish and MARITIME SECRETS, in plain sight of
the balcony of the house in which lives C. O. Olive, Treasurer
and Business Manager of The Panama American, was the scene
Friday afternoon of a numerous gathering of PANAMANIAN
CITIZENS who were addressed at length by KATALINO
AMARO — PRESIDENT OF THE JAPANESE ASSOCIATION
OF PANAMA.
It was a sort of illustrated lecture, during the course of
which Panama's Chief of Japanese Propaganda showed what
purported to be OFFICIAL JAPANESE CABLES, one of which
elaborated on the importance and significance of the visit to
Panama waters on MAY 13 of the Japanese Training Ship, and
the other reported the SINKING IN JAPANESE WATERS OF
TWO AMERICAN LIGHT CRUISERS — news, which he said
the United States Government has SUPPRESSED and kept
from the knowledge of the American people and the world at
large.
It was a fantastic story, incredible to those who KNOW
how impossible it would be to SUPPRESS or keep secret the
SINKING, under any cireumstances, anywhere, even of minor
units of the U.S. Navy. But to his Panamanian listeners on
the Fish Wharf water  ont viewing with awe the "official"
cables, mysteriously decoded, the story sounded very REALIS.
TIC and went far toward convincing those listeners of the im-
minen: FALL QuTHE PANAMA CANAL into the beneficent
ands of Japandes humanitarians who would rescue an oppress-
d Panamanian people from the clutches of an IMPERIALIS-
TIC UNCLE
The geni
JAP, Sr, Amaro, speaking in excel-
lent Spanish
aled to the listening Panamanians the
whole purpose
apanese operations in MANCHURIA.
Heformed
theè yapan had long been aware of, and had
vie
concern, th. UNITED STATES' vi-
dent l
MANCHURIA," and to inflict upon
that "defensek peoplo" the same Imperialistic injustices that
had been wrought
Philip
wail, Cuba, Nicaragua
and PANAMA
Aroused
VE FOR. INA, a friendly neighbor
neighborly SYMPATHY
nation of the
with
FOR THE PEO
A, Japan reluctantly de-
cided, the Pre
Association explained, TO
"PROTECT M
THE YANKEES." And the
sole purpose of Japen in 
he declared, ia to prevent
the. further invas
itory by the United States
of NORTH Am
And this M
ly ONE of hundreds of JA-
ading
 of PROPAGANDA

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
To any AMERICAN who has open eyes, a clear national
conscience and an impartial viewpoint, the situation has passed
from the RIDICULOUS, not to the SUBLIME, but to the VICI.
OUS! — to the point where it is apparent that a Military Czar
has become so intent upon RUNNING EVERYTHING, includ
ing CIVIL Justice, Civil Affairs and International Diplomacy of
the Canal Zone that he has become oblivious to his main and,
in fact HIS ONLY BUSINESS ON THE ISTHMUS — NA-
TIONAL DEFENSE!
Has General Brown heard — or has he been too busy with
the Military White Wash — that the present SCANDAL involv-
ing JAPANESE in espionage and sabotage in connection with
the Panama Canal and its defenses has already reached the
point in public whisperings that it INVOLVES PERSONNEL
OF THE AMERICAÑ ARMY?
Let us hope, now that he has definitely and finally SET
TLED (so far as the Army white-wash is concerned) the mat-
ter of HUNTING WITHOUT A LICENSE, and with JACK
LIGHTS in the Canal Zone, (which is NONE OF HIS BUSI-
NESS) that he will go to the bottom of and turn some of his
COURTS MARTIAL STAFF loose upon those who are PLOT-
TING AGAINST THE SAFETY OF AMERICA'S NATIONAL
DEFENSE ON THE ISTHMUS.
To the MILITAR branches of our government must we
look too for RESPONSIBILITY for such BASIS OF FACT as
exists on the Isthmus which is so widely used by JAPANESF
and other potential etemies of the United States in support of
their wide-spread ANTI-YANKEE PROPAGANDA in our midst.
Remember that the "invasion of Colon" has been promo-
ted, fostered and bull-headedly carried out by MILITARY GOV-
ERNORS UNDER DIRECT ORDERS OF SECRETARIES OF
WAR, and, not infrequently, over the PROTEST of the State
Department.
Remember, too, that the nefarious, monopolistic, the-public-
be-damned (including employees) POLICIES OF THE PAN-
AMA RAILROAD and its Commissaries and Land Office —
under which most of the YANKEE ILL WILL has grown up
— has all been developed under successive administrations of
MILITARY Presidents of the Panama Railroad, acting under
direct ORDERS OF THE WAR DEPARTMENT, and, almost
invariably, AGAINST THE WISHES and COUNSEL of CIVIL
IAN Department Heads in the Canal Zone, and frequently over
the protests of the AMERICAN LEGATION in Panama and of
the United States DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE.
These facts. are brought out at this time, not because of
any regret that we still have a Military Governor of the Pan-
ama Canal nor with any intent to foster the sporadic moves for
a CIVILIAN GOVERNOR, or in support of the perpetual ef-
forts to bring the Panama Canal under the control of Washing-
ton POLITICIANS hut solely with a view tawing in QUAR-
RY HEIGHTSn the WAR DEPARTMENT Washington
a realization that their BUSINESS IS NATIONAL DEFENSE,
and that if they attend to it WELL, and keep their noses out
of CIVILIAN AFFAIRS, including INTERNATIONAL DIPLO.
MACY and CIVIL LAW, they will retain the RESPECT and
unanimous support of the civilian population in the States which
FOOTS THEIR BILLS, and on the Isthmus of Panama which
keeps a damn close WATCH ON THEM — with a rapidly ris
ing wave of DISGUST

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
nclosure No.G. to Despatch No./504. of April 24.1933.
Clipping from THE PANAMA AMERICAN of Apr1l 24, 1933.
JAP MERCHANTS IN PANAMA
IGNORE 75 PER CENT LAW AND
UNDERSELL LOCAL OWNERS
(By Winston Jay Lung)
ese retailers are under-selling
While Jab barbers refuse to
other local merchants by such
pay Municipal tax, other sons
a wide margin. that most ob-
of the Mikado who claim they
servers are convinced the Japs
eke out a living in the retail
are suffering heavy losses.
merchandise business in Pana-
For example, a 25 watt electric
ma ity, calmly ignore the law
light bulb is sold locally for 25
which requires that 75 per cent
cents, and in the Zone com-
of the employées of each esta-
missaries at 18 cents. However,
blishment in Panama must be
the Japs can afford to sell
Panamanians.
similar bu'bs at 10 or 15 cents.
Six Japanese work in the Y.
The same thing holds true
Amano Company at No. 47,
with other articles, especially
Central Avenue, while but two
kitchen utensils and clothing.
Panamanians
s are employed.
And if the Japs are suffering
And none of these Japs were
losses by drastic slash in prices,
born in Panama.
how can they afford to remain
K. Sakuma, No. 107 Central
open and keep a full stock on
Avenue, and Bazar Sylvia, No.
hand and meet financial obliga-
47 Central Avenue, have failed
tions, other merchants are ask-
to employ one single Panaman-
ing?
ian.
The only explanation offered
Casa Japonesa, Central Ave
is that Japanese stores, similar
nue, No. 102, employs three
to barber shops, are being sub-
Panamanians, but there are six
sidized by more powerful finan-
Japanese on the pay-roll. J.
cial interests that are using the
Molita, "I" street, No. 109, oper-
local business field merely to
ates a shirt factory, sells cheap
camouflage other questionable
neckties and razor blades, but
activities.
employs no Panamanian labor.
Those whose business it is to
But. this serious offense fades
enquire into the sources of sup-
into oblivionwhen compared
ply in the nefarious narcotics
with other evils that have re-
traffic, might not make a mis-
sulted from the invaslon of lo-
take if their attention were
cal commerce by dumb-looking
directed to these Japanese stores
agents of the Kingdom of the
whose legitimate lines of trade
Rising Sun.
offer no sound explanation for
Investigation during the past
their
presence here or their
few days has proved that Japan-
source of income.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No./0.to Despatch No./504- of April aC. 1933.
Clipping from THE PANAMA AM$RICAN of April 25, 1933.
Rambling Gambling
and Publishing
By Nelson Rounsevell
Aae o Rabl. For Yoa n Gambler, How a Publla
So far as I am able to ascertain, JAPANESE IN PANAMA
enjoy all the rights, freedom, opportunity and advantages of citi-
zens of the "MOST FAVORED NATIONS" and may go and
come at will with no more restrictions than North Americans or
white Europeans. Just WHY this "favored nation" preference is
shown JAPANESE, while Chinese, West Indians and dozene
of other nationalities are on the RESTRICTED list as UN-
DESIKABLES is hard to understand.
So far as I am able to learn, no Japanese has ever invest-
ed a dollar in Panama real estate; has ever erected a building:
has ever promoted any industry that required greater equipmen:
than a fishing boat, barber chair or sewing machine; not one
has ever paid a dollar of TAXES in Panama (except a very few
that have been made to pay a "head tax" for the upkeep of roads).
not one maintains a HOME in the sense of the word that any
self-respecting Panamanian would call a home; not one has ever
contributed in even a remote or indirect way toward the PRO.
GRESS, PROSPERITY OR UPLIFT OF PANAMA — yet they
enjoy all the "favored nation" benefits and privileges of the
country.
Japanese in Panama ignore practically all the regulations
affecting other foreigners and, by hook and by crook, manage
to avoid payment of all municipal and other taxes and fees to
which the rest of us foreigners are subjected. WHY? That is the
question that I am investigating and that, to clear its own skirts
cion of OFFICIAL CONNIVANCE WITH JAPANESF
ORGANIZATIONS, every department of the Panama Govern-
ment should at once investigate.
And, in the mean time, while these investigations are goin
fo urd and while these startling revelations are being mad:
by 'he Panama American, it behooves every American who has
th* terests of his country and the safety of our National De.
fent. t heart, to KEEP HIS EYES AND EARS OPEN — and
WA H EVERY MOVEMENT OF THOSE JAPS IN PANA-
MA AN: COLON — and report immediately to the proper Mi-
litary, al, Police and Diplomatic authorities anything and
everything of a suspicious nature and make available to
those whose business it HT to be to protect American in-
terests in the matter of National Defense on the Isthmus, all
possible information of  movements, conversations and acti-
vities of the Japanese in our midst.
In the matterREGISTRATION OF FOREIGNERS"
 recent check-up indicates that not
more than ONE-
are, or ever have been REGISTERED, and Panama's Foreign
one-half the Japahese subjocts now in the Republic.
Up to and including the
year 1930, a total of 140
Japandae had recorded the re
anformation in the Public
Registrar's office, such regis
having taken place in the
1917, 2; 1918, 12; 191
20, 4; 1922, 1; 1925, 7; 1926.
subjects registered to the end of

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Iwo things are notable in connection with this curious oc-
cupational list. First, and which should be of greatest interest
to PANAMANIANS, the occupations of FISHERMEN and
BARBERS is in direct competition with PANAMANIAN LABOR
in fields that, were it not for Japanese competition, might be
predominated by Panamaniana Papecially is this true of MARK.
ET FISHING, a profitable and permanent National Industry.
now almost exclusively monopolized by Japanese who spend not
one dime of their earnings in the Republic beyond the barest
necessities of life, which, in their case, are very meager and
even below the standard of living among Panamanian working-
men — as many as 20 bachelor Japanese fishermen living on
one floor of one building, employing not even a Panamanian
servant or cook.
The other notable feature of these two predominating oc-
cupations is the convenience with which they lend themselves
to Japanese ESPIONAGE. The BARBER, perhaps more than
any other person in any trade or calling, has opportunity during
every working hour to listen to and take note of an endless
amount of loose, unguarad conversation on the part of men
from every walk in life. Barber shops the world over are head-
quarters for gossip, idle talk, scandal and under -ground infor-
mation of all sorts, gathered from the conversations of careless,
thoughtless customers and loungers from morning till night.
In the special case of espionage in connection with Panama
Canal defenses what gerater opportunity could have been offer-
ed Japanese Naval and Military spies on their visits to Panama
than that afforded by a large fleet of JAPANESE FISHING
BOATS plying the waters of Panama Bay at all hours of the
day and night with the greatest freedom and latitude?
In this respect, "the horse" is perhaps already stolen, and
it is probably a bit late to talk about "locking the door" — but
there is still greater damage that might yet be done by these
fishing boats, undoubtedly manned with crews of Japanese
Naval and Military experts and observers.
American Military and Naval officers are indeed lacking
in IMAGINATION if they cannot conceive of this FLEET OF
JAP FISHING BOATS IN PANAMA BAY constituting a very
real and ever-present MENACE to the safety of Panama Canal
defenses if not actually to the Canal itself.
And it is opportune for officialdom in the Republic of Pana-
ma to immediately investigate and inquire into WHY Japanese
foreigners have not ALL registercd. Ar the Japs immune to
the Registration Law that all of us Gringoes and West Indians
have been forced to comply with?
Have the Jap stores, shops and hideouts paid the SIGN
TAX which has been required of oth public establishments
(including The Panama American)?
Have these hundreds of Japanese been required to pay the
SALARY TAX which has been arbitrarily imposed upon all the
rest of us wage slaves? Or are they immune to that too?
Officialdom in Panama is quite alert in seeing to it that
Gringoes and West Indians do not escape any of those TAXES.
Why are they not equally alert in the pursuit of Japanese dollars
How much import duty has been paid in the past five years
by those Japanese merchants (?) whose stores employ only
JAPANESE HELP? Why has not the 75 PERCENT PANA-
MANIAN LABOR LAW been enforced against them? Are they
immune to that too?
Chinese merchants have been forced to employ Panaman-
ian clerks - but tey and find a Panamanian anywhere who is
drawing a clerk's or any other kind of a salary from a Japanese.
Sly, wiley, deceitful, close-mouthed, unobtrusive, keeping
entirely to themselves, this large and rapidly growing colony
of Japanese in Panamarah Colon has apparently escaped the

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
malosure No. //. to Despatch No. 1504. of April6. 1933.
Clipping f rom EL PANAMA AMERICA of April 25, 1933.
RAMBLING, GAMBLING & PUBLISHING
Por NELSON ROUNSEVELL
Hasta done soy capaz de asegurarlo, LOS JAPONESES EN
PANAMA gozan de todos los derechos, oportun:dades de liber-
tad y ventajas de ciudadanos de las "MAS FAVORECIDAS
NACIONES" y pueden ir y venir a su voluntad con no más
restricciones que las concedidas a los norte-americanos o a los
europeos de la raza blanca. Es difícil comprender por qué esta
preferencia especial se demuestra a los JAPONESES mientras
que los Chinos, Antillanos y las demás nacionalidades están
incluídas en la lista RESTRINGIDA COMO INDESEABLES.
Hasta donde he podido saber, ningún japonés ha invertido
jamás un dólar en propiedades en Panamá, ni ha construído
un edificio ni ha pro movido cualquier industria que requiera
mayor equipo que un arco de pesca, una silla de barbería o
una máquina de cos; ninguno ha pagado jamás un dólar
de impuesto en PANAA (con excepción de unos pocos a quie-
nes se ha obligado a ngar el impuesto de cam nos); ninguno
decir, en el sentido e todo panameño honorable le concede;
ninguno ha contribu directa o indirectamente hacia el PRO-
GRESO, PROSPERI D DE PANAMA y sin embargo, gozan de
los beneficios y priviegios del país.
Los japoness en Panamá ignoran prácticamente todas las
disposiciones que afectan a los otros extranjeros y, de una
manera u otra, evitan el pago de los impuestos municipales y
nacionales y otras cargas que los demás tenemos que pagar.
POR QUE? Esto es precisamente lo que estoy investigando y
para limpiarse de toda sospecha de que HAY UNA COMBINA-
CION OFICIAL CON LAS ORGANÍZACIONES JAPONESAS,
cada departamento del Gobierno de Panamá, debe investigar
inmediatamente sobre el particular.
Y entretanto, mientras esas investigaciones son llevadas a
cabo y mientras estas sensacionales revelaciones son hechas
por el Panamá América, es obligatorio para todo americano
que sabe defendér los intereses de su país y la seguridad de
nuestra Defensa Nacional, TENER LOS OJOS ABIERTOS Y
CUIDADOSOS LOS OIDOS Y VÍGILAR CADA MOVIMIENTO
DE ESTOS JAPONESES EN PANAMA Y COLON e informar in-
mediatamente a las autoridades militares, navales, de policía
y diplómáticas todás de cada una de las cosas de naturáleza
sospechosa y prestar a aquellos cuyo principal debèr es PRO-
TEGER LOS ÍNTERESES AMERICANOS Y LA DEFENSA NA-
CIONAL EN EL ISTMO DE PANAMA, toda información posible
de esos movimientos,, conversaciones y actividades de los japo-
neses en nuestro medio.
En relación con el asunto de REGISTRO DÉ EXTRANJE-
ROS — un problema que ha preocupado a las, autoridades de
Panamá por muchos años y ha causado a otros extranjeros
aqui granides inconvenientes y grandes gastos — un reciente
"chequeo" indica que solamente UN TERCIO de los japoneses,
actualmente en el Istmo, están o jamás se han registrado y
Ia Seeretaría de Relaciones Exteriores no tiene un record ofi-
cial ni conocimiento de la mitad del totad de súbditos japoneses
que viven hoy en la república.
Hasta hóy e incluyendo el final del año 1930, un total de
140 japoneses han cumplido con la información requerida en
la Oficina del Registro y tal cosa ha sucedido en los siguientes
añ 1917, 2; 1018, 12; 1019, 1; 1920, 4; 1922, 1; 1925, 7; 1926, 14;
1928, 71; 1929, 12; 1930, 6.
De estos 140 japoneses registrados hasta el final de 1930,
las ocupaciones de los mismos fueron dadas así: Barberos, 60;
pescadores, 46; sastres, 14; comerciantes, 9; saloneros, 2; agri-
cultores, fotógrafos, artistas, marineros, choferes y fabricantes
de pastillas, uno cada uno; hubo tres cuya ocupación no fue

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Dos dosas son de notarse en relación con esta lista de ocu-
paclones. Primera y la cual debe tener gran interés para los
PANAMEÑOS, la de PESCADORES, SASTRES y BARBEROS; estas
ocupaciones son de competencia directa con los TRABAJADO-
RES PANAMEÑOS en campos que, si no fuera por la compe-
tencia japonesa, sería ejercida con prominencia por los pana-
meños. Cierto y muy cierto que el NEGOCIO DE LA PÉSCA,
PRODUCTORA Y PERMANÉNTE INDUSTRIA NACIONAL,
actualmente exclusivamente monopolizada por los japoneses que
no gastan un solo centavo de sus ganancias en la república
con excepclón de las más apremiantes necesidades de la vida,
las cuales, en este caso, son menores que las que acostumbra
el trabajador panameño ya que por lo menos 20 pescadores
japoneses solteros viven en el piso de un edificio sin emplear
a un sirviente ,o cocinero panameño.
La otra cosa predominante en estas dos ocupaciones es la
conveniencia que ella se presta para el servicio de ESPIONAJE.
EL BARBERO, quizá como nínguna otra persona en cualquier
oficio, tiene la oportunidad, durante las horas de trabajo, de
escuchar y anotar toda conversación que, sostengan los hombres
de las distintas actividades de la vida. Las barberías del mundo
son el centro de los rumores, del bochinche y de toda infor-
mación.
En el caso especial de espionaje en relación con las defensas
del Canal de Panamá, qué mayor oportunidad se puede haber
ofrecido a los espías japoneses, navales y militares, en sus
visitas a Panamá que la ofrecida por una enorme flota de
BOTES PESCADORES JAPONESES recorriendo la bahía de
Panamá a toda hora del día y de la noche con la mayor liber-
tad posible?
A este respecto, "el caballo" es quizá robado y es también
un poco tarde hablar de "la puerta cerrada", pero hay un
gran, perjuicio que puedeser hecho por esos botes pescadores,
indudablemente llenos de andividuos que son expertos navales
y observadores militares.
Los oficiales americanos del Ejército y la Marina sufren
poca imaginación si no pueden concebir que esta FLOTA DE
BARCOS DE PESCA JAPONESES EN LA BAHIA DE PANAMA
constituyen una real y verdadera AMENAZA para las defensas
del Canal de Panamá si no para el Canal mismo.
Y es muy oportuno para las autoridades de la República
de Panamá investigar y conocer inmediatamente por qué no
todos los japoneses se han inscrito. Son los japoneses inmunes
a la Ley de Registro y cuyo cumplimiento se ha obligado a
todos los gringos y antillanos?
Han pgado las tiendas, almacenes y "escondites" japqneses
el impuesto sobre avisos requeridos a otros establecimientos
públicos (incluyendo al Panamá América)?
Han sido obligados estos cientes de japoneses a pagar el
impuesto del Fondo Obrero que ha sido arbitrariamente im-
puesto al resto de los esclavos del salario? O son inmunes tam-
bién en este sentido?
Las autoridades de Panamá se interesan especialmente por-
que los gringos y antillanos no se escapen al pago del mén-
cionado impuesto. Por que no se preocupan también para que
lo hagan los japoneses?
Que impuesto de importación ha sido pagado durante los
últimos cinco sños por estos comeroiantes japoneses (?) quie-
nes en sus tiendas sólo emplean BRAZOS JAPONESES? Por
qué no se les ha obligado a cumplir la ley que demanda el 75%
de empleados panamefios? Son inmunes a esta obligación tam-
bién?
Los comerciantes chinos han sido obligados a emplear ciu-
dadanos panameños pero trate de buscar y encontrar un paña-
meño empleado en cualquler forma en una oficina o tlenda
mpado aparentemente de la vista de las autoridades pana-
des. Pero ha llegado el tiempo de hacer lus sobre sus trabájós
de espionaje y complot en un esfuerzo por ABRIR LOS OJOS

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
molosure No./a,to Despatch No. /50 4. of April 6. 1933.
Clip ing from THE PANAMA AMERICAN of Apri1 25, 1933.
74 JAPANESE FISHERMEN ROAM
WATERS OF PANAMA BAY DURING
ENTIRE NIGHT, AS OTHERS SLEEP
(By Winston Jay Lnug)
Panamanian fishermen who
Roaming the waters off the
are obliged to ply their trade in
coast of Panama are 74 Japan-
cayucas are able to launch out
ese who maneuver under the
around midnight and return at
guise of fishermen.
daybreak with their catch. On
Of this number 45 occupy
the other hand, the Japs with
house No. 1 on 17 east street
speedboats and more efficient
bis, and house No. 20 on 18
equipment have to leave before
street. east bis, Panama City.
dusk and never return until af-
They are generally at home be-
ter dawn.
tween 8:30 a·m. and 4:00 p.m.
Just what these Jap sallors do
But while residents of Pana-
throughout the night is not dif-
ma City and the Pacific ter-
ficult to imagine. Equipped with
minal of the Panama Canal are
hydrographic instruments, they
struggling with Morpheus, these
find time to sound the waters
wiley Japs travel at will in high-
off the Pacific coast. And al-
ing distance of canal fortifica-
powered launches within strik-
though the United States Gov-
ernment hasmade maritime
tions
maps of the region to ald the
Twenty-five of these so-called
merchant martmotthere is much
fishermen live In house No. 1
on 17 street east bis, and 15 of
of an international struggle —
them claim they have lived here
that are not on these maps.
about ten years. The others
These details are needed by the
have been here a little more
Japs and are obtainable only
than two years. They own seven
with the aid of thelr "fisher-
motorboats also equipped with
men."
sails.
An investigation nas proven
The entire second story of
that not a single Japanese fish-
house No. 20 on 18 street east
erman is on the Atlantic side.
bis, is occupied by 20 Nipponese
The fact that Japan is located
who also own several motor-
on the Pacific explains tha
boats. They range from 20 to
The Nipponese aim for a con-
45 years in age.
quest of the Pacific and are
For years Panamanlan fish-
concentrating their oper ons
ermen have complained that
there.
the unfair competition given
It would be interesting to
them by the sons of the Mikado
know where these Japs obtain
makes it impossible for natives
their dynamite and other ex-
to keep the wolves from their
plosives, and where they store
doors.
them. And it is also pertinent
The Panama Government has
been informed times and again
to know just what quantity of
that the Japanese use dynamite
this illegal substance they have
to fish, while Panamanlan fish
on hand to carry on their ille-
gal practice.
use of the hook and line and an
occasional fish-pot.
The Government issued a de-
cree several'months ago almed
to keep tire Japs from fishing
in the waters generally used by
Panamanian "pescadores." But
natives insist the order has not
been obeyed, and that dynamite
continues to be used by the Nip-
ponese in place of hooks and
lines.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
are No. 13 to Despatoh No.1504.of Aknil 26, 1933.
from the Legation at Panama.
COPY
MEMORANDUM
Para el señor Ministro de los Estados Unidos de América.
Al estallar la guerra mundial en el año de l9l4, ejercf yo las
funciones oficiales de Alcalde de Panamá. Ese cargo oficial lo
desempeñé hasta después del año de l917, en que tuve que ir a ash-
ington en compañía del doctor Eusebio A. Lorales en misión financiera
de mi Gobierno.
En el desempeño de la Alcaldía entré en intimidades con miemb os
visibles del jército Americano en la Zona del Canal, tales como el
Mayor Shelton, el Capitán Colman, cuyo retrato tengo en mi oficina,
el Capitán Boyd y otros que fueron luégo trasladados al frente francés
con el Regimiento que comandaba en la Zona el General Edwards.
La misión que desempeñé como Alcalde con esos oficiales y otros del
Cuerpo de Policía de la ona del Canal, tules como Johanes, Philips,
Mc.Intire, Cooper y otros, fue la del espionaje s( bre la Colonia Alemana
y, muy especialmente, sobre la Colonia Japonesa.
Desde esa época descrubimos en el entonces Barrio de Peña Prieta algunas
actividades de los japoneses, cuando éstos tenían sus mítines en un
Club Japonés de Peña Prieta, donde se destacaba un retrato del Emperador
del Japón.
Salf yo de la Alcaldía, mis amigos del Ejército Americano y de la
Policfa de la Zona dejaron de comunicarse c∞nmigo, pero yo he seguido
en mis actividades con respecto a los japoneses de cuya colonia en
Panamá tenga hasta el presente las siguientes impresiones:
la.-Que un japonés de alto grado que vivió y se decfa dueño de una finca
de café en la montaña de La Chorrera - en el camino que conduce de
Penonomé a Colón-, ha desaparecido del país hace algunos años;
20.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Za.- Que la Colonia japonesa en Panamá, de aquellos días al presente,
se ha aumentado en un setenta y cinco por ciento;
3a.- Que la mayoría de los barberos japoneses establecidos en barberías
en las ciudades terminales de Panamá y colón, son casi todos oficiales
del Ejército japonés;
4a.- Que la Colonia japonesa radicada única y exclusivamente en las
ciudades terminales del Canal ue Panamá, tienen empeño en vivir en
dichas ciudades, pues no es posible - con raras excepciones-, encontrar
un japonés viviendo en los pueblos del interior como sí lo hacen los
chinos, los indios, los turcos, lo: italianos y otros inmigrantes;
5a.- Que la Colonia japonesu dedicada a la pesca se ha aumentado ext-
ordinariamente, de tal manera que ya esos japoneses se imponen a cada
momento en las decisiones de la ya poderos: sociedad de pescadores;
6a.- ue los japoneses tienen conocimiento exacto de la bahía y golfo
de Panamá, lo mismo que han tomado en forme simulada touos los sondajes
de la bahía y golfo;
7a.- Que como abogado que fui de la sociedad denominada "Unión de
Barberos", cuya personería jurídica se le concedió por la Secretaría
de cobierno y Justicia, quisieron los nativos y otros extranjeros barberos
en un meeting general, imponer la reforma de los Estatutos en el sentido
de mejorar el standar de vida de dichos barberos, y los japoneses -
unidos como un solo hombre-, se opusieron a ello, triunfaron en su
hostilidad, lo que demuestra que ya tienen tamvién el control en ese
ramo de neEocios;
8a.- Que últimamente se han establecido - solamente aquí en Panamá y
me han dicho que también en la ciudad de Colón-, en la rama del comercio
de mercaderfas al por menor en forma extraordinaria, que ya llama la
atención de los habitantes, los habitantes de esta ciudad. La populari-
dad que han despertado con los precios de sus artículos al alcance -
no obstante

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
no obstante la depresión económica-, del pueblo bajo, es alarmante y
según informes fidedignos que tengo esas mercaderias son fabricadas en
el Japón en fábricas oficiales, y las tiendas aquí en Panamá las ad-
ministran empleados ael Gobierno japonés. Se hace sorprendente cómo
está aumentando la colonia japonesa en la ciudad de Panamá y Colón
y no en los pueblos del Interior de la República: sólo en las ciudades
terminales del Canal. Por ello considero convenienie que tanto el
Gobierno de Panamá como el de la Zona del Canal, deben tomar medidas
preventivas y establecer alguna vigilancia - muy disimulada desde luego-
cerca de todas las actividades de la Colonia japoneses entre nosotros.
Los Estados Unidos de América y Panamá deben vivir c nvencidos de que
el Imperio del Japón nunca será ni aliado siguiera, mucho menos amio
de Panamá y Estados Unidos, ante todo, por la obra trandiosa del Canal
Interocéanico, cuyo control jamás ueben perder los stados Unidos de
América ni en paz, y mucho melos, en uerra, ni exterior ni local.
Considero que todas las meaidas que se tomen para seguridad del Janal
serán siempre pocas, primero, pór el eapeño del comunismo en Panamá
para despertar odios contra los americanos (véase actualmente la actitud
del Gobernador de Colón, doctor Cervera en relación con la bandera ameri-
cana, y la actitud del Diputada Demetrio Porras heblando siempre de un
imperialismo que janás ha existiuo); y, segundo, porque tratándose de una
obra que debe siempre controlar el Cobierno nericano debe dejarse de
preocupaciones, y llegado el momento de diricultades asumir el cobierno
Americano la actitud que los intereses del mundo aconsejan sin preocuperle
prejuicios internacionales.
Estas manifestaciones previsoras, que hago desinteresadamente, y que
ojalá Ud. hiciera conocer de las Altas Autoridades de la Zona y del
Departamento de Estado, por el afecto que le profesa a mi país y a los
Estados Unidos de América, Nación esta última donde he formado la vida
espiritual

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
espiritual de mis dos hijas, llevan el sello de la verdad y de la
sinceridad más profunda, hijas de la experiencia en esta tierra; y
aunque no sean tomadas en cuenta, volv ré a comunicárselas a quien sea
inistro de los Estados Unidos en Panumá, repito, en la forma más sincera
y desinteresada, quizá cuando ya no me toque a mí presenciar el desarrollo
de ciertos acontecinientos. De esa manera cumplo con un deber de
conciencia para con mi Patria, para con los stados Unidos, para con
mis hijus y para con mi propia conciencia, que cs la mayor de mis
satisfacciones. Pananá, 5 de Marzo de 1935.
(Sgd) Julio Arjona
(in Pen) Dejo copia ue este memoranaum
para mi mayor satisfacción en el futuro.
(Sga) Julio Arjona.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
April 26.1933.
from the Legation at Panama.
TRANSLATION
MEMORANDUM
for the Minister of the United States of America
At the beginning of the World War in the year 1914, I held the
official position of Mayor of Panamá. I held this position until
after 1917, when I had to go to Washington in company with Dr.
Eusebio A. Morales on a financial mission for my Government.
In the performance of the duties of Mayor I came into intimate
contact with various members of the American Army in the Canal Zone
such as Mayor Shelton, Captain Colman, Whose photograph I have in
my office, Captain Boyd and others who were later transferred to the
French front with the regiment which General Edwards commanded in the
Canal Zone.
The mission which I discharged as Mayor together with these
officials and others of the Police Force of the Canal Zone, such as
Johannes, Philipps, McIntyre, Cooper and others, concerned espionage
of the German colony and, very especiall., of the Japanese colony.
At that time we discovered in the then District of Pena Prieta
various activities of the Japanese when they held their meetings in
a Japanese Club of Peña Prieta where they had a picture of the Emperor
of Japan.
I left the effice of Mayor (and) my friends of the American
Army and of the Zone Police ceased communicating with me, but I
continued my activities regarding the Japanese (and) I have the
following impressions of that colony in Panama:
1. That a high grade Japanese who lived and, it was said, was owner
of a coffee farm on the Mountain of La Chorerra - on the road from
Penonom? to Colón - disappeared from the country several years ago.
2.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
That the Japanese colony in Panama, from those days until the
present, has increased by seventy five per cent.
3.
That the majority of the Japanese barbers established in the
barber shops of Panama and Colon, are almost all officials of the
Japanese army.
4. That the Japanese colony located only and exclusively in the
terminal cities of the Panama Canal have a reason for living in
these cities, since it is impossible, vith rare exceptions, to find
a Japanese living in the cities of the interior as do the C inese,
Hindus, Turks, Italians, end other iamigrants
5.
That the Japanese colony dedicated to fishing has increased ex-
traordinarily to such a degree that these Japanese may at any moment
make the decisions of the already powerful Union of Fishermen.
6.
That the Japanese have exact knowledge of the bay and gulf of
Panama and likewise have taken through disguis ed methods all the
soundings of the bay and gulf.
7. That when I was the lawyer of the Barbers' Union, the juridical
entity of which was recognized by the Departnent of Government and
Justice, in a general meeting, natives and other foreien barbers
wished to reform the statutes in order to improve the standard of
living of these barbers, and the Japanese - united as one man -
opposed this, they won in their hostility, demonstrating that already
they have control of this branch of business.
8.
That finally they have established themselves only here in Panama
and, I have been told, also in Colon - in the branch of the retail
merchandising business in an extraordinary form, which already attracts
the attention of the inhabitants, the inhabitants of this city. The
popularity that they have awakened with the prices of their articles
which are - in spite of the economic depression - within reach of the
common people, is alarming, and according to trustworthy information
that I have, these products are manufactured in Japan in official
factories

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
tories, and stores here in Panama are administrated by employees
of the Japanese Government. It is surprising how the Japanese Colony
is increasing in the cities of Punama and Colon and not in the towns
of the Interior of the Republic: only in the terminal cities of the
Canal. Because of this I consider it convenient that the Government
of Panama as well s that of the Canal Zone shoula take preventive
measures - very secretly of course - regarding all the activities of
the Japanese colony amon us.
The United States of Aaerice and Panama should be convinced that
the Empire of Japan will never in the least, be allied, much less be
a friend of Panan and the United States, above all because of the
grandiose work of the Interoceanic Canal whose ontrol should never be
lost by the United tates, neither in imes of peace, nor, much less,
in times of war, neither abroad nor at home.
I consider that all the means that may be taken for the security
of the Canal will always be too few, first because of the desire of
communiam in Panama to awaken hate against Americans (note the present
attitude of the Governor of Colon, Dr. Cervera, with regard to the
American flag, and the attitude of Deputy Demetrio Porras always talking
of an imperialism that has never existed); and, secondly, because
considering a work which the merican Government ought always to control,
it should cease preoccupations, and (when) the moment of difficulties
arrives, the merican Government should assume the attitude that the
interests of the world advise without worrying about international
prejudices.
These for-seeing statements, which I make disinterestedly, and
which I hope you will make known to the high authorities of the Zone
and of the State Department, for the affection which I profess for my
country and for the United States of America, this latter Nation
is where the spiritual life of my two daughters has been formed,
they carry

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
they carry the seal of truth and of the most profound sincerity,
daughters of experience in this land; and although they should not
be taken into account, I will continue to communicate them to whoever
may be the Minister of the United States in Panama, I repeat, in the
most sincere and disinterested manner, perhaps when it does not fall
to my lot to witness the development of certain happenings. In this
manner I fulfill a duty of conscience to my country, to the United
States, to ay dau hters and to my own conscience, which is the
greatest of my satisfactions.
Panama, March 5, 1933
(Sgd) Julio Arjona
(in pen) I leave a copy of this
memorandum chiefly for my satisfaction
in the future.
(Sgd) Julio Arjona.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.94)
MIL. INTEL. DIV.
1766 R-22
1933
OFFICE OF THE MILITARY ATTACHE
Amprican Logation,n TMENT
May 22, 1933.
0188
Diyiaion of
MORANDUM
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TO:
Latin Amerioan Seotiom, 0-2.
JUN151933
Subjeet:
Japanese Spy Campaign by Panama American.
Depertgent of State
The following editorial, one of the series of Japanese
F/HS
Spy-scare editorials by Melson Rounsevell, editor of the Panama American
of Panamm, appeared in the edition of May 17th.
"Arriving in Panana last september, Mas Mr. T. TAHARA,
who aince then has posed as a t aveling representative of a Japanese
Steamship Company, and who for eight months has lived in luxury, style
and ease at the hOtels ITVOI and WASHINGTON.
894.20219/22
"The gross cargo end passenger business of his Isthmian
stemship ageney has not amounted to enough in those eight months to pay
his hotel bills.
"Mr. Tahara has lived most of the time at the Washing-
ton in olose and convenient proximity to the stewmahip offices of Boyd
Bros. Ino., in Cristobal, Local agents for the OSKA SHOSEN KAISHA steam-
ship line whieh he claims to represent and via which his confidential
messages and reports have gone to Japan.
"Mr. Tahara has long been suspeoted of being a CkIS-
SIONED OFFICR IN HE JAPANESE NAVY, on actiVe sorvice in the intellig noe
department and his activities for some weeks ave been under the gigilant
watohfulness of Panama American soouts and investigators.
"Those suspioions were fully borne out when Mr. Tahara
orossed the Isthmus on the day before the arrival of the Imperial Japanese
Cruisers Iwate and Yakumo, when he made reservations at Hotel Tivoli for
himself and VICE ADMIRL HYKUTAKE and their Aides.
"Sinoe the arrival of the two Japanese oruisers Mr.
Tahara has been paid all the honor and deference due to a SUPERIOR BEING
and he very obviously outranks, in power and importance. the Vice Admiral
himself. It is Mr. Tahara. and not the Vioe Admiral, who gives the  inal
"Yes" or "No" upon important questions of poliey and diplomaey in their
Isthmian program and arrangomonts.
"It is Mr. Tahara, stoamship ent (Bhs) who made a-
rengements for and who was in complete charge of the transit of the Canal
yesterday an the Favorita whioh carried Japanese officers and oadets from
Balbea to Gatum enroute to Cooo Solo Naval Base.
"Mr. T. TAHARA is the CHIEF of those Japanese SPIES on
the Isthmas about whom I have bean talking in recent weeks who live here
WITHOUT VISIBLE MEANS F SUPPORT, without apparent reason or exouse fer
being here, whe are in surreptitious aonteet with American Naval and Army
seurees of information and whose obrious business here is to keep Japanese
Maval and Military authorities posted on every mimute detail and movement
 AMER ICAN DEFENSE  THE ISTHIUS OF PANAMA.
"It is Mr. T. TAHARA who outranks and who commands all
the minor spies and seeret agents whieh have so long been omouflaged in
BARBER SHOPS, FISHING BOATS and SHIRT FACTORIES in Panama and Col and
his surreptitious contsots with that whole corps of barbers, fishermen and
shirt makers has been definitely established.
1933
"And the prineigal place of those CONTAGTS is throuch
the offise of Beyd Breses in Gristebal, agents for the Japamese stempehip
LinO, OBAKA SBOSEN KAYUN.
?
e that he has any knewledge whatever of the fregeest elandestine meeting
between one of hás Goame amplagees and . T. zatas, er thas he evem
-1-

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.95)
dreams of the well worn trail that conneots his offioes in Cristobal
with one of the leading Japanese barbershops and shirt factories in
tolon, or that he ever saw or was ever told of the information that
has pas ed direet from Japanese places of business in Colon, THmUUGH
THE HANDS OF THIS GRMAN EMPLOYEE into the POssesBion of Mr. T. TAHARA
and inte his seoret files at Hotel Washington for transmission to
Japan via Vice Admiral Hyiutake."
IN THE ABSENCE OF THE MILITARY ATTACHE:
Alox A. Cohon,
Clerk, in charge of offioe.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20219/23
SEE711.94/831
FOR MEMORANDUM.
FROM ._State_Department
(..Hornbeck.....) DATED July.25,.l933.
TO
Division of Far
NAME
1—1127
Eastern Affairs
3
REGARDING:
American press stories of Japanese spies
in Panana discussed during conversation
with Mr. Taketomi, Counselor of the
Japanese Embassy.
hs

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1, Despatch 3278, February 19, 1934.
Barcelona Enero 8 de 1934
Sr. Emba jador de los Estados Unidos de América
Dn.Fred Morris Dearing
M i r a f l o r e s
Señor Emba jador:
Le extrañará recibir ésta mi carta de tanta distan-
cia y sin esperarla, pero ello se debe á varias circun-
stancias que procuraré explicar y una de ellas el haberme
venido a ésta mi Pátria, fué debido a la mala situación
reinante en ese pais al venirme yo en los primeros dias
de Abril del año pasado, ues como mi capital era reduci-
do temia se me fuese agotando al prolongarse por mucho
tiempo la gran crísis por la que atravesabamos y al mismo
tiempo deseaba visitar á mi familia que hacia muchos años
no la veia.
Ahora el primordial objeto de esta carta es darle al-
gunos informes ue creo de utilidad para Ud. y su pais por
haberse confirmado plenamente los informes que antes le
proporcioné referente al plan Japones referente á las Fili-
pinas, pues ellos lo tenian previsto para Abril & Mayo del
del 32 y se evitó al pasar la Escuadra con la verdadera opor-
tunidad. Ya ud. ha visto lo que les disgustó esta medida
por haberles desbaratado un Plan tan seguro como el que
cllos tenian "cordado. Ahora tratan de desnistar para
otra fecha y por eso le voy á dar los pocos datos que he
podido recojer pues aquí no hay manera de informarse debi-
do á que no se permite la entrada de esas dos despreciadas
razas ni Chinos ni Japoneses.
En

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
En mi viaje para acá, subió en Colón un Italiano,
vendedor ambulante de Casimires ue residia en Panamá y
que uor haber tratado cn muchos Japoneses le habian en-
terado de su nuevo plan. Dijo que habia conocido un
Japones, mayordomo de una familia pudiente de panamá y
(que vive cerca de la Panaderia "GAnCIA" en la calle 13
(Anoté esos datos por cue no conozco Panamá y es la primera
vez que crucé el Canal en via je á esta) y que el tal Japones
demostraba bastante cultura y se llevaba siembre escribiendo
y que demostraba tener ascendencia sobre los demas Japoneses
y que gastaba bastante dinero sin reparar. Que muchas
veces le movia (el Italiano) el futuro conflicto con Norte
América y que el csta' siempre muy segur de que su pais
triunfaria de una manora rápida y sorurendente contra Norte
America y au el pronto lo veria. Esto era antes del paso
de la Escuadra. pero des ues lo notaba contrariado y decia
que ahora su pais tenia ue esperar y ccnstruir muchos
Buques y Aeroplanos. Fl Italinao le decia que no le per-
mitirian las demas Potencias reoresentadas en la Liga de
las Naciones y el se reia diciendo que esa Liga solo servia
para intrigas de las cuales se aprovechaba el Japón y que
al Japón todos le temerian mmuy pronto, que Francia é Ingla-
terra eran muy buenos amigos de su pais. Gue para construir
Buques habia dos medios, retirarse de la Liga y hacer lo
que les conviniese o despistar haciendo contratos con otros
paises en forma ventajosa y con la necesaria Cláusula de que
en caso de necesitarlos el pais constructor por allarse en
guerra 6 amenazado podia incautarse de ellos abonando la
indeznización que se acordase y que para esto se prestaban
varios

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
varios paises y otros caerian en la trampa sin que reci-
bieran los buques que ellos creian cue se construian para
ellos.
Hace poco he visto que hahian hecho un contrato con
el Brasil oara construirle 30 Buques en cambio de café
y para ser entregados en el plazo de 8 años y como veo
con esto que está enteramente de acuerdo con lo antes ex-
puesto por el aludido Japones es que creo de interes el par-
ticiparselo. Tambien veo cue se confirma nor otro lado el
plan de apoderarse de las Filipinas por la publicación que
le acompaño, que veo cue que ha tomado verdadera audacia
de estos nuevos conquistadoros d l Uriv rso, rues no reparan
en los medios para llevar adelante sus absurdas pretensiones
de expansió territorial y principian por ir poblando varios
paises cen sus subditos y despues servirse de ellos para
cnquistas.
No hay duda que en el Brasil y tambien en el Perú se
puede uno orientar bastunte bien de lo que estos retenden,
pere yo no estoy en condici nes de poder sufragar esos gastos.
En el Perú por mi negocio, me relaccioné mucho con ellos y
conozco á muchos cue me podian informar bastante debido á la
amistad pues hay oue reconocerles una gran astucia y reserva
(ue vara vencerla tiene que predominar la amistad y la con-
fianza y de eso disponia yo con muchos Japoneses que conocia
durante mas de 15 años.
Señor Embajador: Por encomienda separada, le remito
unas muostras de un enérgico desinfectante que á la vez que
desinfecta, quita todos los malos olores sin dejar ninguno
ni el del desinfectante empleado y creyendo que esto puede
ser muy beneficioso para elaborarlo en su Pais & comprarlo
elabo

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
elalorado, me permito ofrecerselo pera ver si siendo de
utilidad me favorectan comprandome el producto 6 la f6r-
mula una vez ue acan las demostraciones necesarias para
convencerse de la bondad del producto. Aqui se emoieza á
consumir cl los Hosoitales, Clfnicas, Cuarteles, Vaquerias,
asf como algunos Veterinarios que lo han empleado con éxit
en granjas Avfcolas y en curaciones de animales. Estamos
tratando de introducirlo en las Dependencias del Estado,
Marina Aviación, Cárceles, Correos, y Telégrefes, Ferro-
carrilr y Trunvias asf como en los Colegios y Oficinas
públicas y niivadas pero como esto  emanda mucho dinero para
la oropagan a y se carece de el no es tan fácil el éxito á
pesar de contar con tan excelente producto y es por esto que
me tomo la libertad de ofrecerselo por su intermedio a su
Gobierno siemnre que lo encuentre de utilidad ue asf lo creo.
La encomienda va dirigida á esa Embajada no así esta
carta cue por mas reserva se la remito por intermedio de un
amigo que aun que ignora en absoluto el contenido de ella,
se que es de confianza y que la entregará de acuerdo con mi
indicación .
Sin mas por hay y deseando se conserve bien me es grato
repetirme de Ud. su muy atto. y S. S.
Q. e. s. m.
(fmdo) J. Salvador Sánchez
J. Salvador Sanchez
Casanova 117
Barcelona

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
TRANSLATION
Enolosure No. 1, Despatch 3378, February 19, 1934.
Bercelona, Jamuary 8, 1934.
REOEIVED
Mr. Fred Morris Daring
Miraflores.
Mr. Ambassador:
You will be surnrised to receive this letter of mine from
such a distance and without expecting it; this is due to
various circumstances which I snall try to exnlain; one of them,
my having come to this country, my native land, was due to the
bad situation prevailing in that country when I came early in
April of lest year, for as ny canital was reduced, I feared
that it would pe exhausted if the grest denression through
which we were passing should oe prolonged for a long while, and
at the same time I wished to visit my family, which I had
not seen for meny years.
Now, the prime object of this let er is to give you some
information waich I selieve of use to you and your country,
because the renorte which I gave you before, concerning the
Japanese plan referrin, to the Philinnines, heve  een fully
confirmed, for they had prenared it for Anril or Mey of 32
and it was left undone unon the moving of the Fleet at just
the ri ht time. You have already seen how this measure dis-
pleased them, havin tiwarted a nlen tht was as certein
as the one which they had decided unon. Now they are trying
to throw you off the track and arrange matters for another
date, and in connectin tnerewith I am going to give you

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
the few data which I have been able to colleot, sinoe there
is no way of getting information here, as the entry of those
two despised races is not nermitted, either Chinese nor Jap-
anese.
During my trip to this nlace, there came to Colón an
Italian, a traveling vendor of cashmeres, who resided in
Panamá and who had been informed of their new nlan by the
Japenese because of having dealt with many of them. He said
that he hed been acqueinted with a Jananese, butler of a
prominent fanily of Panamá, which lives near the "Gercia"
bakery on 13th Street (I noted these data because I am not
acquainted witn Penemé and I nassed thr au n the Canal for
the first tine on my wey hither) and tht the seid Jananese
displayed considereole educction end was always writing end
thet he proved to have nower over the other Jepanese and that
he spent con: iderrule money without thinking e. out it. That
frequently he discussed with him (the Itelian) the future
conflict with the United States nd ta:t ne was always very
certain thrt his country would triumnh over tue United States
quickly and surnriain ly and thet he would see it soon. This
was before the movement
of the Fleet, but sfterward he ob-
served thet .e
was nit out and he said tart now  is country
would have to vrit and puild many snins and airnlanes. The
Italian used to tel! him that the other nowers renresented in
the League of Notions would not pernit it, end he would laugh,

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
aying that that League served only for intrigues of which
Japan took advantage and that all would fear Japan very soon;
that France and England were very good friends of his country.
That there were two ways of building shins: to withdraw from
the League and do what pleased them, or to deceive by making
conventions with other countries in an advantageous form
and with the necessary stinulation that in case tney were
needed by the constructin country because it was engaged
in warfere or was threatened it could take charge of them
by paying the indennity agreed unon and thet various countries
were reedy to do that and others would fell into the snare
without receivins the shins which they believed were built for
them.
A short time ago I saw that they ned made a contrect with
Brazil, to uild 30 shins for ner in excnange for coffee, to
be delivered within a period of  yeers, and as I see by this
that it is entirely in eccord witn what was stated efore by
the Jananese referred to, I selieve it is of imnortence to
notify you of it. I see likewise t.et on the other nend the
plen of getting oossession of the Philinnines is confirmed
by t.e puolication whicn I enclose; I see thet true audacity
has veen assu ved by these new conquerors of the world, for
t.ey do not lack means of pusni. forward tneir sbsurd clsims
to territorial exnansion and tuey :re
e in in y ponuleting
various lends with tneir su jects end t.en laxin use of
them for conquests.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
-4
There is no doubt that in Brezil and likewise in Peru
one can get a good enough idea of what they are planning,
but I am not in a position to stand that exnense. In
Peru, in my business, I came into contact with them a great
deal and I know many of them who could give me considerable
information, due to friendship, for it must be recognized
that they have greet astuteness and reserve, to conquer
which friendship and confidence must prevail, and I enjoyed
this from many Japanese whom I became acquainted with during
more than 15 years.
Mr. Ambassador: I an sending you under separate cover
some samnles of a powerful disinfectant which gets rid of
all bad adors while it is disinfecting, nor does it leave
any odor of the disinfectant emoloyed; believing thet it
may be very beneficial to have tn:s manufectured in your
country or to purclase it already manufectured, I venture
to offer it to you, to see wnether, if it is of use, I may be
favored by the nurchase of the oroduct or the for nuls when
the necessary denonstrations heve been mede to convince
nersons of the quelity of tie product.
Here, it is egin-
nin to be used in hosnitels, clinics, barracks, end deiries,
as wel! es y sone veterinarians, wae hove used it with
success on ferns end in the trentment of animals.
.e re
ette.mti to introduce it into the  ove nlent offices, navy,
aviatio, orisons, post-offices, telegrann ofrices, and
railroad and street-car ffices, as well es into nublic and

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
-5
private schools and offices, but as that requires much money
for advertising and that is lacking, success is not so easy,
although we have an excellent product, and it is for that
reason that I take the liberty of offering it, through you,
to your Governnent, if it is found of use by the latter, as
I believe it will be.
Tie shipment is eddressed to your Enoessy; this letter is
not, which I an sending, with greater preceution, by a friend
who is absolutely ignorant of the contents of it, but who is
trustworthy and who will deliver it in accordance with my
instructions.
No more for the present; honing tnet you are well, I
take pleasure in reneatin tunt I an,
Yours very trily,
(si ned) J. Salvedor Sánchez.
J. Salvador Sanchez
Casanov? 117
Barcelona.
TR: J.IP: MS.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.91)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
3/2/34RECEIVED
MAR 2 1934
DIVISION OF
The original of thim
has been sent to the Translator
for translation of the enclosure.
DOR
ED-Roon 346
wit
tranflalic. ule.. com.pd.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.91)
LA
FE
Lima, February 19,1984.
No. 8278
Subject: Tra smitting let er (copy of) con-
cerning Japanese activities.
pett
RS
FEB 27 1934
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
X
1.
Division of
FAR EASTN AFFAIRS
MAR -1 1934
Dnpertnent f Stat
The Honorable
The Secret ry of Stete
washluzton
Sir:
1/
I heve t'eon  t enc os ca Latter
concerntng allered Japa s c   1 s, at d Janu ry
, loz4, from J. S. Sanchez, Cassn v l17, Parcelona.
Formerly  restcent of nort ern Prad whe in the vast
communicat
ne pre slon be s me lines. The
informa 1 n n th's lot  sn s  e t any
reat velue. Hor ver, it 1s assed al  ror the flles
of the Dep: rtment an sihly r  e Inf r at'on f
tLet! n atanam.
Fespectfu ly y urs,
Fred Morris Derrine
lgd-p
Enclosure No.1. Letter from J.8. Sanchex, Jan.8,1 34.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.94)
LA
FE
Lima, February 19,1984.
No. 8278
Subjeet: Tra snitting let er (copy of) con-
cerning Japanese activities.
pRtt
LATEYMEP
URS
FEB 27 1934
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
X
1.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR -1 1934
Depertment of State
The Honorable
The Secret: ry of Stete
Washington
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to enclose a co y t a letter
concerning alleged Japanese activities, ated January
8, 1934, from J. S. Sanchez, Casanova 117, Barcelona,
formerly a resident of northern Perd who in the past
communicated to me reports along the same lines. The
informat1on in this letter do s not seem 'o be of any
breat value. However, it 1s passed along for the files
of the Department and possibly for the inf rmation of
the Legation at Panamé.
Respectfully yours,
Fred Morris Dearing
1gd-p
Enclosure No.1. Letter from J.S. Sanchez,Jan.8,1934.
A me copy of

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
alesure No.1, Despateh s27s, Pobrmary 19, 1934.
Bareelona mero 8 de 1984
Br. Embajador de los Estados Unidos de Amériea
Da.Fred Morris Dearing
Miraflores
Beñor Eabajador:
Le extrañará recibir Esta mi carta de tanta distam-
cia y sin esperarla, pero ello se debe & varias eireum-
stancias que procuraré explicar y una de ellas el haberme
venido a ésta mi Pátria, fué debido a la mala situación
reinante en ese pais al venirme yo en los primeros dias
de Abril del año pasado, ues comc mi capital era reduei-
do temia se me fuese ago'ando al prolongarse por mucho
tiempo la gren crísis por la que atravesabames y al mismo
tiempo deseaba visitar & mi familia ue hacia muchos años
no la ve1a.
Ahora el rimordial bjeto de esta csrta es darle al-
gumvs informes ue creo ce utilidad pare Ja. y su pais por
haberse confirmad: plenaments los luformes ue entes le
proporci né referente al plan Jrpones referente á las Pili-
ninas, ues ell-s o tontan previsto para Abl & Mayo del
del 32 y se ovit6 s1 pasar la scuadra con 1: verdadera opor
tunidad. Ya ud.  vist to ue Les disgustó esta edida
nor haberles desbaratade un Plan tan segur como el que
ellos tenian cordado. A ra tratan ce ces lstar para
otra fecha y vor eso le voy á dar los  ocos datos que he
podido recojer ues aquf no hay manera de informarse debi-
do & que no se permite la entrada de es:: dos despreciadas
razas ni Chinos ni Japoneses.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.86)
-2
In mi viaje para aed, mmb16 en Colón un Italiame,
Vendedor ambulante de Casimires cue residia en Panam y
que por haber tratado c n muchos Japoneses le habiam 
terado de su nuevo plan. Dijo vu- habia conocido un
Japones, may rdomo de una famtlia oudiente de panamd y
cue vive cerca de la Panaderia "GA' CIA" en ln ealle 18
(Anoté esos dntos por cue n conozeo Panamé y es la primera
vez que crucé el Canal en vta e & esta) : qu el tal Japones
demostrabe astante culturs y  llevabs siembre esoribiendo
y que demostiaba t ner ascendenc a so're log demas Japonoses
y cu vastabe bastunte dine o s n roosrar. Gue muchas
veces le movie (1 Italiavo) el f.tur conflicto con Norte
América y ue el cste sianrc miy segure de ue su pais
triunferia de n anare raplds 7 sor conderte contra Norto
Americr y  el oronte lovrl. Er cr ates del paso
de le ccuadre, ero des  nrh e pra lade y decia
cue shora t tents
 srastrutr uchos
Buoues  A rnuns. l It Llinao  octe e n le per
mttirian  ro Porclar resent  eo le Tige do
las Nrciones  al r ls alle u  Lige solo servia
para intrisas de la c alas sror csr l Jepón y sue
al Jepon todos tooor uyont, o Frencte  Ingla
terra cr  buno yeas  su pels.uc pere c nstruir
Puqushe eedis ret rars  ier y hacer 1o
que l convintcse o desuis er haciendo e mtratos on otros
peises on u vonts joss  con la necesarie Clausule de que
en caso e n cesitarlos el pois constructor r al arse on
gaerra 6 amenazado podi nc utarse do ellos ahonando la
indemización que se acordase y cue vora esto se prestaban
varios

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.95)
varies paises y otros eaerian en la tramps sin que resi-
biermm los buques que elles creian que se construian pare
21os.
Haee poeo he visto que habian heeho un contrato con
el Brasil para construirle so Buques en eambio de café
y para ser entregados en el plaso de 3 años y como vee
eon esto que está enteramente de acuerdo con lo antes ex-
puest por el alulido Japones es que creo de interes el par
ticiparselo. Tambien veo que se confirma :or otro lado el
plan de apoderarse de las Filipinas por la ublicaci&n que
le acompaão, que veo que quc ha tomado verdadere audacia
de estes nuevos conquistadores del Univorso, pues no reparen
en los modios para llevar auclante sus absurdas pretensiones
de expansión territorial y principian oor ir poblando varios
paises con sus subditos y despues servirse de ellos para
c nquistas.
No hay duda que en el Brasil y tambien en el Perd so
ple uno orientar bastante hien de lo que estos retendem,
pero yo no estoy en condici nes de poder sufragar esos gastos.
En el Perd or m! negocio, me relaccioné much e n ellos y
conozc  muchos cue me podian informar baston e debido  la
amistad vues hay ue rec nocerles una pran astucia y reserv
ue are ve cerla t  e que vredorinsr la antstad y la cm-
fianza y de esc dis onta y con muchos Janonoses que conocia
durante ma de 15 años.
Señor Emba jador: Por encomienda separada, le remito
unas mu str's le un enérgico des nfectante ue à la wez que
nfocta, quita todos Los malos lores sin dejar ninguno
ni el del desinfectante empleado y cr eyendo qua esto uede
ser muy baneficioso cara e aborarlo en su Pais 6 comprarlo
elaborado,

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.90)
4
medo, m peraito efreseraele pare ver si stende de
una ves que bagan las demostresiones secesarias pest
apaveneerse de la bondad del producto. Aqul se emmlesa 
mir el los Hospitales, Climiees, Carteles, Vameries
asf como algumos Veterinarios que lo han empleade com Esitt
en eremjas Avicolas y en curaciones de animmles. Kstamos
tretapde ne introducirlo en las Dependencias del Estado,
Mrina Aviación, Cárceles, Correos, y Telégrafes, Ferro-
arriles y Tr nrlas asf como en los Colegios y Ofieinas
blicas y privadas pero como csto emanda mmeho dimere pare
Le propagan a y se carece de el no es tan réeil el rito 
Posar de contar con tan exeelente producto y es por eoto que
tomo la lirertad de ofrecrselo por intermedlo a su
ntr de wtilidad gue asi lo croo.
ompree
La encomienda va di-tgida à esa Emba jada no lsf este
se qu es de conflanze y cue la entregard de a uerdo cat
indicacion.
Sin ma   y deseando se conserve bion me es grato
epetirre a Ud. su muy atto. y 8. S.
C. c. 8. m.
(radu) J. Selvador Sánchez
J. Solvedor Sracher
Bamanova 117
Barcelone

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
894.20219/27 TO 37 iNCLUSIVE
TRANSFERRED TO
811F.812 PROTECTION

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.94)
894, 20219
38-51 inclusive
Trausferred to
811F. 812 Flut
WeB

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
894.20219/52, 53
TRANSFERRED TO 8I1F.8I2 PROTECTION.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.89)
54-64 iuclusine
894.20219
trausferred to
811F 8/2 Fleet
NCB

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
894.20219/64A TO 70 iNCLUSIVE
TRANSFERRED TO 811F.812 PROTECTION

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.85)
894. 20 2 19/71-73 inclusine
Jrausferred to
811F 812 Flut
NCB

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.94)
CHARGE SLIP
894.20219
File No.
CHARG TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REMARKS
-NEMD
FC
02t.251934
9-6.357Rg
W 72 LE MEMO

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.88)
Jan?
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DS
N OF LATIN-AMERICAN AFFAIR
:17
May Sbe
excused from sendig
This lunsense t5o MD
aleady have the
myornctim in Pamame
Sem
JAN 11 1935
MR WE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington.
Sir:
I hav the honor to er
memorundum rerardinf Jopane
December 29, 194.
Resrectr
Antonio
Enclosure:
As stated.
800-Japan 1:20.0?)
A/eR

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
1935
LEGATION OF THE
No. 546
Panama, December 31, 1934.
Subject: Japanese activities.
AIR MAIL
46
9
894.20219/74
TATE
JAN 11 1935
MR
WE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose herewith an office
memorandum regarding Japanese activities, dated
JAN12
December 29, 1934.
935
Respectfully yours,
mtari(Somgaly
Antonio C. Gonzalez
Enclosure:
As stated.
800-Japan (820.02)
ACG/eac

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
re No. 1. to despatch No.54t. of Llec. 3/.
1934
from the American Legation, Panama.
MEMOHANDUM
On December 28, 1934, at 6:30 p.m. I received a phone
call from the Balboa Naval Radio Station that Mr. James Ryan,
of Colon, wished me to phone him as soon as possible, At
about 6:45 I phoned and found he was not in. Atabout 7:15
Mrs. Ryan phoned and transferred the call to Mr. Ryan, who
informed me that he had received a carbon copy of a letter,
the original of which was apparently addressed to me, the
contents of which he stated was of a very serious nature
and he could not read it to me over the public telephone
from which he was speaking but that he would go to Detective
rers office and phone me and from there read the contents.
He asked me to hang up the receiver, which I did, and in a
few minutes he phoned me again.
On the second call he stated that he had received an
envelope addressed to him, mailed at Cristobal at 2 p.m.
December 28th, in which there was a carbon copy of a note
addressed to the American Minister, reading as follows:
"Fools defy Nippon. We prove superior exploding Gatun.
Signed BANZAI." Mr. Ryan inquired whether I had received
such a note. I told him I had not. He stated he had turned
over his copy to Detective Myers. He did not know whether
it was authentic or whether it was a trick played on him by
some Colon newspaper man.
I then communieated with Admiral Crosley and gave him
the above information. I also communicated with General
Fiske and phoned Colonel Ridley, the latter being out until
after eleven. Upon my return to the Legation at ll:15 p.m.
I received a call from Captain Ketcham, who had received the
information, and who wished to know more about 1t, so I gave
him what information I had. I then phoned again to Colonel
Ridley and gave him the information, thereby completing my
report.
In the mail received on Saturday morning, December 29,
1934, I received an envelope mailed from Cristobal at 2 p.m.
Deeember 28, 1954, upon which was written and rewritten, with
a blue typewriter ribbon, the words "American Minister, Panama",
and stamped, received by the Panama Post Office "December 28,
5 p.m., l9s4." On opening the envelope I discovered a small
piece of pad paper which was a carbon copy reading exactly as
above mentioned, and on the upper corner there was the imprint
of the words "American Minister.* The piece of paper upon
which this note was written was a&x5 plece of paper, and as
advised by Vice Consul Warner, who at my request called to
interview Detective Myers, is supposed to be scratch pad of the
Canal Zone

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Zone, with e red gummed edge. It appears that the carbon copy
of the note which was addressed to Ryan had written on the top
the words "American Minister", the imprint of which was only
upon the one received by me. The note was rewritten so as to
overcome all identity as to the type of machine upon which it
was written.
I phoned Consul General Karl de G. MacVitty, my represen-
tative upon the Espionage Board, who called at 9iz0 a.m. Decem-
ber 29th and to whom, in the presence of my Third Secretary,
Robert Joyce, I explained and showed the note received and turned
it over to Mr. Mac Vitty for further investigetion.
From a report received from Admiral Crosley on the morning
of December 29, 1924, all necessary precautions were taken dur-
ing the night of December  8th, in order to avoid any mishap.
On Saturday morning, December 29, 194, about 10:30 o'clock
Mr. Ryan phoned me to inquire whether I had received a copy of
the note which he had received. I told him I had. He wanted me
to read it to him and I told him it was the same as his and there
was no need of reading it to him. About one-half hour thereafter
he phoned me and said that the matter referred to in the note
seemed to be now in shape for a news story. I said there was
no occasion to make a news story out of a matter which was being
investigated and particularly where it was to his interest to
have the matter investigated. He stated that he was afraid he
might receive a cable from his home office about it. Whereupon
I told him he could not possibly receive such a cable from his
home office unless he had first informed his home office about
1t. He then stated that he would not want the Panama papers to
get ahead of him. I told him there was no fear of that, since
neither I, nor the authorities investigating the matter were
newspaper reporters, or liable to give out news of this character.
Whereupon he stated that he supposed the only thing to do was to
let the matter ride. I told him it was the only thing to do and
that such a matter was not news, and that he should give every
opportunity possible to the investigating authorities and not
make it a subject of a news story.
ANTONIO C. GONZALEZ,
American Minister.
Panama, December 29, 1974.
CC- General John Gulick
Genßral H. B. Fiske
Admiral W. S. Crosley.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.92)
LAGN AMER CAN AFFAIRS
JAN 0
DEP
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
848
Panama, January 2, 1955.
mhiect: Further re Japanese activities.
AIR MAIL POUCH
F.e
EED
S.
894.20219/75
5
55 J
The Honorable
Y OF STATE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
JAN 14 1935
AN 1  19
Mr.
S
Sir:
2:4.20219/04
dated December 31, 1934, and to transmit copy of a
F/FC
further communication which I have received from Mr.
G
James Ryan.
Respectfully yours,
Intohio C. Gonzales
800-Japan(820.02)
Enclosure: As stated.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
ure to desp tch No. 548 of January 2, 1935,
from the Legation at Paname.
COPY
JAMES RYAN
LATIN AMERICAN NEWS AND PHOTOS
CRISTOBAL,CANAL ZONE
January 1, 1935.
Copy for
His Excellency, The American Minister.
To His Excellency,
The Governor of the Panama Canal,
Balboa Heights,
C. Z.
Sir:
With reference to our telephone conversation of several
days ago concerning a certain "note" and your request that
the story be not published until investigations had been com-
pleted, may I point out the fact, of which you are no doubt
aware, that while I held this information as confidential, both
the Associated Press and United Press correspondents, repre-
sented by employees of the Star and Herald and the Panama American
respectively, cabled sufficient information on the subject yes-
terday to render my story worthless and to place me in the light
of having been "beaten" by the opposition.
At eight o'clock last night, after I had received a cable
from my New York office which read "need story extra guard posted
gatun lock after plot to upblow (signed) Universal" this being
the first intimation I had received that the opposition had beaten
me to the punch, I communicate with Colonel Cruse by telephone.
The Colonel at once relieved m of my promise of silence and
authorized me to send a correct tory of the happening which I
did, clearing my story over the res at about eight thirty.
This, however, could not offset he fact that I was badly beaten
by both opposition services.
Exnlanations are now in order, for our General Mamager does
not relish a beating.
May I therefore request, in accordance with your promise,
that you be good enough to address a letter to Mr. M. A. White,
Asst. General Manager, Uniwersal Service, New York, with a copy
to Mr. J. C. Oestreicher, Director of Foreign Service, Inter-
national News Service, New York, explaining the fact that I
had this story several days before any opposition but that I
complied with your request not to send it for the best inter
ests of the government. Please mail the copies to me so that
I may enclose them with my own explanation which will have to
go on by air mail.
With the compliments of the season, believe me,
Faithfully,
(sgd.) James Ryan,
JAMES RYAN,
Staff Correspondent, Allied Hearst
Services.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
894.20219/76,77, 78
TRANSFERRED TO 8I1F.812 PROTECTION

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.91)
Trausferred to
811F 812 7tel

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
894.20219/84
TRANSFERRED TO 8I1F.8I2 PROTECTION

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
LA
5
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FECEN
WE
PariA (August 26, 1935lA
SEP 16 1935
Division of
PARDMENTOF STATE
FAR EASTEN AFFAIRS
SEP 1935
SPEOLAL REPORT
Demartmant of Staie
No.
D. 1584.
SEPD
For Distribution-Check
Arade
loh
Yes
No
For
In USA
894.20219/85
MID
To the Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
forwards herewith Mr. Warrington Dawson's Special
Report No. W. D. 1584, dated August 26, 1935.
001-1935
FILED
F/FG.
WD/MM
C.D.
11

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Paris, August 26, 1935.
Serial No. W. D. 1584.
SPECIAL REPORT,
By Warrington Dawson,
Special Assistant.
SUBJECT: The Japanese Secret Service.
CYRANO published on August 23, 1935, a short
article dealing with the Japanese Secret Service,
particularly as concerns its anti-American activities.
This article is as follows:
"From Vladivostok to San Francisco, from Singapore
to Shanghai, and from the Philippines to Panama, the
Intelligence Service, whose headquarters are in Tokyo,
extends its mysterious ramifications,whose existence
was scarcely suspected a few months ago.
"And now, rather suddenly, it is revealing an un-
precedented activity.
Fields of Action
"The cleverest Japanese agents are at present
sent out to kussia, China and the United States.
Furthermore, the zones of Panama, the Hawaiian Islands
and San Diego are put under a special and constantly
renewed surveillance, these localities being essential
points for all naval manoeuvres in the Pacific.
Japanese

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
"Japanese observation is particularly acute in
Burma, Singapore and Hong Kong. In Asiatic Russia,
where the work was especially difficult owing to
racial differences and Soviet counter-espionage, orders
Bonk o Japan
for the Secret Service were handled at the Bank of Japan
hasmo
in Vladivostok.
The Eye of Moscow saw clearly,and this
credit establishment had to close its doors.
A Formation of the First Order.
"Sometimes acting as professors, sometimes as busi-
ness men, or simply as tourists, the Japanese secret
agents, whose nomination by the Tokyo General Staff is
approved by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, are all
men of high culture, who, nevertheless, do not scorn
to stoop to the humblest tasks when necessary.
"Last July the Japanese had become so numerous in
the Panama Canal region that Washington had decided to
send a special commission of inquiry to ascertain the
origin of the resources of certain Japanese workmen who
were among the unemployed and yet did not appear to
suffer in consequence.
"It has just been observed that in the present con-
dition of the Canal a few well placed bombs would suffice
to destroy, within an hour, the entire hydro-electric
equipment of the Isthmus and of the reservoirs of drink-
ing water, which means that the Canal would be rendered
totally useless for the passage of the American Fleet.
"Near these neuralgic centers some Japanese have
recently found a means to make permanent settlements.
Protests.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Protests.
"Of course, the United States addressed a protest
against this state of affairs to the Republic of Panama.
Washington demands the right of special surveillance.
Wireless and police posts are provided for on the terri-
tory of the Republic, and it is believed that the United
States stands ready to ignore any foreign complaints
which may be received on the subject.
"Meanwhile, along the shores of the Canal, peaceful
and silent fishermen, little yellow men, are smiling."
The original of the article mentioned in this
Report is herewith enclosed.
Respectfully yours,
Waonngton dawron.
Warrington Dawson,
Special Assistánt.
Enclosure:
Article published in CYRANO of
August 23, 1935.
In quintuplicate.
851.9111/6a
WD-mm

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Special Report No. W.D. 1584
dated August 26, 1935, from American
Embassy, Paris, France.
Clipped from CYRANO of August 23, 1935.
Le "Service secret" du Mikado
De Vladivostok à San Francisco, de Singapour à
Shanghaï, des Philippines à Panama, le service de
CYRANO
renseignements, dont le poste de commandement
se situe à Tokio, étend ses ramifications mysté-
de travailleurs nippons que n'épargnait pas le chō.
rieusès, dont on soupçonnait à peine l'existence, il
mage et qui, pourtant, ne paraissaient pas en souf-
ya seulement quelques mois.
frir.
9992
Et voici que, presque subitement, se révèle une
áctivité sans précédent.
Les champs d'action
Les plus adroits parmi les agents nippons sont
envoyés actuellement en Russie, en Chine et aux
Etats-Unis. En outre, les zones de Panama, des
Îles Hawaï et de San Diego sont placées sous une
surveillance particulière et constamment renou-
On vient de s'apercevoir que dans l'état actuel
velée, ces lieux constituant les points essentiels de
du canal, quelques bombes bien placées suffiraient
toute manœuvre navale dans le Pacifique.
pour détruire en une heure toute l'installation hy-
« L'observation » japonaise se montre particu-
droélectrique de l'isthme et tous les réservoirs
lièrement aiguë en Birmanie, à Singapour, à Hong-
d'eau potable, c'est-à-dire à empêcher totalement
Kong. En Russie d'Asie, où le « travail » était
l'utilisation du canal pour le passage de la flotte
rendu particulièrement difficile par les différen-
américaine.
ces de race et le contre-espionnage soviétique, les
Or, près de ces points névraígiques, des Japo-
commandes du service secret étaient maniées de la
nais avaient trouvé récemment le moyen de s'ins
Banque du Japon, à Vladivostok. L'œil de Moscou
taller à demeure.
vit clair. L'établissement de crédit dut fermer ses
« guichets ».
Protestations
Une formation de premier ordre
Bien entendu, les Etats-Unis ont protesté contre
cet état de choses auprès de la République de Pa-
Tantôt professeurs, tantôt commerçants ou sim-
nama. Washington revendique un droit de con-
ples touristes, les agents secrets nippons, dont la
trôle spécial. Des installations de T.S.F. policières
nomination par l'état-major de Tokio est approu-
sont prévues sur le territoire de la République et
vée par le ministère des Affaires étrangères, sont
l'on croit que les Etats-Unis sont prêts à faire f
toue des hommes d'une très hauíe culture et qui,
de toute réclamation étrangère à ce sujet.
cependant, ne dédaignent pas, le cas échéant, de
En attendant, sur les bords du canal, pêcheurs
se livrer aux besognes les plus humbles.
paisibles et taciturnes, de petits hommes jaunes
A la fin de juillet dernier, les Japonais étaient
sourient...
devenus si nombreux dans la région du canal de
Panama, que Washington décida l'envoi d'une com-
mission spéciale. d'enquête chargée de rechercher
d'où provenaient les ressources de ces centaines

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.94)
894.20219/86
Trans ferred to
811F 812 Fleet
WeB

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
894.20219/87,88
TRANSFERRED TO 811F.812 PROTECTION

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.96)
LA
DIVISION OF
WAR DEPARTMENT
AMPRICAN AFFAIRS
WAR DEPARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
1986
DIVISION G-2
RIMENT OT STATE
March 17, 1936
JUN·111936
SECREI
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
JMAR 281936
Department of State
MEMORANDUM for Chief, Division of Latin American Affairs
Department of State.
June 4 1930
Subject: The collection of information concerning
Japanese activities in the area: Central
America - Panama - Colombia - Venezuela -
Ecuador - Peru, with particular reference
to the Japanese Government's espionage or
FAR EASTERN AFF
other agencies of military significance.
894.20219/
Department of State
1. The War Department is of the opinion that the Japanese
Government conducts espionage activities in the Republic of Panama
and the vicinity thereof. It is probable that such activities have
been intensified during the past two years. In this connection,
there is attached hereto a brief resume of Japanese espionage acti-
19
vities with special reference to the Panama Canal.
2. Due to inadequate War Department facilities for the
0
collection of such information throughout the area in question,
6
there is insuffic ient evidence at the present time to dstermine accu-
rately the nature and extent of the danger involved, or even tc lo-
cate, to maintain reasonable contact with, or to observe Japanese
activities having a military significance the purpose of which may
be the furtherance of sabotage or more open attacks against the
Panama Canal. On account of this fact it seems advisable, at this
time, to arrenge for the utilization of such additional agencies of
FILED
our Government as appear to be suited to the systematic collection rof
information concerning these Japanese activities.
3. In view of the foregoing, the War Department requests -the
assistance of the Department of State, in so far as is consistent th
the latter's policies governing the activities of its field represen-
tation, in the coblection of information which will enable the military
Confidential File
forces of the nation to protect the Panama Canal more effectively a-
gainst hostile acts which may have their inception anywhere in the area
in question. It is noted that there is a total of 10 United States
ECRET

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 2 -
Legations and 22 United States Consular posts representing the
United States in the area. The number of consular stations appear
to be as follows:
El Salvador - 1
Pamana
-2
Peru
-1
Honduras
-4
Colombia
-4
Curacao - 1
Nicaragua - 2
Venezuela
- 3
Trinidad - 1.
Costa Rica - 2
Ecuador
-1
It is believed that the wide distribution of these 22 consular posts
and the l0 United States Legations would provide sources of informa-
tion which will prove to be invaluable to the War Department in its
present efforts to secure reliable reports concerning activities
inimical to the safety to the Panama Canal. Another advantage which
should accrue to this arrangement is that information, once developed,
can be observed and contact therewith maintained much more closely
than is the case at the present time.
4. The principal effect of the request made herein will
be that of intensifying the work now being done by the Department of
State posts which are so located as to be in close proximity to a major-
ity of the known or probable Japanese secret activities. Information
now at hand indicates that there are approximately twenty-one (21)
sensitive areas in the vicinity of the Panama Canal, each of which has
been visited one or more times by "mobile" Japanese agents -- "permanent"
Japanese agents are believed to reside in some of these sensitive areas.
The character of the activities of these agents is indicated in the en-
closed resume. The areas referred to above are as follows:
San Salvador (Sal.); Gulf of Fonseca; Culebra Bay (C.R.); Gulf of
Nacoya (C.R.); Gulf of Dulce (C.R.); David (Panama); Almirante
Bay (Panama); Montijo Bay (Panama); Panama (City); San Miguel Bay
(Panama); Jolano Bay (Col.); Buenaventura (Col.); Guayaquil (Ecuador);
Gulf of Darien (Col.); Cartegena (Cod.); Barranquilla (Col.);
Maracaibo (Ven.); Curacao (D.W.I.); Caracas (Ven.); Caripito (Ven.);
and Chimbote (Peru).
These areas are so distributed from El Salvador to Chimbote, Peru, or from
Port Limon, Costa Rica, to the eastern extremity of Venezuela, as to in-
clude most of the coastal areas which might be considered as of immediate
strategical or tactical value to an enemy nation contemplating hostile oper-
ations against the Canal. The value of these areas is enhanced in the
event that natives living therein enter into collusion with a hostile power,
SORT

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 3 -
such as Japan. The distributin of the above mentioned sensitive
areas is such that in addition to being able to keep in touch with
conditions therein, State Department agencies would also be likely
to detect suspicious activities in most of the intervening areas
which appear to be free from suspicion at the present time.
5. In connection with the general nature of the duties
of State Department personnel at the several posts mentioned, the
following is suggested:
a. The prompt report of Japanese activities in the area
allocated to each of the soveral posts.
b. Reports to include: (1) the arrival or departure of
of suspected Japanese transients, their contacts, the nature
of activities, and the probable results of same if such can
be ascertained. (2) The activities of suspected resident
Japanese as to their alleged and probable actual occupations.
The aature of the activities of both "mobile" (or transient)
and "stationery" agents appear to include the following:
a. Marine soundings and reconnaissances of coastal areas of
strategic importance under the guise of pleasure or fishing
activities.
b. Commercial agent (Japanese or perhaps German or other foreigners)
who visit areas without making serious efforts to negotiate trade
agreements.
c. Undue liaisons between Japanese diplomatic and Consular agents
and natives (in the government or in private enterprises).
d. Negotiations for concessions of all types, particularly fishing,
shipping, mining and colonization.
In addition to the indicated information on "mobile" and "stationery" agents,
a special effort to inform the War Department on matters concerning commerce,
immigration, propaganda and politics in which the Japenese are interested
would be appreciated by the War Department.
6. It is understood, of course, that such reports as may be
rendered on the activities in question will be transmitted through the Depart-
ment of State in the usual manner. In this connection, it would be desirable
SECRIT

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
SECRET
to have any information considered urgent and of vital importance
transmitted by the most rapid available means.
7. The War Department apprecietes the existing coopera-
tion by the Department of State in furnishing available information
of military significance. For this reason it is believed that valua-
ble aid may be secured through special intensification in the collec-
tion of information relative to the aforementioned Japanese activities
and by this means promote the true evaluation of any information
which may disclose material threats to the safety of the Panama Canal.
Buniee.
C. Burnett,
Colonel, General Staff,
Foreign Liaison Officer.
Encl.
hbr

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
SPURET
JAPANESE ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES
IN THE VICINITY OF THE PANAMA CANAL.
L. Historical. Japanese espionage activities in the western
hemisphere, beginning as early as l9lo, strongly indicate that the
Japanese Government has gathered complete information on the Panama
Canal and its military defenses. It is believed that the known efficiency
and the secretive methods of operation of Japanese Agents make them par-
ticularly adapted for gathering such information. That the information
relative to the Panama Canal thus obtained has been revised and added to
fram time to time is indicated by the fact that Japanese trade missions
to Central America, Panama and northern South America seem to be accom-
panied, or closely followed, by individuals whose interest suggest
espionage activities. In many cases individuals aro Japanese Army or
Navy officers; in other cases they appear under the guise of commercial
agents.
Prior to the World War, Japanese espionage activities in the
United States were directed from the Japanese Consulate in San Francisco;
later it appeared that such activities in Central America and Panama were
directed from Mexico City; it now appears logical to expect that similar
activities will be directed from the recently established Japanese Legations
in Colombia and El Salvador.
Japanese espionag? activities for several years prior to 1935
were dealt with in a G-2 report to the Governor, Panama Canal, dated Decem-
ber 28, 1934; an extract of this report follows:
"(5) Espionage. It appears from a letter of G-2,
Panama Canal Department, that 'there are regular. employed
Japanese agents in Panama. Their activities are uirected to
keeping informed of every minute detail of military disposi-
tions in the Canal Zone and of naval operations nearby; they
keep in close contact with the fishermen and merchants through-
out the Republic of Panama and with transient Japanese travelers.
They are involved commercially, possibly politically, with dis-
contented elements of the opposition parties in Panama. There
is no direct evidence of plans or plots for sabotage.'
From many other sources, less reliable or con-
servative than the foregoing, there is indicated a continuous
operation of observing, hydrographic soundings and transmission
of information of a military character.
Reports from our Military Attache, Costa Rica,
are infrequent and their value may be estimated from his own
statement, that Japanese espionage activities are little known
to him since he has no facilities for unearthing such activities
and that anyth ing he learns is second hand. He believes, however,
Ev&.1

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
that 'there is, in Panama, an efficient working system of
Japanese espionage with a force adequate to carry out any
act of sabotage required of it.'"
2. Activities during l935. Japanese commercial and diplomatic
activities in Latin America have been intensified tremendously during
the year l935. The history of Japanese espionage control, mentioned in
paragraph 1 above, corroborates recent indications that a close link now
exists between existing Japanese diplomatic and consular agents and sus-
pected espionage activities in the area in question. Within four months
after the establishment (November l934) of the Japanese Legation at Bogota,
Colombia, a Japanese naval officer appeared in that area and began an in-
vestigation of American oil interests in Colombia. In March, Japanese naval
officers visited the Port of Cartegena. A Japanese Admiral visited Venezuela
and made an inspection (to the extent permitted by American and Dutch oil
interests) of the oil producing and refining areas: (1) Lake Maracaibo;
(2) Eastern Venezuela; (3) Aruba; and (4) Curacao. In Curacao the Dutch
officials refused to allow the Admiral to make an inspection of the area.
Japanese Legation officials in Bogota have attempted to explain ther inter-
est in Colombian oil products as being designed to effect a balance in trade
between Japan and Colombia. These officials ignore the fact that trade balan-
cing efforts do not require inspections of ports and oil areas by military
officials nor do these efforts explain the interest exhibited by these officers
in the Venezuelan oil areas and the storage and refining facilities of Aruba
and Curacao - the largest in the world.
During the past year various other activities of Japanese agents,
usually under the guise of some commercial motive, strongly indicate an es-
pionage connection. Beginning in 19l6 and up until the advent of the present
agency known as the Commercial Organization of the Japane se Government, with
branches throughout the world, it is indicated that the firm of G. Cato and
Company has conducted a secret service activity for the Japanese Government.
It is significant that within the past several months, the agents of G. Cato
have again became active in Panama, Colombia and Peru. Furthermore, there
is some doubt that G. Cato and Company exists in anything but name. One of
G. Cato's agents, Kuroda, has appeared, numerous times in l9l6 and four times
in 192l, in the Panama and other Latin American areas. This same individual
(Kuroda) is now believed to be a functionary in the Commercial Section of
the Japanese Foreign Office. An unconfirmed report indicates that the sum of
32 million yen was allotted to Japanese espionage activities in Latin America
during the year 1934. The budgetary appropriations of the Japanese Government
are so secret as to preclude, thus far, the verification of this report.
There have been numerous reports, during the past year, of suspicious
actions in connection with motor-boat reconnaissance trips by Japanese agents:
(1) along the Costa Rican coast line in the Gulf of Dulce and the Gulf of Nacoya;
and (2) in the Gulf of Fonseca in June l935. It was reported that these activi-
RET

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
-一 3 -
ties appeared to be marine soundings rather than pleasure or fishing
cruises. Incidentally, it should be pointed out that there are no fish
in commercial quantities in the Gulf of Nacoya or in the Gulf of Fonseca.
A one-month's secret reconnaissance of the Galapagos Islands by Japanese
submarines is reported. Our naval authorities are of the opinion that
many Japanese fishing vessels are officered by naval reservists, and, in
some cases, by regular Japanese Naval officers. These fishing vessels
have repeatedly "dogged" the movements of our naval vessels. Such facts
have also been proclaimed on the floor of our House of Representatives.
3. Military significance. The military significance of the
Japanese activities dealt with in the preceding paragraph lies in those
potential dangers to the Panama Canal which are inherent to such activi-
ties. Both the Japanese colonized areas (such as the Cauca Valley in
Colombia and Chimbote, Peru, 400 miles and 1500 miles, respectively, from
the Canal) and the establishment of resident Japanese agents and native
contacts in vital areas may harbor and facilitate those espionage activi-
ties which are but the preliminaries to sabotage or a more open type of
hostile effort in the Panama area.
Japanese fishing activities in Panama and Central American waters
employ numerous Diesel-engined vessels same of which vary from 80 to 1o0
tons in displacement and two of which have a much greater tonnage (the
"Centralia" of 325 tons and the "Minato Maru" of 625 tons). These vessels
enable the Japanese not only to follow and closely observe the movements of
our naval vessels - they also facilitate a thorough knowledge and a possi ble
use of such areas of military importance as the Gulf of Fonseca, Gulf of
Nacoya, and the Gulf of Dulce, about 880, 540 and 400 miles, respectively,
northwest of the Pacific entrance of the Panama Canal.
The above mentioned and many similar natural bases on the Caribben
and Pacific coast line south of the Canal, as well as the Galapagos and Cocos
Islands, are of material strategic and tactical significance for both the
Japanese and our own uses in the event of projected hostilities between these
two nations. The importance of these coast line and island anchorages is
greatly added to when we consider them in connection with questionable secret
activities of a foreign power equipped with long range, Diesel-engined craft
which can utilize their advantages to the fullest extent.
The uncertainty of the true meaning of various Japanese activities
having the aspect of fishing or other commercial enterprises in areas rela-
tively close to the Panama Canal is of marked importance when we consider the
usefulness of these water and land areas to both the United States and Japan
in event of armed conflict between the two nations. To say that such activi-
ties have little or no significance is only to guess at their real meaning.
The known Japanese proclivities for spying indicate that the activities men-
SEORET

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
tioned have a direct relation to an espionage system organized to cover
the Panama Canal and the approaches thereto. Spying and planning are the
initial steps of sabotage.
It is not illogical to infer that the tours of inspection of
ports and oil refining and storage regions in Colombia and Venezuela by
Japanese naval officers, on three different occasions in tho same year,
may have to do with a revision of plans and establishment of contacts
useful to military operations or sabotage acts against the Panama Canal
or its installations.
While the most significant aspect of the Japanese activities
observed during l935 has been Japan's systematic drive to enter into for-
mal and lasting commercial and diplomatic relations with the several
nations camposing Latin America, it must be remembered that agreements
which originate in economic enterprise may also uc ive & political or
military aspect. The military aspect is the factor with which we ere
directly concerned.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
894.20219/89
refer to
Mimeographed
Received for Mailing
JUN 1 5 1936
(Date)
ITARY OF STATE
SHINGTON, D. C.
Mailed
JUN 2 3 1936
(Date)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
June 4 1936
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION DESIRED BY WAR DEPARTMENT
To
Certain American Diplomatic and Consular Officers.
Sirs:
The War Department has requested the cooperation
894.20219
of the Department of State and its representatives in
providing the War Department with information concern-
894.20219/89
ing the activities of foreigners other than nationals
of the countries in which you are residing, with
particular reference to espionage or other agencies of
military significance which would be of interest and
value to the War Department, in the area surrounding
the Panama Canal.
The War Department has suggested that the following
kinds of information would be of particular interest
to it in this connection:
The prompt report of such activities in
the area allocated to each of the several
posts.
b.
Reports to include: (1) the arrival or de
parture of suspected transients, their con-
tacts, the nature of activities, and the
probable results of same if such can be
JUN 29 1936
FILED
ascertained. (2) The activities of sus-
pected resident foreigners as to their
alleged and probable actual ocoupations.
Confidential File
The nature of the activities of both "mobile"
(or transient) and "stationery" agents appear to
include the following:
Marine soundings and reconnaissances of coastal
areas of strategio importance under the guise of
pleasure or fishing activities.
b.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
b.
Commercial agents who visit areas without
making serious efforts to make arrangements
for the expansion of trade.
C.
Undue liaisons between diplomatic and Sonsular
agents and natives (in the government or in
private enterprises).
d.
Negotiations for concessions of all types,
particularly fishing, shipping, mining and
colonization.
In addition to the above, the War Department would
like information concerning foreign interest in commerce,
immigration, propaganda and politics.
The Department wishes you to be of as much assistance
to the War Department as you can, within the limits of
proper disoretion. In endeavoring to assist the War De
partment in the manner set forth you will bear in mind
that the War Department is interested only in information
which may have a relation to a country which could threaten
the security of the Panama Canal. It is obvious, of course,
that only a country with a large navy and air foroe would
be in a position to do this.
It is considered that most of the information you may
transmit will be obtained in connection with the routine
and usual work of your office.
Very truly yours,
Neths
For th  Segretary of State
h
JUN
0
JUN 1
19
Index under:
War Department;
Concerning certain information
desired by,
bassy, Legation or Consulate File No.820.02

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
894.20219/89
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF LATIN-AMERICAN AFFAIRS
MEMORANDUM
March 27, 1936
LIST OF LEGATIONS AND CONSULAR OFFICES TO WHICH THE
ATTACHED CIRCULAR INSTRUCTION IS TO BE SENT:
Costa Rica:
Legation:
San José
Consulate :
1"
11
Port Limón
Colombia:
Legation:
Bogotá
Consulate:
11
Barranquilla
18
Buenaventura
Cartagena
Ecuador:
Legation:
Quito
Consulate General:
Guayaquil
Honduras:
Legation:
Tegucigalpa
Consulate:
10
11
Ceiba
n
Tela
11
Puerto Cortes
Nicaragua:
Legation:
Managua
Consulate:
11
n
Puerto Cabezas
Panama:
Legation:
Panamá
Consulate General:
n
Consulate:
Colón
Peru

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Peru:
Embassy:
Lima
Consulate Generel:
Callao-Lima
El Salvador:
Legation:
San Salvador
Consulate General :
San Salvador
Venezuela:
Legation:
Caracas
Consulate:
11
La Guaira
11
Maracaibo
Netherland West Indies:
Consulate:
Curaçao
British West Indies:
Consulate:
Trinidad
LA:WLB:LMR

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
eply refer to
e No. 894.20219/89
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
June 4, 1936
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION DESIRED BY WAR DEPARTMENT
To
Certain American Diplomatic and Consular Officers.
Sirs:
The War Department has requested the cooperation of
the Department of State and its representatives in pro-
viding the War Department with information concerning
the activities of foreigners other than nationals of the
countries in which you are residing, with particular ref-
erence to espionage or other agencies of military signifi-
cance which would be of interest and value to the War De-
partment, in the area surrounding the Panama Canal.
The War Department has suggested that the following
kinds of information would be of particular interest to it
in thisconnection:
a. The prompt re: ort of such activities in the area
allocated to e ch of the several posts.
b.
Reports to incluce: (1) the arrival or departure
of suspected tr: jients, their contacts, the
nature of activities, and the probable results
of same if such can be ascertained. (2) The ac-
tivities of suspected resident foreigners as to
their alleged and probable actual occupations.
The nature of the activities of both "mobile"
(or transient) and "stationery" agents appear to in-
clude the foliowing:
a. Marine soundings and reconnaissances of coastal
areas of strategic importance under the guise of
pleasure or fishing activitics.
b.
Commercial agents who visit areas without making
serious efforts to make arrangements for the
expansion of trade.
C.
Undue liaisons between diplomatic and consular
agents and nati ves (in the government or in private
entorprisos).
d.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
d. 1
Ncgotiations for concessions of all types,
particularly fishing, shipping, mining and
colonization.
In addition to the above, the War Department would
like information concerning foreign interest in comnerce,
immigration, propaganda and politics.
The Department wishes you to be of as much assistance
to the War Department as you can, within the limits of
proper discretion. In endeavoring to assist the War De-
partment in the manner set forth you will bear in mind
that the War Department is interested only in information
which may have a relation to a country which could threaten
the security of the Panama Canal. It is obvious, of course,
that only a country with a large navy and air force would
be in a position to do this.
It is considered that most of the information you may
transmit will be obtained in connection vith the routine
and usual work of your office.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
SUMNER WELLES
Index under:
War Department;
Concerning certain information
desired by,
Embassy, Legation or Consulate File No. 820.02
4

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
San José, Costa Rica, July 16, 1936
No. 1201
Subject:
INFORMATION DESIRED BY WAR DEPARTMENT
DRISHON OFWESTERN
LURDIEANAFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STA
CASTERN PHLAIRS
894.20219/90
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
ew
(s,
15
E
C
E
2
R
6
FILED
)
The Honorable
9
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
In reference to the Department's strictly confidential
circular instruction of June 4, 1936 (File No. 894.20219/89),
I have the honor to enclose herewith a memorandum prepared
Confidential File
at my request by Colonel Nicholas W. Campanole, Military
Attaché of this Legation. This memorandum seeks to provide
all the answers now available at this post at this time to
the questions propounded by the War Department. Colonel
Campanole informs me that as other information becomes
available from time to time, he will so inform me and I in
turn
FG

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
turn will inform the State Department in accordance with
the instruetion above referred to.
In this connection the Department will note that
Colonel Campanole refers frequently to reports which he
heretofore has furnished the War Department, which
specifically answers many of the questions propounded.
Respectfully yours,
LEO R. SACK
3.m
Enelosure:
Memorandum
3 cerbon capree
mgo.
820.02
LRS/jwl

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
AMERICAN LEGATION
OFFICE OF THE MILITARY ATTACHE
SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA.
SECRET
July 13, 1936.
MEMORANDUM
TO:
The American Minister.
1.
With reference to the request contained in your
letter of July llth, in connection with Department of State
Striotly Confidential Instruction (Fil• No. 894.20219/89), the fol-
lowing information available in this office is listed in the order
indicated in the above mentioned instructions, as followar:
a. Marine soundings and reconnaissances of coastal areas
of strategic importance under the guise of pleasure or fishing ac-
tivities.
Several reports are of record in which foreign subjects
visited the Port of Puntarenas, Costa Rica, and engaged in land and
harbor reconnaissances of that port. Among the reconnaissances
specifically reported upon see:
(1) Final paragraph of SECRET report No. 2,994, dated
August 30, 1935 - Subjeot: Tuna Fishing Industry.
(2) Paragraph 19, CONFIDENTIAL report No. 3.514, June
19, 1936 - Subject: Report of Travel to Central American
Republics.
b. Commercial agents who visit areas without making serious
efforts to make arrangements for the expansion of trade.
Visits of this nature not definitely established in this
office.
c. Undue liaisons between diplomatic and consular agents
and natives (in the government of in private enterprises).
There is one instance of record which might be construed
as "undue liaison". See CONFIDENTIAL report No. 3037, September 20,
1935 - Subjoct: Aotivities of --------- Minister to Costa Rica).
d. Negotiations for concessions of all types, particularly
fishing, shipping, mining and colonization.
FISHING.
(a) Aotivities in Port of Puntarenas. As far as knowm,
the following tuma fishing vessels manned by foreign crews have
called at the Port of Puntarenas:
-1- SECRET

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
Memorandum to
The American Minister
(2)
Flying Cloud
San Lucas
Panamá
Alert
Rainbow
Minato Maru
Asama
Columbus
Taiyo
(b) Concession for construotion and operation of fish
freesing and refrigeration plant at Puntarenas. As the fishing in-
dustry upon which the construction of this plant is based employs a
considerable number of vessels officered and/or manned by foreign
nationals, the operation of this plant will automatically bring on
an influx of greater numbers of these foreign individuals. Further-
more, it is knowm that Mr. Frank H. Reed, sponsor of the concession
in question stated, in applying for his passport in l929 that he was
about to go abroad to visit certain countries, one of which is the
spocial subjeot of the present State Department Instruction. Whether
or not Mr. Reed has any definite oonneotion with the nation concerned
is not knowm. See the following reports:
CONFIDENTIAL No. 2945, July 8, 1935 - Subject: Tuna Fishing Industry
and
----------Fishermen.
SECRET
No. 2985, Jul.27, 1935 - Subject: Tuna Fishing Industry.
SECRET
No. 2994, Aug.30, 1935 - Subjeot: Tuna Fishing Industry.
CONFIDENTIAL No. 2995, Aug.30, 1935 - Subjoct: Proposed Shrimp Fish-
ing Enterprise.
CONFIDENTIAL No. 3033, Sep.19, 1935 - Subjoct: Tuna Fishing Industry.
COLONIZATION.
Proposed colonization concession at Puntarenas. As this
scheme is still in the embryo stage, no comment can be furnished at
this time. See CONFIDENTIAL report No. 3535, July 3, 1936 - Subject:
Proposed Fishing Colony at Puntarenas.
SHIPPING.
See announcement in "Diario de Costa Rica" of July 12, 1936,
page 1. As far as knowm, no concession exists.
MINING.
No aotivities.
2.
It should be noted that copies of all the reports
to which reference is made in this memorandum have been furnished the
Legation, and under War Department instructions the originals of these
reports have been already forwarded direot to the A. C. of S., G-2,
War Department.
- 2- SECRET

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.96)
Memorandum to
(3)
The American Minister
3.
As the information contained in these reports has
been studied, evaluated and digested by the War Department and made
available to the State Department as well, it is recommended that
this memorandum be not transmitted to the State Department.
nGampanole
N. W. Campanolo,
Colonel, Infantry,
Military Attaché.
-3 -
SECRET

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.88)
DIVISION OF
WUG27 1936
LATINAMERICAN AFFAIRS
Rogaired (seriotly Confidemtial
Emstrustion dated Jane 4, 19se, file D.
996,m219/85).
A-2
Division
FAR EASTERN ALFAIRS
36
Department of State
3
(1)
V6
S
二
Wan(MID)
C
Nerd (ON)
SER
03
96
septenter 14 1936
PRICTLH COTIUERIAL
394.20219/91
COLONBIALL ARLARIC COASE
F SATE
Barramquilla, Colombia.
Date of eospletiom: mgast 18, 1956.
Date of mailing:
mgmst 19, 1956.
ARTMENT OF STAT
The Comeulate recently reported confidemtially to the
FL
Legasion in Begetd the apparees isterest sheem by the Chief
of the Japamese Cemmereial Miesiom in obtaixing e concessien
for the exploitatien of eil lamd in the vielnity of Taberd
in the Departmont of Aalástico.
Confidential File
Locerding to the epimion of a promiment Colembian oll
premeter the region in pestion ls mot rich is eil in maf-
féetons gaamssty to mate the eaploitation predmetive, thie
being the reesen whg the stendard Oil of New Jereey has
abenéeamd ite comsessien in thes regiom.
Shoald thte informstion be correst, it eeald be doamsted
that the desire to eogaire the comsessien ia questien mighs
be for

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.86)
- 2 -
for amother purpese then asteally to exploit oil.
The Comealate has just beon informed that the Japamese
Logation in Dogotd is shewing grens interest in a mime mhich
is alleged to be rieh in mmagmetie iron ores (40 to sos irom
contest with salphites of silver and gold). the mime in
questiem is reperted as being loceted meer Tasunies, Depart-
mont of Magialena, partly adjacent to, and partly within
the land concession of the Magdalome Fruit Cempasy (United
Fruit Co., an Amerieam firm), about s0 kilometers inlamd
of cismaga and the Aéfantic coast.
The cempeny whiek holds the comeession for the ex-
ploitatien of the mime over an area of 6,000 heetares, is
compesed of: Carles F Gavixis. & Bogotano of Liberal
filiatien, whe has been implicated in various nareotio
tremseetiome and is kmomm to be always ready to headle
chasy megotiations: famrel denl maiam Arenm & pre-
mimemt Antiequian, former Barranquilla manager of the Cía.
Colombiana de Tabace. now mmmager of the Barrangailla branch
of the Banso do Bogetd, of Conservative filiatien, fathere
imolew of Commedere-Pilot Hoffman of the Gormem sviation
company SCanrA, understood not to be very serapalems is his
businese transsstioms: Mmarte irike Qsmine, an Antiogaien
of Liberal filiatien, interested in the vegetable eil basimess
cestrelled by the Caragee Trading Compeny. a decided astl-
Ameriene match firms aml ils, e Cosservetive, ane im
Aramm menbet, an Antiogaian Gonservative understood to to
bomst.
It ls reperted thes Garles Gavirie has been mogotiating
with the Jagamese Mnioter La Bogord the hae cost eemplee of
the mime's ere bo airmail to Jagem for amalyese.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.88)
-8-
It is uedersteed that the mining essgany hee ressived an
offer for the parehese of the ore 7.0.B. Sante Marte pending
the fimel mequisitiom of the shele eencession by & Japemese
oemeerne
▲ large Gormem firm (Siemems ?) is alse reperted as
having sabmitted quotatiems for the ore.
The foregeing iafermation has been confidemtially
furnished by MBr. Jorge Bashmamn, a Colombian sitisen of
Swiss origin, who is married to an Amerieem. Ro has promised
to obtais samples of the iren ore ané has expressed the wish
that, should an Ameriemm firm be interested in the mime, all
negotiations be made threugh him is exehange fer his faraishing
the data.
00
Copies to:
Departmest, Washington, ... 5
Logation, Bogot, .. 1
rile .......
LA-9H2/36
F.P.
R13593
820.02 - strietly eomfidemsial.
3out
FP
any 27.?
Received

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
SEP1
September 11, 1936.
Division of
3EP 16-1936
FÁN EASTEN APFANO
EP181936
Beau
Mining Conoassion in Colombia.
(Boport from Consulate at Barranquilla-File No.894.20219/91)
The confidential cireular instuction referred to is the
one calling for reports upon Japanese activities as requested
by the Jar Department.
894.20219/91
In view of the questionable renutations of nost of the
mon now holding the concession - as outlined on page 2 of
the report - I think that any effort to interest American
capital would be uskiny for trouble. At least, before doing
anything with the su ple of ore obtained by r. Bachmann,
it would be woll to have the Iegation at co ota investigete
and report further ayon the vuttor.
SEF 211936
gud
FILED
LA:GHB
FILE

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP181936
Department of State
AIR MAIL
8eptember 14 1936
0.187
Winthrop S. Greene, Esquire,
American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Bogotá.
Sir:
You will please transmit to the Department by air
mail despatch any comment you may have to make upon the
894.20219/91
strictly ∞nfidential report from the American Vice
Consul at Barranquilla, dated August 18, 1936, entitled
"Negotiations For Mining Concession in the Vicinity of
The Colombian Atlantic Coast (file No. 820.02).
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
R. WALTON MOORE
gopy of
the
nal.
origy
CONFIDENTIAL FIER
SEF 12 1936.
8
.20819/91
D

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
October 8 1936
AIR MAIL
Raymond Phelan, Esquire,
American Vice Consul,
Barranquilla, Colombia.
Sir:
The Department refers to a report from the
894.20219/91
Consulate entitled "Negotiations for Mining Concessions
in the Vicinity of the Colombian Atlantic Coast", dated
August 18, 1936, (F1le No. 820.02). 0opies of the
report have been transmitted to the War and Navy Depart-
ments but, in view of additional information on the
subject received from the Legation at Bogota, the Depart-
ment does not contemplate taking any further action at
the present time.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Sumner Wollee
CONFIDENTTAL FILE
894.20219/91
00T 7 1936.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
894.20219/91A,92
TRANSFERRED TO 8I1F.812 PROT LCTION

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
1930
LEGATION
OF THE
Bogot á, Colombla Sotmber 26, 1936.
ROL
No. 995
1936
CONFIDENTIAL
vivision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Subject: Japanese Activities in Colombia.
NOCT2-1930
59
Department of State
DIREUT AIR MAIL: COPIES FOLLOW LY POUCH.
UN
894.20219/
The Honorable
Wai(Miv)
The Secretary of state
Ta(ON1)
Washinton.
ers
Sir:
6
I have the honor to aclmowledge the Department's
3
1ntruction No. 187 of September 14, 1936 (File No.
894.20219/91) requestin6 comment upon the strictly
confidential report from the Consulate at Barranquilla
dated August 13, 1936, entitled "legotiations for
Minin Concession in the Vicinity of the Colombian
Atlantic Coast".
Since the receipt of the Consulate's report, I have
constantly borne in aind its substance and have through
confidential and reliable sources atteapted to trace the
Confidential File
report concernins the mine located in a concession w hich
1s partly adjacent to and partly within the land con-
cession of the Magdalena Fruit Company. To date I have
received no information concerning it but expect
something

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
something within the next week or ten days.
This is accordingly merely a preliminary report to
express my own reaction to the Consulate's despatch.
With respect to the reference to the Japanese Commercial
Mission attempting to obtain a concession for the ex-
ploitation of oil land in the vicinity of Tubará in the
Department of Atlantico, I may say that shortly after
the receipt of the Consulate's letter concerning this
matter, following a luncheon at the Palace, the President
talked freely and frankly with me for about half an hour
concerning a number of subjects which apparently were
rambling through his mind at the time. I have mentioned
several of his remarks in earlier despatches on subjects
to which those remarks pertained. During the conversation,
the President referred t o the presence of Japaose
colonists in the Cauca Valley and stated that the Jovern-
ment was interested in and was watching the activities of
the Japanese in the country and that so ar as he then
knew they had obtained headway only in small roups of
colonists, that the question of exploitation of natural
resources of the country was one which the tovernment
guarded very zealously, and that it was n t his desire
or expectation that the Ja anese would obtain any such
concession. I then dismissed the question or the ex-
ploitation of the oil land in the Department of Atlantico
by Japanese as improbable and have heard nothing to
indicate the purpose for which tie land may be desired
by them.
Alt:ouh

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3 -
Although I do not claim to be psychic, my reaction
to the possibility of Japanese obtaining the concession
for the mining area located near Tucurinca (I believe,
not Tucunica as spelled in the Consulate's despatch)
in the Department of Magdalena, is that Mr. Bachmann,
the Colombian citizen of Swiss origin referred to in
the final paragraph of the Consulate's report, may be
exaggerating the possibility of the Japanese' desire
to obtain this concession in order to attract American
interests. As this is purely a conjecture, unsubstantiated
by fact, I submit it only for what it may be worth and
will hope to be able to obtain specific information in
the near future.
Respectfully yours,
Witrop S. fremne
Winthrbp S. reene
Cargé d'Affaires ad interi.m
863.6
WSG/hlw
F1
1 c01y-LA-4/29/36.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
op à, colonbia,eptember 26, 1936.
No. 995
CONFIDENTIAL
Subject: Japanese Activities in Colombia.
DIRE T AIR MAIL: CO ILY POLL X Y POUCH.
The monorable
The Seo etary of state.
ashin ton.
sir
I have the honor to acleiowled e the Department's
instruction No. 187 of September 14, 1936 (F1le No.
894.20219/91) requesting comrent upon the strictly
confidential report from the Consulate ot arranquille
dated August 18, 1936, ontitled "sgctletions for
Mining Concession in the Vicinity of the Colombian
Atlantio Coast".
Since the receipt of the Consulate's report, I have
constantly borne in mind its substance and have through
confidential and reliable sources attompted to trace the
report conoerning the mine located in a concession which
is partly adjacent to and partly within tho land con-
cession of the Magdalona Pruit Company. To date I have
received no infonmation conoerming it but expeot
something

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.94)
- 8 
something within the next week or ten days.
This is accordingly merely a preliminary report to
express my on reaction to the Consulate's despatch.
With respeot to the referenoe to the Japanese Corsercial
ussion attempting to obtain a concession for the ex-
ploitation of oil land in the vlcinity of Tubard in the
epartmont of Atlantico, I mmy say that shortly after
the receipt of tihe Consulate's lettor o noernins this
matter, following a lunoheon at the Falace, the Presidont
talked freely and frankly with me for about half an hour
concerning a number of subjeots whioh ap arently wore
ramblin; through his mind at the time. I have mentioned
several of his remarks in earlior dosp tahes on subjoots
to which thoso remarks pertainod.  rin the conversation,
tho rosident roferred t o tho prosenoe of Japanese
colonlsts in the Cauca alley and stated tlwt the sovorn-
mont was intorested in and was watchin; to activities of
tho Japaneso in tho country and that so  ar as he then
kmow they had obtalned hoadway only in smnll ro  of
colonists, that tho question of oxploitation of natural
rosources of tho country was one whioh the :ovornnont
uarded vory zealously, an that it was n t his dosire
or oxpectatior that the Ja anose would ostain any such
concession. I thon dismissod the quostion of the ex-
ploitation of the or land in the epartment of Atlantico
by Japanese as improbable and have heard nothin: to
indloate the purpose for whioh t e land may be dosired
bython.
A1thoub

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.92)
- 3 -
Although I do not alain to be psyahie, my reaction
to the possibility of Japanese obtainin: the concession
for the mining area looated near
rinea (I believe,
not Tueunice as spelled in the sulate's despatoh)
in the Department of lMa dalene, is that Mr. Bachmann,
the Colombolan oitizen of  viss ori in referred to in
the final paragraph of the Consulate's report, may be
exaggeratins the possibility of the Japanese' desire
to obtain this concession in order to attrmct American
interests. As this is purely a conjeoture, unsubst ntiated
by fact, I submit it anly for what it may be worth and
will hope to be able to obtain spooifie informstion in
the near future.
Ros ootflly yo ra,
1t!roroone
C argó d' ffairos ad intori
863.6
WS G/h1w

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.93)
CIVISION
Frle
LEGATION OR THEAMERICAN AFFAIRS
Bogotá, Colombia, October 1, 1936.
1936 0CTAM1120
Reply
10/7/39
No. 1009
人A:GHB:GPB
OCT9.1936
CNML
INS
CONFIDENTIAL
ADS
Subject:
Japanese Interest in Iron Mine
Division of
the Department of Magdalena.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dopartment of State
DIRECT AIR MAIL: COPIES FOLLOW BY POUCH.
EODISPEID
The Honorable
894.20219/94
The Secretary of State,
11
vasnington.
Sir:
C3
I have the honor to refer to the Dopartment's
instruction No. 187 dated September 14, 1936 (File No.
894.20219/91) and the Legation's reply No. 995 dated
September 26, 1936 concerning Japanese activities in
93
Colombia.
I am now informed through representatives of the
Magdalena Fruit Company that late in July Señor Carlos
Jorge Gaviria, who was referred to in the confidential
report from the Vice Consul of Barranquilla dated August
18, 1936, called at the office of the Magdalena Fruit
Company at Santa Marta. Señor Gaviria claimed to
represent a new company which had been formed to exploit
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
the iron mine also referred to in the Consulate report,
which is located eight kilometers from the main line of
the Santa

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
the Santa Marta Railway at or about Kilometer 88 between
Aracata and Fundacion. Upon the occasion of this inter-
view, Señor Gaviria stated that the company concerned
had already been formed, largely from Colombian capital
but also partly from German capital represented by
blocked currency 1n this country. Señor Gaviria claimed
that samples of t he ore have been analyzed both in
Colombia and in the United States and that two American
engineers had been employed and would arrive in Santa
Marta to examine the situation. He stated that these
American mining engineers were employed through a Mr.
Frank Starr of the New York office of the General
Electric Company.
The purpose of Mr. Gaviria's interview with the
official of the Magdalena Fruit Company was to ascertain
whether or not the Santa Marta Railway Company, owned
and operated by the Magdalena Fruit Company, would be dis-
posed to cooperate to the extent of building a branch
railway and provide facilities at the mine for loading
ore in railway cars and in Santa Marta for transferring
from cars to ships. He stated that the company expects
to ship to Europe entirely in vessels of from 5,0oo to
6,O00 tons capacity. The representative of the Magdalena
Fruit Company informed Señor Gaviria that before any
action could be considered seriously, complete information
concerning the project would be necessary. Señor Gaviria
promised this information within the next few days. The
Magdalena Fruit Company has heard nothing from him since
then.
It is

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
It is believed by the Magdalena Fruit Company that
none of the land included in the concession for this mine
embraces property owned by that company. I am informed
by the local representative of the fruit company that
it is highly improbable that iron ore of from 40% to 80%
content exists in that vicinity. He also gave it as his
opinion that by claiming such a high percentage the
promoters were exaggerating the facts with the hope of
selling the concession. In view of the fact that it is
impracticable to reach the coast from the mine without
passing through the property of the Magdalena Fruit
Company and that it would be useless to operate the mine
without rail facilities and as no further negotiations
have been attempted between the promoters and the
Magdalena Fruit Company since July 29, the company does
not expect further developments at present.
I did not consider it advisable to mention the
reported interest of the Japanese in this mine in re-
questing inrormation from the Magdalena Fruit Company
representatives and there is no reason to believe that
the company has any knowledge of the matter beyond that
reported above. I may say that in the past when reports
concerning Japanese activities in Colombia have been
investigated, the facts have not proved to be alarming.
The Legation in this matter, as in any other possible
developments concerning Japanese activities here, will
continue to attempt to obtain accurate information.
Respectfully yours,
rhon Copies
Winthrop S. Greene
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
863.6
WSG/h1w

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.95)
FA
DIVISION OF
MAR88
UNITED STATES OF AMERIC
Tegucigalpa, MaroHD BAM  S
No.216
Subject:
Alleged Japanese Activities
HLASTLAN AFFAIND
1
4
Departhen
AIR LAIL POUCH
894.20219/
90
The Honorable
The Secretary or State,
Pimina
6
.ashington, D. C.
5
Sir:
3/15
2
With reference to e Department's strictly gon-
93
Fidential circular instruction of June 4, 1936 (File
No.894.20219/89), concerning information desired by
the War Department, I have the honor to transmit here-
with a memorandun, prepared by Vice Consul Fred K.
Salter, of a conversation he had yesterday with one
F/M
Señor Benjamin Guillén, a Salvadorean citizen who is
now visiting in Tegucigalpa. In his conversation with
Mr. Salter, Señor Guillén described, among other things,
the alleged efforts of the Japanese Legation in San
Salvador

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Salvador to engage him to serve as an "agent" of Japan
in the Panama Canal Zone.
Obviously the Legation has no way of checking the
accuracy of the statements made by Señor Guillén, and
they may be totally or partially false, but in view of
the special interest of the War Department in the
activities of certain foreign powers in the vicinity
of the Canal Zone, a full report of the conversation
is being forwarded.
Respectfully yours,
John J. Erun
John D. Erwin
Enclsure:
1. Strictly Confidential Memprandun
by Vice Consul Salter.
820.02
FKS:BZ
7ρ
3

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure Nol, Despatch No.216.
American Legation,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
March 3, 1938
MEMORANDUM
On Mareh 2, 1938, a young man who identified him-
self as Senor don Benjamin Guillén, called at the
Consulate and asked to see the American Naval Attaché.
I told him that the Naval Attaché was in Guatemala City
at the present time and that he would probably not be
back in Honduras for some time. He then said he had
some information that would be of interest to the
American Havy and asked whether he might pass it on
to me. I replied that I would be glad to hear what
he had to say, and there is reported below the sub-
stance of Señor Guillén's remarks.
Señor Guillén, a Salvadoranean who lives at San
Salvador, said that he was a magician, a writer, and
a real estate dealer. He is at present in the real
estate business in San Salvador. He stated that he
had traveled considerably in the United States and im
the Far East, including Japan, and had appeared on
the stage in these countries as a magician. Owing
to this experience, he acquired a good knowledge
both of the English and Japanese languages.
After an absence of several years, he finally
returned to El Salvador last year and began the pub-
lication of a magazine EL GRAFICO, an illustrated
monthly periodical. While in Japan he discovered
that the Japanese disliked white people, he said,
and he recently wrote several articles for EL GRAFICO
against the Japanese, particularly against their in-
vasion of China. He started his magazine last August,
and after four issues had appeared, he said a member
of

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
of the Japanese Legation in San Salvador came to him
and asked him to cease writing against Japan.
This
he at first refused to do, but when the Japanese
Legation offered to pay him 2,ooo to refrain from
the publication of the magazine for three months, he
accepted the offer. Consequently no issues of EL
GRAFICO have appeared since November.
. Sefior Guillén
said the Japanese told hin. that the hostilities in
China would be over in four months.
The money was
paid to Senor Guillén in San Salvador in United
States currency, he declared.
The editor of EL GR l ICo left me a copy of the
September issue of his magazine. Approximately four
pages were devoted to the subject of Japan and China.
Pictures of the bombing of Shanghai as well as an
article dealing with the aims of Japan in China are
published in this issue.
Señor Guillén next told me that he was a personal
friend of both the President of El Salvador and of
Honduras. He said he always had immediate access to
President Carias here, and showed me a card which he
claimed President Carías had given to him. This
card, which bore the Honduran coat of arms and the
words CASA PRESIDENCIAL, TEGUCIGALPA, apparently had
been signed by President Carías. It requested all
Honduran officials to accord aid and protection to
"my friend" Sr. Don Benjamin Guillén. Señor Guillén
then said he had come to Honduras to see President
Carfas about the recently enacted Maximum - Minimum
Tariff Law, which places an additional duty of 50 per
cent

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
cent on Japanese products imported into Honduras. He
said that the Japanese Legation in San Salvador, avare
of his close friendship with President Carfas, had
asked him to talk to the Honduran President and en-
deavor to induce him to have the tariff measure re-
pealed. Guillén said the Japanese Legation had
promised to pay him 1o,0oo if he succeeded in his
mission.
He saw President Carías just before coming to
the Consulate. The Fresident, he said, turned a deaf
ear to his argument about repealing the tariff law.
He quoted the President as saying that if the Japanese
wanted lower duties on their products, they would have
to buy more from Honduras.
Ferhaps the most interestin information supplied
by Sefor Guillén concerned the alleged efforts of the
Japanese Legation in san Salvador to send him to the
Panama Canal Zone to reside there as a Japanese "agent".
In view of his ability to speak both Spanish and
Japanese, the Japanese were especially anxious to
engage him to work in Central America and Panama.
No
definite sum was mentioned as salary for Guillén,
should he accept the offer to go to Panama, but he
was told that he would be supplied with a list of
people whom he would be expected to see there very
often.
The last time the Japanese approached him about
going to Panama, he stated, was about a month ago when
the Pan American Olympic games were held at Panama.
He said they insisted that he accept their proposition,
pointing out that it would be a good time to arrive in
Panama

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
Panama while the ames were on. He said he declined,
stating that he prererred to remain in El Salvador.
Guillén added that he called at this mission be-
cause he did not like to visit the American Legation
in San Salvador. He said he knew the Japanese Lega-
tion there received daily reports on the number and
names of the callers at our Legation in that city, and
he preferred not to have them know he had been to see
an official of the American Government. He also said
that he liked the United States and wanted to avoid
doing anythin against that country, inasmuch as he
might want to return there some day to live.
Guillén exhibited to me a Salvadorean passport
which showed that he was 30 years of age. He was
immaculately groomed, and spoke English quite well.
He appeared to be a little nervous, though, as he
spoke about his dealings with the Japanese in El
Salvador.
RDuSalle
Fred K. Salter
Vice Consul and Third Secretary
820.02
FKS:BZ

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION
LEGATION OF THE
San Salvador, March 25, 1938.
No. 103.
SUBJECT:
Alleged Activities of Benjamin
Guillen.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
vicion o
AR EASTERN ALLA
894.20219/96
N
MID
war
Nany N
igaio Vavea
em
7.20
Panama
The Honorable
Leguu aalba
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
41638
Sir:
Ch
I have the honor to refer to a strictly confidential
despatch No. 216 from the Legation at Tegucigalpa, dated
March 5, 1938, and entitled "Alleged Japanese Activities".
F
In this despatch mention is made of an offer on the part
of the Japanese Legation in San Salvador to one, Benjamin
Guillen, of a considerable sum of money to act as Japanese
agent in Central America and the Canal Zone.
Enquiries

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Enquiries regarding Mr. Guillen here reveal that he
is a man who commands a fair amount of respect and
liking on the part of his countrymen. He is said to
have travelled very extensively in the United States
and the Orient, mostly as a seaman. He is considered
to be very intelligent and, I was informed, speaks both
Chinese and Japanese, although it was not stated with
what degree of fluency. His character is not considered
to be entirely above reproach, although nothing of an
incriminatory nature has been alleged against him. He
appears to be quite well known in San Salvador and his
magazine "El Grafico" was known to have been supported
by the local Chinese colony by reason of its anti-
Japanese sentiment.
As far as Guillen in concerned, the story he told
in Tegucigalpa appears plausible. From the Japanese
angle, however, it is open to a reasonable doubt. The
Japanese Legation is now and has been since July or
August of last year, in charge of a young Vice Consul
who has no diplomatic status, and it seems unlikely that
the payment of such large sums of money and the delicate
task of choosing an undercover agent would be entrusted
to an officer of such junior rank. However that is
merely a supposition which it is impossible to confirm.
Should anything more of interest be learned con-
cerming Guillen or Japanese activities, the Department
will be promptly advised.
Respectfully yours,
Nluer Traper
Robert Frazer.
820.02
WWH/let

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
DIVIDERARTMENT OF STATE
DIMISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TH
Apr1l 13, 1938.
DEPARIMENT OF STAIL
The enclosures to Tegucigalpa's des-
patch No. 241 of April 1, 1938, regarding
alleged Japanese activities are not very
illuminating.
With regard to the photographs: The
lettering on the face of the photographs
are apparently some secret marking not
intelligible to the layman. They do not
appear to be ordinary Japenese writing.
On the reverse side the more lightly
written words read in translation "Japa-
nese Spy. Navy Department." The heavier
writing is unintelligible, as are the
smaller letters enclosed in a rectangle.
With regard to the map: The penciled
writing reads in translation: "(1) Future
American naval base (or bases). (2) Fuel-
ing stations for submarines (the remainder
of this caption is obscure). (3) Airplane
stations and anchorages of airplane mother
ships, storage places." The meaning of
the writing opposite the Arebic numberals
on the face of the map is obscure but con-
veys the general idea of "centers of dis-
tribution". It is doubtful whether the
writing of the map represents any techni-
cal military study.
FE:Baliantine:VCI

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.92)
DIVISION OF
THE AMETAN IEPUBLIUS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 241
Subject:-
Alleged Japanese Activities.
to 1fal
/38
copy
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
AIR MAIL
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1438
08
Depa meni of State
DLTARIM
TATE
esation fantaodon
Lesation Povema
894.20219/97
nlada
The Honorable
V2
The Secretary of sta?n 
sir:
With reference to the Legation's strictly confidential
FILED
despatoh no, 216 of March 3, 1938, transmitting a memoran-
1 1938
dum of a conversation which a member of the Legation's
staff had with Señor don Benjamin Guillen, a Salvadoranean
citizen, regarding alleged Japanese activities in Central
America, I have the honor to transmit herewith, as of
possible interest to the War Department, a map and a
photograph
/See strictly confidential despatch no.l03, dated March 25,
1958, from Legation at San Salvador, for data regarding
Guillén.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
photograph which Señor Guillén left at the Legation yesterday.
On both the map and the photograph, it will be noted,
there is writing in what appears to be Japanese characters.
The writing on the map is in pencil and on the right margin,
while the characters on the photograph are on the reverse
side and in ink. While he claimed to be unable to read the
writing, Señor Guillén suggested that the notes might be
of interest to the United States Government. Guillén's story
of how he came into possession of the map and photograph
is also of interest.
He said that the photograph, which is a view of military
equipment, originally was the property of Mr. Usaburo Yoshida,
a Japanese subject, who recently arrived in San Salvador
from Peru. A friend of Guillén's stole the picture from
Yoshida's baggage in a room at the Hotel NUEVO MUNDO in San
Salvador and presented it to Guillén.
The map, which shows the country of El Salvador, was
taken by Guillén from the pocket of a Japanese citizen who
has been staying in San Salvador recently. This person,
Guillén stated, was a frequent visitor to the store of Jose
Shiraki, a Japanese establishment, which serves as head-
quarters for the Japanese "agents" in El Salvador. Guillén
said that in this store there is a secret room which contains
numerous maps, photographs, and documents that have been
collected by the Japanese and deposited there. The Salva-
doranean waid that he had never been in this room, but that
he got his information from Japanese friends in San Salvador.
He added that all the Japanese businessmen who visit San
Salvador always call at Shiraki's store. Shiraki, he said,
was once in the Japanese Navy, and has been in El Salvador
about five years.
Guillén

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Guillén was asked about his magazine EL GRAFICO, which,
it will be recalled, he said he ceased publishing afte
receiving $2,oo0 from the Japanese. He said that no further
issues had appeared and that he had no intention of resuming
publication in the immediate future. It vill be remembered
that he claimed to have received the $2,O00 after promising
to cease publ shing anti-Japanese propaganda in EL GRAFICo.
In connection with the payment of this money, Guillén
said that Mr. Minoru Izawa, Second Secretary of the Japanese
Legation in Mexico City, handed the sum to him in San
Salvador.
Señor Guillén then stated that several Japanese citizens
had recently approached the Salvadoranean Government about
securing a fishing concession in the Gulf of Fonseca. The
Japanese, however, had been unsuccessful in their mission,
as the Salvedoranean authorities refused to consider their
proposition. He next stated that he had information to the
effect thet the Honduren Government was soon to be approached
on the same matter by the Japanese.
The Salvadoranean said he had come to Tegucigalpa this
time in an effort to promote the tourist traffic between
Honduras and El Salvador, particularly during the forthcoming
Holy Week. (A short article appeared in the newspaper EL
CRONISTA of yesterday stating that this was the purpose of
Guillén's visit to Honduras.)
Guillén departed for San Salvador by airplane today,
but before he left the Legation learned that he had been
received this morning by President Carias.
Guillén was interrogated discreetly with a view to
ascertaining

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.96)
-4 -
ascertaining his motives for supplying the Legation with
the aforementioned articles and data. He said his reasons
for providing American officials with information about
Japanese activities were purely personal and that, owing
to grounds he had mentioned on his previous call, he
preferred to come to the Legation in Tegucigalpa instead
of going to our Mission in San Salvador. He said he
realized that he was not playing fair with the Japanese,
but added that this was hi own business.
Respectfully yours,
John J, Erurin
John D. Erwin.
Enclosures:
Photograph & Map.
820.02
FKS:LCMC
Copies to:
Legation, San Salvador.
Naval Attaché, Guatemala City.
4
7p

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
440
MEMORANDUM
May 5, 1938.
Mr. Duggan;
According to information available
in Quito when I left there, the muni-
tion shipments to Ecuador should be fair-
ly sizeable. Undoubtedly these are the
munitions purchased from Italy by the
Ecuadoran Government. I do not believe
that there is any smuggling and that the
secrecy is simply an effort to keep the
Peruvians in the dark as to quantities.
RA:SPARKS:

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
1H
51
DEIARIMENTATE
Tranemi ed by The
AMERICAN CONSULATE
AMC
ommercial OBco A-M/O)
Guasaqul
Buenaventura, Colombia, April 19, 1938.
Panam3
56
Confidential
THE HONORABLE
STATE
1938 M4Y
SIR:
894.20219/
I have the honor to refer to the Department's confiden-
concerning information desired by the War Department. It is
requested that information be furnished concerning activities
of foreigners other than nationals of the countries where ac-
6
Co
credited which would be of interest to the area surrounding
the Panama Canal.
In this connection it may be stated that although the
following information does not have anything to do directly
MAY 151938
with the area surrounding the Panama Canal, it is thought
FILED
that it would, nevertheless, be of some interest to the War
Department.
According to the information furnished this office by
F/A
Mr. Max Hamilton, President of the General Balsa Wood Cor-
poration, 2-l40 General Motors Building, Detroit, Michigan,
war munitions are being smuggled into Eouador at the port of
Guayaquil. Mr. Hamilton stated that he arrived at the Canal
about a month ago and had endeavored to book passage to Gua-
yaquil, Ecuador on the S.S. MANIZALES of the North German
Lloyd of Bremen, but was told that some boxes of dynamite
were

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
were being carried aboard and that the shipping regulations
prohibited them carrying any more than eleven passengers.
Mr. Hamilton returned to the pension where he was lodging.
As it happened several German sea captains were staying at
the same place, and Iir. Hamilton decided to make inquiry
concerning the S.S. MANIZALES and its cargo. As a result
of these discreet inquiries he heard that there were forty-
three (43) tons of war munitions on the MANIZALES and that
these munitions were being shipped from Italy on this German
boat. He was also told that four loads, or approximately
17o tons, had similarly passed through the Canal to Ecuador.
His informers told him that these shipments were packed and
crated to appear as any ordinary merchandise, but that in
reality munitions were shipped in, that in every instance
where munitions were shipped, the accompanying .ad was
declared as having a few cases of dynamite, but that this
was only a subterfuge for the really large shipment. His
informers also stated that the Canal authorities had no way
of definitely knowing the contents of the boxes or crates,
but accepted the declarations of the shippers and in this
way escaped notice.
The above information was voluntary submitted to this
office by Mr. Hamilton. It has been impossible to confirm
the report but there is no reason to doubt Mr. Hamilton as
it seems that his motives were prompted purely in an in-
formative nature for the probable use of his own Government.
Respectfully yours,
John JO'Keefe
American Vice Consul
820.02
JJO'K/ge.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE ..
619.9415/5
FOR ......despatch.#.459
FROM.Panama
(Flexer) DATED Aug-221938
894.20219/
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Panama invited to send Cultural-Economic
Mission to Japan.
6
6
dt

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.88)
26
S
2
医
2
P
The Hemerable
The seeretary or State,
Wamhingten, D. 0.
siri
Referring to the Xmbassy's despateh No. 480 of Jume 17.
1930, concermin€ the contemplated visit to Japen of a Peruviam
Commersial Minsion, I have sto nemor to anclose a eopy ui a
cemmumiqus on thir subject, dated July 19, l9ss, issued by the
Japamese Lagation in Lima to the loeel presa.
According to thi: commuaiqud, the 1nvitation for this
tour mder the anspices of the Jopamese covermment was iseusd
te the Peruvian imistry for Foreign Affaire by the Japanese
Legatiem, aeting under instructieme of the Japeness roreign
ofries, and en behalf of three Japanese institutioms: The
Rociety for the Propsgation of Intsrmational Cultars; the
Chamber of Commeree end Industry of Japaa; and the Federasiém
of Assoclated  rporters for entrel and outo merion.
lne xission

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.83)
-2
The miscsion appointed by she Peruvinn Tovermmemt is eam-
posed ef thiu fullowing mombers:
cenerael Asar . de La Fuemte, ox-ziaister for Poreigm
Affairs, who is te head the delegstion with the
renk nf nbasmador;
Rernan .llido,o terynorl of  lstry
cor crein ffairs
duardo notillana Raygada, Aamistant hier of the
Co morclal partment or et imistry;
rtidoro Ivaredo ar: 1do, hiaf ef the "oc nlcal
Adminiatrative eetiom and of tne  ivision of :ines
And airolawn of the inir of Tonento.
ther mamberr of e ninsion, meleated from t inportont reruvine
Institutions  cl:nre, ins.atry an: orem rce ere:
rrusnof ie
clencrs or am areos niversity;
ufusto auror, re faent or the ational industrial
1110
ariou lre ore, loe Tresident of the 't' pol 'ppocia
tion attle aieers
Josrezeeyor azoe, fornambece
. nuel tonoros l chez, i  counsellor f the
ntion,oroocltion;and
.ro lorthe otuoli
Untverpity.
The dole ates wiil douart frow a lac in ta roups: nome on
July ztn und e otnern on tne 7tn of J- unt. he expenses of
tris aission are to be defrayed fron 'apannse sources. he" will
regein in Japen about seven weeks, rsturnin to Lima about the
9th of eeember. The deloates will be received upon arrival in
Japan oy a oomaittee beaded by ur. . ounouchi, ssistant ceretary
for Foreien ffairs.
At the close of its cocamuniqud the Japanese vountion expresees
trenks

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.85)
themks to the President of the Re ublie ead to she Iastitutiems
and sesleties whish have seleeted sueh distinguished and eompetent
represemtatives for this xission.
The svowed roason for lavitine this misriom te Japem is
to ineroure thw fohin trace batmeon fhe iwc couatrlee aad alee
to make it possitle for seab cf tlese mstions to become better
aoqueinted with to oultural davelopment of the other.
nvoral ur the mambers of this mission :avn not nesitated
to express the viow in xy presenee that meir vomce to the
Oriont is in he na ure of e juniet trip. It remains to be
eon whother or o aytal pr ctionl ill rrsult from this
toar.
'pootPillyourr
ou15
iree
nolosure:
1-cl1pping 1ron locel preos, uated ly 19, 1938.
LOD-
riler 720

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
819.5:JA n08e/2
Letter
894.20219/100
FOR
FROM NorkS Iro ress
) DATED
reb. 6, 1930
administrution
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
ure use or co.te. lutee urchase f boou acres of land by
Ja anese intere. ts in . unana:
Encloses letter aduresced to bvid .. .iles by  o..as
160

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.93)
RARAUE
A
C
EB
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Division of
KA
P
1AB EASTERN AFFAIRS
RFP
This tElEgram must bE
Nagasaki
Depertpent rStata
closely paraphrased be-
FROM
fore being communicated
to anyonE.
br) DIVISION
+ calin
REc'd 1:02 a.m.
FL38-1940
2/10/4
SecrEtary of
DEPARIMEN OF STATE
U
LIAISON OFFICE Vashing
2/6/40 U-L:HN
FDB
Ebruary 6, 10 a.m.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.20219/107
Trustworthy AmErican informant statEs that a JapanesE
named Murakam1 is now Engaged in special Government sErvicE
prEsumably EspionagE in Colon, Panama, posing as an Employ-
EE of largE storE recently taken ovEr from ChinesE mErchants.
TOWER
994.20211
ROVW:CFW
F/N

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
PARAPHRASE
COMPIDINTIAL.
Telegram from Nagasak1, Japan, sent February 6, 1940,
10 a.m., received 1:02 a.m.
seoretary of State.
It is stated by a trustworthy American informant
that at present there is a Japanese by the name of Murakaml
engaged in Colon, Panama, in special sovernment service,
which is presumably esplonage. He 1s representing him-
self to be an employee of a large store which recently was
taken over from Chinese merohants.
TOWER
U-L:HN:BMS

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.84)
ELLIGENCE DIVISION, OFFICE OF CHEF OF
TTACHÉ'S REPORT
39-50
File No.
From
201939
flource of information
intelligence pshore
ubject
CORDS
(Sabtitle)
STATE
080-1500 0501939
QIASNN FF
MNT OF
to oname :anal.
CA LASTERN AFFAIRS
894.20219
0201939
Departaent of Stat.
DEP
trrived in calleo and nent er chler orricer to the pritisn
Amerieau lospitel witn a v ry bad ease of appendeeitis. He
as operated on lwmedlat ly and it wes found het ho was in
8
very bad conditi n, peritonitin hevint met in. In the weantime
6
lhie sni, hnd sulled mnd t e hos ital notifled the a ents or the
line, Datern and copeny, thut the man w  in s vory merlous
condition. ny telrrz d letter wr mt to Japn
relative to nis aosdition un: the hos. ital was iurormed by
the mgeats of te li tiei no expense or effort was to 
pared in muviy the an's lire. The n, ineo xueanuke,
deeovered ans durin his convalencence perlod he was overheard
to may thnt as moon as ne moov rod surriciontly to trevel,
ne inten ed te explode the  na camal.ft: the otor
at the hoital naviard him tsoll eo leave
the hom ltal, he ro uosted tist ae be uimiits to romain
at the ho ite anothur xnex. hio. topether with i  rmerke
above quoted, made the ootor mus loious is that he mede no
affort to take another Je anoao Bul rutur in to Je an, but
waited to teke ure ax: anaive aui r thc ruee  ine to
an. . umnuk ms) rrm.lic lo uiternoun or 29
November, on te rece ter
I"forn.
Dr. sevault of the sritls:  eriea.. hom Itel notiried
tue Naval Attrebe ot te wbove und after dimoumel n of the
inoident, r. evault was rcquert: d to ask the asunte of
the Japaneee lie, terr end to any--niel   rman
dumpany-what ley knen shout r. kumahuka. He wa informed
thet r. rwsahuke was ahief rnrlueer for nil orte on u.
eet cot of mut Amerion, and tant  van a nlh-ran lng
affloor of tne Jjauene
Ct T cory na bcen ulle l: ot to coandant
l5t:vel istriet.
n
88198
Z
C
C.N.O.
Gom'l
Nev.
Ord.
1.8n.
C.AR.
S.&A.
M.&S.
NLQ.
B-12, B-12, B-14, B-15, B-16

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.93)
RARADE
X
C
EE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Division of
P
FAB EASTERN AFFAIRS
RFP
This tElEgram must bE
Nagasaki
Departrment Stato
closEly paraphrased bE-
FROM
teraphibee
forE being communicated
Dated FEbruary 6,1940a
to anyonE.
(br)
DIVISION
+ calón
REc'd 1:02 a.m.
FL38-1940
2/10/40
SecrEtary of
DEPARIMEN OF STATE
U
LIAISON OFFICE Vashing
HNL
2/6/40 U-L:HN
FDB 1940
Ebruary 6, 10 a.m.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Trustworthy AmErican informant statEs that a JapanEsE
894.20219/107
namEd Murakami is now Engaged in spEcial GovErnment sErvicE
prEsumably EspionagE in Colon, Panama, posing as an Employ-
EE of largE storE rEcEntly taken over from ChinEsE mErchants.
TOWER
894.20219
ROW:CFW
FF
F/N

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
PARAPHRABE
CONFIDENTIAL.
Telegram from Nagasaki, Japan, sont February 6, 1940,
10 a.m., received 1:02 a.m.
Seoratary of State.
It ie stated by a trustworthy Amerioan informant
that at present there 1e a Japanese by the name of Murakami
engaged in Colon, Panama, in speoial government service,
which is presumably espionage. He 1s representing him-
self to be an employee of a large store whioh recently was
taken over from Chinese merohants.
TOWER
U-L:HN:BMS

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.95)
February 12 1040
NRIAL- FOR STAFF UBE ONLY
.153
To he American Ambassador,
Panamd.
The Secretary of State transmits for the strietly
confidential information and files of the embassy,
a copy, in paraphrase, of a telegram dated February S,
894.20219/107
1940, from the American Consul at Nagasaki, Japan,
regarding a Japanese subjeot named Marakami. A similar
1nstruotion, together with a copy of the telegram, is
being sent to the Consulate at Colón.
Enclosure:
Paraphrase of telegram
from Nagasaki, Japan,
February 6, 1940.
M
894.20219/107
2o23
HN
RA:WFB: CMS
U-L
A-L

=== Page 135 === (confidence 1.00)
PARAPHRASE
CONFIDENTIAL.
Telegram from Nagasak1, Japan, sent February 6, 1940,
10 a.m., received 1:02 a.m.
Secretary of State.
It is stated by a trustworthy American informant
that at present there is a Japanese by the name of Murakam1
engaged in Colon, Panama, in special government service,
which is presumably espionage. He is representing him-
self to be an employee of a large store which recently
was taken over from Chinese merchants.
TOWER

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.95)
February 12 1940
SOREIDENTIAL - FOR STAFF USE ONLY
To the American Consular Officer in Charge,
Colón, Panama
The Seoretary of State transmits for the striotly
comfidential information and files of the consulate,
a copy, in paraphrase, of a telegram dated February 6,
894.20219/107
1940, from the American Consul at Nagasak1, Japan,
regarding a Japanese subject named Marakami. A
similar instruction, together with a copy of the
telegram, is being sent to the Embassy at Panama.
Enclosure:
Paraphrase of telegram
from Nagasaki, Japan,
February 6, 1940.
894.20219/107
F/FG
11N
ui
RA: WFB: CMS
U-I.
A-L

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
JINNTIAL.
Telogram from Magasaki, Japan, sent February 6, 1940,
10 a.m., received 1:02 a.m.
Beeretary of State.
It 1s stated by a trustworthy American informant
that at present there is a Japanese by the name of Murakam1
ongaged in Colon, Panama, in special government service,
whioh is presumably espionage. He is representing him-
self to be an employee of a large store which recently
was taken over from Chinese merohants.
TOWER
