894.34 Japan, Equipment And Supplies. Included Construction, Purchase And Sale Of Vessels. Repairs To Foreign Naval Vessels., May 5, 1930 - December 26, 1939 (File 1165)
ID: 894.34-1165   Pages: 500   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.34-japan-equipment-and-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
NOTE
See 102.5/ 3447, 3448, and 3449
for Confidential #416,/438, and #/439
datedDec.4,and 18 respeotively
From Melbourne,Australia.
Regarding
the purchase of Hydrate ofaAmmonia for the use
of the
Japanese Navy.
894.34
INDEX BUREAU
ms.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
500.A.15a.3/909
FOR ......118
FROM ......Jpa
(..l...) DATED .)5.1930
TO
NAME
1-1137
894.34
INDEX BURBAU
REGARDING: constitutional right of the Government to alter
the organisation of the Navy by treaty. Opponents
to the London Haval Treaty charge that the Government
has violated the constitation in participating
in the Treaty, and that the organisation and the
expansion or restriction of the Navy is a fumction
exclusively within the scepe of the Minister of
Marine.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.84)
Tolagye, y 0, 1000.
. 11.
5
14.01
8
814.34
3
6
0
6
The Honorable
The Seeretary of tate,
ashington.
S151
I have had the homor, from time to time, during
the ssssiom of the recently coneluded comferemee held
at Londen for the Limitatiom of Naval Amamest, te eem-
manieate by telegram with the Departmemt and with the
delegates at Londen upen sush matters as I deemed
Impertant) and I shall submit to the Departumat sn
aue couree a dospateh supplemsntins the safesmstton
which I heve eone ta eader thet theve may te presseved
a complete see os the erente mhies treseie ia

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.95)
thse country during the session of the Conferenee. I
permit myself, however, to state that there has beem a
remarkable ohange in the atti tude of the eople and
press of this country rogarding the terms of the Londom
21.
Naval Treaty. There are enelosed translations of
editorials appeuring in the Leading Japanese newspapers
upon the ounolusion of the Treaty. The ASAHI and the
JIJI have consistently ahown a oonstruotive attitude
with respeot to tho entire question or diaarmment and
1t is, therefore, not surpriain to ao that they have
endeavored to point out the any bers ficial effeets
whioh will issue from the agreement re .ohed among the
three great naval powere. Attention 1s partioularly
Invited to the  itorial of the Tokyo NICHI NICHI. By
referenoe to the nume rous translations which have been
forwarded by the mbassy of editoriels and news artioles
from this pap r and by their comp-r1son with the editorial
herewith enelosnd, it vil! be obsurved that the WIcHI
NICHI, which has hilherto been a res ively opposed to
the making of any oonoesston on the part of Japan from
the so-called three fundamental rinolples of Japanese
naval poliey, has now ohanged its attitude and dwells
at me little length upon the ad vantageous nature to Japan
of the Treaty.
I have the honer to enelose the text in tramslatiem
of the address made by the Minister for Poreign Affairs
befere the Diet en April essh regarding the state of
Jepee's intermtimal relatioms. After referring to
Japo

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.92)
Jagem's relatsene mita chime and after commemtine triefly
upen ccenemie end cemmereial matters, Baren Shidehare
cemmented coneisely but with great viger upon the es-
tabliehment ef the Londen Naval Treaty. He referred to
the seseess of the Gevernmeats comeermed in remeving all
pessibility of neval competitien until l9se and, charaeter-
Ising as " extreme pessimists those who sould maintain
that Japan's seeurity had been compromised, added the
followimg mentenee: "Taking fully into consideration the
views of naval experts, we have finally adopted with firm
convietiem the deeision to join in the present Treaty'.
From this statemest there has issued a politieal dispute
whion seems to trmnncend both in peint of impertanee and
1n volume of argumentatien the quarrel over the terme
of the Lomdon Treaty.
Mr. Imukai, the President of the Seiyukal, arose
1
to put the prineipal interpellatiom for the Oppesitien.
He stated that the naval authorities had coneluded that
the safety of Japan would be pre judieed if sbe had a navy
weaker than 70 per cent of the mavy of the United States,
and that the Treaty coneluded at Londem would make it
impossible for the Japanese navy adequately to pretect
the matien. He amitted that the Gevernment was un-
deubtedly moved by ecomemie and politieel consideratiems
te mmke eomsesslome to the United States, but he could not
unéerstand hew 18 was pessible for the Gevernment te plase
mere weight upen tsese eensiderations tham upon she studied
epiniem of the eutherities whe were respensible fer the
eafety of the country. To this, . amegmeki, the Prime
一

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.93)
matdemal easoty. I may state with respemsibility thes the
strength alletted to Jayen in the Treaty makes the defemees
of this country quite seoure . The attaek on the Governent
was earried en at the next meeting of the Lewer House em
the syth ef April by t. shinya Vehida, whe was parliementary
Vice-Minister of Marime in the preesdins Covernent. Mr.
Vehiee stated that imediately after the Cabimet had decided
am April lst te comtirm the agreememt remehed between the
delegations at Londen, Admiral Kanji Kato, Chief of the
Neval staff, was recsived in audienee by the mperer and
hed expressed his disapproval of the terms of the agreement.
The Geverameat had therefore ignored the recommendatiens of
the Naval Staff and was obviously taking the position thet
the national dofencee could be made seoure with a lower
strength than that predieated by the naval authorities.
whe was then, he asked, responsible for determining the
strength neeessary for maintaining the national seourity?
The Prime Miniater stated in reply:
" In proceeding to eonelude the Treaty, the Gevernment
thoroughly explored tho viems of thu waval authorities!
but it ia not neeessary to romind you that the extent to
which sush viows were considered 1s not a matter to whish
I need make any reply. Mr. Uohide refers to a mumber of
doeuments which ho st tes isuued from the ofrieee of the
meval muthorities, but I eannot make any responsible
eomment on them. mhall cause representatives of the
Govermment to explain tennage allotments and other details
of the Treaty at another sime and plase. As you are
awase, this Treaty will regulate matters until less, and
peseen whatever to feel any aaxiety regardins car matíonal
defemees. e have partleipated in the Treaty for the
purpese of contri bating tovards the pesee of the werle
pessible degrée wishout impalrins our matéenal sarety.
The Gevesmment dealares with all respemsibility that the
sarety of tho matten hes mot been impaired".

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.94)
The Lendem Treaty itself has disappeared , at least
for the time beins, as an lamme in the Lower House, exeept
as 1t is boing disoussed in the Budget Comaittee. Une
fortunately, the reperts of this committee are not readily
available and it is not cortain thet a full aocount of its
ainenssions cen be made, but I venture to enolose a trans-
lasien of a swmarised transoription of the dissussions om
April soth whieh appeared 1n the Tokye KokUm/N. The
diversion of the Opposition's assault from the Treaty to the
purely constitutional question f the Goverment's right
to somelude a naval treaty against the coment of the Naval
Starf is, im my opinion, a most signirieant development.
The agitation against the terms arranged at London has met
succeeded in consealing the great advantagea which will
1nmure to Japan; and in view. of the weight of opinion
favorable to the Government in its poliey of cooperation
with other owers with respeot to the limitation of armament.
further harrying of the Governmmt over the terms of the
Treaty would only prejudice the Oppesition with the greater
part of the publie. urthermore, it has probably beem made
clear to the Oppesition that an moousation against the
Government of having violated the Constitution has more
l1kelihood of influeneing the  rivy Couneil than ineom-
olusive arguments supplied by naval experte. The ees-
stitutlemml question of the Government's right to alter the
organi mtiem of the Nevy by treaty is a most complieated
omes tuas at the same sime I belleve that 1s should te
amplatesd ia dotall, as 1t will undeustedly te regassee 

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.92)
the Privy Geanesl as a matter of sreet ixpertanse when
the Treaty is presented for rutifieation.
The Cometitution provides:
" Arttele Xl. The Empeser has the supreme command of
th.
" Artiele X1ll. The Emperer determines the organizatien
and pease standins of the Army and Navy".
In theery, the Emperer 1a the commander-in-chief of
the Mavy aad detoruines its organi zatiom; but in praotiee,
the ergamisation of the Navy is delegated te the chier of
the Maval staff, and not to the Minister of Marine, whe,
as an offieer of the Govornment is responsible only fer
supplyins persommel and material. The Japanese wore
treselated by the English werd" organization" has a very wmde
meaming. It is construed to mean the gathering together of
mterial and systemtieally arranging it, ance, 1t is
the contention of the military eloments that the con-
stitution operates to allow his appointed delegate to
organise and enploy sueh a fleet as mmy be agresable to
the Experor, and, as a corollary, that the Gevernment may
not restriet the seope within whioh this right may be
exeroised. The crux f the questien, frem the viewpoint
of the naval antherities, is that they alome, under the
Emperer, may determine the strength of the Havy. As they
aid not give their appreval to the agreement, as mighs bo
deduced frem the statemems abeve-gueted of the Minister
for Foreign Affaire, the Gevermmat aoted m Yime
in partieipating lan a treety whieh weuld apply to the
Meay restasessone to vàteh these reepemsible fer 1te

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.91)
The Departwent will perhape have been emased by the
fest that an argument of se academde a nature as this and eme
whieh se eempletely igmeres the reelities should be sapable
of asitating the minde of an entire matien. It will be
ealy messssery, hewever, to reeall the agitetion over the
wereing of the presmble to the rast of Paris to realise that
La Japan it is preuisely ever questieme of this kind-
questiens whion uppear tu involve the mperial prerogatives-
that the most pussiomate diseussioms arise.
In passing to the rebuttal or these arguments, it may
be stated that the replies of the Coverwant in the Diet to
interpellations upon its constitutional rights in the premisee
have been extremly brief and quite obviously evasive, due,
there is every reason to believe, to the Govermment's
anxiety to avoid arousing animesity in the House of Peers
and in the  rivy Couneil. The press and promiment 
thoritiee on coastitutional lam have eome to the reseue of
the Government, however, and have offered abundant evidenees
of the unsoundness of these argusents. I heve, therefere,
endeavered to summrime these writimgs, confinins myeelr
oaly to the salient poiats of law faworable to the Govermment.
The Emperer is not only the commander-im-ehief ef the
Mavy, but be is alse the fountain-head of all autherity-
admialetrative, legal, and judieial. He mas delegated his
preregative of empleyins his naval fereee to the chier of
the meval staft, bet he has sinilarly Gelegated kse right
to contust feresem relations and to admiaieter the fimanees
of the eomntay to the Gevesmmmnt, The privilegee end
 a the avel stat are loisd y la the e

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.92)
segnlatiems, ene net  imporial erdimance as in the ease
of the varieus divisions of the Geveramemt. Thus, the Maval
staff is an organ of the Emperer but mot of the state, as is
the Gevermmemt. This distimetien is emphasised by these
previsieme of lam havine to do with the contrel of the amed
ferees, sueh as these in respeet of conseription and militery
serviee, whieh require metiom by the  tate and not by the
Chief of the Naval or the Generel  taff. Obviously, the
strength at whieh the Havy mhould be wa ntained must 
detemimed in the light of the state of the nation's foreigm
relations and of ite finunciel reccuroee, whloh re matters
fallime within the jurlodiction of the Gevernmmt; conse-
quently the datormimation of the neval strength mmst be a
fumetion of the G vernment, noting in behalf of she mperor,
and not of the organ whien has pomer only to formlate lams
for the employment of the mperor's armed forees. In mhort,
the diatinotion butween the respeotive authority of the
two orgams in this relation is that t e Governmmnt defimes
the organization of the Havy, while the chief of the Naval
Staft may employ the Navy. In this regard, Dr. Mimohu, a
well-knewn writer on constitutioual law, xrites
"The prerogative to coesand arms& forees cemprises the
right to direet their mevements as well as the right to
determime their erganisatiem; but the latter right is
met te he soarused with the first. It earries the
autherity to Geeide the strength and organization ef the
be moved abons, they canmet brins themeelves iate being
er alter their form, for these results are to be astained
enly through precessss carried out oy the "tate".
these appear to me wmassmerable argumeate. The Nevy to
beeughs Lase being to to steate and so shecearter dependene

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.94)
pereemnel furmiahed by the state. 1thout 16s omm souress
of supply, it is in no positiom to determime its omm
strength; mer dees the law give it any warrant to deeree
to the state that the state shall ruraimn it with as mmah
memey er as mamy ships as the Navy may demand.
The fimal test in my opinion will be the faet that the
Emperor approved the eeeision f the Governmeat to cause its
delegates to sign the Treaty of Londom. After the abimet
meeting of pril lst, the rime inister was reoeived in
audienee by the Amperor and a eured nis upproval of the
1nstruetions of the delugat on at London. I do not believe
that even the most ardent or the "Big Navy" group wi'l
ohallenge the view that the will or the tate took logal
expression by this met of the Eaperor. Therefore, whother
or not the thier f the aval tarr, ho was reeeived by the
Empe ror shortly after the rime inister withdrew, was
satisried wit: the terms of the arrangement, does not appear
to be gormane to the lame, Portified as the Covermment
1s y Artiole LV or the conatitutiom (" he respeotive
Ministers or tate shall sive their adviee to the mperor
and be responsible for it ), 1t would seem fairly certain
that it will be ablo to repel any attuek bused on com-
stitulional growis. :here is still tim pousibility of the
Goverwment being critieized for hering offered the Kxperer
unsound auviee; but the Govermsent vould ruply that the Treaty
was signed by the Minister of arime and that his epimiem
regarding she advantagsous nature of the torms of the Treaty
aémitted of no ehallengee Ferhaps these eireumstanees will
explaim the emphetie mmaner in whion Baron Shidehare, when
ated by me whether sdmiral rakarebe would leave Londem

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.89)
-20
rematn is Lendem until the Treaty is ready, and he will
180".
Befere leaving this cuestien, 1t should be added that
this appare te be a new phase of the atrugle for
autherity between the eivil and military elements, amether
phase of whieh, as I have peinted out in provious despatobes,
1s the prejeeted reorganizatiem of the Army. The destrime
that the Diet is obliged in primoiple to ascede to any eall
by the Army or Navy was met disputed until 19ls, when the
Beiemji Cabimet fell over the questiom raised by the
Army's demand for tmo additiomal divisioms; and simee that
time the Government has slokly bmt progressively assumed
more and more control over the peadn standimg of the Army
and Navy, but aoting always, of sourse, in bohalf of the
Emperor.
It may be of interest in this relation to relate a
report to the effeet that Admiral Kate asked the Imperial
Househeld Department to arrange an sudience for hin the
dey before the cabinet was to meet, but that Connt akino,
the Lord Privy seel, mhe ardently favors the movement te-
warks the reduetiom of armament, would not porm t the
neesssary arrengements to be ade until the Cabinet had
met. r. Hotte, Chief of the marepeee and Ameriesm nerese
in the reseizn Ufrice ease privately that the rapert is not
cesseet: that Geunt akime did met interfere vith the asrenge.
e for th resen thns dtes Kate dsd net ask foe n

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.91)
Admiral Kate in the event that ho sought to appeal te the
Emperer. tr. Hette thought that Aamiral Kate hed had soms
sueh plas, but that some 1ntimatiem of the Govermmoms's
determimatiem to prevent his gaining aecees to the mpever
had been sent to Admiral Kate. r. Hotta said shat this
rumer, together with a gretesquely distorted version ef
a rumer that the American delegatiom had secretly disoussed
the preetieability of bembing lokyo in the event of was,
had been plaeed under press eeneorship, but that it was
bwins eiroulated by word of mouth, to the mo emall coneerm
f the Goverrmomt.
While I shall not fail to submit further infermatiem
on the subjeet of the Treaty, I desire in oonolusiom to
imvite the Department's attontion to the diseussion regarding
the edvisability of Japan exerolsing ite right under the
Treaty to make certain replacements. It is quite evident frem
the editerial appearing in the JIJI of April 23rd, as well
as from Barom Shidehara's address before the Diet, that there
is substantial feeling that 1t would be an aat of wisdem to
refraim from exeroising this right, It is nct entirely the
esememic waste whioh would ocour shat produees this feeling:
there is some conridenee that the failure of Japan to build
woule sonvinse the people of the mited tates of the pesifie
mature of Japan's fereigm pelleies and thas stimmlate the
feeling ameng Am sieene that the lest three heavy eraissse
allosted to the Umsted statee vese mot necessarye
80

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.93)
-12
I heve beem infermed, but quite umorrieially, that
the Gevermment 1ntends to submit the Treaty to the
Emperer for ratification as soon as ir, wakatsuki
returme to Japan and 1s relieved of his offiee. 1f
ne umtoward event ocours in the meuntime(sueh as the
resigmmtien of Admiral Takarabe), the Treaty should
be in the hands of the rivy Couneil before the end
of June.
I have the honor to be, ir,
Your obedient servant,
ERD/BR
Enelosures:
1-5/.Trasslations of
editorials in Japanese
newspapers.
61.
Text in translation
of address by Minister for
Ferign Afrairs.
71.
Translation of summarized transoriptions
In KOKUN.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.91)
THE SUGGESS OF THE LONDON GUNFERENCE
EXAMPLE OF POLITICAL SOLUTION.
Tokyo J1JI SHI P0,Apr11 17, 1980.
The Lendom Comferemee is at Last coming to an and 
the appreaehing signature of the Naval Reduetion Treaty at
the next general meeting. The opinion of the promoters,
Great Britaim and Ameriea, who opened the way fo the
beginning of naval redustion by she negotiation between
them last suemer, was that armament limitation will have
to be mettled by politieal mans, in view of the failure
of the naval speeialist at the last Gemeve parley. But the
greatmess of the difference of opimien beeame more and more
promiment at the London Conforenee. The reconeiliatiom of
differenees was so di floult that net a few took a pessimistie
view of the Conferenoe, To break through the barrier, the
neeessity was severely felt of the parties coneerned solvins
various probleme by statesmenlike metheds. In emamimins
the contents of the Treaty mew being drafted, we observe that
it is the result ef a reselute determimatiem and the umssual
efferts maée by the parties eomcerned. jedged frem the
lefty sdeal ef disarmament, there are points thes ean be
searsely regerded as satisfactory. but shen costrested with
the mamatuse of the armament liaitation dirfioulty, the
comventsen mst to reparded as a grees suseess. If the
apt

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
spirit ef cemciliesiem were expanded at the mest comferense
in lsss, there 1s no doubt that aehievemenss of evem greates
significanee can be e eoted.
Apart from Tranee-itallan differenees over auxiliary
limitatien, Ameriea, creat Britain and Japan vied with
ome amether for the prometion of the peace or the world and
the realization of a convention on armamont limitation.
Taking the British Amerioan relation first, creat Britaim
renouneed her program for 7 cruisere whloh she proolaimed
to the world at the eneva parley us her minimm limit for 
national defense and now eontents herselr with 50 oruisere.
It must be said that this is e considorable saorifiee for
Great Britain whieh so lon. enjoyed the prestige of the
command of the seas. art1 ularly on ao ount of this
conoession, sho is ouligud to be oontent with lo againet
America's 18 in large oruisors. his agony cannot be
endured Ithout the creat determination of the Covernment
of creat Britain and of the British nation for armament
limitation. It is natural for the materialization of
Ammriean- ritish purity, tha, the appreciatlon of the
necessity of solving the question of the froudom of the
seas as a premise is getting conspiouous. hen a resolutiom
was passed 1n the enate last year in favor of 1s large
eruisers, enator Boran's amendment te ounelude a treaty
previous to the naval reduotion conferenee betweem the
chief naval pomers fer regulatims the hestile operatiem
of belligerents and the rights at see of noutrals was alse
passed. Freedem of the mee has been the traditiomal
destrime of Ameries ever sinee the foundation of the state,

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.92)
and her meal thesefore has beeeme satense sinee the Gemove
parley.
Mr. medomald, the Britiah premier on his visit to
Amerieu last year, held an important sonferonce with mr.
Heover, the Presidems or the United tates, on this subjeet,
and it was ruled out at the Londem Conferonoe. ven the
Laber Party whieh uuvoeated te solution or the freedem of
the mea problem as an item in the program of 1ts party at
the lmst eleotion, keenly felt it too hazardous for the
Government oither to limit or abandon the riht of blookade
reat Britain
which is the traditional poliey of Great Britain. may have
obtained the understanding of meriea not to take up this
question at the ondon conferenoe. The saoririee of 80
cruisers on the part or Great Britaim might be imagined
to be a compensation for th s understanding. Purthermore,
Amerien strove to reconolle her differ nees with Great Britaim
in large and light oruisurs, and abandoning the plan of
bailaing B8 heavy oruisere 1s being content with 18. Thus
succeeded the sottlement  the cruiser question by the
applieatiom of the so-caliv4 yardntiek. The Anglo-Amerioan
agreement is a good example f a political solution 
mmtual concnssion.
Mest- as to Ammrioan-iapanese rolations, the so-called
cempremice plan secms as if it were an one-sided concessiom
by Japmm. That is not, homever, an impartial judgmems.
Ammriee reduses 23 large eruisers to 18 and, furthermere,
takins Japam's demand imte consideratiom actuaily ballds
1s end leeves the remmiming 3 to build or not as she pleasse.
whas eise esuld shis be other then an expressien of the
pés of tel coneessiom?
MOsOeves,

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.93)
Moreever, Ameriee graste us 90 per cemt alse ia
auxiliary eruisers, reeognising Japam's distaste
of the 60 pur eemt ratie or the saahington Treaty,
and thie may be comeidered as an assuranse of ur domand
being accepted in the future. Ameriea's prompt desisiem
is peremptorily makins sonoesnlons an the é per eent ratse,
which was oonsidored both by our Governmnt and people as
an iron rule applioable to all kinds of orafte emong the
three nations ufter tho ashington Conference earns the
ereat rospeet of the Japsnese people beeaune of the
exoellent erfcots it will huve upon intermational relatioms.
The alteration of the anhington ratio is a true evidemee
of new nighly the Ameriean Govermment vulues the frienaly
relation betxean vapan and nerlom. e do not hositate
to deelars tust it is a comoesion whion it would have
been ipossible for Japan to exmet wrless Amriee truly
desires our umity und pleose r lianee on the friendly
feeling whien cxiste betmeen the two watione. The fast
that Japan-merlean relatiuns aro being guided by the
war outlawry upirit, whion io the keynote of the London
Conference, promotod good feeling und international consord.
Auide from tho recults obtuined ty the Armamnt limitatiom
treaty, the viotory of the spirit or peaee in weleommd by
all eivilized nations; and we look upon 18 an she greatest
fruit of the London Conferemme.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.90)
SIONATURE OF THE VIVEPOWER V VAL TRLATY
TOK HOCHI SHIBUN,
Aprll 28, 1950.
The Conferenee which has been in sensiom sime the
latior part of Januury f! nally oame to an and on the  and
imstant when the London Naval reaty wan signed with due
ceromony. hatover my be t e implications of this reaty,
it takes plage only after the allocs roaty in point of
universal aignifioance.
Phat are the defects of the agreament: The primeipal
ome is, of oourse, thel tise reaty does not adequately effeot
the reduction of auxillary shipe whioh, as set forth in the
invitation to the confe unee, wae to be the great vojeotive.
In the firet place, rance ad italy are not party to this
agreement. The naval strength of neither of these two parties
1s equal to that of any of the other threel therefore, the
adherenee or non-adne renoe of Frunoe and italy to the agreemnt
is mot a mattex of the grentest importanee; but, in order to
give the Three-Pewer Agreement full signif samee, it 1s essential
that Franes and Italy shou d partieipate in it. It is reperted
shat the three powers have dlaouesed ways by whieh their
respeetive tonnage allotments might be altered in the evems
that Fremse deeided to exyane her nevy whieh preves that in
the fimal emalysis failare to allot dorimite tommage to
Premse end Italy detraese a grest donl frem the virtse
e.
the imstotomee ty the umited statee shich retaime 180,000

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.93)
tems la lasge eruisers, upen liniting Japm te an alletmemt
of loe,4oc tons and thme making 1t neeessary for Japen to
earry forward 1te demand for a 70 por cemt ratie until the memt
Gomferemse, theroughly effaces her willingmes: te grest
Japan e clobal ratio of 90 per cemt, nor do we bolleve that
1t mas preper to sive parity in submarines to Japam at s,400
toms whem she aetumlly maintaims an effective foree of 98,000
tems. Om this occasion, e must ain ropoat that Japan
must imsist upen she fundamental prinoiple or her maval poliey
as hitherto emunoiated. e eurnotly hope that ngland and
the United  tates will apprmoiate the justiee er our eon-
tentioms, and be prepared to ascept them at the next eonferenee.
It may be true that ciroumstanees made it neeesaary te
restriet the life of the Treaty unti1 the end of 193e, but 1t
is a fest, nevertheless, that this detraets lareely frem its
sigmif canee. mould it be reusoneble te expeet today a great
deal frem a eonferonce for the limitation of armsent whem
the Treaty to outlaw war, whion is the very keystone of naval
limitatiem, has been loaded down with reserrations and is
still without he pewer to dissolve 1ntermational disputes?

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.91)
THE GONGLUSION OL THE NAVAL TREATY.
Tokge NICHI  CHI,ADr11 BZ, 19S0.
Three momths of effort at Londem fimally brought
forth a treaty whioh was signed on the 2&nd 1mtans by
the delegates of the five rovere interested. The entire
world weame no deeply imsereed in vari ous kimds of eports
that it has forgottem the impertance of thie conference
whieh has been put dowm as mrely another om of the
mamerous conferanees held from time to time. The fact
that an international agreement mas made to whieh the
title " 19so London Haval Treaty" has been firmly fixed,
1s ome of the great land-marks in nistory.
The 1deel of universal poase has beem repeated in
all eountries like a Budahist invoeatiom, but the fast
remmins that evem if all the efrorts thas far put forward
had beem fully reallsed, we sheuld not be mere tham eme
eme-handredth of the way towards the desired goal. kven
though the recently eomeluded Treaty may be unsatisfactery
for some reasem or other, the fact remaime that eight years
age a treaty coverins eapital shipe was establisbed as
Washingten and todey amother treaty has been establlabed
fer auxillary ships; se that, step by steg, the efforts
mmse tomards the destred aim are bearins fruit, we weleome
thie pregsess with great jey.
If we semesbes thes the comferense hele three yease
   a, l   to realle

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.92)
2
stepe beins takem are firaly planted. Pailure at
Geneve invited suceess at London. Similarly, the
peints whieh have e en art unsettled at Londem will
te mettled at future eonferonees. Lack of startling
asnievememts should not ereate disappointment. So far
as e are onoorned, we offor our profound respeets to
the delegales and governente  f the five oountries
for heving succenafully brou ht forth a ive- ower Treaty.
co fur an the ireaty itselr in o narmed, it is not
worth makime a great deal of pother about, as from an
1dealistio point-of-view, 1ts subst noe doos not wooord in
all reopeets wit the spirtt of the Ireaty to utlaw war
whioh wan deelared by the two sponsor o untries, ngland
and the nited tat es, to be t o starting point of the
disousn1 ns. • have alroudy disoussed this point several
timos in our editorlals und it is u neoe sary to go inte
the matter gain. evertheless, the fat that the owers
have agreed to restriet themeelves 1s of enormous
importanse even though the extent of the restrioti ns
whieh they will apply to eaah other 1s not very groat.
The Treaty commands the omers imperatively to refrain
from unbrialed naval competition whion 1s one of the greet
torms of intornational relatiuns. It now remains to proceed
from the stage of restraint to that of rodueti m and to
deerease still further the parden of tamation whioh rests
upem the various peeples, It is unfortumate that Frense
and Italy have mot partieipated in the agreememt pre-
vieing fer restsietiome, but we firmly believe thet these
twe eoumseiee will fimally be obllged te assosiete theme
selvee with the esher three Povess.
8

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.93)
Se far as Japem 1s comoermed, the ratio establlahed
is, of course, unsatisfuctory; but it has boen mmde elear
both ia the Treaty and by . nakateuki's fimal statememt,
that this Treaty has me binding foree after l9ns. These
swo statements net enly make elear Japan's positiem but
they indieate the eunsessiem made by Japan t. the end that
the Comrerenoe might be suooessful. it is booause Japan hes
made this congession, even though at u saorifiee of its natiomml
seourity, that publio opinien in ngland und the united states
praiees Japan's attitude. It is extremly gratifying to ws
that the Conrerenee has anded with wuon satisfuotory rosults.
e now look forward #1th confidenee to the future when the oausee
of our dissatiafuotiom will bo renoved.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.90)
T SIGNIND OF TIG L NDON TRATY.
Tokge JIJI SHIMPO. Apr11 25, 1930.
The Londom Conferenee whlen has been atriving fer resulte
for the past three months eame to an end yosterday with the
signing of the Londom Naval Treaty. Although an agreemmnt
sovering auxiliary ships was remohed by the five Powers,
unfortunetely me arrangement was made te cover allotmemts
of tonnage in amxiliary ahipe to Framse and Italy. so far
as Japan 1s comeored, homever, her peint of orientation
in the matter of maval redustion is the inited  tates, and
se long as an greememt has been rouohed betweem Japan, the
United tates and ingland, the possibility of naval com-
etitiem during ths life of the Treaty has beem suucessfully
prevented. Not only thas, but provisiom has beem mde to
deerease the burden of tazation. For these twe reasons, we
weleeme the new Treaty, and here by express our grateful
aekmemledgment to our delegates fer the extreerdimary efforts
whien they have put forthe
From an economie point-of-viem, the mst ipertant
resmlts of the London Treaty is the pestpemement of the
replesememt of eapitel shipe. Uméer the vashingtom Aaval
Treaty, the Pewese were eillged to mend, from next year es,
lasge sume ef momey in comploting the en tal sháy seplesse
 a o 

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.90)
Sngelling metave in helding the Londen Centerense was to
find some mathed of celutiem of the difrioulties which
broaght about failure at Gemeve. The peeple of this eountry
mast eseerdingly te gratiried w the fast that the taree
Pesess have been able te effeet an agreemes amens eeeh ethet.
It is trme that, 1f the freaty te eiossly emmimed, it will
reveal a mmber of points of detail whien are not satisfectery
and amone these the iandequeey of the ruduetion waleh is to te
effeeted.mas already aroused the at ention of statesmen in
the three countries. NovertheLess, mon one oumeidure the
difrieulties ralsud by the demmmds or each country bufore
an agreoment covering auxillary enips could be urreeted, the
new treaty must bo adaitted to have great valme a a ateg
formare in the mareh towards mavel reduotion. This is,
sherefore, the opportuns time to develop politieal com-
seiouemess in sacn country with u view to owrouming the
dereets of the Treaty and thns mking 18 poasible to make
further progrese towarde naval liaitation. while the umited
States has been granted the right to possess ls large cruisers,
we mst mot forget the politieal solutien by which it wes
provided tha: the United tates should aotually build only
18 mhipe und mot somplate the romaiming three bafere lese.
whatever way be the ferm, in actuality Japan sussesded in
havins her eontentian sabstantially ne epted durins the life
of the freaty. Farthermere, she is is me wise commitsed
after the Tresty expises, and thus has the right to demand
a retso of 9o per eest with respect to the umited states.
1f the uaited states setmally retaime 18 eruisers after 1007.
J

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.93)
一
Japem's allotmeat would fall to so per cent and she could them
pleed the neseseity of maimtaiming her natlonal security.
If Japan, then, insists that she must build adaitiomal ahipe
1n erder to reaeh a ratio or 9, per eent sith respeet to the
United states, we should heve a result contradietory to the
spirit and aim of nasal roduetton. If, therefore, the mext
comferenee in 1935 wh1oh m may proporly expeet te yield more
therough-goim; results than the recemt Conferenee, is beset
with suoh difrioulties, it is not at all 1 probable that 
may have a revival of naval competition.Irthe United tates
whioh has takem a lead in the mor ement towards nuval reduetiom
over simee the ashington conferonce oreates new eiroumstanees
at varianee with raval limitation, it would be atriking a
lew at the honorable oontributions whiel she has made thas
far. It is devoutly to be hoped, that during the short life
of the new Treaty, all the owers will exeroise self-restraimss
1n order that no prejudioial influenoes may bo oust upon the
future, and that they may always be eareful to bear in mind
the great objeotive w leh is being striven for. ve believe
that the manner in whieh the United tates exereises its
privilege with respeet to the building of the remaiming three
eruisere will have a vitul ef eet upon the future eouree er
naval limitation, and we therefore hope most earmestly that
the Amerloan Government and the American people will bear this
feet alwaye in mind. The Lemdem Treaty is a pelitieal
selutiom in whioh is inkeremt an elememt of elastieity and
ita real apirit san be killed er kept fresh accordins co the
manner in which statesmem are prepared to apply the Treaty.
This is, in our epinien, a very impertant peint.
whas we haveyass eaie abous the Uaited statee and ner
theee treatiee appases alse to Jepes. The Treaty allevs

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.84)
Japam to make replacensmte of about s0,000 sons 1n auxilimmy
shipe whioh will become obeolete during the life of the treaty.
and 1t pormits sapan aloo to make ruphucaments of about 1 0,000
teme in lignt oruisers, destroyers and wubmar nos, in ordur that
Japan's shipbuilding Industry wy b e"feolively calutaind.
The total cout uf those mow mhipe will exoead  illion; and
1t rein t i soen hether i l be udii s to ofreet
In this nanner the suvinga to bo a  vtud by the uipital-ehip
holiday. to make axve tl n to the ao e tou rui  raing
the e feotive e of shi, u to sp an l xiiy
shipe whion are stili e: lolent und oupubis of asc, doss not
accor iti the busis prposa  ti ondon reaty- to lessen
the burdon of tuxatlon.  in the naze of the rited tates
ezerolsing sho right o builu three aditional druisurs, the
erele  ay  n t  aturo rph nt is orthy
of carofui ttsntiun Pro . polit ual vior oint.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.89)
HAVAL LINITATION TRIATY SIGEED
To0 AAHI AHI MBUN,ApP11 23, 1880.
Prese despatehes from Lendem repert that om the
sznd instant delegates of the five Pomers represented at
the Lemdem Naval Cenferenee eigned the Treaty. It 1s
impessible to mopress our joy in learming timt, despite
the mmny difriculties whieil have heset the Conferense
durime the last three monthe, the 1930 taval treaty has
fimally been astablished. When Mr, Hoovor acsumed the
presidemey of the United tatne !n Mareh last year, he
beeame determimed that the disaster experieneed twe
yeare pseviously at the Geneva Conferenee should net do
repeated, and with a view to finding some methed of
solutien he eaused ir. Gibeen at the l9s9 meeting of
the League of Nations Disarmament Cammittee to issue a
censiliatery statement. In England also the MmeDemald
Gabinet was met forgetrul ef the premises mmde to the
British elesterate. Thus, the soweming of the Conferense
my without deubt be aseribed is large measure te eiroume
stamees existing in the tme Anglo-Sazea countries.
Fellewing the ecmversaties , firet of all between Ambasseder
Demes and Mr. mebeneld, and later between Mir. MmeDenald
and President Hoover, the twe coustries agreed upon the
calllas of a msvel comferemee: . Hondersen 1sssed his
Invitatiem an ccteber 9, and an Geteter ls Franse, Italy
and Japen declased their intentsen to partleipate.
.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.93)
山
Fammlly, on Jammary 2lst Last, the Londen Comferense was
femmmlly opened. Despite the foregoing eiroumstanees, it
mst met be thought that, with respeet to the koenmess ef
its desire te see established a naval limitation agreemems,
Japem wae one whit behind England or the United states. The
truth of this assertion is aaply proved by the conoillatory
attitude adopted by our delegates after the presentatiom
of the Amoriean phan on rebruary 4th, partieularly W
the attitude of our delegation during the Reedelatsudaira
comvereations whieh took plaee between the ond of February
and the leth of areh, and by the fact that the Hammguchi
Cabimet brushed aside all opposition and rendered a decisiom
In faver of the agreement. Not only did Japan make a
subetantial comcession wi th respeet to the ratio in large
eruisers during the years 1937 and 1938 from the mimimm
whieh was deelared to bo necessary for natiomal security
and from the ratio whioh r. akatsuki deseribed as defense
without menase, but Japan alse abandoned the dostrime of
retaiming 70,000 toms in mubmrines whieh was enunclated at
the Gemeve conferenee and also durine the early daye of the
Lemdem Cemferenee. In view f these fasts, it is not at
all extrevagant te say that Japen, b: agreeimg to 1s eruisers
for she Umited states and 15 for England, sacrifieed some
of ite sense ef seeurity in osder te make the sueeess of
the Gemferenee pessible.
It may perkape be asserted by some Japanese, despite
the eemtributieme mde by Japan, that the prastieel valme
of te merel agreemeat is very mall and the degree ef
mtasi mth it mll effeet, almost megligible. rt
J

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.91)
zapen wsll nos be able to meduse 1te expends tusee by mese than
100 milllem yen ammmally, whieh mennt may bo redueed to pessdbly
so milliem yem if she eagages in the replasenemt of certaim
anxillary ahipe. It ment mot bn forgo:ton, however, that the
primsipal saving will cone fron the pestpomement after lose of
the replesemmas of apital ships. the savings whien mall be
effeeted by mgland or the United states will porhepe reach
soo million yen eamually. The only valid objeetiom whteh ees
be mase against the Treaty in that thorough-going redwetiem
was mot effueted in reepeet of auxiliery ahipe; whegeas Japan
broaght dowm 1ts domnnd in mibrar ine tonnage from 70, 000 tons
te 80.0 0 tons , the United tates and Kngland, whe insisted
upem shie reduetien on tme part of Jupan, woula not muree to
a corredporuting reduetion in reppeet of other types of ships
sueh as oruinern und deatroyers. This, it meams to us, is
mest unfair. Therefore, dthin cortain limits, we mst comour
in the dissatiafactien expressed in various quarters. Inter-
mtiomal polities, like intermatiomal morality, develops the
mere slomly as 1t erystalixes. e recall that when Osar
Wiekelas called the first Hagme pease coaferemce, efforts to
premete naval and military lixitatiem ended unsuseessfally:
the Cemmiesion of the League of Nations whieh was establlshed
after the Greet war has been able to de mothing beyend dise
cessins this questiem. In all this peried of sime, is it met
enly the weehingten Ceateremse which was able te produse an
agreemene, and that enly in respeet of capital shipe? why,
them, ccmsure the recemt Comferense?
8

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.90)
It is net emough thes intelligent elasees in all countries
sheule mmrely be agitated ever drastecks of the Lemdem Treety:
they should devete themeelves to festerins the iése of pease
in their reapeotive couatrics an' te sweeping amey all ferm ef
intermatiumal misunderslanding.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVE-POWER TREATY SIGNED.
Tokye KOKUMIN, Apr11 84, 1950.
After passing through inmumerable erises, the
Cemference at Londom oam auspielously to an end by
the signature, on the ind inetant, of the Five-Power
Naval Treaty. For various reasons, 1t 1s weh to be
regretted that a more complete treaty could not have
been soneluded; but we are able, at the same time, te
pereeive mmny reasons to feel gratified over the pro-
gress towards naval teduotion. To offer only ome: a
satisfactory agreement was reuched to reduce the tonnage
allotmonts to points far below those proposed im the fimal
plan disoussed at the conforenoe held at eneve in l927.
When it is realized that the agreament provides for
a totel reduetion 1n the t ree navies of more than 50,100
tons, and makes possible large savings through the post-
pemement of the eapital ship roplacement sehedule, who would
venture to say that the treaty is a failure? It is alse
am indisputable fact that the :reaty will oneourage and
foster the desire for further reduetions and that it has am
emermeus moral impertanse. Unfortunately, timre is some
reom te doubt whether the reservations made by Japan re-
gardins large eruisers will actually give Japan freedem ef
astiem in the future; we must alse remsaber thet the Treaty.
méleh hetse Jagan dowa to 1ts present fesee, peraits the

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.93)
sime of eapital shipe. rerthermere, the fallase of franse
and Italy te partieipate in the agreemems detreste greatly
from its efricaey, and it is earnestly to be heped that sem
means will be found to bring them in without wassing for the
mext comferenee. These two countries are met committed la eny
way with respeet to future conatruetion, and, as mational
defenoes are based on rolative ntrengths, there is no little
possibility of the arrangnment between t e three Powers
being shaken. hese niroumstanoes contain a & rge olememt
of dangor for the reaty.
The poasibilities of sottling he uestion of rance and
Italy, and other gu ations, should be explured through somm
proper body, suoh as a counioll of ambassadors. The movement
towards dimarmmment has mow taken one stride beyend the
"ashingten Conferenee.  tender our profound respects to
the interested Govern ents and delegatione for she recious
contributions they have made to the welfare of mankind, and
whieh mst be counted among the sreatest mehievements of
the year 1. 30.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Saturdey, Apr11 26, 1930.
Barom Shidehara's address follows
in full:
the diseussion with the Chinese Gov-
"On January 21, last, I had the
ornment of other provision te be in-
honor to address this House, and to
corperated in a new commerciel creaty.
defne the general lines of policy
besides those which relate to customs
which the Government proposed to
duties. It is sineerely hoped that
fallow on various diplomatic prob-
through mutual appreciation by each
lems confronting this country. No-
nation of the just and reasonable posi-
thing has happened since then calling
tion of the other, satisfactory progress
for any alteration of these policies.
will be assured for these negotiatiems.
I shall, therefore, avoid repetition and
"Prepesteress Reports"
confne myself on this oceasion to
"It appears that recently, slong with
stating the outline of a few of the
the reappearance of signe of unrest
latest develepments in our internation-
on the political horizon of China, a
al relations.
"Between Japan and China, an
section of the press in that country
has been disseminating reports, sug-
agreement relating to customs duties
is now ready for signature. Its main
gesting that we had a hand in bring-
features are a recognition by Japan
ing about that turn of events and
of China's tariff autonomy and re-
were engaged in the proseeution of
ciprocal ugdertakings on tariff for a
unworthy designs. Such secusstions
number of commodities.
are too preposterous to call for any
"Concerning the customs autonomy
denial. It cannot be necessary to re-
of China, a resolution for its re-
afrm our known poliey of fair and
cognition in principle was adopted by
square dealing in China.
a special committee at the Peking
"At the last session of the Diet,
tariff conference of 1925. It is a mat-
I stated that the Government had in
ter of common knowledge that the
mind the conclusion of commercial ar-
Japanese representatives at the con-
rangements, as far as practicable,
ference played a role of signal im-
with those countries with which we
pcrtance in securing the passage of
had as yet no such tremty relations.
that resolution. Owing to the threat-
Bgypt was then one of these countries.
ening development of domestic war-
Our trade with Egypt has increased
fare in China, the Peking conference
apace since the World War both in
was brought to a close without any
volume and importance, and the need
definite result being attained. Subse-
for a commercial errangement with
quently, however, customs agreements
have been concluded in succession by
thet eountry was urgently felt. Nego-
various Powers with China. With the
tiations with that end in wiew hnd been
conclusion of the similar agreement
initiated long ago, but, on secewnt of
between Japan md China now await-
various diffeulties, made lietle pro-
ing signature, the formal recognition
gress. It is a matter for congratula-
of China's customs autonomy by all
tion to both countries that a provi-
the nations concerned will have be-
sional commereml agreement ws at
come complete.
"Nothing is more gratifying to us
last coneluded on the 19th of March.
Similar tremty relations with various
than to witness such a notable
achievement on the part of that
other countries of the world are also
neighboring nation. At the same
in contemplation, in order to facili-
time, a measure of responsibility
tate the commercial and industrral
must be involved. The relinquishment
activities of our people.
by the Powers of treaty guarantees
The Naval Conference
which are of great material value to
"Turning to the subject of naval
them, and which they have so long
disarmament. I do not feel myself at
enjoyed, rests on the implicit belief
liberty for the present to relate at
that China will not make use of her
any great length the proceedings of
new position to modify her customs
the London Conference. I am, how-
tariff in such a way as to hamper or
ever, happy to announce that the
to destroy her foreign trade. I feel
Conference has at last come to a suc-
confident that China will live up to
cessful conclusion. after constant and
her moral responsibility and prove
most exacting labors ever sinee its
herself equal to the trust thus placed
opening on January 21, and through
in her by the Powers.
mutual concessions and friendly eo-
Trade Stability is Geal
operation on the part of all the par-
"The proposed agreement with China
ticipating Powers.
also provides for reciprocal engage-
"A treaty of histeric importanee was
ments to maintain specifled rates of
signed on the 22nd of this month. It
duty upon a number of commodities
should be hailed with satisfaction by
for certain periods of time. What
all those who have at heart the ad-
we naturally desire is the stability of
vaneement of peace and friendship
our trade with China. We cannot be
among the nations. Particmlar atten-
espected to remain indiferent to fre-
tion is invited to the agreement er-
quent and radical clhanges in the Chi-
rived at for the prevention of build-
nese tarif. China on her part nds
ing competition in asxillery eraft.
it equally important to secure a mar-
Japan, England and America, after re-
ket in Japan for certain classes of
peated faltures for more than eight
Chinese manufactures. These mutual
years since the Washington Confer-
desires have given rise to a sckeme
ence, have nally euccseded in com-
ef reciprocal undertakings in regerd
posing all the differences which had
to eustams tarifs. The arrangement
so far stood in the way of euck ap

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
new to swch unpleasant evente in
"It is equally pessible that what
South America's political life. Once
he was in the hands of a rifle-armed
now seems to us of little ase may
some day become' indispensable. It
mob and on another occasion he de-
is incumbent upon us, therefore, to
fended his home against insurgents
reserve to ourselves perfect liberty
who later forced him to live in exile
to present at the next Conference
frem his homeland. Yet despite these
whatever claims may then appear
incidents he is regarded as the one
suitable in the given circumatances.
whe has brought Peru from the bank-
That liberty is explieitly provided for
rupt nation it was at the opening of
in the present Treaty. There is no
the century to the progressive, sound
occasion for the apprehension that
condition it boasts today.
the Treaty ef Loadon is to bind us
After a number of years in lesser
hand and foot for all time to come.
political posts, among them Min-
To show oneself unduly disturbed,
ister of Finance, Mr. Leguia assumed
under the induonce of so mistaken an
the Prosidency in 1908. In the tnidst
impression, would'be an attitude lit-
of his first year in offce he was cap-
tle worthy of a self-respecting nation.
tured by a mob led by a militant
Furthermore, lest the diminution
aristocrat, dragged through the streets
of auxiliary tonnege might render it
of Lima to the Bolivar monument and
diffcult for us to maintain our stan-
at the point of his captors'rifles order-
dard of technical skill and ability in
ed to sign a document of resignation.
the matter of naval construction, we
He joked with th eleaders over the fact
were careful to guard against any
that in their haste or nervousness they
such eventualities by securing, after
had mis-dated the document, and man-
full discussion upon that phase of the
aged to kill time until his loyal troops
matter with the other Powers, a work-
arrived and routed the revolutionsts
ing arrangement authorizing us within
with slaughter.
certain limits to effect the replace-
His exile to London followed an at-
ment of ships before the prescribed
tack upon his house by a drunken mob,
age limit is reached.
"Sane and Preper Course"
instigated again by his aristocrat op-
"In the these circumstances, every
ponents, in July of 1913. He defend-
fair abserver will agree that the pro-
ed his home successfully but after-
visions of the London Naval Treaty
ward was sent abroad as a pernicious
contain nothing to which we ought,
politician after two weeks in the peni-
even at the risk of a rupture of the
tentiary under a charge of assault,
negotiations, to have taken exception
based upon his defense of his home.
For six years he remained abroad but
and that, on the contrary, the sane
his return in July, 1919, somewhat
and proper course for us to take was
resembled a triumphal entry and was
to extend our whole-hearted co-opera
followed immediately by a bloodless
tion in order to secure the success of
the Conference.
coup d'etat deposing his old opponent,
President Pardos, chief of the con-
"It seems that in certain quarters
servative wing of Peruvian politics.
rumors so utterly wide of the truth
are circulated as that the agreement
Now Serving Third Term
was forced upon us by other Powers.
Shortly afterward Mr. Leguia was
I need hardly point out the absurdity
elected President again and the con-
of such reports. Having carefully
stitution was later amended to permit
weighed all considerations, not only of
re-election. He recently entered upon
foreign policy, but also of naval, in-
his third five-year period of office
ancial, economic and all the other fac-
since then.
tors of national strength, upon which
From 1871 until 1905 Peru could not
the security of a nation must, in the
borrow a cent of money abroad and
final analysis, depend, we were brought
when a loan was obtained in the lat-
to the conclusion that, in accepting
ter year it was secured by pledging
the terms of the agreement arrived at,
the revenue from the Government's
we would decidedly be serving the real
salt monopoly. A similar one follow-
interests of this Empire.
ed in 1903. The improvement in Peru-
"Before concluding my remarks, I
vian finances, largely due to President
may be permitted to express our pro-
Leguia, is indicated by the fact that
found appreciation of the loyalty and
since 1927 Peru has borrowed or re-
devotion. with whigh the representa-
funded at lower rates a total of close
tives of this country, and all the. mem-
to $100,000,000.
bers of the delegation have for se-
veral monthe past succesafully faced
The récent series of attempts to as-
the most difcult situations and the
sassinate Latin-American President
tremendous pressure of work involved
began on December 24, last when an
in the London Confarance."
anarchist fred several shots at Pres-
Idont Rinalit Tion

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
The Jran hronicle.
be. rd. y . 1.
THE NAVAL TREATY.
Mr. HAMAGUCHI replied that during
Mr. UCHIDA, interpellating about Mr.
the Naval Confurence, the naval and mili-
Wakatsuki's statement asked how it 
The Budget Committee of the House of
tary authorities had exchanged views on
Representatives met on-the 1st instant at
the matter at Cabinet Councils, though he
on the 70 per cent. ratio in regard to blg
10.30 a.m., Mr. Morita, the Chairman, pre-
could not disclose the detalls of the view
cruisers, the treaty actually signed save.
siding.
exchanged. The Government had also
Japan only about 60 per cent. ratio.
Mr. INOUE (Minister of Finance) ex-
consulted the Army General Staff before
The PREMIER said that in Mr. Wake
plained the Supplementary Budgets for
nese delegation in London, though here
issuing the final instructions to the Japa-
ed that he desired to reduce the naval
tsuki's statement it was simply mentlos
the present fiscal year.
again he must withold the disclosure of
strength to the minimum commensra
Mr. UEHARA ETSUJIRO (Seiyuka1),
the details of what took place between
with Japan's security. There was no 
interpellating, said that he understood
the Government and the Army General
ference whatever to 70 or 60 per cont.
that the American claim to reserve the
Staff.
ratio in his statement.
right to bulld three more big cruisers,
Mr. UEHARA asked the Foreign
Mr. UCHIDA pcinted out that Mr. Wa-
besides the 15 vessels allotted to her.
Minister why the details of the new Sino-
katsuki put special emphasis on the big
after 1933, furnished a subject of much
Japanese Tarif Agreement had not yet
been made public, whether he believed
cruiser strength, and said that this show
ed that he desired to obtain for this type
debate at the London Conference. Ame-
the new Agreement would be enforced
of vessel a higher ratio than for any
rica had finally carried her point, and
throughout China, whether likin would be
other types of auxiliary craft.
he was confident that she would surely
abolished, and why the conclusion of the
The Poreign Minister admitted that the
exercise the right that she had gained.
Argreement had been hurried. when the
Government had attached special import-
Indeed, he believed that the American
controversy between the two Governments
ance to big cruiser strength, and it had
Senate would withhold ratification unless
that Government undertook to exercise
regarding the appointment of Mr. Obata
as Minister to China was still unsettled.
Baron SHIDEHRA replied that he could
taken special care to see that the new
would be seen from Mr. Wakatsukt's
Treaty ceased to be valid after 1936, 
this right. The interpellator feared that
not discuss the details of the new Sino-
statement at the London. Conference.
the present Cabinet was making light of
Japanese Tarift Agreement as it had only
Mr. UCHIDA feared that if Amerios
this point.
been provisionally signed. The govern-
built three big cruisers after 1933, as she
Baron SHIDEHARA (Foreign Min-
ment desired to settle the question of
had the right to do. her big cruisers would
ister), in reply, said that the Governiment
was not making light of the matter. It
Mr. Obata': appointment quickly, but it
had arranged for the conclusion of the
new Agreement before settling it, as it
increase from 15 to 18, with the resuls
that Japan would come to feel a serious
menace from that country. Was the Pre-
must, however, be remembered that Ame-
believed that its speedy conclusion was
mier ready to declare that even then
rica had the option of choosing between
called for.
Japan's defences were absolutely secure.
the building of these three big cruisers
The Foreign Minister, replying to an-
The PREMIER replied that even 
and the transfer of the tonnage of these
other question regarding the Russo-
American started the construction 
big cruisers to light cruisers. and it was
impossible to say at present which course
that country would eventually take.
among the naval strength actually pos-
sessed by the countries, it was more than
to count the vessels under construction
probable that at the next Disarmament
Conference America would include these
three cruisers in her naval strength. If
so. America would occupy an advantage-
ous position at the next Conference to
make Japan's position so much the worse.
Mr. UEHARA said that as it was usual
Baron SHIDEHARA replied that con-
Japanese fishery issue. said that it was
a very important matter. and negotia-
ment at the replies of the Premier and
tions were actually going on between the
Japanese and Russian Government re-
garding filshing grounds. Although he
could not make public the details of the
negotiations. he was ready to do all be
could to solve the question on terms
favourable to Japanese interests.
the Foreign Minister, which he denounced
as very unsatisfactory.
sittings at 1.30 after a recess. Mr. UCHI-
Mr. UEHARA expressed high resent-
On the Budget Committee resuming its
three more cruisers after 1933, such vessel
fled with the Government replies to ht
questions as the former interpellator, Mr
could not have any fighting strength whiè
they were under construction, and conse
Uehara, and declared that the Govern.
ment had disturbed the security of the
national life, and put the national de-
fences in jeopardy. He denounced the
quently Japan felt no menace.
refusal of the Government to answer ques-
tions as a glaring defiance of constitu-
tional politics.
Mr. UCHIDA was as much dissatis
sideration of the existing naval strength
DA SHINYA (Seiyukai) asked whether it
weighted with the Washington Con-
was true that the Foreign Omce hgd
ference, but not with the London Con-
made public the statement issued by Mr.
ference, and he believed that at future
Wakatsuki in London on February 11th.
conferences also it would weigh much with
To this the Foreign Minister replied that
the delegates of the participating Powers.
as it had been wired to Tokyo by Mr
The main attention of the Powers would
Wakatsuki after issuing it to the Press
be directed to the question of promoting
in London. the Foreign Offce had
international friendships for an amicable
published it. Was the Premier ready to
settlement of the disarmament question.
take responsibility for the contents of this
The Foreign Minister, asked by the
statement of Mr. Wakatsuki? Mr. Uchida
same Seiyukai member about the "big
asked In reply, the Premter sald that
navy" policy that animated America at
as it had been issued by Mr. Wakatsuki.
the London Conference, brusquely waved
the Government could not take re
aside his question, saying that he. as
sponsibility for it
Foreign Minister, could not posstbly
Mr UCHIDA took exception to this
criticise the national policy of America
reply of the Premier, and declared that
Mr. UEHARA: -National detence is a
it was only proper that the Government
matter of relativity. and how can thi:
should take responsibility for what fts
question be adequately discussed without
delegate had stated. Mr. Uchida further
reterring to the national policy of Britair
satd that he could not accept the
and America?
Premier's mere assurance that the
Mr HAMAGUCHI (the
Premier
national defence was secure under the
admitted the justice of Mr. Uehara':
London Treaty. and asked if the
contention that national defence is 
Premier had any intention to explain his
matter of relativity, and said that the
reasons for thinking so at a secret ses-
London Disarmament Treaty had beei
sion of the Committee.
made on such a basis. Neverthless hd
The PREMIER replied that he did not
could not discuss the nationta1 policy o
mean that he would refuse to answer any
Britain and America He could. how
questions asked about the contents of
ever. assure the interpellator that unde
Mr Wakatsuki's statement To the
the new Disaramament Treaty Japan wa
latter part of Mr. Uchida's question. he
not menaced by any other Power nor diu
replied that he had no intention of ex-
she constitute a menace to others. Ir
plaining his reasons for believing in the
short. her national security was perfect
security of the national defence at a
ly guaranteed under the new pact.
secret session
Mr UEHARA pointed out that the
army had a great deal to do with the
disarmament problem. and asked if the
Government had consulted the miitary
authorities about the matter

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34
SEE
500A.153/1043
FOR ....Mamo
FROM ....State..Dept.....
(Rober) DATED ..g.8.1930..Bd'a0
8
TO
1-1187
NAME
REGARDING: Comment on status of Japanese 8" gun cruisers now building.
comparison of Japanese allotments under Hughes' proposal.
ja

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
894.34/89
NOTE
SEE ....500.A.15.a..3/1275
FOR.
40
FROM .....Japan
(Forbes
) DATEDNOV.4.1930
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
510 millicn yen apropriated by Japanese Dit or allocated
for naval construction for fiscal years l93l-36 described as
savings made possible by London Treaty. Wor "savings" is this
respect is actually a misnomer. Comment on recently announced
naval replenishment program which calls for expenditure of about
505 million yen.
ja

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
500.A.15 a.3/1284
#60
SEE
FOR
FROM ....Jadan.
( O1. be.) DATED NOV.1o.1930
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Japanese naval replenishment progran.
COPY ATTACHED.
ja

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.83)
Tokye, Novemtes 28, 1000.
o. 00.
The Hemorable
The Seeretary of state,
Whing
3188
Supplememting uy despateh No. 40, Nevember 4, 1930,
I have the hemer to repert tizmt an agreeumms has beem
reeched botwsen she Gevermmnt and she navel ausherities
over the maval repleniehmemt pregres. It was announeed
arter a fimal weeting on the ssa iastane boteeen the
Minéster of Fimmnse and the Minister of arine thet
svs millsen yem of the sos mi lllem yeu released ty the
savnd Treety would be Gosuted to the Nary and the
ts of s illi yon epplted to t retustien

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.84)
the fellewing is a summry of the neval progrem es
publlahed Wy the Tokyo NICHI NICHI.
L. Gomstrmstien or wurahips(to be a aix-
yoar eontim!nc acec:t;:
210,000,000
Restrieted ategories Yon 160,00.
b. mrestieted etegorieso,o,
&. Epansion or naval airforoe:
100.00000
a. Establishmomt of 14 now
airplene squucrons Yen
b. Maintenamce expences
000
o. Fgui nt of ver hi,s
with airp)ameo
002
S. Medernimatiem of Navy:
5.000.000
. Airerart reearoh
.000.000
b. vodernization of ua 1tal
ships.
o. Hedernizatiom of  ar
ships, s minoellaneous
200
In addition  the total sum of 393 million yen, to be
eveilable int1l aren, 1937, the Finunce Department has pro-
mised to earmark Yon £5, 800, 000 for noval purposos to bo
availed of during tme following twe risoul yoars.
Reperts mgardine the mumber and types of roasols to be
bmilt are somewhat confliotins, but the nost reliable in-
formesiem 1mdiemtes that they w11l 1olude four 8,500-ton
eraisere urmed with aix-inen gunn, twelve 1,4o0-ton destroyexs
and siz sutmarimes(ome or 1,970 tome, s1x of 1,80? tome, and
twe of soo toms). In addition to these ships, whieh belong
te the restrieted eatsgoriee, it is understood thas four
mime layess, Ive mime-eveepere, and three gunboats will be
comstsestod.
the s9s milllen yem whieh the Gevermment has agreed te
crame te the megy is abost so madllsee yeu mere then the
riguse

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.92)
figare wmeh 1t had origially eet, but at the same time
16 1s 140 milllen yen less than the wam whieh the Mavy
origimally deanded and whmeh 1s hed given she publie
to understand was the irredueible minimmm. The Gevermems
thes omergee ngain a subetantial vietor rron the aftermath
of the Naval Treaty. ar. Hamagushi has aguin added to his
stature as a statemmans anki while the brunt of the work fell
upon Mr. Inoute, the Minister of Fimanee, who has new no
contender as the loading fimanoier of the country, it was
without doubt the resolute spirit and courage of the Prime
Minister whieh brought about a mettlewnt whioh has met with
Emmral approbation.
A sertain meamure of oredit  ust also sp to Admiral
Takmmbe, former Minister of Marine, for havim propared
the way for this settlement by reoving obatruotionists and
reealeitrants fron key poaitions in the Navy. The presenee
of an enlightened offieer suoh as Admiral Taniguchi in the
Maval staff, und of Adairal Abo, who had considerable ex
periense abroad before attending the London Conference, amd
Vieemidairal Kobayashi, one of the de legates to the Geneve
Cemferense, in the Ministry of Marine, made she Government's
problem more readily capable of solution.
It is not easy at thio oarly date to estimate the
impertamse of the strus le between the eivil and military
elemente over the Lendem Treaty! but if 1t be perai msible
to prejeet one's thoughts into the future, I should net
hesitate to predies thas the pest fee monthe will be reo
sastse ee eme of the cusstanding epecks in Jepan's pregrese
toceste a mse perseet corese  a demesreeg. It 1s

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.86)
4
met te te supposed thet the influenee of the wivil oloment
ever the military will not at tises be cheeked, as & Govern-
moat less resolate than the prosent ome miuht well have beem
tempted in the reeent siroumstanses to be oomesaive; but
the example set by r. guohi, oombined with the vigor
with whieh publie opiniom has shown its capae ty t su port
polieles calouluted to imure to : e nat lonal welrare, samnet
but eneourage successive (overnwmnts further to extend their
influense over the military.
Respeetfully yours,
mon or.
S(.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF TH
UNITED STATES
Tokyo, Januaf21, fes)
No. 110.
6
5
OF
STA
OFFICE
KEB 11939
FA
2031
FEB1031
Fixl. 16
MB
F
LUH 48HP NAJAS
894.34/91
FEB 11 1931
FER21 931
GLO ETATEE
CulpynFE
DEPT. OF ETA
FEB 21 931
Foreign Service Adnunistration
FEB 25 1931
The Honorable
The Secretary or State,
Washing.on.
Sir:
I have the honor to inrorn the Depurtment that on
January 15th the vernacular papers re orteu the arrest at
Seoul, Chosen, of certuin Japanese ho had attempted to
sell secret naval arawings to a foreigner. I asked the
Consul-General at Seoul whether he had any khol ledge of
the case, and I have today received his despatoh of
January 15th, copies of which and of the annexed memoranda
and letters are herewith enclosed.
It

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
It would appear that om November 13th last, a Japanese
alled on Mr. Vioe-Consul Stephan and offered to sell him
meeret drawings of the battleship MUTsU; that Mr. Stephan mot
only deelined to enter into any dealings but immediately
notified the Chosen Goverment-General of the cocurrence,
and that largely through the information supplied by Mr.Stephan
the Japanese implicated in this affair were arrested. Assuranoes
were given Mr. Stephan that neither his name or the Consulate-
General would "be mentioned or in any way involved"; but the
first reports a pearing in the press tated that the arrests
were made while the Japanese were secretly negotiating with a
foreigner, thus implying that the foreigner, whose identity
in such a place as Seoul oould easily be fixed, had displayed
some interest in acquiring the urawings. Later reports
mentioned the uct that the foreigner had reported the ciroum-
stanoes of the offer to the Government-General, but, as usually
happens in these instances, the press is reluotant to abandon
the sensational features and has not emphasized the irre-
proachable manner in whioh Mr. Stephan aoted. I have, owever,
suggested to the Consul-General tnat he make no further effort
to obtain correction in the press, as public interest in the
case seens to have disappeared.
It is my opinion that Ir. Stephan deserves colliendution
for the manner in vhich he handled this case.
Respectfully yours,
K.th.C
Received
W.Cameron Forbes.
ares:
Hated:

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.
110
Despatoh No.
From American Embassy
Tokyo.
C O P Y
American Consulate General, Seoul, Chosen,
January 15, 1931.
CONFIDENTIAL.
The Honorable
W, Came ron Forbes,
American Ambassador,
okyo,
Japan.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith copy of a
memorandum prepared by Vice consul stephan on November
13th last, while he was in cnarge or the onsulate ueneral,
describing the endeavor of one Kiyoshi Hasegawa to sell
to this office an alleged set of plans of a Japanese battle-
ship.
his memorandua vas iniorimlly and conriuentiully sent
to Mr. Y. Oda, nglish Sec etary in the Foreign afrairs Section
o. the Government eneral, under cover of a note, copy of vt ich
is enclosed, vhich was duly acno..ledged by r. Oda on November
l4th, in a note, copy of nich is lso enclosed.
This morning, January 15th, r. Oda cal led to see Mr.
Stephan, ostensibly in connection with certain other matters,
but on leaving directed attention to re orts appe aring in t he
press and purporting to give the facts of this incident. Mr.
tephan has prepared, and there is enclosed, a second memo-
randum duscribing Mr. Oda's call.
Translations of the press articles were in course of
preparation, for transmission to the Embassy, together with the
enclosures

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
enolosures already me ntioned, when the Embassy's telegram in
regard to this matter, dated ls noon today, was received.
Any further references to t..is matter in the local
press will be promptly re orted.
Respectfully yours,
(Signed) John K. Davis
nrican consul uneral.
Enclosures:
Copies memoranda und notes(2)
Translations  newspuper articles
with clippin:s.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
Seoul, November 1, 1930.
CONFIDENTIAL.
Dear Mr. Oda,
I am sending you nerewith sel -explanatory con-
fidential memorandum regarding one Kiyoshi asegawa
for such attention as may seem meet and proper.
In any action that may be taken in recard thereto,
I would especially request tha neither my name or this
office be mentioned or in uny way involved.
Yours respectfully,
(Signed) C.H. Stephan.
Y. Oda, Esquire,
V.C.
Forein Affairs Seotion,
Government Goneral of hosen,
Keijo.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
MEMORANDUM.
CONFIDENTIAL.
November 13, 1930.
Yesterday afternoull at about 4:45 two Japanese asked
to see me pe rsonally, privately, and secretly at my quarters.
I declined to see them, as ve were uxpecting sone suests; and
I told them that in any case I couldn't receive them at my
quarters, anu that ii they had anything tney  shed to talk
to me about they could see me at my orrice at nine o'clock
in tne .norning.
This lornin te"spokes an" or une to cane to ly
office and closea the upor oehine nin. I asked hii for nis
nane card, which is nereto a penaed, giv n the name
KIYOSHI HASEGAWA, of Yuho Shokai, Leather merchant, Kogane-
machi, 1 Chome, relephone H. 3787. He imediately luunched
into his "Private Secret" business, and said that he had a
enuine copy or the pluns or the readnought UTSU which
he wanted to sell. : promptly told nim inat neither I no
this orrice or my Government were interested in such plans
and t at he was layin himself open to very serious charges
by engaging in such practice; t hat he was not bein loyal
to his Emperor, and his people und his country. I asked
him where he got the idea that I would be interested in such
plans; then he said that he hadn'. the plans actually in his
possession, but that a frienu of his in Tokyo who is (or was)
employed with & prominent naval orricer had obtained the
plans and had written to him to try and dispose of them to
the Ame rican Consul here. I told him emphatically that this
office was not interested in any such practices, and I warned
h1m

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
him that he had better be careful.
He spoke English rather well, and I asked him where he
had learned English. he said that he had never been in
Amerioa; that he was formerly employed with the United States
Steel Products Company and later With the Truscon Steel Company
in their works at Kawasaki; that he had raduated from the
Commercial School at Yokohama, and had taken private English
lessons from an merican lady.
In leaving he asked me not vo mention the natter to
anyone and to keep nis secret.
C. H. S.
Appended: Card of
Kiyoshi asegawa,
Yuho Shokai,
Kogane-machi, 1 Chome,
Tel. H. 787.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
C O 卫 Y
Nov. 14, 1930.
Mr. C.H. Stephan,
Amerioan Consulate General,
Keijo.
Dear Mr. Stephan,
I wish to acknowledge receipt of your confiaential
letter and a self-explanatory confidential memorandum
of Nov. 13, regarding one Kiyoshi Hasegawa for such attention
as may seem meet and proper.
I have reported the matter to the Department c ncerned
and asked them that in any action that mi ht be tuken in
regard thereto, neither your name nor your o rice be
mentioned or in any way involved.
I assure y u that the thougntrul aotion is deeply
appreoiated and that you or your office will never be
involved with this matter.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) Y. Oda

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
MEMORANDUM.
Jen. 15, 1931.
This morning r, Oda called on me ostensibly with regard
to a certain citizenship and naturalization matter, but before
leaving direoted my attention to articles which uppeared in the
local CHOSEN SHI. BUN(Jap: nese) for the l th and in the IEIJO
NIPPo(organ of the Government eneral) todayregarding K.
Hasegawa, the person named in the confidential memorandum sent
him on November l3th last.
I expressed my surprise at this, and he was rather
chagrined that this information should have been published,
and added that he did not know when or vhy the ban on it was
lifted for publication.
He added that newspuper nen had been to see him in regard
thereto, and t at he told them he aid not know anything about
it and that, moreover, it was none of his af air.
(I had not seen the articles and my atuention had not pre-
viously been inviteu to them. I an havin: translations of them
made now).
Later I learned from our or ice boy that  reporter of
the CHOSEN SHIMBUN called yesterday alternoon fter the of ice
was closed and directed the boy's attention to the article
above referred to in whioh this consulate is mentioned. The
boy states the reporter asked him if Hasegawa ever called at
this offioe and if he knew anything about tho subject of the
artiole, to both of which the boy answered in the negative.
The reporter then asked to see the Consul Genaral, or the Vice
Consul

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Consul, and being informed that they both ..ere out and
that the office was closed, he aeparted and said he would
return again today.
J.H.S.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
FE
12
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
10
Tokyo, January 22, 1931.
No.114.
8
TeltTh
6
5
OF
FEB1031
SULLCIUR'S DFFICE
ILLA1 1931
Feny 16, 5 19
26Y931
30
Chu in FE
LA
Copy sent 6 0.4.9.
cnfidential
894.34/92
fe
egc.
DEFT
FEB 21 931
Foriy. Service administration
124.946
The Honorable
5193
FILED
he Secretury of state,
Vusning.on.
Sir:
/91
Referring to my aospatch No. 11o of Jaluury -1, 1951,
reporting the circumstances or the arrest of certain Japanese
for having atte upted to sell secret nuval ralings to Mr.
1/
Vice-Consul Stephan, I have the honor to enclose a copy or
a despatoh from the Consul-General at Seoul, requ sting my
instructions as to the course which he should pursue if
Mr. Stephan is requested to uppear in court to testify,
and a copy of the Embassy's reply, whhich will, I trust,
met with the Department's approval.
In

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
In the event that the Department should consider it unnecessary
or not desirable for ir. Stephan to uppear in court, it is re-
spectfully suggested that instructions be connuni cated to me or
to Mr. Davis by telegraph.
Respectfully yours,
H. Jameron Forbes.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of Consul-General's uusputch of Junuary 19,lsel
to the Embassy.
2. Copy of Embassy's reply of Junuury t, isel.
4 curhon Copies
nsedin DCR
1copy

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
Encloaure No. _
Despatch No. 14
From American Embasey
COP Y.
To':yo.
Anerican consulate General, Seoul, chosen,
January 19, 1931.
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honoravle
W. Cameron Forbes,
American Ambassauor,
Tokyo,
capan.
Sir:
Referring again to the Babassy's telerai uuted l noon
January lsth, una to y auspatcles of the loth una loth, ull
pertaining to the cuse or the Jupunese who atuempteu to sell
secret naval urawings, it is noted in one or the local verna-
cular newspupers for today that the case i te be c tinued as a
public trial, ulthough no ii or.ution in this conmection has been
officially received.
In order that tnis or ice may be in a position to comply
exactly vith the Embassy's desires, it is res ectfully requested
that it be instruc ed as to the course hich shoulu e rollowed
in the event that the Jupunese authorities request Vice Consul
Stephan to appear in court to give eviuence.
Respectfully yours,
(Signed) John K. Davis,
American Consul General.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 2
Pespation No.4
Prom American Embassy
Tokyo.
CO P X.
Tokyo, Junuury 22, 1931
Jphn K. Davis, Esquire,
Amerioan Consul-General,
Seoul.
Sir:
I an directed by the bassador to aokno.lede the
receipt or jour letter of the 19th instant, Pegardine the
course which should be followed in the event t.a the
authorities request ir. Stephan to ppeur in court to ive
evidence in the case of certain Jupunese a ested for attempting
to sell secret drawings.
So far us I can use rtuin, the roau  rinciple udopted
by the Department has been to ive consulur o lcers freedom
to promote the securing of justice in criminal cases. In
certain countries, eviuence prejudicial to the acsuseu is not
valid if the accusedhas not een pornitted to co.iront the
witness in court. In the case under question, it is obvious
that ir. Stephan's testimony will be of aterial inportance;
and while I ould not attempt vo pass upon the provisions of
Japanese lav in this regard, it vould seem highly desirable
for Mr. Stepham to coniorm his actions to the nature of the local
law in relation to the principle of evidence above-mentioned.
If Mr. Stephan's testinony may be invalidated or disoounted by
failure to appear in court, it is my opinion that he should
respond to a request to appear; but if, on the other hand, the
value of his testimony does not depend upon his appearance,
arrangements might be made with the court to take his testimony
at his office or residence.
In

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
In the case f Mr. Guenther, Jonsul-General at Frankfort,
cited on pages 81 to 34 of lioore's Digest, Volume V , the
Department took the position that a sumnons addressed to
a consular officer, containing "the menace of fine, arrest,
and imprisonment, not for any crime ....
....appeared to
be anting in the respect due from one frienuly goveriment
toward the consular or ieer  nother". I do not believe that
the Depart lent oulu welcome the raising of n issue over the
wording of u suions, but it is clear t at  luteipt to force
appearance by the enace of unisment ould be repunant.
Any possibility of uilliculty urising uver this point should
be examined s soon us pruuticasle und sone effort be made to
avoid it.
In brief, r. Stephan should, it s s to me, aprear
in court ir the unds of justice can be sucured; uut if his
appearance is unneces ary, it is ussunea tat the court ould
agree to suke his testimony clsewhere. With these susestions
in mind, you may be disposed to come to some satisfuctory
understanuing wit. the authorities.
I an, Sir,
Your oucdient servant,
for the abassador:
(Signed( Eugene H. Dooman
First Seoretary of Enbassy.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.93)
guok
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
FFICE
WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
irtment
PLAIN
OR
Washington,
16
February 14,
1931.
57
AMEMBASSY
192
FEB16 31
TOKYO, JAPAN
894.34/92
25
Your despat ches/No. 110 /of January k1/and/ No. 114
12506
of/January22.
os
The Department /considera/ any/further publicity/
highly undesirable. However, since thd Vice Consul) is/
subject to the/jurisdiction/of the local authorities/he
can not /refuse to(testify /if/ subpoenaed/or/requested/to
do so. If you/consider it probable/that the/Vice
Consul's)testimony/will be/required/ you are authorized
at your discretiond to bring /the mattef informally to
the attention of the/Foreign Officd explaining all the
circumstances of the case(and/suggesting that/if the
Vice Consul's testimony/should be regarded as/
indispensable, whether/taken in open/ court/ or at( the
consulate,/ steps (be taken by the authorities to
counteract/the/effect of/any/such/false/reports as that/
auk
reflecting upon the Vice Consul's integrity and
Hdby
purporting/to be/based on infonmatoon released/by the police.
3L1
Stuceson
894.32/92
FE: RSM: EJL
FE
Enciphered by
M.m.H
16.1931
18261
Sent by operator
M.,
19
Inder Bu.—No. 50.
1-138

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokye, February 19, 1931.
8o
No. 148.
Imvision of
FAR BASTERN APFAINS
11AH 14 1931
4gc.
WR 12
FE
SOL ITO'S OFFIC!
MAR 16 1931
DEP
894.34/93
MAR 1 7 1931
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
894.34/92
Sir:
With reference to the Department's telegram No. 25,
1/.
dated February loth, 5 p.m., I have the honor to enclose a
eopy of a despateh from the Consul-General at Seoul, with
whieh Mr. Davis transmitted a memorandum prepared by
Mr. Vice-Consul Stephan desoribing further developments in
the case of certain Japanese who endeavored to sell seeret
naval drewings to Mr. Stephan. Assurances have apparently
been given Mr. Stephan by the Government-Generel that he
would.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
-8-
would not be called as a witness in the trial of the
arrested Japanese.
Respectfully yours,
Eaim t. woulh
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Arfaires ad intorim.
lEnolosufe:
Copy of despateh from
Consul-General Davis at Seoul
and accompanying memorandum.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No.
From American Embassy
Tokyo.
CO P X .
Ameriean Consulate General, Seoul, Chosen,
January 28, 1931.
CONFIDENTIAL .
The Honorable
W. Cameron Forbes,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.
Sir:
Referring to this Consulate General's despatch
of the l5th instant, reporting the endeavor of a Japanese
to sell to this office an alleged set of the secret plans
of the battleship "MUTSU", and to the ensuing correspondence ,
I beg to enclose a further and self-explanatory memorandum
prepared by Vice Consul Stephan. It is believed that the
conversation which he reports has terminated the case, so
far as this office is concerned, and that there will be no
further developments worth reporting to the Embassy.
Respeotfully yours,
John K. Davis,
American Conaul General.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.97)
.
Jamary 87, 1931.
MEMORANDUM.
Mr. S. Hozumi, Chief of the Foreign Affairs Seetion
of the Government General, and Mr. T. Oda, English Seoretary,
acting as interpreter, called to see me, by previous appointment,
at the office this afternoon.
After thanking me for my action in sending them the in-
formation in regard to the Japanese who had offered to sell
secret plans of the MUTsU, Mr. Hozumi stated that when reporting
the matter to the Police Bureau, as was their duty, they had
taken what they thought was every precaution to ensure that
neisher I nor this office should be in any way involved. He
regretted sincerely and offered his apology, however, that for
reasons unknown to him and beyond his control, the matter got
into the press; an: that although neither I nor this Consulate
General was direotly mentioned the inference was bad enough.
I accepted his upology.
Then he explained that the matter may have gotten into
the prese through the Naval Intelligence Department in Japan,
to which it was referred by the Police Affairs Bureau. The
newspapers in Japan got it first, and then the local newspapers
took it up. And, to make matters worse, a friend of one of the
aecused is on one of the local newspapers. In any case, he
(Mr. Hosumi) was sineerely sorry that the matter got into the
papers as it did.
I

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
I mentioned that the last report in the matter indieated
that the aseused had been committed to public trial, and asked
if that meant I might possibly be called as a witness, and
whether press representatives would be allowed at the hearings.
He said that I would not be called as a witness and that he
would take steps to that end immediately; also, that the
hearings and proceedings would not be made public.
I also mentioned the possibility of personal danger to
me in the way of attempted revenge by the friends of the
accused; Mr. Hozumi replied that he did not think there was
need to be concerned, but that he would also mention this
phase of the matter when he took up the case again with the
Police Bureau and the Judicial Affairs Department.
Signed: C.H. Stephan.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
IN
Division of
OF
 FAB EASTERN AFFANS
12
1.1AH 19 1931
ANESEEMBASS
WABHINATON
No.44
6
March 18, 1931.
8.
TREATY DIVISION
MAR1931
MAR 20 1931
BEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUC 11,1931
DIVISION OF
the honor. by direction of my
894.34/94
Timent, to inform you, in accordance with the
provision of Article 10- (b) of the ondon laval
Treaty, that the "Sa iri," a destroyer of the
Imperial Japanese Navy, is now completed, the par-
ticulars of which are as follows:
The date of completion,
January 31, 1931
P1 191
FLED
Classification of tre vessel,
Destroyer
Standard dis lacement in tons, 1,700 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons,
1,727 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water-line,
115.30 metre
Extreme beam,
10.36 metre
Mean draft at standard
displacement
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.92)
Fx.
1 1981.
Em teply refer to
894.34/94
894.34/94
The Seoretary of St te presentsthis compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Navy and enoloses
for his information a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador at Washington, furnishing in accordance
with Article 10 (b) of the London Waval Tr aty partiou-
lars regarding the recently completed destroyer Bagiri"
of the Imperial Jananese Navy.
Bnclosure:
Copy of note from
the Japanese Ambassador.
88
WE
TD1 SY SI ED
3/20/31
41
A ue anpy of
the nid orig
nam
Au
Mar
FE
1981
1931.N

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.95)
March 3d119821.
Excellency:
I have the homor to aoknowledge with thanks, the
receipt of your note of March 18, 1931, furnishing
894.34/94
in accordance with Article 10 (b) of the London Naval
Treaty partioulars regarding the recently completed
destroyer "Sagiri" of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Accept, Excellenoy, the renewed assurances of
my highest consideration.
STIMBON
His Excellenoy
A true dopy of
the signed orig
Mr. Katsuji Debuchi,
Aabarsador of Japan.
894.34/94
Mer:27
gor

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
2
894.34/95
500. ▲ 15 A 3/1461
161
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Heville
) DATED
Mar. 9, 1931.
TO
NAME
1--1172
REGARDING: Debates and discussions in the Diet concerning the London
Naval Treaty and the issues growing out of it.
95
MON

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.84)
The Remorable
The Beeretary ef State,
7ht
3421
I have the honor to inform the Depm rtmont that
the London Waval Treaty and the iesues groming out of
it, sush as the mew maval eatimates ad the conatitu-
slenal right of the Coverument to detemmine the
streagth of the military sstabliakmente, have cooupied
a large pestlon of the time and attentlon of the Tlet.
Tho dobates lu thle reeara heve beer sarefully followed
ane what hes meemet to se matelal or or lnterees tn

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.86)
● 8 -
the Dapastment mas been ineesgerated inte the felleuing
parugraphs. The greater part of severel sessions of
Gush Houeu, five memslune of the huaget Jommittee of
the Nouse of Poore, and three es she Budget Gommittee
of the Lower Heuse were devetee te these matters, and
the coupusative urevity os this roport ma be consaoree
us indloatiun of the tise upout in roisurati us and vain
asgumontatiou.
A the Do artmunt is wware, the ovutitution does
not give the Diot y purtioipati in sne troaty-
making power, but it is xoverthelees yoa iolo for the
Diet to oxamine the Coveru ont regarding the morite of
a treaty. Prere is one vecusiun eanoti red by oustom
when the Govermmont's foroien yellulus : be e umined
on the floor or oithor uhamt:or. Immodiutoly aftor the
anmal uddremees of the  rlie Minlater, the Minister
for Poreign ffalro, and the Vinlator of Fi anae ure
delitered on she fimst day of the session, soveral days
are set asiar for laterpellationa on the dcrenees; and
it is in the form of interpellations on the addrems of
the Mimlst r for Foreign ffaire thar foreign poiicles
are att sked. Amother oppertunity presente iteelf, of
course, when the budgot is berere the House. Ia aaastiem
to shese eecasiaws, fereigm pellsies may be, and almaye
are, aritieined in the Budget Committess.
In intermatienal, as in military, affairs, the
party fellewe the Govemment. The parllementary syetem
may mo fairly be sald to have beem firmly establlshek.
Is is the cenjunessem of shese twe faets which render it
 diffsealt for ue to sagine the Geverament partielpe-
tang la a toeety e segegnent to ito party as to Latnse
800

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.86)
● ● •
ste membere to withdser their sappert as to censeive
o? e party abandening sts eabinet an socsunt of a
treaty with a forelgn power. It flows frem these eir-
eumsteneee that dieeusm on Ln the Lower House of a
treasy Ls not Laistated, as 1t may be in England, to
elasify the Govermment's pelley with regare so the
objees of the sreasy, but to haress and bedevil the
Gevernment until seme Ludiseretion may be utteree er
an admission made whieh may be used to the advantage
of the epposition. The Lobates in the House of Peers
are of a more merlous nature; and it was in shis
chamber, where the conservative element ls entrenehed,
that a genuine note of alarm and dissatisfaetion over
the terms of the Treaty of Lendon was sounded.
Even the couservative element, as distinguishel
from the reaetionary and military croups, have apparent-
Ly failed thus far to appreoiate the reasons mhieh in-
duced the Gevernment to aocept the Treaty. ne member
of the Hoase or Peere pointed out that it woula have
taken the Umited 3tates many years to build enough
cruisers to equal or surpass Japan in this eategesy.
and he belleved that 1f Japan hmsbanded its researees
and mmited mhile she Uaited States built up to Japan
it weuld have beem able te mintain the ratie it desired.
Not enly hua Japan, he addea, committed itselr te a
ratie mmieh its experts eonssdered inedequate, bat 16
was obliged te epend a Large mam of meney in the eese
strestion of vessels not so esrestial to the matienal
entety es hesvy eraissse. Baren sassehae's reply ts
wall mete motdng Ls tall:
Baee Ihte hae ast mae tue stenee
101

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.90)
●  ●
rivalry end thst 1t mese coneesslems which 13 need
nos have made. Hts eritielem mas in short thas
Japan was wanecessarily frightened and unnecessarlly
made censesslons. It is neealess te say that maval
competitian is of no advantage to any ene mation:
It prejudiees the intereste of all the mations mmich
beceme involved in the sempetition.
"To explain my statement that naval cempetitiem
is prejudieial to all the countriee whioh become in-
velred ins it and that all these countries should
well be frightened  naval competition, I need only
point out that if any ono power ogins to constreet
vesmels with an eye on another power the latter
pewer, mhatever its finansie! concition may be, mmst
respend to the challsnge to protect itu mational
defenses, it must begin to construot warships. Let
as sappese Shat A builds ten warehips with B as the
hypethetieal enemy. B will immediately respond by
buiiaiug firteen mhips and & courters by building
Swemty. Pinally, when the rivalry has eontimmed
until both powere are short of breath, the danger
of war becemes immiment. If ene examines the histery
uf mavul eompetislen, ene will find these facts
ulearly revealed. Considering the vltuation frem
the standpoint os eme the foels bound to do every-
sins pessible to preserve the peace of the merla,
the tendemey te wmich I have refesred mast be pre-
veated at all costs, mot enly for the sake of Jagan
but for the sae of the peeple of the weste. thss
La something which we have no ahosee but do do. I

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.85)
Gonterense and which comsimmed unssl the Lenden
Gosferenee.
"a Ls generally mom, the Jashtagten Naval
Tresty mas eetabllehed, bat ous ef shis freaty srew a
type of ereiser stdch is pepalarly knrm as the
dachiagten araiser type. this is the creiser with
a teaaage of 10,000 sons, mounting 6" gans. The
pemers began to build onis sypo of warahip and as
the gorme of daager were ebserved Ln these davelop
mente the Gemeve Cenference mas hele fer the purpese
os luisig shss cype of maruhiy. Unfortunately.
the Genevu Conferenee ended in fallare. Up to that
sime the Jaited States had met canstrusted any mhipe
of this type, but 1t rolt that if the other powers
ceatiusd to bulld at the rate they had been build-
Ing the United stutes soula be furoed to fullow. It
began then to build the 10,000-ton oraimer with
extmeereimary vigor and it now hus the muthority by
Law to eenatrast Swenty-three ships of this sype.
It had by law sns authority to construct swenty-shree
10,000-ten shipe 1f noshing were down to restriet
maral rivalry. Oa the other hand, it win impossible
te meep pablse epánsen La Earope fron responáing to
this measare, and nevel competitiom in eamest
premised to breek ous. It was in these eireumstasees
skat the Lemtem Cenferemee was epemed.
A
"Se have jes heare the epiaicn expressed that
oven 1s nothing had beom deme there woale heve boam
 mevel competassn. I canmet comeer La e epténiesse

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.84)
● ●•
thich wwule heave serseusly meneeee the pease of
the entire mrle. The Geverament parsieipased
In this werk inspired by me such igmoble mentiment
as fear and It was not fear which eaused Jagas to
make cemeesslens. It was the sreat resgonsibilsty
whick lay en our sheulders to preserve the peace of
the world which stimalated ne to ao what we could
to prevest rivalry ia creisers. It was the fim
cenvietion that the situation whieh threatened to
develoy mast be provented. It was not Japan alome
whieh mas astuated by these motives. The Umited
states and agland were aise resolved te put a step
te this hangerous situation. The three powere were
thas aoting frem a cemmon point of view. If ene
reads the entire sext of the treaty, one can find
its parpeses elearly revealed."
I was interested te note that Haron  nidehare is
of the epinion whish I have expressed in several of
my despatehes, and that is that the finaneial sen-
assiun of a country in not to De cunsidered she gange
ef ass abality er dutemination to build marshipe. I
ebmerved on several eecealuas befere the epening ef the
Lenten Genserence saas the Sinasslal resourees of Japan
aid mos prevent the Cevomsent frem buildins as maay
shige as is cemsidesed necessary to guarantee the neces-
eary security. This statement of Barem Shidehare may
mow be leaked apen as a seflsussou of the dotesmimatson
of he sevemmst te nalasasn sss pluee as a naves pover
as all ccste is the Lenten Conferesse preves unsnecesetal.
Resese passkng to the sext sestere es the aiscmssien,
betes mesen m to e os to coaetsn mhich et
pesetsto

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.86)
●●
pesstete amons certaln Japamese that Japen mme dree-
beaten ixte aeseptias toms mieh more Lasarfseiess to
Give the matlen full seeurity and that it was Japen
alese whieh make any caneessien at Lenden. I shall not
commens as longth upen these festures as they were ais-
eussed in detail surins the last session of the Ddet.
It may be muffieient merely to record the fast that
Baren shidehare vigereusly repualated the suggostion that
any preseare had beem brought to bear upon his Geverm-
ment. He admisted that there were some concessions make
from the terms whieh had been outliued as most deairable
fo: Japan te obtain but then he suid that if these tee
had been the irredmeible minimm it woula have been um-
neesmary for Japan to have attended the conferenee --
at would have been suffisient, he thought, for his
Government to have comeunicated thene terms to the
Gevements coneemed and to have notified them that
Japan would partieipate in no treaty whieh aid mot satis-
fy the conditions stated.
It should be stated parenthetisally shat the ismae
mised over the etatemant made by Baren Shidehare (See
the Emuaasy's despatoh No. 1bs, of February 9, lom),
that the Futificatiun of the Treaty by the Emperer should
be maffieient asmammee of the adequsey of the terme
cranted so Japan, mas breaghs to an ene an Febreary lsth,
then Earen Shidehase retrested the statement. Ee explained
An the Nease of reese that he had nst auteaded to inply
thas the mapeser is responeible for the Treaty, bus thas
the meansns mseh he endeavered to convey mas that the
Govesmmens wenla mos have cout the treaty to the agerer
 setslesten umiess it wore cosviase that the tomme

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.89)
The dleeuses on over the astust son mhsc woald
result frem the fallure of the fortheeming cemferenee
in l9ss to fermalate an agreememt mas most lateressing.
the Govemmment was repeatoaly eshed if at hae Geclaed
ference is respeet of heavy areleere. semiral Ane, the
Minister ef Marine, who spoke or the Gevermment, re-
massed that the conforenee was so far off in the fature
that it weald be sale for the Covermment lo formmlate
any plana; e great doal depended apoa she manner in
which the ether pewers exereised she righte given them
by the Lendon Treaty, and a great deal depended also
pon the advanees made in the techaieal arte. Visccunt
Inouye, a fermer maval effieer whe is now a member of
the House of peere, endeavored se aseertsin heu the
Govermment propesed to make good the differense of ten
per cent in the ratle with the United States betweem the
meveaty per eent laid dorm by the maval experts as the
irredusible minimem and the sixty per cont whieh it
would ebtain immedlasely after the expiratlon of the
London Treaty. dmiral Abe replied that the rasio weuld
Gepend entirely upon the manmer in which she United States
empleyed its alletment in heavy eruieers. Ne ndese
that there were pessibilities of no develeping the pewer
of the 6" gun that for eortaia purgeses the aifference
betesen a eraiser meusted wish 6" gans and amether meanted
with s" gune mighs well bo redueee to a megllgible fester
La the epesatsems es twe eppeeing battle flecte. No asdee
alee thas af the fortheemtns meval ceaferesse shoule prove
ahocssve and st agata the tated States hed emereleod ste

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.89)
woule elagee before Jagan coule makme good she Geftel-
aneses La its ratse woule not bo as crees as mas
cemerally believed. Some of the member hed expressed
the eptaton shat it weale reguire four yeare, bat smisel
Abe explainee that four yeare ss the time mommally ee-
eapied in construetins aheeny eraiser end Laelades the
sime reguired to design the ship and to colleet the
necessary mterial. If the designs were prepared befere-
hand and the material collected, an 18,000-ton araiser
vould ve completed in a peried whieh he could net state
definitely as it was a navel seeret, but it weale be
more than one year and less than two yeare. Re belleved
of war
that the possibilities arieing daring that period wore
negligible and that the defieieney grewing eut of the
Lenden Treaty was not partieularly serious.
The naval program referred to in the Embessy's
Leapateh No. 60, of November 18, 1960, hes been mab-
mitted to the Diet, and is in outline as followe:
Y
4 eruisers, with a unit sonnage
of agsóo tons and armed with
108.200.000
12 destreyere, with a uait tennage
65,840,000
of 1,400 tome
9 submarines
60,040.000
1 mine-layer ef 5,000 some
10,000.000
 mime-laying beats )
serpeso beate
10,000.000
5 mine-sveepess
Tosal
247,000,000
01,010,000

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.85)
● 20 •
In asastson to the twelve squedrens of airesatt
provided fer in this pregram, twe adaitional will be
provided aarins the fissel yeare 1967 to 198e at a
eoet of tom s0,400.000.
It will be notieed thas this pregram, whih is
aue to be completed by liareh 81, l9s6, does not ez-
haust the allotments made so Japan by the vashingten
and Lenden Treaties. There still remain eme airplame
carrier, oae mine-layer, and six destreyore for which
authorisation has mot been esmd. This fest was not
diselosed by the Gevermment unt1l it had been elieited
under luterpellation; and semething of a sensation re-
sulted when it was aiseovered that, despite the com-
plaints ever the inadequscies of the Lenden Treaty, the
Govermment aid net intend to baild at enoe ap to the
allested teanages. The Covermmest was pleced in a
allemme, as there was one greup censuring the Goverm-
ment for its megligence to provide funde to maintain
the Bavy at its full strength and another group wait-
ing for a statement, that further demands for naval
expenaitures wouled be mae, to eriticise the Ceverm-
memt for its failure to earry out one of the avemed
parpeses of maval limitatiom -- the reduetion of tam-
s8on.
Ceneludlns, auparently, thas the bost way out of
the aisfiealty weala be to take she publle inte ste
esnfsdence, the Govezmment expleined that 1t asa nos
maam to entanes the allotmente untsl 1s had matehed
the mess seesnt develepeonte La meval arehstectase, but
 m    e e  
aso

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.88)
•u•
nou pregrem La l9s6. Japan's rasse as agaimst the
United States La alrplame earriere ls about eighty
per come: ame Amirel Abe, the Goverament's spekes-
man, thought that this woule be adeguate for the
present. Re belleved that Japan would be repasa if
16 mmtehed fatare develepments in the arehitesture
of this type and baila ite last earrier only when it
was satlsfied shat the most effielent from had been
evolred. This was alee tree in the ouse of the mine-
Layer ana the six adaitional destroyers; but the
prineipal reason why these vessels were not being
construsted at the presant time was the desire of
the Zavy to have semething in reserve to keep the
shipbuilaing yards in eperation. He did not state
when the mecend program would be started, but be
intimated vaguely that the twe programs would everlap
in seme degree.
Roopeetfully yours,
Eawin L. Neville.
Ohargé a'arfaires ad interim.
A true opy of
10/1
Le sigued crigi-

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
IN
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAPANESEEMBASSY
AYG 18 1931
WASHINGTON
No. 1.×.5.
August 17, 1931
Retur to ID
TRERTY ONISTION
AUD
31
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
P.M
AUG 19 1931
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By direotion of my Got
OPERNRJPEAN AFFAIRS
MB
to inform you in accordance with the provisiots or Arti-
894.34
cle 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty, that the keel of
894.34/96
a submarine, tentatively named I 68, of the Imperial
Japanese Navy was laid down on June 18, 1931. The
particulars are as follows:
Classification of the vessel, .... Submarine
1,400
Standard displacement in tons
Standard displacement in metric tons 1,423
..101.000 metres
Length of at water line
8.200
Extreme beam
Mean draft at standard displacement 3.950
10 centimetres
Calibre of the largest gun
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high
consideration.
For the Ambassador:
1. Kalo
Coselor.
AUG
The Honorabke William R. Castle, Jr.,
Aoting Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.90)
61.15t 4:83
The Aoting Seoretary of State presents his compli-
ments to the Honorable the Searetary of the Navy and
894.04/96
enoloses for his information a copy of a note from the
Japanese Ambassador at Washington, furnishing, in acoord-
ance with Artiole 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty,
partioulars regarding a submarine tentatively named
I 6s, of the Japanese Navy, the keel of whioh was laid
on June 18, 1931.
Enclosure:
he sier prie
Copy of note
from Japanese
Ambassador.
122
TD:SYS:MM
8/20/31
PM
CR
e yik
11

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.91)
August 24 1981
Easelleney:
96
I have the hener to aoknowledge the reoeipt of
your note of Auguss 17, 1931 furnishing, in accordance
with artiale 10 (a) of the Londen Haval Treaty, partie-
ulars regarding a mubmarine, tentatively named I 68,
694.3.
of the Imperial Japanese Navy, the kecl of which was
la1d on June 18, 1931.
/96
Accept, Excellenoy, tho renewed assurances of my
highest oonsideration.
Acting Seoretary of tate.
His Exoellenoy
Mr. Katauj1 Debuohi,
Ambassador of Japan.
894.34/88
111
F
P14

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
AM RECD
Retirn to
ANESE EMBASSY
16191
WASHINGTON
entember
no.119
1951.
OM
DEPAN. MINT OF STATE
SEP 9 31
川i
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
honor
PM
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of
10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that the "Akobono,
destroyer of the Imperial.Japanese Navy, is now completed,
394.34/97
t
the particulars of which are as follows:
The date of completion,
July 31, 1931
sepP 1 2 1931
Classification of the vessel,
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons, 1,700 tons
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Depertment od State
Standard displacement in
metric tons,
1,727
SEP 8 41931
FILED
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
113.200 metre
Extreme beam,
10.300 metre
Mean draft at standard
displacement,
2.970 mmtre
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
A. Rebud.
The Honorable Henry L. Stimsom,
Secretary of State,

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.90)
TD
Bentemher 16 1881,
Ia reply refer to
TD 004.34/97
The Seeretary of State presemts his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Favy and enoloses
for his Department's information a copy of a note from
894.34/97
the Japamese Ambassador at Washington, incorporating
particulars (on completiom) regarding the AKEBonO, a
destroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy, which have
been furnished by the Japanose (Abvernment in acoordance
with Artiole 10 (b) of the London aval Treaty.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
Reptember 9, 1931.
A true eody a
uie ngi
inm!
Ser
keun
187
1881.
Wi
9/10/3
PM
m.m.N
C
1.1

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.92)
Sertember 18 1981.
Sxeelleney:
I have the homer to acknowledge, with thanks,
the rsseipt of your note wo. 119 of entember 9, 1931,
incorporating partioulars (on completion) of the
AXKBOMO, a destroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy,
whioh have been furnished by your Jovernment in
894.34/97
acsordance with Artiole 10 of the London Naval Treaty.
Aocept, Eroellenoy, the renewed assuranoes of
my highe t c  sider tion.
. L. STIMSON
His Excellepoy
nx. Katsuji Debuohi,
Ambasaador f Japan.
Routine
894.34/97
ap:
FE
W2
m.m.H
PM
TD: SYS: EDW
9/10/31

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
TREATY DIVISION
December 19 1951.
REOEIVED
C1-1931
27℃
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
EMBABSY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
Division of
o.145
STAIE
November 30, 1951.
DEC.82 1931
RECEIVED
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CU 1 1931
DEC 2 2 1931
DIVISION OF
Departmeng of State
Government, I have the honer
894.34
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of Ar-
tiole 1o (a) of the London Naval Treaty, that the keel
of a cruiser of the Imperial Japanese Navy (tentatively
894.34/98
called "No. 1") was laid down on October 27, 1931. The
particulars are as follows:
Classification of the vessel,
Cruiser.
Standard displacement in tons, 8,500 tons (present
plan)
Standard displacement in
metric tons,
8,636 tons (present
plan)
Principal dimensions:
Lefh at water line,
190.5 metre
JAN 8- 1932
GPILA
Extreme beam,
18.2 metre
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement,
4.5 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
15.5 centimetre
Accept,. Sir, the renewed asmurances of my highest
consideration.
Kdead
Semerable Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.89)
December 19 1981.
The Seoretary of State presents his oompliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Navy and enaloses
for his information a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador furnishing. by direotion of his Govermment,
894.34/98
in aoeordance with Article l0(a) of the London Maval
freaty, partioulars regarding a cruiser of the Imperial
Japanese Navy (tentatively called "No. 1"), the keel of
whioh mas laid on Ootober 27, 1931.
Enclosure:
From Japanese
Ambassador,
No. 145, November 30, 1931.
6.6
xuu
1931.
WE
FE
(m1
SR
111
TD:8Y8:MM 12/3/31.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.90)
December 191981.
Excelleney:
I have the honer te ackmowledge, with thanks,
the receipt of your note No. 145 of November 30, 1931,
894.34/98
furnishing, by direction of your Government, in aocord-
ance with Artiole 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty,
particulars regarding a aruiser of the Imperial Japan-
ese Navy, (tentatively called "No. 1"), the keel of
whioh wms laid on Ootober 37, 1931.
Accept, Exosllenoy, the renewed esmurenoes of my
highest consideration.
His Excellenay
Mr. Katemji Debucbi,
Ambaesador of Japan.
894.34/98
VAu
FE
IVE
K
TD:SYS:MM 12/2/8

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.95)
RECD
OF
NESE EMBASSY
WE
HINGTON
No. 155-
TREATY DWSION  Pooember 21, 1981.
DEC 22 31
DEC 23 1931
10
DEPAR(MENT OF STATE
to
feN
Sir:
ar
JAN 7 1932
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WESTERN :ROPEAL AFFAIRS
to inform you, in accordance with the provision or Artial
894.34/99
10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that the "Oboro," a
destroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy, is now completed,
the particulars of which are as follows:
The date of completion,
October 31, 1931
Classification of the vessel,
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons,
1,700 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons,
1,727
Principal dimensions:
FILED
Length at water line,
113.2
metre
Extreme beam,
10.3
metre
894.34
37
Mean draft at standard
mote
displacement,
2.994 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7
centimetre
500A15a3
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
KDrand
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson
Secretary of State.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.90)
Exeelleney:
I have the honer te seknewledge, with thanks, the
reseipt of your note No. 155 of Deeember 21, 1931,
894.34/99
imeorporating partieulars furaished by your Govermment,
im sosordance with Artiele 10 (b) of the Londom Naval
Treaty, regarding the Omomo, a destroyer of the Imperial
Japanese Wavy, wbiek you state is now oompleted.
Assept, Excelleney, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
SN
im
Roltind
His Excelleney
Mr. Katsuj1 Debuohi,
205
Ambadador of Japan.
ME
7E
TD:SYS:EDWO12/23/31

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
AM RECD
vision of
FAM LASILEARS
FLE
JAN 4 1932
Depertment of State
WE
ESE EMBASSY
HINGTON
January 2, 1952.
No.156
1931.
DEC 2231 TREATY DIVISION
DEPAn MENT OF STA
WESTERN
12/24/
DEC 29 1931
Sir:
DIVION OF
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
UPEAN AFFAIRS
By direction of my Government I have the
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of
Article 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that the
894.34/100
"Ushio," a destroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy,
is now completed, the particulars of which are as
follows:
The date of laying down of keel
December 24, 1929.
894.34
The date of completion,
November 14, 1931
lousto tis
mite
Classification of the vessel,
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons,
1,700 tons
500A15a3
Standard displacement in
metrio tons,
1,727
Prinoipal dimensions:
JAN 5 - 1932
Length at water line,
113.2 metre
FILED
Extreme beam,
10.3 metre
Mean draft at standard
displacement,
2.97 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest
consideration.
KDebnk
The Honorable Henry L. Stimmon,
Secretary of State.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.89)
Exeellemey:
I have the honer to sekeewledge, with thanks, the
reeeipt of your note No. 186 of Deeember 22, 1931,
insorporating partioulars furnisbed by your Govermment,
894.34/100
in ascordanee with Artiele 10 (b) of the London Maval
Treaty, regarding the USs10, a destroyer of the Imperial
Japamese Wavy, whish you state, is now completed.
Acsept, Exoellenay, the remewed assurances of my
highest eonsideration.
Xis Exeelleney
Roino
Mr. Katsuji Debuohi,
dun
Ambassador of Japan.
FE
WE
TD:SYS:EDm12/23/31
QNWB.
0

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.94)
Janvary a.1982.
In reply refer to
TD 894.34/99-100
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Navy and enoloses
for his information copies of two notes from the
894.34/100
Japanese Ambassador, dated December 31, and December 32,
1931, furnishing respeotively, partioulars furnished
by his government in acoordance with Artiole 10 (b)
of the London Waval Treaty, regerding the OBORO and
the UShIO, destroyers of the Imperial Japanese Navy,
whioh it is stated are now oompleted.
Enclosures:
Copy of Note No. 155,
Deeember 21, 1931, from the
Japanese Ambassador;
Copy of Mote No. 156,
December 32, 1931, from the
Japanese Ambassador.
Mr
1981.Pd
CMB
WEAA
7E
TD: 9Y9:1D /12/23/31

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/101
811.43 Navy League of the
despatch #400
SEE
FOR
U.8./29
FROM .. Japan
Forbes
....) DATED
Noc.30,1931.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Tonnage of Japanese war ships.
Table of ship construction enclosed.
101
mc

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 21 1932
WE
JAPANESE EMBASSY
Department of State
WASHINGTON
No
M
January 18, 1932.
TREWTY DI VISION
JAN19 $2
to EC
IJAN 20 1932
J4T
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By direction of my Government I have the
WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
F/LS
honor to inform you, in accordance with the Fovi-
sion of Article l0 (a) of the London Naval Treaty,
894.34
that the keel of a destroyer (temporarily called No.
894.34/102
61) of the Imperial Japanese Navy, is now being laid
down. The particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel,
December 12, 1931
Classification of the vessel,
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons,
1,378 tons (present
plan)
Standerd displacement in metric
1,400 tons (present
tons,
plan)
Principal dimensions:
not
Length at water line,
103.0
metre
Extreme beam,
9.95
metre
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement,
2.68
metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7
centimetre
FILED
8
71932
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
The Honorable Henry L. Stimmom,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.84)
26 1008.
January
She sovetey e state prnte he ptste
meBesershte the toeretery ef the Tony and eesteed
 te Safetten a copy of a sote fron the Japenese
Amnbesaader at Tachington, furaisking to the Govezamses
894.34/102
of he Waited states by direetion of his Gevesment,
 asserdense with the provision of Artiole 10 )
the Lendee Maval Treaty, partieulars regarding a
destseyer (temperarily ealled No. 61) of the Imperial
Japenese Navy, the keal of whieh is now being laid
melesure:
tree the Japesese
ades. Jammary 18,
A true popy of
the signed arkey.
Inal
1932.
1-23-32
somp
RAm
MAF
WE
828
FE
cmB

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.93)
January
28 1982.
Exeellensy:
I have the bemor to moknowledge, with thanks, the
reeeipt of your note No. 4 of January 18, 1932, furnish-
894.34/102
ing to the Governmont of the United States by direetiem
of your Goverament and in accordanee with the provision
of Article l0 (a) of the Londen Naval Treaty, particulars
regarding a destroyer (temporarily called No. 61) of the
Imperial Japanese Navy, the keel of whioh is now being
laid down.
Accept, Excellenoy, the renewed assuranoes of my
highest oconsideration.
W. R. CANCL.
A true oopy of
they st orig
His Kxcellenoy
Mr. Katsuj1 nebuohi,
A
Ambesrador of Japan.
NE
FE
994.34/103
TD: SYS: EDW
2/20/33

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
IN
Division of
OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AN 26 1932
JAPAG
WAS
Department of State
No. 
January 23, 1932.
JAN 2 3 32
Sir:
Janvary 29 1982.
By direction of my Government I have the
natc
honor to inform you, in accordance with the pro-
vision of Article 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty,
894.34/103
TREATY DIV SIONK
that the keel of a destroyer (temporarily called No.
60) of the Imperial Japanese Navy, is now being laid
sme
DEPARTMENT OF STÁTE
CaytoJAT
down. The particulars are as follows:
ETC
The date of laying down of keel, December 15, 1931
Jilo
Classification of the vessel,
Destroyer
Tiuec
Standard displacement in tons,
1,378 tons (present
plan)
Standard displacement in metric
tons,
1,400 tons (present
plan)
Principle dimensions:
Length at water line,
103.0 metre
Extreme beam
9.95 metre
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement,
2.68 metre
89
FILD
Calibre of the largest gun,
1932
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the Ambassador:
1. Kate
Counselor.
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.91)
January 29 1982.
In reply refer to
TD 894.34/103
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Navy, and enoloses
for his information a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador at Washington, furnishing by direction of
894.34/103
his government, and in accordanoe with the provision
of Artiole 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty, partiou-
lars regarding ta destroyer of the Imperial Japanese
Navy (temporarily called No. 60), the keel of whioh is
now being laid Mown.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
January 23, 1032, No. 5.
Rsm
12
7E
WE
TD: SY: EDW
1/25/33
Jan.
m.m..
Cm3

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
January 29 1952.
Excellenoy:
I have the honor to aoknowledge, with thanks, the
receipt of your note No. 5 of January 33, 1932, furnish-
ing by dirootion of your Government, and in accordance
with the provision of Artiole 10 (a) of the London Naval
Treaty, particulars regarding a destroyer of the Imperial
894.34/103
Japanese Havy (temporarily called Mo. 6O), the keel of
whioh is now being laid down.
Accept, xcellenoy, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the Secretary of State:
W. R. CATLE. JL
His xcellency
x. Katsuji Debuohi
WE

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.94)
fory in Wtt
DAvision of
TREMVISION
OF
FEB 16 12
JAR
ER15 1932
ZT
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No.13
FEB 1 3 32
WAT
FEB 18
Sir:
WESTERN LOROPEAN AFFAIRS
By direction of my Government I have the
honor to inform you, in accordance with the pro-
vision of Article 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty,
894.34/104
that the keel of a cruiser (temporarily called No.
2) of the Imperial Japanese Navy, is now being laid
down. The particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel, December 24, 1931
Classification or the vessel,
Cruiser
Standard displacerent in tons,
8,500 tons (present
pln)
Standard displacement in metric
FILED
tons,
8,636 tons (present
phgn)
33
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
190.5 metre
Extreme beam
18.2 metre
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement,
4.5 metre
Calibre of the largest gun
15.5 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Kdeaung
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Seeretary of State,
Washington

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.94)
February 18 1933.
Excelleney:
I have the honor to acknowledge the reoeipt of
your note No. 13 of February 12, 1933, furnishing by
dirootiom of your Government, and in aocordance with
894.34/104
the provision of Article 10 (a) of the London Maval
Treaty, partioulars regarding a oruiser of the Im-
perial Japanese Navy (temporarily called No. 3), the
keel of which is now being laid down.
Thanking you for your transmission of this in-
formation, of which due note has been taken, I avail
mymelf of the opportunity to offer to you, Exoellency,
the renewed asaurances of my highest consideration.
For the Jecretery of State:
W. R. Castle.
Feb
Hie Mxcellency
Mr. Pateuji Debuchi
1988.
Ambessavor.
894.34/104
TD: SYS: EDW
02/.6/32

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.96)
ENT OF STATE
EMBASSY
FEB 18 122
D
HINGTON
EB1332
DIVISION OF
Khac
WESTERN LUROPEAN AFFAIRS
March
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No./2
FEB 13 32
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIBS
February 12, 1932
te
FEB 1612
Sir:
By direotion of my Government I hhte the
ebruary 18 1982.
F
honor to inform you, in accordance with the pro-
R
vision of Article 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty,
894.34/105
that the keel of a submarine (temporarily called
No. (a) 69) of the Imperial Japanese Navy, is now
being laid down. The particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel, December 22, 1931
Classification of the vessel,
Submarine
Standard displacement in tons,
1,400 tons (present
plan)
Standard displacement in metric
tons,
1,423 tons (present
plan)
FEB1 919321
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
101.0 metre
Extreme beam
8.2 metre
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement
3.95 metre
Calibre of the largest gun .
10.0 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson.
Seeretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.94)
"ebruary 10 1968.
Im reply refer to
8D 894.34/104 /05
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy, and en-
oloses for his inform tion and the files of the Havy
Department, copies of two uotes numbered 12 and 13,
frcm the Japanese Ambassador at Nashington, respeo-
tively furnishing, by direotion of His Majesty's Gov-
894.34/105
ern ent, and in accordance with the provision of
Article 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty, particulars
regarding a submarine (temporarily called No. (a) 69),
and a crutser (temporarily called No. 2), of the
Inperial Japanese Navy, the keels of whioh are now
being laid down.
Enclosures:
From Japanese abassador
No. 12, February 13, 1932;
From Japanese Ambassador
No. 13, February 12, 1932.
lin
E
0
FE
W
2/16/3
M.
TDI SY3: RDW
n.mhN

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.92)
February 18 1933.
Excelleney:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of
your note No. 12 of February 13, 1932, furnishing by
direotion of your Government, and in accordance with
894.34/105
the provision of Artiole 10 (a) of the London Naval
Treaty, particulars regarding a submarine of the
Imperial Japanese Mavy (temvorarily called No. (a) 69),
the keel of whioh is now being laid down.
Thanking you for your transsission of this informa-
tion, of which due note has been taken, I avail myself
of the opportunity to offer to you, xoellenoy, the
renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
For the eoretaty of tate:
W. R. Caevl0.
Yis Excellency
MHT
TD: SYS: EDW
manN.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.96)
IN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OF
MAY 18 1932
OF
WE
KINGTON
COM.
No. 41
8x
May 9, 1952.
MAY 1032
Sir:
By direotion of my Government I have the honor
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of Ar-
F/HS
ticle 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that the con-
struotion of the "Atago," a oruiser of the Imperial
894.34/106
Japanese Navy, is now completed. The particulars are
MAY 1 4 1932
s follows:
TREATYVISION
The date of laying down of keel, April 28, 1927.
MAY 19 1932
The date of completion,
March 30, 1932.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Classification of the vessel,
Cruiser.
Standard displacement in tons,
9.850 tons
Standard displacement in metric
tons,
10.008 tons
Principal dimensions:
FILED
19 1932
Length at water line,
198 metre
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Extreme beam,
19 metre
MAY 14 1932
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement,
5 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
20 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
high consideration.
K.debud
The Honorable William R. Castle, Jr.,
Acting Secretary of State,
Washington.
7

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.92)
MAY 14 1932
The Aeting Secretary of State presents his oom-
pliments to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy
and enoloses herewith for his information a copy of
894.34/106
a note from the Japanese Ambassador at Washington,
communioating partioulars, furnished by his Govern-
ment in acoordance with the provision of Article 10
(b) of the London Naval Treaty, regarding the Japanese
oruiser ATAGO, the construction of whioh, it appears,
was completed on Maroh 30, 1933.
Enclosure:
From the Japanese Ambassador,
No. 41, May 9, 1932, copy.
me
4.11
171888
CTHB
TD:8YS:EDW-5/11/32
m.m.H

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.94)
MAY 14 1982
Exvellaney:
I have the honor to acknowledge the reseipt of your
note of May 9, 1932, communicating partioulars furaished
894.34/106
by your Government in mecordance with the prevision of
Artiele 10 (b) of the London Waval Treaty regarding
the Japanese eruiser AfAGO, the construetion of which,
it appears, was completed on March 30, 1932.
Thanking you for your transmission of the informa-
tion, I avail myeelf of the opportunity to offer to
you, Exesllenoy, the renewed assurances of my highest
considoration.
W. R. Castle, Jr
Acting S
His Excellency
Katsuji Debuohi,
Ambaseador of Japan.
May17 1932
.PM
TD:SYS:EDWO5711/32
W.mH

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.93)
JE
GUY M.WALKER
2012
37O LEXINGTON AVENUE
8y
NEW YORK
THE UNDER SECRETARY
May 2, 1932
MAY 14 1932
Dach'd. may 19
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1937
Lom
Hon. William R. Castle,
MAY 14 1932
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
C07
Dear Mr. Castle:
894.34/107
I enclose a clipping from the New York Times of
April 8th announcing the construction to Japanese order of two
fast 'froighterst for Pacific service.
These 'freighters! are of 9000 tons and re said
to have small accommodations for passengers, but it is hinted
that gun emplacements are placed along the decks and sides.
Can it be possible that you are being deceived
and that in the guise of building 'freighterst with a speed of
nineteen knots, the Japanese are building some fast warships
in violation of their treaty agreement?
Remeber I have been telling you, and I tell you
agein: we cennot escape war i th Japan.
Wpil 832
4.7. hu
Very truly yours,
EAMSHIPS AND TOURS
43
JAPANESE ORDER SHIPS.
Line has pin between the Orient and
New York via Los Angeles only. It
Two Fast Motor Freighters to Be
i: understood that after completion
of the new veosels calls at this port
Built for Kokusai Line.
will he mede.
Special to The New Yonk Times.
SAN FRANCISCO. April
Swayne & Hoyt, agents on this con
for the Kokusai Line, have 
ceived word that the line had phaced
orders for the construction of two
pew motor. freighters of 9,0to ton:
deadweight copacity and a crtising
speed of ninetéen knots. Accomnno-
dation for a few pas sengers is in-
cluded. an innovation in freighting.
The two new ships wilt prohabty
have severnt knote tuw tod away for
use if necsry and it is hinted
here thot gaon emmlacements might
Blossonm alonéa decks and sides under
certain circuntstance:.
For more toan o yrar the Kokusot

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.96)
May 20 1982.
reply refer to
S
Mr. Guy . Walker,
370 Lexington Avenue,
894.34/107
New York City.
Sir:
The reseipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of May 2,
1938, addressed to Mr. Castle, regarding a newspaper
report conoerning the buiiding of two Japanose freight
ships.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
SCH
Stanley K. Hornbeek
Chief,
Division or Far Eastern Affairs.
A true copy of
FE:JKO:LM
FE
the signed
5/10/32
CR
MAY 20.1932

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
WE
WASHINGTON
TREATY DIVISION
No.62
Division of
JUN 22 1932
JU8132
ETe
JUN 29 1932
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By direction of my Government I have the honor
1
LS
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of Ar-
ticle 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that the con-
F94.34
struction of the "Sazanami," a destroyer of the Imperial
894.34/108
Japanese Navy, is now completed. The partioulars are
as follows:
The date of laying down of keel,
February 21, 1930.
The date of completion,
May 19, 1932.
Classification of the vessel.
Destroyer.
Standard displacement in tons,
1,700 tons
Standard displacement in metric
1,727 metric tons
tons,
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
113.2 metre
Extreme beam,
10.3 metre
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement,
2.97 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest
KDebug
consideration.
07600
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Seoretary of State,
Washington,

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.94)
JUL 1 1932
894.34/108
The Searetary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Searetary of the Navy and enoloses
for his information a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador at Waehington, inoorporating particulers
conoerning the Japanese destroyer SAZaNANI, which it
is stated is now sompleted, furnished by his Government
in accordance with Artiole 10 (b) of the London Waval
Treaty.
Enclosure:
Copy of note
June 30, 1932.
foue
TDI SY SIEDW
8/29/33
PE
m.m.A.
20 RC
JUL 1 1982.PM

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.94)
JUL 1 1932
Exeelleney!
894.34/108
I have the honor to soknowledge, with thanks,
the reeeipt of your mote No. 82 of June 30, 1932,
furnishing, in accordance with the provisions of
Artiole 10 (b) of the London Maval Treaty, partieu-
lars concerning the SAZANAMI, a destroyer of the
Imperial Japanese Navy, which you state is now com-
pleted.
Aocept, Excellenoy, the renewed assurances of
my highest consideration.
For the Seeretary of State:
B. Soutte,d
His Excellenoy
Mr. Katsuji mebuchi,
Ambassador of Japan.
894.34/108
TD: SYS:EDW) 6/29/33

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
MF
JUL 12 1932
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WashInGTONaly
11 1982.
No.68
TREATK brviQUN
July, 6, 1932.
Division of
7-1932
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL -5 32
e
JUL 7-18320
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By direction of my Government I have the honor
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of Ar-
ticle 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that the con-
894.34
894.34/109
struction of the "Takao," a oruiser of the Imperial
Japanese Navy, is now completed. The particulars are
500, A 1s a 3 loav.
as follows:
The date of laying down of keel, April 28, 1927.
The date of completion,
May 31, 1932.
Classification of the vessel,
Cruiser.
Standard displacement in tons,
9,850 tons
Standard displacement in metric
FILFD
tons,
10,008 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at wa ter line,
198 metre
Extreme beam,
19 metre
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement,
5 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
20 centimetre.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest
consideration.
KRed
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.91)
In reply refer to
TD 894.34/109
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and enoloses
for his information a copy of a note from the Japan-
894.34/109
ese Ambassador at Washington furnishing, in accordance
with the provisions of Artiole 10 (b) of the London
Naval Treaty, particulars, on ompletion,of the TAkAo,
a cruiser of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Enolosure:
Copy of despatoh.
iu
WC N
td:8YS;mkm 7/7/33
m.m.1d.
N 
11 1962.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.92)
Excellenoy:
I have the honor to acknowledge with thanks the
receipt of your note No. 68 of July 6, 1932, furnish-
894.34/109
ing, in accordance with the provisione of Artiele l0 (b)
of the London Naval Treaty, partioulars, on completion,
of the Takao, a cruieer of the Imperial Japanese Mavy.
Accept, Excellenoy, the renewed assurance of my
highest considereation.
Tor the ecrotery of State:
His Excellency
Kateuji Debuchi,
M
Ambasssdor of Japan.
894.34/109
MAF
WE'
td:SYS:mkm
7/7/38
m.m.H.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.94)
干0
Diviston of
7E
FAB EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
0.80
REOEIVED
AUG 2 - 1932
TREATYDIYISION
REURIVED
1932
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
AUG31932
CON
DVISION OF
ETeAn
F/G
PARTMENT OF STATE
By direetion of my Government I have
AUG § 192
ONISION OF
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provis
894.34/110
of Article 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that
note
the construction of the "Maya," a oruiser of the
Imperial Japanese Navy, is now completed. The par-
tioulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel, December 4, 1928.
The date of completion,
June 30, 1952.
Classification of vessel,
Cruiser.
Standard displacement in tons,
9,850 tons
UGI 11982
Standard displacement in metrio
FILED
tons,
10,008 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at wmter line,
198 metre
Extreme beam,
19 metre
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement,
5 metre
Calibre of the larspst gun
20 centimetre.
Ascept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Kdebua
Eenerette Eery L. Stimseey

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.94)
B
Anonst 11 1059.
F/HS
Emeelleney:
I have the honor to acknowledge, with thanks, the
recsipt of your note of August 1, 1932, ineorporating
894.34/1
partioulars, on completion, of the Japanese eruleer
MAYA which have been furnished by your Government in
ascordance with Artiole 10 (b) of the London Naval
Treaty.
Accept, Exeellency, the renewed aseurances of my
highest oonsideration.
W R. CortTe. jr.
Aoting Seorotary of State.
His Excellenoy
Katsuji Debuchi,
Ambassador of Japan.
1958
8/4/33
FE
WE
m.m.AI.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.93)
11 1989.
August
In reply refer to
TD 894.34/110
S
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
894.34/110
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and encloses
for his information a copy of a note from the Japanese
Ambassador at Washington, furnishing, in accordance
with Article 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, partiou-
lars, on completion, of the Japanese oruiser MAYA.
Enclosure:
Copy of note,
August 1, 1932.
TD: eYEI ED  8/3/32
m.m.H.
P.M
07℃
32.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.96)
7E
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
WE
JAPANESE EMBASSY
AUG 6- 10024
WASHINGTON
no. 8/
August 1, 1952.
REOEIVED
TREATY DIVISION
AUG 2 - 1932
RECRIVED
1932
1932
SECRETARY'S OFFICE
DEPARTBENT OF STATE
F/G
By direetion of my Government I have the
homor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
AUG 9
of Artiole lo (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that
894.34/111
WEST
the construetion of the "Chokai," a cruiser of the
Imperial Japanese Navy, is now completed. The par-
tion
894.34
tioulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel, March 26, 1928.
The date of completion,
June 30, 1932.
Classification of vessel,
Cruiser.
Standard displacement inttons, 9,850 tons
Standard displacement in
10,008 tons
metrio tons,
Prinoipal dimensions:
Length at water line,
198 metre
Extreme beam,
19 metre
119nv
Mean draft at standard dis-
5 metre
placement,
Calibre  of. the largest gun, 20 centipetre.
Aocept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideretion.
Mesereble Bemry L. Stmsor,

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
F/HS
Exselleney:
I have the honor to aoknowledge, with thanks, the
894.34/11
recei pt of your mote of August 1, 1933, incorporating
partieulars, on completion, of the Japamese sruiser
CHOKAI whioh have been furnished by your Govermment 1n
accordanee with Artiole 10 (b) of the Londom Waval Treaty.
Ascspt, Ezoellenoy, the renewed assurances of my
highest oonsideration.
Aoting Beoretary of tate.
His Exoellenoy
Katsuj1 Debuohi,
Aubassador of Japan.
894.34/111
1978
TD:SYS:EDW8/4/33
FE
WE

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.92)
S
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
894.34/1
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Navy and enoloses
for his information a copy of a note from the Japansse
Ambassador at Washington, furnishing, in accordanee
with Article 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, partiou-
lars, on completion, of the Japanese cruiser CHOKAI.
Enclosure:
Copy of note
August 1, 1933.
AUG11 1933.
AUG 12 1932.
tree cors
be simcd 
013132
TDI SY 3IEDA
m.m.d.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.96)
Diviston of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAI EASTERN AFFANS
SEP 21 1932
SEP 17
JAPANESE
DESTERNTROEAN AFFAIP
No. 104
TREATY DIVISION
SEP 13 1932
ihe
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.34
note
lon stur tion
By direction of my Government I have the honor
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of
800A15a3
Article 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that the
894.34/11
construction of a Submarine, No. A-5, of the Imperial
Japanese Navy, is now completed. The particulars
are as follows:
2
The date of laying down of keel October 30, 1929
The date of completion,
July 31, 1932
Classification of vessel,
Submarine
Standard displacement in tons,
1,955 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons,
1,986 metric tons
SEP 9 2 1982
Principal dimensions:
FILED
Length at water line,
97.5 metre
Extreme beam,
9.22 metre.
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement,
4.8 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
1. 11ai
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Seoretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.97)
F/HS
The Seoretary of State presents his oompliments
to the Charg6 d'Affaires ad interim of Japan and
acknowledges, with thanks, the receipt of his note
394.34/112
No. 104 of 3eptember 12, 1932, inoorporating partiou-
lars,on completion, of submarine No. A-5 of the
Imperial Japanese Navy, whioh have been furnished by
the Government of Japan in acoordance 1th the pro-
vision of Article 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty.
Department of itate,
ashington,
894.34/113
TD8Y:D914/3

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.97)
Division of
FAB EASTERN AFFANS
SEP 171
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
September 12. 1932.
TREATY DIVISION
SEP 20
4.3
SEP 13 1982
sir:
8TC
arte.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By direction of my Government I have the holor
A15a3
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of Article
10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that the construction
894.34/113
of a Submarine, No. A-67, of the Imperial Japanese Navy,
is now completed. The particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel, October 14, 1929
The date of completion,
August 8, 1932
Classification of vessel,
Submarine
Standard displacement in tons,
1,638 tons
Standard displacement in
metrio tons,
1,664 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line
97.7 metre
SFF 8 2 1932
Extreme beam,
8.2 metre
FILED
Mean draft at standard displace-
4.83 metre
ment,
Calibre of largest gun,
10. centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
1. Kato
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.88)
20 1982.
rber
In reply refer to
TD 894.34/112 - 113.
H
The Seoretary of State presents his oompliments
S
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and enoloses
herewith oopies of twc notes from the Japanese Charg
894.34/11
d'Affaires ad interim at Washington, both dated Septem-
ber 13, 1933, furnishing particulars, on comnletion,
of two submarines of the Imperial Japanese Navy, No. A-5
and No. A-67, respeotively. These particulars have
been supplied by the Japanese Government in accordance
3
with the provision of Article l) (b) of the London
Naval Treaty.
Enolosures:
From the Japanese Embassy,
No. 104, September 12, 1932;
From the J panese Embassy,
No. 105, September 12, 1932.
77
MMF
huah
9/14/33
W
不
nlc

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.93)
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
F/HS
to the Charge d'Affaires ad interim of Japan and
acknowledges, with thanks, the reoeipt of his note
No. 105 of Beptember 12, 1932, incorrorating particu-
894.34/113
lara, on completion, of ubmarine No. A-87 of the
Imperial Japanese Navy, whioh have been furnished by
the Government of Japan in accordance with the pro-
vision of Article l0 (b) of the London Naval Treaty.
Deportnent of itate,
CR
4932.
a11tn,
894.39/113
TD:SYU:FDW
9/14/32

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
IN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFS
SEP 29 1932
BSY
AáBHINGf
DIVISION OF
WESTREN EYROMAND
.113
Division of
SEP 2 3 1932
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SP2332
SEP 24 1932
871
sir
eptember 28 1982.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Depertment of State
Ry direetion of y Goverament I have the hemer
to inform you, in accordance with the provisièm of Artiele
10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that the construetion
894.3
of the "Ikasuchi," a Destroyer of the Imperial Japanese
Navy, is now completed. The partioulars are as follows:
The date of laying dom of keel, Marah 7, leso.
The date of completion,
August 15, 1952.
Classification of vessel,
Destroyer.
Standard displacement in tons,
1,700 toms
standard displacement in metrie
1,727 metrie tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
118.2 metre
OCT4
Extreme beam,
10.3 metre
Mean draft at standard displace-
mont, . . . .
2.97 metre
103
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7 centimetre
Lecept, Sir, the renewed assuranees of my
S. Karo
hiskest cemsideration.
Chargs d'Affaires ad interim
The Honorable Meary L. Stimsen,
Seesetary of state,
Washingten.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
September 25 1972.
Im reply refer to
TD 894.34/114
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
894.34/114
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and encloses
sor his information a copy of a note from the Japanese
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim at Washington, which is
undated but was received at the Department of State on
September 23, 1932, incorporating particulars, which
his Government has furnished in accordance with
Article 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty,regarding
八
the IKAZUCHI, a destroyer of the Imperial Japanese
Haty, which is stated to be now completed.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Embassy,
No. 113, undated but
received at the Depart-
ment of State on Sep-
tember 33, 1933.
8y8
TD:SYS:EDW
9/23/32

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.95)
sir1
The receipt is aoknowledged on September 23, 1933,
of your umdated Note No. ll3, oommunicating partieulars,
894.34/114
on completion, of the Japanese destroyer IKAZUCHI, which
have been furniehed by your Government in acoordance with
the provision of Article 10 (b) of the London Naval
Treaty.
Thanking you for your transmiseion of t is informa-
tion, I avail myself of the opportunity to offer to you,
Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration.
For the Seoretary of State:
r. otometeu Kato,
Chargó d'Affairee a inteyim of Japan.
894.04/114
FE
9/23/32
TD:SYS:EDW

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.91)
REOETVED
OCT 1 1932
Now York City.
DIVIBION OF
Beptember 28,1962.
6ct4
Al
STHIOTLY CONFIDRNTIAL.
TMENT OF STATE
SEP 21932
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Beeretary to
CT -3 1932
The President ef The United stateX
Department of Shape
Weshingten,D.0.
eil
Dear Bir,
I beg to thank you for pour nete iny
Richey
that my letter has been passed on to the rarm Board.
May I take the liberty of stating that, as a mattakdest
of matienel secarity(outsice of trade mpansion the present
sitmatien in sonneetion with Japan and her ambitions is
a very grave one indeed.
Unless I am wrongly advised, Japan's fleet 1s today
prestieally on a level with ours,due to a larger pereentag
100
of new ships in her fleet.
FLMD
If this is sorreet,are we not then in the dangerous
pesition that, by allowing Japan to get more powerful, she
may ine mase her mavy,eventually overpewer ours,and therety
be in a pesitien,amengst other things,te bombard our sea
perts asd eeest,and destroy such of our merehant marine
as she may be able te lay her hands en?
I mabmit that the evidenee peipts tewards Jagam's
stien ef Mameharia, by foree if nesessary,ber invasion
lia te obtain ceal and eil,and the tetal er partial
mesttion of chime under the pretext of self deteminatim.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
8
be in a mmeh more pewerful position, and better able te expand
her mevy.
If we allew her to reeeh a mitwatien where she has a
superier mavy,mhe could then,on the slightest pretext,make
an effert te pay eff her grudge against usker,as she considers
1t,our insmlting attitude in net allowing her rasial equality
in the U.S.A.Her stepping stones would be the Philippines,the
German Islands under her mandate,and Hawail.
Mext,I might point out that this country has no friends/
It is humen nature to be jealous ef prosperity,and is a erediter
ever leved?
Having the above situation in mind,I very humbly suggest
that we held on to every freetion of the position we now held
in eenneetien with Japan having put herself in the wreng in
werld epinion by her breach of treaties and general attitude
in Asia,whilst the situation is watehed from day to day as to
future develepments,and what action it may be found necessary
to take.I venture to hope that this is exastly the attitude of
the Geverment at this very mement.
On the other hand,we ean prevent Japan's fleet frem
gotting bigger than ours by building more ships, but the very
plain diffioulties in the way of this altermative are:-
l.Pinancial.
2.The trend ef every really eivilised permon teday to
aveid war.
S. The inability to let the nation kmew the situation,
(mmitting of eourse that it is anything like my
pistare).

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
pinally,I may peixt eut that I have no "axe to grint".
I may make meney on wheat if the priee rises, in the event of
war being foreed upen us, but on the other hand,as a fairly
Large mharekolder in twe gold mines in the U.S.A.,I would be
hit by the inereased cest ef material and labour used in
opernting these mines.I further beg to point eut that in all
all sineerity I believe I have peinted eut PAots.
I may mention that I am president of two mall corporations
and accountant for a gold mining corp. and the records will
shew that I bMeame a naturalised eitisen in Ostober of last
year,and as much, even at the risk of being aeoused of peking
my mose into the business of the Geverment,I wish to do my
hamble little "bit"in keep1ng Unele Sem right where he is new;
mmely ON TOP.
I am,Dear Bir,
Youre respeetfully,
aspovlions.
(A.G.Porteonm)

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
AM RECD
file
EAXPORT DEPARTMENT
eg.c.
SO EAST FORTY-SECOND STREET
MANUFACTURERS OF
8
COLUMBIA
CABIF ADDRESE
NEW YORK
Gctober 29 1282.
"RAYELBON" NEW YORK
00702.32
DRY CELLS
N. Y., U. S. A.
RADIO BATTERIES
FLASHLIGHT BATTERIES
FLASHLIGHT CASES
October 21,1932
INDUSTRIAL BRUSHES
F/HS
CINEMATOGRAPH AND ARC CARBONS
CARBON ELECTRODES
Office of Economic Adviser
CARBON PRODUCTS IN GENERAL
OCT 28 1932
CEPARTHENT OF STATE
ack
Divison of
FAR EASTERNFAIDS
193
2
bit.24.
Office of the Secretary of State,
OCT 24 19320
894.34/11
994.3
Washington, D. C.
Department of State
Dear Sirs:
Inasmuch as the question we are asking concerns the
credit of the GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN, we are taking the
liberty of addressing you on the subject.
9
Our Company has been called upon by accredited
officers of the Imperial Japanese Navy to furnish con-
siderable quantities of merchandise to the Imperial Navy,
payment for which was to be made upon delivery of the
goods.
Our Company has had many transactions during the past
several months with the Imperial Japanese Navy and while
payments have been made they have not been made according
to the arranged schedule. At the present moment we have
an unpaid invoice of October llth for ap roximately
$13,000.00, and we have an order not yet shipped which
will amount to about $26,000.00.
It would be appreciated if the State Department would
extend to us an expression of opinion as to whether we
should be incurring any risk in accepting orders from the
Japanese Imperial Navy? Any information which the State
Department may see their way to give to us will be treated
in the strictest confidence and will be highly appreciated.
Commending the above to your earliest attention, we are
Yours very truly,
NATIONAL CANBON COMPANY, Inc.,
American Eveready Works Div.,
a Mgr,
FB:CMacV
Foreign Crelit Department.
PLEASE ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO THE COMPANY

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.93)
October 39 198?
National Carbon Cempany. Ineorporated,
S0 Bast Forty-second Street.
New York, Hew York.
Sirm:
The Department has received your letter of
Ostober 21, 1982, requesting en expression of its
opinien as to whether you would inour any risk in
secepting cortain orders for your produote.
It is contrary to the Department's prectice
to expreme opinions on questions of the oharacter
submitted by you and the Department therefore regrets
that it is not in position to comply with your requeat.
It may be added that the Department has no information
on the subjeot of your inquiry whieh is not available
to the publio.
Very truly yours.
For the Secretary of State:
m.7.H.
OCT 29 1982.
Maxwell M. Hamilton,
Aoting Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
LE
EA
A-B
FE:MMH: REK
FE
我心
2
10/28/32
7.2.N.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/117
SEE
823.34/127
FOR
menorandum
tite pepartment LA(
rurmon
) DATED0V.141932
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Four submarines built by the lectric soat
Co. for . eru: -Conversation witn .r. Joyner re-
gardin the possibility that the -, ti ht be
sold to the Jupamese Govermment.
1c

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 15 1932
JAPANESE EMBASSY
HINGTON
REOEIVED
DEC 12 1932
D02032
DIVISION OF
994.34
RY'S OFRI
WESTERNE
7
WWF
By direction of my Government I have t Homor
to
inform you, in accordance with the provision of Article 10
of the London Naval Treaty, that the keel of a submarine
894.34/118
(temporarily called No. (a) 6)of the Imperial Japanese Navy,
December 20 1932.
The date of laying down of keel,
October 14, 1932.
TREATY DIVISION
Classification of the vessel,
Submarine
DEC 13 1932
Standard displacement in tons,
1,900 tons
aTe
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Standard displacement in metric
1,930 metric tons
tons,
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
94.30 metre
Extreme beam,
9.05 metre
Mean draft at standard displace-
4.70 metre
ment,
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest
DEC  1
FILED
consideration.
Hirori Sait
Chargé d'Afraires ad interim
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Seoretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.76)
B
Deoember 20 1982.
D y  stete prete  te
to te Ressrale the teerotety ef the Novy and mstes.
fee he reeerds ef the Savy Depertemt, a espy of à
mote from the Japemese Chargé d'affaires ad interin at
Mashtagten, furaishing in aseerdanee with the provisien
 Arttele 10 (a) ef the Loadon Taval Treaty, partieulars
Sepptsbdd by hie Goverment regarding a salmarine of the
Sperial Jepanese Navy, temporarily ealled No. (a) 6.
the dese Caré
res ad interin,
A true 
Inal.
1952.
88
m
12/1s/s
hrue
mmH.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.93)
1983
sir:
The reoeipt is acknowledged, with thanks, of your
894.34/11
mote of Deoomber 13, 1932, furnishing particulars sup-
plied by your Jovernment in aocordance with Article 10 (a)
of the London Naval Treaty of a submarine of the Imperial
18
Japanese Navy temporarily called No. (a) 8.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high
consideration.
For the eoretary of 3tate:
B Castle, jr.
Mr. Hirosi aito,
Chargé d'Affaires ad luterim of Japan.
894.34/118
Nor
TD:SY8:EDW. 12/13/32
FE
WE

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
RECD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PANESE EMBASSY
JWASHINGTON
DIVISION-OF1988
WESTEN EDROPEAN AFFAIRS
No. 156
amper 21
TREATY DIVISION
REB 2238
Divisgon of
FAR EASTEAN AFFAIRS
DEC 29 1932
Sir:
CrNEte
Department of Stake
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
T
By direotion or my Government I have
the honor to inform you, in accordance with the
894.34/11
provision of Article 10 (b) of the London Naval
Treaty, that the construction of a Submarine, No.A-66,
of the Imperial Japanese Navy, is now completed. The
6
particulars are as follows:
The date of laying dowm of keel, November 8, 1929.
The date of completion,
November 10, 1932.
Classification of the vessel,
Submarine.
Standard displacement in tons,
1,638 tons
Standard displacement in metric
tons,
1,664 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
97.70 metre
JAN 9 1988
Extreme beam,
8.20 metre
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement,
4.83 metre
Cal ibre of the largest guns,
10 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hiissi Sain
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
The Honorahle Henry L. Stimson,
Seeretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.94)
Dm roply refer to
TD 894.34/119
F/HS
The Seoretary of State presents his oompliments
894.34/119
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and enoloses ,
for his information and tho files of the Havy Department,
a copy of a note from the Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of
Japan containing particulars, on completion, of a sub-
marine No. A-66 of the Imperial Japanese Navy, whioh have
been furnished by the Japanese Government in accordance
with Article 10 (b) of the London Naral Treaty.
Enolosure:
Oopy of noto,
December 21,
1932.
JAN5, 196
TUI SY HIA D
FK
12/23/33
houe.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.94)
January 6 1938
Excellencyt
The receipt is acknowledged, with thanks, of youx
894.34/119
Embassy's note of December 21, 1932, containing partie-
wlars, on completion, of a submarine No. A-68 of the
Imperial Japanese Navy, thich have been furnished by
the Japanese Government in accordance with Artiele 10 (b)
of the London Ne val Treaty.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the Secretary of State:
W. R. Ceste. Jr.
His Excellency
Ketsuji Debuchi,
Ambessador of Jepen.
JAN 5, 1985.
894.34/119.
td:SYS:mkm
3
WE

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
IN
OFS
7E
Division of
JAP
SE EMBASSY
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
HINGTON
JAN 5-1933
No.16d
COM
6
TREATY DIVISION
DEC 3032
994.34
JAN 3- 1933
F/HS
Sir:
ETC
936
DEPARTMENT OF STAR
 DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By direotion of my Government I have
ano
WESTEÉUROFEAN AFFAIRS
QIUISION OF
6
sion of Article 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty,
34/120
that the construction of the "Inazuma", a destroyer
of the Imperial Japanese Navy, is now completed. The
particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel, March 7, 1930
The date of completion,
November 15, 1932
Classification of vessel,
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons,
1.700 tons
Standard displacement in
JAN 1 0 1932
metric tons,
1.727 metric tons
FILD
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
113.20 metre
Extreme beam,
10.30 metre
Mean draft at standard
displacement,
2.97 metre
Calibre of the largest gun, 12.7 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
K.Remas
Hemerable Henry L." Stimson,
Seeretary of State,

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.94)
1938
nuary
Im reply refer to
TD 004.34/120
F/HS
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and enoloses,
for the information and file of the Navy Department, a
894.34/120
copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at Washing-
ton, containing particulars on completion of the Japanese
destroyer INAZUMA, which have been furnished by the Jap-
anese Government, 1n acoordance with the provision of Ar-
tiole l0 (b) of the London Naval Treaty.
Enolosure:
From Japanese
Embassy, No. 164,
Docember 28, 1932.
YAR.FM
J1
FE

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.86)
January. 7 1933
mcelleney!
I heve the honer to eeknewledge with thenke the re-
894.34/120
ceipt of your nete Ne. l64 of Deccmber 2s, l9ss, ceatein-
ins partieulers en cempletien of the Japemese destreyer
Imazumt, whieh have been furnisked by the Japasese Gev-
ermment, in accortamee with the provision of Artiele 10
(b) of the Lenden Maval Treaty.
Lecept, Rxeelleney, the renewed assuranees of my
bighest eensideration.
W. R. Castle, Jr.
Acting Secretary of State.
Mte melleney
26.
A true copy of
the ageed ard

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.95)
九
JAPANESE EMBASSY
D
WASHINGTON
9
DEPANTMENT OF STATE
8
N
7
6
JAN 27 1933
COM.
 SIOH OF
No./4
JAN233
WESTERNEAN S
F/HS
January 19, 1933
894.34
JATY
500415a3
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ar
JAN 24 1933
ET
894.34/121
Sir:
DEPATMENT
STATE
By direction of my government, I
have the honor to inform you, in accordance
with the provision of Article 10 (t) of
the London Havel Treaty, t!at the construc-
tion of the submarine, No. A-65, is now
completed. The particulars are as follows:
A
The dete of laying down of keel:
FIED
December 1?, 1929
The date of completion:
December 1, 1932
Classification of vessel:
Submarine
Standard displacement in tons:
1,638 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons:
1,664 metric tons
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.95)
Exoellenay:
I have the honor to asknowledge, with thanks,
the reee1pt of your note No. 14 of January 19, 1933,
communicating partioulars, on completion, of the Jar-
894.34/121
anese submarine, Wo. A-65, which have been fur 1shed
by your Government in aocordanoe with Artiole 10 (b)
of the London Naval Treaty.
Accept, Excellenoy, the renewed assurances of
my highest coneideration.
For the Seoretary of state:
W
His xoellenoy
Mr. Katsuji Tebuohi,
Ambassador of Japan.
121
894.34/138
TD: SYS:EDW
FE
WE

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.94)
1
OF
AE
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STAIE
5
MT
JAN 27 1933
Av2J33
WESTERN EROPEAN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
No.15
ranvary
January 19, 1933
AtSam
F/HS
894.34
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 24 1933
1933
Ere
Sir:
894.34/122
DEPTMENT PE STATE
By direction of my government, I
have the honor to inform you, in accordance
with the provision of Article 10 (b) of
the London Naval Treaty, that the construc-
tion of the "Akatsuki", a destroyer of the
Imperial Japenese Hevy, is now completed.
The particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel:
February 17, 1930
The date of completion:
November 30, 1932
Classification of vessel:
AN 7193
Destroyer
FILED
Standard displacement in tons:
1,700 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons:
1,727 tons
The Honorable Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.90)
Jy 26 1988
894.34/122
She Seeretary of state presemts his eompliments
te the Zemerable the seeretary of the Eavy end es-
sRosse fer the information and files of the Favy De-
partmast copies of twe notes frem the Jupanese Ambes-
eadee, mmbers 14 and 15 of Jamuary 19, 1933, furaisb-
ing pertieulare en completion, of the Japemese sub-
marime No. A-65 and the Japanese destroyer AKarsukI.
melesures:
Frem Japansse mbassedez,
No. 14, Jammary 19, 1033.
A true copy of
CmB
88
PM
m.m.H.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.95)
Exoelleney!
894.34/122
I have the honor to acknowledge, wi th thanks,
the reoeint of your note No. 15 of January 19, 1933,
communicating particulars, on completion, of the
Japanese destroyer AKATsUKI, whioh have been furnished
by your Jovernment in acoordance with Article l0 (b)
of the London Naval Treaty.
Aooept, Txcellency, the renewed assuranoes of
my hi hest considertion.
For the eoretary of 3tate:
His Xcellenoy
Mr. Katauji obuohi,
Ambassador of Janan.
kiw
894.34/133
TD: SYS: EDW
1/23/33
FE
WE

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.94)
1H
OF
TREATY DIVISION
WE
ESE EMBASS
SHINGTON
ET€
corja
DEPARTMENT HE STATE
Mor
No.39
MAri - 33
March 8, 1933
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
F/HS
MAR 11 1933
Sir:
lovstreater
By direotion of my Government, I have
894.34
the honor to inform you, in accordance with the
894.34/123
500A15a3
provision of Article l0 (a) of the London Naval
Treaty, that the keel of the "Ariake", a de-
stroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy, was laid
down on January 14, 1933. The particulars are
as follows:
A  133
Classification of vessel: Destroyer
FILED
Standard displacement in tons: 1,378
Standard displacement in metrio tons:
1,400
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line: 103 metres
Extreme beam: 9.95 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement: 2.68 metres
Calibre of the largest gun: 12.7 centi-metre
Accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest
Kha!
consideration.
The Honorable Cordell.Hull,
Becretary of State,
Washington

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.90)
March 19 1938
The seesetary of state presente his ecmplimente
to the Nenerahle the sesretary of the Mevy and -
4.34/123
Reses, fer his information and the files of the Mavy
Department, a cepy of a note from the Japanese hm-
bassader at Washington incerporating partioulars
furnisked by his Gevernment in accordanee with Art-
10le 10 (a) of the Lenden Naval Treaty, regarding the
Japenese destroyer ARIAKk, the keel of which, it is
stated, was laid dowm on January 14, 1933.
A true cepy of
the signed prig-
inal.
Daeleeuse:
Gepg eß mote frem
3'PM
MT
n.m/.
CmB3
March 16 1988

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.88)
March 17 1933
Zomaleney:
I have the hener to aaknowledge, with thanke,
the ressipt of your note No.39 ef Mareh 8, 19ss,
894.34/123
furnishing, in asserdamee with the provisiem of
Artiele 10 (a) of the Londen Taval Tresty, partiou-
lars regarding the Japanese destreyer ARIAKE, the
kedk of which you state was laid domm en January 14,
103.
Aecept, Eseelleney, the renewed assureases of
mhighest consideration.
For the Seszetary ef state:
William Phillips
the
Ral.
SPM

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.94)
IN
OF
DIVISION
JAPANESEEMB
WASHINGTON
MAR 8-
COM
No.40
8
DEPARTMO
March 16198
MAR -233
March 8, 1933
Divion of
894.34
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
nrtr
MAR 11 1933
Sir:
F
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By direction of my Government, I hav
MAF
MAR 16 1933
the honor to inform you, in accordance with
the
DISOF LF
WESTER 
provision of Article 10 (a) of the London Na
Treaty, that the keel of the "Hatsushimo", a de-
.34/124
stroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy was laid
down on January 31, 1933. The particulars are
as follows:
Classification of vessel: Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons: 1,378
Standard displacement in metric tons:
A  1933
1,400
FILED
Principal dimens ions:
Length at water line: 103.00 metres
Extreme beam: 9.95 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement:
2.68 metres
x.
Calibme of the largest gun: 12 centi-metre
Accept, Sir the assurances of my highest
consideration.
Korand
The Honorable Cordell Hull, l
Secretary of State,
A
Washington.
Lee
No7817,193.—88

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.83)
March aslaa
the Secretary of state presents his cemplimente
to the Nenerable the Seeretary ef the Navy and 
leses, fer his infomation and the files of the Favy
Department, a eopy of a note from the Japanese Am-
seader at Washington incorporating partioulars
furnlshed by his Government in accordanee with Art-
Lele 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty, regarding the
Japenese destroyer HAtsumIMo, the keel of whieh was
Laid dom on January 31, 1933.
melesure:
Copp of note frem
-romo
82/0/0
MAF
A true cop 
130
gr
inal.
98
u.m./d.
PM

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.86)
March 15 1933
Esselleney:
I have the hemer to nakaeuledge, with thenke,
the reseipt of your mete No. 40 of Mareh 8, 1933,
894.34/124
furnishing, in asserdence with the provision of
Artiele 10 (a) ef the Londem Naval Treaty, partieu-
lars regarding the Japanese destroyer MATsUmINO,
the keel of whieh you state was laid down en Jamu-
ary 31, 1933.
kecept, Excelleney, the remewed assuranees ef
my highest eomsideratien.
Fer the Seeretary of State:
Willlam Phillip
A trua copy
te Resellemey
tro sdamed rig-
. Katouji mebuchs,
830
MMT3

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.86)
0
May 26 1903
894.34/124
The sesretary of state pressats his cempliments
to the Eemerable the Seeretary of the Navy end, refer-
ing to the Dopartment of State's letter of Mazeh 15,
195s, eommmnteating partieulars regarding the Japenese
destroyer BATSUHINO, faraished by the Japemese Astae-
sader in a mote dated Mareh 8, loss, inforas kim that
the Japemese smbesseder has requested that the figure
of the eali bez of the largest gm as stated in that
mete be changed to "12.7 eastimetre".
MKF
8
m.2m1.
4
A true copy of
May 23 193 pm
CMB

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.95)
IN
OF
S
TREATY DIVISION
7E
JAPANESE EMBASSY
AR 8- 1933
D
WE
WASHINGTON
Ere
6
NO. 44AR - 33
March 8, 1933
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 11 1933
894.34
Sir:
F/HS
March 15 1933
note
By direction of my Government, I have
500715a3
the honor to inform you, in accordance with the
MAR 16 1933
8
Treaty, that the keel of a submarine, named
4/125
I - 70, of the Imperial Japanese Navy, was laid
down on January 25, 1933. The particulars are
as follows:
Classification of vessel: Submarine
Standard displacement in tons: 1,400
Standard displacement in metric tons:
A2  193
1,423
FILED
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line: 101.00 metres
Extreme beam: 8.20 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement:
3.95 metres
Calibre of the largest gun: 10 centi-metre
Accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest
K Raa.
consideration.
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.
K

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.86)
Maroh 16 1968
The sose etary ef state preseats hie compliments
te the Nenerable the sesretary of the Mavy and 
eleses, for his laformation and the files of the Navy
894.34/125
Department, a eopy of a note from the Japanese Lm-
bassader at Washington incorperating particulars
furnished by hie Gevernment in aocerdanee with Art-
1ele 10 (a) of the Lenden Haval Treaty, regarding the
Japanese submarine I - 70, the keel of whieh, 1t is
stated, was laid down on January 25, 1933.
melesure:
Gopt of note frem
A trae copy 
the simed fe
inal.
-33
PM3-1
rom
810100
ANUF
grm
0.7.H.
em

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.81)
March 16 1938
I heve the hener to aakaenledge, mite thaake,
894.34/125
the ressipt of your mete Ye. 41 of Mareh 8, l933,
furmishing, ia aseerdamee with Artiole 10 (a) of
the Londee Maval Treaty, particulars regarding the
Japenese submarine I - 70, the keel of which you
state was laid down on Jasuary 25, 1933.
Lesept, Eseelleney, the resewed assurasess ef
my highest consideratien.
Fer the seeretary of state:
William Ph'tra
A twae copy
the sdomed rig
imml.
e. Ratonje Bobushé,
Segenese Imbeessdes.
1+一
s`pM

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT
MAF
NAVAL INTBLLIGBNOE
MAR 17 1933
DIVISION OF
op-1
WESTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
Confi dentaz y mAk 2 1933
16 March 1933.
REEV
Department of State
ANDDIVISION OF
HLP HOPPAT
HN AMERICAYAFFAIRS
11S30
MR. E. C. WILSON. DEPART.ENT OF STATE
MAR 25 1933
THE UNDER SECRETARY
We have just received word from our laval Attache
S
MAH 24 1933
chased an English plant at Zarate for packing meuts and also
894.34/126
that they have made an offer to the Argontines for the purchase
of three submarines at 30% more than cost, and rgentina will pro-
bably accept her offer.
These submarines are new having been constructed for Ar-
89434
gentina in Italy, and are either in the Argentine now or are on the
835.34
way.
894.2023
520A4
Very sincerely yours,
TREATY DIVISION
MAR 25 1933
Haynelis,
Captain,U. S. Navy,
Director of Naval Intelligence.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAR 2 7 1933
An 27 1933
FILID
0rdontial

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.93)
WISION OF
LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS
NAVY DEPARTMENT
MAR 17 1933
OFFIOE OF NAVAL INTBLLIGENOE
WASEINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
0p-16
Division of
L11-4/KF37
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
WE
Confidenti
16 March 1933.
MAR 20 19331
FE
Department of State
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. J. P. MOFT
DOAISION ON
MTAR 20 1933
AR 97 133
MR. E. C. WILSON, DEPARTLENT OF STATE.
DIVISIEF
WESTERN 
n
Ae have just received word from our Naval Attaché in
Buenos ires to the effect that the Japanese have recently pur-
chased an English plant at Zarate for packing meata and also
that they have made an offer to the Argentines for the purchase
of three submarines at 30% more than cost, and argentina will pro-
bably accept her offer.
These submarines are new having been co structed for Ar-
gentina in Italy, and are eithe, in the Argentine now or are on the
way.
Very sincerely yours,
Shayne Eli
Hayne Mlis,
Captain, U.S. Navy,
Director of Naval Intelligence.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.88)
Diviston of
OFPIon OFN
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DCR
Confidential
DIVISION OF
16 Marek 1908.
DIVISION OF
MAR 2333
LATIN AMERICAN AFFA
A
MAR 21 1933
S
Basnes aires to the effest thas the Japesese have reeently ye
chesed an Englisk plant at Zarate for packing meats and alse
W
that they heve made an offer to the Areentines for the purehase
894.34/126
of three sakmerines at s0% more thes cost, and Argentine will pro-
bebly aeeept her offer.
These submarines are sew having been construeted fer Ar-
geatine in Italy, and are ei ther is the Argnetine now ar are an the
.
Very sinoerely yours,
Seoyue Colles
Hayne mlis,
Captain. U. 8. mvy.
Di restor of Neval Intelligenee.
mfiden
MAR 27 1933
FILDD

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.94)
PM RECD
TREATY DIVISION
JAPANESE EMBASSY
MAR 29 1933
DEP
OTV
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT RESTE
No.54.
MA285
March 87, 1933
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
994.34
MAR 31 1933
April 4 1982
Sir:
ef State
DEFARTMENI UF STAIE
MAF
894.34/127
provision of Article l0 (a) of the London Naval
1933
Treaty, that the keel of a submarine - A-71,
of the Imperial Japanese Navy, was laid down on
February 15, 1933. The particulars are as follows:
Classification of vessel: Submarine
Standard displacement in tons: 1,400 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons: 1,423 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line: l0l metre
AP  133
Extreme beam: 8.20 metre
Mean draft at standard displacement: 3.95 metre
Calibre of the largest gun: l0 centi-metre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest onsideration.
Kdekud.
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Weshington.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
Im reply refer to
TD 894.34/127
894.34/127
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Navy and en-
oloses for the information and filea of the Navy De-
partment a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador
at Washington inoorporating particulars, on laying
down of keel, of the Japanese Submarine A-71, which
have been furnished by the Japanese Jovernment in
aocordance with Article 10 (a) of the London Naval
Treaty of 1930.
Enolosure:
From Japanesu Ambasaador,
No. 54, Maroh 27, 1933.
pM
11
TD: SY:EDA/39/33
FE
1

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.90)
4112
E. eallenoy:
I have the honor to coknowledge, with thanks,
894.34/127
the reoeint of your note of Maroh 7, l933, inoor-
porating partioulars furuished by your Government
1n accordanoe with Article 10 (a) of the London Naval
Treaty of 1930, of a submarine A-71 of the Imperial
Japanese Navy, the keel of whioh was laid down on
February 15, 1933.
Accept, xcellency, the renewed assurances of
ay highost considoration.
For the eoretary of tate:
Hie xoellenoy
Yr. Xatsuji xbuohi,
Jananeao Ambaosador.
PM
894.34/127
14
TD: BYS:EDW
3/39/33
YE

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/
SEE......500....15.....4/1727
FOR .......Mema.
128
FROM ..Stata.Dept...FE
(...Salabury....) DATED Feb.16,1933
TO
NAME
1--1127
REGARDING:
Translation, supplied by O I, of an article by a Jananese
2
naval officer which appeared in DIPLOMATIC REVIEW of January 1,1933.
8
with regard to naval reductions.
ja

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.96)
PM RECD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAF
MAY 15 1999
INGTON
WESTERN EURUPEAN AFFAINS
6
5
OM
Division of
May 8 108
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY - 5 33
MAY 11 1933
No.72
Department of State
TREATY DIVISION
May 5, 1933
MAY -
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By direction of my Government, I have
894.34/129
the honor to inform you, in accordance with
the provision of Article l0 (b) of the London
Naval Treaty, that the construction of the
"Hibiki", a destroyer of the Imperial Japanese
Navy, is now completed. The particulars are
as follows:
MAY 15 1933
FILED
The date of laying down of keel:
February 21, 1930
The date of completion: March 31, 1933
Classification of vessel: Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons: 1,700 tons
Standard displacement in metrio tons:
1,727 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line: 113.20 metre
Extreme beam:
10.30 metre
Mean draft at standard displacement:
8.97 metre
Konncl
The Honorable Gordell Hull,
Seeretary of State,
Washington.
enclo

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
Calibre of the largest gun: l2.7 centi-metre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of
my highest consideration.
P.S.: With reference to my note of December 21,
1932 containing particulars on completion, of a
submarine A-66, I should be very much obliged
if you would rectify the figure of the mean
draft at standard displacement as shown -
4.83 metre instead of 4.03 metre

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.89)
Way 38 2053
The Seeretary of state presents his compliments
894.34/129
to the Momerable the seeretary of the Eavy and states
for the information of the Wavy Department that by e
mote dated May 5, l933, the Japanese Ambassador at
Wachiagtom furmished, ia accordance with Artiole 10 (b)
of the Londen Haval Treaty, partioulars regarding the
MImIkI, a destreyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy, as
follews:
The date of laying down of keel: February 21, 1930
the date of eompletion: Maroh 31, 1933
Rassifieaticn of vessel: Destroyer
Length at water 11ne: 113.20 metre
Extreme beam: 10.30 metre
Meam draft at standard displacement: 2.97 metre
A true copy of
10
NOF
m.%k.
CmB

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.83)
Mav 18 1008
She seesetary af tate presente his eeptimente
he Henerable the Seerotary of the Tavy nd refe
894.34/129
tãng to the partieulars regarding the submarine No. A-6s
of the Imperial Japanese Tavy, eommmaieated to the Wavy
Deperteent by the Department of State's letter of Jan-
Mary 6, 10s3, informs him that mder date of May 5,
1053, the Japanese Ambassador at Washington stated that
the meen draft at staadard displacement stated in those
pertioulare as 4.83 meters is ineorrect nd should read
4.0s meters.
PM
898
10
0.29.N.
A trus copy of
CmB

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.88)
Way 18 1058
I have the hener to aeknowledge, with thanke, the
resslpt of your mote No. 72, of May 5, 1933, iacerperat-
ing partieulars ecnceraing the MIbIKI, a destreyer ef
the Imperial Japanese Wavy, which have been furaished
by your Gevesament in aecordenee with the provisiens ef
Arttele 10 (b) of the Lendem Waval Treaty.
with respest to the posteript to your note stat-
ing that the figure of the mean draft at steadard dis-
péssement as given in the particulars conseraing the
smerine No. A-8s, furaisbed by your note No. 1ss ef
Deesmber 21, 19s2, 1s ineerreet and sheuld be changed
te 4.0s meters, I have the honer to state that the
 bmd.
willimPhlllip

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.91)
24
DIVISION OF
NAVY DEPARTMENT
LATINAMERICANAFFAIRS
MAY121833
OPFIOE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENOE
nsegi oter to Sts.
0p-16-B-15
WASHINGTON
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
L11-4/m787(8-29)
Tply
RE
3.
MAY 15 1933
11 May, 1933
DIVISION OF
seendamc/124
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 13 1933
My dear Ar. Wilson:
Depertment of State
894.34/130
By direction of Captain Ellis there is for-
warded herewith a copy of a letter received from the
Naval Attache, Buenos Aires. This letter is in refer-
ence to a despetch from the same source, said despatch
having been shown to you, I believe, by Captain Ellis
early in April.
Yours very truly,
Q. E Davis,
R. E. Davis
Major, U. S. Marine Corps.
Ar. Edwin C. Wilson,
Division of Latin America,
State Department,
Washington,
D. C.
A 11933
CT

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
COPY
Tographic Address:
No 30
ALUSNA.
Buenos Aires.
NAVAL ATTACHE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Buenos Aires
29 March 1933
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
From:
Naval Attache, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
To:
Director of Naval Intelligence.
Subjeot:
Contents of my despatch of 15 March 1933
704.326
In my despatch No. 1615I stated that Argentina would
probably sell the three submarines recently built by Italy - to
Jepan at a large profit.
Further infornation has been received to indicate that
Argentina will retain and not sell the submarines.
Although this latter fact has been definitely stated by two
high ranking officers who should know; the possibility still exists
because of the following facts:-
1
Economy
2
一
No equipped submerine base - nor specinl facilities
3
一
No expert knowledge regardin repair end upkeep of
sibnarines, or rescue of same.
4
No submarine mother ship, nor prospect of purchasin
one this year.
Regardins the purchase of the Las Palmas Packing ouse near
Zarate - mentioned in despatch, was advised on excellent auth rity
that the above named packing house is under lease and closed down
until 1934 by a syndicate of packin companies here, an hat they
hold an option for re-leasing it.
This indicates that even thouh purchased, the plant can
not operate until 1934.
Was further informed by the same excellent authority that
a broker or intermediary has asked the packing houses for bids
to supply within a short period of time fifteen million tins of
corned beef - final destination so far not known.
Comander. U.S.N.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.97)
May 12, 1933
Dear Major Davis:
Many thanks for your letter of May 1l with
894.34/130
its enclosure, whioh I am glad to have.
sincerely yours,
Major R. E. Davie,
Office of Naval Intelligenoe,
Washington.
ECW/EMG LA

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STAIE
OFS
61933
JAFANESE BMUASBY
WEOTERMPEUBUPEAN AFFAIRS
6
1055
No. 78
Ervwun ul
TREATY DIVISION
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 18 33
MAY 20 1933
844.34
MAY 10 1933
2TC
Sir:
note
DEPARTMENT BE STATE
500 A1 5a3 lovdmn tor
By direotion of my Government, I have the honor to
inform you, in accordance with the provision of Article 10
F
G
(a) of the London Naval Treaty, that the keel of the "Yugure."
a destroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy, has been laid dowm.
894.34/131
The particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel: April 9, 1933.
Classification of vessel: Destroyer.
1,378 tons
Standard displacement in tons:
1,400 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons:
Principal dimensions:
103.00 mtre
Length at water line:
9.95 mtre
Extreme beam:
2.68 metre
Mean draft at standard displacement:
12.7 centimetre
Calibre of the largestt gun:
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest
consideration.
KDekud
The Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State,
Washington.
P.S. With reference to my note of March 8, 1933 containing

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
particulars regarding the destroyer "Hatsushimo",
I should be very much obliged if you would correot
the figure of the calibre of the largest gun as
shown herounder: 12.7 centimetre instead of 12
centimetre.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.85)
Way as 
The Sesretary of state precente Me ecmplimemte
to the Eemerable the seeretery ef the Nevy ame emelemes
fer his iaformation and the files of the Tavy Depert
memt a eopy of a note from the Japanese Ambeseader at
Washingten incerporating partieulare regarding the
YUGURE, a destroyer of the Japanese Havy, which have
been furnished by his Goverament La aseordanse with
the provisions of Article 10 (a) of the Londem Maval
Treety.
melesure:
Frem the Japaaese Ambassador,
Be.78, May 17, 1933 - 0opy.
14
A tmue copy of
3.mH.
H7
May.28,1988
CmQ

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.85)
May 26 100s
Meay 226 1983
Bnestleney:
I have the bener to saknesledge, with thanke, the
reesspt of yeur note To. 7e of May 17, 19s3, Lacespes-
4.34/131
ating partieulare regarding the ruoune, a destreyer of
the Imperial Japenese Havy, whieh have beem furaished
by your Goverament 1a secerdanee with Artiole 10 (a)
of the Lemdom Baval Treaty.
The figare of the ealiber of the largest gum of
the dectreyte NatsuamINO, as atated in your note ef
Mareh 8, 18ss, has, 1n aeeerdanee with the request in
the pestscespt of your present note, boem changed to
"12.9 eestimetre".
kssept, Eseelleney, the reneved assuranese ef mg
highest conetemratien.
Fer the Seseotery of state:
William Phillips

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
王
!N
OF
S
FE
12
10
2
DEFAN MLNI
ANESE EMBASSY
9
MAF
8
WASHINGTON
1933
COM.
7
6
WESTERU
May 27 1983
MAY 1 3 33.
No. 80
May 18, 1933.
TREATY DIVISION
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
F/G
MAY 23 1933
DEPNT E STATE
Sir:
894.34/132
With reference to your note of May 13, 1933,
I have the honor to inform you that the correct
figure of the mean draft at standard displacement
as given in the particulars concerning the sub-
marine No. A-66 of the Imperial Japanese Navy is
4.83 metre instead of 4.03 metre.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
K Lebud
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.
MAY 29 1933
FILD

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.91)
May 27 1983
In roply refer to
TD 804.34/132
894.34/132
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and, refer-
ing to the Department of State's letter of May 13, 1933,
concerning a correction requested by the Japanese Am-
bassador in the partioulars furnished by the Japanese
Government regarding the submarine No. A-66 of the
Imperial Japanese Havy, informs him that by a note dated
May 18, 1933, the Japanese Ambassador at Washington
advised the Seoretary of State that the correot figure
of the mean draft at standard displacement of the sub-
marine mentioned is 4.83 meters as originally stated in
the Department of State's communication of January 6,
1933, and not 4.03 meters as stated in the Department of
State's letter of May 13, 1933.
89
Vil
May.261935
s/22/83
7089Y31ED
90
mm人
A true copy of
the pgned grigi-
emb

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.84)
g87 1853
Baselleaey:
.34/132
I have the hemer to aokneuledge the resskpt a you
note No. 80 of May 18, 1853, 1n mhieh, refestag to thse
Department's nete of May 13, less, you state that the
eerreet figare of the meen draft at standard dieplese-
ment as given in the partieulars ccncerning the sutmarine
Se. A-es of the Imperial Japanese Eavy 1s 4.8s metersis-
stead of 4.08 meters.
In view of the fast that 4.ss metem is the figre
stated in your mbessy's note No. 1ss of Deeember 21,
19ss, as the meem draft at stenéerd displeesmemt of the
sukmerine menticned 1t appeare that the correetken re-
qrested in the peetesript to your nete so. 72 ef Kay 5,
wee iteelf  esrer and that the figere 4.8s
motsmo

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.88)
metem criginally note fled should stend.
The recerde of the Department of state have been
asserdiagly reetifled and the Tevy Bepartment hee besm
requested to cerreet its reeerds alse.
Aecept, Emselleney, the renewed assuranees ef my
highest consideration.
For the seeretary of states
William Phillips
A true copy
804.84/220
pn

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.92)
July 101088
COMPIDRNTIAL - STAPF USE ONLY
0. 308
To the Amerioan Ambassador.
Tokyo.
894.34/133
The Aoting Searetary of State encloses herewith for
the oonfidential information of the mbassador at Tokyo
 copy of a letter dated June 16, 1933. from the Maval
Attaohé at Buenos Aires to the Nevy Department, washing-
ton, in regard to Japan's efforts to purehase three
Argentine eubmarines.
Enolosure:
From Naval ttaohé.
Buenos Airea.
June 16. 1933.
m
894.34/133
SXH
1
FE:LES: EJL
FE

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION
10 1988
60
JUL 11 1933
RECO
DEPARDMENT OE STATE
WE
NAVAL ATTACH
MERICAN EMBASSY
BUENOS AIRES
Confidential
16 June 1955
Division of
FPy
F/HS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
VIA AIRMAIL POUCH
JUN 29 1933
CONFIDENTIAL
Departmest of State
DEPARTMENT UF STAIE
From:
Naval Attache, Buenos Aires, Argenting
To:
Director of Naval Intelligence
1933NA
894.34/133
8
Sub joet:
Argentine Submarines
DIVSIOLr
submrines the Attache has recently been informed that two
efforts were made but that both offers have been refused and
 further informed that there is no possibility now of thedr
being sold to anyone.
The first offer was received from Japan before the
submarines were ∞mpleted in Italy and at that time the Minister
of Finance recommended that it be accepted stating as his reason
that the submmrine base here was not completed and ready for
submmrines and thet the money offered would materially better
the present financial situation of the Treasury.
A second offer was received just before the submarines
arrived here and was 30% more than the total cost.
JUL 1 4 1933
FILED
Although the offer was seriously c∞nsidered by the Cabinet
it mas not accepted and now it is very unlikely that the boets
will be sold under any conditions. They have joined the fleet
and the entire metion seems to be very proud of heving these
boats in their Navy.
Leland Jordan, Jr.
Commander, USN.
Contidential

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.93)
!N
Division of
S
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 13 1933
JAPANESE EMBASSY
ASHINGTON
Mu
No.1/6
6
TREATY DIVISION
July 8, 1983.
α.
0119
JUL - 3 33
Sir:
DEPARTMENT BE
TMeNò Monor to inform
By direotion of
894.34
H
S
Washington Naval Treaty, that the conatshiom ofr tht pyuujoe",
50cA15a3
Cove7.
894.34/134
an airoraft carrier of the Imperial Japanese Navy, is now
completed. The particulars are as follows:
Classification of vessel:
Airoraft carrier.
The date of laying down of keel.November 26, 1929.
The date of completion:
May 9, 1933.
Standarddisplacement in tons: 7,l00 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons:
7,240 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line:
167.20 metre
Extreme beam:
18.50 metre
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement:
4.36 metre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high
consideration.
For the Ambassador:
The Honorable William Phillips,
Counselor.
Aoting Secretary of State,
JUL 18 1933
Washington.
FILED
P.s. The aireraft carrier above mentioned was built as an
additiomal vessel and not for the purpose of replacement.
T..
Ispy detached

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.88)
July 16 1988
The Leting Sesretary of state presents his eem-
plimente to the Nomerable the seeretary of the Havy
and eneleses, for his information and the records of
the Navy Department, a copy of a note from the Japeaese
Embassy furaishing, in accordance with Chapter II,
Part 3, seetion 1(b) of the Washington Maval Treaty
of 1923, partioulars regarding the RYUUJ00, an air-
eraft earrier of the Japenese Navy, the construetion
of whieh, the note states, 1s now eampleted.
malosure:
From the Japenese
Ambassador, July 8,
105s,- copy.
71,4133
amw
NAF
 fhrue copy of
PM
Theed origt
m.mH.
nal.
CuB

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.85)
July  1986
Enselleney:
I have the haner to aakaesledge, with thenke, the
rescipt of the Eabessy's mote of July 8, l93s, furnich-
1ng. in acsordemee with Chapter I1, Part 3, Geetien 1(b)
of the Washington Naval Treaty of 192s, partieulers re-
garding the Ryuujoo, an aireraft carrier of the Imperial
Japesese Navy, the construstion of whieh the mote states
is mow eompleted.
Aecspt, Ereelleney, the reneved assaraneee of uy
higheet consideratien.
Willlam Phillips
Acting Secretary of State
Bis Imsellesey
Mr. Kateujs Bobuebs,
Houtine
Imbeeseder of Jupen.
004.34/154
MA

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./67
FOR Despatch f459
SEE
894.34/135
FROM
Japan
(.Grow
) DATED
July 6.1955
TO
NAME
1-1187
Expancion of the Japanese Navy;requires expenditure
REGARDING:
of Yem460,000,000 during 3 year period.
3
L
esp

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.86)
(b) as x to b d
Depertment releesed to the press its pluns for bailding
the naty to the Londum tresty Iisits. the plom re
quires n expenditure of Yen 40,0,000 during a taree
year period nd Yen 17. ,000 has ben requested in the
budget now in prup ratiun fur the naxt fisoul yoar. Dhis
1s obvlously : part of Japan's schome to request & re
visi n of the n v.1 rotios "nn the uond n treety uxoiros.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34--136
SEE......P.
FOR .... Da.spatch t
FROM ..
rg.) DATED ..1
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Navul oonstruotion- Japan.
Quotes fron the Conservative
!ontreal STAR of August 3nd regardin. U. S. and Japanese
naval construotion.
89434

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.86)
Son
CONFIDENTIAL
y 24, 1958.
Nel Distriet by the first mate ef an Amerien mrehant shiy n  Grt
pem. Ite reliability eanmet be vouehed fer.
1933
"A Ameriean mrehent ship plies on  oriental . Oa the last 
trip, some mmbere of the erew, while on a driaking perty aakere, mat
seme Japemese sailere at a saloen. The ceaversetien turaed to the sime and
F/ESP
sreatest surprise when they were brought out at the time of a was".
The iaformant atated that poe ne told hie three mathe e that
ls asprezimately sevea miles morth ef Meye. These vessels are et present
besed at a smell ialand morth of the lest named port. These vessels,
nesording to the information, are high apeed maz assels. Lecordims to
further iaformatien, the Japammse are no longer vitally interested in the
894.34/137
Ammriean estivities and many of their ageats are being reealled frem this
ceustry: at present the Japarese are interested ia ereaténg a faverahle
are mow ensased ia driving the Engliak out ar asia. at the present time
fhie ia limited to the commereial field and the Japamese are beyeetting all
amade. This is being done in an attempt to drive Britinh geeds eut at
tha Oréeat. It was further stated that at this time a threet of wer with
England in the Orient existe and the Jananese war plane call fer seiaing
eeustries. Tais is being done to establish a large reserve ef matal."
3 Jil
CONFIDENTIA!
FAI
1933
Fapurrnnl Srate
AUG11933
FILED
894.34
1.3
DEPAF
A

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.82)
7
fie
477 Beardsiey lve
Diviaign of
B. loomfield 2.J.
FAR EASTIN AFFAIRS
Hon.Franklin. Ro
Auqust1, 933
AUG 15 1008
894.34/138
Bear S
Bepertmest ot State
which tam suve. i i
 uru. This
ought to datht an
the country leat wntigishout gd
will  men.
Your trucy
894.3-1
E.
Leko by Jom
Aur. 20,1088
B
File
，
1933
RESPBOTFULLY BEFERRED
FOR AOKNOWLRDGMENT
AND CONSIDBRATION
Boag, to the Presddent

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.91)
With America
Tokyo Budget for Ships
Biggest in History.
Army Goes Along
Toto un-The largees avel otl.
sherttatively.
Inctuded are 100.000.000 yem (e
reatty 0,40d.000) for new construc.
1pm an 98.00.000 (031.000.000) tor
the medernimation of eapital shipe.
Por the fiseal year beginning April
1. 1984, the navy is demanding a total
 ee.000.000 yem (6190,400,000). ex-
'pooding by so por cont the largest
previous estimates. these of 1921-92
prior to the Washington Conference.
whem Japen strained her resources to
compete with the United States and
Grest Britain in the capital ships
race.
Japanese and non-Japaneme authori-
tles judged that of the three primary
motivating influences the most imme-
diate l the Roosevelt administra-
tion's navy buliding program. The
others are:
The emptre's diplomatic isolation
and friction with several Occidental
powers growing out of the Manchu-
rian senrtlet and Japan's secession
from the League of Nations; and the
nation's determination to enter the 1995
maval comferemee with  feet built or
building to the limits of the Landon
treaty, and en thas cireumstance to
bese a demand for mavel parity with
the United States and mritain.
Army's Demanda.
The army likewise ia demanding re.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/
811.34/543
SEE
FOR ....memo.
FROM .StateDeuartment
( Dooman....) DATED ....Sept..6.1933
139
Division of Far Eastern
TO
NAME
1-1127
Affairs.
REGARDING:
Japanese protest to the U.s. with regard to the
American Naval Program. Newspaper clippings.
2
th

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
1N
OF
S
E
JAPANESE EMBAS
Uctober 10 1988
WE
6
No./47 DEPARIMLN
794.34
September 28, 1933.
1-233
TREATY DIVISION
Sir:
ino
F/HS
ETe
DEPARTMENT OF STATR
By direction of my government,I mave th
Divialon of
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of
FAR EASTIRN AFFAIRS
894.34/140
OCT5-1933
rticle 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty, that the
Bepartment of State
keel of No. B-33, a submarine of the Imperial Japanese
Navy, has been laid down.
The particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel:
August 8,1933
Classification of vessel:
Submarine
Standard displacement in tons:
700 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons:
711 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line:
73.00 metre
Extreme beam:
6.70 metre
Mean draft at standard displacement:
3.25 metre
Calibre of the largest gun:
7.6 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurancesof my highest
OCT 1e 1933
consideration.
FILED
X
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Seoretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.88)
Ootober 10 1955
The seeretary of state precents his cempliments
to the Henerable the seeretary of the Mavy ane eneleses,
for his infematien and the files of the Bavy Department,
a copy of a note from the Japasese Ambassador at Waching-
1
ten incorporating partieulars of the Japenese sulmarine
Ne. B-ss, the keel of which has beem laid domm.
894.34/140
Eaelosure:
From Japanese mabessy.
September 28, 1933:
1HN
20/4/30
true copy of
10/9|33
the igned origl
amw
nat.
1S

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.85)
Ootober 10 1958
Saeelleney:
I heve the hener to cekmesledge, n th thanke, the
reselpt of your nete To, 147 of september 28, 19ss, s0-
894.34/140
corperating partiealars of a salmarine of the Imperial
Japemese Ray, Ne. Bss, the keel of which hes beem lasé
domm, whieh have been furaished by your Geveenment is
essesdemee wi th the provision of artiele 10 (a) of the
Leaden Haval Treaty.
Aecept, Enselleney, the remewed assusanees of mg
bigheet consieeration.
Tor the Sesretary of states
William Phillipa
Ris Essellensy
Mr. Eatoaji Bobuchs,
Inteesndee e? Japen.
20/00

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/1
500.A15 A5/7
Japan
Grow..) DATED ...Sapt..15.1933.
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Japan intends to insist on parity or at least a great increase
in relative tonnage at the next naval Conference in 1935.
141

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.95)
November 81988
yattJok
7-1935
October a, 1933.
xyto Mary Dyl. 
DEPARICENI OESIATE
Division of
CHIEF OF NAVAL STAFF TO DETERMINE THE STRENGTH OF
F/HS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE JAPANESE NAVY
SND
OCT1933
Aocording to recent press despatches from Tokyo,
894.34/142
the Chief of the Naval Staff will hereafter, by virtue
of a recently issued Imperial ordinance, determine the
organization and strength of the Japanese navy. The
importance of this new measure as a factor in the Naval
Conference to be held in 1935 cannot be exaggerated.
When the Japanese Government proceeded to the signa-
ture of the London Naval Treaty in spite of the opposi-
tion of the Naval Staff, the Big-Navy element, led by
Admiral Kanji Kato, then Chief of the Naval Staff,
raised the constitutional question of the right of
the Government to determine the organization and
strength of the Japanese navy.
The Japanese Constitution provides:
C1 13
"Article 12 - The Emperor determines
the organization and peace standing of the
army and navy."
Although the Emperor is under the Constitution
the Commander-in-Chief of the navy (as well as of the
army

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
-a -
army), in actual practice the organization of the navy
is delegated to the Chief of the Naval Staff, while,
thus far, the determination of  atrength has been
delegated to the Minister of Marine, who is an officer
of the Government and is charged with the duty of supply-
ing personnel and materiel. It was contended by the
military element that the officer delegated by the
Emperor to organize the navy could demand as large
a navy as might be agreeable to the Emperor, and that
as a corollary tre Government could not restrict the
scope within which this right of organization might
be exercised. They further argued that, as the Chief
of the Naval Staff did not consider the strength al-
lotted to Japan under the London Naval Treaty to be
adequate, the Government could not constitutionally
adhere to a treaty which would restrict the officer
responeible for the organization of the navy to a
strength which he, under powers delegated to him by
the Emperor, considered inadequate for national security.
This contention was overruled by the Privy Council,
which advises the Emperor on constitutional questions,
and the treaty was in due course ratified by the
Emperor. Admiral Kato, his assistant, Vice Admiral
Suyetsugu, and the other leaders of this movement,
were

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
were relieved of their posts and their places were
taken by such progressive and liberal officers as
Admiral Nomura and Admiral Taniguchi.
It would appear from press accounts that the
recent imperial ordinance will operate to curtail
the right of the Minister of Marine to determine the
number and tonnage of ships which are (as materiel)
to be supplied to the Navy, and to transfer that right
to the Chief of the Naval Staff, who is not responsible
to the Cabinet. If such is the case, the Big-Navy
group, who have of course been in power for the last
two years, have apparently succeeded in securing the
legal measure which puts them in a position beyond
all possibility of successful assault by the liberal
element. When Japan participates in the next confer-
ence, her delegation would thus -- unless some further
change should arise which can scarcely be expeoted as
the situation has now developed -- be under the direo-
tion not of a Government capable of asserting its will
in respeot of naval questions but of the Chief of the
Naval Staff.
FE!EHD:CDM

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.87)
October 91988
In reply refer to
894.34/142
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Navy and inoloses
a copy of a memorandum prepared in the Department with
regard to recently reported enlargement of the powers
of the Chief of the Japanese Naval Staff.
Enolosure: Memorandun.
1
4
Sict
S:0:0:10

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
Ooteber 2, 1933.
ONIEF OF WAVAL STAFF TO DETERMINE THE STREEOTN OF
THB JAPANRSE NAVY
Locording to recent press despatohes from Tokyo,
the Chief of the Waval Staff will hereafter, by virtue
of a recently issued Imperial ordinance, determime the
organization and strength of the Japanese navy. The
importance of this new measure as a factor in the Maval
Conferenee to be held in l935 cannot be ezaggerated.
When the Japanese Government proceeded to the sigmm-
ture of the London Naval Treaty in spite of the oppos1-
tion of the Naval Staff, the Big-Navy elemeat, led by
Admiral Kanj1 Kato, then Chief of the Waval Staff,
raised the constitutional question of the right of
the Govermment to determine the organisation and
strength of the Japanese mmvy.
The Japanese Constitutiom provides:
"Article 12 - The Emperor determines
the organisation and pease standing of the
army and mevy.'
Although the Emperor is umder the Cometitutiem
the Commemder-in-Chief of the mvy (as well as of the
a

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 -
army), in aotuel preetiee the organisation of the mevy
is delegated to the Ohief of the Naval Staff, while,
thus far, the determimation of its strength has been
delegated to the Winister of Marine, who is an offieer
of the Gevermment and is oharged with the duty of supply-
ing personnel and materiel. It was contended by the
military element that the officer delegated by the
Emperor to organise the navy could demand as large
a navy as might be agreeable to the Emperor, and that
as a corollary the Government could not restriot the
soope within whioh this right of organization might
be exeroised. They further argued that, as the Chief
of the Naval Staff did not consider the strength al-
lotted to Japan under the London Naval Treaty to be
adequate, the Government could not constitutionally
adhere to a treaty which would restriot the offieer
responsible for the organisation of the mvy to a
strength whioh he, under powers delegated to him by
the Emperor, considered inadequate for mtiomal security.
This contention was overruled by the Privy Couneil,
which advises the Esperor on cometitutiomal questions,
and the treaty wmas in due course ratified by the
Emperor. Admiral Kato, his assistant, Vice Admiral
Suyetsugu, and the other leaders of this movement,
wero

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
were relieved of their posts end their places were
taken by such progressive nd liberal officers as
Admiral omura and Admiral aniuohi.
It would appear from press accounts that the
recent imperial ordin nce 1ll operate to curtail
the ri ht of the inister of rine to deteraine the
munber nd tonnage of  ip: whih are (as mteriol)
to be supplied to the v, n. to transfer thet ri, ht
to the thiof of the tv 1  tat, who is not responsible
to the Cabinot. It uch is t e case, the ig- Tavy
roup. who have of cour e peen in po er for the last
two yoars, hvepparently succeeded in securin the
legel measure whie muts e in a position beyond
all possi ility of suc e sful assault by the liberal
element.en Jpn articipates in the next confor
once, her dele ation w ula tl us -- u less some further
chane should arise hie can scarcely be expected s
the situation has no developed -- be under the direc-
tion not of a overmment capu le of assertin its will
in respeot of naval uestions but of che chief of the
Neval Staff.
FE:EHD:CDM

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMANT OF STATE
DIVISION OF PAR EATERN AFTAIRS
Ootober 2, 1933.
CHIEF OF NAVAL STAFF TC DETERMINE THE STRENGTH OF
THE JAPANESE NAVY
According to reoent press despatohes from Tokyo.
the Chief of the Naval itaff will hereafter, by virtue
of a reoently isaued Imperial ordinance, determine the
organization and strength of the Japanese navy. The
importanoe of this new measure as a factor in the Naval
Conference to be hold in 135 oannot be exaggerated.
«hen the Japanese tovernment proceeded to the signa-
ture of the ondon uval Treaty in spite of the opposi-
tion of the haval staf. the Big-avy element, led by
Admiral anji .ate, t.en hief of the Naval staff.
raiseu the const tutional guestion of the rigat of
the Covernment to dutermine the organization and
strength of the Japanese navy.
The Jupanese constitution provides:
"Article l2 - The mperor determines
the organization and peace standing of the
army and navy.
Although the imperor 1s under the Constitution
the Commander-in-Chief of the navy (as well as of the
army

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
● 2 -
army), in actual practice the organization of the navy
is delegated to the Chief of the aval taff. while.
thus far, the determination of the havy's strength has been
delegated to the Minister of rine, ho is an offioor
of the Government and is churged ith the duty of supply-
ing personnel and materiel. It was contended by the
military element that he offioe: delegated by the
mperor to organize the nuvy could demand as large
a navy as might be agrueable to the peror. and that
as a corollary the over ent coul. not restrict the
soope within which this ri nt of orranizati n mipnt
be exercised. Iney furtner a rued that, us the chief
of the aval taff diu o consider th: trength al-
lotted to japan unuer he unaon aval reaty o pe
adequate, the over ct coulu not constitutionally
adhere to a treaty hich oule restriot the officer
responsiule for the organization of the navy to a
strength whicn he, under powers delegated to hin by
the mperor, considered inaue uate for national seourity.
This c ntention was overruled by the Privy Counoil.
which advises the mperor on constitutional uestions.
and the treaty was in due course ratified by the
Emperor. Admiral Kato. his assistant, Vioe Admiral
juyotsugu, and the other leaders of this movement.
were

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.95)
● 8 -
were relieved of their pests and their places were
taken by suoh pregressive and liberal offioers as
Lémiral Nomare and Amiral Taniguchi.
It would appear from press accounts that the
recent imperial ordinamce will operete to ourtail
the right of the Minister of Merine to determine the
mamber and tonnage of ahips which are (as materiel)
to be sapplied to the Navy, and to transfer that right
to the Chief of the Naval Stafr, who is not responsible
to the Cabinet. If smch is the case, the Big-Navy
group, whe have of sourse been in power for the last
two years, have apparently suoceeded in seouring the
legal measure which pats them in a position beyend
all possibility of successful assault by the liberal
•lement. When Japen partioipates in the next oonfer-
ence, her delegation would thus -- unless some further
change should arise whioh can scarcely be expeoted as
the sitmation has now developed -- be under the direo-
tion not of a Covernment oapable of asserting its will
in respeet of naval questions but of the Chief of the
Naval Staff.
FE:EHD: CDM

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTM NT OF STATE
DIVISION OF PAR EA TERN AFTAIRS
Ootober 2, 1933.
CHI EF OF NAVAL TAFF T D.T RMIN: THS STR NGTH OF
TH: JAPAN: NAVY
Aooording to reoent press despatohes from Tokyo.
the Chief of the Naval taff will hereafter, by virtue
of a reoently issued Imperial ordinanoe, dotermine the
organization and stren, th o the Japanese navy. The
importanoe of this new measure as a factor in the Naval
conferenoe to be helu in 1 75 oannot be exaggerated.
hen the Jupanese tovernmert proceeded to the signa-
ture of the ondon uval Treaty in spite of the opposi-
tion of the Naval taf. the Big-havy element, led by
Admiral  unji ato. t en hief of the haval taff.
raiseu the const tutional uestion of the right of
the Covornment to d termine the orgunization and
atrength of the Japanese navy.
The Jupanese constitution provides:
"Artiole lz - The mperor determines
the organization and peace standing of the
army and navy.
Although the mperor is under the Constitution
the Commander-in-Chief of the navy (as well as of the
army

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.94)
● 8 -
army), in aotual praotice the organization of the navy
is delegated to the Chief of the aval taff, while.
thus far, the detormination of the havy's strength has beon
delegated to the Minister of rine, ho is an offioer
of the Covernment and is ohurged ith the auty of supply-
ing personnel and materiel. It was oontended by the
military clomu t that he offioer delegated by the
mperor to organize the uuvy oould demand as large
a navy as misht be uprueable to the mporor. and that
as a corollary the .overm ent coul. not restriot the
soope within vhich this ri ht of organizati n miput
be exoroised. cey urtner ar ued that, as the chief
of the aval taff did not consiier th: trongtn al-
lotted to japan unuer the undon aval Treaty 'o be
ade uate. the over ert coul not constitutionally
dhere to a troaty hichule restriot the offioer
responsiule for the orpanization o the navy to a
strength whion he. u ier powere delegated to hir by
the imperor, considerec inade uate for national meourity.
This c ntention was overruled by tne Privy Counoil.
which advises the mperor or o nstitutional uestions.
and the treaty wae in aue course ratified by the
Emperor. Admiral Kato. his assistant. Vioe Admiral
juyetaugu, and the other leaders of this movement.
were

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
were relieved of their posts and their places were
taken by smah progressive and liberal officers as
Admiral Nomara and Admiral Taniguch1.
It would appear from press accounts that the
recent imperial ordinamce will operate to ourtall
the right of the Minister of Marine to determine the
mumber and tonnage of ships which are (as materiel)
to be supplied to the Navy, and to transfer that right
to the Chief of the Naval Staff, who is not responsible
to the Cabinet. If such 1s the ease, the Big-Navy
group, who have of course been in power for the last
two years, have apparently succeeded in securing the
legal measure which puts them in a position beyond
all possibility of successful assault by the liberal
•lement. When Japan participates in the next confer-
ence, her delegation would thus -- unless mome farther
change ahould arise which can scarcely be expected as
the situation has now developed -- be under the direo-
tien not of a Goverment capable of asserting its will
in respeet of naval questions but of the Chief of the
Haval starf.
PE:KHD:CM

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.93)
November 3 1988
39
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Seoretary of State encloses for the informe-
tion of the Ambassador a copy of a memorandum under date
894.34/142
October 2, 1933, prepared im the Department on the oo-
casion of the issuance of a recent ordinance enlarging
the powers of the Chief of the Japanese Maval Staff.
Enolosure:
Memorandum
Oatober 3, 1933.
1.18
894.34/143
SKH
FEIEHD: ABW
Fπ

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/143
890d.00/571
#579
SEE
FOR
Beirut
Goold
Oct.18, 1933
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Statement of the new High Commissioner to Syria, M. de Martel.
that the Japanese are fi uring on an increase of their fleet
after the expiration of the ashington and London agreements.
W1

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.97)
F
111
TREATY DIVISION
WABHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.34
F/ESP
note
No.178
17233
November 21, 1933
28 1988
Sir:
By direction of my government, I have the honor to
inform you, in accordance with the provision of Article
894.34/144
10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty, that the construction
of two destroyers of the Imperial Japanese Navy, the
"Hatsuharu" and the "Nenohi", is now completed.
The particulars are as follows:
"HATSUHARU" (former name, NO. 59)
The date of laying down of keel:
May 14, 1931
The date of completion:
September 30, 1933
Division of
Classification of vessel:
Destroyer
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV 24 1933
Astandard displacement in tons:
1,368 tons
DEC 4 - 1933
Bepartment of State
Standard displacement in metric tons: 1,390 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line:
102.96 metre
Extreme beam:
9.94 metre
Mean draft at standard displacement:
2.67 metre
Calibre of the largest gun:
12.7 centi-metre
"NENOHI" (former name, No. 60)
The date of laying down of keel:
December 15, 1931
The date of completion:
September 30, 1933
The Honorable William Phillips
Aoting Secretary of State
Washington

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
Classification of vessel:
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tona:
1,368 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons:
1,390 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line:
102.96 metre
Extreme beam:
9.94 metre
Mean draft at standard displacement:
2.67 metre
Calibre of the largest gun:
12.7 centi-metre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high
consideration.
For the Ambassador:
1. areln
T. Taketomi,
Counselor.
C

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
In reply refer to
TD 004.34/144
The Aoting Seeretary of 3tate presents his oompl1-
894.34/144
ments to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Tavy and
encloses, for his information and the files of the Wavy
Department, a copy of a note from the Japanese mbasse
dor at Washington, furnishing, in accordance with the
provision of Artiole 10 (b) of the London Waval freaty,
partioulars regarding two destroyers of the Imperial
Japanese Navy, the HATSUHARU and the NENOHI, the con-
struotion of whioh, it is stated, is now completed.
Enclosure:
From the Japanese
Ambassador, Novem-
31, 1933. - copy.
TDISY:ED
11/23/33
FE

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.85)
November 28 1988
Esselleney:
I have the beser to sotmeuledge, w th thenke, the
ressipt of your note ne. 17e of Fovesher 2n, 1833, fems-
894.34/144
ishing. in ascerdenee vith the provisione of Artiele
10(b) ef the Leadee Kaval Treatw, partieulare regareing
twe destroyere of the Imperial Japemese Eavy, the
KATSURaRs and the mEmonI, the construetien of wtich,
18 1s stated, 1s new completed.
Aecept, Exselleney, the remsved assuramses of my
highest ceast eerstien.
Por the seting seeretary of states
R. Walton Moore
A true copy of
Me Esselleney
Mr. Katenja metmsha,
ambescatee of dom.
MOV 87,1
11/mm/38

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.85)
ONI
RSOSTTED
DEC 1 9 1933
RVIRION OU
DEC 1 8 1933
Destreyers Ratauharu and Nenehi Cemgleted.
WERTE
Lase domm
EAM EASTEN AFFAINS
Ratouharu - Sept, 30, 1933
Namekd - Sept. 30, 1933.
Dapartment of Stato
Stendard displacemest - 13e8 tons (1390 motrie toms)
894.34/145
NT OF STATE
DEC1 8 1933
NEAR LTEAN AFFAIRS
DEC 19 1933
YELND

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.97)
IN
OFS
y 16 1984
Jaduary
EMBASSY
WE
VASHINGTON
No. 6
COM
6
8y.
January 9 1934.
TREATY DIVISION
JAN 1 34
JAN 111934
894.34
Sir:
F/ESP
DEP IRTMENT OF SRIATE
By direction of my Goverament,
STATE
Divigion of
JAN17
MAF
FAR EAST AFFAIRS
honor to inform you, in accordance wi
JAN 13 1934
sion of Article 10 (a) of the London Na
Depertment of State
894.34/146
that the keel of the "Shiratsuyu", a destroyer of
the Imperial.Japanese Navy, has been laid down.
The particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel,
November 14, 1933.
Classification of vessel,
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons
1368 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons, 1390 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line
102.50 metre
JAN 17 1934
FILND
Extreme beam,
10.34 metre
Mean draft at standard displacement
2,63 me tre.
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7 centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
1. lakelune'
Chargé d'Arfaires ad interim
The Honorable William Phillips,
Acting Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.97)
In reply refer to
TD 894.34/146
894.34/146
The Aoting Seeretary of State presents his compli-
ments to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and
eneloses, for hie information and the files of the Wavy
Department, a copy of a note from the Japanese Chargs
d'Affaires ad interim at Washington, inoorporating
partioulars regarding the SHIRAtsUYU, a destroyer of
the Imperial Japanese Yavy, which have been furnished
by the japanese Government in accordanoe with the pro-
vision of Artiole l0(a) of the London Naval Treaty of
1930.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Chargé
d'Affaires ad interim,
No. 8, January 9, 1934.
M
TUI SYJIED
1/13/34
F
2

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.80)
January 16 1984
The sesstpt ss askeeskedged of your sete Ne. 6
of Jammery 9, 1sss, fusaiskiag partloslare regasting
894.34/146
the sIRatsute, e destreyer ef the Imperial Japemese
Bew, whieh heve beem faraished ty the Japemese Goee
ament in esesrdesee with the previsien of Article
10(a) ef the Lenden Wavel treety of 10s0.
Lecept, str, the reneved sesuremsss of my high
emelderation.
For the Aeting sesretasy of states
R. Walton Moore
.
   of 
JAN 16
K

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/1
SEE...500...A..15.a..5/14.
FOR ...... Memanndum
FROM.....State..Department...... (....Dooma......) DATED .Dec...14.1933.
Far Eastern Affairs
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Conversation between Mr. Cameron For bes and Mr. Hornbeok
regarding discussion with Japan on subject of naval disament.
Present ratio of 10-6 is proper ratio and should not
be altered in Japan's favor.
Ja

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/148
14P
SEE.
500.▲ 15 a 5/151m
FOR
Memorandum
FROM
State Department
Dec.15,1933
Far Lastern Affairs
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Comment on possibility of continued acceptance by Japan
of 10-6 ratio in Naval armaments with U. S.
Ja

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
S500.A15 a.5/16
FOR
Memorandum
894.34/1
FROM
State Department
Moffat..) DATED .Dec.15.1933
Bestern European Affairs
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Differences between U. S. and Great Britain regarding naval
armaments should be ironedout before Jepanese are informed of U. S.
attitude regarding 10-6 retio.
Ja

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF CIOIE
IN
OF
S
Tile
FEB 88 1934
10
JAPANESE EMBASSY
STEGS EUDOPEAN AFFAIRS
Liv un LF
WASHINGTON
February
Pebruary
No. 32
STREATY OVISION
FEB1 34
Division of
94.34
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
note
Sir:
FEB 24 1934
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dapartmant of State
By direction of my Government, I have the
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
894.34/150
of Article l0 (a) of the London Naval Treaty, that
the keels of the "Suzuya", a cruiser, the "Shigure",
a destroyer, and No. A-72, a Submarine, of the Imperial
Japanese Navy, have been laid down.
The particulars are as follows:
"Suzuya":
The date of laying down of keel,
December 11, 1933.
Classification of vessel,
Cruiser
Standard displacement in tons,
8,500 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons, 8636 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
190.50 metre
Extreme beam,
18.20 metre
AR 1934
Mean draft at standard displacement,
4.50 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
15.5
cent
etr
"Shigure":
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.
-1-

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
"Shigure":
The date of laying down of keel,
December 9, 1933.
Classification of vessel,
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons,
1,368 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons, 1390 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
102.50 metre
Extreme beam,
10.34 metre
Mean draft at standard displacement,
2.63 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7 centimetre
No. A-72:
The date of laying down of keel,
December 16, 1933.
Classification of vessel,
Submarine
Standard displacement in tons,
1,400 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons, 1,423 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
101.00 metre
Extreme beam,
8.20 metre
Mean draft at standard displacement,
3.95 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
10.
centimetre
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Herosi aih
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.86)
February 27 1984;
o secretery of State preeeate kis eemplsmente
to the Eenerakle the sesretary of the Havy and enclesse,
fe Mds mpartent's iaformetien, a copy of e mte m
the Sepenese Lmbasceder at Washingten tranemitting.
34/150
ostion ef kis Goverament, in accordanee with Artiele
10 (e) of the Leadon Weval Treaty, partiealars regaseing
the Japenese aruiser sUsuYa, the Japanese destreyes
mIeus ead the Japamess sumarine No. 4-72.
Enslesure:
Frem Japenese Ambasssder,
Poheuary 17, 1934-
A true copy of
PM
2120134
amw
Fob.27
8

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.88)
February 27 1954.
I have the hener to astneeledge, wita thanks,
te ressipt of your nete of Fobreary 17, 1834, trans-
34/180
mstsing, by direetien of your Gevermment and in ee-
ordemse with the provissen of artiele 10( a) of the
Lenden Favel Treaty, partienlars regardieg the Japenese
G WUTA, the Japamese dectreyer IGRE ane the
Jepenese sutmarine No. A-72.
Ascspt, Esselleney, the renewed assereseee f ug
ighest consideration.
For the seseretary of states
William Phillips
A true copy of

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
MAR 19 1934
COM
TREATY DIVISION
&
No. 5/
March 18, 1086
VAR 14 34
MAR 16 1934
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STAUR
March 21 1984.
894.34
By direction of my Government, I heve the honor
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of Ar-
MAR 21 1934
F/G
ticle 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty, that the keel
of the "Murasame", a destroyer of the Imperial Japanese
89
Navy, has been laid down.
The particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel,
February 1, 1934.
Classification of vessel,
Destroyer.
Standard displacement in tons,
1,368 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons
1,390 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
102,500 metre
23 1934
Extreme beam,
10.340 metre
FTLED
Mean draft at standard displacement
2.630 metre
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of y
highest consideration.
Hirosi ait
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.90)
 21 194
In reply refer to
TD 806.34/101
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and enoloses
894.34/151
for the information and files of the Navy Department
a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at Wash-
ington containing partioulars regarding the Japanese
destroyer vURAsAMr, the keel of whioh was laid down on
February 1, 1934.
These partioulars have been furnished by the Jananese
Goverument in conformity with Artiole l0(a) of the London
Naval Treaty of 1930.
Enclosuret
Tom Japanese AnbaBeador,
Maroh 13, 1934.
MT
T
3/17/34
此
2M
(
17.8

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.87)
March 21 19567
I heve the bener to aeknevledge, with thanke, the
804.34/151
Fesespe of your note of March 13, 1834, commmieating.
in eeaferaity with Arti ale l0(e) of the Lenden Navel
Treety ef loso, pertieulare furntshed by your Gevers-
ment of the Japasese destroyer MuRasaxs, the keel of
which was laid domm on Pebruary 1, 1934.
Lesept, Bsselleney, the remewed eesuraseee of my
highest considsratien.
Per the seeretary of state:
William Phillips
2

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.91)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/152
OA.OO P.R./P6
10es
SEE
FOR
Japam
Grew
Pobruary 6,1934
FROM
.) DATED
152
TO
NAME
11137
REGARDING:
Third Naval Repliahment Program suggested in Japan,
stimmlated by the big navy plans of a "certain country"
meaning presumably the United States.
esp

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
开
JARANESEEMBASSY
May 16, 1934.1
WE
No./06
WASHINGTON
TREATY DIVISION
May 38 1984
Sir:
54
1934
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ere
of
my Government
I have the
MAY 24 1934
honor to inform you, in
London Naval Treaty, that the
894.34/153
keels of the "Kumano", a cruiser, and "No. A-73", a
submarine, of the Imperial Japanese Navy, have been
laid down.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
V.MAY 21 1834
The particulars are as follows:
Depertumnt ef Stute
"Kumano"
The date of laying down of keel,
April 4, 1934
Classification of vessel,
Cruiser
Standard displacement in tons,
8,500 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons,
8,636 tons
MAY 2 4 1931
FILED
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
190.50 metres
Extreme beam,
18.20 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement,
4.50 metres
Calibre of the largest gun,
15.5 centimetres
"No. A-73"
April 5, 1934
The date of laying down of keel,
Submarine
Classification of vessel,
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.95)
Standard displacement in tons,
1,400 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons, 1,423 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line,
101.00 metres
Extreme beam,
8.20 metres
Mean draft at standard displacements,
3.95 metres
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.0 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Sthroni Saih
H. Saito
X

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.90)
May 28 1984
ay refer to
1.34/155
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
894.34/153
to the Honorable the Seeretary of the Wavy and encloses
for the information and files of the Wavy Department a
copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at Washing-
ton furnishing partioulars in accordance with Artiole
10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of the KUMANO, a
cruiser and No. A-73, a submarine of the Japanese Navy.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
May 16, 1934, No. 106.
true copy of
the slemdd prigin
PM
9n0
TD:8Y9:2D885/19/34
m.m.K.
5/22/34
A mW
MAY 23. 1984
$

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.94)
:May 25 1984
Excelleney:
894.34/153
I have the honor to noknowledge, with thanks, the
receipt of your note No. 106 of May 16, 1934, furmish-
ing partioulars in accordance with Artiole 10 (a) of the
London Naval Treaty of the KUMAvo, a oruimer, and
No. A-73, a submarine of the Imperial Japanese Havy.
Accept, Excellenoy, the renewed assurances of my
highest considoration.
For the Seeretary of State:
William Phillips
copy of
ed cri
His Excellenoy
Mr. Hirosi Saito,
Ambassador of Japan.
MAY 22. 1E8
894.34/153
PM
iNN
5122/34
FE
WE
m.m.1√.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.96)
IN
OF
JAPANESE EMBA
we:luw
WASHINGTON
8
No. / 36
TREATY DIVISION
Cor st. Tion
Division of
JUL - 34
JUL - & 934
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AD
16 1984.
JUL 11 1934
8ir:
July
DEPARTMENT OF STAVE
500A15a3
Department of State
By direction of my Government, I have the
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
894.34/154
of Article lo (a) of the London Naval Treaty, that the
keel of the No. B-34, a submarine of the Imperial
lum
Japanese Navy, has been laid down.
The particulars are as follows:
The date of laying down of keel
April 25, 1934.
Classification of vessel,
Submarine.
Standard displacement in tons,
700 tons.
Standard displacement in metric tons,
711 metric tons.
Principal dimensions:
Length it water line,
73.00 metres
Extremeam,
6.70 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement,
3.25 metres.
7.6 contimets.
Calibre of largest gun,
Accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest
consideration.
Keinonke Biju
Chargé d'Affaires ed interin
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Seeretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
161064.
TD 804.34/154
The Seoretary of State prements his compliments
894.34/154
to the Honorable the Beoretary of the Navy and enolo-
ses for the information of the Navy Department a oopy
of a note dated July 7, 1934, from the Japanese Charge
d'Affaires ad interim at Washington tranomitting, in
aooordance w1th Artiole 10 of the London Waval Treaty,
partioulars regarding  wubmarine of the Imperial
Japanese Havy, No. B-34.
Enolosure:
From Japanese Chargó
d'Affairea ad interim,
July 7, 1934.
TD:3Y3:DV 7/11/34

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.92)
J0ly 16 1984.
ar:
The reesipt is askmowledged, with thanks, of your
note No. 136 of July 7, 1934, transmitting partioulare
regarding a submarine of the Imperinl Japanese Wavy,
894.34/154
Ne. B-34, whioh have been furnished by the Imperial
Japanese Government in aocordance with Artiole 10 of
the London Waval Treaty of 1930.
Aocent, Sir, the renemed assurances of my high
consideration.
Por the Seoretary of State:
Mr. Keinomuke Fujii,
Uhargd d'affeires ad 1nterim
of Japan.
894.34/104
Y
TD: SY9: EDW 7/11/4
FE
WE

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.90)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
DB Fe
SEE500.▲ 15 a 5/124
FOR ..Report 89
FRoM ....Naval Attacho. Japan...(
) DATED  Mar. 22, 1934.
894.34/155
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Report presenting an estimate of the Japanese position
with regard to naval limitation.
G

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.92)
1√6
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34156
SEE .....500.A..15....5/161
FOR .....Daap..#167.
FROM ...Colombo.
(Livingaton......) DATED ...June..28..1934.
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
Japanese natal policy: Transmits newspaper comment on -
and her demand for parity.
rand

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/157
SEE 841.34/130
FOR
Communioation
FROM ...oraign Service Of iorKasanjian) DATED.July ?6. 1934
Cetached
TO
NAME
REGARDING:
keported shipments of  11 ht weight whit wood from
Borneo to ngland and Japan for construotion of decks, etc.
of war vessels. Conversation with a !r. MucInnes, a motion
picture photographer, in regard to-.
C
fp

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/158
SEE...701.9448/85
FOR
1339
FROM..Quebee
(....Randolph.....) DATED
00t.17.1934
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japan's requirement for a stronger defensive navy discussed
by Japamese Minister at meeting of Quebec Military Institute.
894.3

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.96)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Quebee, Camede, Oetober 17, 1934.
Japan mtitled To Build Up Strenger
80BJECT:
Defensive Pleet, Deelared Japanese
Minister To Canada In Speech At Quebec.
THE HOMORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SJR:
I have the honor to report that at its dinner
and meeting Baturday evening, October 13, 1934, the
Quebec Military Institute had as 1ts guest-speaker,
His Exeellency, Iyemase Tokugawa, Minister of Japen to
Camada; that be spoke nearly one bour and a half; and
that some of his statements may be of luterest to the
Department.
Guekee Military Instituta:
The Quebec military Institute, established about
eight years age, is mde up in membership of active and
retired Canadien offieers in Quebec. It holds dinners
and meetings from time to time (about five to sevem a year)
in the Quebee Garrison Club and on such oceasions bes guest-
speekers. As a body it is not understood to have any
partieular importamee, the idee ef its founders being
partly seeial (a re-miem of old effieers) and partly
instrastive (through heving good speakers) and partly (and
perhapa/

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.93)
-2
perhaps principally) to afford social training for offieers
in aetive service, a requirement for attendance at the
meetings and dinners being appearance in full dress military
miforms. At 1ts meeting Baturday evening, Oetober l3th,
I was invited to be prosent and was seated at the head table,
some member controllink invitations believing apparently that
the visit of the Japanese Minister and his speech might
interest me.
nerinLapnesxidain:
In referring to the Onited States and to American-
Japanese relations, the Minister made an elaborate gesture
of looking dom the table and adiressing me as the representetive
of the Onited states. All of his remarks about the Onited
States and American-Japanese relations seemed friendly, end
he mmde special points of the mutually beneficial trade
relatiens and the friendship since earliest times betweem the
Omited States and Japan.
musianolanenese Ralations:
Likewise, I received the impression that the Miniater
believes that there is no sueh thing as a question of mar
between Japem and Rusaia and that war talk bas no basis in
fest beyend ridieulous mewspaper artieles.
The Minister apparemtly eonsiders Manchukuo a clesed
questiem, Mis explamatsoees if I remember correctly,
inelading assertions that all Europeans and Americans
living is Mamekatme appreve of mhet has been aecemplished there.
Lanm

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.93)
ing:
The acousation that Japan in its foreign trade 1s
guilty of so-called "dumping" the Miulster upparently
considere very wnfair, and he explained at some length the
labor and seeial eonditions obtaining in Japan whioh make
wages paid fair, whereas the fact tuat Japan wust import
frem abroad most raw materials makes Japanese trade
distinotly advantageous to those ocountries which are Japan's
sources of supply.
Lapan'alaral Paliex:
The Minister discussed in great detail Japan's form of
government end 1ts principal governmental institutions, all
of which may perhaps be dismissed as purely academic with the
exeeption of his disoussion of the Japanese navy and naval
polloy.
y eenclusions in this regard are that, although the
Minister gave out much detalled information about Japan and
Japamese institutions, he was not perhaps so very suecessful
1n winming from his (uebec audience any partioular sympathy
for Japan.
Om the other hand, the Minister's discussien of Japanese
military and naval matters in such great detail may have been
prempted by the speaker's knowledge that he was addressing a
greap of effieers, who might be expeeted to be partioularly
interested in these questions. In any event he was very
definite in Ms argmmeats that Japan requires a relatively
strenger defemsive mavy whloh he and Japan hope can be
arranged fer net y Japem's iaereasins its temmage but
preferebly by ether temmege being deereesed. knother
defsmitel

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.94)
-4
definite impression obtained from the Minister's romarks
1s thet Japan is definitely going to ask for a new naval
accord with different ratios to replace the Washington and
London accords.
Although posted on neither navel matters nor on Japan,
it seemed to me from the address heard in uebec that one
underlying cause of the Minister's (and Japan's) dissatisfaetion
with present naval ratios may arise at least partially from a
Japanese national pride which finds Japan's being second to
any other power irksome.
Suebec rewapaner Snnrarien:
Attaohed is a newspaper summary of the Japanese
Min1ster's speech in Cuebec, as published in the CRRONICLE-
TELEGRAPE of October 15, 1934.
Qther Cnebes Maspitality
To Japenese inister:
Baturday afternoon, prcceding the dinner, the Japanese
Minister to Canada and the Japanese Javal Attach at Ottawa,
were tes guests at Spencerwood, the official residence of the
Lieutenant Governor of Cuebec, who in this province represents
the British Crowm.
cmebealaxplmation ef
Bsit of Janenese Minister:
Some two years ago the Quebeo Military Institute had
as its guest-speaker a distinguished Chinese sehelar, who
gave a most exeellent address on Far-Bastern questions,
partieularly the Japemese-Chinese conflict at Shanghai, and
after twe years of effort the Quebee Military Institute
finally/

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.94)
-5-
finally got the Japanese Minister to Canede to come
to Quebec and be the guest-speaker in order that the
members might hear another side of Far-Eastern questions.
Respeetfully yours,
225
John Randolph,
Americen Consul.
Enclosure:
Newspaper summary of
Japanese dinister's speech
in Quebec, published in
the CHRONICLE-TELEORAPH
of Cotober 15, 1934.
Distribution:
Original and 4 copies to Department;
Copy to Legation, Ottawa, Canada;
Copy to Consul General, ontresl, Canada.
21le: 800/830
JR/mw

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
Inclesure to Despetch
No. 339, dated Detober
1934, frem Joha Ramdalpl
Amerieam Cansal,
Canade, mtitled:
atitled To Baild e
Defensive Pleet, Deelared
Japamese Minister To Caja
In Speeeh At Quebee.
Gataber 151936
Japan's Envoy To
The Japanese Minister also al-
luded briefly to the history of his
country and its rapid develop-
Canada Asserts
ment, to the Governmental and
army organization and evolution
His Nation Needs
and to some of the past, present
and future political and economic
problems of his country. Japan is
Defensive Navy
planning and organizing not only
for the present but for the future,
according to the speaker who
Hon. I. M. Tokugawa
made a passing reference to the
Expresses Hope Large
relations of the Japanese with
China Russia and the United
Navy Power Will
States and stated that these rela-
tions, which were improving, were
Lead Disarmament
good, particularly with the Am-
erican Republic.
Role In Far East
Industry Forges Ahead
Agriculture was still in a some-
what unfortunate situation but
Japan is not primarily interest-
mcst other lines of activity, par-
ed in possessing a great offensive
ticularly the manufacturing and
fleet but she wants and needs a
exporting of finished products,
more extensive and greater defen-
has progressed considerably in Ja-
sive navy, according to His Excel-
pan in rgcent years, the speaker
lency, the Minister from Japan to
Canada, Hon. I. M. Tokugawa,
pointed out and explained that the
who spoke on the problems of his
tremendous development of Jap-
country before members of the
Military Institute at the Garrison
Club on Saturday night.
anese industry in recent years was
due to fine co-operation and un-
Due to the fact that Japan is
tiring efforts of the technicians
entirely surrounded by water and
that its existence depends largely
upon the entrance of raw mater-
and business men of Japan.
Japan were described as "normal"
Relations between Russia and
ials from outside countries, the
by the Minister who expressed the
Japanese need ample naval pro-
opinion that the drawing up and
tection for their shores, the Min-
adoption of several recent en-
ister pointed out and explained
tentes between the two countries
that his country might possibly be
have somewhat dissipated the
threatening clouds of trouble hov-
called upon to preserve peace in
the Far East, in which part of the
ering over Moscow and Tokio.
Disarmament Hopes
world it was the only major sta-
Hon. Mr. Tokugawa concluded
bilizing factor.
Defensive Fleet Needed
by voicing the hope that the na-
Large and powerful battleships
tions with more powerful navies
than Japan would take the lead in
were not eapecially desired by the
reducing their armaments and
Nippons who, however, thought
would thus permit the Japanese to
the country should have more de-
stroyers, and particularly more
co-operate with them in the carry.
submarines, in order to build up
ing out of such a plan.
a proper defensive fleet, the
Colonel J. E. Pinault, president
speaker deslared and said that
of the Institute, was in the chair
to be defensive vessela as they
were not practical to use in trying
these undersea craft were known
and introduced the guest speaker
to his audience, which mumber-
ed around sixty-five, and en. Mr.
to make war in far foreign wa-
Tokugawa was afterwards thaak-
ters. Airship carriers and war-
ed by Captain Adrien Peallot.
ships, essentially for offense, do
not interest Japan much, he add-
ed.
Speaking of the present naval
5-5-3 ratio agreement which will
expire at the end of 1986 and re-
minding his hearers than any par-

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.97)
6
RECEV:U
DEPAPTMEN JAANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
No. 2 38934 DEC 14 AM 9 43
December 12, 1934,
December 21 198
TREATY DIVISION
SION
MUNICTIONSASTERNAFFAIRS
AND RECORDS
DEC 18 1934
Sir:
124
TMENT OF STATE
sre
Referring to my note, No. 40,'of March B
1934, and to your acknowledgment of March 14, 1934,
I have the honor to inform you, by direction of my
fum
Government and in accordance with the provision of
894.34/159
Article 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, of
the completion of the HATSUSHIMO, a destroyer of the
Imperial Japanese Lavy.
The particulars are as follows:
Date of completion...........September 27, 1934
854.3.1
Date of laying the keel......January 14, 1933
Classification of vessel.....Destroyer
JEC241934
Standard displasement in
FILFD
tons.
.1,368 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons.
..1,390 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water ine......102.96 metres
Extreme beams.........
9.94 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement......
2.67 metres
Calibre of the largest gun.. l2.7 centimetres
Accept
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.86)
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hhrosi Jain

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.91)
December 21 1954.
ly zefer to
159
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and encloses
894.34/159
for his infermation and the files of the Navy Department
a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at Wash-
ington communicating, under Article 10 (b) of the London
Baval Treaty of l930, partioulars on completion of the
HATSUSHIMO, a destroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Enolosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
Deoember 12, 1934.
88
TD:SYSIEDW
12/17/34
FE
WE
A trbe
4.m.w
Murn
PM
Cur3
CB
12/201=+
DEC 20 1934PM

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.85)
December 21 1984
Isselleney:
I have the honor to asknewledge, with thanke, the
reseipt of your note Ne. 238 o8 December 13, 19s4,
894.34/159
eammumieatins by direstion of your Gevernment end in
ascordanee with the provisiom of Artiele l0(b) of the
Lenden Naval Treaty ef 1930, partioulare, en eompletiem,
ef the NATSUshIMo, a destroyer of the Impesial Japaneee
Levy,
Ascept, Excelleney, the renewed assurassse of my
highest sonsideration.
For the Seeretary of states
Wi1l1am Ph11l1pa
e Eneelleney
27/34

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.96)
6
RECEVED
CTPASTVEN
December 21 1984
WASHINGTON
No. 23934 DEC 14 AM 9 43
December 12, 1934
TREATY DIVISION
LVISICN OF
VHUNICATIONS
FAREASTERN AFFAIRS
AND RECORDS
15 1934
Sir:
DEC 18 1934
CER:RTMENT OF STATE
e
By direction or my Government, I have the
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
of Article 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
894.34/160
that the "Yudachi", a destroyer, and "A-74", a sub
marine, of the Imperial Japanese Navy, have been
laid down.
The particulars are as follows:
"Yudachi":
Date of laying the keel..........October 16, l934
Classification of vessel.........Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons....1,368 tons
894134
Standard displacement in
metric tons....
.1,390 metric tons
EC241934
L.
FUED
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line......
.102.24 metres
Extreme beam.
9.67 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.....
2.77 metres
Calibre of the largest gun...... l2.7 centimetres
"A-74"
F/G
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Seoretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
"A-74":
Date of laying the keel........October 16, 1934
Classification of vessel.......Submarine
Standard displacement in tons..1,400 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons.....
...1,423 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line........l0l
metres
Extreme beam.......
8.20 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement..
3.95 metres
Calibre of the largest gun.... 12
centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of
my highest consideration.
Hirioni Saito

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.94)
In reply refer to
TD 894.34/163
The Seoretary of State presents his Compliments
to the Honorable the Beoret ry of the Navy and enoloses
for his inform tion and the files of the Navy Department
a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at Wash-
ington comnunioating, under Artiole 10 (b) of the London
894.34/163
Neval Treaty of 1930, part1culars on sompletion of A-68,
a submarine of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Enclopure:
From Ja anese Ambaseador,
December 1, 1934.
1.10
CR
DE
1884
pl1

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.86)
December 21 1954
Rncelleney!
I heve the hemer to acknevledge, with thanke, the
reseipt of your nete No. 23e of Desember 12, 10se, eom-
894.34/160
manicating, under instruotieas of your Gevernsent and
in asecrdanse with the previsicm of Artiele l0(a) ef
the London Maval Treaty of l930, partieulars, en laying
dove, ef the YUDaonI, a destroyer, and A-74, a suhmarime,
of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Aecept, Exeelleney, the remewed assuramses ef my
highest consideration.
Fer the Sesretary ef states
Will1am Phil'ips
LM

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.95)
6
RECEA
FJAPANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
No.
1934 DEC 14 AM 9 44
December 12, 1934
TREATY DIVISION
DVISON OF
CMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
sir: 240
CERARTMENT OF STATE
December 21 1984
STe
By direction of my Government,I have the
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
of Article 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
894.34/161
that "A-8", a submarine of the Imperial Japanese
Dooama ae
avy, has been laid down.
0FC 19 1934
AA
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying the keel..........October 1, 1934
Classification of vessel.........Subnarine
Standard displacement in tons....1,950 tons
Standard displacement in metric
..1,98l metric tons
894.34
tons,
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line.......
.104.75 metres
Extreme beam..
9.10 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
4.40 metres
DEC241934
placement.....
FILED
Calibre of the largest gun...... 14
cent imetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hisi Saih
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.96)
December 21 1954.
Im reply refer to
TD 804.34/164
The Seoretary of State presents his oomplimens
894.34/164
to the Honorable the Beoretary of the Mavy and encloses
for his information and the files of the Navy Department
a oopy of a note from the Japanese Amdassador at Washing-
ton communioating partioulars, on laying down, of the
OKINOSHIMA, a mine-layer of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Enolosure:
From the Japanese Ambassador,
Deoember 13, 1934.
11
12/17/34
FE
WE
p1
DLC 20 1984PM

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.87)
December 21 1954.
Beeelloneyt
I have the keser to asknewledge, with thenke, the
reseipt of your nete Ne. 240 ef December 12, 10s6, eam-
894.34/161
mamieating, by direstion of your Goverasent and in
asserdance with the provision of Artiele l0(a) s the
Lemden Maval Treaty ef 19s0, partieulars, en laying dewm.
of A-6, a submarine of the Imperial Japanese Bavy.
Ascept, Ezeelleney, the renewed assuramese of my
Mghest eonsideratien.
For the sesretary of states
Will1am Phill1pe
e. Mrent Ste,

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.96)
6
RECEN:O
JAPANASE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
WE
No. 2 4934 DEC 14 AM 9 43
December 12, 1934.
TREATY DIVISION
AND RECORDS
Sir:
TMENT OF STATE
Under instruction of my Government,
STC
have the honor to inform you, in accordanoe with
the provision of Article l0 (a) of the London
894.34/162
Naval Treaty of 1930, that "A-7", a submarine of
the Imperial Japanese Navy, has been laid down.
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying the keel..........September 12, 1934
Classification of vessel.........Submarine
Standard displacement in tons....1,950 tons
Standard displacement in metric
tons
..1,98l metric tons
894.34
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line.......
.104.75 metres
EC241934
Extreme beam.
9.10 metres
-LED
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.
4.40 metres
Calibre of the largest gun...... 14
centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of
my highest consideration.
Hsisi Scit
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.91)
Becember 21 1954:
The Searetary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seeretary of the Navy and enoloses
894.34/162
for his information and the files of the Mary Department
a copy of a note from the Japansse Ambassador at Wash-
ington commumioating, under Artiole l0 (a) of the London
Maval Treaty of 1930, partioulars (on laying down) of
A-7, a submarine of the Imper1al Japanese Navy.
Enclosure:
From Jepanese Ambassador,
December 13, 1934.
w28
TD:SY8:ED12/17/34
FE
WE
mym.H
wim
pM
12/20/34
CB
DEC 201334PM

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.85)
December 21 1984.
tmoctlemoy!
I have the honer to nekneuledge, with thanke, the
zeselpt ef your mote Ne. s43 ef Deeember 12, 1934, come
894.34/162
sumicating, under instrustion of yeur Geverament and in
assesdence with the previsiem ef Artiele l0(a) ef the
Leaden Baval Treaty of 1930, partieulars, em laying dom.
of A-7, a submarine of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Accept, Exeelleney, the renewed assurances ef my
nigheet eonsideration.
For the Sessetary of states
Will1am Phillipo
Ms Enselleney
Es. Méresé Satts,

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.95)
TREATY DIVISION
DEC 1 5 :934
6
RECEIVID
DFPATVELT (FSARANESE EMBASSY
DER:RTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
se
No. 24DEC 14 AM 9 44
December 12, 1934
December 21 1984
5OOF
MHUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
Sir: .
196
Division of
Mn
DEC 18 1934
my predecessor, dated August 17, 131, to which
Degartsmant of Srate
acknowledgment was made on August 23, 1931, concern-
894.34/163
1ng the laying of the keel of "A-68", a submarine
of the Imperial Japanese Navy, I have the honor to
inform you, by direction of my Government and in
conformity with the provision of Article 10 (b)
of the London aval Treaty, of the completion of the
JEC241934
FTLFD
above mentioned submarine.
894.34
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying the keel...........June 18, 1931
.July 31, 1934
Date of completion..
.Submarine
Classific tion of vessel........
Standard displacement in tons.....1,400 tons
Standard displacement in metric
.1,423 metric tons
tons
Principal dimensions:
.101
metres
Length at water line.......
8.20 metres
Extreme beams.
Mean draft at standard displacement 3.95 metres
Calibre
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Soretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.88)
Calibre of the largest gun............l0
centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of
my highest consideration.
laih
tis

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.88)
m271
894.34/166
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and encleses
for his information and the files of the Navy Department
a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at Wash-
ington, dated December 19, 1934, commumioating, 1n accord-
ance with Artiole l0(b) of the London Naval Treaty of
1930, partioulars on completion of the WAKABA, a des-
troyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Enolosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
7u
December 19, 1934.
PM
12/21/:4
800
1.14
td:8Y8:mkm
13/84/34
T
WE
1…1√

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.85)
December 21 1984
Rasellonsys
I have the henor to neknewlodge, with thenke, the
reseipt es your nete No. 242 of December 12, 1996, eem
894.34/163
mmaicating, by direetiom ef your Goveramems and in
ascordanee with the provisiem of Artiele l0(b) of the
Lenéom Maval Treaty ef 19s0, partieulars, en cempletiem,
of A-ss, & eubmarine of the Imperial Japanese Nevy.
Lecept, Exeelleney, the remewed assuranees of my
highest consideratien.
Fer the sessetary of states
William Phillipa
M. Eeeskleney
Ms. zisesé Saite,
é f Sapen.
ph

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.95)
6
N0V 211936
RECEIV
AANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
No. 2934DC 14 AM 9 44
December 13, 1934.
DVISION OF
December 21 1984
TREATY DIVISION
MMUNICATION FAYFSTERN AFFAIRS
AND RECORDS
DEG 18 1934
Sir:
Pmant of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Under instructions from my Governmert,
have the honor to inform you that the OKINOSHIMA,
a mine-layer of the Imperial Japanese Navy, has
Mm
89
been laid down, the particulars of which are as
FhRiD4
follows:
164
Date of laying keel...........Seplember 27, 1934
Classification.
..Mine-layer
.Standard displacement.........4,400 tons
4,470 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
EC 2 2 1934
894.34
FILED
Length at water line.......ll7.80 metres
Extreme beam.
15.62 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement..
5.07 metres
Calibre of largest gun....... 14
centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hrinsi Saih
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Seoretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.87)
December 21 1984.
I have the homer to aaknewledge, with thanks, the
resst pt of your note of December 15, 19s6, commmieatánge
894.34/164
under imstruetiens, partioulars, en laying devn, of the
CKIMOSMIMA, a mine-layer of the Imperial Japanese Nevy.
Lesept, Exeelleney, the renewed assuranese ef my
highest consideratiem.
For the Beezetary of states
Will1am Phill1po
Me Eesellensy,
Ms. Mtrest Batte,

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.91)
December 21 1954.
Xn reply refer to
TD 894.34/164
The Seoretary of State presents his oomplimens
894.34/164
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Mavy and eneloses
for his information and the files of the Navy Department
a oopy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at Washing
ton communioating partioulars, on laying down, of the
OKINOSHIMA, a mine-layer of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Enolosure:
From the Japanese Ambassador,
Deoember 13, 1934.
11
TDIBY3:ED
17/17/34
FE
WE
p1
CM
DEC 20 1984 PM
cand

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
4
JAPANESE EMBASSYDFPARTME
ATE
WASHINGTON
No.248
lile
Livision of
AR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 2 1 1934
AND
DEC 26 1934
844.34
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By diroction of my Government, I have the
honor to inform you, in conformity with the provision
894.34/165
of Article l0 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
Navy, has been laid down.
DEC 28 1934
 CF
The particulars are as follbws:
PEAN AFFAP
Date of laying keel.......
.November 1, 1934
Classification.
Submarine
Standard displacement.......
.1,400 tons
JAN 2 - 1935
FILED
1,423 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line........l0l.00 metres
Extreme beam.
8.20 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.
3.95 metres
Calibre of largest gun.......
12. 0 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of
my highest consideration.
AHrini Sain
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Seoretary of State,
FA
Washington.
14

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.91)
re omrar 
Xn roply refer to
0004.34/165
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
894.34/165
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and enoloses
for his information and the files of the Navy Depart-
ment a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambessador at
Washington communicating, under Artiole l0 (a) of the
London Naval Treaty of 1930, partioulars (on laying
down) of A-75, a submarine of the Imperial Japanese
Navy.
Enolosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
Deoember 19, 1934.
11k
TDISYS:EDW
12/2/34
FE
WE
of
CB
281934

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.93)
December 28 1954.
I have the hener so neknewledge, with thanks, the
reseipt of your note No. 24s ef Dosember 19, 1934, eem-
894.34/165
mmieating, wmder Artiele 10 (a) of the Lenden Naval
Treety of 1930, partteulase (om laying domm) of A-78.
a submarine ef the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Acsept, Exeellemey, the renewed assurancee of uy
kighest consideration.
For the Beeretary of statet
William Phillips
A true

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.94)
December 27 1984
FE
4
1
JAPANESE EMBASSYME
ATE
WE
WASHINGTON
No.249
Livision of
December 19, 19$4
F
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 2 2 1934
DEC 24 1934
NS
Wcheys ste
894.34
Sir:
Tov
T CF STATE
nott
Under instruction from my Government, I
500 H/5a3-G
have the honor, in accordance with the provision
num
of Article 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty of
894.34/166
1930, to inform you of the completion of the
WAKABA, a destroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
The particulars are as follows:
Date of completion............October 31, 1934
Date of laying keel.......
..December 12, 1931
Classification.
.Destroyer
Standard displacement.........1,368 tons
1,390 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line.......l02.96 metres
DEC 2 8 1934
FILED
Extreme beam.
9.94 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.
2.67 metres
Calibre of largest gun....... l2.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of
my highest consideration.
Hhinsi Sair
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.89)
710
894.34/166
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and encloses
for his information and the files of the Navy Department
a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at Wash-
ington, dated December 19, 1934, communioating, 1n accord-
ance with Artiole l0(b) of the London Naval Treaty of
1930, partioulars on completion of the WAKABA, a des-
troyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Enolosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
December 19, 1934.
PM
2/21/:4
20
1.18
td:8Y8:mkm
13/84/34
T
01√

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.94)
December 27 1984.
Excellemoy:
I have the honor to ackmowledge, with thanks, the
894.34/166
receipt of your note No. 249 of December 19, 1934, com-
mmicating, by instruotion of your Covernment and in
accordance with Artiole l0(b) of the London Waval Treaty
of 1930, particulers on completion of the WAkABA, a
destroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the Secretary of State:
vVilliam Phillips
His Excellency
Mr. Hirosi Saito,
Jepenese Ambessador.
694.34/166
11
td:8YS:mkm
12/24/34
TE

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 20, 1934.
TD informs me that in the last
fow days the Japanese Embassy has
reported on the following vessels:
Yudachi
Hatsushimo
1-7
1-8
1-68
Okinoshima (Mine layer, laid down
Sept. 27, 1934.)
No report has yet been received
on the following vessels:
Harusame
Wakaba
Ro-34
1-74
Note that one of these, Ro-34, is
reported by our Attache Jas having been
laid down in April 1934. The other
ships not yet reported by the Japanese
Embassy, are reported by our Attache as
having been laid down or completed in
September or Ootober. TD states that it
is not unusual for delays of several
weeks to occur in reporting ships.
Apparently our Government is alone in
reporting ships laid down or completed
promptly within the time specified by
treaty.
LDS

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.91)
e
CONFIDENTIAL
ON OF
Di01s10n 0f
ECORDS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC 7- 1934
er 16, 1954.
For
Department of State
SC
894.34
W
parties the infermation detailed below, ete".
In the past the Japanese Navy Dopartmont, has in aecerdanse
with Artiele I, communicated the information required to this
894.3
offiee and this office has sent it to the Navy Departmeat in
Washingten. This procedure is somewhat irregalar, but it has
been used fer several years, was considered standard, and the
Naval Attacke has not been notiried that it had been changed.
in paremthesis are only aporoximately correot:-
pestrovere
October, 1934
Haruseme
October, 1934
FEB9-1935
Commleted
PILED
Hatahimo- September, 19345
Makaba
Septembor, 1934.
sukmarly
Apr1l, 1934.
1-7
Soptamber, 198s.
1-8
Septmber, 1954.
1-74
September, 1934.
cempleted
July, 1954.
EB 91935
CONFIOFN

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.96)
TREATY DIVISION
14
JAPANESE EMBASSY ITE
CEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
No. 8
1935125
January 11, 1935.
 1000.
894.31
Sir:
t
By direction of my Government, I have the honor
STATE
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 18 1935
Naval Treaty,that the keel of the "Soryu", an aircraft
894134/168
carrier of the Imperial Japanese Navy, has been laid.
The particulars are as follcws:
Classification of vessel ..... Aircraft carrier
Date of laying keel
November 20, 1934
Standard displacement in tons 10,050 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons
10,2ll metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line
209.84 metres
1935
Extreme beam
20.84 metres
FILED
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement
5.02 metres
Note: This vessel is to be newly constructed and is
F/FG
not to be a replacement.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Srini Sain
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State.
Washington.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.91)
Jannary 81 1986.
In reply refer to
TD 894.34/168
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honcrable the Seoretary of the Navy and enoloses
for his information end the files of the Navy Depart-
894.34/168
ment a oopy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at
Washington furnishing, in aocordanoe with the provision
of Chapter II, Part 3, Seotion 1(b) of the Washington
Naval Treaty for the Limitetion of Armaments, partiou-
lars regarding the Japanese airoraft carrier SORYU.
Enolosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
January 11, 1935.
11
JAN
NF
TDISYSIEDW
1/16/35
pM
→n m/√
1935
11a|35
2

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.83)
January 21 10587
lly!
I heve the hemee to nokneuledge, vith thanke, the
sesekpe es your nete No. 6, of Jamuary 11, 1oss, fume
saking, in aecerdanse vith the previsiom of Chapter I1,
894.34/168
pa 3, Sestiem 1(b) of the Washington Naval Tresty fee
the Limitation ef Armaments, partieulare regarding the
Jepanese aireraft earrier soRYu.
Lesept, Essellensy, the renewed assuramees ef my
highest eonsideration.
rer the Seeretazy of states
Ri PhilliDa
e Rapelleney

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.96)
Eo
TREATY DIVISION
FE
File ach
JAN 14 1005
JARANESEEMBASSY'TE
ETe
WASHINGTON
 oF STATE
1935 JA 1 A111 25
1935.
500
FAR EASIEHN AFFAIRS
JAN 18135
By direotion of my Government, I have the honor
Department of State
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of
Article 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
that the keel of the "Tone" a cruiser of the Imperial
Japanese Navy, has been laid.
894.34/169
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying keel
December 1, 1934
Classification of vessel
Cruiser
Standard displacement in tons 8,500 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons
8,636 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line
187.21 metres
Extreme beam
19.22 metres
Mel draft at standard dis-
placement
4.45 metres
Calibre of the largest gun ..
15.5 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
G
highest consideration.
Amni raid
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.
K

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.92)
January 21 198b.
Im reply refer to
TD 894.34/169
The Seoretary of State presents his oompliments
894.34/169
to the Honorable the Seoretary or the Navy and enoloses
for his information and the files of the Navy Department
a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at Washing-
ton furnishing, in accordance with Artiole l0(a) of the
London Naval Treaty, particulars regarding the rome, a
oruiser of the Imper1al Japenese Navy.
Enolosure:
From Japenese Ambassador,
January 11, 1935.
JAN
CH
TD:8YS:EDW1/16/35
WE
FL
MAF
1935
PM
U
1.11

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.89)
Jannary 21 1000
I heve the homer to nekaeuledge, with thenke, the
semekpt es your nete No. 9 ef Jemmary 11, loss, turatahe
sag, in aeserdanse with Astiele l0(a) ef the Lendes
894.34/169
Baval Treety of 1930, partieulars regarding the Japaasse
Gruieer ross, the keel of which was laid dewm en Deeem»
ber 1, 1034.
Lesept, Exeelleney, the reneved assurenees ef my
highest consideration.
Fer the Sesretary ef states
William Phillips
RM

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/170
SEE
842.6351/12
FOR
Despatoh 253
FROM ....Vancouver
(Davis
) DATEDJan.261035
170
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Negotiations betweon group which owns and controls the
magnetite iron ore in Texada Island and certain unnamed
Japanese interests with view to working the deposits and
shipping the output to Japan.
fp

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.93)
Vameouvor, B. C., Caneda
January 26, 1935.
Reperted Jegmese megetietioms fer British Celumbie mapmetite irem ere.
I have the honor to report that through informal eenvereetiems
with a olose friend of the looal representative of the group which
owme and eontrols the magnetite iron ore deposits e Temede Islamd.
it has been aseertained that negotiatioms are now allegedly being
earried on between this controlling group and cortain unemed
Japenese intereste with a view to working the deposits and shipping
the output to Japem. It is thought that with the gemeral conditioms
thst mow ebtain as te naval construotiom, and the recently denouneed
treaty agreements as to maval raties, this infermstion mey perhepe
be of ome 1storest.
The general faets regarding the Texada Island deposits and
the orgemisesion whieh controls them were set forth in a report
from thie Consulete General entitled PRO PECTIVE EXPLOITATIOS OF
BRITISH COLUMBIA IRON ORE DBPOSITS, deted July 8, 19SO. (F11e Ne.
ees) mmd a supplementary report wnder the same title deted July 14,
198O. A further repert entitled STERL INDUSTRY POR BRITISH
COLMBIA, dated Oeteber 14, 1982, (File Ne. s66.12) alse has a
bearing  thie eme questiom. In the firet -- thet of July 14,
1980, is queted a repert em the deposite made, after a survey,

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.93)
- 2 -
by the Freym Engindering Company of Chieago: In this it 1s
stated "On Texade Island you have proven ore of good grude
mounting to 6,984,000 gross tons.
dditional probable ore
1 5,000.000 tons.
" he average iron content from
sixteen drill holes is 6l.7 per o nt."
he ore is low
in phosphorus, las a satisfaotory munganose oontent, and ontire
absenoe of sino, arsonic and titanium.ne silion and alumina
are low."
It is not known how far the negotiatione with the Japanese
interests have proceeded or the nature of the proposition which
is being considered. owever, it would appear probable thet the
aotual working of the deposits will, if plane go through, be com-
duoted b som Cunadian or anization.
In oonsidering the ai ove re; orted negotiations it ahould be
borne in mind that in the past deoade several efforts have beem
made to bring about the working of the Texada Ialand deposits d
thmt while in emch oaee the initicl re: orts have been replete with
optimism, nothing has eventuutod. It is quite possible, therefore,
that the present efforts will suffer a similar fate.
Any further information whieh may be obtained regarding the
alloged negotiations will, of course, be reported.
Hespeotfully yours,
rue eopy en the
aririmsl sined ty
Johm K. Davis,
Amerioen Consul General.
JID/mtm
File No. ses
Somt im quistuplieste
Copy te the Logetiom, Ottre.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.93)
7E
ECO
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
WE
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVIB
EF37/L11-3(22)
Departmer! of State
(350128)
WASHINGTON
FAR EAseN Allatrs
8 February 1935
LFB
FEB 15 1935
In accordance with the inter-departmental agreement regarding
494.34
the erport of arms and munitions of war, you are informed that the Navy
Department has no objection to the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing
894.34/171
Company furmiahing quotations to the Japanese Government on a 25,000 SHP
reduotion gear of the two-pinion double reduct ion type design, to be used
with a propeller speed of 350 RPM and a turbine speed of approximately
4,500 RPM.
It is understood that in submitting this bid the Company will
restrict itself either to commercial specifications or to specifications
offered by the Japanese Navy, and that United States Navy specifications
will in no way be involved.
A copy of the basic letter from the Westinghouse Klectric and
Manufacturing Company is enclosed herewith.
a:
Respectfully,
a
193
2
FILED
181935
F/FG.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
mclosure

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.96)
∞py
Westinghouse Blectric & Mamufeeturing Compeny, 14s4 Wew York Ave.,
Washington, D. C.
28 January 1935.
U. S. Mavy Department,
Office of Naval Intellince,
Washington, U. C.
Subject: Imperial Japanese Navy.
Sirs:
Ne have been aaked by the above subject to furnish them with a
quotation on a 25,000 HP reduction gear of the two-pinion double reduet ion
type design to be used wi th a propeller speed of 350 RPM and a turbine
speed or approximately 4500 RPM.
We will appreciate it if you will furnish us with permission to
quote this subject, it being understood that in our quotation we will
furnish no information concerning equipment furnished or proposed for the
United States Navy.
Further, should we be fortunate enough to obtain an order, we
will erercise the usual caution in bringing the material through the plent,
and will see to it that the Resident Inspeotor of Naval Material is kept
informed of any proposed visits of the Inspectors of the Japanese Navy to
our Works.
We will appreciate an early reply.
Respectfully,
Signed/ L. M. Lawrence,
Marine Seetion Head.
AMRL:MCH

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.97)
FEB 15 1935
Sm reply pefer to
 894.34/171
894.34/171
Westinghouse Meotrio and Manufacturing Co.,
1434 New York Avenue,
Washington, D. C.
sirs:
By reference from the Mavy Department, the re-
coipt is aoknowledged of your letter of January 20,
1935, in regard to your proposal so furnish the
Japanese Government with quotatiomson a 25,000 SHP
redustion gear of the two-pinion double reduotion
type design to be used with a propeller speed of
350 RPM and a turbine speed of approximately 4500
RPM.
In reply, I have to inform you that I am in re-
ceipt of a letter of February 8 from the Seoretary
of the Navy, in whioh he states that the Navy Depart-
ment bas no objection, on the ground of military
seorecy in relation to the National Defense, to your
furnishing quotations on this equipment to the
Japanese

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
Japanese Gevernment, This Beeision of the Navy De-
partment is based upon the understanding that in sub-
mtsimg this bid your Company will restries isself
either to commercial specifications or to specifica-
tions offered by the Japanese Havy, and that United
States Navy speoifications will in no way be involved.
There are no treaties or statutes, other than
those relating to the communication of military
secrets under the control of the Seoretary of War
or of the Secretary of the Mavy, restrioting the ex-
portation of arms and implements of war from the
United States to Japan.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Pierrepont Moffat, Ohief
Division of Westemn European Affairs.
the
WE:JOG:EBJ
FE
2/13/35
(4)5

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.95)
FFB 15 1935
Im reply refer to
 894.34/171
My dear Mr. Becretary:
I am in receipt of your letter of Pebruary 8,
1935 — EF37/L11-3(23) (350138) —, together w1th 1t
894.34/171
enolosure, in regard to the proposal of the Westinghouse
Electrio and Mamufaoturing Company to furnish the
Japanese Government with quotations on a 25,000 SHP
reduotion gear of the two-pinion double reduotion
type design to be used with a propeller speed of
350 Rpy and a turbine speed of aporoximately 4500
Rpm. There is enolosed, for your information, a
copy of the letter whioh has been addressed to the
Company.
Sincerely yours,
Willing
Enclosure:
To the Westinghouse
Eleotric and Manufactur-
Under Secretary.
ing Company.
The Honorable
Claude A. Swanson,
Becretary of the Navy.
FE
3mN
2:13/354

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.93)
FEB 1 5 1935
In reply xefer to
w5 894.34171
My dear Mr. Secretary:
There is enclosed, for your information, a copy
894.34/171
of the letter whioh has been addressed to the Westing-
house Electrio and Manufacturing Company in regard to
its propomal to furnish the Japanese Government with
quotations on a 25,000 SHP reduotion gear of the two-
pinion double reduotion type design to be used with a
propeller speed of 350 Rpu and a turbine speed of ap-
proximately 4500 RPY.
Sincerely yours,
Enclosure:
will1m hl7in
To the Westinghouse
Electrio and Manufaotur-
ing Company.
Under Secretary.
FEB
The Honorable
George H. Dern,
Seoretary of War.
of
PM
WE:JCG:EBJ
FE
8/13/35
2140

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.95)
894.34
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/172
SEE
894.51/454
FORQrandu.
;tate Department
FRoM ..Far..stern.Diy....(..Yea:ley...) DATED ....Dec...15.1934
TO
NAME
Public Finances; Jupun:
REGARDING:
"Japun Can Afford to Build Eig Navy", Lemorundum on un article
eppearinp in the  A HIG: ON F T, Dec. , 1934, by Y.K.
Karakami.
FRG.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.96)
5
DEPARTMENT OF CTATE
1335
crf
 20 1938.
JAPANESEEMBASSY
CF
WASHINGTON
WE
5181110 16
Marel 18, 1935.
No.45
TREATY DIVISION
Division of
MAR 1 9 1935
FAR EASIERN AFFAIRS
500A15a3
22
MAR 22 1935
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
By direction of my Government
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
894.34/173
of Artiole 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
that the keel of the "Harusame", a destroyer of the
Japanese Navy, has been laid.
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying keel
February 2, 1935
Classification of vessel
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons
1,368 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons
1,390 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line
102.24 metres
Extreme beam
9.67 metres
MAR 28 1935
Mean draft at standard dis-
FILED
placement
2.77 metres
Calibre of the largest gun ..
12.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Ariosi Paido
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.90)
varcn 28 1935.
894.34/173
The Seoretary of State presents his oompliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and enoloses
for his information and the files of tne Navy Department
a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at
Washington furnishing, in accordanoe with the provision
of Artiol, l0(a) of tne London Naval Treaty of 19s0,
partioulars of tne Japanese destroyer HARusake, the
keel of wh1oh was laid on February 2, 1935.
Enolosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
No. 45, Maroh 18, 1935.
PM
MAR 25 1935
Cu
9+0
818
FE
TD:SYS:HGK
3/20
1
ou

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.78)
Maroh 26 108
I hoe tee heme to stsesltge the resse at
 note No. 46 ef Nareh 18, 1836, tasatontng, 
direetien of your Govesanent and in neecrdanse with
4.34/173
the previsten of astiale 10(a) ef the Lenden Haval
tresty of lose, partieulars of the Japanese destreyes
Namsans, the eel of wmieh vas lald en Fekeenry 2,
1936.
Aecept, aselleney, the reneved aseuremees o
Mghest eenstderatien.
Fer the Seeretary of states
William Phillips
pn

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.94)
40
TREATY DIVISION
MAR 1§ 1035
FE
5
Fily
RECEVED
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DEPARTIBENT OF STATE
WE
WASHINGTON
255 NAR 1 11 10 05
no.46
MAR 23 1935
894.34
27
nπ
Sir:
march
By direotion of my Government, I have the honor.
281935
to inform you, in accordan∞ with the provision of
Article 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
10
894.34/174
that the keel of the "Samidare", a destroyer of the
Japanese Navy, has been laid.
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying keel
December 19, 1934
Classification of vessel ...... Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons 1,368 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons
1,390 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line
102.24 metres
MAR 28 1935
Extreme beam
9.67 metres
FILED
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement
2.77 metres
Calibre of the largest gun ...
12.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hrin Lair
F/FG
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
+
Washington.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.79)
Maroh y
I bere the henee to asessledge the resspt a
mete . 46 ef Maree 26, 10ss, furntnins, dres
094.34/174
af your Government and in ceserdense vith the peovisten
es asttele 10(a) of the Lenten Haval Tresty of 19s0,
pertteukare of the Jepasese destreyer sasinans, the
Reat of wmtch ses laid en Deeember 19, 1936.
sespt, Essellemey, the remeved asseranses of
bigrses coneteeratien.
Fee the Sesretesy of state:
Willlam Phill1pe
theign
eM
1936

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.94)
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Mavy and enoloses
for his information and the files of the Navy Department
894.34/174
a eopy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador at
Washington furnishing, in accordance with the provision
of Artiole 10(a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
partioulars of the Japanese destroyer SAMIDARE, the
keel of whioh was laid on December 19, 1934.
Enolosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
No. 46, Maroh 18, 1935.
MAR 26 1935
WF
FE
TD:BYS:HGK
PM
3/30
mm.id

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.95)
WE
Division of
FAR EASTERN RFFAIRS
FE
MAR 20 1935
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
上
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
37/L11-3(22)(350128)
WASHINOTON
Sir:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter WE 894.34/171 of
15 February l935, together with the enclosed copy of your letter to the
894.34/175
Westinghouse Ilectric and Manufacturing Company, Washington, D. C., in
regard to the proposal of the Westinghouse Ilectric and Manufacturing
Company to furnish the Japanese Government with quotations on a 25,00o SHP
reduction gear of the two-pinion double reduction type.
Respectfully,
MShidly
A
Acting on tary of the Savy
MAH 20 1935
PILED
The Honorable,
The Seoretary of State.
F/FG.

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE.
862.20/766
FOR
Tolegram #64, 6 pm.
FROM ....GoTmany
Dood
) DATED
Maroh 221935.
TO
NAME
1-1197
German armaments. Conversation with the Japanes Ambassador.
REGARDING:
Japanese pressing Germany to ask for restoration of naval
strength. Questions the wisdom of the British going to
Mosoow unloss it is for the purpose of reduoing the Russian
army.
9
wth

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/
SEE ....811.21/63
FOR 12
FROM .... Japan
(.....Q
.) DATED19
TO
NAME
1127
77
REGARDING:
Japanese press comments on Naval Matters: the items
published to date, the maneuvers, naval bailding, post-
ponement of the disarmement conference, warships for Siam and
espionage. Press comment on the mamsawem of the U.S.
Mavy in the north Pacific acoented the proximity to Japan
and the magnitude of the operations.
7

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.93)
WE
DEFARTMENT OF STATF
241935el
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
Lii. o wes
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
87/L11-3(22)(850717)
WASHINGTON
LYESTERN FORGPEAN AFF
()
FAR EASTON AAIDS
St
JU. 22 1935
(51)
159
1935
artment of State
handlin@iof requests for the export of arms and munitions of war, there
is forwarded horewith a letter from the Westinghouse Electric and Manu-
facturing Company requesting approval of the furnishing by that Company
of a complete set of propulsion equipment to the Japanese Government for
use in a cruiser.
You are advised that the Navy Department has no objection, on the
ground of military secrecy in its relation to the National Defense, to the
894.54/178
sale for export of the above mentioned propulsion equipment, provided that
no data or information pertinent to the equipment furnished to the United
States Navy is disolosed.
Rospectfully,
794.34
W H STANDLEY.
Admaral. U. S. Navy.
Acting Secretary ot the Navy
The Honorable,
The Sooretary of State.
JJL 30 1935
FILED
olosure 1.
F

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.97)
WESTINGHOUSE
ELECTRIC & MANUFACTURING COMPANYENC
July
Orfice of Naval Intelligence,
Navy Department,
JUL 121935
Washington, D.C.
L11-4/6M/Mestinghome
Eelcet Intg ②
Subject: Imperial Japanese Navy
(7-11)
Propulsion Equipment.
8ir:
At the present time we are contemplating negotia-
ting with the present subject on a complete set or propul-
sion equ1pment for use in a cruiser. Sometime ago the
Department gave us permission to negotiate and sell to the
Imperial Japanese Navy a set of reduction gears and the
purpose of this present negotiation 1s to complete the
equipment by the addition of the necessary turbines, con-
densers and pumps.
It is understood of course that in our negotiations
we will not disclose any data or information that is per-
tinent to the equipment furnished the United States Navy and
we will appreciate receiving your permission to proceed with
this negotiation at the earliest possible date.
Respectfully
Marine Section Head.
AMRL: 
Every House Needs Westinonouse

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
Westimghouse Electrio and Manufacturing Company,
1434 Mew York Avenue, Morthwest,
Jashington, D. C.
894.34/178
Sirs:
By reference from the Navy Department, the receipt
is soknowledged of your letter of July 1l, l935, in re-
gard to your proposal to sell to the Japanese Government
a complete set of propulsion equipment for use in a
8
oruiser.
In roply, I have to inform you that I am in re-
oeipt of a letter of July 22 from the Acting Searetary
of the Havy, in whioh he states that the Wavy Department
has no objeotion, on the ground of military secrey in
1ts relation to the National Defense, to the sale for
export of the propulsion equipment referred to in your
letter, provided that no data or information pertinent
to the equipment furnished to the United 3tates Navy
is disclosed.
There

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.95)
There are no treaties or statutes, other than
these relating to military sserets under the eentrol
of the Becretaries of War or of the Navy, remarieting
the exportation of arme and implements of war to Japan.
Very truly youre,
For the Seoretary of State:
James Cloment Dunn,
Chiof, Division of Western
huropean Affairs.
11L
10
WE:JCG: EBJ
FE
7/2635

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.96)
July 29 1935
y refer to
My dear Mr. Secretary:
I am in receips of Admiral Standley's letter
-37/L11-3(23)(350717)— of July 22, 1935, to-
gether with its enolosure, in regard to the proposal
of the Westinghouse Electrio and Mamufacturing Company
894.34/1
to sell to the Japanese Government a complete set of
propulsion equipment for use in a cruiser. There
is enolosed, for your information, a copy of the
letter which has been addressed to the Company.
78
Sincerely yours,
Enolosure:
To the Westiaghouse
Eleotric anmanufaoturing
Company.
Aoting Seoretary.
The Honorable
M
Claude A. Swanson,
Seoretary of the Navy.
WE:JCG:EBJ
LOS WTT
7/36/35
FE
-.1.m.1

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.93)
WE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A5 1935
5
RECEIVED
DIVSOV OF F
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
DEPAR
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
37/L11-3(22)(350717)
WASHINGTON
Liatt weltenghane
1935 AUG 3 A1 9 30
AUG 2 19358
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1935
Sir:
UG1935
178
Referring to my lotter of July 2 r935, approving the request of
the Westinghouse Klectric and Manufacturing Company for authority to negotiate
and sell to the Imperial Japanese Navy certain turbines, condensers, and
pumps for use in a cruiser, the Navy Department now finds it necessary to
894.34/179
withdraw its approval of the contemplated negotiations pending an investi-
gation of some of the design details of the main propulsion machinery which
the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company proposes to furnish to the
Japanese Navy.
Respectrylly,
Mttrandley
494.34
The Honorable,
. LY,
The Secretary of State.
Au. 1. S. Navy,
Actine Secretary  the Navy
FILED
10 1935
F/FG.
x

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.96)
9 1935
Im reply refer to
 804.34/179.
Westinghouse Meotrio and Mamufaoturing Company,
1434 New York Avemue, Northwest,
Washington, D.C.
894.34/179
81r8:
I refer to my letter of July 39, 1935, and
previous correspondence, in regard to your proposal
to sell to the Japanese Government a complete set of
propulsion equipment for use in a cruiser.
I am now in receipt of a letter of August 2,
1935, from the Acting Seoretary of the Navy, in
widch he states that the Navy Department, on the
ground of seorecy in its relation to the National
Defense, now finds it necessary to witndraw 1ts ap-
proval of tne con em lated ale, pending an investiga-
tion of some of the design details of the main pro-
pulsion macninery whion youpropoee to furnish to
the Japanese Navy.
A91935
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
James Clement Dunn,
European Affairs.
WE:JCG:EBJ
FEAN

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.95)
A 9 1930
In reply xefer to
WE 894.34/179
My dear Mr. Bearetary:
I am in receipt of Admiral Standley's letter
894.34/179
of August 2, 1935, with further reference to the
proposal of the Westinghouse Eleotrio and Mamufaoturing
Company to sell to the Japanese Government a complete
set of propulsion equipment for use in a oruiser.
There is enclosed, for your information, a oopy of
the letter whioh has been addreseed to the Company.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Enclosure:
William Phillipe
to the Westinghouse
Eleotric and Manufacturing
Under Seeretary
Company.
AUG 9, 1935
The Honorable
Claude A. Swanson,
Seoretary of tne Navy.
9NA
21m.N
E:JCG:EBJ
FE
8/6/35

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.96)
TREATY DIVISION
Copyerc
navy.8/
DEPARTMENT OF ST.
AUG & 1935 SYS:
C2p181835
6
RECEIL:D
IHET AR THNAPANEPA EMBASSY
DEPARTHENT OF STATE
FE
WASHINGTON
No.73
August 10, 1935.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISICCF
SEP 19 1935
COMMUNICATIONS
Sir:
AND RECORDS
Pmeartrmant of Srate
By direction of my Government, I have the honor
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of Article
10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, that the keel
of the "Yamakaze," a destroyer of the Japanese Navy, has
been laid.
894.34/180
The partiaulars are as follows:
Date of laying keel
May 25, 1935.
Classification of vessel
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons
1,368 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons
1,390 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line
102.24 metres
894.34
5r 20 1935
Extreme beam
9.67 metres
FILED
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement
2.77 metres
Calibre of the largest gun ..
12.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
F/FG.
For the Ambassador:
A. Uchizann
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Counslor.
Seoretary of State,
Washington.
1

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.96)
TD
TREATY DIVISION
copy ETC
WE
AUG 1 2 1935 Y5:
6
REÇEI
TIJAHANESA AMBASSY
DEPARTMENT UF STATE
WASHINGTON
1935 AUG 12 PM 2 09
AUG 17 1935
No./38
August 10, 1935.
FAR EASTERN APFAIRS
Division of
COMMUNICATIONS
Sir:
AND RECORDS
By direotion of my Government, I have the honor
to inform you, in accordance with the provision of Article
10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, that the keels
of the "Kawakaze" and the "Umikaze," destroyers of the
Japanese Navy, have been laid.
894.34/181
The particulars of each are as follows:
tio
Dates of laying keel
April 25, 1935 ("Kawakaze")
894.34
a
May 4, 1935
("Umikaze")
Classification of vessels
Destroyers
Standard displacement in
tons
1,368 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons
1,390 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
AUG 19 1935
FILED
Length at water line
102.24 metres
Extreme beam
9.67 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement
2.77 metres
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
F/FG.
For the Ambassador:
A. Hahie
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Coum edor.
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.81)
Emeelleney:
I heve the bemor te seknnwledge the reeeipt of the
Mabesey's metes Nes. 137 and 136 of Augmet 10, 1938,
frihing, in meserdanee with the rvielens of
aretele 10 ef the London mml Treat? of 1930, marte-
Lass of the Jananene destroyere YAnaE, XAmass and
894.34/181
UmItasπ, the keele of whicn have been laid.
Ascops, "zoelleney, the renewed ssmremeee of g
highest coneiderntion.
For the Taoretary of Ssates
2or
ith
Hie Exeslleney
4808730
Hirosi Saito,
4
Japmneme Ambaacador.
8
094.34/100, 181
TD:8YB:HGK B/13
FE
WE

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.90)
815-12:40
August 17 1935
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments to
the Homerable the Beerstary of the Navy and enoloses for
his infermation and the files of the Navy Department
copies of two notes from the Japanese Embassy communicat-
894.34/181
ing partioulars (on laying down) of the YAMAKAZE, KAWAKAZE
and UMIKAzs, destroyers of the Japanese Navy, furnished
by the Government of Japan in accordance with the provi-
sions of Artiele 10 of the London Navel Treaty of 1930.
Enclosuress
From Japanese Embassy,
Nos. 187 and 138,
August 10, 1935.
A mom covy of
M
N7MC
ER
My
20
TD:8Y8:HGX B/13
WE
FE

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.95)
4
RECE VED
Division ef
DEPARTHMNANESE EMBASSY
WASHINGTON
AHG·17 1935
No./ 3 91935 AUG 13 PM 1 44
August 12 1935.
DIVIS ON OF
to the note of the Chare a'Af-
AND RECORDS
118
894.34
faires ad interim of Japan, dated December 12, 1938
x
note
MF
whioh aoknowledgment was made on December 20, 1933, con-
500A15a3
cerning the laying of the keel of the submarine No. (a) 6.
of the Imperial Japanese Navy, I have the honor to inform
you by direction of my Government and in conformdty with
894.34/182
the provision of Article lo(b) of the London Naval Treaty,
of the completion of the above mentioned submarine.
The particulars are as follows:
TREATY DIVISION
Date of laying keel
October 14, 1932
ackd +aputo ray
8/14 s4s 14001
Date of completion
May 15, 1935
AUG 1: 1975
CTC
Classification of vessel... Submarine
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Standard displacement in tons 1,900 tons
AUG 23 1935
Standard displacement in
FILED
metric tons.
1,930 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line
94.30 metres
Extreme beam
9.05 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement
4.70 metres
Calibre of the largest gun,
12.7 centimetres
F/FG.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hnisi Sail
The Honorable Gordell Hull,
Secretary of State.
+
Washington.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.95)
Augnst 21 1935
Exeellency:
I have the honor to toknowledge with thanke the
recoipt of your note Mo. 139 of August 12, 1936,
1mcorporating particulare (on Completion) of the
submarine No. (a) 6 of the Imperial Japxnese Mavy.
which have been furnished by your Covernmeat in
894.34/182
aocordanee with the provision of Artiele 10 (b) of
the London Nevel Treety of 1?30.
Accept, zcellency, the reneved asaurancen of
my highest coneideration.
For the Peoretary of Statel
R. WALTON MOORE
Hie zeellency
AUG 2
us copy of
TD:SYS:HGK 8/14

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.96)
8/19-12:40.
8/20-11:30
Augas 21 1935
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Secretary of the Navy and eneloses for
kis inforamtion and the files of the Navy Department a
copy of a note from the Japanese Ambassador furnishing.
in accordanee with the provision of Artiole l0(b) of the
London Naval Treety of 1930, particulers (on completion)
894.34/1
of the submarine No. (a) 6 of the Japanese Navy. The
note of December 13, 1933, referred to in the present
note from the Japanese Ambassador, was communioated to
8
the Seoretary of the Navy with the Department of State's
2
letter of December 20, 1933.
Enolosure:
From Japanese Ambassador
No. 139, August 12, 1935.
AUG 21
4
A tue copes of
nal.
TD:SYS:HGK 8/14
FE
WE
111C

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.92)
RECEIVED
JAPANESE EMSTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
1935 AUG 13 PM 1 44
No.140
August 12, 1935.
DIVIS ON OF
FAR EARFE AFFAIRS
HOMMUCATIONS
xx
AND RLCORDS
Sir:
894.34
wise
Deeartmant of Stale
123
NK12
With reference to the note, No. 39, of my
predecessor, dated March 8, 1933, to which acknowledg-
was made on March 17, 1933, concerning the laying
gnt
of the keel of the "Ariake," a destroyer of the Imperial
Augus: 21 1933
apanese Navy, and with reference to the note, No. 78.
TREATY DIVISION
4.
131
ackdo ropy bho
89434/183
814135. SY5 140K
my predecessor, dated May 17, 1933.to which ac-
AUG 11 19
ETC
owledgment was made on May 26, 1933, concerning the
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
laying of the keel of the " Yugure." a destroyer of the
Imperial Japanese Navy. I have the honor to inform you
AUG 23 195
by direotion of my Government and in conformity with
FILED
the provision of Article lo(b) of the London Naval Trea
of the completion of the above mentioned destroyers.
The particulars of each are as follows:
Dates of laying the keels, January 14, 1933
(the "Ariake")
April 9, 1933
(the "Yugure")
Datee
The Honorable Gordell Hull,
F/FG
Seoretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
Dates of complet ion.
Maroh 25, 1933
(the "Ariake")
March 30, 1933
(the "Yugure")
Classification of vessels, Destroyers.
Standard displacement in
tons.
1,368 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons..
1,390 metrio tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line, l02.96 metres
Extreme beam
9.94 metres
Mean draft at standard
displacement
2.67 metres
Calibre of the largest
gun
12.7 centimetres
Aocept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hronsi Sait

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.88)
Augns 81 1935
Sasellomeys
I have she hener to aeknowledge with thamke the
resseipt of your mote Ne. 140 of Angwet 12, 1935.
imeerporeting particulare (on comletion) of the
Sestreyere ARIALt and YuouRE of the Imperial Japemese
Savy, whish have been firnished by your Gowernwent in
894.34/183
sssordanee with the nrovisiom of Artiele 10 (b) of
the London M=m1 Treaty of 1930.
Acseps, Ezcellemey, the renewed sssursnces of y
himhest consideration.
For the Feoretnry of tates
R. WALTON MOORE
Rie Excellenoy
AUG 21
A rue copy d
Hirosl Seite,
the 
8
Japameee smbeseador.
4
894.34/183
lo
TD:8YS:HGK 8/14
FE
WE

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.88)
8/19-12:40.
20-11.40
August 81 1935
The Seeretary ef state presente his esmplimeate to
the Henerable the Seeretary ef the Kavy and emeleses
for his infermatiem and the files of the Mavy Departmons
a eopy ef a note from the Japenese Ambassmder incesperet-
ing. in acordance with the provision of Artiele l0(b) of
894.34/183
the Lomden Namel Treaty of l930, partieulare (om eomple-
(iem) of the Japanese destroyers ARIAXE and YOGRE.
The notes of mreh 8, 1933, and my 17, 1933, to
mhieh referenee is made in the present note of the
Japanese Ambassader, were communicated to the Seeretary
of the Wavy with the Department of State's letters of
March 17, 1933, and Mmy 86, 1933, respeetively.
Enelosure:
Frem Japanese Ambassader,
No. 140, August 12, 1935.
AUG 2:
A true of
the signard gt
UF
FE
WE
27.m.1√

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.95)
WE
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
FFICE OFIBHEEOTETARY
FARABIRS
87/L11-3(20)(350717)
August 31 1955
1195
23135
Sir:
1178
179
Roferring to my letters of July 22 and August 2, 1935, in regard
844.34
to the request of the Westinghouse Blectric and Manufacturing Company for
authority to negotiate and sell to the Imperial Japanese Navy certain turbines,
condensers, and pumps, for use in a cruiser, the Mavy Dapartmont now finds
894.34/134
it possible to approve this request, subject, however, to the following
oonditions:
(a) The Westinghouse Company shall furnish to the Bureau
of Engineering blueprint copies of all plans used in the
construction of this machinery and shall make such machinery
available for inspection by the Bureau's representatives
when and as desired.
(b) Tmat the construction and/or assembly of the machinery,
wherever subject to inspection by Japanese, shall be carried
on in a separate location from the construction or assembly
work on United States Naval equipment.
(c) That all other current restrictions and regulations
governing the visita of foreigners shall be obsered.
Respectfully,
SEP 3
Mt Haudluy
FILED
1935
W H STAVDLEY,
The Honorable,
Admrd 1  Navv.
F/FG.
Acting Secretary ot the Navy.
The Secretary of State.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.87)
Angust 81 1985
Destanghouse Eleotrie and Mhastasturing Gompeny.
1454 Bow Yest sremse, Werthweet,
Washington, D.C.
I refer to my letter of. Angust 9, 1956, and
previous cerrespondenee, in regard to yows propesal
to sell to the Japanese Geverament a complete set
of propuleion equipment for use in a eruiser.
I an in reesipt of a letter of Angest 2s frem
the Leting Besretary ef the Eavy, La whieh he states
that the Navy Department has no objestien, en the
ground of military seeresy in ite relatien te the
Rassemal Defense, to the eale of the preputsiem
qeépment referzed to in your letter of July 11,
provided that:
(a) The Westiaghouse Company shell fus-
(2)

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
(b) The construotion and/or asmembly
of the machinery, wherever subjeot to inspeo-
tion oy upanese, shall be earried on in a
meparate location from the construotion or
assembly work on United States Maval equipment.
(o) All other ourrent restriotions and
regulations governing th visits of foreigners
hall be observed.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary o: State:
James Clement Iunn,
Cuiof, Division of Testern
European Affairs.
WE:JCG:EHJ
FE
8/28/3
“2
5

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.93)
Im reply refer to
 894.34/184
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
I am in receipt of Admiral Standley's letter
— Er37/L11-3(30)(350717) — of August 33, 1935,
in regard to the proposal of the #estinghouse
Eleotrio and Mamufaoturin Company to sell to the
8
Japanese Government a complete set of propulsion
6
4
•quipment for wse in a cruiser. There is enolosed,
C1
for your information, a copy of the letter which
4/184
has been addressed to the Company.
Sincerely yours,
retary ut stte
Enclosure:
2
To the Hestinghouse
Electrio and Manufacturing
li
Company.
int Se iel ry.
36
The Honorable
Glaude A. Swanson,
Beoretary of the Navy.
WE:JCG:EBJ
FE
8/28/35

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.94)
D
NOF
WE
21
1938
NOveugr
DEPARTMENT Q
WASHINGTON
1935 NOV 1A PM 2 39 November 13, 1935
ack d.vespy
NO.188
DIVISION OF
ere
COMMUNCATIONS
ALFAIRS
DEPARTMENT CE STATE
AND RECORDS NUV L 1935
sir:
Department of Stare
By direction of my Government, I have the
honor to inform you, in accordanoe with the provision
of Artiole 10(b) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
that the construction of the "Mikuma", a oruiser of
the Japanese Navy, is now completed.
894.34/185
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying keel........... December 24, 1931
Date of completion............ August 29, 1935
Classification of vessel...... Cruiser
Standard displacement in tons. 8,500 tons
Standard displacement in
metrio tons.
8,636 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line.......
190.50 metres
NOV 23 1935
Extreme beam.
18.20 metres
FILED
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.
4.50 metres
Calibre of the largest gun.... 15.5 contimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
2
highest consideration.
Horini Sait
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.93)
November 21 1955
Excelleney:
I have the honor to aoknowledge the receipt of
your note No. 188 of November 13, 1936, furnishing,
in accordance with the provisions of Artiole l0(b) of
894.34/185
the London Naval Treaty of 1930, partioulars (on
completion) of the MIKUMA, & oruiser of the Japanese
Navy.
Aocept, Excellenay, the renewed assuranoes of my
highest consideration.
For the Seoretary of State:
Wi1ltem Phillip
His Excellency
firosi Saito,
Japenese Aabassador.
200
01958
894.34/185
MF
TD:SYS:HGK 11/16
FE
WE

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.94)
111872115
11/18-4:00
November 21 1938
In reply refer to
 594.34/185
The Beoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Secretary of the Navy and enoloses for
his information and the files of the Navy Department a
copy of a note from the Japanese Embassy communicating
partioulars (on completion) of the MIkUMa, a oruiser of
894.34/185
the Japanese Navy, furnished by the Government of Japan
in accordance with the provislons of Article 10(b) of the
London Naval Treaty of 1930.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Embassy,
November 13, 1935,
No. 188.
 20 1938
MT
Zhew
TD:SYS:HGK 11/16
WE
FE

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.97)
4
BARANEBE EMBASSY
TREATY DIVISION
no.189
1935 NOV IA PM 2 39
November 13, 1935.
NOV 1 5
CTC
DIVISION OF
ALFAIRS
DEP: RTMENT OF STATE
OMMUNCATIONS
S1r:
AND RECORDS
NUV 11 1935
Depar ment of State
By direction of my Gorernment, I have the
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
of Article 10 of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, that
MF
the construotion of the "No A-69", a submarine of the
Japanese Navy, is now completed.
The particulars are as follows:
894.34/186
Date of laying keel.
December 22, 1931
Date of completion.
September 28, 1935
Classification of vessel.....
Submarine
Standard displacement in tons.. 1,400 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons.
1,423 metric tons
NOV 23 1935
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line......
101.00 metres
Extreme beam.
8.20 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement......
3.95 metres
Calibre of the largest gun.....
10.00 contimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hrini Lait
F/FG
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.95)
21 1935
Nrueher
Ezeelleney!
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt ef your
note No. 189 oí November 13, 1935, furnishing, in
accordance with the provisione of Artiole 10 of the Lon-
don Maval Treaty of 1930, particulars (on eompletion) of
894.34/186
the "No. A-69", a submarine of the Japanese Navy.
Ascept, Exeelleney, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the Seoretary of State:
His Excellency
Hirosi Jaito,
Japunesombassuuor.
A
394.34/186
TD.SYS:HGK 11/16
WE
FE

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.94)
1118-12110
1/18-4:10
21 1935
Noverber
In reply refer to
TD 894.34/186
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and eneloses for
his information and the files of the Navy Department a
894.34/186
oopy of a note from the Japanese Embassy communioating
partioulars (on completion) of the "No. A-69", a sub-
marine of the Japanese Navy, furnished by the Government
of Japan in acoordance with the provisions of Artiole 10
of the London Naval Treaty of 1930.
Enolosure:
From Japanose Embassy,
No. 189, November 13,
1935.
WI
WE
FE
20 1955

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.96)
WE
RcCEIV)
21 1935
WASHINGTON
No193 40 14 PM 2 39
November 13, 1
TREATY DIVISION
nck d + copy to hav
DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
COMMUN CATIONS
NOV 1 5
S1I: AND RECURDS
40V19 1935
DEPARTMENT OSTATE
Department of State
By direction of my Government, I ha
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
of Article 10 of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, that
MP
the keel of the "Areshio", a destroyer of the Japanese
Navy, has been laid.
894.34/187
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying keel........... October 1, l935
Classification of vessel...... Destroyer
Standard displacement 1n tons. 1,500 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons.
1,524 metric tons
Principal d imensions:
Length at water line.....
108.55 metres
Extreme beam.
10.15 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.......
2.745 metres
NOV 23 1935
FILED
Calibre of the largest gun.... l2.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hionni Sain
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.92)
November 21 1935
Exeelleney:
I have the homor to acknowledge the roceipt of your
note No. 190 of November 13, 1936, furnishing, 1n
accordanee with the provisions of artiele 10 of the
894.34/187
Londen Naval Treaty of 1930, partioulars (on laying down)
of the AHasllIo, a aestroyer of the Japanese Navy.
Acsept, Excelleney, the ronewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the Seoretary of State:
1:1
His Exoellenoy
Hirosl Baito,
Japanese Anbassador.
894.34/187
MT
TD:SYS:HGK1/16
WE
FE
川
CR
NOV 20 1955

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.95)
1118-12110
11/12-4:10
Navemher 21 1955.
In reply refer to
TD 804.54/187
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and encloses for
his information and the files of the Navy Department a
copy of a note from the Japanese Embassy communioating
894.34/187
partioulars (on laying down) of the ARASHIO, a destroyer
of the Japanese Navy, furnished by the Government of
Japan in accordanoe with the provisions of Artiole 10
of the London Navel Treaty of 1930.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Embassy,
No. 190, November 13,
1935.
fdeawd
NAT
Idew
TD:SYS:HGH
11/16
WE
FE
CR
NOV 20 1935

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.95)
WE
NOV20 1035
RECEUAPANESE EMBASSY
DEPARTMENTO
WÄSTANGTON
21 1935
Jr
No.19/ 1955 NOV 1A PM 2 40
November 13, 1935.
TREATY DIVISION
ack d v copyts nary sys:
DIVISION OF
COMMUNCATIONS
Sir:
AND RECORDS
FARLASTERN AARS
ETC
NOV 15 1925
NUV 1 9 1935
DEPARTMENT OF TATE
Depar ment of Sta'
By direction of my devernment, I have
7
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
of Article 10(a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
that the keel of the "Asashio", a destroyer of the
894.34/188
Japanese Navy, has been laid.
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying keel........
September 7, 1935
Classification of vessel...... destroyer
Standard displacement in tons. 1,500 tons
Standard displacement in
NOV 23 1935
metric tons.
1,524 metric tons
FILED
Prinoipal dimensions:
Length at water line.......
108.55 metres
Extreme beam......
10.15 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.....
2.74'metres
Calibre of the largest gun.... 12.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hirini Sait
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
十
Secretary of State,
Washington.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.92)
Rovember
21 1935
Exselleney:
I have the homor to acknowledge the reeeipt of
your note No. 191 of November 13, 1936, furmishing,
in accordanee with the provisions of Artiole l0(a) ef
894.34/188
the London Naval Treaty of 1930, partioulars (on laying
dewm) of the Asash1o, a destroyer of the Japanese Navy.
Aocept, Excellenoy, the renewed assuranoes of y
nighest consideration.
For the Beoretary of State:
His Excelleney
Hirosi Saito,
Japanese Ambassador.
sFaw.
894.34/188
200
TD:SYB:HGK0V11/16
WE
FE
0121

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.94)
11/172115
1118-4:10
Navamhor 21 1935
In roply refer to
TD 894.34/188
The Secretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and encloses for
his information and the files of the Navy Department a
894.34/188
copy of a note from the Japanese Embassy communicating
part1oulars (on laying down) of the ASASHIO, a destroyer
of the Japanese Navy, furnished by the Government of
Japan in accordance with the provisions of Artiole 1O(a)
of the London Naval Treaty of 1930.
Enclosure:
From Japaness mbasay,
No. 191, November 13,
1935.
faw
GR
NOV 20 1935
2x3
TD:SYS:HGK V11/16
WE
FE

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.96)
NE
4
JAPANEBE EMBASSY
21
No. 192
1935 NOV 1A PM 2 40
November 13, 1935.
TREATY DIVISION
iv: 1on of
COMMUNCATIONS,
1i/iclsts:ngh
Sir:
AND RECORDS
NUV191935
NOV 1 5 1935
Depar ment of State
ere
honor to inform you, in acoordance with the provision
of Article 10 of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, that
the keel of the "Chikuma", a cruiser of the Japanese
Navy, has been laid.
The particulars are as follows:
894.34/189
Date of laying keel.........
October 1, 1935
Classification of vessel.....
.. Cruiser
Standard displacement in tons.. 8,450 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons
8,586 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line......
187.03 metres
23 1935
FILED
Extreme beam.
19.20 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.
4.42 metres
Calibre of the largest gun..... 15.5 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
tisini Sait
F/FG
The
Honerable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State
Washington.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.94)
Noremper 21 1936r
Exoellenoy:
I have the honor to aoknowledge the reoeipt of your
note No. 192 of November 13, 1936, furniehing, in
accordance with the provisions of Artiole 10 of the
London Naval Treaty of 1930, partioulars of the Japanese
894.34/189
oruiser CHIKUkA, the keel of whioh has been laid.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the Seoretary of State:
His Excellenoy
mirosi ito
TD:SYS:HGK 11/16

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.70)
November
t eetery es State prete e ptte t
to ensneste the soortery es the ay ane enslesse ter
aée taternntien and the files of the lavy Depertesnt a
sopy of a note frem the Japasese Eabassy eommmienting
8
peraseulare (n laying dewa) ef the onzkuns, a crukenr es
tne Jepanese Navy, furaianed by the Geverament  Jepen
In accerdanee with the previetens of Artiele 10 ef 
Lenden Naval Treaty of 10s0.
√502
MOv 20 1985
2A0
ME
Ohase
119|05
amw

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.96)
RECELVED
WASHINGTON
NO.196 1955 NOV 2? AM 10 20
November 20, 1935
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ANOV 2 7 1935
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
Department of State
29 1938
By direotion of my Government, I have the
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
of Artiole 10 of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
that the construotion of "B33", a submarine of the
Japanese Navy, is now completed.
894.34/190
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying kgel.
August 8, 19335
Date of completion.
Ootober 7, 1935
Classification of vessel.....
Submarine
Standara displacement in tons.. 700 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons.
711 metric tons
PringApal dimensions:
Longth at water line......
73
metres
Extreme beam.
6.70 metres
DEC 3- 1935
Mean draft at standard dis-
FILHD
placement.
3.25 metres
calibre of the largest gun.....
8
centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of
my highest consideration.
Hrisi Paia
TREATY DIVISION
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
NOV 8 2 19C5
Secretary of State,
ack'd rng m
Washington.
DEPANTIMENT OF STATE

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.94)
1126-2:35
11):6-3:30
11126-4:30
NOveTrOT 29 1935
Im reply refer to
TD 894.34/190
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Navy and eneloses for
his information and the files of the Navy bepartment a
copy of a note from the Jepenese Embassy communicating
894.34/190
partioulars (on completion) of the "B-33", a submarine of
the Japanese Navy, Furnished by the Government of Japan
in accordanoe with the provlsione of Artiole 10 of the
London Naval Tresty of 1930.
Enclosure:
Trom Japanese Embassy,
No. 196, November 20,
1935.
WTT
TD:SY8:HGWV11/25
WE
FE

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.93)
29 1935
えっ
Exeelleney:
I have the honor to aoknowledge the receipt of
your note No. 196 of November 20, 1936, embodying by
direetion of your Government and in aceordanee with
894.34/190
the provisions of Artiele 10 of the London Naval
Treaty of l930, partloulars of the Japanese submarime
"B-33", whieh was oompleted on Ootober 7, 1936.
Aocept, Exoelleney, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the Secretary of State:
His Exoelleney
Hiroel Salto,
Japanese Ambassador.
f
fuw
CB
894.34/190
Mes
X
NTT
TD:SYS:HGK/11/25
WE
FE

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.95)
TREATY DIVISION
WE
JAN 1 3 1936
ere
FE
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
lor
January
1936 JAN 13 AM 9 38
January 11, 1936.
201936
note
DVLICF
ONS
Sir:
AND RLCORDS
211936
RIMENT OF STATE
of Article 10 of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, that
the construction of "No. A-7o", a submarine of the
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Japanese Navy, is now completed.
AN 1 6 1936
The particulars are as follows:
Department of State
Date of laying keel.........
January 25, 1933
804.34/19
Date of comnletion.
November 9, 1935
Classification of vessel.....
Submarine
Standard displacement in tons... 1,400 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons.....
1.423 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at weter line......
101.00 metres
JAN 81.1936.
Extreme beam..
8.20 metres
FILED
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.
3.95 metres
Calibre of the largest gun......
10.00 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
Hhrins
Saih
highest consideration.
3
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Washington.
八

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.93)
115-101:20
115- 2:40
January 20 1938
ply refer to
wW101
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Navy and encloses
fer his information and the files of the Navy Department
a eopy of a note from the Japanese Embassy communicating
894.34/191
partioulars (on completion) of the "No. A-70", a sub-
marine of the Japanese Navy, furnished by the Government
of Japan in aocordance with the provisions of Artiele 10
of the London Naval Treaty of 1930.
Enelosure:
From Japanese Embassy,
No. 8, January 11,
1956.
Nmee
OR
WJan. 16 1936P
WE
FE
wae

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.93)
Excelleney:
I have the honor to aoknowledge the receipt of
your note No. 3 of January 11, 1936, furnisning, by
direotlon of your Government and in aooordanoe with
894.34/191
the provieions of Artiole 10 of the London Naval
Treaty of 1930, partoulers (on completion) of the
Japanese submarine "No. A-70".
Acoept, xcellency, t e renened assuranccs of my
highost consideration.
ror tre ecretary cr tote!
RAL
t
His nxoellency
Hirosi Suito,
Japanese Labsssador.
894.34/191
10
NT
TD:SYS:HGK 1/14
WE
FE

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/1
500.A 15 a 5/669
Te1 58 11am
SEE
FOR
Italy
Long
Feb. 20. 1936.
FROM
.) DATED
TO
NAME
1-117
6
2
REGARDING:
Question oi naval armament and the policy of the Japanese Government
in respect to building and tonnage. Informs of talk with Drummond, British
Ambassador, who had talked witn Sugimura, Japanese Ambassador, regarding the
holding in Tokyo of Council of State under Presidency of the Emperor. regarding
the -.
G
9434
6
2

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.95)
WE
FE
FS
This telegran must be
Rome
closcly araphrased be-
fore being comnunicated
Dated February 20,1936
to anyone. (3)
Roc'd 9:50 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Vashin,ton.
50, Fobr ary 20, 11 a. n.
CO:) TIAL. Last even n: I had a short talk with
Druunron'.
 soi tiet he hroeently talked to
Sugimure, the Jannnese bassader ere. He and Sugimura
1669
are very warn riends avin on cach other for years
at eneve. rurn sai  su imura ad told him that
there hnd been held in Tokyo a ouncil of State under the
presideney of the mneror in w ic there was discussed
the questirn of naval arnament ond the policy of the
Japenese Government in respect to building and tonnage.
The ranking Admiral was present ane ha! advocated the
Withdreval of Japan from the aval Conference and the
resuunption of her full freedom of action. Ishii or one
of the other counscllors of stto had asked for assurances
that the res:unntion of freedom wold not mean an enormous
buildin progran and consequent heavy costs to tho overn-
mont. The Admiral had given such assurances and had
stated that Japan had no intenti on of building in competi-
tion with the United States or withh ngland. Drummond felt
that

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.94)
FS
-Fo. 58, February 20, 11 a. n. from Rome
th t t' is assurance given in he prosence of the
mneror vas a vory solemn undertaking and oxprossed
hins 1f as being satisfiod that sugimurn, who is not
of t'o ilitary clique in Japan, had told him of the
incidont bccauso of thcir lon: and intimato acquaintance
and without any ulterior motive. Drummond said he had
advise' his covernnent.
Drun lond hinself saw Hussolini night before last to
discuss t Ialian naval poinh of viow vis a vis the
Naval Coni nee ororam in Lden. Ye discussed that
ubjeet only. No roferunce w . made to the political
situation develoning out of oneve or Abyssinia.
Achin Haval Attache reque to avy be notified.
Toneated to merican Duletion London.
CSB
LG

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.96)
TREATY DIVISION
T
APR 2 0 1936
WE
ETC
JAPANESE-EMBASS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE
WASHINGTON
no. 73
1936 APR 12 9 37
April 17, 1936.
May 4 1936
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
MAY 2 - 1936
Department of State
By direction of my Government, I have the
of Article l0(a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
that the keel of the Yamakaze", a destroyer of the Japa-
nese Navy, has been laid.
894.34/1
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying keel..........
May 25, 1935
Classification of vessel.......
destroyer
93
Standard displacement in tons.. 1,368 tons
Standard displacement in
metric tons.
1,390 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line......
102.24 metres
MAY 5 1936.
Extreme beam.
9.67 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.
2.77 metres
Calibre of the largest gun.....
12.7 centimetrbs
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Amini Saia
The Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
Washington
1水
x

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.93)
89 4 1938
The Seeretary of State presents his eompliments
to the Honorable the Beeretary of the Mavy and m-
eloses for his information and the files of the Wavy
894.34/193
Department a copy of a note from the Japanese Ambas-
sador communicating, in acoordanoe with the provision
of Art1ole l0(a) of the London Naval Treuty of 1930,
particulars with respect to the YAmakAZt, a destroyer
of the Japanese Navy.
molosure:
From Japanese Limbassy,
No. 73, Apr11 17, 1936.
CR
TDISYS1LCR:SCV/24/36
CA

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.90)
Moy 4 1938
Ezeelleney:
I have the honer to ackmewledge the reeeipt with
thanks of your note No. 73 of April 17, 1936, commm1-
eating, in accordanes with the provisiom of Article
10(a) of the Londom Haval Treaty of 1930, particulare
894.34/193
with respeet to the YAmaxAzF, a destreyer of the Japanese
savy.
Acsept, Excelleney, the renemed assuranees of my
highest consideration.
re of Stater
wallia Phillipe
894.34/193
His Exeellency,
MaY 4 38
Hirosi Saito,
Japenese Ambassador.
TD1878:LOR188
4/38

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.96)
TREATY DIVISION
WE
APR 80 1933
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
No.
Apr1l 17, 1936.
Division of
200
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 2 - 1936
Sir:
Department of State
May 4 1936
By direction of my Government, I hate the
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provision
of Article l0(a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
that the keels of the "Kawakaze"and "Umikaze", destroyers
of the Japanese Navy, have been laid.
LURUREAN AFFAIR
MAY 1936
The particulars are as follows:
Fl
34/194
Dates of laying keels, "Kawakaze,.. April 25, 1935
"Umikaze"
May 4, 1935
Classification of vessels.
destroyers
Standard displacement in tons,
each.
1,368 tons
Standard displacement in metric
tons, each.
1,390 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line..
.102.24 metres
Extreme beam.
9.67 metres
MAY 5
TD
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement........
2.77 metres
1936
Calibre of the largest gun.......
12.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Saih
Himisi
The Honorable Cordell Hull
Secretary of State
F/FG
+
Washington

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.93)
May 4 1933
n reply refer to
18 896.34/194
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Homorable the Seeretary of the Havy and ea-
closes for his information and the files of the yavy
Department a copy of the note from the Japamese Ambas-
894.34/194
sader commmlcating, in accordanoe with the provision
of Artiele 10(a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
partioulars in rospeot of the KAwAIAzE and UMIKAZE,
destroyers of the Japanese Navy.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Embassy,
0. 74, Apr11 17, 1938.
TY FE
TDI8YS1LCR188
4/36

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.91)
May 4 1936
Exeellemey!
I have the honor te ackmowledge the ressipt with
thanks of your note No. 74 of April 17, 1936, emmui-
894.34/194
eating. in accordance with the provisiem of Artiele
10(a) of the Lemden Heval Treaty of 1930, part1eulare
regarding the KAwaxazi and  IKAz, destroyers of the
Japanese Navy.
Aecept, Ereel enoy, t he renewed assuranees of my
highest oonsideration.
For the cecretary of State:
884.34/194
wiillam Paillipe
His Exoellency,
Hirost Saite,
MAY 4 1958.
Japenese Asbassador.
4/36
1

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.96)
TREATY DIVISION
WE
APR 20 1636
E'TC
JAPANESE EMBASS
FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
APR937
No.
April 17, 1936.
ck4
500
Division of
10
l. tvte
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sir:
MAY 1 - 1936
May 4 1936
Department of State
By direction or my Government, I have the
6f Art1cle 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
MAY5 1936.
that the construction of the "Mogami", a cruiser of the
894.34/195
Japanese Navy, has been completed.
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying keel.......
October 27, 1931
Date of completion..
July 28, 1935
Classification of vessel....... Cruiser
Standard displacement in tons.. 8,500 tons
Standard displacement in
8,636 metric tons
metric tons.
MAY 5 1936.
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line.....
.190.50 metres
Extreme beam.
18.20 metres
Mean draft at standard dis-
placement.
4.50 metres
Calibre of the largest gun..... 15.5 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hrni Sait
The Honorable Cordell Hull
11
Secretary of State
Washington

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.90)
5/2-10:20.
5/4-11:15
May4193
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Searetary of the Navy and en-
894.34/195
oloses for his information and the files of the Mavy
Department a oopy of a note fron the Japanese Ambas-
sador, No. 75, of April 17, 1936, communioatl ng, in
accordance with the provision of Artiole l0 (b) of
the London Naval Treaty of 1930, partioulars (on
completion) of the MoGAMI, a cruiser of the Japanese
Mavy.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Embassy,
Bo. 75, Apr11 17, 1936.
trhe covy of
the
arigl-
nat
WMcC
CR
MAY
225
FE
SR
1. Hj

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.91)
May 4 1950
Exeelleney!
I have the honor to aaknowledge with thanks the
receipt of your note No. 75 of April 17, 1936, com-
munioating, in acoordance with the provision of art-
894.34/195
1ole 10 (b) of the London Naval rreaty of 1930, par-
ticulars, (on comyletion) of the MOGAiI, a oruiser
of the Japanese Havy.
Aocept, Excellenoy, the renewed assuranoes of
my highent conaideration.
Cordell Hull
At
894.34/195
MAY3
8
His Excellenoy,
Hirosi Salto,
Japanese Ambassador.
td:8YS:mm
4/27/36
FE
sy
—7.2

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.90)
Coti..  barafhrare Xo luarry
TELEGRAM SENT
EPARING OFFICE
515736
TO BE TRANSMITTED
INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Nect
Department of State 
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Charge Department
on
ATNO STATE
PLAIN
Chargs to
Washington,
1936 MAY 5 PM 5 10
5
May 4, 1936.
DIVJF
6pmy
AMEMBASSY
COMMNS
This case wat om is dential Cada.
AH L.LUS
It eere 
TOKYO (JAPAN)
bng cw me io enone. C.
51
porh
An Associated Press despatch from London
GRAY
dated May 3rd reports that the QUOTE Japanese
Admiralty 1s considering laying down a 55,000 ton
894.34/195A
Department would appreciate any comment by telegraph
that you may care to make on this report.
Hull
w2
894.84
x
m.n.W
WE: SA: ASD
FE
1936.PM
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
.19
D. C. R. No 50.

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.98)
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM
FROM: Secretary of State, Washington,
TO:
American Embassy, Tokyo,
DATED: May 5, 1936,
no.:
51.
In a report from London dated May 3rd the
Associated Press states that QUOTE Japanese Admiralty
is considering laying down a 55,000 ton battleship
armed with twenty-one inch guns UNQUOTE. Any telegraphio
comment you may care to make on this report will be
appreciated by the Department.
HULL.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.96)
fino faraflerass to leary
by leesssnger
TELEGRAM REOEIVED
MJP
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely' paraphrased
Dated May 7, 1936
to anyone. (C)
Rec'd 9:45 a. m.
Division of
WESTERN
-N AFFAIRS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
MAY 7 1936
MAY14 1936
Hashington.
SIATE
97, May 7, 6 p. m.
Department's 51, May 5, 6 p. m.
ThE press despatch ws sEnt to London by Reuter's
894.34/1
correspondent Dennison who is quoted to thE Effect that
hE wanted to sEE what would happen. The despatch was
based on articles by two JapanesE retired naval officers
in FEbruary who predicted a vsssel of 50.000 to 60,000
96
tons with guns of 18 to 20 inches. This was reported
at the timE by our naval attachE.
Foreign naval attaches herE beliEvE that the Navy
Department 1s seriously considering larger ships ranging
from 45,000 to 55,000 tons and havE gonE so far as
starting plans therefor with guns of over 18 inches.
JapanesE naval officers arE rEticent in regard to it.
AY·18 1936
TherE arE two schools of thought in the JapanesE Navy
Department for and against building over 35,000 tons.
It is believed at present the larger ship advocates
have the upper hand.
The main point against building a larger vessel
1s

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
MJP -2- No. 97, May 7, 6 p. m. from Tokyo
1s the fear of a qualitative building racE with the
United States and Britain. If Japan does decide to
build such a vessel it will bE Extremely difficult to
determinE accurately its sizE until probably six months
after the keel 1s laid. Such a ship could bE built
here but would require same enlargement of facilities.
Probably two would be built.
Japan believes shE has an advantage over the United
States in respect to big ships on account of the restric-
tions imposed by thE Panama Canal, thE present fully
occupied building plans and by the depth of water in
harbors. They have stated sEveral times that they are
prEpared to mEet any building initiated by thE United
States in a way best suited to mEet their own tactical
and strategic naval plans.
Definite information will probably not bE known
until Japan knows what the United States is going to do.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
PARAPHRASED TELEGRAM
From Embassy, Tokyo
No. 97, May 7, 6:00 p.m.
Reference is made to the Department's telegram
No. 51, May 5, 6:00 p.m. Reuter's correspondent, Den-
nison, sent the press despatoh under reference to London.
He is quoted as having said that he desired to see what
might happen. Articles in February by two Japanese re-
that time they predicted that I vessels with guns of 18 to
20 inches and of 50,000 to 60,000 tons would be bu1lt.
Our naval attaché reported on this at the time.
It is here believed by foreign naval attachés that
the Japanese Navy Department has gone so far as to start
plans for larger ships ranging from 45,000 to 55,000 tons
which would have guns of more than 18 inohes in caliber,
but Japanese naval officers do not disouss the subjeot.
It is believed at the present that that school of thought
dipabove
in the Japanese Navy whioh is in favor of building, er
35,000 tons has the upper hand over the school whioh is
against the building of these ships.
The fear of a qualitative building race with the
United States and Britain is the main argument against
building

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.96)
-a
building the larger vessel. Should Japan decide to
conétruot such a vessel, only until about six months after
the keel is laid oan its sise be acourately determined.
Imlargement of facilities would be required before the
ship could be built in Japan. In such an event it seems
likely that two might be built.
The restrictions imposed by the Panama Canal, depth
of water in harbors and present building plans give
Japan the belief that she has an advantage over the
United States in respeot to big ships. On several oo-
casions the Japanese have stated that any building
initiated by the United States can be met in a way best
suited to meet their own strategio and tactical naval
plans.
Until Japan knows what United States will do it will
probabiy not be possible to obtain definite information.
GREW

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENTFILE
NOTE
SEE.500.A.15...5/783
FOR .Tel.106..noon
894.34/197
FROM .....Japan
(....Gren.
....) DATEDy..15..1936
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Construction of fortifications and ships. Mewspapers quote
the Minister of the Navy as stating to the Budget Committee of the Diet that
Japan seems to be apprehensive of the cost that may be incurred if a race
develops in the -.
G

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.95)
YE
FE
FS
This telegran must bE
Tokyo
closely paraphrased bE-
forE being communicated
Dated May 15,1936
to anyonE. (B)
Rec'd 5:05 a. m.
SecrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
106, May 15, noon.
ThE nEwsnapers cuotE thE Minister of the Navy as
statir to th: . udEt CommitteE of thE DiEt that Japan
hopes thet an her naval initation conferencE will be
open-d; that a treaty satisfac ory to all will be con-
cluded, an tirt a no-t. s us is not wElcome as
3
114
povers arE agitated to pui? lore ships.
ThErE sEEms to bE a dEcidEd unvillingnEss on thE
part of Japan to start a building racE and a nEwly
arisen, but as yEt unformulated, desirE for greater
coonEration in naval matters. ThE question of fortifi-
cations in thE Pacific has also been discussed in Diet
CommitteE by both thE Minister of Var and thE Minister
of thE Navy who sEem to bE apprehensivE of thE cost that
may bE incurred if a racE dEvElops in thE cons truction of
fortifications and ships.
ThE Embassy has no information of concrεtE plans
which the JapanEsE may havE in  ind for dealing with
thesE quEstions but thE subjEct is onE which is being
discussed.

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.96)
FS
2-No. 106, May 15, noon from Tokyo
discussed. The Naval Attache is rEporting by mail more
at lEngth to the Navy DepartmEnt.
V.C:RR
GREW

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/1
500.A 15 a 5/794
#1874
SEE
FOR
FROM .Japan
Grew
) DATED
May 30, 1936.
TO
NAME
1-1197
98
REGARDING:
Diet speeches by the Navy and Foreien Ministers relative to inter-
national naval situation. Navy Minister stated that limitation agreements with
other nations would reauce Japanese naval expenditures but that in the absence
of any agreements it could not be helped if the ordinary accounts in the naval
budget were considerably increased.
G
o8
5
3
h

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.95)
WE
DIVIS WESTERN
4
RECEIVO
DEPARTMENTATE
JAPANESE EMBASSY
FE
WASHINGTON
Division of
DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
July
Department of State
894.36
By direction of my Government, I have the
204
honor to inform you, in accordance with the provisions
500. A15a3-Comtentus
of Article 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
thut the keel of the "Michishio,"a destroyer of the
894.34/199
Jupanese Navy, has been laid.
The particulars are as follows:
Date of laying keel
November 5, 1935
Classificution of vessel
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons...
1,500 tons
Standard displacement in metric
1,524 metric tons
tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at water line
108.55 metres
10.15 metres
Extreme beam
Mean draft at standard dis-
2.745 metres
placement
JUL·B.1936
TREATY DIVISION
libre of the largest gun
12.7 centimetres
FLLID
JUN 9 8 1006
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
Vaih
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
lest consideration.
Hin
The Honorable Cordell Hull
Seoretary of State
Washington

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.91)
4/29-4130
6/30-11:45
6130-12:35
July 3 1938
Exoelloney:
I have the henor to ackmowledge, with thanke, the
reseipt of your note of June 22, l986, containing
partioulars regarding the Japanese destroyer IcHIsnI0.
894.34/1
farnished by the Japanese Government in accordanee with
Article 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty of 1930.
Aoceps. Exeellenoy, the renewed assuranoes of my
6
6
highest oonsideration.
Cordell Hull
Hie xcelleney
irosi aito.
Ambaceador of Japan.
894.34/199
TD SYS/LVD
WE
FE
Reutine
Aconyl

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.91)
July 3 1936
In roply refer to
D094.24/199
The Seeretary of State presents his complimenta to
894.34/199
the Honorable the Socrotary of the Navy and enoloses
for his informtion and the files of the Navy Department
a copy of a note from the Japanese ambassador containing
partioulars regarding the Japanese destroyer MICHISHIO.
whieh have been furnished by the Japanese Government
in acoordanoe with Artiole 10 (a) of the London Naval
Treaty of 1930.
Enclosure:
From Japanese ambassador.
Juno 22. 1936.
N17
TD 3Y/D
A

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
500.A 15 a 3/1791
FOR
#1893
894.34/200
FROM ... Japan
Grew
) DATED
Jun 10, 1936.
TO
NAME
1-117
REGARDING:
Bulldin policies. It is understood that the Japanese navy will
abandon past - regarding quantity and quality and adopt a new construction
policy more in keepine with Japan's articular geographical position.
G
2
0
C

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE500.A 15 ▲ 3/1796
Dospatch £1916
FOR
894.34/201
FROM
Japan
() DATED Jane 26, 1936.
TO
NAME
1-1197
REGARDING:
American and British plans for naval
expansion. It is reported that news
of - has eansed the Japanese to
reluctantly make preparations for
increased comstruction.
let

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.79)
responee so the porstmtent roperte shat Dreme he
1stond, tr lay down seven 25,00) sos bessleskipe me
 in h an vest the nitd -ttee  
begia perallel builaine plane, the Japamese mavy la reperted
so e maxins preparesluns to sovegt sne eonstreeslem

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.78)
●●
Ballenee. In viow of the preepee of a trestriese ane
Japen bed elresdy planced certaln Lesveesse La tte momma
sérength, prineiyally in cuteerines, la cetee to emsuse
18s supremmey La Far sastern wtare Lareugh retesssen of
essese sebmerine tennace and c ceassrvative buslesne pooo
erem. the avy pepartmens had noped to aose the amre
areinery expense cf = sonatruetlon rree end at the me
sime so tein quate dose tnrsh. , v.
It ls raportes that tr Japeneee nety mmst he reedy so
mlerpo 1tn ecat ruetion lans to inelude layim 
hattleshipe, 1f te we reprdin the mrien d isl
mavel ezpension plan proves to e troe. The Cavy Dopert
moms ms lsrved a woraier to the offeet shat altmomgh is
te seereed er t tondeney of ton lor rs t 
rmee in  eonetrmetion r os tir a ion ust he on wred
eelast beine truf ed int ruch sam etislon ame thes
Japes wmill eabere t: it resent pelley an lonr as the
mfoty of the eountr ls ot endengered.
Jepemese naval suthorities contimue tu preslaim shst
Japen mms me latention or tekins part in e maval rese ame
st t asill wants a d!rnment apreeoms beed  he
prizelplee ef non-menace snd non-agrresslon. it the some
sime the Hevy Winirsor is ru ortnd to heve told e m
feresee of the prefeoturel covernors she: if Japen mogleote
sts merel preperetsoss for a moment 1t 1s cortain to lose
1te pesstien In Last seie end fel1 in stx mert of dovokege
1ng "memebetue". It in sher fore neecesary, ne stetel,

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.79)
一  ●
thes Japas lauseh a sow sevel repleniotmese plee upse the
empipatsen er the presene Lomden Treety. Gme prese erete
ele polstod oue in shet conneetion that if she reperted
assiesn end "ritisn plase for eoas reettee of even ente
tal skipe mteriallzes, Jepenese nemal sereegeh ma es
as low as a 3 te 10 ratie. at the seme time emeee m
paper observed shat tne  rop sed ritien sosstreessem
would c0ss  m1nimu or 700,000,0n0 (210,000,000) 1
mlxtt preve tou stepgoring so view of ritaia's preee
fimajees, Indus:rlel eaprelty, nnd freet noed for sow
eruieore. ire srtiole wort on t mtte shat there le
little doube stnt süould ritain declde tc lsmmeh sts
sullaime progren, tre pit a tatee would imedlately lo
suarete è parellel  uildin, rlnr In ordor t upsole its
ls men plodre t tr ted -tates wil: meintein
navy t none.
In vlew of the : robe 1lit o" ereased naval sone
struetien she las st  udpotury estionte for naval ezponds-
suree durine the eaouins fise] you: ar :rer roleed to
0,000,000 (040,0c0,0c0); nowev, t y mt,
it is roverted, wil, try t: roduee thot flouro to se,os,s
Thuse fisures represent crtinary ruplaeement end aapessiem
empenditures, but if Japan desides that it is ebliged to
maintein its parity wis: t e rumered expemmion of she
meslean and pitish mavies, she tudget essimeten fer tho
seut fow yeare mishs reeer oven mere fo raidable figeres.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.77)
● ● -
It ls entioipated that the avy Inister will Imese
ducn oamureu for im rovinr Jepan'r doronse so sne
Cabinet ounell arly in July. coordins to sae ropert.
he Intond t prezont e plem for the inorease not amly of
naval but f mllitary, eir, en: penerl eivillen properee-
neee. The pementt lon of  rond nationel defonee ple
1 expootd t e better recsived y te matlon than 1m
dividual roqueete by tre -letries for  oresed appre
pristle-e.  rcent newe ceepeten ol-tr cut that with
Inord rent rit,tnited tt, nd
th vlet lonuat etrohn  et ha
 r lt 1 ntpt n oprd
11
t 1l!"In feetor In the Far
Sast.
o1low1
otrartitnaval
nnrdtth
r!tiab Govern
ittrey
the aprevel f t  Iot on June  the rorelen nleer
re: lled thet  uchs Japan ad itndra from the Lon
don aval vonferece 1t mw n reason to artieipate in an
aarerment concluded following lts witharawal, and further
more thut t ondon Treety le os little nosletasee to
Japar 1 nmueh ar ther are no quamettative restrletions
and it is besed primar: ly on e plan of ezebatelné informme
tion resrerdsng propomed eonstruetion.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/202
767.68119/964
#1953
FOR
FROM ... Japan
Grew
-) DATED
July 22, 1936
TO
NAME
REGARDING:
Naval expenditures for the coming fiscal year.
Information concerning - as gathered from the press. Progrem
for the coming year includes increase in capital ships, aircraft
carriers, auxiliary vessels, extension of the naval air force
and perfeotion of land and see equipment.
W1
202

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34
SEE 711.00lll Idc.Mitsubishi Shoji
FOR .Lattar
894.34 /203
Kaishe, Ltd./ 5
94
FRAM/
..) DATED .....7.,1936..
TO Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha,Ltd.
NAME
1-119
New York,N.Y.
REGARDING:
Navy equipment and supplies. Japan.
License No.2239 to export one Menasco "Super
Buccaneer" aircraft engine to the Imperial
Japanese Navy, Yokosuka,Japan enclosed.
f
2

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34 /204
SEE .......500.15..5/822
FOR ......Tel..174..1pm
FROM ..... Japan
(....Nr111....) DATED......g..29..1936.
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Conversation with Capt. Tayui, Senior Naval aide to the Minister of
Marine at the Naval Attache's home yesteriay relative to Japanese building progrem.
G
204

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.97)
WE
Tokyo
MJD
This telegram must be
Dated August 29, 1936.
closely paraphrased
before being communicated
Rec'd. 7:35 a. m.
to anyone. (B)
Secretary of State,
"Jashington.
174, August 29, 1 p. m.
In a conv rsation with Captain Tayui, senior naval
aide to te Hinister of Marine t the Naval Attache's
home yesterley afternoon after discussing sev ral naval
subjeets of minor importaree, the Naval Attache asked
Coptain Tayui how many capital ships Japan was likely to
build next y ar. aptain Tayui replied that it depended
on the size of the budget allowed the navy. which budget
would not  detormined until near the end of September.
He said that if the budget was small and extending only
for a period of two yoars they would probably build only
one ca, ital ship. If the budget is larger end extends
over a longer period of years, say six years, they would
probably build two or more. Asked what caliber of guns
these ships were likely to carry, Captain Tayui replied
that in his opinion they would be 16 inch guns because
he said navius have had 16 inch guns for a period of years
and he cit c the number of ships with 16 inch guns in the
United States navy and English navy and stated that outside
the two

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.94)
-2- No. 174, August 29 from Tokyo
the two 16 inch gun ships in th British navy ne rly all
the others in the British Havy were 15 inch.
The subject of 14 inch guns was mentioned but before
any definite ider could be developed the conversation was
interrupt d. The subjeet will be pursued further and the
Departnient informed.
HVI..P.
PEG

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.94)
K
TREATY DIVISION
Lile
ETC
OCT 7 - 1936
ach'd o coppy to navy
sys
JAFANESE EMBAS
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
.1/0PM 1 37
Ootober 6, 1936
Division of
EASTERN AFFAIRS
JIV4F
500 H15a3-
Sir:
COMMLNIONS
127
ANDDS
the note No. 54 of
cessor, dated Maroh 27, 1953, oconoerning the laying down
of the keel of "A-7l," a submarine of the Japanese Navy,
I have the honor to inform you, by direction of my Govern-
ment and in conformity with the provisions of Artiole l0
of the London Naval Treaty, of the completion of the above
894.34/205
mentioned submarine.
The partioulars are as follows:
"A-71"
Date of laying the keel .
February 15, 1933
Date of completion
Lecember 24, 1955
Classification of vezsel
Submarine
Standard displacement in tons
1,400 tons
Standard displacement in metrio tons,
1,423 metrio tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at waterlime
101 metres
37141936
FILED
Extreme beam at or below waterline,
8.20 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement,
3.95 metres
Calibre of the largest gun
12 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
Hrini Sach
highest consideration.
The Homerable Cordell Hall,
Seeretary of State,
八
Washingten.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.94)
The Beoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Henorable the Beeretary of the Navy and enoloses for
his Information and the files of the Navy Department a
894.34/205
oopy of a note from the Japanese Eubassy communicating
partieulars (on completion) of the "A-71", a submarine
of the Japanese Navy, furnished by the Government of
Japan in accordanoe with the provisione of Artiole 10 of
the London Naval Treaty of 1930.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Embassy,
No. 214, Oetober 6,
1936.
to
30
88
TD:IB:HGI 10/8/36
FE
Nomc

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.94)
1019-1:00
1019-3:50
Ootober 13 1936
Exeelleney:
I have the honor to acknowledge the reeeipt ef
your note No. 214 or Oetober 6, 1938, furnishing, by
direetien of your Government and in accordanse with
894.34/205
the provisiens of Artiele 10 of the Londen Naval Treaty
of l9s0, partieulars (on completion) of the "A-71", a
smbmarine of the Japanese Navy.
Acsept, Exoelleney, the renewed assuranees of my
highest consideration.
For the Bearetary of State:
His Exoellency
Hirosi Saito,
Japamese Ambassador.
CR
804.34/205
C
7|36
FE

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.94)
THEATY DIVISION
tle
HEPARTHAPANESE EMBASSY
OCT 7. 198
ATE
WASHINGTON
o.2/16 OCT7 PM | 37
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
'ASIERN AFFAIRS
894.34
COMMUIONS
wit
ANDLODS
Fil
UCT101936
sir:
PmP
Uepartment of State
By direction of my Government, I have the
honor to inform you, in accordance with the pro-
visions of Artiole 10 (a) of the London Naval Treaty
of 1930, that the keel of the "Natsu-gumo," a de-
stroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy, has been
894.34/206
laid down.
The partioulars are as follows:
"NATSU-GUMO"
Date of laying the keel,
July 1, 1936
Classification of vessel
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons ....
1,500 tons
Standard displacement in metrio tons,1,524 metrio tons
Principal dimensions:
141936
Length at waterline
108.55 metres
FILED
Extreme beam at or below waterline l0.15 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement, 2.745 metres
Calibre of the largest gun
12.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Hrini Sair
7
The Honorable Cordell Hall,
F/FG
Secretary of State,
Washingten.

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.88)
notober 13 1980
The Seeretary of State presente his complimemte to
the Hemorable the Seeretary of the Navy ane eneleses feg
his infermation and the files of the Navy Department a
894.34/206
sopy of a note from the Japamese Embassy commumieating
partioulars (on laying down) of the Marsu-Gumo, a
destreger of the Japanese Navy, furnisbed by the Gevera-
mont of Japan in accordanee with the provisiene ef
Artiele 10 of the Lendon Maval Treaty of 1990.
Smeleoure:
From Japanese Embassy,
No. n2, Oeteber 6,
1986.
-T
Le 1930.
copy of
gned erigi-
om

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.85)
October 13 1956
I heve the heeer to astmesledge the reeetgt 
your nete No. sns of coteber 6, loss, furasshdng, 
dirsetien of your Government and in accerdenee with
the previsseme of Artsele 10 of the Lendem Meval
894.34/206
treaty of 3oss, pertsendare (on leging deem) of the
Jepenese Gestreyer MATOS-UD.
Aeceps, Exeelleney, the renewed essmreness of y
higheet constderetion.
For the seevetary of states
R. WALTON MOORE
OUT 12

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.94)
TREATY DIVISION
CTC
DEPARTMEN
WASHINGTON
achd + copy to nary.
eys.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No.193603 PM 1 37
195€
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVETON OF
OCT10 1936
894.34
Tie
COMMUNDNS
nott
Sir:
ANDDS
mP
Department of State
500AH
By direotion of my Government, I have the
honor to inform you, in accordance with the pro-
visions of Chapter II, Part 3, Seotion 1 (b) of
the Washington Naval Treaty, that the keel of the
894.34/207
"Hiryu," an airoraft carrier of the Imperial
Japanese Navy, has been laid down.
The particulars are as follows:
"HIRYU"
Date of laying the keel
July 8, 1936
Classification of vessel
Airoraft Carrier
Standard displacement in tons
10,050 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons, 10,2ll metric tons
Principal dimensions: -
091 14 1936
FILED
Length at waterline
209.84 metres
Extreme beam at or below water-
line
20.84 metres
Mean drart at standard displacement, 5.02 metres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
Arrini Sais
F/FG
The Honorable Cordell Hall,
Secretary of State,
Washington.
11

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.80)
Ootober 13 103o
So eeey  Hte rete e se to
hte infermatien and the files of the Havy Bepartmenta
of a note frem the Japanese Iabessy commmieating
894.34/207
pereuare (en laying domm) ef the re, an airees
earrier of the Jaganece Navy, furaiabed by the Gevesamns
of Japen La asserdasse with the previatens of Chaptee.
Part 8, Seetien 1 (b) of the Washingten Naval Treaty e
2008.
m
200/
thad origi-
nme

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.69)
Ootober 13 10se
3 ve the hee to sdge
your mote lo. as of cteter e, 1oss, fr
aee s ou Goet nd L  
n poorsstene as ter 11, Pare a, Ntn 1 (
Teshiagten Nevel treety of 2ose, perttentave
Laging den) of the Jepanese areet sdeer
Aps, Eellemer, the reneved ns
Mghees conesdesetson.
For the Seeretery of states
R. WALTON MOORE

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.93)
TREATY DIVISION
WE
OCT 12 1936
ARTMEN
HAPANESE EMBASS
10/16/36 sy8
A
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
936 OCT 12
ToN
AND
0.225
ERCONERENGES
Ogtober 9, 1036.
1536
OF
sir1.
notober 31 1930
894.30
to inform you, in acoordance with the provisionref Article
500A15a3-Combia Tion
10 of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, that the keel of
the "Ooshio" a destroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy,
has been laid down.
FAPEASTERN AIRS
394.34/208
NA
The partioulars are as follows:
"OOSHIO"
Date of laying the keel .
August 5, 1936
Classification of vessel
Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons ....
1,500 tons
Standard displacement in metrio tons, 1,524 metrio tons
Prinoipal dimensions: -
Length at waterline
108.550 metres
28 1936
Extreme beam at or below waterline,
10.150 metrea
Mean draft at standard displacement,
Calibre of the largest gun
12.7 centimetrés
Accept, Sir, the renewed assuranoces of my highest
consideration.
Hrini Sait
The Honorable Cordell Hall,
Seeretary of State,
Washington.
F/FG

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.83)
October 21 1936
The Seeretery ef state preseate his cempltmente
the Nenerable the Seeretary of the Navy and enelesee fee
his Lnfermatien and the files of the Navy Department a
eopy of a mote frem the Japanese Embassy eemmunleating
894.34/208
partieulars (on laying down) of the oosmro, a destreyer
 the Japanese Mavy, furnished by the Gevernment ef
Japan in accordanee with the provisiens of Artiele 10 of
the Lenden Naval Treaty of 1930.
selesure:
Prom Japanese Enbasey,
Bo. 2zb, Oeteber 9,
1986.
OT 19 1936.PM
d5
2m2
28
amu
wae.m.
Tome

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.97)
Ootober 21 1936
Exeelleney:
I have the honor to asknowledge the receipt of your
note Ne. 225 of Oetober 9, 1936, furnishing, by direetien
of your Government and in aecordanee with the provisions
of Artiele 10 of the London Naval Treaty of 1930,
894.34/208
partioulars of the Japanese destroyer omhio, the keel
of whieh has been laid.
Accept, Excellenay, the renewed assurances of my
highest oonsideration.
For the Seeretary of State:
Hie Exoellenay
Mirosi Saito,
CR
OCT 19
Japanese Ambassador.
1936.P
894.34/208
FE

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.96)
TREATY DIVISION
ack d. navy notified
10/30136
sys.
WE
OCT 89 1936
5
JAPANESE EMBASSY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
-Courtn Tis
3 31
No. 241
Division of
O0tob 27, 193A EASTERN AFFAIR
NOV 3-1936
sir:
Department of State
With reference to my predecessor's note
146
No. 6, dated January 4, 1934, concerning the laying of
the keel of the "Shiratsuyu", a destroyer of the Imperial
Japanese Navy, and with reference to my note No. 32, dated
150
894.34/209
February 17, l934, concerning the laying of the keel of
the "Shigure". a destroyer of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
I have the honor to inform you by direction of my Govern-
ment and in conformity with the provisions of Article 10
of the London Naval Treaty of l930. of completion of the
above mentioned destroyers.
The particulars of each are as follows:
"Shiratsuyu"
Date of laying the keel..
.November 14, 1983
FILED
Date of completion.
.August 20, 1936
1936
Classification of vessel.
.Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons........
...1,368 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons......l,390 metric tons
Prinoipal dimensions:
Length at waterline
.102.24 metres
Extreme
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
F/FG
Secretary of State.
Washington.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.98)
Extreme beam at or below waterline.......9.67 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement.......
...2.77 metres
Calibre of the largest gun.
.12.7 centimetres
"Shigure"
Date of laying the keel..
.December 9, 1933
Date of completion.
.September 7,1936
Classification of vessel.
.Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons..
.1,368 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons.......1,390 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at waterline.
.102.24 metres
Extreme beam at or below waterline......9.67 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement........2.77 metres
Calibre of the largest gun.
.12.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
X

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.92)
14
14
November 5 1936
Exeellendy:
I have the honor to acknowledge the reseipt of your
note No. 241 of Ootober 27, 1936, furnishing, by direetiem
of your Government and in accordance with the provisioms
of Artiole 10 of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, partlom-
894.34/209
lars of the Japenese destroyers SHITSUYU and SHIGURE,
both of whion have been completed.
Acoept, Sxcellency, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the Seoretary of tate:
His Exoellency
Hirosi aito,
bascador.
8
894.34/909
TD:SYS:HGK10/30/36
FE
WE

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.82)
t lenerable the teavetery ef the lavy and, reseevene
to the Department of state's commnieatlens of Jemerg e
nd Pebruary 27, 10ss, eneloses fer his iafermstsen 
894.34/209
The files of the Navy Department a eepy of e note frem
the Japanese Ambassader furaiahing partieulare (em ea
pleien) of the atru and the , destregere
to depanene Navt, furai abed by the Goreramont of Jegem
In aseerdanse with the previslens ef artsele 10 ef the
Lemden Meval Treaty of 1980.
A true copy of
the sigy
二

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.95)
TREATY DIVISION
a.ked ar
JAPANESE EMBAS$Y
WASHINGTON
9
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 258
1936
38
sir:
H
By direction of my Government, and with reference to
111.4
my note No. 243. dated December 13, 1934, I havé the honor to
inform you, in conformity with the provisions of Artion ho (b)
of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, of the completion of the
"Okino Shima", a mine-layer of the Imperial Japanese Navy.
The particulars are as follows:
894.34/210
Date of laying the keel.
Sept. 27, 1934
Date of completion..
Sept. 30, 1936
Classification of vessel.
Mine-layer
Standard displacement in tons...
4,400 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons..... 4,470 metric tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at waterline.
117.80 metres
Extreme beam at or below waterline.... 15.62 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement...... 5.07 metres
Calibre of the largest gun..
14 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high considera-
NOV 2 1936
tion.
Kinosi vaito
FILT
The Honorable R. Walton Moore,
Acting Secretary of State,
Department of State,
F/FG
Washington.

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.93)
The hetim Seeretary of State presents his compll-
mente to the Honorable the Sesretary of the Mavy and,
referring to the Department of State's letter of Deeem-
ber 2l, l93e, eneloses for his information and the files
894.34/2
of the Navy Department a copy of a note from the Japaness
Ambassador inoorporating, in accordenoe with the provi-
slone of Artiele 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty of
1930, partioulars (on complet1on) of the Japanese mine-
layer OKINO SHIMA.
Enclosure:
From Japanese Ambassador,
No. 258, Novomber 16,
1936.
x
7
G
WT
TD:8Y8:HGI 11/18/36
FE

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.93)
1119-11:40
111-2:45
1114-2115
Noverrer P3
1936
Exeelleney:
I have the henor to asknowledgs, with thanks, the
receipt of your note No. 2s8 of November 16, l9s6,
incerporating partieulars (en eemplesiom) of the mime-
Lager OXINo ShIMa of she Imperial Japanese Navy, whicn
894.34/210
have been furmished by your Govermment in accordanse
with the provisions of Article 10 (b) of she Lendem
Maval Treaty of 1930.
¿ccept, Exeelleney, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the asing Jeoretary of Btate:
His Exoellenoy
NOV 20 938
Hirosi Baito,
Japanese Ambassador.
9
F/G
004.34/210
1111
TD:SYS:HGK 11/13/36
WE
FE

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.92)
i
F
JAPANESE EMBASBY'ARTMENTATE
WASHINGTON
1937 FEB 9 PM I 07
No.24
Rruay 8, 1937
OUMUH
ONS
AND IJDS
Sir:
894.34
By direotion of my Government I have the honor
note
+910
Ro
500716a3.ConTu
Article 10 of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, that the
keel of the YAMAkUMO, a destroyer of the Imperial Japa-
nese Navy, has been laid down.
TREATY DIVISION
ack d + copy ti havee
8y
The particulars are as follows:
FEB 10 1937
"YAMAKUMO"
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Date of laying the keel.
.Nov. 4, 1936
2
Classification of vessel.
.Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons.......
.1,500 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons......1,524 metrio tons
Prinoipal dimensions:
Length at waterline.
.108.550 metres
Extreme beam at or below waterline....l0.l50 metres
FEH
FILED
Mean draft at standard displacement.......2.475 metres
Calibre of the largest gun......
.12.7 centimetr
3
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest
Herini Vait
consideration.
The Honorable Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State,
Department of State.
Washington.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.89)
516-1145
=16.3:10
2/11=45
resruary 18 1937
894.34/211
Exeelleney:
I have the honor to asknowledge the reeeipt of so
note No. 24 of Februery 8, 1937, Furnlahing, by aireetiem
894.34/211
of your Government and in aocordance xith tne provislons
of Article 10 of the London Naval 7reaty of 1s30, parti
u:s of  Y, a dsoer of n Imprial
Japsnese Mavy, the kecl of wiieh was laid on November ,
1936.
Acoept, xcelloncy,  renewed assurances of 
nignost siuortion.
For tie Seuretury of state:
His ixoollency
Hirosi Salto,
CR
F/FG
Japarese Ambassador.
N1
TD:SYS:HGK 2/10/37
FE

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.95)
odruary 15 1937
In reply refer to
894.3.1211
The Seeretary of state presents his sompliments to
the Honorable the Bearetary of the Navy and eneloses fer
his information and the files of the Mavy Departmemt a
894.34/21
copy of a note from the Japanese Embassy eommumieating
partieulars (on laying down on November 4, 193e) of the
XAMAKUMO, a destroyer of the Japanese Mavy, furmiabed
by the Government of Japan in accordanee with the provi-
Bions of Artiele 10 of the London Maval Treaty of 1930.
Enelosure:
From Japanese Embassy,
No. 24, February 8,
1937.
F/FG
TD:SYS:HGK. 2/10/37
FE
Ueue

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
500.A 19/65
FOR
MEMO
894.34/212
FROM
State Department
Pell
) DATEDMar. 16.1937 roc'd
Western European Division
NAMC
REGARDING:
Naval rearmament in the U.S., Great Britain
and Japan. Meeting at the State Department
Friday, March 12, 1937, to discuss - .
Memorandum on British rearmament program
attached.
21:

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.94)
AND
i
MAP. 3 0 1937
JAPANETMBASYTE
WASHINGTON
STATE
1937 MAR 37 PM 3 08
No. 76
3
MHU
PAM FASTEHN AFFAIRS
AND
AR 9193
Sir:
Department of Stat
By direction of my Government I have the honor to
inform you, in accordance with the provisions of Article
10 of the London Naval Treaty of 1930, that the keels of
894.34/213
the KASUMI and the ASAGUMO, destroyers of the Imperial Japa-
nese Navy, have been laid down.
The particulars are as follows:
"KASUMI"
Date of laying the keel.
.Dec. 1, 1936
Classification of vessel.
.Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons..
.1,500 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons.....l,524 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at waterline..
.108.550 metres
Extreme beam at or below waterline..l0.l50 metres
FU XD
Mean draft at standard displacement......2.745 metres
Calibre of the largest gun..........
....12.7 centimetre
"ASAGUMO"
The Honorable Cordell Hull
TREATY DIVISION
Secretary of State,
ach d t epy ehary
Department of State.
MAR 3 1 1937
Washington.
CTC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
F/G

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
"ASAGUMO"
Date of laying the keel....
..Dec. 23, 1936
Classification of vessel....
..Destroyer
Standard displacement in tons.....
...1,500 tons
Standard displacement in metric tons.....1,524 tons
Principal dimensions:
Length at waterline.
..108.550 metres
Extreme beam
or below waterline..l0.l50 metres
Mean draft at standard displacement......2.745 metres
Calibre of the largest gun......
...12.7 centimetres
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest
consideration.
K.C.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.96)
4/6-2:30
46-4:40
April 8 1957
Exeelleney:
I have the honor to aaknowledge with shanks the
reeeipt of the Embassy's note No. 76 of Mareh 30,
1937, communicating partioulars (on laying down on
Deeember 1, 1936) of the destroyers KASUMI and
894.34/213
ABaGUMO of the Imperlal Japanese Navy, whioh have been
furniahed by your Governwent in aecordanee with the
provislon of Artiele 10 (b) of the London Naval Treaty
of 1930.
hocept, Excellenoy, the renewed assurances of my
higheet oonsideration.
For the Seeretary of State:
His Sxoellency
Hirosi Saito,
Japanese
F/FG
894.34/213
TD:SYS:HGK 4/2/37

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.81)
Apr11 8 1957
the Secvetary ef state precents his complimente to
the Nenerabke the Seeretary of the Navy and enelesee fer
894.34/213
his Lafermatien and the files of the Navy Department a
 of a note from the Japanese Eabeeny furnlahing
pettsulare (em laying dsem en December 1, 1086) of the
KAGNI and the AssGUND, Lestreyere of the Japanese Hew.
fumished by the Geverament of Japan ia accertanee with
the previesem of Artiele 10 (b) of the Lenden Maval
Treety  10s0.
Eaeloswve:
APR 81937.
A
the signes origi
F
nal.
gur
12/378
Cuus
.
nee!
hour

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.95)
Prarofleass Lo leae
h
hern
5120137
WE
JR
This telegram must be
Tokio
closely paraphrased be-
FROM
fore bein communicated
Dated May 20, 1937
to anyone. (B)
rRee d 6:47 a.m.
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
vision of
Secretary of State,
Ne
MAY 20 1937
Department of State
Washington.
HI.C.
MENI OF IAL
133, May 20, 3 p..
894.34/214
Byas! interview with Navy Minister appearing in
NE" YORK TI!S tomorrow regarding Japan's capital
shipbuilding program is considered to be the first
authoritative announcement as to size and gun calibers.
"hile the statement is of a negative nature the Navy
Department goes on record as denying current press reports
of huge ships carrying guns larger than 16 inch, The
opinion is gaining ground in Tokyo that Ja an does not
contemplcte construction of capital ships of a size
greatly in excess of present types nor mounting guns
MAY 24 1937
larger than those now installed. Restriction imposed on
Naval Attache's visits to Kure and Yokosuka leads him to
894.34
believe that important naval construction is either under
way or contemplated a those places.
GRE
KLP
F/G

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
[PARAPHRASE]
CONFIDENTIAL
FROM:
American Embassy, Tokyo.
TO:
Seoretary of State, Washington.
DATED:
May 20, 1937, 3 p.m.
RECD.:
6:47 a.m.
NO.:
133
What is considered to be the first authoritative
announcement concerning the size and gun calibers of
Japan's capital shkp program will appear in an article
by Byas in the New York Times tomorrow concerning an
interview which he had with the Navy Minister. The
Navy Department goes on record as denying current press
reports of huge ships carrying guns larger than sixteen
inch, though the statement is of a negative nature.
Japan does not contemplate construction of capital
ships of a size greatly in excess of present types,
nor mounting guns larger than those now installed is
the opinion which is gaining ground in Tokyo. Important
naval construction is either under way or cont emplated
at Kure and Yokosuka in the opinion of the Naval
Attaché,due to the fact that restrictions have been
imposed upon his visiting the places mentioned.
GREW

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.96)
DCR
NEW YORK TIMES
MAY 2 1 1937
JAPAN DENIBS PLAN
FOR NAVY IS THREAT
B-
Minister Asserts No Armament
Program That Might Menace
Others ls Contemplated
SPIKES BIG-GUN RUMORS
la prepared to deny them.
Huge Shipe With Pieees of More
building program affest Japen's
DCR,
security?
Than 16-Inch Calibre Are Not
Answer- "The Japanese Navy does
not yet know the full details of the
Projeeted, Yonai Says
new British construction pregram,
be affird
and we have not so far considered
concretely what effect the Britich
Zhyo
By HUGK BYAS
program may have upon Japan's
security.
Wireless to Tzs New Yoak Timse.
TOKYO, May 20.-Assurances that
The "Seuthward Polley"
"the Japanese Navy contemplates
Question-"Press statements here
no armament programs whatever
about a 'southward polloy' and
tobag.on
references in the Diet have caused
that might menace other coun-
some alarm abroad. Could you es-
tries" and an authoritative denial
plain the southward poliey and why
of reports that Japan proposes to
the navy ls especially interested in
construct huge shipe with guns of
it? Does it include, for example,a
larger caliber than 16 inches were
proposal for leasing territories for
given to this correspondent today
exploitation or colonisation by Japa-
by Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai, Min-
nese nationals?"
Lster of the Navy.
Answer-"Although the answer. to
Admiral Yonal's statements were
this question doss not come within
given in writing in answer to a
the sphere of the navy, it must be
questionnaire, and their translatiom
pointed out that geographically and
has been checked by Captain Kon-
economically the South Seas region
do, the Minister's aide de camp.
Ls very closely related to Japan. It
In question and answer form they
is a natural consequence that Japan
follow:
should be considerably interested in
894.30 2141
Question-"Is Japan willing to
economie developments in that
enter an agreement for the ex-
region.
change of building information as a
"It is much te be regretted that
means of preventing a naval race?
some people should propagate the
Answer—"The matter is under
false impression that the Japanese
consideration, and at present it is
impossible to answer this ques-
tion.
Question-"Acoording to press re-
Question-"Japan's naval expendi-
ture in 1931 wes 237,000,000 yen and
ports, the Washington government
it is now 681,000,000. The reasoms
will adhere to the Washington and
1980 London treaty limits irrespee-
for the increase are not well under-
tive of the British program. If the
stood abroad, and it would be use-
United States stleks to the Wask-
ful if you would briefly explain
ington limits, will Japan do the
them.
same? If the anewer is yes, doss
Answer-"The increese in naval
it mean that mew Japanese capital
expenditures is a world-wide tend-
ships will be of 8s,000 tems, mount-
ency in recent years and the ques-
ing sixteen-inch gune, and that
tion does not concern Japan alone."
Japan will, as & voluntary measure,
Slent cn Cealtel Shia Plana
Answer- "The Japanese Navy de-
elares without ressrve that it con-

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
794.34
851.34/107
voluntary report
SEE
FOR
894.34/ 21
Nantes
Cocke
May 24, 1937
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-117
REGARDING:
Little dnager that Jaan will
construct naval essels heavier
than 35,000 tons, be:ng uncertain
5
of its a! ility to win a race with
the Unitedtates.
18
215

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.95)
894.34
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/
865.30 0.N.1.Reports/1
SEE
FOR
deapatch #504
FROM..Italy
(Kirk
) DATED Jul y 23. 193?
TO
NAME
1-1187
2
16
REGARDING:
New Japanese Battleships
Reports - to carry 10
sixteen inch guns.
dg
σ

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.91)
FF
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
o.734
R1ga, JUL 23 1937
EU
Subjeot: Artiole by Rear Admiral Yates Stirling.
  A
pM 2 47
S
EED
19
37 5 100
BY
894.34/217
The Honorable
FIN AFFAIRS
A
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
81134
As of possible interest to the Department, I
PTLPT
1/
have the honor to enclose herewith, in single copy,
the text of an artiole by Rear Admiral Yates Stirling
dated "New York, in July," entitled "Offensive in
the Pacifie," which was published in the RIGAsChE
RUNDSCHAU No. 161, July 17, 1937.
No translation of this article is being for-
warded inasmuch as it is assumed that the English
language text has already come to the attention of
the
F/G

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
the Department.
Respeotfully yours,
Arthur Bliss Lane.
Enolosure:
1. Artiole by Rear Admiral Yates Stirling.
(In single copy only).
(In quintuplicate.)

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.89)
Bmclosure No. 1
to despatch No.734
of
JUL 231937
from the Legation at Riga, Latvia.
SOURCE: RIGASCHE RUNDSCHAU
(RIGA REVIEW),
No. 161,
July 17, 1937.
Riga.
10
Rigasdhe Nuudichan Rr. 161. — Gonnabeub, Den 17.
Offenfibe im Bazifif.
①BONIN-
Nenwhort, im Juli.
für ausreidhende Brennstoffverforgung Munition un
Während die kriegsflotte ber Veretnigten Staaten ihre großen
gung, um die lleberfreuzung bes westlichen Bazifie von
aus und surüd zu ermögltchen, braucht eine Größe won.
Manöber im Stillen Ezean bornahm, die sich bis zu der Midiwah
Tonnen Basserverdrängung; um die Bebingungen  er
Infel im Besten und nach Alaska im Nerren eritredten, sollten
Die Bürger Amerifae thr Gedächtnis auifrishen über die rieig:n
Jatan anfündigt. müßte man ein Schiff bon nt wer
Gebiete, die bon der amerikanifdhen Klotte gefhüßt werden müf
50.000 Tonnen bauen. Die zusäßlichen 15.000 Tonnen
wendig. um das Frtragewicht der Gefchüze bon 45-
fen. Die Gebiete, in denen die Flotte bei ihren anövern
Kaliber und der schwereren Munition zu tragen und un
operterte, umfaffen babei burchaus nody nicht alle territorialen
imafchinen augzunchmen, die die zufäßlichen 8 Knoten Ge
Verantwortlidahtetten ber USA in Etillen Ezean. Der Eduß für
feit erzeugen. Die USA Flugzeugmutterfchiffe Garatog
die Bhilipptnen, denen man in Zulunft vollständige Unabhängif
reit geben will, gegen politische Einmischung außenstehender Na
Legington" erreidchen mit 253 Meter Bänge, 32,2 Meter
und 7.4 Meter Tieigang die äußerste Größe, fiür bie 
ttonen, mird, das muß eingesehen werden, noch für viele Jahre
Sicherleit die Échleusen des Banama-Kanals binrelden. De
auf ben Schultern der Bereinigten Etaaten ruhen. Tann der
gesdjilderten Schlactschiffe, die in Brage fämen, mürben
Banama-Kanal, der die Flotte befähigen soll, tattiscy geteilt,
und besonders auch treiter fein als bie Mutterschiffe. Gollte
troßbem strategifé Tonzentriert u feln. Viele Amerikanir haten
fich fiür ein folches Sctiff entschelben, fo hätten bie Bereld
fich seit langem daran gemöhnt, thre Plotte nur als Berteidigunge
Staaten fetnen anderen lusweg, ale fofort eine Berbappelung
waffe zum Sdhuge der Küsten uno zur Abiwe!r eines seindlichen
uncimen. Diese Type fünnte schneller unb billiger 
Ginfalles au fehen. Die Sache ift aber fo, dafß in einem
lantischen üste gebaut werden, oo bie Berften geßer fi
großen Krieg swisdhen ben Bereintgten Staaten un einer Na-
am Bazifif. Dann wiürden bie Schiffe aber bie Koute burd
tion, ble an den Stillen Özean grenzt, jede glotte fidy zunädhst
Magalhàes-Straße benußen müssen, um in ben Bagtfie
an einem ftrategtsdhen Bunft zufammenztehen mürde, von dem
langen.
aus am besten bie lebensotchtigen Berbinbungslinten mit dem
Berforgunggentrum gu fidhern find. Dann wiürden bie Flotten
Der Bau diefer Riefen würde an fich reine Kebolutton
gegeneinanber marsdieren nd babei Ztoisdenstellungen befeyen.
Schiffbau darftellen, benn bie Schiffbaumeifter baben alle
Jede Nation wkrd als thr Biel und ihre enbgültige lufgabe
rigfeiten übrwunden. Wenn biese 45-BentimetenGiffegd
ben Angriff auf ble feinbliähe Sauptflotte fehen. Wenn ein-
fich bemätyren, fo würden ble älteren Shladdldhiffe, bie te
mal bie feinblidge glotte zerftört oder von ber Eec bertrieben
Schlachtflotten bilden, überholt fein. Denn swet foldger
worben ift, dann wird bie Rontrolle über diefe Beblele autrr
Schiffe fönnten fähig fein, eine weit größere Baßl fleimer
matifc an ben Sleger übergeben. Darum muß bie ßlotte der
mit geringeren Geschügen au beftegen. Die Bage önnte
Bereinigten Étaaten in einem Kriege in allen Teilkn bes Bagi
baute mit Geschügen, burh bie bie älteren Gladh
fein wie bamals, als Großbritannien feinen erhen Dree
fit in ber Lage fein, die Öffenfive zu ergreifen.
einem Schlage ben größten Tell thres bis babin forgtäßktg
Im Kugenblid ift bie glotte ber Bereinigten Staaten ber
Glotte Japans in etnem Barhältnis von 5:3 überlegen. Seit
ten Brestiges sur Bee berloren. Eße ber Bafßingtenes
von 1922 bie weitere Entwidlung des Schlachtichiffbanes aum
dem Ablauf ber glottenberträge (Ende 1936) ift Japan frel. es
brachte, Scówebte ben Blottenmächten fchon bas 50.00-Zm
tann fo biele kriegssáiffe und fo biele Sddffstypen bauen, als
Schiff mit Befchügen bon mehr ale 40 Bentimeter Ralßlbee
 für notwenblg hält. Die Bereinigten Staaten find ebenfalls
bollftänbig frei, um ebenfo viele Shifie zu bauen wie Japan
ober besfen Brogramm zu Sberbleten. In ben Gebicten bes Etillen
Dseans, in benen Amerilas Blotte ihre Maniöbir aasführte,
haben bie amerttantfdhe und bie japanifahe ßlotte etiva die gleichen
Bortelle tn der Frage der Flottenftüubunfte. Pie lotte ber
beträge erforbert.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.87)
(RIGA MEVIEW)
No. 161,
July 17, 1937.
Rige.
10
Rigalde Muxdlhan Rr. 161. = Sonxabemd,
Offenfibe im Bazifit.
aono
BONNN-
Rewhort, im Juli.
für ausreidhende Brennftoffberforgung Munition 
Während bie Ariegsflotte ber Bereinigten Staaten ihre großen
gung, um bie lleberfreuzung bes weftlichen aztfif von
Manöber im Stillen Ezean bornahm, bie sich bis zu der Midwat
aus und surüd u ermöglichen, braucht eine Gre wn
Infel im Besten unb nach Alaska im Nerren crstredten, sollten
Tonnen Basserverdrängung; um bie Bedingungen  
Japan anfündigt, müßte man ein Schiff won nit 
Gebiete, bie bon ber amerikanifdhen Flotte geßhüßt werden müf
bie Bürger Ameritas thr Gedächtnis muffrifdhen über die riejig:n
50.000 Tonnen bauen. Die zufäglichen 15.000 Tommen
fen. Die Gebiete, in denen die Flotte bei ihren Manövern
Staliber und ber schwereren Munition zu tragen un u
wendig. um das Frtragewicht ber Seschfige bon 4ō
operterte, umfaflen babei burdhaus nocy nicht alle territorialen
Berantwortlichteiten der USA tin Etillen Ezean. Der Éduß für
imaschinen auzunelhmen, die bie zufäßlichen 8 Knoten 
feit erzeugen. Die USA-Fluggeugmutterfhiffe Garatoge
bte Bhilipptnen, denen man in Zufunst vollständige Unabhängic
teit geben will, gegen politische Finmisdjung außenstehender Ra-
Lerington" erreichen mit 253 Meter Bänge, 32,2 Meter
und 7.4 Meter Tiefgang die äußerste Größe, für bie 
ttonen, wird, das muß eingesehen werden, noch für viele Jahre
Sicherleit die Schleusen des Banama-Kanals binreicdhen. Dle
auf ben Schultern der Vereinigten Etaaten ruhen. Dann der
Banama-kanal, der die Flotte befähigen foll, taltiicy geteilt,
geschilderten Schlacafchiffe, bie in Jrage fämen, würben
und befonders auch treiter fein als bie Mutterfchiffe. Gollte
troßdem strategifc Tonzentriert zu fcin. Biele Amerikan'r hatet
fich für ein folches Scdiff entichelden, fo hätten bie Beret
fich feit langem baran gewöhnt, ihre Flotte nur als Bertcidigunge
Stanten feinen anteren Musweg, ale fofort eine Berbappelung
waffe zum Shuge der küsten uno zur Abwe!r eines feindlichen
Ginfalles zu fehen. Die Sadhe iit aber fo. baß in einem
uncmen. Diese Tnpe fünnte fchneller und billiger an 
lantischen sülste cebaut werden, wo bie Berften grer 
großen Krieg zwisdhen ben Vereinigten Staaten un einer Na-
tion, bie an den Stillen Ezean grenzt, jede ßlotte fidj zunächst
am Baziiif. Dann würden die Schiffe aber bie Koute burd
Dagalihàes-Straße benußen müfsen, um in ben Bagtff
an einem strategisdhen Bunft zufammenziehen würde, bon dem
langen.
aus am besten bie lebensvichtigen Berbindungslinten mit dem
Berforgungszentrum zu fichern find. Dann wiürden die Flotten
Der Bau biefer Riefen würde an fich keine Mevolutto
gegeneinander marfdieren und dabei Zwisdenstellungen befeßen.
Schiffbau barstellen, denn die Schiffbaumelfter haben alle
Jede Natlon wird als thr Biel und ihre endgültige Aufgabe
rigfeiten übrwunden. Wenn biefe 45-Bentimeten-Gtffg
ben Angriff auf die Jeindlidhe Sauptilotte sehen. Benn ein-
fich bewätyren, fo würben bie älteren Schladdfdhiffe, bie je
mal bie feinblidhe Flotte zerftört ober bon ber Éee bertrieben
Schlachtflotten bilden, überholt fein. Denn wet foldger
worden ift, dann wird die Rontrolle über diefe ßebiete autr
Schiffe fönnten fähig fein, eine weit größere Baßl fieimer
matifc an den Sieger übergehen. Darum muß die ßlotte ber
mit geringeren Geschügen zu befiegen. Die Lage Könnte
Bereinigten Étaaten in etnem Kriege in allen Teilen des Bazi
fein wie bamals, als Großbritannien feinen erfen Deeah
fir in ber Yage fein, die Öffenfive zu ergreifen.
baute mit Befchügen, burch bie bie älteren Gølachtf
Im Augenblid ift bie Flotte der Beretnigten Staaten ber
einem Schlage ben größten Teil thres bis bebin forgfälttg
Flotte Japans in einem Berhältnis von 5:3 überlegen. Gcit
ten Brestiges sur See berloren. Ehe ber Wafßingtonee
bem Ablauf der Flottenberträge (Ende 1936) ist Japan fret, es
von 1922 bie weitere Entwidlung des Schlachtichiffbaues 
kann so biele kriegssdiffe und so biele Sdiffstypen bauen, als
brachte, fchwebte ben Flottenmächten fchon bas 50.00-
es für nottwenblg hält. Die Berelnigten Staaten sind ebenfalls
Schiff mit Geschügen bon mehr als 40 Bentimeter Kaltbee
bollftändig frei, um ebenfo biele Shifie zu bauen wie Japan
oder desfen Brogramm zu Sberbteten. In ben Gebieten des Étillen
Dzeans, in benen Amerilas Flotte thre Manöb:r aasführte,
haben bie ameritantfdhe und bie lapanifhe glotte etva die gleichen
veranlassen wird und badurch bie Wusgabe anbegremah
Bortelle in der Frage der Flottenftüßbunfte. Die Flotte der
beträge erforbert. Bet bem Behlen van bestraglien
Bereinigten Staaten hat eine Basis in Bearl Sarbor auf Sawail
und die japanifdhe Flotte auf ben Bonin-Jnfeln und in threm
fichilich mit dem Erscheinen rabitaler strlegsshifftpes
Mutterlande. Ein metteres Borhrtugen der USA-Glotte west-
Allle Rattonen, bie nach Geemacht streben, mecden harasf bet
fein, ben Bau folcher Schiffe nicht zn berfäumen. Es fant
wärts würde ter japanisdhen ßlotte die Müglichleit geben, thre
Berbindungslinien nadh rer Seimat zu fürien, während bie Ber
Grund für bie Boffnung au bestehen, daß swifchen be
bindungslinten ter ameritanifdhen glorte fic ausbehuen wärden.
mächten Berträce auegelhandelt werden fönnten, burde
Japan hat befanntgegeben baß eß oier Echlachtsdilfe mit großer
Sundertgpen von riegeschifien oder bedrohli große e
Gefdawindigfeit bauen werde, durch die einige feiner älteren Sdiffe
erfegt werben. Gs ift berichtet worden, baß Japan ten Bau
gewicht unter den Rattonen serftört werden könnte. allte
von Echlachtfchaffen ermagt, die genülgend groß sind. um bet
pan barauf bestehen, feine Übstcht Aum Ban ene
einer Fahtgefchwinbigteit von 30 noten in voller Armierung
Schlachtschiffes mit 45-Bentimeter-Geschiüten ausgufäf
die Welt Beuge werden, baß diefe lUngeheuer auf ben Berf
Geschüte mit 45-Benttmeter-staliber u tragen.
Ein Shlachtfahift bon 23 Knoten Fahrgefchnvinbigfeit, mit einer
aller großen Seemächte gebaut werben.
Bestüdung von 40-gentimeter-Gesdhulgen, voll gepangert wie bie
Bon Ronteradmtral Dates Stirltng,
Schiffe ber Maryland-Klaffe" und mit genilgend Maumirhalt
eHemals Kommandant ber Brookthn Flott

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
5.C.R.
[SUMMARY TRANSLATION]
17
SOURCE: Rigasche
Rundsohau No. 161,
July 17, 1937.
Offensive 1n the Pacific
While the U. 8. fleet was holding 1ts manouvers in
the Pacifio, it was well for American citizens to remember
that it has an immense territory to protect. It will
probably be the task of the United States to protect the
Philippines from foreign intervention for many years. The
Panama Canal must also be protected. In oase of a war with
a power whose territory borders on the Pacific Ocean, the
United States ought to be 1n a position to take the
offensive in any part of the Pacific.
At present, the United States navy 1s superior to
that of Japan in the ratio of 5:3. In the regions where
the U. S. Navy has conducted its maneuvers, the American
Navy and that of Japan are about equal when it comes to
bases.
Japan has announced her intention of building four
high-speed battleships to replace older vessels. It 1s
reported that she 1s considering the construotion of
battleships having a speed of 30 knots and carrying guns
of 45 om. caliber. They would have to be of not less
than

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
than 50,000 tons displacement. They would be too big to
pass through the Panama Canal. If Japan should decide
to build such ships, the United states would have to
duplicate them. The U. S. shipe would have to be built
on the Atlantio coast, where the best shipyards are
looated, and would have to go through the Straits of
Magellan.
The construction of these glants would not repre-
sent a revolution in ship building. When the Washington
Treaty of 1922 put a stop to the building of battleships,
ships of 50,000 tons, with gune of more than 40 cm.
caliber, were being contemplated.
It is a hard blow to the tax-payer when a nation
bringe out a plan that will lead to competition in
armament between the sea powers of the world. In the
absence of treaty restriotions, all types of ships may
make their appearance. There appears to be some reason
to hope, however, that treaties may be made among all
the great powers that will ban special types of ships
and those of extreme size. But if Japan should insist
on building such monsters as those mentioned, similar
ships will be built in the yards of all sea powers.
REAR ADMIRAL YATES STERLING,
formerly Commandant of the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
TR:
VTS:88.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.3311/434
FOR
.Mamo
894.34/218
FROM State Department..(EU)....(....Moffat......) DATED...Sapt..2..l937.
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING: Oil purchused in United States by Japanese Navy: Netherlands
Legation requests information concernin method omployed by
Japanese navy to provide itself with the -. Legation memo-
randum attached.
wb

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
811.34/838
SEE
FOR
Memorandum
894.34/219
State Dopartment
FROM .....European. Affaira
(Pe11) DATEDAg.301932.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Preparations of Japanese for battleship construction.
F/R
1w
219

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
500.A15 a 5/868
Tel 1 5pm
SEE
FOR
FRoMIntarmat1onal.Sugar....(.Davis...) DATED
Mar.25.1937.
894.34/
Conf. AMDEL
NAME
1-1187
(General Disarmament
Conference, AMDEL)
REGARDING:
2
2
Doubts if Japan would be so foolish as to precipitate such a mavel
0
race as would result from building battleships above 35,000 tons, with guns
exceeding 14 inches.
G
8

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.3311/439
Not e
894.34/222
SEE
FOR
Notherlands Legation
Nov.22,1937.
FROM
) DATED
11
NAME
1-1127
Exchange of monthly informat ion concerning
REGARDING:
quantit ies of o1à purchased by the Japanese
Navy in Netherlands East Indies ageinst like
infornation concerning the purchase of oil
in U.S.for Jepanese Navy:Has been iniormed that
his Government will make this exchenge.
F/MR
pe
2
2
2

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.89)
8Havy
x. 12/4/3.
wha thouth
Handd tsm.Hicbum
Neo: Rt
612/161
RIP-RL
by u. Bradnrd tho
DE MOIR ith Enbay Dec 3,1937, 4 PM.
904
1
4 1937
to the Jepunese ubassy at Lo do. stated last augost
that the dupanese tovernne t had no intenti n whatsoever
of reilitarizin. the tattlestip "Hiyei", although
794.3-
this decisi n mi nt te rcousiaered in the li tt of
ti. development or the armaments I other powers.
is the nit d itates lovern ent will be uware,
the vessel in puestlon was llowa to te retained
exclusively for trainin purp ees under Annex 2 of
Section 5 (b) (%) o" to London Naval Creaty of
1 3e. In the viw of His mnjesty's Gov-rnnent in
the Unitd Kin do., the ex pir tion o the London
(.
laval T at. s not ive si n tory powers the
right to ake uny aiturati un in the status which
may have been :iven to vesseis in virtue of the
provisions of tt rat. H.I.J. .. "Hiyei" has
sist-r ships in the Ju anese lavy which she could
rejoin und her remilitarizati on would thus add to the
effectiv strentth of the J.panese Fleet. If this took
place His ajesty's Governaent would, of course, become
free, subject to the concurrence of the United
States Government, to remilitarize H. .S. "Iron
Duke", and the United States Government would similarly
become free to remilitarize the U.S.S. "yoming",
possibilities of which the Japanese Government are
presumably aware. ut H..S. "Iron Duke" being only
a single unit, could not be used as part of a squadron
and/

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
and conseently the reup earance of H.I...S.
"Hiyei" on the eff etive list of the Japanese Navy
would dieturb the basis or tll e-lculati ons o
relative strength.
In view of the inportence to be attached
to this metter, the ruestion of the renilitarization
of H.I.J..S. "Hiyei" w tuken ur with the Jep nese
Government by Hia . ajesty's . abas y t okyo in
August last. t was p nted out that the status of
H.I.J.M.S. "Hiyei" wes stil regarded by His  Jesty's
Goverrnent as being governed by the provisions of the
1930 Tresty, the t vessels lisposed of under that
Tr- ty we. e i itendei to be finliy disposed of, an
not to be sub ject to an: further reinststement, even
if the Treaty expired, and that lis ajesty's overnent
were therefore unable to ac ept the view of the
Japunese Governnent that they would, under certain
circumstances. be entitlcd to r rilit rize the
veesel.
In resporse to thes r prosent tions, His
Majesty's Aabassador at Tokyo was informed, on the 9th
October, that in the view of the Japanese Government
the restrictions on the retention of vessels wholly
for training purpo es presupposed the continued
validity of the Treaty, and that therefore such
restrictions lapsed upon the Treaty losing its
validity. This reply is unsatisfactory to His
Majesty's

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
Myjesty's Government, and they therefore propose
that an ofrici I note should now be addressed
to the Japanese Government setting out the legal
arguments in the mutter and requestin:  cleur
statement :s to the Jupunes intentions with reg rd
to H.I.J..S. "Hiyei".
In view of the f et thet His l justy's
Gove rnment and the United  tates Goverament are
similarly ffected in questions of relative naval
strength, ant thut in th event of the remiliterizat on
of H.I.J.M.S. "Hiyei" by the upan se Goveriment
they would becone fre to deal in the sem  an er
with H.I.S. "Iron Duke" un: U.S.S. "iyoming" respectively,
this opportunity is being t: ne. to infom the nited
tates coverrment of His Majesty's cover.ment's attitude
in the mtter. For the sae re se His Majesty's
Gover ment woula be lad to 1: rn whether the U iter
States ov rnment would Le prepared to instruct
their represe tetive at Tokyo to make represent: tions
to the  onuse Gov rnient i a s m:ler seuse.
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHTNGN, D.C.,
December 3rd, 1937.

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
December 4, 1937
A-W - Mr. Wilson
Le - Mr. Hadkyorth
PND - Mr. Dlunn
I invite particular attention
to the attached correspondence. It
will be noted that
(1) The British and Japanese
Governments are apparently at vari-
ance regarding the propriety of re-
militarizing the Japanese battleship
H1ye1;
(2) That the Br1t1sh Government
intends to address an official note
to the Japanese Government setting
forth the legal arguments in the
matter and requesting a clear state-
ment of Japanese intentions; and
(3) That the British Government
inquires whether we would be prepared
to instruct Mr. Grew to make rep-
resentations in a similar sense.
Eu:RES:RI

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.87)
Docomber 4 1959
prepe reter to
DEZERERRIAL
dearr. seeretary:
I enelese a eepy ef an alde mémeire, dated December s,
894.34/22
1037, reeeived frem the Brit1sh Eabasey, Washingten, D.C.,
regarding the possible remilitarisation by the Japaneee
Gevernment ef the Japanese battlechip lzel.
I sheuld be grateful fer an expressien of the viewe of
your Bepartment regarding this matter.
3
simeerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Hugh R. Wilson.
Assistant Seeretary
DE0 41957.
Enelesure:
F/MR
copy of
Alde mempire frem
Br132m Eabaasy
n41.
Becember 3, 1037.
The Henerable
Glamse A. Swansen,
Seesetarg of the Neng.
PND/
FE
2.m.10

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.94)
LEGAL ADVISER
NAVY
DEC 27 1937
i
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Fie
)A14-7/A4-1/EF37
PARTMENT
WASHINGTON
1957 DEC 11 AM 10 26
10 DEC 1937
DIVISION OF
COMMUNI ONS
AND RECORDS
December 21 1937
Sir:
I wish to acknowledge receipt of State Depertment confidential
letter Eu of December 4, l937, inclosing copy of an aide memoire, dated
December 3, 1937, from the British Embassy, regarding the possible
remilitarization of the Japanese battleship HIYEI, and requesting an
心
expression of the views of the Navy Department in the premises.
The Navy Department believes the United States should support
394.34/224
the British view that the vessels whose retention for training purposes
exclusively was provided for by Section V of Annex II of the London Naval
Treaty of l930 were intended to be finally disposed of under the terms
of that Sec ion; and that remilitarization of such vessels is not
warranted under the rules for disposal contained therein.
It is recommended that the British views regarding the possible
remilitarizatio of the HIyEI, as outlined in the aide memoire, copy of
which accompanied the State Department's letter under reference, be
accepted,insofar as they relate to disposal of vessels retained for
training purposes,and that the British position in this matter be
supported in such manner as may be found appropriate.
Respectfully,
WilliamD deahy
WII.LIAMD LPAIFY
Admirul. U. S. N.
The Honorable,
Acting Srer ary ci tro Navy.
The Secretary of State.
71937

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.77)
oocomber 21 100g
I bare the hene to oteeletge the resetee af ges
atée nestre, dated s0sster 8, 200, vith regeve t 
apparent sntention of the Japanese Goveramene to remtls-
tarise the battlecktp rah, a vesssk mhsch wae allevee
804.34/224
to bo retatned ezelusively for traiming purpeses umder
amnen 8 of seetien 5 (b) (2) ef the Lenden Nevel Treat.
2080.
Thie Governsent sharee the view ef the Drtessk Gove
eramene thet the exptratten of the Lemese Navel treetg
1080, dees not give sigmatery pevere the right to make
an alteratten in the statue shteh ner have been givem
to veseele ta virtee of the previtasene os tt weate.
 le the viee es thse Govereent thet esele hee

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
retentiem exelasively for training purposes was provided
under annex 2 of seetion 5 (b) (2) of the Lenden Naval
Treaty of l930 were 1atended to be finally disposed of
under the terms ef that seetion.
Aceordingly, the Americen Ambassador in Tokyo has
been instrueted to bring the views of this Government to
the attention of the Jananese Government if, as a re-
sult of inquiries, it is aseertained that it is the in-
tention of the Japanese Government to remilitarise the
H1y01.
Accept, Exeellenoy, the renewed assurances of my
highest consideration.
For the Seoretary of State:
VER
894.34/224
1
Eu: RTP:RT
12/16
12/17

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.97)
F
December 21 1937
0o.1399
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
894.34/224
There are enclosed for your information coples of
an alde mémoire, dated December 3, 1937, from the
British Ambasaador at Washington, and our reply, with
regard to a possible remilitarization of the Japanese
battleship Hiyei.
You are reouested to point out informally to the
Japanese Government 1f, as a result of inauiries, you
ascertain that it is its intention to remilitarize the
battleship Hiye1, that it 1s the view of this Govern-
ment (1) that those vessels whose retention exolualvely
for treining purposes wes provided under annex 2 of sec-
tion 5 (b) (2) of the Iondon Naval Treaty, 1930, were
1ntended to be finally disposed of; (?) that these ves-
sels are not subject to reinstatement on the effective
list of the navy of a signatory, despite the fact that
the London Naval Treaty of 1930 xas exp1red; mnd (3)
that this Government cannot mdmit that a government
F/MR
may be entitled to remilitarize these vesmels in any
ciroumstanoe whstsoever.
If, subsequently, it may seem to you to be neces-
eery to meke more formal reoresentations, please inform
u

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
us and we shall consider what form our aetion of protest
should take.
ory truly yours,
For the Seoretary of state:
Enoloaures:
1. From Brit1ah Embassy,
Dooember 3, 1937.
2. To Brit1sh Embassy.
894.34/224
CR
137
PAS
5.
110
Eu: RTP: RI
12/16
12/17

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.88)
December 21 1957
Gear r. sesretery:
The reeeipt is seknewledged of your lotter of me-
comber 10, 1087 (911e: (00)A14-7/A4-1/EP87), regareing
894.34/224
the pessible remilitarisation of the Japanese battleship
For your infermatien and recerds there are en-
elesed a cepy of the reply to the Britiah aide mheare,
dated December 3,1937, and a cepy of an instruetlen semt
to the Ameriean Ambassader at Tokye.
simmerely yours,
Per the Secretary of State:
Hugh R Wilson
Enelesure:
Assistant Secretary
1. Prem Pepartmeat to
Drislch Embasey.
2. Prom Dopaptmont to
Ancrtean Eabesay,
CR
F/A
Tokye.
The Menerable
Classe A. swansen,
Segpetary of the Navy.
WUS
A-W
PA-D
EuINTP:RI 12/17

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE 500.A 15 a 5 Construct1on/76a
FORTel 504 noon
894.34/225
FROM
.) DATED
Dec. 23, 1937.
TO
NAME
1-118
Greet Britain
REGARDING:
Intormation has reached this Government that the Japanese
Government has plans for, end may actually have begun construction of -.
capital ships of a tonnage exceeding the treaty limit of 35, 000 tons.
G
F/MR
2
h
w
25

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.92)
1/21/)8 RTP.RS
AW
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
—1/
7.2
EG
FROM
A portion of this mEssagE
Tokyo
must bE closely paraphrased
before being communicated to
Dated January 26, 1938
anyonE. (B)
1988
Recd 11:16 a.m.
Secretary of State,
J
29
B
Washington.
A
55, January 26, 7 p.m.
714 34
224
Jangar
(GRAY) DEpartment's 1nstruct1on 1399, DEcEmber 21,
1937.
ThE sEnior aidE to the Navy Minister today informed
894.34/226
thE Naval Attache in rEspons: to direct inquiry that the
HIYEI 1s undergoing repairs in connection with its usE
as a training ship and that it is not (repeat not) the
navy's intention to remilitarizE that vEssEl or to rE-
construct it for usE as a combatant vEssel. From thE
substancE and manner in which thE abovE information was
given thE Naval AttachE bElieves thE statement to bE truE.
Unless further instructed I shall thereforE refrain
from approaching thE JapanesE Government along thE lines
FEB4-1938
suggestEd in thE sEcond paragraph of thE DEpartment's
FILED
instruction under reference.
ThE sEnior aidE referred to thE rumor abroad that
Japan is constructing capital ships of 43,000 tons mount-
ing 16 inches and stated that as only a few persons in
F/FG
Japan werE in possEssion of knowledgE concerning thE ships
under
11

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- #55, January 26, 7 p.m. from Tokyo
under construction, rumors as to their sizE, Et cetera,
had no foundation in fact. (END GRAY). HowEver, thE
opinion still prevails among other naval attaches herE
that Japan's new capital ships will bE over 40,000 tons,
heavily armored with considerahly increased spEed and
cruising radius and mounting morE than Eight 16 inch guns.
GREW
RR:HPD

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.83)
Janvary 29 1958
e. Beeretar:
th yef renee to your lotter of tou so, 
(e: (se)A4-9/a-1/89), there Lo enelesed for your
trietly contidential Lafermatien and recerd, a perer
phrase of a tolegram, Gatee Jammery 96, 10se, frem the
894.54/226
Amerteam Embesey at Tokye, relating to the ceggestten
that the Japamese were plamaing to remilitarise the
bettleshtp Kr.
sinserely yours,
For the Seeretary of state:
Wolle
Under Seeretary
Eas lecure:
JAN 271938.PM
JAN B8 1938. PW
m.m.l
gago grig

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.96)
3 cofrin to leaery (ftusterdr)
TELEGRAMRECEIVED
JS
Gray
FROM
TOKYO
Dated February 1, 1938
Rec'd 3:00 .m.
Secretary of StatE,
Washington, D..
B
994.30
62, February 1, noon.
Embassy's 55, January 26, 7 p.m.
226
894.34/227
Naval Attache suggests that final decision concern-
ing HIYEI hE dEfErrEd until receipt of his report number
20-38 transritted with Embassy's dEspatch No. 3753,
February 1,going forward by pouch leaving February 5
in PRESIDENT JEFFERSON.
GREW
JS
FEB4-1938
F/A

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
February 7, 1938
WECEIV
Japanese 43,000 ton battle-
DIVISIU8h95
Sould find no record in the
Divislon or Department flles of having
received a report of any kind from our
representatives in Rome to the effect that
the Italian press had published the 1nforma-
tion that Japan was build1ng a 46,000 ton
battleship. We therefore communicated
with ONI and learned thet the Naval
Attaché in Rome had reported this last
November, but that a copy of his report
had not been circulated to the Department
of State. ONI has now sent us a copy,
which will be found attached hereto.
PAM LASTERDAFFAINS
Eu:Tittmann:LF
le
HUT
VA

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
H.H.T.
2 con find no report
fron th E berry or Mililay Aach
on the 46, ton Japenese
battleships.
0.~.

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE, NAVY DEPARTMENT
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT BLANK
T
Date
9 Nov.
19
1937
Serial No.
561
File No.
902-100
source of informationPress
(Commence new sories
each January frst)
from O. N. 1. lndes)
Subject
ITALY/JAPAN
NAVY
POLICY
(Nation reported on)
(Index title as per indes sheet)
(Subtitle)
Reference
Baigg. -(The revlew, Indezing, and distributlon of reports by O. N. I will be greatly expedited if a brief summary of t he contents is entered in this
space. Mention leeding geographical, personal, or political names, and the gist of the report)
C
Y
JAFAN AND HER FLEET
The strength and expansion of the Japanese fleet has been featured in
the Italian ress following the conolusion of the Italo-German-Ja anese anti-
Communist Protoool. There follws a translation of an unsigned article pub-
lished under the above title in the Giornale d Italie on 7 Novembe:,193 :
The events in Spain with their corollary of oonferences, meetirgs
and committees have diverted the attention of European nations from the
894.
profound and significant evolution which is teking place in the Far East
and, above all, in the military and politioal situation ir: the Pacifio.
Numerous factors have, in recent yeurs, contributed towards substan-
tially modifying this situation as it appeared immediately after the war.
Amongst others are: the termination of the Washington Treaty freeing Japan
33
of all quantitative linitations and giving her the possibility of strenghen-
ingher maritime power by oreating new bases loo ted in relation to probable
objectives; the active policy of Russia in the Far East whose logical conse
quence has been the erman-Ja anese anti-holshevik paot; the gradual retro-
ression of the United  tates from the enstern shores of the Pacifio; and,
finally. the British project for the early establishment of a strong floet
with a permanent base in the Enst and her decision to take advantage of
the abrogation of the status quo of the Pao:fic bases and to fortify Hong-
Kong which is the sentine1 or Singapore advanced 14o0 miles towards Japanese
waters.
1"
ut the most influential faotor is the imposing development of the
Ja anese Navy. In 1922, Japan had had to accept, volente  nolente, tho
proportionate relations which the United States, strong in their new world
position, had imposed upon her. But while the latter, under the illusion
of having established the Pacific situation and the matter of naval arma-
ments in their own favor, slowed up their program of new construotion,
Japan realized t at the possibility of influenoing, either dynamically or
statioally, all problems of world interest is merely a question of status.
And, while keeping sorupulously to the Washington Treaty, she continued the
construction of all types of shins for which no limitations were prescribed,
at the seme time improving the struoture of her fleet and maintaining it
at a high standard of effioiency.
1n
Fifteen years later, when the attempt at a new agreement between the
principal maritime powers failed, Japan was in a position almost of effeo-
tive parity with tho United States in all oategories of ships and of aotual
superiority in the number of ships below age limit.
n
At the end of l926 the Japanese fleet oonsisted of 200 units with a
total displacoment of 75o,798 tons. of these, 1115 for a total of 56o,466
tons, were beneath age limit.
" By the end of this year she will be able to count on 233 units, while
66 more are under construotion of which 3 are battleship/46.000 tons
each. In 194l when, at the cost of much effort, the United States will have
re-attained the positions of relativèty established in l922, Japan will
possess a fleet of 289 units with a total displacement of 1,109,150 tons.
C.N.O.
M.I.D.
Nav.
Ord.
T.&D. C.AR.
C.LC.
Oporations
3.5.5.
Com. Dio.W.P. Com.PLTr.
O.N.L.M

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.94)
UED BY OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE, NAVY DEPARTMENT
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT BLANK
ad ave coples (ariginal and four carbons); this number is neessary because of the limited personnel in O. N. I. and because of the unpemey fer
ainating information from attachés. Thess coples will be distributed by O. N. I. as per foot note or elsewbere, acvording to subject matter.
From
T
Date 9 Nov.
19...37 Serial No...
561
File No.
902-100
(Commence new series
(Belect proper number
Source of information ......Press
each January frst)
from O. N. 1. indes)
Subject
(Nation reported on)
(Index title as per index sheet)
(Bubtitle)
Reference
Baigr.-(The revlew, indexing, and distribution of reports by O. N I will be grently expedited if a brief summary of t he contents is entered in this
space. Montion leading geographical, personal, or political names, and the gist of the report)
rare 2.
"
This fleet wiil :o: pri e: l2 battleships of which will be armed
with l00. uns; 11 aircratt carriers, A catepory (with flight deck)
and 5 B cntepory (without rlirht deck); 12 .. cate (ry cruisers (with
203 m uns); 31 cnter ry cruiser (with 155 m runs); 15 lestroyers;
08 submarines.
1"
The constructin of so rest a la'y wt.ich nece site es tremendous
annual expense ar.d entails prent sacrifices for Japan, and the inflexible
intention to acquire recorniti n of the right to parity with the other mari-
time powers, are not mer ly a question of orestige but a natter of life and
death for the Japanese Impire.
n
The Japanose Navy which is exoellently supplemented by the georraphical
factor which permits it to operate in its own waters near to well supplied
bases, and to expl it the archipelagoes of the Carolines and the Marianne
islends as supporting bases for her navul and air uni's, constitutes a highly
valuable instrument of power in the case of a conilict ir the unbounded ex-
panse of the Pacific.
" Its standard of trainir., attained by detailed and continuous prepara-
tion, and the legendary valor of its men, constitute a valid guarantee to
the Japanese Empire of the safe uardin of the fundamental necessities of
its existence."
A-B-C-D-E
B-2,81,B-11,-12,0-1,
Bodget
C. N.O.
Colloge
M.I.D.
Nav.
Ord.
Y.&D.
C.&R.
S.&A.
M.&s.
CLC.
C.mC.
Attaché at
Com. Dlv. W.P.| Com.
Operations
State

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE.....811.76..179
FOR
....Latter.
894.34/229
FROM.....Federal..Cormunicutions(.
..) DATED.....Feb...15,..1938.
TO
Cormission
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Corplaint against news broadcast by Edwin C. Hill
concorning Japanese Naval Duilding, program.
Encloses telegran with reference to - and excerpt
from copy of transcript of broadcast.
C
229

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
321 PM 2 02
AMERICAN EMBASSY
 Tokyo, February 1, 1938.
No. 2753.
AND REC RUS
SUBJECT: RMILITARIZATICN OF THE JAPANESE BATTLESHIP HIYEI.
223
224
Fil
Fi化
844.34
226
227
894.34/230
CONFIDENTIAL.
Copy metains fu
disarmaer fie
V
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's instruction
224
no. 1399 uated December 21, 1937, and to the Embassy's
MAR 1 -1932
telegrams nos. 55, January 26, 7 p.m., and 62, February
FILED
noon, relating to the possible remilitarization of the
Japanese battleship IYEI.
1/
There is enclosed herewith a copy of the Naval Attaché's 
report no. 20-38 referred to in the Embassy's telegram no. 62.
Respectrully yours
31
Enclosure:
Joseph C. Grew.
Vas stated.
834.
ESC :mg
Reaeived.
h

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 2753 of February 1, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
(Copy of report of Naval Attache)
CONFIDENTIAL
Report No. 20
900 - Navy
Japan
902 - Policy
January 27, 1938
100 - Basic Naval Policies
Third Replenishment Program (Capital Ship Construction)
(Re-militarization of the HIYEI)
At the instance of the ambassador (under instructions
from the State Denertment to make inquiry) the Naval Attache
celled upon the Senior ide to the  avy : inister 26 January
to inquire about the rumored re-militarization of the battle-
ship IYEl. The Naval Attache was accompanied by the Assistant
Naval Attache for ir, Lieut-Comdr. Lridcet, end the Assistant
Naval Attache, Lieutenant Laytcn. The former was taken to the
conference in order to have an additionel party present to
listen to the conversation. The latter, Lieutenant Layton, a
qualified Japanese interpreter and translator, has always
accompanied me on such visits, the procedure being for the
questions to be put to the senior Aide, first by me in nglish,
then by Lieutenant Layton in Jaranese, the answers coming in
the reverse order. By this method it is believed that misun-
derstandings are kept to a minimum.
The Senior Aide to the Navy Minister stated as follows
in regard to the re-militarization of the HIYEI:
The HIYEI is undergoing repairs in connection with
its use as a Training Ship. When asked if it was the
Navy's intention to re-militarize that vessel or to
reconstruct it for use as a combatant battleship, he
said, "I do not think so". Asked for a direct "yes"
or "no" answer, he said, "No, the repairs it is under-
going are those necessary for its continued employment
as a

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
as a Training Ship". When asked as to whether
armor was being replaced, boiler power increased,
more turrets installed, he said "No".
Comment:
To assist in evaluating the above statements a
resume of portinent facts concerning the HIYEI follows:
The HIYEI was last seen by the attaches of this
office in Kobe 29 October 1936 at the time of the Grand
Naval Review. Fror there it went to the Yokosuka Dock-
yard where it remained until the spring of 1937. In the
June issue of the "Teikoku Kaigun" (Imperial Navy) it
was stated that the HIYEI had been transferred from
Yokosuka to Kure (Na/Tokyo Report No. 203-37). During
the past year the battleship YAASHIRO has been employed
for duties that would normally be performed by the HIYEI.
Forei'n Naval ttaches in Tokyo were of the opinion
twelve months ago that the HIYEI was being re-militarized.
(NA/Tokyo Report No. 338-36). Jane's Fighting Ships for
both the years 1936 and 1937 (issued in December of those
years) carried the HIYEI as in the process of "being re-armed".
An analysis of last year's Naval Budget figures showed
that the continuing appropriation for alteration to Capital
Ships had been supplemented by 26,257,315 yen (See NA/Tokyo
Report No. 98-37). As this figure appeared to be in excess
of the amount needed to complete the modernization program,
Foreign Naval Attaches were of the opinion that the excess
was to be used for the modernization of the HIYEI.
An attache of a foreign embassy in Tokyo had a con-
versation with Captain Ochi, the prospective commanding
officer of the HIYEI, at Chinkai in November l936, during
whioh the latter stated he did not relish his assignment
because the HIYEI would be at a Dockyard undergoing an
overhaul

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
overhaul of major proportions during the entire time he
was to be in command. He was to take command the follow-
ing month. The normal length of a Captain's oruise is
twelve months but sometimes it is continued for a second
year. When questioned as to re-militarization, he gave
an embarrassod laugh.
No further information of the HIYEI has been had nor
has it been sighted, so far as known, by any Naval Attaches
during the past year. However, none of them have been per-
mitted to visit Kure since May 1937. The presumption was
that the HIYEI was at the kure dockyard having work done
unon her. The latter at least appears to be substantiated
by the above quoted statements of the Senior aide to the
Navy Minister.
It is not known upon what the authors of Jane's Fighting
Ships base their opinion of the re-armament of the HIYEI.
It is believed though that Naval Attaches here have formed
theirs from deductions similar to the above.
From the substance of and the manner in which the Senior
Aide replied to my questions, I am of the opinion that he was
telling the truth. Nevertheless, the conversation was not a
matter of record and the Senior Aide's remarks could be denied
at any time.
It may be that the new Military Secrets Law is tending
to countenance falsehoods among Naval Officers. Evasion is
to be expected but if the Senior Aide has deliberately lied
to me in this case it is the first time such has happened
in the twelve months I have been associated with him.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.34/231
2789
500.A 15 A 5 Construct1on/132
FOR
SEE
FROM ...Jadan
Grew
) DATEDFeb..21...1938
NAME
1-1127
TO
Naval Attache's confidential report No. 45
REGARDING:
dated Feb. 18, 1938, regarding Japanese
construction, enclosed.

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.96)
PA/
FE
July 14 1950.
2.2 Nary 773
AIDE MEMOIRE
Division of
FAR FAST AN AFFAIRS
1.38
Department
With reference to Mr. Cordell Hull's
note of the 21st December (894.34/224) the
TREATY DIV
preparation by His Majesty's Government in the
ere
JUL 9-1938
United Kingdom of an official note for communi-
894.34 /23
cation to the Japanese Government on the subject
DEPARTMENT OF
of the remilitarization of the battleship "Hiyei"
has purposely been postponed in order not to
prejudice the possibility of avoiding the
necessity of escalation in capital ships. As,
2
owing to failure of the Japanese Governnent to
modify their attitude, there is no longer any
escape from escalation and since there is little
doubt that the vessel in question has been
remilitarized after sixteen months in dockyard,
the prospect of any satisfactory outcome of
representations to the Japanese Government on
this subject is now regarded by His Majesty's
Government as negligible. They do not at present
FILED
therefore propose to pursue the question further.
F/A
1739
POLITICAL
HORNBECK
ADVISER
JUL-81938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON, D. C.,
July 5th, 1938.

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokyo, February 1, 19s8.
No. 2753.
USUTLIT T JN ATTL HYY.
COLFIDENTIAL.
The Honorable
The eorotary of . tate
fashinston
sir:
I have the honor to refer to the epartment's instruetion
no. 1399, dated vecember 21, 1937, and to the smbassy's
tolograme nos. 55, January 26, 7 :.m., and 62, Fobruary 1,
noon, relatinf to tne fossible romilitarization of the
Japenose battleahip : IYsI.
1/
There is enolosed herewith a copy of the Naval Atteehé's
report no. 20-38 referred to in the mbassy's telegram no. 62.
Respeotfully yours,
Enelosure:
Joseph C. Grew.
sa stated.
854.
BBC ing

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.92)
melosure no. 1 to despeten
no. 2758 of rebruary 1, 19ss,
from the smbessy at Tokye.
(Copy of roport of Nevel ntteche)
CONFIDENTIAL
900 - Navy
Roport No. 20
902 - roliey
Japan
l00 - Pasie Naval Jolie1es
January 27, 1938
Third eplonishment irogram (Capitel hip Construetion)
(de-m111tarizet1on of the YIYzI)
at tho instanoe of the mharondor (undor instructions
from the tate Dogartment to make inquiry) the Navel  ttaohe
callod upon the enlor ide to the avy inistor 2o Jenuery
to inquire ahout the rumored re-militarization f the hettlo-
ship  IYI. The aval Atteohe wes accompanied by the nsietant
Naval Attache for ir, Llout-jondr. ridret, and the ssistant
Navel attache, Lloutenant layton. The former wes taken to the
conference in order to neve en additionel party present to
l1sten to the conversation. The latter, Lioutonant Layton, 
qualified Jepanese interpreter and translator, has always
accompanied me on sueh visits, the procedure beine for the
questione to be put to the enior ide, first by me in anglion.
then by Lieutonant Layton in Japanese, the answers coming in
the reveree order. y tle method it is believed that misum-
derstandings are kept to a minimum.
The onior ide to the vy  inister stated  follow
in regard to the re-mllitarization or the HIYEI:
The lItsI is undergoinp repeirs in conneetion with
1te use as a Traininn hip. when esked ir it wue the
Navy's intention to re-militarize that vesmel or to
reeonstruot it for use as a cumbatant battloship, he
seid, "I do not think so". koked for a direot "yes"
or "no" anewer, he said, "No, the repeáre it is under-
coins are those necessary for its continued employment
a •

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.92)
-8-
as a Trainin hip". when asked as to whether
armor was beins replaced, boiler power inereesed.
more turrots inetalled, he said "Mo".
2ommont:
To leslst in evaluating the apove statemonte a
resume of pertinent facts concerning the IYsI followe:
The IysI was last seon by the tteches of thio
ofrioe 1n Xobe 29 ctober 1936 at the time of the Grand
Navel oviow. Trom thore It went to the Yokoeuke Dook-
yard whore 1t remained unt1l the epring of 1937. In the
June iasue of the "Toikoku Laigun" (Imperial Navy) It
was stated that the Iy i had been transforred from
Yokosuka to Aure (in/Tokyo Aoport ho. 203-37). Juring
the pest year the battleship YaIxc hes been mployed
for duties that would normally be performed by the HIYEI.
Foreltn Naval tteches in Tokyo were of the opinion
twelve months ago that the HIy I wae being re-militarized.
(Na/Tokyo xoport No. 330-36). Jane's F1ghtins  hipe for
both the yoars 1936 and 1937 (1ssued 1n becerher of those
yeare) carried the  IysI as in the process of "being re-armed".
an analyais of last year's Naval -udeet ri ures showed
that the continuin appropriation for alteration to Capitel
ohips hed been supplemonted by 26,287,315 yon (.ee r1/Tokyo
xoport No. 08-37). as tris rigure appeared to be in exeess
or the amount noeded to oomplote the modernizatiou program,
Foreign Navel attaohes were of the opinion that the exeess
was to be used for the modernization of the HIysI.
an attache of a foreien ombesay in Tokyo had a eon-
vereation with Captein Coh1, the prospeetive commandins
offieer of the HIYxI, at Chinkei in Hovember l9s6, during
whieh the latter steted he did not relish his assigmment
besause the HIykI would be at a Doekyard undergoing an
overbeu1

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
overhaul of major proportions during the eatire time be
was to be in command. e was to take command the follow
ing month. The normal longth of e Captain's eruiee 1s
twelve months but sometimes it is ountinued for e second
year. hen questioned es to re-militarizatlon, he save
an ombarrassed laugh.
No further information of the  IYxI hee been had nor
has it been sirnted, so far as known, by any Navel atteehes
durine the past year. owever, none of them have beon per-
mitted to visit rure sinoe :ay l937. The presumition was
that the Iy_I was ut the ure dookyard navin work done
opon hor. The latter at least a  pears to he subntantlated
b: the ahove quoted statoonts or the onlor ide to the
Navy inister.
It is not known upon what the suthore of Jane'e Fignting
hipe base their opinion of the ro-armament of the IY I.
It ie believed thoush trat aval  ttaches here have formed
theire from doductions similar to the above.
From the subatanoe of and the manner in whioh the onior
»ide replied to my questions, I em of the opinion that he was
tollins the truth. Nevertheless, the oonvereation wae not e
matter of record and the enior 1de'n remarks could be donied
at any time.
It may be trat the new ' ilitary  eorets iaw is tending
to eountenance falsehoods nmons Naval (frioers. vesion is
to be expeoted but if the enior ide has deliberately lied
to me in this case it ls the first time suoh has happened
in the twelve months I have been assoeicted with him.
CONFIDANTIAL

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.70)
to ete the ete ef the Latter' e 
Gnset Juty B, tsse, hssh retere to the note of the Seege
tang of stste, aee seer 81, 1907, en the bese
the enelsterisstlen of the Japenese bestleshse 
It Ls motet that the trstsch Govesement now eonstesms
thee the prespese of ang satstestery cuteeme of eee
sentetteme to the Jepenese Goveemmene Ls negiltgtble ame
thet, re, s oe s as reses rese o
the eetem rter.
JuL
Jaly 14 1938.

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.87)
Jaly 14 19s0.
The Sesretary of stete presents his eomplimeate to
the Henerable the Seeretary of the Navy and, with meses
emee to thie Departaent's letter of Jammary 29, 19se, and
to previous correspondenee en the subjeet of the pessikle
remlitarisstien of the Japanese battleship Hirsh, hae the
hemer to enelese for his lnfermatson a eopy ot an aaée
894.34/232
mémsire fren the Britiah Asbassador, dated July S, 1ose,
and a eepy of the Departsent's reply thevete.
JUL
A true copy of
13 2930.
PA/H
a/D
jnB
QMB

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.96)
aly 14 1938
1533
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
with referenoe to the Department's instruetion, no.
1399, of December 21, 1937, and to the Embassy's despatah
no. 2753, of Fobruary 1, 1938, relating to the possible
remilitarization of the Japanese battleship Hiyel, the
Seoretary of State enoloses for the information of the
Ambassador a copy of an aide mémoire from the British
Ambassador whiah was lert at the Department on July 5,
894.34/232
1938. In aoknowledging the receipt of this communioa-
tion the Department made no oomment on the information
contained therein.
Enclosure:
From British Embassy,
JUI
July 5, 1938.
11938.
nsi.
894.34/238
F/FG
Eu:JGP:RI 7/7
PA/D
FE
Le
TD

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.93)
x2
1938
AN EASTERNAFPAIRS
DEPA
0
401
Tokyo, Japan
August 23, 1938.
strtesly confidential
The Honerable
Joseph C. Grew,
Aneriean imbassador,
Tokyo.
sir:
I have the bonor to forward herewith a strictly
894.34/233
conridential memorandum, prepared by vice vonsul
Richardson or this of 1ce, relative to an order for
high-grade gusoline just placed by the Japanese Navy.
This may be or interest to the Naval attaché.
Respectfully yours,
C. R. Cameron,
American consal General.
Enclosure:
SEP 27 1938
Memorandum dated
FILED
August 23, 1938.
Distribution:
Original and 1 oopy to kmbassy, Tokyo.
3 copies to Department of tate.
F/A
bee

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.91)
AMRICA CONSULAT CNRAL
Tokyo, Japan.
August 88, 1938.
MMORANDUM
tecerding to what is belleved to be an absolutely
reliable souree, the Japanese Navy has just plaoed an
order for s0,ooo drums of sasolime to be purehased from
the Oulr Oil Corporation.
The contraet calls for 1so-ootane gasoline, with no
ethyl, and an ootane count or 4. By adding ethyl, the
saseline ean be raised to loo octane. In addition, lubol,
supplied by the Lubel company of columbus, Ohio, is mixed
with the gasoline in order to prevent overheating of
motors. The casoline was sold at a priee of 32-1/2 cents
per sallon, inoluding commissions, whion is to oe paid by
the Navy Department in New York, payment veing guaranteed
by the Yokohama specie Bank In Now York. The freight on
this shipment 1s v8.50 a drum, payable in Japan.
The first shipment, or 10,000 drums, will be made om
September 14; the second sh1pment, also of 10,000 drums,
in the first week in November; and the third shipment, of
s0,00o drums, either at the end of December or the first
part of January.
Heretefore, Mitsul has been furniahing this casolime.
It 1s met believed that this importation will appear
in the efrieial statistics.
W. Carland Riehardeen,
Ameriean Viee Ceasal
File No. 8so
wen/ble

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Paris, Ootober 14,1938visION oF
3132
No.
EUROPEAN AFFAI
2 1938
CONFIDENTIAL.
TREATY DIVISION
ETC File
Subject: Reported construction in France of
NOV 3-1938
small armed launohes for
Japanese Navy.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2
SNOI
Chok
No
ECVED
1..1
1938 0T 28 PN
1SA
ONI MID
imnconfibence DT
894.34/234
AH LASIEN TAIKS B
894.31
Uecarmem of Stalt
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith, as of possible
interest, a memorandum containing information furnished an
officer of the Embassy concerning the reported construction
in France of some small armed launches for the Japanese
Navy.
NOV
The Naval Attaché, who is tranamitting this report
to his department, advises mothat he has no information
to confirm it. He adds that the shipyard at Tamaris-sur-
Mer is not a government shipyard but a private enterprise.
u

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
I mentioned this matter yesterday to the Chief of
the Far Eastern Division at the Foreign Orrice. He
said that he had not heard of it before, but that he
would inquire and if there was any substance to the
report he would let me know.
Respegtfully yours,
Wdwin C. Wilson
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosure;
1. Memorandum dated
Oct.10,1938.
In triplicate
ECW/FP

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure #1 to Despatch No3132
dated Ootober 14,1938,
from the Embassy in Paris.
Paris, October 10,1938.
Memorandum for the Chargé d'Affaires and the Naval Attaché.
From:
Lawrence Higgins
Subject:
Construction of small naval vessels for
Japan at Tamaris-sur-Mer, near Toulon.
An English friend has written me that he has seen
under construction at Tanaris-sur-lier some small armed
speed boats for the Japanese Navy. He went to the Naval
shipyard there to see the Harbor Haster regarding a yacht.
The latter was amazed that he had been admitted, as everyone
but the employees are kept out because of these boats
being built there for the Japanese on order of a Mr.
Guinness. My friend saw about a dozen of these vessels
on the ways, but understood the order was for many more.
They are about sixty feet long; their hulls are of teak;
the deck house forward, which is metal plated, serves as
a turret for a small gun as well as a bridge; and there
is a metal plated mechine gun shelter aft. These boets
draw little water, and are presumebly for river work.
L.H.
FP.

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.93)
TMENT OF.THE
1Janmary1950
SMISION OF
Sirs
COMMEUNNCATIONS
AND RECORDS
The files of the Navy Department contaim a Let fres
the Secretary of State to the Secretary of the Navy, dated December
6, l917,/forwarding a copy of a letter from the Japanese Embassy
34
which announced that the Japanese Navy had recently established an
office in New York City to handle the risiness in connection with
the purc eses of mac:inery and materials for the Japanese Navy. Thie.
office is still in existence.
The Navy Departnent will a reciate being furnished informe-
tion available in the State Department in connection with the establish
ment and activiti-s of tais Ja anese office. The files of this Depart-
ment contain nothing ut the letter of December 6, l917, mentioned above.
Respectfully,
Williamt tealy
Acting Seeretery ef the Mevy.
m.m
281942
The Honorable,
JAN 20 1939
The Secretary of State.
u

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REGEIVED
JEDAFTMEN
aM
1939 JAI 25 AM 11 56
January 30, 1939. 
The lack of adequate information in the
Department's files in regard to the establish-
ment, activities,and pergonnel of the office
York in l9l7 to handfe buBiness in connection
with the purchases of machinery and materials
for the Japanese Navy, prompts this Division
to urge the desirability of devising means
whereby the Department may have readily acces-
sible adequate pertinent information in regard
to representatives of foreign governments sta-
tioned in the United States. This would seem
to be espeoially advisable at the present time,
in view of the world situation, as it is
probable that requests for information in re-
gard to such representatives will be more and
more frequently received from other departments
of this Government.
It is the understanding of this Division
that foreien governments under present procedure
inform this Government only in regard to diplo-
matic and principal consular officers assigned
to posts in the United States and in territory
under its jurisdiction and do not inform this
Government of subordinate consular officers and
of representativee of government organs other
than the foreign offices who may be assigned to
such posts. Presumably information received by
the Department in regard to subordinate consu-
lar officers and representatives of organs of
foreign governments other than the foreign
offices

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
offioes is limited to that information which is
contained in reports from Amerioan diplomatio
and consular offices listing visas issued to
persons going to the United States who carry
either diplomatio or speoial passports. The
information contained in those reports, however
is not correlated or assembled for ready refer-
ence and is incomplete for some purposes of the
Department. It is understood that the Depart-
ment reoeives no information in regard to the
departure from their posts of the persons under
reference.
Information on file in the Department in
regard to representatives or agents of foreign
governments who are on duty in the United
States por tarritory under its jurisdiction
should'include'statements in regard to their
exact status, their duties, the date of entry
upon those duties, and the date of termination
of those duties, together with brief biographi-
cal material as to their previous careers. It
would also be advisable that the records of the
Department contain information in regard to the
offioes in which such persons are employed, the
date and the circumstance of the establishment
of such office, and, if the office ceases to
function, the date, of closing.
This Division, therefore, recommends that
steps be taken by the Department to obtain the
information indicated above, to correlate that
X
information, and to make it readily accessible
for reference.
7

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
In regard to the question of how the
desired information might be obtained, it
is suggested that the starting point would
seem to be the sending of a ciroular to all
diplomatio missions at Washington stating
that, in addition to the information now
received in regard to diplomatic/and principal
consular officers, similar information is now
desired in regard to all foreign government
personnel stationed in the United States and
the territories under its jurisdiotion and,
so far as representatives without diplomatio
or consular status are concerned, information
in regard to their functions.
mm√

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.98)
January 25 1939
In reply refer to
 894.34/338
My dear Mr. Secrstary:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your Department's
letter of January 6, 1939, referring to a letter of De-
cember 6, 1917, addressed by this Department to the
894.34/235
Navy Department, with the latter of which was enolosed
a copy of a note from the Japanese Embassy dated De-
Cember 1, 1917, in whioh it was stated that the Japs-
nese Navy had established en office in New York City to
handle business in conneotion with the purchases of
machinery and materials for the Japanese Navy. Your
Department requests that it be furnished information
available to this Department in regard to the estab-
lishment and the aotivities of that office.
A
The Honorable
Olaude A. Swanson,
Secretary of the Havy.
F/FG

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
A therough searoh of the files of this Departmemt
has been made covering a considerable peried of time
both prior and subsequent to the dates of the comunicn-
tions referred to above without there being disoovered
any additional material with regard to the establishment
and the aotivities of the office in question.
Binoerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Sumnr wellem
rry
OR
23 1939 PM
AM
FE:LES:HES
FE
1-33

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.93)
P
2
CON
0
RECÊIVETHE FOREIGN SERVICE
ONI MID
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEB 241939
939 FEB 16 PM 4 19
PLAD WLD.
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Nagoya, Japan, January 21, 1939.
15
SumJECT: Issuance of visas to three Japanese engineers
for investigation of the steel industry in the United States
OFTICE OF RE ADSEAN
CONFIDENTIAL
NITERNAIDRAL ECINNIAC AFAIS
THE HONORABLE FEB 27 1939
ATTAIRS
THE SHFRATET F STATE
A
WASHINGTON.
Sne
MAR- 31939
Of STATE
SLCKEIARY
I have the honor, es of possible interest to the Department,
894.34/23
to report the issuance today of passport visas (Nos.26, 27 and 28)
under Section 3 (2) of the Imnigration Act, to Akira Takahasi,
Itiro Kumagai, and Senzyu Maeda, engineers of the Daido Seiko Ltd.
(Daido Steel Works), Nagoya, for the purpose, as stated in their
3
844.32
9
passports and applications, "to observe and investigate the steel
industry in the United States, und for sightseeing".
The Daido Steel Works is understood to be at present engaged
practically exclusively in the execution of orders for the Imperial
FILED
Japanese Navy. The Minister of the Navy recently visited the local
plant and pronounced it satisfactory.
The firm is understood to have business relations with the Ajax
Manufacturing Company, of Euclld, Ohio, and the principal object of
the journey of these engineers is believed to be to inspect that
company's plant and, particularly, the operation of certain forging
F/A
machinery (to the value of some Yen 500,000) purohased from the Ajax
Company. Their plan is to remain in the United States while the
machinery is being prepared for shipment, and to return to Japan on
the same vessel with the machinery. The shipment will probably be
made the latter part of February or early in March.
These men will sail from Yokohama on January 24, 1939, aboard

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
aboard the S. S. HEIAN MARU arriving at Seattle on February 5, 1959.
They plan to proceed immediately to Cleveland to visit the Ajax
Company's plant at Euclid. And, if time permits, they hope also
to visit the World Fair at New York. While in the United States
their headquarters will be care of Mitsui & Co., 350 Fifth Avenue,
New York.
Respectfully yours,
E H Staphon
CharIos H. Stephan
American Vice Consul
811.11
CHS-B
In triplicate to Department.
Copies to Embassy and Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.95)
19701
MAR14 1939
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DEPANTMENT OF S.
EDA
This telegram must bE
TOKYO
closely paraphrased
befor bging communi-
FROM
Dated March 8, 1939
cated to anyonE (BR)
Received 9:28a.m.
of parapheace
Secretary of State
Washington
in confidence
294.3
125, March 8, 7 p.m.
Subject JapanesE naval Estimates.
me
894.51
OnE. ThE fourth naval rEplensihment program prE-
sEntEd to thE DiEt on March 6 amounts to yEn 1,674,142,000
894.34/237
and breaks down as follows: For warship construction m
1,205,780,000; for pErfEction of marinE and land EquipmEnt,
which is assumed to bE for naval bases and dockyards yEn
188,321,000; for Expans1on of a1r forcE yEn 300,041,000.
ThE total sum amounts to an increasE of nEarly 50% over
thE third rEplEnishmEnt program (to bE ExtEndEd from
87
1937 to 1942) which amountEd to yEn 1,166,708,971 and
F
beginning with thE fiscal yEar 1939-40.
-NAKIMT
Two. Further comparison with thE third rEplenishment
program rEveals that the fourth replenishment program
provides for an increasE of nEarly 50% in warship con-
FILED
struction; over 100% in naval bases and dockyards; and
nEarly 300% in thE Expansion of thE air forcE. From
thE published figures it appears that no provision is
F
made
A
11

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.98)
19702
EDA - 2 - #125, March 8, 7 p.m. from Toxyo
madr for refitting and modernization or for replenishment
of naval stores; thesE items, it is assumed, will bE taken
oarE of under thE third replenishment program which runs
concurrently for two more years.
(END SECTION ONE)
GREW
CSB

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.96)
19103
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EDA
This telegram must bE
TOKYO
closely paraphrased
FROM
beforE bEing communi-
Dated March 8, 1939
cated to anyonE (BR)
Received 10:22 a.m.
SEcretary of StatE
Washington
1
761
125, March 8, 7 p.m. (SECTION TWO)
ThrEE. It is of coursE idlE to spEculatE upon what
thesE figurEs mEan in thE field of actual construction
of warships. However, assuming the costs per ton of
construction to bE roughly twice as great as the
EstimatEd figures for 1933 (which wErE given out at
that timE when thE sEcond rEplenishmEnt program was
under consideration by the Diet) thE present budget
figures would pErmit for ExamplE thE construction of
two battleships, four cruisers, two aircraft earriers,
Eight dEstroyers and submarinEs. It must bE rEEmphasizEd
that thE forEgoing program of construction is wholly
spEculativE and illustrativE in character as JapanEsE
naval plans arE guarded with a sEcrecy rEmarkablE in its
EffectivEnEss.
Four. It can however bE stated with somE confidencE
 and thE following rEprEsEnts thE consEnsus of thE
opinion of thE Naval Attaches in Tokyo -- that thE fourth
replenishment program would permit construction at least
Equal

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.98)
19704
EDA - 2 - #125, March 8, 7 p.m. from Tokyo SECTION TWO
squal to, if not greater than, that possible under the
third rEplenishment program. This takes into consideration
thE considerable increasE in thE costs of construction
(materials and wages) sincE 1937.
Five. The Naval Attache concurs in thE foregoing
and requests that a copy of this telegram bE furnished
to thE Navy DEpartment.
(END OF I.ESSAGE).
GREW
CSB

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.86)
CONFID
19705
www
à tolegren (no. 1es) of Nareh 6, 1930, frem  
Lean Abasender at Toire reade cebetastlally as solsee
pregrem shich tetals 1, 074, 142, 000 yeu was pressnted en
Marsh 6 te the Dlet. This sm represents an imerease of
alscest fifty pereent over the third replemishment pregrem
of 1,106, 708, 971 yem and, starting with the fieeal year
1920-1940, will be applled during the fellewing five to
six yeere. The third replenishment pregrem ie to be
extended frem 1937 to 1942. Ineluded 1n the feurth
repleniekment pregres are the folloving sums: 108,s21,080
yem for perfeetien of land and marine equipmees (mktch it
1s takem for granted 1s for dockyards end maval beses).
300,041,000 yem fer ealargomemt ef the air foree end
1,206,780,000 for baileing of warshipe. The fourth
repleniskment pregrem provides for an inerease ever the
thise repleniskment pregrem of alsest three hundred pereens
is the enlargement ef the air feree, almest firty pereemt
In constrestien of marakipa, and mere than eme handred
pesesnt ia dectyarde and mavel bases. It ls smppessd
te replt prge ch e 

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.90)
CONFIDE
eres, odestien sd refitting for h re
pblsshed figures no previsten eppeare to are boen mmee.
ts of course futile, these figures would allee, for
emmmple, for the building of eight submarines and
destreyers, feur eruisers, two airerart earriers, and twe
battleships, assuming the cost of construetien per ton to
be approximately again as mueh as the estimated figures
for 1933 (whieh were made public at the time the DLet was
considering the second replenishment pregram). As the
seereey which is maintained in regard to Japamese maval
plans is remarkably effective, it must again be emphasisee
that the program set forth in the preeeding seatemse is
ealy 1llustrative in eharecter and entirely speeulative.
However, the naval attachés 1n Tekyo ceneur in the epimien
which may be expressed with seme confidenee that, taking
into consideration the rather large inerease sinse 19s?
in cost of constructien - mages and mterial, at least
as mueh 1f not more construetien vill be permitted unfer
the fourth replenishmest pregren than wae pessihle uaéer
the third replenishment progran.
Q
FE: MC: HJN
3/10/39

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 6, 1939.
11
PA/B
Mr/ Hornbeok
Tokyo's 3763 of March 16, 1939, dis-
ousses Japan's fourth naval replenishment
program to extend over a period of five
years beginning with l939, which calls for
an expenditure of over 1,600,000,000 yen
and is the largest in Japan's naval history.
The Embassy states that owing to the effec-
tive secreoy maintained in Japan with re-
spect to naval affairs it is idle to
speculate what the budget figures mean in
actual construction. In l937 the Naval
Attache of the American Embassy estimated
by way of illustration that the third
replenishment program would permit the
construction of 4 battleships, 4 cruisers,
3 carriers, 12 destroyere, and 12 sub-
marines. The fourth replenishment program
calls for an outlay approximately one third
greater than the third and, notwithstanding
the increase in prices in recent years, will
permit of at least as extensive naval con-
struction as the third replenishment program
did. There is included in the despatch a
table prepared by the Naval Attache showing
various types of naval veesels in Japan
together with the cost per ship.
894.34/238
FE:Ballantine:HES

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OFTHE
EA
1939 APR ? PM 2 33
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 3763
Tokyo, March 16, 1939
JV YOF
LOVISTR
MI
1939
FE
Division of
AR EASTERN AFFAIK
A
894.34/238
egoe
18
Ph
 OF TE ADVISER 
INERNAUNAL ECOTUMIC AFFAMS
APR1A1939
G
The Honorable
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Secretary of State
Washington
Sir:
In confirmation of the Embassy's telegram no.
144
125, dated March 8, 7 p.m., I have the honor to re-
port that the fourth naval replenishment program,
which was presented to the Diet on March 6, amounted
F/A
to Yen 1,674,142,000 and is the largest in Japanese
naval history. For purposes of comparison there
follows

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
follows a list of the four replenishment programs
since the conclusion of the London Naval Treaty
of 1930:
lst Replenishment Program, 1930-1933 Yen 372,000,000.
2d Roplenishment Program, 1933-1936
600,000,000.
3d Replenishment Program, 1937-1942
1,200,000,000.
4th Replenishment Program, 1939-1943
1,674,142,000.
The large increase between the second and the
third replenishment programs was, of course, due to
events which followed the abrogation by Japan of the
Washington Naval Treaty of l92l and the London Naval
Treaty of l930 and her failure to adhere to the London
Naval Agreement of l937, whioh left her in a non-treaty
status vis-à-vis the other naval powers of the world.
The program from l937-1942 laid the foundation for the
construction and development of Japan's naval forces
along lines entirely independent of those pursued by
the United States, Great Britain, and France; such
was the policy announced at the time by the leading
Japanese naval authorities and it was based upon a
fulfilment of Japan's peculiar needs which, at that
time, were interpreted to be mainly defensive in
nature although of such a character as to permit con-
ourrently the implementation of her policy of "South-
ward Advance". The slogan adopted at the time of
Japan's abrogation of the Washington and London Naval
Treaties

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
Treaties was "non-monace and non-aggression", and
the third replenishment program was drafted with
that policy in mind. It was emphasized by responsible
Japanese naval and government authorities that Japan's
failure to adhere to the London Agreement of 1937 did
not mean that she intended to enter into a ship for
ship construction race with the United States, Great
Britain, or any other power; nor, in fact, that
Japan proposed to enter into any kind of naval com-
petition, but that she would restrict her program to
such construction as she deemed necessary to satisfy
her own independent needs.
The events of l937, however, have intervened
and Japan's position in the world has undergone a
radical change during the past 22 months. Some of
this change is reflected in the fourth replenishment
program which, it will be observed, overlaps its imme-
diate predecessor by two years. Although there is no
indioation that the slogan of 1935-1936 has been dis-
carded, little has been heard of the phrase "non-
menace and non-aggression" since the outbreak of the
hostilities with China and the new program is un-
doubtedly drafted with a view to the development of
Japan's naval forces along lines designed to meet the
now conditions.
As

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
As stated in the telegram under reference it
is idle to speculate upon what the budget figures
mean in the field of aotual construction of naval
vessels due to the remarkably effective secrecy
which is maintained in this country in respect to
naval affairs: a secrecy unequalled, perhaps, in
its effectiveness in the country of any other naval
power in the world. Consequently, the estimated
building program outlined in the telegram was only
by way of illustration and must be regarded in this
light only.
For purposes of ready comparison, there are
given below the figures for the third and the fourth
replenishment programs, broken down into their
respective items:
3d Replenishment
4th Replenishment
Warship construction
y
837,049,000.
￥1,205,780,000.
Naval bases and dookyards
86,309,600.
188,321,000.
Expansion of air force
75,267,724.
300,041,000.
Refitting and modernization
142,989,897.
Replenishment naval stores
25,092,750.
Total
¥1,166,708,971.
¥1,694,142,000.
The Naval Attaché of this Embassy, in 1937, estimated
(also by way of illustration only) that the third re-
plenishment program would permit the construotion of
the

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
the following vessels, the cost of construction
being based upon the cost of construction in 1933
which was given out at that time by the Navy Minister:
four battleships, four cruisers, two carriers, 12
destroyers, and 12 submarines.
These figures, however, did not take into con-
sideration the considerable increase in the cost of
labor and of commodity prices between 1933 and 1937
and consequently the estimated building program out-
lined in the telegram under reference, which applies
to the fourth replenishment program, comprises a
slightly smaller number of vessels. It is, however,
the consensus of the opinion of the Naval Attachés
in Tokyo that the latest program would permit the
construction of naval vessels at least equal to, if
not greater than, that possible under the third re-
plenishment program.
For such interest as it may contain there follows
a table prepared by the Naval Attaché of this Embassy
showing the estimated cost per ton in yen of various
types of naval vessels in Japan, together with the
cost per ship:
Typo
Per ton
Sizo
Per ship
Battleships
¥ 6200
35,000 tons 217,000,000.
Cruisers
7200
10,000 ton 72,000,000.
Airoraft carriers 8300
16,000 ton 132,800,000.
Destroyers
9300
1500 tons
13,950,000.
Submarines
10,800
1500 tons
16,200,000.
Tenders
4600
10,000 tons 46,000,000.
This

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
This would permit the construotion of approxi-
mately two battleships, four oruisers, two airoraft
carriers, eight destroyers, eight submarines, and
one submarine tender.
The most notable increase under the latest pro-
gram is that providing for the expansion of the air
force.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
851
ESC:mg

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.92)
POLITICAL
517
MR. DUNN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Milan, Italy, July 6 1930
A-M/C
DIVISION OF
60
LUHOPLAN
AWAIN:
STRESTLY CONTID NTIAL
DIVISION
5
JUL 28 1939
DEPARTMENI OF SIATE
i.ore Italian ..rmaments ror Japan.
1.1
cs.
3
alzo
PAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
copr
Toka
C
E
3
21939
HONORABLE
ne.Y
vopartment ul Stato
14
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
9
JUL 21 1939
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
SICONDEN
894.34/239
I have the honor to renort that the Tokyo
894.3
Government, accoruin to vhoily trustworthy inror-
307
bation, is at present ne otiatin with the Italian
overnment for the construetion of a number of
3
submarines at Italian shinbuilding yards. The number
seerns, are to build most of them.
I may add that the prelininaries for the construc-
tion of these ships have already been agreed upon and
that contracts for the construction of these ships
F/A
are actually beine drarted at the present time.
At the same time attention is respectfully
invited to recent exchanges between the Japanese
and Italian Governments, principally in the matter
of armaments, which has given rise here to the
gonviction that the Regime is at present centering
all

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
2
all its attention on Japan in connection with
that country's trial of strength with Great Britain.
The further fact that Italian military aviation
instructors in considerable number are proceeding
to Japan, and the export of bombing and pursuit
planes to that country continues would tend to
confirm Italy's support of the Japanese pretentions
in the Far ast.
accoruin: to my iniormant, no less than ten
0
151
Military instructors, comnissioned and non-commissioned
officers, have lert the military airport at Bresso
(near ilan) (Please see my caulegram of June 22
793.94
12 o'clock noon), within the last week or two for
Japan.
It would seem that these officers are being
. paid fron Lire 8,000 to 12,000 a month by the Japanese.
Respectfully yours,
Talt. Sholes
me ican Consul deneral
800
WHS/mdc
Original and 4 copies for the Department.
1 copy for the Embassy, Rome.
1 copy for Naples.
4
X

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.89)
THE AMERIOAR
PLAIN
TELEGRAMRECEIVED
HAM
Tampico
OHICTERHE ANVISER UN
ECUMNONT, AFFARS
Dated November
NOV171939
mnmsscon 3:309..
SEcretary of StatE
FAR LASL
Washington.
Eleventh, 1l:30 a. m.
eg2
JapanEsE tanker KAYJO MARU duE to sa1l today from
Tuxpan for Japan via Panama Canal with oil cargo.
894.34/240
COLLINS
894.24
DDM
AbovE repeated to Navy and Coast Guard 3:38 pom.
NOV 2 0 1939
FTUH
F/FG

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Aotivities of Japanese Navy.
Japanese Navy is said to be supplyin the money for the
purchase, by the Pacifio Petroleum Company of Japan
of 50,000 metrio tons of poza rica crude oil from
894.34/ 24f
PEMX of Mexico.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Telegram = 376 1 AM
(Deepatoh, telegram, iastruotlom, lettes, eto.)
From Mexico (Daniels)
Dated
November 25, 1939
To
File No.
812.6363/6319
AM

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
FTMENI
rile
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
1939 DECFIFF GHE SECRETARY
4
AP
WASHINGTON
CONF
(5c)A8-2/EF37
1F
Rchnow(edqed
Sir:
During the early part of November information was received from
a confidential and highly reliable source that as of 26 September 1939
the Japanese Naval Inspector at New York, after a conference with the
Japanese Naval Attache to Washington, decided that Engineer Commander
Arito Yatsugi, I.J.N. would take up his residence in Los Angeles, Calif-
ornia as a representative of the Office of the Japanese Naval Inspector
894.34/242
in New York for the purpose of conducting inspections of fuel oil, etc.
At this conference it was decided that after diplonatic arrangements had
been completed, & Japanese Naval Fuel Inspectorate would be established at
Los Angeles, California. Other intormation indicates thut a Japanese Naval
Fuel Inspectorate was actually established at Los Angeles, California the
atter part of October of this year with the rollowing personnel assigned:
seen
In charge - Engineer Commander Arito Yatsagi, I.J.N.
Paymaster-Commander Tokiji Taipa, I.J.N.
Clerk - Goro Ishimaru
Twarre
On 30 November 1939 Comnander Yoshitane Kisaka, I.J.N., Assist-
ant Japanese Naval Attache, called at the Mavy Department for the purpose
Y presenting a list of the personnel of the Imperial Japanese Navy resident
In the United tates. At the ti e of presenting this list Commander Kisaka
took occasion to invite particulur attention to the fuct that ingineer Com
mander Arito Yatsugi, I.J.N. nd Paynaster Commander Tokiji Taira, I.J.N.,
although attached to the Office of the Ja anese Naval Inspector at New York,
were in residence at Los An eles, California. Upon discussion of this point
Commander Kisaka indicated tl.at it was contemplated that the above two offi-
cers would be permanently stationed in Los Angeles, California for the pur-
pose of supervising the purchase of fuel oil for the Japanese Navy.
This Department is unaware of any diplomatic arrangements having
been initiated for the establishment of a Japanese Naval Fuel Inspectorate
at Los Angeles, California. Therefore the foregoing intelligence is trans-
mitted for your information and for such action as may be deemed appropriate.
A
Respectfully,
NRStack
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
P

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.96)
January 8 1940
In reply refer to
FE 894.34/242
My dear Mr. Secretary!
394.34/242
The receipt is acknowledged of the confidential
letter of Deoember 5, 1939 (no. (80) A8-2/EP37).
from the Aoting Secretary of the Mavy with referenee
to the establishing at Los Angeles of a Japanese maval
fuel inspeetorate under the offioe of the Japanese
Naval Inspeotor in New York City. The subjeet ms
also brought to the attention of the Department of
State by a note from the Japanese Embassy under date
of Desember 14, l939, concerning desired 1ncome tax
exemption for Japanese offioial personnel stated in
the note as having been asslgned for duty at Los
Angeles.
The Department of State 1s informing the Japamese
Ambassador that the American Government would not view
with
The Honorable
Charles Edison,
F
Beoretary of the Navy.
N

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.85)
feveh estensien a the notivis
effice e the Japasese Naval Iaspeetor at New Yosk Giey
by the essigning ef perseanel to Lee Asgeles.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State&
Sumner Welleg
Under Secretary
OR
of
the sge
origl.
FAMS
U
f
nn.N

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.94)
COP
F
POR DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
AT
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Kobe, Japan, December 2, 1939.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
olvislon of
EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
944.34
Joseph C. Grew,
repert Stale
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
m strict confidence J
894.34/243
Sir:
Good
Gourley
MID
1 have the honor to supplomen't my tologram of
November 29, 5 p.m., in rogard to the naval ship
Zuikaku, which was launched early on the morning of
Monday, November 27, and then was taken outside of
the Kobe breakwater.
A photograph approved by the Kobe naval inspeotor's
affice, as published in The Osaka Mainichi on November 28,
gives only a very rough idea of the ship's appearance.
A
4
Viowing the ship at a great distance from a pier,
Navy, who came here from Tokyo, and I were impressed by
its great longth. It looked as if it had a shape like
the following sketoh copied from a drawing of an Amerioan
merehant vessel master who said that he saw it from
FTLHD
rather close distance.
-1941
F/N
I

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
I believe that the offiee of the Naval Attaebe
has already muoh information about the ship and even
had a ohanoe to photograph it while it was in the
Kawasaki Dookyard in the course of construotion.
Nevertheless, the following information obtained by
the local British Consul and me from various shipping,
insurance and other souroes may be of interest as
showing diversity of opinion in regard to the ship
even after it was launohed and came into more plain
view.
One view 1s that because 1t has a long flat deck,
it may be an aircraft carrier. The ship is also rather
broad but it has been pointed out that, as shown in
the Osaka Mainiohi photograph, as far as breadth is
concerned, it is somewhat oddly shaped for an aircrart
carrier.
Another view is that the ship may be used as a
mother ship for carrying submarines.
Still a third view is that it may be completed
as a battleship with perhsps deck space for carrying
aircraft. Newepapers, such as The Osaka Mainichi and
The Japan Chroniole, when reporting the launehing,
have, perhaps with official permission, called it a
warship.
Estimates of the sise of the new ship also vary.
One view is that the length is 780 feet.
One American steamship agent thought that it was
only an 8,000 ton destroyer. Another American steamship
agont

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 -
agent and the master of a mall Amerioan freighter who
said that he saw the new ship at rather olose hand be-
11eved that 1t was an 8,000 to 10,000 ton cru1ser.
On the other hand, British observers emphasise its
very great longth and think that the ship must be at
least 18, 000 to 20,000 tons 1n 1ts present form and
some say that 1t may even be as much as 87,000 to
28,000 tons. ne eat1mate 1s that 1t w111 be 85,000
tons if it is made into a battleship. The observers
who emphasise its large size call attention to the
fact that the Kawasaki Dookyard has now started to
build a merchant ship of about 28, v00 tons for the
Nippon Yusen Kaisha in the same place where the Zuikaku
was under construction.
On the 89th I reoeived through British channels
a report said to have been obtained from Japanese
souroes that the ship would be towed on one or two days
to Kure where it could be completed in more seerecy
in the Kure naval arsenal. I have, however, received
word today directly from a Japanese informant that the
ship has been merely removed farther east from the
position whioh it ocoupied outside of the breakwater
south of the Kobe-ku arem of Kobe and that it is now
south of the Fukiai-ku area near the Kawasakd Steel
Works. This would indicate that the Kawasaki company,
whieh started the ship in its dockyard south of the
Soto-ku area of Kobe, is to continue work on it.
Aecording to a press report a new "warship" called
Ilechia was launebed at the Kure naval arsenal in
Hiroshimm

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.95)
Hiroshima prefeoture on November 30. No details about
the size of the new ship wore made public.
Respectfully yours,
L. H. Gourloy
American Consul
Enolosures with original to Embassy and
with 3 copies to Department of State:
Pioture of Zuikaku.
Th5
880
LHG/oo
In duplicate to Embassy.
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.93)
THE OSAKA MAINICHI
Imperial Navy Adds Unit To Armada
 The Imperial navy on Monday, Nevember 27. lau
Kebe maval inopecters' affice).

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.94)
LIAISON OFFICE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
EB8-1940
American Con
pan
Deeember 26, 1939
Department of Stato
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
y
Subjeot: Naval Construction at Nagasaki.
894.34
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
THE_HPEORABLE
F
THE SECRETARYOF STATE,
Good
K
IU
MeConoughy
ON1
SIR:
x
00
I hav
the honor to report that current naval construction
at the Nagasaki shipyards of the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
894.34/244
Company, Limited, continues to be shrouded in the greatest
secrecy. The two berths where construction is under way are
completely screened. There is no indication that naval con-
struetion work is behind schedule, although a slight lag is
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
suspeijed in the merchant shipbuilding program.
F
thore is no substantial clue as to the type of the large
OF STATE
3
B
Ewhich is undoubtedly on the ways. whide it may well be
2
pgral ship, the weight of the internal evidence (which is the
Bsis of surmise) points strongly against the rumored con-
ibn of a battleship as large as 45,000 tons displacement.
FILED
The probability that the ship is of smaller tonnage is baset
chiefly on the dimensions of its berth, and on the fairly well
established conclusion that this berth contains a small auriliary
ship under construetion as well as the heavy vessel. It is believed
that this berth contained a small vessel when the keel of the larger
ship was laid. So far as can be ascertained, this smaller ship has
not been launched.
Its contimued presenee in the origiml berth would preclude the
likelihood (but not the possibility) that a battleship of more than
35,000 toms is projected.
A comjecture that the ship may be an airoraft carrier would
met be entirely without warrant.

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.94)
It is thought that a total of three naval vessels are now
under construotion at Nagasaki, of which only one is of large
tonnage.
Respeotfully yours,
I eter P. Caghy
Walter P. MoConaughy
American Consul
864/830
WPM
I carbon copy re
1 1-L 2110/40 0413
In triplioate to Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Naval Attache, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate, Kobe
