894.6362 Mines. Mining. Concessions., Carbon. Graphite., Japan, Coal., November 7, 1945 - November 21, 1949 (File 1789)
ID: 894.6362-1789   Pages: 89   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6362-mines-mining-concessions-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
NO PARAPHRASE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Separtment oi State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department: X
NECESSARY
SECRET
Washington
Charge to
NUV - 7 1945
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
8p:n
TOKYO
94
FOR ATCHESON, ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR WILLOUGHBY FROM MARTIN
Appreciate estimate of monthly quantity of coal which could
894.6362/1
be exported from Japan in 1946 with maximum effort. What should
such maximum effort cost US?
Byne
JK:EMMartin:1mc
11-5-45
(mn ()
CEN
S
m
f
CR
6
345 P.
NOV
)
SENT
6
2

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISION OF
OF
4
CENTRAL SERVICES
STATE
TELEGRAM
TELEGRAPH SECTION
ACTIONZA-C
INFO:
AC
S
IMK-1388-P
Tokyo via Army
U
No paraphrased necessary.
C
(SECRET)
Dated November 19, 1945
A-C
Gele
EUR
Rec'd 5:20 a.m. 20th
FE
DC/L-C
1011
ITP
Secretary of State,
LA
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
OFD
Washington,
FN
W. L. CLAYTON
ESP
ES-2
PRIORITY
NOV 2 1 1945
JK
144, November 19.
894.6362/11
A-C
No. CA 55000
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FOR MARTIN FROM WILLOUGHBY.
Army endeavoring to ensure restoration productivity
coal industry as soon as possible and is understood to be
sending or to have sent data on problems panese coal
-1945
industry to Washington by mail through channels.
Present
prospects are that no coal will be available
for export pr1or June 1946, 75,000 and 18,000 tons monthly
to Korea and Hongong respectively. Possibly 500,000 tons
monthly w1ll be available last half 1946 contingent upon
restoration coal industry. Little coel now being mined
(545,000 tons in October) owing primarily labor
difficulties stemming from repatriation large numbers
Chinese and Korean impressed mine laborers, food scarcity
and difficulty of recruiting Japanese labor. Consideration
being
SECRET

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
i
SECRET
-2- 144, November 19, from Tokyo via Army
being given to increased rations for coal miners. Problom
next in importance shortage of mine supplies especially
explosives, wire rope and nails. It is hoped current
efforts will result in local prcduction these supplies
near future. Current program does not involve expense to
United States unless miners' rations increased and cost
ultimately borne by United States.
ATCHESON
WMB
SECRET

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Jepan, November 19. 1945.
SECRET
Dc/R
NO. 59
LIAISON OFFICE
SUBJECT: Japanese Coal Exports.
DEC 21 1945
2
The Honorable
9
DINISIION O
eNT  ER
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
28
ACN
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's telegram 94,
November 8, 1945 and our telegram 144, November 19, relating to
the exportetion of coel from Japan.
There is enclosed a copy of Report Number 3, November 14,
9
5
1945 on Basic Problems of the Coal Mining Industry in Japan,
62
prepered by the Natural Resources Section of Generel Headquarters,
which supplements information contained in our telegrem under
reference.
Respectfully yours,
Irey, Ahene
George Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
CIVISION
uBK
1945
Basic Problems of the Coel Mining
Industry in Japan. (in single copy)
ET OF STATE
Conf dential File
Original and duplicate, with reverse
carbon, to Department.
DEC 28 1945
FILED
863.6
WWilloughby:jrf

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
CEFICE CF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, November 19, 1945.
SECRET
NO. 59
SUBJECT: Japanese Coal Exports.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's telegram 94,
November 8, 1945 and our telegram 144, November 19, relating to
the exportation of coal from Japan.
There is enclosed a copy of Report Nmber 3, November 14.
1945 on Basic Probleme of the Coal Mining Industry in Japan.
prepered by the Natural Resources Section of General Headquarters.
which supplements information contained in our telegram under
reference.
Respectfully yours,
George Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosure:
Basic Problems of the Coal Mining
Industry ia Japan. (in single copy)
Original and duplicate, with reverse
cerbon, to Depertment.
863.6
wwilloughby:jrf

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
GFNERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUFREMF COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED FOFRS
Natural Resources Section
AF0 500
14 November 1945
REFCRT NUMBFR 3
BASIC FRCBIEMS CF THF
CCAI MINING INDUSTRY IN JAFAN
RESTRICTED

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.89)
G 
S  R T L  
Naturel R-scurces Socti
BASIO ERCP 4S OF 1HE
COAL MINING IND ERY  JA
PAL OF 
Eace
Sunvy...
A. Coel Proluction
B. Caief Problems
II.
Ganeral Situation
1-2
A. Docline of Proutction
1 roduction Fisures
B. Iarorts
1. Inports ks or to Geseation o? Hostilitiss
Reguiron nts
1: monthly Ro uirem re of Cccurat nal orces
and ssen tial Japs ladry
2. Corpariso of E sairenrts en roduction
D. Stockpii-s
1. Erjsting Stoccoi? s
III. Majer Fre lers cf the Coal Industry.......
3.4
A.. Causes
1. Ganeral.
3
2. Labor
3
a. Vislence mcng Kar ane. Chineee and Japanese
b. Desire of Koreans end Chinese to Roturn Home
c. Reciuitment of apanede ebor
3. Food.
3
a. Rouc  Food Allewance
4.
mining pi sives..
3-4
a. 1 sure  Exl sive Manufacturing Flants
b. Control Froccaure
c. Cepacity of i plosive Manufacturing
C. E izee Milirary Explreives
ir Re..
a. Shortege of Nire Bope
b. Pequirnents
6. Naile.
4
a. Doficiorcy in Nails
7. Couunicatione.....
4
a. Disruption cf Conn. at on
.i 
R E S E R I C T E.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
CUTREE COMMANTER TOR TH ALLJED FOWERS
Natural Res-urces Section
BASIC PROBLEMS OF THE
COAT MINING INDUSTRY IN JAFAN
I SUMMARY
A. C-al pr duction in Japan proper has declined fr m 3,400,000
t-ns in June 1945, to an estimated 600,00 t ns in 0ct-ber 1945.
Minimum c nsumption requirements are repcrted as appr ximately twice
the current rate f productin. Stockpiles which were r ughly 3,900,000
t ns at the end f hostilities are niw disappearing at the rate f ver
1,000,000 t-ns per m-nth.
B. The chief pr blems inv lved in this situation are sh rtages f
lab r, f d, expl sives, wire r pe, nails and machine il. Acc rding
t. reports fr'm the vari us organizations c:ncerned, action is being
taken t: c rrect some f these existing c nditions.
II. G AL SITUATION
0
A. Decline f Fr ductin
1. Coal pr duction in Japan proper has dropped to a
critically l w level as indicated by the foll:wing figures:
Table No. 1*
Average Montnly
Fr-duction Since
Pr-duction
June 1945
Metric Tons
2935
3,147,000
1940
4,776,000
1944
4,111,000
June
3:400,000
July
2,600,000
Aug.
1,600,000
Sept.
900,000
Oct. (est.)
600.000
*Data fr m Japanese Coal C-ntrol Association
B. Imprrts
1. In the past Japan's d mestic pr ducti'n f high grade
coal has teen insufficiant t meet ner irdustrial needs and prier to
cessation of h stilities c al was imp rted at the rate of 200,000 to
700,000 metric tons per month. ihis suurce f supply has been cut
off since the. end f the war.
-1-
REST互IC亚ED

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
C. Recuirements
1. Althugh consumption requirements have declined since the
end of the war, needs still cannot be met by the present rate of pro-
duction. Requirements of the Allied Fowers and estimates of essential
Japanese needs by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are shown in
the following tables:
Table No. 2
MONTHLY RE UIREMENTS OF OCCUFATIONAL FORCES
Area
Metric Tons
Japan Proper
75,000
K-rea
70,000
hong Kong
18.000
Total
163,000
Table o. 3
MONTHLY MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF ESSENTIAL JAFANESE INDUSTRY
Industry
Metric Tone
Railways, Gas,
Coke, Ir-n & Steel
973.000
Total of Tablee 2 end 3
1,136,000
2. Japan's n rmal cnsumption in pre-war years was approxi-
mately three times this am unt. Comparisn of tables 2 and 3 with
table 1, indicates that present estimated monthly needs are far in
excess of the m-nthly producti'n since August 1945.
D. St ckpiles
1. At the end f Oct her, existing st-ckpiles of coal wera
estimated at 2,700,000 metric t-ns, having been depleted from
approximately 3,900,000 metric t ns since the cessation of hostilities.
III
MAJOR PROBLEMS OF THE COAL INDUSTRY
A. Causes
1. General
On the basis f Japanese evid nce evaluated in the light
of independent reports, the f ll wing ar the majer causes for this
critical situatin. Cartain measures have already been taken to
overc me some f the difficulties hindering production.
-2-
RESTRIC TED

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
a. Labor
a. Acc rding to the Japanese, the most critical problem
in the production of coal has been the laber shortage. Although a
labor supply has been available, the miners have not been working.
through fear of violence. Forty percent f the miners were Koreans
and Chinese wh  have been calahrating their frendom from slavary in
the cral pits, y takint revenge on the Japanese mining paople. as a
result, in many places neither faction dared g underground since the
faction remaining n the surface might danage homes and proparty.
b. Most of the Korran and Chinesa coal miners want to
raturn hone as saon as possiole and do not want to work for the
Japanese. To c mplicat= the situation even nore, these iners ccupy
houses which are needod for Japanese whs would work in the mined.
c. To replace the Korean and Chinese miners it will be
necessary to recruit Japanese. At the present time there is little
incentive for tham to perforn heavy lab'r in the hazardous coal minas.
Millions of Japanese have plenty of money as a result of closing the
war industrins since discharge entitled then t 6-months pay as
compensation.
3. ond
a. Tied in with tho labor probl: is the sh rtage of
frod. The war-time fnd ration is even lower naw. The tasic rice
ration for coal minors was 781 srams pr man por day during the war.
It is now 630 grams per man por day. This lack of sufficiont focd for
heavy labor has affoct d coal production advarsely. Statistics indi-
cate that Japan se coal production, which dropped from about O.8 tons
por man-day in 1938 to 0.5 tons p r man-day in 1944, 1s much 1owar now.
Amprican figurns would bo at least 6 timns higher.
4. Mining iplosives
a. The factorios prrducing epocial exp?osivos racuired for
coal mining wero closed by the ir ctive which halted ork in the
munitions industrins. Since lack f nw producti-n has depleted stocks
of axplosivos at th- mines, noarly 1,000,000 tons of coal production
have boon lost fran this causo alone. St ps have been taken by the Sth
Aray to all viat, c nditions cy orderin, the Japanese t subnit a report
on th, am unt and typis of xplosivis r cuir a for the coal mines in
Hokkaide.
b. prosont c ntrol pric dure makoe vital production suffer
from normal aduinistrative dolaye.
c. The mak rs f minin xpl sivee stat: thay have oper-
ablo capacity to m et all presont a  stic p aceful nods and provide
scmo xports. China in particular nads c al min explesives now.
- 3-
RESTRICTED

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
d. Sme suitable explosives which have been found in
Japanese military arsenels and depots have been released by the 8th
Army for mining use, cut these m et only a part of current need and are
a temporary measure.
4. sire Rope
a. Coal miners place the shortage of wire rope as tho
sec nd mrst critical iten. alth ugh the 8th Arny is taking steps to
meet at least part of Hckkaido's noods, an inescapablo shortage exists
in Japan as a wh-le. Use cf worn out cables results in extensive danage
to the mines and the hazard hinders recruiting of labor.
b. The Japanese estinat- that 2,500 tons of mine cable
are the requirements for this quarter and 2,8c0 tons for the next quarter.
Of this figure 238 tons, which are not available in Japan, are required
immediately.
5. Nails
a. Tho expected deficioncy in nails for the next 3 months
is 300 tons.
6. Comunications
a. Up-to-dato statistics n coal production, stocks, and
supply renuiromonts ar vital t- pr duction. The Japanese are organized
and able to collect this information, but their cmmunications syston
is eo disruptod that lotters fron Kyushu to Tokyo are two wacks in
transit. Tol-grans havo takan a whole week.
DISTRIBUTION:
G-2 Technical Intolligence .... 5
6th Army.
10
G-4
2
ASCOM-C
5
Govornment Section
2
XXIV Corps
10
Econonic and Sciontific Sec. .. 4
1 copy each NRS Division
6
Gen. krocurement Agt.
NRS Historian
1
Statistical and Reports Sec. . 2
NRS Library
2
8th Army ...
10
NRS Files
89
-4-
R E STR I CEED

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, January 16, 1946.
LEBAL ABVISER
NO. 205
MAR 1 1 1946
SUBJEOT: Imperial Ordinance No. 705:
Organization of the Coal Board.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAIRS
AN1946
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to transmit
copies in translation of Imperial Ordinance No. 705, "Ordinance for
894.6362/1-1646
the Organization of the Coal Board", dated and effective as of De-
cember 13, 1945.
294, 1562
x
Article 1 states that the Coal Board, under the jurisdiction
of the Minister of Commerce and Industry, shall have charge of the
production and distribution of coal, semi-coal, gas and coke.
WAR AREAS
Enclosure:
ECONOMIC DIVISION
Copy of Imperial Ordinance No. 705:
1946
Organization of the Coal Board.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Original and hectograph to Department.
CS/LE
802
WSebald:anl
WMB
LDH
G
A1946
HECTO
SENT TO FR
OSALID

=== Page 13 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 205 of January 16, 1946 from the
United States Political Adviser, Tokyo, Japan, on the sub-
ject "Imperial Ordinance No. 705: Organization of the Coal
Board".
We hereby give our sanction to the Ordinance for the Organiza-
tion of the Coal Board and cause the same to be promulgated.
This thirteenth day of the twelfth month of the twentieth year
of Showa.
Signed: Hirohito
Seal of the Emperor
Countersigned: Baron Kijuro Shidehara,
Prime Minister
Sankuro Ogasawara,
Minister of Commerce and
Industry
IMPERLAL ORDINANCE NO. 705
The Ordinance for the Organization of the Coal Board.
Article 1. The Coal Board, under the jurisdiction of the Minister
of Commerce and Industry, shall have charge of production and distribu-
tion of coal, semi-coal, gas and coke.
Article 2. The personnel of the Coal Board shall be composed of
as follows:
Director-General: of Chokunin rank
Deputy Director-General: of Chokunin rank
3 Directors of Bureau: of Chokunin rank
29 Coal Administration Officiale: of Sonin rank
(2 of which may be of Chokunin rank)
2 Secretaries (Rijikan): of Sonin rank
Technical Supervisor (Gikan): of Chokunin rank
16 Technical Experts: of Sonin rank
(1 of which may be of Chokunin rank)
31 Assistant Coal Administration Officials: of Hannin rank
13 Assistant Technical Experts: of Hannin rank
The Deputy Director-General shall be the Director of
General Affairs Bureau concurrently.
Article 3. The Director-General's Secretariat and three following
Bureaus shall be established in the Coal Board.
General Affairs Bureau
Production Bureau
Distribution Bureau
The Minister

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The Minister of Commerce and Industry shall decide the assignments
of Secretariat and respective Bureaus.
Article 4. The advisors shall be appointed to the Coal Board to
participate in the affairs of the Board.
The Cabinet shall appoint the advisors upon the recommendation of
the Minister of Commerce and Industry from among officials of Chokunin
rank in other departments concerned and men of learning and experience.
Article 5. The Director-General shall be under the direction and
supervision of the Minister of Commerce and Industry, control and dis-
pose of the affairs of the Coal Board, direct and supervise the per-
sonnel under his orders, menage the personal affairs of Hannin and lo-
wer ranks at his own discretions
Article 6. The Deputy Director-General shall assist the Director-
General and manage and dispose of the affairs of the Board.
Article 7. The Directors of the Bureaus shall under orders of
superior officer manage and dispose of the affairs of their respective
Bureaus.
Article 8. The Coal Administration Officials and Secretaries shall
have the charge of affairs under orders of superior officers.
Article 9. The Technical Supervisor shall control and dispose of
technical affairs under orders of superior officers.
Article 10. The Techinical Experts shall have charge of technical
affairs under orders of superior officers.
Article 1l. The Assistant Coal Administration Officials shall be
engaged in miscellaneous affairs under the direction of superior offi-
cers.
Article 12. The Assistant Technical Experts shall be engaged in
technical affairs under the direction of superior officers.
Supplementary Provisions:
The present Ordinance shall come into force as from the day of its
promulgation.
The following amendment is made to the Ordinance for the organiza-
tion of the Ministry of Comerce and Industry.
In Article 2 "seven Bureaus" shall read "six Bureaua" and
"Fuel Bureau" is deleted.
In Article 5 the wording "and affairs concerning weights
and measures, calculations, liquid fuels, and monopolies of
alcohol and petroleum".
Article 8 is deleted.
In Article ll "Fuel Bureau" is manded to "Industrial Affairs
Bureau".
The following

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
The following mmendment is made to the Ordinance on ranks and
salaries of Senior Officials.
In Article 8 "Director-General of the Coal Board" is
put before "director of Central Aeronautical Institute";
"the Technical Supervisor of the Coal Board" is added
next to "Technical Supervisor of Commerce and Indastry";
"Daputy Director-General of the Coal Board" is put before
"President of Maritime Affairs School"; "Directors of Bu-
reaus of Coal Board" is put before "Directors of Bureaus
of General Marine Transportation Board, Ministry of Trans-
portation"; "Coal Administration Officials of the Coal
Board" is put bofore "Directors of Local Mining Bureau".
In Article l4 "Coal Administration Officials of the
Coal Board" is put before " Secretaries of the Local
Mining Bureaus".
In article 15 "Secretaries of the Coal Board is put
before "Secretaries of the Industrial Examination Insti-
tute".
Enclosure 1:
In the List of the Bureaus of the Ministry of Commerce
and Indsutry, "Director-General of the Coal Board", "Depu-
ty Director-General of the Coal Board", "Directors of Bu-
reaus of the Coal Board", "Coal Administration Officials of
the Coal Board" and "Technical Supervisor of the Coal Board"
shall be put before the Items of Technical Experts of other
Ministries.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
SION OF
ACTION COPY
TIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
GRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
10
Seoul
etion:
Duted September 30, 1946
ESP
Info:
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 6:06 p.m., 0ct 2nd
meces
ACTINF
FE
ITP
Control 721
ESP
A-C
ES
2
A-H
No paraphrase necessary
GA
OCD
JK
FC
DC/R
From:
USAFIK Kcrea thru CINCAFPAC Hodge sends for Bruce
thru Langdon
8
To:
CINCAFPAC Tokyo; War Department pass to State Dept
6
95.6362/9-3046
Nr:
TFGCT 487 (State ser1a1 123) 30 September 1946
URGENT
"Reurad 5817-171233/z September regarding Korea re-
quest for allocat1on of 1,Ooo,ooo tons of bituminous.coal
for next 6 months: no bituminous coal is mined in south
Korea and none has beenor is likely to be available from
north Korea during the coming 6 months. Kcrea's coal
production of about 50,000 metric tons in entirely low
quality dust anthracite unsuitable for use on railroads
and many essential industries. Korea's minimum needs of
bituminous coal are 160,000 tons per month distributed
as follows:
Bituminous non-coking;
Ra1lroads 100,000,
Korea Base Command 3,500,
Chemical industry 12,000,
A electrical industry 10,000,
Textile 1ndustry 15,000,
MAY 2 31947
9
Ceremic 1ndustry 3,000,
FILND
S
Fibre industry 3,000;
5
Bituminous gas and coking coal;
V
39
Gas p1ants 6,000,
Chemical industry 2,500,
2
Smelter 1,500,
Heavy industry
CM IN 107
0
PERMANENTRREOORBDCOPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
DIV
COMMUNICA
TELE.
RESTRICTED
-2-, Contro1 721, from Secul
Heavy industry 5, 000.
Bituminous coel essential for rallroads move almost
all military supplies and perscnnel as well as food and
other basic consumer and producer goods. Without adequate
rail transport entire occupation would be paralized and
south Korean economy dIsintegrate. Korea Base Command
central heating plent cannot couvert anthracite. Opera-
tion gas plants major cities essential furnish fuel
dependent hou ing and numerous small industries. Cement
production requiring tuminous coal in calcining process
roduces essential material public works, irrigation and
land reclamation, flood control and housing. Textile hold-
Ing. Textile plant essential production cloth meet grow-
ing shortage. Ceranics need bituminous coal for production
building materials, electricel insulators and other essential
aensumer and produce articles. Heavy industry demands
bituminons urd coking coal for production and repair rail-
rond rolling stock, mining machinery, farm implements, machine
toole, and mony othor mechan ca? impl ments hituminous coal
essential smolting copper and leau.
Bituminous coal stock piled and evsilable industrles
in south Korea when Americans arr ived last September ex-
hausted. Sinse almost all bituminous coal this far im-
ported contlnuet ellocated to railroads uatil imports in-
crease, many vital iniustries closed or will cease opera-
tlona shortly unless bituminous promptly delivered. All pos-
sible boller conversloos using Ko ean anthvacite dust com-
pletel. Cu rens produstion duat anthraeite Inadequate
For need arl fuel wood nopeleasly shoat. Nest to food,
coal is ou biggoat problem in south Korea."
NOTE: 5817 not 14e1Led 1a SM
1V L(1 00 46)
340
RE

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.91)
OCT 211946
In reply rofer to
849.6362/10-846
My dear Mr. Morgan
Your letter of Oetober 8, 1946 applying for a liesmse to
894.6362/10-846
export bumker coal for Ceuta has been referred to me for reply.
The Office of International Trade, Department of Commeros
is the appropriate agemcy with which to file applications for
licensing of coal exports. I am sure that snch applicatism
will receive every possible consideration and that the offies
of International Trade will inform yon im dme course of the
action that has been taken with regard thereto.
Sincerely yours,
Karl L. Andersom
Assistant Chief, Bternstional
Resouroes Division
1222
CS/A
A   
the espond sripe
tet.
Mr. Everett B. Horgan,
21 1946F.M.
President,
Morgan Fuel Corperation,
500 Fifth Avenie,
New York, Now York.
ALALh
110-846
R:LLister:bl
10-21-46

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
TO
: A-S - Mr. Moreland
DATE: October 16, 1947
A-S
OCT 1 7 1947
MR. SALTZMAN
SUBJECT:
I refer to two outgoing War Department messages: (1) to OMGUS
Berlin, No. WCL 28296, October 8; (2) to SCAP Tokyo, WAR 87963,
October 8.
The former assumes that the U.S. might allocate coal to Rio Tinto,
Central
894.6362/10-1647
Spain. The fact is that the U.. does not allocate coal for particular
plants in eny country. Furthermore, the U.S. Coal Operating Committeet
October 6 rejected a hypothetical application for Rio Tinto on the
ground that the present level of totel coal exports was insufficient to
satisfy the mininum requircments of European countries other than Spain,
whose level of satisfaction is higher than pre-war. No ground existing
for an allocation to Shain, there is no round to allocate to Rio Tinto.
The latter telegram is beside the point. It ignores the whole
problom of relative need and implies that an allocation of coal for
Japan would be made sinply upon the asking and simply because coal has
been of ored for sale. The coal so offered would, of course, be
exported at the expense of other areas, as a ceiling has been established
for coal cxports. Furtheriore, the telegram offers to provide coking
coal, the export of which the Commerce and Interior Departments are try-
ing to curtail.
I am very much concorned by the War repartment's unilateral
activities in this regard which completely ignore the total problem--the
fact that cotl exports are being curtailed, that we have obligations to
satisfy minimmum requirements of other areas, that Japan's needs would
CSBM
have to be evaluated guinst noeds of competing claimants. It would be
splendid if the situation were as simule as the telegrame. presume;
unfortunately, they are not. Either the War Department is unaware of
the complexities or chooses to igrore then on the presuaption that the
prevailing rules of the came do not apply to it. The latter possibility
is of reatest concern to me.
I shall be glad to participate in any ventures which A-S might
initiate to reouire the War Departrent to exercise some circumspection.
894.6362
4
10.1647
M:LLister:bl

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
SAN3 01948
DEPARTMENT/OF STATE
JAN 1-81948
DGR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, December 29, 1947.
No. 1484
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
18
(.1
SUBJ ECT:
Transmittal of a Memorandum of Conversation'
Between Certain Officers of this Mission
and Japanese Government Officials Concerning:
Low Coal Production Level; Labor Discipline;
Labor Legislation; Effect of the Coal Bill on
894.6362/12-2947
Coal Production; Electrical Power Shortage;
OE
Success of the Foreign Trade Program.
COPT
To:
FE
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
copy of a memorandum of a conversation between certain of-
ficers of this Mission and Mr. MIZUTANI, Chosaburo,
Minister of Commerce and Industry, Mr. NAGAI, Kotaro,
President of the Board of Trade, and other officials of
the Japanese Government. The conversation, pertaining to
subjects with which the latter are officially concerned,
occurred at a dinner given by Foreign Service Officers
Lawrence and Bushner at their residence in Tokyo. There
follows a summary of the memorandum.
Summary. The problem of an insufficient fuel supply
is of primary importance to the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry. During a discussion of the present low level
of coal production and the related problem of poor labor
discipline, Mr. Mizutani's advisers (who accompanied him
at his own request) set forth some of the ways in which
actions on the part of coal miners have slowed coal pro-
duction. Speaking quite frankly, and with the implied
CS
support of his superiors, Mr. GOH, (Mizutani's interpreter
and a Secretary of Second Grade in the General Affairs
Bureau of the Ministry) described recently passed labor
legislation as having been "pushed through the Diet at the
insistence of Occupation officers" at a time when Japanese
labor is not prepared for such revolutionary changes.
Mr. Mizutani cited the Coal Bill as one factor upon
which may be based a hope for increased coal production.
Both Nagai and Mizutani expressed regret at the disgracen
ful behavior of Members of the House of Representatives
B
FILED
during the discussion of the Bill, and Mizutani implied
2 1948
that such behavior might have been arranged and paid for
by coal operators.
Mr. Mizutani
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 1484
December 29, 1947.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Mr. Mizutani also saw hopeful signs in the increase
in coal production which has followed upon visits to the
coal mines made by him, the Emperor, and Representatives
of this Headquarters. One of the objects of such visits
is to improve coal miners' morale by educating them to
the importance of their work and elevating them from
their traditionally low social status.
In connection with the coal problem Mr. Mizutani
also mentioned the electricity shortage. In answer to a
3
question concerning Japan's future generating capacity
he estimated that in order to maintain the living standard
authorized by the Far Eastern Comnission, Japan would need
a total capacity of approximately ten or eleven million
kilowatt-hours per day (or, at the least, three million
thermally generated, and six million hydro-electrically
generated kilowatt-hours per day). He pointed out that
formerly eight percent of Japan's electric power was used
for domestic purposes whereas at present thirty percent is
so used.
Mr. Nagai, in a discussion carried on separately from
the conversation with Mr. Mizutani and his advisers,
stated that the foreign trade program is now running
smoothly and that the number of business men admitted to
Japan has proved sufficiently large. He is favorably im-
pressed by the high caliber of these business men and
feels that the program is more successful than business
statistics alone would indicate.
Mr. Nagai stated that additional raw materials are
urgently needed if Japan is to stand on her own feet, in
particular, wool, coal, and petroleum supplies. Further-
more, he remarked that a schedule of the anticipated flow
of raw materials over a certain reasonable period of time
would assist in efficiently planning production. He also
stated that a "Marshall Plan" for Asia and the Far East
would be worthy of consideration.
He expressed the hope that an arrangement might be
made to utilize American ships with Japanese crews in
order to reduce the drain on the Japanese import fund
arising from transportation costs. Mr. Nagai also stated
that ships built under the maximum limits at present en-
forced (5,O00 dead-weight tons) are usable only in coastal
shipping and that ships suitable for trans-Pacific use
should be between 8,000 and 15,000 dead-weight tons. He
seems to expect objections from Australia and China to
such a size limitation for Japanese ships. End of Surmary.
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure:

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 1484
December 29, 1947.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Enclosure:
Memorandum of conversation,
December 14, 1947, between
certain officers of this
Mission and officials of
the Japanese Government.
Original and ozalid to the Department.
701.3
RHBushner/WHLawrence, Jr.:cs
CONFIDENTIAL
an

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1484 dated
December 29, 1947 from the Offiee of
(For Department
the United States Political Adviser
Use Only)
for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Trans-
mittal of a Memorandum of Conversa-
tion Between Certain Officers of this
Mission and Japanese Government Of-
ficials Concerning: Low Coal Production
Level; Labor Discipline; Labor Legis-
lation; Effect of the Coal Bill on
Coal Production; Electrical Power
Shortage; Success of the Foreign Trade
Program.
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
SUBJECTS:
Low Coal Production Level; Labor Discipline;
Labor Legislation; Anticipated Effect of the
Coal Bill on Coal Production; Electrical
Power Shortage and Future Level of Power
Generation; Success of the Foreign Trade
Program; Future Shipping Limitations.
OCCASION:
Dinner given by Foreign Service Officers
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr. and Rolland H.
Bushner of this Mission at their residence
in Tokyo, December 14, 1947.
PARTICIPANTS: MIZUTANI, Chosaburo, Minister of Commerce
and Industry.
MATSUDA, Taro, Chief, General Affairs
Bureau, Ministry of Commerce
and Industry.
NAGAI, Kotaro, Director-General, Board of
Trade (Boeki Cho).
KATSUBE, Toshio, Assistant Chief Foreign
Trade Bureau, Economic
Stabilization Board.
GOH, Yasuhiro, Interpreter for Mr. Mizutani,
Secretary of Second Grade in
the General Affairs Bureau
Ministry of Commerce and
Industry.
Foreign Service Officers of this Mission:
David MAYNARD, Economic Adviser.
W. Henry LAWRENCE, Jr., Second Secretary.
David M. BANE, Second Secretary.
Rolland H. BUSHNER, Third Secretary
KAMII, Yoshio, Interpreter, Office of the
United States Political
Adviser.
CONFIDENTIAL
As Commerce

=== Page 24 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 1484
December 29, 1947
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
As Commerce and Industry Minister, Mr. MIZUTANI's
principal interest at present is the problem of insuf-
ficient fuel supply, the principal factor limiting
Japanese industrial rehabilitation and production for ex-
port, and a factor of considerable political importance
in view of the shortage of fuel for domestic heating.
He spoke quite frankly of the problem presented by the low
level of production in the coal mines. Mr. Mizutani, as a
member of the labor-supported Social-Democratic Party,
dealt as lightly as possible with the related problem of
low labor efficiency. However, he did not demur when his
advisers (who had accompanied him at his own request) men-
tioned poor labor discipline as an important factor in the
low level of coal production. Mr. GOH explained that coal
miners often spend less than an eight hour day in the mines;
that they are in the habit of working alternately a few days
in the mines and a few days on their farms; and that some-
times miners spend their time at the coal face but make
little effort to dig coal. Mr. Mizutani indicated that
other factors also tend to shorten the working day and
pointed out that, in certain extreme cases, workers must
use at least three hours of each eight hour day going to
and fro between the mouth of the mine and the coal face.
Mr. MATSUDA asserted that Laborers are inclined to
recognize only their rights and none of their duties. In
this connection Mr. Goh submitted that much labor legis-
lation has been forced upon the Japanese("pushed through
the Diet at the insistence of Occupation officers") at a
time when Japanese labor is not prepared for such revolu-
tionary changes. He said that, in his opinion, Japanese
laborers are being used as guinea pigs for experimental
labor legislation. He stated that this was his own convic-
tion and not merely that of his superiors, thereby implying
that they concurred. Although Mr. Mizutani presented no
objection to Mr. Goh's statement, he did not express him-
self so strongly, and said only that such labor legislation
might have great value in the long run by furnishing an ob-
jective at which to aim. However, Messrs. Mizutani, Matsuda
and Goh feel that there is more hope for coal production
than heretofore. The passage of the Coal Bill was cited by
Mr. Mizutani as one reason for optimism. Although he
considers it, in the emasculated form finally approved by
the Diet, not as good as it might have been, yet he feels
that it is better than nothing. (Mr. Nagai privately in-
dicated that he feels increased coal production might be
achieved in other ways than by the Coal Bill.)
Mr. Mizutani expressed deep regret at the disgraceful
behavior of certain members of the House of Representatives
during meetings at which the Coal Bill was discussed. He
stated that it was not in accordance with democratic parlia-
mentary proceedings to resort to physical violence, and said
he believed that his feelings were shared by the other
Cabinet
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 1484
December 29, 1947.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Cabinet Members and by the great majority of members of
the Diet. Mr. Mizutani, while intimating that he is not
absolutely sure, implied that some of the Diet members
responsible for creating an uproar had received large
sums from coal operators to do everything possible to
prevent passage of the Bill.
Mr. Mizutani feels that reports of the Diet proceed-
ings which have reached America will undoubtedly affect
American belief in the sincerity of Japan's return to
democracy. He pointed out that, although great damage
has already been done to Japan's reputation, steps have
been taken to prevent such occurrences in the future, in-
cluding the resignation, under pressure, of one Diet
member (UBUKATA, Daikichi, a Democrat) and suspension of
three others. Mr. Nagai expressed the opinion that the
political maturity of the rank and file of the Japanese
is not very advanced. He said that he doubts if, even in
the case of those members of the House of Representatives
who behaved so badly during the passage of the Coal Bill,
the voters care sufficiently to vote against them at the
next election for that particular reason. Like Mr.
Mizutani, he expressed regret that such ungentlemanly
actions had occurred on the floor of the House.
Besides the passage of the Coal Bill, Mr. Mizutani
saw an additional hopeful sign of improved coal production
in the results of recent visits to the coal mines made by
him, by the Emperor, and by representatives and technical
experts from this Headquarters. He stated that these
visits are designed to improve the miners' morale by
educating them to the importance of their work and elevat-
ing them from their traditionally low social status. He
added that the results, judging by production are re-
markably good and pointed out that production of coal
during the next month is expected to be 2.8 million tons,
in comparison with slightly more than 2.4 million tons
average monthly production during the past year. Mr.
Matsuda agreed that absenteeism has decreased as a result
of such morale-building programs. Mr. Goh expressed the
opinion that the improvement in production has resulted
from the implied authority of officials of this Head-
quarters and regretted that it is the nature of the
Japanese to await direction from "the authorities".
Mr. Mizutani, when asked if he felt that sufficient
incentives have now been given to coal miners, drew at-
tention to the close relationship of increased coal pro-
ductivity to increased productivity in general, and
associated the latter, in turn, with improved distribution
of commodities to all the people. He pointed out that, in
order to achieve such distribution, it is necessary to
furnish coal miners as many of the living necessities as
is possible in order to encourage them to produce more
coal. He stated, however, that laborers' privileges de-
pend upon proper discharge of their responsibilities and
that taking advantage of their newly-won sense of importance
to make
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 1484
December 29, 1947.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
to make impossible demands would be similar to an enter-
priser taking advantage of the scarcity of goodsto obtain
"blackmarket" prices. He implied that as many privileges
as possible are now being given to coal miners.
Despite the improvement noted in coal production Mr.
Mizutani believes that it will take at least ten years to
stabilize the Japanese economy. (Mr. Goh stated that he
is much more hopeful and ascribed his optimism to qualities
which he attributed to the Japanese people, such as
dependability, stability, and industry.)
It appeared that another subject of great interest to
Mr. Mizutani, one related to the coal problem, is the
shortage of electrical power in Japan. His first remark
upon entering the house where the conversation was held
was that the lamps on the gate-posts must use a great deal
of electricity. In answer to a question concerning the
level of electrical generating capacity which will be
necessary to Japan's future economy, he estimated that, in
order to maintain the living standard authorized by the
Far Eastern Comnission, Japan would need at least three
million kilowatt hours of thermally generated electricity
and six million kilowatt hours of hydro-electrically
generated electricity per day, and that for safety's sake
at least ten or eleven million kilowatt hours per day
should be available (a total of approximately 3,600,000,000
kilowatt hours per year). He predicated this level on the
achievement of a stabilized high level of coal production.
Mr. Nagai suggested that Japan needs the aid of the United
States in financing such major installations as hydro-
electrical plants.
Mr. Mizutani stated that formerly only eight percent
of Japan's electrical energy was used for domestic pur-
poses whereas at present thirty percent is so used. In
that connection he briefly mentioned charcoal, formerly
much used for domestic heating purposes, and stated that
lack of suitable transportation is a primary difficulty
preventing proper utilization of that fuel. He pointed
out that, under pressure of the war, Japan had cut the
most readily available timber and that the remaining wood
is relatively inaccessible and presents a transportation
problem. He added that it has been discovered in some
cases that charcoal-burning trucks burn more fuel than
they can carry to the point of urban delivery.
During the course of the evening, Mr. Mizutani men-
tioned his belief that the English are, on account of their
country's geographical location, similar to the Japanese in
character and customs. With that in mind he asked if the
English are having as difficult a production problem as
Japan. Upon being told that scarcities of goods in England
might be
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No.1484
December 29,1947.
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
might be likened to those in Japan but that the dis-
tribution system there has been, so far, much more
thorough and successful, he objected that even such a
successful system would break down in the face of utter
lack of consumers' goods. He admitted, however, that
the efficiency of British coal miners is approximately
four or five times as great as that of Japanese coal
miners.
Mr. Nagai, in a discussion carried on separately
from the conversation with Mr. Mizutani and his advisers,
stated that the foreign trade program is now running
smoothly and that the number of business men admitted to
Japan has proved sufficiently large. He has been im-
pressed by the high caliber of these business men and be-
lieves that, by reason of the contacts which are being
established for the future, the whole program is much more
successful than business statistics alone would indicate.
However, he took occasion to mention the inordinately
large amount of paper work necessary in consummating con-
tracts. He stated that contract agreements alone must be
made in a total of some eighty copies for use by the
Japanese Government and the Economic and Scientific Section
of this Headquarters.
Like most Japanese, Mr. Nagai expressed gratitude for
the aid which the United States has been giving Japan.
However, he is hopeful that Japan will be able to stand
upon her own feet. In order that she may do this, raw
materials are urgently needed. He indicated that cotton
is being supplied in good quantities but that wool, coal,
and petroleum products are in very short supply. In ad-
dition, he mentioned that a schedule of anticipated flow
of raw materials over a reasonable but certain period of
time would assist in efficiently planning for production.
He stated that it would repay the United States to facili-
tate early recovery of Japanese industry to the end that
Japan may be in a position to pay for necessary imports.
It is his opinion that, in any rehabilitation program, some
modernization of plants is a vital necessity and that a
"MarshalI Plan" for Asia and the Far East would be worthy
of consideration. In addition, he expressed the hope that
in the future some arrangement could be made to utilize
American ships with Japanese crews in order to reduce the
drain on the Japanese import fund now arising from trans-
portation costs. In this regard he pointed out that fifty
percent of the cost of Japanese grain imports at present is
accountable to transportation costs.
Mr. Nagai also stated that ships built under the maximum
weight limits at present enforced (5,000 dead-weight tons)
are usable only in coastal shipping and that ships suitable
for trans-Pacific use should be between 8,000 and 15,000
dead-weight tons. He seemed to realize that Australia and
China might object to such a lenient size limitation for
Japanese
CONFIDENTTAL

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No.1484
November 29, 1947.
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
Japanese ships. In his opinion, Norway would have no
commercial reason for wi shing to restrict the Japanese
Merchant Marine since Norwegian ships are of the tramp-
steamer type.
Mr. Nagai also expressed general agreement with most
of the opinions set forth in an article (Newsweek,
December 1, 1947) by Mr. James Lee Kauffman, a New York
lawyer, who visited Japan last summer. He asserted that
he believes most thinking Japanese are of the same opinion
(in this connection, reference is made to this Mission's
despatch No. 1465 of December 19, 1947 concerning a memo-
randum of a conversation between Mr. NAMBARA, Shigeru,
President of the Tokyo University, and Foreign Service
Officer W. Henry Lawrence, Jr. of this Mission).
Roll and H. Buslun
Rolland H. Bushner
Foreign Service Officer
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
HARVARD LAW SCHOOL LIBRARY
LANGDELL HALL. CAMBRIDGE 38. MASS.
894.
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
March 31, 1948
9
Denartment of State
Washington, D. C.
33
Gentlemen;
4/13/48
Thank you for your kindness in
sending this library a complimentary copy of
the following item.
Foreign Economic Administration Enemy Branch
Japan Special Services Staff.
Administration of coal production in Japan
I am sure that we shall find this
material of interest and value in the library.
We would like to secure the following
S
item.
Policy.
Administration of coal production in Japan.
[Washington] 1946. iii 1.. 99 p.
Yours very truly,
Outtun C. Sullu
DOR
C
Anal.
Arthur.. C. Pulling,
AP
PR 26 1949
FILED
Rev.
Director
Cat.
rc

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.92)
Inreply refer to
PR141948
894.6362/3-3148
My dear tr. Pullings
This is in reply to your letter of March 31, 1948, requesting
Administration of Coal Produation in Japan, Office of Boonomie
Security Polioy, Department of State. As this document is not now,
I could obtain only one somewhat used copy which I enalose.
aa:
I hope you will find it useful in the Harvard Law Sohool Idbrary.
Sincerely yours,
DO2
CS/A
Aral.
'Rev.
Rosgell H. Whitman
Aoting Associate Chief
Division of Occupied Areas
Enolosures
Economic Affairs
-S
CR
Administration of Coal
F.
Produetion in Japan.
APR 14 1948
es
2
Mr. Arthur C. Pulling,
Harvard Law Sohool Library,
Langdoll Hall,
Cambridge 38, Massachusetts.
hmece
OE:WSMcCornick:bcb
4/13/48

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
ACTION
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 380
RESTRICTED
(For Department Use Only)
G.
Subject: Coal Production in Hokkaido.
1
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose five
copies of the combined report and conclusions of this Headquarters
and Japanese coal teams which recently toured Hokkaido.
Part one of the report states that despite alleviation of most
of the machinery and timber shortages and transportation problems which
existed during January and February, there has recently been a disturbing
production decline. The major reason for this decline has been found
to be a lack of spirit on the part of both management and labor. The
mine operators are considered poor managers, and the miners ignorant
of what a union is supposed to be. Mine operators do not maintain
discipline among the miners and miners carry on local struggles, a
communist-inspired tactic, while the Central Committee of the miners'
ACTI0N
union is negotiating in Tokyo.
COPIE
Part two of the report indicates that the recent agreement between
T0:
the National Union of Coal Mine Workers and the Federation of Coal
Mine Operators will help to restore the miners' will to work. This
agreement gives the miners a wage boost and establishes grievance
machinery. The latter has been misunderstood by miners in Hokkaido.
To offset this impression the establishment of a grievance machinery
school sponsored by General Headquarters, Military Government Teams, and
prefectural authorities, is scheduled for June. All officials agree
that basic ehanges are needed in financial, food, and incentive goods
programs, transportation, and particularly labor policies, if the
Hokkaido industry is to be permanently rehabilitated and firmly established.
These programs and policies were designed to obtain workers to replace
slave and prisoner of war labor in the mines after the surrender, but
have been badly abused and have not tmproved production to the degree
expected. General Headquarters and apanese officials agree that continued
close surveillance of the programs and policies is needed.
Part three of the report describes a visit to one of the Hokkaido
mines and indicates in detail many of the prevailing difficulties in
Hokkaido. It also indicates how officials from General Headquarters
are suggesting changes in operations by management and union officials.
Attention is also drawn to the type of argument used by Captain David
Barlow, Labor Representetive of General Headquarters, to exhort miners
to greater activity.
AUG 11 1948
This
-P Uait
RESTRICTED
Dist

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 380
June 22, 1948.
RESTRICTED
-2-
This Mission believes that the report on conditions in
Hokkaido is of special interest, because it sets forth in some detail
current problems confronting Japanese efforts for economic rehabilitation.
Similar problems exist in Kyushu, but in lesser degree (this Mission's
despatch No. 32l of June 3, 1948 concerning economic conditions in Kyushu).
As has been repeatedly pointed out, coal is the basic raw material
essential for the rehabilitation of Japan and is a matter of great concern
to both this Headquarters and Japanese leaders. All plans for the 1949
89016/6.30/76008800
2Y6cg119P.14
59y. 60
production, however, the goal is still believed possible of achievement.
An encouraging aspect of the labor picture has been the recent pledge of
the National Union of Coal Mine Workers, (Zen-Nihon Sekitan Kangyo Rodo
Kumai -- Zen-sekitan) to cooperate in meeting the nation's goal. Since
this union is communist-dominated, however, its pledge cannot be accepted
without qualification, and constant surveillance will be required.
As already mentioned above, officials agree that certain basic
changes are needed if the coal industry in Hokkaido is to be permanently
rehabilitated. One of the changes listed in the report is "adjustment
of the coal price". It is believed that too little stress is placed
by this Headquarters upon the need for adjustment from management's point
of view, as most mines are producing at & cost considerably higher than
the official sales price. Despite government loans and subsidies,
management tends to lose its incentive under such circumstances and to
regard efforts at increased production with little enthusiasm, because
they believe the result will be greater financial loss. Unless there
is to be complete socialization of the coel industry, it is considered
essential that management be provided with the most vital incentive from
a management point of view, namely ability to operate at a profit.
Enclosure:
Report on Coal Production in
Hokkaido, June 4, 1948 (five copies).
Original and ozalid to Department..
oraled loyer
ouly dit. for
863.6
WHLawrence, Jr.:mhp
RESTRICTED

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR:FAST COLMAND
Public Information Orfice
Jùne1948
Press Release:
NOTF TO CORRESPONDENTS: The report and
conclusions of SCAP and Japanesecoal
teams. which recently. toured Hokkaido is
presented in the following three articles.
PART I
No "Will To Work" Hampers Coal Production
SCAP, Military Government, and Japanese officials, who
toured Hokkaido coal. fields by train last month, are'con-
vinced this area will not contribute its share of production
until riners permanently recover their "will to work."
Officials blame this lack of will equally cn the fledg-
ling' unions which are "feeling their oats," and a lack of
spirit among mine operators whom they consider extremely bad
managers.
Comparing present conditions..with.those found.when the
tears were in the Hokkaido fields during December and Janu-
ary, Major Charles Herriem, SCAP team captain in Hokkaido
explained that through SCAP and Japanese efforts most of the
machinery and timbor shortage and transportation problems
have been alleviated.
fThe major reason for the production decline is lack
of spirit on the part of both management and labor," the
officer aeclared.
A former mining engineer and foreman in Vest Virginia,
Major Merriam explained that to revive the will to produce
among everyone at the mines, both sides are being asked by
Japanese officials to sign a written agreement that they
will do evcrything in their power to increase prouction.
"We must now wait and watch the production charts and
see if miners and mine operators are men of their word,"
the SCAP officer added.
He pointed out that managerent's responsibility is to
control the mine, and added that the poor control over
laborers observed at every mine visited started not in the
pits, but at the very top of management.
"Heads of mining companies must look into. this lack
of supervision and correct it," he said
On the union side, the SCAP team captain attributed a
great deal of the lack of will to produce on ignorance of
what a. union is supposed, to do. He advised management to
maintain proper discipline among its workers and to en-
courage them to recognize this need.
Detailed reports of Japanese team members based on
observations of the Yubari, Heiwa, Oyubari and Utashinai
mines visited during one week, led to the following con-
clusions:
(more)
(over)

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Increased deficits, in some cases rising from 40o yen
per ton loss from March to April to 120o yen per ton from
April to May, are due to increased labor costs.
Although orders issued by the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry that no supplement:ry rations were to be issued for
workers not working four hours, such rations are still being
issued indiscririnately.
Although a Japanese technical research team will visit
Hokkaido mines in June again, present production quotas are
fair and were arcurately determined to insure that each mine
does its share toward the 36,000,000 ton goa1.
Despite the wage negotiations by the Central Committee
of the Zen Sekitan Union in Tokyo, riners were continuing to
carry on local struggles which hampered production.
The ratio of surface workers to pit workers, which should
be 40 to 60, continues to be approximately the reverse with
no concrete action being taken by management to correct it.
Generally speaking food rations were arriving on time
but incentive gocds rations were delayed approximately a
month. There was no shortage of funds for housing, equiprent
and facilities, or any technical reasons for the production
decline.
The Jaranese team rembers included representatives of
the equipment material department, Commerce and Industry
Bureau, Tokyo; representatives from the funds department
production derartrent and daily necessity department of the
Coal Board, and a representative of the Labor Ministry.
-0-
PART II
Now Zen Sekitan Pact To Holp Rastoro "Will To Work"
The recent agreement betreen the National Union of Coal
Mine Workers (Zen Sekitan) and the Federation of Coal Mine
Operators will help to restore the miners' "will to work,"
in the oninion of SCAP and Hilitary Government officers who
spent lnst ronth touring Hokkaido with the SCAP. and Japanese
coal teams.
This agreerent, reachec after negotiating since December,.
not only gives the miners a wage boost, but now contains the
highly misunderstood grievance machinery provision. The union
has also pledged its cooperation in meeting the nation's
36,000,000 ton goal for the present fiscal year.
To help reduce the impression among Hokkaido miners that
grievance rachinery destroys the basic right to strike, a
grievance machinery school is scheduled to be held June 22,
23, and 24, probably at Sapporo.
Jointly sponsored by the MG team and prefectural authori-
ties, top ranking SCAP labor officials from the Economic and
Scientific Section are expected to be lecturers. They in-
clude James S. Killen, Chief of the Labor Division, Samuel
Romer, Advisor on Trade Unions; Charles Hicks, Chief of the
Lahor Relations Branch; and Richard L-G. Deverall, Chief of
the Labor Education Branch.
(more)
-2-

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
The Zen Sekitan has unionized the majority or the
100,000 miners working in the approximately 60 Hokkaido
mines, controlled in turn by approximately l0 companies,
SCAP officials point out. Only in four mines are workers
affiliated with the Tanro (Japan Federation of Coal Mine
Workers).
Officials state quite bluntly that Hokkaido. miners
must start at once to rroduce their shere of the coal
vitally needed for Japanese recovery.
They estimato that a total of 10,320,000 metric tons,
or 29 rer cent. of the goal: for the fiscal year, is the.
Hokkaido share. Production in Hokkaido has declined since
the middle of February with. only 66 per cen't of the planned
production of 246,000 netric tons being produced through
the first 20 days of ay. In the 1947 fiscal year, Hok-
kaido accounted, for 7,274,417 tons, or 92.6 per cent, of
its goa1 of 8,359,000 tohs
All officials agree that basic changes are needed in
financial, food and incentive goods progrars, transportation
and particularly labor policies if the Hokkaido industry is
to be permanently: rehabilitated and firmly established.
They list thesc points which should be emphasized:
(1) Better contrects between ranagerent and labor, detail-
ing the responsibilities and limitations of both parties,
plus.enforcement previsions.
(2) Realization by labor that it has a duty to cooperate
with ranagement and to rut in a full day's work for a full
day's pay:
(3) Pushing of labor education so that the rank and file
will know how to protect and onerate their democratic organ-
izations.
(4) Adjustrent of the coal price.
(5) Bonuses to labor for above-quota. production in amounts
consistent with the unit production cost saving, with both
management and labor sharing in the benefits of increased
production.
(6) Further revision of food and incentive goods programs
to link distribution vith full production and a'full day's
work, with a corresponding decrease for failure to work or
produce as agreed.
(7) Establishment. of adequate transportation facilities
to han le increased production without creation of a 300;000-
tons stockpile as was the case in December.
Offidials pointed out that the food; incentive goods,
and housing programs, initiated at a time when the aim was
to get workers to renlace slave and prisoner of war labor
in the mines, has been badly abused.  As a result, desrite
preferential food and incentive goods and housing programs
for miners and their families, coal mine rehabilitation
loans and loans for operating,the production rate per man.
has not improved to the expected degree.
SCAP and Jananese tears which toured the Hokkaido area
in Tecember and January, will contanue their visit through
June, officials announced. They agree dontimued close sur-
veillance of the program is heeded:  They'added that techni-
JI
(more)
(over)

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
cal experts in coal mine operetion, labor, rationing and
distribution, and trahsportation eventually will continue
surveillance on e permanent basis under MG supervision.
-01
PART III
Dascribe Visit To One Hokkaido Mine
How the SCAP and Japanese coal teams operate in the
Hokkaido fields is illustrated by their visit to the medium
sized Yayoi mine operated by the Sekai' Mining Co.
Considered by SCAP officials to be capable of pro-
ducing, with its underground force of more than 1,o0o men,
in excess of 7oo metric tons per day, the mine was approx-
imately 50 per cent below its daily quota of 447 tons per day
because of local struggles.
During the team's previous visit in January, the manage-
ment had promised to remedy some face conditions, transfer
a large niuaber of surface workers underground, and improve
worker discipline at the face.
A meeting with company officials on the second visit
last month revealed the first promise had been kept. The
mine made 84.9 per cent of its December quota, 102.9 per cent
of its January quota, 102 per cent of its February quota, 100
per ccnt of its March quota, and 43 per cent of its Aprii
quota.
 Cited as examples of poor management by the SCAp team
was the fact that although a slow-down had been in effect
since April, managers couldn't tell whether or not they had
paid less in wages for that month.
Managers claimed they had never seen a model coal labor
contract and did not know that a library was maintained by
the government with such materials at Sapporo. Copies of
coal mine contracts had been given to operators associations
months before by SCAP's labor Division, Tokyo officials said.
Discovery that 12 of the 16 union officials are paid
by management led to recommendation that since these officials
are not working for the ccmpany, they should be removed from
the payroll of the company to that of the union.
Captain David Barlow, labor representative of the SCAP
team, pointed out that the contract to be negotiated with
miners in June should contain the following provisions:
(1) Dates the contract will be in effect.
(2) A definite statement of the rights of management
and labor.
(3) Grievance machinery.
(4) A definite statement of wages to be paid in cash,
kind and bonuses.
(5) A peace clause providing for absence of lockouts
'and strikes during the life of the agrcement.
(more)
-4-

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Union problems were explored more extensively at
subsequent meeting with union officials, who admitted
carrying on three 24 hour strikes on March 29, April 1
and April 6. Between April 7 and May 9, a slowdown was
in progress, during which time the miners conducted a
communist-inspired "safety campaign," and union officials
explained they still had not recovered their "will to pro-
duct."
Questioning of Union officials revealed that while the
March 29 strike had been ordered by Zen Sekitan as part of
the Tokyo wage struggle, the April 6 strike was a local
product initiated because the miners wanted a further de-
lay in the repayment of loans granted by the company for
winter expenses.
Later in an open meeting with miners outside the mine
entrances, Captain Barlow told miners they had been ill-
informed on the need for coal production and misinformed
on reasons for non-production, including the safety struggle.
He told miners when they accepted money for a full
day's work they had not earned, they were accepting money
under false pretenses.
He warned that such irresponsible actions on the part
of Jaranese unions was leading to their suicide. He said
the right to strike must be used fairly and only as a last
resort.
He told miners they shouldn't lie cown and take abuses,
but when their country's need was desperate they had a
double opportunity to contribute. He reminded them that
when SCAP asked for increased coal production, it was for
the good of all, since the world cannot prosper economically
when one country is sick.
Captain Barlow advised miners to gct back on the job,
dig their quota, and demand that a school of instruction
be started in the mines to inform them of the meaning of
grievance machinery, good 1ahor contracts, expenditure of
union funds, proper labor constitutions, democratic nomi
nation and clection of officers, frequent and proper running
of trade union meetings.
Major Merriam concluded the visit by observing that it
was disheartening to see a mine so poorly managed. "It
is time to stop talking, wishing, thinking, and to produce
coal," he said.
-0-

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
DC/R
CONTROL COFY
UNITED STATES POLITIGAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 390
Tokyo, June 22, 1948
RESTRICTED
(Fer Department Use Only)
Subject: Coal Production in Hokkaido.
The Acting Palitical Adviser has the honer to enolose five
copies of the cembined report and conslusions of this Headquarters
and Japanese ccal teams whieh recently toured Hekkaido.
Part one of the report states that despite alleviation of most
of the machinery and timber shertages and transpertation problems whiel
existed during January and February, there has recently been a disturbing
production decline. The majer reason fer this decline has been found
to be a lack of spirit on the part of both management and labor. The
mine operators are considered poor managers, and the miners igmorant
of what a union is supposed to be. Mine operators do not maintain
discipline among the miners and miners carry on local strmggles, a
communist-imspired tactic, while the Central Committee of the miners'
union is negetiating in Tokyo.
Part two of the report indicates that the recent agreement between
the National Union of Coal Mine Workers and the Federation of Coal
Mine Operators will help to restore the miners' will to work. This
agreement gives the miners a wage boost and establishes grievance
machinery. The latter has been misunderstood by miners in Hokkaido.
To offset this impression the establishment of a grievance machinery
school sponsored by General Headquarters, Military Government Teams, and
prefectural authorities, is soheduled for June. All officials agree
that basis changes are needed in finaneial, food, and incentive goods
progrems, transpertation, and particularly labor policies, if the
Hokkaido industry is to be permanently rebabilitated and firmly established.
These programs and policies were designed to obtain workers to replace
slave and prisoner of war labor in the mines after the surrender, but
have been badly abused and have not impepved production to the degree
expected. General Headquarters and Japanese officials agres that continued
close surveillanee of the programe and policies is needed.
Part three of the report deseribes a visit to one of the Hokkaido
mines and indicates in detail many of the prevailing difficulties in
Hokkaido. It also indicates how officials from General Headquerters
are suggesting ehanges in operations by mamagement and union efficials.
Attention is also drawn to the type of argument used by Captain David
Barlow, Labor Representative of General Headquarters, to exhort miners
to greater activity.
This
RESTRICTED

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 380
June 22, 1948.
RESTRICTED
This Misfien believes that the report on conditions in
Kekkaido is of special interest, because it sets forth in seme detail
current problems confronting Japanese efforts for econemie rehabilitation.
Similar problems exist in Kyushu, but in lesser degres (this Mission's
despatch No. 38l of June 3, 1948 concerning econemic conditions in Eyusku).
As has been repeatedly pointed out, coal is the basie raw material
essential for the rehabilitation of Japan and is a matter of greet consern
to both this Headquarters and Japanese leaders. All plans for the 1949
fiscal year have been based upon a thirty-six million ton goal.
Under the current production rate this goal cannot be attained.
With efforts being made to modify programs and policies in order to imcrease
production, however, the goal is still believed possible of achievement.
An encouraging aspect of the labor picture has been the recent pledge of
the Wational Union of Coal Mine Workers, (Zen-Nihon Sekitan angyo Rodo
Dumai -- Zen-sekitan) to cooperate in meeting the nation's goal. Simee
this union is communist-dominated, however, its pledge cannot be accepted
without qualifieation, and constant surreillance will be required.
As already mentioned above, officials agree that certain basic
changes are needed if the coal industry in Hokkaido is to be permanently
rehabilitated. One of the changes listed in the report is "adjustment
of the coal price". It is believed that too little stress is placed
by this Headquarters upon the need for adjustment from manegement's point
of view, as most mines are producing at a cost considerably higher than
the official sales price. Despite government loans and subsidies,
management tends to lose its incentive under such circumstances and to
regard efforts at increased production with little enthusiasm, because
they believe the result will be greater financial less. Unless there
is to be complete socialization of the coal industry, it is considered
essential that management be provided with the most vital incentive from
a management point of view, namely ability to operate at a profit.
Enclosure:
Repart on Coal Production in
Hokkaido, June 4, 1948 (five copies).
Original and ozalid to Department
883.6
WHLawrence, Jr.:mhp
RESTRICTED
COPY
H

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVISION
FOR JAPAN
SEP-31948
No. 560
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RESTRICTED
JAR
24 PM 4 21
DEPAIMENT OF STATE
M
Subject: Attainment of 1948 Goal for Coal Productio.
antim
Ya intormati
3
hedists thi
liabatch- pleasg
The Honorable
394.6362/8-2748
Washington.
18
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 38o of
June 22, 1948, concerning coal production in Hokkaido, and torepor
that officials of this Headquarters and of the Japanese Ministry ofm
Commerce and Industry are of the opinion that the goal of 36,000,000
tons for the fiscal year from April 1, 1948 to March 31, 1949 is
still considered possible of achievement.
Reasons for Optimism Concerning Coal Production
Mr. M. A. WYATT, Coal Coordinator of the Economic and Scientific
Section of this Headquarters, in a press statement of August 16, 1948
(a copy of which is enclosed) said that production prospects are more
favorable now than at any previous time during the Occupation. He
gave as reasons for his optimistic attitude: (1) coal teams of both
the Eighth Army Military Government and the Japanese Government are
supervising coal production in the field, (2) revised coal prices
should permit mine operators to function without losses, (3) stable
labor conditions now prevailing, (4) accelerated deliveries of mine
machinery and repair materials are showing results, and (5) mine
housing, equipment, and incentive goods programs are progressing well.
9/20/4
Although in our opinion these reasons are largely true, we feel it is
too optimistic to use the word "stable" in its ordinary sense in
speaking of the present status of labor conditions. We are convinced,
however, that compared with a year ago labor conditions are greatly
improved.
While production during the four months ending July 31, 1948
was 749,000 tons short of the quota of 12,000,000 tons for that period,
Mr. Wyatt believes that the program now being developed, with the
already pledged active support of both labor and management, will
assure that this loss can be made up during the remaining eight months
of the fiscal year. In a subsequent press statement, Mr. Wyattchas
reminded those producing coal of the basic importance of coal inthe
recovery of Japan by attributing the  increase in the industrial
supply of coal avl-
able.
SEP 20 1948
RESTRICTED
DC/L
LIAISON OFFICE

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 560
August 27, 1948
RESTRICTED
-2-
Coal Production a Barometer of American Aid
Mr. MIZUTANI Chosaburo, Minister of Commerce and Industry, recently
told an officer of this Mission that he is convinced that, barring un-
foreseen difficulties, the 1948 goal is possible of attainment. He
emphasized that achievement is of the utmost importance to Japan,
because, in his opinion, coal production is one of the two major
barometers which will be used by the United States for the determination
of aid to Japan (food production being the other). He stated that Japan
cannot expect enthusiasm on the part of the United States to aid Japanese
rehabilitation unless the Japanese exert themselves strenuously to meet
goals which have been set for coal and food production.
In this connection, a comment of Mr. ICHIMADA Hisato, Governor
of the Bank of Japan, is worth noting. On several occasions he has
decried the tendency of the Japanese Government to think first in terms
of how much aid will be available from the United States and then of
what the Japanese can do for themselves, rather than the reverse. On
this point, an editorial in the Asahi of August 20, 1948, a translation
2
of which is enclosed, referred to reports that the United States
Department of the Army has allocated $51,000,000 for Japanese rehabili-
tation in the current July to January period, but emphasized that Japan
must use this aid effectively to produce tangible results if Japan is
to receive continued American aid. In the editorial, the warning of
Mr. Paul HOFFMAN, Chief of the Economic Cooperation Administration, is
also cited to the effect that the delay in progress of the rehabili-
tation program in Western Europe during the past year may result in the
curtailment of appropriations for the second year, a warning which,
according to the editorial, should also be applied to Japan.
Program for Mechanization of Coal Mines
Minister Mizutani gave as one reason for his conviction as to the
attainability of the coal production goal that the Japanese Government
has decided to expedite the mechanization of coal mines this year.
This decision is described in an article in the Mainichi of August 18,
3
1948, a translation of which is enclosed. The salient points of the
mine mechanization measures to be undertaken, following the formation
of a Temporary Coal Mining Mechanization Headquarters, are:
1. Machinery will be selected for trial manufacture.
2. Twenty-seven mines will be selected to test the
machinery.
3。
Twelve teams will be formed to expedite and study
mechanization of the mines.
4.
Foreign technicians will be invited to examine
conditions, and based on their advice, machinery
will be manufactured or imported.
Since no increase in the total number of coal miners as of April
1948 is allowed, the measures outlined are intended to save labor power
as well as to increase efficiency and safety in the mines. Also ac-
cording to the article, a sufficient amount of iron and special steel
is allotted for attainment of mechanization, but there remains the
major question of how to finance installing the machinery.
RESTRICTED
Minister

=== Page 42 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's No. 560
August 27, 1948
RESTRICTED
-3-
Minister Mizutani indicated that the Economic and Scientific
Section had given the program for mechanization of the mines
enthusiastic support. "He stated that he had been assured by General
W. F. MARQUAT, Chief of the Section, that as soon as concrete plans
are presented as to the type of experts needed from the United States,
General Marquat will request that they be sent to Japan. The
Minister stated that it was also agreed that coal experts might be
sent from Japan to the United States to observe American methods.
We have already pointed out in Section IV A of the memorandum
enclosed with this Mission's despatch No. 321 of June 3, 1948, that
coal operators are interested in mechanization of coal mines as a
means of increasing production. As indicated in the memorandum, the
officials of the Takamatsu Mine of the Japanese Coal Mining Company
hoped that some of the machinery might be imported from the United
States. It is recalled that the president of this company, who said
he had visited both Europe and the United States, observed that mines
in Japan were more like those in Europe than in America, hence designs
for equipment used in the United States would have to be adapted to
conditions in Japanese mines.
Views of Minister of Commerce and Industry
As an indication of the seriousness with which Minister Mizutani
regards the production of coal, it is known that because of his
interest in the coal bill, he gave up an opportunity to become either
the Minister of Finance or Director General of the Economic
Stabilization Board in the Ashida Cabinet in order to continue as
Minister of Commerce and Industry. He said he would like to have as
long a tenure of office as cabinet ministers in the United States
in order to have time to implement successfully the coal bill which
is to be enforced for a period of three years. He pointed out that
one of the difficulties of the Japanese Government, not only in
Japan at the present time but before the war, has been the short
duration of cabinets.
In our opinion, Minister Mizutani's interest in the coal bill
explains in large measure why he is one of the stabilizing influences
in the Ashida Cabinet. He has stated his belief that the cabinet will
continue functioning at least until after revision of the National
Public Service Law but that dissolution will be considered at that
time. He is convinced that the Social Democrats hold the key to the
present political situation and feels that the coalition of the three
government parties may be prolonged, particularly if there is an
increase in rationed rice distribution from 2.5 to 2.7 go per person
per day and if foreign aid materializes in the near future in
effective amounts. He said that he himself would like to delay
dissolution until at least the end of February because by that time
the harvest would be collected and the likelihood of attaining the
coal production goal definitely known. At that point, he stated that
he would have no objection to dissolution of the Diet and a general
election, because voters would have had an opportunity to judge for
themselves the ability of the government parties to carry out their
promises.
Summary
All factors considered, it appears to us that the coal pro-
duction goal of 36,000,000 tons will probably be met. While we
RESTRICTED
are generally

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 560
August 27, 1948
RESTRICTED
-4-
are generally in agreement with the plan for mechanization of mines,
it seems somewhat doubtful that this program will have much effect
during the current fiscal year. However, we believe its effectiveness
will be evident during the following year, for which the goal has been
tentatively set at 40,000,000 tons.
Respectfully yours,
Lorsuree
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Copy of press statement by
M. A. Wyatt dated August 16, 1948.
2.
Five copies of editorial from
August 20, 1948 issue of Asahi,
entitled "How to Meet U. S.
Assistance".
3.
Translation of article in August
18, 1948 issue of Mainichi,
entitled "Coal Mine Mechanization
Speeded".
To Department in original and hectograph.
Copy to:
American Embassy, Nanking.
863.6/631
WHLawrenceJr/eg
RESTRICTED

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's No. 560 of
August 27, 1948, on the subject, "Attain-
ment of 1948 Goal for Coal Production".
C O P Y
STATEMENT BY MR. M. A. WYATT, COAL
COORDINATOR, FOR PRESS CONFERENCE
16 AUGUST 1948, RADIO TOKYO BUILDING
Despite the fact that coal production must hit and maintain 103.4%
of goal for the balance of the fiscal year, the 36,000,000 ton goal can
be achieved.
Comparing production for 1948 with that of 1947 for the same
period, the following facts are apparent. From April through July of
1947, 8,556,895 tons of coal were produced against an annual goal of
30,000,000 tons. This amounted to 28.5%. During the same period
this year, 10,702,727 tons were produced, or 29.7% of goal. Total
production for 1947 was 29,335,446 tons. In order to produce
36,000,000 tons in 1948, it is necessary to produce at a rate 23%
greater than the production rate of 1947. During the first four
months of 1948, actual production was 25.2% greater than that of the
same period of 1947.
This record was achieved despite the fact that during April and
May, coal production was adversely affected by labor unrest and that.
during July, Kyushu suffered heavy production losses from explosions
and floods. Too, prior to the lOth of July, all mines were
operating at a financial loss so that the operators had little or no
incentive to produce.
During 1947, SCAP and the Japanese Government exercised almost
no field surveillance over coal production until late November;
whereas, this year, both Eighth Army Military Government and the
Japanese Government teams are now in the field for the purpose of
breaking bottlenecks and resolving difficulties as they arise. Work
stoppages should decline and greater production result.
With the teams in the field, the present coal price which should
permit the operators to operate without losses; the stable labor
conditions now prevailing; continuance of priority for mine machinery
and repair materials which at this time last year had only begun to
show results; and added mine housing, equipment, and incentive goods
program, production prospects are nnuch more favorable now than at
any time during the Occupation.
While production during the first four months was 749,000 tons
short of quota, a program is now being developed to make up this loss
during the remaining eight months of the year. With the already
pledged active support of both labor and management, this program
should easily achieve the recovery of earlier losses.
This program includes making available additional quantities
of U. S.-manufactured incentive goods to mines and miners who produce
more than quota.
Barring unforeseen conditions or labor unrest, production of
36,000,000 tons of coal during the 1948 Japanese Fiscal Year is
feasible and is expected to be realized.
RESTRICTED
COPY

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 560 of August 27, 1948, on the
subject, "Attainment of 1948 Goal for
Coal Production."
Nippon Times: August 21. 1948
WHL
PRESS COMMENTS
Friday, August 20
HOW TO MEET
U.S. ASSISTANCE
ASAHI—A Washington dis-
patch reports that the United
States Army Departmenashas
ese rehabilitation ithe July
to January period and $218,-
000,000 as food fundsand
$53,000,000 for fertilizer and
seeds out of the relief appro-
priations for
period ending
Worthy of
aid or
is the fact that
together, Paul
lief funds whid
of the Economic
been appropriat
Administration,
a Japan-aid programby
urope last month
of rehabilitation appropria-
the delay in the
tions designed to help recon-
pre
of the rehabilitation
struct Japanese economy has
program in Western Europe
been set in motion.
during the past one year and
For the last three postwar
sounded a warning that unless
years, Japan has been express-
the situation improved, the
ing its gratitude for American
second-year ECA appropria-
assistance..
tions may be shelved by the
With the much-awaited re-
U.S. Congress.
habilitation aid now in the
The warning is not confined
offing, Japan would do well to
to European aid, for, as a
think of meeting the U.S.
Washington dispatch stated,
assistance with tangible ac-
"this U.S. warning to Europe
tions instead of being con-
may be applied also to Japan,
tented with expressing its
Korea and China."
gratitute with more words and
The U.S. aid to Japan is pre-
resolution.
sumably aimed at helping
The United States is the
Japan back to its economic
richest and strongest nation
feet so as to rebuild into a
in the world today, to be sure,
strong democracy and, at the
but for all its riches and pro-
same time, to lessen the bur-
ductivity, it cannot be expect-
den on the American tax-
ed to satisfy all the limitless
payer. If Japan should waste
countries of the world. Nor
U.S. aid which after all is
will it he the proper way of
borne by the American tax-
answering the purposes of the
payer, his dissatisfaction will
aid for that country to extend
be reflected on the U.S. Con-
as much assistance as desired.
gress and the aid to Japan
It may be recalled that in
may possibly be scaled down
proposing the Marshall Plan
or stopped altogether.
in June last year, the United
If we wish to receive con-
States set a condition for for-
tinued American aid, it is
eignttsid requiring the 16
incumbent upon us first to help
Eurepean nations first to exert
ourselves and use the aid most
their utmost to help them-
effectively. And it is the de-
selves.
termination and efforts ón our
If erefore, the would-be part to cut our way to fortune
gard, it is possible for thelwith tha maximum effeelive-
United States to reduce the ness.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 3 to Tokyo's Despatch No.
560 of August 27, 1948, on the subject,
"Attainment of 1948 Goal for Coal
Production."
COPY
Coal Mine Mechanization Speeded - Mainichi-
18 Aug 48. Translator: M. Yasutake. UG)
Full Translation:
At yesterday's cabinet meeting, the Government decided to expedite
the mechanization of coal mines as a part of a policy to produce
36,000,000 tons of coal this year.
No increase over the total of 472,000 coal miners as of the end
of April is allowed and the aforementioned measure is intended to
save labor power, increase efficiency and attain safety in mines
through the mechanization of mines. Efforts will be directed for the
mechanization of transportation facilities and coal-surface work this
year. The Temporary Coal Mine Mechanization Headquarters will be
established within the Coal Board with Deputy Director YOSHIDA of the
board as its chief to push through the increased output of coal.
Salient points of the mine mechanization measure are:
1. Machinery which needs speedy improvement and intro-
duction, hammer drillers, coalcutters, iron poles in coal
surface, filling machinery, air compressors and cars for
transportation workers will be selected for trial manufacture
under the direction of manufacturers and the Industrial
Technique Board.
2. Twenty-seven mines will be selected to test the
machinery.
3. Twelve teams to expedite and study the mechaniza-
tion of mines will be formed during August to investigate
the machinery and the facilities of trial mines. Priority
will be given to machinery of a superior quality in the
distribution of funds and materials.
4. Foreign technicians will be invited and the manu-
facture and importation of machinery will be made, based on
their advice.
Productivity of Japanese Mines Extremely Low
A measure to expedite the mechanization of mines was decided at
yesterday's cabinet meeting. The coal production facilities of our
country are extremely poor as compared with these of foreign countries.
This is clearly shown by the low output of coal in our country.
The UNITED STATES with 450,O00 coal-miners and BRITAIN with
600,000 miners produced 572,000,000 and 183,000,000 tons of coal,
respectively, in 1945. The output amount per miner in these countries
is 1271 and 308 tons respectively. JAPAN produced 29,355,000 tons of
coal in 1947. If the number of Japanese miners in that year is
estimated at 430,000, the annual output per miner is only 68 tons or
only one fifth of a British miner.
RESTRICTED
The recent

=== Page 47 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 560 of
August 27, 1948.
RESTRICTED
-2-
The recent measure decided by the cabinet intends to abolish the
method of digging coal by hand and to increase efficiency by introducing
coal-cutters and mechanizing transportation facilities. JAPAN has 400
sets of coal-cutters, but only about 50 of them are being actually used.
Efforts will be directed to the improvement of 10 kinds of
machinery including coal-cutters and coal-surface conveyors this year.
Things which must be done immediately are (1) to make full use of the
present machinery, (2) to distribute the superior-quality machinery,
and (3) to direct efforts to the mechanization of mines in HOkkAIDO.
The adoption of these measures will save labor power to a consider-
able extent. The mechanization of mines is also necessary from the
standpoint of maintaining safety in mines. A sufficient amount of iron
and special steel is allotted for the attainment of this objective, but
the question is whether mines will be able to install the machinery
because their enterprise funds for the purchase of machinery are limited.
The Coal Board believes that the annual production of 40,000,000
tons of coal will be realized in five years through the mechanization of
mines.
COPY
RESTRICTED

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.89)
United States Political
for Japan
Tokyo, Apr111949
Mo
No. 208
INTE NATIONAL TRACE PFINCY
OFFICE CF
m
RESTRICTED (For Department Use Only)
APR 14 1949
BEPARTMENT OF STATE
REC'D
Subject: Staff Study on Increused pal Production
APR. 12
ACTION
ITP
The acting Polit ical Advl sur for J pan han he lonor to re-
INFO
fer to this 1ission's espch To. 07 lat ed Aprd: , 1949, ro
FR
garding the drive for incre ced Ja anee, coal proluet on, and to
DOR
1/
enclose a copy of a m oran bom d.te1 Farch 27, 194?, preparel by
FE
the Econanic and Selentific Sec ion (Ess), Gon ral leal uarters,
OLI
SoAP, und sent to the Ciief f Staff of the Heud uarsere.
Entitled "Staff Study on Increased Joal Prolucti," t!s
0
memorandum contains specifi: inforation regarding ataps lrirg
taken by ss to assist Japan se nino o  ratory in t ir attempt
to reach the 42,000,000 metrir ton oa1 set by S0AP for the 19
/4-749
fiscal year commencing April i, 1949. It will be notel thet ESs
has submitted to tho Department of the iumy roquesrs for txptnli-
ture of ERoA finds to t, xtunt of 1oc, o00 fer purcliase ? c
mining replacement and repair equipment during 1949 tog thor with
5200,000 for new coal hov ling an1 loaiing equ1pm nt. A sl...11ar
program totaling 200,00) rr 1950 has 100 boon sulmitt1 to 1hn
Department of tho Arm.
Thie mamorandum iudi tos that ardlogrm ln o lon
ant by Lss to the Dagmrtnint f thn Ay rugueat in hat ati
initiatod to nogotlaton ontract ror a aurviy af the Japanann c al
induatry by a oompotnt d lirtl Alrisan onsinot rimn t
the viow to dovelopin Dirtlier ye nt reana of lagy vtng preant
produot. whiah ia fnatrel ty tho alnormally low ton f al
proluoed per miner per l co pared witl other meger a prelu iny
21
aountriom. a nnpy uf thta  loram, munt lareh 25, 1 nlomol. Tntion
1o al so made of the domlre os thin lead guartena lo t lor polertlon
of a group of Japanoee coal tutne anl Induatrtal nnoar to le
mant to the United Staento ly lain anal  l d no
in Illinade, hent uaky, Went Virginia, Ponnrylvania, Karyind ml Vi
ginia. A projmed lllllo aajnlluna  ld ad  or
coal loaling and unlenling cuntarn, wiilo opportunliy woull 1. a?
forded for conoullatt me will appro riata ofriolalo if uh. Huroal
of Mino, Dapartment of thi. Intarior, t pormonnal or li Amnt...
tion of Manufaoturar uf Conl : iuin: Machinory. It 1 alat l Lla.
the sugeeated trip could bu noonmaplislhed withi ) lay un' would
require
APR 261
RESTRICTED
ACTION COPY

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.94)
Despatch No. 208,
April 7, 1949.
-2-
require the services of one SCaP repre ntative and sis Japanese.
inclosures:
1. Copy of repcanlom dated Rarch 9, 1949,
on subject "Staff Study on Incroased
Coal Produc tion.
2. Copy of telegram snt Harch 25, 1949
by 3o to Department of the Arny.
Parchment Kat to Departaent
523.6
CHBoehringer:re
lng
RESTRICTED

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.
dated April 7, 1949 from the United
RESTRICTED
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Staff Study on.
Increased Coal Production."
(COPY)
GENERAL ELADRUARTIRS
SUPREE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Economic and Scientific Section
29 March 1949
MEMORANDUN FOR: Chief of Staff
SUT:
Staff Study on Increased Coal Production
THE PROBLEM
1. To establish an educational survey group for Japanese
coal mining engineers and technicians for the purpose of inprov-
ing local coal production.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEN
2. The coal production target for the Japanese Fiscal Year
1948-49 was set at 36 million tons and it is ustimated that. total
production will reach 34.5 million tons.
3. The coal production target for JFY 1949-50 has been set at
42 million tons of high grado coal to  rovile for mininaum require-
ments in support of accelerated induatrial and axport productione
in consonance with the ruoant nine-point stabilization diroctive.
4. Surrent aotiono duuigned lo atimulate conl proluction will
be continued during the caning yoar in:luding lispatch of scAp cual
teame into the fiuld for conuultation on labor and maragament prob.
leme, distribution of inouitivu goods and axpmlition of proluction
of equipment for the coal minarn. In adlitlon, 3clor!" lgal lar leen
iomued whioh diroote the Japallorn Jovainmont lo takn cunerato mothode
during the coming ywar to rationulian thn coal intistry.
5. In addition lo thiu ahiwe thn following naparats aotione
have boon talien as complemantury actinnn doaigned to maximin Inal
ooal produotion:
a. Statavide recrultaunt wad rouuontad for iwo coul min-
ing engineer oxperle to cono tc Japan on i TDy basis Onw ongi-
neer (Mr. Barry) is at promunt doing field wirk in Kynishim. The
second enginwer (Mr. Paulick) is in the Hokkaido coal fislds. Thee
engineers will assist SCAP and military pursonnel in on-the-spot
investigations for bottlenocks now uxieting in major coal mines
and recommend mechanical and technical impro ants conad dored
feasible.
b. Requiremente
RESTRICTED

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. l to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 208
April 7, 1949
-2-
b. Requirements for repair parts necessary to place
existing American mining machinery in full operation and require-
ments for new equipment to be purchased under the EROA program dur-
ing 1949 have been forwarded to the DA. These requests total
$100,000 for replacement and repair equipment during 1949 tcgether
with 200,000 for new shoveling and loading equipment. A similar
program totaling 200,000 for 1950 has been submitted.
c. A separate radio has been dispatched to DA request-
ing action be initiated to negotiate a contract for survey of the
coal industry by a competent and qualified engineering firm with
a view to developing further ways and means of improving present
production.
6. The need for improving methods of technique of Japanese
coal mining is clearly indicated in the following table wiich shows
comparative production figures between Japanese miners and those of
other countries:
Tons Produced per Miner per Day and Month
(25-day month)
Tons per liner
Tons per Miner
Country
per DAY
per MONTH
America
5.9 tons
147.50 tons
Britain
1.23
30..75
11
Czechoslovakia
1.55
11
37.75
11
Poland
1.27
11
31.75
11
France
67
16.75
11
Belgium
62
15.50
11
Japan (1948)
.246
6.15
11
Japan (est. 1949)
264"
7.10
!
Japan (Average 1930-34)
16.30
11
7. An indication that this Hendquarters would consider solection
of a group of Japanese coal mining anl induatrial engineere to be ment
to America to atudy methoda there was provided in an informal memo-
randum to the Ministry of Comnerce and Induatry from the Chief of
the Induatry Division, Ess.
B. An outline of quali fieations for selecting Japanese per.
sonnel to make such a survey as indicated above has been developel
by interested agencies within this Bection.
9. A recommended itinerary has been developed for the proposed
trip which would cover coal arons in Illinois, Indiana, hentucky,
West Virginia, Pennaylvania, Laryland and Virginia. Appropriate
mines can be selected in those areas which present production prob-
Lems similar to those oncountored in Japan and which would provide
the
RESTRICTED

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.84)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 208
April 7, 1949
- 3 -
the widest scope of inspeetien for modern echanised preduetion.
Additional inspectiora would inc lude centers af nmajer loading end
unloading of coal and lso there would be provided consultation
with appropriate official. of Bureau o? Vines, Depertment of In-
terior, and personnel of the Associel ion of Fanufatarers of Ceal
Mining Fachinery.
10. It is antiei atet the the atove trip oba be scephisted
within the go-dey perie wd ombt p e es of me sr
representative and six Japanse
CONDLRDICNS
11. Every possille fere sboml b oel ta naure that
the Japanese coal produe r  er is a
compliehed and anoreaset i pwvements ese a hievel in she poal
mining industry beoa of  ese rl 1 of  win th
Japanese economy.
12 The proposet trip d  y ae rert peneft
resulting from the ducation of a roprosont alive crese-setion of
Japanese coal mining porsom 1 but oubl previle a grest preocl-
cal stimulus to the industry as a whele.
RECOMENDATION
13. That the atosche ro ( )  rine  y
and soope of tr bpo tert p 
ing arrangements be made ilicetel above.
14 a Matual esoures Sostlon, S, 8
b.. 7-1
Pgor merat,  S Arm
sbef, kor d  n
RESTRICTED

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosuré No. 2 to Despatch No. 208
dated April 7, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japen,
Tokye, on ths subject "Staff Study on
Increased Coal Preduction."
(COPY)
CENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREE CONSLNDER FOR THE AILIED POWRS
OUTGOING MSSAGE
UNCLASSIFIED
ESS/IND
NTT:/AISVAOCAV/
25 March 1949
250543
FROM:
SCAP
10:
DEPT CF AUNY..
.PRTORT
4-14574 For CSCAD ECON. This radio il
Part 1. Reural  so3, sulgert is "Survey e5 
Produxtion in Japan."
1. To dute only one porpoal has ben re eivul F U. S.
cerns seuking to survey coal production in Jpan. e vs
of Allon and Garcla havu hean offered uhroul. rupreuontative here.
of Intornatlonal Enginuera, Ine. (Nr George T. Walker). The t rus
of the basic proposal are otained in a mmnorandum titlod "
Production of Coal in Japan - Proposal," opy of whl:h w. fur le
to the office of Mr. Draper unler date 14 Tavumber los.  rpr
sontatlve of Allon  Garuia (A. C. IcCullough) wan mil!ulol
vioit Japan duriny Docember or January, whille arnut.: Chi. 
Indioated by our 2x 32045. It vs li: I pate) thal s. i visit d
provide Lasie for more conerut, Al mclsalon or the last p pal.
Subaoquently it waa inlloatd ut PJulloh' Shin rip d 
cannoled and therofore no further a tlon was l aken wtt. regart i
this propoaal sinee it was coutdered tlat more cenerot termsf
rafarenco were roqulrod to negotlate puch cont ract.
2. A Nr. Antoine Ray lond (now in the Unitod Suate) w. vy: 
Japan during Deoember, inlicatel informal int ereat in t!
but no fimm offor was made ly l.im.
3. No colunitimente have bnen made lera lo y U. . fiims r
garding muah murvey nor have any otliar formal or infoital propoasl
benn rooalved.
Part 2. The critical noed or voal mahar wap nulon of
Japan' coal production one of the njor ubjootives of the urrent
stabilization efforts, therefora definite interest y: ts here for
clcomplishment
RESTRICTED

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No.. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 208
April 7, 1949
-2-
accomplishment of a col-mining survey by a qualified firm, which
survey should include inspections of 58 major coal mines and pre.
sentation of authoritative proposal hich puld indicate actions
necessary to improve (a) managerial operations, (b) labor tech-
niques, and (c) equipment installations and operations designed
to increase mine produetion.
Part 3. In view of the importance of increasing coal pro-
duction it is considered that if such survey could be acccaplished
within a reasonable time (4 months) and at a reasonable cost (not
to exceed s60,co0) that it would warcant eppropriate expenditur from
either SCAP Commercial Account or appro riated funds that might be
available.
Part 4. In view of previonsly indicated shertages of son-
petent engineers in this field it is considered impractical to at-
tempt to negotiate contracts for such a survey fron here since it is
improbable that competent firms would be interested in coming to
Japan for necessary investigation purposes without prior cortract.
Request comments sarliest as to feasibility of obtaining services of
qualified firm for such survey and of the use of good offices of the
Department of Army to assist in negotiating appropriate ceniracte.
OFFICIAL:
APPROVED:
/s/ H. R. Garrett
R. M. LEVY
for W. F. MARCUAT
Colonel, AFD
Major General, U. S. Arry
Adjutant Goneral
Chief, Sconomio and Selentlfic Sertion
Copies to:
CC
c/3
G-4
NR
CPS
EsS (Return)
Approved by C/3 24 March
RESTRICTED

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
BT
Action Assined to
Aotion Tamen
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
NO. 207
Tokyo, April 7, 1949
RESTRICTED
Subject: Drive for Increased Japanese Coal Production
REC'D
APPL.15
OFFICE OF
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
ACTION
The Honorable
ITP
The Secretary of State,
APR 26 1949
Washington.
IãO
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FR
Sir;
DCR
FE
I have the honor to report that a determined drive for in-
OLI
creased Japanese coal production during the 1949-50 fiscal yeer
894.6362/4-749
OTD
commencin: April 1. 1949, has been undertaken by the Economic
MINES
and Scientific Section (Ess), General Headquarters, Supreme Com-
COM
mander for the Allied Powers (SCaP). Such increased production
LABOR
is considered in this Headquarters as being basic for Japan's
NSRB
economic rehabilitation.
The present despatch presents information regarding the
C
steps recently taken by ESS to expand productmon. In brief, they
call for elimination of malpractices and abuses in the coal mining
industry with the view to increased efficiency and production
without increase in coal prices and also without benefit of sub-
sidies and loans. On the other hand, propoaals are made by ESS
for assistance from the United States, these proposels including
provision for purchase of essential mining equipment in the United
States, and the despatch to the United States of a Japanese tech-
nicel Mission to study efficient Americen mining techniques. Ade
ditionally, it will be noted. ESs has proposed to the Department
o the Army that a technical survey by qualified American engi-
neore be mado of the Japanese coal mininy industry with the view
t  ppovod nethods of production.
Meanwhile. it may be noted that provision is also mado for
continuation of actions undertaken by SCAp to stimulste coal pro-
duction during the past fiscal yeer. These include dispatch of
SCAP coal teems into the field for consultation onlabor and man-
agoment probleme, distribution of incentive goods and expaditious
production of equopment for the coal mine rs. Toward the end of
the fiscel year. Ess also recruited two Americen coal mining ex-
perts to come to Japan on a temporary duty basis. These engineers
are now in Japan assisting SCaP and military personnel in on-
the-spot investigations for bottlenecks now existing in major
coal
RESTRIOTED
MAY 4 1949
NTERNA IONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
FILED
APR271949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DMR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
To
207.
April 7, 1949.
-2-
coal mines. They are prepared to recomend mechanical and tech-
nical improvements considered feasible.
Announcement that a oal of 42,000,000 metric tons had been
established as the coal production goal for the 1949-50 fiscal
year was made on March 2, 1949, by Iir. M. A. WYATT, Coal Coordi-
nator, Industry Division, Ss. This total represents an increase
of 16.6 percent from the 1949-49 oal of 36,000,000 tons. (Actual
output during 1948-49, as reported to Nr. yatt ap to April 5,
1949, amounted to 34,776, 700 tons, equal to 96.6 percent of the
goal set for that year.)
1/
nclosed is a copy of Mr. wyatt's press statenent hich con-
tains the pertinent observation to the effect that "since coal is
the foundation of the entire Japanese econciic rehabilitation and
stabilization effort" the achievement of the 42,000,C00-tona1
is "absolutely imperative."
Formal nctification to the Japane se Goverrment of th setting
up of the new goal without increase in coal prices and itlout re-
sorting to deficit financing, together with a statenent of meesures
to be taken by that Government to realize the goal by correcting
malpractices and increasing efficiency, were contained in a memo-
randum dated March 10, 1949, sent by this Headquarters to the Jap-
anese Government. A copy of this directive (SCAPIN 194) is en-
2/3/
closed, together with a copy of a press release relating thereto
issued March 12, 1949, by the Public Information Office, General
Headquarters, Far East Command.
The following comments regarding the steps considered neces.
sary for the Japanese Government to take in order to realize the
42,000,000-ton goal and to rationalize the coal mining industry
are t sed on information supplied to an officer of this l'ission
by Mr. Wyatt:
1. Regarding prompt payment of wages, the practice of hold.
ing up payment of wages has heretofore been very general throug out
the industry. Some mine operators have held up payment of all or
part of the wages on the grounds that they in turn had not re-
ceived funds due them from the official Coal Distribution Kodan.
which conducts distribution and sale of coal. Plhe majority of
mines during February this year paid only about s0 percent of
wages due for January. However, this situation has since improved,
with payments in March for wages earned in February being made
at a higher rate than previously.
2. The situation with respect to fictitious overtime pay-
ments has thus far been "scandalous," especially with regard to
unmarried diggers living in bachelor dormitories. These workers
connive wi th timekeepers to work overtime whenever possible, they
being absent from work to a large extent during regular working
hours. Absenteeism among these unmarried dig ers has averaged
20 percent
RESTRICTED

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 207,
April 7, 1949.
-3-
20 percent compared with an overall absentee rate of 10 percent
for the entire industry.
3. Regarding the requirement that no further hiring of sur-
 workers, clerical or administrative personnel, except where
necessary to open new mines, be undertaken until the everall ratio
of underground to surface workers for the entire industry has
reached a 60-40 ratio, it may be noted that at present about 50
percent of all employees are underground workers. Considering
laborers only, however, underground workers account for alrost 57
pereent with the remaining 43 percent representing surface workers.
The tetal employment force for the entire coal industry is indi-
cated by the following figures for the second l0-day period of
March 1949 compared with corresponding totals for the first 10-day
period of April 1948:
March 1949
April 1948
Tetal number of employees:
502,403
514,335
Office workers and technicians
49,336
48,268
Laborers: underground
256,877
245,727
Laborers: surface
195,690
220,340
The relatively numerous surface laborers are employed for
hardling coal, operating machine shops, preparing mine tinbers,
and similar operations. With respect to underground laborers, a
disproportionately large number are employed on operations not di.
rectly related to coal extraction. An example of this feature in
Japanese coal mining is afforded by the Yubari mine, Largest in
hokkaide (inspected by Mr. Wyatt in late March 1949), vhere only
1, 2o0 workers are classed as diggers and shovelers actually working
at the coal faces out of a tota1 of 1l, Bo0 employees. At this mine,
however, the large number of other underground work rs raises the
ratio between underground to surface workers to 45- respectively.
Throughout the industry it has been found that teo many lab rers are
engaged in tunneling and other underground werk not directly related
to present production.
4. With respect to the giving of priority, after wages, to
payment for expendable operating supplies and equipment, it should
be noted that action along these lines is urgently necessary to pre-
vent further stockpiling by coal mines of equipment and materials
not now required for inereased production and purch 1 by means of
subsidies and government loans (for which there appears to be little
or no intention to repay). Such stockpiling has been a conmon fea-
ture in the industry, together with the expenditure of large sums
for exploration purposes aimed at increased production "when the lid
is off," i.e., when the Occupation is ended. Coal mine oporators
have received subsidies during the past two and one-half years at
the rate of about Yen 40 billion a ear. Additionall, they have
found
RESTRICTED

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.87)
.207
April 7, 1949.
-4-
1
found that "it is much easier to mine the Japanese treasury than
the coal" (to quote Er. Vyatt) by demandin and receiving very sub-
stantial loans from the official Reconstruction Finance enk. (Theme
loans, according to the Japanese Sconomic Stabilization Bcard,
amounted to Yen 12,600 million at the end o December 1948.)
5. The requirement that coal mine companies adopt uniform
and accurate accounting systens is very important as a step te poe-
vent stoek-piling of equipment and aatoriels not nos repired for
aspanded production and to prevent further jusgline cf ascounts
in order be make sore noney by shosdng oge loeses ther y minine
l at a profit" (egain  Er. at)
6. Reference is made to be repuirmeat, hi may  cen
staered seceseury by sss to rsure duplee ntutio
wey suree, to have the Japeneoe Coverp ent dareet the Coel pister
tow eden to py revenee froe poel ee sote s o 
wounte for payment ef take, Legibsaty gee, supp  p
pns eauipent oand other suppliesy atr pey ent fror  aooots to
b de pureoent to regulatens epprove by soar. ese eoe it l
mot be meeessary te resort te the blocked account sst r ard thet
the operstions of the Coal Distributien Koden will  turned bt to
mine opecatore. Thds Lodan presently has l,coo uaplopeee and re
quested cmployment of 3,000 additional empleyees whr the 1949-90
Japanese Soverrnent budget whs compiled. The latter pe hest vas
refused by Ess, hich hopee wdthin saree pe he te avee te eden
a lisled
As might be expectel, Jepanese coal rine operatere, ae atout
year ae stated they coula produce only 32, soo,oos  ing
the 194 -49 year, objected strenuously to aopsion s  4a, c0s,co
son ol for 1o-s0. cr caer to pe 4o.oy 
this period wes rejected by sse, which refe cer thebors
The much boevier prewar end wartide prodrce whie  eb 
f 37,309,000 tons in calender 1940. Cerrecton of malpr sice 
aooes in the industey, ar provided Per in Sokrdr leo, together yath
as ptien of a poliey to mine coal in sufficient emounts raer r
to Divert parcial attention to post-Cccupation prodhuetios, vill pr
mumably enable the Japane- se coal mining inbostry to ree e
42,o00,ooo-ton oal. ts sussestion put forth in the -par-se press,
bviously insbigated by the coal mine eperators, that eprn's csel
mines re being exhausted in order to meet Sccupatien peeds, is r
futed by ss which peints to the known recoverable deposits of 16
billion tons of coal in Jepan, according to Tr. Wyatt.
In order to counter the widespr ad and bitter re etien in the
J apanese press which greeted the anncuncement of the 42,c00, 0oo-ten
goal, Mr. Myatt on March 15, 1949, issued enother press stat ment
4/ (hopy enclosed) in which he stat ed in part that:
"There is ample evidence warranting wholesale
critici sm of the manner in which the coal industry is
presently
RESTRICTED

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
Tolyo's Despatch No. 207,
April 7, 1949.
-5-
presently operating. Management and Government have
not exercised their responsibility to mina ccal effici-
ently and to maximize output. Costs have been consi-
derably inflated through gross inefficiencies and mis-
management. while many cost elements presented by the
operators are apparently fictitious. Recent actions of
some Coal Operators, Government Officials, and segments
of Labor suggest that their objective is to force an up-
ward adjustment of coal prices."
Referring to S0APIN 1984 and the 42,000,000-ton oa1 for 1949-
50, Ir. yatt stated that "this is the first formal implementation
of the nine-point economic directive issued to the Japanese Govern-
ment by S3AP on 19 December 194" and that "the directive leaves no
room for doubt as to SCAP's attitude toward the necessity for meet.
ing the 1949 JFY (Japanese fiseal year) coal and for the inmediate
rationalization of the coal industry." Mention was mlso made of
SCaP's cffer to render every possible eid to assist the Japanese
in meeting the goal. Such aid, it was pointed out, wotld include:
(1) the importation of mining machinery from the United States to-
gether with repair parts for American-made machinery now in the
mines, (2) technical advice to the operators by two expert con-
sultants now in Japan.
Mr. Wyatt also revealed that two other proposals are presently
heing considered by SoaP to aid coal produetion One proposal
alls for  survey of Japanese coal mines by  firm of merican
consulting engineers with the view to mechani e Japanese unes to
the reatest extent possible. The second proposal, unaerstecd to
have been made informally by Ss to the Ministry of Commeree nd
Industry, is to arrange a trip to the United States y six Japanese
engineera to study American metbods end technigues in coal mines
where conditions resembling those in Japan are found.
Representative comment from the Japanese press on the drive for
incrcased coal preduction ia contained in editorials frem the March
13 and 17 issues of the English edition of the Osaka Lainicht. Csake,
and in the Nippon Times. Tokyo, respectively. Copies of  se di-
5/6/
torial.s are snclosed.
The Osaka Lainichi stated thnt the npais account's of the coal
nines have steadily increased from an aggregate of alout Yen 13, e0e,
000,000 at the end of November 1943 to Yen 17,000,000,000 at t
end of January 1949, and that taxes in arrear represent e lerge
part of these accounts. The Yainichi want on to say hat "is is
elear that the unpaid accounts caniot be left as they are Some-
thing must be done to li puidate them. Some realistie and pational
foroula for their disposition must be prepared in order that the
red ink will not be finally liguidated through resort to Goveumert
subsidy, that is, by being foisted en to the shoulders of th tex-
payers."
The
RESTRICTED

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.94)
1 0. 207,
April 7, 1949.
- 6 -
The Nippon Times editorial pointed out that, becaus orithe
extranely unfavorable financial condition of the coal mines,
the coal industry is "raising a terrific howl" because of ik
SCiP directive for expanded coal production, and that "the wails
and lamentations ara pitiful to hear." After assertin that "th
coal industry is being round between the upper stone of a ysi-
cally i.upossills task and the nethar store ot hopelessly iapos-
sille financial conditions," the Times then called the nine oper-
ators to tas as follows:
What the coal industry--ineluling oeth the oper-
ators and the workera--refuses to acknowledge is thet
this is nct the whole picture, however. It is tmie as
far as it oes, but it lsaves loo much wntold. Doesn't
it cost Yen 3,344 for each ton of coal ined sinply be.
cause both the operators and the workers irrespensibly
feel that the government will foot the bill no matter
how wastefully they carry or. their work? Isn't it pa
sitle that, with proper effort, tho cost of prciuction
can be drastically reduced so thet the industry can break
even at the present official prices--or at least at sore
point reasonably close to it?"
The Timeg thereupon put its editorial fingers on one of the
flagrant abuses in the industr', all of whic! tave  nded to boost
production costs cut of all raason. It asserted trat it way be
too much to expect that all waste and abuse can be ' lessly
elixinated over-night "but it may not bo as unreasenahl: and in-
practical as it sounds to dumand that the cosl industry prn: ice
42,000,000. tons of coal next :ear without benefit of pric in.
crease, government subsidiys or leficit financing. 1 wll nean
rough going for the vested intarests of the coal in lustr., c?
course, but it will be a Godsend to the nation at lar.
The Tires editorial (para reph two, stated that  usrt coal
production costs averag Yon 3,344 per ton (cert.aini.  es iona'1e
figure), with sales price, lovever, bein cfficially at
Yen 1, 000 : ar ton and with the ciffarurce of Yon 2,3i  in id
by the Cove lunent to the nines as mibsid. According to iaforma-
tion obtained fron the apanese Seonomic Stahilization Foam, Tokyo,
tl.ls statemont is mislosding since only 'v: o-callad isic indis-
tries ary peruitted to tuy corl at the Yan I, coo per n rat:, all
ollur ocnswolers being re puired to pe: Yn 3,3/44. The Cavered in-
dustries include marine transportatior, tas and coke, y iron and
steel materials, soda ash and canstic sola, an: sulynr:e of monia.
Accordirg bo the Loard, such ubsidization hay become necrssary by
existence of factors for ict the erierprises should not le held
reaponsitle, e.g., the low price policy of the Govarntant, low
operatlonal rate of industr., change in raw material surpi, anndi-
tione, et cetera. Nevertheless, the Boar' stated, the 'sles
will constituts a difricult pusstion in the lignment of nternal
and intornational price levols through ths osablishuant of a single
exchango rate for the an and forein currencics
às
RESTRICTED

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.92)
207,
-7-
As previously statod, coal production during ti 19e-49
fischl year was reported up to April 5, 1949, at 34,776,700
thetric tons. This total, which.is still subject to rovision
1s slightly higher than the tentative total roported by the
in its Consolidated Heekly Operations Report isoued April 2, I949.
from which the folloving date were extracted:
Coal Production. Janan. Fiscal Year 1948-49
(In thousand metric tons)
District
Goal
Production
Percent
Hokkaidc
10,320.0
9,260.1
37.7
E. Honshu
3,490.0
3,351..7
96.0
W. Honshu
3,070.0
3,05€.2
99.6
Kyishu
19.120.0
19.066.2
22.7
36,000.0
34,731..2
?9.5
The relativ ly poor showing by Ho' kaido is attribnted in
large part to labor trouhles, primarily Conmunist inspired, in-
cluding strikes and slow-down tactics. The 194a-45 protuction
for the, ent 1re country, as reported above, vepresents an 18.4 per-
cent i1.  ase over the 29,335,466 tona. produced during the 194 -48
fiscal year.
In conclusion, it y be statel tlat, although  friau
Lis Pactny the coal industry loom Taree, there  Is pear to le
aufficient reason, siven espncielly soAr s det umdnation uc reall
cl.: 1,000,000-ton 2oal and dllin nees to tolp alon. h 2in.
viously stated, to teliave that Japan' 192-50 coa? rosuction 111
raach or xcead that coal.
Respectrully ours,
at
1. J. Sabeld
Duclosurest
1. Copy of press statoment issued ty
Nr. patt, Coal Coordinator, ss,
on Meret 3, 1949;
2.  30 1020
, eubjuct: Stsiliration of
the Coal Induatry";
Yr. att on Mare. 12, 1949
Hr. yatt on arl 5, 7749
/2. cops
YESTRICTED

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.90)
1969
Copy of editorial. ontitled "The Coal
Industry and 9-Peint Program" fror
Karch 13, 1949 1ssue of Oake Linichi
Copy of editorial ontitled "The Demand
on th, Coal Industry' from Harch 17,
1945 1ssue f Miron Tinas. Tokpo.
523.6
CHDochringer:re
Paichment M t to Department
gwrit
RESTRICTED

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 207,
dated April 7, 1949; from United States
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
UNCLASSIFIED
the subject "Drive for Increased Japa-
nese Coal Production."
(COPY)
PRESS STATEMENT TO BE RELEASED BY IR. M.A. WYATT
COAL COORDINATOR, ESS/INDUSTRY
2 March 2749
Forty-two million tons has been officially astatlished as
the coal production goal for the 1949 Japanese Fiscal Year.
This means that the monthly produc tion must average 3 1/2
million tons; a rate which has not been achieved in any single
month since the beginning of the occupation. At the same time it
is planned to raise the average calorific value of the coal pro-
duced to 5,730.
This means that the average efficiency per worker per month
must be raised from the current 6.6 to approximately 7.6 tons.
Certainly this should not be too difficult when we consider that
from 1930 to 1934 the average worker produced 19 tons per month.
If such efficiency could be maintained at a tine when no un-
 ual economic pressure or necessity existed, it is well within the
galm of reality to expect a minimum efficiency of 7.6 tons per
worker per month now that it is necessary for Japan to produce at the
maximum possible rate, if she is to survive economically.
Since coal is the foundation of the entire Japanese economic
rehabilitation and stabilization effort, the achievement of this
goal is absolutely imperative!
The mining techniques which contributed to an efficiency of
19 tons per month during the 1930 - 1934 period must be revived and
improved. This is the joint responsibility of Government, Manage-
ment and Labor. However, SCAP is prepared to give every possible
aid in improving old methods and in developing new technigues which
can contribute greatly to the achievement of the 1949 production
goal. To this end SCAP has requested that two coal  ine engineers
be sent from the United States to act as consultants to the Japa-
nese coal mining industry and to ESS, SCAP. These men will do an
at-the-mine job of mechanization and modernization. Phey will ad-
vise the operators as to the proper use of the machinery presently
available, and as to what tipes of machinery should be developed
to most greatly increase efficiency and production, as well as to
improve quality.
While it will be possible for these consultants to visit only
a few mines, engineers and production men from other mines will
be invited to inspect the mines visited and to study the improvements
made
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 207
April 7, 1949.
-2-
made, in order that they may apply similar methods to their own
operations.
The first of the two Coal Mine Consultants, ir. Richard H.
Barry, has arrived in Japan and is now in Kyushu where he will
spend the next 60 to 90 days. Some of the mines Mr. Darry will
visit have recently purchased new mechanical equipnent. He will
recommend techniques for use and possible improvements of mine
machinery which will tend to improve quality and efficiency and
to increase production.
Nr. Barry is eminently qualified for this work thiough over
twenty-five years of developing and operating coal mines for
United States Steel Company and other large coal mining ccmpanies
in America. His advice on specific mechanical and engineering
problems may be obtained by any coal mine operator upon request.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 207,
dated April 7, 1949, from United States
UNCLASSIFIED
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject "Drive for Increased Japa-
nese Coal Production."
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
10 March 1949
AG 463.3 (10 Mar 49)ESS/EX
SCAPIN 1984
MEMORANDUM FOR JAPANESE GOVERNIENT
SUBJECT: Stabilization of the Coal Industry
1. Reference is letter from the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers to the Prime Minister, 19 December 1948.
2. The coal industry is the foundation of the entire Jap-
anese economic rehabilitation and stabilization effort. In order
to establish Japan's. self-support and fully to implement refer-
ence. letter, it is essential that the coal industry be rapidly
and effectively improved in efficiency to provide a minimum of 42
million tons of coal for the JFY 1949-50 without increase in the
present consumer coal price or subsidies and without resorting to
deficit financing.
3. The Japanese Government will therefore take the neces-
sary steps to insure that:
a. All. contractual cash wage obligations fer time ac-
tually worked be paid when due and in full and that such obliga-
tions constitute a first claim after taxes on coal conpany rev-
enues.
b. Fictitious overtime payments will be eliminated im-
mediatoly. Overtime work and payment therefor will be limited to
that actually justified by production requirements. To this end,
no overtime work or payment therefor will be permitted to surface
or office workers except where emergency conditions require. No
overtime payments will be made to underground and supervisory per-
sonnel except for work in excess of eight hours in one day or forty-
eight hours in a week. Except where special circumstances justify,
overtime work will not be scheduled for any day unless the total
work sohedule of the employee for the week is in excess of forty-
eight hours.
c. No further hirings of surfice workers, clerical or
administrative personnel, except where necessary to open new mines,
will
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 207,
April 7, 1949.
-2 -
will be permitted until the overall ratic of underground to sur-
face workers for the entire industry bas reached a 60-40 rabio.
Transfers from underground to surface eployment in case of dis-
ahility or similar reason shall be made only as replacements.
d. Priority, after wages, will be acccrded payment for
expendable operating supplies and epuipment. Mine equipment in-
ventories and purehase prograns will be reviewed to insure the
elinination of purchases of excessive itema.
e. The coal mine companies will vapidly adopt  uniform
and accurate accountiny system in mines, gional na h-l offices
which shall clearly detail all costs ani revenues. Ir the case of
designated mines, this system shall be instituted rier to er on
1 April 1949.
4. If necessary to insure implementation of the forecoing
measures, the Japanese Government will dirat the Coal Distribu-
tion Kodan to pay revenue from coal sales into special blocked
bank accounts for payment of taxes, legitimate wages, supplies
of operating mine eguipment and other supplies. Payment from such
blocked accounts will only be made pursuant to regulations approved
by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Pewers.
5. Monthly reports on action taken to implement this Yemorandun
will be  bmitted beginning 1 April 1949. Direct communication be-
tween the conomic and Sclentific Seetion and concerned agencies of
the Japanese Government is authorized for the inplevenbation of
this Merorandum.
FOR THE SUPR PE COILANDER:
R. M.LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant Jeneral.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 207,
dated April 7, 1949, from United States
UNCLASSIFIED
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject "Drive for Increased Japa-
nese Coal Production."
(COPY)
GENERAL HTADCUARTERS
FAR AST JOLLAND
Public Informatien Office
Press Release:
1200
  2949
COROO F JOAL INDUSTRY HOO DED
ScAr Headquarters announced bodsy the issua o of a direct-
ive to the Japanese Govern ant ineti cting it to corree rrent
elpractices io the soal i sustry es to ke sresi o  p to
iupreye the efcicieney ef e al vminingy operations bo r sure 
tainmaent of the 42 milliou von output ceal for the Piscel ar
beginning 1 april 1949 without increase in the pressnt comsuusr eal
price or sutsidies nd without resorting to deficit finncing.
The directive specifically called attention to the need for
eliuninuting a number of serious abuses in the industry. Among the
problems to which particular attention is directed   ollo
ing:
1) Hon-payment of wages to coal employees. Larg tmombers
of workers have not been receiving wag paymerts c. the plea thel
the coal operators do as Iave the required funds. lll contpectual
cash wage obligatione for tu actualiy  v i pi 
due md in full, such obligations consticut  firet aim r
taxee on coal company revenues.
2) Fictitione overtine wage pagmante to vari a eategories
of laber dll be terminated. Considuralle lissipebion of fun Is
has resulted in conse uence of uwarranted overti ame Phe
direetive provides that no overtime werk or payment ther or will
be permitted to surface or office werkere except in event of emer-
geney. No overtime payments wall bo rale to wnderground and super-
virory personnel except for vork in excess of eight oors in one
day or forty-eight hours in a week.
3) To correct the prevailing prestice of carrying exces-
sive mumbers of surface orkers the directiv, instruets that no
additional surface workers, clerical or ahrinistrative persoovel
will be hired except where necessary to open new pines nntil the
over all ratio of underground to surfsce vorkers for the tire
industry has reached a 0-40 ratio.
 4) Priority after wagos will be accorded paynent for ex-
pendable operating supplies and epuipment. line egui pment inven-
tories and purchase programs vill be revi ewel to insure elimination
of purchases of excessive iteris.
5) The coal mine companies ar. to be instructed rapidly to
adopt a uniform and accurate accounting system.
6) If necessary to insure implementation of the foregoing
measures, the Japanese Goverrment will direct the Coal Disbribution

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo' s Despatch No. 207,
April 7,1949.
2
Koren to pay revenue from coal sales into special blocked bank
accounts for payment of taxes, legitimate wages, supplies of oper-
ating mine equi ment and other supplies. Payment from such blocked
accounts will only be made pursuant to regulations approved by the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 207,
dated April 7, 1949 from United States
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
UNCLASSIFIED
the subject "Drive for Increased Japa-
nese Coal Production."
(COPY)
PRESS STATEMANT TO BE RELDASED BY IR. M.A. WYATT
COAL COORDINATOR, ESS/INDUSTRY
15 March 1949
Recent developments in the operation of the coal industry
threaten the prospects of maintaining current coal output levels
as well as realizing the 1949-1950 fiscal year coal goal of
42 million tons. In recent months most of the operating coal
companies have failed to: (a) achieve their monthly output
schedules, (b) meet contractual payroll obligations, (c) pay
outstanding bills to suppliers for material and supply deliver-
ies essential to continuation of mining activities, (d) fulfill
their tax obligations. The operators allege that their depleted
cash position due to current operating deficits makes the fore-
going financial delinquencies unavoidable.
There is ample evidence warranting wholesale criticism of
the manner in which the coal industry is presently operating.
Management and Government have not exercised their responsibility
to mine coal efficiently and to maximize output. Costs heve been
considerably inflated through gross inefficiencies and misranage-
ment while many cost elements presented by the operators are ap-
parently fictitious. Recent actions of some Coal Operators, Gov-
ernment Officials, and segments of Labor suggest that their objective
is to force an upward adjustment of coal prices.
The absence of a satisfactory standard cost accounting system
on the part of. the coal operators makes difficult a detailed as-
sessment of the actual facts prevailing in the industry. However,
on the basis of an overall analysis of the operating position of
the entiro industry, it has been concluded that the present price
structure and revenue raturn are adequate and that to accede to
the demands for an upward price adjustment would be unwarranted and
prompt a rise of the entire price level with consequent serious
disruption of the present overall stabilization effort.
Repeated attempts have been made to persuade coal operators
and the responsible Ministries involved to correct the widespread
malpractices prevailing in the industry. Unfortunately, no ade-
quate response has been forthcoming.
A directive (SCAPIN 1984) was issued to the Japanese Govern-
ment on 10 March 1949 diracting the correction of the more iruportant
malpractices prevailing in the coal industr, and reiterating the
necessity for producing 42,000,000 tons of coal during the 1949
JFY. This is the first formal implementation of the nine-point
economic directive issued to the Japanese Government by SCAP on
19 Dec 1949.
The
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 207,
April 7, 1949.
-2-
The directive has been issued to produce a correction of
the more important malpractices prevailing in the coal industry.
It should insure against a wa k-out by coal niners because of
non-payment of wages. It should also eliminate all fictitious
and inflated overtime wage payments. It should eliminate surplus
surface workers, clerical and adninistrative personnel and bring
about a more economic ratio of surface workers to underground work-
ers. The action directed should maintain continuity of supplies
and equipment through insuring payment to suppliers. The institu-
tion of a uniform cost accounting system should elininate current
misrepresantations and reveal the actual circunstances of the oper- .
ators.
The directive also provides necessary legal authorization
in the event that operators do not meet contractual payments,
for effecting payments essential to continue full operation of
the mines by means of diverting coal sele revenues into special
blocked bank accounts from which such payments wil be made pur-
suant to approved SCAP policy.
The directive leaves no room for doubt as to soir's attitude
toward the necessity for meeting the 1949 JFY goal ni for the in-
mediate rationalization of the coal industry.
In order that the 42,000,000 ton goal can be met under the
terms of this directive SCAP is prepared to cffer every possible
aid. Such aid will include: (1) the importation of mining ma-
chinery from the United States together with repair parts for Amer-
ican-made machinery now in the mines, (2) technical aivice to the
operators by two expert consultants now in Japan. Thes men have
both had years of experience in engineering, machanizatien, nd
mine managenent. Their on-the-spot advice, if acceptet end followed
through by the operators, will make possible a much higher per
capita output almost iamediately. Of these twe consultants Kr.
R. H. Barry  s now in Kyushu where he has been for two weeks. The
results of his work there are already apparent in the produstion
of the mines he has visited. r. Paul R. Paulick is here today and
will leave for Hokkaido this weekend. Because of the low ratio of
production to quota which has been maintained for several months in
Hokkaido, Nr. Paulick's work should show startling results alnost
immediately.
Two other proposals are presently being considered by SCAP to
aid coal production. They are a survey of coal production by a
firm of American consulting engineers to study American coal min-
ing methods so that modern bechniques may be applied here.
CORRLC ION NOTE:
As it appeared that the last paragraph of the foregoing press
statement was garbled, Mr. Wyatt was asked for a correet version
thereof. lie said that it should read as follows:
"Two
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 207,
Apri1 7, 1949.
-3-
"Two other proposals are presently being considered by SCAP
to aid coal production. They include a survey of coal production
by a firm of American consulting engineers for the purpose of modern-
izing Japanese mining methods and techniques and to mechanize as
much as possible the Japanese mines. The other proposal is to ar-
range a trip to the United States by six Japanese engineers to study
American methods and techniques in coal mines where conditions re-
sembling those in Japan are. found. These engineers would also con-
sult with American coal mining machinery manufacturers."
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.90)
datod àpril 7, 1949, 
States Political Adviaer
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, on ths subject.D
creased Japaneme Coal Prounst
(Copy of editorial from nglish edition of
March 13, 1949 issue of the Qsake ainichi.
Osaka)
THE COAL INDUSTRY AND 9-POIIT PROCRAL
It is generally forscast that the 3ó-million-ton coal pro-
duction goal for the 1948-49 fiscal rear my be difficult to at-
tain. The total is expected to be around 3-million tons. Even
at that, the record would not bo too bad.
The basic reason for the improved output of coal lies in the
adoption of the focal principle for the production of coal. The
oal for the next fiscal year is scheduled o bo 42- lilion tone;
according to the Coal Board. The total  ss not seem unreasonable
considerin the tempo of rising coal c.
Howaver, the next Nscal year brings the coal iruiustry face to
face with entirely new factors, namely, the unfolding of the tree
Econonic Prinoiples and the Nins-Point ¿cononic Stabilication Pro-
gram. According to the Coal issociation, the unpsi! acccante of the
coal mines asgregated Y13, 800-million at. the nd of  mber 1942,
Y5,000-nillion at the end of December, and irtter ineased to
Y17,000-mi111on at the end of Jamuary 1949.
Taxes in arreare somprise a large part of he pid accounte
but the payment for coal minin ejuiruent al ao srrnts ts a ic
total. The enormoue red ink shouldered b. tte coel mines inli.
oates how merious the Pinancial status of the Induatry is.
It is clour that the upaid ecoourts c rrst le lefs as thoy
are. Something muot be Jone t poddat h. Ber roalis le nd
rational formula for their Aiep illon most  preperer fn orlsr
that the rei ink will not i cinally L puidated throuy rroort te
Govermnent subsidy, thet beingl nte lhe ahe lerh of
the taxpayera. Herein lio.vy
 Cevern
mont wh'ch is managing the coal wines.
Sven bufore the Three corle Dinelhe ad t FieFoint
Progrem came into the lineliclt, the lrruicralt c h prier
oubetdy end the red ink fin aning of t con inlustry es mll
recognized. In the past, lhe coil winos re only el t rulance
their books on the very mouth or perhape up to two months fost
new coal price wae set. Tep tUan r-lapsel irto red ink Acorapy.
How can auch an unhoaltly condltn b limineled? Foth 
arrment and the coal mins operatore themee ves muat seri ius, re
flact upon the most unsatisfactory state of affaire.
Some of the maller and ie lium nines are said to lave stopped
operatior

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.88)
Epclosure No, 5 to
Talyo'e Despatch No. 207,
Apr11 7, 1949.
…2 -
operatic: lue to r ink. Some are projectiny dractlo retionai
tlon. It is viden that ratiucalization  ust coce some line
And, t uch a Juncture, the Goverrnt uthorities should 
caref ly consider the iprovenent f the c di stribution syetem and
ssil ilties of the adoptin P he verit system in crder t
spus f he coal problem realisticall.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.84)
dated hpril 7, 1949 
UNCLASSIFIED
Political Adviser ford
the subject "Drive für
nese Coal Productiod,"
(Copy of editorial from March 17,
1949 issue of the Nippen Times.
Tokyo)
THE DENAND ON TIE COAL TIDUSTRY
The Japanese coal indus'y has been tole to roluce 41,000,000
tons during the next fise-1 year. it the s: tine it has been
told that this amount must be roduced vi srout increase in the
present consumer coal price, athout overnment subsidiae, and
without resort to deficit Cinarring.
On the face of it, this saums Tike an ipossible order. At
the present tiime it costs ¥3,344 to roduce one ton o  cosl. The
sales price is, however, officlally ped st l,ooo per ton. The
consequent loss to the operators of 12,344 for eich on of coal dug
out of the minss is now covered by covernaent subsidi. To pro
duce 42, 000,000 tons without increasing the price, dthont gov-
ernuent subsidies, and without Jeficit financing means that the
coal industry will have to 9 useze almost 100,000,00),000 1n sav-
ings out of Its operations cudng tl co irg yea.
another w ih coal industry will rave to  nage reluce tw.
oper nss bymorn tward
It is  vonder t  coal inlust is relr terflfis
howl. The wails and lamentat: ns pre pititi to 
von both
management ond labor, l. - biter dds itt  r, are
unitine  protestine uhe now de Dut  th trfee peay
Justir?  siturthl re
Ite dmrrrodrrt
 industrt
35.000.000
ns—Tes—l
hou
wry cpresente an re  t o coo te thero
vloue yer. Topr
00
Juap   00,00
ic
Jm
Thetment in e r ie re t  pe co
sdderable rec nt impro t, t
The aheeesver tee e de
sat thin and unprofitbi rn to ue  tbat 
beine protueed thie poe  e tor wecresp to uo rineys
to overtle work. To vroach r yesu' esr, it wil be neceseary
to put : ore miners to vor, t Corer thom to Tongor overbire work,
and above all to ut in more wolorn equl mant to moar erglodpey
All thie
r supenae and mor copital u ly. How
can this be made possible without increase in price, without govern
ant subsidies, or without leficit finmrsing? The ccal industry Ay
being grownd between the ipper stone of a ysicall impossiblo 
JINCLASSTFIED

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.86)
eAEL-3YAM
o No. 6 to
Deégatoh No. 207,
April 7, 1949.
and the nether stone of hopelessly impossitl: fineucial condi-
tions, is the complaint.
imat  coal industryineluding he cprat  al te
workers--refuses to acknowledge is that this is not the wicle pio-
ture, however. It is true enm h as far is it goes, but it leaves
too much untold. Doesn't it cest 3,344  ench ton of coal mined
siuply because both she operat rs anl the mrsors irrespe sibly
feel that the government will foot the bil  matter how waste-
fully they cerry on their wory? Isn't it possitle that, vith proper
affort, the cost of productien can l dr sti ally r uct o that
the industry can break even at the p seat cficiar prie --or at
least at scme point rasunubly lost to it
For instance, what abot the st: sntailed in ti - too
munerous sirike and wri stoppages?  iut u tall
in go-slo tactics? Thst t the  ss f wollus.  tn the
time-keepers and the orkers to enabl sh letter co w overti
pay hen they have not roalis t in vertir work?
What about the exoessive nunter of ofrice workrs killing tne
ehufrling paper in the cinin company ofrices while  pits are
suppoesly short of minere? ut atout t prater  e sus
peoted of loliberately pinine mly ihe pec l and .  ofitalle
seace  he  
pnd
hol line br the core polustiv and r fi sir  snture
private auploitation?
mat alout the ddeies teh  r
fu anl rlively usels iliar. unt es
l booein harei sonuhsi
dizd coal mines? And ho it l  heilized
nining companles always bee so lave suli icel reso  Por slush
funde with which to bribe polllin'ans wi ill work fis more sub-
sidias Por the coal induu ry?
It may bo too much  epot titt ali w te an   an ta
painlossly aliminated ove -i, but i ot  wasonable
and impractical ao it sou  demand t the cosl sry pro-
duce 42,000,000 tons next  vithout b. afi of pi: increase,
governunt subeidies, or leficit financing. It will  ea ivugh
going for the vested interess of the coal i dustry, of course, but
It will bu a odsend to the itlon at large.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.81)
Aotiom Taken
for Japan
Tokyo, April 30, 1949.
Name of Offieer
No. 272
w2
Direction to DC/R
T3IC
RESTRICED
TOVE
IMAY 1 0 1949
REC'D
MAY 6
894.6362/4-3049
Jubjuct: 
Supplementery Infor
20 0F24
ACTION
for Trere sed Jo F ln n pan
ITP
414.630214.749
INFO
FR
the Fee Fl
honor to re-
DCR
fer to thin n
r11 7,1949, re
FE
Srine Lhe.driv,
I uoiucl ion during
OLI
the flscul yeur correnelee pl
undertaken by the
OFD
Sconomic and Sciuntfic 
CorereI Heedguarters,
MINES
supreme Commanier f.
indiented,
COM
the goul for he curr 
1701.12,000,000
LABOR
mutrie tone compr
00194849
nd al cutp of 376.r u
202949    e1 Fer
C
 J
n r e he nelivi
tios of to erier I mle n  o   n Jepens
mine opura ore ln tie is ffor
 uion. Jt may b
rlvixited
Chine lurine u ww
 Bi.Lllmrn Mieslon
which inveutig 
in raionou along
ndurtrr n rin  
T doA Clina pro
ccorltnt
i l eting of this
Readaur rl  Pr
L Govrmment
sconomie sl. bi ist lor
Ant or  Jo meree and In-
170ing increesed
1949-50 c011001
rlew. All pre
u thin  rpitiun 
veneed by e J
unn of the ori-
cineilu uogoa
o,m lon of coal
wenld cgudre un i
rrnt in lhe nuder of mine
workure.
At the April 24, 1049 r 1ne  the Coe1 roluctlon Comdtte
il wus roport.l lhut l Jej ne ? Porrd, wrich enjoye minie
terial stintus, heil preuentnil a p-gu- for operstore to pay only
80 pereent of wagon is p rlicu  lrship cases, it being added
that
RE3TICOD
MAYITTSIS
ANLT F STAOE
ACTION COPY

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 272,
April 30, 1949.
-2-
that this suggestion had been approved by the local mine labor
union. It was the concensus of those present, however, that the
grenting of this request would be in violation of the present
prineiples laid down in SCAPIN 1984 whlch were specifically drawn
up to guarantee that wages would hav econd priority, after taxes;
on coal mine revenues.
According to the minutes of th pril 4 meeting, several
months ago SAP sent a command Jtter to tho ghth Army Hilitary
Covernment requesting an investi ion  prticuler coal mine
housing needs at 115 separate mines. I. contained the goneral
principle that housing wonld  prove?t new mines and that re
plecement would be mutheris: Por heue deatroyed by acts of God,
or in extreme herdslip casee. Invest:g lIon by the local Militery
Government Teams indicates th ner  of te 115 mine loan
"pplicatione totaling X2,O44 million shol: le pproved in accord-
ance with this principle. After di scuesion at the meetine, the
Gemmittee suggested thet approval t pplic tions be given on
a partial basis, probably Lotsling u, moo han 25 percent, and
that the Japanese Cove nment be re poestel te tLrim the program
down to approximately 500,00o,000 n. 1 ws indicated that
some savings might be realized ty ralionall zation of the industry
and cutting down of the total number of miners employed at in-
dividual mines.
at.
Enclosure:
Copy of presa releese entitlel Ssyert
Foresee Profitoble Coai Lining Operstjons"
3asued Apr11 23, 1949, by P10, ik, P
East Command.
Parchment met to the Department
523.6
CHBoehringer:lee
RESTRICTED

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 272
datedil 30, 1949 from the United
States olitical Adviser for Japan,
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, on the subject "Supplementery
Information on Drive for Increased
Coal Production in Japan".
(COPY)
GENRAL AD
FAR EAST COMAND
Public Infoumation Office
Press Release:
1330
28 April 1949
EXPERTS FORCEE PROFICABLT COAL LTNING OPETTA CIONS
Two American coal experts now surveyint Japanese mines are con-
vinced, in spite of prevailing oporese opinion, that more efficient
operalion of Japanese coal mines will enalle them to make a profit
under current price scules, I. A. att, SCAP's Coal Coordinator
seid todag.
Wyatt has just returned from ushu, where one of the experts,
Richard H. Barry, Steubenville, Chic, is working.
Doth Barry and P.R. Paulick. Tibrary. Pa., the other expert in
Hekkaide, have emphasized that mines need to cut down the amazing
number of over-all workers mployed, und inarecse the number at the
werking face. They edded lso that more mechanizabion is needed to
incresse opereting efriclency.
The men ary minine angineers pow perviay with the Departrient of
the Lary as expert conoultants.
In his roports, Paulick sald tlu ekkaido production is suf-
fering becouse some coupanien have puid woriters only partielly for
severel monthe, but that thie al tuation in improving.
After a survey of Lhe Akabiry Tine of he Selka Coal Company,
Paulick estimated thy t efficlent oporatien could inerecse production
by 40 poreent. This mine prosiucei a record 30,400 metric tone in
March.
Peulick wrote almo tht this inc retee could be achieved by
mechanizing coel and rock tunnel drivine work, revamping the long-
wall system and introduelne cutting meelinee und electric drille.
Peulick said aluo lhet manpower culd be saved by using battery
locomotives instead of hormes and mon to punh coal cars in the mines.
He sald the 2, 508 pereona umployed in March at the mine was
typicel of the large hordes of labor usud at all mines which makes
it extremely difficult to inere se the tons per man-day output.
Barry, who has eetabliahed at lust three areas for partial
mechanization experiments, reported that in Kyushu mechanization
compares
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 272,
April 30, 1949
compares with its status in the United States in 1919.
These experiments have been set up at the Mikawa pit of the
Miike Collieries, Mitsui Mining Co.; gawa mines of the Mitsui
Mining Co.; end the Namasuta pit of Mitoubishi Mining Co.
Equipment being used includes a Joy & BU mobile coal loader,
found at the Niike mine, which has never been used in its 14. years
there, and l2 idle Hiike coal locling machines, some of which are
being rebuilt to Barry's spectficatiens.
Barry has started en instmmction progrem for mine bosses at
evoning or between-shift meetings, tc discues increased output by
present hand loading methods an? prespect ive mechenical equigment.
le added that the unccoperative abbstle some mine officials
and labor unions, and lack of int erest on t part of top company
officera, make it difficult to carry ut the program.
Barry maia obstacler to be ovecaone lnclude: long existing
helits and customs of the miners und operetors such as carrying
coal in baskets; the practlce of men working in the nude, the
absence of safety clothing, reguiring men to walk long diatances
to their place of work, ineffective foremanslip; lack of working
cycles and non-coordinatlon between working ahifts.
一0-
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.93)
WCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH
AIRGRAM
USPOL. ", Tolyo
5838
Actiom Taken
MNCL/SSIFIED
Yay 27, 1949
Date of dotl
9:55 8.me
CTI
ITP
I:1..ATIONAL RESOURGES 
NPC
c/
nashington Direstion to Da/R
file
MAY 311949
E
DEPART MENT OF STATE
1C/L
A-124, May 24, 1947..
FD
LI
Reference ade to this lissicn's despatc: No. 2)7
894.6362/5-2449
IA
Jated April 7, 1549, regarding the drive for irer: . ed
AN
Jarunese coal prcduction, in which mentioned plan i, sen.
to Unitei States several Japanese coal mining ox. s. Civ-
en pelow is full text of press release issued ma. .., 19:9,
by Public Inforaatlon Office, General Headquarters. Far
East Comnand, Tokyo, under heading "Wystt nd Six al 
ports to Leave for U.S.":
E. A. hyatt, SCAP's Soal Coordinatur, ac : ompanic
by six Japanese uoal experts, is scheduled  erve
Wednesday, l'ay 25, by commerclal airline for i..e
United States to study American mining motho and
mochanization.
ITP/D
The party, which will be gone 10 weeks, !; sch.
R
ACTION
dulad to visit the United States Bureau of Mins
INFORMATION
Laboratory at Pittsburgh, Pa., as its first stup.
ITP
They will survey coal mining operat ons in :ra.
CP
OFFICE OF
of southerm Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Vir. i ",
ILB
West Virginia, and Pennsylv"nie. They will : ! :o
IR
visit machinery manufucturers and coal shipmi in-
PED
stallations in Chicagc, Cleveland, New York,  iti-
more and Norfolk.
wo of the Japanese maing the Lein, So
Terachi, and Eiiji Nishijime, were elected a. hir
representatives by the workers at miss in lmio
and Kyushu which proluced the highest percents e
of the coal quota between April end lecember or la
year.
1949
UNCLASSIFIE)
Jining
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R comtral Mles with metatdem of actlen take

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's A-124
Mny 24, 1949.
-2
Peracni is se: : : Unit Crief of the Taiheiyo
Coal ining Co., Hc ido. Nishijimi is Chief of
the Production Sec:: : of Shiprer Coal Mine Co. 6,
Mitsubishi Mine Co. ear Nakayama, Kyushu.
Othe" Japanes king ti trip, none of whom
have en in the U  State: bofore, are: Mitsuo
Ariga, Assistant G: 1 al Sunerintencent, Yubari Mine
of the Hokaide Ster mip and Colliery Jo., Hokkaido;
Vaoni Nist! Jima, D:. cor and Chief of the Coal Pro-
uction Section H buahi Coal Hini ng Co., Tokyo;
Hasanobo Tolutomi,  ity Chief, Mining Depertment,
Hitsui Hining Co.,  yo, end Takashi Kamno, repre-
sentacive of the Col. Board, linistry of Commerce
and Industry of uhe  panese Goverament, Tokyu.
HUSTON
523.6
HBoenringer:an

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREGN SERVIGE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Office of the U. S. Political Advieer
for Japan
Tokyo, June 20, 1969,
Takon N
OFFICE OF
No. 401
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
1xR
JUN 28 1949
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
t or ufricer
tile
Subject: Statement on Japanese Coal Mining Industrgation to DC/R
REC'D
JUNE 24
894.6362/6-2049
ACTION
The Chargé d'Affaires ad interim has the honor to tranmit
ITP
herewith a scpy of a statement on the japanese coal mining in-
dustry issued June 17, 1949, by the Pubiic Information Office,
INTO
General Headquartera, Far East Command, Toxyo.
PR
DCR
This statement. which covers the period from the initial
E
daye of the Ccoupation to the prosent, contains a good summary
OLI
of conditions in  le cal. manune induatry at the time of the
OFD
surrender and of he at ampts made siice then to expand pro-
MINES
duction to meet ihe inrreaund reeds f the Japanese econcmy.
COX
As previously crp rted. a produ:tien goal of 42,o0c, c00 metric
YSKB
tons f coal during ihe tsal year teginning April 1. 1949,
LABOR
has beer tentats riy -utsl:s she! as the basis for llo indus-
fre
trial programs. A:  ame time  i planned to increase the
aversg calcrir vaiue fr 0o to 730, which will neced-
tate an increase in piion afficiency frem the current 6.5
tons to 7.é tors pe- man per month.
894.63
With respect  e recnd paragraph on page two of the
enclcsed statement, mimmaricing oel production during recent
Japanese fiacal yea it l be note the reference to
the "ourrtnt" t sea? year  ually refers to the flecal year
ending Marct 30. 204?. A cua? qutpu: for 7948-49 amounted to
34,776, 00 matr1ie t. ns against ho goa1 of 36,000,000 metris
tons.
Enaloaurer
Copy of prean release lated June 17,
1949. entitled "The Cal Mining Induetry."
WTC RIAIONAL RESSURGES DIVISION
Parchment mat to the Department.
JUN 2 9 1949
JUL7 140
523.6
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHBoehringerslee
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 401,
of June 20, 1949, from the Office of
UNCLASSIFIED
the U. S. Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Statement on
Japanese Coal Mining Industry".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
Far East, Command
Public Information Office
Information Bulletin No. 5:
17 June 1949
THE COAL MINING INDUSTRY
The war's end found the coal mines in Japan in a deplorable
condition. The slave labor which had been used during the war
was freed. The foreign nationals among them (largely Chinese and
Koreans) were repatriated. The mines had been worked during the
war without regard for safety, maintenance, or proper development.
Coal was stripped in the maximum amounts possible with total dis~
regard for goed mining practices. The available machinery and
equipment was in poor condition due to neglect and improper ser-
vicing. Much ef il was unasable and beyend repair.
In Kyushu the mines have been worked for many years and the
ocal producing facs were a lung way from the shafts or slopes,
necessitating long walks for miners to get to work and long hauls
for the coal to be brought cut. In Hokkaido where the mines are
newer the more preluctive veins had been mined completely but with-
out proper haulage vays, shafts, ventilation tunnels, timbering.
etc., being developsd t keep pece with actual mining operations.
The operators were dissouraget and confused. They were in
peor financial sirowns anmes even though they were largely Zaibatsu
controlled. Production was virtually at a standstill. The first
problem to be overcome was the recuitment and training of a new
labor foree. This as done by offering high wages, incentive goods,
housing, and extre pations in the eal mines. At the present em-
ployment has reached a total of 458.344 of which 258, 838 are under-
ground workers.
The problem of mcdernising and mechanizing has been and remains
a difficult one. The guipment instal led in coal mines was in vary
ing states of disrepair, Maintenanse during the war years was slight
and replacement practically impossible. Early in 1947, SCAP launched
a program designed to stimulate the large scale production of coal
mining marhinery. Raw materials, fuel, and expediter assistance were
made available to key plants designated by the Japanese government.
In the period April 1947-October 1948, these key plants produced
general machinery. rolling stock and electrical apparatus for coal
mines valued at 7.l89 billion yen.
The inflationary spiral which has been continuous during the
occupation has caused serious financial problems to arise. These
have been met through subsidies, deficit financing, and two increases
in the price of coal, the last of which became effective in June 1948.
The
UNCIASSIFIED

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 40l,
June 20, 1949.
-2-
The financial problems continue to be serious as there is a sum
variously estimated from 16 billion to 23 billion yen owed by
the coal mine operators to the Reconstruction Finance Bank and
approximately 4.5 billion yen to suppliers for machinery and
equipment at the present time. The operators insist that the pre-
sent price of coal does not cover the cost of production and that
deficits are still being incurred. This is a source of continuous
study and concern in both the Japanese government and SCAP.
The problem of housing the miners was a serious one, but has
largely been overcome through a series of mine housing programs
which involved construction of 5C,C0o houses and dormitories and
the rehabilitation of 70 000 mine houses and dormitories during
the period April 1, 1947, to March 31, 1949. The mine housing pro-
gram will be continued after April 1949 on a mine to mine basis with
each mine's needs being considered separately.
Production for 1945 fiscal year (April 1, 1945, to March 31,
1946) was 22 200 000 lons and in the 1946 fisea1 year was 22,520,000
tons whieh was lass than half ei the wartime average output. With
Japanese government and SCAP's encouragement and high priority on
materials, funds u laber, the output limbed to 29,330,000 tons
against an ancual goal f 30, 000,000 tons during the 1947 fiscal
year. During the urront fiseal year as a result of the all-out
effort for increased coal preduction 25, 243, 000 tons was produced
from April 1 through December 31. This is 1, 042, 800 tons below
quota for the seme period. It is estimated that part of this loss
in production will e ega ned during the two remaining months of
the fiscal year and a total of 35, coo, co0 tons will be produced
against the annual ai  f 36 c00 c00 tons.
The principal problems existing at the present are financing,
antipathy of management towards production, confusion of labor in.
cluding labor s tendeney toward the usurping of management rights,
and the lack of mechanization and modernization.
It is hoped to partially cwereome the financial problem through
increasing the ratio of underground to surface workers and the
elimination of unnecessary employees. It is planned that by revis-
ing the Solid Fuels Distribution Kodan set up a larger portion of
the consumer price of ccal can be made availabe to the producers.
Managament is being encouraged to re-assume its responsibilities
and management functions. The policy of no deficit financing, no
additional subsidies without revenues being available to pay them,
and no price increases, should force management to re-assume its
proper functions.
The Labor Ministry in conjunction with the Labor Division, ESS,
has started a Labor Education Program which should do much to elimi-
nate the presently serious labor problems.
Two
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 40l,
June 20, 1949.
-3-
Two consultants have been requisitioned by ESS/IND to conduct
a mine by mine, on-the-job, engineering consulting program designed
to maximize production through modernization and mechanization of
those mines most adaptable to such development and those which can
most readily and substantially increase production through such
improvements.
A production goal of 42, 000,000 tons of coal during the 1949
fiscal year had been tentatively established as the basis for llo
industrial programs. This represents an increase of 20 percent
over the probable 1948 production. At the same time it is planned
to increase the average calorific value from 5,000 to 5,730. This
will necessitate an increase in production efficiency from the cur-
rent 6.5 tons to 7.6 tons per. man per month.
As the recoverable coal reserves of Japan are estimated at
over 16 billion tons, no limiting of production need be feared
from this quarter.
-0
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.88)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNCATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAP
NTFRNATIANAL
OCT 7-1949
AIRGRAM
10SEPARTMENT OF STAVE
h0sse0 heees to BT
Aet1on taec
mine
3
61
Poky
Des Ser
NATONALTHADE
Dats of
POLICY
JNCLASIFIID
ing:
CENTER
Name or uftseer
2
8.n
Secretery of Stato,
Washington.
A-250, 0ctober 4, 1949.
Folloving article relsaced October 1. 1949, by Pu lic  Vorme
Bion Orice, Ganeral Hendquarters, Far East Cormand, u der te
houding " Mours Roporto on Coul Exploratlon:"
Dr. Reymond C. Nooto of Leweenoe, Kar., a zo icgit wno Ian
been a coneultent with the Nining and Gool ogy Div:sio:  CAl "a
Natural Regouroes Section sinon Jano 25, i1l loavs M Jey .
air for tho United States.
lle has boon engugod in a comprohensiv study ofc.
exploration program with apecial attention: to hip: etir
deposits. Low and modinm rade coal const ituse cne of japn
main rosources with proüuction in 1948-49 up so s, pec ns 
the wartime output. High grade coal, howcver, ha beur 
critical ito.
INFORMATION
Ilonding and prooessing will eliminate the nd 
ITP
some ot the high grade coel impores, mccording to in. I ore
CP
who caid he was confident that inoressed oxplorasicn n ld
ILH
uncorer deposits sufficiont for Jupen's nsods.
IR
PED
Recommendations by Dr. Moore included:
1) Revision of Jepaneso ining laws to prov do .
OCT 26 1949
blo competitivo opportunity to explore and develop soe.
deponits, and to evoid long-torn. holdinga of inactivs  os-
FILED
peories end mining coneessions.
PERMANENT. RECQRD COPY.—This copy must bo returned to DC/R contral Mes with notatlen of aotlen tabon.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.92)
Tuicyo's A-250,
Octobor 4。1?49.
-2-
2) Maintenence and ztrengthening of research agancies
by the Japaneso goverrunent to bring about more effective
uxploration for minarul resouroea, including coal.
3) Roorganizatiou and strar sthoning of the Ceologieal
Survey in Japan, in porsonnel and operuting Punds, with
amphasis on practical use of the Survey's work by industry.
4) A progrem to ostablist roliable computetior or
Japan's coal reserves, based on accepted standards  coal
quality classiricat lon methods of oveluating tonmeges of
"preved. " "protable," and "possible" soal roservee.
5) Eliasnation of direct financial aid to coal mining
companice for exploration.
6) Digcontlauance of arnloratory work by the Coal Po-
ductlc) urseu nnd Local coal burosue of the Rssourcen
Aeuncy MinLstry of International Trade aad Industry: which
10 siacsivsly sarving the industry in othor waye, since
urplcretion, including goological mappiug, poring, sto.,
Delorga ix part to tre Geological Survey and in part to
priveto Aaduutry.
" The salection of ams!l groups of Japanese goologist
by the government, aided by Scap, for training in the Unlted
States snd some other countrier as a means of dovoloplng
experte capable of furnisting guidaoco in future coal dovel-
opment.
Dr. Noore hee bean with the U. S. Goological Survoy sinc
1913 and curreatly is its conior geologist in a consultant
capmoity. He is also heud of the Dapartmont of Geoloey of th
University of Kamses and cirector of the Kansas Goological
Survey, the largest organization of ite kind in the Onited
States. He has done exploratory work in Kurope and South
Americr as well as tho United States and is tho author or two
widely used taxtbooke and about 200 scientific papers.
SEBALD
522.5
Cpeeinger:

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.86)
NOV 3194
In reply refer to
My deer ür. Vieldner:
Im aseordmsss wish your selaphone couvoreation today wish
Ars. Harries Wilkins of snla Divialun, shere is mssached a briet
894.6362/11-349
mamary of ür. Galeb Davies's repere on the subjeet of smproving
indiganoue Japausse nokieg soal. ür. Lmvies suggests that dapen
ean beeome self-sufficieas in wetallurgioal cocing seal wishim the
8
near future. Is Sup pmet it hms boon oustomary for Japan to min
indi penous bituminogaposl wit: better quslity imporsed bitasimous
cual in the ratio of s0 to 40 or 70 to s0.
We would appreoles your opinion as to the likelihood and pree-
ticalisy of a progrum to wake Japan solf-guffielext in motmllurgiemt
ooking coul wishin the next your or tww as woll as any other somwwmts
that the atteshod articls way muggest to you. A brier deaariptiem of
the sntef prouessos used in sse boneflumtion of coking ooal for blmge
furuace use, or a referenee to wush a deseription would aleo be appre-
elased.
Will you pleame ruturs the astmomont with your coments?
sinearely yours,
CS/P
Rfm
Marren S. Mnabarges
Loting Chief
22
Division of Reseereh for Far Rest
Anolosure.
/As atated above
Mr. A. C. Pieldmer,
Chief, Fuels end Explosives Division,
Bureau of Mines,
NOV 3 1949.
Departmont of Interior,
Wmahingtom 86, D. C.
Nw
OIRIDRP,WGJánes(HENilkins)dw
11/1/40

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.92)
NOV21104
In reply refer to
Ee: the mpoig o
894.6362/11-349
My dear ür. Fieldner:
Thank you for your reply to my letter ou the subjeot of
metallurgical coke produotion in Japan.
894.6362/11-2149
Your thoughtful comments, as well as the citations and
8
onclosure, are appreciated and will be useful in our work.
Sincerely yours,
Warren S. Hunsberger
Acting Chief
Division of Researoh for Far East
Mr. A. C. Fieldner,
Chief, Fuels and Explosives Division,
Bureau of Mines,
6362
Department of Interior,
Washington 25, D. C.
040H
AN
CS/H
tew
11/17/49
OIR:DRF:WGJones:SNehmer(HEWilkins)dw
