894.20293 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In China Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., June 30 (File 1116)
ID: 894.20293-1116   Pages: 52   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20293-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20293 MANCHURIA/
SEE125.4613/273
FOR#351
FROM .....Harbin
-....) DATED
June 30,1936(Rec d.)
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Pressure being brought to bear upon E.S. Durassoff, clerk,
American Consulate General at Harbin, by Soviet and
Japanese secret authorities.
Confidential File

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
VFD
FROM
5u. wm. 47 collect n1 8 ex
FAH VASTEREMRS
Portland, Org Feb 2 1932
1932C
JR
Secy Stimson,
894.20293/13
Dept of War Washington
Suggest give serious consideration heavy purchases portorford
cedar logs by Japanese past three years stop Understand
submerged in Shanhghai harbor stop Can think of no good reason
except camouflage possible mine laying electrical combustion
or other destructive objective.
O A Prince
Collect Card 2204 Klamathfalls Oregon
6:15 a. m. feb 3, 1932
FE89 -192.
FLIHLI
894.20293

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.88)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20293/14
SEE
FOR.
FROM
....ngß
(..) DATED1919
TO
NAME
1-1187
Jagamese liaßsen efrieer has cegreeekeé cme mem-imerioen
REGARDING:
nowepeper cerreapendent in shanghal. wáth fimmeial
erter is he wenld pertrey facts "as they ave". Liaiesn
efrieer is expeeted to tate similar pesétien with Leegus
of Nasiems coaistee mew emrsute to Japan.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.92)
COPIES SENT TO
IN
O.N.I.ANDM.I.
OFS
12
71.
Tientsin, china, moprtary 2, 1932..
note
-032
F/HS
m Gofy mts
THE HONORABLE
tl
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
AARI
WASHINGTON.
894.20293/15
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit herewith copies of my
despatch No. ll6 of this date, to the Legation at Peiping,
on the above-mentioned subject.
Respectfully yours,
.P. Serlmact
F. P. Lockhart,
American Consul General.
aD
800
FPL/DA
Original and 4 ∞pies to the Department.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.86)
Emcteore Noia Do
Prem the Ameun Consalate G
AMH IGAN CONBTLATE
Tiemtain, China, 7ebreary 8, 1988.
SOKIRERIAL
Sub jeet: Alleged Capture ef Japamese
Newspeper Kes.
The Honorable Nelson T. Johnson,
Amerieam Minister,
Peiping.
sir:
1
I have the honor to enalose herewith, fer the infer-
matiom of the Legation, a copy of a letter adaressed to
me under date ef Jamary 31, 195s, by Reverend B. J.
wimens, m Ammriean citizen residing at Chemgll, Hopel,
concerning on alleged seoret missiom on bekalf of the
Japanese authorities of one John N. Meijbreek, Eastern
Underwriters, 37 Rwe de l'Amirante, Tiemtsin, whe recemtly
Visited Changli ane other towne en the Peiping-thanden
Railway. It will be obeerved that Mr. Bed ghreek sought
the assis tmee af the Reverend Mr. Winene in n eftert
to obtain the release of rour Japanese newspaper mem whe,
it is alleged, were captured by Chinese just cutatde the
Great Wall at sheaketkan. The Reverend mr. wimme'
Lotter is the first intimatien whieh I have reselved that
four Japamsse nowepyer msn are in the custety of Ghinese
tn the Shenkat eee aree. It seems ertresrdimary that four
somepayee man should be captared by the chisese and that
the fast shouke net be roperted sa the press.
I ave beun tntermed thast is, mei jresek, whe is wnter
stoed to be a Butth amb jeot, a poaks Japamese fluenkly and

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.91)
is married to a Japanese wemen. No resides at the st.
Freneis Notel in the French Cemeessiem at Tiemtsin, end
asscsiates with Japamese.
Respeetfully yours,
F. P. Lockhart,
Amerioan Cemsul Gemeral.
000
FPL/DA
Emelesure:
2/. frem Rev. E.J. Wimans,
Jammary 31, 10s8.
Origimel and 1 eopy to Legatien.
In quimtuplicate to the Department.
A true copy of
the signed origi.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.93)
CHANGLI ACADERY
Chamngli, Hopes, Chimm.
Jam. 31, 1988.
The Consul Geaeral,
Ammriem Consulate Gmeral,
Timtsin.
Dear Sir:
We have beem asked from time to time to keep the
Consulate informed of any develoyments whieh might be
signifiemat. I wish to make a report whick may or may met
Oa Saturday & Mr. Johm N. Hei jhroek, Eastern Und erwriters,
are held at Lanekou. His mission is to emdeaver to seeure
mmans ef meaey. If he fails the Japanese Military will use
Le had left the train on the way out at Tangakan, then
Respectfally yours,
(set) I. J. wimms.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20293/16
SEE 895.77/2848
FOR
#一
FROM
.Mukden
(Meyers
.) DATED
March 5,1932
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
The formation of the Economic Intelligence Commission by the Sputh
Manchuria Railway Company. The Commission is closely associated with the
Japanese army and is for the purpose of consolidating the advantages gained
in Manchuria by the Army.
194.
21293
ok

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.20293/17
SEE
893.00/12213
FOR Tol. # 1321, noon.
FROM .China
(ngort) DATEDDoc.13.1032.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
News propaganda published and disseminated in
English by the Japanese Information Bureau
at Tientsin.
hs

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
7
PLAIN
MET
Peiping via N.R.
Dated December 13, 1932
Rec'd 9:30 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washinton.
1321, Decenbor 13, noon.
The fol v .; aro typical examples of some of the
Note
news items publisied and disseminated in English by the
893.20
894,20293
"Poiping, becclber fi th. According to a Chinese
sourco Chang Hsueh Liang ordered from United States some
time ago thirty aoroplanes and thirty anti-aircraft guns
which were sold to him at a cheap price while Chu Ching
Lang also purchased from America some twenty anti-air-
2
craft guns which cost about one hundred and seventy thou-
2
sand dollars and he is sa id to have already paid half of
u
the above amount.
Another ●ontract is now pending with a certain Amer-
ican firm for the purohase of twenty aeroplanes by Chu.
It is a lso reported that forth machine guns and thirty-
one trench mortars, whioh were sent from Nn king a few
weeks ago, ill be aupplied to the varlous units of the
Chinese Volunteer Corps".
"Nanking,

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
MET
2-#1321 from Peiping, Deo. 13, noon.
"Nanking, December fifth. As al ready reported it
is quite true that United States is now trying t o have
more influence in Chinese army. According to statement
made by cortain Chinose military officer, graduate of
the Chinese Nilitary Academy, it is said that the Chinese
military authorities at Honkin, in order to develop their
army on mecern Yues and especially with view of giving
young Chinoso officers further and let er training in
use of chemical warfare and flyi y tactics, have decided
to enpage more American instructors. Not only have they
ole
decided to engage/more American instructor for the time
being to give lessons in the Chine se Military Acaderry
but they have the intention of enlisting more mericans
in the future. It is a lsorepar ted that they will dis-
charge somo Gorman engineers who have been working in the
local military chomical institute to study poison gas and
smoke screens and so forth so that they may be replaced
by Americans".
For the Minister,
ENGERT
KLP-HPD

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE...893.00..P..R..Tientsin/54
FORDespatch#221.
FROM ...Tientsin
(Lockhart) DATED December 8,1932.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese news agencies have not confined
themselves to the Manchurian controversy,
but have continued to disseminate information
A
apparently designed to cast aspersions on the
good intentions of other nations towards China.
hs

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.85)
Gsterte heve bean mede to apreed aireed the alleged threet
en the art os the Japanese to withdrew from the Lengmse
if the Mamshuriam toe ts not sstled in aecerémee mt
Japan's mnouneed poal sion. Jepemese news ageneles, hos-
ver, did not anfime thomselves to the Manohuriam os
twreveray bus continued the ouhout the momth, as they d1d
La vetebes, to dissminate iniomatiom apparemly desigmed
to cmst aspersiome on the sgood intuntions of other matioms
towards chime. umony such itams wure: (1) the Amrim
heat loam was in faut a loen ror tho purohase of munitioms
oar war 1nstoad or whout, only about 50, 000 or 60,000
orth or wheat to to shipped tns th: romainder of the lomm
to be for munitions; (2) allogod xpans1un or te sphoros
or inflwance us variows  ruin power while outwardly
pretanding to melp hine. In supprt ot the last named
obmrge it wao s tn tod:
Tho Unitou tut s ms loan supplying a large
number of cor lanes to the hinous viatlon orps,
tx:other

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
893.00 P.R. Hankow/117
#235-
894.20293/
SEE
FOR
Hankow
Josselyn
Feb 10, 1937
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1--1187
Chengchow espionage case: involving three Japanese and one
REGARDING:
Chinese, conducting espionage and were engaged in fomenting
disturbances in Honan, acoording to charge.
691
FRG.
1

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.93)
B. Relations with other gountries
1. Japan
a. Chengehow espionego case
On Janwary 5, the Chinese muthorities at Chengehew,
Menen, arrested three Japanese and one Chinese and
scised a mumber of dosuments found on the premises
which they eeeupied. The Japanese were handed ever
nort day te the Japanese Censul at Chengehow. It is
charged that the Japaxese were cend usting espionage
en behalf of their Gevernment and were mgeged in
fememting disturbenees in Honan.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Nanking, June 7, 1937.
No. 490.
Subject: Enquiry for address of Mr. Leeland
Andras.
COPSENT TO
894.20293
O.N.1.
MI.D.
1005
DEPARTMENTOPSTATR
JUL4 1937
DIVISIONOF FOREIGN
SERVICE AOMINISTRATION
894.20293/20
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
FAR LASILRN AFFAIKS
OF STATE
Deparrmen of State
tonorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Str
1/
I have the honor to enclose copies of a letter dated
2/
May 25, and the Embassy's reply of June 5, together with
JUL 3 0 1937
3/
a memorandum of the latter date explaining the nature of
FILED
the reply.
These concern the desire of Mr. F. W. Poate, Jr. to
obtain the address of Mr. Leeland Andrus and the unwill-
ingness of Mr. Andrus to have it given by the Embassy to
Mr. Poate.
Although
4

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 -
Although the suspicions of Mr. Andrus seem somewhat
far-fetohed, nevertheless the Embassy deemed it advisable
to adopt the preoautions requested by Mr. Andrus, and the
matter is being reported as of possible interest to the
Department.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Millya R. erk.
Willys R. Peek,
Counselor of Embassy.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of letter dated May 25
2. Copy of reply dated June 5
3. Memorandum dated June 5.
310
JHP/MCL
Original and one to Department
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General, Tientsin.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
ENCLOSURE NO.
TO DESPATCH NO.
DATED Jume 7 1987
c/o Messrs. Mackenzie & Co.,Ltd.,
136 Taku Road,
(British Conc.)
TIENTSII.
25th ay, 1937
The United States Consul-General.
NANMING.
Sir,
rs. hese . cioneugh,
I have received a letter frol
1512 Spreckles Street, Honolulu, T. H., astir. ir I could
ascertair the whereabouts of her brotner, r. Leeland Andrus.
He arrived in Snanghai, in early Octover 1936, on the
e was to take up a position
s.s. "President arrison".
as a wireless expert and instrucer at the Jentral viation
School, Hanking.
Letters addressed to hin heve been returned wit covers
marked: 'Unknown'.
Any information you mey give me as to nis present address,
for forwarding to lonolulu, would be much appreciateu.
Yours faithrully.
(Signed) F. W. Foate, Jr.
F. W. Foate, Jr.
(Correct copy MCL)

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.88)
2
ENCLOSURE NO.
Nankim, Jume 5, 1937.
r..te, Jr.
/o ossrs. aokenzie and o pany, tc.,
136 raku d, ritish oneess
Tientsin, hi.a.
15.
The mbesey bas received r letter acaressed to
thrioanuleter.tusu
ler rrioe in ths oit hus beon closed for s  time.
You stt that r.se o u : Loipeci
treot, onolulu, , hs writtenu seekin the
adres her r ther r.eelazd ndrue.
The mbassy as been informed thatrs. ndrus
tat that her husbant hes no sister or that name living
in Homolulu.
Very truly yours,
For the mbassador:
J. Hall Jaxton,
Seeund peeretary of  mbassy.
One copy to Embassy, Peiping
One eopy to Tientsin
Two eopies to Department.
JHP/MCL
à re 

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
CISURE NO
SPATCH NO 90
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
Nanking, June 5, 1937.
subject:
hereebou ts of Mr. Leeland Andrus
Mr. Leeland Andrus, radio expert attached to the
Chinese Air rorce.
Mr. Paxton.
Nr. Andrus called with regerd to the lettel
from Mr. F. W. oate, Jr., dated Nay 25, 1937 from
Tientsin (c/o Messrs. Mackenzie and company, Ltd.,
136 Taku Road, British Concession), requesting the
address of r. Andrus.
Andrus saiu that (1) he nad no sister or rela-
tive by the name of. rs. cDonoueh, (2) he was in
communication with all nis sisters, ull of whom had
other married names than that, and (3) he remembered
Mr. Poate as having come over on the s.s. "president
Harrison" and as a rather "sly" Briton. le consider-
ed that this wes another attempt by Japanese agencies
to get into direct communication wi th him, as had
happened before, several letters addressed to him in
Shanghai having been received, read, resealed and re-
turned by him marked "address unknown." He said that
he arrived in Nanking on November 6 and by the middle
of November the letters began to arrive and have con-
tinued every few weeks since. He said that Holbrook,
in charge of American air instructors at Hangohow,
had stated that the Chinese Seoret Service had asoer-
taimed that the enquiries originated from Japanese
agencies

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
agenoies, the implication being that they wanted to
bribe him. le said that they seemed to have succeeded
temporarily with a kussian radio man, but though the
Air Force au tnorities could get no conclusive evidence
on him, ne wa: now out of a job. Andrus said that he
wanted nune of this and requested thet either Poate's
letter be ignored or e non-committal reply sent to
the effect thet the iabassy had connuni :ated wi th hi
wife who stated thot si.e knew that he hau no sister
by the name of  rs. Mcvonough wi thout giving 'oate any
idea of where Anarus was.
J. Hell Paxtoln,
Second secretary of Embassy.
2 copies to Dept. from anking
copy to reiping
copy to Tientsin
JHP:GB

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Nanking, June 15, 1937.
No. 504.
Subjeot: Enquiry for address of Mr.
Leeland Andrus.
894.20293
4
?!
til
894.20293/2
The Honorable
The Secretary f State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my despatoh No. 490
of June 7, 1937 with regard to the subject mentioned
1/
above and to enolose a copy of a self-explanatory reply
101 3107
dated June 7, 1937 received from Mr. F. W. Poate, Jr.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Mrllea K. Peeh.
Willys R. Pebk,
Counselor of Embassy.
Enclosure:
1. Copy of letter from Mr. F.W. Poate, Jr.,
dated June 7, 1937.
F/FG
310
JHP/MOL
Original and one to Department
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Tientsin.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
To despatoh No. 504
Dated June 15, 1937.
C/o Mackenzie & Co.
Tientsin, 7th June 1937
Secretary,
American Embassy,
NANKING.
Sir,
I have received your letter or 5th June, stating
that Mr. Leeland Andrus has no sister in Honolulu.
On reflection this is quite possible so I am
merely forwarding your favo r to that address without
corment.
Regretting the trouple this has caused you and
thanking you for your courtesy,
I am, yours faithfully,
(Signed) F. W. Poate, Jr.
F. W. Poate, Jr.
(Correct copy MCL)

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
8.94.20293
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE....793.94/10953
FOR
336
894.20293/22
FROM
Hankow
(Joaselyn.) DATEDSept.28,1937.
TO
NAME
1-1121
Sino-Japanese conflict.
REGARDING:
Posters dropped by Japanese planes durin air raid on Wuhan.
Reporting concerning-, encloses copies, in translation.
FRG.
F/MR
2

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
AMERICAN CONSULATE GMNERAL
Hankow, China, April 8, 1959.
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
Subject: Anti-foreign Propaganda.
G
Jarvis
894
CN1-11ID
The Honorable
not
FAR EASTERNAFFAIRS
The Secretary of State,
COUNIATION
DIiVISIN OF
793.94
CI
5.
GNY
I have the honor to transmit herewith the
original, and a translation made in this office,
of a circular issued on March 28, 1939, by the
894.20293/23
Bureau of Social Affairs of the Wuban Peace
Maintenance Society, the organization which the
Japanese Army and Navy Special Services have set
up here to serve as an interim administration until
they have organized a municipal and a provincial
administration. This ciroular was mentioned in my
1/14356
telegram of April 3, 3 p.m., reviewing political and
economic developments in March. Under the title of
JUL11939
"What the people of Wuhan should know" it criticizes
FTILED
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF
the policy of Chiang Kai-ahek, explains the objeet
or Japan's military expedition to China, discusses
JUN 15 1939
OF STATE
AM/C
relations between China and Japan and the advantages
or cceperation, describes the objest of the Peace
Rintenance Society, and appeals fer pease. It
steeks Communism and revives the issue of white
imperialism

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
imperialism naming specifically Britain, the United
States, France and Russia.
During the past fortnight the "Wuhan Pao", the
local Japamese-controlled newspaper, has published
a number of anti-British articles ranging from
disquisitions on the Shameen inoident and British
"aggression" in China through condemmation of the
recent British credits to appeals for support of an
anti-British movement. These articles appear to be
similar to others reported by the press to have been
published recently in Japanese-controlled Chinese-
language newspapers at Nanking and elsewhere and on
comparison may be found to be the same. The "Wuhan
Pao". concentrates on Great Britain, and its language
is violent; the ciroular of the Peace Maintenance
Society is the first attack on the United States and
its tone is relatively mild.
There has been no observable response to these
anti-foreign appeals. A genuine gratitude towards
the foreigner for protecting their women, for caring
for their sick and injured, and for feeding many
thousands of their homeless persists among the
Chinese here, alongside a lively dislike of the
Japanese. The Japanese at Hankow have for some weeks
been more courteous, and slightly more accommodating,
to foreigners. This is understood to be the result
of orders from Tokyo and is very likely part of the
strategy of the anti-foreign campaign of their puppets,
who are intended to bear the blame for any embarrassing
results.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
results. It is reported that orders have been
issued to hold an anti-British parade and demon-
stration on April 15th. It remains to be seen
how successful the Japanese will be in persuading,
or compelling, the Chinese to adopt an attitude
and line of conduct to which they are now not
at all inclined.
Respectfully yours,
R. Y. Jarvis
Consul
Eaclosures:
1. Ciroular, March 28, 1939.
2. Five Translations of Articles
from "Wuhan Pao".
In quintuplicate.
Copies to Chungking, Peiping and Shanghai.
800
RYJ/MRE

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.61)
全创品务

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
Translation of a circular distriouted by the Bureau cf
Social Affairs, of the uhan Peace Huintunancs Socicty,
Hankow, on March 28, 1939.
THAT YE PEOPLE OF WUHAN UHCULD HEREAFTER KNC.
Fellowing the military operatiens fcr "uhan
industry and trade have ceased, the market became
deprussed, pocr people left er lost tacir homes and
countless numoere c. them perisaed en the atreets
and in ti. ditches. phiianthropists, untnusiasti.
in survine the conunity, cculd not oear to see the
calamity stricken p cple cf china  die mis rable
d aths. Therefore the uhan Peace aintunanee
Socicty was organiz i and undertook to care for the
sufi erers and rofugues and to restore peace and
order. Since its inauguraticn and with the h ip or
the Spucial Survice Suction of the Japalnose Army,
tuo Soeiuty has werked successfully. In luss than
three mentns the iniabitants cf the municipality
nave one by en returned and peaee and crder has day
by day been rustored. Prosperity has returned tc
the muni ipality, and nermal conditions nav. teon r-
establislut. Tuspite, howover, the cussution of
Jpcal tur..oii, military opurations lave not yot
stopped; the puople liv. in suspense and rumers are
rif. The p opio p-ing igncrunt or the situation
are cusily mislcd py false ruports. This Buroau
thorefore wishcs to set forth the following points
for thorough understanding by tn, peopl. cr tne
municipality:
1. Mistakus in chiung Kui-sh k's Political
Policy: The policy which Chiung Kai-shck is new
currying out is to ally nimsclf with Russia, to
tolurate comunism, to whuudle forcign rs and to
rusist Japun. This is in fuct an extr m-ly mist..ken
policy. comaunist Russia is abandoncd by all nutions,
but chiang Kui-shuk allics himslf with it, thus
alienatine hims lf from the Powers. Tn. harm from
communism is wors than that from floods and wild
0. usts. conlunism is ononious to th.. n tion, but
Chiang Kui-sh k hus s un rit to tolurat. it; th re-
fore chiune is uliunuting himsulf from th (chinesu)
notion.
Britain, tne United States, France and Russia,
these countries of the white race, are ever inor-
dinately ambitious to exploit our country. At present
tey are still oppressin cur country economicaily, so
trit our country will remain a semi-colonial one for-
ever. Je should earnestly struggle for racial freedom
and enancipation from oppression by the imperialists.
We also shouid know whc is the objent or our struggle.
Japan

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Japan and cur ccuntry are close neirhuore; we rely
on eaon otner as the lips end teetn do. our advantages
and disadvantages are cocr. Te should offer resistance
to tne varicus kinds of ex lcitations of the white race
in the Far East. It is necessary that t.e people of
China and Japan cooperate closely, so that the two reat
countries in the orient may exist and prosper jointly.
Chians Kai-shek does not plan with this object in view;
he is acting against ri ht principles; he willingly asts
us a tool of corunist Russie and fights against Japan.
Hostilities have ccntinued for years, importent vities
nave ceen lost cne after anotner; millions of pecvle
nave perished. Sucn a crime, brin ine disaster on the
ccuntry and tne peopie, cannot be tolerated or pardcned.
2. Objective of the Jepanese Militery Expedition
tc china: As Chiang Kai-shek's Gcvernment arbitrarily
oppresses tne pecple and as com.unism is tclerated to
the disaster of the country, Japan, fearin: that
communism will spread to the further distress c: the
Orient, is obliged to send an expedition to china with
the objeet or overthrowing Chiang Kai-shek's Gevernment,
a puppet of Scviet Russia, and of eliminating Com.unism.
Japan dces not wish to conquer our acuntry, nor
does it intend to ecupy cur territcry. For example,
in lost areas the govern.ent power is still exereised
by the Chinese. This is plainly evident. I: final
vi-tory Loes to Janan, the  overnuent authcrity may
still be returned to our nationals fcr the inauguration
of a Government whion wili seek genuine hanniness in
the orient. Aitnough we are at present sufferring from
hostilities, yet we may hone for a brignt future. If
Commlunist Russie wi.s, tnen com.unism will prevail over
the whole country, and china will surely be swallowed
by Russia. I china perisies, Japan will be isolated.
In short, the purvoose or the Japanese expeditionary
force is to save China, and also to save Tapan.
If we wish to save ourselves, it is im erative for
us to befriend our nei huor, and to have friendly
relations with Japan, our friendly power, and jointly
to cppose comunism. only after this may co-existence
and co-prosperity be possible. The reason is quite
plain and is without any question wnatsoever. This
point shculd pe understood oy tue people or the munici-
pality.
3. Relaticns between China and Japan, and the
Advanta es from Cocperation: From tne be innine China
and Japan have had the sane language and have been of
the same race; their relations have been very olose.
When combined they may exist and prosper together, but
if separated their failure will be inevitabie. The
carriage and the wheels rely on each cther, and if the
lips are lost, the teeth will suffer frcm cold. The
twc

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
twe nutions should know this fact anc should help eask
otner. Tuey should tefriend each other, should sc-
operate harmoniously and clcsely ior the maintenance
of peace in the crient and fcr the perpetual existence
of the vellcw race.
Japan is a stron orientai scuntry with modern
ermament, whiie caina is a weak ccuntry with poor
armement. Japen is an islanc country with a shortage
of natural resources, while china is a centinental
country with extensive territory and abundent netural
resources. Japan has made materialistic prcgress,
while china is backward in cu ture. Japan has surplus
produstion, while china has a huee market. In these
circlmstanoes, it is pest for them to heip each other,
to exohange commodities, and to supnly the Ceficit of
one with tue surplus or the cther; una ior them tc
heip each otner narmonicusly. If sc, nct cnly may the
joint development oi the two countries be exredited,
out perpetual peace in the crient may be brcu it about.
All the people in this municipality shculd understand
t.ris point.
4. Ocject of tne Peuce Maintenance Society:
peace aintenance scciety is an or, unization to maintain
peace and order in a place after hostilities, with the
opject oi crilleinc relief to tne people anc peace to
the nind or the pecple, and of restorine local peese nd
order. ith regara tc ruhan, when the hinese trocps
witnc rew, myriads of petple were left in the municipal
area. In commotion and coniusion tley cid not kncw hat
to do nd where to eo. Their conaition was wretched,
and t.ey groanec; they were on the ver e of ceath.
I. tne Peace Iaintenance Society nac nct been
estaolished, much misunderstandin would have arisen
setween the troops and the necple. nprofitable mis-
inderstanding and unforeseen conflict have been, cf
course, unavoidaple; but without tne reace laintenance
Society, tue surning and cestruction of the market
places and the ncmelessness and surferring of the
people would surely ce one hundred fold of wiat exists
today. estoration of peace and order woulc then have
peen out of question. The blood stains or yanking and
the destruction of Chan sha are evicent faets. in
other words, to tre Peace laintenance Society is due
te credit that the pcople of tman are able to live
i.. peace and resume their ccpunations, and that radually
prosperity is returning to tne market.
U. Appeal for Peace: In connestion with the
prenent salvation or tne country, it is imperative that
we appeal for peace. If we open ou. eyes, the .elan-
cnoly conditions created by this war are heart-ureaking.
Miilions or people nave lost tneir lives, end property
valued at several nundred millicns of tcllars has veen
1Ct.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
lost. Howes ave been destroyed, and belonin s have
venisled. Everywnere are ruins. Fanilies nave been
scuttered to all winds, and starving peonle cover the
cround. Prosper us streets have vecome heaps of oroken
tiles and oricks. cities nave veen razed to tie ground.
It is impossible to mention all. Ir tne war is furtner
prolonged, the future calamity will ue beyond desorip-
tion.
If we wisn tc reduce sufferring and to preserve
sometnine otnation's vitality, we should unite in an
appeal ror peaje and bring about close relatiuns
vetween China and Japan in order to bring peace to thie
Orient. The China policy of prince Konoye, former
Pramier of Jepan, was cooperation setween china and
Japan und tne joint construction of a Hew crder. Mr.
Wan. Chin-wei, a leader of tie Chinese Kuomintang, at
the saime time issued a statement for peace. It may be
suid that tney responded to each other. Now peaceful
national salvation societies at various laces nave
sprune up one after anctner. Both the governient and
the peo le are appealine for peace. ye should avail
ourselves of this opportunity, when echoes of peace
are in tue air, promptly to unite ali the peonle of
vuhan in a joint effort to support the peace movel.ent.
The foregoin statemen's should be known and known
clearly oy the people in this .unicipality. Past errors
Lay oe ienored, but a policy for the future snould be
fixed and we should make up our mind and see clearly the
trend of the time. Under th, leadershin of the new
Government we should advance in an efiort assicuously
anc faithfully to make our way toward revival, in the
nope that peace way se restorod at an early date and the
situation in the orient be settled. This is what we
expect of the veople of wuhan.
Bureau oi Sociai Affairs,
unan Peace Haintenance Scciety.
Marcn 28, 1939.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation of a special article appearing in the wuhaN
PA0 (J), Hankow, Maroh 21, 1939.
Construetion of a Wew Chine and anti-British Movement.
The people of China have long hoped for peace, but
in order to get peace, obstruotions to peace must firat be
removed. This is a condition whioh nobody can deny. What
are the obstruotions? They are Chiang Kai-shek and his
armies, who advooate the war of resistanoe. So long as
these obstruotions are not removed, peace cannot become a
fact. Therefore in order to obtain peace at an early date,
it is imperative that obstructions to peace be as speedily
removed as possible. Mankind loves peace, so do the people
of China, and so do the people of Japan. All countries of
the world without exoeption do. Since peace 1s commonly
loved by Mankind, any breaker of peace will surely be the
enemy of all. Any one who extends assistance to obstructions
to peace and causes hostilities to be prolonged and makes
1t impossible for peace to be obtained at an early date is
a peace breaker. In order to support peace and to bring
about peace at an early date, it is the more imperative
to take him as a common enemy. This is not the statement
of any single Chinese but of the whole Chinese nation.
All human beings who love peace join in making this
statement. This being so, the giving of loans by Britain
to the Kuomintang must necessarily receive our warning and
restraint.
Chiang Kai-shek's war of resistance has continued nearly
two years. The losses of the troops of course can hardly
be estimated, and the squandering of money and property is
the mere astonimhing. Before the inoident, the stocks of
silver of the Mational Government abroad were in fact grest, but
up to the end of June last year, the remainder amounted to

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
600,000,000. Up to the present the remainder is very
small, not sufficient to finanoe one battle. Therefore
the payment of interest on foreign loans is stopped first,
followed by payment of interest on domestic loans, whioh
have become badly affeoted. Therefore Chiang Kai-shek's
finanoial resources have shown signs of collapae. If at
present nobody extends assistance to him and if he be
allowed to exist or to periah, although Chiang Kai-shek
continues his efforts to struggle and to maintain himself,
yet before long he will perish. with the elimination of the
obstruction to peace, peace in the orient may instantly
be restored. Peace is not only desired by the people of
China, but the people of Japan and of every country in the
world, without exception, will rejoice and dance. Only
Britain alone is giving loans to Chiang Kai-shek's regime
at the time of ita fall, thus enabling Chiang Kai-shek to
continue his gasping breath and to prolong the war.
As a reault peace cannot be brought about. Peace is
desired by everybody; only Britain is the enemy of peace.
Any anemy of peace 1s also the common anemy of the 400,000,000
people of China. If we hope for peace, we should rise up
to remove this enemy, so that it cannot obatruot peace. It
must be understood that so long as hostilities do not stop,
the people of China cannot live in peace and enjoy their
trades. Therefore in order to continue our existence, we
should promptly work for the realisation of peace and for
the elimination of the enemy of peace.
As far as international law is concerned, at the inauguration
of the Reformed Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
mede the following declaration:
"This Government in accordanee with the prineiples
of international lam and international precedents mhall

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
respect the legitimate (proper) rights and privileges
of the various powers in China. But after the in-
auguration of this Government any treaty, agreement,
eto, made by them with the former National Government
and the various provinoial governments will not be
recognized by this Government, and this Government
will not aasume any responsibility for any obligations
ariaing therefrom."
The Joint Committee of the Government of the Republio
of China, in its inaugural declaration, makes the following
statoment:
"If the people of the world can appreciate this
sincerity, those countries which have had commeroial
relations with us are our friends and our brethren; of
course we will carry out our past treaties and respeot
rights and privileges which they have obtained. Any
country whioh is secretly assisting Chiang Kai-shek,
pretending to be standing by, but is profiteering,
will be taken as our enemy. We do not desire to
offend the powers who are controlling the situation,
but we do not tolerate to see that the suffering of
our compatriots in the country be inoreased.*
As the New Government possesses extensive territory in north
and central China and is supported by the people, although
it has not received formal recognition from Britain, it is
inevitable that it be taken as a de facto government
according to international precedents. Its deolaration
at least may be accepted as that of the people under the
rule of the New Government. Since Britain has given loans
to the National Government dempite the deolaration of the
Nem Government and the declaration of the majority of
people in north and central China, thus to prolong the

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
war to the suffering of all the people in Ohine, the
deolaration of the Joint Committee of the Government has
well said that Britain should be taken as our enemy, not
only not to extend recognition to it. At present the forty
million people in central China are so indignant that
they have risen up to urge the Government emphatioally
to stop the giving of loans. The more radioal ones have
requested that oonoessions be reclaimed and that the
British people be deported. This is the natural conse-
quence, as the steps of Britain are evident obstructions
to peace and contrary to the psyohology of the people of
China. The people of China for the purpose of saving
themselves are obliged to cope with them, so that the
obstructions to peace may promptly be eliminated. There-
fore this cannot be taken as an anti-British movement by
the Chinese, but it is in fact that the British are
pioking a quarrel with the Chinese, who are thus obliged
to reply. The British are known to be orafty and to adhere
to realiam, and they everywhere olaim to respeot publio
opinion. Now in view of the indignation of the people in
central China, do they retraot in their mind? If so,
it will result not only to the advantage of the people of
China, but also of the people of Britain and moreover of
the people of the world.
DOWN WITH GREAT BRITAIN WHICH DISTURBS THE NEW ORDER.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation of an artiole appearing in the wUHan PAo, (J),
Hankow, Maroh 24, 1939.
Reminiscenes on the Shameen Tragedy, in connection with
the Anti-Rritiah Movement.
In the river at Shaki, Kwangtung, there is an egg-shaped
isle called Shameen. On the isle are two large foreign
bridges, leading from Shameen to Shaki, one called the Rast
Bridge, and the other the West Bridge. All the consulates
of the various countries are located on this isle; therefore
it may be called the headquarters of foreign devils in
Kwangtung.
When the Chinese residents at Hong Kong received in-
formation concerning the tragedy of May 30th on Nanking
Road, Shanghai, they promptly responded to it; workmen
stopped their work, students stopped their lessons, to
express their opposition. The labor group made demands
to the Hong Kong Devil Government, first the abolition of
the deceitful treaties, and second, equal treatment to the
Chinese by the devils (Britishers). The Hong Kong Government
was struok dumb by the strike of the workmen and the demands
made by the labor group. On June 21 a large detachment of
devil soldiers of different colors - black and white -
holding rifles, kept guard on all sides, and martial law
was enforced. The Chinese people and Chinese laborers at
Hong Kong returned to Canton one after another. Hong Kong
which had always been buay and prosperous, in an instant
turned into a deserted island. On June 21 the Chinese
workers at Shameen began a general strike in consequence
of the tragedy at Shanghai on May 30. At the same time
they organized a "Committee on ▲ Strike" in support of the
Chinese at Shangha1 following the tragedy of May 30.
They met to disouss steps to be taken. All the Chinese
elerks in the various foreign firms made contributions

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
monthly at the rate of 5 per cent of their salaries for
defraying expenses connected with the strike. This action
terrified and caused uneasiness to the foreign devils at
Shameen. On the 22nd the gates on the steel bridges on
the east and west ends of Shameen were closed, and
sailors were landed. At the important points on Shameen
sand bags were heaped up as if to stop an enemy. According
to an investigation made by the provinoial and Hong Kong
Committee the number of those who participated in the strike
was 210,000 persons.
At the same time the various classes of people in
Kwangtung organized a foreign affairs assooiation, in order
to disouss steps to cope with the foreigners. At the meet-
ing of June 22 it was resolved that on the next day a
demonstration be held. On June 23 a parade took place,
and most of the participants were the strikers and students.
In addition the various municipal bodies in the provincial
capital joined the parade, their number being between 50,000
and 60,000 persons. They held small flags in their hands
and shouted slogans on the way to Shaki.
Beyond any expeotation, when a part of the paraders
arrived at the entrance to the west end of the bridge, the
British devils, being oruel-hearted, began to machine gun
them along the ahore of Shameen. In an instant scores of the
pedestrians and over ten of the paraders were killed. The
number of the wounded is countless. Many persons were trampled
upon and killed, others were pushed into the water and drowned
by the crowd, their number also being unknown. After the
incident the streets were deserted, and all the shops closed.
Many cerpses were left on the ground, among whom were students,
civilians, and soldiers. All the people of Kmangtung were
enraged by this tragedy and began to grind their teeth,

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
wishing to go to Shameen in a body to kill the British
devils, every one of them. At the time the Government
made several protests on account of popular indignation.
In the middle of August an executive order was issued
advising merohant vessels not to stop at Hong Kong, and
at the same time a boyoott of British devilish goods was
enforced. After these two steps had been carried out,
devilish goods could not be imported, and traffio between
Canton and Hong Kong was suspended. Although the brutal
nature of the devils had not entirely been removed, yet
they have been worried up to the present. When compatriots
of Kwangtung are mentioned, we have to raise our thumbs, and
say that they are hard-hearted.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation of a news item appearing in the WUHAN PAo (J),
Hankow, March 31, 1939.
Historical facts of British Aggression in China.
An address broadcast by the General Headquarters of
the Ta Ming Hui.
The British Empire was the first country which took
aggressive steps against China and oppressed China. In
1940, during the reign of Hsuan Chung of the Ching Dynasty,
Lin Che-shu was an emissary in Kwangtung. As Britain
demanded to import large quantities of opiun into China
in order to get Chinese silver, he destroyed wi th fire
over 20,Ooo boxes of o ium belonging to British merchants.
The British Government demanded an indemnity under the
excuse tat the Chinese Government had disgraced the
3ritish Consul and the British people, who had suffered
losses, and despatched naval vessels to attack various
points along the coast. They took Chowshan and Mingpo,
which were not adequately defended, and advanced on
Nanking. Therefore in July, 1842, China made the first
treaty of peace, which caused a loss of rights and
humiliated the country. In addition to the cession
of territory and the pa yment of an indemnity, 5 ports
were opened to trade, and Shanghai is demarcated as a
concession, which has pecome the base of all oppression
and of all incidents of massacres of Chinese during the
past century. Since that time ritain has used this
treaty as a means of protection; everywhere it has
oppressed the Chinese at will. The latter have not
been conquered by it, but on the contrary its action
has raised strong anti-British movements. The second
time that Britain took aggressive steps against China
with force could not be prevented after all. This was
the allied invasion in 1856 by Britain and France. The
result of the war was that China was again defeated.
Consequently came the indemnity of 6,000,000 taels and
the opening of 1l additional places to trade. In
addition consular jurisdiction was provided for. Ever
since, Britain has been holder and does as it wishes,
without any obstructi on.
In 1886 3ritain swallowed urma by force, as a base
to exploit Tibet in the future. In l900 the Boxers brought
about the siege of Peking by the allied army of 8 countries
Although the Comnander-in-Chief of the army was a German,
yet Britain at the time was the principal agitator, who
predominated in military affairs. The plunder by Britain
on this occasion brought about a greater economic burden
on China. This is the Boxer Indemnity which amounts to
the proximity of Taels 1,000,000,000 in principal and
interest, which has not yet been paid in full.
Since the power and influence of Britain in China
has been daily increasing, the other countries have come
one after another. Britain is obliged to take a further
step

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
step in oppressing China in order to counteract the
power and influence of other countries in China. Britain's
enemy in north China is Rus ia. As it is unable to build
railways between Shanhaikwan and Sinmintun and Newchwang,
Britain made a British-Russion pact with Russia, end the
Yangtze valley was demarcated as an area within which
Britain might build railways. After the Sino-French war
Britain made a pact with France, thus rights and interests
in Szechuan and Yunnan falling into uhe hands of Britain.
At the sae time ritain demanded the lease of .eihaiwei
to resist Russia. In south China Britain deranded the
lease of Kowloon, to counterbalance the inluence of
France. As to the Anglo-Japanese alliance, 3ritain wished
to oust Russia from its position in north China and
Manchurie with the power of Japan. Availing itself of
the opportunity ritain tried to carry out iss aggression
in Tibet.
The Anglo-Japanese alliance raised the Russo-Japanese
war. As Russia's strength was concentrated in the
northeast, it could not pay any attention to Tibet.
Consequently British troops invaded and went into Tibet
and took Lhassa, the capital ol Tibet. The Dalai Lama
escaped into Chinghai. Britain wished to swallow Tibet
alone, but after ali, the powers brought pressure to
bear on it. Britain's project to invade ipet thereafter
was gradually carried out, and in the end Russia was
obliged to witndraw. Tne Tipetans having been instigated
by the ritish, once started a riot, and once declared
independence. Britain after all saw fit to afford
protection to Tibet openly, ana protested at the suppression
of revellion by Chinese troops. At present as Chiang
Kai-shek and Britain are cooperating, the future of Tibet
is unthinkaole.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation of a news item appearing in the WUHAN PAO (J)
Hankow, April 1, 1939.
Historical facts of 3ritish Aggression in China.
Upon the inauguration of the eoublic, Britain began
to εet Yuan Shih-kai as its instrument, thus throwing
China in a civil war which lasted scores of years. In
central and southern China 3ritain attempted to employ
all the militarists in order to get supremacy over the
other countries in its power in China. Vhen Hong kong
was brcught in close commu.ication with Canton, the
economic power of ritain in China became s ecially strong.
In 1925 the May 30 incident occurred at Shanghai,
when the anti-sritisn movement which had been agitating
among the people for several decades broke out. The
British residents, relying on their strength acted ruth-
lessly at will, and paying no attention to humanitarianism
by firing on Chinese everywhere. .oreover, through cunning
and crafty diplomacy it shifted the responsibility. After
the May 30 incident, there followed the Hankow, Kiukiang
and Chungking incidents, and the Nanking, Shaki and Wan-
hsien tragedies. All these incidents represented the way
in which British imperialists resorted to their traditional
oppressive measures to enslave the Chinese; as a result
the blood of the Chinese began to boil and saw fit to
sacrifice their lives for justice. Our investigations
show that very unfortunate incident took place in the
concession and that Chinese la borers rose up ana shed blood
on account of ritish oppression. The Government at the
time on account of various reasons could not solve them
thoroughly. Beyond any expectation, when the Chiang
Kai-shek governnent began to reign, it took the enemy
as its parent and reached a compromise with Britain,
thus creating the present Sino-Japanese war. ..ost
recently Britain gave huge loans to the Chiang Kai-shek
government, thus enabling the Chiang Kai-shek regime to
butcher more people. Britain's crimes in China are
countless.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation of an editorial appearing in the VUHAN PAO (J),
Hankow, April 6, 1939.
ANTI-BRITISH OVEENT.
The various classes of people in Nanking have recently
started an anti-British movement and organized an Anti-
British Association. In a short wile the people in
Kiangsu, Chekian and Anhwei, under the jurisdiction of
the Reformed Gove nment have risen up in response enthu-
siastically. Now Kaifen has also raised an anti-British
movement; there the sentiments are not inferior to those
existing in the other provinces. Before long the anti-
British movement over the whole country may begin vehement-
ly. This shows that an anti-British psychology has long
laid dormant in the mind of the people, and once started
it springs up everywhere.
But the anti-British psychology which has accumulated
for years has only begun to show itself today under the
jurisdiction of the new government. on the one hand it
is a pleasant thing, but at the same time it is regrettable.
What we are pleased about is that the people have known
clearly the comaon enemy who is obstructing our peace
and national salvation move. ent, and that they have
voluntarily taken up an anti movement. At the same time
the new governments in central and north China, appreci ating
public opinion, resolutely made a resolution at the 4th
joint meeting, that for the existence of the race they
decided to eliminate the demon which is disturbing the
construction of a new oriental order. mat is the cause
of our regret?
Our great country has been placed under the harness
of a semi-colony by the British imperialists for about a
century. After the Opium war of l842 our country was
first compelled to counter-sign a treaty which caused
a loss of right and is humiliating, and which opened the
way to aggression. The British imperialists who can
never be satisfied, forcefully advanced gradually. From
the joint invasion by 3ritain and France in 1856, to the
Ally Army of eight countries in l886, without exception
Britain was the leader. Now all the rights and privileges
have almost been monopolized by it, and the wealth of the
400,000,000 compatriots has nearly all been robbed. The
brethren in Burma and India have been able to rise up to
eliminate this blood-sucking foreign devil; they shed
their blood in a struggle for independence and liberty.
Beyond expectation a part of our compatriots, descendants
of Huang Ti, are still hoping to rely on them. Is this
not regrettable?
The Chiang regime has been defeated again and again,
and is coming to its last day. In order to continue
its existence, it takes the robber as its father. There
is nothing queer about it, but how can our 400,000,000
compatriots sit tight and see that Tyrant Chiang tolerate
the deliberate destruction of the tombs of our ancestors
by these foreign devils?
But

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
But we should understand that the anti-British move-
ment does not begin today. Since the opium war to the
tragedy of May 30, 1925, our ancestors sacrificed their
lives and shed their blood for this movement. The anti-
British movement started throughout the country by the
tragedy of ay 30 can not be forgotten for ever in the
history of revolution.
After the outbreak of the tragedy, the various
places throuhout the country responded to the report.
Consequently there arose the Shaki tragedy, and foilowed
the tragedies of Hankow, Chungking, and  anking. In
these instances the ritish butchers shot and massacred
cruelly in the same manner.
On June 10 of the same year when a steamer of
Butterfield and Swire had arrived at Hank w, and when
porters were transporting goods ashore, they were
assaulted by the foreign devils of the company. The
porters disagreoing the assault started a strike on
the llth. over 20o0 men were assembled for a demonstra-
tion. ritish sailors fired on the.., and killed 8 and
wounded scores of them. It is presumed that the people
of this port still have this incident fresh in their
mind.
With the exception of the rendition of the ritish
Concession at Hankow, the warm blood sh ed by our martyrs
has not brought the desirea result. This is due to the
misdemeanor on the part of the 400,000,000 compatriots
whose zeal lasted only five minutes and who failed to
continue the movement. If our compatriots after l924
had been able to follow the example of our martyrs and
had continued this movement, it is quite possiple that
the British imperialists would not have dared to be so
atrocious and that the Chiang regime would not have been
overpowered by them, with this present calamity as a
result.
We find that the past atrocities of the ritish
imperialists and the positive assistance extended now
by them to the Chiang regime have the same object. It
is nothing else than to prolong the hostilities, so
that they may pursue their blood-sucking policy and
that they may extend their rights and privileges.
It is true that in order to reconstruct China anew
and to seek permanent peace for the orient, it is
necessary to overthrow the Chiang regime. At the same
time we cannot forget to overthrow the British imperialists
who are pulling the strings, as the British imperialists
are the demons who are disturbing the peace of the orient.
The Chiang regime is but a puppet of these demons. In
this sense the anti-British movement is a lesson given
us by history and is the mission of the nation.
Compatriots of the whole country, promptly unite
with Burma and India, and the nations under the iron
hoofs of the British imperialists in raising a great
anti-British movement:

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
894.20293
NOTE
SUBJECT
Anti-foreign propaganda by Japanese through puppets in
Japanese-occupied areas of China.
894.20293/ 24
For the original paper from which reference is taken
#69 to Embassy, Peiping
See
(Deepatoh, telegram, instruotion, letter, eto.)
Dated ....
Apr11 26, 1939
From/
Tsinan
To
File No. 793.94/15064
FRG.
24

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 28, 1939
Canton's despatoh no. 26 of July 19
reperts that, with the development of the
Anglo-Japanese orisis, Japanese propaganda
at Canton, which, although active, had
previously been anti-Chiang Kai-shek and
anti-Communist rather than anti-Occidental,
became inoreasingly anti-British and 1ncluded
intimations that the Japanese army might take
aotion against Hong Kong.
894.20293/25
FE:Chase:HJN

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
AMfc
No. --
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL,
1939 N0
CANTON, CHINA.
44
July 19, 1939.
1R0S
SUBJECT: Japanese Propagenda in Canton.
A
The Honorable
E9L
The SecretaryOf State,
Washington.
Rice
CNRMID
Sir:
1/-
I have the honor to enclose herewith copy of
894.20293/25
despatch no. 26 to the Embassy at Peiping dated
July 19, 1939, on the above subject.
Respectfully yours,
M. S. Myers,
American Conbal General.
Enclosure:
1/- Copy of despatch no. 26.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
In quintuplicate.
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
F/A
800
AUG31
OF STATE
A-M/C
EER/ccw
D

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.96)
MRIOAN CONAITATE
OANTON, UHIN
July 19, 1989.
SUBJOT: Japenere Propagande in Canton.
The Honorable
Nolson Trusler Johnson,
Amerioan abassador,
Peiping.
sir:
I heve the honor to rerer to my monthly politioal
report for June, 1939, in which montion wes made of
Japanese propaganda in Canton, and to now report rur-
ther in regard to that subjeot.
Sinoe the ocoupation or Onton in Ootober, 1938,
the looal populace has been subjeoted to a barrage of
Japanese-inspired propuganda. wall posters and slogans,
pamphlets, the press, the rudio, and direct speeoh to
roups of people have been the principal medie.
This propaganda has, of oourse, been anti-Ohiang
Kai-shek and anti-Comaunist in nature. It has striven
to demonstrete that the consumation of peace would
bemerit China and that oontinuance of Sino-Japanese
hostilities will ruin it. It has endeavored to present
the Japanese army in the best light and the Chinese in
the worst. It has urged Bino-Japanese cooperation for
the establiahment of a "New Order in East Asia".
Resssionally

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
一 8 -
Oecasienally the Chimese have been told that their
true enemy is not Japan but the white imperialimm of
England, America, and Franee.
ven when the far reaohing implloations or the
ourrent difriculties over the concessions in Tientsin
first became clear, these media of propaganda were not
at once widely used in Canton against the British.
acooraing to reports the Japenese authorities in Canton
have banned anti-British demonstrations, and thus far
no neetings or demonstrations of an anti-Britiah oharacter
have ocourred. No wiuosproud use is being made or ant1-
Britiah wall-posters.
However, the looel Japanese-controlled Chinese press
and the local redio station (Station XGok) have inoroasing-
ly of late been utilized to propagate the Japanese point
of view concerning present British-Japanese tension and
to inoite anti-British feeling among the Chinese. In
press artioles, recent actions of Great Britain heve been
interpreted in the light of its pest aggressions, whioh
are dwelt upon at length. It is urged that the British
should be driven from their footholds in Ohina, that the
treaties whion ended the Opium War must be torn up, and
that China should if neeeasary use her blood and iron to
repel "British Aggression". On July 16, one newspaper
devoted a whole edition to suoh attacks on Oreat Britain.
On July 17 the Canton Daily Sun printed a statement
purportedly made by the Japanese Army Authorities in
1/- Canton, a copy of whioh is enelosed. This statememt
104100300

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8 -
indioates sympathy with the anti-mritimh aims of the
Japanese military in North China, expresses coneern
over alleged use of Hong Kong as a base of anti-Japanese
activities and indicates that the looal military guthori-
ties are wtching with keen interest the development of
the Tokyo parleys. The statement euds with an indioation
that the Japanese ilitary in South China are prepared to
purtioipate in the prosent attempt to bring about a ohange
in Qreat uritain's polioy vis-a-vis the Sino-Japanese
confliet.
Respeotfully yours,
M. . Myers,
Anerioan Consul General.
Enolosure:
1/- Copy of Statement, us stated.
Original and one copy to Imbassy, Peiping.
One eopy to Kmbassy, Chungking.
5 copies to Department.
800
LLR/cow
inal.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.82)
FRON M. B. MYERS, AMERIOAN CONSUL GINERAL, GANTON, CHIRA,
ON THE SUBJKOT *JAPANESE PROPAGANDA IN CANPON".
PANESE AR AUTHODTIS
E  R  o 
Jopesteo Saacto Obbon Eapodt
Chlang Pregagnnde
tiamery Ferese asmeene d at d
"The e S C
Lób, to czprose tdis attade
euiárty payhag stomian to tbe
with rogerd to the Asgte Jopeeese
foot can Hotgkong e tom the
Cosseddfom problém.
dad pre-chiotng tahabot pro
The addotboobes atbte d pegtde dad dar Japeér feeg
followé:
'dnd de'etatot belp Ses teoply
"The Ticuteia Conerssion pro-
régrot rbetr néoiotamee pivem id
Chisbg Kli-sbek rugiate.
blem hes been treasferred to
Tokyo for the sottlemeot io the
"Due to th, foregolog reasóne,
Anglo-Jsparose parley. sobeduled we ate watobiug. with keen iöter-
lo be beld there ae from to-day. eat, the developmonte of the
"Simuitaneomsly, emt-Brlfieh
Tokjo parley.
moveete havs béba lkom up
"At this inatance, we have te
by beth Jépasese ase Chieese
empbesise that she presest
peopte, be variose pleoee to Chée
resistance bee beeu propegsted
nd Japem, Tées wto iutonded
mech to the disturbaaee of est
to tofate Britheh mitiede, whioh aim for the coastrmotiom of a now
ie an boetadle to the presest
order in the Far East.
"The Jepenéee Seeth Chine
British Attitade
Expeditiosery Poree ardénsly
"We fully sonsider that the
hope that the British sathorkies
Mtitade of the British autborities
will liquidete rbeir setijapesese
in Tien'sin is guite obatrmctive to
passion, by givibg up ibeir pro.
our military operstione, and
Chiung Kaibek attitude and
cspecially for the maintenance of
recogaising the trae spect of
peson aod order ia Tientain.
Est Asia. Aleo. that they will bo
sincere to aooperate with Japen
"(be pariey obould mot be
along the basic priaciple of
carried on only for the ettiomont
founding a new order in the
of tbe local Tientaia problem, but
Far East.
for the rectifsicstion of the biessed
"The Japevere Somth Chios
sttitude of Britaio througboat the
Expeditionary Furabs are fally
present iccidant, which they bave
develeped from their fundement-
ptdpared and resolted to ee thee
ally unfair recognition of the
the forégoieg will be reellsed at
stustion, in cansequsuee of which
the presont parley, now going oo
the lacidout bee bean preleaged
in Tokyo between the satborities
to abe uiter auffering o the
of tbe parties sodsarned," the
Cbiuese masses.
Sistemdui coucludos.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese war novels, entitled MUD AND SOLDEERS
and BARLEY AND SOLDIERS have been translated
into English by K. and L. W. Bush, copies enolosed.
894.20293/26
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
despatch.#4054
(Deepatoh, telegram, iastraotiom, letter, eto.)
From
Dated .....July. 31..1939
..Japan(Dooman).
To
File No.
793.94/15318
U. S. GOVERNUENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1840
