894.5034 Economic Matters., Capital., Japan, Corporations, Other Businesses. Formulation. Regulation. Bond Issues. Stock Certificates., February 10, 1930 - December 28, 1935 (File 885)
ID: 894.5034-885   Pages: 48   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5034-economic-matters-capital-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894
SEE
894.00/297
FOR
24
Janan
( te
) DATED eb.10.1930
503
FROM
TO
NAME
1-1127
f
REGARDING:
Discussion of i re of uborers i cenura in Japan
to ree ord to appe s o: or anized  ubor, whic i chief
co re uf stcenth to oro eterian arties. abor or unina-
tion ctivities. (copy att: ce!).
pra

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo, Fobruary 10, 1930.
No. 24.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report developments in Japanese
proletarian political parties, interest in whose activities
has recently inoreased due to the approach of a general
eleotion. The Embasmy has reported from time to time
during the past the inaugurations, dissensions, and re-
alignments of these frequently changing groups and it is
now felt that a general survey may be of some value.
The ohief weakness of the proletarian political
movement is its dimmmity. On Maroh 5, 1926, the Labor-
Farmer

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 •
Farmer Party was inaugurated. With the exoeption of
the Farmer-Labor Party whioh was inaugurated on Decem-
ber 1, 1925, and dissolved by the authorities the same
day because of radioal tendencies, this was the first
proletarian political party in this country. Today there
are five proletarian parties, as well as a number of lopal
proletarian groups of a political character too small to
be dignified by the term "party".
Dissension entered the proletarian parties with the
labor organizations whioh in the main today, as at the
beginning, comprise them. Before the period of proletarian
parties, efforts toward federation of labor unions had
been essayed for some years and had only very partially
succeeded. It wa: searcely to ve expected then that at-
tempts of these same dis mited grou s to join together
for political purposes vould succeed immediately. The
differences that existed between the labor grou s per-
sisted in the proletarian parties. La or groups have
united to form a party, only to have one or more of the
groups soon withdraw to form a new party, to join a
party already in existence, or to await the appearance
of some other group or groups with whose views its own
sufficiently coincide to warrant an attempt at politioal
union. Labor unions, as suoh, have as yet no legal
standing 1n Japan and in the eyes of the law are merely
voluntary associations.
The programe of the various parties do not differ
suffisiently to explain the division. The chief aim of
1y
each party is admitted to ameliorate the condition of
the preletariat. Their programs differ prinoipally in
emphasis

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
omphasis with respeot to whioh sections of the proletariat
should be aided and whioh measures of amelioration are
most urgent.
The dissension rather springs from former advooaoy
of social theories whioh onoe engrossed the labor leaders
but whioh have now soaroely more than a sentimental or
academie value. Labor unions in Japun mey be said to be
a development of the present century, and in fact it was
not until the war-boom and the post-war-boom that they
reaohed a position of importance here. Throughout their
development their leaders exhibited more interest in de-
oiding upon a theory by whioh their aims should be at-
tained than in the aims themselves. The social theories
of the nineteenth century of Europe and America reaohed
Japan only late in that century and were quite alien to
the thought of the poople who were slowly emerging from
feudalimm. Eaoh theory found adherents among labor
leaders. The dissensions among the unions usually arose
from the refusal of one labor group to accept the theory
advooated by another group.
Today these theories have lost much of their im-
portance in the eyes of the labor groups. Uver & period
of years, the leading argument oreating disoord wa
whether labor's aims should be attained by parliamentary
means or by direct aotion. When proletarian political
parties advocated direct action the authorities dis-
solved them. Those that exist today have acknowledged
that they will proceed along parliamentary lines. Yet
this abandonment of their chief contention has not
brought wmion. The enmities created among laber leadars
by

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
- 4 -
by these disputes over theories still persist so that
dissension is now due more to personal differenoes and
jealousies, the inheritance of past quarrels, than to
genuine divergenoe of prinuiple.
Further, in all Japanese political parties personali-
ties re more important than prineiples. Sach proletarian
party, composed of its v rious labor groups, is formed
about a leader or leaders. These groups within a party
support the man to whom they are most closely attached
personally and move as le moves, supportig htm in his
quarrels and in his wanderings in and out of parties,
with little regard cor prirei les.
Recent as tne dovelopment o proleta i un politioal
parties is, could they achieve unit, their signifioance
would undoubtedly te consicerably icereased. For example,
in the genaral election of etruary, 1928, the first
election of Diet members following the extension of suf-
frage from slightly more thar. 2,c00,000 pereons to more
than 12.000,000, the 1:01ctx1ars 201led alrost 500,000
votes. They elected, however, but eight men, the sueoeas-
ful sandidates averaging about 60,o00 votcs cach. Sucoess-
ful oandidates of the regular parties, on the other hand,
averaged 12,000 votes eaoh. In other words, had the
proletarian parties refrained from running several op-
posing candidates in one electoral distriot they might
have gained thirty seats in the Diet.
Although no one is apparently more aoutely aware of
the dimdvantages of such diffusion of rotes than the
preletarian party leaders themselves, in the approaching
eleotion the same competition between rival proletarian
candidates will eeeur. Already ninety-fuur candidates have
boen

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
been registered by the proletarian groups, almost one-
third the number of oandidates put forward by the Sei-
yukai, the leading opposition party. labor leaders ad-
mit that this large numoer of candidates will probably
bring them a return of very few more Diet members than
they gained two years ago. This situation is not confined
to the labor group. Party disoipline has not reaohed the
stage in Japan where the party leaders or members ohoose
one candidate for each eleotoral distriot. It is not un-
usual to find several avowed members of a party seeking
election in the same distriot.
Disunity is not the only oostacle confronting the
proletarian parties; they sufrer also from the apathy of
the masses toward all amelioration movements. This
apathy is indioated by the failure of laborers in general
to respond to the appeals of organized labor, whioh is
the ohief souroe of strength to the proletarian parties.
According to the Japan Labor Year Book (Nihon Rodo Nenkan),
at the end of 1928 laborers in Japan were divided as
follows:
Faotory workers
2,224,565
Miners
295,601
Farm laborers
3,117,582
Fishermen
785,121
In commeroe
1,109,000
In communications
Railways
263,881
Shipping
489,100
Other communications
56,874
Casual laborers
1.847.078
Total
10,847,078
Less than 500,000 laborers, or about five per cent
of the tetal, are, however, organised. There are eight
uniems of farm laborers, with a total membership of
170,000, ama 501 trade unions with a total membership
of

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6 -
of 309,000, of whioh 12,000 are women. Membersh1p in
these unions showed a slight deorease at the end of
1928 as compared with the preceding year.
This vast number of lavorers who have failed to
respond to the inducements of labor organizations do not
have much interest in the proletarian  olitical parties.
The largest proletarian part., the coial Demooratio Party,
is said to have a membership of co ethin more than
200,000, 1noluding some persons not strictly within the
laboring olasses, since this party attempts to represent
the salaried "white collar" class as well as laborers.
The next largest proletarian party, the Japan Popular
Party, is said to have a membership of something less
than 200,000 members. Other parties are a11 smuller.
The number of votes cust for proletarian sandidates in
the last general election sxoeeded by about l0,O00 the
number of organized laborers. Even though sume organized
laborers probably did not utilize their votes, it is
reasonable to suppose that :hese oandidates attracted
only a very limited number of people from outside the
ranks of organized labor.
There seem to be several oauses of lack of interest
among the maszes in labor organizations. Many are satis-
fied with present conditions while others repose a large
amount of trust in the authorities from whom, they feel,
improvement will come gradually and naturally. In spite
of the rapid industrialization of Japan, the houmehold
aystem of industry still maintains to a surprisingly
great extent. Under this system a relation between master
and worker that is foudal in character exists to such a
dogroe

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
-7 -
degree that the worker is usually contented with his
position and feels no need of entering an organization
whose activities might be direoted gainst his master.
There is also apparent in the Japanese of the working
olasses, in addition to their conservatism, a slowness
of comprehension whioh leads the observer to believe that
the signifioance and possible benefits of organization
are not generally understood. n em loyee of the Social
Bureau of the Department of Home Affairs, deeply interested
in the labor movement, went so far as to state in this
regard tht lack of interest, especially among farm
laborers, is chiefly the result of stupidity.
These causes of limited labor organization are at the
same time among the causes of laok of interest in proletari-
an parties. There are, however, additional reasons for
aloofness in this respect. The fact that a number of
these parties have been tainted with communism has quite
probably alienated the sympathy of many unthinking people
from all of them. Then too, the proletarian parties lack
competent leaders and funds. Among the leaders there are
some men of high standing, suoh as Dr. Isoh Abe, for many
years a profesmor at one of the leading universities, and
Mr. K. Matsuoka, the strongest man in the Sooial Demo-
..O..VC.
oratic Party. Both have alroady shown that through them
unity oannot be attained. According to some disinterested
students of the movement, among the leadere the most
promiming are some young intelligent men of the Japan
Popular Party, but it will be some years before muoh can
be expeoted from them.
In the past the parties well in funds have been the
most

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
一8 -
most successful at elections, but the proletarian parties
are not among them. It had been hoped that by the
quadrupling of the eleotorate by the so-called "Universal
Manhood Suffrage Law" of 1925 eleotion venalities would
be greatly decreased. This apparently hae ot been the
case. at least at the last general election vast sums
were alleged to have been spent by the leading regular
parties, the Seiyukai having spent, it is s ia, as much
as ten million yen. Regular parties receive large sums
from wealthy commeroial houses. Some of the proletarian
parties insist that they would not aocept money from
capitalists if it were offered, while the Sooial Democratio
Party, for example, which is said to reseive some monetary
aid from oapitalists, accepts it only without conditions.
as dues for membership in a proletarian party range from
fifty sen to one yen, they cannot be consi dered a souroe
of revenue of any consequenoe, nor can members of suoh a
party be expected to have private means from which any
significant sum might be contributed.
The Social Dem cratio Party (Shakai Minshuto) is,
as I have said, the largest and most conservative of the
five parties. It w a inaugurated December 6, 1926, the
chief element being three-fourths of the membership of the
Japan Federation of Labor whioh had withdrawn shortly be-
fore from the Labor-Farmer Party. The Japan Federation
of Labor believed that that party had admitted elements
that were too radioal and also felt that in representing
only erganiged laber it confined itmelf to too narrew a
seetion of the people. This part of the Japan Foderation
of Laber wimhed also to represent unorganized laber, shop-
zeopere

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
keepers, petty offioials, salaried employees, and others
who comprise "the unpropertied middle cla es". It cannot
be said, however, that these classes have flocked to its
standard
The ohief strength of the oeil Demooratio
Party at present 1s the Japan Federati n of a or with
39,S15 members, the Government Monopolies  or ssociation
with 30, 800 members, the Nval Arsenals Laoor League with
42,896 members, ard the Jeamen's Union with 81, 334 members.
Dr. Isoh Abe, already mentioned, is the resident of this
party, while the general secretary is T. Yatayama, a young
lawyer. mong its principal members are K.  atsuoka,
referred to above, Bunji Suzuki, internatiur Ily nown as
the head of the Japanese Feceration of abor, . Mishio,
an Osaka laborer with a primary school e e tion, nd
K. Kamei, a young man who was ismissed Tren the Jupanese
diplomatio service and who is a tranglator oi Fronoh books.
The Labor-Farmer Party (Rono-to) 1. the last remnant
and the most radical element of the priginal Labor-Yarmer
Party, which was dissolved by the aithorities April 10,
1928, for alleged complicity in communist activities.
Under Ikuo Oyama these shreds of the party were formed
into a new Lapor-Farmer Party November 1, 1929, after the
authorities were well assured that their radioal tendenoies
had been ourbed. The leader, Oyama, was educated in the
United States and was once a professor at Waseda University.
He is maid to be a well-meaning man but without significance.
His chief support is the Japan Labor Unions National Counoil
(Nihen Redo-kumiai Zenkoku Kyogika1) with a membership of
11,150.
The Jepen Pepular Party (Nihon Taishuto) was inaugurated
Dooember

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
-10-
December 5, 1928. I have already mentioned that three-
fourths of the members of the Japan Federation of Labor
formed the oolal  emooratic Party. The remaining quarter
inauurated
d party called the Japan habor-Farmer Party,
not to be co fus  with the babor-Farner Party.
After
many vicissitudes this party with several other groups
formed the Japan opular Pa y. It cucupies a middle
rouna between the conservative poci.l penocratic farty
and the comparatively radical new Labor-Farmer Party.
The
president of the party is K. asoo, a promising young man
who after gradu tion from the Kyoto Imperial University
worked in the ashio copper mines. The gen ral seoretary.
N. Kono, is thirt -three years of age,  graduate of the
Tokyo Imperial University ana a wri er of serious books.
One of the most important men or the part: is J. Kawakami,
a profes or at Kwansai Gakuin, an nerican college, said
to be a sinoere man of very high reputatien. The prinoipal
labor organizations whioh at present suppori this party
are the Japan Labor Unions association with 7,O00 members,
the Japan Labor Unions Amalgamation, wit.. 7,O00 members, the
Japan Stewards' Assooiati on witn t,ouo memuers, the Japan
Farmers' Union with 0,O00 members, and the All-Japan Farmers'
Union with 60,000 members.
The National Popular Party (Zenkoku Ainshuto) was in-
augurated Jamary 15, 1930. It was formed by the Western
(Kansai) Federation of Iabor, with a membership of 19,000,
which recently broke away from the Japan Federation of
Labor and the Social Demooratio Party because it regarded
Kr. Matsuoka of those two organisations as too "autooratio".
Laber leaders apparently feel that this party will before
long

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
- 11 -
long enter the Japan Popular Party. As yet this party has
no president. Its prinoipal member is K. Miyasaki, a
lavyer, journalist, and rucuate o the Tokyo Imperial
University. He is said to have Little i terest in the cause
of trade unnism and to be a gontimental ugitator.
The Labor- aumer opular cty (Ror u shuto) was
thaated  y 1  yt h was
elouteu to the  let twe yeare eo by the oririnat babor-
Parmer Party. After the dissolution of thit party for
communist astivities, Mizutani and sos otler comparatively
conservative members formed the Labor-Farmer opular Party.
Its memberahip i leas toan ten thousune, beins comprised
of four smuli trade unione in the city ot yoto.
1.
There is nelosed a shart thish shows the chief steps
in the development or the parties that xist at present.
A part of eaoh of the five parties of today was once a
part of the original Labor-Farmer Party. In this ohart,
however, it has been impossible to depiot, the movement of
the labor grou s in and out of parties and the present
position of those groups whioh are at the moment attached
to no party. It is interesting to note that a labor leader
recently attempted to make a complete chart of the develop-
ment of the parties during the past four years, inoluding
the wanderings of the various labor groups, but failed be-
cause of the complexity and oonfusion that has attended the
growth of the parties. The enclosed chart should be regarded
as indioative rather than definitive.
I have purposely avoided detailed comment with re-
speet to the programs of reform advocated by these parties,
due to their exeessively rhetorical character and their
great

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.93)
-12-
great similarity.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
1. R. Jastle, Jr.
Enclosure:
1. Chart.
H
LES/h1n

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
FARMER-LAPOR PARTY
(Inaugurated and dissolved December 1, 1925)
LABOR-FANNER PARTY
(Inaugurated March 5, 1926; d1asolved April 10, 1928)
SOCIAL DAMOCRATIC PARTY
(Insugurated December 5, 1926)
JAPAN-LA OR-PARMER PARTY
(Inaugurated December 9,1926)
NDW BABOR-FAR ER PARTY
(Inaugureted Nov. 1, 1929)
JAPAN FARMER PARTY
PROLETAPIAN POPULAR PARTY
(Inaugurated Octo-
LABOR-FARMER POPULAF PARTY
(Inaugurated July 22, 1928)
ber, 1926)
(Inaugurated Jamuary 17, 1929)
NATIONAL BOPULAR PARTY
(Inaugurated January 15, 1930)
JAPAN POPLAR PARTY
(Inaugurated ecember 5, 1928)
These parties underlined with red exist today.
Tokyo opular Party
(Inaugurated Sept. 1929)
This chart ignores, to avoid complexity, the move-
ments of labor groups from party to party and in-
(Too small and local to
gludes only the chief evolutions of the parties
be regarded as a party)
that exist today.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.5034/1
SEE
894.00 P R/39
FOR#160
FROM
Japan
( Neville
) DATED Mar.9, 1931.
TO
NAME
1-1127
5
REGARDING:
the new Labor Union Bill introduced in the House.
Laborites incensed over the provisions of the bill.
mb/

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.93)
On Yebruery 24th Mr. Admohi, the Home Minister,
Labor Ua1en
10
introduced into the House of Representatives the
much disoussed and much revieed Labor Union Bill.
It 1s said to have been made mueh more favorable
to capitalists in the course of revision in oom-
mittee of the firat draft. The latorites are
mueh incensed at the provisions or the bill, but
resent especially the repressive measures taken
by the two major parties to prevent the labor
members from speaking during the disoussion of it
in the House. Before any labor members were allowed
to voice their sentiments in regard to the Bill, a
eompromise was reached between the Seiyukal and the
Minseito that the bill should be referreu to a
spesial eommittee. In this way, the labor parties
wore
were denied she opportunity to interpellate. As
a last resort they asked the President to allow
their spekemman the floor even for a few mimtes,
but their request was ignored.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.87)
E
OFFICE OF ECOMOMIC ADVISER
NOV11935
5
DEFARTMENTOFS
E
YOK
Je , Cetober 1, 103
1935 NOV 4 AM 11 24
LA
282
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATION
AND FECORDS
SUBJECT:
1-1955
894.5034/16
/ to Commerce
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
EBc
NOV 181935
WASHINGTON
NOV1515
f
R
*7w't.
FILED
S
in this cns
1935
0
in the nev sp: per
Aneri
Coopony is rotsinin
F/G

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.93)
- 2 -
for three years, or as long as the Japanese company
uses the Goodrich moulds, trade merks and brands.
During that time the American technical advisors
must also be retained, and the menufacturing will
be done on a royalty basis.
Very respectfully yours,
Ritohoyle
Richard F. Bovce,
American Consul.
850.3/867/868.47/
RFB/rk.
E losur

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN ADTERTISER
October 5, 1935
Th: Nibponophone Company, Ltd.,
TWO FOREIGN FIRMS
was founded in 1901 as the Japan-
America Phonograph Company, Ltd.,
adopting its present name in 1910. It
came under control of Mr. J. R. Geary,
SURRENDER CONTROL
formerly a resident of Tokyo, shortly
after the 1923 earthquake and was
bought by the Columbia interests, with
TO INVESTORS HERE
which it had had a licensing arrange-
ment, when Mr. Louis Sterling came
to this country in 1927. Mr. White join-
ed the company in 1928, bringing with
him a staff of foreign technicians, who
re-designed and rebuilt the factory at
More Than Half-Interest in
Kawasaki, installing completely new
equipment.
Nipponophone Sold by Colum-
The Kyoritsu Kigyo interests have
told Mr. White. he said yesterday. that
bia to Kyoritsu Kigyo
they are taking over the Columbia or-
ganization in Japan because they look
upon it as the strongest and most ef-
PRICE REP0RTED ¥2,800,000
ficient company of its kind. They in-
tend to retain the entire organization
intact with the exception of Mr. White,
Goodrich Sells All Its Interest in
the president, and Mr. James W. Mur-
ray, the vice-president.
Yokohama Rubber Company
Is Extensive Organization
The Nipponophone Company now
for ¥2,880,000
employs 1.7 0 persons and operates two
factories. The main plant, where the
records are pressed and the chief
SPECIAL PERMIT OBTAINED
mechanical parts of the phonographs
are made, is at Kawasaki. The small-
er plant. where the phonograph cabi-
Two foreign-owned corporations yes-
nets are made and the works assembl-
ed, is at Maisaka, near Hamamatsu.
terday surrendered control to Japa-
The company has branches at Otaru.
nese capitalists, both deals going
Sendai, Tokyo. Nagoya, Osaka. Hakata.
through when the Exchange Control
Seoul and Dairen. four sub-branches
Commission in the Finance Ministry
and control of a distributing company
in Formosa. It also has salesmen
granted permission to transfer the pur-
traveling all over Manchuria and in
chase money to the United States and
Saghalien. Its recording studios are
England. The Kyoritsu Kigyo Kaisha,
in Tokyo and Osaka.
a subsidiary of the Kuhara interests, is
Mr. White said that the deal has
to pay ¥2,800,000 for slightly more than
been under negotiation for a year and
a half.
50 per cent of the stock in the Nip-
The Yokohama Rubber Company.
ponophone Company, Ltd. (Nippon
Ltd., which now becomes (it is un-
Chikuonki K. K.) to the Columbia
derstood) a 100 per cent Japanese con-
Graphophone Company, Ltd., of Lon-
cern. was founded in 1917, with the
B. F. Goodrich Company of Akron.
don. The Furukawa Denki Kogyo
Ohio (but a New York corporation)
Kaisha, which has long been associat-
holding a majority of the shares and
ed in the Yokohama Rubber Company,
the Furukawa interests the balance.
is reported to have bought the 51 per
Its plant was destroyed by the 1923
carthquake and fire but was partly in
cent share held by the B. F. Goodrich
operation again in 1928. Complete
Company, ending foreign participation
operation was possible by 1930 and
in the concern. The price was ¥2,-
since then the concern has become one
880,000.
of the leading factors in the Japanese
Details of the Nipponophone sale
tire industry.
The Finance Ministry is expected to
were verified last night by Mr. Lester
issue formal permits for the transfer
H. White, president of the company.
of the ¥5,680,000 involved in the two
Details of the other sale could not be
deals in the next two or three days.
ally identical form by both the Rengo
verified but were reported in practic-
The Exchange Control Commission is
and Nippon Dempo news services.
said to have agreed speedily to both
requests not only because the amounts
Yokohama Rubber Company officials
involved were small but because Japa-
admitted that some such deal had gone
nese would gain control of both com-
through but declined to give details.
panies.
Deal Not Yet Effective
The Nipponophone deal, Mr. White
told a representative of The Japan
Advertiser last night, will become ef-
fective just as soon as the official per-
mits are issued. The contract grants
control of the Nipponophone Company
and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (one
of which is the Columbia Graphophone
Company of Japan, Ltd.) to the Kyo-
ritsu Kigyo Kaisha. Kyoritsu Kigyo is
an organization closely affiliated with
the Kuhara-Aikawa interests and was
founded by Mr. Fusanosuke Kuhara in
1912. Its object is to invest in real
estate, securities and reliable commer-
cial and industrial enterprises. Its
capitalization is 5,000,000, of which
4,150,000 is paid up. Its president is
Mr. Masasuke Fujita, formerly pres-
ident of the Kyodo Life Insurance
Company, which Mr. Kuhara founded.
Mr. Fujita is the largest shareholder
and Mr. Aikawa the second largest.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
3907
79
AMERICANGONSULATE,
Yokohama, Japan, January 26, 1937.
1937 FEB 19 AM 11 55
AONS
ALLI
L.S
SUBJECT:
VICTOR TALING LACHINE COPANY
1—1088 G P O
OF JAPAN, LIMITED PURCHLASED BY
JAPANESE CAPITAL
894.5054/17
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
3
1 le
AC/C
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
RECORDING DESK
FILE WHB
I nave the honor to state that the Victor Talk-
ing Machine Company or Japan, Linited, known in Japa-
nese as the Nippon Victor Cnikuonki Kabusniki Kaisha,
at S442 moriya-cho 3-cnome, Kanagawa-ku, Yokohama, has
been purchased by Japanese interests. The purchaser
is the Japan Industry Company, Limited (Nippon Sangyo
Kabushiki Kaisha), of which Mr. Yoshisuke Aikawa is
President. The otner interests of r. ikawa and the
FILED
Japan Industry Company are given on Enclosure No. 1
1937
attached hereto, and include the Nissan Jiaosha K. K.,
manufacturers of DATSUN automobiles. (See report,
894.797/30
"Japanese Automobile Industry," of June 12, 1936.)
The same company has within the past two years
purchased controlling interest in the Columbia Phono-
graph Company, replacing British capital. (See
despatch No. 129 of October 10, 1935.)
994.5034/16
Until
F/G

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Until recently 68% of the stock was owned by the
R. C. A. Manufacturing Company of Canden, New Jersey,
and 32% of the stock of the Victor Talkin macnine
Company of Japan, Limitea was owneu by Jupanese.
Since last May ne otiations nave been oin on for
the transfer of all the stock ownea by the parent
company in the United States to the Japan Industry
Company, Li iteu. lovermm eut per jemio.. for the
transfer to New York of funas for the puronase or
the stock was only recently obtained, and in accora-
ance witn tne Government's autnorization, tue money
will be transferred in installments, to avoid up-
settin excnan e control adninistration. Final
payments will be made by July 1937.
The sale of tne Jupan brancn by the parent
company, R. C. A. Manufacturing Co. pany, Incorporated
at Camden, New Jersey, is said to be in line with
its recent policy of etting rid of foreion nold-
ings, whicn has resulted in the sale of its pro-
perties in En land. It is said that the company
also wisnes to sell its plant in China.
The arran ements between the parent company and
the Japan plant will continue as in the past, so far
as royalties, patents, trademarks, and sales terri-
tories are concerned. The plant in Japan will con-
tinue to confine its sales to the Japanese Lmpire
and "Manchukuo." It will continue to pay a royalty
on

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
 PUBLICA
- 3 -
on the sale of all recordin s ori inating in the Uniteu
States. The parent company will pay the Japan  lant
for records made from Japan recordings (Japanese music).
Royalties will also cover tne use of tne RCA-Victor
trademark and any tecmnical improvements ori inating
in the parent conipany wnicn are used by the plant in
Japan. I was s ecifically informed tnat except for
the financial control anu tne pnysical assets of the
business in Japan, the parent company uous not lose
control in any deree wnatever of its export market,
its trademark or other vital assets.
There are a number of nerican experts in re-
sponsible positions in the Japan plant. It is yet
to be deciued now many of these employees will ue
retained.
As owmers of botn tne Colunbia und Victor plants
in Japan, the Japan Inaustry Copany, Limited will
control about 90% of the market. The next competitor
is POLYDOR, a Japanese company, whicn manufactures
under a German process and pays royalties to Germany.
It is said that tne two lants, formerly Columbia
and Victor, will be maintained as seperate orani-
zations.
There is enclosed herewith a brief history of
the phonograph industry in Japan, quoted from pages
53 to 55 of a report from this office, dated March
(
31, 1936, on "American Assistance in the Expansion
of

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
of Japanese Exports to the United States."
It is said tnat the Japan Industry Company used
as one of its arguments witn the Japanese Government
in obtaining permission to buy the Victor plant, the
desirability of ac uirin access to RCA putents and
developments in television. The co..pany nas close
contact with Japanese Army leaders, has benerittea
by heavy Army support, ana the ar y is interestea in
television wnich, it is suiu, is not satisractorily
developed in Japan. Wiether there is any trutn in
the above report I a unable to say. There is an-
other report, wnich seems very likely, thut the
company uesires to control the phono rupn inaustry
because it has been sucn a prorituble one tnu uue
to its rapid expansion, it needs more reliably
profitable interests. Some of its otner interests,
notably the DATSUN automobile plant, are not yet
on a payin basis.
Very respectfully yours,
(272) mge
Richard F. Boyce,
American Consul.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of article in Japan Advertiser, January
16, 1936, regarding Nihon Sangyo Kabusniki
Kaisha.
2. Excerpt from report "American Assistance in
the Expansion of Japanese Exports to the
United States" of Marcn 31, 1936.
866.16/610.1
RFB/rk

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
EXCERPT FROM JAPAN ADVERTISER
JANUARY 16, 1936
Nihon Sangyo Now Industrial Leader
Yoshisuke Aikawa Has Developed Its
Interests Rapidly Since Gold Lmbargo
Controls 43 Companies
More Being Formed Steadily Under
Policy of Continual Wide Expansion
Before Japan abandoned cold in 193l tne name of r.
Yoshisuke Aikawa was relatively unknown, as was that of the
Nihon Sangyo K. K. (Japan Industry Company, Ltd.) of Wnich
he is president. Nihon Sangyo is the holaing company for
nearly 50 companies and the Aikawa-Kuhara interests are
promoting others at the rate of about two a month. Only
one other industrialist, Mr. Nobuteru Mari of Japen Electric
Industry and the Showa Fertilizer companies, has captured
popular imagination as has r. Aikawa.
The Aikawa-Kuhara interests nave grown out of what
used to be known as the Kuhara interests, for r. ikawa
is son-in-law of Mr. Fusanosuke Kuhara, as well as a
nephew of the late luarquis Kaoru Inouye, a Genro and bene-
factor of the Mitsui interests.
Nihon Sangyo is in four kinus of business, mining,
manufacturing, marine products and miscellaneous. Its
scope may be understooa from a study of the following table,
headed by the holding company:
Nihon Sangyo (Nissan)
Mining Industry:
Japan Mining Company (controlling the Taiwan Mining
Company)
Japan Coal mining Company
Godo Land Company
Japan Industry Rubber Company
Yamada Coal Mining Company
Chuo Public Works Company
Japan Industry Steamship Company
Teikoku Public Works Industry Company
Manufacturing Industry:
Hitachi Works
Osake Iron Works (controllin Mukojima Dockyard
Company and Haraaa Snipbuilaing Company)
Nissan Automobile Company (Datsun "Baby" automobile)
Hitachi Electric Power Company
Marine Product Industry:
Japan Godo Floating Cannery Company (controlling
Shinko Marine Prouuct Company)
Japan Foodstuff Industry Company (controlling Godo
Fishery Company)
Japan Marine Product Company (controlling Kyodo
Marine Product Company, Sankyo Marine Product
Company; Tobata Fisn Market and Highspeed Cold
Storage Steamship Company)
Kyodo

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Kyodo Fishery Company (controlling Borneo Marine
Product Company, Japan Fish Net and Implement
Company, Horai Fishery Company and Nanyo Marine
Product Company)
Japan Whaling Company
South America Marine Product Company
Miscellaneous Industry:
Native Industry Company, formerly Tobata Founary
Dairen Central Land Company
Chuo Fire Damace. Insurance Company
Tokyo Airplane Works
Daido Latch Company (controlline sahi match,
Chosen match, Dairen match, Snizuoka match,
Chugai Matcn, Shimotsu Matcn and Japan maton
interests)
Nihon Sangyo has an authorized capitalization of Yen
200,000,000. It was in poor shape unti1 May 1932. Prior
to that time it had been passing dividenas regularly and
many believed that its demise would oe little delayed.
Then came the wave of prosperity whicn followeu replacement
of the gold embargo. It became profitable, increasing
capitalization and sradually poosting its diviaend rate from
4 to 8, to 10 and then to 12 per cent. Not until November
of last year was it obliged to reduce the aivident, going
back to the l0 per cent rate.
of all the companies unuer its control, Japan mining
is perhaps the most satisfactory, declarin: an annual
divident of 14 per cent. Hitacni Works leads in the manu-
facturing group, with a rate of 12 per cent. Godo Floating
Cannery tops the marine proaucts field, paying 15 per cent.
Total paid capitalization of the 43 companies unaer airect
or indirect control of Nihon Sangyo is Yen 248,575,000, of
which the holding company is said to own Yen 165,000,000,
according to Diamona, the economic ma azine. Figures are
given below:
Yen 46,672,000
Japan Mining ola shares
11,668,000
Japan Mining new shares
16,000,000
Foodstuff industry shares
12,000,000
Osaka Iron industry shares
Hitachi Works
1n
19
10,770,000
Kyodo Fishery
11
9,971,000
Nissan Automobile
19
10,000,000
11
12,000,000
Japan Coal Mining
11,240,000
Godo Floating Cannery "
2,230,000
Hitachi Electric Power shares
Nissan Rubber
11
4,852,000
Japan Whaling
11
5,970,000
Yamada Coal Mining
1,970,000
Other
11
10,102,000
1,940,000
Bonds
165,300,000
Total
* * * * * * * *

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2
EXCERPT FROM REPORT
"AMERICAN ASSISTANCE IN EXPANSION
OF JAPANESE EXPORTS TO THE UNITED STATES"
(Pages 53-55)
Phonograph Industry
The first phonograph seen in Japan was sent out in
1885 by the Edison company with an merican engineer to
demonstrate it. It nad wax cylinder recorus and was
operated by a Laland caustic battery. It was demonstrated
before the Emperor and public exhibitions but was
considered only an interesting toy and not taken up
commercially.
The first phonograph records of Japanese music
were made in Japan about 1902 by American experts of
the Victor Talking Machine Co., of Camden, N.J., who
came to Japan. They took tne wax impressions, elec-
troplated them and took them back to their herican
plant in Camden, N.J., for the manufacture of the re-
cords which were then sent back to Japan for sale.
Similar procedure was followed in China.
The first successful recording and manufacture of
records in Japan was accomplished about 1905 by an
American businessman and an merican en ineer working
together as a company. This company later became
known as the Nipponophone Conpany ana about 1927 was
sold to the British owmed Columbia Phonograph Company,
which has recently solà a controllins snare of its
stock to Japanese interests.
The

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
The Victor Talking Machine Company of Camden,
which had been exporting records to Japan for many
years finally opened a small pressing plant in Sep-
tember 1927 and built its present large plant in 1930.
It is now the only merican phonograph company in
Japan.
At first all machines were imported, radually
the boxes were made in Japan. Then the entire machines
were made in Japan.
The Japanese have organized their own companies,
mostly since the Great War, and in general their
products have been modelled after the merican pro-
ducts. The predominant influence in this industry
is definitely merican.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE894.5151/120
FORDespatch #
894.5034/
FROM ......Yakohama
(hite) DATEDJon.14.1939
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
The Fiscal position of American companies in
Japan at the beginning of the year, 1939:
Report concerning-.
8
88
894.50
w
文

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.90)
Carrier Corporation
EA
Svracuse, N. Y.. U.S. A
7329
Carrier
OF E
1 aed
NAIONAL 
APR131939
DEPARTMENT OF
894.5034/
6
C

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
April 12 1989
In reply refer to
FE 894.5034/19
My dear Mr. Snyman:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your letter of
April 6, 1939, 1n wh1ch you ask for informat1on in
894.5034/19
conneotion with reports whioh you have noted 1n the
newspapers that a law has been pessed in Japan limiting
to ten peroent of earnings the dividends payable to
shareholders in Japanese companies.
In as much as the Department of Commeroe is charged
with the dissemination of information of the type you
desire, your letter has been referred to that Department
for reply.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
3.23.16.
Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Mr. Gerrard Snyman,
Regional Manager,
som
CR
International Division,
APR 12 1938. PM
Carrier Corporation,
Syraeuse, New York.
FG
Jm8
Jus
FE:JM:HJN
4/11
FE

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.91)
April 121989
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Secretary of Commeroe and transmits
894.5034/19
for the preparation of an appropriate reply a oopy of a
letter of April 6, 1939, from Mr. Gerrard Snyman,
Regional Manager, International Division, Carrier
Corporation, Syracuse, New York, in regard to a possible
ordinanoe whioh may have been 1ssued in Japan limiting
corporate dividends to ten percent.
Enclosure:
From Mr. Gerrard Snyman,
APR 12 1939.P
F
/FG
Any
ha
FEQMJ:HJN
4/1i
M.m.A.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.93)
D
Carrier Corporation
INIINAIINAL
DON
ONONING
Syracuse, N. Y., U. S. A.
April 15, 1939
Dictated 4/14/39
Carrier
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Attertion: Mr. Maxwe l M. Hanilton, Chief
Divisicn of Far F.tern Aff: irs
le
SUBJECT: YUUh RFF. FF894.5034/1
894.5034/20
Obn REF. A-39
m
Gentlemen:
We thank you for ycur letter of April l2th and note
that the infornation we asked for has bern referred
to the Department of Conmerce.
We are now awaiting a communic: tion fron that De-
partment.
Very truly youp?,
GERRARD SNYMAN,
TGS:BH
Regina Manager.
F/A

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE 
NOTE
Article #ll of the National Mobilization Law.
SUBJECT
Invocation of-,
894.5034/
2
For the original paper from which reference is taken
#3912
See
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
May 24, 1939
From
Japan (Dooman)
Dated
To
894.00 P.R./137
File No.
FRG.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
…
corporrtions with : cnpital of Yen £00,000 or more may pay divi-
dends upon profits of ench f:scal yeor in excess of the basic rste
of dividends which r: te will be determined in accordance with the
provisions of the rticle.
It was announced later in pril thet the Government would
n ot, with but a few exceptions, permit companies to increase
their dividends and th:t rigid inquiry of the fin ncial conditicns
of companies would be cnrried out.
It is estimated that some 15,oo0 corpor tions in Japan are
capitalized at over Yen 200,O00 and will be affected by this decres

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VIBION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October8,1035.
In uiat of the imphed reguesh
in the lash par agr apch that
his eare te reforred to "our
represent atine in Japan, the
file is refered to f A for cts
cousideration  for 
action as amay he thought
spproprualt.
FAR FS
2
OCT 14 1935
 at ot State

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.95)
SCOTT, MAC LEISH & FALK
JOHN E. MAC LEISH
LAW OFFICES
MORRIS L JOHNSTON
134 SOUTH LASALLE STREET
K.NEEVES
TELEPHONE RANDOLPH 9OOO
CHICAGO
FRANK H.SCOTT. 1886 1931
BANCROFT. 19O4 1924
Oct. 3, 1935
8
('T
894.5034 BUS
State Department
Wasington, D.C.
DIVISION
DER
Gentlemen:
Re Japantse Busines: Tax -
Butler Brotners
Je
Some montne ago, we nad occasion to write you
concerning a question naving to do witn a so-called
Japanese retiring allowance. We now wien to make in-
quiry as to a certain business tax wicn tne Japanese
taxing authoritiec nave imposed upon Butler Brotuers,
tne same concern on w..ose benalf we wrote you concern-
ing tne retiring allowance. Butler Brotners nae been
m
aavised by its Japanese representative, Komaki Snokai;
S
Nagoya, Japan, tnat the Japanese taxing autnorities.
S
now claim trat a tax is due from Butler Brotuers upon
TAX/1
its business profits. Tne facts are as follows:
Butler Brotners ie engaged in the wnolesale
mercnandising business. It maintains an office in Japan
in charge of the above named Komaki Snokai, solely as
a buying office. Mercnandlse is bought in Japan and
exported to the United States. The mercnandiee is pur-
crased in the name of Butler Brotners and of course is
its property. It sells none of the mercnandise so pur-
chased in Japan or elsewhere, but simply snips it nere
to tre United States to itself, whereupon tne mercnan-
dise ie sold nere tne same as all of its otner mercnan-
dise.
Under the arrangement with Komaki, Butler Brotne
5
F

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
COTT, MAC LEISH & FALK
State Department
0ct. 3, 1935
-2-
sets up a bookkeeping cnarge of from 6 to 8 per cent
as representing the maximum expenee of maintaining its
buying office. Butler Brotners tnen actuelly pays out
wnatever expenses are incurred, including a fixed
salary to Komaki. At tit end of tne year the amounts
so paid out are cnarged into tne percentege account
(wnicn may be designated upon tne books as a "commis-
sion"). If sucn expenses exceed the eo-called per-
centage, tnen nothing more nappens. Butler Brotners nas
simply incurred and paid out expenses aggregating so
many dollars. If, on tne otner nand, the actual ex-
penaitures, including Komaki's salary, are less tran
the so-called percentage or "commission", tnen one-half
of the difference is paid to Komaki as & bonus or
additional compensation.
The net result of all tie is tnat Butler
Brotners pays out eacn year as actual expenses of main-
taining and operating the office tne actual amount ex-
pended, including Komaki's fixed salary, nlus tne bonus
to Komaki if one acerues. We are utterly unable to see
now under sucn an arrangement tnere can be any profit of
any kind to Butler Brotnere as it nas notning but expense.
Evidently tne taxing autnorities nave an erroneous notion
of wnat tne operation is. Pernaps tney nave some vague
ntion that a reduction in expense witnout more constitutes
a profit. Obviously tne percentage or so-called commis-
sion 1s purely a bookkeeping entry used for tne conven-
ience of the company. From the dollars and cente stand-
point, tne only tneory upon wnicn a tax could be im osed
would be that if Butler Brotners nad assumed tnet the
expense of tne office would amount to say $50,0o0 in
dollars and it later turned out at the end of tne year
that the expense was only $40,O00, tnat tnereby Butier
Brotnere had made a profit of $10,O00.
We are wondering if you could not submit tnis

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.94)
T, MAC LEISH & FALK
State Department
Oct. 3, 1935
--
matter to our renresentative in Japan to find out
just wnat tne situation is and also if he could re-
commend oroper counsel to wuom we could refer the
matter if tiougnt desir: ble.
Yours very truly,
dilausd ii teeris
LKN:EN

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.96)
October 161935
Mr. Leland K. Neeves,
Law Offices of Scott, MacLeish & Falk,
134 South La Saile Street,
Chicago, Illinois.
894.5034
sir:
Acknowledgment is made of the receipt of your letter
of October 3, l935, in regard to your desire to obtain
information concerning "a certain business tax whioh the
BUSINE
Japanese taxing authorities have imposed upon Butler
Brothers," a wholesale merchandising firm which is repre-
sented at Nagoya, Japan, by Komaki Shokai.
S
A copy of your letter has been transmitted to the
S
American Vice Consul at Nagoya with appropriate instruotions,
TAX/1
and upon the receipt of a reply, a further communication
will be addressed to you on the subject.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Herbert C. Hengstler,
Chief, Division of
Foreign Service Administration.
2002
A true covy of
gm
the signeo erigi-
FE
.m.H

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
October 16 1935
Charles H. Stephen, Esquire,
American Vice Consul,
Nagoya, Japan.
Sir:
There is enolosed a copy of a letter from Mr. Le-
land K. Neeves of the law firm of Soott, MaoLeish and
Falk, 134 South LaSalle Street, Chioago, Illinois, in-
894.5034 BUS1NESS TAX/1
quiring as to "a certain business tar upon Brown Brothers",
a wholesale merohandising firm which it appears, is rep-
resented at Nagoya by Komaki Shokai.
Please take appropriate steps wi th a view to obtain-
1ng the information desired by Mr. Neeves and advise the
Department of the result and of the name and address of
suitable sounsel who might be employed if deemed desirable.
You may seek the assistance of the Consul General at
Tokyo in the matter if neeessary.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Willlam Phillipa
OCT 16 1955
3, 1985.
FE
m.m.H

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
1
SCOTT, MAC LEISH & FALK
JOHN E. MAC LEISH
LAW OFFICES
MORRIS L JOHNSTON
134 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET
LELAND K NEEVES
GEORGE W. SWAIN
TELEPHONE RANDOLPH 9OOO
HOMER H COOPER
CHICAGO
FRANK H SCOTT. 18B8 1931
WALTER S INDERWOOD
EDGAR A BANCROFT. 19O4-1924
HORACE H MARTIN, 19IO 1925
PRICE
LESTERL
FALK.1915 1933
October 18, 1935
DEPARTME
FAP E
122100
894.5034 BUSINESS
SENVICE AUMINIR
Department of State
Wasnington, D.C.
Gentlemen:
FA 894.5034 Business Tax/1
I have yours of the 16th instant in receipt
of mine of the 3rd instant with reference to a certain
Japanese business tax as it relates to Butler Brothers.
I note that a copy of my letter has been sent to the
American Vice Consul at Nagoya.
TAX/2
Thank you for your courtesy in tnis matter.
Yours very truly,
hiland K. neere
LKN: MES
FUED
23 1935
F/G

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
36.
TE
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Nagoya, Japan.
November 14, 1935.
TE
00
6
894.5034
SubJEct: Business Trofits Tax on Yomani Jhokai,
1-1066
Buyers for
utler Brothers, Chicaco.
Neres
BUSINESS
IW
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
1
WASHINGTON
SIR:
I have the honor to acknowled e the receipt of
TAX/3
the Department's instruetion dated Cctever lo, 1935
(File No. 394.5034 Business Tax/1) enclosing copy of
a letter from Mr. Leland Y. Heeves of the law firm
of Scott, MacLeish and Falk, 134 Jouth asalle Street,
961.198
Chicago, Illinois, inquiring in regard to a business
profits tax on Butler Brothers, a wholesale merchan-
dising firm, which is represented at Na oya by Komaki
Shokai.
It is stated that, under a bookkeeping arrange-
ment with Komaki Shokai, Butler 3rothers assumes the
expense of maintaining its buying office here; that,
in addition to actual expenses, it pays Komaki Shokai
a fixed salary which may be designated on the books
F/FG
as a commission; that if the expenses and the salary
are less than a certain percentage of its buying costs
then one half the difference is paid to Komaki Shokai
as a bonus or additional compensation. The net
result being that Butler Brothers pays the actual
expenses of

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
expenses of maintaining a buying office here, includ-
ing a fixed salary to Komaki Shokai and any bonus
which may accrue. In other words, it has no business
profit here, but only purchasing expenses.
While Komaki Shokai, it is understood, is the
exclusive buying agent for Butler Brothers, they also
buy in this market for other importers and wholesale
firms in the United States, and their "salary" or
commission and bonuses, at least, would appear to be
subject to the Business Profits Tax. Butler Brothers,
on the other hand, having obviously only expenses and
not being regularly established or registered here,
are not, seemingly, subject to business tax here.
Inquiry has been made of other similar firms in
this city acting as representatives and purchasing
and shipping agents for United States importers, and
they state that they, and not their principals in the
United States, are required to pay the business pro-
fits tax on their commissions and other profits.
Hypothetically, the question was also submitted
to the Nagoya Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which
states that the American company is responsible for
the tax (if its agenoy agreement so stipulates) as it
assumes the office expenses and as the tax is uni-
versally treated as an office expense.
The Chamber was also asked to recommend an
attorney for the American company, and in reply
suggested that the matter was one for adjustment, on
the one hand, between the American company and its
Japanese agent

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
Japanese agent, and on the other hand, between the
Japanese agent and the tax authorities, and that
therefore no attorney would be necessary.
A representative of Butler Brothers visiting
Japan called at the Consulate together with Mr.
Komaki of Komaki Shokai, in regard to the matter.
They agreed that it was a question of bookkeeping;
that their books here actually showed a profit for
Butler Brothers last year but that, in reality, this
was a saving from the amount set aside for office
expenses.
Mr. Komaki agreed that he and not Butler
Brothers was taxable for Business Profits Tax, as
well as personal income tax, on his income including
salaries, commissions, bonuses and any other compen-
sation. Butler Brothers representative said that he
was returning to Chicago shortly and that he believed
he could straighten out the question there; that it
was all and simply a matter of bookkeeping.
An extract of pertinent portionsof the Business
Profits Tax Law as taken from THE JAPAN YEAR BOOK
1934 (page 279) is appended.
Respectfully yours,
G M. Stiphan
Charles H.'Stephan,
American Vice Consul.
Appendix:
Extract from THE
JAPAN YEAR BOOK
1934.
370
CHS:KM

=== Page 45 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix to Despatch No. 36 of Charles H. Stephan,
American Vice Consul at Nagoya, Japan, dated November
14, 1935, on the subject "Business Profits Tax on
Komaki Shokai, Buyers for Butler Brothers, Chicago".
Extract from JAPAN YEAR BOOK 1934 (page 279)
3. Business Profits Tax
The business tax of l896 was based upon external
valuation of a business and the tax burden was not
necessarily borne by tax-payers in proportion to their
ability. In order to remedy this inequality, the busi-
ness tax law was thoroughly revised and the Business
Profits Tax Law, enacted for the purpose of imposing
a tax on the net profits of a business, was promulgated
in March, l926, and put into effect on and after
January 1, 1927. The important points of this law
are given below:
(1) Persons liable to the Business Profits Tax.
A. A commercial corporation with head office,
branch office or any business office in the territory
where the Business Profits Tax Law is in force.
B. A person who engages in any of the following
businesses in the territory where the Business Profits
Tax Law is in force:
(7) Transportation (including transportation
agencies),
(8)
Warehousing,
(9)
Contracting,
(16) Commission agency (in transactions outside
of what are defined as commercial trans-
actions by the Commercial Law),
(17) Representation (of merchants in the trans-
action of regular business),
(18) Commission agency (in commercial transactions
defined by the Commercial Law),
(19) Commission business.
Basis of Assessment The tax is assessed on net
profits, viz., in the case of corporation, the balance
remaining in each accounting period after deducting
the total losses from the gross profits for the period
and, in the case of an individual, the balance remain-
ing after deducting necessary expenses from the gross
profits for the preceding year.
General and Temporary Exemption
(a) No business profits tax is levied on the
profits of the following businesses:
(5) Business

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
(5) Business transacted in offices outside of
the territory where the Business Profits Tax Law is
in force;
* * * * * * *
* * * * * * * * *
Minimum Net Profits Assessable The minimum
net profits assessable are Yen 400 in the case of
an individual, but there is no such exemption in the
case of corporation. The rate of the tax follows:
Corporation
3.4%
Individual
Less than Yen 1,000 of net profit
2.2%
Exceeding Yen 1,O00 of net profit
Fractions less than Yen 1,000
2.2%
Fractions exceeding Yen 1,000
2.6%
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
Im reply refer to
FA 894.5034 Business Tax/1
December 26 1935
3
Mr. Leland K. Neeves.
Law Offices of Scott, MaoLeish & Falk,
134 South La Salle Street,
Chicago, Illinois.
sir:
894.5034
Reference 1s made to your letter of Ootober 3,
1935, in regard to your desire to obtain information
concerning "a certain business tax whioh the Japanese
taxing authorities have 1mposed upon Butler Brothers,"
BUSINESS
a wholesale merohandising firm which is represented
at Nagoya, Japan, by Komaki Shokai.
There is enolosed for your information a copy of
a despatch from the American Vice Consul at Nagoya,
reporting in regard to the matter.
TAX/3
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Herbert C. Hengstler,
DEC 26
Chief, Division of
Foreign Service Administration.
Enclesures:
From Consulate
Nevem her 14, léss,
the signed origi-
nal.
FA:FMI ZH:SS
FE
m.m.6t

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.93)
77
Legal auviser
, SCOTT, MACLEISH & FALK
JOHN E  MAC LEISH
LAW OFFICES
DEPARTMINT OF STATE
MORRIS L JOHNSTON
134 SOUTH LASALLE STREET
TELERHONE RANDOLPH 9000
CHICAGO
1936 JAN 2 AM 10 33
1825
Dec. 28, 1935
NN
NS
ANDDS
894.5034 BUSINESS
Department of St:te
Washington, D.C.
FA 894.5034 Busine:s Tax/1
Gentlemen:
I have your letter of the 26th inst.
enclosing co y of letter from the American Vice
Consul at Nagoya. His letter greatly cls ifies
the situation, and both my client :nd myself are
highly appreciative of the care and : ttention
paid to the matter.
S
Yours ver. truly,
TAX/4
hiland k heers
LKN: BN
2
FILED
F/FG
