894.917 Public Press., Japan, Periodicals., March 15, 1940 - December 3, 1943 (File 1407)
ID: 894.917-1407   Pages: 81   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.917-public-press-japan-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
MR. HO:
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OFTHEOF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1940 ADD 8 PM 2 31
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 15, 1940.
RUS
No. 4595.
SUBJECT:
SUPPRESSION OF GAIKO JIHO (DIPLOMATIC REVIEW)
OF FEBRUARY 1, 1940, BY THE JAPANESE HOME
OFFICE BECAUSÉ OF ARTICLE DEALING WITH THE
CHINA INCIDENT.
C
894.917
894.917/5
In USA.
Ior
ONI AIID
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D
FILED
APR 18 1940
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
APR 22
ION C
I\have the honor to inform the Department that the
Fobruary 1, 1940, issue of the Gaiko Jiho (Diplomatio
Review), a publication dealing with diplomatio affairs
and the contributors to whioh are largely members of the
Japanese

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Japanese Foreign Office, was suppressed by the Home Office
and extant copies confisoated by the police soon after it
had been distributed to bookdealers because of an article
by Mr. Tsuneo Yonaiyama, an official in the Foreign Office
with the rank of Consul of fourth class - third grade,
which appeared in its pages entitled "Keynote for the
Settlement of the China Incident".
Mr. Yonaiyama was subsequently forced to resign by
reason of repercussions created by his article, which has
been regarded by the authorities as disturbing to publio
peace and order, particularly as it followed closely in
point of time and character the sensational address on the
same subject by Mr. Takeo Saito in the Lower House of the
1/
Diet. There is enclosed with this despatch a translation
in full of the article in question, the Embassy having ob-
tained a copy of the banned publication from a confidential
source.
The author begins his article on a note of pessimism:
happy are those, he declares, who think they can settle
the China problem by clinging to the ideals of a "new order"
and an Asiatic bloc. For him the problem is not that simple.
A fundamental error was committed by the Japanese Government
in terming the present hostilities an incident. The Chinese,
free from similar delusion, have employed the phrase *long-
term resistance" from the outset, for they have realized
that the present hostilities are destined to continue so
long as the Japanese and Chinese exist or until one or the
other gives way.
The statement on New Year's Day by General Nobuyuki
Abe, the then Prime Minister of Japan, to the effeet that
OOF
the China incident was in reality a war unprecedented in
the

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
-3
八
the history of Japan, marks, in the opinion of the writer,
the first sign of progress in Japanese thought on the sub-
ject of the China affair. In the Konoa statement the China
affair is treated as an incident. If this were the case,
says Mr. Yonaiyama, then Japan has no enemy, and the nat-
ural outcome should be a restoration of both parties to the
status quo ante. But the China affair is not an incident:
it is a war -- a war unprecedented in Japanese history --
and a war to be won must involve prizes of war. However,
argues the writer adroitly, if the war is one unprecedented
in history, then the prize must be of equal magnitude.
Whether it is possible to obtain such a prize he leaves to
the imagination of the reader.
The long history of China shows that naked power in
government without the ability to conciliate is futile.
Chinese armies do not aim to annihilate their enemies; their
first thought is reconciliation. But aside from the ability
to conciliate there must be power. Wang Ching-wei has never
101
possessed real power, for if he had he would have been useful
to Chiang Kai-shek, who used many others in his struggle for
the control of China. China has never been conquered through
the device of combining with powerless men.
A
After all, contends Mr. Yonaiyama, the present incident
is not Japan's inoident, although Japan, to be sure, is con-
cerned: it is China's. While the Asiatic continent is a
convenient reservoir into which the Japanese race may over-
flow, peace within every corner of its confines is not
essential to Japan's peace and security. On the contrary,
the attempt to maintain such a peace on the continent may
endanger tho rery existence of Japan itself.
Tho

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
The phrases "Asia for the Asiatics" and the "new order
in East Asia" are, according to the writer, only a snare
and a delusion. There is no promise of cooperation on the
part of China in a program of Asia for the Asiatics. Why
should Japan fight for an ideal which would be repudiated
at any time by China's millions? "We must realize," he
pleads, "that the lives of the Japanese people are too
valuable to be thrown away for the cause of the peace of
the continent." Japan has many problems which are closer
at hand and which require much more serious consideration.
Saving his trump card to the last, the author expresses
doubt whether Japan has enough reserve to give thought to
the other races in Asia.
While the author presents no concrete suggestions
for a solution of the China problem, the implications of
the foregoing are clear. The settlement of the China problem
is a difficult matter only when one expeots to establish
peace in every corner of the Asiatic continent and hopes
to drive out the European powers and the United States in
order to win the cooperation of the Chinese. He concludes
with the warning: "Should we make enemies out of Europe
and the United States? Isn't our enemy closer at hand?
There must be some people who can answer these questions.*
Mr. Yonaiyama's artiole is important, we believe, for
two reasons: first, it shows clearly a crystallization,
after long confusion, of thought in certain Japanese quar-
ters with regard to the outoome of the China incident;
second, it speaks eloquently of the struggle still going
on between different elements in the Government as to the
policy which should be pursued. As for the future of that
struggle, however, we can only speoulate. Outwardly, the
"new order" certainly will be maintained. Every nation,
1100

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
like every individual, must needs rationalize its actions.
Underneath, however, if left undisturbed, there may expand
and take shape, in our opinion, a realization that the
problem of hegemony over China is too greet for Japan, and
that the gradual fulfilment of the aims of the Konoe state-
ment, in the spirit if not to the letter, offers the best
solution out of Japan's present-day difficulties.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1/ Translation of article as stated.
710
FAS:nn
Original and 3 copies to the Department.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh
No. 4595 dated March 15, 1940,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The following is a translation by the American Embassy at
Tokyo of an artiole appearing in the Diplomatio Review
(Gaiko-Jiho), semi-monthly magazine dealing with foreign
affairs, No. 844, issued on February 1, 1940.
KEYNOTE FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF THE C HINA INC IDENT
By Tsuneo Yonaiyama
(1)
On New Year's Day I closed the gate of my house and
contemplated all day what in the world would become of
the China incident. However, I came to no conclusion.
Having devoted myself to China problems for the last thirty
years, I could experience no greater disappointment. I
could drink no saké on that day, and not because it was an
Asia Promotion Day (Translator's note: The first day of
every month is now called the Koa-loko-Bi, or the Asia
Promotion Service Day, and patriotic subjects are supposed
to refrain from drinking on that day). Happy are those
who think that by upholding such ideals as the establish-
ment of a new order and an Asiatic bloo they can easily
settle the China problem and can readily bring about friend-
ship between Japan and China. They are happy because I do
not think they have the worries which I have now. The China
incident in which the peoples of Japan and China have,
after some two thousand years of interoourse, been thrown
into the present head-on clash is not, as some people shink
it is, something whioh can be solved easily by tertbook
ideals of morality.
(8)

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
(2)
Former Prime Minister Abe in his speech on New Year's
Day of this 26o0th anniversary of Japan's foundation stated:
"Though the China affair is called an incident, it is a
war unprecedented in the history of Japan." On this point
I quite agree with the former Prime Minister. The problem
is whether we should regard the incident as a mere incident
as its name implies, or, as former Premier Abe put it, as
a great war unprecedented in the history of Japan. If it
is an incident, it may be "settled", but if it is a war,
a mere "settlement" would not bring its termination. We
must reap the fruits of it. After the Sino-Japanese war,
Japan won Taiwan and also an indemnity of 200,000,000 taels.
As a result of the Russo-Japanese war, Japan won southern
Karafuto, the right to lease the Kwantung Territory, and
the privilege to advance into southern Manchuria. Italy
won Ethiopia. Germany is rapidly building up footholds of
German people in former Polish territory. England affectedly
speaks of international morale; yet whence came her terri-
tories and colonies? In one sense she has played the robber
well.
The present war in Europe is not called an ineident.
War is declared, and it becomes literally a war of re-
mapping. The war may drag on, but the outcome of it is pre-
diotable according to which party wins. What may be clearly
imagined is a change in the map of Europe. Some parts have
been changed already. The change will be continued in the
future. This will be the main outoome of the present
European war. Whatever the Covenant of the League of Nations
may say, the struggle for existence undertaken by mankind is
uneonditional. Difficulty arises when effert is made to
control living men with a covenant which is static. It is
a

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
(2)
Former Prime Minister Abe in his speech on New Year's
Day of this 26o0th anniversary of Japan's foundation stated:
"Though the China affair is called an incident, it is a
war unprecedented in the history of Japan." On this point
I quite agree with the former Prime Minister. The problem
is whether we should regard the incident as a mere incident
as its name implies, or, as former Premier Abe put it, as
a great war unprecedented in the history of Japan. If it
is an incident, it may be "settled", but if it is a war,
a mere "settlement" would not bring its termination. We
must reap the fruits of it. After the Sino-Japanese war,
Japan won Taiwan and also an indemnity of 200,000,000 taels.
As a result of the Russo-Japanese war, Japan won southern
Karafuto, the right to lease the Kwantung Territory, and
the privilege to advance into southern Manchuria. Italy
won Ethiopia. Germany is rapidly building up footholds of
German people in former Polish territory. England affectedly
speaks of international morale; yet whence came her terri-
tories and colonies? In one sense she has played the robber
well.
The present war in Europe is not called an ineident.
War is declared, and it becomes literally a war of re-
mapping. The war may drag on, but the outcome of it is pre-
diotable according to which party wins. What may be clearly
imagined is a change in the map of Europe. Some parts have
been changed already. The change will be continued in the
future. This will be the main outoome of the present
European war. Whatever the Covenant of the League of Nations
may say, the struggle for existence undertaken by mankind is
unconditional. Difriculty arises when effert is made to
control living men with a covenant which is statie. It is
a

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
a humorless absurdity to try to control living men with dead
covenants. An amicable settlement of the whole problem is
hopeless unless both Japan and China get together and talk
it over with a clean slate and in a conciliatory spirit.
Adherence to the moral ideas of the old world is a miser-
able joke.
Former Premier Konoe stated that Japan would safeguard
the complete independence of China and would demand no in-
demnity and no territorial acquisitions on the continent.
Upon hearing the Konoe statement, the Chinese, who had been
fearful of, and somewhat resigned to, the outoome of the
China incident, must have felt as happy as larks. They seemed
to have relt that, if they would stick to the points in the
Konoe statement which were favorable to China, they would
come out victorious in the end even if they should lose the
war. Thus, they pushed the incident to a new stage by up-
holding the Konoe statement and by closing their ears to
those parts of the statement which are not favorable to
themselves. Like the phrase "victory under a thousand ban-
ners", the so-called Konoe statement is put up by the Chinese
as their "banner of victory". This is again a humorless
tragedy. However, we might conclude that Konoe had shown
the way for the settlement of an incident. Until that time
the China incident might have been a mere inoident. At
least the officials concerned might have thought it was.
However, the later development of the incident and the change
in the situation have made it no longer possible to regard
it as a mere incident. Though it is called an incident, the
situation has become serious to a degree beyond the immgination
of any of the people of Japan. When the Lukowkiao incident
broke out on July 7, l937, the people were informed that
tho

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
4
the inoident would be settled within two months. Even
later, when the Captain Oyama incident occurred at Shanghai
and the affair developed into the China incident, Japan's
policy was to fight it out quickly and the end of the in-
cident within a year was freely predicted. At least that
was what people thought. The Shanghai incident of 1932
broke out on January 28, and ended on March 3 of the same
year when the Japanese forces occupied the line connecting
Nansiang and Kiating. At that time Japan withdrew its
armed foroes completely from China without acquiring any
land or demanding the payment of an indemnity. Why? Be-
cause it was an incident and not a war. And it may well be
said now that the China incident broke out again after the
lapse of five years because of that fact. Moreover, the
present China incident has been protracted first from the
original two months to a year, in whioh emphasis was on
prompt and decisive military action, and then into a long
drawn-out war. Some people say that the incident may even
last a hundred years. The Chinese have been calling it
"long-term resistance" from the beginning. They have never
regarded it as a mere incident as many of the Japanese have.
The Chinese regard the China incident as a war between Japan
and China, or, better still, a war between the Japanese
and the Chinese. For this reason it is "long-term resistance"
for them. For them this is a war which will last as long
as the two people exist and as long as the Japanese do not
yield to the Chinese. The war of resistance may at times
be fought by weapons, but at other times it may be continued
under the guise of peace and friendship. For the people or
China there is nothing but peace for individuals and anti-
Japanese resistance. There may be pro-Japanese frienaship,
at

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
but it is a friendship as futile as a wild-goose chase,
for it is to the Chinese only a means by which they seek
their individual peace and happiness. It is a friendship
which they will utilize in their favor in the racial war
of resistance, a war in which they seek their racial exist-
ence and prosperity and in which they look forward to becom-
ing a victor in the long run. In short, for the Chinese
it is a friendship of struggle for existence. It is a
friendship of resistance in which they struggle for pros-
perity even though losing in actual warfare. One influential
follower of Wang Ching-wei once stated that, while Chiang
Kai-shek fought in order to resist Japan, Wang's group
sought friendship with Japan as a medium of resistance
against that country. I think this is at one and the same
time a grim and a thought-provoking statement.
(3)
The people of Japan must not overlook the speech of
former Premier Abe made on New Year's Day, in whioh the
former Premier said that the present China incident was a
war unprecedented in the history of Japan. It is a matter
of great rejoicing for us, the Japanese people, to hear
from the mouths of the competent persons in the Government,
who since the time when the Konoe statement was issued were
prone to deal with the China incident as a mere incident,
that the China incident is no longer an inoident but a war,
a war unprecedented in magnitude in the history of Japan.
It is a matter of great rejoicing because whether the Gov-
ernment regards the China incident as a mere inoident or as
a war makes a big difference in its poliey with regard to
the settlement of the China incident. The Konee statement
is a statement in whioh the China ineident is regarded as
a mere inoident. Therefere, the polioy of the settlement

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
of the China incident based upon the Konoe statement is
one which looks to the settlement of this historically
great war as simply an inoident. This may be a justifiable
way of thinking for those who think of the incident seated
in their comforteble arm cheirs. But for those who have
gone and are going with the expeditionary forces this is
incomprehensible. It is also incompatible with the ideas
of most of the 100,000,000 people of Japan excluding a few
frivolous "thought" peddlers and supporters of irresponsible
diplomacy. However, former Pramier Abe stated that the
China incident was a war. He even s tated that it was a war
unprecedented in the history of Japan. We find great satis-
faction in former Premier Abe's speech. If it is an inci-
dent, we have no enemy, and both parties involved in the
incident are responsible for its settlement. Hence, the
Konoe statement. However, if it is a war, we have an enemy.
It is China and the Chinese. If it is an incident, its
settlement would merely mean a successful consummation of
the situation. The final outoome would be the restoration
of the original state of affairs. But, if it is a war,
we would have to gather its fruits. If we do not gather
its fruits, it would mean that we had lost the war. In
such a case, even if we won for the moment or won partially,
it would mean that we had lost the war in the end. There
has never been a war in history in which the victor did not
take the prize of war. If the China inoident is a war un-
precedented in history, its prize must also be one unpre-
cedented in history. If not, the souls of (blank) thousamds
of soldiers who lost their lives in the present war can
never rest in peace, and (blank) thousands of the families
of the war dead and 100,000,000 Japanese subjeots would
agomisingly wonder where the end of the sacrifice and
mobilization lay.
y

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
The Emperor Jimmu left the Shrine of Takachiho in
Hyuga, set sail from the port of Mimitsu, and started on
an eastern expedition across the sea. After making great
sacrifices and undergoing tremendous hardships, the Emperor
succeeded in subjugating the eastern land and establishing
a capital at Kashiwara in Yamato. Thus was created the
everlasting foundation.of the Empire of Japan. Today,
after 2600 years since the foundation of the empire, Japan
is fighting a war unprecedented in its history. When we
humbly look back today at the glorious prize won by the
Emperor Jimmu after his eastern expedition, we feel as though
the way of the settlement of our incident had become clear
in our minds. Japan should not be irresolute. It should
only follow the way shown by the Emperor Jimmu. Since Japan,
seeking the peace and prosperity of the continent -- our
continent -- is engaged in a war on the continent unprecedented
in history, it should not hesitate to seize fruits unprece-
dented in its history. It is impossible to enhance our
national glory unless we govern. We must make every one
of our steps for advance a firm and steady one. But we
should not advanoe too far.
(4)
At the time of the Shanghai incident of l932, when
the Japanese foroes, following the general attack of March 1,
1932, oooupied Tachangohen, Nansiang, and Kiating, it became
 question whether or not Japan should seize the opportunity
to advance to Kunshan and Suchow. At that time I was told
by an official conneoted with the Army that Japan should
not be deceived by the inviting strategy of China and that,
if Japan should follow China's *invitation" and should enter
deeper and deeper into the interior of China, Japan would
.omo

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
some day get caught in a swamp and would be unable to get
out. Perhaps for this reason the Japanese forces stopped
their advance at the Hansiang-Kiating front, and utilizing
tactfully the signs of peace in Chinese circles concluded
a truce agreement and speedily withdrew from China. Having
done so, Japan concentrated its power on Manchuria. The
result of it is the present peace and prosperity of Manchuria.
The essence of modern military strategy is, whatever
may be the argument otherwise, fighting by machines. There
is a saying in China: "Courage which will make a raging
tiger cross a river." This phrase may be taken as warning
to those who attempt to face the power of machines without
weapons. On the western front of the European war, both
the Maginot and Siegfried lines are maintaining silence and
neither party takes the offensive, for they know it is use-
less. Making advances even when such advances are known to
be useless is the ever-compelling spirit of the Yamato Soul.
This of course is a spirit of which Japan is proud and which
is unique to Japan. But such a spirit should be made the
best use of. along with the progress of the time. If it is
a living spirit it must grow and make progress. A modern
war is a war of machines. Men must fight machines and make
advances with machines, and herein lies the diffioulty of
man power against machines and distant expeditions.
Genghis Khan raised his banners on the banks of the
Onon and Kelren rivers and with his men started on a long
expedition to the west. He overrode the western countries
and eastern Europe and won a prize unparalleled in history.
This great undertaking is one of whioh we, the eastern people,
are proud and even teday we might have much to learn from it.
But this is an ignoring of ohanges in the methods of war
during the last six centuries. It is the same as trying to
oonquer

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
oonquer the present world with a single sword. In its
western erpedition, Genghis Khan's Mongolian army captured
towns one after another, killing all the young men and
acquiring women and provisions in each town. Therefore
the Mongolian army had no fear for an attack from behind
and could continue its advance obtaining women and food-
stuffs in enemy lands. It was in this manner that Genghis
Khan accomplished his western expedition. Since the modern
Chinese forces have been mechanized a good deal, their
expedition is not quite the same as that of Genghis Khan's
Mongolian forces, but little difference is seen between them
in that they both get their provisions at different places
as they go along. As long as they receive supplies of arms
and ammunition, the Chinese armies can maintain their mili-
tary strength intact for five or even ten years and can
continue as expeditionary forces indefinitely.
When I was in Shanghai I was once astonished to see
the transport of military supplies to the Japanese barracks
on the Kiating front. The supply of ammunition may some-
times be cut down, but supply of foodstuffs and fodder must
not stop whether battles are fought or not. Supply of pro-
visions must continue like water pouring out of a spring.
The kinds and quantity of such provisions were surprisingly
numerous and large. I was impressed to see what a strenuous
thing it was to carry on a war. The people think of spee-
tacular activities of the men at the front but often forget
the hardships of military transport behind these activities.
When I saw with my own eyes the hardship with which military
supplies are transported in the back of the more spectaoular
fronts, I could not help being grateful to those uncomplain-
ing and untiring special-service soldiers. Then I thought

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
of the Chinese forces requisitioning their provisions and
all other necessities as they go along. The Chinese forces
are migratory birds. They move from one place to another
wi th a small supply of ammunition. They obtain provisions
and other daily necessities in places through which they
pass. When they enter a town or a village with their arms,
the farmers and storekeepers welcome them with plenty of
food and drink and offer them what they want. Wherever
they go, the Chinese forces get what they want, paying prac-
tically nothing for it. When we compare these Chinese
forces which move lightly from one place to another like
birds with the Japanese foroes which must take a large
quantity of ammunition, foodstuffs, fodder, and all other
daily necessities along with them, we can only conclude that
Japan's expedition against the Chinese army does not pay
according to modern calculations.
I have said that the Chinese forces move lightly from
one place to another like birds. I used the phrase beoause
the Chinese forces carry little ammunition and move about
rapidly without staying long in one place. In both of the
Shanghai battles the Chinese foroes showed a considerable
degree of resistance. However, that resistance was like
a drama in which the Chinese foroes, urged on by the modern
schoolgirls of Shanghai, tried to show off before the third
powers. It was not an outoome of the old tactics of the
Chinese forces, for their tactios are to flee when the wind
begins to blow against them. If they do not flee when the
situation becomes unfavorable to them, they would be totally
destroyed. If they are totally destroyed, they would lose
everything. But if they protect at least their lives, they
would have a chance to rise again some day. Such is the
fundemental

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
fundamental thought of the long-term resistance of the
Chinese people. They wait for the arrival of their chance,
putting up with all defeats and insults. To hold out and
die is a tactic which is unknown in China. When they start
losing, they run away. In most cases they start running
away before they even begin to lose. Very often after a
severe attack the Japanese forces find no Chinese at the
spot. In the interior the Chinese forces are resuming their
old military tactics and their ways are not necessarily the
same as those employed by them in the Shanghai battles.
When we attack, they run away; and when we withdraw, they
appear. Thus, with a small number of soldiers and a small
quantity of ammunition they can cause much trouble to the
Japanese expeditionary forces in the interior of China. This
is why it is dangerous to respond to the "inviting" tactios
of the Chinese foroes.
(5)
Indeed, the Chinese forces in the interior are just
like flies. When chased they flee, but they come back
when there are no hands to chase them. The more you kill
them the more they appear. To annihilate them is more
difficult than to kill all the flies in a dairy. Therefore
in any war the Chinese do not think very muoh of annihila-.
tion. When they think of an expedition they always think
of reconciliation. They give thought not only to the de-
struotive side of their undertakings but to the winning of
the hearts of the people. One method of conciliation is to
win the favor of the general publio, and the other is to win
the hearts of leaders. For those who have power, it is very
easy to use their power. But such a power does not win the
hearts of the people for them. When those who have power
show

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
show a gentle attitude, their power works more effectively
than when it is used directly. This is the main point of
the tactics of conciliation. A study of Chinese history
reveals that this tactic has been employed by all of those
who have accomplished great work. However, this tactic
works only when employed by those who have power. Without
actual power, all ideals and all merciful statecrafts are
of little help in governing a country. This is true today
just as it was true in the days gone by.
In March of the 17th year of the Chinese Republic,
Chiang Kai-shek tactfully decoyed Li Chi-shen from Shanghai
to Nanking, and in a twinkling of an eye made him prisoner.
This was because Li Chi-shen was the leader of the Kwansi
faction and had influence over the elements there plotting
an anti-Chiang movement. For this reason Chiang Kai-shek
confined Li Chi-shen and treated him well, thereby taotfully
giving a check to the anti-Chiang movement. Moreover, in
the l9th year of the Chinese Republic, Chiang Kai-shek
suddenly released Chu Cheng, the leader of the anti-Chiang
movements whom Chiang confined before Li Chi-shen, appoint-
ing him to the very important position of Director of the
Board of Inspection of the Kuomintang Government. This was
because Chiang Kai-shek felt it necessary to utilize in his
own favor the Kwangtung faotion which obeyed every word of
command of Chu Cheng. Chiang Kai-shek once attempted to
assassinate Wang Ching-wei. It is not clear whether or not
Chiang himself gave the order, but it was rumored that
Chiang's followers attempted to kill Wang Ching-wei reading
the mind of their master Chiang Kai-shek. The assassination
was not successful and Wang recovered in a hospital in Shanghai
receiving at the same time the cordial solicitations of Chiang.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
A point of interest in this connection is that Chiang at-
tempted to kill Wang while confining and giving cordial
treatment to Li Chi-chen, Chu Cheng, etc. This was because
Chiang saw the usefulness of Li Chi-shen and Chu Cheng in
their ability to lead the anti-Chiang factions which were
then powerful in the south, and he could make no use of
Wang Ching-wei who was a good speech-maker and good literary
man but who did not have any actual power. Such has been
the Chinese way from the ancient days. The powerless are
always neglected and only those who have power are cared for.
Those who have power have never been neglected in the 4000-
year history of China. In China one deals only with those
who have power and either smashes them, conciliates them,
or makes truce with them. This is the way to success in
that country. There has never been an instanoe in the
history of China where one conquered an area by joining
hands with men without power. Since ancient times great
men of China concerned themselves only with men of power.
Those great men c∞nquered the land either by fighting the
men of power, making truce with them, or making use of their
power. Otherwise it was impossible for them to govern an
area.
(6)
At the time when the Ching Dynasty was unifying China,
the first Emperor, Chuo-chih, granting the petition of Wu
San-kuei, general of the Ming Dynasty, took his army aoross
the border; revenged Emperor Ch'ung-chen of the Ming Dynasty
by subjugating Li Tsu-ch'eng, bandit; and faithfully buried
the corpse of Emperor Ch'ung-chen which had been left un-
buried until that time. Following that, Emperor Chue-chin
commenced his work of unification of all China. He took
approrimately

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
approximately 200,000 Manchurian soldiers aoross the
border into China proper and accomplished his task of
unification of China. He was also helped by Han forces
which gathered under his banners. Emperor Chu-chih himself
later crossed the border and entered China proper, but it
was not until forty years later at the time of Emperor
Kang-Hsi that the Ching Dynasty destroyed all the remnants
of the Ming Dynasty and perfected the unification of the
country by conquering as far as Kwangtung, Kwansi, and
Yunnan provinces. What attracts our attention in this
connection is the fact that in the first stage of its
great undertaking the Ching Dynasty conoentrated its own
army in and around the capital or in north China, and
sent the Han army on the expedition to the interior. The
purpose of this was to establish a firm base in the capital.
Consequently, even after the Ching Dynasty established
its capital in Peking and formed the Great Empire of Ching,
the southern provinoes were for a long time under the con-
trol of the Hans, and as seen in the instances where the
Hans gave support to Prince Tang in Fukien province and to
Prince Kuei in Kwangtung province, the interior of China
did not necessarily come at once under the control of the
Ching Dynasty. Yet the Ching regime never sent its Man-
churian army to fight the rebellions of those remnants of
the Ming Dynasty and the Hans. Instead the Ching regime
sent Wu San-kuei, a Han, and his Han army for the subjuga-
tion of the interior. Wu San-kuei pursued Prince Kuei to
Kweichow and to Yunnan and finally defeated him. In this
manner Wu San-kuei brought the far distriot of Yunnan to
be ineluded in the domain of the Ching Dynasty. All this
while, the Ching Govermment itself coneentrated its power
upom its eapital, and when the foundation of the capital
beeame

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
became firm the Ching Dynasty itself began stretohing
its power to the south. It sent its army as far as to
Fukien, Kwangtung, and Yunnan and conquered the so-called
three big Han leaders, namely, Ching Chi-mao of Fukien,
Shang K'e-hsi of Kwangtung, and Wu San-kuei of Yunnan, who
began to gain power and rebel against the Ching Dynasty.
After this the southern provinces were brought for the
first time under the control of the Manchurian army. Thus
it was after a long time of efforts that the Ching Dynasty
finally succeeded in unifying the country. Its plan was
lofty and prepared cautiously, and each step was taken
with thoroughness. The completion of an armed unification
of China took the Ching Dynasty 38 years, covering the
period from the first year of Chuo-chih to the 20th year
of Kang-Hsi, and it took about & hundred years for the
same dynasty to establish peace throughout the country.
In those days, due to poor transportation and lack of arms,
an armed subjugation took a long period of time, but the
condition was such that, once suppressed, it was very rare
that rebellious elements ever got power. At present, how-
ever, due to progress in transportation and improvements
of arms, an advance into the interior can be made very
rapidly, but there is constant presenoe of the enemy re-
sistance from every angle. Besides, the transport of
ammunitions and provisions is also difficult. Thus. an
advance into the interior is even more difrioult than the
expedition undertaken at the beginning of the Ching regime.
(7)
For the Ching Dynasty the suppression of the interior
was the suppression of its own land. The completion of such
a suppression was necessary for its owm safety, for there
would

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
would never be a peace if there were remnants of the pre-
vious dynasty in one corner of the land. Those remnants
had to be wiped away completely. It is understandable that
the Ching Dynasty had to send an expedition as far as
Yunnan in the south and to Outer Mongolia in the north.
It was also for a similar reason that the Mongolians de-
feated the kin of the southern Sung Dynasty after pursuing
them to Aihshan in Kwangtung province. This was because
the Mongolians had the great ideal of founding a country
of their own on the continent and of ensuring peace in the
country by defeating the kin of the southern Sung Dynasty.
The expedition was not for the sake of others but for the
sake of themselves. They had hopes for an expansion of
their land and a unification of their country to make up
for the sacrifices they made. However, the present incident
on the China continent is, in essence, an incident of the
China continent, and though Japan is deeply concerned with
it, it is not Japan's incident. While the Asiatic continent
1s a land into which the Japanese races may expand, Japam's
foundation is not so weak as to crumble if peace does not
come to every corner of the continent. Peace on the contin-
ent is not of sufficient importance for Japan as to cause
it to advance into the interior of the continent at the risk
of depopulating its homeland.
In one of the popular war songs of the China incident
appears the phrase: "It it's for the sake of the peace or
the Orient, we are ready to sacrifice our lives." A certain
captain who held an important position in the Japanese Navy
was once quoted in a certain column in a newspaper as saying
that he could never understand the meaning of the phrase:
If

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
"If it's for the sake of the peace of the Orient." I quite
agree with him. It would be understandable if it said:
"If it's for the sake of the Emperor" or "If it's for the
sake of the country", but saying "for the sake of the peace
of the Orient" is unintelligible. The ideas which we get
from the phrase "for the sake of the peace of the Orient"
are: "for the sake of the Orient", "for the sake of the
continent", "for the sake of China", "for the sake of the
Chinese", etc. The Orient after all means the China contin-
ent. When we think of the China continent we immediately
think of 450,000,000 Chinese. These 450,000,000 Chinese
are waiting for a change of luck in their fight against
Japan, while the Japanese are fighting for the sake of the
Chinese, and for the sake of peace on the continent they are
sacrificing their lives. This contains many points which are
beyond the ordinary sphere of understanding. England claims
that it is acting for the sake of a peace of Europe, but it
is fighting, after all, for the sake of its own country.
As long as the Maginot line holds out and the safety of
France is assured, France does not dare take the offensive.
America is crying for world peace. This perhaps is beoause
America is self-sufficient and it knows no hardships. At
any rate, although, if the safety of the European continent
were threatened, America might enter the European war, it
would never take the initiative in participating in the war
simply for the cause of world peace. From the experience
of the last war, America knows very well the absurdity of
moral participation. Japan, too, has many problems which
are closer at hand and whieh require more serious considera-
tion than the peaee of the Orient or an East Asia bloe. We
mst realise that the lives of the Jepanese people are too
va1uable

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
valuable to be thrown away for the cause of the peace of
the China continent.
(8)
The fundamental causes of the China incident are two-
fold: The first is the continental advance of the Japanese
race and the resistance of the Chinese race against this
advance; and the other is China's slighting of Japan and
Japan's retaliation against such slighting. In whatever
ways the causes of the China incident may be explained,
they can be reduced in the end to these two causes. This
being the case, in settling the China incident Japan must
bear in mind these two causes and all efforts must be
designed towards eliminating them. This idea, however, is
always in contradiction with what the Chinese think. We
have anticipated such a contradiction from the beginning.
Indeed, it is this sort of contradiction whioh has made us
mobilize (blank) thousands of soldiers and sacrifice also
(blank) thousands of lives to attain our ends. Should we
conduct our policy for the settlement of the incident im-
properly, we would never know whither the end of the China
incident and the end of our sacrifices. In terms of mere
ideals, we may be able to draw up a plan for the settlement
of the incident, but it would be a great mistake to think
that these idealistic plans can be realized. The plan of
an East Asia bloc is an example of this. I must conolude,
from my thirty years of experience in China, that such an
ideal is only an ideal, or, more frankly, a mere desk theory.
The Chinese never cherish ideals which are not compatible
with the actual conditions and with their own interests.
They are an extremely realistic and egotistic race. Inasmuch
as

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
as they are so, they continue to live and seek the way to
prosperity even when they meet insult or defeat. It is of
no use to propagate empty and fanciful ideals in utilitarian
China and let the Chinese take advantage of them to shout
out their own pet ideals. It is of no use because, by
seizing upon the advantageous points and by ignoring the
disadvantageous points, the Chinese will on one hand speak
of an ideal in agreement with us and on the other continue
to work speedily toward forming an anti-Japanese organization.
Hence it is that an influential follower of Wang Ching-wei
described Wang's movement as "pro-Japanese intended for anti-
Japanese resistance". The Chinese intention is to drive
away the Japanese step by step from the continent.
Judging from various statements emanating from China,
the Chinese seem to regard the Konoe statement as a truce
proposal to China which Japan was compelled to make owing
to Chinese resistance. Even today the Chinese do not think
that they have lost the war even though they admit that they
occasionally lose battles. They think that Japan, finding
itself between two fires or anticipating that it might be
thrown between two fires owing to Chinese resistance, has
proposed the truce agremment and that the Konoe statement
is a manifestation of this feeling. This is utterly absurd
from the viewpoint of the Japanese, but, inasmuch as it is
the opinion prevailing in China, we must think the matter
over carefully. The fact that the Chinese do not think that
they have been defeated shows that their zeal for anti-Japanese
resistance has not only not diminished but has become greater
in the form of retreats to the interior.
Chiang Kai-shek is said to be willing to accept Japan's
se-called peace proposal only on condition that Japan first
withdraws

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
withdraws its army from the China continent. It is further
said that even though it may not be the true intention of
Chiang to accept Japan's proposal, Chiang under the cir-
cumstances has to show some willingness to accept the pro-
posal. Inasmuch as Japan cannot withdraw its army at once,
it is said to be Wang Ching-wei's idea to make a truce first
and then demand that Japan withdraw its army. In other
words, his idea is that of assuring in the first place the
bringing about of a truce and the realization of the inde-
pendence of China. Chiang Kai-shek and Wang Ching-wei are
both alike in that both of them entertain the idea that
Japan is proposing a truce and, if the terms are satisfac-
tory, they might agree to the proposal. While Chiang openly
conducts anti-Japanese resistance.until satisfactory terms
of truce are set forth, Wang seeks the achievement of satis-
factory truce terms by first making peace with Japan. If
he does not get satisfactory terms, he can withdraw at any
time. One influential figure in Wang's party even went so
far as to state that, inasmuch as Japan seeks Wang's co-
operation, Japan would be perplexed if Wang should withdraw.
Chiang resists with arms while Wang resists with a friendly
attitude. Such is the general opinion in China.
(9)
What lies behind Dr. Sun Yat-sen's three-peoples prin-
ciple is a racial principle. In other words, it is the
principle of the Han race first. Since the Kuomintang adopted
the three-peoples prinoiple as its polioy, its racial tint
became stronger and stronger, and it came to take the form
of an anti-foreign, particularly an anti-Japanese, movement.
The China inoident is a result of this movement. Today in
the fourth year of the inoident this racial prineiple of

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
the Chinese is showing no tendency of weakening. Quite the
contrary, it appears that the principle is becoming more
and more predominant. The idea of an East Asia bloc which
has been advocated by some Japanese emphasizes a cooperation
among, and unification of, the East Asia races, and accord-
ing to that idea the Chinese are expected to conform to
such cooperation and unification. Ironical as it may seem,
the Chinese never think of the unification of the East Asia
races. Before thinking of opposing the power of Europe and
the United States by uniting the East Asia races, China has
to think of itself. And the Chinese themselves can dispose
of their problems without the assistance of others. They
do not need a unification of the East Asia races. The
Chinese say that, if the advocaters of the idea of an East
Asia bloo are willing to respect the ccmplete independence
of China, they might as well first have Japan withdraw from
the China continent, for China needs no help from Japan.
The racial principle of the Chinese is purely a Chinese
racial principle and not that of the races of East Asia.
Their raoial principle is one of the Chinese races first
whereby, if they have power enough, they look with contempt
upon other races. Besides, what is standing right in the
way of their racial principle is the Japanese racial prin-
ciple. This is a fact about which we cannot do anything.
Japan must think of its own people before talking about
ideals in East Asia. I do not think that Japan has enough
reserve power to give thought to the raoes of East Asia at
the cost of neglecting its own race.
(10)
It was under suoh ciroumstances that former Premier Abe
stated that the present inoident was a war unprecedented in
tho

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-82
the history of Japan. Abe's statement may be taken as
an outward expression of the change in thinking of those
who regarded the China incident as a mere incident. The
statement made it clear that Japan should settle the in-
cident in such a way as to win a prize of a war unprece-
dented in its history. To win such a prize must be the
basis of our policy in settling the incident. The settlement
of the incident is said to be difficult. It may not be pre-
sumed so by those who believe that the formation of some
such body as the so-called East Asia bloc is possible. Yet,
for those who have fought desperately in China with the
Chinese, settling of the present China inoident is no easy
matter. However, the settlement of the incident is a dif-
ficult matter only when one expeots to establish peace in
every corner of the continent and to drive out the European
powers and the United States in order to win the cooperation
of China, a China which would never adopt a cooperative at-
titude toward Japan. If we think of everything more readily
and more simply in terms of Japan's interests, the matter
of the settlement of the incident should not necessarily be
a difficult one. Should we make enemies out of Europe and
the United States? Isn't our enemy closer at hand? There
must be some people who can answer these questions.
(N.B. - Undersooring by Embassy.)

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 25, 1941.
Toyo teh o. ,  nnr 21,
entitled:
: " m Tee o theine
'Japenese abroad' contin in essa es from
the american an ritish abessaors and the
Hunarian inister, Jorent by the sditor on
American Policy".
The despate transnits cooi s or the
congratuletory Hev Year's ecsa en sent to
the na azine Jewm whroad y the  erican,
Sritish and Hun urian dinloratic represen-
tatives in Tokyo and nublished in the marazine
January 1940.
Comment: The mericun and British
messages were cordial and formal, the iunrarian
message traces the history of cuitural exchanges
between the two countries.
The sane issue of the marazine carried a
long diatribe against the Uinited States under
the title "The United States is Dancing on a
Volcano".
894.917/6
FE:Fales:OJL
FE

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
6
OF THE
RECEIVED
1941 FEB 12 PM 2 01
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tonyo, January 21, 1941.
No. 5299.
SUBJECT:
JANUARY ISSUE OF TH AGAZINE "JAPANESE ABROAD"
CO.ITAINING : ESSAGES FRO THN A ERICAN AND BRITISH
ALBASSADCRS AD THE HUTARIAN INTSTER, COMENT
DY TIE EDITOR ON A BRICAN FOLLCY.
e
HH
1941
fe 24
Uepartment of State
L
894.917/6
Cohy in 7,E,
The Honorable
894.917
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
h.元
Sir:
PS/JI
1/
I have the honor to forward herewith oopies of a
letter which I sent to the editor of the magazine
"Japanese Abroad" and in which I enclosed, at the editor's
request, a short paragraph extending greetings to be published
in the January issue of the magazine. My letter and its en-
closure were published, both in English and Japanese transla-
tion. This same issue reproduced in English and Japanese a
letter of greeting, copy of whioh is enolosed, from my
2/
3/
British colleague. There is also enclosed a copy ortin
2
article by the Hungarian Minister to Japan whioh ap
pearta
FTLED

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
peared in the same issue of "Japanese Abroad" and in
which the Hungerien minister briefly truces the recent
nistory of culturul exch n es between Ja an and lungary.
The editor of the ugazihe in the ste issue
resents & long diatribe unuer the title "The United
States is Lancin: on a Volcano" in which he attempts
to prove that Ameri can policy to aras Ja an is the
result of five factors; (1) "jealousy", (2) "superiority
complex", (3) "misunderstanding", (4) "ignorance", and
(5) "the desire of world conquest". His arguments are
so lacking in considered thought that they are not be-
lieved worthy of sunnarizing. The editor concludes
with the assertion that the American public "must not
belittle the cilivalry of the 100,000,000 Japanese and
their power to achieve what they will".
Respectfully yours,
Gout L G. fim
Joseph C. Grew.
MWS:C
125
VEnclosures:
1-3 As stated above.
Original and 4 copies to Department.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.' to despatch
No.5299aatedJAN21
194/,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMER ICA
Tokyo, November 30, 1940.
Dear ar. Nakamura:
I appreciate your kind invitation to send a New
Year message to your magazine "Japane se Abroad". Un-
fortunately there is little that I could helpfully say
in such a message at the present time and under present
circumstences with regard to international understanding
and the adaptation of nations to such understanding.
Messages, statements, assurances count for little or
nothing nowadays, alas. Only actions and facts count,
and internati onal relations depend and will continue to
depend exclusively upon such realities.
If however the simple message of good wishes on the
enclosed sheet should commend itself to you, you are very
welcome to use it in your magazine.
With kindest regards, I am, my dear Mr. Nakamura,
Sincerely yours,
JOSEPH C. GREW
Enolosure

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
in the cause of international friendship I send
to "Japanese Aoroad" my best wishes for a successful
New Year and for a helpful continuation of its con-
structive efforts in contributing to understanding between
nations.
JOSEPH C. GREW

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure No.2 to despatoh
No. 5299 datodAN21
,194/,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
BRITISH EMBASSY,
TOKYO.
6th December, 1940.
Dear ..r. Nakamura,
I take reat pleasure in offering New Year
greetings to the Orien l Culture Society and to
"Japanese Abroad".
In your letter you stress the paramount importance
of proper international understanding at the present
time. In this I entirely agree with you and I hope that
the Oriental Culture Society may long continue in its
work of countering misconceptions in ti is field, which
are for the most part deliberately inspired. I trust
that every success may crown its efforts.
Yours sincerely,
R. L. CRAIGIE

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No.3 to despatch
No.5299 dated JAN21
，1941,
from thé Embassy at Tokyo.
DEVELCPLT O JAPA.ESE-HUNGARIAN
S I PURAL RELATIONS
by: Geor e de Ghika, Minister of Hungary
Th reletions between hunrary and tne great Empire
of Japan were always cordial. Even during the First Great
Mar of 1914-18, there was no enmity or hatred in the
hearts of Japanese and Hungarians towards each otler,
while soon after the struggle ended, Japanese soldiers learn-
ed the warm gratitude of all Hungarians by their kindly and
iuiane treatment of our prisone rs of war, which found
languishing in prison-camps of Siberia.
As soon as conditions could be called tolerably normal
again, work was started simultaneousl y, both in Japan and
Hungary to further cultural relations and to foster the
consciousness of our remarkably similar traditions. In
Budapest the Turanian Society and the Hungarian Nippon
Society, in Tokyo the Japanese-Hungarian Society, Petofi
Society and Liszt Ferenc Society were founded, as well
as more recently the very active and efficient Japanese-
Hungarian Society. Japanese abroad and Hungarians visiting
or residing in Japan participated in this work with equal
fervour.
10
As early as l290 a university chair for Eastern Asiatio
languages was founded in Budapest and filled with the able
orientalist Prof. Dr. William Prohle who is well-known in
Japan.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Japan. He visited this country on two occasions and is
an authority on old Japanese language, Japanese poetry
and incidentally is just about to finish the translation
of anyoshu into Iunrari en. The interest
aken by unarian
students in the Japanese language and culture was so vivid
that in 192l .r. aoichi Toyama was invited to lecture at
the Budapest College of Economics. Another Nipponese friend
of liungary: r. Juichiro Imaoka s unt nine years in Hungary,
attained an unusual ∞nmand of the Hungarian language,
delivered numerous lectures on the subject of Japan and
wrote a book in Hungarian about "Nek Nippon". Mr. Takuma
Sera, Lir. Kanemitsu Oshikawa, Mr. Shinjiro Honryo, Mr.
Koscak Yamada as well as many others came to Budapest for
a shorter or longer period and helped their Hungarian
friends to promote mutual understanding between our two
countries. Mr. Masao Oka, another lecturer of the Budapest
University, returned quite recently from Hungary, while
Mr. Yasumoto Tokunaga, a promising young Japanese philologist
a few months ago took up his scientific researches in the
Hungarian capital.
In the same way, many were active in Japan, either
socially or scientifically. To mention only a few names:
Viscount Naokazu Nabehsima the late Susumu Aibara, Tomiyoshi
Sumioka, Prof. Kurakichi Shiratori are well known for their
pioneer efforts. More reoently Chuzaburo Yakawa, Kiyeoshi
Ikegawa have done quite some work, while at present Baron
Takaharu Mitsui, founder and president of the Japanese-
Hungarian Cultural Institute has joined and is lending his
assistance to the official ∞mmittee which was formed in
Tokyo.
Quite a number of Hungarians who visited Japm, such
as

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
e
-3-
as Alexander de Simonyi-Semadam, Zoltán de Takács, Dr.
Stephen Mezey and last but by no means least, Dr. Louis
Ligeti have done their share of good work. And here I
should like to mention r. Veress offerin his symphony as
a Hungarian Greeting on the occasion of the 26ooth an-
niversary of the Japane se Dynasty, while a worthy Hungarian
resident of Japan, Mr. Ferdinand Metzger has translated
Hungarian Classics into Japanese, has written an outline
of Hungarian History in Japanese and is now putting the
finishing touches to a Japanese-Hungarian Dictionary.
All these preparatory efforts accomplished by private
initiative were paving the way for the governments of the
two friendly nations to give the mutual cultural relations
a more concrete basis by the si ning of a Cultural Pact
towards the end of 1938. The conclusion of this treaty
initiated a new era of systematic activity. Most of this
was shouldered by mixed Japanese-Hungarian committees which
were organized both in Tokyo and Budapest. Their task
mainly consists in studying and providing proper means and
facilities for the cultural intercourse between Japan and
Hungary.
Furthermore, the establishment of legations in Budapest
and Tokyo inaugurated closer and more efficient collabora-
tion. Hungary's adhesion to the Tripartite Pact between
Japan, Germany and Italy undoubtedly will also greatly aid
cultural cooperation.
I trust that these few details have furnished some
evidence of the Japanese-Hungarian friendship being promoted
not only by pious wishes, but by earnest endeavour.--
Greater

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Greatly appreciating the courtesy of the "Japane se Abroad"
in inviting me
to address a
few lines to their readers, I
wish to conclude by
expressing ny firm conviction
that the
continuous
exchange
of
cultural values will
further
strengthen those bonds
of
mutual cood will and understanding
which already happily exist
between Japan and Hungary.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Foreign Minister's address before the America-Japan
Society: Reports regarding editorial appearing in
JAPAN NEWS WEEK, December 21, 1940, regarding -.
894.917/
7
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
#5259
(Deepatoh, telegram, instraotiom, letter, eto.)
Dated
Doc. 31,1940
From/
Japan (Grew)
To
711.94/1940
PS/GC
1-1840
hr

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.93)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
C Tssn ndel vr i the ited Statos
of APA FWS WEEY.
Trera t  ort te -, end enoles coy of
eait riel frr t a A AFs FEr on con-d T ery
894.917/8
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Despatch 756
(Despatoh, telegram, lastruction, lettes, eto.)
Jupan
From
Dated
July :0 1941
(Grew)
To
File No.
811.7181/365
B.8. 0NT P  1-1849

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.87)
894717
YOR
DATE DUE
DATE OF DOT
Xm roply reper
your
letter of Warch 26, 194l enelosing a sapy of tme sllmstoated
894.
quarterly magazine Nippen published in Japam. I mave alse
noted with interest she pamphlet "Replies to mguiries em
6
Things Japanese" whioh the Japan Institute, Ime. me pu
l1shed to indicate the type of information sarvase which
8
you are offering. I appreclate your courteay in making
these publleations avallable and am happy te leem f 
servieee whieh you have establlshed fer lnfermatton or
persons inserested in Japan.
Sinserely yeurs,
marlee A. Thp
Dévássen or Cuites
Mr. Maaem Mayed, Mreeter.
APR 4 104
APR. 7 1041
CC
7E

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
Ro
JAPAN INSTITUTE, INC.
630 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK
TAMON MAYEDA
DIRECTOR
TELEPHONE: CIRCLE 7-146B
CABLE ADDREBS
JAPANINST
March 26, 1941
(S
894.917/8
Mr. charles A. Themaon
Diy. of altural Relatiens, Dept. of State
Waahington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Thomaen:
The Japan Institute takes pleasure in
sending you NIPPON, No. 22, an illustrated quarterly
magazine published in Japan. We hope that it will
be of interest to you. (If you wish to enter a sub-
scription for this magezine, pleese write directly
to Ione and P. D. Perkins. 1620 Mission Street,
South Pasadena, California, the sole agents of this
publication in the United States.)
Enclosed with the magazine you will find
"Replies to Inquiries on Things Japanese," a recent
publication of the Japan Institute which aims to
give a general idea of our information service. If
you have any questions, we shall be happy to answer
them to the best our knowledge.
Very sincerely yours,
amon Mayeda
Tamon Mayeda
Direotor
Le Bulhy d
8
15….

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Samples of
REPLIES TO INQUIRIES
on
THINGS JAPANESE
JAPAN INSTITUTE, Inc.
630 Fifth Avenue
Rockefeller Center—New York

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
One of the regular activities of the Japan Institute is
to answer both written and verbal questions.
Our inquiries comr from visitors to our Library, editors
of newspapers and magazines, writers. educators, and
publicists all over the country. They cover a uide variety
of subjects. The significance and uses of gourds, pro-
duction statistics on camphor and ravon, constitutional.
historical and bibliographical questions and inquiries on
matters pertaining to festivities and folk-lore are only a
very few of the many interesting topics on which we are
called upon to supply information.
You may be interested in knowing the exact type of
questions received and our answers to them, and although
we are giving examples of inquiries actually received by
us, you will understand that we are not in a position to
reveal the identity of the inquirers.
The dates in brackets indicate when the ansuers were
prepared.
JAPAN INSTITUTE. INC.
Tamon Mayeda
Director

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Inquiry—A very well-known radio personality asked us the following:
"Does Japan manufacture rayon? If so, how much? Also, who is
the next biggest manufacturer of rayon?"
To this we replied as follows:
Ansoer—“... Of course she does; she is the greatest rayon manufacturing
country in the world; Germany second, and the United States third. Up
to and including 1935, however, the United States was ahead of others.
The following is a statistical table based on one-thousand-pound units:
1938
1937
1936
Japan
584,600
508,600
320,850
Germany
471,000
344,200
193.435
U. S. A.
287,485
341,925
289,940
In the term "rayon" are included both pyramid yarn and staple
fibre. ..."
(August, 1939)
Inquiry—A well-known lecturer, Mr. T. H. of Los Angeles, California.
who publishes a series of pamphlets on international relations wrote as
follows:
". .. May I ask if, in your library, there is anything dealing with
Japanese herbalism in its relation to astrology? If the question is in
order and there be any information you can give me on the matter, it
would be very greatly appreciated. ..."
The following is the exact copy of our answer, except of course for
the salutation, the opening paragraph, and signature:
Answer—“... There is nothing among our library books that deals with
Japanese herbalism in relation to astrology.
Anatomy in Japan in the middle ages was based on the traditional
Chinese theory which attributed all human and natural phenomena to the
five elements. The human body was divided into five principal internal
organs and five minor parts. The five principal organs and their com-
plements in elements, colors, seasons. and tastes are as follows:
Principal
organs or Zo
Elements
Seasons
Colors
Tastes
heart
fire
summer
red
bitter
lungs
metal
autumn
white
sharp
kidneys
water
winter
black
salt
liver
wood
spring
blue
sour
spleen
earth
last 18
yellow
sweet
days of
each season
The functions of the five internal organs were regarded as subject to
the five elements. In order to cure an affliction of one organ, relief was
sought from the element which is in harmony with the element which
controls that particular organ.
[2]

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
The foregoing is only an outline and the whole system of universe
as held by the ancient Chinese is exceedingly complicated
In addition to the five elements there were the Ten Calendar Signs
and the Twelve Zodiacal Sign-. All these work and act and counteract
upon one another in an exceedingly intricate manner. In this manner
bodily diseases may be traced bheyond the five clement- to the astrological
activities and certain herbs may have special relations with certain stars.
We realize that this is quite unsatisfactory and if vu care to have
more authoritative information. we shall be glad to write to Japan upon
receiving more specific question- on the subject from vou
(August, 1940)
Inquiry—Mrs. P. E. T. sent in the following inqury
"It will please me very mu h to receive the musit which you spoke
of and also the description of the Festival of Lanterns
"My contacts with the people of various nation- in onnection with
assembling information for our program is prov ing to to a thrilling ex.
perience as well as most instructive."
Mrs. T. is connected with the Polyphonic So iety of Worcester,
Massachusetts. This Society once decided to take a Round the World
Cruise-Musically one season and Japan was included. At that time we
sent her an eight-page answer to her music inquiry To th- second ques-
tion we prepared the following description:
Answer—"Probably the most popular of all the annual festivals in Japan
is Urabon-e (or Obon), the celebration in memory of the departed, from
the thirteenth to the sixteenth of July. This is often termed by foreigners
the Feast of Lanterns. but might better be rendered as All Souls' Day.
At the entrance of the house is hung a white lantern. of blue one as is the
custom of more recent years. The bon lantern is a marked contrast with
the cheerful-looking Natsu-Matsuri (Summer Festival) lantern. Inside
the house, a household shrine is erected to entertain all the departed souls
of the family with such delicacies as they are remembered to have en-
joyed in life—incense, flowers. rakes. and fruits. Incessantly scriptures
are chanted by a parish priest. The whole conception is an illustration
of the Japanese affection and respect for their ancestors.
During the Bon days, bon-odort or bon dance is held verywhere at
night. The grounds of temples and shrines or public -quares are chosen
for the nightly performance of the dance by a group of local young men
and women who, clad in a uniform vukata," or wearing a tenugui head-
band, dance away the whole night. singing local ditties and beating time
with their hands and feet. For the masses of people who toil away their
lives in hard labor, this is the only opportunity for merriment and com-
munity social life. No doubt the bon-odori has undergone some changes
during the long history of its development, but it is still being observed
more or less in the original fashion.
(August. 1939)
oSummer cotton kimono
× Japanese towel
:3]

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
in the wilderness. Such episodes were nevertheless of sinister and
menacing portent to the fortunes of the Bakufu (Shogunate)."
In his native place a Shinto shrine was erected in Takayama's honor,
and in 1878 a posthumous court rank was awarded him by the Emperor
Meiji who ten years before achieved the great task of restoring the
Imperial rule.
The photograph shows Takayama Hikokuro in the attitude of salute
facing the direction of the Imperial Palace. The inscription below reads
"Takayama Hikokuro Masayuki. Inscribed by Heihachiro Togo." The
latter is the late Admiral, Marquis Togo, who is known the world over as
the Nelson of Japan.
(April, 1940)
Inquiry—A member of the Department of Political Science at the Uni-
niversity of Washington sent in the following questionnaire:
"1. The text of the Russo-Japanese Fisheries Convention of 1907.
"2. The text of provisional Soviet-Japanese fisheries agreement of
1924.
"3. Possible Japanese equivalents of the press releases of the United
States Department of State which would give the official diplomatic posi-
tion of Japan on fishery relations with Russia and with the United States
since 1935.
"4. Information concerning the amalgamation of Japanese fishing
industries with Nichiro as the nucleus.
"5. Any other information, or sources from which it might be ob-
tained, relating to Japan's legal and diplomatic position on fishery activi-
ties in the North Pacific."
Answer—In answer to Number 1 we sent him a volume from a treaty
series published by the Foreign Office, indicating that on pages 706-742
the inquirer would find the official text, in French, of the Fishery Con-
vention of 1907 between Japan and Russia and of the Protocol and
Declarations supplementary thereto.
The other questions were answered as follows:
"2. The main provisions of the Provisional Soviet-Japanese Fisheries
Agreement are as follows:
'(a) The Soviet Union agreed to grant leases of fishing lots to
Japanese subjects for three years from 1924 to 1926.
'(b) The Soviet Union agreed to grant leases in accordance with
applications of the Japanese, regardless of whether a given fishing lot was
a new one or an old one previously established and subject to a long.
term lease.
'(c) The amount of payment for the leases was to be based on the
example of 1923.'
"3. There are various regular periodical reports published both by
the Foreign Office and the Information Bureau of the Prime Minister's
[6]

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Department which corresponds to the government releases in this country;
but these publications are printed in Japanese and are not available in
this country. However, there is one monthly in the English language
called the Tokyo Gazette published under the supervision of the Bureau
of Information, Prime Minister's Department. which gives reports of
various government departments. Under separate cover. we are sending
you Number 21. March 1930 issue of this publication in which appears a
report on the 'Fishery Disputes in the Northern Seas by the Department
of Agriculture and Forestry of Japan.
"4. Amalgamation of Japanese fishing industries with Nichiro Gyo-
gyo as the nucleus:
As the lease of fishing grounds from the Soviet Unon by Japanese
subjects has been based on au tion, difficulties have long existed between
large and small Japanese fishing interests. Since the latter half of 1931,
the question of amalgamation began to materialize: and. through the
efforts of Mr. S. Kabayama. President of Rorvo Suisankumiai, (Fishery
Guilds of Russian Waters! and other influential persons concerned, and
also through the active assistance of official circles. the Hokuyo Godo
Gyogyo Kaisha, ba ed on units uf 11 individual fishing interests, was
established in March of 1932. preliminary to a greater amalgamation.
On August 3lst of the same year. the giant organiaztion called the Nichiro
Gyogyo Kaisha was established. which completely amalgamated the
Japanese fishing interests in Russian waters.
To the last question we suggested Japan Times W eekly. February 23,
1939, and Japan Year Book, chapter on Foreign Relations
This correspondence took place more than a year ago, and naturally
since then our reference material has increased a great deal.
(September, 1939)
Inquiry—Mr. J. F. B. of Dundas. Ontario, Canada, who is something of
an amateur horticulturist. is interested in the dwarf pine and maple trees
as grown in Japan. He wrote. "Through the United States Department of
Agriculture I have been unable to secure any information as to how these
trees are dwarfed, and apparentl, they could give me no printed reference
on the subject. . . . If you have no information on the subject, if you
would give me a reference where I might secure the information, it would
be greatly appreciated."
Answer—"Dwarf trees are known as bonsu: in Japanese. They are
trained in this way so as to show the beauty of large normal trees or of
ancient trees. The favorite trees for bonsai are pines, especially of the
needle-leaf family, and a specie f broad-leaved Mongolian oak.
"Some of the potted bonsai are a hundred years, or more, old and are
worth several thousand dollars, and some rare bonsai are actually over
five hundred years old. yet they are no bigger than what an ordinary
pot could hold.
"Another extraordinary feature is that sometimes a different specie is
[7]

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
grafted on to the main tree, with the result that in so small a pot grows a
tree with the features of two—blossoms, fruit, and leaves, all different
from each other.
"As to the exact manner of dwarfing, we fear that you cannot learn
much through correspondence. The cultivation and care will vary accord-
ing to the particular locality, but some of the universal rules are that
the potted plant be properly watered at all times of the year, and that all
pots for this purpose should have an outlet for surplus water. Once a
year or once every two years the plant should be transplanted into another
pot at the vernal equinox or autumnal equinox. Special care should also
be taken for proper exposure to the sun and for airing."
The foregoing is the main part of our reply to him, and then we ex.
plained that on account of the United States law prohibiting the im-
portation of plants from Japan, most Japanese gardeners residing in the
United States have given up dwarfing trees because of the lack of proper
material. We gave him a reference, an experienced Japanese gardener in
Long Island, to whom he might write for specific information.
We followed this correspondence later by sending him photographs
and later still, that is, about three months after we received his first
letter, we received a book on the subject from Japan and lent it to the
writer for a period of time.
(July, 1940)
Inquiry—Miss H. M. T. of Vernon, Connecticut lectures and writes for
magazines on the subject of gourds. We have had some interesting cor-
respondence with her, and here we are taking as an example one letter
from her and our answer to that particular letter.
"I am completing the larger book on gourds with a chapter on the
foreign uses. If you can assist me with suggestions as to how the gourd
is used in Japan in every-day life, in art, in food, varieties grown, etc.,
etc. I should greatly appreciate it. . . ."
We quote below part of our reply:
Answer—"It is true that it has been as a dipper or sake container and
also it is still a collector's item. They collect gourds in much the same
way as some people collect stamps.
"Its prevalence in Japan is not due so much to its practical aspects as
it is to its religious and spiritual associations. In the teachings of Taoism
there are three principles in attaining complete happiness. These are, to
use unsatisfactory English equivalents, mysteriousness, nothingness, and
equalness. In Japan the gourd came to be regarded as a perfect symbol
of nothingness, the second principle, and has been prized for this asso-
ciation.
"In a more popular interpretation of Taoism spiritual happiness was
more or less equivalent to physical welfare and consequently the gourd
came to symbolize long life or serve as a charm to protect one's health.
Also, in the teachings of Buddhism there is a principle of nothingness,
[8]

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
and again the gourd suggested a perfect symbolism and came to be used
widely among Buddhist believers as much as among followers of the
Confucian teaching—as mentioned above.
"There is another aspect which is literary and artistic. A kind of
gourd known as the yugao (bottle gourd) has. for many centuries, had
definite literary associations in much the same way as the nightingale had
in English poetry. One of the instances was found in the celebrated Tale
of Genji, written in the eleventh century. The following is a quotation
from Arthur Waley's translation: "There was a wattled fence over which
some ivy-like creeper spread its cool green leaves. and among the leaves
were white flowers with petals half-unfolded like the lips of people smiling
at their own thoughts. They are called Yugao. "Fvening Faces,"' one of
his servants told him; 'how strange to find so lovely a crowd clustering on
this deserted wall!' And indeed it was a most strange and delightful
thing to see how on the narrow tenement in a poor quarter of the town
they had clambered over rickety eaves and gables and spread wherever
there was room for them to grow." (Part One. Chapter IV. Yugao.)
(July, 1940)
Inquiry—The editor-in-chief of a publishing house in Philadelphia sent
an inquiry as follows:
"... Can you supply me with description and pictures of the most
famous and best-known forest of Japan: its location. size. kinds of tree
species: forest products and industries: inhabitants. legends, folk-lore,
romances, and local history?
"I am preparing a book on the forests .. and wish Japan attractively
represented, as I am sure your country has as famous a forest or forests
as Germany's 'Black Forest.' for example, and 1 should like to be able to
describe it well. ..."
Answer—We prepared our description as given here in it- entirety and
sent him some photographs showing scenes of the forest We also sug-
gested that some of the wood-block prints in color by Hiroshige, who
depicted the sixty-nine stages of the Nakasendo, might le of interest to his
readers. We offered to obtain them for him from art dealer- in New York.
We have chosen the Kiso Forest. one of the "Three Magrificent
Forests." as the representative forest of Japan. It is srlected here for its
wealth of folk-lore and historical interest.
In the days of the Tokugawa regime (1603-1868) there were five
highways starting from Yedo (present Tokyo). three of which connected
the Shogunate capital with Kyoto where the Emperor resided. One was
the Tokaidô, celebrated by the wood-block prints of Hiroshigé, which was
a shore route along the Pacific coast. The midland highway was the
Nakasendô (or Middle Mountainous Road). It was known as Kiso-Ji or
the Kiso Way because it cut through the Kiso Mountains. celebrated for
their magnificent forest.
MOUNTAINS: Between the Northern Alps and Southern Alps runs the
9

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
r c fo the igly performance of the dance by a group
yubets (summer undress) or wearing a tenugui (cotton head-band),
danee away the whole night, singing local bon-songs, beating time with
their hands and feet. For the masses of people who toil away their lives
in hard labour, this is the only opportunity for merriment and community
social life. The bon-odori of Kiso has been a very typical one, and its
melody has penetrated the rest of the country as a most representative
folk song. The following is a quotation from the Botford Collection of
FOLK SONGS (G. Schirmer, 1930):
High on the mountains of Kiso
It is cold in summertide
A warm coat I'd send my love;
A warm coat I'd send my love,
A pair of stockings, too.
Tokose keenasho abavo
Don don!
(Translation by Shigeyoshi Obata)
Literally, "the mountains of Kiso" should read "Ontake of Kiso".
Reference
Mountaineering and Exploration in The Japan Alps
by Walter Weston (London: John Murray, 1896)
pages 270-287 (especially page 275)
The Colour-Prints of Hiroshige
by Edward F. Strange (London: Cassell & Co., 1925)
pages 54-61
(May, 1940)
Inguiry—Miss E. J. of Harlan, Iowa, who has been writing a book,
wanted "information concerning the provisions for war and military service
made in the Japanese Constitution, similar to the provisions made in the
American Constitution. . . . Information concerning the sending of
Japanese Cherry trees to Washington and the expressions of Japanese
good will involved."
The following is in part our reply to her:
Amswer—"The provisions of the Constitution (promulgated in 1889)
relative to War and Military Service are:
Article XI
The Emperor has the supreme com-
mand of the Army and Navy
Article XII
The Emperor determines the organi-
zation and peace standing of the
Army and Navy
[12]

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
Article XIII The Emperor declares war, makes
peace, and concludes treaties
Article XX
Japanese subjects are amenable to
service in the Army or Navy accord-
ing to the provisions of law
The Military Service or Conscription Law consists of seventy-eight
articles and supplementary rules, and has to do with service, drafting,
mobilization, and other relevant matters.
According to Article II, the service is divided as follows:
1. Standing service, which is further divided into "active service"
and "first reserve"
2. Second reserve service
3. Replenishment reserve service. which is further divided into
"first" and "second"
4. National service
According to Article V. the period of "active service" is two years in
the Army and three years in the Navy. All male citizens of Japan proper
are subject to medical examination for conscription at the age of twenty
(Article XXIII). According to the result of the examination, they are
classified into four groups: those fit for active service; those unfit for any
national service, but not for active service; those unfit for any service;
and those whose fitness is undecided (until future examination), Article
XXXII. Those who are unfit for national service only are not drafted
(Article XXXIV), and those who are unfit for any service are exempt
from the duty of military service, (Article XXXV). .. ."
The idea of bringing cherry trees from Japan to Washington was
first conceived by the late Miss Eliza R. Scidmore* in 1909. She wanted
to line the Potomac banks with Japanese cherry trees, and through her
efforts Mrs. Taft, the President's wife, and other influential persons came
to be actively interested in the idea of buying them from Japan. When,
however, the Japanese Foreign Office learned of this plan, it arranged for
the donation of the trees as a gift of the people. Consequently, the city of
Tokys sent two thousand trees. Unfortunately, these had to be destroyed
before landing in the United States, due to the discovery of some noxious
insects. Under the strict supervision of the Department of Agriculture and
Commerce, new seedlings were grown, and by December, 1911, the city of
Tokyo was able to count on three thousand young plants of eleven varieties.
These were sent to Washington in February, 1912, and have since proved
one of the seasonal attractions of the United States Capital.
Below is a quotation from from B. H. Chamberlain's Things Japanese,
page 89:
"The Japanese cherry-tree . .. is cultivated, not for its fruit, but for
its blossom, which has long been to Japan what the rose is to Western
nations. Poets have sung it for over a millennium past, and crowds still
*The writer of "Jinrikisha Days in Japan"
[13]

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
pour forth every year, as spring comes round, to the chief places where
avemmes of it seem to fill the air with clouds of the most delicate pink.
Even patriotism has adopted it, in contradistinction to the plum-blossom,
which is believed to be of Chinese origin—not, like the cherry-tree, a true
native of Japan. The poet Motoori exclaims:
Shikishima no
Yamato-gokoro wo
Hito towaba,
Asahi ni niou
Yama-zakura-bana!
which, being interpreted, signified 'If one should enquire of you concern-
ing the spirit of a true Japanese, point to the wild cherry-blossom shining
in the sun.'"
It is not so much the physical beauty of the cherry blossom as it is
its spiritual symbolism that the Japanese admire, specifically, the way it
falls in its mid-glory before it has withered. This is associated with the
way a true "samurai" held his life at nothing as compared with his cause.
It may be advisable to enlarge this point by quoting from Inazo Nitobe's
immortal Bushido, "The wild cherry is not a tame, tender plant, but a
wild growth; it is indigenous to the soil; its accidental qualities it may
share with the flowers of other lands, but in its essence it remains the
original, spontaneous outgrowth of our clime. But its nativity is not its
sole claim to our affection. The refinement and grace of its beauty appeal
to our aesthetic sense as no other flower can. We cannot share the ad-
miration of the Europeans for their roses, which lack the simplicity of
our flower. Then, too, the thorns that are hidden beneath the sweetness
of the rose, the tenacity with which she clings to life, as though loth or
afraid to die rather than drop untimely, preferring to rot on her stem;
her showy colours and heavy odours-all these are traits so unlike our
flower, which carries no dagger or poison under its beauty, which is ever
ready to depart life at the call of nature, whose colours are never gorgeous,
and whose light fragrance never palls."
You may be interested to note that the city of Tokyo received seed-
lings of dogwood and American laurel at three different times between
1915 and 1918. Most of the plants thus donated to the city stand now,
 witness to the good will of the American people, in Hibiya Park in
Tokyo.
(July, 1939)
Inquiry—One of the major phonograph manufacturers has been editing
am album of Japanese music and the Japan Institute has helped select
representative records of Japanese music, outlining the nature of each
particular type of musical instrument. We have also supplied all necessary
information on each composition: the form to which it belongs, story or
mood that it expresses, the date of composition, etc.
[14]

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
As an example we are quoting below the section on the Yokyoku
from the notes that we prepared for this phonograph company:
YOKYOKU
Answer—The simplest definition of "yokyoku", or more popularly "utai",
is "the vocal text of a Noh play." There are in existence today some six
or seven hundred such vocal pieces.
Hachi-no-Ki (The Potted Plant) is attributed to Seami (1363-1444),
whose texts, never surpassed for their dramatic excellence, have to this
day dominated the repertoire of the various schools of Noh. Indeed, he
and his father. Kannami (1333-1384), equally share the honor of founder
of the great tradition Noh. They both wrote and acted their plays in a
way possible only with men of genius.
STORY
Hojo Tokiyori (1227-1263). military regent for the Kamakura Sho-
gunate, retired from the highest executive position in the country and
became a Buddhist priest, shaving his head and donning a priestly robe.
He remained, however, a power behind the government which was under
the control of the new regent, his son.
In a desire to see the conditions of the country he himself had governed,
he left the capital and journeyed through the country as a mere Buddhist
pilgrim. As he reached Sano, a small village in the Province of Kozuke,
he was overtaken by a heavy snow storm and was obliged to seek refuge
wherever possible. He finally found a lonely house, and begged to be
permitted to spend the night. The master of the apparently poverty.
stricken household said he had no accommodations. No sooner had the
former regent started into the snowy night, than he was called back.
There really was no food to eat, no wood to burn, but there was shelter,
and if that was all he expected, he could stay.
The poor man and his wife prepared a plain millet-meal and shared
with the priest what was possibly their last food. Then they brought in
three potted plants—a pine, a plum, and a cherry—the last humble
treasures left in their poor household: Now they were cut and burned to
warm the stranger guest.
The former regent was deeply impressed and asked who his host
was. "I am ashamed to confess, but I am Sano Tsuneyo, formerly Lord
of Sano. My fief has been usurped and I have been living in this shame-
ful condition, but my faithfulness to the Kamakura Shogunate has not
changed. If there be a call to Kamakura to fight for the Shogunate, I
shall be found among the first to answer the call, and though my horse
is old and lean, and my spear rusted, they will serve me in my last act of
devotion to my Lord."
On returning to Kamakura, Tokiyori issued a sumnons to all feudal
rulers of the Eight Eastern Provinces, and lo and behold, there came Sano
Tsuneyo, among jeering lords, for he was mounted on a skeleton of a
[15]

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
horse and was carrying a rusted spear. He was called forth to face the
former regent.
"Do you remember the face of a poor priest you helped on a stormy
night? I am returning you my thanks. The fief of Sano is hereby yours,
and in addition you shall rule Umeda, Sakurai and Matsueda, after the
three plants, plum (ume), cherry (sakura) and pine (matsu) which you
sacrificed for my sake."
Thus, Sano withdrew from the audience. honored as none other was
honored.
(August, 1940)
Inquiry—We quote below two paragraphs from a letter by a county
superintendent of education in Mississippi:
"Does the public school system in Japan assume the responsibility of
giving trade training in the field of industrial education? If not, do the
industries use apprenticeship methods of training their employees?
"If the public school system assumes their responsibility for training
employees for industries, in what capacity does the industry cooperate in
putting on such training?"
Our reply was as follows:
Answer—The public school system in Japan does not assume responsi-
bility in trade training. The condition of vocational training, exclusive of
special schools such as commercial school, technical school, aviation-
training school, and so on, is somewhat as follows:
"In 1935 a Young Men's School Decree was issued. Previously.
there had been two separate institutions: technical continuation schools
and young men's training institutes. Under the new decree the two were
combined into a new institution known as the Young Men's School. The
purpose of this new institution is to provide mental training for the youth
of the nation, both male and female, and, at the same time, to enable them
to get vocational training in the knowledge and technique essential to
actual life. The new rule divides the young men's school into two
courses: the ordinary course of two years and the higher course of five
years (three for girls). The ordinary course is connected with the
ordinary elementary schools (six grades), and the higher course links
with the ordinary course and the higher elementary schools (eight grades).
The decree also provides that a continuation course of one year may be
established. In other words, one who has finished six grades in the
elementary school enters the ordinary (or preparatory) course, and after
two years advances to the higher; those who have finished this preparatory
course and those who have had eight grades in the elementary school
enter the higher course. And an additional year of graduate study is
provided.
"The subjects of study are morals and civics, general subjects (Japa-
nese language, Japanese history, mathematics, geography, science, music.
etc.), vocational training, gymnastics, and military training; and for
[16]

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
girls domestic science and sewing. In a short-period special course are
taught book-keeping, typewriting. stenography and Fnglish.
"A minimum of 210 hours a year is required in the regular subjects
of study; and most of these are offered at night schools. The number of
such schools in 1937 was 16.679, with a total enrollment of 2,040,339
pupils. Heretofore, most of these schools have been conducted in the
elementary school buildings. in the form of publi education provided
by the local government such as city, town. and village. or by city, town,
and village school corporations. They may also be maintained by corporal
bodies, such as chambers of commerce and agricultural associations, and
by privately-owned factories. mines, shops. ete.. which employ large
numbers of young people entitled to receive this training.
"The parents and guardians of young people of compulsory educa-
tion age are responsible for their enrollment at the Young Men's School,
and their employers may not interfere with their regular school attendance.
"A good example of indu-try's cooperation in vocation guidance is
the Yokusuka Naval Arsenal. which maintains a training school for young
people in cooperation with the Municipality. The pupil- are provided
with necessary tools and, upon completion of their course are employed
at the Arsenal on advantageou- terms.
(November. 1939)
Inquiry—A professor of Political Science at DePauw U niversity, who is
writing a college textbook on comparative government, wrote us asking
about the Planning Board. its organization, its responsibilities, its juris-
diction, its procedure, and its achievements. etc.
We answered him as follow
Answer—The Planning Board was set up in October. 1937. Prior to
that time, the function of planning state policy was in charge of the
Bureau of Investigation (Chosa Kyoku). When the Planning Board
(Kikakuin) was set up. the Bureau of Investigation was merged with it
—resulting in a Board of far greater competence.
The Planning Board is dire tly under the control of the Premier.
It must report all its findings to the Premier. It consists of a President
(nominated by the Emperor by his prescript, and. therefore, ranking the
same as such high dignitaries as the Privy Councilor or the Ambassador);
Vice-President; six directors: forty-four high-class civil servants; and
sixty-six clerks.
The duties of the Planning Board are:
1. To draft the plan of national policy regarding the strengthening
and full exercise of coordinated national strength during war or peace.
2. To examine and to comment on various drafts presented by the
Cabinet ministers, touching upon the above-mentioned problems.
3. To present an opinion on the control of the national budget re-
garding important matters related to the coordination of national strength.
[17]

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
4. To decide on the plan concerning "national mobilization," and
to coordinate the business of all the ministries regarding its execution.
The President of the Planning Board is not the Cabinet Minister, so
he canmot take part in the Cabinet Council. Consequently, it is always
through the premier or the Cabinet that he can exercise his power.
Apart from the regular staff, the Planning Board may have a number
of councilors nominated from among the government officials of various
ministries and boards. In addition, the Planning Board may be assisted
by the committees with the view of doing research on particular problems.
The Committee consists of members who are not nominated from among
experts, regardless of whether or not they are officials.
The Planning Board is authorized to request all the governmental
offices to present material to it and to explain their affairs.
Heretofore, the achievements of the Planning Board were mostly in
connection with the plan in regard to national mobilization. One of the
most remarkable results was the so-called "mobilization of material plan."
The former Cabinet atteapted to set up the Ministry of Trade upon recom-
mendation of the Planning Board; the new Cabinet, however, is reported
to have abandoned this plan.
(February, 1940)
Inguiry—Mr. M. O'C. desired information on the wartime activities of
Japanese women during the last three years.
Ansmer—We answered this inquiry in the form of an outline, given be-
low, and explained that we would be glad to supply further details on
any particular point.
JAPANESE WOMEN'S WARTIME ACTIVITIES
A
National Women's Organizations.
Two outstanding organizations, The Patriotic Women's Association
and The National Defense Women's Association, have been active since
the outbreak of hostilities in 1937 with China. Their main activities are:
1. Sending Off the Soldiers—When a man is called to arms, the
members of the local chapter of either association would organize a send-
off party, and similarly when army units leave for the front. When soldiers
return from the front, welcome parties are also organized by similar
groups.
2. They will organize parties to receive the ashes of war dead; for
instance, from the station to the regiment the street would be lined with
members of the local chapter of the women's association to pay tribute to
the whes brought back from the front. Wounded soldiers are given a
similar reception.
3. Care for the Soldier's Families—The Association extends every
poesible assistance to the families from which men have been called to the
front or families who have lost their men in the war.
[18]

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
4. They organize a visiting party to the army and navy hospitals
where wounded soldiers are being kept.
5. Collection of old clothes, etc.
6. Sending of comfort kits.
B.
Individual Housewives Activities.
1. A share in anti-air raid maneuvers.
2. A share in the "Neighborhood Group" (cooperative neighborhood
organizations for participation in nation defense).
3. Making bandages and "A Thousand Stitch Belt" (a soldier wear-
ing belt stitched by a thousand women is regarded as invulnerable. On
the street corner one sees women passersby stopping to take one stitch,
until a thousand of them have been completed).
C.
Women's Activities on the Front.
1. Volunteer nurses in hospitals in China.
2. Participation of women in Japanese pacification units in China.
3. Participation of women in the teaching staff in various educational
institutions in China.
4. Visiting of the front by women writers. such as Miss Fumiko
Hayashi.
D.
Neu Activities as a Result of the War.
1. Training of war widows as school teachers—As the first attempt
137 war widows were given teachers certificates in July, 1940. Special
training schools were established in the Tokyo and Nara Women's Higher
Normal School and in the Sendai. Hiroshima. Kumamoto, Kobe, Gifu.
Women's Normal Schools.
2. War literature by women—The Byoin-sen (Hospital Ship) by a
nurse, Miss Yasuko Otake, for example.
E. Participation in the National Spiritual Mobilization Movement.
1. Sponsoring of lecture meetings.
2. Encouragement of Savings.
3. Labor Service (Arbeit Dienst) especially by women students.
(November, 1940)
Inquiry—Mr. E. W. of Portland, Oregon, wrote us several times re-
questing information on the mail service in Japan, which was to be inserted
in a manuscript. His first inquiry was as follows:
"The information I would like to have concerns the classes of mail
matter in Japan and the postage rates both domestic . . . and the rates on
the different classes of mail which are sent from Japan to the United
States. . . . I would also appreciate information as to what articles are
prohibited from Japanese mails. I presume there are such prohibitions
similar to those covering the United States mails."
[19]

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
We answered him as follows:
Answer—"The classes of mail matter and their domestic and foreign
rates are as follows:
DOMESTIC
First Class (letters)
4 sen up to 20 grams;
4 sen for each additional fraction
thereof
Second Class
2 sen for postcards
4 sen for return postcards
4 sen for sealed letter cards
Third Class (Periodicals
1/2 sen up to 60 grams and same for
with frequency of once each additional fraction thereof
per month or more)
Fourth Class (Books, 3 sen up to 120 grams and same for
printed matter, photo-
each additional fraction thereof
graphs, brush-work. com-
mercial· samples)
FOREIGN (except Manchoukuo and China)
First Class (letters)
20 sen up to 20 grams, and 12 sen
for each additional fraction thereof
Second Class
10 sen for postcards
20 sen for return postcards
Third Class (printed
4 sen up to 50 grams; same for each
matter)
additional fraction thereof
(Braille Literature)
2 sen up to 1 kilogram; same for
each additional fraction thereof
AIR MAIL
34 sen for letters up to 20 grams, or for each additional fraction
between Japan proper and Chosen, Taiwan or Dairen; 12 sen between
Japan proper and Karafuto; rates for postcards are 17 sen and 10 sen
respectively.
SPECIAL DELIVERY
10 sen for postcards and 12 sen for letters
With regard to articles prohibited from the mail, the Departmental
Ordinance (No. 25, effective April 1, 1938) of the Ministry of Communica-
tions has the following provisions:
[20]

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
SECTION II
Article 15. The following articles are prohibited
1. Such literature, drawings, prints, and others as are deemed
to disturb public peace and order or to te injurious to
public morals.
2. Explosive, ignitable and other such dangerous matters.
3. Poisonous and drastic medicine: other ton and similar
substances.
1. Disease germs: all matters that may contain or may have
been touched by. such germs.
5. All articles that are held likely to mjur lamage postal
service men or other mail matters.
Article 18.
Currency must be mailed by "declared value post.
The Sixteenth and Seventeenth Articles deal. in the abstract, with
those articles prohibited by laws and regulations from import, export,
and transportation. The five clauses of the Fifteenth Article contain
"exception" references. For instance. poisonous or drast medicine can
be transmitted by mail from a pharmacist to a physician: and, as a
matter of fact, between many specified parties. There is. of course, a
certain regulation as to the manner of packing. prov ided el-ewhere in the
same ordinance. Thus, all clauses have exceptions.
In simple terms, one may say that in the Japanese po-tal system the
following articles are prohibited from ordinary mail: All literature deemed
to disturb public peace and order. or to be destructive to public morals;
and poisons, currency, and injurious articles."
Mr. W.'s second inquiry concerned the parcel po-t -ervire in Japan.
Our answer to him was as follows:
"The parcel post rates between places in Japan proper sre 10 sen up
to 500 gr., 14 sen up to 1 kg., 8 sen for each additional 1 kg. or fraction
thereof; 6 sen within one and the same postal zone or district; between
Japan proper and Colonies, 27 sen up to 500 gr., 34 sen up to 1 kg., 47
sen up to 2 kg., 60 sen up to 3 kg.. 73 sen up to 4 kg., 79 sen up to 5 kg.,
85 sen up to 6 kg. The registration of parcels is accepted at varying
charges."
We also enclosed a table of these figures.
(December, 1939)
[21]

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
JAPAN INSTITUTE, Inc.
630 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK,N. Y.
Telephone: CIrcle 7-1465
BOCKEFELLER CENTER INTERNATIONAL BUILDING
22
ANSWERS INQUIRIES
To meet the growing demand for authentic information on
Japan, the Institute is in constant readiness to answer ques-
tions and furnish objective data in response to oral or written
inquiries from institutions and individuals.
MAINTAINS LIBRARY
With a reference library of several thousand books and a
large collection of other material both in Japanese and
English, the Institute is in a position to afford assistance and
facilities to research workers on Japanese studies.
LENDS MATERIALS
Motion picture films, lantern slides, maps, phonograph rec-
ords, and descriptive literature on cultural subjects with
pictorial illustrations for use by educational institutions are
available for loan free of charge.
PRINTEDIN U.S.A.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
Japan Institute, Inc.
CLEARING HOUSE
FOR
INFORMATION ON JAPAN
630 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK, N.Y.
Telephone: Ciscle 7.1465
Rockefeller Center
International Building

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
9
APAN INSTITUTE, Inc. was estab-
lished to make readily available to
educational institutions, organizations
and interested individuals information
they seek about Japan which they might
otherwise have difficulty in obtaining
Because of the barrier of language
which prevents all but a few from ob.
taining first-hand materials on Japan, it
was felt that such an institute would
be of particular benefit to American
interested in the Orient.
Purpose
The primary purpose of the Japan
Institute is to serve as a source of in-
formation and a medium through which
to obtain materials concerning Japan,
especially in reference to her cultural,
economic, social and civic life and
historical development.
Resources
In addition to several thousand books,
pamphlets and other reference materials
written in Japanese, the Institute is
equipped with a collection of books
written in English dealing with Japanese
affairs. The library contains also current

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
files of a large number of Japanese
periodicals and newspapers, as well as
those of the more important American
publications.
Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai
Being sponsored and financed by the
Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai (Society for
International Cultural Relations) of
Tokyo, the Institute functions as its
correspondent in the United States. It
has available sets of all the K.B.S. Pub-
lications, and films, lantern-slides and
photographs prepared by that society.
Services
The Institute welcomes inquiries on any
subject relative to Japan, and will
endeavor to provide the desired infor-
mation from reliable reference books
and periodicals, both Japanese and
foreign, in the Institute's library. It is in
touch with research institutes, libraries
and scholars in Japan, to which sources
inquiries may be referred when complete
information is not available in the In-
stitute. All services are rendered free of
charge except when unusually heavy
expenses are involved.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.94)
May
dear s.inchh!
894.917/8A
The reooipt is acknowledged of your letter of may 21
1942 enclouint a copy of translatlons of extracts from
Dr. ageo Ariga s "Le Gyerre nusso-Japonaise".
I am very glad to have this volume and appreciate your
thoughtfulness in making it avelleblo to me.
In responee to your kind offer to supply me with addi-
tionel copies, I should appreciate it if you could letme
PS/SGB
have two copies for the uso of intorested officere of the
Division.
Sinceroly yours,
7.7/1
Marwell N. Hamilton
Chies
Division of Far Bestern Affairs
MAY 26 1048

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DVI - 912
MosCow
This telogran rust bo
parephrased boforo boing
FROMtcd Fobruary 2, 1944
conmnunicctcd to anyono
other than  Government
Rcc'd 11:30 p.n.
sion
agcncy. (FR)
71 40
AFASTERN FFAIRS
1444
Socrotary of Stato Cogieto swl
DS
Depa. tment of State
shington.
7
a
340, cbruary 2, 10 a.m.
894
RED ST/R for January 29 published a brief dospatch
datcd Tokyo January 28 roporting tho curtcilmont of the
894.917/
number of lcading magazincs in Japan from 6 to 3 by
decision of the Japanese publishors association. Tho
publications discontinucd wore the KEIJO tho BUNGΛE
SINJIO and thc NIPPON HIORON. This itom did not appoar
0
in othor papors.
HARRIMAN
EH
FEB 14 1944
FILED
PS/MO

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
fily
FORTUNE
815-15TH STREET
WASHINGTON 5 D C
WASHINGTON OFFICE
December 3, 1943
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
When the war in the West is victoriously ended,
we will be able to concentrate solely on an enemy whose
actions and motivations are essentially incomprehensible
to most of us.
Because of your particular concern with the pro-
894.917/12-343
gress -- and possible outcomes -- of the war against this
enemy, I thought you would like to see the attached arti-
cles on Japan, from FORTUNE's December issue.
This report on Approaches to Tokyo studies the
tactical and psychological problems with which we will
have to deal -- and which we must thoroughly understand in
order to conquer. It describes the way in which Japan's
economic problems are likely to be translated into war
strategy. And it indicates how Japan hopes to win the
sphere of influence she wants even if she "loses" the war.
m
If any of your associates would find thee ti-
cles interesting or valuable, I shall be glad to send them
copies. You can just let me have their names and addreses.
565
Cordially,
894.917
Albert T. Fisher II
ATP:a1
DEIR
CS/H

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
FORTUNE
1943
DECEMBER
THE JAPANESE PREDICAMENT
Economic problems dictate Japan's war strategy.
THEJAPANESEMIND
A picture of the mentality that we must under-
stand if we are to conquer. by Karl Löwith
For extra copies of this reprint (no charge) write the Publisher, FORTUNE Magazine, TIME & LIFE Building, Rockefeller Center, New York 20, N. Y.
COPYRIGHT, 1943, 11ME 1NC.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
THE JAPANESE PREDICAMENT
TOO FEW SHIPS, MEN, MACHINES; TOO MUCH EMPIRE. BUT JAPAN STILL HOPES TO WIN
It -he gather- the tull wealth ot her cmpote. -he cannot supply
hei troops: then she loses the cmpite. It she supplhes her troops,
empire and her army: today the army is active and the capite
she cannot explont the empte. then she ha- not enough to
is large, so large that materad-, manponet, und tood are
supply her thoops and to teed her people and her machines.
abundant. Many Japanese are ready to dhe for then Emperor.
The Japanese survive under the threat of such alternatives
today they have merea-ing opportunities to display then de
largely because they are in a position to make good use of a
votion. Many Japanese are uncntically willhing to follow then
shuttle system whereby cargo ships carrying troops to advance
government: today they have plenty of rules to obey. Abun-
bases pick up raw material on the way home. They have also
dance is Japan's problem.
relied heavily on tiny coast-creeping vessels for work near the
For it is very possible to get sick from having to eat too much
front. They are using Chinese junks; they are building 150- to
in too short a time, and Japan's problems are in part the con-
500-ton ships wherever they can find shipvards and skills.
sequence of being forced to bolt her empire too quickly. Had
Radio Tokvo oreastona!ly boasts of floating great lumber rafts
the war proceeded at the pace Japan wi-hed. there would be
to save ship -pace and even insists, self-confidently, that the
no problem. Japan won her empire promptly: she wanted only
oil of the Indies has only to be put in teak casks and floated
the leisure to consume it. But the pace of war has accelerated.
via the Japan Current to the coasts of Japan itself. But there is
Allied action has become so frequent and so intense that, un-
no evidence that they have developed effective weapons against
like last year when battles in the Coral Sea and at Midway
submarines or effective defense against skip bombers.
stood out against a pattern of comparative inaction, there is
now unspectacular but almost continuous action. There is a
SOLDIERS OR MACHINES
front. Furthermore, there is every indication that the skir-
mishes of today will grow into the major battles of tomorrow.
Not only is Japan in trouble on the seas, she is also in trouble
Japan must build up stockpiles of materials against the day
in her factories. Here Japan suffers from having her fac-
when the resources of her new empire are no longer firmly
tories concentrated in a relatively small area; here too Japan
in her hands; at the same time she must increase her fighting
is confronted by the lack of an extensive industrial plant.
effort. But it is impossible to have a war and enjoy it too.
The concentration of industry makes comparatively few of
Japan finds herself confronted by a series of dilemmas, each
the 300 million people in the seized territories available as
of which helps make the others worse.
labor, while the undeveloped industrial structure puts a premi-
Any discussion of these dilemmas must, of course, be based
um on manpower. It is significant that Japan, with a population
on inference. Even before the beginning of the war with China.
greater than Germany's, has been able to create an army not
Japan resorted to systematic mass falsification of data. During
one-half so large. Japan is far less mechanized than Germany,
the war, information comes only from free areas in the Orient
and what she lacks in machinery she must make up in men.
and from the Japanese radio. The domestic broadcasts, how.
Of course, Japan might try to increase her industrial plant.
ever, when suitably discounted, indicate the shape of Japan's
I But she would need materials and men. The only way she can
recurring problems. It is impossible to study these problems
get the machines that will free men for the army is to send
in detail, but it is possible to see in broad outline the alter-
more men into industry and fewer into the army.
natives Japan confronts.
The Japanese, to be sure, have made strenuous efforts to get
more men. In the spring they let it be known that 11,464 shops
There is no question, of course, that Japan has plenty of raw
had been closed in Tokyo, thereby freeing 15,000 workers. In
materials, for she has exclusive access to areas that once sup-
the late summer it appeared that they were using 45,000
plied the world. The conquered areas are as rich in oil and
convicts in ship and munition production. Toward the end of
metals as Japan proper is impoverished. But raw materials
September they clamped on a rigorous set of new rules: Men
mean nothing without ships. A conservative guess places the
from fourteen to forty go to the army or to heavy industry;
prewar strength of Japanese shipping at 6,300,000 tons. Esti-
women and girls take their places in light war industry. Holi-
mate prewar building capacity at 400,000 or 500,000 tons;
days and half holidays are abolished. Government offices are
increase this estimate for wartime building; throw in the ton.
to work the clock around and personnel is to be cut some 25
nage captured at the beginning of the war. This gives Japan an
per cent. Retirement systems are abolished, and those who
extra 1,200,000 tons and a total fleet of 7,500,000. But Japan,
have already retired are to go back to work.
to the best knowledge of the U.S. Navy, has lost 2,500,000
Quality of manpower is presumably more of a problem to
tons. She is now over a million in the hole. She has to spread
Japan than quantity. In large part Japanese industry was im-
what is left—and probably a million of that represents small
ported; it was the product of foreign brains. "In the past,"
ships engaged in inter-island work—over war areas that stretch
Koshiro Chiba, a shipbuilding official, frankly admitted, "our
from Singapore to Siberia, and from India to the middle of
skills were mainly improved by study of equipment of ad.
the Pacific. Moreover Japan can look forward to a yearly loss of
vanced nations or study of models of foreign nations. But in
1,560,000 tons on the basis of the sinking rates for the last half
wartime such studies are absolutely impossible." The do.
year. That is Japan's chief dilemma and the key to her worries.
mestic radio frequently broadcasts appeals for "more inven-

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
to consolidate the strength of the people is not in confermity
tivenees," under the misapprehension, perhaps, that it can be
procured in the same way as war savings.
with the national structure of our country."
There is evidence that rationing has by no means enjoyed
It is hasardous, therefore, for the Japanese to attempt greatly
to expand the industrial plant. To do so would mean using men
even passive cooperation. Truck farmers outside the cities,
who are not soldiers to use up raw materials to make plants to
complaining that price ceilings are too low, refuse to bring
turn what raw materials are left into finished equipment. Fail.
goods to legal markets; instead they sell their products in sub-
ure to expand widely does not mean that the Japanese economy
urban black markets, and housewives in the city not only violate
is going to explode; it does mean that Japan cannot keep up
the law but waste hours trudging to the outakirts of town to
with the mounting need for labor, soldiers, and equipment.
buy vegetables at illegal prices. All basic things except salt
It means also that the Japanese Government must hold the
and sweet potatoes are rationed; almost all of them are also
balances deftly between various ways of expending their war
black-marketed, despite the fact—perhaps because of it—that
effort—raw materials or rifles, workers or soldiers, new plants
the entire system is administered by the police. Cooperation is
or more planes. The success of the government's war organi.
forced. It is to be remembered that, despite the scarcity of man-
zation is vital to the country. Japan can't muddle through.
power, there are in Tokyo alone no fewer than eighty separate
Already Japan has practically annihilated her civilian in-
police organizations that keep check on "dangerous thinkers"
dustry, but that has evidently not been enough. Japanese indus-
and signs of shirking and lack of patriotism.
The fact is of course, that the Lapanese, unaccustomed so
try, at least up until the present, has been geared neither to
maximum war effort nor to maximum war control. There are
the Western methods they are using, are inept in organization.
indications that business finds government regulations dis-
The domestic radio tries to assuage discontent by emphasizing
tasteful. Big money houses like Mitsui, Mitsubishi, and Sumi-
that wartime organization is purely temporary. But it is forced
tomo have been accustomed to take 30 to 40 per cent in hidden
to take cognizance of the confusion of mind that the war
profits; top salaries have been high; office personnel numerous.
measures have spread. The Tojo spokesman Hiroshi Shimo-
The answer to such failures of organization has naturally been
mura, for instance, said as early as last June, "Not only in our
tighter organization. During the course of the last year, the
nation, but throughout the world, I think many are complaining
government itself has been completely done over, from local
now that the war is too long prolonged and our living conditions
are exposed to menace, inconvenience, difficulties, and saying
organs to the Cabinet itself, from which four entire departments
were dropped. The central government has transferred cer-
that we have enough of war and that the war should be stopped
by this time." In October a broadcast said,"It is ardently hoped
tain functions to local government; at the same time it has
taken over more control of the country's life. Shortly after the
that the people will fully cooperate with government control
sweeping reorganization in October, the government acquired
measures in spite of the heretofore blank wall met and the
a half interest in some of the key Mitsubishi and Sumitomo
business casualties."
In this situation it is possible to make an appeal specifically
industries. Tojo himself is not only the Prime Minister and
the War Minister; he is now the production boss as head of
in the name of the Emperor, but such appeals have been very
the new Ministry of Munitions. Out of these changes there re-
few. Statements urging that various steps be taken so as to
cently emerged the almost pathetic announcement that measures
"put his Imperial Majesty at ease" are reserved for urgent
will be taken "with the view of establishing a system of respon-
and high matters--the recent drive for fuller mobilisation,
sibility for production."
for instance. To make political specie of the Emperor is es-
In addition to the government organization there is what
sentially to devaluate him. Use him, and you use him up.
corresponds to a party organization—the Imperial Rule As-
sistance Association, since 1940 the only legal political group.
THE OUTER EMPIRE
This association, also headed by Tojo, appears to be active in
Shall the empire make up for what the nation lacks? The
everything from morale and war-savings drives to war produc-
tion and the procedures of the Diet. What the government does
empire has men, it has materials; but it is in large part an
not control, the I.R.A.A. does. It is the link between government
underdeveloped empire that depends on foreign supervision,
and as such makes a further drain on Japanese technical and
orders and civilian obedience. It is constantly being strength-
political talent. Furthermore, if it is to lay golden eggs it
ened in order to tighten its relationship to the people.
must be fed and supplied. The very fact that the seised ter-
Here emerges another dilemma. The strength of the Japanese
ritories are export countries is a problem, for export countries
in war has been the submissive obedience that the government
must also import. Japan, therefore has foroed them to trade
has so carefully encouraged. This obedience is, of course, tradi-
goods and services for politics. The international balance sheet
tional; today it is part of a conscious turning away from things
is based on the principle: you give us what we want: we give
Western and an equally conscious return to things native. But
you political Imdepandehoe"; but you must fond for yourself
the pinch of war places upon the Japanese a species of govern-
in Toodant'drothing
Burma and the Philippines have already become "self.
ment organization that is basically foreign, and a series of laws
that are entirely nontraditional. Traditional obedience is es-
governing"—within, as the Japanese have put it, the "iron
framework" of independence, namely, Japanese control. Somej
sentially voluntary; besides it centers around the person of the
beginnings of self-government have been indicated for Java,
overlords and rulers. But it is one thing to die for the Emperor;
North Borneo, and British Malaya. Japanese propaganda skill.
it is quite another to accept rationing, to maintain price levels,
fully emphasises the common racial bond of the Eastern
and to accept harsh criminal laws aimed at foroefully sup-
peoples and foments against white rule. Broadoasts to China,
pressing all criticism of the non-divine government. Takeo
for instance, no longer have the arrogance they had in 1942
Mitamura, a member of the Lower House, complained last
and before; now they stress, almost hysterically, the meed for
spring: "To impose strict laws and special penal regulations

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
support for an offersive in Burma appears to be indicated
Asiatics to combine against Occidentals and the consequent
by the appointment of Lord Mountbatten to the South Asia
necessity for Sino-Japanese friendship.
command, and by the complaint of General MacArthur, who
But friendship for raw materials is no trade. What was
wants first of all to recapture the Philippines, that his strategy
promised was a co-prosperity sphere; what East Asia has got
is being overlooked.*
is a demand for a series of self-sufficient units, and while
China h&s not only the geographic advantage of being ad-
Japan's conquests might in peacetime become self-sufficient as
jacent to the inner fortress and close by air to Japan, but also
a bloc held together by inter-island shipping, they cannot be-
the military advantage of a large experienced army. Victory
come so as separate islands robbed of ships. Japan's attemp!
in the Furopean war will free the ships to carry supplies to
to re-do the entire economic structure of the islands is impos
Burma (perhaps in a later phase of the war to ports on the
sible during the war. Supplies of food dwindle; cotton dis
China coast), it will also free the warships to escort them.
appears; the population shifts to the cities; disease begins to
But the rate of our shipment of men to Europe three thousand
spread. Under these circumstances politicians alone have any.
miles distant suggests that it will be difficult to move substantial
thing to gain from cooperation with the Japanese and many of
numbers of men halfway around the world. We shall probably
them do cooperate, including two members of Quezon's prewar
have to count heavily on the Chinese Army.
Philippine Cabinet and many of Burma's prewar nationalist
For substantial numbers of men will be needed. It is easy
leaders. But a people who connect Japanese propaganda with
to look at the map and imagine American men moving in a
disease and a sharp decrease of food and clothing is hardly
steady stream down the Aleutians, hopping along the Kuriles,
a willing population. They don't produce much.
and soon finding themselves in Hokkaido, northernmost island
Japan has undoubtedly been able to take large quantities
of Japan proper. It is easy to picture great deets of ships from
of materials out of the conquered territories; but as time
Pearl Harbor debouching wave after wave of American
passes it becomes more and more impossible to carry off the
international bargain she has tried to drive. The economy of
soldiers on the coast of Honshu, the main Japanese island.
But war in the Pacific cannot be won by ships alone. Victory
the territoriés becomes more confused, and native soldiery
becomes less trustworthy. Japan is more and more left to
requires a massive expeditionary force. Besides, it requires
exploit her empire by herself. But there are not enough Japa-
the use of land-based aircraft, and in both land-based aircraft
nese men and not enough Japanese ships to do it thoroughly.
and land-based heavy artillery the islands of Japan enjoy an
obvious advantage. Besides, Japan will become stronger in men,
ships, and planes the closer her armies approach the homeland.
THE INNER EMPIRE
It will be practically impossible, for instance, to cut Japan off
Japan's inadequacies do not mean that victory will be a simple
from the continent if the continent has not already been won,
Allied pushover. Japan herself remains sanguine. She can un-
for that step would involve the seizure of the narrow protected
questionably rely on the general support of her people. And
straits between Korea and Japan.
she undoubtedly has created a grand strategy in the full knowl-
It would be unwise therefore to believe that all we have to
edge that she cannot meet the Allies at every point where they
do is to husband our strength and throw it at Japan all at once,
may concentrate strength.
even though with the increase in the U.S. Navy there are signs
So far as this strategy is clear, it seems to involve the
of a revival of the classic concept of a great armada plowing
plan of falling back on an inner fortress. This fortress, besides
directly toward Tokyo. We must get at the inner fortress. It is
Japan, includes Formosa, Korea, Manchuria, and North China
the key to the war in the Pacific.
—an area that Japan is trying desperately to make into one
self-sufficient unit. All of it except Formosa is part of the
Before attacking the inner fortress, we must obviously get rid
mainland of Asia, linked to Japan by rail connections and by
of the outer one—by an offensive in Burma, continued action
a hundred-mile sea trip across the narrow straits that separate
in the Solomons, and naval action in the North and Central
Japan fron Korea. This area produces both raw materials and
Pacific, for we are in a position to employ large surface fleets
finished goods, enough of them, added to whatever stockpiles
even before the end of the European war. After attacking the
are built up from the new conquests, to give Japan backlogs of
inner fortress, the final blow can be struck. This blow will al-
war material. Falling back to this inner empire will not only be
most certainly have to be multiple; it will have to take off from
a necessity; it will be an advantage, for it will greatly lessen
various ports on the Asiatic coast and from various of the
the pressure of the various problems now confronting Japan.
Pacific islands; it will have to land on various parts of Japan.
There will be less territory to occupy, less distance to ship, less
Even then it is unlikely that resistance will collapese quickly.
of a front to soldier and supply.
The Japanese may grumble over new-style rationing boards and
new-style government organization. They will not grumble when
Confronted by the fact of the inner empire, the Allies have
ordered to die for the Emperor.
the task of destroying it. There will unquestionably be a
But the Japanese are still confident. There are no signs that
number of offensive moves in the Pacific; each of these moves,
they are going to desert permanently even the periphery of
whether from the Aleutians, Hawaii, the Solomons, or from
their conquests. Like the Germans in Europe, the Japanese have
China, has many advantages, as the maps on these pages
been building up a maze of legal claims to properties and
indicate. What is important now, however, is which of the
"There is, of course, the hope thas the Soviet Union mey jein direcly in
various possible offensives will open up the best base for
the war against Japan. At present, however, Russia keeps more than 700,
attack on the inner fortress of North China, Manchuria, Korea,
000 Japanese soldiers tied down in Manchuria, and is is quise possible that
and Japan. It is clear that China is closest to this area. But
she will feel she has discharged her responsibilities by this methed of in
active participation. Any direct participation would be a tremendous plus
it is also clear that China needs supplies, and that to get them,
value; but is mighs lose Russia her meritime provinces, and Allied strasegy
Burma must be reopened. Already a certain degree of official
must not count on it.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
factories all over the-area. They may expect to retire tem:
Japan, without doubt, envisions a negotiated peace, one that
porarily. but they exnect lo come back. Japan has indeed
would be a Japanese victory. Japan and here is the ultimate
started falling back in the Aleutians and in the Solomons, but
Japanese paradox—does not have to save her own face; all she
it is very possible that she sees retreat as the way to victory.
has to save is the face of her enemies. She will probably ask for
Japan will try to make the Allied advance toward the inner
nothing so obvious as outright possession but nothing less solid
fortress as costly and time consuming as possible. She probably
than hidden control: "friendly" governments in China and the
counts on the belief that Americans will be fighting for freedom
Indies: continued control in Manchuria and Formosa; and
to buy beefsteaks and gasoline while the Japanese will be
rqual access to the world's raw materials. Japan could win the
fighting for existence. She undoubtedly know- tht the Alhe
wa hy making it appea that she had lost it and that may well
have only to fight her to beat her. But she hope- they will not
be the basis of her present grand strategy.
fight too long. It is a long way from the Solomons to Tokyu, it;
The road to Tok vo i- a wind tossed expanse of water in which
is a long way from Burma, and m the nm ddle ot the route there
the only landmarks are hostile It will be a long, grim battle, but
will be a Japanese peace offer.
the greatest peril may prove to be negotiation.
THE JAPANESE MIND
A PICTURE OF THE MENTALITY THAT WE MUST UNDERSTAND IF WE ARE TO CONQUER
by KARL LÖWITH
average Japanese is indeed much less materialistic than the
Westerner: he has been brought up in the spirit of frugality,
in two different ways, resembling certain amphibians that have
modesty, and simplicity.
both lungs and gills. Their whole life is on two levels, gov-
This problem of integrating a foreign civilization takes on
erned by the traditions of Oriental antiquity and by Occidental
quite a different character when we consider Japan's cultural
modernity. The problem, for us as well as for them, is how
dependence on China. Though the Japanese emphasize how the
these opposites are to be reconciled.
Chinese inheritance has been transformed by them into some-
The Japanese claim that they have an extraordinary capacity
thing properly their own, they have no feelirgs of cultural
for open-mindedness and synthesis. Most of them believe that
superiority in regard to the Chinese. They are merely sorry
they have integrated the old with the new. They wish to retain
that they could not persuade the Chinese people to cooperate
the best of their genuine Japanese culture while adding to it
with them in their "co-prosperity" plan for a greater Asia. One
the achievements of Western civilization, and thus to excel the
of the most bitter and frequent experiences of the Japanese in
peoples of the West. All the Japanese I knew believed that they
occupied China is to feel how much they are despised by the
had mastered everything that was to be learned from us and
Chinese. They would like to have the Chinese as friends in the
that they had even "improved" it; they believed that Japan
task of expelling Western exploitation and interference.
now stood above us.
The difference in the Japanese attitude toward the Western
The foreigner, bowever, feels that "modern Japan" is a con-
and toward the Chinese inheritances can easily be explained.
tradiction in terms, though it does exist. What is modern is
Assimilation of Chinese culture began as early as the sixth
Western, and what is Nippon seishin, that is, genuinely Japa-
century A.D., while the culture of the West reached them only
nese, is not modern but immemorially old. Hence the two ways
seventy years ago. From China, Japan appropriated Buddhism
of Japanese life have not the same power and range. Westerni-
and Confucianism, art, literature, erudition, and the written
zätion was a means to an end; Japan is an end in itself. Genuine
characters. From the West, however, she accepted primarily not
Japanese life, feeling, and thinking remained essentially un-
the religious, moral, and educational bases, but industry, capi-
changed, despite the "opening" of Japan in 1868. The Nippon-
talism, army organization, and the scientific methods that make
ese live on two different floors, downstairs quite Japanese and
these things possible. Part of the Chinese culture is indeed
integrated in Japan; the Western civilization is only adjusted
upstairs semi-Westernized. The result of this lack of integration
is an ambivalent attitude toward Western civilization. Unable
and adapted.
After having gone through an era of naive and hectic imita-
to digest it thoroughly, they Teel themselves dependent upon it
and at the same time superior to it. They admire and imitate
tion the Japanese reached a period of self-recollection. At first
the sudden transition from a feudal community to an indus-
but at the same time despise it, having feelings of both in-
trialized nation had been so bewildering that the Japanese
feriority and superiority. They admire the white man's rational
energy, his inventive faculty, and creative power; but they de-
themselves believed they were a modern nation. They thought
spise our civilization for its materialism, its care for life and
of themselves as living and thinking like us, as thoroughly
different from their forefathers. But this illusion disappeared.
comfort, for individual happiness, health, and wealth. The

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
Eyen the most Westernized intellectuals shared ultimately in
Except for the teaching of the German and English languages,
which was partly in the hands of highly paid foreigners, the
the general reaction against Western ideals. The study of the
old Chinese and Japanese classics remarkably increased. To
teaching of Western culture depended, with only a few excep-
be sure, there were still professors who repeated every second
tions, on Japanese professors who had spent several years in
Europe or America. Most of the Japanese teachers of philoso-
year an obsolete course on the German mythology in the operas
of Richard Wagner, or on Goethe's Italian Journey, or on the
phy had studied in Germany. During the inflation they had
purchased whole libraries for their Japanese universities, and
punctuation in the poems of William Blake. The real interest of
I wa- not a little surprised to find at Sendai three complete
those Japanese. howeser. was in quote diflerent things. -uch a-
the ancient Kagura dance, performed in masks at the vearly
libraries of late German philosophers. They not only purchased
festival of Shinto shrines: or the diary of the poet Basho. who
these books. but they studied them thoroughly, often with a
traveled in the seventeenth century through Japan: or the
painstaking pedantry, collecting every article on a given topic.
Manyöshu, the oldest anthology of Japanese poetiy.
There were Japanese "Hegelians," Japanese "Kantians," and
In their philosophical education the same contradictions ap-
Japanese "phenomenologists," and the tables of contents in
pear. The Japanese started with a rather naive respect for our
their journals of philosophy were almost exact mirrors of the
framework of ideas, working at it hard and patiently, without
discussions that were filling our own journals.
any material ambition, for many years; but this study did not
Only reluctantly and under the pressure of political events
did most of the Japanese students become aware of the necessity
influence their outlook. They read Hegel in German, Plato in
Greek, Hume in English; and at least one of them studied the
for a change. They became conscious of the sterility of their
Old Testament in Hebrew. At the I niversity of Sendai, where I
efforts to reproduce foreign phulosophues, and felt the necessity
of creating a Japanese pattern. They realized that they had
taught phulosophy, I had as at: asststant a Japanese who had
fallen between two stools, tailng to reproduce Western think-
studied the German literature of the Middle Ages in the original
texts, which I myself could not read. What did they get out of
ing and at the same time losing their contact with their own
all this Western wisdom? Perhaps they gained nothing more
national tradition. They began to reexamine and to reshape
than bad eyes; perhaps they gained more than many a Western
Western thought for their own purposes, using and also abusing
student who reads the Kojiki or Confucius in English transla-
our methods of thinking to interpret their tradition.
tions. I do not believe, however, that their basic feeling or
The outcome of this effort, a task for generations, cannot be
thinking was greatly influenced.
foretold. An extreme example of the unfortunate results of

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
rapid adaptation is provided by a Japanese Hegelian at the
Genuine Japanese "philosophy," or better, their genuine
Imperial University of Tokyo, who announced that Hegel's
way of thinking. has never been built up from logical concepts.
Rather it has been a direct, intuitive grasp, expressed in para-
logical principle is an appropriate scheme for an understand-
doxical images. The Japanese have today only one original
ing of Japanese mythology. For this man, Hegel's principle of
thesis, antithesis, and synthesis illuminates the three famous
thinker. Nishida, who is comparable to any of the living phi-
gifts of the Sun Goddess Amaterasu to the heavenly Japanese
losophers of the We-t in depth of thought and subtlety. Yet he
Emperor, gifts that are still preserved in the sacred Shinto
is by no mean- We-tern. There is not one Japanese student
shrine in Ise the sword, the murrot. and the ewel
phoiosophy w he not been deeply nfluenced by his per
A similar "interpretation" of then own tradition on the basis
sonalits and wotk. which in thirteen volumes embraces the
of Western thought was produced by another pholosopher after
whole hehd ur phulosophieal speculation.
his conversion to extreme pan-Japanese nationalism. Speaking
Zishnd:  a Buddhu-t. trauned in Zen. He reads German,
in 1940 to a group of Germans about the mi--son of Japan, he
French. and Fugli-h. though. unlike most of his colleagues,
referred to two book on his reading desk, The 4nalects of
he ha- never been in Furope. It may be that for this very reason
Confucius and Hitler's Mein Kampt. He nterpreted the former
he under-tand- We-tern philosophy better than those who
by the latter. Holding that the political wisdom of Confucius
studied it without an original point of view based on Oriental
had much in common with that of Hitler, he made them the
thinking. But even this man's work is no more than an adapta-
subjects of a comparative analysis with singular results. He
tion of Western methodology, the use of it for a logical clari-
sincerely believed that modern China had substituted "Marx-
fieation ot the tund amenta! Japanese ntuitions about the world.
ism" for its precious Confucian tradition, and that Japan must
He attempt- to under-tand in terms of Western philosophy
restore the Oriental tradition. One generation ago a professor
the Buddhist expeuence and notion of "nothingness."
of his type would not have studied Confucus at all.
Nishida criticizes the Western philosophy, from his own
To use Hegel's logic for a philosophical understanding of
standpoint, as a philosophy limited by the frame of "being"
Shinto, and Hitler for the interpretation of Confucius, is cer-
even in dealing with the notion of "nothingness," since it is
tainly amazing, if not ridiculous. But it indicates, on the one
unable to think of "nothing" without thinking of it as "some-
hand, a profound discontent with a simple reproduction of
thing." For Nishida, however, the supreme nothing, or empti-
Western philosophy, and on the other an effort to integrate the
ness, is at the same time the richest and most perfect stature
political self-consciousness of the Japanese with their intellec-
of being, the ground of every particular existence in nature
tual life. The question, of course, is whether the Japanese in-
telligence can in any way be reconciled with Western thought.
NOT SCIENCE BUT INTUITION
The fundamental conception of philosophy in the East dif-
fers essentially from that in the West. This is now recognized
by Japanese scholars. For example, J. Harada, a professor at
the Imperial Museum of Art, writes: "Our power of observa-
tion is intuitive, rather than scientific. The people understand
by intuition rather than by investigation and analysis. They are
not logically inclined." D. T. Suzuki, a leading exponent of
Japanese Buddhism, says the same: "Philosophy with us so
far has been an intuition and not the manipulation of concepts."
It is for good reason that the philosopher Kitaro Nishida states:
"In Japan the problem of the ultimate reality has never been
made the subject of a scientific analysis, though a peculiar way
of thinking and outlook must underlie our culture."
FOUR MEN,A SINGLE TRADITION
The pictures on these pages are not of individuals as the West thinks of
them, but of persons who became part of a way of thinking that empha-
sizes impersonality. Yet they are great men. Iyéyasu, the one squat'ing in
front of the tea stand, was the first Shogun of the long-reigned Tokugawa
family. The characters on the painting mean "Yin and Yang (the male and
female principle) are unfathomable. The work of nature is beyond limita-
tion." The gentleman with the beard is Yamaoka Tesshü, teacher of the
Emperor Meiji, who revived the power of the Imperial family. He wrote in
1886 the caption on the painting. "Head of ashes, and face of sand, fifty-one
years old. This body rather restless has many times risked dangers." The
military man is the general, Iwane Matsui, who commanded at the Battle of
Shanghai and at the Rape of Nanking; he saw nothing peculiar in retiring
to the temple of the Goddess of Mercy after returning home as a conqueror.
The lean-faced man in the kimono is Kitaro Nishida, leading philosopher
who uses the terms of the West but thinks in the ways of the East.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
Indeed, T. Tsudzumi, one of the leading expositors of Japanese
art, has based his interpretation of Japanese painting, poetry,
landscaping, and gardening on the principle of "framelessness."
The characteristic symbol of true enlightenment in Japanese
philosophy and poetry is not the blinding and burning light of
the sun but the calm and impersonal beam of the moon, which
shines without affecting us. When I left Japan, Kitaro Nishida
gave me a farewell present, a kakemono (the scroll painting
reprobreed on paee 12 beore  bteck rde and a few
chat t- wotten by him-clt. I terally tran-lated the charac
ter- mean: moon ot theprrt  heot: loneds cr le t perfecto:
heht. tem theoord me orowme. Thee word- suggest
that a mond that he- becone perfet ot enhghtened is hlike the
lonei hight ot a tull moon. it -w llow- erery phenomenon.
The cmpty crcle ndreate- the moon, that i, the spirit, and at
the same time, the Buddhi-t "nothing" or emptiness. In the
and history. It can be pointed out as the "background" of
light of the spiritual moon all thing- are simply what they are.
every phenomenon.
for they have neither a whence nor a whither. What really is is
The typical Oriental genius does not rely on forms at all.
eternally what it i. The whole movement of history is like
A Japanese scroll painting or poem has "shape without shape.
the motonle- mosement of a wates fall. which ha- the clear-cut
height without height, depth without depth, and width without
-hagpe ot  ubbon aoed vet  to dly bepele. chomg ng at every
spaciousness." because the all-embracing background is not
moment and vet alway- the saume.
to be defined as a supreme idea and "being" but as all-per.
Sumce Japanese culture i- in-pired neither by Plato's “eros,"
vading "nothingness." Herein lies the difference in the emo.
nor by the faith of the Jewi-h prophets, nor by the Chinese
tional appeal of Western and of Japanese art. The latter shows
teaching of manners and habits, one might ask whether it has a
"sorrow without the shadow of sadness, and joy without the
principle at alf. Nishida would answer that it is based on sensi-
color of rejoicing." It is a frameless art in black and white,
tiveness and feeling and is therefore indefinable and hardly
using all the shades of these colorless colors, but nothing else.
intelligible for Western intellects. "Even our supreme moral
principle, the loyalty to the Emperor." he points out, "has
simply developed on emotional grounds." The great mistake of
almost all foreigners is to think that the Japanese Emperor is
either Mr. Hirohito or a god residing in Tokyo. For the Japa-
nese he is neither the one nor the other. The concept, as Nishida
points out, is emotional, not precise.
A Japanese mind, says Nishida, "perceives form without
form and voice without voice" because it does not perceive
intellectually at all. This is another way of saying that the
metaphysical background is not far away from the objects
visible in the foreground. Even the smallest and meanest things
can give an impression of that background. When a Japanese
painting, poem, or philosophical saying evokes it, one has the
feeling of a reverberation of something highly indefinite.
Thus the peculiarity of Japanese culture lies in the effort
to evoke by a single paradoxical sentence, or by a seventeen-
syllable poem, or by a single brush stroke, the essence of the
universe. Momentariness is characteristic of their outlook on
life. Each moment and experience is absolutely alive and sig-
nificant. Hence the typical topies of their poetry: the frog leaps,
the cricket sings, the dewdrop glitters, a breeze passes. The
Japanese mind is trained in the imaginative elaboration of
these eternal instants; it is alert to catch each of the transitory
*Because of its Buddhist background of nothingness the Japanese culture
is, according to Nishida, a culture of "feeling and sensitiveness." This
elusiveness is the difficulty in distinguishing Japanese philosophy, re-
ligion, and aestheticism. Though every great art, philosophy, and religion
has a metaphysical background, each has a very different relation to the
reality that is in the foreground. In Greek culture the background was
apprehended like the starry heaven as an orderly world where things have
a definite shape. "Nothingness" was conccirrd by them only as the dark
borderline of "somethingness." It did not embrace the existing worid from
behind. Greek beauty is plastic, without the shapeless depth of a limitless
background. The works of early Christianity suggest an infinite horizon
of eternity; but their limitless quality points to the future of resurrection
and the last judgment, it is not present at every moment in everything.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
movements of nature as an experience of the absolute reality.
The Chinese space philosophy builds immense structures of
marble; the Japanese time philosophy is at home in a little
frame house or in a straw-thatched hut.
At the end of an interesting essay on the difference between
Occidental and Oriental cultural patterns, Nishida quotes a
famous Japanese poem: "The just order of the world is concen.
trated in Japan as the land of the god-. If tho- o der would take
the shape of a mount n. it would h   te
eternal Fujisan. It it would take the -hape ot waster. it would
be a measureless ocean -uroundhne the nd   1
would take the -hape ot  ttowe t would  wild her
blossom the beauty of which i- ineompat able. It t would tak.
the shape of a word. it would be a teed  hop and fume
to cut unrough the handest helmet.
THE MOON AND THE SUN; NATURE AND NOTHING
It may be astonishing that Japanese ae-theticism and sensi-
tiveness are compatible with such estreme nationali-m. "O
One of the plump monks on the fan is pointing at the moon in order to
task, Professor J. Harada say-. "i- for thing- graceful and
prove a typical proposition of Japanese logic the moon (truth), whose
beam- embraer the universe requires a pointer, but it is not to be confused
quiet on the one hand. and for valor and aetis ts on the other
with the tinger that points at it Thr bald-headed man sitting on his feet is
inconsistent a- they mas rem. Ae-theise rchoement and mmb
Basho. a /en poct who went on many pilgrimages in order to worship
tary prowess, fortitude and sentimentality. aoe thotoughly com-
naturr and to write condensed, evocative, seventeen-syllable poems. The
patible for us." There are innumerable -tories of Japanese
swarth:v individual, Dharuma, is an Indian Buddhist who brought Zen to
China. whence it proceeded to Japan. This worthy is said to have crouched
warriors who were also masters in the performance of the tea
speechless for nine years before a wall in order to arrive at the conclusion
cult and were experts in other Japanese arts. Toward the end
"Nothing has ever existed." The "heaven-illuminating deity"—the Goddess
of the sixteenth century there were many warriers who pre-
Amaterasu--is shown emerging from retirement after deserting the world
ferred a stoneware tea caddy, as used in the tea cult, to the
out of outrage at her brother, the Storm God, who destroyed the rice fields.
acquisition of territory, or who would exchange a castle for a
Other deities forced her to come out; whereupon light was restored
Amaterasu's grandson founded the Japanese Empire.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
pottery tea bowl. When a general decides to retire to a Buddhist
literature consists chiefly of puzzling anebdotes and collections
iemple or Shinto shrine to spend his life in prayer and medita-
of "test problems." Their p:rpose is not to suggest a definite
tion, a common phenomenon in Japan, he is, in the eyes of the
answer, but to provoke the effort of finding an answer. A famous
Japanese, a gentleman of good taste, if not of religious devo-
Zen priest used to challenge his pupils by asking them to bear
tion. After his triumphal return to Japan, General Matsui, who
the sound of one of his hands. He knew, of course, that only
led his forces in the capture of Shanghai and Nanking, retired
two hands can produce a sound but for this very reason he
to a small temple dedicated to the Goddess of Mercy. The atroci-
challenged the common sense. Another example of test prob-
ties committed under his command in the capture of Nanking
lems is the question of a monk: what is the purest form of
seem to be compatible with his retirement to the temple of
truth? His master answered: the hedge wall around the lava-
mercy, which was dedicated to the memory of the war dead.
tory. The meaning is that the purity of the whole truth includes
To compose a seventeen- or thirty-one-syllable poem on the
also the meanest and ugliest things.
spur of a dangerous moment, or immediately before death, was
The creative power of Zen can hardly be overestimated.
and still is a common custom. Hara-kiri combines supreme
There is no Japanese art that does not draw its strength from
heroism and aesthetic refinement. This respectable kind of
it. Japanese painting, poetry, landscape gardening and architec-
suicide is an elaborate ceremony, perfectly appropriate to the
ture, flower arrangement and the tea cult, as well as fencing,
stage, where the Japanese like to see it performed for its beauty
archery, and even the art of war, are inspired by it. Zen masters
and emotional appeal. The steel of a fine sword and the fta-
are also good students of the Confucian classics, and of the
grance of a delicate cherry blossom constitute the paradox of
Shinto literature.
the Yamato-damashii, the true spirit of Japan. The cherry blos.
The appropriate means of expression in Zen is no more or
less than an indication, without rational explanation. The result
som, in particular, is the symbol of the right way to live and
to die: to bloom a short moment in the beauty of exquisite
of this method is, of course, enigmatic to us. The traditional
freshness, and, when the time comes, to be scattered by wind
illustration of it is a Zen painting showing a humorous monk
and ratn with easy detachment and without a sign of distress.
who points with his finger to the moon. The explanation is that
Tó cing to tife, to exhibit showy colors and to radiate heavy
to point to the moon (truth) requires a pointer, but one should
odors, like our roses, is poor taste to the Japanese.
not be so foolish as to confuse the finger with the moon. Thus
Harada closes an article on "Some Characteristics of the
images, words, concepts, and doctrines are never more than
Japanese" with a comparison of Japanese bravery and artistic
pointers. Those who understand these pointers grasp the whole
taste, which is most illuminating: "No wonder that the cherry
truth by momentary intuition, in a sudden enlightenment,
blossom has for ages been the emblem of our character. Even
without reason or analysis.
This principle underlies also the most popular form of Japa.
as the scattering of cherry petals, so three brave Japanese sol-
diers ended their lives in the recent unfortunate incident in
nese national poem—the haikai, a seventeen-syllable epigram
China. They marched in the face of the enemy's machine guns,
—and its implied philosophy, admirably interpreted by Mr.
B. H. Chamberlain in an essay on "Bashō and the Japanese
carrying an enormous dynamite bomb, its fuse lighted, and so
lodged it with the sacrifice of their lives that it blasted the
Epigram." J. Bashō (1644-94), a pilgrim poet, gave it its
barbed-wire entanglement and themselves also, thus opening a
classic form as a subtle combination of trivial and sober obeer-
way for their comrades to march on. It was the Spirit of Japan
vation and sublime speculation. To foreigners the original
which drove these soldiers to the act, and we speak of the
sparkle and inner meaning of his epigrams are lost, and the
beauty of their end even as we do of the scattering of the petals
point blunted, by the laborious process of elucidation in a for-
of cherry blossoms. Crystallized, this spirit becomes the sharp-
eign language. What seems to be sheer nonsense in a literal
est steel; scattered, it falls like the petals of the cherry."
translation is, however, sense overcondensed. The educated
The same paradox is simply expressed in the well-known
Japanese reader recognizes the many associations and impli-
Japanese epigram, "Upon a temple bell a butterfly is sleeping
cations of each word, but the. foreigner needs explanations.
well." The poet had in mind one of those colossal bronze tem.
Yet sometimes the knack of hinting goes so far that even an
ple bells, some of which weigh over seventy tons. He points to
educated Japanese cannot guess the meaning. An epigram that
the contrast between the tiny butterfly and the huge bell, which
every Japanese knows by heart, literally translated, would read:
can be heard many miles away.
old pond; frog; leaping into water; noise. For us, frogs are
absurd creatures, scarcely to be named in poems. For the Japa-
nese the frog has a poetic name (kawazu) besides its ordinary
THE FLOWER OF ZEN
name (kairu), and its croak appeals to them as a sort of
The intellectual root of the Japanese way of thinking is to
song. Indeed, they have what they call "singing frogs." The
be found in Zen, a Buddhist sect without scriptures, doctrines,
little poem suggests a whole philosophy of life. It means ap.
ceremonies, or worship. It is the genuine source of their philoso-
proximately this: life is like the sound caused by the leap of a
phy without concepts. Coming originally from China it was
frog, foolish, pathetic, and transient; it causes a little noise that
founded on the so-called flower sermon of Buddha. After hav-
is soon over, and then perfect silence once again settles over
ing preached the truth for forty-five years, Buddha declared
the old pond. The entire poem is an intuition, grasping a whole
that he had not said one word about truth. The flower sermon
philosophy in a single moment and in a single happening.
consisted only of a gesture. He raised a flower silently. Only
Nevertheless, there is in Zen a certain intellectual process
one of his pupils understood that this silent gesture was the
and development. One of the Zen masters has said: "Before
source and goal of all his teaching.
practicing Zen, mountains are simply mountains and rivers
After the thirteenth century Zen was developed in Japan into
rivers, and nothing else. After having attained, however, a cer-
a specific Japanese form of spiritual training and self-mastery
tain insight, mountains cease to be 'nothing else' than mountains
by meditation. It prospered especially among the warrior class,
and rivers cease to be 'nothing else'than rivers. But finally, if
although it inffuenced also artists and men of letters. The Zen
one has entered completely into the truth and peace of mind, by

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
a supreme effort, the mountains become again mountains and
ent and death desirable. He who keeps in his heart the prin-
ciple of the vanity of life will stand victoriously the dangers to
rivers again rivers." It is this affirmation of the "thusness" or
"suchness" of things that is the ultimate outcome of Zen medi.
which others might succumb." He was convinced that he owed
tation. This unadulterated experience seems to be almost iden-
his military successes to the practice of meditation, by which
tical with sense experience, but its irreducible finality is quite
a man's soul and body become concentrated on one point, zero.
Rikyu, the founder of the tea cult, might be thought of as an
different. From this point of view the universe is no more
unmannerly aesthete, or even a snob. He had planted his whole
significant than the buzzing of a mosquito.
garden with morning-glories, which were rare in the sixteenth
A famous illustration of the intellectual process working in
century. Its fame had reached the ears of the great general,
Zen is the common story, often told, of the cowherd in scarch
Hideyoshi. who expressed the desire to see Rikyu's morning.
of his lost cow, which represent- hi- own soul. After having
glories. When he arrived on the appointed day, no morning-
overcome many obstacles he find- a trace of the cow. Then he
glory wa- to be -een anvwhere. The ground was leveled and
sees its tail: then its body and bead. He fight- hard to get hold
-trewn with pebble- and -and. The visitor was at a loss to
of the beast. Exhau-ted. but vess cheer ful. he ride- home on
under-tind thu- umpertinenee. At last he was conducted to
its back. He play- hi- flute, unmindful of him-elf as well as of
the teatom The  he w. in an old bronze vase, a vine of
the beast. The meadow is again green, the blossoms are again
morning-glony with a -ingle white blossom. From the thou-
red; things are restored to their "suchness." The moon illumi.
-and- of blossom- Rikyu had picked a single flower of supreme
nates the world and his mind with supreme emptiness. All
beauty. Hideyo-hi was highly satisfied. That refinement is what
earthly confusion, the sense of loss as well as of possession,
constitutes Japanese "simplicity."
have vanished. All things have changed and yet are the same.
After a long friendship between Rikyu and Hideyoshi, the
The ultimate simplicity attained by Zen is not that of a
tea master and the warrior, the enemies of the first accused
"nothing else," but the result of a negation of our first impres.
him of being implicated in a conspiracy against the despot.
sion that there is nothing else. The true character of things
Rikyu was condemned: but the privilege was granted him of
reveals itself only after a complete emptiness has been gone
dying by hara-kiri. Rikyu invited his friends to his famous
through. Then the pointing at a mere fact, like "the snow is
teahouse, where he had a precious scroll painting that sug.
white" or "the crow is black." reveals a pure experience beyond
gested the evanescence of life. Each of the guests was served
negation or affirmation. A noted Zen priest once pointed at the
with tea by the host. Then he gave to each of them, as a last
heron in its whiteness and the crow in its blackness, observing
present, one of the various articles used in the tea cult. After
that the heron is white though it bleaches not, and the crow black
the silent ceremony they left the room. Only one remained,
though it dyes not. They are just as they are. If one should
for he had been requested to witness the perfect performance
inquire, however, into their very beginning one might find
of Rikyu's self-immolation. Rikyu removed his tea gown, dis-
within its heart the ultimate cause of its being white or black.
losing the white death robe. Before thrusting the dagger into
The disposition of mind required for this kind of enlighten-
his abdomen in the prescribed way, he spoke a customary
ment is one that a Westerner hardly cultivates. Perfect com-
death song: "Welcome to thee, O sword of eternity. Through
posure and calmness of body and mind are foreign to the
Buddha, and through Dharma alike, thou hast cleft thy way."
Western practice of business in alternation with relaxation or
laziness. "Quiet your appetites and desires, so that moss may
WESTERNIZATION BYEDICT
grow on your mouth," is a Zen maxim. All Zen paradoxes
Though an occasional scorn of the past was for a short period
point to an "emptiness," which seems to us nothing other than
absence of content. For the Japanese it is the most positive
a fashion among the Japanese intellectuals, the habits of
frame of mind. Just as the reality of a room is to be found
loyalty, obedience, and sacrifice are much stronger. One should
neither in the ceiling nor in the walls, but in the vacant space.
never forget that the whole adoption of Western civilization
so the vacuum of the mind is the true essential. One who could
was brought about by obedience to an Imperial edict, by loy-
alty but not by a spontaneous movement of emancipation.
make of himself a pure vacuum would become master of all
situations; everything could freely enter into his mind. "Empti-
The great revolution of 1868 was at the same time a restora-
ness" is also the true source of action.
tion of loyalty to the Emperor. The ultimate test of the loyalty
There were, of course, even among the learned Buddhists
that every Japanese, simply as a Japanese, feels is his readi-
themselves, some who ridiculed the Zen teachers for being, as
ness to sacrifice his life for. his country and the Emperor or,
they thought, mere jugglers. "They just doze in their seats and
as in former times, for his feudal lord. "Patriotism," wrote
think depraved, wanton thoughts," said one of their opponents
B. H. Chamberlain forty years ago to Lafcadio Hearn, "comes
in the thirteenth century. But, as Sir George Sansom, a Western
before everything, before Christianity, before humility, before
authority on Japanese cultural history, has pointed out, it would
even fair play and truth." Everyone, of course, loves his
be foolish to suppose that a meditation which has been so as.
fatherland but only for the Japanese is his land strictly the
siduously practiced and has had such far-reaching effects upon
land of his forefathers.
the intellectual life of two great peoples, the Chinese and Japa-
The Japanese family is not a family in our sense, i.e., a
nese, is a mere farcical imposture.
man, his wife, and their children, separated from the parents
and grandparents. The Japanese family is not an individual
To illustrate with a certain finality the Japanese paradox of
unity but the center and substance of state and society, Includ.
spiritual refinement and physical bravery I choose two stories
ing parents and grandparents. The grandfather is the head of
of two famous Japanese: a warlord and a tea master. The war-
the family while the grandson is the guarantee of an unin-
lord, Iyéyasu, wrote in 1616, in his testament: "I have fought
terrupted ancestor cult. The Japanese live into the future be-
ninety times, and eighteen times death seemed to be sure. If
cause they live under the presence of the dead who are still
nonetheless I escaped death, it is due to the teaching of the
there as ancestral spirits. Every house has a small wooden
Zen monks, from whom I learned that life is something indiffer-
shrine with the tablets of the deceased.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
superimposed but traditionally acknowledged as the natural
The source and climax of the whole family and ancestral
basis of the people's solidarity. The loyalty to the Emperor
system is the Imperial family, which derives from the Sun
does not depend on a personal conviction or a fantastic belief
Goddess. The "big house" (Oyake) of the Imperial family is
in his supernatural power. It is the extension of the filial
the principal house from which descend all the "small houses"
piety to the Imperial family, supported by tradition and emo-
(Koyake) of the people. Loyalty and filial piety are in the
tional appeal. The Japanese nursery tales abound in anec-
same line and connected by the ancestor cult. Every Japanese
dotes of heroic sacrifices for the sake of honor and of tragic
child bows at the beginning of his classes in the direction of
conflict- between filial piety and fealty. In training for the
the Imperial palace in Tokyo ju-t a- he pay- re-pect to the
otempt t de th the muhtaoy Bu-hodo code and the peace-
tablets of the family shrine. Fatheland nd Ipeh
tor ng Boddln-m came together to help form the national
are for the Japanese the me. Hence the o tal and motad
telgon theSht
foundations of the Japanese "patrioti-m  differ
from what we call patriotism, national-n and umpertadi-
It dithe olt for u- to under-tand why the ultimate values for.
without ancestor wor-hip and imperiad famhe in
the Lopomese mind have never been "life, liberty, and the pur-
sense the Japanese nationadi-m i- much more ub-tntad mi
suut ot happiness." but rather loyalty, a free disregard of life,
total than that of the totalhtarian state. for it 1- ntegtated
and an honorable death. They are accustomed to calamities
with the social system as based in the ance-tor cult of the
and di-asters by earthquakes, typhoons, and fires, while we
family system and thereby with the national religion, the Shinto.
are accustomed to physical comforts and social security. The
The Japanese are the only modern nation with a genuine
Japanese find it casy to die, but our social arrangements hide
national religion, where religion neither tran-cend- nor intes
deth trom our -tght. The Japanese sacrifice their lives, not
 feres with but supports the social-political tem. The 
ondy tor the Empetot who is for them the source and the head
in Tokyo envied them for thi-. for they teadized that the u
of their ancestral system. but also as a means of justification
of the Führer and the propaganda of a Nazi millenneum on
for any wrong they may have committed. They believe in the
never compete with the origmality and antiquity of Japan-
possibility of accomplishing by death what they are unable to
Shinto cult through which the government is a "matter of cult.
accomplish in life. They find in death the solution of problems
Such identity of the political and religious system is onls
they are unable to solve here. All this is due to the influence
possible in a country that has no Christian history and with 
of Buddhism. A certain fatalism is the most human and natural
people whose individuals are not emancipated personalities.
attitude for the Japanese. They dismiss the subject with a
deciding upon religion and political allegiance by their own
"shikata-ga-nai," that is, "it can't be helped." Their parting
opinion and conscience. In Japan theology and politics are
greeting also suggests this. In place of our "goodby" they say
quite compatible, for the Caesar is a divine king-priest who
"sayönara," which means "since it must be so." And in the
reigns without governing and the people are not a nation of
place of our "how do you do?" they say "O-kawari-gozaima-
Christian personalities, emphasizing the ultimate value of each
zen-ka," which means. "I trust that there has been no change,"
single soul, but a nation of families. Hence the comparison
that i-, no unpleasant change since we met last time.
with the dictatorial authority in the totalitarian state- i- defi
Once I was invited by a Japanese colleague to an inn. On
nitely misleading. The Western totalitarian state pre-uppose-
the wall hung a scroll painting, the characters of which I could
the total disintegration of the bourgeois society, and it- die
not understand. The Japanese, too, had difficulty in understand.
tatorial power is required because otherwise nobody would
ing them. Finally he grasped the meaning, which was "Nothing
obey. The Japanese people are not a modern bourgeois society
happens." The enigma is that the "emptiness" where nothing
but an ancient community and in the case of emergency a
happens is at the same time the source of what happens, of
devotional unity, based on the ancestor cult and the family
Japanese action, change, and supreme effort. It is, as a Zen
system. The authority of the Imperial house is not enforced or
cholar puts it, "the stillness of thunder." "This sort of silence,"
*This paragraph and the one follouing hare been adapted by the author
he says. "pervades all things Oriental. Woe unto those who take
from a series of observations that apprared in Religion in Life. Permission
it for decadence and death, for they will be overwhelmed by
to make use of them is cordially acknouledged.
an outburst of activity out of the eternal silence."

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
FORTUNE
VOLUME XXVIII
NUMBER 6
CONTENTSFOR
DECEMBER1943
1 THE JOB BEFORE US
BRITAIN'S BALANCE SHEET: II
157
APPROACHES TO TOK YO:
121
Why Britain can make postwar "deals" alone, and be pros-
perous . . . but needs U. S. partnership to help re-create a
Two Articles and a Map Porttolio of Road- for Offensives.
world of international free trade.
THE JAPANESE PREDICAMENT
124
THAT REFRIGERATION BOOM
161
Why Japan -till hope- to win. de-pite too tew -hip-.
men. machines: too much empure.
The almost unlimited postwar potentialities of the industry
in food freezing, air conditioning, commercial and home
THE JAPANESE MIND
132
refrigeration.
A picturejot the mentality. traditions, and unique politi-
CITIZENSHIP IN A GREAT STATE
167
cal-religious system that we must under-tand if we are to
What are the modern limits t. liberty and self-interest? The
conquer.
by Korl Lowith
answers may revise our social philosophy at home and abroad.
2 THE WORKING FRONT
by Bertrand Russell
ALUMINUM: HAVE OR HAVE NOT?
137
DEPARTMENTS
Domestie bauxite will be gone in three to five years. How we
FORTUNE SURVEY
10
can be self-sufficient by developing alunite and clay sources.
The U. S. people name first choices on their postwar shop-
PSYCHIATRIC TOLL OF WARFARE
141
ing list.
With breakdowns higher than expected, the l'. S. armed forces
are developing, belatedly. a program of prevention and cure.
SNIPING: A JAPANESE ART
38
It will be a menace until we make it a suicide mission.
THE FLEETING OPPORTUNITY
145
by Charles Edmundson
Why our airmen in Britain can yet spare the invading army
FARM COLUMN
74
a blood bath on Europe's shores, if only we will send them
the bombers and crews.
Biggest farmer biggest no more . . . Goodyear farm experi-
ments .. . Production outlook, 1944.
by Ladd Haystead
WASHINGTON SKETCHES
148
An impressionistic report on the U. S. capital as it never
BUSINESS AT WAR
96
was before and may never be again.
by John Dos Passos
The electrical-construction industry prepares for the post-
war . . . Harvard Business School retools executives.
3 AMERICA AND THE FUTURE
TRIALS AND ERRORS
108
HERO: ALEXANDER HAMILTON
154
For the first time, Roosevelt is in danger of political isolation.
He distrusted the people but helped keep them free.
by Eliot Janeway
COMING IN DECEMBER: THE FUEL EQUATION · INDUSTRIAL DEMOBILIZATION: I · CANADIAN ARMY · CABINET REORGANIZATION

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
FORTUNE'S ASSIGNMENT
Today we believe there exists in America a group not only willing
but eager to think about the "difficult facts" of business. economics.
politics. geography sociology and even phalosoph a group which
recognizes that only by working with these tacts now can we act to
win the war and build the foundaions tor lastung peaee n the future
And FoRruNE's purpose today  heetote ths to make itself
the journal to which these people will tun tor information upon
which to base the thinking they must do before they can plan or act
-now as well as in the future...
That is what we are trying to do
Now. specifically. how do we plan to make sure that ForTUNE
renders only services essentiad to Amercan management men in
wartime those men in business. labor, government and the pro-
fessions who are now carrying the dual responsibility of producing
for war and planning for peace?
Our specific plans are these: from this time on, each new issue
of ForTuNE will be divided into three separate and distinct sections.
Section One will consist of stories which show:
What we can do to win this war-what our major strategy
must be if we are to organize totally America's manpower,
materials and machines...
Section Two will contain each month those stories which show:
What we are doing to win- stories of problems being faced
and solved along the entire Allied working front.
And Section Three will be made up each month of those articles
which show:
What we can win-stories that scan the fronts of the future, on
this earth and in men's minds.
In addition to these three sections, each new issue of FoRTUNE will
contain two new departments: In the Public Mind, which will reveal
the findings of the various Surveys of Public Opinion or Polls of
Executive Opinion we have conducted during the month; and
Business at War, a feature in which we will bring our readers stories
of new methods and developments that are coming to American
business as a result of the war. ForTunE from time to time will also
publish special supplementary inserts...
These, then, are our plans. We think them sound plans--for the
present. But let no one see in them a final editorial pattern for
FORTUNE.
ForTUNE was born at the start of an era of great change, and
ForTuNE has changed with the times. It started changing the instant
it was born, and it will go on changing always-because it is a living,
vital, healthy and undefeated organism.
It has a job to do-and that job wi!l be done.
-From a memorandum recently sent to each member ef
FORTUNE's staff by Managing Editor Ralph D. Paine Jr.
