894.628 Animal Husbandry., Japan, Fisheries. Sponges. Sponge Fisheries., January 30, 1945 - November 7, 1946 (File 1542), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.628-1542-2   Pages: 634   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.628-animal-husbandry-japan-9/894.628%20Animal%20Husbandry.%2C%20Japan%2C%20Fisheries.%20Sponges.%20Sponge%20Fisheries.%2C%20January%2030%2C%201945%20-%20November%207%2C%201946%201542-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DEC171945
WESF
UNITED STATES
RECFIVED
DV R
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
348
WASHINGTON 25
OCT 30 1945
ITIES DIVISION
Hon. James' F. Byrnes,
NOV-21945
Secretary of State.
PEPOT MENT OF STATE
My dear Mr. Secretary:
There are enclosed copies of correspondence from Mr. F. W.
Mathias of the Pacific Coast Oyster Growers Association of
Olympia, Washington, dated October 12, which has been received by the
Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service of this Department.
This correspondence requests assistance in obtaining from Japan
seed oysters for transplantation in suitable waters of the Pacific
Coast in order to insure a continuance of oyster production in that
region. An officer of the Fish and Wildlife Service has been in-
formed verbally by an officer of the Commodities Division of the
1117
Department of State that the Secretary of State has received a let-
ter from the National Canners Asscciation requesting aid in arrang-
ing for export to the United States of Japanese seed oysters.
Japanese oysters were introduced on the Pacific Coast a number
of years ago and the annual imports of seed from Japan, which con-
timued until the declaration of war by Japan, resulted in sufficient
production of adult oysters to support a sizable oyster industry on
the Pacific Coast.
The native oyster of the Pacific Coast, the Olympia oyster, is
very small and attempts were made to introduce the larger Atlantic
oysters. Pacific water temperatures were too low for successful
spawning of introduced Atlantic Coast oysters. Japanese seed oysters
were then imported. The Japanese oysters do spawn in certain areas
of the Pacific Coast, although temperature and other conditions are
unfavorable in certain seasons.
It is believed very desirable that some arrangement be made
whereby Pacific Coast oyster growers can again obtain seed oysters
from Japan. The Fish and Wildlife Service, however, believes that
the export of Japanese seed oysters to the United States should not be
handled through a single exporter who held a virtual monopoly, as in
IAN 2OD
the past. This monopoly operated very much to the disadvantage of
Pacific Coast oyster growers.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
It is recommended that the Department of State take such
action as it believes appropriate to arrange for export of Japanese
seed oysters to the Pacific Coast of the United States, if such
action would be consistent with the economic policies now being
pursued by the military government of Japan.
Sincerely yours,
Assistant Secretary.
Enclosure 17.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
PACIFIC COAST OYSTER.GROWERS ASSOCIATION
PHONE 6321
202 FIRST NATIONAL BANK BUILDING
OLYMPIA, WASHIN GTON
October 12, 1945
Mr. Ira N. Gabrielson, Director
Fish and Wild Life Service
Department of the Interior
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Gabrielson:
I am enclosing copy of a letter sent to Allied
Supreme Commander, General MacArthur in Toyko. This letter
was authorized at the last meeting of the Pacific Coast
Oyster Crowers Association at Raymond.
At the meeting, it was stated that M. Yamishita,
Japanese who formerly imported seed and furnish it on con-
signment basis to Japanese growers in this country, is again
attempting to get into the seed oyster business. He has
been approaching oyster growers in Washington, Oregon and
California to place orders with him for seed oysters.
The association is definitely against Mr. Yamishita
having anything to do with the seed oyster business.
We will be very glad to have any assistance you
can give in the matter of obtaining seed oysters.
The Pacific oyster set in Willipa and Grays Harbors,
Hood Canal and Puget Sound waters has been almost nil in
the past two years.
With kind regards.
Sincerely,
(Sgd.) F. W. MATHIAS
F. W. Mathias, Director and
Seed Committee Chairman

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
Q.
October 2, 1945
General Douglas MacArthur
Allied Supreme Commander
Toyko, Japan
Dear General MacArthur:
We will val ue your aid in obtaining information for
the guidance of this association in obtaining seed oysters from
Japan.
Large quantities of seed oysters, species - Cstrea Gegas
raised in Japanese waters have been shipped to oyster growers in
Washington, Oregon and California for a period of fifteen to twenty
years. This seed oyster importation business, which started in the
1920's, continued through the 1930's and ended with the Japanese
attack on Pearl Harbor.
The "Pacific" oyster industry developed rapidly in Puget
Sound, Willipa and Grays Harbors, Washington and extended to the
Oregon coastal harbors and to northern California harbors.
The Pacific Coast Oyster rowers Associetion was organized
under requirements of the National Recovery Act and also for the
protection of the oyster growers in the three Pacific Coast states.
Many problems were encountered that included an attempt by Japanese
to control the oyster industry in Washington, Oregon and Califomia.
This association was able to protect the interests of the
American Oyster Crowers and acted as the sole seed oyster importing
organization, following many troublesome encounters with Japanese
interests.
The Japanese government, represented by the Japanese
Caune
Counsel in Seattle, finally worked out a program, enabling this
association to deal with the seed oyster growers in the Sendai Bay
region on the Island of Honshu. The seed oysters from this area
gave satisfactory results and were inspected by Japancse govern-
ment biologists, certifying that no drills of other detrimental
marine life was being shipped with the boxes of seed oysters.
It is the wish of this association to deal direct with
the oysters growers of the Sendai Bay area, obtaining the best
quality of seed oysters that will pass inspection of Japanese and
United States biologists.
We would like to know (1) when contact may be made with
the growers or an association of growers of seed oysters in Sendai

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
. C. Q P I.
General Douglas MacArthur
Page 2
October 2, 1945
Bay area; (2) Was there an oyster seed catch in 1945; (3) Extent
of seed catch; (4) When business relations can be re-opened with
the Sendai Bay seed growers; (5) Officer or Federal Department
to contact for negotiations.
We will appreciate your aid in obtaining the dosired
information.
Faithfully,
F. W. Mathias, Director and
Chairman, Seed Oyster Committee

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
DEC171945
In reply refer to:
JK:894.628/10-3045
My dear Mr. Chapman:
Reference is made to your letter of Cctober 30, 1945, con-
cerning the pousible importation of seed oysters from Japan
894.628/10-3045
for the use of the Facific Coast oyster growers.
This subject has received the Department's attention in
response to several letters ana telephonic communications from
various individuals and trade ascociations affiliated with the
oyster-growing inuustry in the :cific Northwest. The Department
of State hat transmitted a message through the War Department to
the Sup reme Commander in Tokyo, inquiring about the availability
of seed oy sters for shipment to this ccuntry at the opening of the
growing or setting season in arril.
You may be assured that the request of the oyster growers
CS/LF
will receive due consideration in the selection of goods for ex-
port
The Honoraole
Cscar I. Chapman
62
Assistant Secretary of the Interior
F
9
LDK
9√
8/10-3045

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.81)
- 2-
port from Japan under the established directives governing the
conduct of foreign trade in the present perioa of the occupation.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secrotary of Stater"
wL /llRP
Sepuly toThe @sscotoutSecotay
Eeamonnc Oppairs
fo2
w价
A
JK:WMBrown:nf
CF
12-5-45
Dr

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRE1
SAVE
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-3495
7 November 1945
LEMOYLNDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
Subject: Policy with Respect to Fishing and Aquatlc
Industries in Japan.
At its twenty-ninth meeting the State-War-Navy
Coordincting Committee aouroved SWncc 99/1, as amended by
sni00 90/3.
In aperoving Smics es/1, us amenced, the Committee
agreed:
Co
94.628
a. That the paper be trunsmitted to the Joint
Chiefs of St f: and to the State, Wor and Navy Depart-
ments for th ir guidence nd, where appropriate, for
implement:tion; end
b. That the "Conclusions" be communicsted by
the Far Eastern Advisory Commission to the Governments
of the Uniued Kingdom, the Soviet Union, China, France,
the Commonweclth of the Philipoines, Australia, Conada,
-745
New Zealend and the Netherl: nas together with a state-
ment thet the U.S. Government hes aispatched the
"Conclusions" to the Supreme Commonder for the Allied
Confidential
Povers.
A copy of the revised approved paper (SWNco 99/s) is
att: ched for information, tuiaance and such action is is
deemed appropriate under subpara, raph a above.
A simil:r menorendum h s been forwerued to the
Secret ries of Wer, Navy, and the Joint Chiefs of Stafr.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
C
H. FREEMAN MATTHEWS
Acting Chairman
Encl.
NB
SWi:C0 99/3, Cpy No. 56

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
D E C R E T
COPY NO. 56
SWNCC 99/3
7 November 1945
Pages 15 - 22, inc1.
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
POLICY WITH RESPECT TO FISHING AND AQUATIC
INDUSTRIES IN JAPAN
References:
a. SWNCC 99/1
b. SWNCC 99/2
Note by the Secretaries
The enclosure, a revision of reference a to incorporate
the amendments proposed in reference b, was approved by the
Committee at its twenty-ninth meeting and is circulated for
information and guidance.
ALEXANDER D. REID
ALVIN F. RICHARDSON
RAYMOND E. COX
becretariat

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
S E
C R E T
ENCLOSURE
POLICY WITH RESPECT TO FISHING AND AQUATIC
INDUSTRIES
IN
JAPAN
Report by the
State-War-Navy Coordinating Subcommittee for the Far East
THE PROBLEM
1. To determine United States policy during the occupation
period in regard to the Japanese fishing and aquatic industries.
FACTS BEARING
ON
THE
PROBLEM
2. pee Appendix "A".
DIDCUSDION
3. see Appendix "B".
CONCLUSIONS
4. During the period of occupation, the Supreme Commander
should be guided, subject to military considerations, by the
following general prineiples:
2. In order to meet domestic consumption requirements,
the supreme Commander should:
(1) Insist that appropriate available vessels,
facilities, gear, equipment and supplies in Japanese
hands be put to use;
(2) Take such steps as he may deem practical and
necessary to provide suffic ent fuel for allocation
to I shing boats;
(3) Require the Japanese Government to rehabilitate
the production facilities of the fishing, fish ferti-
lizer and seafood processing industries, and facilities
for distribution of their products; and
(4) Furnish such other assistance, subject to
general policies governing aid to Japanese industry,
as ne deems necessary.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
b. The coastal fisheries and fish culture should be
utilized as the primary sources for domestic consumption.
To the extent that fish culture and coastal fisheries are
unable to meet the minimum domestic requirements, deep
sea fisheries and other fisheries in water open to Japanese
operation may be utilized where security and political
considerations permit. Deep sea fishing in areas near
United States territory or near United States island
responsibilities should not be authorized. Japanese fish-
ing should not be permitted near areas under Allied juris-
diction without prior permission from the country concerned.
These prohibitions should continue until international
agreenents are negotiated permitting Japanese fishing in
these areas.
c. In order to determine (1) the effect on Japanese
food supply of restrictive measures enforced for security
or other reasons, and (2) the extent to which the United
States and other nations should be permitted to exploit
fisheries previously exploited by the Japanese, the
Supreme Commander should immediately obtain from the
Japanese Government available surveys and other data con-
cerning the resources of all Pacific fishing areas
previously exploited by the Japanese.
d. Japanese fishing operations should conform strictly
to:
(1) The provisions of agreements relating to whaling
to which the United States is a party;
(2) The provisions of other agreements relating to
conservation to which the United States is a party;
(3) The policies or rules governing specific fisheries
announced by the United States, or by other governments
in conformity with policies announced by the United
States with respect to coastal fisheries;
(4) The Japanese national and local regulations for
the conservation of fisheries.
SWNCC 99/3
- 16 -

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
e. Such fishery products may be exported as can be
produced by vessels, facilities, gear, equipment and
supplies not suitable for or convertible to use in pro-
viding for domestic consumption, and which are needed
(1) to supply United Nations needs for animal proteins
and oils or (2) to secure foreign exchange for essential
imports.
f. In the establishment of local security regulations
consideration should be given to ensuring the maximum
production of seafood products consistent with security
requirements.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5. It is recommended that:
a. This report be referred to the Joint Chiefs of
Staff with a request for their comments from a military
point of view; and
b. Upon approval by the SWNCC of the "Conclusions" in
paragraph 4 above:
(1) This report be transmitted to the Joint Chiefa
of Staff and to the State, War and Navy Departments
for their guidance and, where appropriate, for imple-
mentation; and
(2) The "Conclusions" in paragraph 4 above be comnuni-
catod by the Fur Eastorn Advisory Coimission to the Govern-
ments of the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, China,
France, the Comnonwealth of the Philippines, Australia,
Canada, New Zealand and the Netherlands together with
a statement that the U.S. Government has dispatched
the "Conclusions" to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
S E C R E T
APPENDIX "A"
\
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
1. SWNCC 150/4 states in Part IV, 3, pages 56-7:
"Japan will be expected to prcvide goods and services
to meet the needs of the occupying forces to the extent that
this can be effected without cau ing starvation, widespread
disease and acute hysical distress.
"The Japanese authorities will be expected, and if
necessary directed, to maintain, develop and enforce pro-
grams that serve the following purposes:
(a)
To avoid acute economic distress.
(0)
To assure just and impartial distribution of
available supplies.
(c)
To meet the requirements for reparations deliveries
agreed upon by the Allied Governments.
(c)
To facilitate the restoration of Japanese economy
so that the reasonable peaceful recuirements of
the population can be satisfied.
"In this connection, the Japanese authorities on their
own responsibility shall be permitted to establish and ad-
minister controls over economic activities, including es-
sential national public services, finance, banking, and pro-
duction and distribution of essential commodities, subject
to the anproval and review of the Supreme Commander in order
to assure their conformity with the objectives of the oc-
cupation."

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
SEC RET
APPENDIX "B"
DISCUSSION
1. Befere the var Jrpan's fisheries prcduction was the
largest in the vorld. The annual catch of Japan Proper has amounted
to nearly 3 million tons. About 1 1/2 million people were engaged
either full or part time in the industry. Among important primary
fishery products are fis , shellfish, seaweed and marine ma mals.
The fisreries provide imoortant seurces of protein in the diet, as
well as sup lying much of the fertilizer, animal cils, fats and
scins. In 1937 the fiahing flret consisted of 364,260 vessels, com-
prising 397,961 without engines, 97 with steam engines and 66,202
with oil burning engines.
98% cf the vessels without motors and
73% of those with engines were under 5 tons.
Exports of fishery
products 1936-39 averaged 235,000 tons annually vith a value of
$30 million--over 3 1/2% of thr total value of Japanese cxports.
2. Proauction of fish durins the war bas decreased to an
catim tod catch of 2 million tons in 1943-44 and of 1.4 million
tons in 1944-45. This decline vould eprear to have had an impor-
tant of cct uron the Japanese dict. In 1935-37-39 fish contri-
butcd 85 (or 3.85) cut of the total of 270 calories.
In 1943-4
they contributed 2.8% of the 2050 calorica. Although fish con-
stitute e small proportion of the total caloric intake, they are
virtually the sole source of animal protein. In western countries
30% to 40% of the dict is of animal origin, while in Japen the
proportion is 10%--almost all frem thc fisheries. In the pre-var
period, consumpticn for food averaged 85 pounds per year per capita
of wholc fish; in 1943-44 oonsumpticn averaged 55 pounds.
S. It is clear that Japan should produce the volume of fishery
products required for her domestic consumption both of food and
fortilizer in order to relieve the United Nations of the burden
of feeding the Japanese populations and occupying forces during the
period of critical food shortages in the United Netions and liver-

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
4.
The extent to which Japen may be in a position to mect
the domestic requiroments imuediately following the cessation
of hostilities appears to be depondent primarily upon (a) the
condition of vesscls, supplies, equipment and geer and the avail-
ability of replacements, (b) the damage to the fisherics and to
the industrial capital cquiument through naval, military and air
action, and (c) availability of fuel.
5. It is dcsir-blr th-t cll Japanesf neval guxiliary and
fis ing vessels vhich are canablr of use in fishing oper:tions,
as well : s all grer, sumplies, and equipment in Japanese hands,
be employed es fully as possible in production to supply domestic
needs. Facilities ond materiels for repairs and replacements
may be drawn from Japanesc sources, but a portion may have to be
supplied from sources outside Jepan. Making such vessels, oar,
supplies and cquipment available carly will reduce materially the
food import requirements.
6. A portion of the production facilities may not readily
be converted to usr in production of the tyne and quality of
goods customary in the domestic markct. In general, luxury
products should not be produced for seneral domestic consumption
at a time when such items are not radily svailable in the world
market.
While it ic desirable to secure maximum production of
the luxury products when materials and facilities are availsble
and not useful for production of basic items, consideration
should be given in distribution of the products, not only to
customary domestic consumetion patterns, but also to the noeds
of the occupying forces, end requirements for the United Nations,
for forcign exchange and for shipping facilities.
7. Although it may be advantageous in long rang conomic
policy to reestablish and develop all Japencse fishing industrics,
including those engaged in export, it is preferable at present to
exploit the interior and coastal fisheries as the primary sources
for domestic consumption needs because, (a) they have, in the
past, provided the grert bulk of Japen's domestic requircmcnts,
SWNCC 99/3
- 20 -
Appendix "B"

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
and arc both a traditional and major source, (b) the fishing
and processing operotions are simple and require equipment and
facilitics, thc major portion of which might be produced locally,
(c) the enterprises, particularly in coastal waters, are for the
most part communal in character, and (a) international probloms
of rights to fisheries are largely avoided since the majority
of v sscls engaged in coastal fishing stay within 30 miles of
shore.
8. The trawling operations require mechanizrd equipment
and involve use of waters greater distances from Japan Proper
and noar the continent. The products of the Japancse concessions
in Soviet waters and the deep sea fisheries beforc the war were
primarily export itens.
9. Japan and the USSR concluded a five-year agreement com-
mencing January 1944, dealing with Japan's rights in the Soviet
fishcries. In r cent years, on the grounds of security, the
Soviet Government has curtailed tre enjoyment by Japan of those
rights W ich have been recognized since the Russo-Japancso War.
Legal and diplomatic considcrations vill possibly det rmine
the extent and conditions of xploitation of the concessions in
Soviet waters during the period of occunation.
10. Japan has taken stens to conserve her interior and
coastel fisheries resources. Maint nance of the Japancse cgu-
lations concerning closed ereas, open ond closed seasons, intonsity
of fishing, ete. appcar desirable in order to encourage the taking
of the maximum quantity of fish consistent with the pres rvation
of the fisheries.
11. It is necessary that Japan be prevented from conducting
fishing operations which will endanger the Pacific fisheries.
While Japan has r gulated the fisheries in home waters in the
inter sts of conserv tion, Japanese fishing operations in other
waters have had little regard for conservation. Progress is being
made toward establishing, in concert with other interested nations,
-21 -
Appendix "B"
SWNCC 99/3

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
a system for protecting the fisheries, but it is not expected
that a program of regulation will be instituted in the immcdiate
future. As en interim measure, it is recommended that Japenese
fishing on the high scas along the Anerican coasts and off
American possessions be prohibited until an adequate consorvation
regime is ostablished. While thr recommendation applies only to
the continents of North and South Anerica and to the island pos-
sessions of the United States, it is rccognized that similar zones
for protcction of fisheries may be cstablished at the requost of
allied or noutral nations in other waters wherc the needs for
such protection of the fisheries is clearly evident.
12.
The whaline agreements in effect with respect to the
United States at the present time are: (1)
Convention for the
Regulation of Wheling sign d at Geneva, September 24, 1931, Treaty
Scrics s80; (2) Agreement for tre Rrgulation of Whaling, and
Final Act signed at London, June 8, 1937, Treaty Series 933;
(3) Protocol amending the Agrrenent for the Regulation of Whaling
signed at London, June 1937, and Final Act of the Conferencc
signed at London, June 24, 1938, Trcaty Series 944; Japan partic-
ipated in the conferences preparing the conventions but failed
to ratify.
13. The fur seal tre ty of 1911 (T.S. 546) with the United
States, Gr at Britain, Russia and Japan was terminated in
October 194l upon notice from Japan on the ground that Japen's
herds vere endangering her fisheries. Subsequently, Canada and
the Unitcd States concludcd an executive agreement (E.A.S. 415)
governing the Northeast Pacific area. Until the fects as to the
conditions of the Robben and Kurile Islands herds are establishcd,
any sealing which may be authorized by the povernment curing tho
occupation poriod should be undertaken in conformity with sound
conserv tion principles. All pelagic scaling should be prohibited.
SWNCC 99/3
-22-
Appendix "B"

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.90)
CHARGE SLIP
×94.-
File No.
ENCLOSURE
CHABGB TO—
DATE
ClerE's INITIALS
REMARKS
LE ay
yt2136
8.746

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.92)
4d5
In'reply refer to:
JE: 094.628/11-1345
Dear Mr. Griffin:
Your letter of November 13, 1945, addressed to the Seeretary
of State, has been referred to this Division for reply. Thank
you for your suggostions and information coneerning the needs of
the oyster growers in the Facifie Northwest.
Because of the urgent problems involved in the pacification
of Japan, and the rehabilitation of essential eeonomie activity,
it has not been possible to permit direct trading relations be-
tween Japanese citisens and those of other countries. During
the present stage of the occupation period, all imports into,
and exports from, Japan will nesessarily be limited, and will be
345
conducted under Allied control.
The Department of State has had the needs of the Ameriean
oyster-growing industry under consideration, and has recently
taken
Mr. Idon Griffin
y
1211 Twenty-first Avenue, North
TS
2
Seattle, 2, Washington
)8
at.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.89)
In reply refer to:
JK:894.628/11-1345
Dear Mr. Griffin:
Your letter of Novemher 13, 1945, addressed to the Secretary
of State, has been referred to this Division for reply. Thank
you for your suggestions and information concerning the needs of
the oyster growers in the lacific Northwest.
894.628/11-1345
Recause of the urgent problems involved in the pacification
of Japan, and the rehabilitation of essential economic activity,
it has not been possible to permit direct trading relations be-
tween Japanese citizens and those of other countries. During
the present stage of the occupation period, all imports into,
and exports from, Japan will necessarily be limited, and will be
conducted under Allied control.
The Department of State has had the needs of the American
oyster-growing industry under consideration, and has recently
2A
taken
Mr. Eldon Griffin
1211 Twenty-first Avenue, North
11
Seattle, 2, Washington
5.3
. b.
A
33
at.
2.
in

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
taken steps to ascertain the availability of seed oysters from
Japan and the feasibility of selecting them for export in the
near future. You may be assure that this matter will continue
to receive our close attention.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
EdoM. Mo
Chief of the Division of Japanese
and Korean Economic Affairs
ω2mB
JK:WMBrown:mf
2
December 4, 1945
Dπ.
dd
6
5P.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARD FOHM NO. 64
CA - Mr. Drumright
TO
DATE: Deoember 13, 1945
FROM
FE - Mr. Woodard
SUBJECT:
tele
Reference:
Chungking's 2136 of December 11 regarding
members of the Senate Small Business Committee.
I suggest that although the action copy has been
routed to FE, it would be inappropriate for us to inter-
ject ourselves into this matter at this highly contro-
versial stage. I gather that arrangements for the
trip centered largely in Mr. Clayton's office acting
upon a request from Senator Murray and that actual
arrangements were in the hands of Kermit Gordon, who
894.628
at that time was located in A-C. I suggest, therefore,
that we refer Chungking's 2136 to Mr. Gordon who 1s now
located in CP (room 414, 1712 G Street) with the thought
that the present situation can be handled in continuity
on the basis of the Department's previous commitments
and understandings.
11
As you are aware, CA and FE's participation in
this case were confined solely to routine initialing
2-1345
of telegrams drafted in other Divisions of the Depart-
ment.
Nat, also Shany hai allachrt
No. s61 - dlec 12,
9
FE:GoWooddrd:mp
CP-M. bondon
J azuce nith M. Wordrt
39

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.94)
DEC291945
In reply refer to:
JK 894.628/12-1445
My dear Mr. Griffin:
We have for acknowledgement your letter of December 14, 1945.
Since last writing you, we nave heard from Tokyo that seed oysters
will not be available for export from Japan before December 1946.
Between December 1946 and March 1947, it is anticipated that ten
thousand cases can be exported.
By this same mail, we are suggesting to the Honorable Charles
R. Savage, who has approached us on behalf of the Pacifio Coast
Oyster Growers Association, that the Association communicate with
the U. S. Commercial Company, 81l Vermont Avenue, Washington, D. C.
and express their interest in the importation of seed oysters from
Japan.
894.628/12-1445
For reasons of security it will not be possible immediately
for private firms in this country to deal directly with Japanese
business houses. Consequently, arrangements have been made whereby
the U. S. Commercial Company will handle imports from Japan for
sale to established importers.
Sincerely yours,
ch
(1
Edwin . Martin, Chief
Division of Japanese and
11
Korean Economic Affairs.
1
'al
CS/LE
Nr. Eldon Griffin,
1211 Twenty-first Street, North,
OR
Seattle, Washington.
DE :
29
12-26-85

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.77)
ELBON GRPPN
I TNT-FT AV NRT
SEATTLE (B). WAGHNGTON
894.628/12-1445
soie dege
have
ahall
JAN 7 -1946
a
1921.22
(elor
C

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.87)
DIVGSION OF
BBRAPH SECTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
JAN 1 0 1946
ACTICN: ITP
INFO
S
U
TW M
5574
C
Paraphrase .before com-
EUR
municating to anyone.
Shanghai via
1.
30/L
BC
SECRDP
Soor tory of Stnto,
ITF D
IRAction
Vlingn
2136
chuding
Dec
ITP
En
CP
0. Decerbec, 1 .m.
ILH
IR
In sey s Doce er Il. ) .m. to Department
PED
H.rve intorvicve Pdce n char ge Chine Theater
D who statad oue o: US cperat ves had learned by
12.7.+5
aerce that soldatoo sne  cvu had boon makd 1g
D8
incui ies and carcbl suius cu inete concerning a
mF.
farato
 t s co ditys perris. (Sanghei serial number
Con
378, cember 15, 1 a.m.) Fe gave nc definite informa-
tion chnt any bueinor: tracnrctions had been concluded.
His investigut:on is co ttruia:
Viuhin E day or so srt:: hie srivai in Shanghe
Goldsueno tol on ar del  ta  he that he was very
interested in oot in' n inPore:tien atd lat rarding
b
cul tured peer n. Horlora: ld catec lotcpest ir. seed
oyster
SECRET
AIR PRIORTTTES
JAN 1 4 1946
Free
SEPARTMEBIT OF STATE

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.93)
4-Cae
2-agro
DEC 18 
Aeq
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAA RKCEIVED
FROH:
Amcrican Consuleto Genorel, Shanghal (via Wavy)
TO:
Secretary or Stete, Mashington
AR R
DATED:
December 15, 1945
JAN 1 4 1946
NUBR:
378
SEPARTMINT OF STATS
SECRET
Officer in cherge of China Thoater CID, when interviewed.
stated thet one of U. S. operatives had accidentally learned that
MoGowan end Goldstone had been mel:ing inquiries concerning a certain
commodity end had been estrblishing contacts. (See Embasay'e December
elevonth ceble to the Depertment.) Thie ∞mrodity mas peerle he said
lcter in response to inquiry. The officer cave no definite informetion
thet any b.sinees transactiois had been concluded and he is continuing
to investigate. Shanghal serial mumber 378, December fifteen.
Goidstone, a day or so efter he arrived in Shanghal, told the
Commercial Attacho thet he cas very much interested in getting informe-
concerning cultured perrls cnd date pertatnine thoreto. An interest
in seed oysters from Jepa: to be used for revival(?) of Pacifio northwest
production was indicated by ecGoven. Saying thst he had plenned to
investigate cultured perl production in Japen, Goldstone stated thet
he found on arrival in Shanghai thet the Japanose had dumed in this
merket their martime production. He proposed, therefore, as incidental
to a further investigntion cftor hus crrival in Japan to examine the
possibilitios of obtrining a supply here for the American market.
This message reneated to the Department and sent to Chungking.
DC/L:ZR 12/17/45
JOSSELYN

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
H-Caue
2 -agri
DEC 18 1945
AEG
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM:
Americen Consuleto Genorel, Shangha1
(via Navy)
TO:
Secretary of Stete. Veshington
AIR PRIONITIES
DATED:
December 15, 1945
JAN 1 4 1946
NUMBER:
378
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SECRET
Officer in cherge of Chine Thoeter CID. when interviewed.
stated that one of U. S. operatives hed accidentally learned that
McGovan and Goldetone had been melking inquiries concerning a certain
commodity end hed been establiching contacte. (See Embessy's December
elevonth cable to the Dopertment.) This commodity mas peerls he said
later in response to inquiry. Ths officer gave no definite informetion
that eny b sinees transactions had been concluded and he is continuing
to investigate. Shanghei serial mumber 378, December fifteen.
Goidstone, a day or so after he arrived in Shanghal, told the
Commercial Atteche that he was very much interested in getting informa-
concerning cultured pearls nd data pertainine thereto. An interest
in seed oysters from Japep to be used for revival(?) of Peciric northwest
production vas indicated by HecGoven. Saying that he had plenned to
investigate cultured perrl production in Japen, Goldstone stated thet
he found on arrival in Shenghai that the Japanese had dummed in this
merket their wartime production. He proposed, therefore, as incidontal
to e further investigation after hus errival in Japan to examine the
possibilities of obtsining a supply here for the American market.
This message reneated to the Department and sent to Chungking.
DC/L: ER 12/17/45
JOSSELYN

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.93)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Collect
5644
MESSAGE:
Department of State
SECRET
Chargo Departiment:
Washington
056 29 1945
Churge to
cosn
78m
to anyo'e
SECREI
AMERICAN CONSUL
SHANGHAI
894.628/1
367
Difficult for DEPT to make definite recommendations
in absence of full report of CID investigation (Your 388
Dec. 18).
2
No objection to furnishing CID with documents other
than correspondence exchanged between Senator Murray
845
and two men involved. Permission to reveal such
Seustor
correspondence would have to be obtained from Murray.
No objection to members of consulate furnishing
S
information to CID on informal basis. Formal statements
should if possible be avoided. Repeat to Chungking.
m
11
lehee
Acting
Jno th
2
c.2n
845
033.1108/11-1845
CR
12/29/45

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
Te
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
INCOMING TELEGRAM
CTC -II
Paraphrase before com-
Shanghai via Navy
municating to anyone.
Dated December 18, 1945
SECRET
Rec'd 9: 33 p.m., 18th
ACTION:FG/
INFO:
S
Secretary of State
U
C
Washington
EUR
FE
IT P
388, December 18, Noon
DC/L-K
DC/R-1
Have just learned from Lieutens jvxiomkqul in
894.t2
charge of Army CID that his agents removed Goldstone
from airplane yesterday morning as he was about to
Teave for the United States. (Shanghai serial No. 388,
28
E
Goldstone had in his possession pearls valued at about
2
1
20,G00 according to Colonel. Goldstone and McGowan
1345
Here then inter/iewed by Colonel, Goldstone making
arridavit sbout the matter, and McGovan making statement
but declining to make affidavit.
Colonel with approval his superior ofricers
1J.P/D
CP Action
is hoiding up doparture these two men as he vishes
Confidential
Information:
to place them aboard surface vessel taking about
ITP
CP
17 days to United States thus giving Army authorities
ILH
IR
time to make full report to Washington, so that
LA
PED
DEC 27 945
Washington authorities may take such action as they
File
wish at time ai rival in United States of Goldstone
and McGowan
SECRET

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-#388, December 18, Nocn, from Shangha1 via Navy
end McGowan. Colonel now desires his plan of with-
holding air transportation "cleared" with Consulate
General, and asks me to ok surface transportation
which I have refused unless requested by the men
themselves.
Colonel was told that 1nvoice had been obtained
at this office for shipment of pearls to be carried
by Goldstone and that there was nothing secret about
action. He stated that there was an Army circular,
(No. 48 dated April 8, 1945, Headquarters Echelon,
United States Forces, China Theater) copies of which
he hes since sent this office which forbade under
penalty of confiscation the transportation of any
merchandise on American Government transportation
lines into, within and from China Theatre. He was
told that Goldstone undoubtedly did not know about
this order as no one In Consulate General had heard
of it, and that if a businessmen had asked if he
could carry his merchandise wlth him after obtaining
a Consular invoice, he would have been answered in
the affirmative.
Goldstone previously inquired at Office Invoice
Section whether
SECRET

=== Page 31 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET
-3-#388, December 18, Noon, from Shanghai via Navy
Section whether other persons were shipping pearls
and was answered in the affirmative, the Consular
Officer knowing that Goldstone vas acting for the
Senate Committee.
Have received written request from Army CID
that they be permitted to examine members of Consulate
General staff regarding conversations with two
men, following which examinations formal statements
would be made up and signed. Army CID also wishes
to examine Consular invoice and cables which the
two men may have received through the intermediary
of this office. Urgently request specific instructions
on this paragraph.
Sent to Department, repeated to Chungking.
JOSSELYN
WMB
SECRET

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Paraphrase of War Department
Tele. CFB 17768
Dated: Dec. 18, 1945
Cm-IN 5139
From: Shanghai, China, CG, China Theater
To:
War Department
MRCAS has now had it confirmed by competent military
authorities that Mr, Goldstone who is travelling at the
H.
expense of the Government with Mr. McGowan of our cor-
894.628
poration (tnis message is signed Maverick and it is re-
quested that it be transmitted to the Smaller War Plants
Corporation) and stated to be a memcer of the Senate
Small Business Committee has with him $20,000 worth of
1 01946
pearls bought in China before the date when in Japan
certain commitments were made. An act of this nature
is not proper because personal trading at the expense
of the Government, if not illegal, is certainly not
DEPAR
ethical. As to whether or not MoGowen actually is an
accessory to these acts, which are bad, may not be proved
ultimately in court, but there is no question of the
high impropriety of his even allowing acts of this sort.
It is requested that you bring an end to his employment,
and right away at the same time by the Board of Director's
action carry out the revocation of any loan to the Senate
Small Business Committee, as well as any approprtiog
6
2
2
for this man's trip. It is also requested that the
5
Senate Small Business Committee be advised of your
NVI
C
acts at the same time. After this has been done McGowen
"SEOPE"
has the
is

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.95)
T
-2-
has the right to bring an anpeal bcfore Civil Service, but mean-
while it ie necessary that prompt ection be tsken.
There will be protection for McGowen's due process rights
but meanwhile precedence must be given to the rights of the Gov-
ernment, our Corcoration, and the public. The Attorney General's
office and the Depertment of Stete should be taken into confidence
fully. For both MeGowen and Goldstone transportation by air has
been cancelled, and these two will br sent by water. I approve
of this. Whetever ultimately is determined judicially is ir-
relevant to this matter. While it may be proved that McGowen
is an "innecent victim", it is a fact thet if he had used a
reasonaple amount of discretion these facts would have had to
be disclosed long ago. It is requested that you cooperate with
all outhorities.
Emohasir must be olaced on the fact thet regardless of the
ultimate determinetion fron the criminal point of view we must
give firm discpprobation and disaporoval to these alleged acts
and the behavior of these individuals. Such conduct is die-
greceful, and if promot action were not taken by our corpore-
tion, it would no' be fair toany part of the Government or to
the Senate. It is requested that vou take the indiceted actions
and sive vour cooperation to the agencies thet I have asked you
to get in touch with.
REC
FC: RECarroll: cm
ACrION S-2 (Smaller Wer Plants Corporation)
INFORMATIOR CPD. G-2 (State, L AND LD

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Paraphrase
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
378 from Shanghai, December 15.
Officer in charge CID, China, states one of US
operatives by chanced learned that Goldstone & MoGowan
1
were establishing contacts concerning pearls. No
evidence given tnat transactions were completed.
911
Investigation continuing.
Goldstone, upon his arrival in Shanghai, told
Commercial Attache that he wanted to obtain data and
information concerning cultured pearls. MacGowan
interested in securing seed oysters from Japan to
Stated
revive production in Pacific northwest.  by
had
Goldstone that he/planned to investigate cultured pearl
production in Japan, but found Jpanese wartime production
had been dumped in Shanghai market. Expected to secure
supply for American market here, but would investigate
further upon arrival in Japan.
(Sent to Chungking, repeated to Dept.)
VI1

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORN NO., 64
DATE: 1/5/46
TO
: Le - Mr. Summers
FROM : SA/M - Mr. Blake
SUBJECT :
I am returning herewith your file
on the Goldstone and MacGowan case as
the matter is now closed as far as this
Division is concerned. I do not know
from whom you originally obtained this
file and you may want to return it to
the proper Division so that the papers
may be correctly filed.
Many thanks for your help and
cooperation in this matter which has
now been satisfactorily settled.
Ton Brakt
Tom Blake
SA/M:TDB:VH

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.84)
3
LE- M. Summeis
The code rasm
Sent shis fice to.
me.. I am returming
it to yon in cace
you need it in
Conncetiin with
further dede opments
in this matter.
Mermitodon.
cp

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.91)
SBORET
Jile
11
PARAPHRASE OF YAR DEPARTMENT CABLE
1-17-46
19 December 1945
FROM: CG, China Theater, Shanghai, China
TO:
War Denartment
A
3
NR:
CFB 17768
JA
DATE: 18 December 1945
MRCas has now had it confirmed by competent military authorities that Mr. Gold-
etone who is travelling at the expense of the Government wit Mr. McGowan of our cor
porstion(this me see is signed Maverick and it is recuested that it be transmitted
to the Smaller War Plants Cormoration) and stated to be a member of the Senate Small
Business Committee has w't him $20, 00 worth of pearls bought in C ina before the
date when in Janrn certain comr itments were  ade. An act of this nature is not proper
because persrnal tr ding at the expense of the Government, if not illegal, is cert-
ainly not ethical. s to whether or rot McGowen actually is an accessory to these
8
of the high impropriety of is even ellovin: acts of tris sort. It is recuested that
4
you bring an end to his employment, and right away at the same time by the Board
of Directcr's action corry out the revecrtion of any loen to the Senate Small
9
Business Committee, as well os ny a uropristion for this man's trin. It is also
2
recue ted that the Senate Srall Business Committee be advised of your acts at the
same time. After th's has been done McGowen h's the right to bring an arpeal
before Civ'l Service, but meanwhile it is necessary that nrompt action be taken.
2
There will be rotection for McGowen's due proce s rig ts but meanwhile pre-
cedence must be given to the rights of the Government, our Corporation, and the
public. The Attorney General's office and the Department of State should be trken
10
inte conficerce fully. or both McGowen and Goldstone transportation by air has
4
been cancelled, end thase two will be sent back by water. I approve of this.
5
atever ultimotely is determined judicia ly is irrelevent to this matter. While
it may be proved th t HeGoven is an "innocont victim", it is a fact that if he
FILCS
ad used a reasonable amount of discretion these facts would have hed to be dis-
1-
c'osed long  ro. It is recrested that you coonerate with all authorit es.
-.7
Emphasis must be rleced on the fect t at rogardless of tre ultimate determ-
0
inotion fron the criminal point of viev we must ive firm disapprobotion and
disa roval to these a'le ed ects and t'e be svior of these individuels. Such
conduct i disgrscef l, end if prompt action were not trven by our corporation.
10
it would not be fair to ny port o the Government or to the Senate. It is rec-
cuested thrt you take the inai ater actions and give your co peration to the egencies
that I have rsked ou to get in touch with.
ACTION: G-? (Smellor p Mants Corporation)
F
INTO MATION OPD. G-2 (State). L AM LD
O
CN-IN-5139
1945
(0
SECRET

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.82)
CHARLES R. SAVAGE
EEAUTIVE SSCRETARY
RIOHARD T. WATSON
Congress of the United States
ROOM 180
HOUSE OFFICE BUELSINS
Souse of Representatibes
Mashington, D. C.
December 19, 1945
AP
+94
D'1
rleJumes F. yrne:
894.628/
Secretery of .te
prtert? Slate
anL..
c1
: neferenee 1. mde to y ur it ter of Hovember 7th
i wict  fuin e wit detailed inf rmation regarding
the mpor' of cerd sters fr pan, whi h information
wa. origlr all reu ted by he Pcific Soast Oyster rowers
Auli.
545
fli. orga ira' lon had : revicusly communicated in this
corrti. with  e preme Ailled mander, nd I an enclos
 erei orre ponieuce I ave  received from .
F. . ti lus, Liroctor of the nssociatior, and Seed Comdttee
ima, wich I relleve is self-explanatory.
 shall, terefore, weply  reclate your again look-
re ter for me wit a view tomard ivine me your
ade and e   s d y fherrformation.
Please ret m ir. ath us cresponderce to me with
your rorh
99
hine  in adva.ce for your vr dress in this
54.
connec' ion, and wit best wishes, I an,
Shale R Savage
in cerely youre
arles h. Savage
2-1945
inwd

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
DCR
GENERAL
HEADQUARTERS
SUFREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AG 080 (25 Cct 45) NR
APO 500
17 November 1945
Pacific Coast Oyster Growers Association,
202 First National Bank Building,
Olympia, Washington.
Gentlemen:
This letter is in further reply to your letter of 2 October
1945 on the subject of seed oysters from Japan.
We have now learned that there will be no exportable surplus
of seed oysters available from Japan in 1945. It is expected,
however, that some 10,000 cases, of 12,000 or more spat each, will
be available around December 1946 to March 1947. Availability of
these stocks will be dependent upon the export demand being indi-
cated within the next three or four months.
If you will advise this Headquarters of the probable demand,
we will so advise the seed-oyster producess.
FOR THE SUPHENE COMMANDER:
Harold Rair,
It. Col., A.G.D.,
Asst. Adjutant General.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.93)
JAN
4
In reply refer to:
JK 894.628/12-1945
My dear Mr. Savage:
Reference is mede to your letter of December 19, 1945, re-
garding the inpcrtation of seed oysters from Japan. The infor-
mation regarding the exportable surplus of seed oysters expected
to  aveil le  cceer -946, wich s siven te the lacific
894.628/12-1
Coast Cyster Growers ssociatien in & letter from General Head-
quarlers to then on leve. er 17, 1945, was cablea to the ar e-
partment cn December 13 and referred to us for action. e were
in t precess of  ivi g you tse details hen our letter under
reply wes received.
arrangem nts are being made whereby imports to the United
Statee fron Jayan will re nanelee by the U. . Commercial Company.
It is u gested that the acific Ccast yster Growers association
cou icate with the U. S. conmercial company, at 8ll Vermont ave-
nue, vashington, D. C., to arrange the details for the future im-
portatic of seed oysters fron Japen.
6
45
Corres, oneence from ir.  athias is returned herewith as re-
questeu. lso encloseu, for your information, is & cory of our
leut r te r. ldon Griffin, nswering uesticns put to us in nis
letter of eceuper 14, 1945.
S
Sincerely yours,
im
Enclosures:
C
1 letter to llon. uharles  vage, dated
5
Dec. 12, 1945, from F. . Mathias.
1 letter to Pacific Coast Cyster Growers
N
Association, dated Nov. 17, 1945 from
JAN
CR
It. Col. Harold Fir, General Heaaquarters.
7
1
letter to Lt. Col Fair dated Jecember 3,
3
2
P.
from F. . Mathias.
copy letter to Mldon Grirfin, Dec. 21,
1
from.. artin.
The Honorable
Charles R. Savage
House of Representatives.
JA
JK:REaston:mf 
12-26-15

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION COPY
-DIVISION OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATI
LEGAL. ADVISER
TELEGRAPH SECTION
INCOMING TELEGRAM
-2 1946
ACTION:EG+
A
INFo:
8300
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
SE
S
TW -EFM
U
Paraphrase before com-
Shanghai
municating to anyone.
C
Dated December 24, 1945
EUR
FE
ITP
SECRET
Rec'd 2:13 p.m.,24th
DC/L-K
DC/R-1
Secretary of State.
894.628/1
fe Wiay
Washington
1945
409, December 24, 3 p.m.
My 388, December 18 Noon. Commanding Gendral
2-2445
China theater has today sent me copy of report
marked secret made by CID US forces China theater
regarding MacGowan and Gcldstone, Report is 10
pages single spaced in length with 21 exhitits
attached. Commanding General in letter of
transmittal recommonds that report be sent to State
Departmont to be brought to attontion of Attorney
General, Senate  ll Business Committee and Small
War Plants Corporation.
(Sent to Department repeated to Chungking)
In the
Report is being airmailed to Department.
meantime woulo appreciate reply last paragraph my
Confidential Fi
m
388
MESSAGE UNSIGNED
12-26-
EH
SECRET
C
C

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.84)
H
No. 52
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
becoter
INT: RNA LIONAL NE SPUBOES
1945
RPT.
JAN 1 1 1946
SUBJECT:
T OF STATE
1-1000
1
JANS 1946
THE HONORABLE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
Ju o: Decen
onorto
re. Le ead uart
1..
cicer,
JIviE10r of
/12-2645
uit
itec
5.1811
CSLE
rcur 1r
o1
a
1'0
M.pclyn
F
7
2
8
12
-2645
JUN 1
1849

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.73)
COPY
Enclosure to despatch no. 3( from American
Consulate jereral, han 1, duted vecember 26,
1945.
TATE R
Chur. hai, C.ina
20.
TC
itea tute coneul jenerul, hanchal, Chlra.
share erevit. are co let ol a re ort
ei lnveeti ati  serni over . acsowar und Joseph
slast  ve Le  or  missi ror the
United taten 11  us i ess osittee. r. macdowan 1s
als  l   l r lts or oration
Io  re  tls roort e
transitte to  tate etmet  t at it be brought
to the te i  e eral, the United states
enatemall us e lttee, aiu thc mall war Plants
1.t
tbove
a eles, i      Lt sol ohn 
tooretie
eitey
 t e event at rteo  oncies desire
to meetis nvestigation
C:.11:1

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.72)
COPY
V1C
.C.S
220
10. 121
1.. oceaber 145
porulr
1. P.. 1r  1-1 t ru  n ir 24, S. ST fol 0 1
reld ir tonu u  c v.    unu ir mt
to hir toru lee ler lu vi irt vall ir
or otner  fr ni  v:n t to t of I. Upor rrival
i1. le c line: tui i1 it tu o will rut to tuo co, Port o1
uarxtl, ortrulct,ir utcy ior ur I to.para
t terl uer proi
011
bn
1
n.
rluntlrls by
L.1...
rtsic
clt  . ipmnt to
1
rvultlit iricor i.
troot or., Y  t.. ru tu  . l toL or
ur....
 tu ui
ltictilrther
iir
1-1 t
(V/h!1 lce tc orre
t:s)yi
1
135-42
-12/2242℃.
8
(
J.11
lat i.t
Ins
∴rt . jeerl
18t","
 1ivi1 - ) coi t  l 
o1 n ullo: U ir crt o cer ed ();
.eurtlo: ter() Tue i orr
(05-I) (1)1 T2 1.J, C B (PC-4) (1))

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
Form DS-10
Department of
Date
6-1-45
State
REFERENCE SLIP
To:
DC/R
Advise
Note & Return
Approve & Return
Note & File
As You Requested
Per Telephone Talk
Attention
Previous Correspon.
Attach File
Priority Action
Comment & Return
Reconsider
Consider
Reccmmend Action
Copying
Record
Correct
Reply
File
Return to Sender
Follow-up
Rewrite
Hold
Signsture Required
Initials Needed
See Ve
Investigate & Report
Take Action
Instruct
Transfer
Justify
Type
Keep Me Advised
Verify
Legal Matter
Reply for Signature of
Memo Required
Not Interested
Note & Destroy
Note & Forward
REMARKS:
Action comptede
ECRTI
From
A) Miso Kicver- Rims 224
This Form Printed on Salvaged Stock
25-78359-500W

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
ADÓRESS OPPICIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
SECRET
February 13, 1946
Memorandum for:
Mr. Arnold,
Smaller Var Plants,
101 Indiena Avenue,
Room 354,
Holc Building.
Fw.
I am forwarding to you herewith a report
provided by General Ceraway on the subject of
Howard H. MacGowen and Joseph Goldstone. This
report is furnished to you with the understanding
that it will be returned and while it is in your
hends no copy or extract will be communicated
to enyone outside of your Department.
Carter L. Burgess
FORVICTORY
BUY
UNITED
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
February 13, 1946
Received from Carter L. Burgess,
Depertment of State, one envelope con-
taining report by Generel Careway on
the subject of Hoverd H. macGowan and
Joseph Goldstone.
Hrly fa
Mr. Arnold

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
ASSISTAN
Jle
MR. RUSSELL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 3 1 1946
THE LEGAL ADVISER
A-R: Mr. Carter L. Burgess
At the time we were considering the case of McGowan
and Goldstone, I discussed the question of the transmis-
sion of the C.I.D. in the case report by the War Depart-
ment to the Senate Small Business Committee with Colonel
Lincoln of that Department.
Colonel Lincoln told me that the War Department has
never been officially apprised of the situation, as all
action had been taken in the area and that it was not in
a position to transmit the report which had been furnished
McGowan & Goldstone
in China to the American Consulate General in Shanghai.
Le:LMSummers:vb
1-29-46
18

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
CRININAL INVESTIGATION DIVISION
OPFICE THEATER PROVOST MARSEAL
UNI TRD SEATES FORCES
OHTEA THEATER
Shaaghai, Chine
19 Deeember, 1945
SURJEOT: EeWArd I. MAOGOMAN and Joseph GOLDSTONE, Alleged Repre-
sentatives of Uaited States Semate Small Dusiness Oommiétee
To
: Commanding General, Daited States Ferces, Chine Theater,
APO 879.
SUBBARY:
Devard I. NaoGewas and Joseph Geldstene, arrived in Shang-
hai en er abeut 22 Nevember 1945, allegedly as represeatatives of
the United States Semate Small Busimess Cemmittee, fer the parpese
of making an efficial sarvey ef basiness conditions and eppertuni-
ties fer small basimess in Chime. Immediately after their arrival
and threaghout their stay in Chims they cendacted megetiatiens fer
large scale private busimess traasactions with the very apparent
purpese of effecting as much of a memepely of the available werld
wapply ef cultured pearls as was pessible. Although pessessing no
specific euthority fer such purpose, these subjects alse made a six
day trip to Japan in cennectien with the cultured pearl industry
there.
Mr. Geldstene was the principal in these transactions, al-
theugh MaoGewan admittedly had fall kmowledge ef and was present at
most of. the negetiations. Mr. Golastone represents one of the larg-
est American pearl cencerns and breught with him te China approximately
$120,000.00 in ourrency, checks and letters of credit, and alse ar
ranged fer additienal financing in the sum ef $300,000.00. Mr. Gold-
stone attempted te leave Chimà by air on 17 December 1945 with a large
shipment of pearls. His trip was cancelled and the pearls seised.
This iavestigatien vas denducted with the concurrence and
approval of Nr. Maarey Maverick, Gemeral Manager, Small War Plants
Corperation, a United States geveramental agsncy. whe strongly con-
demned subject's practices of cenducting private basiness for prefit
while allegedly engaged en efficial business and trarelling under
oral. Chine Theater.
DETAILS:
1. On 3 December 1945 infermatien was received from a con-
fidential source by the Assistant Director, Crimimal Investigation
Divisien, that twe American civilians, allegedly members of or repre-
senting the United States Senate, were engaging in private business
transactiens en a large scale with the apparent parpese of effecting
a menepoly of the available werld supply ef cultured pearls.
2. Investigatien ef these reports was immediately insti-
tuted since the illegal use ef severnment transpertation was involved.
It was ascertained that the civilians referred te were a Nr. Heward

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
I. MacGevaa and a Mr. Joseph Geldstone, whe wore allegedly representa-
tives of the Uaited States Semate Small Business Committee visiting
the Ogiemt fer the parpese of maldng a survey of busimess conditiens
fer said eommittee. As best as ceald be determined, their treasporta-
tien had been arranged fer by the State Department and they had traveled
by military airoraft frem the Uaited States to China.
3. Preliminary isvestigatien disclosed that NacGewan aad Geld-
atone had arriyed in Shaaghai about 22 Nevember 1945 and almest immodia-
tely after their arrival had emenged in megetiatiens vith several deal-
ors for the aveved pespese ef cermering the market en pearls. The full
detaile ef their metivities will be vabeequently develeped in this re-
pert, bat she first infematiem ressived indicated that their initially
plasped eperatione iavelved parckases of upwards ef five hmadred thou-
caad'de11arp ($500.000.00).
4. It wes eetabliabed that NeGevas vas & Regiozal Dirocter of
the Small War Plants Gerpération, a Uaited States gevermment agenoy, and
that he had beem Leaned to the Semate Seall Business Committee for the
parpese ef this trip. St this time, en 5 December lg45, it was learned
that Mr. MaUnmY MaVERICK, Gemeral Manager of the Small War Plants Corpera-
sien, was alse is Shanghai en efficial busimess fer his erganisation. An
interview was immediately arranged vith Mr. Maverick and he was infermed
of all of the kmewa feets regarding babjects, including the fact that
they had left Shanghai about 3 December 1945 fer Tekye where they were
repertedly seing te make seme arrangemeatefin cenmectien with the cultured
pearl indagtry there. sabjects had ne known authorisation te make this
trip.
5. Mr. Maverick stated that even if MacGowan and Goldstone were
representing a Senate cemmittee it would be highly improper for them to
traasact any private tusiness while en an official mission. Accordingly,
Mr. Maverick prepared a radio to the Cemmander in Chief of Allied Forces
in the Pacific requesting lavestigation in Japan ef subject's activities
there, and stating that if "MaoGowan is in any way connected with trans-
actions efsmsarivate nature, that be be informed that I, as General Mana-
ger of the Smaller War Plants Corperation, do by this cemmunication re-
meve him frem aay cennection with the Smaller War Plants Corperation
immediately". and directing that MaoGowan be returned to the United. States.
(Exhibit A) Mr. Maverick further informed the Director, Criminal Investi-
gation Division, China Theater, that he desired the fullest pessible in-
vestigatien ef these reperts and that he would estend every pessible. cooper-
ation in furthering and expediting smch investigation.
6. With the concurrence of the Secretary to the General Staff.
China Theater, mach radie was sent te Tokyo on 6 December 1945. Shortly
thereafter, on 8 Deeember l945, & radie was alse sent to the Theater
Prevest Marshal in Tokye requesting iavestigatien and repert of MacGovants
and Geldsten's activities in Japan with respect te the pearl indastry.
(mzhibit D)
7. Mr. Maverick had preceeded to Changking in the meantime and
radie was received em 10 Deeember 1945 frem him stating "that whether
strictly illegal er met private treding for prefit en goverment expense

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.95)
-3
or prestige is se unethical and of smch sreat impropriety that posttive
action to stop it should be taken immediately," and that if HacGowan "is
using or permitting to be used covermment prestige or expense for private
profit, he is to be informed immediately of the termination of his der
vicos.. (Exhibit C)
8. Heamwhile, on or about 9 December 1945. subjocts had both
returned to Shanghai from Tokye and had resumed negotiations fon the pur
chase of large quantities of pearls which culminated on 14 December 1g45
in an outright purchase of over three thousand strands of peerls. In-
formation was aiso received that Goldstone and MacGowan were making arr
angements to return to the United States by air as soon as possible and
that, they intended to take the pearle with them.
9. Transportation of the pearls by air back to the United
States, or an attempt to do so, would, in addition to any other wrongs
com itted by subjects, constitute a direct violation of the provisions
of Circular No. 48, Rear Echelon, Headquarters U.S. Forces. China Theater,
dated 8 April 1945, which specifically states that "Ne person shall use
any means of transportation to export, transport - - - - - out of this
Theater - - - - - any article, merchandise, material or equipment for
commercial purposes." (Exhibit D).
10. On 14 Decèmber 1945. a conference was held by the Deputy
Chief of Staff, the Theater Judge Advocate General and the Directer.
Criminal Investigation Division, to determine the action to be taken,
with respect'to subjects. It was decided that if subjects, or either of
them, were to attempt to leave the Chine Theater by air with a commercial
cargo, they were to be detained for investigation, the-cargo seised pur-
suant to the provisions of Ciroular No. 4s, air transportation cancelled
and subjects returned te the U.s. by water transport in order that this
report could reach proper mthorities in Washington, D.C., before subjects
reached the United States.
11. On 15 December 1945. Geldstone purchased a ticket on the
Globester for return te the United States after ebtaining a twe hundred
pound excess baggage allowance frem the Theater Priority Board for "offi-
cial" purpeses. The mormal bagéage allevance for air passengers is
sixty-five pounds. In additiem to the tie handred pounds of baggage
thus alleved, Geldetone alse had an excess bassage weight ef eighty-two pounds
for the transpertatien of which he paid at the rate of feur dellare and
sixty-five cents ($4.65) a peand, making a tetal charge ef three handred
eighty-one dellars and thirty ceats ($3sl.30). (Exhibit) It was alse.
ascertained that Meoßeven was planning to leave Shanghai fer the United
Statés within a few days after Geldatome's depertare. As will be seen,
subsequent events made it impessikle te determine whether Naeßevan was
fer private profit.
12. On 15 Deeember 1945, Mr. Neverick returned to Shaaghai for
opmente ia the sabfeet iavestigatien to date. lo egnis requested the fal-
and addressed a locter es gnstruetione te the Commanding Gomeral, Tor the

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
Criminal Investigetion Division, in which he authorized and requested
a complete investigation of thie case. (Exhibit 7)
13. Mr. Maverick also prepared a radio addreseed to the
Smaller War Plants Corporation, Washington, Info State Department, t
which was sent out on 17 December 1945. with the concurrence of the
Secretary to the General Staff. In this radio, Hr. Haverick denounced
the private business transactions of Goldstone and MacGowan, requested
that MaoGowan's employment be terminated, and that the Senate Small
Business Committee, the State Department and Atterney General's Office
be netified. Mr. Maverick also approved of holding up plane transpor
tation for MacGowan and Goldstone and returning them to the United
States by ship. (Exhibit G)
14. On 17 December 1945. Mr. Goldstone boarded an ATC plane.
at Kiangwan Airfield, bound for Manila en route to the United States.
After the plane had taxied inte pesition, fust before it took off from
the field, Mr. Goldstone and his luggage were removed from the plane
after he admitted that one of his bags centained over three thousand
strands of pearls, for which be had paid ever twenty thousand dollars
($20.000.00) in United States currency, and almost six million dollars
(CN$6,000,000.00) in Chinese Mational Currency for Chinese export duty
and incidental charges.
15. The bag containing the pearls was seised from Mr. Gold-
stone pursuant te the provisione of Ciroular No. 48, and he was given
a sixty day notice and receipt, dated 17 December 1945, which informed
him of his right to make a written request te the Commanding General.
Chine Theater, setting forth the reasons, if any, why the seised prop-
orty should be tetarmed. (See Exhibit D. par. Vill and Inclosure f1)
16. On 18 December 1945. Hr. Goldstene, after having been
advised of his rights to remain silent and net to make any statement,
written or oral, executed and were te the truth ef a written state-
ment attached herete. (kxhibit m). At the same time, Nr. MacGowan,
whe was similarly and fully advised ef his rights to remain silent or
make any eral er written statemeats he desired, refused to make any
written statement but did consent te answer séme questions. A state-
ment ef the material infermatien secured at a cenference en 1s Decem-
ber 1945, attended by MaoGevan, Geldstone and the undersigmed, is alse
attached herete. (Exhibit I)
17. The ensaing part efthis repert is a chronological state-
ment ef the material facts diselesed in this investigatien relative to
the transactien ef private business by Seldstone and/er MacGevan while
they vere presemably engged en an offielal missien in Chine fer the
United States Somate Small Basisess Committee, and while they were
travelling en geverament transpertatien uader efficial anspéces.
18. The fizet advice received by the office of the United
States Consal in Shenchai geearding mabjeets wae a radie from the Sec-
retary of state, dated 17 Dcteber 1g45, which stated that MacGewan
of Changlcing, Banlow, Canten, Shanghai, and Tiantain. Although five

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
one of them; and although me mentien ef Japan is made, mabjects are kmown
to have made a six day trip to Tolge. thie radie farther stated that the
"precise itinerary and parpese of missiem will be set ferth in ciroalar
telegram te be tranmitted later". The latter referred te eirealar tele-
grem was allegedly mever received by the Ceneulate, ner were any ether
official ceimanications relative to thaée missiem in Chime exoept for
radio requesting infermatien asked for in first radie be expedited.
19. It is necessary to explain at this peint that the Shanghai
American Consualate has ruled that no interregatien ef their persennel or
examination ef their recerds, relative te subjects, weuld be pemitted
without the prier consent of the State Department. Accordingly, an effi-
cial request wes made fer such permissien te the Shanghai Ceneal General,
whe has stated that each request has been ferwarded te the Seoretary of
State. To date me reply has been received. With a few mimer exceptiens.
therefore, it has net been pessible te secure any efficial infermatien
frem the Cemsulate and all references to information secured er available
from the Semmmlate staff or records mmst be considered te be unofficial.
20. Subjects are believed te have arrived in Shanghai on or
about 22 Wovember 1945. The Consulate was informed of their arrival but
were led to believe that one of the party vas a United States Senater,
whioh mistaken impression was hot cerrected until some time later. Through-
out this investigation the undersigmed have neted that people with whom
subjects dealt were left with the impression that one or both of the sub:
jects were sither United States Senaters er members of a Senate Committee.
Attached as an exhibit bereto is a calling card used by Goldstone which
reads "Joe Goldstone - United States Semate Small Business Committee - 5
North Wabash Avemme, Chicago, Illinois." (Exhibit X)
21. Both Goldstone and MaoGowan possessed letters signed by Sen-
ator James E. Murray, Chairman ef the Small Business Cemmittee, which sets
forth their mission and authority in the vaguest sort of terms. The letter
to Goldstone is dated 1 September 1945 and 1s set forth in his statement
(Exhibit H). It desigmates him as "Consultant of Foreign Trade to the Far
East" and speaks of "assigming important studies te yeu". But the letter
neither expressly nor impliedly sathorises a trip to Chine or anywhere
else outside ef the United States. MaoGowan's letter is more lengthy but
he would net submit it te be cepied nor would be make any statement re-
garding his mission or authority. (Exhibit I).
22. Prior to leaving the United States on the subject trip.
Goldstone had sent at least three cables to a woman named Eve LIPxovskt,
a Shanghai resident who had been in the empley of the Imperial Pearl Syn-
dicate in Chicago intermittently from 1937 to 1939. Acderding to Miss
Lipkovsky this "was the firm of Mr. Joseph Goldstone." (Exhibit L). This
was also the firm in whose name Goldstone later purchased the pearls which
he attempted to take with him out of China. (Exhibit Q)
23. The first of these cables inquired "if the pearls were still
available". The other twe cables stated that ir. Geldstone was coming to
Shanghai and asked Miss Lipkovsky to get in touch with him upon his arrival.
(Exhibit L)

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.93)
6
24. Miestisphovey 1o the deaghter of Moses LIProvanY, omer
stone éohed dhe Idphovakye to assemblo and send him a ahipment of pearls.
Dedember 1941. (Ehibite L,N)
25. Iamodlately aster their arrival ia Shaaghal, Goldstone and
Naodowan got in tenck with the Lipkovakye and Geldstene asked them to
seeure a large ameust ef pearls fer him which they immediately set abont
deins. Ultimately, eme lot of ever three theusand strande was assembled
ef a tetal value of over twenty theusand dollars ($20,000.00). This was
the shipment whiek Geldstene had with him whem he attempted to leave
Ohime en 17 December 1945 and 1s as set ferth in Invoice No. 1066 of the
Cathay Jewellery (mahibite). This imveice was made out te the Imperial
Pearl Syndicate, 5 Nerth Wabash Ave.; Chicage. Illimeis. which is the
same adaress as appears es the Senate Small Basiness Committee calling
card ased by Geldstone (Exhibit I)
26. The Lipkevakys alse prepared anether shipaent of approxi-
mately eight thousand five hundred dellars ($8500.00) worth of pearls
which purpertedly they were to ship to Goldstene by water. (Exhibits H,L.
x.)
27. The first shipment was seld en 14 December 1945.(Exhibit Q)
On the seme day megetiatiens were began fer clearing the shipment through
Chinese cstems and an advance payment ef almest six milliom dellars
(Cn$6,000,000.00) Chinese Matienal Oarrency was made egainst the export
daty (Exhibit R). Custems clearaace was completed en the fellowing day.
and en the same day a cemsular iwelce was seoured (Exhibit s).
28. Geldstehe had already made arraagements to fly back to the
United states and the consular imveices sheveersmastahe pearls were to be
takem. back by "Air Express" as "bageage of Mr. Joe Geldstene". (Exhibit 8).
The Chinese customs inveice described the shipment as "1 case Pearls by
Airplam fer U.S.A." (Exhibit R).
29. Captain Jemes. L. King. ATC Prierities and Control Officer,
has stated that en 13 December 1945, Goldstone had asked him to secure
passage te the United States on the Glebester and that Goldstone pur-
chased his transpertation on 15 December 1945. Ordinarily, passengers
are only allowed sixty-five pounds of bageage when travelling by air.
However, Goldstene had secured a twe hundred peund allevance from the
Theater Priority Board for "efficial" purpeses. Goldstone asked Captain
King to erase from his priority certificate the word official as pertain-
ing to his baggage allowance and also the description of his baggage.
Captain King did this en one cepy but left the other two unchanged. (Exhibit W)
30. Captain King had been informed of the pönding investiga-
tion ef aeldstone and. wàs acting with the kmowledge of the Criminal Investi-
sation Divisien in complying with Goldstone's requests to conceal the
nature of his baggage. When Goldstone was removed from the plane on
17 December 1945, a search of his bageage was made in his presence, and
with his consent, by the undersigned. At that time the baggage consis-
ted of the case of pearls, personal clothing and effects, some silk goods
and kimonos which Goldstone said were intended as gifts, and a few manila
folders with papers which Goldstone.characterised as efficial. The latter

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
did not weigh more than one pound at most.
31. Captain King stated that Goldstone told him of hi. desire
to build up "an organization for mmmufacturing costume jewelry, particu-
larly Jade and Siamese Zircons". and that Goldstone and MacGowan "indi-
cated that they were going te build up a large organization and wished me to
work with them." King stated that Gojdstone also said that he would
later wire King "concerning future plans for me to represent his interest:
in China". (Exhibit U)
32. At the time that Goldstone was purchasing the pe rls from
Hoses Lipkovsky, he took the latter to the Shanghai branch of the Chase
Bank and introduced him to the manager, Mr. Petersen. Goldstone told
Petersen that Lipkovsky "was to be his representative in Shanghai for the
purpose of purchasing pearls for him. He told Mr. Petersen that he was
going to deposit $100,000.00 with the bank, and that as I shipped pearls
to him and presented the papers to the bank I was te be paid from this
deposit. Then when Mr. Goldstone received the pearls in the United States
he would deposit the amount in the bank again so that I would always have
enough money on hand to pay for any shipment I would make, no matter how
larse it was". (Exhibit X). This accords with the statement of this pro-
posed transaction given by Mr. Bric A.Q. Petersen, Manager of the Chase
Bank in Shanghai. (Exhibit O).
33. Mr. Petersen also stated that he had seen in Goldstone's
possession letters of credit in the tetal amount of one bandred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) in addition to an unspecified amount ef travellers
checks. Petersen cashed two drafts fer Golastone in the total wum of
sixteen thousand six hundred dollars ($16,600.00). (Exhibit 0).
34. Moses Lipkovsky intreduced Goldstone and NaoGowan to a
Mr. A. Beerbrayer, who is described as "one of the iggest pearl dealers
in Shanghai" and refers to an agreement entered into between Gondstone
and MacGowan. (Exhibit M). Mr. Beerbrayer states that even before Geld-
stone's arrival in Shanghai, Lipkovaky had been in touch with him to tell
him "that a dealer was coming ever frem the United States te buy pearls."
Lipkovsky wanted Beerbrayer to hold his entire stock of pearls for the
expected American dealer, which Beerbrayer tentatively agreed to de.
(Exhibit P).
35. Goldstone was intsedaced to Beerbrayer "as being the biggest
pearl dealer in the United States", and MacGowan was introduced as "a
member of the United States Senate and a very important man". Geldstone
told Beerbrayer "that be weated te bay my entire steck ef pearls becsuse
he wanted te corner the whele market en pearls." (Exhibit P)
36. Beerbrayer's steck ef peasls wee valued by agreement at.
about four andred thousand dellars ($h00,000.00). Geldstene shewed
Beerbrayer twe letters of credit fer fifty thousamd dellars ($50,000.00)
each, and travellers checks fer abeut twemty theusand dollars ($20,000.00).
This accerds with what Mr. Petersen had seen in Geldstene's pessessien.
(Exhibit 0). Hovever, becaase ef lecal restrictieme en exehasge these
lotters of credit ceuld met be readily eached, sinse Beerbrayer was in-
sisting on payment in cash, Golástese aaked fer and received frem Boer-

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-8
The option was dated 3 December 1945 and was to erpire on 10 December
1945. and was signed by Goldstone. To convinee Beerbrayer of his ability
to pay Goldstone showed him a cable frem his bank in Chicago agreeing to
advance three handred thousand dollars ($300;000.00) against the merchan-
dise. This transaction was not completed dae to the failure of the par
ties to agree on the method of payment. (Exhibit P). Beerbrayer also
refers to Goldstone and MacGewan's trip to Japan "to find out about the
'pearl industry there".
37. Captain SAMANTO QUAIN, DC. ASN O-1717411, presently stationed
in Shanghai, stated en 19 December 1945 that he was an acquaintance of the
Lipkoveky family and had had dinner there on several occassions. One time,
early in Movember, he had been there when Miss Bve Lipkovsky had received
a cable frem Goldstone stating that be was coming to Shanghai soon and tell-
ing her to keep going". On a later occassion be had been in their home
when MaoGowan, Goldstone and Beerbrayer were also there. The discussions
throughout the evening had been in regard to pearls with most of the talk
centering areund a attempt by Goldstone and Beerbrayer to come to an agree-
ment for the sale of pearls te the former by the latter. In the course of
the cenversation, Captain Quain heard Goldstone say, "I want to control
every pearl coming in to the United States or I. don't want any at all".
Goldstone asked Captain Quain abeut the possibility of the latter getting
a package through te the United States for Goldstone, which Quain refused
te de. Goldstone alse mentioned that he could get the "dried fruit business
away frem MacGowan" if he wanted. te, at a time when MacGowan was not present.
Captain Quain also told of hearing another unidentified army officer remark
about "twe smart suys whe got government transportation to China to corner
the pearl market."
38. As a result of the facts elicited in this investigation,
action has been taken te cancel all air priorities previeusly given to
the subjects. This will leave them with no alternative ether than to
return te the United states by water, and every effert is being made to
expedite their return in this manner.
39. It is noteworthy that after MaoGowan learned of this investi-
atien and the cancellation of his air priority, and after he had attempted
to return to the Uaited states by air without saccess, he informed the
undersigmed en 19 December 1945 that he was trying to go to Changking "to
carry out his missien fer the Senate Small Business Committee."
OOMDETS:
L. There is seme deubt as to the existence of proper aathority
for sabjeets' trip to Chine and later to Japan. Sach credentials as have
beem seem de met specifioally authorise the trips and fail to indicate the
purpese or extent ef their missien abread. Hevever, even if their trip
was autherised there seems me deubs that its purpose was abused and cerrupted
inte a vemture fer private gain. There was no attempt en the part of either
of these "represemtatives of the Semate" te cever any part of China but
wair.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
with his friends here fer that purpese. Le farther evidenced that purpese
by briaging with him te Shanghai a wam of meney oe large that it could
net havs bees used fer any bat his wem persenal business ends. Immedía-
tely after hie arrival in Shaagbai he set te werk en consummating his
1dee of a eerner of the pearl market and persevered in it threaghout his
stay in Chine and up until the day of his sehedaled retura to the United
States with as arder and seal which weuld have been most leadable had it
been devoted te the estensible purpose of his trip abroad. It is very
apparent that subjeots could not have dome a great deal of work effici-
ally as a great part ef their time was takem up is attempting to cen-
sumate the corner on the pearl markst.
3. Beth MaoGowas and Goldstone have been guilty of the most
flagrent misrepresemtation of their efficial status and pesitien. The
belief that they were members of the Senate or of the Small Dusiness
Committee has been teo widespread to be entirely accidental or not due
to their careful fostering of mch mieapprehensions. (See Exhibits I.
L. M. , O. P. U. and paragraph 20 of Details supra).
4. Although Goldstone was andoubtedly the principal in the
business transactiens carried on in Shanghal, it is admitted by MaoGowan
that be was fully aware of what Goldstone was doing and that he could
see nothing improper in it (See Exhibit I). MacGowan's presence through-
out all of Goldstone's negotiations and business manipulations is ade-
qustely established by all other parties to the transactions. (See Ex-
hibits L. H. N, O. .P. U). As to the proprioty of uch dealings, how are
the American business men being served when their very "representatives"
are using their cloak of official mtherity to deny to others an oppor
tunity for fair and open cempetition on equal terms?
5. It has obviously not been pessible for the undersimed to
ascertain the ciroumstances sarrounding the means by which the subjects,
particularly Goldstene, were able to arrange this trip in the United
States. Ber has it beem possible as yet to secure any informatien con-
eerming their activities during their six day stay in Japan, although
their preoccupatien with the pearl indastry there as in Chine bespeaks
their neghect of all other phases of mall business.
6. The refusal by Geldstone and MaoGowan to discuss their
activities in Chine and Japan under the peer gaise that it is the con-
cern of the Senate alene is not the open honesty and frankmess normally
expected from men innocent of any wroagdoing. particularly frem repre-
sentatives ef our government. Goldstene was able to remember to include
in his sworn statement a "tentative effer" to buy five or six thousand
dollars worth of pearls and he actually denied the existence of a written
or oral agreement or any discussion relative to one signed by him only a
short time before, involving the purchase of almost four handred thousand
dolbars worth of pearls (See Exhibits H, I. P. T). Although Goldstone was
quick enough to flash his letters of credit for a bundred thousand dollars
when he was discussing business (See Exhibits M, O, P), he pointedly re-
fused to furnish any such information when he found himself under investi-
gation. (See Exhibit I).

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.88)
SECRET
-10
2. thas eptee of thie ropert be forearded to the
farther sesemmemded that this repert be
Dae, the Smaller er Plante Cospomatien, the Sate Dapartment, aad
the Waisel Statee Astosmey
ral fer tér infermatien and sach action
stone out of the Chise
4s be declared edafiocated.
4. That mabjecte be fally presecated for all crimes
JOHN F. STOSOPF, JR.
Lt. Col.,. OP
Directer, CID
Geargn Plothe
GRORGE PLOTKIN
lst Lt., CXP
Asst. Director, CID
Attached Exhibita:
Exhibit A - Radie dated 6 Dee 
8 Doo 45
D- Ciroular No. 4S
I- Ato ticket ef Goldstome
- Letter to 00. frem Maurey Maverick
G - Radio dated 17 Doo 45
I- Statement of Jee Geldstené
I - Statement ef Cenference en 18 Dec 45
J - Radio frem Secretary ef State, dated 17 Oct 45
I- Calling card of Joe Geldstone
L - Statement of Eve Lipkovaky
X
 Beris Lipkovaky
Eric A.G. Petersen
Anatele Beerbrayer
Invoice of Cathey Jovellery
 G.B. Marden & Co.
" American Consulate
T- Agreement between Geldstone and Beerbrayer
- Statement of Capt. James L. King

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.87)
10
JANA
In repiy refer to
J
Dear Mr. Ririmuras
Ton you por our lettr of Outober  rogurding
the cu civ t  ri iraustry in J un, which has been
referred to me. I isn to ex ress my reeret ut the
cely in re yina to it.
89
I hv Pewaroed ur letter to Mr. Frederick.
Lernell of te Divicion of Mancco ent Planming ho
ia v creits c'vi in ersomel ror Generel Mccarthur's
stJ
9
2
Sincertely yours,
8
I
4
Edwin M. Murtin, Chief
46
Division of Ja anesc and
Foreun conomic Affairs
C
S
Mr. Paul birimure
Paulst Peorls,
m
I North wtut Str t.
C icaso , Illinois
1
JK: EMMartin: Lmc
11-03-45
.56.
Rev
old
3
1546

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
C
elephone DEarborn 4314
0
P
Y
PAULS' (sic) PEARLS
"Call Paul for Pearls"
31 N. State Stre@t
Chicago 2, Ill.
October 24th, 1945
State Department
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sirs:
I am an American citizen of Japanese descent, born in
Hawaii, and married to an American citizen of Spanish-French descent
and have three children. I am 39 year old. I have been in cultivated
pearl business for the past 15 years, and considered as an expert in
pearls.
I am writing this letter because I think you would be in-
terested in knowing about the cultivated pearls which are produced
only in Japan. It takes from 3 to 4 years to produce cultivated
pearls from oysters and only Japan was able to produce them because
Mr. K. Mikimoto was the inventor of this method of producing the
pearls from the living oysters, and also labor is cheaper than any
other country. If this pearls are to be cultivated in this country,
with high cost of labor, the pearls would cost just as high as the
Oriental pearls. The pearl industry in Japan was growing until the
war and I think it must have stop ed as America has been the main
importer of the same. This is one of the peaceful industry using
many people in Japan as first they must raise the oysters and then
must be scientifically treatea in order to bear the pearl in each
oysters. The treated oysters must be look after by many persons for
more than two to three years before they are able to obtain the pearls
from them. Then pearls has to be graded and matched for color and
shape to make up the necklaces; all pearls has to be drilled in the
large factories etc.
This industry will not only give many jobs for the people
in Japan but will encourage the peaceful industry. This industry
vill not deprive any livelihood from any Americans in this country
as we cannot possibly raise pearls here due to high labor cost.
I have worked under Mr. Mikimoto who is the inventor of
cultivated pearls and I have only handled cutivated pearls in this
country and considered as an expert in the pearls. I have liquidated
the entire cultivated pearls stock of Mikimoto under the Treasury
Department direction while I was in New York, and also made an appraisal
for the Alien Property Custodian in Chicago in regard to the cultivated

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
pearls, and I am sure that I have enough experience in the pearls.
If you are interested in having someone make an investigation
in regard to the cultivated pearl industry in Japan I would like to
have you appoint me for the task as I am sure that I can complete
the survey in this particular field in Japan in one month time if I
am permitted to go there, as I know many of the pearl growers and I
am in better position to discuss their problem as one pearl-man to
another, and I can speak their language fluently.
I have taught the Civil Affairs Training School for the
officers at the Chicago University in Japanese language, and after
the close of the school I am teaching the army enlisted men of A.S.T.P.
at the University of Chicago at the present time.
Hoping to have the pleasure of hearing from you in the
near future, I am
Sincerely yours,
(Signed)
Paul Kirimura
C
0
P
Y

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
53
ACTIO:-LSP
INCOMING TELEGRAM
INFO:
1467
S
OJC -C
U
Moscow via War
C
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
A-0
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dated January 5,
A-R
CONFIIENTIAL
JAN 1 8 1946
EUR
Rec"d 11 a.m.
FE
DC/L-C
ITP
ACT INF
TRC
Secretary of tate
ESP
SPT
ES
FC-9
Washington
GA
DC/R-1
JK
43, January 5, 3 p.m.
Lozovsky has addressed reply dated January 3 to
Ambassador"s representatlons on Japanese fishermen and
fish stocks writing as follows:
894.628/1
RLDE PTEL. 2545, December 17.
"Acknowledging the receipt of your letter dated
December 24 addressed to Mr. Vyshinsk1 in regard to the
return to Japan of the property of Japanese fishing
-546
companies and Japanese fishermen remaining on territony
occupled by the Red Army, I state the following:
One. A conslderable portion of the property and
fish stocks of the Japanese fishing companies, which
you meutlon in your letter, was destroyed during the
perlod of military operatlons against Japan or proved
to be spoiled. The remaining portion of the property
and fish stocks wes taken by troops of the  y
as trophies, and used in part for the needs of the
Red Army, and also for the supply and satisfactlon of the
needs
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
60
CONFIDENTIAL
-2- #43, January 5, 3 p.m. from Moscow via War.
needs of the Japanese population remaining on these
territories.
Two. As regards the return of the Japanese fisher-
men from these territorles, the question has been referred
at the present time for consideration to the competent
Soviet authorities, of whose future decision I shall not
fall to inform you."
Department please repeat to Tokyo for General
MacArthur.
KENNAN
WTD
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
•PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Dopartment:
CONFIDENTIAL
Washington
Charge to
2647
Junuary 12, 1946
UB URGENT
C
C
AMAN CORUL,
4
MaILA (Philippine Islands)
C
65
C
Der famesietely reptiree informatl on on what meens
transportation being uses by Goldstone und MeGowan. Also
estimated time arrivel t which Hest Coast port.
2
4
Acheron
Acting
(HSM)
Telephened by Cs:dClore
at request of A-n:C.urgess
:may:f
FE-(Cleared by phone
with A.L.MorPat)
46
Cat

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT DETACH FROM WHITE COPY
FILE NUMBER
RECORD COPY
The attached white copy of a telegram or airgram
has been designated the record copy to replace the
894.628/1
yellow action copy which was not returned to the
central record: by the action office.
The copy must be returned to DC/R for filing.
346

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
INFORMATION
CENTRAL SERVICES
COPY
TELEGRAPH SECTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACTION MUST BE ENDORSED
ACTION: A-R
ON ACTION COPY
INCOMING TELEGRAM
INFO:
S
DCG -P
4458
U
Paraphrase before com-
C
municating to anyone.1945 4Man1146
A-A/L
LE
Dated January 13, 1946
FE
DC/L
DC/R
CONFIDENTIAL
RERecCH0:50 a.m., 13th
Secretary of State,
Washington.
US URGENT
61, January 13, 8 p.m.
C
Please clarify URTEL, 65, January 12, Goldstone
.c
and McGowan unknown here.
STEINTORF
LMS
CONFIDENTIAL
DOR
1-1346
Rev
Gat.
11:

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
whatma
ATIONAL RESOURCES-DLVI
Técln
TELEPHONE
BRYANT 9-5227
TECLA NEW YORK
MAR 21 1946
YDERARTMENT OF STATE
608 FIFTH AVENUE. NEW
LONDON
PARIS
Februery d1n 1940
 AFFAIRS
Honorable Secretary of State Byrnbs
THRS
Washington,
FFR111946
D. C.
Dear Sir:
We would appreciate a ruling from you on the following:
Our corporetion specializes in cultured pearls, both whole-
sale and reteil. The cultured pearl beds are controlled by the
894.628/
Jepanese, they are ell in Japanese waters, except for certain
qualities in the Dutch East Indies, which were elso owned by the
Japanese.
VWe refreined from making purchases during the war and
since, which might be deemed a violation of the Trading with the
Enemy Act.
2
During the past month, various salesmen have approached us.
for the purpose of sel ing to us, quentities of cultured pearls of
1146
Japenese origin, which they claim to have secured from Shanghai and
on which they say they have paid United States Customs duty.
Moreover, recently proninent depertment stores in New York
heve advertised the sale of cultured peerls, (which we have reason
to believe, ere of recent purchase).
While we are mindful of the fact that it is not your province.
to act in an advisory capacity, we would welcome an expression from
you es to whether there are eny departmontal regulat ons which would
prohibit us from purchusing cultured pearls, which were originally
the product of Japan, on which custom duty had been paid and which
enterdd the U.S A. since the Japenese Armistice.
We trust you will find it possible to oblige us with areply
S5
Very truly yours,
/VJ
N
Copy to:
Ben Blumenthal, President.
Secretary of the Treasury Vinson
Secretary of Commerce Wallace

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.95)
MAP15
In reply refer to
J394.628/2-1146
vy dear r. Blumenthal:
Reference is made to your ietter of February 1l, in regard
to the purchase of cultured pearls of Japanese origin.
89
The  epirtment of State perceives no objection to the pur-
chase by imurican firns of pearls bel eved to be of Japanese
4.6
origin provided ths custons regulations have beon fully complied
with and provided there is no direct contact with Japanese nationals.
As you know, it is not possible at present to permit direct trading
2
relations betweon the Japanese firms or individuals and those of
8
other countrins. All exports of marchandise from Japan to the
Unitud States will be handled by the .S. C mmercial Company, an
2
official govornment corporation designated for this pur ose. In-
fornation received fros the Supreme Commander in Tokyo Andicates
11
that both culturui and natural pearle will be available for export
during 1946. In the event that you are interested in making such
4
purchases may i s kgest thut yon communicate your interest to the
6
O.S.C.C. in vashington.
In addition, it appears entiroly possible that pearls of
Japanwso origin and sold either before or during the war in Shanghai
C
or other Chinese markets may have been resold since the end of hos-
S
tilities and imported into the United States. The Department would
interpose no objectione to the purchase of such imported pearls from
old stocke proviled the regulations roferred to in the above para-
graph aro not violated, and provijed these transactions are not con-
68
sidered by the Treasury Department to be in violation of the Trading
with the knemy nct. It is noto: that yo: have writton a similar
inquiry
2
12-1146

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
inquiry to the Treasury Cepartment and it is presumed that these
points will be alucidated in the Treasury's reply.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Ndwin M. Martin,Chief
Division of Japanese and
Korean Foonomic Affairs
Ar. Hon Blumenthal, President,
Teola,
608 Fifth Avenue,
Now York, H.Y.
CK
WmB Pson
Gen dwitl
JK:Mrown:me
3/7/46
IR
ME
Treasury
gavy
mr al
WB

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64.
1/14/46
DATB:
FE
TO
DC/R
FROM
IR - R. P. Terrill
SUBJECT :
The attached despatch has been
in the Department since January 5
and in our opinion transmittal of
appropriate enclosures to the
Senate Small Business Committee and
the Smaller War Plants Corporation,
in accordance with General Caraway's
request, should be expedited.
As we understand the matter under
reference, this Department is in no
way involved in the alleged mal-
feasance of office by a representative
of the U.S. Senate Small Business
Committee while in China. The
Department, through the American
Consulate General in Shanghai, is
merely acting as a transmittal
agency.
IR:RPT:amh

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.69)
1-9.45
DCB-..
Refirince on
arptoo de o DR
ede
rat le dte
mo Ter
.
 p
FC-E

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
Feb. 22, 1946.
In re letter from mr. Joseph Goldston
regarding seizure of pearls.
It woupd appear that we might merely
acknowledge receipt of this letter, and
indicate that in our view the question
as to the right to the recovery of the
pearls allegedly taken from Mr.Goldstone
by U.S.Military authorities in China is
a matter to be taken up between him and
the War Department. I do not perceive how
the Department of State is involved in the
matter.
894.628/2-1246
LE: WWBishop
mi
ASSISTANT SEC
W.L. CLAYTON
FEB 25 1946
AA-C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.82)
E-M. Summert
Ca has
wit heen on The
"acdi0n and "o2
This guertion.
fhice you thome
Tohon sonme utrest
sin it, I'om
rondin it aloy
ris the tope gou'ss
to somether
with it.
8

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
110.007

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.88)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
2/13/x
DATE:
t0 : De/R
Ca
FROM:
SUBJECT:
The ittushed
lette in zent t D c/12
ou enky & noutrn
A-c, Ca, ES,
to LE
and ER ite.
F

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
IMPERIAL PEARL SYNDICATE
CABLE ADDRESS
"KENO"
NEWYORK
SAN FRANCISCO
CHICAGO
PADANG SUMATRA
(DUTCH EAST INDIES)
CHICAGO
5 NORTH WABASH AVENUE
CHICAGO,ILLINOIS
PHONE: DEARBORN RIX
February 12, 1946
DIVISION
OF
LEPAI ADVISER
118462-22.46
DEFARTMENSIAE
Honorable James F. Byrnes
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
LMy Dear Mr. Secretary:
894.628/2-1246
Thi letter is submitted to protect all rights of
Mr. Joseph Goldstone and the Imperial Fearl Syndicate, Inc., an
Illinois Corporation, vith respect to certain pearls taken from
Mr. Goldstone's possession ai nangnai, Unina on the 17th of
December, l945 by tne Criminal Investigation Livision of the
Ofrice of the China Tneatre Provost arsnal.
Mr. Joseph Goldstone purciased cultured pearls at a
cost of 20,008.50 at Shanghai, China, by an order placed on
December 10, 1945 and paid for on December 14, 1945. A Chinese
Import-Export tax of $4887.80 was thereupon paid on these pearls
by him to the Uninese government. The pearls were then sealed
by the Uninese Customs authorities anu a consular invoice issued
on uecemuer 15, 1945 by the Vice Consul of the United tates of
Anerica at Shanghai, China. lar. Goldstone arranged with the
air Transport conmand for nis passage back to the United states
and on secember 16, 1945 paid the excess baggage churges due on
the suitease containing the pearls. The suitcase was placed on
the plane by the ir Irunsport Command. As the plane was about
to depart for the United states, Mr. Golastone and the pearls
were removed therefrom by the Criminal Investigation Division of
MAY 2 01949
the Uffice of the China Theatre Provost Marshal.
894.628
The pearls were retained by the Criminal Investigation
Division and a dooument, a copy of which is attached hereto, was
handed Mr. Goldstone. This document states that a written request
SSARY
for the return of the seized property must be made to the
.LON
E AT
Comnanding Genural, Heauquarters, Rear cnelon, U. s. F.,
China Theatre, within sixty days from the uate of issuance. No
1946
copy of the ciroular under wnicn the seizure was made was given
2-1246
r. Goldstone before or after the seizure of the pearls, but it
5
A-C
is understood that the circular was construed to pronibit the use
2
by him of the United States rmy Transport service.
B
E
F
MAR 29 1946

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
IMPERIAL PEARL SYNDICATE
CABLE ADDRESS
"KENO"
CHICAGO
NEW YORK
SAN FRANCISCO
CHICAGO
PADANG SUMATRA
(DUTCH EAST INDIES)
5 NORTH WABASH AVENUE
CHICAGO,ILLINOIS
PHONE: DEARBORN 9627
Honorable James F. Byrnes
No question us raised at any time as to r. Golastone's lawful
possession of the peurls.
It nas not been possible for mr. Goldstone to comply with
the sixty-day provision of the attached document. Air transport
back to the United States was denied him and the ship on whichhe
finally arranged passage did not arrive in Tacoma, "ashington until
the 26th day of January, 1946. It was necessary for Mr. Goldstone
to stop at Cnicago, his home and place of business, and he did not
arrive in ashington, D. C. until February 6th, 1946. Promptly
thereafter, that 1s on February 8th, 1946, representations were
made to the .ar Department tnat it vas not possible to comply with
the sixty-day provision, unu the ar partment was requested to
take all necossary steps to prevent the disposition of the pearls
penuing a decision us to Mr. Goldstone's rignts therein. It is
understood tiat a radio vus dispatched to the Command Headquarters,
China Tneatre, on Feuruary 9th, requesting that the pearis be not
disposed of, pending furtner vord from the ar Department.
This letter is net intended to constitute a brief in
support of ir. uolustone's rignts to receive the pearls. It is
submitted in urier to make it a matter of record tnat ir. Goldstone
nas exerciseu uue diligence in secaing to comply with the attached
document. mr. Golustone is anxious to present nis case for the
return or the pearls, with rull facts in support thereof, at the
conveniece of the nar or state Department or both. 1t is requested
that the undersigned be informed of the procedure to be followed in
permitting nim to present his case.
an identical letter is being sent to the Honorable secretary
of ..ar.
Respectfully submitted,

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
0
。0
P
Y
REGIONAL OFFICE
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION DIVISION
OFFICE THEATER PROVOST MARSHAL
CHINA THEATER
APO 879
17 December 1945
Case No.
TO: Mr. Joseph Goldstone
10 West Elm Street
Chicago, Illinois
In accordance with the provisions of Sec 8 (1) Ciroular 48,
Headquarters Rear Echelon, USF, China Theater, dated 8 Apr1l 1945,
you are hereby notified that a period of sixty (60) days from date
is granted, during which you may make a written request to the
Commanding General, Headquarters, Rear Eohelon, USr, China Theater,
setting forth the reasons, if any, why property confiscated under
Ciroular 48, supra, should be returned to you. Upon receipt of
reasons for the return of said property or at the expiration of
sixty (60) days, whichever is the sooner, the property will be dis-
posed of as direoted by the Commanding General, Headquarters, Rear
Echelon, USF, China Theater.
/B/ John F. Stoskopf, Jr.
DIR. CID
Received above notice this 17 day of December 1945.
Property: one suitcase sealed by customs ∞ntaining pearls under consular
invoice no. 115.
(Inclosure #1)

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
VAR
In reply refer to
Le 894.628/2-1246
My dear Mr. Goldstone:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
February 12, 1946 with which you enclosed a copy of
a notice from the Regional Office of the Criminal
894.628/2-1
Investigation Division, Office Theater Provost
Marshal, China Theater, dated December 17, 1945,
regarding a suitcase containing pearls.
Since it is understood that the pearls are in
the possession of the military authorities, it is
assumed that their disposition would have to be
determined by appropriate Army regulations.
Your letter and its enclosure will be retained
124
in the Department's files.
Sincerely yours,
D
For the Secretary of State:
0
R. W. Flournoy
3
Acting Legal Adviser
894.628/2-1246
Mr. Joseph Goldstone,
Imperial Pearl Syndicate,
5 North Wabash Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois.
Le:GGray:vb
2-4-46
CF
5
946

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.93)
index and teturn to
IR-Fisheries-
261946
My dear Mr. Freeman:
894.628/2-2646
In accordance with your request to Mr. Flory recently
I ar herewith enclosing two copies of a press release
with respect to the treatment of Japanese fishing and
aquatic industries during the occupation period.
Sincerely yours,
EGC
Edward G. Cale
Associate Chief,
International Resources Division
Enclosure:
1. Two copies of
press release.
CS/V
Mr. Miller Freeman,
Pacific Fisherman Publication,
71 Columbia Street,
Seattle, Washi gton.
R
220
U.1
345
2
IR: WESFlory: pmc
2/20/46

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.94)
index. and return to
IF-Fisheries
894.628/2-2646
261946
My dear Mr. Ponsford:
For your information I am enclosing herewith two
copies of a press release with respect to the treat-
ment of Japenese fishing and aquatic industries during
the occupation period.
Sincerely yours,
EGC
Edward G. Cale
Associate Chief,
International Resources'Division
CS/V
Enclosure:
/1. Two copies of
press release.
Mr. Arthur Ponsford,
Miller Freemen Publication
124 West Fourth Street
22
Los Angeles, Californic.
96
人
Es子.
IR:WESFlory:pmc
2/20/46

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.93)
index and return to
IR-Fisheries
Se zil
FFB 26194F
My dear Mr. Allen:
For your information I am enclosing herewith two
copies of a press release with respect to the treat-
ment of Japanese fishing and equatic industries during
the occupation period.
sincerely yours,
Ege
Edward G. Cale
Associate Chief,
International Resources Division
Enclosure:
1. Txo copies of
press release.
Mr. Edward. Allen,
1308-1316 Northern Life Tower,
Seattle, Bashington.
2
7ES7
IR: WESFlory: pmc
2/20/46

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
SwNee
R. P. HARPER
T.C. VAN CAMP
PRESIDENT
CALIFORNIA TUNA, SARDINES AND MACKEREL
EXCLUSIVE PACKERS OF
CABLE ADDRESS VAN CAMP
SAN PEDRO
VICE PRESIDENT
TIN-APA
BENTLEY
AND SALES MANAGER
ARMSBY
SECRETARY-TREASURER
H. C. WARD
Van Camp Sea Food Co Inc
CODES
CALPAC
A. B. C. 6TH
ACME
PRIVATE
wE87
hicken
To reply reguire
Sea
TERMINAL ISLAND. CALIFORNIA
MAR 15 1940
March 7, 1946
OENT O STATE
Mr. Edward G. Cole
Associate Chief,
Internaticnal Resources Division
894.628/3-746
Den rtment of State
Yash'ngton, D. C.
Year Mr. Cole:
thanl you for sending me a cony of the Press
Release lc. 118 of February 18. Ye of the fishing
industry here on the Vest Coast are particularly
interested in any hennenings in the Japanese fishing
inlustry.
Very truly yours,
Nontgomery Phister
1P:mh
894.628/3.746
CS/A

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
A.L.HAGER. CHAIRMAN
ESTABLISHED BY THE CONVENTION
FOOT OF GORE AVENUE
VANCOUVER. B.C.
BETWEEN CANADA
CHARLES E.JACKSON
AND THE UNITED STATES
SUITE ZO6, I83S K STREET H.W.
INTERNATIONAL PACIFIC SALMON
FOR THE PROTECTION,
WASHINGTON. D.C.
PRESERVATION AND EXTENSION
A.J. WHITMORE
FISHERIES
FISHERIES COMMISSION
CANADA
OF THE
EDWARD W. ALLEN
NORTHERN LIFE TOWER
B. M. BRENNAN
TOM REID
DIRECTOR
740 COLUMBIA STREET
OFFICE AND LABORATORY
FRED J. FOSTER,
LATIMER PLACE
DOMINION BUILDING
NEW WESTMINSTER, B. C.
894.6
March 11, 1946.
no reply required
File
Mr. Edward G. Cale,
-1146
Associate Chief,
International Resources Division,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Cale:
Thank you very much for the copies of the press
release dealing with the treatment of the Japanese
fishing industry during the occupation period. This
CS/LF
matter has proven to be of great interest to our
west coast industry.
The statement of policy incorporated in your
press release will go far towards answering many
questions that have been asked during the past few
months.
Sincerely,
Acchaid Vaullos
Richard Van Cleve
RVC:vg
Chief Biologist
894.628/3.1146
H

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.94)
0420
In reply refer to
Le
My dear Mr. Attorney General:
There is transmitted herewith a memorandum from
Brigadier General Paul W. Caraway to the United States
Consul General, Shanghai, Ohina, to which 1s attaohed
a copy of a report of investigation conoerning Howard
H. MacGowan and Joseph Goldstone, who during the latter
89
part of 1945 were in China on a mission for the United
States Senate Small Business Committee.
4.628/
The file is transmitted to the Department of
Justice with a view to ascertaining whether or not any
violation of the laws of the United States is involved.
It would be appreoiated if the file could be returmed to
the Department of State after the Department of Justice
N
has finished with it.
1
The Department of State has been informed by the
10
War Department that the pearls whioh were taken from
2
46
Mr. Goldstone in China by the Military authorities are
to be returned to him in the near future.
Sincerely youra,
James F. By
994.628/3-2246
Enclosures:
From Brigadier General
Caraway, with attachments.
OR
R
19
The Honorable
0
Tom C. Clark,
J
Attorney General.
Le:GGray:hr
3/15/46
11

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.95)
251946
In reply refer to
JK
My dear ür. Lykke:
This is in reference to your telephone conversation of Mareh 15,
1946 with Mr. Whitman, concerning the operations of Japanese whaling
vessels. The following vessels have been authorised to operate:
Whalers.
Name of Vessel
Gross Tonnage (MT)
0
Takunan-maru, No. 3
343.46
4.
Takunan-maru, No. 8
343.46
Shonan-maru, No. 8
350.50
62
Akebono-maru
110.60
Suwa-maru
114.22
91
Fumi-maru
359.74
Seki-maru, No. 2
359.74
N
Marusan-maru
103.03
1
Seki-maru, No. 3
300.97
2
5
Carriers.
4
Zuiho-maru
222.40
Zuisho-maru
245.42
Takunan-maru
156.66
Takushin-maru
145.47
Shinsei-maru, No. 5
80.38
Shinsei-maru, No. 6
80.43
Shinsei-maru, No. 37
74.78
Shinsei-maru, No. 38
85.65
in
Shinsei-maru, No. 75
79.93
I trust this information will be useful to you.
Sincerely yours,
894.628
uk
Edwin M. Martin, Chief,
MA!
25 19
Division of Japanese and
Korean ¿conomic Affairs.
Mr. Knut Lykke,
Counselor, Norwegian Embassy,
1R
sDM.
RHW
Washington, D. C.
Jk:RHWhitman:aw
3-18-46
NOE
44P

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
OFFICE OF
ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN
Fele
WASHINGTON 25
In reply ple ase
refer to: LIS:DS:kh
File No. 039
March 26, 1946
894.628/3-2646
Lr. James Simsarian, Ass't Chief
Division of conomic security Controls
Lepartment of state
washington 25, -. C.
Attention: r. Eli maurer
Lear .r. Simsarian:
Attached you will find a letter from kr. Steel
dated  arch 16, 1946, and my renly to it dated Narch 26, 1946.
It is believed that the problem raised by r. Steel is within
the jurisciction of the Pepartment of State. I, therefore, am
transn itting it to you for whatever action you deem necessary.
Sincerely yours,
 lorid n. thancles
Lloyd L. haulis
Jecretary
CS/VJ
Attaciment
-2646

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply phease
Fefer to: LIS:DBikh
Gile No. 089
March 26, 1946
Mr. James Simsarian, Ass't Chief
Division of Eeonomic Security Controls
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Attention: ür. Eli Maurer
Dear Mr. Simsarian:
Attached you will find a letter from Mr. Steel
dated March 16, 1946, and my reply to it dated Mareh 26, 1946.
It is believed that the problem raised by Mr. Steel is within
the jurisdiction of the Department of State. I, therefore, m
transmitting it to you for whatever action you deem necessery.
Sincerely yours,
Lloyd L. Shaulis
Secretary
Attachment

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply please
rafer to: :D8a
March 26, 1946
Mr. Mitchall Stesl
107 Thingwall Park
Fishpands
Bristol, England
Dear Sir:
Thank you for your letter of March 16, 1946 inquiring
whether the United States Government would be willing to Finanee
a whaling expedition and employem your services in connection
therewith. I wish to advise you trat the problems raised in your
lettar are not in the jurisdiction of this Office. Aocordingly,
I have transmitted yuur letter to the Department of State for
consideration.
Sincerely yours,
Lloyd L. Shaulis
Secretary

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.82)
Dieni Sui
0393
A PROERT
REEFIVEMAR 20 1946
Tmssdoaplinue d. Jrapanere Whelicg Flect.
NO. ANS. DE
Horn ombaxsay in Fondon a drised me to
mrite yom. I have a propositim to put
lefore yom re the above,I have lein
conneeled wulh the Whaling indnly mn
for over 30 gears, for -your iu forination
I am a. Jilirhen. Will Jom goverumel
le silling to finance lhe fitting outr
equipment of the abme meutlmed flest
for an eppodition to the whaling giounds
murt seoron,if s I Ahalc le slob
pleased, to arrange the fiiting ouh t also
the managment ilh pu't whalig
managew, ly dong Ihis jour gnenment
tiill ncme a saluealle amont of
swok in connectin with lhir mill gner
qnemut pay me f5oo fer reaion
ifo on lhe ralud of thhe oil. produced, that
is to say the taluce of the orl ou the opan
machet at the snne of die haging. ho doubl
you may- have Aome pure hareis hom across
hae twho will twaut the flut fo about
- half priec & tell lhe il to Auerica at
mduy pound, piop't por ton. Su myopiion
Amtriea has a kery maluealle arsit by
harring lhe a bve nancd-floh o doult
some Anerican crew could le emplrged.
I frust your goveiunut con acced to uny
dishes d to thear from gom pn acrmate

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.81)
π
som ar porsiflr. Any futha iuforucet
you require pom mie I shace be sunt
pleared t. Juriter if: Thankurg om
in anlicipetion, of an larleyld farnnable
sply pe Aimail  that businmess
swile senlt to our mutusl beuept.
Yoirs Terpel fulley
heStus
107 Thinguall Fack
Fishfronds .
Siulil(Eugland)
SHIPPING DIVISION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.95)
APR 23 1946
HO.
To the:
American Consular fficer in Charge,
Bristol, England.
The Secretary of State transmits for the   uation of
the fficer-in-Charge a copy of a letter receive. from Wr.
894.628/3-2646
Mitchell Steel of Aristol regurding his proposal for use of the
Japanese whaling fleet.
For the g dance of the Oficer-in-Charge in communicating
with Wr. Steel the following information is supplieds
During the current auason the remnants of the
Japanese whaling flest have been employed in Japanese
home waters in accordance with instructions and limite-
ti ns issued through the lHoadquarters of the Supreme
Commander for the Al ied Fowers in Japan. No decision
has been resched conoerning the disposition or manner of
employment of the whaling vessels in the next aeason.
However, it seams possihle at the prenent time that any
operation of apanese whaling vessels in waters distant
from Japan would be hentled by leases to governments
rather than to individuals.
It is s ggested, in: the event lir. Steel desirea
to make further inquiries with respect to this matter,
CS/VJ
that he may wian to consult the appropriate British
government agency.
894.628
A to 
Enclosure:
3
Copy of letter from
-2646
Hr. Mitchell Steel,
Bristol, England,dated
March 16, 1946.
RAW
WME HAS
K83
JK:MMBrown:me
4/8/46
DR
JA

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.92)
2ad
Office of the Attorney General57?
say
Mashington,D.C.
April 4, 1946.
The Honorable
The Secretery of State
My dear Mr. Secretery:
I have your letter of March 22, 1946 (your reference
Le), with which you transmitted certain documents relating to
an investigation concerning the activities of Howard H. MacGowan
894.628/4-446
and Joseph Goldstone, who were in China for the United States
Senate Small Business Committee.
After exemining this file for the purpose of determining
whether any Federal criminal statutes were violated, I find it
desirable to obtain additional information with respect to the
conditions under which these two men were authorized to travel
to China. Accordingly, I would appreciete it if you would arrange
to permit a representetive of this Department to examine both the
passport files and the transportetion files of your Department
relating to the travel of these two men to China.
If you will indicate the procedure to be followed in the
premises, I will thereafter promptly assign a representative of
this Department to exemine the records mentioned.
Sincerely yours,
C
.n.
ORNC
CS/A
Attorney General
u1
C1
i.
12

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
EDWARD W.ALLEN,CHAIRMAN
NORTHERN LIFE TOWER
ESTABLISHED BY THE CONVENTION
BEATTLE I,WASH.
BETWEEN CANADA
A.J.WHITMORE
INTERNATIONAL
AND THE UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES
FOR THE PRESERVATION
OTTAWA,CANADA
OF THE HALIBUT FISHERY
CHARLES E.JACKSON
FISHERIES COMMISSION
OF THE NORTH PACIFIC
SUITE 2O6,I83S'K'ST. N.W.
WASHINGTON S,D.C.
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR
G.W. NICKERSON,SECRETARY
AND LABORATORY
P. O. DRAWER #B
FISHERIES HALL NO. 2.
PRINCE RUPERT, B. C.
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINOTON
SEATTLE,S,WASH.
DIRECTOR OF INVESTIGATIONS
H.A.DUNLOP
ESOURGEIVISION
TELEPHONE MELROSE 4433
April 9, 1946
APR16/1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATR
894.628/4-946
Mr. Edward G. Cale
Associate Chief,
International Resources Division
Department of State
Waihington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Ctle:
Upon returning to my office after
pproximately two months absence I find your
1etter of the 26th of February enclosing two
copies of a Press Release with reference to
Japanese fishing and wish, even although
belatedly, to thank you for sending these
releases.
CS/LF
Yours very truly,
deczaOllen
Edward W. Allen
EWA:im
894.628/4-946

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
3892
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Collect
MESSAGE:
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
Chargs Department:
Washington
MAY 1 4 1946
Charge to
No paraphrase necessary.
6pu5
SCAP
TOKYO
308
INFO: WAR DEFT CHEF OF STAFF
4-174b
FOR PULAD
394.628
Subject to following conditions in addition to provisions of SWNCc
894.628/4-1746
Policy with Respect to Fisheries and Aquatic Industries in Japan, Dept
perceives no objection on policy grounds to resumption Jap pelagic whaling
in Antartic. (Ref SCAr telegram to War Dept no. 59997, April 17)
1. Wnale oil produced to be subject to CFB allocation. However,
acting US member Fats and Oils Committee, CFB, says he will support alloca-
tion of at least part of oil to Japan and all of it (or suitable substitute
oils) if this can be justified in light of fats and oils supplies available
to other countries.
2. Approval for undertaking this expedition is without prejudice to
future decision regarding disposition of vessels, equipment and products.
894.628/
It has been suggested informally to Dept that vessels and equipment,
if operated by Brit or Norweg, would procure greater quantities whale oil.
CS/VJ
Possibility of pooling catcher vessels and of obtaining skilled crews are
4-1746
among arguments advanced. In view of world shortage of fats and oils,
assurance of reasonably effective production should be obtained prior to
SCAP consent to Jap operation.
Advise promptly if and when SCAr gives approval to enable Dept to

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.94)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
WILL INDICATZ WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGEI
Charge Department:
Washington
Charge to
-2-
review suggested provisions for compliance with treaty obligations
for inspection and enforcement.
Acting
MAY 74 10..P.M.
WES子
2r
IR:HSPotter:bmd
5/7/46
Cleared
JA
Cleared Cleared Cleared Cleared Cleared
JK
RE
BC
NUE
SD
IT
with Mr.
with Mr. with Mr. with Mr. with Mr. with Mr.
Lory
Whitman Bevan
Wailes
Trimble
Falk
AS
Cleared with ur. Deason - Interior 
Cleared with Dr. Kellogg - Smithsonian
Roca,agri.ys
11
11
Rouite ligri.s
11
11

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.94)
COMBINED FOOD BOARD
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
SOUYH AGRICULTURE BUILDING
May 23, 1946.
EATIONAL RLSOURCES DIVISION
Letter t geuerl Tchads
Y211946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
To:
Mr. William Flory, Commodities Division
JK:RHW
Room 515 G, Department of State
From:
Fred J. Rossiter, Secretary
Committee on Fats and Oils
You will recall aur conversation of a few days ago regarding
Japanese whaling factory ships.
6
It has again been called to our attention that the Navy has
two of the whaling ships that were evidently reconverted by
2
the Japanese Navy. Cur Committee is very anxious to loarn
8
more dotails about these boats and hope that they oan be
recovered and put into use this coming fall.
Recent information indicates that the world fats and oils
situation in 1947 would be more aouto than it is this year.
-2346
All governments should, at this time, make every effort to try to
inorease the supplies for consumption next year.
7gR.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
Capf Stephenson
X37Kd
X0204..D.
×311.2/22/a1 9/513
x044
In reply refer to
J理
June 10, 1946
Dear General:
The Supreme Commander has proposed converting
Japanese vessels into whaling factory ships for use in
the Antartic in the 1946-1947 season. It now appears
that two former Japanese whaling factory vessels may be
in the United States Navy control. If so, the best
solution might be to reconvert these vessels.
If the War Department has no objection, it would
be appreciated if the attached proposed cable were trans-
mitted to SCAP. It has been discussed with Captain
Stephenson of the Civil Affairs Division.
Sincerely yours,
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary
Enclosure:
Draft cable from the War
Department to SCAP
A true copp of
the
Major General Oliver P. Echols
Director, Civil Affairs Division
War Department

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
DRAPT CABLK FROM WAB DEFT TO SCAP
Agric reports Brit member: Fats and Oil Committee CFB stated
two former Jap whaling factory vessels now in US Navy eoatrol.
Informant did not know names of vessels but believed one had been
converted to airoraft carrier and one to oil tanker. If so these
vessels might be suitable for reconversion to be used as prepeesd in
URTEL 59997, 17 Apr11 1946.
Navy DEFT has been requested for information. Do Jap records
substantiate above information and indicate names of vessels after
conversion?

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DATE:
August 8, 1946
TO
: Le
My. Gray
FROM : CA - Lir. Woodard
SUBJECT :
At the suggestion of Mr. Nicholas, PD,
I am sending this to you for incorporation
with remainder of the file.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.94)
Office of the Attorney General
frou
Washington,D.C.
LECA ADVISER
—02
JUN1S1946
06
June 10, 1946.
5
BEPARTMENT OF STATY
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
1.1
894.6
K
y dear Mr. Secretary:
C
8
394.628/6-1046
This refers to your letter of March 22, 1946,
ToLE
and my reply thereto of April 4, 1946, relative to the
activities of Howard H. MacGowan and Joseph Goldstone
who were in China during the latter part of 1945 on a
mission for the United States Senate Small Business Com-
mittee.
As indicated in my letter, in determining
AUG 9
whether there was a violation of any federal criminal
FILED
statute, it would be helpful if this Department could
1946
examine the passport files and transportation files of
your Department relating to the travel of these two men
in China. If you will advise me with respect to the
CS/V
possibility of access to these files and will indicate
the procedure to be followed, I will promptly designate
a representative of this Department to examine the
894.
records mentioned.
DON TP O
.628
1046

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
If no additional information can be obtained
from your files relating to the alleged irregularities
of these men, it appears that no further action can be
taken and that it will be necessary to close the case.
Sincerely yours,
nC
Attorney General.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.94)
AUG
La reply refer to
Le 894.628/4=146
894.628/6-1046
My dear Mr. Atterney General:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
April 4, 1946 in reply to a letter from the Department
of State dated March 22, 1946 relating to an investiga-
tion concerning the activities of Howard H. MoGewan
and Joseph Goldstone, who were in China for the Senate
Small Business Committee. You state that it would be
desirable to obtain additional information which may
be contained in the passpert files and transportation
files of the Department of State, relating to the travel
of these two men in China.
The Department of State will be glad to give
permission for a representative of the Department of
Justice to examine any of the files of the Department
which may be relevant to the case.
CS/V
If you will have the representative from your
Department contact Mr. George Gray of the Office
of the Legal Adviser, Room 273, Main State Building,
telephone extension 512, he will take any steps neses-
sary to assist the representative in obtaining relevant
894.628/6-1046
information in the Department.
Sincerely yours,
DRAN ACH
Acting Secretary
The Honorable
Routine
Fom C. Clark,
g9
PDEN
Le:dgray:hr
R.
5/7/46
Rt
Lmn
4UG
46

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.88)
tutepantn
R
LOC/K
ile
AUG 519
CONFIDENTIAL
To the
United States Political Adviser to the
Bupreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo.
¥ 94.6=5/
894.628/7-146
The Acting Secretary of State makes reference to the
Political Adviser's despateh No. 481, dated July 1, 1946.
concerning extension of Japanese fishing and whaling areas, and
transmits herewith a copy of a Memorandum of Gonversatien dated
July 8, for the information of the Political Adviser and for
any comment which he may wish to make.
Enclosure:
Copy of Momorandum
of Conversation.
CS/V
71E57
Pn
gk
IR:WESFlory:bp
894.628
7/29/46
r
MHO

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.90)
8
DC/R ROUTING. SLIP
FROM
481
NO
CTION:
CCPIES TO
FE/R
Wan
FEC(ERD)
Nan
OCD
1F、
Mo olter outnd
mai tnany

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
1R
Tokyo, July 1, 1946.
CONFIDENTIAL
INTGESDIVISION
No. 481
146
DE
STATE
SUBJECT: Extension of Japanese Fishing and Whaling Areas.
PN. M-JA-m-Emerson
36
SANCH
No outnd dishubulin
The Honorable
The Secretafy of State
Washington.
894.628/7-146
784
Sir:
C
I JHave the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 464,
June 12, 1946, entitled, "Sixth Meeting of Allied Council for Japan,
1
June 12, 1946", and to enclose a copy of a memorandum of June 4,
1946, from the Acting Chief of Staff, General Headquarters, SCAP,
to the Allied Council for Japan, requesting comments of the Council
concerning a partial staff study pertaining to authorizing fishing
2/
and whaling by the Japanese, and a copy of the pertinent portions
of the verbatim minutes of the sixth meeting of the Council covering
discussion on this subject. There are also enclosed copies of a
3/
directive, SCAPIN 1033, June 22, 1946, to the Japanese Government on
the subject, "Area Authorized for Japanese Fishing and Whaling", of
4/
a. letter dated June 20, 1946, from Lieutenant General K. N. Derevyanko,
Member for the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of the Council on
this subject, and of my reply, June 24, 1946, as Chairman of the
5/
Council.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
General Derevyanko's questions in the Council meeting were prin-
DIVIBION OF FOREIAN
11946
cipally designed to elicit information on technical details, such as:
the volume of estimated excess of the fish-catch and destinations of
CS/V
such exportable excess; detailed comparisons of the Japanese fishing
fleet by types of vessels at the beginning of the war and at present;
information regarding new construction of fishing vessels, especially
steel vessels; numbers of fishing personnel and their registration;
and the possibility of distributing fishing vessels among the Allied
Powers. As a preliminary opinion, General Derevyanko stated during
the Council meeting of June 12: "in principle I have no objections to
permitting the Japanese to conduct fishing and whaling in the suggest-
ed area as a temporary arrangement".
In his letter of June 20, General Derevyanko indicated that his
Government had reversed him and was opposed to the extension of exist-
FILED
ing Japanese fishing areas. The reasons advanced were that (1) the
301946
present area allotted to the Japanese is sufficient to fulfil internal
Japanese demands, and (2 the extension of fishing areas for Japan is
related to the creation of a large ocean-going fishing fleet, the size
of which is subject to discussion by the Allies and the Far Eastern
Commission. In my reply of June 24, I mentioned that the estimated
28/7-146
catch mentioned in the Council meeting was largely speculative and
based

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch 481,
July 1, 1946
2
-2-
based upon the average catch during pre-war years when the Japanese
fishing industry was in far better condition than today. I also
stated that I could perceive no connection between the size of the
post-war Japanese fishing fleet and the temporary emergency measure
under discussion.
The Soviet attitude toward this problem is difficult to reconcile
with the realities of the food situation in Japan today. The reversal
of General Derevyanko's preliminary approval by the Soviet Government
may be an indication of continued Soviet opposition to constructive
measures undertaken by SCAP to alleviate the serious food shortage.
In the light of the discussion concerning this problem which took place
in the sixth meeting of the Council, the reasons advanced in General
Derevyanko's letter appear specious and suggest a continued Soviet
desire to hamper the policies of the Occupation in Japan.
Respectfully yours,
George Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosures:
2
1/ From Acting Chief of Staff, to
Allied Council for Japan, June 4, 1946.
2/ Extract of verbatim minutes, sixth
meeting, Allied Council for Japan,
June 12, 1946.
3/ SCAP Directive to Japanese Government,
SCAPIN 1033, June 22, 1946.
4/
From Lt. General Derevyanko to Ambassador
Atcheson, June 20, 1946.
5/ From Ambassador Atcheson to Lt. General
Derevyanko, June 24, 1946.
Original and hectograph to Department.
Copy to American Embassy, Moscow.
500
WJSebald/blc

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.82)
63
E.closure no. 1 to Desp: toh no. 4a1, July 7. 1946, from the
United Ste es Polirtoal Adw'er for Japan, Tokyo. on the sihjoet
"Exte-sion of Janrese Pahing and haling Areas".
TDARTERS
SLIED POERS
APO 500
 Je 1946
!ECRADS
TC
1. Stller-e be crrle    'edarters with
viw to rring adtiorersih he Jananse mey
conduct fiohire  par s averteining to
the ertensio  tre prose tly auttorized aree is attached horoto.
2. Tio con eatsf the Courell re reauested with repard
thortin fihieir the Jaranese in the proposed
sreu cutltred
dys Inclosre
N.?.
F SPREE COICADER:
Ic/ P. T. Clarksor
1 P. . LARKSON
r Jo1. . s. c.
cti. Shierf Staff
Incl:
sStdy
w/s I-cls.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.74)
-2-
Tolyo's Despatch no.,481,
 1, 1946.
 NG
PE PR BLEY
ese ure presently
 ea y Seotr er par. d woe slightly or P November
tcke
I closure.
3.Dri Janenese
requtreente rom  te met by the pre
ver of .
4.wi eroethorized area
netrie ors
 ree  de f Pish  rieh reaucts which will
 ese regirements.
oreroroiae fisish
Brmerscularly
roteir forur,rro.
. E tems tor Coed
Eer ee
 ro
 at  rest, e Ja e re e escorte to utlize
al oe fe rode. as wore seesrret  creft ere re
peiree pnd phoees in porrice, wa ss more  tier pa euripnent
e  e, the ese w e  le to expoit
 lereer pren. Sone a ecislired vessel. luet itarle erees ir which
to coorote wat we reoult trut the ertme fie aar leut carrot be
eesse
et ennd
ere East Lode ae  e roe. Opere
   ee he ser.
ε. The

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.82)
- 3 -
Tokyo's Dospatch mo.,481.
July 1, 1946.
.The ters :t f tre rresen area between 3oº and
s40orth Lat are c o it and tune grounde withi
reuch of  src  ca i Jupei. The soason is about to start.
Thereu f Bcit d couth f the present authorised 
ist d d.Tmerothorization w made for
whel  te eao 19451946.
.The etotthe prent re
cee of an itensive Japan
s
20erthewost coat of
Teehi penat eeese trorrre pre ireludes only
he sto.Rt uf theodyof
the athorized pres i e va t a Is shi will permit fieh
ine plo re weslu'a eliminate a unnecessary
tardmbip to the Iou foher 
11.The extensithorized fishine are
south to o Forth La.t Longitude and
allchtly to the weet  f X ush would not endenger
cecurity.
12.  propomed eres is oreds cnclosed ap.
I-closre Nxter?.
2 Incle:
1 - SCAJAP: HI-6, Scr1e1 5P7. 0v ,
subjs "Fishins. hali Sor 
Runtine. Vessols Enrred  Are
Operation".
2 - Kap: Authorized Java ese Fisi~ Arees.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.78)
- 4 -
To'yo's Despatch no. 481,
1, 194.
CCPY
, L   RL ARITY
SOAJAP
      ()
MB:1k)
I-3
ULTED GRATES PAOLFIS FLEET
Sori:l:
Yovember
1245
o ese  Merine.
pe Trriel se Government.
(Dot
rena Forestry).
Tie:
Sobject:
F el. Se Asimt Eust, Vescels
(6) 0  1945.
orin: in references (b) and
(a),
Bo E,wwelon woth
bery llel  pro Dort, wouth to ne Horth
Po Eoat. at to es pe po Bt, south
to o o o  to o North 123
D
o  Et1 45-50 North 145
 to HOKAIDO"
This
er three (s) miles
o he F 
ir vessels of any
tonrere.
wforeeu (e), o Goture authouiza-
tioe c
roee necessary
but vescels vor o
 he ortet which en
weih
SCAJAP.
sea enimal t r eny similar
operetionn
itrt f te aree descrihe
in refore ce (a)
 areeeorthed in para
araph ore (1).
C. W. ASHFORD
Bo Direction.
2 Q P Y

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.76)
Icloeure No. 2 to Despatch r. 481 July 1. 1946 from the
United Strtes Political Adviser for Japen, Tokyo, on the subjeet
"Extersion of Jroanese Tiahinr ard Whaling Areas.
EXCERPTS PRCN TERPATIN MINUTES CP
SIX HEFTI ALLIED  UNGIL FCR JAPAE  JU
er l Mt e f i
 whic he J
oI ct Fi li. I ve :rked the Secretery
cere ce rem rst . the ende beceuse of the
i.and Ihop that
reeabletotion
i.s uveItlees ri herea recent r
vurts ir ro o re numler -f ersors bei-r found doad
he trcts fro.ti.e er  trereasing.
Since  e ro re ec hundred person
aretohe ToyoYokoh
reae. rin t   re n ve of
rine ver in re mnth. I    e for
Porthsir are reorted to
-erforixwr fstcl deterioration du
olecat
pera dles end steel
-1lls7ert
rere tre u hle to 'eep up
-1th teror
I expreer te es prepared thie
ter
mater in order
thtctiontteed.I
an prohlom 
rr
ftaining
Soteteselosere
Komohata.woh
It is  a rat eIre Sotet Goverrment
WUE in the
renerecostdoration
the se esfisroted
ntheesedhe en ere
NoS
Som aerre  reloe refcrorcenere which I
E me tte Me ers e r. I shoul' J!  irtrodice
CLEL FEMER f te Fishs D  he Fatural
er
.CCLOPL
LE
UR. S.
. S

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.81)
-2-
To'vo's Despstch no. 481,
July 1, 1946
MR. Srr Yee. ere re.  I usk bether the pro
woe ree to we tew  weouotw e for e short neriod?
set e tha r teulr re. it is  aree ir which we believe
the Jeperese rerm we we e teir rosen fishing
 s .
R. Iee otrtee we are
which any Mowr.
,LONEL FIEDLER
will be eto
chereeter us s
whre woul rowhly cower e soetim neer Formosa. I think I
Covermrert, especially
rouna that
y is marked out is ell
o wee,o
  : It tt the out-
line of thie pree will set mrecedent yhatsoever. While you
wacht o. thore is we toe liatt.
riht  se tht it is 
temperes mene  and sete no precedert pretsoever.
Timit
here  elect, res sir.
MR. SE:
worer chorecter.
isn't it?
YIPecision
 to be left up to
the Pecoe Trecty.
MR. STEN

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.83)
- 3 -
Togot: Despatch no. 81.
Juy 1. 1946
.S rt iy sk frm informion. i
rrocti rdoretantt the arem alreedy
rized. to map)
LD Y
 tree wtllion netrio
to..s
" re,re ts.
hre
It wil tever rtl unon the run of one
ri.e. R. t lf of the entire
cotc!
cri.s. r te last trree or four
"are the
i. do. In order
to r
i to feed the Janares
ncople. the
se Te leo hope to
:': itc regions. That
1s an item in worl'
serd vorious countries
reveeer celli.  t!het area. The tuna and
honito are
 ure there, we have
tuna alsote ert
'l, tre morkete of Yokohama
n.d Tay).
' will be reactivated will be
à cte
the ro:thwest cormer of
 e fist fr
rt
'eries are marketed
pri aril i Rre, sa.
.this extension
 -' be produced each
morth.
I o to five thousand ton
 worewe
''tacon be sterted
iyove t ieround.but it
strt ir e i tel
roved to
etrective cfshing
Theo ve toe oots. e i ero e. It is up to us to authorize
1t.
MR. SN ecr to tre c'  the fcts earing
polem. tr alren c rtdc the resent
 es reqi
  . 
ierou trat pare
pber 4.reted
thahe reymarked
aret wil? c'rresron: with that or
e r h! ct roduced
at emouraf fis
MR. SEN C, I se.
  Is    
LIE AT CLCL FIEDLER: Ho. not te. L formerly
rrovided.
THE CHAIRMAN

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.78)
Powo's Despatch no. 481,
J11,194
epothree million
    I  ined in the be
treemillion tons,
rrese e acing at
h
relionrs. t
fis.
R. SHEN: D  ss of  e Japanese require-
cete?
Jaourese regiremet. I nasiti o thrt, if they do get
wore th bhree hlll , epe oreeply will be a morket
bere for oo pasitforal woou.t. If not, that fich will be
ovaarele  tre sei erir asietr coutrtes or vther countries.
S  PERER: The EERAL l   sk  ques
tio..
    in
Prin.)
     torote): Fron bat
oor raerpeea  se of woera oit and
Uestes su ,de,I believe, through
the combe othe United
Kirsaom oa otey iee.
. a Ge. I woul  s us roisiorel
rese the postive reto o an
wi en e  e   erst in
w re their food susnl ena thereky bele ' reeuee  eed for
food rte, and o the neretive wrousd, o whiet we would of
mae  ceoet the SoaP assurorce,  rt soe rity vould not in any
s cred  this new crovicion. I wound sugcest then,
toa ust in t poregrep might be teken es en
 sosp . I sus rt that it meeht be restated
  w. Firet of ll to make clear that this proposed ex-
tonsier ts wiureut sej lhice to the mumber end trpe of fishing
vessels tat will to llwed Japan, cince this is, I think, a
wst f mliey h t Las eot vet been cetermined. The other
ouw larlestio I sugrest ls that the fect thet the Jrearese may

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.81)
- 5 -
Tokyo's Despatch no. 481.
Jul: 1, 1946
se ruve thepes of their 
col  vessels cholot be reerded in iteelf 
a grond r exte 'i :ret ver which thoy should be
entr e ie jus agrestior Lere in
trerep  re he e-ese are re cirine certain
tth th
: the ocee. II etio dnes need to
voidd.e rshand
the r
owe en hould
re re ardesse a th
questione ahnaldu
T
a dectsion
tn exten o
8.
comrents.
LI m DLER I  
tle rosal Les eer sse . Vlit ry Authorities, both
Ara: nd Nivy. mre ar rity is take ro of.
MR. BALL: I ve crnte thet.
LIFTET LC FIELDER: I Frd  the Japanes
roirp teed a r oe - tr er in rew oat of
a beter e, we ve t re ino essurance that
if those  v te re ilt, thet te wil? ue used in Janares
waters or w ters rear Japan. In
prs, they are building
hosee atcr own risx.
 a Does the Smber teve  comnt to
nnke?
SET I TEER: Ys,  EERL hes some Juestione.
(LI  ra uroaces the Coucl in
Ressirr.)
LIETE E  DEYEYAY (s rpted): That
roulde the vls ie essfish-estch in
 ant ot: isedt export this exces
LIETE AT LC E FIEDLER: If S DrPOEEI i
ajoeted. we fi. t s se thre tsand tons per month
ad io:s' fis wil: e   in, a minimum f three thousand
ons nd ssilly pln u to five thousand tore er morth.
ese fisr will e perkcted ori rily in the larzer cities in
Japor. The tuna ? bonito ir inly to Yokohame and Tokyo
ws this ares here (poirts is wap) and the ther ird f fish.
 c ll the ottom Cist. cir primerlly to Kote, Ceaka
 K:uto en? the southern orrt of Japen.
LIETEANT GEEPAL DEREVYAYO: hat w the composition
te Jany rese iatir fleet at the beginning of tre ar, at the
e f srru der, a.iat presen', the total tonrae of the
fec'  cer arate tors esccorai to pes of vessels?
LIE TENANT

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.76)
-6-
Toao'ts Dery tch no. 481,
Ju1- 1, 1946
L   : I  ive one enerl state-
ment t e  ent time. I  ot ive you the erect tonnage
of all the vessels. At the time of surrerder the Japanese fish-
And I wight ad  the tpe  boats left were the smaller
creft of sift to ore bundred tore. Al the lumger boats were
u.e.
   iges
the
t Jprese
e fishire
heh
 pately, aces
triresin
wouldlike
eme reliance
Peflares.
eI
 evereto perate
Phe eotoh mer urit of uff rt o woor of reer experded is
 wouter th eyres. Pheee wilr be new ats
      ro 
?

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.78)
- 7 -
Togoe Dernntch no. 481.
.1.1946
 o
to to enter
therw!se.
L.T E D F   luk
he troope t
 returaing
'e.
LITundertand
in thatr trtr toeronrel. and it to
difft
r?
LT   
ent
fisherner 'rems-lrrs?
LIETANT    Ye.
L
tarale rcrrerreate nd vesents and take
care of the 
r tr cifficult to
-etre xterf fioherm
ed. e rion ore and
LIETE ANT CEFL DE TC: 
hershould
J
L  si.
LI  : I f the
s study it u erere Je-arese fichirg
fleet some speciuli-ed vl wtr  totle areas in
whict  eret r ve sareas. That are
ese vossel:  reir er?
LIEA LeL LR: ere are side or traw
vessels—vessels which fier -ith : ret which drare along the
bot om. T ey ve heer fishtar Pomr to the southenst within
the r hed urers. By mavinr tto ire to the west, they will
have  much ler e aree in whih 'sh.
LETT LE ?
LFRIt.
(  ) Tr  s1r oere?
aree ressritwrat cun ng
tat ichen the tine the s the ore now being
roro  in theneiehborhood  400
versels.
LIEUTEANT GENERAL

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.81)
Toiyo's Despatch no. 481,
Jul 1, 1946
LN  :  the Japanes Government
recsivee  orelimirer worey I of the GHe Soap of the prosram of
woretr ctie fete er e woe els, es it is mown that the
a at  p  corstpuction of a8.53e tons of new
ves: 1 Le e  Spece So  mder on 13 May 1946. but
part of e ew ohi veusels was lis aowr and some vessels
ever colee r e?
vessel wore lreee wee e tea before the ene of the war.
small peoser ek.
   th   essels,
sir.
before the wr. Soe wpiseet co nteted and others
were  thorized
LTUTENAND GEN E: L  round to
suppose tt treere ree  hr Jmanese rching morine
sone wenreleheien onethe Alied
Powors?
.
me.
trorer t wore wpelles ar eu tut tecome aveiluble for
eee cis . w r  equpmert ere
meaet  to wbet exer  oese iebine paustry provided
wite the recooserr cuuer t. we lice a teriel, for nete end
so forth?
LIEENAE CLOYEL FEDLER: Er t is bein DroVIdEd to
the Jevenese fis ire austr, I cliove, exeeat petrolem, salt
re cotto. nd catto or tho ufootoo of net mhot is made
i Janer  the Janenese, and the rete re ei  provided through
the cottor r wur be prouidee trrourh t cottor importea from
he United So tes. me e  es morotuptre mets pirht elong.
 few sron tet me pnd theee  astrihuted.
Phe a reat weor petie una lines ere ot er types of
Ciehine eguipment. I mieht say thet the eate thet we believe
waa ish an the per area have way  toier' sguipme t to operote.
LIET GENRAL EREVYANKO: As   oIrLon I
i pe that i ori ciple I have no chjectiore to pormitting
e mese to conawt sishing a pheling in the sugrested area
es x temporer erran genent.
ol mie i pooare to our attituae towerd this matter?
MR. SHEN

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.79)
To'yo's Despatch no. 481,
1,1946
.Ioutthipl
oresi charreter. only wtohing
trci Goverrent inreard to
teiae ust eccti. roly cvering
thereturs
 FR 
ency and ation n
lorecm et and advice
of the Co 11 +e
ied
retinr. of coure.
United S
iderable interest.
becose a you.hee se only country which
ie medir
thehortage rere and
we are natur
s become self-supporting
1-218
VR. SP .
  .
ed ir leurnine that
e pronoeel
at!es not establich
prece for o
thorized fishing
aren. Doee t,R. S? The present
tuthoriratie isrx sei  all'ad policy and lo not
determlati
shirerishts in the
areus o cermed
D +hrt tend to moot
rersn.ater?
R.SY
wish.
. FDLER.
1.7
(LIF  AN dre the Counl in Rui.)
EEA
() UR. CRAIR
estre of y colleagues
in tho So.
-tior on the ubjoet
in corect
sedaythat 
t f
LITT L FEDLER: Y. e Ln  uPy you hat
inforetion orhe r
thenag of
the vesrele. I thi wr the n ostion we hean't anowered,
exeert  the wor  fo rer. Trat will te vory dirtoult to
d, I am afrald.
L   : T . .
  . , rve you y further comment?
MR. BALL

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.75)
-10
To'p's Despatch no. 491,
21 1.1240
w IhIavewth thetwo
    , COLONL.  o
CAPTAI CRCLER.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.80)
Irclcsure uc. 3 tc Deen: ch no. 481, July 1, 194, from the
United Siates Pcl:l ivisr for Japan. Toyo. on the ubjeet
teion June Fin -  Arom.
 R
U DE?FED S
PC 5
e 1040
'SCAPT
EESE
PRCUC
[(y)
SEJECT
 re t ri  ese Fish and
 (a) SS Ser1r1 . 30  27 September
Refererces
115
()
SP S.1.17 ctober 1945.
(c)
1945.
1. ther
() d (t). and puragrapho
1 nd 3
r to guthorization
f J ar ese 
e tice Japanes
wuth riced within
ir:  een Nospru
tol 7o Fort Latitude,
L, 146030' East
de, isr  st Longitude:
erce
1.P.
Lode: thence north to
o Nort L ite,  E st Lorpitude: thence to 32 30! Forth
Latitude, 1250 Eact Lonstude: thrr to 77o North Latitude.
127040' East Lonritude: thence to 400 North Lat1tude, 1350
East Longitude: t, ?, Morth Latit de, l400 East Longitude:
thence es to ' Lde. 1ito Est Loniude round
ing Soya Misaki ctancc  three (3) miles fro shore:
3outh
i.: rec (7) miles off the
cost  
(3) iles off the
3
passt t! rough
or
tree "orapp:
Authoriset
uct to the
(u) Janes

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.77)
--
Tokyo's Desputch no. 481,
July 1, 1946
the authorired
 cuet vreoele will not lund
.. pt So Gen,
meressels
 eef well not
 (57015
 wort
cede
itreas.
5. he pre apresrio of
alllea polie relcetive to ul lrete tetermiustion cf vationel
jurisdietion, ieterutayre or co rihte in
the areu coneerned
F E SE   DER
(a)
 3. COLEY,
,AGD,
utent Goner.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.82)
Inclosure no. a to Deepatch no. s91, July 1. 1949, from the
Urited Stetes Pol!tical Adviser for Japan. Tokyo. n the subjeet
"Extensior of Jutnese Ficrinr und Wraling Areas.
ALLED CO CL FOP JAPA
TCYO
CFTYTE F THE TEER
OR
E IOF F SIET S CLALIS PUBLICS
PRTSIDET F TUE LIED O CIL FR JAPAN
(Translatio:)
dor 3. Atcheson
Copteet Mmber f led Coil for J.
from te  Xin. ralt
ow Zealand and India.
Ur.. . 3ell
Nehhe  Ja
from na
Lieut. Sen. . S it-
Fonorule tass,
is loto
C t the last
meeting of the l'le
oninion that I hed
r fishin and
whellrs rittsr e rse rith roposed crea.
I bave jusi cui from a Govermment in
wich it is ashei rreraf tho existing
Jrerese ee
1.e he n
r tl e ierel Japanes
de si-ce,  crs- to ste records
ecrouerters, the catch
rerecs from  to 40
aler 
2. e  si of fi ires r Japan
is d'rrctl concerced with the creation
of e lorer ew ie fstinr fleet.
"orever, the size  re Japanese fisting
st be uhject t ssior by the Allies
rd he Fir Enstern Commission, which must
det rt: e the bize of the postwar Ja-anese
Clert.
Respectfully.
Xem or of the Allied Council
for Japan from the .S.S.R.
/E. . DEEYANKO
/t/ K. N. DERFVYANKO
Lt. Generel
No. 40217
20 Ju:e 124

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.80)
Enclosure no. 5 to Despetch No. 421, July 1, 1946, from the
United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Extension of Jesanese Fishin ena Wheling Areas".
ALLIED COUHCIL POR JAPAN
TOIY0
FCR
 S 
1 June 1046
Dear So Der e:
I eve now. on er June, reccivee  Ma lie tranclation
of yo eer  he  ed o me 1046
in re-ara to tte questie    mei uf exicting Jenen-
ese Pis i ereas whieh r t ee the eetinr of the
Allied Comcil for Jooan on  Jume.
The Spee Coa eo t, as steted
in your etter your Gwerowe ts oer to the temperer
erergerey ext sion of the arere ia russs . As you mey have
obe, a ietive ws issced to the Jo rese Soverment under
dete of es Cone lo4r wothorien  pooosed cxtersior.
As porerds tho pveatier of the cti ciea c teh mentioned
in your e te e of three
willior netrie top w. pouree, p s poulative and was
resed in rt woenwiroutoree he  of the catch
everase eater swe i re-wer err er e Jananese
fishing fleet, eopline fish eshore
were in for otter on the e to If the sordire
catch coer
the a  e, the Tenese
will bee e
y  the total ustiretes tonrege. For
the Jomese toirate t wl be mecessery for then
to worr  wa   pooee en ex ereive proeren of repeir
wa pet hir ohar leet ane wol tee fr cilities.
I eoeee en rect ton etweer the cuestien f post-wer
sice of ese eleet  his teneorry emerreney
extersior of cichivr arecs phie will crely enehle the Jepenese
to operete chios which could net the pwise be used in order to
increase treir Coca supe ly.
As I ws pr the eot af the Couel in mues
tior, t reee poie  eee ureert alle tion.
puist tater wt  the Uratee Stetes becsuse
 p drain o e Sates cee sunply re
zolting

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.83)
- 3-
Tokyo's Despatch no. 481,
July 1, 1946
sultins from the worlewide phortege end becsuse alse the
United St tes is the suly courty pomins food so Jspan
to ullevir te conaitiovs bere.
yours.
/6/ R HSON, JR.
GEORG ATCHESON, JR.
in llied Council
for Jonan
Copies to: Member for Chine
Menber fer rittr Soore1t
Lieutenent Goneral Kunme Dorevrtuco,
Member for the Union of
Soviet Soctvlfct Reoklice,
   ,
T20.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.94)
1R
F4
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DR
DATE: July 8, 1946 
SUBJECT:
eeting of suoco..mittee of co mittee 2, of tne Far astern Commission,
at the former Japanese Enbassy, July 8, 1946, 3:00 p.m. -- Proposed
uxtension of Japanese rishing Areas.
PARTICIPANTS: or. K. . I'sien, Un nese rurcnasing Commission, Chairman
ur. A. Koo, China
r. A. P. norooochkin, Uosk
r. ..S.Flory, U.s. Jept. of State
r. L. I. ravlov, Ust
r. .. VanSant, U.S. uept. of State
r. . A. P. weyer, Metherlands
r. . . Badger, secretary
COPIES TO:
JK
JA
SD
IR - r. Kennedy
IR - Mr. Linville
aFo
1—1403
of a matter arising out of a meeting of the Allied Jouncil for Japan, held in
6
Tolyo on June 12, 1440.
SUAY OF USLO ABNG OF ...
At the Tolyo meetin, a proposal to extend the area in whicn the Japanese
are resently authorized to conuuct fishing and whaling was brought up for
discussion. Ine authorized area woula pe extenued south to 240 North Latitude,
C
east to lo5o sast Lon itude, and sli ntly to the west and southwest of Kyushu.
S
It was stated that this extension woulu not endan er security. r. atcheson,
Uhairman or the A.C.J. meeting, stated tnat tnis item nad been placed first on
the agenda "vecause of the growing urgency of the foou problem in Japan."
Lt. col. leuler statea that it was ihe nope of sCap that the allotment of the
new area woulu result in the taking of 3, oo0, oo0 tons of fish annually. ne
added tnat at present only 75 to 80. o1 the hoped-for 3, 0u, o00 tons is being
produced, and that the proposed auded area is needed to get more fish. At the
end of the discussion, the member for China, and the memoer representing the
4.62
U.X., Australia, ew Lealand and Inuia, concurred with the proposal of sCAP to
extend the Japanese fisnin: and whalin area, provided it was a temporary
autnorization Which uoes not constitute a preceuent. The Member for the UsSh
8
reserved the ri ht to formulate nis final suggestions until after he receives
replies on several uestions raised by him at the meeting.
17-846
C
FILED
DISCUSSION

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.97)
65
-2-
DICUSSION AT SUBCOLITT E LEET ING, JULY 8. 1946.
The soviet group in une Far astern Commission presented a set of proposals
(see Attachment 1).r. Norobochkin elaoorated these proposals, stating that
the Ussk wishes to withhold approval of the proposed expansion of fishing areas
until some uecision is reached on the size of the fleet to oe permitted to Japan.
ie said t at aetermination of the size of the fishing fleet need not be consider-
ed along with ueternination of the size of the merchant fleet. He reiterated
the statement that, assuming the extenaed areas, the Japanese would catch more
fish than they had available in tne pre-war period, anu that Japanese per capita
fish consumption is already the highest in the world.
r. rlory then presented the following points: (1) The objective of making
the Jananese self-sufficient in food nas not yet been achieved; (2) Facilities
and equipment appear to be available in Japan to increase the supply of fish.
An increase in the fish supply mignt reduce the dependence on other foods, which
have to be shipped into Japan; (3) Any concluslons reached now, either on ex-
tension of Japanese fishing areas or on number of fishing poats permitted to the
Japanese, are to be construeu as temporary, and without prejudice to any future
beterminations to be maae by rzC.
At tais point, the Chairman, r. Tsien, circulatea a uraft of a proposed
recomendation by tne suocomunittee (see attachment 2). r. Korobochkin said
that this draft was not acceptable to him. r. Flory stated that the Chairman's
drart appeared to be in general accord with our views and in accord with the
siNcc airective concerming fisheries, but that the United states would want to
give careful consideration to the araft in relation to the specific questions
and figures presented orally by the UoSh representative.
r. Badger then presented the following figures:
The present fish catch (on an annual basis) is 4,135 million pounds
as compared with a pre-war catch of 12,405 million pounus. The new
program ains to ncrease production to 6,lló million pounds annually.
(Af1s Translation ho. 47, item 4/843, June 17, 1946) rer Capita con-
sumption of fish in Japan was 119 rams per day in 1941 and 70 grams
per aay in 1945 (rsis, No. 127, B1-15)
r. Korobochkin stateu tnat tnere was actually not mucn uifference in
these figures because prior to tne war a large part of the Japanese fish catch
was exported. de contendea that three million tons of fish woulu be adequate
for the Japanese and tnat an expansion of their fishing areas would put the
Japanese in a pctter situation than Inuia, Cnina and many otner countries. He
believed that tne solation of the food problem would better be sought by solving
the land problem in Japan. To r. F lory's inquiry whetner the soviets felt
that this was a problem of te general level of the Japanese diet, with con-
sumption of fish contributing to excessive diet, or whether the UsSR was basing
its conments on a comparison of pre-war and present average consumption of fish,
without

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
without reference to the quantity and value of otner items in the diet,
iir. Korobochkin replied that objectlon was based on the former consideration.
lir. Flory then asked wnetner the soviet objection woula be met if the Japanese
snoula cispose of such excess fish, if any, in otner areas. r. Korobochkin
then expressed the fear that an extension of the Japanese fishing areas would
be used as an excuse by tne Japanese to export fish anu, in exchange tnerefor,
get additional foou for themselves. He objecteu to the Japanese having any
priority over otner peoples in etting food. If tney need otner special foods
ne believed it preferaple that tney export bicycles, textiles, or other of
their products to obtain the necessary foreign exchange. To this proposal
r. Flory asked what opjection tnere was to using fishing equipment ana personnel
already available.
r. Korobochkin stated tnat if the Japanese nad fishing vessels in excess
of food requirements they should be made available to otner rar Lastern countries
to increase the food supolies in otner areas of fooa shortages. To this
ur. Neyer ooserved that the tusslans shoula then propose that part of the Japanese
Ileet oe set up for reparations. .r. rlory's coment was that he was not pre-
pa. ed to uiscuss any yuestions or reparations at this time.
it was the feeling of the group that r. Flory's suggestion to obtain
furtner nformatlon from sCAr would be the  ost desirable proceaure to follow
for the present. the folloving questions were then suggested:
1. will any of the fisn caught consequent to tne expansion of the fishing
area be useu for export?
2. hat percentage aoes fish make of the total calorle intake of the
Japanese people?
3. fo what extent may fish be used as a suostitute for foods now peing
importeu nto Janan?
4. now does total alimentation of uhe Japanese compare vith tnat of
other peoples?
5. (suggestion b) r. horopochkin) Is tnere a possibility of increasing
the caten in uhe area presently open to Japanese fishing, without
extending tne area and witnout using larger vessels?
r. Tsien requesteu furtner assurance that the proposed extension would
not prejucice any future arrangements with respect to the size of the fleet or
extent of fishing areas.
It was the desire of the subcolunittee that the state bepartment present
these questions to sCar ana upon receint of sCAp's answer, that the matter come
up for furtner consideration. r. horobochkin felt it preferable that the request
go through ofricial rC channels, but tne other members of the group believed
that tnis would consune too much time.
ERNSTNESF
1n:Vansant: omd
7/13/46

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
COPY
ATTACHLENT 1
67
of the soviet group in the Far Lastern Commission
on tne question of the extension of areas for Japanese fishing.
At the meeting of tne Allied Council for Japan, held on June 12,
1946, a question was raised of the extension of areas for Japanese
fishing. SCir's heaaquarters in Japan had planned to extend the areas
for .apanese fisnin about twice as much as the areas existing at
resent. The extonsion of the areas for fishing was motivated by the
Car's headquarters mainly by the nece sity to give the vapanese an
opportunity to use tneir olg fishing fleet.
sucn extension of the areas for Jacanese fishing legalizes a
priori the rignt of the panese to possess a bi fishing fleet before
this question is deciced upon oy the Far astern Commission which
must also determine what Ileet shoulu ue left for Japan for the post-
war period.
According to the statement of the Uar 's Headquarters the
existing areas of fishing enatle the Ja anese to fish out annually about
3 miilion tons of fish, the figure which represents the average annual
catch before the war. in's amount of fish caught provides the
possibility for every capanese to consume avout 4o kgs of fish per
year, wnich makes a very ni n norm - non-existant in any otner country.
roceeding from uhe aforesaid facts the soviet group in the Far
astern Co.ission considers that such extension of the areas for
apanese fishing is premature ana tnerefore undesirable.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.93)
COPY
..ATTACHMENT 2
F.3
DHAFT
as a temporary measure for the alleviation of the
current food snorta e in Japan, tne sub-Comittee recommends
tnat FC anprove tne extension of fisning areas for Japanese
Fishermen on the Tollowing conditions:
(1) fhat unis extension is provisional in character
and uoes not prejuuice tne future aetermination for fishing
area for Jananese fishermen.
(2) Inat tnis extension uoes not give Japan a priori the
riht to naintain a large fisning fleet, tne size of which
will be ueclued later by FLC.
() That risning in areas near Allied territory shall
rot se autnorized without the approval of that Allied
country.
s

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.94)
DC/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Telephone
Memorandum of/Conversation
DATE: 7-12-46
SUBJECT:
Resumption of haling ctivities by the Japanese
PARTICIPANTS:
r. ilhelm unthe de xorgenstierne
r. renfield - 
894.628/7-1246
COPIES TO:
JA
1R
Ji.
ero
1-1493
fhe Torvecian mbessador called this afternoon and in uired
regarding our uttitude to.ard the r su iption of whaling activities
by the Jananese. e suia that is overnment felt that the Japanese
should be prohibited from eng ging in wh ling in the future because,
largely due to their disregara of international whaling agreements,
whales hove become so seurce thet Japanese purticipation in the
whelin: industry now voula tend to muke unproritable the whaling
operation of the  orwerians end other United Nations nationals. I
told the uabassador that in so fur  s I knew we hud taken no firm
S
position on this guestion althouh we felt that Janan should be
allowed to develop a reasonable pe ceful e∞ nomy which would naturally
V
include fishing. I expluined that the policy on this question would
nor ally come Within the jurisdiction of the ar Mastern Commission
and sugcested, therefore, t at he mi ht care to talk informally with
the various national renresent tives of the Con ission. I also
promised to consult various officers in the Deoartaent who mi ht have
an interest in this metter ond to inform hin later if any definite
views were developed vhich coule be communicuted to hir. He thanked
me and said thst he would talk with sir feorge sunsom and other
renresentutives of the Jom ission.
て
8
MQ
F:J.Penielc:he

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.92)
STANDARD FORM NO, 64
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
Initialling Officers
DATE: July 17, 1946
FROM :
Ih - ir. Flory
SUBJECT:
Reswaption of wnaling activities by Japanese
in discussion witn r - r. renfield concerning his memorandum of
telephone conversation of July 12, 1946 witn Mr. Morgenstierne, Norwegian
Anoassador, re lating to the above suoject, it was agreed that on the
basis of epartmental telegran no. 3s to lokyo, ay 14, 194o, and in
view of tne difficult policy question impliee in r. orgenstieme's
observations, it might be preferaole to await possiole authorization
 r of vapanese whalin operat ions for t e 194o-47 season.
894.628/7-1746
it was a reed rurtner wit. r. Tenfield that, if possible, questions
ro atiny to the i positton of a limit on the nuaver of whaling vessels
wien t t perave in the antaretic in any one season be lert for the
proposeu intermutional wmaling con erence this fall to which major
wa in countries will se invited, ineluding lorway.
it was relt that shoule soar authorize a Japanese whaling expedi-
tron in conformit witn partment's no. 8, may 14, it would be
ao ropriate for tis vovernment to notify Mr. Morgenstierne informally
of the raet. m accoruance wit. tuis thinking, a proposed telegran.
to Fokyo, reqlestin that s notify promptly the Jepartment of any
decision laken on tais mauter, La attacneu for your consideration.
CS/JE
F
C
894.628
4UG-11946
FILED
E52
P
1..:rlor:pmc
J.
COMNTDERFEAL

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.92)
DRAFT TELEGRAM
Confideutial
To: SCAP
Norweg
Covt has expressed view Jap should be prohibited
from future wraling. ept plans no reply penuing CAp decision 
autnorized eptel 3uc ay 14. Notify ept promptly SCAP decision and transmit
SCAt analysis te anticipated effectiveness  Jap whaling operation.
NESF
:

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DT: July 13, 1946
WFSF
TO
: IR
FROM : FE Mr. Penfield
SUBJECT :
I would appreciate receiving any views
you may have on the question covered in the
attached memorandum of conversation.
IITERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
ESJ.
JU1946
DEPAMIMENT OF STATE
FE:JKPehfield:et
July 13, 1946

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tolephone
Memorandum of/ Conversation
7-12-46
DATE:
SUBJECT:
Resumption of Whaling Aotivities by the Japanese
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Wilheln Munthe de Liorgenstierne, Norwegian Ambassador
Mr. Penfield - FE
COPIES TO:
JK
IR
JA
1-1403
The Norwegian Ambassador called this afternoon and inquired
regarding our attitude toward the resumption of whaling aotivities
by the Japanese. He said thet is government felt that the Japanese
should be prohibited from engaging in wh ling in the future because,
largely due to their disregard of international whaling agreements,
whales have be∞me so scarce that Japanese partioipation In the
whaling industry now would tend to make unprofitable the wheling
operation of the Norwegians and other United Nations nationals. I
told the Ambassador that in so far is I knew we had taken no firm
position on this question although we felt that Japan should be
allowed to develop a reasonable peuceful eo nomy which would naturally
include fishing. I explained that the polioy on this question would
normally oome within the jurisdiction of the Far Eastern Commission
and suggested, therefore, that he might care to talk informally with
the various national representatives of tho Comiission. I also
promised to consult varicus officers in the Department who might have
an interest in this matter and to inform him later if any definite
views were develcped which could be communicated to him. He thanked
me and said that he would talk with sir George Sansom and other
representatives of the Com ission.
FE:JKPenfield:hg

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorendum of Conversatten
DATE:July 19, 1946
SUBJECT:
PARTICIPANTS:
mmittee on Extenslon
Cission
894.628/7-1946
COPIES TO:
:ppriote
x
ncArt ur
nior
CS/V
lat.
C.A
at
JUI: 1-1948
FILND
NES7
JK

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: A-H - General Hilldring
DATE: July 19, 1946
(Attn: Mr. Reischauer)
FROM : JK - Mr. Whitman
SUBJECT: Resumption of Whaling Activities by Japanese.
In a State Department message on May 14 SCAP was authorized to
resume Jap pelagic whaling in Antartic as an interim measure. The
894.628/7-1946
Norwegian Ambassador, however, has objected to permitting Japan to
whale in the Antartic. Before taking up the matter further with
Morway, it is essential to find out what steps SCAP has taken on this
matter. Accordingly,it is suggested that the War Department be
requested to forward to SCAF the following message:
Norwegian Government has expressed view Jap should be pro-
hibited from future whaling. stee Department plans no reply
pending SCAP decision authorized State DEPTEL 308 May 14.
Notify promptly SeAP decision and transmit SCAP analysis anti-
CO/ULC
cipated effectiveness Jap whaling operation.
594.628/7-1946
JK:RHWhitman:bcb
AUG-11946
FILED

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
6754
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
CONFIDETIAL
Washington
Charge to
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
894.628/7-2546
TOKYO
4/3
INFO:
War Dept. Chief Staff
FOR POLAD
Norwegian Government has expressed view Jap should be
prohibited from future whaling. Department plans no reply
pending SCAP decision authorized DEPTEL 308 May 14. Notify
promptly decision and tranamit SCAP analysis anticipated
C8
effectiveness Jap whaling operation.
J
ener
C
894.628
H
17-2546
JK:RHWhitman
RHW(byphone)
JKP(by phone)
7-23-46
JK
FE
A-H
EOR

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.89)
STANDARD FORM NO. 4
Office Memorandum · UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE:
10 : FE- n. Reirchaur
FROM :
Here is the whale fie
SUBJECT:
I spiobe & you about - I
suppose there's reo ham i
the propozed telogram but
I fual it shone d go as a popo tel
rather than thrn Wan o2
poevrins is a Dept tel t its
a matter in which iwe have
Primary interest
JHP

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.94)
OIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRO
m
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TIR 8///46
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
9-X
INCOMING ITdyEGRAMer
Rec'd August 6, 1946
ACTINF
INFO:
2:30 p.m.
ESP
FD
Control 1715
ES
GA
No paraphrase necessary
JRC
JK
AUG - 1916
A-0
A-H
From:
GHQ SCAP, TokyO, Japan
CCD
RP
TO:
War Department for WARCoS, pass to Sec State
DC/R
Nr:
0-63799
5 August 1946
89
94.628/7-2946
SCAP will within a few days (Redeptel 413, July
25) author1ze 2 factory ships of 10,000 tons and 12
killer vessels to operate for pelagic whaling Antarctic
1946-47 season. SCAP est1mates capture approximately
2000 wheles yielding 11450 metric tons whale o11, 1700
metric tons frozen whale meat, 14352 metric tons salted
whele meat, 9330 metric tons salted whale blubber, 12
metric tons whale liver o1l.
Redeptel 308 May 14. As Japs are sk11lfu1 and
tectively to use exuipment considered as Inadequate by
others believe operations by Japanese may be reasonably
expceted to produce more products than any "pooling"
Redeptel 308 May 14 final paragraph. On 3 November,
SFP:-1946
1945 Japanese were directed to conduct all future whaling
conferences regarding whaling (Convention for regulation
of wheling signed at Geneva 24 September, 1931; agreement
for regulasion of whaling and final act signed at London
June, 1937; protocol smending agreement for regulation of
whaling signed at London 24 June, 1938.
Provislons for compliance with treaty obligation
finally formulated.
End.
Note: 413 1s 3M-IN-5389 (26 Ju1) CAD, 308 1s CM-IN-348
20
(1á Hay) CAD
Actlon: ID (State)
ILFO : ASW, CAD, P & O. SSP, SERVAT, CSA
FILED
CM-IN-981 (5 Aug 46)
DTG 050955Z
jjf
-1
he
GWP
CONFIDENTIAL
4964
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CÈNTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
CORRECTED COPY 8/17/46
CORRECTIONS UNDERLINED
Tokyo via War
9-X
Dated July 29, 1946
Action:
ESP
Inf'o:
Rec'd 2:30 p..., August 6th
FE
CONFIDENTIAL
DC/L
ITP
Control 1715
ACT INF
TRC
A-C
No paraphrase necessary
ESP
A-H
ES
OCD
F.W. 894.
GA
RP
SECSTATE
JK
DC/R
340, July 22.
SCAP will within a few days (Redeptel 413, July
25) aunor1c 2 factory sh1ps of 10,000 tons and 12
killer vessels to operate for pelagic whaling Antarctic
9
1946-47 scason. SCAP estimates capture approximately
2000 whales ylelding 11450 metric tons wha1e o11, 1700
metric tons frozen whele meat, 14352 metric tons salted
whale meat, 9330 metric tons salted whale blubber, 12
metric tons whal liver oil.
17=2946
Redeptel 308 May 14. As Japs are sk111ful and
experlenced whalers and heve demonstrated ebility ef-
fectively to use equipment considered as inadeguate by
others, believe operatlons by Japanese may be reesonably
expected to produce mcre products than eny "pooling"
arrangeaent for available Jupanese equipment.
Redeptel 308 May 14 final paragraph. On 3 November,
1945 Japanesc were directed to conduct all future whaling
operations with strict compliance terms of the internationel
conferences regarding whaling (Convention for reguletion
of whaling s1gaed at Geneva 24 September, 1931; agreement
for regulation of whaling and final act signed at London 8
June, 1937; protocol amending agreement for reguletion of
whaling signed et London 24 June, 1938).
Provisions for compliance with treaty obligations
for inspection and enforcement will be forwarded when
finally formulated.
ATCHESON
NOTE: Messege delayed ¿n transmissTon
JRL:GWP-GWP
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANEN
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ACT INF
CORRECTION 8/13'46
ESP
9:10 a.m.
ES
9
GA
Tokyo via War
9o 2y 21, 1946
Action: ESP
JK
Info
Deted August 5, 1946
F.W. 894. 60
FE
C ONFIDENTIAL
DC L
Rec'd 2: 30 p.m., 6th
TED
Control 1715
TL
A-C
No peraphrase necessary
A-H
OCD
RP
SECSTATE
DC/R
340. Auguot 5-
2
8/7-2946
The serial number of this message received
as C 63799 should be corrected to read 340,
August 5
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DIVISION OF COMITUNICATICHS AND RECCRDS
Wheling
CSB: CTC
CONFIDENTIAL
F JAPANESE AND KOA
OMIC AFFAIRS
OFTMENT OF STTE
AUG 111946
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.92)
ITP
DCR: Room 467
URGENT
znd Route to:
Please record 
mediatoly to
ACE,JK,JA
Frshirees A e ld life Brauch
(Name)
Intiruatirnal Rexourees
(Division)
Raam 8/3, 1818 H .
(Room number)
Blanche lavidens.
Signed
GPO
16-42203-1
C

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.89)
NOE
tor
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JA
Memorandum of Conversation
telephone
SUBJECT:
Japanese haling operations
101
PARTICIPANTS:r. Lae, onselor of orwe ian bassy
P. lor,  - is eries and ildlife ranch
894.628/8-1446
COPIES TO:L
SE 
LAT
ECH
S
946 AU 19 M
STATE
:1.
R
112
1L
ere
1-1493
. Lykke caileu to ine ire netner the eparoment would confirm
or ueny reports that the Ju anese nad been autnorizeu to engage in
Antarctic whalin, for the 194o-47 season. I to1d .r. Lykke that I
unuerstoou that the orwe ian wabassador nad taken this matter up with
the ivision of Yorthern uropean Aifairs anu that I shoula like to
nave the opmortw ity of ulscussin she matter with  prior to answering
nis cuiry.
r. Triule sig este that 1 ive r. Lyikke such information as was
appropriate.  nsequently,  cailea r. ykke and ave him the following
CS
information in he fonlowiny worus:
"ouhr as veen autnorized to aporove jaoanese antarctic whaling subject
A
to tne followip: conuitions:
1. nat ail o erations oe n uccoruance witn intemational
a reoments for the re ulao on or whaling to wnicn the uniteu states
is or may be a party.
2. ny wnale oil prounceu oe su jcct to st ailocation.
 aomroval for uncertakin me expeuition be witnont prejuuice
to future eteraminatio is regaruiny une propriety of Japanese whaling
or uisposition of the ves: els, equip ent ant products."

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
r. Lykke recorueu tnis information ver batim.
Ar. ykke expressea concern over tnis authorization on three
rounds:
1. hat the Anbassador nad u no rorewarning of this decision and
that, in uiscussions between the massador ana the ritish member of
 the latter nau indicated t at ne was confiuent that no such authoriza-
tion would e iven. - expia med tnat the epartment Las not nad official
confir...ation that CA nau aut..orized the expeditions, but we understood
from ress anu radio reports thct autnorization nad peen granted on or
about u ust , 40.
2. fnat perniesion for tne Japanese to possess factory and killer
ships was an erous rom une standpoint or cecurity. e pointed out
that i ler sips, ein speedy ana nignly maneuverable, were employed
extensively urin. the war o: patrol vessels and sub-cnasers and that
the factory are sasily converted to l tankers and airplane carriers.
on tnis point  maue  o co.ment.
3. mat the co mtry gtotas uhuer the le, J00 plue whale unit catch
limit oula be  sturuin ane that no provision nad seen made for a
ota to the Japanese.  expmainea that the protocol merely establishea
tie lu, o olue male unit catc. lmmit une aiu not provide any country,
company or vessel .ota.
jA
11
ess.
I:.SFfor:ond
JA
/15/40
2

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.92)
Insep tereturn
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OP
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Collect
NESSAGE!
Department of State
F.3
Charge Department:
SECRET
Washington
Charga to
AUG 2 1946
536
SCAP
TORYO
426
Info er De t Cler of stafr for rolitical Adviser
894.628/8-246
ussians have raiseu o oujectlon to exbension Jap fishing and
mlin. eus (es. 4l ro so July 1, 194o). Iniormal minutes
bein transmitte a ail. ollominy desired b rso sub-comittee:
(1)  il ay alvionl cuve Llsh be used for export?
(2) ro mmat extent could adultlonal fish be suustituted for
-Ssds o povtc or vhicn otherwise would have to be
orte?
() mhat e current ahmal rie consupsion Japan n relation
totll culorle lnsake?
CS/V
(4) is b.ere posslsills, increasiny cuce. suostantially in
formerl atthorlzeu a eas without using larger vessels?
(s) mny ounor informaoron on recent action oxtonding aroae?
In aulislon, blt misnes inio ww analysis current fisheries
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
Confidential
894.62818-
coffices onivprbgrans in terms current neeus and oujectives, particularly refer-
enke oat pull ing ro ran and extension pisniny areas. Dih
intormed basie cntension rishing areas ana uilding program is
indidates
U.. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.86)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
"YILL INDICAT WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State 7)
MESSAGE
Charge Department:
Washington
SECRET
Charge to
-2-
in total domestee food as anoslulit.
inoioaves need fishery rod cus hot i mr urgeney. Phans tor
incseaseu oroaucuion rishin vessels been requested from soaP.
br desires com ent on busls cecision bullu adaitional fishing
vessto o pes o osed n relion nesu oer s.ip ing and ther use For
materlals. ae i uy s ricaice mee or cmployment and for-
el a enchan e i ela to lsneries vo ram? observau ons current
soaous e oro yo r. lsseries omouion will se nelplul.
      h s s
ussi dcsses pent e ncio woestic  leheples vogra and ac-
lsiblon slsnin u  aling vesscls. ts no gotla in witn smerican
firns coscurmeon vos  pes ee sou risnin an waling vessels.
mscan lne eso lcnin  sesulons elseveve in raciric also
is lcuses osslle wsei Lsenslon wusme osltlon e paclric
riunesies nel o-ur y cu u.
Achesou
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
LC
( actuig)
11
(—rEs7.1
FR
AUG 4
Flory
SHE
U1.
c/1/40
 U. . GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICR-

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.90)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: JA -r. merson
DATE: August 15, 1946
FROM : .. - r.  1ory
SUBJECT: Japanece mmalin in Antarctic.
with reference to our memoranuum of au ust 14, the following
for ation (m.len s te same as that suppiled in reply to inquiries
Eroa he oreians, may serve us a vasis for sur repl to
P. aves  t.ris subject:
 pa authorized to pprove caoanese antarctic whaling subject
so he rollowi coruitions:
1. ml oper ions to be n accoruance witn international
a reements  or the re ulation or woaling to whien the U.s. is or
may we purty.
. male cil pro uceu to se subjeet to t ailocation.
894.628/8-1546
. aoproval for umeertakin tis expedition is without
reju lce to ruture etuowinations concerning the propriety of
dananese wma, or tne is osetion of ves. els, equipment and
roucts.
60
894.62
NTRU
Vansantd
Q
9
/15/40
IS
-1546
H

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: FE: Mr. Vincent
DATE: 8-16-46
FROM : JA: Mr. Emmerson
sUBJECT: Japanese Whaling Operations in Antarctic.
The attached memorandum gives the substance of a telephone
conversation with Mr. Graves this morning. Mr. Flory of IR/
Fisheries has prepared the memorandum on the basis of my report
of Mr. Graves' conversation with you on August 12. Mr. Flory's
memorandum statee as follows:
"With reference to your memorandum of August 14,
the following information (which is the same as that
supplied in reply to inquiries from the Norwegians) may
serve as a basis for your reply to Mr. Graves on this
subject:
FW
"SCAP was authorized to approve Japanese Antarctio
whaling subject to the following conditions:
894.628/8-15
"1. All operations to be in accordance with inter-
national agreements for the regulation of whaling to
which the U.S. is or may be party.
"2. Whale oil produced to be subject to IEFC
allocation.
"3. Approval for undertaking this expedition is
without prejudice to future determinations concerning
the propriety of Japanese whaling, or the disposition
of vessels, equipment and products."
46
IR has drafted a telegram to SCAP asking for verification of the
fact that he has authorized factory vessels to engage in whal-
ing operations and asking for detailed information regarding
the contemplated operations, methods of inspection, etc.
From Mr. Graves' conversation this morning I gather that
the British may take a very strong stand on this subject and
Fw
we will probably have to formulate a very definite policy
in the matter ourselves.
94.6
C
S
JA:JKEmmerson:mls
工

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
FE: Mr. Vincent
DATE: 8-16-46
FROM : JA: Mr. Emmerson
suBject: Japanese Whaling Operations in Antarctic.
Mr. Graves of the British Embassy telephoned today to
inquire whether we could make any reply to his inquiries
with regard to Japanese whaling. I said that we could assure
him that the allocation of whale oil resulting from these
operations would be made by the IEFC. I seid that the Depart-
ment had wired SCAP for confirmation of the fact that he had
authorized Japanese to engage in whaling operations and that
we expected to have more detailed information within the near
future.
Mr. Graves stated that it was not a question of the alloca-
tion of whale oil but whether the Japanese should be permitted
to engage in whaling at all. he said that he had cabled his
Government following his conversation with you and that he
had received no instructions in the matter so he was speaking
now personally and not officially. However, he was convinced
that any authorization to the Japanese to engage in whaling
operations would be a violation of policy adopted by the FEC.
r. Graves referred to FEC O35 on "Fishing and Aquatic Industries
in Japan" anl he quoted part of paragraph b as follows:
"Japanese fishing should not be permitted near areas
under Allied jurisdiction without prior permission from the
country concerned. These prohibitions should continue until
international agreements are negotiated permitting Japanese
fishing in these areas."
Mr. Graves took the position that all international agreements
to which Japan is a party have been abrogated by the war and
therefore it was not a question of Japan carrying on operations
under any international agreement.
Mr. Graves stated that he had been informed by the
Norwegians that they understood "some sort of" authorization
had been given to SCAP by the War Department. He inquired
whether this was a fact. I told him we would make further
inquiry and communicate with him later on the subject.
JA:JKEmmerson:mls

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
DIVISION OF
INFORMATION
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
COPY
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
CORRECTED COPY 8/17/46
CORRECTIONS UNDERLINED
9-X
Tokyo via War
Action:
ESP
Dated July 29, 1946
Info:
FE
CONFIDENTIAL
Rec'd 2:30 p.i., August 6th
DC/L
ITP
Control 1715
TRC
A-C
No paraphrase necessary
A-H
OCD
RP
SECSTATE
DC/R
340, Ju1y 22.
SCAP will within a few days (Redeptel 413, July
25) author1cč 2 factory sh1ps of 10,000 tons and 12
kliler vessels to operate for pelagic whaling Antarctic
1946-47 season. SCAP estimates capture approximately
2000 whales ylelding 11450 metric tons whale o11, 1700
metric tons frozen whele neet, 14352 metric tons saited
whale meat, 9330 metric tons salted whale blubber, 12
metric tons whalo liver oil.
Redeptel 308 May 14. As Japs are sk1llful and
experienced whelers and have demonstrated ability ef-
fectively to use equipment considered as inadequate by
others, belleve operatlons by Japanese may be reasonably
expected to produce more products than any "pooling"
arrange:nent for available Jupanese equipment.
Redeptel 308 May 14 final paragraph. On 3 November,
1945 Japanese were directed to conduct all future whaling
operations with strict compliance terms of the international
conferences regar ing whaling (Convention for regulation
of whaling sigaed et Geneva 24 September, 1931; agreement
for regulation of whaling and final act slgned at London 8
June, 1937; protocol amending agreement for regulation of
wheling s1gned at London 24 June, 1938).
Provisions for compliance with treaty obligations
for inspection and enforcement will be forwarded when
finally formulated.
ATCHESON
NOTE: Message delayed in transmIssTon
JRL:GWP-GWP
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.85)
AOTION
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICTIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
2-7
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Ac n FSP
In)
FF
DC
ITP
I!C
Tckyo viu la
A C
A-H
Lated
Augus: 16, 1946
RP
Rec'd
:15m.7th
ACTINY
894.628/8-1646
ESP
ES
GA
2
JK
l dereAust given Janeae as
e, u.Fe f
irt on welig foutry s
h  y perulrtionA
aevonrort.np
no 1. nds e aovernour
ne mothe shi oreryinr
A
hitt
ACHSO
no
aiq
LRC
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.89)
R. Mrss S1 iai
Of you wich
any cdestribution
of this? clespatch
made ontside the
Deparlment will
you pleaze rotify
Thes offece.
FR
O.r.Freney

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.91)
DC/R ROUTING SLIP
FROM Joky0
8/19/46
CTION: 2/R. /Enrnt
CCPIES TO 2 JA - 1 EuEnd
JK
RP
BC
NOE
55
1TP
6

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.94)
FR
JNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
TR
FOR JAPAN
JA
JK
Bexus—RP:
Restricted
Tokyo, August 19, 1946
Bc
No. 558
NOE
SD
17P
SUBJECT: Antarctic Whaling Directive and Staff Study
The United States Political Adviser has the honor
to refer to the Department's telegram 308, May 14, 1946,
in which it is requested that the Department be notified
if and when the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
gives approval to resumption of Japanese pelagic whaling
in the Antarctic Ocean.
894.628/8-19
Notification on this matter was forwarded in our
telegram 364, August 12, 1946. In this connection there
1/
are transmitted herewith, five (5) copies of the Staff
Study as submitted to the Chief of Staff, 3 August 1946;
2/
five (5) copies of the Memorandum to the Imperial
Japanese Government, AG 800.217, 6 August 1946, en-
titled: "Japanese Whaling Operations in the Antarctic"
3/
(SCAPIN 11O3); and five (5) copies of the directive
issued 3 November 1945.
4
6
SOURGES DIVISION
REEORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
Emc. att
Que copy i each
740
1946
eucdosuce
retaiuel
DEAF STATE CRUS 9/1/46
5 copies each, Staff Study,
CS/
Memo to Imperial Japanese Govt,
SCAPIN 11O3, and directive 3 Nov 45
A
Figinal and Hectograph to Department
780
GAbbey:cbk
894.628

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.96)
CONCURRET CES:
State Department, Radio Ak SVc 6894 (Statc Serial 308,
May 14, 6PM)
Diplomatic Scctic , oral concurrence of ir M.W. Bishop,
Exccutive
Co.NaVJa, oral cuncurrence o1 C:pt N. . Bard,
Operations
CO.i.VJP, and SCaJA, Adnir 1 C. B. Momsen through
Capt Bard
EsS, or'1 concurrence of Col W. T. Ryder, Executive
Officcr
Ees, oral concurrence of Comdr G. L. Meyer, Finnnce
Div, Shipbuilding
G-4, or:l co..currcncc of Col C. R. Hutchinson, Pl ins
and Policy
G-4, oral concurrence of Lt Col M. . Gullion,
Transport tion
G-2, oral concurrencc or Lt Shocsmitn, Jupun Scction,
Operations
CCS, oral concurrencc oI M.j B. E. Smll, Domestic
k.dio Division
-3-

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.96)
Inclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 558 dated August 19, 1946 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
 subject "Antarctic Whaling Directive and Staff Study"
GENERL ADUARTERS
SUPREILE COLLANDLR FOR TL ALLIED POWERS
MEMORA DUM FOR THE CHIEI OF STAFF.
I. THE PROBLEM PRLSENTED.
To authorize two Japanese whaling factor. ships
and l2 whalers or killer boats to conduct whaling operations
in the Antarctic during the 1946 - 1947 whalinc season.
II. FACTE BLARI. G UIO.. T.E PROLEL.
1. In the years prior to 1941 Japan wus one of
the chief participants in the whal: risnery of the Antarctic.
Since the cessation of hostilities Japanese operitions in
this area have been prohibited.
2. The J pa ese operated six whaline factory
ships of from 10,000 o 20,000 gross tons each and 45
whalers or killer bo  in the Antarctic during the 1940 -
1941 whaling season. During the war all the factory ships
and many of the whalers or killer boats were sunk.
3. The Japanese catch in the 1940 - 1941 season
amounted to 9,857 whales that produced 100,939 metric tons
of whale oil which fou d a world market and approximately
12,0o0 metric tons or other wh le products most of which
was frozen whalc meat for consumption as food in Japan.
At preseit tnerc is an acute world short ge of wnale oil
nd there is a need for v le e t for human food in Japun.
4. The J panese sure u of bisncries states thit,
if per.itted, the J punese cun have two 10,Oo0-ton factory
ships, twelve killer boats of around 350 tons ech, and
seven carrier vessels, thrcc between 7,000 and 10,000 tons
each and 1our around 1,000 tons e ch, ready for the 1946-
1947 scason. The sensor norma: ly conmences in December.
The wh: ling flc ts formerly left J pan for the antarctic in
November cach year and returned in April tnc following yeur.
5. With the quipment listed in parugraph 4, the
Japanese Burc u of Iishcrics cstim tcs th t upproximately
2,000 wh lcs could bc capturcd and processed during the
1946 - 1947 sc son. Thcsc whales .ould yic1d about 11,450
metric tons oI vh.le oil, 1,7oo metric tons of frogen
whole me t, 14, 352 metric tons of salted wh.le meat, 9,330
- 1 -

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.97)
metric tons of salted whalc blubber nd 12 metric tons of
whale liver oil.
6. The wh l. oil would bc ade vailable 1or
allocation by the Combincd Food Board.
7. The Japanese are skillful and cxpericnced
wh lers and it is belicved th t they would be better aolc
to operate their own equipment than would the whalers of
other nations. They h ve demonstrated their ability to
operate witn equipnent which would be considercd as in-
adequate by other nations.
8. On 3 November 1945 the Imperial Japanese
Government was directed by the Supreme Comaander for the
Allied Powcrs to abidc by all the regulation or the Inter-
nation:l Wh.ling Conventions (SCAP AG..800.217 (3 Nov 45)NR,
3 November 1945), which govern antaretic and a11 other
whaling oper.tions.
9. The trips to and from the Antarctic ure to be
accomplished without appro chin any land nearer than 12
milcs.
10. The authorization of the Jup nese to conduct
whaline operations in the Antaretic would not cndanger
security.
11. Tne arca in the Antaretic in which wh ling
oper tions will be conducted is shown on the cnclosed map.
(TAB 1)
III. COICLUSI: S.
In vicw of the world short ge of fats, oils
and protein foods, it is desirable that the Supreme Con-
mander authorize Antarctic whaling by the Japanese during
the 1946 - 1947 senson.
IV. ACTION RECOME DLD.
It is reconaended th.t the attached memoranaum
to the Imperil Japanese Governnent authorizing Jupuncse
whalin in the Antarotic during the 1946 - 1947 scason be
sent forward. (TAB 2)
HUBERT G. SCHE. CK,
Lt Col,
CE
Chief, Natur:l kesources Section
- 2-

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.96)
CONCURREN CES:
State Department, Radio Ak SVc 6894 (Statc Serial 308,
May 14, 6PM)
Diplomatic Scction, oral concurrence of ir M.W. Bishop,
Exccutive
Co.aVJar, oral concurrence o1 C:pt N. . ard,
Operations
CO..VJnP, and SC JAP, Adnirl C. b. Momsen through
Capt Bard
EsS, or 1 concurr ncc of Col W. T. Ryder, Executive
Officcr
EuS, oral concurrence of Coadr G. L. Meyer, Finnce
Div, Shipbuilding
G-4, oral co..currcncc of Col C. R. Hutchinson, Plins
nd Policy
G-4, oral concurrcncc of Lt Col I. b. Gullion,
Transport tion
G-2, oral concurrencc or Lt Shoesmitn, Jupun Section,
Opcrtions
CCS, oral concurrencc oI .j B. E. Sm.ll, Domestic
R dio Division
-3-

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.98)
Inclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 558 dated August 19, 1946 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Antarctic Whaling Directive and Staff Study"
GTIERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMA DER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AG 800.217(6 Aug 46)
APO 500
(SCAPIN - 1103)
6 August 194s
MEMORANDUA FOR: IMPERIAL JAPAJESE GOVERNIE IT
THROUGH
: Central Liaison Office, Tokyo
SUBJTCT
: Japanese Whaling Operations in the Antarctic
1. Reference is made to the following:
a. Memorandum for Imperial Japanese Government from General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, A7 S00.217,
(3 Nov 45)NR, (SCAPII - 233), 3 Tovember 1945, subject: "Whaling
Industry."
b. Memorandum from Imperial Japanese Government to General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, C.L.O. No.
2416 (74), 19 May 1946, subject: "haling in the Antarctic Ocean,"
with inclosure thereto.
2. Japanese whaling operations in the Antarctic are hereby autho-
rized for the 194s - 1947 season. Such operations will be conducted
only in that part of the Pacific and Indian Oceans of tha Antarctic
bounded by south latitude 55 degrees on the north and that part of the
Antarctic land mass on the south generally known as Wilkes Land, South
Victoria Land and the Ross Shelf and between east longitude 90 degrees
on the east of Greenwich and west longitude 170 degrees on the west of
Greonwich, herein fter referred to as the Antarctic Whaling Area, during
the period and under the conditions set forth by the International Whal-
ing Conventions or modifications thereof which may bo adopted prior to
the season.
3. The following vessels are authorized to. conduct whaling opera-
tions in the ntarctic Whaling rea:
Name of Vessel
Gross Tonnage
(Matric Tons)
a. Factory Ships:
Hashidate Maru
10,020
Misshin Maru No. 1
10,000
b. Whalers or
(killer boats):
Fumi Haru Yo. 2
300
Fumi Maru Yo. 3
300
Fumi Maru No. 5
387
Koyoo Maru
370
2

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.97)
AG 800.217 (6 Aug 46) R (SCAPIN - 1103)
Seki Maru
300
Soki Maru No. 3
298
Sokd Maru No. 5
300
Shonan Maru No. 8.
350.
Shonan Maru No. 1l
350
Takunan M ru No. 2
350
Takunan Maru No. 3
350
Takunan Moru No. 8
350
c. Carriers
Banshu Maru
983
Banshu Maru No. 32
782
Banshu Maru No. 35
993
Banshu Maru No. 36
1,000
San Diego Moru
7,268
Tadoteu Maru
10,000
Tenyo Meru
10,000
4. The following appliee to the vessels listed in par graph 3:
a. Each vesgel will be marked nd opar tea in conformity with
directives from tho Administrotor, N-val Shipping Control Authority.
b. Eech vessel will displey in the usurl manner the flng of
the Japanese Merchent Marine.
c. The master of ench of the factory ships listed in paragraph
3 during the p riod enroute to nd fron the antaretic. n ling reh will
forwurd a daily rodiogr m to the Jopenese Purecu of Fisheries in Tokyo
listing tho loc tion of his ship at 1200 hours on the date the radiogrem
is disp tched.
d. . The master of ench of the factory ships listed in parngraph
3 during the wh line oper tions in the authorized ntarctic Whaling Aren
will forward a daily radiogren to the Japanssc Bureau of Fisheries in
Tokyo listing the following inform tion:
(1) Loc tion of his ship at 1200 hours on the d te radio-
gram ie dispatched.
(2)
Number and kind of whielee processed on his ship during
the previous 24-hour period and output of whale oil,
mot, blubber, nd other products.
e. Apulic tione for frequency for redio communic-tions by the
wheling fleet will be mude to Civil Coumunic tions Section, General
Hoadquarters, Supreme Commander for the llied Powurs.
1
2

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
AG 800.217 (6 Aug 46)NR (SCAPIV - 1103)
f. Each vossel will proceed to and return from the Antarctic
Whaling Ares by the most direct route nd without approaching any land
nearer than 12 miles. The route to be followed by ench vessel to and
from the Antarctic Whaling Aren will be supplied by the Imperial Japanese
Governmont to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and the Comman-
der, N val Activities Japan (COmNaVJaP), 15 days prior to departure of
each vessel from Japanese ports and from the Antarctic Whaling Area.
E. Tho master of each of the factory ships on departing from
the Antarctic Whaling Area will dispatch a radiogrem to the Japanese Bureau
of Fisheries in Tokyo stating d'te of departure.
h. On deprture from and arrivel at their home ports in Japan
each vesrel will clear its respective port through the duly constituted
port authorities of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers at that
port.
i. The vessels aro nuthorized to leave Japanese ports for tho
Antarctic Whaling Aren during the period 1 November 1946 to 15 December
1946. Roturn from the Antarctic Whaling Area to the home port of each
vessel must be accomplished by one month fter the closing of the whaling
senson in the Antorctic or by 30 April 1947, which ever occurs first.
j. Tho Jap nese Burenu of Fisheries will maintain at ite office
in Tokyo  file of ll radiogrems rcquired to be disp: tched in accordance
with par graph 4 for reference by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers when desired.
5. The whale oil produced by the operations of the vessels listed
in p ragraph 3 will bo brought to Japan end as soon ae possible after
arrival the oil will be suitably stored and safely guarded. The Imoerial
Japmese overnment will notify the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers the loc tion of the place or places where the whcle oil ie etored
nd nmount in storage within ten days nfter it is safe in storage. Finel
disposition of the wh-le oil will be the subject of a further nemorandum
from the Supreme Commonder for the Allied Powers to the Imperial Japenese
Government.
6. The attention of the Imperiai Jipanese overnment is cnlled to
memorandun on the whaling industry mentioneu in reference 1a above.
Reports cnlled for in accordance with this memorandur will be submitted
to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powere by 1 June 1947.
3.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
AG 800.217 (6 Aug 46)VR (SCAPIN - 1103)
7. This authorization doés not establish any precedent for whaling
operations in the Antarctic area or any other aren for any subsequent
period of time nor is it an expression of Allied policy relative to
ultimate determination of national jurisdiction, international bounderies
or fishing and vhaling operations in the area concerned or in any other
area.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
Golu B. Cooly
JOHN B. COOLTY,
Colonel, AGD,
Ad jutant General.
4

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.95)
Inclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 558 dated August 19, 1946 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
G
subject "Antarctic Whaling Directive and Staff Study"
0
Y
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE CORIIANDER FOR TL ALLILD FOWRS
AG 800.217 (3 NoV 45)NR
3 November 1945
I. EHCRA DUM FOR: IMPERIAL JAPA ESE GOVERNIENT.
THROUGh
: CEI TRAL LIAILON OFFICE, TOKYO.
SU. .T
: Whaling Industry.
1. From this date the operations of the Japanese whaling
industry will be conducted in strict conformity with the terms
of the International Convertions regarding whalin except inso-
far as inconsistent with previous or subsequent directives from
this neudeuarters.
2. The International Conventions wiih respect to whaling
are:
a. Convention for the Regulation of Whaling signed at
Geneva, 24 September 1931.
b. Agreement for th Regulation of Whaling, and Final
Act signed at London, 8 June 1937.
c. Protocol aendin the A reement for the Regulation
of Whaling signed at London, June 1937, and Final act of the
Conference signed at London, 24 June 1938.
3. Statistical, biological and othe. reports as requirea
under the terns of thcse Conventio..s will be submitted to this
heaequarters.
4. Complete utilizution will be made of the carcuss of
each vhile taken by the Japanese whaling industry and, insofar
as possible, the meat of the whales will be marketed as food.
FOR TM SUPRL:E CO.ILA.LER:
H. . A.LEI,
Colonel, A.G.D.,
Asst. Adjutunt General.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.87)
STATE
Memorandum of ConversationT DIVISION
DATE: Augustg469, 1946
   T
SUBJECT:
Japanese Antarctic maling.
1946 AUG 22 PM 1 30
0ck
PARTICIPANTS:
   , o.
RECORDS BRANCH
. ke, ae ullaires, Hore ian mbausy
工
-..
L.. - r. . Lory
C.
-r. van nt
x
894.628/8
COPIES TO: NOE - r. Cunninghum
 - "r. Lory
-r. rtin
1-1493
3-1946
P. Lcke, se lan r e ' taires, unter orders from his
vrnent, sameu an apotment itn sne etin secretary at
:o p to nfor. te nein scretary of one lorwegian sovernment's
oujeebien to une dutnorization o ar o a saoanese whaline expecition
to he Antarctic n tne season 194o-47.
P.  ke sta eu shat is overnment nad taten up this matter
weviousl it. he ecartment mns tnat nis overment regrets not
ve n consulted rior to uhe antnorization ot the expedition. he
emonasiscu te cconole une psyehololcal portance of the whaling
CS/
ustry to ne orme lans una stressee the Ja anese practice in the
ast onoriny einational a ree ents concem in conservation of
whales. .e staoet onat nen the caten lr it was established it was not
2
anbicipated that me  ans or the da cnese would be pemmitted to engage
in malin
894.628
P. lanke then expresseu the wesire of mis lovermment as fonlows:
(1) mmt, i possitle, pear o uirected to rescin the authorization;
(2) f lapossible to reverse the decision, then it was the Norwegian
esire that the expeaition e tmuertaken oy vorway und the vessels be manned
by Norwe lan crews. r. Lycke su gesteu that if Ja an nee ued the whage
18-1946
oil, s coulu oe urcnase. from sorway.
E
d
FILED
in reply
1946
1B

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.89)
In reply to .r. Acheson's question about financial and other
arran ements concerning the second suggestion, r. Lykke replied that
ne nad nad no instructions from nis Jovernment on tnis point, but
thought such uetails coule be worted out anong the interested parties.
. Acheson assured i. Lykke that a thorougn inquiry into the
situation woul. oe maue.
M3
EUs
..:.Vanoant:
/19/46

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
Inclosure No. 3 to Despatch No: 558 dated August 19, 1946 from
the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject "Antarctic Whaling Directive and Staff Study"
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMLANDER FOR TL ALLIED FOWERS
AC 800.217 (3 N0V 45)NR
3 November 1945
LHHCR DUI FOR: DMPERIAL JAPA ESL GOVERNIENT.
THROUGn
: CEI TRAL LIAILON OFFICE, TOKYO.
SU..T
: Whalin: Industry.
1. lrom this date the operations of the Japanese whaling
industry will be conducted in strict conformity with the terms
oi the International Conventions regarding whalins except inso-
far us incensistent with previous or subsequent directives from
this heud uarters.
2. The International Conventions with respect to whaling
are:
u. Convention for the Regulation of Whaling signed at
Geneva, 24 September 1931.
b. Agreement for the Regulution of Whaling, and Final
Act si ned at London, 8 June 1937.
c. Protocol anendin the A reement for the Regulation
of Wh ling signed at London, June 1937, and Final act of the
Conierence signed at Lo don, 24 June 1938.
3. Statistical, biological and othe. reports as requircd
under the terms of these Conventio.s will be submitted to this
neacqu arters.
4. Complete utilizution will be made of the carcass of
each while taken by the Japanese whaline industry a'd, insofur
as p ssible, the meat of the whales will be marksted as food.
FOR T SUPRLL COLILA.DER:
H. .  L,
Colonel, A.G.D.,
Asst. Adjutant General.
3
1.12

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: 8-19-46
SUBJECT: Japanese Whaling Operations in Antarctic.
PARTiciPAnTs: Mr. Graves - British Embassy
FE: Mr. Vincent
JA: Mr. Borton
COPIES TO:
FE: Mr. Vincent
894.628/8-1946
epe
1—1493
Mr. Graves brought up the question of Japanese whaling
operations in the Antarctic as approved by SCAP and stated
that since his conversation with Mr. Emmerson on August 12
he had discovered that the problem is much more complicated
than he had originally anticipated. He reported that appar-
cntly not only the United Kingdom but Norway, Australia and
New Zealand were much interested in the problem. Moreover,
as the whole question involved various branches of his Govern-
ment he probably woulc not be in a position to make any state-
ment on the subject until August 22.
6.8
C
S
9
60
93
H3
15-19-46
JA:HBorton:mls

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: 8-21-46
SUBJECT:
Japanese Whaling Operations in Antarctic
PARticiPAnts: Major Plimsoll - Australian Legation
Mr. Vincent - FE
Mr. Borton - JA
COPIES TO:
JK - Mr. Martin
IR/Fisheries - Mr. Flory
8
6
GPO
1-1493
4
Major Plimsoll called at his request to report that he had
been asked to take up with the Department informally the question
of Japanese whaling operations in the Antarctic. He said that
2
his Government objected to these proposed operations for the
8
following reasons:
1
8
(1) Australia, because of her geographical position and
3-2146
possessions to the south, feels that the Antarctic is of direct
strategic importance to her;
(2) The extension of Japanese whaling to the Antarctic
appears to be counter to the provision in the United States policy
paper (FEC-O35) which states "Japanese fishing should not be per-
mitted near areas under Allied jurisdiction without prior permis-
sion from the country concerned.";
(3) As Japanese whaling operations in the Antarctic would
894.6
e near Australian territory, the Australian Government feels
that they should have been consulted or that the problem should
have been raised in the Allied Council in Tokyo;
C
(4) If the United States Government approves of the opera-
S
9
tions proposed by General MacArthur, the Australian Government
feels that such operations would be an infringement of Article 4
工
of the International Whaling Convention of November, 1945 to
9
which this country is a party. The Australian Government interprets
the proposed
146

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
the proposed operation to mean either that the United States
intends to include the catch by the Japanese within the limits
laid down by the Convention which would necessitate a reduction
in shares of the signatories or the increase in the total catch
over and above the amount established by the Convention which
would be a violation of the Convention;
(5) The Australian Government is of the opinion that if
whaling facilities are available in Japan.they should be operated
by the Allies, preferably by the Commonwealth governments;
(6) The Australian Government is also concerned over allow-
ing Japanese to begin whaling operations as, once such operations
are begun, it would be very difficult to stop them and thus far
no decision has been made to begin such operation.
Major Plimsoll stated he wes raising the matter informally
and hoped that the case might be settled without their having
to make a formal protest on the matter. In answer to Major
Plimsoll's comments we said that we would look into the matter,
and inquire further of SCAP as to the relations of the expedi-
tion to the Convention of November 1945 and would report to him
as soon as a decision had been reached within the Government
on the matter.
43
JA:HBorton:mls

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.96)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CONFIDENTIAL TOT
60
PRIORITY
FARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED. HANDLE AS CONFIDENTIAL
JCV
CORRESI ONDENCE PER PARAS 511 8nd 60a AR 380-5
EGC
HB.
From
GHO SCAP, Tokyo, Japan
to jile
To
War Department for WARccS, pass to Sec State
Nr
0 64425
22 August 1946
This is Atches on's 3380 August 22nd.
N
Subject is Jap Whaling Antaretic.
1 British repurtel 371 August 16 Commonwealth
Member (an Australian) of Allied Couneil, has written Su-
preme Commander under date of 2ist August as follows: "Dear
General MacArthur: At this mornings meetings of the Allied
Couneil I refrained from raising the question of Jap whaling
in the Antaretie. because I wished to avoid saying anything
that might be eonstrued by the press as a clash between the
United Scates and the British Commonwealth.
I writo now. however, to say that the Govts I rep-
resent in the Allied Counoil ere perturbed by the proposal
in your memorandum of August 6th to the Imperial Jap Govt.
My govts are giving this question very careful and urgent
consideiat tn, and I hope very much that it may be possible
for you vo defer your final decision on this question until
they have had the opportunity to complete this consideration.
Yours sineerely, William MacMahon Bali".
2. I replied to above under date 22nd August as
follows:
"Dear Miever Ball: General MacArthur has asked
me to reply to your letter of elst August with reference
to Jap whaling. He has noted your statement that the
matter is under consideration * of course, holds himself
CM-IN-5049
(23 Aug)
CONPIDENTIAL
3
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.93)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CONFIDENTIAL TOT
PRTORITY
Page 2
From :
GHO SGAP, TokyO, Japan
Nr
1.0
0 64425
22 August 1946
completely amenable to any further directives that he may
receive from the Allled Govts coneerned. As you know,
ample time exists berore the proposed sailing in November
as* yours, George Ateheson, Jr.".
Balls sbate rent no to raising question in Allied
Council is invalid and insincore. He specifically raised
question in l2th Meeting of Couneil 13th August. The ex-
planation of seArs nehion in essence is that matter was a
question for Administrative action by the Supreme Commander
takemn under autborisation from the United States Govt pursuant
to genery I policy decisione for the occupation. In the
meetins my paply to him iodicated thie line of thought and
I stated bhat trere ls a worlowide shortage of vitamin
A whtah comos from whatle olls oil from this operation will
be subjeet to allpeation by fnternational Food Council; only
the whale meas ttacelr vould be utilized in Japan: United
Bbates in givins authorinetion has special interest in food
shortaga in Japan beenuse of reletlonship of shortage to
the neoupatlon and slse hecuuse the United States is sending
food to this vouutry bo alleviate the shortage, end it seemed
to we that she posibion of the United States in regard to
food shertage shoutd be reesived with appreeiation rather
than ovittelom. It is of imterest that in sanctioning the
cabeh as at emergeney huuunt sertan meesure for the single
next sunaon, Genercl Man/rthus cspeoinlly stipulated that
the deale ton has no bearlny on fut ure international matters
deeliny vith Jap whalings that he vireeted the strictest
cbservanee of Tnteruntlonal whalang pegulations, and that the
operation intringms in po way upen the rights ofr any nation.
* Being servieed.
End
Notes
371 not Identified in SMC
ACTION
D (State)
TNPO
CAD. P & O, SSP
CM-IN-6049
(23 Aug 46)
DTG 221251Z
jjf
COMPTDENTIAL
3
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 54
TO
: FE - Mr. Vincent
DATE: 8-22-46
(Copies to JK;Mr. Martin; IR: Mr. Flory)
FROM
JA - Mr. Borton
SUBJECT:
: Japanese Whaling Question in Antarctic.
In reference to the attached memorandum of conversation
with Major Plimsoll from Australia I have been going over
carefully the terms referred to in Atcheson's reply of July 29
(No. 340) and find that the situation is more confused than I
thought and I am suggesting that Martin of JK and Flory of
IR get together with me in the near future to see if we can
clarify the situation.
8
94.628
The developments as I see them are as follows:
(1) On April 1 Agriculture asked the Acting Political
Adviser whether the Japanese were planning to undertake any
wheling operations in the 1946-47 season;
8
(2) On April 17 CINCAFPAC reported that Japanese were
8
informally seeking attitude of SCAP in reference to whaling
-2
and that SCAP was favorably inclined to permit resumption of
Japanese whaling in Antarctic under proper restrictions and
y
146
regulations, "in accordance with all the terms and conditions
of the International Whaling Convention to which Japan was
directed to adhere on November 3 and requested the views of
War Department" (telegram No. 59997);
(3) On April 27 the War Department in telegram 86015
telegraphed CINCAFPAC that Antarctic whaling is controlled by
international agreements to which the U.S. is a party and that
number of wnales to be captured is also controlled. Telegram
further stated that resumption of whaling by Japanese will
7
require international Allied agreement, that U.S. position
was still under discussion and that "as soon as U.S. position
m
is firm consultations with other nations concerned will be
instituted. State now discussing problem and will advise
soonest.";
S
So far I have been unable to determine who instituted the
above cable in State and as far as I am aware no such consulta-
J
tions with other nations have been instituted by us.
(4) On May 14 a cable (No. 308) was subm1tted to POLAD,
Tokyo stating that subject to folloving conditions in addition
2
to provision of SWNCc, Department perceives no objection on
policy grounds
0
6

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
policy grounds to Japanese pelagic whaling in Antarctic. The
conditions were whale oil produced to be subject to CFB alloca-
tion and approval for undertaking this expedition withoutl
prejudice  future decision regarding disposition of vessels,
equipment and products. SCAP was asked to advise promptly if
and when it approves to enable Department to review suggested
provisions for compliance with treaty obligations for inspection
and enforcement;
(5) SCAP cabled May 2Oth (No. CX 61165) that SCAP wil1
obtain reasonable assurance of effective production before
approval and State Department will be advised of action taken
by SCAP;
(6) On June 7 (No. Z O1742) SCAP requested ful1 text of
International haling Convention with regulations for 1945-46
season and 46-47 season;
(7) On July 25 (No. 413) POLAD was instructed that the
Horwegian Government has expressed the view that Japan should
be prohibited from future whaling and that the Department plans
no reply pending SCAP decision authorized in Department telegram
308 of May 14;
(8) On August 2 (No. 426) to Political Adviser stated
that Russians had raised FEC objection to extension of Japanese
fishing in whaling areas and that FEC Sub-comnittee desired
additional information on matter;
(9) On August 6 (No. C63799) SCAP reported his plans
reference authorization of two factory ships and twelve killer
vessels to operate in Antarctic in 1946-47 season and stated
provisions for compliance with treaty obligtions for inspec-
tion and enforcement woula be forwarded when finally formulated.
JA:HBorton:mls

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.81)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
mn
INCOMING TELEGRAM
J6
Actl.n:
Caryt wihetmen
Tokyo via liar
Info
Dated August 22, 19.6
FUR
OT TEETTAL
Rec'd 11:5? a.m., 23ra
FE
Cont ol 
I':
to
No rept se recesaery
A C
CL.FR
A H
NT OF 
ACT INF
010
SECCYTO
F
AUG2 1946
ESP
C/F
GA
121.
JK
 (R1.71. ugust 1) Conmonwer20
91101
lice Counc I. hue vrluten
894.628/8-2246
su
Jen und" nt of Ist August as
Coll
on:1 M
thur At thio mernine
mect'nge
th:1110
uncil I reire ned rron
501819
qu:t1on
arnece woling In th
 oc vo a.oi sayine anyttin
by the n es co clesh
berve t un St
Iwe  osyth iheverno
I e int   tur n
tre f ugust oth to
Ir      o
 cenen e
siderrti
ane no y m h that t mey te
y to cr veu final declslen
phls cust n t ui1  have  ne opportunity to
om t11dt1on
tora slncxeiy. an
Mactca 1
C
FILED
 rep led t  eve uncc: dste 2ond Auun
1
as follows
C.
至
"Doar ste: Bal
Gonerel Machrthur bes ast
mE t: Ienl
CONPIDEUTJAL
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
R

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIDEN LAL
-2-, #38 August 22, from Tokyo vin Ver.
me to
y to your letter of 2lst August with
referet
to Japanese whaling He has noted your
statemer
that the matter is under consideration,(#)
of cous
holds himself completely amenable to
any furt r directi ves that he may receive from the
Allled 
rernments soncerned
As you knov, ample time
existe
"ore the proposed saiiing in November
(") YO
George Atcheson, Jr
2
inll s statement as to vai sing question in
All1cd
netl is Invalid and insincere
He specir1
cally 
ed question in 12th meetlng of Counc11
13th
t The explanation of SciF's action in
essence
that matter was a question for administrative
action
the Supceme Commanler takon under autnor1-
zati on t
m she Untted  tates Goverument pursuant to
gene: a.
Iiey dectsions for the cecupatlon. In the
meetin
re ly to him indiceted thie iine of thoughs
and 1 
ed that: there is a vorlit-wide shortage
of itan  A which comes from whale oil, oil from
this o tion will be ub jeet to a location by
Internat nal Food Council: only th: whale meat 1tself
wouls m  tilized in Jaoan; United States in giving
author ton ha" anecfal interont n food shortage
in Jeon
erause of relationohip of shortege to the
oct  
and also because the United Stetes is
send in
od to this country to alloviate the shortage:
and 15
med to me that the peaition or the United
States i regard to food shortege should be recelved
with amlation rathe than eritleism It is of
Interes hat in sanetioning the catch as an emergeney
humanise an measure for the single noxt season,
General  chp thur especially st pulated that the
decision  as no boaring on future international
matter aling wth Japanese whaling: that he directed
the st l est observance of internatlonal whaling
regulasi us: and that the operation infringes in no
way ppon he Aghts of any nation.
ATCHESON
NOTE
Apparent omission, correction to follow.
∴I.
CONFIDENC.AL

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.73)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
16 TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TEDEGRAMAGE 2 3/24/11
Act.
COHDETIAL
2 a.m.
1.21
CORRECTICNS UNDERSCCRED
pur 17400
1711
117
a
with
Jo
o u your
nretlon
VO:L
1a.d.eur3
prther diretives
 ver nents c acerren.
∴1
30
e
1.3
ine estin in
10  01
P.ne
unc17
in
tr ad1aisrat
t
r rent urunnt te
1
in the
tfth
plodo s
152
1b
n1!
t.
nIn vin
hett
endia
i
telc
is11
u catet  an overency
1 ne..1
 ha    are n
wttore de inp cnnee ne ine het be d te
the trr ctor oroovar e f snternaci nal whaling
recutatn and t 
tooret n n rge in no
yu h 
BT.Y
in
A . 
L
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1420
AMERICAN LEGATION
CONFIDENTIAL
Canberra, Australia, August 22, 1946.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
CEP 19 1346
Subjeot: Request from Political Adviser to
General MaoArthur that Legation
Release Statement to Australian
Press Regarding Whaling by Japanese
in Antarotic.
894.628/
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that on August 20, 1946
00
the Legation received a telegram from Mr. George Atoheson,
1
Politioal Adviser to General MacArthur, requesting that
2
246
it give to the Australian press a statement made by a
spokesman for the Supreme Commander in Tokyo explaining
the reasons for permission having been granted to the
Japanese to conduct whaling operations in the Antarotio.
/1
A copy of this telegram is enclosed.
IGN
The granting of permission by the Supreme Commander
COPIES
in Tokyo to the Japanese to fish for whales in the
102
Antarotio has been the subject of numerous press reports
元/1
and comment. It has been stated that Mr. W. MoMahon Ball,
the British Commonwealth representative on the Allied
Council for Japan, has protested that General MacArthur
1 BC
authorized Japanese whaling operations in the Antarotic
/ FEC(ERD)
without having sought the opinion of the Allied Council
for Japan. The Prime Minister has stated that the Aus-
/DRF
tralien Government and the Governments of the United
Kingdom and New Zealand were discussing the question of
Japan reentering the whaling industry in the Antarotio.
General MacArthur's action has served to renew press
discussion with respect to the advisability of Australia
entering the whaling industry and some of the leading
metropolitan dal lies have been rather critioal of the
Government for its failure actively to push the matter.
In view of the somewhat controversial nature of the
statement made by General MacArthur's spokesman, as given
in Mr. Atcheson's telegram, the Legation considered it
advisable informally to seek the opinion of the Department
3
of
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
AIR MAIL
-2-
of External Affairs with respect to its reaction to
the release to the Australian press by the Legation
of the statement. It learned that such action would
not be regarded with particular favor by the Depart-
ment of External Affairs and consequently it has re-
frained from taking the action requested by Mr. Atcheson.
In this connection it might be well to review
briefly for the Department's information an incident
which occurred in March in connection with the repatri-
ation from Australia of a number of Formosan and Korean
internees on board a demilitarized Japanese destroyer,
the Yoizuki. At that time the metropolitan press was
bitterly oritical of the Government for having permitted
the alleged over-loading of the Yoizuki with men, women
and ohildren and accused the Government of having en-
deavored to place the onus for this occurrence on General
MacArthur whose headquarters had supplied the vessel for
the repatriation. Regardless of the rights and wrongs of
the matter, it was utilized here for internal political
purposes since it afforded the anti-Government metro-
politan dailies an exoellent opportunity roundly to
oritioize the Government. At that time General MacArthur,
presumably to clarify his position in the matter, released
to the Australian press through United States Army author-
ities in Australia a statement giving his position in the
/2
matter. A copy of this statement is enclosed. The United
States Army authorities in Australia, without reference
to the Legation, made the statement public. It was most
embarrassing to the Government and the Minister for External
Affairs, Dr. Evatt, personally complained to the Legation,
pointing out the impropriety on the part of the United
States Army authorities issuing in Australia statements
of a controversial nature which were embarrassing to the
Government.
Another incident of a similer character, which has
occurred here recently, is that of the statement made to
the press by the Dutch Minister with reference to the
Piet Hein (see Legation's despatch no. 1365 of June 19,
1946 and no. 1369 of June 26, 1946 entit1ed Australian-
Dutch Relations) which resulted in the Dutch Minister
receiving a public rebuke from the Prime Minister in
Parliament for having eiroumvented regular diplomatic
channels and appealed directly to the Australian public.
Bearing in mind the above it is my considered opinion
that the Legation would be most ill-advised to make any
release to the Australian press along the lines of the
statement made by General MacArthur's spokesman in Tokyo.
Any useful advantage which might be gained through publicity
under the Legation's auspices of the reasons motivating
General MacArthur's action would be more than counter-
balanced by the damage which would be done to the now
most
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
AIR MAIL
-3-
most cordial relations existing between this Mission
and the Commonwealth Government. It might be pointed
out, moreover, that statements made in Tokyo by spokesmen
of the Supreme Commander which have a bearing on Aus-
tralia are fully reported in the Australian press.
I would appreciate receiving instructions from the
Department indicating what action, if any, I should take
in the event that I should receive a similar request from
the Political Adviser to the Supreme Commander in the
future.
Respectfully yours,
H. Earb Russell
H. Earle Russell
Charge d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosures:
1. Copy of telegram received
August 20, 1946 from
Political Adviser to
Supreme Commander, Tokyo.
2. Statement by General MacArthur
on Yoizuki incident, released
by U.S. Army authorities to
Australian press.
891
Douglas Jenkins, Jr./vr
To the Department in original and hectograph
CONFIDENTIAL
Copy to Political Adviser to Supreme Commander,
SCAP, Tokyo.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
AIR MAIL
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch no. 1420, dated August 22,
1946, from American Legation, Canberra, Australia, on
subject of "Request from Political Adviser to General
MacArthur that Legation Release Statement to Australian
Press Regarding Whaling by Japanese in Antarotic."
Message received through Harman Naval Wireless Station,
Canberra, August 20, 1946.
DMPORTANT
From:
SCAP 190445Z
To:
American Legation, Canberra.
Site:
ZE13661
Roquest you give to Australian papers following
statement made by spokesman for Supreme Commander.
(This is Atcheson unnumbered, August 19.)
"The permission given the Japanese to fish for
whale in the Antarotic region for the coming winter
is a purely humanitarian measure. It is to help
provide the food for Japan which that country cannot
provide for itself. The United States has found it
necessary to assume the burden of making up food
deficits for the Japanese to its own detriment and
consequently authorized General MacArthur, if he
deemed it advisable for the safoguarding of the
ocoupation, to permit these temporary whaling oper-
ations. General MacArthur at once sanctioned the
catch for the next season espeoially stipulating that
the decision had no bearing on future international
whaling regulations as directed. The operation in-
fringes in no way upon the rights or interests of any
nation."
Please acknowledge receipt by telegraph.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
AIR MAIL
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 1420, dated August 22,
1946, from American Legation, Canberra, Australia,
on subject of "Request from Political Adviser to
General MacArthur that Legation Release Statement
to Australian Press Regarding Whaling by Japanese
in Antarctio."
Statement released to Australian
press by U. S. Army in Australia
in behalf of General MacArthur
GHQ in Japan has no responsibility for the
repatriation of enemy nationals, prisoners of war
or others, from the Australian Žone other than to
furnish the vessels with a designated passenger
capacity. All details of the loading of the vessels -
the actual selection of the passengers, their assign-
ment and all other matters inoident to their passage,
is the complete responsibility of the Australian Foroes
which function entirely under their own command. The
radios which passed between GHQ and the Australian
Forces with reference to the Yoizuki's trip were as
follows.
On l0 February from Australian Landforces, eite
UHZE M 7904 requesting vessel to lift 948 passengers:
"Will concentrate Formosans and Koreans at Sydney when
shipping made available total to be moved 948."
This radio was replied to by GHQ on 13 February
in radio cite number ZAX 176ll reading "Ship designated
for moving 948 Formosans and Koreans at Sydney SCAJAP
will furnish name and sailing directions."
Radio, SCAJAP on 16 February, DTG 160120 to ACNB
and L Forces reads: "Jap destroyer Yoizuki departed
Kure 13 February via Rabaul for Sydney to load 948
Formosans and Koreans assembled there according to
Landforces despatch 100218, ETA Sydney 1 March. Ship
to return via Rabaul to Kiirun and Fusan for debarkation."
This radio went on to give instructions for the provisioning
of supplies and fuel for the voyage.
On two separate oooasions the Australian Landforoes
requested that additional personnel over and above the
948 Formosans Koreans previously mentioned be inoreased.
The two radios are as follows: Landforoes radio M--9529/756
dated 19 February reading in part as follows: "Request
Japanese destroyer Yoizuki, ETA Rabaul 23 February, ETA
Sydney 1 March embark 948 Fomosans Koreans at Sydney
thence Port Moresby embark 250 Formosans Koreans." and
Landforoes radio 877 M 104561 22 February which reads
a8

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
AIR MAIL
-2
as follows: "No transportation available our resources
to move Formosans Koreans at Port Moresby to Rabaul.
Would greatly appreciate if Yoizuki could effeot lift
from Moresby and Rabaul on her southbound voyage.
Please confirm."
These two requests to inoroase the number of
Formosans and Koreans to be embarked on the Yoizuki
were separately disapproved by SCAp in two radio the
first dated 20 February, cite number ZAX 18891 reading
in part as follows: "Sydney load wdll fill Yoizuki to
capacity. Diversion to Moresby not desired" and in
radio dated 25 February, cite number ZX 20082 reading
in part as follows: "Yoizuki is not available to lift
Formosans and Koreans at Moresby to Rabaul. SCAJAP
has scheduled Hara Tsuki ETh Moresby 4 Maroh, for this
purpose."
In no radio from Australian Landforoes was any
mention made of womep and children to be included in
this shipment. Unbeknown to GHQ and ignoring its
refusal to inorease the authorized number of passengers
above 948 the Australian Military Forces did so including
in the shipment 2ll Formosans and Korean women and
children. Upon receipt of this information SCAP sent
the following radio to Landforces Melbourne and the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth Naval Board on 8 Maroh reading as
follows: "Reference passengers on Jap repatriation
destroyer Yoizuki request following aotion earliest.
Debark women and children with male heads these families
at Rabaul or closest port selected by you for reembarkation
on hospital ship Hikawa Maru. Remainder of passengers
remain on Yoizuki and continue as soheduled. Route
Hikawa Maru by Kiirun to Uraga in case conditions require
place Australian guards on both vessels. Guards will be
returned on later repatriation shipping."
The Hikawa Maru is the best passenger vessel con-
verted to a hospital ship, in the Japanese merchant
marine.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: August 23, 1946
Japanese Antarctic Wheling
SUBJECT:
PARTICIPANTS: JA - Mr. Borton
JA - Mr. Lory
IR - Jr. Flory
IR - lir. Ven Sant
.IERNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
JK - Mr. Martin
AUG 2: 1946
COPIES TO:
834.628/8-
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1-1408
A meeting was held in Mr. Borton's office at 9:15 a.m.
for discussion of the consider tions involved in working
2346
out an answer to objections that have been raised by Norway,
the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand to the Japan-
ese whaling expedition t the Antarctic authorized by SCAP
on August 6, 1946. These same considerations would also
constitute the basis for formulation of the United States'
position in the event thet the whole problem is taken up
with Far Eestern Commission.
The folloving appear to be the principal problems which
must be explored:
1.
Will the Ja anese adhere strictly to the whaling
conventions? This raises the cuestion as to whether
Americen inspectors should be placed on fectory
ships.
2.
Will the prospe ctive Je anese catch be included
in the existing overall quota (16,00o blue whale
units), or will it be in excess of the ouota?
3.
"ill areas permitted by the SCAP directive infringe
legitimate strategic interests of Australia and
A
-7
FILED
New
131548
346

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
New Zealand in the Ross Sea, etc.?
4. Should Japanese whaling equipment be made avail-
able to whaling interests of the Allied countries?
Some German equipment was turned over last year.
5.Should Japanese be permanently prohibited from
wheling?
Cbjecting countries apparently feel the answer
should be "Yes".
It was agreed that Mr. Bevans, RP, and Mr. Vallance, Le,
should be consulted on the legal aspects of these questions.
Uoon receipt of the SCAP directive to the Japanese, IR and
JK will check the geographic limitations of the directive.
IR will prepare a draft of the results of these investigations
for consideration at a subsequent meeting of the group.
ERNS
IR: ERVanSant: omc

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
Aust 23, 1946
AUG 26 1946
HB
STATE
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.
The New Zealand Government has been lead to believe, through press reports
and other sources, that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan has
issued a directive authorizing the sending to the Antarctic for the 1946-47
whaling season of a Japanese whaling fleet of 12 whalers, 2 factory ships and 7
carriers.
2.
The area in which it is believed that this fleet hes been instructed to
operate is naturally of great importance to New Zealand because of its close
proximity to New Zealand shores and also to those of the Ross Dependency, in
respect of which New Zealand is the controlling authority.
3.
The past record of the Japenese in respect of whaling in the Antarctic is
one of failure to accede to the International Conventions regarding the taking of
894.628/8-2346
whales, and of predatory expeditions which threatened the continued existence of
the whaling industry and of the whale itself.
4.
The operation of Japanese vessels in such an erea will also raise security
questions for New Zealend, the details of which it is not necessery to mention at
the moment, but which the New Zealand Government view with some apprehension.
5.
The New Zealand Government therefore dislikes the prospect of the resumption
even temporarily, of Japanese whaling activities in Anrarctic waters, and it
CS/HH
considers it most important that no action should be taken which might prejudice
any ultimate policy decision concerning Japanese re-admission to, or exclusion from,
the Antarctic whaling industry. If, as now seems to be the case, Japan does in
fact appeer to have whaling facilities available for operetion, it is possible that
the difficulties might be met by some form of Allied operetion.
6.
Finally, the New Zealand Government wishes to place on record its surprise
that, on a matter of such great importance to New Zealand, it was not consulted,
0
either through the Allied Council or directly, before the issue of the Directiv
FILED
by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
0
1946
New Zealand Legation,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
August 234 1966
DATE:
Japanese Whaling in the Antaretio
SUBJECT:
Colonel Powles, First Seoretary of
PARTICIPANTS:
New Zealand Legation.
Mr. Vincent, FR
Mr. Lory, JÁ
FE - Mr. Vincent
COPIES TO: JA - Mr. Borton
1-1498
Oolonel Povles selled this afternoon and left a note
from his Government in whioh it protested SCat's authorization
of the J panese to whale this coming season in the Antaretie.
Colonel Fowles stated that the Japanese were notorious for
their violations of whaling regulations; that there was a
question of security involved, as the Japanese whaling
vessels would be operating within areas strategieally mear
Bew Zealand territcry tnd when bad weather arose these
Japanese vessels would in all probability request proteetion
in the closest New Zealand port; that no aotion should be
taken which might prejudice any final policy deelsion con-
oerning Japanese re-admiesion to, or exolusion from, the
Antaret1o whaling industry; and that Japanese whaling
facilities might be allotted to some of the Allied Powers.
Mr. Vincent stated that insemuch as there had been
several protests regarding Japanese wheling in the Antarstic
this matter should be settled as quiokly as possible.
He said consideration might be given to calling up FEC paper
O-35 regerding fishing in Japan and have it broademed to
include some policy with respeot to Japanese whaling activities.
Mr. Vincent then stated that he preferred to keep the matter
out or SWNCC and FEO and on a Government-Ge-Government basis
and that a telegram should be immediately dispatehed to SdaP
seking for : complete picture of Japan's whaling astivities
as prepared by SCAP because this Government had reeeived so
many protests regarding the proposed whaling ectivities of Japan
in the ntarctic this coming season. 
JA:Hddry/pm

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.93)
HB
Gev
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: August 23, 1946
Wedin fer.
JKE
Japanese Wheling in the Antarctic
SUBJECT:
Colonel Povles, First Secretary of
PARTICIPANTS:
New Zealend Legation.
Mr. Vincent, FE
Mr. Lory, JA
89
COPIES TO: FE - Mr. Vincent
JA - Mr. Borton
94.62
2
8
ePO
1-1493
/8
Coloncl Po les called this afternoon and left a note
-2346
from his Government in whicn it protested SCaP's authorization
of the Jr panere to whale this cominy seeson in the Antarctic.
Colonel rovles st:ted tha: the J: panese were notorious for
their violations of vhelin re ulations; that there was a
question of security involved, as the Jopanese wheling
vessels would be operatin: within arees stretegicslly near
New Zerland territory and when bad weather arose these
J: anese vessels wou d in ell probe ility request protection
in the closest New Zeclend port; that no action should be
taken wh ch mi  t prejudice any finel policy decision con-
cernin J: p: nese re-acmission to, or exclusion from, the
Antarctic whelin ineustry; end that Jepanese whaling
faci ities mi at be allotted to some of the Allied Powers.
Mr. Vincent stated th: in smuch as there had been
sever l protests regarain Jo penese w nling in the Antarctic
this matter should be settled as quickly as possible.
so
He said consideration might be given to cclling up FEC paper
O-35 regerding fishing in Japen and have it broadened to
8
Mr. Vincent then stated thet he preferred to keep the matter
out of SiNcC and FEC and on a Government-to-dovernment basis
nd that a telegram should be immediately dispatched to SCAP
asking for a complete icture of Jspsn's wheling activities
3
as proposed by SCAP because this Government had received so
f
many protests reyerding the proposed whaling ectivitles of Japan
9
in the ntarctic this comine seuson. io also stated that he
hopod this would be kept out of SWnco and FEo and be placed
on a Government-to Covernment basis.
JA:HLory/pm

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.94)
Ac/R
il
AIDEMÉMOIRE
The aide-mémoire of August 23, 1946, presented
by the Legation of New Zealand, which sets forth the
concern of the Government of New Zealand at the pro-
jected whaling expedition by Japanese vessels in the
8
Antarctic region has been studied carefully. The
394.628/8-2346
interest and concern of the Government of New Zealand,
partioularly with regard to the security factors
involved, in the extension of Japanese whaling into
the Antarctic is understood and appreciated. However,
it 1s the opinion of the Government of the United
O
0
/HH
States that when the reasons back of the approval of
this expedition as well as the manner in which it 1s
to be carried out are made clear, much of this concern
will be dissipated.
8946
It is desired to point out that the authorization
of the expedition by the Supreme Commander for the
Allied
人
3
F
6

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Allied Powers was an administrative action taken under
Directive No. 20A of November 13, 1945, which has been
filed with the Far Fastern Commission in accordance
with Paragraph III,4, of its terms of reference and
1s also contained in FEC-O35. This directive, 1n
paragraph d(1), clearly foresaw the possibility of the
Japanese being permitted to engage in vhaling under
the authorization of the Supreme Commander, and as
no member of the Far Eastern Commission had requested
the review of this directive, as provided for in
paragraph II A, 2, of the terms of reference, the
action of the Supreme Commander in approving the
expedition was clearly within his authority. This
approval was given in the hope that it would help to
alleviate the critical world shortage of fate and oils
and that it would elso contribute to the food supplies
of Japan. This latter factor 1s of partioular
importance to this Government because of the relation-
ship of the food shortage in Japan to the problems
of the

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
of the ocoupation. With respeot to the whale oil which
will be produced by the expedition this Government
desires to state that all of 1t, not merely the
exportable surolus, will be subject to allocation by
the International Emergency Food Counoil.
The Government of the United States agrees with
the Government of New Zealand that the past record of
the Japanese in respect of whaling in the Antarctio 1s
bad and in order to ensure against repetition of action
in violation of international whaling agreements, striot
orders have been issued that all provisions of such
agreements shall be observed in their entirety. The
Supreme Commander has stated that personnel from his
headquarters will accompany the expeuition to see that
these orders are carried out.
The Supreme Commander has also stated he would
heartily elcome the assignment of additional Allied
inspectors to the forthooming whaling expedition should
any of the nations concerned wish to offer the services
of such

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
一4一
of suoh persons. According to information furnished by
the Supreme Commander the maximum number of Allied
personnel poesible to acoommodate on each factory ship
is three and it is therefore possible for two Allied
inspectors to be essigned to each ship in addition to
the inspector from the Supreme Commander's headquarters.
In this connection the Supreme Commander states
it is important to point out to the interested govern-
ments that accommodations and meals will neoessarily
be sub-standard. These ships are converted Japanese
tankers with the usual minimum accommodations built for
Japanese personnel. Allied inspectors must be prepared
for cons1derable personal hardship and therefore 1t is
suggested that individuals selected should, in addition
to their professional cualifications, be of a type
capable of meeting these conditione in good spirit.
The Supreme Commander hes requested that he be
1nformed as soon as possible when any Allied inspectors
may be expected to report to the Fisheries Division,
Natural

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
-B
Natural Resources Section of his headquarters. It
1s understood that foreign governments conoerned will
pay the salaries and provide the necessary equipment
end rations of such inspectors as they may assign for
duty with the expedition. Inasmuch es it 1s believed
advisable to have equality of pay for all foreign
inspectors it is requested that, if it is desired to
appoint such inspectors, the Supreme Commander be
notified es soon as possible of their salarles.
The question of security which 1s emphasized by
the Government of New Zealand has received considerable
attention. This Government has been informed by the
Supreme Commander thet all Japanese personnel on the
expedition ill be carefully screened by intelligence
officers from his headquarters before being allowed to
embark. In addition, Japenese whaling vessels have
been prohibited from approaching closer than 12 miles
to any land beyond the home 1slands. The northern
boundary of the area in which whaling is authorized
is several

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
8
is several hundred miles distant from the metropolitan
areas of New Zealand, Australia or Tasmania. Fifteen
days prior to the departure of the expedition the
Supreme Commander will be notified of the route which
1t 1s proposed to take to the whaling grounds. This
information can be fur ished the Government of New
ealand should it so desire, and if it should wieh to
provide further seourity safeguards while the vessels
are passing New Zealend territory at a distance greater
than 12 miles, recommendations of the Government of
New Zealand will be welcome.
It 1s emphasized that the present proposed expedition
is of an emergeney character, that it has been authorized
for one season only and thst in no way does it prejudice
any ultimate polioy decision concerning Japanese
re-admission to, or exclusion from, the Antarotio
whaling industry. The Government of the United States
agrees that the long-term future of the Japanese whaling
induetry is a matter for Allied consultation and
decision

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
a
-7-
decision. The ultimate disposition of Japanese whaling
vessels and other whaling facilities is also agreed to
be a matter for mutual discuesion and decision among
the Allies.
The Supreme Commander has informed the Department
of State thet the forthcoming expedition will be under
complete Allied control, that it will be administered
by the Supreme Commander and will be acoompanied by
personnel from his headquarters. The ships on the
expedition will not fly the Japenese flag but will fly
a special pennant identifiable as follows: SCaJAP flag
4 feet 6 inches wide by 5 feet ? inches long, divided
diegonally into two right angle triangles from upper
left to lower right corners with lower triangle green
and upper triange red. The SCAJAP flag resembles the
international flag "O" with the exception that the lower
triangle on the SCAJAP flag is green instead of yellow
as on the international flag "O".
Because of the strong interest expressed in this
matter by the New Zealand and other governments the
Supreme

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.94)
-8-
Supreme Commander states that no possible future
whaling expeditions by Japanese vessels will be
approved without prior consultation with the various
governments concerned, particularly concerning the
security aspects involved.
In view of the above considerations it 1s the
hope of the Government of the United States that the
objectione of the Government of New Zealand to the
proposed expedition may be withdrawn.
te signed urig-
OOT
1445
209
e-
Department of State,
LE
Washington, October 41046
ERNS
Le/T
JA:JMAll1son:m1s
10-3-46HB
IR
BC

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.93)
JA
NEMORANDUM
894.628/8-2346
7
Vith reference to the description of the flag
to be used by the Antarctic whaling expedition com-
municated to the New Zealand Legetion by the Department
of tate in its aide-mémoire of October 4, 1946,
子
information has now been received to the effect that
the flag will consist of the CAJAP flag "E" instead
of SCAJAP flag "O" as previously stated. Notification
of the extension of this flag to whaling is being
given internationally by the Navy Department at
Washington, and locally by the upreme Commander at
Tokyo.
a
894.628/8
CS/V
Department of State,
Washington,
af l
JA:Jhummerson:m1s
N1E57
RAFearey
11-13-46
FE
TR
BČ，
A-H
16013

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPAR
TE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
4-X
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Action: ITP
Canberra
Info:
EUR
Dated August 27, 1946
FE
ESP
CONFIDENTIAL
Rec'd 10:08 a.m., 27th.
A-C
A-H
Control 8703
OCD
DC/R
Paraphrase before communicating to anyone
RNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
894.628/8-2746
no refly requiced
EeUS
SECSTATE
9/5/46
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
170, August 27, 4 2.m.
Legation reliably informed consultations now
oroceeding between Australien, New Zealand and UK
Goverrments respecting MacArthur's announced
intention permit Japs conduct whaling operations
in Antarctic and that joint re oresentations will
probably shortly be made to US to reconsider action
end to arrange for whaling in Anterctic to be con-
ducted under llied direction rather than Jap but
using Jap e uioment and largely Jap personnel.
Informal External Affairs opinion is that in
important metter of this nature, MacArthur should
nave consulted Allied Couneil for Japan. Atcheson
on August l9th telegraohed Legation statement by
MacArthur spokesman exolaining Jupreme Commander's
reasons for granting Jaos permission to fish for whale
in Antarctic and requested Legation gives statement
to Australian ress. Leg tion refrained from taking
action requested feeling matter was controversf:l
and such action on part of ission would be resented
by Australien Government. Matter reported fully
Legation desoatch 1420, August 22nd.
RUSSELL
mpl
MESSAG
946 AUG 27 PM 4 50
LMS:EJS
NTERNATIONAL TRADE
CONFIDENTIAL
C.)
GL
POLICY
E OF
17
TNo dest.
P
FILED
CENTER
1
•7
LR
3
(C)
C
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
71
file
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
9
Tokyo via War
9-30.46
Action: ITP
Info:
Dated August 28, 1946
EUR
FE
SECRET
Rec'd 11:41 a.m., 29th
DC/L
ESP
Control 9577
A-C
A-H
No paraphrase necessary.
INTERNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
OCD
Tno reply regrired
FC
1946 US
DC/R
SECSTATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Unnumbered, August 28.
Reurad (dtg 0303347) (State serial 426, August 2nd,
894.€
16 p.m.) dated 4 August 1946.
Aduitional catch of fish from area as extended 2?
June 1946 wil1 not be used for export.
2
2. Additional fish catch will amount to about 3 to
8
5 thousand metric tons per month from area extended 22
June. On a rice equivalent caloric basis, every pound of 8
fish caught reduces the necd for food imports by an equiv-
alent amount. Also, fish is the most important source of N
enimal protein in the Japanese diet and from a nutritional
standpoint is more important than its caloric content indi4
cates. Fish will also aid in compensating for soybeans,
the next important source of protein, which cannot be im-
ported as in the past.
3. Current annual fish consumption forms approx-
imately 4.8% of the tota1 caloric intake and from 90% to
94% of the total animel protein in Japanese diet.
4. No substantial inerease in the catch of fish
from the formerly authorized area is possible by using
larger or more fishing vessels. Both large and small
ressels are now used.
MESSAGE UNSNED
SEP 30 1946
S S
JSP
2
SECRET
GM IN 6344
CENTER
TRADE
90
e
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DATE:
September 4,-1946
TO
: IR - Mr. Flory
FROM :
JK - Mr. Whi tman
SUBJECT :
Charts of whale capture for Antarctic
season 1935 to 1941.
Hope you have fun with this item.
RNW
INTERNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
SEP 1946
DEPARIMENI OF STATE
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DFPARTMENT OF STATE
SEP - 5 1946
3c. teausm. to Jelnore 9/6

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
September 3, 1946
JK
Mr. Roswell Whitman
Attached is a letter from the Civil
Affairs Division together with several charts
relative to Japanese whaling activities,
prepared by the Japanese Whaling Association.
The letter and attachments are forwarded to
you for information and appropriate action.
Warde M. Cameron
Executive Assistant
D F   ON
SEP-S

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
BUY
WAR DEPARTMENT
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
fill
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
WDSCA O14 Japan
29 August 1946
ASSISTANT
D.H
SEP 3 194
894.628/8-2946
Honorable J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear General Hilldring:
Transmitted herewith are charts showing the location of whale
capture for the Antarctic seasons 1935 to 194l which were drawn up
by the Japanese Whaling Association under the supervision of the
Japanese Bureau of Fisheries.
This represents additional information obtained from the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers relative to Japanese
whaling activities in the Antarctic Ocean and supplements material
furnished in answer to the request of the State Department, made
personally by Mr. Ross Whitman of your Department, prior to 25
January 1946.
Sincerely yours,
CS/A
O Pechals
O. P. ECHOLS
Major General, USA
Chief, Civil Affairs Division
Incls.
As noted above
SAVE

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.86)
JMA
Whules!

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.88)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum · UNITED STATEs GOvErNMENT
DATB: 9/18/46
LR
TO :
FROM :
PED
SUBJECT :
The attailed aingran
was sent to PeD Trut ih is
beeved that the oil mlned
is vegetuble rather than petiola
and that the moblem therefore
fules withn the woquizane  IR.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.89)
1R
JNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
JA
JK
RP
BC
noE
Tokyo, 29 August 1946
Restricted
SD
17P
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
SEP
131346
UBJICT: Whaling Industry
JJKRP BC NOU SD ITP
The United &tates Political Adviser has the honor to
refer to the Department's telegram 308, May 14, 1946, and
894.628/8-2946
this Mission's despatch No. 558, August 19, 1946, regarding
the resumption of Japanese pelagic whaling in the Antarctic
Ocean, and to enclose herewith five copies of SCAPIN 1154,
24 August 1946, memorandum for the Imperial Japanese
ACTION
Government, entitled: "Whaling Industry."
2/R
COPIES
TO:
1JA
11K
/RP
BC
Enclosure:
NOE
5 copies SCAPIN 1154
ISD
Original and Hectograph to Department
11+ρ
780
19%
cs/
GAbbey:cbk
ERUS
4
2
11
S
894.628/
w88
mur

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 582 from the United States
Political Adviser for Japan, 29 August 1946, subject: "Whaling
Industry."
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED-POWERS
APO 500
AG 800.217 (24 Aug 46)NR
24 August 1946
(SCAPIN - 1154)
MEMORANDUM FOR: IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERIMENT.
THEROUGH
: Central Liaison Office, Tckyo.
SUBJECT
: Whaling Industry.
1. Reference is made to Memcrandum fcr Imperial Japanese Government
from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, AG
800.217 (3 Nev 45)M, (s0AP1N-233), dste1 3 Ecvemher 1945, subject: "Whal-
ing Inducty". The Imperial Japanese Go erement is herchy advised that
paragraph tir (2) of this reference is emended to include the following
additional prct-ccis:
a. Protecel signed at Londor, 7 February 1944, amending in cer-
tain particulars The International Agreement for the Regulation of Whaling
signed at Lonion, 8 June 1937 as amended by the Protocol signed at London,
24 June 1939.
b. Supolementary Protocol concerning whaling signed at London,
5 October 19.45.
c. Frotoccl sirned at London, 26 Hovember 1945 and the Final
Act of the Intcrn tional Whaling Conference at which the protocol was
drafted.
d. Supslomentury Prctocel cirned et Iondon, 15 March 1946.
2. For the inform-tion and guidance of the Imperial Japanese Govern-
mont one ccpy cach of the fellcwinz dccumonts are attached heretc:
a. Intern tional Whaling Convention concluded at Geneva, 24
September 1931.
b. International Whalina Agrooment vimea et Lendon, 8 June 1937.
c. Protoco1 signed t London, 24 June 193e amending the Inter-
national Agreement for the negulation of Whalins signed at London, 8 June
1937.
i. Protocel signei at London, 7 Fobruary l944, amending in cer-
tain particulars Tho International igceemont for the Regulation of Uhaling
signed at London, 8 June 1937 as amended by the Frotocol signed at London,
24 June 1933.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
subject: "Whaling Industry", to Imperial Japanese Government.
e. Supplementary Protocol concerning whaling signed at London,
5 October 1945.
f. Protocol signed at London, 26 November 1945 and the Final Act
of the International Whaling Conference at which the protocol was drafted.
g. Supplementary Protocol signed at London, 15 March 1946.
3. All notices and reports as required under the terms of the Inter
netional Whaling Agreements will be submitted to the Supreme Comnander for
the Allied Powers.
FOR THE SUPREME COINANDER:
OM B. COOIEY,
CoYonel, AGD,
1 Incl:
Adjutant General.
As indicated in paragraph 2.
(Distritution to eddressee only)
2

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
部外秘
料
(一)
漁場
圖
產組合

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.94)
捕
鯨
第 六 輯
南水洋捕鲸
日本捕鯨業水
(代
寫

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.96)
FOREWORD
凡
例
本輯八組合員其他捕鯨關係者為メ各種參考資料手提供スル目的
TO THE WHALING INDUSTEY, TOIIS FDITION WAS COMDILED FROM SHIDS LOGS AND FROM DOICY BECBOS
テ每年農林省ヨリ派遣七ラルル監督官ノ日誌及航海日誌二基キ編集七ラ
モノナリ
本輯八主卜テ農林省水產局捕鯨係指導下二編纂ス
1942
MAY
昭和十七年五月
TapANEsE WHAcsia AssOciATioN
日本捕鯨業水產組合
718L7F17
目
次
125
DEC
1938
DEC.
1
昭和
十
年十二月
1 5
昭和十三年
193
JAN!
1939
JAN.
2
昭和十一
年
月
1 6
昭和十四年
月
1936
115
1939
FEB
3
昭和十一
年
月
17
月
Nov
1939
MAR.
4
昭和十
年
月
1 8
昭和十四年
三
月
1956
DEC.
1930
Nov.
5
年
月
1 9
昭和十四年
月
1937
JAN.
1939
DEC.
6
昭昭十二
年
月
2 0
昭和十四年
十二
月
1937
FEB
1920
JAN.
7
昭和十二
年
月
21
昭和十五
年
月
1937
MAC.
1940
FEB.
8
昭和十二
年
三
月
2 2
昭和十五
年
月
1937
Nov.
1940
MAR.
9
昭和十
年
十
月
23
昭和十五
年
三
月
DEC.
19440
Nov.
10
昭和十二
年
十二
月
24
昭和十五
年
十
月
1958
JAN
1940
DEC.
11
昭和十三
年
月
2 5
昭和十五
年
十二
月
FcB.
JAN.
1 2
昭和十三
年
月
26
昭和十六
年
月
1931
MAL
FEB.
1 3
昭和十三
年
月
27
昭和十六
年
月
7941
HAR.
14
昭和十三
KOv.
月
28
昭和十六年
三
月

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.97)
昭和10
55
g0
B2
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100
102
104
106
56
9
19
29
35
79
89
99
109
119
129
139
57
18
28
98
108
118
128
138
58
27
97
107
117
127
137
59
96
106
116
126
136
60
75
95
105
115
125
135
61
7.
9.4
104
11.4
124
134
62
93
103
113
123
133
63
92
102
12
122
132
64
131
65
C)
100
10
120
130
66
0
KNOX
LAND
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
69
白長須鯨
O
5頭
41-60頭
BLUE
長須鯨
O
6~15 頭
70
61~100頭
凡例
抹香鯨
16~25頭
SPELAL
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
HUMPLACK
72
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100
102
104
106

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
CHAR7 SHOWING
IN HESTe WHALING GROUNDS
南水洋捕鯨漁場
12月
(海國南大洋第1及第4二據ル)
08
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130
13?
134
136
138
149
159
169
179
189
199
209
219
229
239
249
259
269
279
289
299
148
158
188
198
208
218
228
239
248
258
268
278
288
298
147
207
227
237
257
267
277
287
297
146
206
236
246
256
266
276
286
296
1.15
205
225
245
255
265
275
285
295
254
264
274
284
294
143
193
203
223
213
253
263
273
283
293
142
202
2
252
262
272
282
292
201
251
261
271
281
291
250
260
270
280
290
LAND
BUDD
SARRINA LAND
WILKES LAND
ADELIE LAND
6
6
110°
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130
132
134
138
138

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
15€
158
160
162
164
160
16
419
429
439
418
428
438
427
437
26
436
425
435
124
434
423
433
BALLENY IS
432
431
10
420430
OATES
02
03
020
021
022
023
VICTORIA LAND
40
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156
158
160
162
164
166
1€

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
156
158
160
162
164
166
158
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
58
57
58
59
60
139
459
469
479
489
499
61
8
148
458
468
478
488
498
62
467
477
487
497
63
4561466
476
486
496
64
135
465
475
485
495
65
154
464
474
484
494
66
453
463
473
483
493
0
67
BALLENY IS
372
162
472
482
492
68
371
381
151
461
471
481
491
69
370
381
140
450
160
470
480
490
OATES
70
LAND
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
71
020
021
022
023
026
027
028
029
VICTORIA LAND
160
162
164
168
170
172
174

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
第4
1.
80
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
55
259
56
9
19
29
69
79
89
99
57
258
8
18
68
78
88
98
257
58
67
77
87
97
59
256
26
56
6€
76
86
96
60
255
5
25
55
65
75
85
95
61
254
84
94
62
253
63
73
83
93
63
252
62
82
92
64
251
61
71
65
250
80
90
66
WI
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
69
白長須鯨
O
1~5頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
O
6-15 頭
70
凡例
61~100頭
抹香鯨
16~25頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
132
72
80°
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
南水洋捕
昭和11年1月
(海圖南大洋第
102
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
13
109
119
12
159
169
179
189
199
209
219
229
239
249
108
118
C.
188
198
208
218
228
238
248
107
187
197
207
217
227
237
247
106
186
196
206
216
226
236
246
105
185
195
205
215
225
235
245
104
214
224
234
244
103
183
203
213
223
233
243
102
212
232
242
101
221
231
241
(C)
100
200
230
240
LAND
BUDD
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
102
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據ル）
10
13?
134
136
136
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156
158
259
269
279
289
299
258
268
2781288
257
256
266
255|265
339
349
359
369
379
389
399
25
48
358
368
378
388
398
253
263
047357
367
377
387
397
252
356
366
376
386
396
25
315|355
365
375
385
395
250
354
364
374
384
394
WILKES LAND
363
373
383
393
ADELIE LAND
352
362
372
382
392
O.
3€1
371
381
391
341
350
360
370
380
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
154
156
158

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
60
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
409
419
489
499
61
408
18
62
407
63
406
64
405
65
404
66
403
67
BALLENY IS
402
412
492
68
401
151
181
69
400
410
420
150460
470
70
LAND
00
04
05
06
07
08
09
71
020
021
022
023
024025
026
027
028
029
VICTORIA LAND
72
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
15℃

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.96)
55
80
22
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
56
20
99
57
98
58
97
59
96
60
35
61
62
93
63
92
64
65
tb
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
68
白長須鯨
0 1 ~ 5 頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
0 6-15 頭
10
凡例
61~100頭
抹香鯨
16-25頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
72
80
82
84
86
90
92
94
96
98

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
南水洋桶
昭和11年2月
(海南大洋
0
102
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
109
119
189
199
209
219
229
239
249
108
208
218
228
238
248
217
227
237
247
206
216
226
236
246
205
215
225
235
245
234
244
103
223
233
243
102
232
242
101
22
231
241
100
280
240
BUDD LAND
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
102
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
漁
場
圖
1及第4二據n)
130
13?
134
136
138
140°
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156
158
160
259
269
279
289
299
258
268
278
288
298
257
267
277
287
297
256
266
276
286
296
255
265
275
285
295
309
319
329
339
349
359
369
379
389
399
409
254
264
274
284
294
18
328
338
348
358
368
378
388
398
408
253
263
273
283
293
307
317
327
337
347
357
367
377
387
397
407
252
262
272
282
292
305
816
326
336
346
356
366
376
386
396
406
251
261
271
281
291
305
315
325
335
345
355
365
375
385
395
405
250
260
270
280
290
304
324
334
344
354
364
374
384
394
404
WILKES LAND
803
323
333
343
353
363
373
383
393
403
ADELIE
LAND
BAI
302
312
322
338
842
352
362
372
382
392
402
0
301
311
331
341
361
371
381
391
401
300
310
320
330
340
350
360
370
380
400
LAND
00
020
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.96)
158
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
9
399
459 469  479
489
499
61
8
458168478
488
498
62
37
4671477
487
497
63
6
456 46c 476
486496
64
35
395405
445455465
475
485
495
65
34
39
04
5.1
474
484
494
66
C
33
398
103
158
463473
483
493
67
BALLENY IS
2
82
392
402
432
442
452
462
472
482
492
68
31
391
401
121
431
4.41
151
461
471
481
491
69
BO
DATES
+00
110
420
430
110
450
460
470
180
70
LAND
00
01
02
203
04
05
06
07
08
09
71
020
021
022
023
024025
026
027
02
029
VICTORIA LAND
T2
158
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
150

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
B2
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100°
102
56
9
19
29
39
49
59
69
79
89
99
109
119
5?
8
18
28
38
48
58
68
78
88
98
108
118
58
7
17
27
37
47
57
67
77
87
97
107
117
59
6
16
26
36
46
56
66
76
86
96
106
116
60
5
15
25
45
55
65
75
85
95
105
115
61
4
14
34
44
5.1
64
74
84
94
104
114
62
3
13
23
33
43
53
63
73
83
93
103
113
63
2
12
22
32
52
62
72
82
92
102
112
64
11
2
31
51
61
101
111
65
0
0
10
20
50
60
80
90
100
66
Cs
67
KING
QUEEN MARY
LAND
68
33
白長須鯨
O
1—
5
頭
41~60頭
長須鲸
O
6-15
頭
70
凡例
61~100頭
抹香鯨
16~25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鲸
26~40頭
71
72
AC
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100°
102

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
用示汗
昭和11年11月
(海國南大洋第
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
12G
128
1
129
199
209
219
229
239
249
128
198
208
218
228
238
248
207
217
227
237
247
206
216
226
236
246
205
215
225
235
245
204
214
224
234
244
228
233
243
2021
10
BUDD LAND
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.98)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據n）
30
13?
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
259
269
279
289
299
258
268
278
288
298
257
267
277
287
297
256
266
276
286
296
255|265
275
285
295
309
319
329
339
349
359
369
379
254|264
274
284
294
308
328
338
348
358
368
378
253
263
273
283
298
837
347
357
367
377
252
262
272|282
292
336
346
356
366
376
251
261
271
281
291
305
325
835
345
355
365
375
250
260
270
280
290
344
354
364
374
WILKES LAND
833
343
353
363
373
ADELIE LAND
S02
842
352
362
372
0
341
351
361
371
300
320
330
340
350
360
370
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
148
148
150°
152
154

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.91)
170
172
194
12
190
98
n
so
389
469 479
489
499
61
38
168478
488
498
02
38
487
197
38
:50460 476
486496
35
455465
475
465
115
as
38
48.4
474
C
383
463 473
183
493
107
BALLENY IS
A
382
152
162
172
482
492
68
381
151
161
181
491
9N
380
450
460
470
180
190
DATES
70
LAND
(11)
203
04
05
16
17
08
09
71
020
021
022
023
U24025
026
027
028
029
VICTORIA LAND
15
182
170
172
154
178

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
55°
80
82
84
86
88
00°
92
94
96
98
100°
56
9
19
29
39
49
59
69
79
89
99
109
57
8
18
28
38
48
58
68
78
88
98
108
58
7
17
27
37
47
57
67
77
87
97
107
59
6
16
26
36
46
56
66
76
86
96
106
60
5
15
35
45
55
65
75
85
95
105
61
34
64
84
94
104
62
3
3
23
48
53
63
73
83
93
103
63
2
12
22
32
52
62
72
82
92
102
64
1一
21
31
51
61
71
101
65
10
20
30
50
6
80
90
100
O
66
D
67
LEOPOLD
KING
QUEEN
MARY
LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
69
白長須鯨
O
1—
5
頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
O
6-15
頭
70
凡例
61-100頭
香鯨
O
16~25頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40 頭
71
72
80
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.91)
南水洋捕
昭和11年12月
(海國南大洋）
104
108
108
110
112
110
110
110
120
122
184
170
180
119
209
219
220
239
249
11
228
238
248
2.47
2.46
105
225
25
2.45
244
22.
233
2.:3
242
22
231
241
240
BUQD LAND
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARF LAND
104
108
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
120
1

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據n）
0
132
134
130
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156
259
269
279
289
299
258
268
278
288
298
25
26
277
287
256
266
276
286
296
255
265
275
285
295
309
319
329
339
349
359
369
379
389
251
27
528
338
348
358
368
378
388
253
263
273
293
27
337
347
357
367
377
387
252
262
202
336
346
356
366
376
386
251
261
281
325
335
345
355
365
375
385
250
60
280
291
324
334
3.14
354
364
374
384
WILKES LAND
323
333
3.43
353
363
373
383
ADELIE
LAND
34
352
362
372
382
0
351
361
371
381
320
33
34
350
360
370
380
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.90)
194
90
57
so
oof
399
99
3
e2
3
395
65
394
393
BALLENY IS
392
2
192
311
181
9
39N
LAND
70
08
71
020
021
022
023
12
VICTORIA
190
i72
118

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.95)
96
9
19
29
39
49
59
69
79
89
99
10
57
8
18
28
38
48
58
68
78
88
98
10
7
17
27
37
47
57
67
77
87
97
102
so
6
16
26
36
46
56
6€
76
86
96
10
5
15
25
35
45
55
65
75
85
95
10
5
4
14
24
34
44
54
64
74
04
94
10
02
3
13
23
33
43
53
63
83
93
103
2
12
22
32
42
02
72
82
92
102
1
11
21
31
41
51
61
71
91
101
os
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
7
φ
80
90
100
8
2
D
5
KING LBOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID
白長須館
o
1~
5 頭
41-60
長須鯨
O
6~15頭
10
61~100
凡例
抹香鯨
16-25頭
100以上
座頭鯨
26-40頭
71
64

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.96)
南水洋
昭和12年2月
(海國南大洋
100
100
110
112
114
110
110
128
120
119
120
139
1.49
159
169
179
189
199
209
219
229
239
249
118
12
1:8
15
16
178
188
198
208
218
228
238
248
117
187
197
207
217
227
237
247
116
12
176
186
196
206
216
226
236
246
115
55
165
175
185
195
205
215
225
235
245
114
154
184
194
20.1
214
224
234
244
113
123
183
193
203
213
223
233
243
112
1.:2
152
102
182
192
202
212
222
232
242
111
121
151
181
191
201
211
221
231
241
0
121
150
160
180
190
200
210
220
230
240
LAND
SARRIA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
108
100
110
112
114
110
110
120
122
124
126
120
1

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據ル）
130
13?
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156
259
269
279
289
299
339
349359
369
379
389
348,358
368
378
388
347|357
367
377
387
356
366
376
386
325
315|355
365
375
385
354
364
374
384
WILKES LAND
363
373
383
ADELIE LAND
352
362
372
382
35
361
371
381
320
330
340
350
360
370
380
30°
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
148
148
150°
152
154
156

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.94)
170
1349
m
10
8
o
399
409
419
429
439
449
459469.479
489
499
1
398
408
418
428
438
448
458
468.478
488
498
02
397
407
417
427
437
447457
467
477
487
497
396 406,416
126
436
446
456 466
476
486496
395
405
415
425
435
445
455465
475
485
495
es
394
104
414
424
434
444
454
464
474
484
494
C
393
103
423
433
443
453
463
473
483
493
107
BALLENY IS
420
392
402
412
432
442
452
462
472
482
492
68
391
401
411
421
431
441
451
461
471
481
491
390
400
410
420
430
440
450
460
470
480
490
7o
LAND
00
01
02
203
04
05
06
07
08
09
71
020
021
022
023
024025
026
027
028
029
VICTORIA LAND
20
to
182
164
188
190
1市
1h4
南
178

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
B2
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100°
56
9
19
29
39
69
79
89
99
109
57
8
18
28
78
88
98
108
58
87
97
107
59
16
26
76
86
96
106
60
5
15
25
5
75
85
95
105
61
84
94
104
62
83
93
103
63
82
92
102
64
101
65
80
90
100
66
D
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
59
白長須鯨
O
1~5頭
41-60頭
70
凡例
長須鯨
O
6-15 頭
61~100頭
抹香鯨
16~25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鲸
26-40頭
71
72
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
南氷洋捕
昭和12年2月
(海圖南大洋第
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
12G
128
119
189
209
219
229
239
249
118
18
228
238
248
117
247
116
236
246
115
245
114
244
113
243
112
242
0)
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
2
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.95)
鯨漁場
1元第4二藏ル)
30
191
124
130
140
259
269
279289
299
258 268
278 288 298
25:26
256 266
276 250 296
255 26 275 28 295 309
319329
339
349
359
369
379
389
1 328 335
348 358
368
378
388
27.337
347 357
367
377
387
26|336
346 356
366
376
386
251 261
315 3251335
345 355
365
375
385
250
2:0
271 280 291
324
334 344
354
364
374
384
WIL.KPS L.AND
23 333 343 353
363
373
383
ADELIE LAND
312
12 322 332 342
352
362
372
382
31
331
341
351
361
371
381
3111
3210
3.31
340
350
360
370
380
132
194
138
140
142
144
148
140
152

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
399
409
419
429
439
449
459
469
479
489
499
61
398
408
418
428
438
448.458
468 478
488
498
62
397
407
117
427
437
447|457
467
477
487
497
63
396
406
416
426
436
446|456 466
476
486
496
54
395
405
415
425
435
445
455
465
475
485
495
65
394
404
414
424
434
444
454
464
474
484
494
C
66
393
403
463
423
433
443
453
463
473
483
493
67
BAILENY IS
392
402
412
432
442
452
462
472
482
492
68
391
401
411
421
431
441
451
461
471
481
491
69
390
OATES
400
410
420
430
440
450
460
470
480
190
LAND
70
00
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
71
020
021
022
023
024025
026
027
028
029
VICTORIA LAND
9
160
162
164
166
188
170
172
174
178
178
150
72

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
95
98
100°
56
9
19
29
39
49
59
69
79
89
99
109
57
8
18
28
38
48
58
68
78
88
98
108
58
7
17
27
37
67
77
87
97
107
59
6
16
26
36
56
.6€
76
86
96
106
60
5
15
25
35
55
65
75
85
95
105
61
24
74
84
94
104
62
3
13
23
63
73
83
93
103
63
2
62
92
102
64
1
61
71
101
65
0
10
20
30
60
80
90
100
66
口
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN
MARY
LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
59
白長須鯨
O
1~5頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
O
6~15 頭
70
61~100頭
凡例
抹香鯨
16~25頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40 頭
71
72
80°
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
南氷洋捕
昭和12年3月
(海圖南大洋第
02
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
119
209
219
229
239
249
118
218
228
238
248
287
247
216
236
246
215
OOF
235
245
244
243
242
11
241
240
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARF LAND
104
108
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
13

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據ル)
30
1J?
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156
259
269
329
339
349
359
369
379
389
358
368
378
388
357
367
377
387
356
366
376
386
385
345|355
365
375
385
364
374
384
WILKES LAND
363
373
383
ADELIE LAND
352
362
372
382
35
361
371
381
340
350
360
370
380
0
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
152
154

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
158
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
399
61
62
63
64
395
65
39
66
39.
67
BALLENY IS
392
68
391
69
39N
OATES
70
LAND
71
020
VICTORIA LAND
9
72
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
150

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.96)
55
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100°
56
9
19
29
39
79
89
99
109
57
8
18
28
3
78
88
98
108
58
97
107
59
6
16
26
36
96
106
60
5
15
25
15
75
85
95
105
14
94
104
62
3
13
103
63
2
12
20
92
102
64
1
101
65
0
10
90
100
66
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
58
39
白長須鯨
O
1~5頭
41~60頭
長須鯨
O
6-15 頭
70
凡例
61-100頭
抹香鯨
16~25頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
7:
72
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100°

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.94)
南水洋痛
昭和12年11月
（海国南大洋
1O0
100
110
112
114
110
119
209
219
229
239
249
118
18
218
228
238
248
217
227
237
247
216
220
236
246
205
215:225
235
245
21.4
224
234
244
21.1
223
233
243
112
212
222
232
242
11
211
221
231
241
210
220
230
240
SAIRINA LAND
KNOX LAND
BANZARE LAND
108
Thoe
112
114
IN
110
12
122
180
138

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.99)
鯨漁場圖
弯1及第4二據ル）
130
13?
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
158
15
369
379
389
368
378
388
377
387
366
376
386
365
375
385
374
384
WILKES LAND
373
383
ADELIE LAND
372
382
371
381
370
380
150°
152
154
156

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
BALLENY IS
68
69
OATES
70
LAND
71
VICTORIA LAND
9
72
158
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100°
102
56
9
19
29
39
49
59
69
79
89
99
109
119
129
57
8
18
28
38
48
58
68
78
88
98
108
118
128
58
7
17
27
37
47
57
67
77
87
97
107
117
127
59
6
16
2
6
36
6
56
66
86
6
106
126
60
5
15
25
35
45
55
65
75
85
95
105
125
61
4
24
3
4
54
64
74
84
94
104
124
62
3
13
23
33
43
53
63
73
83
93
103
113
123
63
2
12
22
32
42
52
62
72
82
92
102
112
122
64
11
21
31
41
51
61
71
81
101
111
121
65
C
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
80
90
100
0
120
66
口
KNC
67
LEOPOLD
KING
QUEEN
MARY
LAND
68
69
白長須鯨
O
5
頭
41~60頭
長須鯨
O
6-15
頭
70
61~100頭
凡例
抹香鯨
16-25
頭
100頭以上
座頭鲸
26~40
71
72
80
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100°
102
104

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
南水洋捕
昭和12年12月
(海國南大洋第
102
104
108
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
13
249
BUDD LAND
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
404
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.97)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據ル）
'0
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
150
259
269
279
359
369
379
389
358
368378
388
357 367377387
356 366376386
315355
365
375
385
364374384
WILKES LAND
353
363
373383
ADELIE LAND
352362372
382
361
371
381
350
360
370
380
j
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
158
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
BALLENY IS
68
69
OATES
LAND
70
71
VICTORIA LAND
160
162
164
166
188
170
172
174
176
178
150
72

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
82
84
86
88
96
92
94
96
98
100°
56
9
19
29
39
49
59
69
79
89
99
109
57
8
18
28
38
48
58
68
78
88
98
108
58
7
17
27
37
47
57
67
77
87
97
107
59
6
16
26
36
4
56
66
76
86
96
106
60
5
15
25
35
5
55
65
75
85
95
105
61
4
14
24
34
64
84
94
104
62
3
13
23
33
53
63
83
93
3
63
2
12
22
32
2
102
64
一
11
2
3
To
101
65
0
10
20
100
66
口
67
LEOPOLD
KING
QUEEN
MARY
LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
69
白長須鯨
O
1~
5頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
O
6-15
頭
70
凡例
61~100頭
抹香鯨
16~25
頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80°
82
84
85
88
90
92
94
96
98
100°

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
南氷洋捕
昭和13年1月
(海圖南大洋第
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
12G
128
119
219
229
239
249
118
248
117
116
115
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
104
108
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據ル)
30
13?
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
158
69
389
388
387
386
385
3
WILKES LAND
3
383
ADELIE LAND
37
382
3
37
380
30
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
154
156
1

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.91)
ne
n2
10
5
399
7111
711
15
451
469
479
489
499
61
398
.18
158
168
478
488
498
a
397
4.1
1.17
457
467
477
487
49
396
36
.16
156
16€
476
486
496
a
395
15
4.15
45
465
.175
485
495
394
134
∴44
45.1
464
174
484
494
C
393
103
163
123
133
4.1.3
453
163
473
483
493
4
BALLENY B
107
8
392
102
112
1.32
4.12
452
462
472
482
492
foo
391
4
121
4.1
4.11
451
461
471
481
491
890
1(11
110
420
130
4.10
450
460
470
480
151
LAND
(00
04
02
203
04
05
06
07
08
09
71
020
021
022
023
02425
026
027
028
029
VICTORIA LAND
20
山
tho
南
2

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100°
102
56
9
19
29
39
49
59
69
79
89
99
109
119
57
8
18
28
38
48
58
68
78
88
98
108
118
58
7
17
27
37
47
57
67
77
87
97
107
117
59
6
16
26
36
46
56
66
76
86
96
106
116
60
5
15
25
35
45
55
65
75
85
95
105
115
61
4
14
24
34
44
54
64
74
84
94
104
114
62
3
13
23
33
43
53
63
73
83
93
103
13
63
2
12
22
32
42
52
62
92
102
64
11
21
31
41
51
61
71
8
101
111
65
0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
80
90
100
10
O
66
L.AND
67
LEOPOLD
KING
QUEEN
MARY
LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID
68
89
白長須鯨
1~
頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
O
6~15
頭
70
凡例
61~100頭
抹香鯨
16~25
頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40
頭
71
72
80°
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100°
102
104

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
南水洋捕
昭和13年2月
(海南大洋第
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
239
249
LAND
BUDD
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
n
10R
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
13

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據n）
30
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
259
279
289
299
339
349
359
369
379
348
358
368
378
347
357
367
377
336
346
356
366
376
345|355
365
375
364
374
WILKES LAND
343
353
363
373
ADELIE LAND
352
362
372
351
361
371
340
350
360
370
2
132
194
196
138
140
142
144
148
148
150
152
154

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.88)
170
172
124
12
110
5
se
3
169 479
489
499
01
3>
158
168
178
188
498
02
3
467
487
497
3
56 160
176
186
496
35
5
1.15
455
155
475
185
3ξ
11.1
17.4
18.4
41.1
oe
C
383
183
19.
107
BALLENY IS
382
4.12
152
152
472
182
492
60
381
11
451
461
481
491
6
380
DATE
1111
3()
50
160
470
180
111
70
LAND
02
203
04
05
06
07
08
09
71
020
021
022
023
026
027
028
VICTORIA LAND
150
t
tto
172
194
178

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.97)
55
g0
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100°
102
56
9
19
29
39
49
59
69
79
89
99
109
119
57
8
18
28
38
48
58
68
78
88
98
108
118
58
7
17
27
37
47
57
67
77
87
97
107
117
59
6
16
26
36
46
56
66
76
86
96
106
116
60
5
15
25
35
45
55
65
75
85
95
105
115
61
64
84
94
104
114
62
3
13
43
53
63
83
93
103
113
63
2
12
92
102
112
84
8
101
111
65
0
0
10
80
90
100
10
O
66
口
67
QUEEN
MARY
LAND
68
69
白長須鯨
O
1-
5頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
O
6-15 頭
70
凡例
61-100頭
抹香鯨
16~25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鲸
26~40頭
71
72
80°
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
10
98
100
102

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.94)
南水洋捕
MAR.1938
昭和13年3月
（海國南大洋築
110
112
110
110
120
120
129
135
1.1
209
219
229
239
249
128
13
218
228
238
248
127
237
2.47
12
216
2.46
125
5
245
12.1
123
2.13
122
2
121
120
SAERINA LAND
KNOX LAND
BANZARF L.AND
100
100
110
112
114
116
118
128
124
126
120
15

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二ル）
30
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
54
289
299
359
369
379
358
368
378
367
377
366
376
365
375
374
WILKES LAND
363
373
ADELIE LAND
362
372
371
360
370
0
132
134
136
138
40
142
144
145
148
150°
152
154
1

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.92)
170
172
174
170
170
96
97
se
se
3
489|499
61
3
188
498
02
3
187
497
63
186496
4
3
195
es
3
43.4
3
183
493
67
BALLENY IS
0
38.
72
152
492
68
38
181
491
69
38
170
180
OATES
70
LAND
(1t)
08
09
71
25
026
027
028
029
VICTORIA LAND
158
160
162
164
166
100
170
172
174
176
178

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.97)
55
80
82
84
86
88
005
92
94
96
98
100°
102
56
119
57
58
59
6
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
39
白長須鯨
0 1 - 5 頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
○6-15 頭
70
凡例
61-100頭
抹香鯨
16~25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100
102

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.97)
南水洋捕
N00.
昭和13年11月
(海圖南大洋第
04
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
LAND
BUDD
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
104
108
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.97)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二線ル）
2
30
13?
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
369
379
368
378
377
376
375
374
WILKES LAND
373
ADELIE LAND
372
371
370
10°
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
154

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
158
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
BALLENY IS
67
68
69
OATES
LAND
70
71
VICTORIA LAND
158
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
72

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.96)
q0
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
55
56
59
69
79
89
99
57
68
78
88
98
58
87
97
59
36
76
86
96
60
75
85
95
61
84
94
62
83
93
63
92
84
65
90
66
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
68
69
白長須鯨
01 ~5 頭
41~60頭
長須鯨
6~15 頭
70
61~100頭
凡例
抹香鯨
16~25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80°
82
84
86
88
00°
92
94
96
98

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.97)
南水洋
DEc
昭和13年12月
(海南
102
104
108
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
12
239
238
237
236
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
102
104
108
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.97)
浦鯨漁場圖
大洋第1及第4二據儿）
130
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
379
368
378
377
376
375
WILKES LAND
ADELIE LAND
372
371
37C
130°
132
194
136
138
140
142
144
148
146
150
152
154

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
158
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
58
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
BALLENY IS
68
69
OATES
70
LAND
71
VICTORIA LAND
72
36
158
160
162
164
166
188
170
172
174
176
178
180

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
ga
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100°
102
104
55
56
9
19
109
119
12
57
8
118
12
58
17
127
59
116
126
60
15
125
61
62
123
63
122
84
121
65
120
66
KNOX
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
89
白長須鯨
O
1~5頭
41~60頭
長須鯨
O
6~15 頭
70
61~100頭
凡例
抹香鯨
16~25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
100°
102
104

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.97)
南水洋捕
1.1
昭和14年1月
(海國南大洋第
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
LAND
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
02
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
鯨漁場
1及第4二樣ル）
30
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
WILKES LAND
ADELIE LAND
132
134
130
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
158
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
BALLENY IS
68
69
OATES
70
LAND
71
VICTORIA LAND
72
158
160
162
164
166
188
170
172
174
176
178
150

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.97)
55
80
82
84
86
88
00°
92
94
96
98
100°
102
56
109
119
57
108
118
58
117
59
106
116
60
115
61
114
62
113
63
12
64
65
10
66
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
39
白長須鯨
0 1~5 頭
41~60頭
長須鯨
0 6-15 頭
70
凡例
61-100頭
抹香鯨
16~25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80°
82
84
86
88
00°
92
94
96
98
100
102

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.94)
南水洋捕
Fee.1939
贈和14年2月
(海國南大洋
110
120
13
209
219
229
239
249
218
228
238
248
22
237
2.17
216
22
230
246
225
2.15
213
212
SABRINA LAND
KNOX LAND
BANZARE LAND
108
114
110
118
122

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據ル）
30
13?
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156
WILKES LAND
ADELIE L AND
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
148
148
150
152
154
156
15€

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
160
162
161
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
BALLENY IS
68
69
OATES
70
LAND
71
VICTORIA LAND
9
72
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.95)
55°
80
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100°
56
109
57
58
59
60
61
62
3
63
)
64
65
66
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
白長須鯨
0 1~ 5 頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
○ 6-15 頭
70
61~100頭
凡例
抹香鯨
16-25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100°

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
南水洋捕
昭和14年3月
(海國南大洋第
104
108
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
LAND
BUDD
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
02
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
128
130

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二ル）
10
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
145
148
150
152
154
158
WILKES LAND
ADELIE LAND
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
145
148
150
152
154
156

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
160°
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
58
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
BALLENY IS
68
69
OATES
70
LAND
71
0160
162
VICTORIA LAND
164
166
168
170
9
172
174
170
178
180
72

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
90
100°
56
9
19
29
39
49
59
69
79
89
99
109
57
8
18
28
38
48
58
68
78
88
98
108
58
7
17
27
37
77
87
97
107
59
6
16
26
36
56
66
76
86
96
106
60
5
15
25
35
05
75
85
95
105
61
84
94
104
62
23
63
83
93
103
63
2
82
92
102
64
1
101
65
0
10
20
80
90
100
66
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN
MARY
LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
69
p
白長須鯨
O
1-
5頭
41-60頭
70
凡例
長須鯨
O
6~15頭
61-100頭
抹香鯨
O
16~25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80°
82
84
86
88
00
92
94
96
98
100

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.97)
南氷洋捕
Hov.
昭和14年11月
(海国南大洋美
100
110
110
119
129
139
1.19
157
169
179
189
199
209
219
229
239
249
118
12
1:8
188
198
208
218.
228
238
248
117
205
217
227
237
247
116
186
196
206
216
226
236
246
115
5
85
5
185
195
205
215
225
235
245
19.4
20.1
214
224
234
244
113
193
203
213
223
233
243
112
2
182
192
202
212
222
232
242
111
211
221
231
241
121
150160
1
19
200
210
220
230
240
LAND
SABRIA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
106
100
110
112
114
118
110
122
120

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據n）
30
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
158
259
269
279
289
299
258
268
288
298
25
256
296
255
295
309
319
329
339
349
359
369
379
389
3281338
348358
368
378
388
347
357
367
377
387
292
336
346
356
366
376
386
345
355
365
375
385
864
344
354
364
374
384
WILKES LAND
353
363
373
383
ADELIE LAND
342
352
362
372
382
0
341
351
361
371
381
300
320
340
350
360
370
380
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
154
156

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.97)
22
12
97
399
409
419
429
439
449
459
469
479
489
499
1
398
408
418
428
438
448
458
468
478
488
498
2
397
407
417
427
437
447
457
467
477
487
497
396
406
416
126
436
446
456
46€
476
486
496
395
405
415
425
435
445
455
465
475
485
495
394
404
414
424
434
444
454
464
474
484
494
C
413
393
403
423
433
443
453
463
473
483
493
BALLENY 
42
392
402
412
432
442
452
462
472
482
492
391
401
411
421
431
441
451
461
471
481
491
390
400
410
420
430
440
450
460
470
480
490
LAND
70
00
01
02
203
04
05
06
07
08
09
71
020
021
022
023
024025
026
027
028
029
VICTORIA
LAND
to
182
ids
1t0
172
154
178

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
55
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100°
56
9
19
29
39
49
59
69
79
89
99
109
57
8
18
28
38
48
58
68
78
88
98
108
58
7
17
27
37
47
57
67
77
87
107
59
6
16
26
36
46
56
66
76
86
96
106
60
5
15
25
35
45
55
65
75
85
95
105
61
4
14
24
34
54
64
74
84
94
104
62
3
13
23
33
43
53
63
73
83
93
103
63
2
12
22
32
42
52
62
72
82
92
102
64
1
11
21
31
41
51
61
71
101
65
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
80
90
100
66
口
67
LEOPOLD
KING
QUEEN
MARY
LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
89
白長須鯨
O
1—
5
頭
41-60頭
70
長須鯨
O
6-15
頭
凡例
61~100頭
抹香鯨
O
16~25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.94)
南水洋捕
昭和14年12月
(海國南大洋
1
112
114
10
110
m
119
129
139
1.14
1‘)；
149
189
199
209
219
229
239
249
118
12
18
190
218
218
228
238
248
117
217
227
237
247
116
12
186
146
206
216
226
236
246
115
L
155
195
205
215
225
235
245
1.1
204
214
224
234
244
113
183
193
203
213
223
233
243
112
182
1.12
202
212
222
232
242
111
1.71
12
101
201
21
221
231
24T
0
121
1.1
18
.19
200
210
220
230
240
LAND
SAIA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
100
100
ito
112
114
116
118
180
122
120

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據ル）
30
13?
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
154
156
259
269
279
289
299
258
268
25.
256
255
329
339
349
359
369
379
389
328
338
348
358
368
378
388
27
337
3
367
377
387
366
376
386
355
365
385
354
364
374
384
WILKES LAND
353
363
373
383
ADELIE LAND
2
352
362
372
382
351
361
371
381
340
350
360
370
380
10
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
399
409
419
429
439
449
459
469
479
489
499
51
398
408
118
+28
438
448
458
168
478
488
498
62
397
4
1117
427
437
447
457
467
477
487
497
63
396
406
416
126
436
446
456 466
476
486
496
64
395
405
115
425
435
445
455
465
475
485
495
65
394
404
414
424
434
444
454
464
474
484
494
66
C
393
403
63
423
433
443
453
463
473
483
493
67
BALLENY IS
42
392
402
412
432
442
452
462
472
482
492
68
391
401
411
421
431
441
451
461
471
481
491
69
390
400
410
420
430
440
450
460
470
180
490
DATES
LAND
70
00
02~
203
04
05
06
07
08
09
71
020
021
022
023
0241025
026
027
028
029
VICTORIA LAND
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.94)
55
gσ
82
94
88
88
90°
92
94
96
90
100°
56
57
58
59
6
60
61
82
63
64
65
66
D
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUBEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
89
白長須鯨
0 1~5 頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
0 6~15 頭
70
凡例
61~100頭
抹香鯨
16-25頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80
82
84
88
88
90
92
94
96
100°

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.97)
南水洋捕
昭和15年1月
(海國南大洋第
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
13
3
SABNA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
02
104
108
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
1M
126
128
13

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.97)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據n）
0
13?
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
154
154
WILKES LAND
ADELIE LAND
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.97)
160
162
184
100
168
170
172
174
170
178
180
55
58
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
84
65
66
167
BALLENY IS
68
69
70
LAND
71
VICTORIA LAND
72
160
162
164
168
108
170
172
174
170
178
180

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
55
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100
55
57
58
59
6
60
5
61
62
3
63
64
65
66
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
59
白長須鯨
0 1 - 5 頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
○ 6 —15 頭
70
凡例
61~100頭
抹香鯨
16-25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
南氷洋捕
昭和15年2月
(海圖南大洋第
104
106
108
110
:12
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
102
104
100
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二據ル）
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
158
WILKES LAND
ADELIE LAND
30
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
154
156

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.97)
160
162
164
166
168
17C
172
174
176
178
180
55
58
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
BALLENY IS
68
69
OATES
70
LAND
71
VICTORIA LAND
9
72
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
18C

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.96)
55
gd
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100°
102
56
119
57
118
58
117
59
116
60
15
61
62
13
63
12
64
65
10
66
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
69
白長須鯨
41~60頭
長須鯨
○ 6~15 頭
70
61-100頭
凡例
抹香鯨
16—25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40頭
71
72
80
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100
102

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.98)
南水洋捕
昭和15年3月
(海國南大洋第
02
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
LAND
BUDD
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.97)
鯨漁場圖
1及第4二ル）
30
13?
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
158
WILKES LAND
ADELIE LAND
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
154
156
158

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
58
160°
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
BALLENY IS
67
68
69
OATES
LAND
70
71
VICTORIA LAND
9
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
72

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.90)
1
00
n
D4
9x
9
19
29
3
49
59
109
119
12
5
8
18
28
18
118
12
se
27
117
12
so
16
3
1!6
12
5
15
25
35
1:5
115
12
61
4
1.7
24
.3.
114
114
12
82
1.3
33
5.
2
113
12
63
2
12
22
112
12
a
11
21
12
65
0
1i)
20
と
10
12
66
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUFEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
89
白長須鯨
0 1 ~ 5 頭
41-60頭
長須鯨
0 6~ 15 頭
70
61-100頭
凡例
抹香鯨
16~25頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26-40頭
71
62
90
52
94
100

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.96)
南水洋捕鲸漁
015年11月
(海圖南大洋第1及第4二據n)
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130
132
269
SAHRUNA LAND
WILKES LA
bx
LAND
BANZARE LAND
100
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130
132

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
場圖
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156
158
150
30
3
35
31
89
399
409
30
388
398
408
406
395
405
ND
393
103
ADELIE LAND
BAL
400
OATES
LAND
00
020
34
136
138
140
142
T44
146
148
150°
152
156
158
160

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
0
67
LENY IS
68
69
70
65xw172 65×w170
71
66×w17866×w176 66×w174
VICTORIA LAND
9
72
66×w172
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
15C

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
昭
55
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100
102
104
56
119
129
57
18
128
58
127
59
126
60
15
125
61
124
62
123
63
122
84
121
65
120
66
KNO
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
89
白長須鯨
0 1~5 頭
41~60頭
長須鯨
○ 6~15 頭
70
凡例
61-100頭
抹香鯨
16~25 頭
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40 頭
71
72
80
82
84
86
88
90

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.92)
南水洋捕
c.0
15年12月
(海國南大洋第1元第4二旅）
112
110
11n0
110
in
13
223
239
249
259
269
38
248
258
268
237
2.47
257
267
236
246
256
266
235
2.15
255
265
234
214
251
264
233
213
253
263
32
2
252
262
231
2.11
251
261
230
240
250
260
LAND
LAND
WILKES
LAND
BANZARE LAND
To
11
n4
TE
He
127
15

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.98)
場圖
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
158
158
160
399409
398
408
406
39
405
ND
393
403
ADELIE LAND
BA
402
OATES
LAND
00
020
34
130
138
140
142
144
146
148
150°
152
154
156
158
160

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
84
65
66
67
LENY IS
68
69
70
65xw178 65×w174 65×w170
71
66×w178 66×w176
VICTORIA LAND
72
32
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
15C
67×174

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.88)
0
9
19
29
39
49
59
€ 9
79
89
99
109
119
12
57
17
28
2
58
78
88
8
108
118
128
se
5
1
7
57
97
107
117
127
so
3
5:
O€
75
Sh
115
106
116
126
1C
35
55
05
75
85
15
105
115
125
61
4
2.1
3.1
4
5.
10.1
7.;
8
104
114
12
02
2.3
3
:3
53
13
13
83
103
113
123
3
52
82
92
102
112
12
2
as
1
21
71
101
111
121
65
O
(1
1.1
511
o0
①
80
10
100
10
120
口
D
KNO
67
KING LEOPOLD
GUREN MARY LAND
AND QUBEN ASTRID LAND
68
89
白長須鯨
0 1~5 頭
41~60頭
長須鯨
○ 6 — 15 頭
7a
61~100頭
凡例
抹香鯨
16—25
100頭以上
座頭鯨
26~40
71
72
82
s0
10

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
南水洋捕鯨漁
16年1月
(海圖南大洋第1及第4二據n)
06
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130
132
239
249
259
269
268
WILKES LA
SAHRINA LAND
LAND
BANZARE LAND
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130
132
13

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.95)
27
28
89
399
409
388
398
408
397
407
80
636
406
3
395
405
27
ND
ADELIE LAND
392
402
401
39Q
400
OATES
00
020
140
144
14

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
58
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
LENY IS
68
69
66×w178
70
72×E172 72×E174 72×E176
71
72×w178
73XE172 73×E178 73×w172
52
VICTORIA LAND
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
19C
72
75×w177

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.91)
2
96
12
29
30
19
59
€9
79
89
99
10
57
58
68
78
88
98
10
se
5
67
87
97
10
51
66
86
96
10
55
65
5
55
95
10
01
0.1
8.1
94
10
e2
53
63
83
93
103
62
52
92
102
as
101
8
90
100
D
67
KING LBOPOLD
QUREN MARY LAND
68
白長須鯨
0 1 ~ 5 頭
41-60
長須鯨
○ 6-15 
70
61-100
凡例
抹香鯨
16-25
100以上
座頭鯨
26-40
71
7
4

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
南水洋捕
昭和16年3月
(海國南大洋第
104
106
108
110°
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
239
249
238
248
247
246
243
C1
SABRINA LAND
KNOX
LAND
BANZARE LAND
104
108
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.97)
1元第4二線ル)
1.2
259
269
279
289
299
258
268
278
288
298
25
26
297
256
20t
200
255
205
275
26
295
309
319
329
339
349
359
369
379
38
254
21
294
18
328
338
348
358
368
378
38
253
263
273
283
293
307
317
327
337
347
357
367
377
387
252
262
272
282
292
16
326
336
346
356
366
376
386
251
261
271
281
291
305
315
325
335
345
355
365
325
385
250
1260
27:1
280
290
304
314
324
334
344
354
364
374
384
WILKES LAND
303
313
323
333
343
353
363
373
383
ADELIE LAND
333342
302
312
322
352
362
372
382
0
301
311
32
331
3.414
351
3€1
371
381
GE V LAND
300
21
320
330
3401
350
360
370
380

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
84
65
66
67
BALLENY IS
3
68
69
OATES
70
LAND
71
029
VICTORIA LAND
180
170

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.97)
55
82
84
86
88
90°
92
94
96
98
100
102
104
56
9
19
29
59
69
89
109
119
12
57
8
18
28
38
58
68
108
118
128
58
7
17
27
37
107
117
127
59
6
16
26
36
16
126
60
5
15
25
35
55
65
115
125
61
4
14
24
3.4
84
114
12
62
3
13
23
33
43
53
63
113
123
63
2
12
22
62
112
122
64
1
…
31
121
65
0
O
10
20
30
10
120
66
23
0
KNO
67
KING LEOPOLD
QUEEN MARY LAND
AND QUEEN ASTRID LAND
68
89
白長須鯨
O
1—
5頭
41~60頭
長須鯨
70
O
6-15
頭
凡例
抹香鯨
61~100頭
16~25 頭
座頭鲸
71
100頭以上
鲸
26~40頭
72
80
82
84
80
88
90
92
94
96
98
100
102
104

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.97)
南水洋捕鲸漁
16年2月
(海圖南大洋第1及第4二據ル)
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
120
122
124
126
128
130
13?
13
SABRINA LAND
WILKES LAI
LAND
114
116
118
120
122
124
130
132

=== Page 322 === (confidence 1.00)
場圖
136
138
140
142
144
146
148
150
152
154
156
158
399
398
397
396
395
394
ID
393
ADELIE LAND
392
391
390
OATES

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
162
164
165
168
170
172
174
176
178
180
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
LLENY IS
68
69
72×E174 72×E176 72xE178
73×E178 73×w178
70
LAND
74×w16874×w172
75×w171 75×w16875×E166
71
029
75/w16575×w170
VICTORIA LAND
72
160
162
164
166
168
170
172
174
176
178
15C
76×w16876×w160

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.96)
JA
Handed to Hugh Beotai
by Me. gravie, /0/46.
1a.
AIDE MEMOIRE
On the 12th August tnis Fmbassy enquired of the State
Department whether information was availeble on the reported in-
tention of the Supreme Commander for tre Allied Powers to author-
ise a Japenese whaling expedition to the Antarctic.
2.
His Mejesty's Government have now been apprised of the
text of S.C.A.P. Directive No. AG 800.217 (6 August 46), in
which permission is given for the Japanese to conduct whaling
894.628/9-346
operations in the Anterctic, and they cannot refrain from express-
ing their profound concern at the manner in which these proposals
have so far taken shape. They desire to draw the attention of the
State Department to the fourth resolution of the Whaling Conference 
held in London in November 1945, under which all parties of the
Agreement resolved to take steps to prohibit the sale, loan or
delivery of vessels equipped for whaling to countries not signa-
tories to the wheling Agreement, and t record their opinion that
the suggested plan is clearly contrary to the spirit, if not
perhaps the letter, of that resolution.
C/A
3.
Despite assumptions which may be made in & contrary sense
His Majesty's Government are most apprehensive that a Japanese
whaling expedition will, in fact, constitute a precedent and in
the light of the extremely bad whaling record of the Japanese it
is considered that the charscter of the expedition should be rad-
icelly changed. Furtiermore His Majesty's Government have reason
to suppose that the Japanese desire is largely to obtein whale
meat, in pursuance of which it is most probable that the whalers
would, as they have repeatedly done in the past, kill young whales.
4.
In viev of the critical oils and fats situation His
Majesty's Government would however be prepared to acquiesce in an
expedition/

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.98)
expedition provided the following minimum safeguards were imposed:-
(a) that the expedition should not be a Japanese expedition
but should be run by S.C.A.P. under the control of allied
personnel.
(b) that all the oil should be subject to I.E.F.C. allocation
and not merely the residue after Japanese needs have been
inet.
(c) that the exnedition should not constitute a precedent,
nor tht it snould prejulice the possibility of Japanese
ships comprising the expedition being taken as reparations.
(0)
that the International Whaling Agreement should be observed
and, in particular, th:t any meat used should be only from
fully grown whales.
(e)
that each factory ship should be allocated a quota of whales
which, in no circumstances, should be exceeded.
(f)
that whaling should be conducted in accordance with modern
oie
whaling practice to ensure the extraction of all l and
the abandonment of the wasteful methods formerly used by the
Japanese.
(g)
that qualified allied inspectors and other personnel referred
to in paragraph five should be present.
5.
As regards safeguard (a) His Majesty's Government and, they
have reason to think the Norwegian Government, would be willing to
provide technicians, including masters and officers for the fectory
ships. Arrangements would be made to send such officers and tech-
nicians by air to meet the expedition. There would be no objection
to the remainder of the crews being Japanese.
His Majesty's Covernment are aditionally not satisfied that
there would be adequate control over the catcher boats and they regard
it as essential that there should be a Norwegian gunner, mate and
engineer on each catcher.
6.1

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
6.
His Majesty's Government suggest that the returns
the
from the sale of the catch be divided between Supreme
Comnander for the Allied Powers and the operating parties.
7.
His Majesty's Government would be grateful if, in
the light of the foregoing representations, the State Department
would arrange for appropriate instructions to be sent to the
Supreme Commander in or er that the expedition may be organised
withir the safeguards herein sug ested.
8.
Information has also been received to the effect that
in & directive to the Jaranese Government dated 23rd August the
Suprene Commander har given permission for the conversion of a
partly built tanker into & whale proceosing ship. In the
opinion of His ajesty's Government this proposal completely
undermines the ground on which the Supreme Commander based his
justification for tne 1946/47 whaling expedition, namely the
iir iediate urgency for fats and meat and his denial that it
prejudiced the future. Whatever may be said about this year's
ex edition, there can be no justification for the rehabilitation
of a Je penese whalinr industrywithout the fullest consultation
w!th all interested Governments.
His Majesty's Government accoraingly wish to express
their dissatisfection at this ner development and request the
United States Government to secure cencellation of this directive
and to issuo ina muctions to the Supreme Commander thet no further
decisions affecting whaling be taken without prior consultation.
BRITISH EMBASSY
WASHINGTON, D.C.
3 September, 1946

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.91)
J4
Ac/R
il
AIDENFPOIRE
The Department of State has noted carefully the
points raised in the British tmbassy's aide-mémoire of
September 3, 1946, regerding the subject of Japanese
whaling, in the Anterctio and desires to make the
894.628/9-546
following observetions.
The authorization of the projected Japenese whaling
expedition to the ntarctic vas an administretive action
taken by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers under
irective No. 20A of November 13, 1945, which has been
CS/HH
filed with the Far astern Commiesion in eccordance with
paragraph I1I,4, of its terms of reference and is con-
tained in FiC-O35. This expedition was approved by the
supreme Commander definitely as an emergency measure and
for one season only in the hope that it would help to
C.
alleviate the critical world shortege of fats and oils
and that
F
6

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
and that it would also contribute to the food supply of
Japan. This latter faotor 1s of particular importanoe
because of the relationship of the food shortage in
Japan to the problems of the oocupation. In this conneo-
tion the United States Government wishes to assure the
British Government thet all the whale oil produced by
this expedition, not merely the exportable surplus, will
be subject to allocation by the International Emergenoy
Food Council.
It is the intention of the United States Government,
and it has been so ordered in directives issued to the
Japanese Govern ent by the Supreme Commander, that the
proposed whaling expedition be carried out in full con-
formity with all the international conventions and regula-
tione pertaining to whaling. The Department of State
has been 1nformed by the Supreme Commander that personnel
from his commend will accompany the expedition to ensure
compliance with all international regulations. In view
of the above the United States Government does not consider
that it

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
that 1t has violated the spirit of the fourth resolution
of the Final Act of the International Whaling Conference
of 1945. In the recollection of members of the United
States delegation to that Conference this resolution
was a recommendation to the contracting governments
with the purpose and intent of urging restraint in
facilitating the outfitting and equipping of whaling
expeditions which would not operate in conformity with
the rules end standards set forth in the various whaling
agreements.
The Supreme Commander has stated he would heartily
welcome the assignment of additional Allied inspectors
to the forthcoming whaling expedition should any of the
nations concerned wish to offer the services of such
persons. According to information furniehed by the
Supreme Commander the maximum number of Allied personnel
possible to accommodate on each factory ship 1s three
and it is therefore possible for two Allied inspectors
to be assigned to each ship in addition to the inspector
from the Supreme Commander's headquarters.
In th1s

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
In this connection the Supreme Commander states it
1s 1mportant to point out to the interested governments
that accommodations and meals will necessarily be sub-
standard. These ships are converted Japanese tankers
with the usual minimum accommodations built for Japanese
personnel. Allied inepectors must be prepared for con-
siderable personal hardship and therefore it 1s suggested
thet individuels selected should, in addition to their
professional qualifications, be of e type capable of
meeting these conditions in good spirit.
The Supreme Commander has requested that he be
informed as soon as possible when any Allied inspectors
may be ex ected to report to the Fisheries Division,
Natural Resources Section, of his headquarters. It is
understood that foreign governments concerned will pay
the ealaries and provide the necessary equipment and
rations of such inspectors as they may assign for duty
with the expedition. Inasmuch as it 1s believed advisable
to have equality of pay for all foreign inspeotors it
is requested that, if it is desired to appoint such
inspeotors,

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.98)
-5
inspectors, the Supreme Commander be notified as soon
as possible of their salaries.
The United States Government wishes to emphasize
that the proposed whaling expedition is of an emergeney
character only and in no way prejudices the future. This
Government is in complete accord with the view that
any long-range consideration of the rights of Japan to
conduct wheling onerations is a matter for Allied dis-
cussion and decision. With regard to the Supreme Com-
mander's directive of August 23 authorizing the conver-
sion of a tanker which will not be completed until the
spring of 1947, the Department has been informed that
thile such uthorization has been granted, no authoriza-
tion has been granted for the vessel to whale in the
Antaretic and no commitment has been made as to its
future use for this purpose or its exemption from repara-
tions removels. The ultimate disposition of this vessel,
indeed the ultimate disposition of all Japanese whaling
facilitles nd equipment 1s agreed to be subjeot to
Allied consultation and decision. The present
authorization

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
authorization being only temporary, the Japanese have
been advised that any equipment they may possess, whether
then available or in process of construotion, is subjeet
to such disposition as may be determined by the Allied
Powers. Nor does this authorization in any way commit
the United States Government to support future whaling
operations by the Jananese.
With regard to the suggestion that masters and
officers of the expedition should be seleoted from
Allied personnel it is desired to emphasize, as stated
above, that the expedition will be accompanied by
personnel from the headquerters of the Supreme Commander
and 1f desired by other Allied inspectors whose duties
will be to see that all international whaling regulations
are faithfully observed. The Supreme Commsnder has
expressed the opinion that, in addition to the unusuelly
small size of the quarters pointed out above, technical
engineering peculiarities and the fact that their equip-
ment is not of the type ordinarily used by Europeans,
it woula

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
it would be inefficient to operate the ships to be used
on the expedition by other than Japanese crews. Besause
of the shortness of time before the expedition must set
out it is not considered practical to attempt to convert
the ships for European use.
It has been estimated by the Supreme Commander that
the total catch of the forthcoming expedition will not
exceed an equivalent of 1500 blue whale units. In view
of the anparent detailed planning which has been carried
out by the Supreme Commander and as every precaution
is being taken to ensure complience with all international
wheling agreements and regulations, 1t 1s not believed
advisable to impose a further restriotion, not called
for by ary international agreement, namely a quota upon
each factory ship as suggested in the aide-mémoire from
the British Embassy.
Because of the great interest expressed by the
British as well as other governments, particularly with
respect to the security interests involved, the Supreme
Commander

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
-8
Commander has informed the Department of State that no
authorization for any possible future Japanese whaling
expeditions in the Antarctic or elsewhere will be
given without prior consultation with the interested
governmente, particularly with regard to the seourity
faotors that may be involved.
The United States Government wishes to point out
that the Supreme Commander has stated the proposed
expedition 1s an Allied expedition under complete Allied
control. It 1s administered by the Supreme Commander
and will be accompanied by personnel from his head-
quarters as well as by other Allied personnel should
it be so desired. The ships on the expedition will not
fly the Japanese flag but will fly a special pennant
identifiable as follows: SCAJAP flag 4 feet 6 inches
wide by 5 feet 7 inches long, divided diagonally into
two right angle triangles from upper left to lower right
corners with lower trfangle green and upper triangle red.
The SCAJAP

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.89)
-9-
The SCAJAP flag resembles the international flag "O"
with the exception that the lower triangle on the
SCAJAP flag 1s green instead of yellow as on the
international flag "O".
In view of the considerations expressed above
the United States Government hopes that the British
Government will aee fit to wi thdraw 1 ts objeotions
to the contemplated expedition.
orig-
g
0
002 4 1946
Department of State,
LE
Qndal
Washington,
SURNS
Le/T
JA:JMAllison:mla
IR
JK
BCTW
ass
10-3-46 HB

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.96)
JE
Office of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: Sept. 5, 1946
SUBJECT:
Japanese Whaling Operations
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Powles - New Zealand Legation
Mr. Vincent - FE
894.628/9-546
Mr. Borton - JA
COPIES TO:
Mr. Whitman - JK
Mr. Flory
-IR
Mr. Vincent - FE
1-1403
Mr. Powles called to discuss the question of a Japanese
whaling expedition to the Antarctic authorized by SCAP. He
stated that hie government had been advised of the British aid
memoine of 3 September 1946 and was instructed to say that his
government agreed in general with the position presented by the
United Kingdom.
Mr. Powles added, however, that his government questioned
the advisability of restricting the gunner, mate and engineer on
each catcher to Norwegians, that they questioned the necessity of
C
dividing the returns from the sale of the catch as provided in
S
paragraph 6, and that they would be in a position to provide a
V
l1mited number of technical personnel for the expedition.
As to the query as to whether the question should be settled
outside of the Far Eastern Commission, Mr. Powles stated that his
present instructions were to defer raising the question in FEC.
Mr. Powles was informed that the whole subject of policyon
Japanese whaling was now under careful consideration in the D
FILED
894.628
partment and that he would be informed of the position of this
government as soon as such a decision was reached.
01946
LON
8
Ho3
JA:HBorton: et
Sept. 5, 1946
1
o

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.86)
DEPARTMIENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: tember ), 1446
SUBJECT:
ctic,lation to
PARTICIPANTS:
894.628/9-546
COPIES TO:
2
2
ANCH
11000
1946 SEP
山
 .er t.nited
ctorsnn
CS/V
th
l it
,,I,ounIsla
rs,trea.
894.628/
 hsclsfoei
FILED
11
LDH
1946
-546

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.77)
-2-
he  ar irective ( 00...17 ( au 40)) uthorized the Japanese
to mmale "only n tat art i one raciric anu n an uceans or une
antaret c mea o. s utn lat tue bp uegrees un ume rortn and tnat
part or tne mtaretie   ass on e sutn enerally known as wilkes
fan, n ctoria  a e oss elr  peten cat longitude
  rees  le east oi reelm  west lo ituue 10 egrees on
se wet f per cn."  ea verlups arts of the sectors claimed
    trli, u ts   res t uhe north or the
rtrm o es  r cls. Le ortr. unury of pne area
 orizei me  reet ve  a iely p statute iles distant
  t  ute les istant
1
2.2
0
1740

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: Sept
6
1946
SUBJECT:
Japanese Whaling in the Antarctic
Mr.. Lykke, Counselor of the Norwegian Embassy
PARTICIPANTS:
894.628/9.
Mr. Emmerson
COPIES TO:
FE:
Mr. Vincent
JK:
Mr. Martin
IR:
Mr. Flory
A-H:
Mr. Gross
9-646
1-1408
Mr. Lykke called to present an Aide-Memoire from his
Government on the subject of permitting the Japanese to engage
in whaling operations in the Antarctic. The note takes
exception in several points to the British position as set
forth in the Aide-Memoire presented by Mr. Graves of the
British Embassy to the Department on September 3.
S
Mr. Lykke explained that some discussions had been held
in London between the Norwegien Embassy and the British Foreign
Office but that apparently the attitude of the Norwegian
Government had not been correctly interpreted. He regretted
that this prevented his Government from presenting a "united
front" with the British and indicated that he would have further
discussions with Mr. Graves in an attempt to reach some agreement.
The Norwegians are unwilling to participate in any whaling
expedition where crew members would be Japanese or where ships
would sail under a Japanese flag. They furthermore oppose the
British contention that a limitation should be placed upon the
number of whales to be processed by participating factorships.
P
JA: JKEmmerson/pm
1
161946

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.92)
Handed t
Me. Emmenan by
NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
Ms. hykle, Courstlor
WASHINGTON 7. D. C.
Sep1.6,156.
A I D E - M E M O I R E.
On September 3rd, 1946, Mr. H. A. Graves,
894.628/9-646
Counsellor of the British Emoassy, informed the Norwegian
Charge d'Affaires of the contents of a Memorandun regarding
the question of Jepanese whaling, which he would present
in the Department of State on the same date. In Paragraph
5 of this Hemorandum it was stated that the British
Covernment has reason to think that the Morwegian Govern-
ment would be willing to provide technicians, including
(REC
masters and officers for the factory ships of the Japanese
whaling expeditions. In the same Paragraph it was suggested
0
that there should be a ..orwegian gunner, mate and engineer
on each catcher boat. It was also stated in this Paragraph
that there would be no objection to the remainder of the
crew being Japanese, but I understand that Ir. Graves would
make a reservation regarding the Torwegian opinion on the
C
question of Japanese crews.
00
S/A
心
The Horwegian Charge d'Affaires has now been
2
advised from Oslo that the Norwegian Covernment 
22
C
not
人
willing to provide officers and crew members for whaling
expeditions, on which part of the crew is Japanese, or
whose ships are sailing under Japanese flag. Further,
9
that the Horwegian Government is not willing to provide
6
Reeid
officers or gunners for whale catchers where any member of

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON 7. D. C.
the crew is Japanese.
The Norwegian Government instructed the Charge
d'Affaires to make the observation with reference to
Paragraph 4 (e) in the British Memorandum, that there is
no provision in the international whaling Conventions for
a limitation of the number of whales which can be processed
by participating factory ships. The Worwegian Government.
therefore does not agree that this safeguard should be
imposed on the planned whaling operations.
KL/LC

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.87)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
PLAIN
NO. A-119
Washington,
TIME
798
10 3.10
2
Bept 9, 1946
894.628/9-946
n s l  t 
st pe e do. mr er for the lieu rowers,
7.3
2oo.
 re e peceive oe following wlue e oire frem uhe British
 bassy . septe..ber 3, 1y4o:
"n ne Leth  mst shis  basy n uire or the state
separo.ent mrestler mor atlon vae avallasle n uhe reported
ton  e Supreme coder or the alliedowers to
autnorise a J nese wmalin expeuition to the Antarctic.
"2. "his agesty's  verrment ave pon been appleed of the
 .ve. 00.17 (  us 46)
wleh e iusi  o ven for une ca unese to conuuct whaling
o erlos  ue antaretie, u ney camot reirain-from exoress-
in teir rofoumd coscern t the manmer n en ohese proposals
nave so lar taken snase. hey desire to raw the attention of the
stte partnt b e lomth pesolio o te haii Jonference
nele in lonmon . oveber ilo, mder wmien alt arties of the
A reement resoived to take ste s to Poaiit the sale, loam or
CS/ V
leliver of veusels cgulp ed sor whalin to comtries  ou si na-
tories o, tne wnalin a ree ent, nu to record uheir opinion that
one ou ested lar. ls clearly contrary to the s irit, if not
mraps ele etoor o ut resoluoion.
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
"3. bes ise wsewptlons vmich pay be wmue in a contrary sense
(OFFICES ONLY)
s ajesty 's overn ent e  ost a prenensive tnat a Ja u nese
whalin, enpeulbion wil, in fact, conntitute a recedent and in
8
wne li ht of te esure ely b whain recore of the dapanese it
ie e si ered enet she cnaracter of ule exscdition snhould be rad-
ically can ed. unther.ore is  esty's overmment nave reason
9
bo supose taat re ua anese esire is lar yely to obtain whale
281
cat, n ureaa ee oi  en t ts ost robabite that the whalers
would
6
f
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1946 - 683442

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.95)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:.
Department of State
NO.
Washington,
-2-
TIME
A-119 to Tokyo
would, as they nave repeatealy uone in the past, kill young whales.
"4. In view of the critical vils und rats situation lis
a esty's uoverrent woulu honever be repared to acquiesce in an
expe ition provided une following minimum safeguarus were Lnposed:
(a) that the expedition shouly not be a Ja anese expedition
sut should be run by .C.A.P. unuer the control of allied
personnel.
(u) that all the oil should be subject to I.E.F.C. allocation
un not merely une resi ue after Jananese needs have been
.ct.
(e) that uhe expeuition shoulu not constitute a precedent,
nor tat it shoulu prejudice the possibility of Japanese
ships co. risin the expedition being taken as reparations.
(u) tat she Tnternat onal mhaling agreement should be observed
tnd, n particular, that uny meat used shoul be only from
fully rovm wmales.
(e) that cacn factory ship shoulu be allocated a quota of whales
nich,  no circuastances, should be exceeded.
(1) that whaliny shoul, be conducted in accordance with modern
whalin ractice to ensure tne extraction of all oil and
the abandon ent or the waste ul ethods formerly used by the
capanese.
DISTRIBUTION
( ) that qualiried allied ins ectors and otner personnel referred
DESIRED
to in para rapn live shoule be present.
(OFFICES ONLY)
"5. as ve ards safe uard (a) lis ajesty's toverment and, they
have reuson to thhnk tne orwegian dovernment, woulu be willing to
provide teenmicians, ncluuin tasters und orricers for the factory
sni s. alram e ents woulu se de to cend such orficers and tech-
nicians by ir to meet tne en edition. There would ce no oujection
to the remainder oi the crews being Juoanese.
"His
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1946 - 6B3442

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.89)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
NO.
-3-
Washington,
TIME
A-119 to Tokyo
"llis ajesty's Government are auditionally not satisfied that
there onle oe a me uate control over the catcner boats anu they regard
it as essential unat tnere shoulu be a orwe gian gunner, mate and
en ineer un eacn catcner.
"6. is . ajesty's overnment su est that the returns
iro.. ohe sule I the caten be  viueu between the supreme
Co  mer for the allieu fovers une the o eruting parties.
"7. is aeuty's coveriment woul be grateiul if, in
the li nt or the foregein reoresen utisns, the state pepartment
woula arrange por aposopplate L suractions to be sent to thne
sree o un er n ruer at one ex euiti n may. be or anised
tnin e sare mards erein sugested.
"o. mnwor ueion mas also peen received to she effect that in
irec ve   caese oversment dateu zsr u ust she
s reme o n er as  ven permission por tne conversion of a
murtly su lt saster rto a mmule processing shio. In the
opinion or Mis . a esty's verrment unis proposal coupletely
tthaerenes the  rom on wien the puore. e tomanter pased his
Susc ricution -or oe l4o/47 mmalin expsedition, namely the
i ehate r uney por fabs u  mat um is uenial that it
prejuuiced sue ubre. mhatever  ay be said about this year's
exmeuition, t re can be  uubification or the renabilitation
of a ua  nese walin  ustry without uhe fullest consultation.
witn ll morested sovernts.
"iis ajesty's movern ent accoraingly wisn to express
eirdissatisfaction a tnis o.. evelop ent ane request uhe
nited suates overrmment o veure cancellation ef tnis uirective
DISTRIBUTION
a to iosue hstruetioe o oe suoreme onuer snat no further
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
mecisions alfeetin maling ve taken itiout prior consultation."
clastoblaytou
AK
RAN.
acting
CRVS
(TNES)
Cleauce 
JA
9/4/40
LLA
bytetepliom
EAUS
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1946 - GB3442

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.96)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
No partphramt htcufarprate
Charge Department:
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDINTIAL
Chargo to
5074
20
US URGENT
9Pm
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
489
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
In addition to protest received from UK re Jap
SEPT 9
c
whaling in Antarctic sent you in A-ll9/DEPT has received
94.628/9946
strong protests from Australia, New Zealand and Norway.
Full texts being airmailed. One of main points emphasized
by all is lack of prior consultation before authorization
given particularly in view of security factors involved.
In replying DEPT proposes maintain SCAP acted fully within
his rights in carrying out terms of Fishing and Aquatios
Industry Directive of NOv 13, 1945 which is on file with
FEC. However, in view great concern expressed by various
countries and in order to liquidate what has become
DISTRIBUTION
embarrasing situation DEPT would like to include in replies
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
statement along following lines: QUOTE However, in view
of strong interest expressed by Australian GovT in this
matter, DEPT has been informed by SCAP that no authoriza-
tion for any possible future Jap whaling expeditions will
DCR
Unit
be given
X
WFR
6

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.93)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PRIPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Ccllect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
NESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
CONUIDENTIAL
Charge to
-2-
be given without prior consultation with the Australian
and other interested GOVTS regarding the security
interests that may be involved. UNQUOTE
Endeavor secure SCAP's approval above statement.
Request reply soonest as protests still unanswered.
Claytm
Acting
(y((p)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
15467.
Jma
218
JA:GMAllison:mls
FE
IR
JK
A-H
9:20:46B
Clerrad Claored
ly tebphane ly phas
with u. Flo wrth
ys. Martin
 U 3. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-1940

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.88)
8
PREPARING OFFICE
DUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OPFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
NESSAGE:
Washington
COIFIDENTIAL
Charge to
No paraphrase necessary.
2064
CONFIDENITIAL
US UNGEINT
SEP101946
SU  COA.D ALLD FoS
TORYO
P
476
94.628/9-1046
. esece De  povl  areoic aling (s 368
a )   ris sh l ( tele r to 
o.    s), o, , uetralia, ew ealand ave made
sure su cetlms t pt. u eetions mcluue following: (a) Jap
pst fa luvre se ve malm re ml tions, (o) i sa catch courted in
li it, uss re alns lor otlures i subsiue li it, contrary oojectives
alm a ree ents, (c) sa mali e ui ment should be maue available
vessels
for ailled mlin ; () fuctory and killerywakx nave potential war
ase, (e) sce /3 reauireu consultation with australia, sew sealand
CS/ V
rior mmalin ooerations "near" their antarctic clains; (r) suggested
alan sontrary spfrit ir sot letber fouren cesolution vwhaliny Conference
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
 ,  .
 us  orts e msubaons m astralian, sew
sealand u  ovts or robasle joint re resentations  reconsider
action ana arran e antarctic mmaling mluer allied alpection but using
cao cqulpment ur. lar ely ua personnel.
1046
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-IDAD

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.86)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OPFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHITHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Colloct
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
NESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
Charge to
-2-
momme s mlorly tol : (u) opr co de  strict accord
mmali u reementes (o) l  tsject  ) uilocutlon, (e) expeuition
r  ice ruture orions. sept kin thorough
s o a r u s m csie e ubi erore further replies.
 v aaleocessing
eees or ed such conversion
.c oiretes nter alia
 cos sed ific
ut ne.
avey e said about
 s fo rebon
vud. ce t  resebbve  sabeu s lov flee reatest ephasis
blumemoire
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
    fo  eatonal
  co  rct,
s ep nt,  clurricution peciric
oues ca " ent cm eed  ate b ners" ( 340
oul  ).  lar on lo e ory vesecis yepsrted tract neekly
 U S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-1DI

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.90)
PREPARING OPFICEOUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICK WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Colleat
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Departiment:
Washington
Charge to
-3-
sr    s    ort mhetherrewar
 in other
lsictin rlies to interested
.  ress eports by cable
m ree .rt po ross ther
stceiceressible
 1 o rled rotocol i ned Hov 26 1945
 rolons mmalin season. Articles 2, 34
o(1), o(), 7  . ll se applicale U and Japan as provided Art 8(2).
Dept wml notlfy men regpiromento Art (1) rllilled, bringing entire
rotocol lat foree.
Claytou
Acting
DISTRIBUTION
(NESF)
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
8
FE
A-H
5/4/40
jiep
Eag
oss
CR
10.1P.M
 U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-194

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.98)
TO BE TRANSMITTED
AIRGRAM SENT
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTID
Department of State
NO.
Washington,
CONFIDENTIAL
TIME
JAPANESE WHALING IN THE ANTARCTIC
Sopt 13, 1946
894.628/9-1346
To
11:30 a.m.
Certain American Diplomatic Officers.
The following summary of the background and development of the contro-
versy relating to the authorization by SCaP of a Japanese whaling expedi-
tion to the Antarctic during the season 1946-47 is transmitted for the in-
formation of certain American diplomatic officers only.
On April 17, 1946 SCAP informed the Department that Japanese whaling
interests had been informally seeking the attitude of SCap toward resumption
of whaling in the Antarctic. In view of the world need for fats and oils
and of the shortage of food in Japan, SCAp was favorably inclined to permit
a temporary resumption of Japanese whaling, under proper restrictions and
regulations, and requested the Department's views.
On May 14 SCAP was informed that
CS/A
"Subject to the following conditions in addition to provisions of
SWNCC Policy with Respect to Fisheries and Aquatic Industries in Japan;
Dept perceives no objection on policy grounds to resumption Jap pelagic
vhaling in Antarctic:
"I. Whale oil produced to be subject to CFB allocation...
"2. Approval for undertaking this expedition is without prejudice
to future decisions regarding disposition of vessels, equipment
and products." (Copy SWNCc Policy follows air mail.)
The Department also suggested that assurance of reasonably effective pro
duction should be obtained prior to SCAP ∞nsent to Japanese operations.
On August 6, SCAP issued a directive to the Japanese Govt., authorizing
4
two factory ships of 10,000 tons each, 12 killer vessels and 7 carriers to
operate in the Antarctic during the 1946-47 season. The directive indu des
the safeguards specified in the Dept's telegram of May 14. On August 8,
an Associated Press report of the authorigation appeared in the New York
Herald Tribune, and apparently other press reports and radio broadcasts
carried the story.
Shortly
4.174

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.97)
TO BE TRANSMITTED
SECRET
AIRGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
Washington,
NO.
TIME
- 2 - 80pt 13, 1946
11:30 a.m.
Shortly after the appearance of this publicity the Charge d'Affaires
of the Norwegian Embassy inquired by telephone whether the Department
would confirm or deny reports. On August 19 the Cherge d'Affaires pre
sented orally Norway's objections to the expedition. The Australian
Embassy presented oral objections on August 2l. Aides memoire were sub-
mitted to the Department by the New Zealand Legation on August 23 and by
the British Embassy on September 3.
NC
The major objections specified in these protests are summarized below:
1. The failure of the Japanese in the past to observe whaling regula
tions or good whaling practices.
2. Concern lest this expedition constitute a precedent for further
Japanese Antarctic whaling operations.
3. Proximity of operations to New Zealand and Australian territorial
claims.
4. Failure to consult with other governments interested in whaling.
5. Factory and killer vessels have potential war use.
6. Japanese whaling equipment should be made available for use by
Allied nations.
Resolution 4 of the Whaling Conference of November 1945.
The British aide-memoire states that His Majesty's Government would
however "acquiesce in" the expedition provided it be operated by SCAP,
under the control of Allied personnel. It further states that a reported
ScAP approval of conversion of a tanker into a whale processing ship, such
conversion to be completed in 1947, "undermines the ground on which the
Supreme Commander based his justification for the 1946-47 whaling
expedition."
In viev: of the foregoing protests, the Department is exploring the
12.
legal and other aspects of this problem preparatory to formulation of
[2]
the Department's replies to the objections
crasaytou
S
CRNS
JK
HestL cleared bytelepeme,s
NOE
EE
IR:ERvanSant:bmd/mlc
9/11/46

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OFTHE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
Washington,
NO.
TIME
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Sopt 13, 1946 11:30 a.m.
Send to:
AMEMBASSY, LONDON
AMEMBASSY, OTTAWA
AMEMBASSY, MOSCOW
AMEMBASSY, OSLO
AMLEGATION. CANBERRA
AMLEGATICN, WELLINGTON
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
JA
JK
BC
NOE
EE
Wie
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1946 - 663442

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.95)
IVISION OF
ACTION COPY
CO.MUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
File
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
9:30-46
10~X
Tokyo via War
Dated September 14, 1946
Action: ITP
1rfo
SECRET
Rec'd 3:44 p.m., 15th
EUR
FE
DC/L
Control 4878
894.628/9
ESP
No paraphrase necessary
A-C
A-H
OCD
FC
SECSTATE
no reply requined
OES DIVISION
DC/R
ERUS
PRIORITY
ATE
1
404, September 14, 1946
一
4
Subject i Antarctic whaling.
4
3
Detailed information requested by Dept (REDEPTEL 476,
September 10 follows in separate telegrem).
It is believed thet the contentions of the foreign
governments, which seem to arise chiefly from Australian and
other commercial ambition, can readily be met.
This question has now become in Japan one involving
American prestige and heving important political implications.
The expedition is generally understood by Japanese to be an
American approved project arising primarily from the exigencies
of world wide food shortage and partly from the food shortage
in Japan. Any reversal in the matter would be interpreted
by the Japanese as clear indication that our predominant role
end authority in the occupation no longer exists and that
executive action is not rirm but is, rather, subject to dero-
gation upon unjustified foreign representation.
American prestige and political effectiveness have never
been higher in Japen than they are today. The present Japanese
Govt, for all its faults, has initiative, and is cooperat ng
by taking needed action in important matters upon suggeston
and without being ordered to do so. Any reversal on a mater
involving divergence of international views which has receiyed
a
considerable
BECRET
1946
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.75)
SECPET
-2404 . rom Poko  Var
11
rReversol on a queation
ithe minds f the population
17
.
politiily cognisant.
i obaeraions vith the ull
5
1T1
1 7

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.96)
FILE
Nつ。
DO NOT DETACH FROM WHITE COPY
R E C C R D C O P Y
894.628/9-1446
THE ATTACHED WHITE CCPY OF A TELEGRAM OR
AIRGRAM HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE REC ORD COPY TO
REPLACE THE YELLOW ACTION COPY :HICH WAS NOT
RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY THE ACTION
OFFICE.
THE COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR
FILING.
-0-
JAN6 1946

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
INFORMATION
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
COPY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
9
1946 SEP 17 AM 9 03
Tokyo via War
Action-ITP
Dated September 14, 1946
Info:
EUR
Rec'd 1:37 p.m., 16th
FE
DC/L
CONFIDENTIAL
I ESP
TRC
Control 5011
A-C
A-H
No paraphrase necessary
OCD
FC
DC/R
SECSTATE
406, Septembor 14.
It appenrs tc us obvious that the (re Dept's 476,
September io) objections raised contra ap emergency
Antarctic whaling operations ere largely, if not
entirely based upon selfish eeonomic desires. With
regard para 1 subparagraph (A) of reference telegram,
forthcoming Jap Anterctic operntion as required by
SCAP directives will be conducced with complete
observation of all international whaling regulations.
We fail to see that Jap past pctions are pertinent,
especially as this operatlon is for one season only
and is designed tc help sllevlate world-wile shortages
and especially food shortages in Japan.
Re subparagr ph (B) It moy be pointed out that in
the report of US Delegation to International Whaling
Jonference, held nt London January 1944, submitted to
Dept in despatch dated February 2 by American Delegates.
in discussing article 3 it was stated that the allowed
total catch of 16,000 blue whale units nnually was
considered at the conference as 3 or 4 times in excess
of probable annuel catch and it was further believed
that this catch could not cause depletion of existing
5
stocks by any unexpected development in number of
available factory ships. It is therefore beyond
reasonele expectation to suggest that Jap catch would
coopouct rot podrulsr sor crhor. Jap Antaretic
waaling catehes will be reported weekly to International
Whaling Burepu as required by waaling regulations.
ECW
Re subparagraph (C)
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2- 406, September 14, from Toicyo via War.
Re subparagre ph (C) Jop vhnling expedition is con-
a ldered en Allied operation fes renson that it is
directed by S3Ap ana is tc be conducted under complete
SCAP control. Wo considur higily inadvisable moking Jap
whaling equipmont vaileble for any other Allied wheling
operation nt this time beecuse of criticnl shortage
of animal protein food in Japan. Us has special interest
in food short ge here because of relntlonship of food
shortage to the occup tion and plso because Us necessarily
sends food here to "lleviste that shortage. Projected
single Jop Amt rotie wosling ppar tion will produce
considereble qunntity of cil but primory interest is in
producing food
Re subperngroph (D) Meager war potential, if any, of
fnctory ond killer vessele pppe rs to ue as not signifi-
cont under present sondi sions All vessels are subject to
dispos i ion ister.
Ro subporagro pb (E) Jep Antoretie whaling vessels
are uthordzed to operete in  aternationel waters only
and vill not b: pormitted to approach closer than 12
miles to any Ind beyon home islonds. No definition of the
term "near' as used in  MCc 99/3 bas been received. SSAP
has considores 12 milcs from ny lond mass, including
territory now mder Us jurisdi stion end having active US
Military Bece es not being "neer"
Resuboaragraph (F) It is our belief that ns the Jap
are required te abide by all provsions of International
Whaling Agreements ond a we waderstend spirit of 4th
resolution. Whaling Conf orence, London, Hovomber 1945,
was presumebly basel upon preservation of wheling popula-
tion, the foptheoming op Ant vetic operation is no more
contrery to spirit then : is to lestor of thot resolu-
tion.
With reference to Emoessy Canberre report of probeble
joint conwerentione to requss s reconsidorntion and to
arrange other Allied Directior of Jep Antaretic operatlon,
we feel strongly that such derogation of executive
authority of SCAr would be highly undesirable and would be
politically dangerous.
Projeoted operation, by defini-
tlon of 'sDAp", will be conducted under Allied direction,
CONFIDENTIAL
will be

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAI.
-3- 406, September 14, from Tokyo via War.
will be conducted under Allied direction, will be in
strict accord with whaling agreenents, oil produced will
be subject to EFC allocation nd will be without
prejudice to future determinntion of Jap wheling opera-
tions. ScAP plans to plece an American inspector on each
factory ship, end in nddition Jap Govt Burenu of
Fisheries wiil have 2 Jap inspectors on each factory ship.
Re parn Nc. 2 of Depts raforence telegram concerning
British Ide memoire, 3 Septemper, Jap Bureau Fisheries
states that all fecrory, killer pnd ve. r
(except as noted below) mentioned n CAP directive of 6th
August will be roedy by 15 November to take on cargo
preparatory to sailing from Jap ports. In this connection,
i killer boat mentioned in direetive has been beached and
another will be substituted. 1 whaling factory ship
authorizel for construetion in SCAP directive 23 August w1ll
be somplete3 nbout Mey 1947. This vessel has not been
authorized to whale in Antaretie by any SoAP directive and
has no relationghip to forthcoming emergency Antaretic
operation
Jp Antareio wholing Paetory vessels will be con-
verted tankers and not specificnlly built es whalers. They
pre being rebuilt with view to roducing ns much oil as
possible put with prinary emphnsis placed upon food pro-
duction. Complete utilization vili be made of entire
carcass of eael: whele teken rather than only fullest possible
use as vequired by rticle ll of principel whaling agree-
ment. Nunber of pe sonnel abonrd Jap Antarctic whaling
fleet will be mdequste to hanile catch in eccordance with
internetionel whaling regulations and SCAP directives,
which are more stringent, for moximum production. Also
personnel will be sereened by SCAP intelligence officers.
As Jap fectory shins pnd equipment pre in process of being
converted fror tanters pecific details which make
equipment inadequato ror use by others cannot be given
fully at this time. However, detailed inspection these
factory ships and representative killer and carrier vessels
is now in progress and detailed report will be submitted
soonest. In genere! it is to be noted that unusually
small size of quartera, technienl engineering peculiarities
and construction with primary emphasis on utilization of
entire carcass rather than on cil extraction as practiced
COTPTEETAT
LyEupopoon

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
-4- 406, September 14, from Tokyo vin War.
by Europeen wholers combino to make equipment of little
1
value to other than Jap operators and for Japan's
peculier needs--Jap being only important users of whale
ment for food.
In natural resources sectic: weekly summary No. 38
dated 6 June on page 10, statement made that it was
inticipated 10 fretory ships would be completed by 1946.
If permitted (conetruction of all these ships not yet
finally authorized) these vessels are small and for use
in authorized fishing and vhaling areas around Japan
home islands only. They vould not be suitable for
cto olling Poyges to Antoretic or other distant
waters and would be designed primarily to preserve as
much of carcass as possible for ruman focd with minimum
oil extrnction.
Because they pre the only ones with whaling exper-
ience nnd ability, rewar Jap whaling companies have been
given chnrge of Ant rctic expedition under SCAP control.
SGAP materinl not plready forwarded on Antarctic
projeet including detailed plens for personnel and
equipment being eirmailed sconest. Arrangements are being
made to submit weekly progress reports by cable to Dept
on aspects of Antareti  whaling poject as well as
progress reports by airmnil on vhaling projects within
outhorized area around home isl nds.
X天
coming international Whaling conference.
ATCHESON
JT:ECW
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.87)
DIVIS
OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONSAND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Lio
9
Tokyo vin dar
Act10.-ITP
Dated September 14, 1946
-150:
EUR
1:37 p. m., 16th
:E
T:RNATONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
xπ
CONFIDEIITIAL
ESP
946 SE17
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
PRC
Contre1 5011
八-C
S
1-11
NC
FC:
OCD
PC
DC/R
A
SECSTATE
A
7
R
40. 0000 24
894.628/9-
T pe cbyloue ho too (ro Dept 476,
e terbe 1o oj. /ons re ntr p energe ey
artet: whort1r
rgely, l not
ontlrols op  u selfish a poul: der ires. Vich
egrd por 1 sut grpb (A f reforcuce telegrom,
fortleowlng p Ar aritl: os lon us required by
SoAp dictl c wi.r to cond od with complete
observ tlon. of a11 1 ri:. tio.1 .ellng regultions.
We fri1 to a. tht ion pas ione are portinent,
e: peciil s this ron : r one senson only
1446
and 1s esig te he?o lleyInte world. le shortnges
nd especi ILy focd shori agee n rapen.
1TP/L
Re subpir gr h (3) It m b pointed out thot in
the repoar of  elet ton to Dw ewotlonal haling
TP
Jonferonce, 11 -t London Jenuery 1g44, suomltted to
CP
Dept in doop-tcn cntel February ? by Awericon Delagateu
in diseussing urti lo 3  was st tod tlat the llowod
votal cetch of 16, J0o l wh lo nito nnuelly was
considered ct the ~onf arence .3 3 or 4 times in excess
of probable alauc? cut t and 1c won fur+her believed
that this cot n c uld not coue, diplatlon of oxisting
stocks by ny unexpe ted dave) opmoat in aumber of
available fa ory ah: pa. It  therefore boyend
rmouunou ax nect lon to sazgest thnt n catch would
P Pntaretic
vnl lng catene vill ce eporied veekly to International
Wheling Burere s reguired by waeling regulations.
EOW
Re subparagrnph (c)
CONFIDEVTIAL
5
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WI
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.84)
CONFDENTIAL
-2- 406, Soptember 14, from Touyo vie Wor
Re subporagrr ph (0) ap  ulans expedition is con-
dev n Arlied per  r oesor thet it is
directeu by ap a is te be vondueted under complete
SoAr cenurel We  oncidor bic aly inedvisable moking Jap
wuoling cqulpoent v aleble foo emy other Allied wholing
operaticn ot tnis sime beesuse of eritieel shortage
of animel proreir Pecé in p  us has special interest
in focd shert ue ere becouse f reletlonship of food
shorteag to  o upatico cns i o because Us necessarily
sends Yeod hoe t mllowste at sbortage Projected
single p are  rg en wll produce
conelerable quas f of ol
 trimery interest is in
pr odue ng foom.
Be suep g b (b) Me u mar petentiel, if any, of
faotery ua vlle vessc ls eppo rs to us ns not signiri-
sent nder pesen ondt tons
il vessels are subject to
dispeo er.
Be subr h ) ep atereble wbeling vossels
are autherrzed to operete n utermationel waters only
and will met bs po mintea so  pproaeh eloser than 12
milee to wny tond boyene bome selmnde
Fo definition of the
term 'nery us uee an  Mce pa/3 bes bees received. SCAP
hes sonsiderod la alles mrmom any land mess, including
territory dow mo ds yurisd yetep and bovine netive us
Military Base, or not beang "nser
Dosubpap  () It le ous beller that es the Jap
are required me vbide by all prove lone of Internasional
Whaling Agreemaote pnd e we acdepstond spirit of 4th
resolution, Whelans Comd orenee, London, November 1945,
vas presumribly bnt oa upes. pres ervetion of wheling popula-
tion, the fot ecng ep Anteretie oporetion is no more
contrery to sprvar tbeo lo is to tourer of shoe resolu-
tion
With rerererce to Fmoesey Sameerre report of grobable
jint ccnverastiens to roguee s peconeideratlen and to
arrange cther sll cd Darostlon or sep Antaretie operation,
we fesl strowety rhas seeh der pgasien of exeeutive
authority of dAr would be bigaly undesirable and would be
politinlty lpngevous. Proje bed operacsion, by defini-
bion ur "oae, vll be pondusced wider Allied direction,
CONFIDENTIAL
will be

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.76)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3- 406, Septembor 14, from Tolyo v1- Vor.
vill be ondceii uder lol ortlon, will be in
iviet o ord wiu Iiar ge ts cir produced will
be ubetn
ili te vithout
prejud :c tore darr n:  f np wheling opera
tion. r?1 s ecern inspector on each
Fotory chi, i L ddl nior Bureu of
Fiaherae
ss on ench fnetory ship.
)p:"  re.co tolegrnm concorning
r1tisdu
on. Burcu Fisheries
: l lirertive of 6th
to on cnrgo
101
1  1 i to. In this coinection,
kio
it
11 c nns veen beached and
 vb I lng footery ship
211
 airo.:lvo 23 A gust 111
50 
sscl bes not oeen
uthera entnyAp directive and
bo no e tion   For cor  corooney Antoretic
rotn
voos will be con
perteikd
ai ii buii a wholers They
u ro
cmuch o1l 
 ut   y ns pirced upon foed pro
surtion Coe tioI  mdo of ontire
ree tln ony rullest possible
uses pul   le !pineipel vueling roree
eberrbop A etie whaling
eet vil oqu  ow th in necorlence with
ateralonI  i egl  nd  directives,
vhe or  rn ronAlso
pernet w   
 ntel gence ofricers.
As  o r e in ocess of being
n  t ri is whic mke
luipmet inrunre  e b c hers connot be given
rully t his me e. d led inspection these
Factery phips  1 ro reser p iv k ller and carrier vessels
ta nov ir prcgras  ae ! :eport vill be submitted
sconesr ir e r I is  b oted thst unusully
small sl o curt re tea casineer In peculierities
and coretcu t  vil rlery  n sis er utilizntion of
entire ercosteh ction s orscticed

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.83)
CONFIDENTIAL
4- 406, Soptember 14, Prem Tolero von War.
by Europeau muslars  ombine to make equiprent of little
Value to othex rhen Jap operatoss mud ror Japan's
peculier noede -Tep seing only ampertent wsers of whale.
meat for food.
Ir. asturar rese prees sostie. veekly sumaory No. 38
tated 6 upe so page to soateme mm made that it was
onticipered po fbatory abape would be completed by 1946.
ef permmtted  eooeum assten of ell spese ships not yet
finally wwroraed) chese veseels re smell and for use
an oubor res rs and vaal t g reas round ape
home ielands only fhey werld or oe suitable for
 voy soe s Antexest or ether distant
vaters set wousa te Heeignad primerily to preserve as
mueh of cnr esss os poasiblo for pmen fosa vith mininrum
oil extraction.
Besave tooy s the esly coes vith whaling exper-
tence ne hewr p weling companies have been
siver corrge or antr cotie expearbior under soap control.
Soar m cavael pou ptroody Ferwarded on Antaretic
project sreluc tua de ee iled plans for per sonbel and
quipment petne sireailed scopert Arrengements are being
wade to sutmit wesksv peogress repor ts by ceble to Dept
an aspeens of Aatat v  ee projoot as well as
progrese roposts by pirmadl on waaling projeets wathin
Futhord red ar en orcund Lomm zslamas
Regeees auform mton of plere aal date or ferto-
soming fnterne son woeling corfer nce.
ATOHESON
IT:ECW
CONFIDENTTAL

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.97)
October 7, 5:30
JKP
There's no indication on this
paper that Mr. Acheson has seen
it, but it came in an envelope
from Mr. Acheson's office.
hst
JMA

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
DATE:
0ct.5,1946
TO
U - Mr. Acheson
FROM : FE - Mr. Vincent
SUBJECT :
For your information in cornection with the
Australian Ambassador's call this morning regard-
ing the Japanese whaling expedition, there is
attached the Australian Aide Mémoire of
September 16 together with a copy of our reply
which was handed to the Australians by
Mr. Gross acting for General Hilldring on
September 26.
Since then SCAP has informed us that the
ships will not fly the Japanese flag (They will
fly a special flag which has been used on the
Japanese ships engaged in repatriation) and
that he would welcome two allied observers
on each factory ship in addition to the one
American observer which he intends putting on
each ship.
This information was given to Major Plimsor
of the Australian Embassy orally earlier this
week.
Jev.
FE:JKPenfield:mho

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.97)
EMBASSY
AUSTRALIAN
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
16th September, 1946.
Aide Memoire on Japanese Whaling
1.
On 21 August the Australian member of the Far Eastern
Commission made informal representations to the Director of
the Office of Far Eastern Affairs along the following lines
in regard to the extension of Japanese whaling into the
Antarctic:
(a) Australia is greatly concerned at the proposal for
the extension of Japanese whaling into waters of
direct and permanent security interest to Australia,
89
without prior consultation with interested governments
94.62
in accordance with the policy laid down by United
States and circulated to the Far Eastern Commission
2
8
as FEC-035.
6
(b) The matter appears to be one on which the Allied Council
1
1646
for Japan should have been consulted and asked to
advise.
(c) Approval by the United States Government of the Supreme
Commander's action seems contrary to the spirit of
the fourth resolution of the Final Act of the Inter-
national Whaling Conference of November, 1945.
(d) Australia considers that any whaling facilities &nd
larly the British Commonwealth.
2
(e) Extension of Japanese whaling will establish a precedent,
S
whatever might be said now, and subsequent restriction
1
of Japanese activities would be difficult. Japan in
4
the past had ueb a bad record in whaling and completely
f
Rev.
6
Cat.

=== Page 367 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
failed to observe international conventions designed
to safeguard the future of the industry Australia
consequently regards it of the highest importance that
no action be taken by the Supreme Commander, without
consultation with other powers, which would prejudice
a decision of the future of the Japanese whaling
industry.
2.
On 23 August the Supreme Commander issued a directive
to the Japanese Government ordering the conversion of a
tanker into a whale processing ship. Conversion will not be
completed in time for the present whaling season. It is
clear, from this, that it is not the intention of the Supreme
Commander to confine the rehabilitation of Japanese whaling
to the 1946/47 season. The Australian Government, accordingly,
requests:
(a) The cancellation without delay of the Supreme Commander's
order of 23 August.
(b) The issue of instructions to the Supreme Commander
that no further decision affecting whaling be taken
without prior consultation with the Australian and
other interested Governments.
3.
The Australian Government further proposes that the
1946/47 operations should be an Allied expedition completely
manned by Allied crews. Australia is able to provide a sub-
stantial proportion of the crews and believes that the United
Kingdom, New Zealand, and Norway could provide the rest if
necessary. It is understood that the vessels now available
in Japan can be adapted to use by non-Japanese crews. The
foregoing arrangements should be confined to the one season
1946/47.

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
4.
The Australian Government desires that early considera-
tion be given to the prohibition of Japanese whaling in the
Antarctic, at least for the duration of the occupation. It
also considers that Japanese whaling facilities should be
considered not only for reparations but also as part of the
peace settlement.

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.98)
JCU
JA/JMA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: 9-17-46
SUBJECT:
Question of Japanese participation in the whaling
operations in the Antarctic Ocean during the coming
season.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. J. K. Penfield, Deputy Director,
Office of Far Eastern Affairs,
894.628/9-1746
Mr. Knut Lykke, Counselor, Norwegian Embassy.
COPIES TO:
IR
JA
JK
1-1493
Mr. Lykke called this afternoon at his request and
handed me the attached note which expresses "the categorical
protest of my Government against the sending out of the
whaling expeditions planned by the Supreme Command of the
Allied Powers". I explained to Mr. Lykke that the policiew
under which SCAP operates are laid down by the Far Eastern
Commission and this matter had been brought up in the
Commission. Mr. Lykke said that his Embassy had discussed
the matter with the British but that the latter appeared
reluctant "for political reasons" to bring up the matter
in the Commission.
CS
I questioned the validity of one of the Norwegian
objections to the proposed expeditions; namely, that the
Japanese had in the past not observed international whaling
A
regulations. In replying, Mr. Lykke gave me the definite
impression that the Norwegians are not particularly concerned
over the presently planned expeditions per se. But despite
assurances that this is to be a "one-time operation,"
Wr. Lykke seemed greatly disturbed at the precedent which
would be set. He was also disturbed over the fact thaty
the proposed expeditions will bring together Japanese 
F
whaling personnel and will afford an opportunity totrain
6
new personnel who will, in the future, constitute danger
16
even
5

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
even if Japanese whaling is prohibited, as they might be
available for hire by the Soviets or other non-whaling
powers who wish to enter this field.
I told Mr. Lykke that we would give prompt attention
to the note.
Attachment:
As stated.
FE:JKPenfield:bar

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.96)
NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON 7. D. C.
September 17, 1946.
Handed to me
by Mr. Lykke
on 9-17-46.
Excellency:
894.628/9-1746
On August 19, 1946, r. Knut Lykke, Norwegian
Charge d'Affaires ad interim, called on Your Excellency
and voiced the strong regret of the Norwegian Government
over the action of the United states Authorities in
deciding the question of Japanese participation in the
whaling operations in the Antarctic Ocean during the
coming season without prior consul tation with interested
nations. lir. Lylke submitted an urgent appeal to the
United states Government to revoke its authorization and
CS/A
prevent any Japanese pelagic whaling. In the event that
the American Authorities should find it impossible to
cancel the expeditions, the Charge d'Affaires transmitted
0
PILED
the proposal that the expeditions should be operated and
894
His Excellency Dean Acheson,
C
W
Acting Secretary of State,
Department of State,
9-1746
Washington, D.C.
117

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.97)
NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON 7. D. C.
manned by the two leading whaling nations, the United
Kingdom and Horway.
I have now been instructed to inform Your
Excellency that due to the length of time elapsed, it
is no lonrer possible to carry out this proposal, as the
start of the whalin season is too close to permit the
dispatch of full crews end the completion of other
preparations necessary for the organization of Norwegian
operation of the expeditions.
: y overrment therefore as to withdraw its
secondary proposal, but strongly uphelds its principal
demand, that no Japanese whalin expedition shall be sent
oiut.
I have been instructed to express to Your
Excelleney the catecorical protest of my covernment
againat the sending out of the whaling expeditions
planned by the Supreme Command of the Allied Powers.
The very valid reasons for the opposition of the
Norwegian

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.97)
NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON 7. D. C.
Morwegian Covernment to any Japanese whaling operation
have been explained before, end I shall not recapitulate
them here. The reat coneern with which the news of the
Japanese whaling plans was received in all interested
nations, should prove the urgency of a cancellation of
the plans. The internetional cooperation for the
regulation of whaling, in which the United States have
takon such an active and isinterested part, would
certainly benefit from such a decision.
Please acceph, Excellency, the renewed
expression of my hichest consideration.
Lavs .Joutad
Charge d'Affaires a.i.
No. 305
KL/LC

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.91)
OCT 161946
£xoe11my:
I have the honor to aoknowledge the reselpt of
your Embassy's mote of Se tember 19, 1946, expreseing
the oategorloal protest of your Government against the
894.628/9-1746
sending out of e Japannse whuling expedition to the
Antarotic which has been authorized by the Sapreme
Commender for the Allied Povers. The Embessy etates
that the great concern with which the aows of the
Japsnese whaling plans was received by all interested
nations should prove the urgenoy of the eaneellation of
the plane.
The coneern expressed by the Norwegian Government
CS/A
1s apprecieted but it is believed that mueh of this
soncern 1s due to a minunderetending of the nature and
purposes of this projeeted whaling expedition. The
aotion of the Supreme Commander in authorizing this
f
6
4
expedition
人
His Exeelleney
8
Wilhelm Muntho de Morgenstierne,
Ambassador of Morway.
f
0

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
expedition wes an administrative one, quite within the
scope of his powers, and taken as the result of a
d1rective 1gsued in November 1945, by the United States
Government concerning the conduct of Japanese aquatio
industries during the occupation of the country. This
expelition was approved definitely es an emergeney
measure and for one season only in the hope that it
vould help to alleviete the critical world shortage of
fats an? o1ls and thet it would also contribute to
the food supply of Japan. This latter factor is of
particular importance because of the relationship of
the food shortage in Japan to the problems of the
occupation. In this conn ction it is pointed out
that ell of the whale oil produced by the expedition
will be subject to allocation by the International
Emergency Food Council.
It is the intention of the United States Government
and it has been so ordered in directives issued to the
Japanese Government by the Supreme Commander, that the
proposed

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
proposed whaling expedition be earried out in full
conformity with all the international conventions
and regulations pertaining to whaling. Personnel frem
the Supreme Commander's headquarters will accompany
the expedition to ensure compliance with all such
international regulations.
The suggestion has been made by various interested
governments that it would be possible to convert the
ships to be used on the expedition so that they might
be used by non-Japanese crews and that the entire crews
should be composed of nationals from the several Allied
countries. In an effort to explore every possibility
of meeting the wishes expressed by the interested gov-
ernments a message was sent to the Supreme Commander
requesting his comments on this specifio proposal. In
reply he stated thst it would be entirely impracticable
to endeavor to arrange accommodations for Allied crews
or to use such orews on the expedition. The Supreme
Commander stated that not only would it be economically
unsound

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.98)
unsound to attempt reconditioning of the vessels, but
it would probably cause suoh delay as to render the
expedition 1mposeible. It was pointed out that the
most serious and perhaps insurmountable diffioulties
could be anticipated in endeavoring to operate and
control such en expedition with crews of mixed nation-
alties. There would inevitably arise the question of
divided responsibility as well as the conflict of
shippin la's of various nationalities. The Supreme
Commender has stated that he could not assume respon-
sibility for the control of mixed Allied crews on an
expedition of this nature and he does not believe that
the proposal could, as a practical matter, be carried
into effect. However, the Supreme Commander has stated
he would welcome the assignment of Allied inspeotors
should any of the nations concerned wish to offer the
services of such persons. In view of the oharacter
of the factory ships to be used, the maximum number of
All1ed personnel possible to accommodate on each ship
w111 be

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
-5
will be three. This will provide for two Allied
inspectors on eaoh factory ship in addition to the
one inspector who will be assigned from she headquarters
of the Supreme Commander.
The Supreme Commander has stated that the proposed
expedition 1s an Allied expedition under complete Allied
control, that it will be administered by the Supreme
Commander and that it will not fly the Japanese flag.
The ships will fly a special pennant identifiable as
follows: SCAJAP flag 4 feet 6 inohes wide by 5 feet
7 inches long, divided diagonally into two right angle
triangles from upper left to lower right corners with
lower triangle green and upper triangle red. The
SCAJAP flag resembles the international flag "O" with
the exception that the lower triangle on the SCAJAP
flag is green instead of yellow as on the international
flag "o".
The United States Government wishes to emphasize
the mmergenoy charaoter of the proposed expedition and
that its authorization in no way predetermines the
future

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.98)
-8
Future of Japanese whaling operations. This Governmemt
is in complete accord with the view that any leng-range
considerations of the rights of Japan to conduet whal-
ing operations 1s a matter for Allied disoussion and
decision. It is also agreed that the ultimate disposi-
tion of any Japanese whaling vessels or other equipment
1s a subject for inter-Allied consultation and decisien
in connection with reparations from Japan.
In vlew of the facte, as etated above, that this
projected expedition is of an emergency character to
meet a special need, that it will be conduoted in full
conformity with all international whaling agreements
and reguletions, thet it is under Allied supervision
and is accompanied by Allied personnel and that it is
clearly understood the long-term future of Japanese
whaling is a matter for Allied decision, it is the
hope of the United States Government that the Norwegian
Government may be reassured and see fit to withdraw
their objeotions.
Acoept,

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.91)
-7-
Bir, the reneved assurances ef my highest
consideration.
Aeting Seoretary of State
K
ERVS
JA:JMAli1son:mls
g10
FE
NOE
IR
10-4-11-46
gu
cls
gma

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.97)
JA
MEMORANDUM
With reference to the description of the flag to
894.628/9-1746
be used by the Antarctic whaling expedition communicated
to the Norwegian Embassy by the Department of State in
its note of October 16, 1946, information has now been
received to the effect that the flag will consist of
the "CAJAP flag "E" instead of SCAJAP flag "O" as
previously stated. Notification of the extension of
this flag to whaling is being given internationally by
the Navy Department at Washington, and locally by the
Supreme Commander at Tokyo.
A true copy of
the signed arigi
894.62
CS/V
Department of State,
JA:JKAnnerson:RAFearey:mls
(FE
NOE
JK
IR
A-H

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.86)
PRPTRICTED
LAGEST
PREVE CORVANDER PCR THE ALLIED POTERS
TOKYO
IMPO. AR DEPT CHIEP OP TAPP
PON POLITICAL ADVIFER
FHT RTEL 499 ROV 5 following messoge has been sent
to ar Dept for approval and transmission to SCAP:
GUOTE I se of CAJAF flar E (Jap Worehent Warimo
Flag plus vcdified international ) authorized. Inter-
national notification cxtension this combimation to
vhaling ill be given here. Bequest Cap prowulgate
locelly. ( NQT CTE
Acting
JA:RAFearey/mle
P3
TR
A-H
11/7/46

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.87)
R
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DP
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Tokyo via War
2
Dated September 20, 1946
inio:
Rec'd 5:54 p.m., 22nd.
COTIAL
Control 7215
INTERNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
No po raphrase necessary.
Reply drefte 9/27/46
eevs
8
STICHATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
6
4
10, coptember 20
Peference artlcle 4 () of protocol (REMYTEn 406
Hel tember 14, c 65196) en whaling signed at London 26
Neverber j9a5 under whien statist es on number of blue
vbale units caught by each factory ship operating in
the Antarctre muat bo Porverded to Intermational Bureal
For Whale spatisties w tt in ? dye after end of each
2
0
cc lendar weok. Under CAr Parootive, marter of each
94
Japanese facteiy phip operating in Anteietie muss radio
daily to Japanese Bureau of riaheries in Tokye on whe le
outet end ouuput of whele prodroste during previons 2"
hour peried. Prorent lons ra', for consolidetion by
supenese pupeau of Piauerles  daily peporte on
calender veer basis (Bund ay ubsr bugh Satardey) and sub-
missjer. te soa? ar 1hoo Loure eecl Mondey.
BoAp desires Depnrtment s covave whetber these
srertstiar on mumber of bluo wate untus cought by es et
1R
factory culp should be sont daroetly by Soap to Yntey-
netionel fuvoau for Whal ing Statistles or should be
sent by Soar to Dopartmert for Porwerdang to Thter-
net cval Dureat. Bxact vddress of futernatlonal Bureau
for vaaling Stesastles do roupnesbed ar direot reports
from JoAp to Tu rean are deaated.
AHESON
POD:RMG
CONP LDEETIAL
ITEIIA  TRADE
OFFIE 0F
THIS COLY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATIOH OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.88)
8579
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
ILINDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Weshington
CONFIDENTIAL
Charga to
NAL
SEP 27 196
US 
Du peme Co aner or one hllie poers,
894.628/9-2046
4Pn
10.
502
For abeneson, pvllolcul lavecer.
1.  ses so  ey ses mber blue whale
ats (  l  t so) e b by sae uetory suip irectly
to  ermtl reu pr lin soutstics, dergord, borway.
e pos  aceor wetn a o cles 1o anu 17 rrincipal A reement
si d me , i. 7  aticies 1  l, Convention cancluded
meva, c  4, s   also be sent uirectly to sanderjord
two
mitlh/copoo to o .
CS/V
.  vw ' pon ( 40, st 14)
en eultlon ce "alled operablon" l und sustralia nave again raised
estl erticlpmuisr ouner mlles.  nas infor ally stated it
ba. mnish 4 putle  ectors. ustralia us expressed uesire
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
894
(OFFICES ONLY)
res r    c fl wd  ns been
uu esbe is might fl eral fla or soar. sept believes
0
acceptance soove su estions voulu o far toward reconciling Qoher
atlles to  cultion. oual 'o veens ve nested urgently so final
reply cun be maue to protests.
 U S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-194

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.87)
. OTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
PREPARING OFFICE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
 Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
Charge to
-2-
3. sept reguests etalls re training inspectors (sutEL 406,
e t 14, para. 7) uu unfo ve provisions for penalties for violations.
Joncern e ressed nere over ve orted killiny one riymt whale in Bonin
o erolons lust souson.
4. also repmeet l e povislons dor blological work.
lo ists  laetory sni s on ld obtain following data:
n   susicies;
nel mb or evaries;
uber anu class licatisn of. ellow vodies (corpora lutea) in
ovaries;
 n  sex i loetses;
aont of seclrtcat n of vertebraul colwan:
Pleoss of blooer.
rreserve two aleen lates sro. cach whale-bone whale.
Procedare for blole Lets followe by air ram.
Claylow
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
Acting
ERNS
(NEST)
9/:27/40
.fanbantrbnd
Jo 
CAL
C1.
Clasred ly
telephone with
Cleared by
tolaphion
Sithsonian -
withmrgon. ello R
SEP 27 1948 P.M.
 U S GOVERNMENT PRINTINO OFFICE-19A5

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.85)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Tokyo via War
1
D.cod September 22. 1946
Tufo:
C MFIDELTTAL
S
SEP  2 1946
Control 7216
CR
DEPAHIMENT OF STATE
/L
Do paraphrese meces sary
IT1
FE
voted-no
1.-1
CA
A-U
JA
AY
SEA
A/
8:15Am
C
0202
September 22
FC
/
oP oveo prooeecd preooment aa thire from
Loet
t enteceo Department  , nept mber 20
Eyery erfovt nas beet mce besh in press statemerte
and ap corvereatlosd vtth Brstisn Coumonvealtr member
Allled  susal to wako slear rhes feruhcomirg expedition
9
ts eauppumry asesure for cee seacon only without pre
juc i ve to rutuve and ts woder cor upl ote Allied control
4.6
admin snter a oy sarp v s Sus ? poreonnel accompenying
expotation o ensare sorpllarce ell ScAp directives and
internotio egulations
2
28/
There has never been eum ineontion in this Head-
guarteps to pepmit any rap aesion wlth respeet to An-
terctie whaling beyond linl tetions of United States
1
Government authc picattore under vhich this expedition is
being organtved
2
7
9
ATOHEBO
7
WTD :NCB
CORF EDEDTIA
3
00
FILED
1
€ 1946
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
R
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.97)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
A-129
Washington,
NO.
TIME
Bept 23, 1946
2423
To the
2423
United States Political Adviser to the
8
394.628/9
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
TOKYO
NC
For your informetion, Dept received following Aide Memoire
from the New Zealend Legation on Aug. 23, 1946:
6
"The New Zealand Government hes been led to believe, through
-2
press reports and other sources, that the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers in Japan has issued a directive authorizing the
sending to the Antarctic for the 1946-47 whaling season of a
46
Japanese whaliug fleet of 12 whalers, 2 factory ships and 7 carriers.
"The area in which it is believed that this fleet has been
instructed to operate is naturally of reat importance to New
Zealand because of its closs proximity to New Zealand shores and
also to those of the Ross Dependency. in respect of which New
Zealend is the controlling authority.
"The past record of the Japanese in respect of whaling in the
55
Antarctic is one of failure to accede to the International
/V
Conventions regarding the taking of whales, and of predatory
expeditions which threatened the continued existence of the
whaling industry and of the whale itself.
"The operation cf Japanese vessels in such an area will also
raise security questions for New Zealand, the details of which it
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
is not necessary to mention at the moment, but which the New Zealand
(OFFICES ONLY)
Government view with some apprehension.
"The New Zealand Government therefore dislikes the prospect of the
resumption, even temporarily, of Japanese whaling activities in
Antarctic waters, and it considers it most important that no action
should be taken which might prejudice sny ultimate policy decision
concerning Japanese re-admission to, or exclusion from, the
Antarctic whaling industry. If, as now seems to be the case,
Japan does in fact appear to have whaling facilities available for
operation, it is possible that the difficulties might be met by
2
~
some form of Allied operation.
"Finally
★ U. 5. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1946 - 683442

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.95)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
NO.
Washington,
TIME
-2
-129 to Tokyo
"Finally, the New Zealand Government wishes to place on record
its surprise that, on a matter of such great importance to New
Zealand, it was not consulted, elther through the Allied Council
or directly, before the issue of the Directive by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers."
craplaytou
Acting
(NES7)
CF
DISTRIBUTION
P.
DESIRED
SEP 2
(OFFICES ONLY)
ERVS
Cleared by tele phove
IR:ERVanSant:rec
9/20/46
JA
JK ERVY
ads
GY
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1946 - 6B3442

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.96)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
A130
NO.
Washington,
TIME
Sopt 25,1946
2654
2654
TO THE
894.628/9
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER TO THE
SUPREME COM. ANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
TOKYO.
Dept. received the following Aide-Memoire from the Norwegian
Embassy on Sept. 6, 1946:
1
2
"On September 3rd, 1946, Mr. H. A. Graves, Counsellor of the
5
British Enbassy, informed the Norwegian Charge d'Affaires of the
46
contents of a Memorandun regarding the question of Japanese whaling.
which he vould present in the Department of State on the same date.
In Paragraph 5 of this Memorandum it was stated that the British
Governnent has reason to think that the Norwegian Government would
be willin, to provide tecinicians, including masters and officers
for the factory snips of the Japanese wnaling expeditions. In the
same Paragraph it was sug ested that there should be a Norwegian
CS. /A
gunner, mate and engineer on each catcher boat. It waa also stated
in this Paragrapn that tnere would be no objection to the remainder
of the crew being Japanese, but I understand that Mr. Graves would
make e reservation regarding the Morwegian opinion on the question of
Japanese crews.
"Tne orvwegian Charge d'Affaires has now been advised from Oslo
that the Horwegien Governient is not willing to provide officers and
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
crew members for wnaling expeditions, on which part of the crew is
(OFFICES ONLY)
Japanese, or wose ships cre sailing under Japanese flag. Further,
that the Horvegian Government is not willing to provide officers or
gunners for whale catchers where any member of the crew is Japanese.
JA
"The Norwegian Government instructed the Charge d'Affaires to make
JK
the observation vwith reference to Paragraph 4 (e) in the British Memo-
randum, that there is no provision in the international whaling Conven-
tions for a limitation of the number of whales which can be processed by
participating factory snips. The Norwegian Government therefore does not
agree that this safeguard should be imposed on the planned whaling
operations."
05
Clayton
SNevy
9/23/46EP 24AMJK
ACTING
IR:RVanSant:mlc
cleaned by telephione
(mest)
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OF
nv3

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.97)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE.
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
NO..
131
Washington,
TIME
To the
Sept 25, 1946
2655
2655
United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
TOKYO
Dept. received following Aide-Memoire from the Australian
Embassy on Sept. 16, 1946:
894.628
"On 21 August the Australian member of the Far Eastern Commission
made informal representations to the Director of the Office of Far
Eastern Affairs along the following lines in regard to the exten-
sion of Japanese whaling into the Antarctic:
(a) Australia is greatly concerned at the proposal for the
3
extension of Japanese whaling into waters of direct and
permanent security interest to Australia, without prior
5
consultation with interested governments in accordance with
1
the policy laid down by United States and circulated to the
2
Far Eastern Commission as FEC-C35.
546
(b) The matter appears to be one on which the Allied Council
for Japan should have been consulted and asked to advise.
(c) Approval by the United States Government of the Supreme
Commander's action seems contrary to the spirit of the fourth
C
resolution of the Final Act of the International Whaling
Conference of November 1945.
A
DISTRIBUTION
(a) Australia considers that any whaling facilities and equip
DESIRED
ment in the hands of the Japanese should be made available for
(OFFICES ONLY)
operation by Allied countries, particularly the British Common-
(9
wealth.
(e) Extension of Japanese whaling will establish a precedent,
whatever might be said now, and subsequent restriction of
Japalese activities would be difficult. Japan in the past had
a bad record in whaling and completely failed to observe
international conventions designed to safeguard the future of
the industry. Australia consequently regards it of the highest
importance that no action be taken by the Supreme Commander,
without consul tation with other powers, which would prejudice
a decision
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1946 - 6B3442

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.98)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
COLFIDENTIAL
NO.
A 131
Washington,
TIME
Sopt 257 1946
a decision of the future of the Japanesc whaling industry.
"On 23 August the Supreme Commander issued a directive to the
Japanese Government ordering the conversion of a tanker into a whale
processing ship. Conversior will not be completed in time for the
present whaling season. It is clear, from this, that it is not the
intention of the Supreme Commander to confine the rehabilitation of
Jepanese whaling to the 1946/47 season. The Australian Government,
accordingly, requests:
(a) The cancellation without delay of the Supreme Commanderts
order of 23 August.
(b) The issue of instructions to the Supreme Commander that
no further decision affecting whaling be taken without prior
consultation with the Australian and other interested
Governments.
"The Australian Government further proposes that the 1946/47
operations should be an Allied expedition completely manned by
Allied crews. Australia is able to provide a substantial proportion
of the crews and believes that the United Kingdom, New Zealand, and
Norway could provide the rest if necessary. It is understood that
the vessels now available in Japan can be adapted to use by non-
Japanese crews. The foregoing arrangements should be confined to
the one season 1946/47.
"The Australian Government desires that early consideration be
DISTRIBUTION
given to the prohibition of Japanese whaling in the Antarctic, at
DESIRED
least for the duration of the occupation. It also considers that
(OFFICES ONLY)
Japanese whaling facilities should be considered not only for
reparations but also as part of the peace settlement.
Clayton
ACTING
SEP24 M.
Clayton ActTES7)
SRNS
IR:ERVanSant:rec
9/20/46
JA
JK
cleared lby teleplione.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.80)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department ot State
CONFNTIAL
NO. A- 133
Washington,
TIME.
a610
O Le
isto 
894.628/9-2646
  r
..0.
 r  ioe  the oweian
1
"n  ust ,, t Lke,e an r rai
r, le.  ii lcy  viced e sur reet of
   .t vr e t i . i tate Autorities
 c.  ti srticti . uhe wling
    tic   e c sos wit.out
 c s .  erostetis.. Lke submited an
t ealteu csveront to voke ts autnoriz
esiievent tht tn
ricres t ssle  cucel te expeditions,
CS/A
 r e e sid  rsl t u ex tion
.  d   t eiml , the
.
"   llecy t
t Junte lapaed, lonr possible to carry out
tis ro usal,  ue start oi e whalin season is t o close to
uit e isptc..  rl cr  t c omletion l er repara
DISTRIBUTION
is. ecessu or e r alizati. or ore ian o eration oi the
DESIRED
edtiois.
(OFFICES ONLY)
74.
". overiment ereiore mu to traw its secondary
to usal, t suron ly upolus -us rincipal cenmanu, ut no
(anunese aii. ex editim s.ll s sent ut.
6
". ..ave veen ..structed to ex ress t, iour xceilency the
cace oricul ro st of. overrment u ainst tne senuing out of
the valin e e.iuions lamed by the Suoreme Conmand of the
Allied
 U. S. GOVERNSNT PRINTING OPFICE - 1SGG - GSS44S

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.91)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
NO.
Washington,
TIME
-2-
A-133 to Tokyo
Allied Powers.
"ne very va  reasons por the oo ositlon f the Horweglan
lovernlent to an da unese mali operation nave been explained
belore, wd  snall not reca tulate t.em lere. he reat concern
th micn e nens  sne ua anese malin lans was received in
all  tereuted .atl ms, shonlu rove uhe ur ency sr a cancellation
of e lens.  bsrmat mal coo seration or une regulation
of maln,   oe miued states lave taren such un active
shtesed , hu certainl senelrit from such a decision."
Claytou
Clayton
Acting
(NEST)
11
SL
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
CRUS
D:E.Vansant:ond
JA
Ji
9/24/46
cleared by telephone
ERUS
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1946 - 683442

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.94)
Ac/R
zile.
AIDE-MEMOIRE
The Department of State has studied carefully
K
the Aide-Memoire on the subjeot of Japanese whaling
-894.628/9-2646
in the Anterotio region left with the Department on
September 16, 1946, by the Counselor of the Austral-
1an Embnsoy on behalf of the Ambassador. The natural
concern of the Australian Government at the proposed
extension of Japanese whaling ectivities into the
waters of the Antarotic is eppreciated, but it 1s the
CS/A
opinion of the Department of State that much of this
concern 1s based upon a misconception as to the pur-
poses of the proposed expedition nd the manner in
which it will be carried out.
The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers'
authorization of the expedition was a matter of ad-
894.62
ministrative action taken by him under Direotive No. 20A of
November
V
2640

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
November 13, 1945, which has been filed with the Far
Eastern Commission in accordance with paragraph III, 4,
of its terms of reference and is also contained in
FE0-035. Inasmuch as paragraph d(1) of this direetive
provides that Japanese fishing operations should conform
striotly to "The provisions of agreements relating to
whaling to whioh the United States is a party", the
possibility of the Japanese being permitted to engage
in whaling under the Supreme Commander's authorization
was definitely foreseen and as no member of the Far
Eastern Commission had requested the review of this
direotive as provided for in paragraph II A,2 of the
terms of reference, the action of the Supreme Commander
in approving the forthcoming expedition was olearly
within his authority. This Japanese whaling expedi-
tion was approved by the Supreme Commander particularly
in the hope that it would help to alleviate the oritioal
world shortage of fats and oils and that it would also
oontribute to the food supplies of Japan where, as
dietinct from the majority of nations, whale meat is
an accepted portion of the diet. This latter factor
1

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
1s of partioular importance because of the relation-
ship of the food shortage to the problems of the
occupation. It is of course understood shat all
whale oil produced by this expedition, not merely
the exportable surplus, will be subjeot to allosa-
tion by the International Emergenoy Food Counoll.
It 1s the intention of the United States Govern-
ment and it hae been so ordered in direotives issued
to the Japanese Government by the Supreme Commander
that the proposed whaling expedition be oarried out
in full conformity with all the international con-
ventions and regulations pertaining to whaling. All
the pertinent treaties, conventions and protocols
governing the conduot of whaling operations in the
Antarotio have been furnished the Japanese Government
and the Department of State has been informed by the
Supreme Commander that in order to insure that these
regulations are carried out in their entirety, Amerioan
inspeotors will be assigned to the two fastory ships.
In eddition there will be Japanese inspeetors appointed
by

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
the Japanese Government on direction from the Supreme
Commander.
With reference to the fourth resolution of the
Final Aot of the International Whaling Conferenee of
November, 1945, it 1s the recolleotion of members of
the United States delegation to that Conferenee that
this resolution was a recommendation to the oontraet-
ing governments with the purpose and intent of urging
restraint in faoilitating the outfitting and equipping
of wheling expeditions which would not operate in con-
formity with the rules and standards set forth in the
verious whaling agreements. In view of the faot, as
stated above, that the Japanese expedition will be op-
erated in strict conformity with all such international
agreements, it is the belief of the Department of State
that the spirit of the resolution mentioned is not in
any way violated.
The question of security raised in the memorendum
of the Austrelian Embassy 1s one whioh has been care-
fully coneidered both by the Department of State and
by

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5-
the Supreme Commander. The United States Government
has been informed by the Supreme Commander that all
Japanese personnel on the expedition will be carefully
screened by intelligence offioers before being allowed
to embark. Furthermore, in the directive issued to the
Japanese Government by the Supreme Commander, Japanese
whaling vessels are prohibited from approaching aloser
than 1? miles to any land beyond the home 1slands.
The northern boundary of the area in whiah whaling 1s
authorized is several hundred miles distant from the
neerest metropolitan areas of Australia, Tasmania and
New Zecland. Under the Supreme Commander' e direetive
the Japenese Government is required to furnish him
fifteen days prior to the departure of the expedition,
the route which it is proposed to take to the whaling
grounds. This information will be furnished the
Australian Government and if it should desire to pro-
vide security safeguards in addition to those provided
by the Supreme Commander while the vessels are passing
Australian territory at a distance greater than 12 miles,
the

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
the recommendations of the Australian Government will
be weloome.
These restriotions on the expedition were design-
ed by the Supreme Commander to keep the Japanese from
going "near areas under allied jurisdiotion" within
the meening of the terms used in Direotive No. 20A.
It was for this reason that oonsultations were not
believed to be required. However, in view of the strong
interest expressed by the Australian Government in this
matter, the Department has been informed by the Supreme
Commander that no authorization for any possible future
Japanese whaling expeditions in the Antarotio or else-
where will be given without prior coneultation with the
Australian and other interested Governments regarding
the seourity faotore that may be involved.
The attention of the Supreme Commander has been
called to the direotive of August 23 authorizing the
conversion of a tenker whioh will not be completed be-
fore the spring of 1947. The Department has been in-
formed by him that permission was granted for the
oonversion

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.97)
一7一
coavarsion of this vessel but that it has not been
authorized to whale in the Antaretie and no commit-
ment has been made as to its future use for this
purpose or its exemption from reparations removals.
In this oonnection the United States Government
wishes to point out that the ultimate disposition of
Japanese whaling facilities and equipment as well as
the questlon of the future of the Japanese whaling
industry is a matter for Allied consultation and de-
oision. The present authorization is only temporary
and the Japanese have been advised that any equipment
they may possess, whether then available or in prooess
of construotion, is subject to suoh disposition as may
be determined by the Allied Powers. Nor does this
authorization in any way commit the United States
Government to support future whaling operations by the
Japanese.
The opinion has been expressed by the Supreme
Commander that, in view of the unusually small size
of quarters, technical engineering peouliarities and
because their equipment is not of the type ordinarily

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.97)
-8 -
used by Europeans, it would be inefficient to operate
the ships to be used on the expedition by other than
Japanese crows. It is also believed that it would be
impractioal to attempt to convert these ships for
European use in the time available before the expedi-
tion must set out.
The Government of the United States wishes to
emphasize the purely temporary character of this pro-
jeeted expedition and its emergency nature in conneo-
tion with the food supply situation in Japan and
throughout the world. This Government is in oomplete
agreement with the view that any long-range considera-
tion of the rights of Japan to conduot whaling operations
1s a matter for Allied disoussion and decision.
In view of the temporary and emergenoy charaoter
of this proposed expedition whioh in no way constitutes
a precedent for the future, because of the faot that
this expedition will be carried out in full and stries
conformity with all international agreements regerding
whaling, because adequate security safeguards will be
established

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.89)
established and as arrangements have been made to en-
sure prior consultation with the interested Governments,
inoluding the Government of Australia, in conneetion
with any proposals for future Japanese whaling expedi-
tione, it is hoped that the conoern of the Australian
Government may have been assuaged.
Department of State,
Washington,
Sent 26, 1946
Origuial vot
sultialed.
Hancled to May.
2-1946.5.
Pleupisall ore
Sipt. 26,1946
UHH
JA:JMAllison: sg
IR
JKFE
BC
A-H
9-20-46
Clesped
Claired Clacral
clened
gry
ina.
oracly
C.T. waihs
Eag

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.82)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ME
1946 SEP 30
INTERNATIONAL TRA
FCL
圣
loxyo
6
et:0.
Dateu 3opcoßber , 194
LONFIDENTAL
Rec d. 4:24 p.m., 29th
A RESS DIVISION
Contr
DFA
ESUS
ATE
14
29 30ntomoer 1940
mchoadi
mee 2i (her Department nunber
prtro ssigrucnt of additional
tn heoming entaretie haiing exdi-
 iiraoy
894.62
. 0 111.T1
videon oacn factory ani
t  im rnt out to irtoreed Jovornment
ommou.oi wi.necear11y o sub-
a unconvorted Jananese tankors with
t minimun  onmeiations but ror Japanese vorsonn
r conlrable eron
 arn ndiuu's  a ted anouid in addttion to their
-2946
TRIES
flrs be ty
otin
0
上
vondgortonuir
incurned titotaesare ormittod 
Jr
nhei
.te trlan. From un er ore to
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/RCENTRA
WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
R

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.72)
CONFIDEFTLAL
-2- toorpe1 "9506, Soovember 29, Trom 2okye
tower pi xhe cormern wdoh lover triangle green snd uoper
orranrle sed. sorear ries resemblee Lnternational fiag
Fop let ep to' exceou that tower trianele fs green on
Sre er fe ponseao ef yes fov ns on fntermationol flag "o"
es alvse tt vben al aed lnsecsors may
be oeed to pu wer yo Fisberlse Divlulen, Nauurar
 ,  A.   d hat fog
  py  n rd
neee yoprp eget mmert mmrd yatlone of seeb lns doetors es shey
   w  nu
wo  fo  r
  s  po h
o o s bln a v to
1

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.78)
2
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: ptember 30, 1946
SUBJECT:
PARTICIPANTS:
i
COPIES TO:
n
894.628/9-3046
-ssion - . arter
10
c anese are
st
 sion
. t
140
 s
ttional
rerss_on
ttn
e
CS/ V
nal
ost.tal
o
:nceiisn
   ,
2
C
FIL
 lr
18 1946
y
894.
mturt

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.68)
一~一
content ploess. smrer ere, meceasee p lies sr risn will aid
 s,    r  n t
, eent of
s se rter  sis autorization
 .
ecese re to e per
so ttr rishin vessels,
w er ow ava lasle or  pocee  e struetio, are matters for
abred wasoussi  ane pec ston.
oho . lory'e ps ses sati  of tis statement the Cnairman
  re were u      ber asked about
to tot   re. P. lan same pea sat part or the directive
be e areever poinbe cut he approximate
l a ain an's ston concerminy nearmess
, aese isnshould
ar erlou pesuietion witmout prior
  ."
e otrt  view or one
 n   e we ent deand for
erecbive
1,
e,llevet to
wennsernto extension.
fo
  f o
nce Pisnin sones
eore145
,
ecs
,
oor
sthetee
e
SANC82
111.0

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.93)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Restricted
Tokyo, September 30, 1946
No. 626
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FORFIGN
OCT 111946
UBJECT: Japanese Antarctic Whaling
The United States Political Adviser has the honor
to refer to the Department's telegram 308, May 14, 1946
and this Mission's Despatch No. 582, August 29, 1946,
and previous correspondence relating to Japanese pelagic
894.628/9-3046
whaling in the Antarctic Ocean.
Enclosed herewith is copy of a check sheet trans-
mitted to G-2, Civil Intelligence Section, file NR 380.0l
(17 Sept 46) Fi, dated 17 September 1946, subject:
"Screening Personnel participating in a 1946-47 Japanese
Antarctic Whaling Expedition."
211
CUPT=
Enclosure:
RP
()
BC
5 copies of Check Sheet
Original and Hectograph to Department
780
CON
GAbbey:cbk
CIVISION
10
1946 0C1  1 10 03
C
ERv3
CS/ V
10n
894 628/9
mra

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 626 .
Sept-3e-1946
C O P Y
HGS/RHF/pd
NR 380.01 (
) F1
Screening Personnel participating in a 1946-
1947 Japanese Antarctic Whaling Expedition.
NR
G-2, C.I.S.
1.
1. In order to provide for adequate security it is
requested that personnel taking part in the Japanese 1946-
1947 Antarctic Whaling Expedition be screened by the Civil
Intelligence Section.
2. The expedition was authorized by SCAPIN-llO3.*
The vessels participating in this expedition are listed
in this memorandum.
3. Information regarding the present location of the
vessels and other particulars, pertaining to the Whaling
Expedition, may be obtained from Mr. Hideo Ohmura, of the
Japanese Bureau of Fisheries, Department of Agriculture
and Forestry.
-- H.-Br S.-
*Note:--Copies of SCAPIN 1103 were transmitted with
Tokyo's Despatch No. 558, August 19, 1946.

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.87)
OF
Office of the Attorney General
A
NN
Washington,D.C.
September 30, 1946.
PM 2 56
SRANCH
2
The Honerable,
894.628/9-3046
180
0
he Secretary of State.
3
L11
dear F. Secretary:
urther reference is made to your letter of
August 2, 1946 (your reference Le 894,628/4-446) relative
to the activities of Howard H. MacGowan and Joseph Goldstone
who were in China during the latter part of 1945 on a mission
for the United States Senate Small Business Comnittee.
After a careful examination of the facts in this
case, I have concluded that no violation of the federal
criminal statutes is involved. In accordance with your
request I am returning herewith your file in this matter.
With kind personal regards,
Sincerely yours,
CS/A
Te e clac
Attorney General
001946
e

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.96)
Septamber 30, 1946.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
lüy dear Mr. Searetary:
Further rafarence is made to your letter of
Angust 2, 1946 (your reference Le 894,628/4446) raletts
to the sctivities of Howard H. MacGowan and Joseph Galdsteme
who were in China during the latter part of 1945 on a mimsiem
for the United States Senate Snall Businass Committes.
After a careful examination of the feots in this
case, I have concluded that no violation of the fedemel
criminal statutes is involved. In accordanee with your
request I am returning herewith your file in this matter.
with kind personal regards,
Sincerely yours,
Attorney General
INCLOSURE
Nº 395711
FROM
Department of Justice
7-849

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.96)
Dep tent of State
OFFICE
DIVISION I
ENCLOSURE
TO
3/15
Letter drafted
ADDRESSED TO
atty Senl.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.93)
CRET
WAR DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
in forn to biy Moch
CPD 000.5 (12 Feb 46)
15 February 1946
:
ATTO:P.r
: Travei or . osep Goldstone
1. Un 17 December 19s, the Cririnil Investi ation Division
of the Chine Theater seized approximately o20,000 worth of cultured
enrls from ir. Joseph toldstone whe was travelling by air in the
China Theater on State Department priority. Ir. Goldstone was
returned to the U.s. by water transportation and has upon several
occasions ritten to the ar Department requestin; return of the
earls taiken fre him in China by the Army. Upon request of the
State Departnent the t.s. Consulate in Shan ghai was given a full
and complete report of the investi pation made by the Criminal
Investi tion Division of the China Theater. It is understood
here that this report was subse mently forwarded to the State
Depart unt where photost tie copies were made and that one set of
photostatic copies has been sent to ir. Arnold of the small Har
Ilembs Sorporation.
2. The Jud e Advecate leneral of the Army has advised that
Ir. Golistone is not presently subject to military law and has
reconmended tit the pearls contiscated in China be returned to
his agent in China. Since no charges have been brought against
r. toldstone b either the state Department or small War Plants
Corporation, it is the opinion of the ar Department that continued
retention of the pearls by the Army is not legally justified.
3. Therefore, the ar Department is forwarding to Ir.
Goldstone a release form to insure that neither the U.3. Government
nor any individual thereof will be subject to retaliatory legal
action by virtue of having confiscated the pearls. Upon receipt
of the signed release form, instructions will be issued to the
Connanding General, China Theater to surrender the confiscated
pearls to Ir. Goldstone's duly authorized agent in Shanghai, China.
FOR TLS SUCREPATY OF MAR:
FORVICTORY
BUY
KSWillng
STATES
UNITED
WAR
BONDS
R. L. VITTRUP
STAMPS
AND
Colonel, GsC
SECRL

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.79)
SECRET
ATmm PROVOSP MARohAL
C.lH InVrTo DVison
U..F. I. OnNa
1.0.290
T OF:  ain J . T, 0-917 430, ATc, Priorities
and Jontrol c1ficer, 1369th A A F BU, APD 290.
I,  . nIne, prior to msing tlis stutement, nad read and
ex lulnee to Le y i  t uluor tne z4th Article of ar by
Ist t.  . s Louk, P, o sated (1) I shall not be
co e leu to lnorl mlh te myse r, or (a) to unswer uny question
the ams. r to men lu. tenu to ineriminate me, or (3) to an swer
thy uestion hot mutcriai to te isshe when such answer might
tond ts uc rut me. I understand tnis uxylanation und my rights
uluer the z4th astie  ar. tarin the auove warning in
mind, i mae the follo in souteent of me oln free will and
ccord; unuer no tt or Beur o punishment; and ith no
Imuccement or romise or p lit  poward.
James & King
        e  
reschce:
hw 5.5wiolf11 Carl a. Johusen
       .   a .
-co c u  orrle  e t a mnsion und pre ented
priority curoricute Por mr portatlon t Tokyo, aaan.
       b  tt t re m mbers of
the      ibe   a rst were
iven v. I. . svi e. t hat ti t said h would
u  to o m whe t i  bu rr  Toyo to rrne
i r  orttio o so te ui outes. i mad inuic ted
to the tt I s litoituu in roturni co linu after ais-
chre u te iu  lu lo uisos siness portuni-
wis  oi. wit  ut tht time. ho tateu tt their
tri t foo w i coctin ith tir ision ror the
   itte.   t 1  r 1945
contuct u e u telepohe. they inviteu me to uin ur on the
mi ht or 1 eeemuer iy5 for the purpose Sr aiseussin their
mision to cnih. I moe  uu teir rou i she cuthay otel,
moom 4 ud e all we   in taurnt lor dinner.
d  siu he wus Poauy to leurn to to sts ut ushed
me ror  rsr tion on e    ol sid e was
Inturestou in  iluln  un or lization ror mulufausuring
costule Jellelry, purtictlurly Jude nd siamese Zerkons.
-1-
U

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.85)
SECRET
STATT OF: JAI L. KING
ne asned ror my ad ress n the states and said ne would contact
me oy wire in ghina soon to mane me an ofier to represent his
interests here. on 15 ssceiber 1945 GoLsslon came to my office,
purchased nis ticket witn cush and was tolu to stand by for a
Ilint to runila. -e accu ie aoout air Frsight service to the
states. e hhud obtalneu a zoo pound uxcess baggage allowance
for orficial purposes Trol. tle Theuter rriority hoard. GoLDsTonE
asneu me to cruse rro.. Lis priority curtiricute the .ord official
as pertnining to is gsjae ailolance unu ulso tne description
or his vaga e. I uiu ine t is out on lis triplicate copy
out left the ori inal und auplicnce us it was. tolDsTon aaid
trat afsor e mau copiet a arranumonts in tne tutes he would
ire me conculml. ruture  lans -or me to peprusent his interests
in min. he stu tmt  mu un a intment with a Jade
cutr 0 4:00 .. tt .  1 cr 1945 N0.
cullcu me soutin that me mu u ire rrom Selnator ilay
ine uructin mil to loturn to the tutes and ushed me to et
alm a ylune reserv tlon. n all my conversations with GoLssron
and com they huiet uhat they were goin to vuild up
 rar  or nitio u isu e to rk with them.
I huve I u ule auove state ent consisting of two (2)
tpowri ten ajs, ave correeted alu initialel all mistakes
in me ua mahdritin na sh corrccted statement is true and
corrt to te bt  m tho. ldge.
Jamis L King
Tohn 5.Driscall
Carla.Jolusen
sworn un s bserlveu to selere me uln officer uuly uuthorizeu to
u iier  on is /9th d of Decbe 1945.
Robut s. ulloclk
10t St. cmP
Summary lount l fricer
-2-

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.84)
SECRET
STATT OF: JAI L. KING
ne asned ror my ad ress n she states and said me would contact
me oy wire in ghina soon to mane me an ofier to represent his
interests here. on 15 ssceiber 1945 GoLsslon came to my office,
purchased nis ticket witn cush and was tolu to stand by for a
Ilint to runila. -e accu ie aoout air Frsignt service to the
states. e hhud obtalneu a zoo pound uxcess baggage allolance
for orficial purposes Trol. tne Theuter rriority hoard. GoLDsToNE
asneu me to cruse rro.. Lis priority curtiricute the ..ord official
as pertnining to is gsjae ailolance unu also tne description
or his vaga e. I uiu ine t is out on lis triplicate coy
out left the ori inal unu duplicnce us it was. tolDsTon aaid
trat afsor e mau copiet a arranumonts in te tutes he would
ire me conculml. ruture  lans -or me to peprusent his interests
in min. e stu tmt  mu un a intment with a Jade
cutr 0 4:00 .. t .  1 cr 1945 N0..
cullcu me outin that me mu u ire rrom Selnator ilay
ine uructin mil to roturn to the tutes und ushed me to et
alm a ylune reserv tlon. n all my conversations with GoLssron
and clom they huiet uhat they were goin to vuild up
 rar  or nitio u isu e to rk with them.
I huve I u ule auove stute ent consisting of two (2)
tupowri ten ajs, ave correeted au initialel all mistakes
in me sa mahdritin na sh corrccted statement is true and
cort to te bt  m tho. ldg.
Jamis L King
Tohn 5.Driscall
Carla.Jolusen
sworn un s bserlveu to selere me uln officer uuly uuthorizeu to
u iier  on is /9th d of Decbe 1945.
Mobut 5. ullock
10t Lt. cmP
Summary lount l fricer
-2-

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
CRIHINAL INVESTIGATION DIVISION
OFFICE THEATER PROVOST MARSHAL
UNITED STATES FORCES
CHINA THEATER
Shanghai, China
19 December, 1945
SUBJECT: Howard H. MACGOWAN and Joseph GOLDSTO, Alleged Repre-
sentatives of United States Senate Small Business Committee
TO
: Connanding General, United States Forces, China Theater,
APO 879.
SUMLARY:
How rd H. MacGowan and Joseph Goldstone,arrived in Shang-
hai on or about 2? November 1s45, allegedly as representatives of
the Unitec States Senate Small Business Committee, for the purpose
of making an official survey of business conditions and opportuni-
ties for small business in Crina. Immediately after their arrival
and throughout their stay in China they conducted negotiations for
large scale private business trensactions with the very apparent
purpose of effecting as much of a monopoly of the available worla
supply of cultured pearls as was possible. Although possessing no
specific authority for such purpose, these subjects also made & six
dey tri to Jap:n in connection with the cultured pearl industry
there.
Mr. Goldstone was the principal in these transactions, al-
though MacGowan admittedly had full knowledge of and was present at
most of the negotitions. r. Goldstone represents one of the larg-
est American pearl concerns and brought with him to China approximately
$120,000.00 in currency, checks anc letters of credit, and also ar-
ranged for additio.u1 financing in the sum of $300,000.00. Mr. Gold-
stone attempted to lee ve China by air on 17 December 1945 with a large
siipment of pearls. His trip W's cancelled and the pearls seized.
This investigation was €onducted with the concurrence and
approval of Mr. Maurey Maverick, General Manager, Small War Plants
Corporation, a United States governaental agency, who strongly con-
demned subject's practices of concucting private business for profit
While allegedly engag-d on official business and travelling under
government auspices; the American Consulate and the Commanding Gen-
eral, China Theater.
DETAILS:
1. On 3 December 1g45 information was received from a con-
fidential source by the Assistant Director, Criminal Investigation
Division, that tvo American civilians, allegedly members of or repre-
senting the United States Senate, were engaging in private business
transactions on a large scale with the apparent purpose of effecting
a monopoly of the available world supply of cultured pearls.
2. Investigation of these reports Was imnediately insti-
tuted since the illegal use of governnent transportation was involved.
It was ascertained th t the civilians referred to were a Mr. Howard

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-2
H. MacGowan and a Mr. Joseph Goldstone, who mere allegedly representa-
tives of the United States Senate Small Business Comaittee visiting
the Orient for the curpose of ma ing a survey of business conditions
for said committee. As best es could be determined, their transporta-
tion hed been arranged for by the State Department and they had traveled
by military aircraft from the United States to China.
3. Preliminary investigation disclosed that MacGowan and Gold-
stone had arrived in Shangici about 22 November 1945 and almost immedia-
tely after their arrival iad engaged in negotiations with severel deal-
ers for the avowed urpose of cornering the market on pearls. The full
details of their activities will be subsequently developed in this re-
port, but the first inforation received indicated that their initially
planned operetions involved urchases of upwards of five hunared thou-
sand do11ars ($500,000.00).
4. It was established tiat McGowan was a Regional Director of
the Small War Plants Corpor tion, a Unitec States government agency, and
that he had been loaned to the Senate Snall Business Committee for the
purpose of this trip. At this time, on 5 December 1945, it was learned
that r. AURY AV I, General anager of tie Small War Plants Corpora-
tion, was also in Shanghai on official business for his organization. An
interview vs immediately arranged with . Maverick and he was informed
of all of the mown facts regarding subjects, including the fact that
they had left Shanghai about 3 December 1945 for Tokyo where they were
reportcdl going to e:e some arrangenentsiin connection with the cultured
peurl industry tuere. Subjects h d no known authorization to make this
trip.
5. r. averick stared that even if MacGowan and Goldstone were
representing  Senate committee it would be highly improper for them to
transact any private busincss W.ile on n official mission. Accordingly,
Mr. Mav ric: prep rec a radio to the Comander in Chief of Allied Forces
in the Pacific re uesting investigation in Japan of subject's activities
there, and stating that if " acGowan is in any vay connected with trans-
actions of a private mature, that he be informed th t I, as General Mana-
ger of the Sialler r Pients Cor:oration, do by this communication re-
move him fro. any connection vith the Smaller War Plants Coruoration
immediately", und cirecting that MecGowen be returned to the United States.
(Exhibit A) Mr. v rick firther informe? the Lirector, Cririnal Investi-
gation Divisio, Chine Teat , trat he desired the fullest possible in-
vesti ation of these re orts  na tlat he would extand every possible coo er-
ation in furtherine anc expediting such investigation.
6. With the concurrice of the Secretery to the General Staff,
China. The ter, such radio s sent to Too on 6 December 1945. Shortly
thereafter, on e December 1945, a radio wes also sent to the T.eater
Provost Marshal in Tokyo reguesti investigation end report of MacGowants
and Goldston's :ctivities in Japan viti. resmect to the pearl industry.
(Exhibit B)
7. Mr. Meverick had proceeded to Chungkin in t cantime and
a radio was received on 10 December 1945 from hin stating "that whether
strictly illegal or not private trading for profit on government expense
-2-

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-3-
or prestige is so unethical and of such great impropriety that posttive
action to stop it should be taken immediately," and that if MacGowan "is
using or permitting to be used government prestige or expense for private
profit, he is to be informed immediately of the termination of his der
vices." (Exhibit C)
8. Meanwhile, on or about 9 December 1945, subjects had both
returned to Shanghai fron Tokyo and had resumed negotiations for the pur
chase of 1 re uantities of peerls which culminated on 14 December 1945
in an outright urchase of over three thousand strands of pearls. In-
formation was also received that Goldstone ent MecGowan were making arr
angements to return to the Unitec States by air as soon as possible and
that they intonded to take the pearls ith them.
9. Transportation of the pe rls by air back to the United
St tes, or an attempt to do so, would, in acdition to any other wrongs
com ittec by subjects, constitute a direct violation of the provisions
of Circular No. 48, Rear Lchelon, Headcuarters U.S. Forces, China Theater,
cated & April 1y4s, Which specificully states that "lo person shall use
any means of transportation to export, trans ort - - - - - out of this
Theater - - - - - eny article, merchancise, material or equipment for
commercial purposes." (Exhivit D).
10. On 14 December 1y45. a conference was held by the Deputy
Chief of Staff, the Thet ter Judge Advocate General and the Director,
Criminal Investig tion Division, to determine the action to be taken,
with respect to subjects. It s decidec tiat if subjects, or either of
then, wre to atteupt to leave the China Theater by air with a commercial
c rgo, they were to be detai.ed for investigation, the cargo seized pur-
suant to the provisions of Circuler No. 48, air transportation cancelled
and subjects returned to the U.s. by water transport in or er that this
report could reach proper authorities in Washirgton, D.C., before subjects
reached the United States.
11. On 15 December 1945, Golcstone urchesed e ticket on the
Globester for return to the United States after obtaining a two hundred
pound excess baggege allowance from the Tiester Priority Board for "offi-
cial" purposes. The normal bagcage allowance for air passengers is
sixty-five pounds. In addition to the two hundred pounds of baggage
tius allowed, Golastone also hod an excess baggage weight of eighty-two pounds
for the transportation of vhich he paid at the rate of four dollars and
sixty-five cents ($4.65) a pounc, making a total charge of three hundred
eignty-one dollars and thirty cents ($381.0). (ExhibitE) It was also
ascertained th: t MacGowan was planning to leave Shanghai for the United
States within a few days after Goldstone's deperture. As will be seen,
subsequent events made it inpossible to determine whether MacGowan was
also plannin: to c rry any conmercial articles back to the United States
for private profit.
12. On 15 December 1945, r. Maverick returned to Shanghai for
an overnignt stop en route to Manila. He was informed fully of all devel-
opments in the subject investigetion to date. He again recuested the ful-
lest possible investigation of the activities of MacGowan and Goldstone
and adaressed a latter of instrictions to the Commanding General, for the

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.97)
-4
Criminal Investigetion Division, in which he authorized and requested
a complete investigation of this case. (Exhibit F)
13. r. Maverick also prepared a radio addreseed to the
Smaller War Plants Corporation, Washington, Info State Department, 
which was sent out on 17 December 1g45, with the concurrence of the
Secretary to the General Staff. In this radio, Mr. Maverick denounced
the private business transactions of Goldstone and MacGowan, requested
that xacGowan's enploy ent be tumminated, and that the Senate Small
Busiress Comittee, the State Dep rtment end Attorney General's Office
be notified. r. averic elso aporoved of holding up plane transpor
tation for  acGowan and Gold tone and returning them to the United
States by ship. (Exnicit G)
14. On 17 Leccmber 1y45. ir. Goldstone boarded an ATC plane,
at Riangwan Airfield, bound for Manila en route to the United States.
After the nlane d taxiec into osition, just before it took off from
the field, r. Goldstone and his lug age were removed from the plene
after he adnitted tit one of his baes contained over three thousand
strnds of pe rls, for which he had paid over twenty thousand dollars
($20, O00.00) in United States currency, and almost six million dollars
(Cr$6,000,O00.00) in Chinese Hational Currency for Chinese export duty
and incidental cirges.
15. The bag containing the perls was seized from Mr. Gold-
stone pursuant to the provisions of Circular No. 48, and he was given
a sixty dey notice and receipt, dated 17 December 1945. which informed
him of his right to make a written reguest to the Commanding General,
China Thec ter, settin forth the re: sons, if ary, why the seized prop-
erty shoulc be roturned. (See Exhibit D, par. VIII end Inclosure #1)
16. On 18 December 1945, ..r. Golastone, after having been
advised of his rignts to re cin silent and not to make any statement,
written or oral, executed and swore to the truth of a written state-
ment attached hereto. (Exhibit Ho. At the sane time, Mr. MecGowan,
who was si ilarly an fully advised of his rignts to rem in silent or
make any orel or vritten statements he desired, refused to mate any
written statement but did consent to answer some questions. A state-
ment of the material information secured at a conference on 18 Decem-
ber l945, attendec by MacGowan, Goldstone and the undersigned, is also
attachec hereto. (Exhibit I)
17. The ensuin part ofthis revort is a chronological state-
ment of the material facts disclosed in this investigation relative to
the transaction of private businers by Goldstone and/or MacGowan while
they were prcsumably enggec on an official mission in China for the
United States Senate Small Business Committee, and while they were
travelling on government trensportation under official euspices.
18. The first advice received by the Office of the United
States Consul in Shanghai regarcing subjects was a radio from the Sec-
retary of State, da ted 17 October 1g45, which stated that MacGowan
and Goldstone were being cent as "a mission to China" by the Senate
Small Business Committee. (Exhibit J). This radio outlined an itinerary
of Chungring, Henkow, Canton, Shanghai, end Tientsin. Although five
-4-

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.98)
--5
cities in China are mentioned, subjects are only kmown to have visited
one of them; and although no mention of Japan is made, subjects are known
to have made a six day trip to Tokyo. This radio further stated that the
"precise itinerary and purpose of mission will be set forth in circular
telegram to be transmittea later". The latter referred to circular tele-
gram was allegedly never received by the Consulate, nor were any other
official communications relative to thefr mission in China except for
radio reguesting information asked for in first radio be expedited.
19. It is necessary to explain at this point that the Shanghai
American Consulate has ruled that no interrogation of their personnel or
examination of their recorês, relative to subjects, would be permitted
without the prior consent of the State Depurtment. Accordingly, an offi-
cial recuest was made for such permission to the Shanghai Consul General,
who has st :ed that such recuest has been forwarded to the Secretary of
State. To dete no reply has been received. With a few minor exceptions,
there: ore, it has not been possible to secure any official information
fron the Consulate anc all references to information secured or available
from the Consulate staff or records must be considered to be unofficiel.
20. Subjects are velieved to have arrived in Shanghai on or
about 22 November 19u5. The Consulate was informed of their arrival but
were led to believe that one of the arty wes a Unitec States Senator,
which mistaken im ression was not corrected until some time later. Through-
out this investigation the undersigned have noted that people vith whom
subjects cealt vere left with the imeression that one or both of the sub-
jects were ither Unitec States Senators or members of a Senate Committec.
Attachcd as an exhibit hereto is a calling card used by Goldstone which
reacs "Joe Goldstone - United States Senate Small Business Committee - 5
l.orth Wabash Avenue, Chicago, Illinois." (Exhibit K)
21. Both Goldstone and ecGowan possessed letters signed by Sen-
ator James E. urray, Ci irman of the Small Business Committee, which sets
forth their mission anc authority in the vaguest sort of terms. The letter
to Goldstone is dated 1 Sextember l945 and is set forth in his statement
(Exhibit H). It designates him as "Consult:nt of Foreign Trade to the Far
East" ano speaks of "assigning important studies to you". But the letter
neither expressly nor imoliedly authorizes a trip to China or anywhere
else outside of the United States. acGowan's letter is more lengthy but
he would not submit it to be copied nor would he make any statement re-
arding his ission or authority. (Exhibit I).
2. Prior to leaving the United States on the subject trip,
Golastone had sent at least three cables to a woman named Eve LIPKovsKY,
a Shanghai resident who had been in the employ of the Imperiel Pearl Syn-
dicate in Chicago int rmittently from 1937 to 1939. According to Miss
Lipkovsky this "vas ths firm of Mr. Joseph Golastone." (Exhibit L). This
wes also the firm in whose neme Goldstone leter purchased the pearls which
he attempted to take with him out of China. (Exhibit Q)
2. The first of these cables inquired "if the pearls were still
available". The other two cables stated that  r. Goldstone was coming to
Shanghai and asked Miss Lipkovsky to get in touch with him upon his arrival.
(Exhibit L)

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.97)
--6.
24. Miss. Lipkovsky is the daughter of MOSES LIPKOVSKY, owner
of the Cathay Jewellery, Shanghai, and a dealer in pearls and other gems.
After Miss Lipkovsky's return to Shanghai from the United States, Gold-
stone asked the Lipkovskys to assemble and send him a shipment of pearls,
This transaction was not consumnated due to the outbreak of the war in
December 1941. (Exhibits L,M)
25. Immediately after their arrival in Shanghai, Goldstone and
MacGowan got in touch with the Lipkovskys and Goldstone asked them to
secure a laree amount of pearls for him which they immediately set about
doing. Ultimately, one lot of over three thousand strands was assembled
of e total value of over twenty thousand dollars ($20,O00.00). This was
the shipment which Golastone had with him when he attempted to leave
China on 17 December 1945 anc is as set forth in Invoice No. 1066 of the
Cathay Jewellery (ExhibitQ). This invoice was made out to the Inperial
Pearl Syndicate, 5 North Wabash Ave., Chicago, Illinois, which is the
same eddress as anpears on the Sente Snall Business Committee calling
card used by Goldstone (Exhibit K)
26. The Lipkovskys also prepare another shipment of approxi-
mately eight thousand fivs huncred dollars ($8500.00) worth of pearls
which pur ortedly they were to ship to Goldstone by water. (Exhibits H.L.
∴)
27. The first shipment was sold on 14 December 1945.(Exhibit Q)
On the same day negotictions were begun for cle ring the shipment through
Cninese custons and an aavance payent of almost six nillion dollars
(CH$6,000, 000.00) Chinese Mational Currency was made against the export
duty (xhibit R). Custons clearance wes completed on the following day.
and on the same day a consular invoice vas secured (Exhibit s).
28. Goldstone had already made arrangenents to fly back to the
United States and the consular invoices showed'that the pearls were to be
taken back by "Air Expre s" as "bagsege of Mr. Joe Goldstone". (Exhibit S).
The Chinese custons invoice describec the shiprent as "1 case Pearls by
Airplane for U.S.A." (Exnibit R).
29. Captain James. L. King. ATC Priorities and Control Officer,
has stated that on 13 December 1945, Goldstone had asked hin to secure
passage to the United St tes on the Globester and that Goldstone pur-
chased his transportstion on 15 Decenber 1945. Ordinarily. passengers
are only allowed sixty-five pounds of bageage when travelling by air.
However, Goldstone ad secured a two hundred pound allowance from the
Tneater Priority Board for "official" murposes. Goldstone asked Captain
Ming to erase from  is priority certificate the vord official as pertain-
ing to his baggage allowance and also the description of his baggage.
Captain King did this on one copy but left the other two unchanged. (Exhibit )
30. Captain King had been informed of the pending investiga-
tion of Goldstone and was acting with the knowledge of the Criminal Investi-
gation Division in complying with Goldstone's reuuests to conceal the
nature of his bassuge. When Goldstone was removed from the plane on
17 Decenber ly45, a search of his ba eage w s made in his presence, and
with his consent, by the undersigned. At that time the baggage consis-
ted of the case of peurls, personal clothing and effects, some silk goods
and kimonos which Goldstone seid were intended as ifts, and a few manila
folders with papers which Goldstone characterized as official. The latter

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
did not weigh more than one pound at most.
31. Captain King stated that Goldstone told him of his desire
to build up "an organization for manufacturing costume jewelry, particu-
larly jade and Siamese Zircons", and that Goldstone and MacGowan "indi-
cated that they were going to build up a large organization and wished me to
work with them." king stated that Goldstone also said that he would
later wire King "concerning future plans for me to represent his interests
in China". (Exnibit U)
32. At the time tat Goldstone vas purchasing the pe rls from
Moses Lipkovsiry, he toot the latter to the Shangnai branch of the Chase
Bank and introduced him to the manager, r. Petersen. Goldstone told
Petersen tht Lipkovs y "ves to be his representative in Shanghai for the
purmose of purchasinge pearls for hi. He told mr. Petersen that he was
going to deposit 100, 000., with tne bank, and thet as I shipped pearls
to hin and presented the papers to the bant I was to be paid from this
deposit. Tuen when lir. Goldstone received the pe.rls in the United States
he would ceposit the amount in the bank again so that I would always have
enouth money on hand to pay for uny shipment I woul ake, no matter how
lar e it vas". (Eyhibit A). Tais accords with the statement of this pro-
posed tr nsaction given by :r. Eric A.G. Petersen, Maneger of the Chase
Bunk in Shenghei. (Exnibit C).
3. r. Petersen lso stated th t he had seen in Goldstone's
posre sion letters of cre it in ths total anount of one hundred thousand
doll rs (100, 00.05) in acdition to an unspecified amount of travellers
chec's. Fetersen ceshec two drafts for Goldstone in the total sum of
sixteen thousand six hundred dollars ($16,600.00). (xhibit 0).
34. oses Lipkovs y introcuced Golastone and MacGowan to a
Mr. A. Beerbr yer, vo is ceccrited s "one of the biggest pearl dealers
in Shanghai" and refers to an er enent enteret into between GoIdstone
and acGowan. (Exhivit ). r. Beertrayer states thet even before Gold-
stone's arrival in Shangnai, Liptovsky hnd been in touch with him to tell
him "that a dealer vus coming over from the United States to buy pearls."
Lipkovsky wanted Beeror yer to hola his entire stock of pearls for the
expectec American de: ler, whicn B-erbrayer tentatively agreed to do.
(Exhibit P).
5. Goldstone vas intwoduced to Beerbrayer "as being the biggest
pearl de ler in the United States", and .acGowan was introduced as "a
member of the Uniteć Sta tes Senate  nd a very important man". Golastone
told Beerbrayer "thst e wanted to buy my entire stock of pearls because
he vanted to corner the whole  arket on pe rls." (Exhibit P)
36. Beerbrayer's stoc: of pearls s valued by agrsement at
about four hundred thousand dollars ($400, O00.00). Goldstone showed
Beerbr yer two letters of credit for fifty thousand dollars ($50, 000.00)
each, and travellers checis for aoout twenty thousand do1lars ($20, 000.00).
This accords with what ..r. Petersen had seen in Golastone's possession.
(Exhipit o). However, because of local restrictions on erchange these
letters of credit could not be re dily cashed. Since Beerbrayer wes in-
sisting on payment in cash, Goldstone asked for and received from Beor-
Brayer an option to purchase three undred eighty three thousand three
hundred sixteen dollars ($383,316.00) worth of pearls. (Exhibit T).

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-8-
The option was dated 3 December 1945 and was to expire on 10 December
1945, and was signed by Goldstone. To convinee Bemrbrayer of his ability
to pay Goldstone showed him a cable from his bank in Chicago agreeing to
advance three hundred thousand aollars ($300,000.00) against the merchan-
dise. This transaction was not completed due to the failure of the par
ties to agree on the method of payment. (Exhibit P). Beerbrayer also
refers to Goldstone and MacGowan's trip to Japan "to find out about the
'pearl industry there".
37. Captain SA A T0 UAI.., 0, ASN 0-1717411, presently stationed
in Shanghai, stated on 19 December 1945 that he was an acquaintance of the
Lipkovsky family and had hed dinner there on severel occassions. One time,
early in November, he had been there when Miss Eve Lipkovsky had received
a cable fron Goldstone stating that he vas coming to Shanghai soon and tell-
ing her to "keep going". On a later occassion he had been in their home
vhen MacGowan, Goldstone and Beerbrayer vere also there. The discussions
throughout the evening rad been in regard to pearls vith most of the talk
cent ring tround an attempt by Goldstone and Beerbrayer to come to an agree-
ment for the sale of peurls to the former by the latter. In the course of
the conversation, Captain Quain heard Goldstone say, "I want to control
every pearl co in in to ths United States or I don't want any at all".
Goldstone asked Captain uain about the possibility of the latter getting
a package through to the United States for Goldstone, which Quein refused
to do. Goldstone also mentioned tit he could get the "aried fruit business
away fron MacGowan" if he wanted to, at a time when MacGowan was not present.
Captain Quain also tolc of hearine enother unidentified army officer remerk
bout "tvo smart guys vno ot governnent transportation to China to corner
the pearl market."
38. As a result of the facts elicited in tiis investigation,
action has been taken to cancel all air priorities previously given to
the subjects. Tais will leave them with no alt rnitive other than to
return to the United States by water, and every effort is being made to
expedite their return in tis manner.
39. It is notevorthy that ufter hacGowan learned of this investi-
gation und the cancellation of his air priority, and after he had attempted
to return to the United States by mir without success, he informed the
undersignec on 19 December ly45 th t he was trying to go to Chungking "to
carry out is mission for ths Sena'e Small Business Committee."
COLSENTS:
I. There is some doubt as to the exist nce of proper authority
for subjects' trip to China and later to Japan. Such credentials as have
been seen do not specifically authorize the trips und fail to indicate the
purpose or extent of their mission abroad. However, even if their trip
was authorized there seems no doubt that its purpose was cbused and corrupted
into a venture for private cain. There vas no atte apt on the part of either
of these "representatives of the Senate" to cover any part of China but
Shanghai until aft. r they hud veinly attemptec to return to the United States
by eir.
2. It has been cle rly established that even before coming to
China from the United States, Goldstone had already entered into negotia-
tions for the purchase of pe rls in China and had been in communication

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-9
with his friends here for that purpose. He further evidenced that purpose
by bringing with him to Shanghai a sun of money so large that it could
not have been used for any but his own personal business ends. Immedia-
tely after his arrival in Shanghai he set to work on consummating his
idea of a corner of the pearl market and persevered in it throughout his
stay in China and up until the day of his scheculed return to the United
States with an ardor and zeal which would have been most laudable had it
been devotec to the ostensible purpose of his trip abroad. It is very
apperent that subjects could not have cone a great deal of work offici-
ally as a great pert of their timc wis taken up in attempting to con-
sumate the corner on th pearl market.
3. Both MacGovan and Golastone have been guilty of the most
flagrant misre resentation of tisir official status and position. The
belief that th were meuburs of the Stnate or of the Small Business
Committee has teen too videsprend to be entirely accidental or not due
to tneir car ful fost rins of such misa preheneions. (See Exhibits K.
L. ,. . P. , nc pera raph so of Det ils supra).
4. Altiou Goldstone Was uncoubtedly the principal in the
tusicess trenseations carried on in Shangai, it is adnitted by MacGowan
th t he vas fully evare of  rat Gold tone vas doing and that he could
scs rothi  in ro er in it (See hibit I). MucGowan's presence through-
out cll or Golstone's nesotiatio s nc business manipulations is ade-
cuat ly established by all other  rtis to the transactions. (See Ex-
hibits L. , , , P, ). As to the propriet. f such Pealings, how are
the Aaericen business men. eing sarved en their v ry "representatives"
ore usins their clock oi official authority to deny to oth rs an oppor-
tunity for feir nd open competition on e-url teras?
5. It his obviously not bern possibl= for the undersigned to
ascertain th circumstences surrou ing the means by which the subjects,
narti ul rly Goldstone, were ble to arrange this tri in the United
States. Mor has it been  os ible as yet to secure any information con-
cerming their activities durinf their siy day stay in Japan, elthough
tir -roccupation with the perrl irdustry there as in China bespeaks
their ne lect of all ut. : hases of small business.
6. The refusal by Golastone and MacGowen to discuss their
:ctivities in China ena Jonan uncer the noor guise that it is the con-
cern of ti: Smt lone is not the open honesty and fran'mess normally
expected fron Ien innocent of  wrongdoing, particularly from repre-
sc: t tives of our government. Goldstone wus cble to rorember to include
in his vorn st:t ent a "tentative offer" to uy five or six tiousand
collars worth of pe rls and he ctuslly cenied the existence of a written
or oral :ereenent or eny ciscue ion rel tive to one siened by him only a
s' ort time before, invo. vine th: urch se of almost four hundred thousand
(oll rs vorth of pecrls (See Txhibits F. I. F. T). Although Goldstone was
cuick cnou, I. to flash his letters of crecit for a hunared thousand dollars
When he was discuscing business (See rhibits . 0, P), Le pointedly re-
fusec to furaish any suci. infor ation when t founc nimself under investi-
cation. (Sec Enribit I).

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.92)
SECRET
-10-
RECOMMENDATIONS:
1. That copies of this report be forwarded to the
Provost Marshal General. It is furtier recommended that this report be
called to the attention of the United States Senate Small Business Com-
mittee, the Smaller War Plants Corporation, the State Department, and
the United States Attorney-General for their information and such action
as they deem advisable.
2. That this investigation be continued, particularly
with respect to the means usec by subjects to secure the authority, if
any, for making their trips to Ohina and Jepan.
3. That the pearls attemytec to be transported by Gold-
stone out of the China Thcater in violation of the terms of Circular No.
48 be declarec confiscated.
4. Thet subjects be fully prosecutec for all crimes
found to have been committec b. them.
JOD F. STOSKCFF, JR.
Lt. Col., CMP
Lirector, CID
Leorge  lolvani
GEORG PLOTKIM
1st It., C!P
Asst. Director, CID
Attached Erhibits:
xhibit
A - Prdio dated 6 Dec 45
11
B - 1
11
8 Dec 45
11
C - "
11
10 Iec 45
D - Circular No. 48
11
E - ATC ticket of Goldstone
11
F - Letter to CG, from urey averick
11
G - Radio dsted 17 Dec 45
11
H - Statement of Joe Golastone
11
I - Stateaent of Conference on 18 Dec 45
11
J - Radio from Secretury of State, deted 17 Oct 45
11
X - Calling card of Joe Goldstone
11
L - Statement of Eve Lipkovsky
11
 -
11
11
Moses Lipkovs'y
11
N -
11
11
Boris Lipkovsky
11
0 -
11
Eric A.G. Petersen
11
P -
11
11
Anetole Beerbrayer
11
Q - Invoice of Cathay Jewellery
11
R -
11
" G.. Merden & Co.
11
S -
11
" American Consulate
11
T - Agreement between Golcstone and Beerbrayer
11
U - Statement of Cept. James L. King
i

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.97)
CO P I
SECRET
OUTGOING MESSAGE
HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES FORCES
CHINA THEATER
CHUNGKING, CHINA
Prepared By:
To:
CINCAFPAC
ADVON
Date: 6 DEC 45
MAUREY MAVERICK
TOKYO
Concurred In By
SEC CHIEF STAFF
Classification CONFIDENTIAL
DONALD B DEVOE
Adjutant General
Precedence
ROUTINE
TO CINCAFPAC ADVON TYO
CFB L 6887 I AM INFORED BY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION
DIVISION THAT MCGOWAN RPT LCGOWAN AND GOLDSTON RPT GOLDSTON ARE IN TOLYO TO SEE
YOU ABOUT CULTURED PEARLS CMA A D ARE REPORTHDLY CARRYING LETTERS TO PERMIT
CONTINUARCE CF CULTURE PEARL INDUSTRY IN JAPAN PRD MCGOWAN REPRESENTS THE SENATE
SMALL BUSINESS COM ITTEE ON LOAN FRO: SALL WAR PLANTS CORPORATION BY WHICH HE IS
NOW EMPLOYED PRD
GOLDSTOF IS BELIEVED TO REPRESENT THE SENATE SHALL BUSINESS
COMTITTEE PRD ANY PRIVATE TRA SACTION BY EITHER OF THESE PARTIES IS WHOLLY IMPROPER
PRD
IT IS SUGGESTED THIS ATTER BE PLACED IN HANDS OF YOUR CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
DIVISION AND THE FATTER SHOULD SE CLOSELY WATCHED PRD
IT IS PEQUESTED THAT WHEN YOUR
OFFICE HAS ASCERTAIN D THAT  CGOWAN IS IN ANY WAY CON ECTED WITH TRANSACTIONS OF A
PRIVATE MATURE CMA THAT E BE INFORLD THAT I CNA AS GENERAL MANAGER OF THE SMALLER
WAR PLANTS CORPORATION CHA DO BY THIS COUMICATION RMOVE HIM FROM ANY CONNECTION
WITH THE SHALLER WAR PLANTS CORPORATION IF EDIATELY WHEN SO INFORMED PRD
FURTHER
CMA THAT HE BE FURNISHHD TRANSPOPTATION TO THE UNITED STATES BY THE MOST DIRECT ROUTE
AND IS NOT TO RETURN TO CHINA CKA JAPAN OR ANY PLACE WEST OF SAN FRANCISCO PRD
SGE MAVERICK FROM COMGINCHINA
L6887
CERTIFIED A TRUE COPY:
Cottan
H
GEORGE PIOTKIN, 1et T.t., CMP

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.97)
CO P Y
SECRET
(From carbon copy of "outgoing radio")
CINCAFPAC ADVON
8 Doc 45
JOHN F STOSKOPF, JR.
TOKYO
TPM
CONFIDENTIAL
ROUTINE
TO CINCAFPAC ADVON TOKYO FOR TPM
OUR INFORMATION INDICATES
MCGOWAT RPT MCGOWAN AND GOLDSTON RPT GOLDSTON ARE FAKING PRIVATH BUSINESS ARRANGEMENTS
IN CONTECTION WITH CULTURE PEARL INDUSTRY WHILE ON OFFICIAL TRIP YOUR STATION PRD
MAURY MAVERICK CMA GE JERAL ANAGER SMALLER WAR PLANTS CMA HAS INFORMED YOU OF SAME
SUBJECT BY RADIO PRD IT IS BELIEVED TEESE MEN ARE WORKING OWARDS CORNER ON CULTURE
PEARLS PRD SUGGEST THEY BE ALLOWED PROCEED WITH DEALS IF ANY CHANCE TO PROVE CASE PRD
MAVERICK AUTHORIZEB DISCHARGE AND RETURN TO STATES AT OUR DISCRETION PRD ADVISE
CLOSELY OF PROGRESS AND ACTION PRD FROM STOSKOPF CHARLIE ITEM DOG SGD COMGENCHINA
CERTIFIED A TRUE COPY:
GEORGE PLOTKIN
1st Lt., Cl.P

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.97)
C O P Y.
SECRET
HEADQUARTERS
116/08 SJA
UNITED STATES FORCES
CHINA THEATER
hanghai, China
Roceivea: O91000 LST
Clear
Received in
Code
Filed
: 080823 GMT
Frecedence
Routine
From
: Chungking
To
; CG CHINA THEARER (ACTION)
Writers Nr
CLO 1079
091015
SJA
TO COMGECHINA FOR CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION DIVISION FRON
:LAURY MAVERIOK SIG TED COMGENCHUNGKINGLIAGROUP.
CONCERNING GOLDSTONE AND MCGOWAN. SPEAKING AS A MATTER OF
PRINCIPLE AND DISCIPLINE. IT APPEARS TO E THAT WHETHER STIRICLY
ILLEGAL OR NOT PRIVATE TEADING FOR PROFIT ON GOVERNIENT EXPENSE
OR PR-STIGE IS SO UIETHICAL AND OF SUCH GREAT IMPROPRIETY THAT
POSITIVE ACTION TO STOP IT SHOULD BE TAKEN IIEDIATELY. FOR MY
PART, MCGOWAN IS NOT HERE FOR Y ORGANIZATION, BUT IF HE IS USING
OR PERMITTING TO BE USED GOVERMMENT PRESTIGE OR EXPENSE FOR PRIVATE
PROFIT. HE IS TO BE INFORED IC EDIATELY OF THE TEFMINATION OF HIS
SERVICES. ALSO. IN SUCH CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT HE BE GIVEN
PASSAGE TO THE UNITED STATES BY THE SHORTEST POSSIBLE ROUTE, AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE AND THAT HIS ACTIVITI S CEASE AT ONEE. AS FOR GOLDSTONE
SOE LETHOD OF CLEAR DISPROBATION SHOULD BE INDICATED. SENATOR
JAMES LUJAY, CHAIRMAN OF TH SEMATE SMALL BUSINESS COMMITTEE, SHOULD
BE INFORD OF THIS DISSERVICE TO THE SENATE, AND THE DISAPPROBATION
OF THE GOVERIGLENT SHOULD BE INDICATID TO HIM IN NO UNCERTAIN TERMS
AS DISGRACEFUL CONDUCT. GOLDSTONE SHOULD ALSO BE SENT HOME AT ONCE.
THE FACT OF USING GOVERI. IT FOR EXA PLE TRANSPORTATION AND ALLOWANCES
FOR HIS OWN USE SHOULD ALSO BE INVESTIGATED AS FRAUD TO BE CONSIDERED
BY THE FEDERAL COUR S.
CERTIFIED A TRUE COPY:
rorgn: then
GEORGE PLOTKIN
1st Lt., C.P

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.92)
SECRET
REAR ECHELON
HTADRU.RTERS U.S. FORCES
CHINA THEATER
CIRCULAR:
∴P.0. 627
8 Arril 1945
NO..48:
I PORT.TION, TRV SPORT TIOL, TOSSESSIOI, C I,  RTFR, AD IXPORT TION OF GOODS
ENTO, IT IN. AD FPOL TD CHIL. THEATER.
GENERAL..
...I
IMFORTATION
POSSESSION.
SALE .ND B.RTTR........
EXFORT.TIOM..........
MEMBURS CF U.S. PCRUEE D GOVEITILI CLNCIES.
ACTION TO PE T
..VIII
ORDER TO BE RED........
.IX
I. GL.
There exists a critical shortare of 1l transnortation m ans neoded
for the war effort of the Unitci States nd her Llies in this Thester. Any
abuse of any of the ne ns of tr ns ortation into, within nl fren this Theater
will be regaried es a scricus crime or offense.
II. DORIO.
No persons shell usc any means of taansnortation operated or furnished
by or on behalf of the U.S. Covernment, or operatel under contr ct with the U.S.
Government, to import, tr ns; ort, or cause to be i" orted or transported, either
on his own behalf or for or throuch others, dir ctly or ndirectly, into this
The-ter ana/or between eny seogrepthiccl points vithin this Thenter, any article
merchandise, material or uqui ment rot needed fer erficial or personal use.
III.
POSSESSION.
No persons who are  et  of the U.S. Forces and/or any U.S. Govern-
mental egeney as well as ony ethurs ubject to nilitory law shall have in their
posscssion, or under their c ntrul eny ertiele, nere mndise, naterial or equip-
ment not needed for officiel or rsone1 use.
IV. SIIL AD B RTER.
No person shall sell or berter ouy artiele, morchandise, material, or
oquipnent iaport d r uraneport d ur dor porueraI. ? above. This shell not be
construed so as to uar non-prefit sales or b rt rs by and b tween menbers of
the U.S. Forees nd/or any Goverrmental areney as well as any oth rs subject to
military law,
V. EXECHTATIOL.
No person shall use any neans of trensport tion op roted or furnished
by or on behalf of the U.S. Gevernn nt, or oper: ted under contract with the U.S
D

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
REGIONAJ, OFFICE
CRIMINAL I.VESTIGATION DIVISION
OFFICT
THEATER PROVOST LARSHAL
CHINA THEATER
APO
1945
Case No.
TO:
In accordance wit! the rovisius of sec & (1) Circular 48,
Headquarters heer Eohelen, , un Theeter, dated 8 April 1945,
you are hereby notilted tunt ariod of ixty (eo) days from date
is granted, duri. vich ou  e a ritten regnest to the
Commandine 1, orten, YeJon, USF, China Theeter,
settine forth she ront one, ir uy, viy property confiscated under
Circuler at, supra, slould te returtud to you. Upon receipt of
reasons for he ieturi. of  id property or et the ex iration of
sixty (co)  eya, walchever is the sooner, the property will be dis-
posed of en diructed ly tue Co nndine General, Leadquerters, Rear
Echelon, UsF, China Theater.
Aont, CID
Received chove notice this
cay of
1945.
(Inclosure #1)
-1-

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
Giabstee
RESTRICTED
U.S.AA.F. AIR
TRANSPORT COMMAND
X 493653
SYAYION I
CN UB 2 0357 PAY
SHANGHAI, CHINA
REVENUE
MR. JOE GOLDSTONE
16 DEC 45
TICKET
GOOD FOR ONE-WAY PASSAGE
FRON
"GLOBESTER" CONNECT MANILA
SHANGHAI, CHINA
FARE
CHARGES
TRIP
CHECK
$.
929.00
U. S. A.
FROM
TO
U I. YARDS
xxx
SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS OF
PASSAGE ON REVEASE SIDE
NÀ PIÉCES BAGGAGE
PASSENGER'S WLIGHT
3
200
HHTIAL ENORSE
BAGGAGE
381.30
INITIAL EXCESE BAGGAGE EGNY
65-135
82
U. B. TAXEO
xxx
GOVERNMENT AGENCY TO BE CHARGED- NO CASH REFUND IF ENTRY HERE
OTHEA CHARS
xxx
GOVERNMENT TRANSPORTATION REQUEST NO.
TOTAL
1310.30
BuitonR Bonlug
$
NSUED BY
BURTON R. BOWLUS 1Bt LT AC
12-1-44
2010SIONE
THIS TTCKET WILL BE SÜRRENDERED ON DEMAND
C

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
COP Y
SECRET
To Com Gen. China Division
Crim. Inv. Division
Gentleman:
In so far as I am concerned, you are not only authorized, but re-
quested to take such (steps) as are necessary in the Goldstone - McGowan
affair. In my opinion they should be fully investigated in a manner that
will lead to a full study of the case.
No request for eir priority for Mr. McGowan is made as ship trans-
portation will be sufficient if the seme is helpful to the investigation
and in any event there is no urgent need of Mr. McGowan's service.
As for Goldstone, I do not know him. but if he in any way is taking
advantage of the authority or courtesies of the Senate, it is my opinion
such body will disapprove of such acts. Therefor Goldstone should be afforded
such protective measures as are necessary to insure the integrity of the
Senate as well as his own.
Please take whatever action is necessary.
/s/ Maurey Maverick
CERTIFIED A TRUE COPY:
GEORGE PLOTKIN
1st Lt., CMP

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.97)
C O E Y
SECRET
HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES FORCES
OUTGOING MESSAGE
CHINATHEATER
CHUNGKING. CHINA
To:
Prepared By:
Ref:
SMALLER WAR PLANTS CORPORATION
17 Dec 45
WASHINGTON, D.C.
MAUREY MAVERICK
Filed:
Concurred In By:
INFO COPY TO STATE DEPARTMENT
Official:
Sec. to Gen. Staff
SECRET
Classification
Adjutant General
Precedence
URGENT
TO SLALLER WAR PLANTS CORPORATION WASHINGTON INFO STATE DEPARTMENT
IT IS NOW PLACLD EFORE  AS CONF RATION BY COMPETENT AUTHORITIES OF THE MILITARY
THAT ISTEL GOLDSTONE ALLEGED TO BE OF TH SENATE SMALL BUSINESS COMITTEE AND TRAVELING
AT GOVEENMENT EXPENSE WITH MISTER MCGOWAN OF CUR CORPORATION HAS IN HIS POSSESSION
TLENTY THOUSAIID DOLLARS PEARLS PURCHASED IN CHINA AS WELL AS CERTAIN CONMITTMENTS IN
JAPAN PRD
THIS CHARACTER OF ACT IS IMPROPER DUE TO THE FACT THAT PERSONAL TRADING AT
GOVERITENT MPENSE IS HIGHLY UNETHICAL IF MOT ILLEGAL PRD
WHETHER MCGOWAN IS ACTUALLY
A PRINCIPAL IN THESN ACTS FAY NOT BE EVENTUALLY PROVED IN COURT CA BUT OF THE HIGH
IMPROPERIETY OF HIS EVEN PEHMITTING SUCH ACTS THERE IS NO QUESTION PRD
YOU ARE REQUESTED
TO TERMIMATE HIS EMPLOY ENT CMA AND AT THE SAL TIME IIE EDIATELY CMA BY ACT OF THE BOARD
OF DIRICTORS CMA REVOKE ANY APPROPRIATION FOR HIS TRIP CHA AND LOAN TO SENATE MALL
BUSINESS COITTEE PRD
AT THE SAME TILE PLEASE INFOPM THE SENATE SMALL BUSINESS COMMITTEE
OF YOUR ACTS PRD THEREAFTHE MCGOLAN IS ENTITLED TO APPEAL BEFORE CIVIL SERVICE CMA BUT
IN THE MEANTIME PROMPT ACTION IS NECESSARY PRD
HIS RIGHTS OF DUE PROCESS WILL BE
FROTECTED CMA BUT IF THE EANTIME THE RIGHTS OF THE PUBLIC MA OUR CORPORATION CMA AND
THE BOVERN ENT MUST RECEIVE PRECEDENCE PRD TAKE THE STATE DEPART ENT AND ATTORNH
GENERALS OFFICE IN FULL CONFIDENCE PFD
CERTIFIED A TRUE COPY; PAGE ONE:
11
GEORGE PLOTKIN
lst Lt., CMP

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.96)
AE TWO
C O P Y
HEADQUARTERS
SECRET
UNITED STATES FORCES
OUTGOING MESSAGE
CHINA THEATER
CHUNGKING. CHINA
To:
Prepared By:
Ref;
SMALLER WAR PLANTS CORPORATION Date 17 Dec 45
WASHINGTON, D.C.
MAUREY MAVERICK
Filed :
Concurred In By:
INFO COPY TO STATE DEPARTILNT
Official:
Sec. to Gen. Staff
Classification
SECRET
Adjutant General
PrecedenceURGEIT
AIRPLANE TRANSFORTATION HAS BEN HELD BP FOR BOTH GOLDSTONE AND MCGOWAN AND THEY WILL
BE RETURINGED BY SHIP PRD
THIS EETS WITH AY APPROVAL PRD THE FINAL JUDICIAL DETE MINATION
IS MOT RELEVAIT TC THIS AFFAIR PRD
IF IT BE PROVED THAT MCGOWAN IS AN QUOTE INNOCENT
VICTIM UNQUCTE HEVERTHELESS A REASONABLE USE OF DISCRETION WOULD NECESSITATE HIS
DISCLOSURE OF THESE FACTS LONG FEFORE NOW PRD
YOUR COOPEPATION WITH AL AUTHORITIES IS
REGUESTED PRD
IT UST BE EMPHASIZED THAT IRRESPECTIVE OF FINAL CRIMINAL DETERMINATION
THAT NORE OF THESE ALLEGED ACTS OR THEIR BEHAVIOR CAN MEET WITH ANYTHING BUT OUR FIRM
DISAPPROVAL AD DISAPPROBATION PRD
CONDUCT OF SUCH NATURE IS DESGRACEFUL CMA AND IF
OUR CORPORATION DID NOT TAKE PROMPT ACTION IT MCULD BE UNFAIR TO THE SENATE AND ALL
PARTS OF THE GOVEPNMENT PRD
PLHASE TAKE THE CTIONS INDICATED AND COOPERATE WITH THE
AGENCIES WHICH I HAVE HE UESTED YOU TO CONTACT PRD
FRO: COMGENCHINA SGD MAVERICK
CERTIFIED A TRUE COPY, PAGE TWO:
reonge othen
GEORGE PLOTKIN
1st Lt., CMP

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.98)
 STATEMENT OF: Joe Goldstone,
10 West Elm Street,
CHICAGO, 111.
I was appointed Far Eastern consultant by Senator James E. Murray.
who is Chairman of a special Committee to study problems of American
small business. Senator Lurray's office took care of the transportation
and arrangements to come to China and Japan. I was travelling with
Howard McGowan, who also represented this Committee. The purpose of the
trip was to promote business between small business concerns in America
and China. cGowan and I left the United States on 16 Nov 45 from Wa-
shington. We travelled by ATC to unming and then to Shanghai. We arrived
in Shanghai on about 22 Nov 45. While in Shanghai we interviewed many
business concerns with reference to promoting trade between Chinese and
American business men. We remained in Shanghai about ten (1o) days and
then went to Tokyo. ie stayed in Japan for six (6) days. During the
time we were in Japan we completed the mission we were sent for and
returned to Shangha1 about 9 Dec 45.
While I was in Shanghai I purchased certain cultured pearl necklaces
from the Cathay Jewelry in the sum or US$ 2oooo.- for the Imperial Pearl
Syndicate of' which firm I am a member. I filed a Custom's Declaration
for these pearls and paid the Chinese Import and Export Duty and also
recelved a Consular Invoice from the American Consulate for same and
declared them as baggage and paid the air-express charges on same from
Shanghai to Washington D.C. by ATC.
Prior to leaving Washington I ascertained from the ATC whether
air-express was permissable and I was told that it was, if it was paid
for.
Another purchase was made from the Cathay Jewelry to be shipped by
boat later on in the sum of US$ o500.- for which I paid. I had also
paia for the US$ 20000.- shipment or pearls which were being sent by
air-express. A tentative offer was made to buy pearls at approximately
US$ 50u0.- to US$ 6000.- which transaction was to be confirmed from the
States. This last transaction was with a Mir. David.
Apart from the purchase or the S$ 2oooo.- worth of pearls and the
US 85o0.- worth of pearls and the tentative arrangements concerning the
US$ 5000.- to US$ 6000.- worth of pearls, I purchased no other merchan-
dise or any description whatsoever, except some gifts. I did not enter
into any transactions other than the ones spccified above,
I have a letter from Senator Jemes E. Murray, Chairman, U.S. Senate
Special Committee to study problems of American Small Business dated
1 Sept 45 and addressed to l.ir. Joseph Goldstone, 5 Torth Wabash Ave.,
Chicago, Ill.
H

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
This letter reads:
"My dear Mr. Goldstone; Please accept my sincere thanks
for your consent to act as a consultant to the Senate Small
Business Committee in connection with its studies on Foreign
trade in the Far East. I am very glad that you will find
time to devote to the problems confronting my Committee, and
I wish at this time to formally designate you as Consultant
of Foreign trade to the Far East.-
I am looking forward to assigning important studies to you.
Sincerely yours,
S/ James E. Murray."
The transactions for the purchase of pearls which I have refered
to above were for the account of the Imperial Pearl Syndicate and were
made solely by myself without the assistance of Ir. McGowan who has no
interest whatsoever in these purchases. When I was authorized to proceed
to the Far East as a representative of the Senate Small Business Commit-
tee, it was agreed and understood that I was to pay all my own expenses
on this trip. I have paid all transportation costs and all living ex-
penses which I incurred on this trip.
It was my understanding when I left Washington that if the occasion
presented itself I could transact private business for myself.
tee
JOSEPH GOLDSTONE
Subscribed and sworn to before me, an officer duly authorized to
administer Oaths this / day of December 1945. at Shanghai, China.
ohn 1 Stoskoff 

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Statement regarding conference on 18 December 1945 at Office of
Criminal Investigation Division, Development Building. Shanghai,
China.
Present:
Howard H. MacGowan
Joseph Goldstone
Lt. Col. John F. Stoskopf, Jr.
Lt. George Plotkin
At about 1000 hours on 18 December 1945. Mr. Howard H. MacGowan
and Mr. Joseph Goldstone, toth of whom are in China allegedly on an offi-
cial mission for the United States Senate Small Business Committee, call-
ed at the office of the Criminal Investigation Division, Office of the
Theater Provost Marsial, Head uarters, United States Forces, China Theater,
which is located on the fourtetnth floor of the Development Building.
Shanghai, China. They were received there by Lt. George Plotkin, Assistant
Director, Criminal Investigation Division.
Mr. MacGowan and Mr. Goldstone were informed that the Criminal
Investigation Division was conductine an investigation of charges that Mr.
Golastone had attempted to use government transportation for carrying mer-
chandise out ofthe China Theater for comnercial purposes, which is in vio-
lation of existing regulations in this Theater, and trat 'r. MacGowan
and/or Mr. Goldstone had been transactin& private business for profit while
engaged on official sovernment business and travelling under official gov-
ernment unspices.
ar. kacGowan was also inforned that he need make no statement,
written or orel, nor need ne unswer any question, nor volunteer any in-
foraation unless he desired io do so willingly and witlout promise of any
inducenent or reward. r. G)lastone haa been similarly advised on the
previous day by Lt. Col.O'Connor of the office of the Theater Judge Advo-
cate Gereral.
Mr. MacGowan was then usked whether he had engaged in any private
business transactions while in China. This he categorically denied.
Mr. MacGowan was ssked if he knew whether Mr. Goldstone had en-
gaged in any private business transactions while in China. Mr. MacGowan
stated that he knew thnt ir. Goldstone had purchased a guantity of cul-
tured pearls during their stey in Shanghai.
Mr. MacGowan further admitted that he had been present when Mr.
Goldstone had negotituted for the purchase of pearls with different dealers
in Snanghai, but stated that he had no personal interest in such transac-
tions.
Mr. MacGowan was then asked whetner he considered it proper for
Mr. Golastone to make such purchases while they were engnged on an official
governmental mission. Mr. MacGowan stated that he had not been told that
such practice was improper of forbidden and that ke did not see anything
wrong with it if it did not interfere with or prevent the completion of
their mission.
-1-
工

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-2-
Mr. MacGowan and Mr. Goldstone were asked whether either or
both of them had conceived the idea of transacting private business in
China before they left the United States on their current mission. This
question they both refused to answer.
Mr. Goldstone was asked to state how much money he had brought
with him to China, whether in the form of currency, checks, credits, or
documents. This question he refused to answer.
At this point Lt. Col. Stoshopf arrived and joined the confer-
ence. Lt. Flot in Eeve Lt. Co.. Stoskopf a resume', in the presence of Mr.
MacGowan and Mr. Golastone, of all that had transpired in this conference
up to tais point. At the conclusion of this resume' Mr. MacGowan and Mr.
Goldstone were asked whether it was correct and both of them stated that
it was.
The question of the amount of money brought into China by Mr.
Goldstone wes again asked and an answer was again refused.
Mr. Goldstone then stateo that he believed tiat this entire in-
vestigation iad been instigat a t. an envicus baainese competitor of his,
and that if he and Mr. MacGoven were in Washington they would be able to
handle tis situatior without any trouble.
Mr. MecGovan was asked whether he would state what he had done
since comine to China. He said that this was solely the concern of the
Senate Committee wnich he represented and that he would only relate it to
them.
Mri. Golastone nad dictated & brief statement on the previous
day which kad been transcrived and typewritten. He was given this statement to
read and correct, which he did. He was then sworn to the truth of the
statement by Lt. Col. Stoskopf and he then signed it, retaining a copy
for himself.
Mr. MacGowan was then asked whether he vould make a similar
written statement regarding the subject matter of this investigation in
which Le could give any information he desired. He refused to make any
written statement whatsoever.
Mr. Goldstone was asked whether he had made any purchases or
transacted any business or conducted any negotiations other than those
specified in his statement, namely the murchase of a total of approximately
$28,500.00 vorth of pearls from Catnay Jewellery, and negotiations for
the purchase of five or six thousand dollers worth of pearls from a Mr.
David which had not been consummated. Mr. Goldstone stated that those were
the only transactions he had conducted.
Mr. Goldstone was asked for the full name and address of "Mr.
Davia". He stated that it was a small shop in the vicinity and that he
would give the exact nane and address later.
Er. MacGowan remarked in effect several times during the course
of this conference thatthe subject investigation was in the nature of a
"fishing expedition" in an effort to discredit himself and the Senate
Committee which he represented. Mr. Golastone also repeated his former
6
-2-

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
-3
statement that the investigation had been instigated by some business
competitor. Both Mr. MacGowan and Mr. Goldstone asked several times
that they be told who was behind the investigation and what its disposi-
tion would be.
The conference terminated at about 1l30 hours.
Joher F Stoakopfog
JOHN F. STOSKOPF, JR.
Lt. Col., CMP
Gaorge Plothni
GEORGEPLOTKIN
1st Lt., CMP
-3-

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
COP I
RESTRICTED
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
From:
Secretary of State, Washington Date: Oct. 17, 1945
No. : 1690
It is planned by the Senate Small Business Committee to send a
mission to China consisting of Mr. Joseph Goldstone, Economic Advisor
to the Committee, and Howard A. MacGowan, Regional Director of the
Small Wer Plants Corporation at Seattle, Washington. They desire to
visit Chungking, Hankow, Canton, Shanghai, and Tientsin. Inform the
Department by telegraph as soon as possible of rail or air service
between these places, costs, and travel times, as well as facilities
for billeting and messing. Precise itinerary anc purpose of mission
will be set forth in circular telegram to be transmitted later.
Paraphrased by RiNC:cd
CEPTIFIED A TRUE COPY:
sengit lithen
GEORGE PLOTKIN
1st Lt., CP
√

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
COPY OF CALLING CARD BY JOE GOLDSTONE
JOE GOLDSTONE
5 North Wabash Avenue
United States Senate
Chicago, Illinois
Small Business Comaitteo
CERTIFIED A TRUE COPY:
GEORGE PLOTKI
1st Lt., C!.P

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
Statement of EVE LIPKOVSKY, 272 Kiengse Road, Shanghai, China.
During the time that I was in the United Statee before the war, I
worked on and off from 1937 to 1939 for the Imperial Pearl Syndicate in
Chicago, which was the firm of Mr. Josenh Goldstone. In 1g4o I returned
to Shanghai.
Before the war broke out Mr. Goldstone requested that a shipment of
pearls be made to him. My father, who is a dealer in pearls and gems,
assembled a lot of pearls and Mr. Golastone had already forwarded the
money for payment to a local bank, when the war started and we could not
complete the deal.
After the war was over I received a cable from Mr. Goldstone asking
if the pearls were still available. I wrote to him explaining what had
happened to the original shipment. Tren later I received a cable from
Mr. Golcstone saying that he was coning to Shanghai and that I should
meet him. Then I got a second catle saying that his arrival would be de-
layea.
Mr. Goldstone got in touch with me soon after he arrived in Shanghai.
He introduced me to Mr. MaGowan and told me that they were representing
the United States Senate on business in Cnina. I introduced them to my
father and my brother.
My father and brother serired a large quantity of pearls for Mr.
Goldstone and helped him prepare it for shipment and get it through the
Chinese customs.
I did not take part in all ofthe business negotiations between them
but I know that Mr. Golastone wanted my father to represent him here in
Shanghai for the purpose of getting pearls and shipping them to the United
States in large quantities.
Love Liptkovshy
Swarn to ane Subscrived before me this
18yday ofD ecamber, 1945.
Seorget lolkns tdMr

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
Statement of MOSES LIPKOVSKY, 272 Kiangse Road, Shanghai, China.
I an the owner of the Cathay Jewellery, 272 Kiangse Road, Shanghai.
I met Joseph Goldstone and Howard MacGowan in Shanghai about 23 November
1945, shortly after their arrival from the United States. They were
introduced to me by my daugnter, Eve Lipkovsky, who had worked for Gold-
stor-'s firm in the United States, the Imperial Pearl Syndicate, before
the war. She came back to Sranghai before the outbreak of the war.
Late in 1g4l, Mr. Goldstone asked us to assemble a shipment of pearls
for him. The shipment was reany and the money for payment had been de-
posited with a bank in Shurghai when the war broke out and prevented comp-
letion of this aeal. Shortly after the end of the war a few months ago
we received a cable from ir. Golcstone asking if the pearls were still
availeble. My deughter wrote to explain what had happened to prevent de-
livery before the war roke out.
In the early part of November 1g41 we received a cable from Mr. Gold-
stolt saying e vss leaving heshington for Shanghai and asking that he te
met  pon his errival. A second calle arrived saying ne would be delayed.
I believe that Mi. Golds one got in touch with us on the morning after his
arrival in Smanglai. When I met him . MacGowen was with hin.
At lr. Golestore's re est I a senbled a quantity of strands of pearls
for nim, part of which I had on hand and part of which I secured from other
dealers. Aitogether 1 assembled anc sold to r. Golcstone pearls of the
value of ebout $26,Ss.0. These were prepared in tvo shipments, one of
acout $c0, G0o.Co to o witi. Mr. Goldstone, by air to the United State, and
the palance to De srippeu ty me uy water.
F. Golastone paid for the pearls with cash. He also had with him at
least one letter of crecit 1n the sum f $50, 000.00. My son, Boris, helped
mr. Guldstone make the arrangenents to pay the Chinese export charges and
get the Lecessary consular lnvoices drawn up by the American Consulate.
Mr. Golestone and mr. MacGowan took me to the Chase Bank in Shanghai
anu introtaced me to the anager, mr. Petersen. Mr. Goldstone told Mr.
Petersen that I was to se his representative in Snanghai for the purpose
of purchesing pearls for him. He told Mr. Feter en that he was going to
deposit $loo, ooo.o with tihe tank, end that as I snipped pearls to him
and presented the papers to the bank I wes to be paid fron thi: deposit.
Then when Ir. Goldstone received the pearis in the Uniteu States he would
degosit tle amount in the bank again so tnat I would always have enough
money on mand to pay for eny shipment I woula make, no matter how large it
was.
I introeet . Goldstone and . cGowan to . A. Beerbrayer, who
is one of the biggest pearl dealers in Shenghei, and they made some kind
oi a written agreement for the yurchase of a very laree amount of pearls,
but I believe that this sele was not completed before the time that Mr.
Golcstone was supposed to leave Sharghai.
-1-
M

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.89)
SECRET
Statement of MOSES LIPKOVSKY, (Page Two)
Mr. MacGowan was present curing most of the meetings and negotiations
I had with mr. Golastone, but the business was always done by Mr. Goldstone
himself. I do not know w.ether Mr. MacGowen had any interest in Mr. Gold-
stone's business. I never asked him and he never told me.
I understood from what they said trat Mr. Golcstone and Mr. MacGowan
nad come to Chinn for the nited States Senate.
Cn the mornine ef 18 December 145, . Goldstone and Mr. lacGowan came
to my store and told us that an iavestigation was being made of the buying
of the pearls.
2
nipnoraky
Swan toSubecri bed vefore me this
84 cay of  reambe is s.
rerge lolvan 1 4.7

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.96)
·SECRET
Statement of BORIs LIPKOVSKY, 272 Kiangse Road, Shanghai, China.
I am the son of Moses Lipkovsky who owns the Cathay Jewellery. 272
Kiangse Road, Shanghai, China. I met Mr. Joseph Goldstone and Mr. Howard
MacGowan shortly after their arrival in Shanghai toward the end of Novem-
ber 1945.
My father and I accumulated from various cources a larg• quantity of
pearls for Mr. Goldstone. One shipment he was to take with him by airplane
back to the Uniti States. This was just over $20, O00.00. Another ship-
ment, of about $8j00.00, we were going to ship to hin in the United States
by water.
I helped Hr. Golastone eet the shipment through the Chinese customs
and also nelped nim to get the invoices from the American Consulate. Mr.
Goldstone paia for the pearls in cash.
We also introduced Mr. Goldstone to some other dealers in pearls but
I do not now whether he did any business with them or with anyone else.
Mr. MacGovan Was usually with Mr. Gohdstone on the different occassions when
we arranged to sell the pearls, but I do not know whether he had any interest
in tie transaction or not. Mr. MacGowan and Mr. Goldstone told us that they
had come to China for the United States Senate.
I understood that Mr. Goldstone was to lsave China on Monday, 17 Decem-
Der 1945. On 18 December 1y45 he and Mr. MacGowan came to our store and
told us that an investigetion was being made of the purchase of the pearls.
Swarn to en Sutserited before me this
8 a day of  ecmber, 1s45.
reoget lthen dft (4r
N

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
Statement of HRIC A.G. PETERSEN, Cnase Bank, 99 Nanking Read, Shanghai.
I am the manager of the Shanghai branch of the Chase Bank. I met
Mr. Jeseph Geldstone and Mr. Howard MacGowan about the beginning of
December 1945 at the Chase Bank in Shanghai. They infermed me that
they were representing the United States Senate Small Business Committee
and showed me a letter of intreduction from the First Natienal Bank of
Chicago.
Mr. Goldstone had a Traveller's letter of crodit in the sum of
$50,000.00 and a commercial documentary letter of credit in the sum of
$50,000.00. H said he alse had some traveler's checks. I was unable
to cash any of these. However, I cashed twe drafts fer him, one in the sum of
$7500.00, and one in the sum of $9100.00, making a total of $16,600.
Altogether I believe I saw Mr. Goldstone about three femr times, and
on all of these eccasions, except perhaps once, Mr. MacGowan was prosent.
Mr. Goldstone introduced me to a Mr. Lipkovsky who he said was to be his
Shanghai representative for the purpose of precuring pearls and shipping
them to the United States. Mr. Goldstone said that he intended to
deposit $100,000.00 in the Chase Bank out of which Mr. Lipkovsky would
be paid upon presentation of documents showing that he had made a
shipment.
Subsermbed
Subseribed  to before me this
97yday ofeuumbr1945.
Grong! loltar ath. cn.
0

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.98)
ECRET
Statement of AATOI BEERBRAYR, 241 Cardinal Mercier, Shanghai, China.
I am a wholesale dealer in gens, particularly in cultured pearls. One
of the dealers to whom I sell is Mr. . Lipkovsky, owner ofthe Cathay Jewellery.
About the middle of November 1g45. Mr. Lipkovsky told me that a dealer was
coming over from the United States to buy pearls. Mr. Lipkovsky asked me to
give him some sort of option an my entire stock for this dealer, and I agreed
to hold it for a few days until he could get some instructions.
About ten days later, near the end of the month, Mr. Lipkovsky called
to tell me that the cealer fed arrived and he arranged to bring him over to
look at my stock of pearls. He came over witn Mr. Joreh Goldstone, who he
introduced to me as being the biggest pearl dealer in the United States, end
Mr. Howard NacGowan, who he told me was a member of the United States Senate
and a very important man.
Mr. Goldstone told me that he wanted to buy my entire stock of pearls be-
cause he wanted to corner the whole market on pearls. Ee showed me two letters
of credit for $50,000.00 each and traveller's checks for about $20,000.00.
After we agreed on the prices we found that my stock of pearls was worth
about $400, O00.00. Mr. Goldstone told me that he could get all the money he
wantec fron tne United States. I told him that I would have to have payment
in cash in U.S. dollars.
On 2 December 1g45, I gave Mr. Goldstone a written option to purchase my
stock of pearls consisting of approximately two hunared ten thousand momme (
over 1900 pounas) of loose pear1s at $1.50 per momme and about 5693 pear1 neck-
laces at $1a.00 each. The option was to expire on 10 December 1945. This was
to let Mr. Golcston: have enough time to cable to the United States to make
arrangements for payment. I have turned over my copy of this agreement to Lt.
George Plotkin, United States Arny Criminal Investigation Division, after he
and I had merked it with our initials for identifåcation.
Mr. Goldstone luter showed me & cable from his bank in Chicago saying
that they woula advance $300, 000.00 ageinst the merchandise. I said that this
would be satisfactory to me and that I would accept payment in the United
States upon delivery of shipping documents to the bank there.
Then we found that Mr. Goldstone could not cash his letters of credit in
Shanghai because of restrictions put on the banks by the Chinese Government.
He wanted me to forward the pe rls without any payment here but I refused to
do this ana the option expired.
I saw Mr. Goldstone and Mr. MacGowen concerning this transaction about
six times altogether. Mr. Gokdstone cid all the talking and arranging and
Mr. MacGowan seemed to be a sort of silent partner.
I understood that Mr. Goldstone and Mr. MacGowan went to Japan also to
find out about the pearl industry there. I do not know whether they did any
business there, but I understand that at the present time nothing can be ex-
ported out of Japan.
-1-
P

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.93)
SECRET
Statement of ANArOLE BEERBRAYER
(Page 2)
I was told that Mr. Goldstone did buy a quantity of pearl necklaces
from Mr. Lipkovsky. Most of these I had previously sold to Mr. Lipkovsky
myself vnen prices were much lower.
D. Gurbray
ubscribed before me this
18ln day of I ecmbe, 1945.

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.94)
CRET
COEI
Shanghai, December 14th
1945
CATHAYJEWELLERY
272 KIANGSE ROAD
TEL. 12274
No. 1066
Imperial Pearl Syndicate
Messrs..
Address...5.North.Wabash.Ave. Chicego..Ill. U.S.A.
PARTICULARS
L.
150 Strands Cul. Pearls @ U.S. $7.-per
U.S.$
1050.
2.
642
st
11
11
11
4.25
2728.
50
3.
307
11
11
11
11
9.-
11
2763.
4.
100
It
11
11
11
11.-
11
1100.
5.
25
11
11
11
11
7.-
11
175.
6.
200
11
11
il
11
7.25
11
1450.
7.
48
11
it
11
11
8.75
11
420.
8.
48
11
11
11
11
8.50
11
408.
9.
100
11
11
11
11
7.00
11
700.
10.
148
11
11
11
@
11
5.50
11
814.
11.
43
11
11
11
③
11
4.50
11
193.
50
12.
50
11
11
11
6
11
3.25
11
162.
50
13.
36
11
11
11
2.50
11
90.
14.
934
11
11
11
11
7.50
11
7005.
15.
70
11
11
11
11
3.-
11
210.
16.
69
11
11
11
3
11
7.-
11
483.
17.
32
11
11
11
③
11
8.-
11
256.
U.S.$20.008.50
/s/ B. Lipzovsky
RECEIVED PAYMENT
CERTIFIED A TRUE COFY:
Tongel lolhen
GEORGE PLOTHIN
1st Lt., CP

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
CO P Y
No..759.F.D..
Job No...89925..
Shanghai,...15th..December...1945...
Messrs. Cathay Jewellery
272. Kiangse Road.
Shanghai
DR. to G. E. MARDEN & CC., LTD.
125, Hankow Road
1 Case Pearls by Airplance for U. S. A.
Dec. 15
To
Custons Clearance ( Import & Export )
CNC$
10,000.00
Duty
G.U.257,250.-)
Surtax
25.725.-(-G.0.293,265.00
Dues
10,290.-)
Additional - 2.50
G..293.267.50 @ 20 -5.865.350.00
Interest on CNC$ 5, 000, 000.00 for 1 Day @ 12%
20.000.00
CNC$
5,895,350.00
Less Received on 14/12/45. -
5,870,000.00
Total
C.N.C.Dollars Twenty-Five Thousand
CNC $ 25,350.00
Three Hundred Fifty Only--
E. & O. E.
/s/ K C King
CERTIFIED A TRUL COPY:
Geoget lothun
GEORGE PLOTXIN
1st Lt., CMP

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
C O P Y
0032
PERMIT TO SHIP
Shanghai Customs
Application No.
14th December, 1945.
Cargo-boat No.
Chicago, Ill, via Chungking
Vessel....Air.Plane..
For.
G.R. Marden & Co
Applicant.
This Permit is to be delivered to the Custons Officer on duty on toard of
the Vessel concernea prior to the shioment of the Goods.
MARYS.
PACKAGES
DESORIPTICN CF GOUDS.
PIECES
WEIGHT
Strands
1 cbs
Cultures pearls
3002
G.U.857,507.00
Box Sealed No. Shangiai Custom AT70.
Say One Packages only.
(Stamped) "MIY
-Paia-
Free
Tlis Permit may be retained
oy aoplic nt to be surrendered to
the Customs Officer at destination.
/s/ Illegible
B/o Commissioner of Cuatoms"
CERTIFIED A TRUE COFL:
GEORGÉ PLOTAIN
1st Lt., C..P

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
INVOICE OF PURCHASED MERCHANDISE
(Corrected May 1924)
Shangha1 China December 15th 1945
(Place and date)
Invoice of Pearls Cul tured
purchased or agreed to be purchased
by Imperial Pearl Syndicate
of5 Nerth Wabash Ave. Chicage I11
from Cathay Jewellery
as per order accepted
December 10th 1945
(Date)
Baggage of Mr. Joe Goldstone
to be shipped per
STATE WHETHER PRICES IN THIS INVOICE ARE IN GOLD, SILVER, OR PAPER CURRENCY
QUANTITIES
NUMBERS,
MARKS.
AND
(Seo Note I below)
MANUFAC-
TURER'S
NOS.
(N. B.—Always state the cost of packing, and all
FULL DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
other costs, charges. and expenses)
PURCHASE
PER UNIT
PRICE
INVOICE
TOTAL
PRICE
CORRECTIONS
OR REMARKS
CONSULAR
U.S.3.
Pearis Cultured as per attached
20:008
50
Invoice. (loesley strung)
Perd e d cd
Charges
Consular Invoice
2
50
Chinses Expert duty c.g.u.
857.507.-820°= at market rate
of 1.200-
4.887.
80
Air Expense (approx)
450
USI
25.348
80
Country of origin: Japan
No freight. Taken as Baggage as AIR EPR 3
Insurance covered in U.S.A.
Note 1.—"Manufacturer's Numbers." This column must include manufacturer's grade, quality, marke, numbers, or symbols.
Note 2.—If any taxes to which the merchandise is subject are not included in the unit prices given in the column headed
"Purchase Price Per Unit", such taxes must be set forth separately and clearly at the foot of the invoice.
NotE 3.—Items of commissions in the invoice must specify nature of commission, as, "buying", "selling" commission, etc.
Signature of Seller or Shipper Cathay Jewellery--/s/.-Lipkoveky
(Signature of seller or shipper
or agent of either signing in the
name of his principal.)
By (authorized agent)
By M. Lipkovsky Manager
01-11
S

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
COP I
Shanghai, China
Dec 2/1945
I agree to purchase from A. Beerbrayer (illegible word)
Viterism approximately 210 thousand mome of loose cul-
tured pearls at $1.50 gold per mome - and approximately
5693 pearl necklaces at $12.00
It is mutually agreed that the payment is to (be) made
in U.S. Dollars.
It is mutually agreed and understood that these cul-
tured pearls can be legally shipt from China and legally
recevd in U.S. of America.
accepted - (/s/) Joe Golistone
This expires Dec 10 - 1945
CERTIFIED A TRUE COPY:
GEORGE PLOTKIN
1st Lt., CMP

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.82)
020.874.628 10-146
In reply pefer to
Pora gn Sorvheer tarh
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
Actelus , 19v6
DIMISION OF
Zili
T291946
FOREIGN SERVICE
894.628/10-146
PLANNING
.1,. 
t
s ec ts lls   a,to ich
 11
s.closure:
r 1, 40.
NOV 5-1946
FILED
7NE83
cevS
2/20/40
UA
心
NOE
Ciearc o mo.e .it..
SEr 26 1946
. allson itman les unning- dooker
.r.
.5.
.r.
SEP 27 P.
Caos

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.96)
MAIL ROOM
This Circular Instruction to be sent to:
Embessy London
Embassy otteve
Embassy Oslo
Embessy Hoscov
Embessy C nberra
Le tion Vellington

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
In reply refer to
File No. 894.628/10-146
DEPIRTMENT OF ST/TE
WASHINGTON
RESTRICTED
October 1, 1946
JAPANESE FISHING IND WHALING
To
Certain Lncrican Diplomatic Officers.
The Lcting Secretary of State enclosed for the
information of certain Lmcrican Diplometic Officers
a copy of Press Release no. 118, February 18, 1946.
This release includes a verbetim reproduction of the
Conclusions of SNCC 99/3, "Polic with Respect to
Fisheries and Aquatic Industries in Japan", to which
reference was made in Circular Airgran of September
13, 1946.
Enclosure:
Press Relcase no. 118,
February 18, 1946.
Index Under:
Fishing:
Japanese;
Whaling:
Japanese;
Embessy or Legation File No. 862.8

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
3-X
Tokyo via War
Dated October 3, 1946
Action: ITP
Info
Rec'd 7:49 p.m., 10th
FE
RESTRICTED
DC/L
894.628/10-346
OCD
Control 3625
DC/R
INTERNATIONAL RESQURRES DIVISION
No paraphrass necessary
10011946 ERU3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SEC3TATE
PRIORITY
44l, Octobe 3
4
For use in regulation of 1946-47 Japanese Antarctic
=8
whaling oneretions vould appreciete trensmission soonest
by airmail pouch of: (1) 5 additional copies of all
International whaling regulations, and (2) 3 sets of all
available literatare enl iltustrations helpful for purpose
of identification of whaling species by observers.
2
ATCHESON
NOTE: Delayed in transmission.
EKH:GWP
RESTRICTED
ITY
R
MEER
9046 80 1 180 56
R
TILD
231947
Y
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.89)
3/ Flease index and return
to  - risheries and Wildlife
061946
USRESTRIOTED
.281
To the
Unitad States Palitieal Adviser
to the Supreme Gommander for the Allied Povers.
Takyo.
The Asting Secretary of State ackasuledges the reseipt of the
Pol1tieal Aáviser's tel egram No. 441 af Dstobar 3. 194s and tramsmits
herewith the material requssted by sdar, as follews:
894.62
1. Six sopies of all istermatiemel whaling egreemenss frem
1931 to 1946;
2. Three phetostatie soplee of "Gemeral Informatien for
the Ready Identifisatien of the Prinsipal Types of Whales".
2
United States Geast Guard, 1957.
8
vith respest to the latler publieatiem, the falleving semment
of Dr. Remington Kellegs ef the Smithseaian Imstitatien, the sather
0-
of the pamphlet, aheuld be noted earafally. The whaling sanventisns
and agreements whieh have besome affestive subecquent to the paklice-
34
tien of the pemphlet in 193y, have mesessitated sertain shanges in
the data contained in the pamphlet, whieh changes are spesified balow:
9
1. Page 4, Greup III, first paragraph is me loager applicable,
vinee sperm whales are mow covered by the international shaling
agreemsnts.
2. The folleving shanges ia length limitatiens should be
made (in the titles at the tep of indicated pagas):
S5
(a) Page 11, ahange "50 feet" to "70 feet";
(b) Page 13, change "50 feot" to "5s feet;
1
(0) Page 14, change "18 feet" ts "22 feat";
(a) Page 1s, add a sssend lize to the title, "On
INDIVIDUALS UNDER  FENY IN LNWOPH.
The ether iafermatien seatained in the pemphlet is surreatly weakle
for identifyiag the various spesies of whales.
Eaclesures:
A truo cupy of
the slgne origi-
1. Six eepies of whaling
Bai.
agrocmente 19sm to 1946.
3. fhree sepiee ef "Ssneral Iafermatiem for
the Ready Ideatificatien of the Pripsipal
208
Typee of Whales".
ERUS
ERVANSANT
JK
IR:e:e
10/14/46

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.94)
25
case muex und return to
willife ranch
UNRESTRICTED
270
No.
To the
United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
81741628/-2046
Tokyo.
894.628/10-346
The Acting Secretary of State refers to the final sentenoe
of the Department's telegram no. 500 of September 27, 1946 and
encloses one copy of "Instructions to Biologists" and ons copy
of "Instructions to Whaling Inspectors". These Instructions
were prepared by Dr. Remington Kellogg, of the Smithsonian
Institution, for the guidance of officers who will be responsible
for preparing such instructions to the biologists and inspectors
who will accompany whaling expeditions.
Biological findings should be reviewe! by competent experts
prior to ultimate disposition of the specimens. Should SCAP have
reason to question the accuracy of review, or should experts be
unavailable in Tokyo, exhibits should be transmitted to the Fish
and Wildlife Service, Washington, D. C. for review. Accuracy of
whaling data is emphasised.
CS/ V
Enclosure:
894.628
1. Copy of "Instructions to Biologists".
2. Copy of "Instructions to Whaling Inspectors".
694.628/9-2046
iveiz
teared o phone with
Cleaned wich
P. l, mithsonian
Me-Whitnuan
EAUs

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.97)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
UNRESTRICTED
Charge to
5434
NOV831946
US URGENT
SUPRELE COLMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POIERS
894.628/10-346
TOKYO
NO: War vept Chief of Staff
894.628/10-346
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
NIACT 5-85
4
Reply US Urgent whether US representatives on Jap factory ships
instructed in accordance Dept's instruction 270, Oct 3.
Achesou
Acting
(wes7)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
Eag
DC/T
IR:WESFlory:bmd
J
A-H
CS
11/23/46
594.
/V
21

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.97)
Aide Mémoire
The Australian Government has carefully considered the aide mémoire
of the bepartment of state of September 26th, 1946, replying to Australian rep-
resentations on the extension of Japanese whaling to the Antarctic. It has also
taken note of verbal assurances iven subsequently that the ships of the expedi-
tion would not be allowed to fly the Japanese flag, and that consultation would
take place before all subsequent epeditione in the Antarctic or elsewhere and
woulu not be confined to security factors.
The Australian vovernnent reatly regrets that the Government of the
United states has not agreed that the expedition should be nanned solely by Allied
seanen and that no Japanese chould be allowed to serve. The Australian Government
is in a position te pr vide a substantial proportion cf the crews in all categories
except possibly munners on chaser ships. It has also been advised, contrary to
the opinion expressed in the united otates side mémoire, that the Japanese vessels
94.
could oe adapted to use y non-Japanese crews, particularly if reconditioning
were em irmediately. It is therefore requested that the decision on this p ointo
2
be reviewed and that interested sovernments be afforued an opportunity to provide 0
110-546
the entire crews of the expedition.
The Australian voverment desires to reneat its regret that a Japanese
expedition should have cen cuthorized, without prior consultation, to op rate in
waters of such irect concern to Australia. It also fears that, whatever might
be said to the contrary, the expedition mi ht be taken as a precedent for the re-
habilitation of the Japanese whalin industry, which would be undesirable in view
CS/HH
of the bad Japanese record in this regard before the war. Irrespective of the
particinntion of Allied crews, it is desired that it sheuld be made clear beyond
all doubt to the Japanese people and to the world that it is not a Japanese ex -
pedition. The Australian overnment could not agree to any recognition of Japanese
whaling rights or to the representation of Japanese whalin: interests in any
OCT 1
894.628/10549
international discussions.
The Australian overnment welcomes the assurance of the Governmentof
161
the nited states that it is not cornitted to support future whaling op rations
by the Japanese. However, in view of the foregoing, it is hoped that the Govern-
ment of the united states will feel able to reconsider its position in regard
to the forthcomin expedition.

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: October 5, 1946
SUBJECT:
Whaling Expedition to the Antarctic
PARTiciPants: His Excellency Norman J. O. Hakin, Australien Anbassador
Hajor Plimsoll, Australien Embassy
The Acting Secretary of State
Mr. Richerds, BC
COPIES TO:
U
894.62
A-H
FE
Li s=
IR
EUR
2
BC
8
ero
1-1403
The ustralien mbassador called at his request to discuss
C
the question of the euthorization which has been given by SCAP
1
for the Jepanese to particinate, under SCAP's direction, in a
5
whaling expedition to the Antarctic.
4
6
The Ambassador exoressed the grave concern of the Australian
Government that the perticipation of the Japanese in this expedi-
tion would, in the minds of the Japanese at least, establish a
basis for a claim to precedent and indicated that it was his
Government's view that this uuestion would be reised at a later
date as a justificetion for future purticipation in whaling. The
abassador indicated that the ustralian Government, assisted by
the New Zealand, U.K. and Horwegion Governments, would be willing
to provide the mejor portion of the crews of the whaling vessels
end stated that it was his Government's belief, based on informa-
tion from Japan, that necessary alterations cculd be made in the
ships to accomnouate white crews provided alterations were to be
undertaken at once.
C
The Acting Secretery, in accepting an aide mémoive frgm the
Ambassador setting forth the foregoing views, indicated that the
Depart ent is prepared to give further consideration  the
question of the personnel of the expedition. The Acting Secretary
C
stated, huwever, that the Deoart ent could see no reason why the
present expedition should establish any precedent and that it
C
has been made clear that it should not be so considered. He
emphasized

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.97)
2
emphasized that the Allied powers had full authority to
limit or prohibit Jepanese wheling activities at any time.
He also stated that the sole object of the present expedi-
tion was to ob sin whale meat for use in Japan and oils and
fats which would assist in relieving a general world shortage.
It was the Depart ent's view thet the Jananese should be em-
ployed in obtaining these products which would be primarily
for their use and that the Allied countries should not have
to ny for crews to man vessels engsged in seeking food for
the Japanese. The cting Secretery stated, however, that
full end sympathetic consideration would be given to the
points raised by the Australien Government.
ad
BC:..1.Richards:mrh
(10-5-46)

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.97)
AIDE-MÉMOIRE
The Government of the United States has considered
carefully and sympathetically the aide-mémoire of
October 5, 1946, concerning the proposed whaling
expedition to the Antarctic from Japan, left with the
Acting Secretary.of State by the Australian Ambassador.
894.628/10-546
In an endeavor to explore all pogsibilities and meet
as far as possible the wish of the Australian Government
that the interested Allied governments be permitted to
supply the entire crews of the expedition, a message
was sent to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
in Tokyo requesting his further comments as to the
CS/HH
possibility of acceding to the Australian request.
A reply has now been received from the Supreme
Commander stating that it would be entirely impractical
to endeavor to arrange accommodations for Allied crews
894.628/0
or to
2908

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
or to utilize such crews on the forthooming expoditiom.
It is pointed out that to attempt reconditioning the
vessels for use by Allied orews would not only be
economically unsound but would probably cause sueh delay
as to render the expedition impossible. In the opinion
of the Supreme Commander the most serious difriculty in
carrying out the Australian proposal would be in attempt-
ing to control and operate such an expedition with orews
of mixed nationalities. There would inevitably arise
the question of divided responsibility as well as the
problems raised by the conflict of shipping laws of the
various nationalities. In addition to the above diffi-
culties there would be those in connection with housing
and feeding the crews pending sailing and in insuring
uniform pay, rations and equipment. The Supreme Com-
mander states that he could not accept the responsibility
for the control of mixed Allied crews on such an expedi-
tion and that he does not believe that the proposal could,
as a practical matter, be carried into effect,
However,

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
However, the Supreme Cormander has stated that he
would heartily welcome additional Allied inspectors to
the forthcoming whaling expedition should any of the
neticns concerned wish to offer the servisss of such per-
sons. Because of the meager quarters it will only be
possible to accormodate three Allied personnel on eseh
factory ship and the Supreme Conmander has stated 1t
would therefore be possible for two Allied inspectors to
be assigned to each ship in addition to the inspector
fror his headquarters. The Supreme Commander desires to
point ot that acco modations and meals will be sub-
standard and that Allied inspectors should be prepared
for ccnsiderable hardship. Inforwetion as early as
possible is requested by the Supreme Commander if any
of the nations concerned desire to appoint inspectors
together ith the dete when they may be expected to
report to the Fisheries Division, Hatural Resourees See-
tion, of his headquarters. It is understocd that the
foreign governments concerned will pay the salaries and
provide

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.99)
provide the necessary equipment and rations of such
inspectors as they may assign for duty with the expedi-
tion. Inasmueh as it is believed advisable to have
equality of pay for all foreign inspectors, the Supreme
Commander has requested that he be notified as soon as
possible as to the salary it is contemplated paying any
inspectors who may be appointed.
As vas stated in this Government's aide fimoire of
September 26, 1946, the forthcoming whaling expedition
is an emergency one, for one season only and is under the
complete control of the Supreme Commander who has stated
that in his opinion it should be considered as an Allied
expedition. As the Australian Government is aware the
expedition will not fly the Japanese flag but a special
SCAJAP pennent. This pennent is the same that is flown
by all ships operatin, under the control of the Supreme
Commander in the Pacific area and may be seen on all
American ships, many with Japanese officers and crews,
which are engaged in the repatriation of Japanese
civilians

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.97)
-5
civilians and military personnel to the home islands.
All such ships are under the control of the naval seetiom
of the Supreme Headquarters and under the direetion of
Rear Admiral Momsen of the United States Navy. The SCAJAP
flag is identifiable as follows: 4 feet 6 inches wide by
5 feet 7 inches long, divided diagonally into two right
angle triangles from upper left to lower right corners
with lower triangle green and upper triangle red. The
SCAJAP flag resembles the international flag "O" with
the exception that the lower triangle on the CAJAP flag
is green instead of yellow as on the international flag
"C"
This government wishes to confirm again its previous
statement that the question of whether the Japanese shell
or shall not heve a whaling industry in the future is a
matter for Allied consultation and decision. This applies
also to the ultimate disposition of all Japanese whaling
equipment and facilities. In the aide mémoire left by
the Australian Ambassador it 1s stated that the Australian
Govornment

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.94)
-6
Govermment cannot agree to any recognition of Japanese
whaling rights. It is the opinion of this Govermment
that the proper forum for the discussion of the future
whaling rights of Japan is the Far Fastern Commission
where the whcle question can be discussed at length with
a view to the establishment of a definite policy aceept-
able to all.
In view of the above considerations the Government
of the United states regrets that it cannot accede to
the request of the Australian Government that the
entire crew of the fortheoming expedition be composed
of nationals of the Allied countries.
Department of State,
OCT 15
October 1 € 1946
Washington,
0sof
els
JA:JMAllison:xa
CRU3
grri
10-11-46
IR
A-

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.95)
MEMORANDUM
ith reference to the description of the flag
894.628/10-546
to be used by the Antarctic whaling expedition com-
municated to the Australian Embassy by the Department
of State in its aide-mémoire of October 16, 1946,
information has now been received to the effect that
the flag will consist of the SCAJAP flag "E" instead
of SCAJAP flag "0" as previously stated. Notification
of the extension of this flag to whaling is being
given internationally by the Navy Department at
Washington, and locally by the Supreme Commander at
Tokyo.
894.628
as
CS/V
Department of State,
November 2110
Washington,
2
16
JA:JKEnnerson:RAFearey:mls
11-13C48
FE
IR
AK

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.94)
Handd tnn by
ngr Bainssee
DEC 18, 1946
JKP
fad 1/23
AIDE-MEMOIRE
KKP
The Australian Government wishes to draw the
894.628/10-546
attention of the Government of the United States to the
directive to the Imperial Japanese Government issued by
the Supreme Com:ander for the Allied Powers on 15 Novem-
ber, 1946, (3CAPIN 1339) on the subject of the Antarctic
whalin: flag. This directive states: "Each vessel
will display in the usual manner the flag of the Japen-
ese Merchent Merine plus the modified international
code flag 'E".
A representative of the Australian Government
on 26 Se tember, on receiving the United States aide-
CS/A
memoire cf that date, stated orally that Australia would
be opposed to vessels using the Japenese flag because
FEB
FILED
it might be inter reted as a sign that the expedition
3-
1947
was a Japanese and not an Allied expedition. The same
894.628/10-546
point was stressed by the Australian Ambassador in his
interview with the Under-Secretary of State, Mr. Acheson,
on 5 October, 1946.
W
EH

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.96)
-2 -
The United States Government in its aide-
memoire of 16 October, 1946, stated: "As the Australian
Governm nt is aware the expedition will not fly the Japan-
ese flag but a special SCAJAF pennant. This pennant is
the sa..e ti.at s flown by all si.ips operating under the
contrel er the Supreme Com..ander in the Pacific area and
may oe seen on all A.erican siip, many ith Japanese
orricers ana crews, wrich a re enguged in the repatriation
of Japenese civilians na military personnel to the home
islands. All such shi s are un er the control or the
neval section  the Su reme kesuquarters and unuer the
direction of Rear Admi al Momsen or the Uni ed States Navy.
The SCajAr fl: is iueatifiable as follows: 4 feet 6
inches wide y  feet 7 inches long, divided diagonally
into two ri ht angle triangles from upper left to lower
riht corners wi th lower trian le reen ane upper triangle
red. The SCAJAP rleg resembles the international flag "o"
with the exception that the lower triangle on the SCAJAF
flag is reen insteed of yellow as on the international
flag "0". This repeated oral assurances given on 30 September.
The Australian Government therefore requests

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
thet, in conformity  ith t he assurances given to the
Australian Government, the Supreme Commander's order of
15 Nevember srould be rescinded, and thet the vessels
should be forbidden to wear the flag of the Japnese
Merchant larine or any other symbol which might be
interpreted t, indicate that the expeditien is a Japan-
ese one.

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.96)
IVED
81947
Memorandum of Conversation
OFFICE OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE: 12-18-46
F.W.894.628/10-546
SUBJECT:
Flying of Japanese flag by ships of the
Antarctic Whaling Expedition
PARTICIPANTS:
Major James Plimsoll, Australian Delegate,
Far Eastern Commission.
COPIES TO:
JA
1-1493
Major Plimsoll called to deliver the attached aide-mémoire
protesting against the flying of the Japanese flag by the ships
of the Antarctic whaling expedition. I told Major Plimsoll
that we had learned after the Australian Ambassador's conversa-
tion of October 5 with the Under Secretary and the dispatch of
the Department's aide-mémoire of October 16 that the Japanese
merchant marine flag is a component of the SCAJAP flag being
flown by the ships of the whaling expedition but that we did
not consider this "flying of the Japanese flag". Major Plimsoll
stated that this matter had serious political implications in
Australia, and that the Australian Government considered that
they had an unequivocal U.S. Government commitment that the
Japanese flag in any form would not be flown by the whaling
C
S
expedition ships. He added that he had heard but could not
6/A
state positively that actually the Japanese merchant marine flag
is flown at one end of the ships and the modified international
code flag "E" is flown at the other end, which if true would
make it difficult to maintain that the Japanese flag is being
used as a component of a special SCAJAP flag.
I told Major Plimsoll that I would make inquiries regarding
this matter and that a reply to the Embassy's communication
894.628
would be prepared promptly.
XS
FE:JKPenSield:ALM
7056

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.96)
7
AIDE-MÉMOIRE
Reference 1s made to the Australian Government's
ide-mémoire handed to Mr. James K. Penfield on DecemberB,
1946, by Major Jomes Plimsoll, protesting rer the use by
the SCAP-controlled Anteretic whaling expedition of the
894.628/10-546
Jepenese merchant marine flag as provided for in the
Supreme Commander': directive of November 15, 1946, on the
ground thst the display of the Japanese flag might be inter
preted ss indicating that the expedition wae a Japanese one.
The matter has been taken up w1th the Supreme Commander
who hes reiterated statements previously made thet the
present whaling activities do not constitute a precedent,
that the future of Japanese whaling 1s for Allied
CS/A
determination, and that the use of the Japanese flag is
primarily a symbol of ownership or registry and in no
way signifies any relaxation of control by the Supreme
Commander.
However, in vlew of the concern expressed by the
10-546
Australian Government at the display of the Japanese

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.91)
- 2-
merohant marine flag, the Supreme Commander has stated
that upon appropriate international promulgation he will
direct thet this partioular group of vessels fly only
the international "E" flag and not, under any eiroumstances,
fly the Japanese morohant marine flag.
The State Dopartment has now been informed by the
Navy Department that the United States naval foroes
in the Paeifio have been notified or this ohange and that
the Hydrographic Bureau of the Navy Department has been
instructed to inform likewise all merohant veenels.
The Supreme Commander has also been notified to this
effect.
N7
Department of State,
Washington,
H
Clurd by
phome with
Trus VanSent.
1/22/47 gu
JA:HLory/pm
1R

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.98)
Stotrnnd ly Anliali amlmsodon
MR.CHAIRMAN:
My Government's opposition to the resmption of Japanese
Antarctic whaling is well-known. Is has been stated by Australian
representatives at meetings of this Commission and of its Committees, and
has been pointed out in aide-memoires to the State Department. Australias
position has been unambiguous from the beginning: we are opposed to any
deep-sea whaling by the Japanese before the permanent future of this
industry has been decided by the peace oonference.
This opposition has been based on many grounds. We consider
that the presence of Japanese in Australian or Antarctic waters 
 constitutes a threat to the security and welfare of Australia.
Factory ships are capable of conversion into tankers and submarine
refuelling vessels, and chasers can be converted into naval patrol craft.
We know that during the war former Japanese whaling vessels were used for
naval purposes, and proved of great value to the enemy because they were speck
ially constructed in order to be readily converted into war usese Moreover,
the crews of these ships are given an opportunity to gain valuable experienee
in Antarctic waters and to make scientific obeervations. These things
should not be permitted before the peace conference has had an opportunity
to discuss and determine the whole question of the military disarmament
and control of Japan. I would like to point out, Mr. Chairman, that if
these arguments seem to carry much more weight in Australia and New Zealand
than they apparently do in Washington, it is because both Dominions are
exposed and alone in the South Pacific and are the ones most closely affeoted
by these operations of the Japanese. Ninety per cent. of the whales
captured by the Japanese last year were taken off Australian Antarctio
territories.
The Japanese violations of international whaling conventions in
the past are well known. Their depredations have done much to reduce the
mumbers of whales now living in these seas and this to reduce the quantity
of whale oil available to the world. The Japanese ruthlessly ed all
the whales they could get, regardless of sex or age, regardless of whether
they were with calf or not. A few years of enforced abstinence from

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.98)
2.
whaling would do no more than allow the Japanese to make some reoompense
to the rest of the world for their past conduct in redueing the total mmber
of whales to its present figure. Moreover, Mr. Chairman, we have me
confidence that the Japanese in future will observe the international
whaling conventions with any better faith than in the past.
Another Japanese expedition to the Antarotie will not inorease
the quantity of oil available to the world this year. The international
whaling conference has limited the total catoh to 16,000 blue whale units.
Exclusive of the Japanese, at least sixteen Allied factory ships will be
operating in 1947/48, and they will be able to attain the maximm of
16,000 whales. Therefore, any Japanese catohes will be at the expense
of Allied vessels. But mot only will the total number of whales captured
be no greater; the total output of oil will probably be amaller. Japanese
whaling methods before the war were most wasteful and unsatisfactory, and
they continued to be so last year. My Government has estimated that, from
the whales which were captured by the Japanese last year, at least 3,000
tons more oil could have been obtained, which at the present price of loo
a ton represents a loss of £300,000, or some $1,000,000. I understand that
the Norwegian Government has made estimates which are even higher. We are
informed that the Supreme Commander intends to take steps to improve the
Jpaanese ships and methods so that this waste will not continue, but we
cannot forget that ships were allowed to leave Japan last year obviously
chei
unfitted for tme job, despite the fact that the Supreme Commander's attention
had been drawn to the dangers of waste. I might add, for the information
of members who might not have already perused it, that I have had
distributed to members, on llth June, a copy of the official report of the
Australian observer who accompanied the last Japanese whaling expedition
to the Antarotic - this is document C2-231/2, and fully bears out what I
have been saying about waste and infringements of the international
conventions.
At this stage, Mr, Chairman, I should like to recapitulate the
course of ovents over the past year. My Government, in common with the
Governments of New Zealand, Norway and the United Kingdom, protested very

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.99)
3.
strongly in 1946 against the Japanese expedition to the Antarotie last
year. Our protests were of no avail, and the expedition sailed.
However, we did receive certain assurances from the United States
Government, one of which was that the question of the future of the
Japanese whaling industry was a matter of Allied consultation and decision.
We were also assured that the Australian Government would be fully
consulted in connection with any future proposals concerning Japanese
whaling with which the United States was concerned. I understand that
similar assurances were given to the Governmenta of New Zealand, Morway
and the United Kingdom.
Last December my Government introduced a paper into the Far
Eastern Commission - FEC-035/1 - which would have had the offect of
forbidding Japanese whaling in the Antarctic. This paper was carefully
considered in the economic committee, and by the end of February had
secured the support of every country represented on the Commission with
the exception of the United States. At this stage the American member,
finding himself outvoted by 10 to 1, suggested that the committee agree
to divide the paper into two separate papers covering fishing and whaling,
and the committee was led to believe that the United States was preparing
a paper which would have forbidden Japanese Antarctic whaling. On that
understanding the committee adjourned its discussion, and whenever members
raised questions subsequently they were assured that the papers were being
prepared.
Suddenly my Government was confronted on 27th May with a
statement from General Hilldring that a second Japanese expedition was
contemplated, and this was followed swiftly on 9th June with an aide-memoire
bluntly announcing that an expedition would definitely be authorised - a
unilateral act which disregarded the wishes of every other member of this
Commission and every other interested Government. Apparently, Mr.
Chairman, the three monthe' respite which the economic committee gave the
United States Government as a matter of courtesy, resulted, mot in an
American counter-proposal designed to meet the views of other Gevernments,
but in the rest of the Commission being lulled into a sense of false seeurity
and in the ultimate frustration of their wishes.

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.97)
Burely no one could maintain that the assuranses given to my
Government in 1946 have been fulfilled. There was no real "Allied
consultation and decision." My Government was not "fully consulted in
connection with future proposals concerning Japanese whaling."
Apparently General MacArthur's proposal for a second expedition was
considered in Washington for some weeks before any other Govermment was
informed. If we had been approached frankly in April and informed of
the Sapreme Commander's proposals and the United States views, we g
ae
confidort we could
have reached a detailed agreement acceptabhe to all. My Government
proposed last year that the expodition should be manned by Allied crows,
and assured the United States of Australia'a ability to provide the erew
of one factory ship and ancillary craft. I remember very well an
interview which I had with Mr. Dean Aoheson on the 5th of October, in
which I renewed that offer. But apparently, in all the consideration
given to this latest expedition before other Governments were consulted,
no consid ration was given to the earlier Australian offer to provide crews,
or to the possibility of an Allied expedition.
Immediately my Government learned that a second expedition was
contemplated, we made an earnest endeavour to find a solution which would
not only meet our position but satisfy the United States. The ohief
argument posed by the United States appears as follows in an aide-memoire
to my Government on 9th June of this year: *The protein food products
and whale oil provided by the expedition will be a vitally necessary
component of Japanese food and oil supplies during the calendar year 1948...
If the requisite protein foods and oil for calendar l948 are not obtained
from whaling operations, it will fall upon the United States, which contimues
in the interest and to the advantage of all the Allies to supply the entire
Japanese food deficit, to make up the deficiency, something which, in view
of the manifold demands on its fats and oils resources, it can ill afford to
do."
My Government carefully considered this argument. We are not
unappreciative of the burdens borne by the United States, and on 
many
s occasionsin this Commission and in Japan we have shown a willingness

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.98)
5.
to co-operate in aharing or relieving those burdens. You mmst remember
that we did not have muoh time to act on this matter. If we had been
consulted last April, we could have discussed various proposals in detail.
But we did what we could. Mr. Mackahon Ball discuesed the position with
General MacArttur and officials of his ataff. Here in Washington last
week we began to discuss a proposal which I can best summarise by quoting
from an aide memoire whioh I have since given to the State Departments
"The diffioulties of the United States Government in finamoing
relief for Japan and the difficulties of the Supreme Commander in securing
adequate supplies are fully appreciated. The Australian Government is
prepared to play its part in relieving these difficulties. To this and
it proposes that a factory ship and chasers should be made available to
Australia immediately for use in the coming whaling season. The Australien
Government is in a position to man these ships and operate them more
efficiently than the Japanese, thus increasing the amount ofal availeble.
The allocation of the food products to relieve the Japanese food shortage
would be entirely a matter for determination by the Supreme Commander, and
the oil would be allocated as at present by the Intermational Food
Emergency Committee, thus assuring supplies at least as adequate as those
which would be obtained from the proposed Japanese expedition. The
Australian Government is prepared to consider methods of payment which would
avoid the cost being a charge on United States revenue. If a separate
Australian expedition is not considered feasible or desirable, Australia
is prepared to conduct the expedition in association with other Allies,
in particular the United Kingdom, New Zealand, and Norway.
In putting forward that proposal, Mr. Chairman, my Government
deliberately refrained from going into detail because we wished to give
full opportunity for the United States to state, and for us to take accoumt
of, the practical difficulties and views of the Supreme Commander and the
United States Government. There are obviously many courses open in giving
effect to our offer, such as allooating a ship as advance reparations
1 deliveries

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.97)
6.
deliveries or leasing a ship, and there are many weys of considering the
financial problems involved. We feel that details can readily be worked
out if agreement is first reached on the funamental principless that
Japanese Antarotie whaling this year should be forbiddens and that the
Allied themselves should be given all rights of operating any omergeney
expedition for the purpose of obtaining whale meat and oil for the Japanese,
to be allocated by SCAP and the International Emergency Food Committee.
My Governmont feels this is a matter for decision by the Far
Eastern Commission, not for unilateral action by one Government. My
Government's posktion has been supported at Committee level by nine other
Governments, and I hope they will remain firm. I accordingly move the
adoption of FEC-231/4.

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.97)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
CONFIDENTIAL
•Washington
1879
Charge to
 porue nc.
OCT7
US URGENT
7 pn
894.628/10-746
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
516
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
DEPT greatly appreciates SCAP's prompt replies to
previous inquiries re Allied observers on wheling ex-
pedition and other queries on same subject. In replies
to ell countries Which protested DEPT maintained SCAP
was completely within rights in carrying out terms
US directive properly filed with FEC, that expedition
CS/V
was emergency one to obtain food and vital oils, was
for one season only and did not commit Us to support
of future JAP whaling industry which was agreed to be
matter for Allied decision, and no future Jap whaling
DISTRIBUTION
expeditions would be authorized without prior consultation
DESIRED
894.
(OFFICES ONLY)
interested nations particularly regarding security
aspects involved. Countries also informed nature Jap
62
ships precluded use of Allied crews and shortness time
made alteration of ships to fit them for Allied crews
01
impractical.
-746
Australian

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.94)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE-HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
-2-
Australian Ambassador has personally presented
his Sout
Acting Secrotary further Aide-Memoire stating
has
1
been advised vessels could be adapted to use by non-
Jap crews, QUOTE particularly if reconditioning were
begun immediately. UNQUOTE. It therefore requests
decision on this point be reconsidered and interested
Allied GOvTs be permitted provide entire crews of
expedition. This does not appear either feasible or
desirable to DEPT but SCAP's comments would be
appreciated. In this connection it would also be
helpful to have, if possible by telegraph, answers to
questions raised in PARAS 3 and 4 DEPTEL 500, SEPT 27.
Achesonm
Acting
DISTRIBUTION
JP
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
1
JA:JMAllison/pm
FE
IR
JK
BC
A-H
Clenatly
Claqee Saen
10/7/46
phon with
corsdh
Vansant
US. GOVERNMENT PRINTINO OFFICE-19

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.97)
PREPARING'OPFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PRÍPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
-2-
Ambassador_personally
Australian/aoT has/presented further Aide-Memoire
to Acting Secretary
stating it has been advised vessels could be adapted
to use by non-Jep crews, QUOTE particularly if recondi-
tioning were begun immediately. UNQUOTE. It therefore
requests decision on this point be reconsidered and
interested Allied GOvTs be permitted provide entire
crews of expedition. This does not appear either
feasible or desirable to DEPT but SCAP's comments would
be appreciated. In thig cannection it would also be
helpful to have, if possible by telegraph, answers to
questions raised in PARAS 3 and 4 DEPTEL 500, SEPT 27.
Acting
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
gma
JA:JMAllison/pm
FE
IR
JK
BC
A-H
10/7/46
tolphneneil
with
2. lhartin
vansaur
NOT SENT
NOT TO BE RECORDED OR CONFIRMED UNTIL THIS COUPON
HAS BEEN DETACHED BY THE TELEGRAPH OPERATOR

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISIÓN OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
0-1946
9
Aotion: FE
info:
Dated October 8, 1946
EUR
ITP
CONFIDENTIAL
Rec'd 6:02 p.m., 8th.
ESP
TRC
Contro1 276
U~E
A-H
No peraphrase necessary
).D
Fli
DU/R
ECSTATE
US URGT
8:15Am
458, Ootober 8.
REURAD 516, October 7.
It would be entirely impraeticable to endeavor to
arrange accommodacions for Aliiad crews or to utilize such
894.628/10-84€
crows on the expedition. Net only would it cause such
delay as to probably renler the expedition impossible but
to attempt reconditioning of vessels would.be economically
unsound. Most serious and perh ps insurmountable dif-
flculties in endeavoring to operate and control such ex
pedition with crews of mixed natlonalities could be an-
vicipated. There vould inevitaoly arise question of
divided responsibility. There would ariss problem of
confliet of shipping lays of various nationalities and we
doubt if any Americar. crors could be found who would be
willing to undertave serrice on this expedition   necessary
conditions of such serviee were known.
In add ition there vould be difficulties in housing and
eeding crens pensing sailing and in insuring uniform pay,
rations and equirment
This headquarters could not assume
responsibility for control of mixed Allied crews on ex-
pedition of this neture and does not believe that the
proposal could, as a prast cal attter, be carried into
effect or that it nerits consideration.
OCT 16 1946
APCHESON
FILED
JPMC
CONFIDENTIAL
PERMANENT RECURD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
R

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.98)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
JA
Tokyo via War
8:20am
2
Dated October 12, 1946
Action: FE
Info
CONFIDENTIAL
Rec'd 1:14 p.m., 15th
EUR
DC/L
Control 5087
ITP
ESP
No paraphrase necessary
TRC
UE
A-H
SECSTATE
OCD
FC
DC/R
US URGENT
466, October 12.
REDEPTELS 500, September 27 and 516, October 8.
1. No special training systems for inspectors of
894.628/10-
wheling operations
Qualificntlons as follovs:
(A) Must be graduates of fisheries, college or
university.
(B) Are usually selected rom employees of
whaling section Jap Fisherie: Bureau, and especially
from among those whose work concerns supervision
whaling regulations;
(C)
Must be physically fit between 20-50 years old;
1246
(D)
Fisheries Bureau uppcints 2 whaling inspectors
for each factory ship. Appointments are for 1 year and
moy be renevel. One of vwo eppe etees must heve had
previous ser vice aboard factory ship as whaling inspector
and must be "official technician 2nd class" (Fisheries
technicians are ratod cormeneurate vith educational
background. experience and length of service with bureau)
NOV 7
2.
Penalties exist for violations of "RegulatLons
FILED
of whaling factory ships" and under the fectory ships
section of
INTERNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
Refly d- afted 10/50/46
CONFIDENTIAL
70CT29 1946 ER13
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
R
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
HOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2- #466. October 12, from Tokyo via Wer
section of fishery law. Copies laws and regulations es
submitted October 9, 1946 by Bureau Fisheries being
eirmailed. In addition, Imperial Orcinance 31l, June 11,
1946 provides penalty of 75,000 yen or 10 years 1mpr1sonment
for violation eny SCaP directive. As any violation
international whaling agreement vould be viclation SCfP
directive, provisions Imperial Ordinance 3ll could be
invoked if necessary
Jap Bureau of Fisheries notified that provisions for
violations whaling regulations inadequate in comparison US
penalties and has instituted measures provide new imperial
ordinance dealing exclusively with penalties for violgtions
whaling regulations. Dept will be informed of new
ordinance when promulgated.
3. Jap technicians or inspectors on each factory
ship are qualified and ecuipped to obtain all biologic 1
data required by int eraation u nvention and will obtai
specific data requested in final para DEPTEL 5oo. Men pranrium
to Jap Govt being prepared directing additionel biolopIcal
investigations: and specific data requested DEPTEL 50c
are noted in memorandum. Issuance this memorandum being
delayed until procedures for biologists is received from
Dept.
4. According to statistical records submitted to
N.tural Resources Section. SCAP, by Jap Bureau of Fisteries
no right whales killed during 1945-46 Bonin whaling
operations or at any time during any operations since
occupation began. Origin of report (penu timate para
DEPTEL 5oo) and any available evidence that right whal?
was killed by Jap requested.
ATCHESON
NOTE: Mes sage de layed in transmission.
EHL:JB
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.93)
Sudeke on
DR-9
IR-FISHERIES & WILDLIFE
FILE COPY
311946
CONFIDENTIAL
No. 298
To the
United States Politioal Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
894.628/10-1246
Tokyo.
The Seoretary of State refers to the final paragraph
of the Political Adviser's telegram no. 466, Ootober 12,
1946, conoerning the reported killing of a right whale
in the course of whaling operations in the Bonin Islands
during 1945.
This report came to the attention of the Department
through Dr. Remington Kellogg, of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, to whom it was tranemitted from the Japanese
Fisheries Bureau. The original and one photostatio copy
of the report are enolosed herewith. Attention is dirested
to the indioation that one right whale was taken in 1945,
presumably in the Bonin Islands area where whaling had been
authorized.
The Political Adviser is requested to furnish the
Department urgently with all available information mhich
may serve to explain the ciroumstanees under whioh this
right whale was taken, apparently in violation of inter-
national whaling regulations.
CS/ V
Enclosure:
CE
1. Original and one
photostatic copy
of Japanese whaling
report.
A te cpy of
the sgoot erigt
ael.
894.628
OR
OCT
30
P.1
l
ENe
GRNY
IR: ERVenSent:pmc
JA
A-H
Cleared by phone
10/29/46
8KE
wi th Smi thsonian-
Dr. Kellogg

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.92)
1151
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Colloct
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGK:
Charge Department:
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
SUPREIE COMMANDER ALLIED POWERS
3pn
TOKYO
894.628/10
Info: War D ept Chief Steff
3373
For: Political Adviser
Following messece transmitted to War Dept for approvel
894.628/10-1246
and transmission to SCAP.
o
I
UOTE: PART I.X Re Cable no. 466, Oct. 12, from POLAD.
1246
xxx--1. Infe re Jap inspectors and penalties
State Dept
kXXXXxXXEBxX0xXXxxXX sa ti sf c tory./ DxioT
recuests infe re qualifications American
inspectors eccompenying expedition, also
SCAP file on Antoretic project (DEPTEL 476
DOR
Unit
Sept 10 pere 3). Info desired in antici-
pation questions at forthcoming intermational
CS/
jat
wheling conference.
. Further info re right whale xxxxxxxxs
DISTRIBUTION
wb
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
cptxxxxxxxent air11.
END QUOTE
ion Tankers to Whaling Factories
 "Despite assurances given by maex both Brit
and New Zealand Govts have agnin reiged
question SCAP directive Aug 23 re convereion
three tankers to
whaling
JAJKAH
10/50/46
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFIC-14

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.95)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OPFICE WILL
WILLINDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
-2-
whaling factory ship. Brit note reiterates desire that
provisions direetive--DouBLE QUCTE--cen be nullified-
END DouBLE auOTE--and NZ note expresses hope directive--
DouBLE QuoTE--will be cancelled at en early dater-END
DoUBLE uoTE--. In view these persistent objections and
expectation issue will be introduced forthcoming whaling
your
conference /furt er xx couments would be helpful--END QUoTE.
Acheron
(rEs?)
NOV6
RELEASE
1
DC/T
DISTRIBUTION
P
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
DE
2
S
8
VHH
ERNS
IR: ERVanSa nt: pmc
A-H
10/30/46
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-194€

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, October 12, 1946
SECRETAR
Restricted
ASSISTANT
847
A-H
No 646
APR 1 1947
REPORTING BIRVICES
DIVIBION OF FORFIGN
UB
CT:
Reports on Whaling Activities of
DEP
the Japanese Government
bt
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to
I eic
efer to the Department's telegram 476, September 11, and
thiMission's telegram 466, October 12, 1946, and to enclose
coptes of the following reports on the whaling activities of
the Japanese Government:
894.628/10-124€
1/
(a)
Weekly report of whaling activities in
Japanese Coastal Waters for the period
September 8-14, 1946;
(b)
Weekly Status Report of the 1946-47 Japanese
2/
Antarctic Whaling Fleet for the period Septem-
ber 8-14, 1946; and
COPILS
(c)
List of all Japanese Whale Killer Boats, includ-
3/
gA
ing those under construction.
The information contained in these reports was prepared
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, based on information
submitted by the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries.
00
These initial reports were somewhat delayed due to the
failure of the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries to understand
exactly what was required in the way of information. The
Natural Resources Section states that subsequent reports
will be prepared more promptly.
CS/
Enclosures: (in triplicate only)
2
1/ Weekly report of whaling activities
2/ Weekly Status Report of Japanese Antarctic Whaling
Fleet
3/ List of Japanese Whale Killer Boats
Original and Hectograph to Department
Recto to FR
INTERINATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
780
I copy each enelosure detacked
2/4/46
GAbbey:df
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2
H
A 9 1947
FILED
5
QEPAREN
946 01 30
a.11c
C
Rev
C
E.B.
PA

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl Ko. 1 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 646
WEEKLY REPORT OF WHALING ACTIVITIES IN
JAPANESE COASTAL WATERS
From 8 Sept 1946 TO 14 Sept 1946 (Incl)
Report No.
1
Number of whales caught
Name of whale
Name of land
Fin Sei Humpback Sperm To
catches operated
Stations operated
NIPPON SUISAN CO.
2
0
0
0
2
Abashiri
Sazanami Maru
(Abashiri-machi,
Suwa Maru
Hokkaido)
Taihei Maru No.1
0
0
0
2
2
Kiritappu
Akebono Maru
(Hamanaka-mura,
Nissui Maru No. 1
Hokkaido)
0
1
0
1
Same
Koun Maru No. 1
(Hachinohe-shi,
Seikai Maru No. 2
Aomori Pref.)
Togo Maru No. 2
0
ó
0
2
8
Kamaishi
Etorofu Maru
(Kamaishi-shi,
Koun Maru No. 2
Iwate Pref.)
Koyo Maru
Seikai Maru No. 1l
Showa Maru No. 10
Takunan Maru No. 3
0
4
0
0
4
Ayukawa
Shonan Maru No. 8
(Ayukawa-machi,
Shonan Maru No. 11
Miyagi Pref.)
Takunan Maru No. 2
Takunan Maru No. 8
0
2
0
0
2
Kabashima
Seikai Maru No. 8
(Kabashima-mura,
Nagasaki Pref.)
0
0
0
0
Okochi
Hogei Maru No. 1
(Tsushima Is.,
Nissui Maru No. 2
Nagasaki Pref.)
Togo Maru No. 1
-1-

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.98)
Name of land
Name of whale
Number of whales caught
stations operated
catchers operated
Fin
Sei
Humpbaok Sperm Tota
TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Akkeshi
1
7
1
70
79
(Akkeshi-machi,
Daito Maru No. 1
Hokkaido)
Daitox Maru No. 3
Fumi Maru
Fumi Maru No. 5
Seki Maru No. 2
Seki Maru No. 3
Toshi Maru No. 3
KYOKUYO HOGEI CO.
Kushiro
0
0
0
0
0
(Kushiro-shi,
Fuku Maru
Hokkaido)
Ayukawa
0
0
0
4
4
(Ayukawa-machi,
Kyo Maru
Miyagi Pref.)
Toyo Maru
TOTAL
3
20
1
78
102
NOTE:
This report was the rirst to be submitted by the Japanese Bureau
of Fisheries and was received on 18 September 1946.
-2-

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.86)
Encl No. 2 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 646
WEAKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAYARESE ANTARCTIC WHALING FLEET
Fro19to 19 (In01)
Name of Company
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Completion
Estimated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
Engine
Equi
Average
of Completion
Nisshin
Fectory
11.000
Mitahubishi
Comvers on from
e5s
5
16
627
15 Octeber 1946
Meru Ne. 1
ahip
Shipyerd, Mege-
cil tanker
eaki
Traye Kera
Carfier
10.000
Mitsublshi
Conversicn
75
997
40%
715
15 October 1906
Shipyerd.ga
saki
Diege
Oil Tenken
7.268
Yokonuke
In operaticn
Bansha
Cerrier
are No. 36
1,000
Be asbikane
Crerbaul må
100%
20%
15
45
15 Catoter
Shipyerd, Shim
repeir
6noneki
Sanske
Carrier
Maru
983
Shimoacaski
Ia operatiem
Bogebu
Carrier
Meru No.32
787
Shimonoseki
In operation
Bamehs
Carrier
993
Shimra oacki
In eperation
Be o.35
15 G0tater 2966
Fund Mava Cateber
300
Kasesaki Skip-
Cemstruction
705
7
B2
yards, Geata
Prain lese
Catcher
300
Kevanski ship-
Comstrustion
52
yará, Kobe

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.88)
HESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JA ARESE ANTARCTIC WHALING FLEET
Fro1946t01
Name of Company
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Completion
Estimated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
engine
qui
Áverage
of Completion
FORY  P
Cetcher
307
Akkeshi lrmd
In e pe ation
Noo 5
stetins.
Hokkaide
Saki Mera
Cetsber
298
Akteahi lend
lm operetica
.3
atstion.
Bakke ide
Seki Mare
Cotoher
300
Miteubiehi Snip- Comstruetia
90%
50%
56
15 Gotober 1986
yard, Tame.
Ckayame Pref.
Daki Mare
Cataber
300
Mitsubishi Ship- Construction
8ox
5ox
10x
47%
15 Catater 1986
o.5
yard, Tama,
Ckayam Pref.

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.83)
HESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JA AIESE ANTARCTIC WHALING FLEET
Froto
Name cf Company a co.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Completion
Estimated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
Engine
Equi
Average
of Completion
Featory
10.020
Riteshi Smipe
Sonversion
72x
8%
57
65
25 00tober 1986
Bstddats
yerd, Raneshim. from oil tanker
Mare
Hiroshimm Pref.
Sadetou
Carrier
9.976
Kawaecki Ship.
Gomversion
40
100%
638
15 Oateber 2986
yard. Osaka
Jeye Maru
Catcher
370
Kameishi lend Ia operation
st tion. Imata
Pref.
m 
Gataher
350
Ayukeme 1amd
In opertion
. 8
station.Miyegi
Prof.
Shiasn Maru Gateher
250
Ayukamo lana
a operstion
20. 11
station. Niyagi
Pref.
Pekaan Heru
950
Ayckama 1amß
 operation
No. 2 Gateher
station, Miyagi
Pref.
Thke Kare
33
Esmishl lond
Im operation
No. 3 Gataber
statica, Miyagi
Pref.
39
Ayakase Lamé
a epsrution
Tkutm Eayu
8G
statiom Rate
Foet.

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl No. 2 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 646
3
HESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAY ARESE ANTALCTIC WHALING FLEET
Fro: 8 Sopt 1946
to 1 4 Sopt 1946
(Incl)
Name cf Company TaIYo GYoGyo CO.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Coapletion
Estimated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
Engine
Lqui
Average
of Completion
Nisshin
Factory
11.000
Mitsubishi
Conversion from
85%
85%
167
62%
15 October 1946
Maru No. 1
ship
Shipyard, Nage-
oil tanker
seki
Tenyo Maru
Carrier
10.000
Misaubishi
Conversion
75%
99%
407
71%
15 October 1946
Shipyerd, Naga-
seki
Sam Diego
Oil tanker
7.268
Yokosuka
In operation
Maru
Banshu
Carrier
1.000
Rayashikene
Overhaul and
1007
20%
15%
45
15 October 1946
Maru No. 36
S inyard. Shim-
repair
onoseki
Baashu
Carrier
983
Shimonoseki
In operation
Maru
Benshu
Carrier
782
Shimonoseki
In operation
Maru No. 32
Banshu
Maru No. 35
Carrier
993
Shimon oseki
In operation
Fumi Maru
Catcher
300
Kewasaki Ship-
Construction
70%
77%
65%
70%
15 October 1946
No. 2
yards, Osake

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.98)
WELKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JA ARESE ANTANCTIC WHALING FLEET
Fro.: 8 Sept 1946to 14 Sopt 1946
Name Cf Company TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Completion
Estimated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
Engine
Equi
Average
of Completion
85%
52%
50%
56%
15 Octeber 1946
Fumi Maru
Catcher
300
Fawasaki Ship-
Construction
No. 3
yerd. Kobe
Fumi Maru
Catcher
387
Akkeshi lend
In operation
No. 5
station.
Hokkaido
Seki Maru
Cateher
298
Akkeshi land
In operation
No. 3
stetion.
Hokkaido
Seki Maru
Catcher
300
Mitsubishi Ship Construction
90%
50%
30%
56
15 October 1946
yard. Tame.
Ckayama Pref.
Seki Maru
Catcher
300
Mitsubishi Ship Construction
80%
50%
10%
47%
15 October 1946
No. 5
yard, Tama.
Ckayama Pref.

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.89)
HESKLY STATUS RPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JA ARESE ANTANCTIC WHALING FLEDT
Fro. 8 1946
6to1946
Name cf Compay s o.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Completion
Estimated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
Engine
Lqui
Average
of Completion
Teotory
10.020
Hi tashi Ship-
Coaversion
71%
85%
97%
658
25 G0tobar 2946
Bashddate
Ship
yard, Innoshima
from oil tanker
Bare
Hireshima Pref.
tadotsu
Carrier
9.976
Xawasak1 Shipe
Conversion
40%
100%
50%
6
15 Gatober 1946
Mare
yerd, Csaka
Boyo Nare
Oatcher
370
Kemaishi land
In operatica
stetion, Iwate
Pref.
Shénom Mare
Catcher
350
Ayacosa land
In operation
.8
station,Miyagi
Pref.
Shönen Mard Gataker
350
Ayukasa lend
In eperation
Bo.11
station, Miyagi
Pref.
Paikuten Kara
350
Aytcasa loml
In operatica
No. 2 Sataher
statici, Miyagi
Pref.
Takrutan Maru
350
Kesaighi lemd
E operaticn
Bo. 3 dateber
station, Miyagi
Preß.
Saruten Maru
300
Aysksse lama
h operation
N0.8 Datehes
station wate
Poof.

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl No. 3 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 646
LIST OF ALL JAPANESE WHALE KILLER BOATS INCLUDING THOSE UNDER
CONSTRUCTION
Name and Owner
Horse
of Vessel
Gross Tonnage
Power
Construction
Nippon Suisan Co.
1.
Akebono Maru
109.91
290
Steal
2.
Etorofu Maru
207.11
640
3.
Hogei Maru No. 1
97.04
180
4.
Koun Maru No. 1
90.79
250
Wood
5.
Koun Maru No. 2
91.93
230
Wood
6.
Koyo Maru a
370.00
1,800
Steel
7.
Nissui Maru No. 1
109.43
290
8.
Nissui Maru No. 2
160.
270
n
9.
Sazanami Maru
107.37
280
n
10.
Seikai Maru No. 
64.52
105
Wood
11.
Seikai Maru No. 5
52.79
140
90
12.
Seikai Maru No. 8
54.09
100
13.
Seikai Maru No. 10
43.27
110
n
14. Seikai Maru No. 11
40.94
120
n
15.
Shonan Maru No. 8 a
350.00
1.000
Steel
16.
Shonan Maru No. 11 a
350.00
1.400
17.
Showa Maru No. 10
264.30
1.000
n
18.
Suwa Maru
112.11
270
11
19.
Taihei Maru No. 1
106.78
290
n
20.
Takunan Maru No. 2 a
350.00
990
n
21.
Takunan Maru No. 3 a
350.00
990
1
22.
Takunan Maru No. 8 a/b
350.00
990
11
23.
Togo Maru No. 1
107.24
290
n
24。
Togo Maru No. 2
110.47
270
Taiyo Gyogyo Co..
1.
Daito Maru No. 1
109.44
290
Steel
2.
Daito Maru No. 3
126.42
260
Wood
3.
Fumi Maru
359.74
920
Steel
4.
Fumi Maru No. 5 a
387.00
1.200
1n
5.
Seki Maru No. 2
359.74
926
99
6.
Seki Maru No. 3 a
298.00
1,100
7.
Toshi Maru No. 3
298.82
790
n
Kyokuyo Hogei Co.
1.
Kaito Maru
45.39
60
WoOd
2.
Fuku Maru
50.81
120
Wood
3。
Kyo Maru No. 1
275.00
950
Steel
4.
Sachi Maru
50.81
160
Wood
5.
Toyo Maru
91.93
230
n
TOTAL - 36 Whale Killer Boats.
23

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.96)
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
Name
Gross
Horse
Construction
Tonnage
Power
Kyokuyo Hogei Co.
1. Kyo Maru No. 2
270.00
950
Steel
2. Kyo Maru No. 3
370.00
1.800
n
3. Kyo Maru No. 5
370.00
1.800
n
4. Kyo Maru No. 6
370.00
1.800
n
Taiyo Gyogyo Co.
1. Fumi Maru No. 2 a
300.00
1.600
Steel
Fumi MarunNo. 3 a
300.00
1,600
n
Seki Maru a/
300.00
1,600
n
4. Seki Maru No. 5 a/
300.00
1.600
n
TOTAL - 8 Whale Killer Boats
GRA TOTAL - 44 Whale Killer Boats
a
Authorized for participation in 1946-47 Antarctic whaling
activities.
b
Beached at Ayukawa and eliminated from 1946-47 Antarotic
whaling activities.
NOTE:
Information as submitted by the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries
on 27 September 1946.

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.95)
Encl No. 3 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 646
LIST OF ALL JAPANESE WILALE KILLER BOATS INCLULING THOSE UNDER
CONSTRUCTION
Name and Owner
Horse
o1 Vessel
Gross Tonnage
Power
Construction
Nippon Suisan Co.
1.
Akebono aru
109.91
290
Steal
2。
Etorofu Maru
207.11
040
11
3.
Hogei Maru No. 1
97.04
180
4.
Koun laru Mo. 1
90.79
250
Wood
5.
Koun Maru No. 
91.93
230
Wood
0.
Koyo Maru a
370.00
1,800
Stael
7.
Nissui Maru No. 1
109.43
290
19
8.
Nissui Maru No. 2
160.74
270
11
9.
Sazanami maru
107.37
280
10.
Seikai Laru No. 
04.52
105
wood
11.
Seikai maru No. 5
52.79
140
12.
beikai maru No. 8
54.09
100
11
13.
Seikai muru No. 10
43.<7
110
11
14. seikai aru .0. 11
40.94
120
15.
Shonan Maru No. 8 
350.00
1,000
Steel
10.
shonan huru No. 11 
350.00
1,400
11
17.
Chowa muru no. 10
204.30
1,000
11
18.
suwa aru
11~.11
270
11
19.
Tainei hmuru no. 1
100.78
<90
11
~0.
Tukunan Haru No. 
350.00
990
11
~1.
rakunan Maru No.
350.00
990
1"
22.
Takunan Laru No. 8
a
350.00
990
23.
Togo Maru No. 1
107.2L
290
24.
Togo Laru No. 2
110.47
270
Taiyo Gyogyo Co.
1.
Daito Maru No. 1
109.44
290
steel
2。
Daito Laru No. 3
120.44
200
.ood
3.
Fumi Maru
359.74
920
Steel
40
Fumi Maru No. 5 
387.00
1,200
11
5.
Seki Maru No. 
359.74
920
11
6.
Seki haru no. 3
298.00
1,100
7。
Toshi Maru No. 3
298.82
790
11
Kyokuyo Hogei Co.
1。
Kaito Meru
45.39.
00
Wood
2.
Fuku raru
50.81
120
wood
3。
Kyo Muru Yo. 1
275.00
950
Steel
410
Sachi Maru
50.81
100
Wood
5.
Toyo Maru
91.93
230
:1
ToTL - Bo hale Killer Bonts.

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.97)
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
Name
Gross
Horse
Construction
Tonnage
Fower
Kyokuyo Hogei Co.
1.
Kyo maru No. 2
<70.00
950
Steel
2.
Kyo Maru No. 3
370.00
1,800
3.
Kyo Maru No. 5
370.00
1,800
4.
Kyo Maru No. o
370.00
1,800
1"
Taiyo Gyogyo Co.
1.
Fumi Maru No.  
300.00
1,000
Steel
2.
Fumi maru. No. 3 
300.00
1,600
11
3.
Seki Maru 
300.00
1,000
11
5. Seki Maru No. 5 a
300.00
1,000
11
TOTAl - 8 nnale hiller Boats
GRAND TOTAL - 44 Whale Killer Bouts
a
Authorized 1or participation in 194o-47 Antarctic whaling
activities.
b
Beached at ayukawa und eliminated from 1946-47 Antarctic
whaling activities.
NOTE:
Information as submitted by the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries
on 27 September 1946.

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.92)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
JA
Tokyo, October 14 1946
Restricted
No. 647
FE
AH
SUBJECT: Weekly Report of Japanese Whaling Activities.
594,628
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to
r to this Liission's despatch No. 646, October 12, 1946,
Jek
wit which was submitted reports on Japanese whaling
acvities for the period September 8-14, 1946, and to
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
en ose herewith the following reports for the period
ember 15-22, 1946:
894.628/10-1446
-11946
ENT OF STATE
(a) Weekly Report of whaling activities in Japanese
Coastal Waters;
(b)
Weekly Status Report of the 1946-47 Japanese
Antarctic Whaling Fleet for the period September
15-22;
(c)
List of all Japanese Whaling land stations on
3/
the four Main Islands of Japan; and
(d)
Map showing the location of all Japanese whaling
land stations on the four Main Islands of Japan.
CCP123
10:
Enclosures: (in triplicate only)
1/ Weekly Report of whaling activities
2/ Weekly Status Report of Japanese Antarctic
Whaling Fleet
3/ List of Japanese Whaling land stations
OCT.
4/ Map showing location of all Japanese whaling land
stations
Original and Hectograph to Department
780
DCR - ITP Unit
S5
GAbbey:df
a1
V
dat
INTERN LONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
legme Qvecopy eack
elielpeure
onst
W/00
N00-1946
desacked
ILITIES
946 01 30
DEPARIMENT OF STATE ERUS
3
C
QFAT
12/4/460
R
FACI

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.95)
Encl No. 1 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 647
WEEKLY REPORT OF WHALING ACTIVITIES IN JAPANESE COASTAL
WATERS
From 15 Sept 1946 to 21 Sept 1946
Incl.
Report No.
Name of land
Name of whale
Number of whales caught
Stations operated
Catchers operated
Fin
Sei
Blue
Sperm Total
NIPPON SUISAN CO.
Kiritappu
0
0
0
2
2
(Hamanaka-mura,
Akebono Maru
Hokkaido)
Nissui Maru No. 1
Suwa Maru
Taihei Maru No. 1
Same
0
1
O
1
(Hacninohe-shi,
Koun Maru No. 1
Aomori Pref.)
Seikai Maru No. 2
Togo Maru No. 2
Kamaishi
0
6
0
15
21
(Kamaishi-shi,
Etorofu Maru
Iwate Pref.)
Koun Maru No. 2
Koyo Maru
Seikai Maru No. 11
Showa Maru No. 10
Takunan Maru No. 3
Ayukawa
0
0
O
5
5
(Ayukawa-machi,
Shonan Maru No. 8
Miyagi Pref.)
Shonan Maru No. 11
Takunan Maru No. 2
Kabashima
O
0
0
0
0
(Kabashima-mura,
Hogei Maru No. 1
Nagasaki Pref.)
Seikai Maru No. 8
Okochi
0
0
0
0
(Tsushima Is.,
Nissui Maru No. 2
Nagasaki Pref.)
Togo Maru No. 1
TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Akkeshi
1
0
1
18
20
(Akkeshi-machi,
Daito Maru No. 1
Hokkaido)
Daito Maru No. 3
Fumi Maru
Fumi Maru No. 5

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.99)
Name of land
Name of whale
Number of whales caught
stations operated
catchers operated
Fin
Sei
Blue
Sperm Total
TAIYO GYOGYO CO. (CCNT'D)
Seki Maru No. 2
Seki Maru No. 3
Toshi Maru No. 3
KYOKYO HOGEI CO.
Kushiro
0
0
0
2
2
(Kushiro-shi,
Fuku Maru
Hokkaido)
Ayukawa
0
3
3
(Ayukawa-machi,
Sachi Maru
Miyagi Pref.)
Toyo Maru
TOTAL
1
7
1
45
54
NOTE: None of the follwoing vessels operated during tnis period:
Name of Vessel
Owner
Reason
Sazanami Maru
Nippon Suisan Co.
Enroute from Abashiri to Kamaishi
Seikai Maru No. 5
Nippon Suisan Co.
Undergoing minor repairs at
Tobata, Fukuoka Pref.
Seikai Maru No. 10
Nippon Suisan Co.
Undergoing minor repairs at
Hakodate, Hokkaido
Kaito Maru
Kyokuyo Hogei Co.
Sunk by Typhoon at Ohame, Nagasaki
Pref. on 20 August 1946; being
salvaged.
Kyo Maru No.
Kyokuyo Hogei Co.
Undergoing repair at Shiogama,
Miyagi Pref
NOTE:
The above information was submitted by the Japanese Bureau of
Fisheries on 25 September 1946.
-2-

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl No. 2 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 647
HELKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAYARESE ANTARCTIC WHALLNG FLEET
to 21 Sopt 1946 Incl
Fro.1 15 Sopt 1946
TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Name of Company
Percentage of Completion
Estimated Date
Name of
Vessel
Type of
Vessel
Gross
Tonnage
Location of
Vessel
or Disposition
Type of Work
Hull
86%
Engine
95%
qui
35%
Average
72%
15 0c tober 1946
of Completion
Nisshin
Factory
11.000
Mitsubishi
Conversion
Maru No. 1
ship
Shipyard, Naga-
frem oil tanker
saki
87%
100%
52%
79%
15 Oetober 1946
Tenye Maru
Carrier
10,000
Mitsubishi
Conversion
Shipyard, Naga
saki
Sam Diege
Oil Tanker 7.268
Yokosuka
In operation
Maru
Banshu
100%
30%
27%
52%
15 Oetober 1946
Maru No. 36 Carrier
1.000
Hayashikano
Overhaul and
Shipyard,
repair
Shimonoseki
Banshu
Carrior
983
Shimoneseki
In eperation
Maru
Banshu
Carrier
782
Shimonoseki
In operation
Maru No. 32
Banshu
Carrier
993
Shimonoseki
In ep eration
Maru No. 35
77%
82%
72%
77%
15 October 1946
Fumi Maru
Catcher
300
Kawasaki Ship-
Construction
yards, Osaka
No. 2

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.99)
WELKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JA ARESE ANTARCTIC WHALLNG FLEET
Fro.1 15 Sopt 1946
21 Sept 1946
to
Name of Company
TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Completion
Estimated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
Engine
Equi
Average
of Completion
Funi Maru
Catcher
300
Kawasaki Ship-
Construction
93%
70%
52%
71%
15 October 1946
No. 3
yard, Kobe
Fumi Maru N Catcher
387
Akkeshi land
In operation
No. 5
station,
Hokkaido
Seki Maru
Catcher
298
Akkeshi land
In operation
No. 3
station,
Hokkaido
Seki Maru
Catcher
300
Mitsubishi
Construction
90%
75%
50%
71%
15 Ootober 1946
shipyard, Tema
Okayama Prof.
Seki Maru N Catcher
300
Mitsubishi
Constructio 1
85%
50%
30%
55%
15 October 1946
No. 5
shipyard, Tama
Okayama Pref.

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.99)
HELKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JA ARESE ANTARCTIC WHALLNG FLEET
Fro.1 15 Sept 1946
to 21 Sept 1946
Name of Company
NIPP ON SUISAN CO.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Mork
Percentage of Completion
Estimated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
Engine
Equi
Average
of Completion
Hashidate
Factory
10,020
Hitachi Ship-
Conversion from
77%
90%
46%
71%
15 October 1946
Maru
shi p
yard, Innoshime,
oil tanker
Hiroshima Pref
Tadotsu
Carrier
9.976
Kawasaki Ship-
Conversion
45%
100%
55%
67%
15 October 1946
Maru
yard, Kobe
Koyo Maru
Catcher
370
Kamaishi land
In operation
station, Iwate
Prof.
350
En route to
Will undergo
Shenan Maru Catcher
No. 8
Osaka
repair
Shonan Maru Catcher
350
Ayakawa land
In operation
station, 'Miyagi
Prof.
10%
15 October 1946
Takunan
Catcher
350
Hitachi Shi p- Overhaul and
Maru No. 2
yard, Innosh imé,
ropair
Hireshima Prefl
Takuman
Catcher
350
Enroute to
Will underge
Maru No. 3
Osaka
repair
350
Beached at
Takuman Maru
No. 8
Ayukawa. Elim
inated from
Antaretie
participation

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.93)
Encl No. 2 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 647
WEEKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPANESE ANTARCTIC WHALING FLEET
Incl
FRCM15 S 19h6 T021 900 1946
NAME OF COMPANY
TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of work
Percentage of Completiom
Estimated date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
Eagine
Equip Average
of Completion
Nisshin
Factory
11.000
Mitsubishi
Conversion
86%
95%
358
728
15 Octeber 1946
Maru No. 1
ship
Shipyerd, Naga-
frem cil tanker
seki
Tonye Maru Carrier
10.000
Mitoubishi
Conversion
87%
100%
52%
79%
15 Oetober 1946
Shipyard. Naga-
sak1
Sam Diego
011 Tanker 7.268
Yokosuke
In operaticn
Mare
Barska
Maru No. 36 Carrier
1.000
Rayashikane
Overtaul and
100%
30%
27
52%
15 Catober 1946
Shipyard,
ropair
Shimonosski
Banshu
Carrier
983
Shimonescki
In operation
Mara
N
Bansha
Carrier
782
Shimonosoki
In eperation
Maru No. 32
Banshu
Carrier
993
Shimonoask1
Da ep eraticn
Maru No. 5
Funi Maru
Cataber
300
Isvesoki Ship-
Cosstruction
77
82s
78
25 00taber 1966
No. 2
yarde, Osska

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.95)
15 Sept 1946
21 Sopt 1946
TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Fumi Mara Catcher
300
Xaweseki Ship-
Construetion
93
70%
52%
71%
15 Octeber 1946
No. 3
yerd, Kobe
Fumi Maru N Catcher
387
Akkeshi lemd
In operation
No.5
station.
Bokkaide
Saki Maru Cateber
298
Akkeshi land
In opersticm
No. 3
station.
Hokkaide
Saki Maru Catober
300
Mitsubishi
Construetion
90%
75%
50%
71% 15 Catober 1946
shipyard, Tame,
Okayama Pref.
Soki Mara N Catsher
300
Mitsubishi
Constructio B
85%
50%
30%
55%15 Detober 1946
No. 5
shipyard, Tamm,
Okayamm Pref.

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.92)
15 Sept 1946
.21 Sept 1946
NIPP ON SUISAN CO.
Hashidate Fastory
10.020
Hitechi Ship- Cemversion from 77%
90%
46%
72%
15 October 1946
Mara
shi p
yard, Immoshime, oil tanker
Hiroshime Pref.
Tedoton
Carrier
9.976
Kawasaki Ship- Convereica
45
100%
55%
67%
15 October 1946
Maru
yard, Kobe
Koyo Maru Catcher
370
Kammishi land In aperation
station, Iwate
Pref.
Shonem Maru Catcher
350
En route to
Will unserge
No. 8
Osaka
repair
Shonam Maru Catcher
350
Ayukawe land In operation
station, Miyagi
Pref.
Takuman
Cateber
350
Hiteshi Sai p- Overheul and
10%
15 Gataber 1916
Maru No. 2
yard, Immosh ime. repair
Hiroshime Prof.
Takumen
Cateher
350
Enroute to
will mderg
Mars No. 3
Osske
repeir
Tairamen Mara
350
Bescheß st
o. 8
Ayakane. Xlim.
insted frem
Antaretie
participsties

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl No. 2 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 647
WESKLY STIATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAYARESE ANTARCTIC WHALING FLEDT
to 21 Sopt 1946
Incl
Fro.: 15 Sopt 1946
NIPPON SUISAN CO.
Name of Company
Percentage of Completion
Estimated Date
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Hull
Engine
Equi
Average
of Completion
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
77%
90%
46%
71%
15 October 1946
Hashidate
Factory
10,020
Hitachi Ship-
Conversion
yard, Innoshimej,
from oil tanker
Maru
ship
Hiroshima Pref.
45%
100%
55%
67%
15 October 1946
Tadotsu
Carrier
9.976
Kawasaki Ship-
Conversion
yard, Kobe
Maru
Koyo Maru
Catcher
370
Kamaishi land
In operation
station, Iwate
Pref.
will undergo
350
En route to
Shonan Maru Catcher
Osaka
repair
No. 8
350
Ayukawa land
In operation
Shonan Mark Catcher
stati on; Miyadi
No. 11
Pref.
10%
15 October 1946
350
Hitachi Ship-
Overhaul and
Takunan Maru Catcher
repair
yard, Innoshima
No. 2
Hiroshima Pref
350
Enroute to
Will undergo
Takunan Maru Catcher
Osaka
repair
No. 3
Takunan Maru
350
Beach ed at
No: 8
Catcher
Ayukawa. Elim-
inated from
Antarctic
participation

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.99)
WEAKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPANESE ANTARCTIC WHALING FLEET
Fro.: 15 Sept 1946
to 21 Sept 1946
Name of Company
TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Completion
Estimated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
Engine
Equi
Average
of Completion
Nisshin
Factory
11,000
Mitsubishi
Conversion
86%
95%
35%
72%
15 October 1946
Maru No. 1
ship
Shipyard, Nage-
from oil tanker
eaki
Tenyo Maru
Carrier
10,000
Mitsubishi
Conversion
87%
100%
52%
79%
15 October 1946
Shipyard, Naga-
saki
San Diego
Oil tanke'r 7,268
Yokosuka
In operati on
Maru
Banshu
Maru No. 36
Carrier
1,000
Hayashikane
Overhaul and
100%
30%
27%
52%
15 October 1946
Shipyard,
repair
Shimonoseki
Banshu
Carrier
983
Shimonoseki
In operation
Maru
Banshu
Carrier
782
Shimonoseki
In operation
Maru No. 32
Banshu
Maru.No. 35 Carrier
993
Shimonoseki
In operation
Funi Maru
Cateher
300
Kawasaki Ship-
Construction
77%
82%
72%
77%
15 October 1946
No. 2
yards, Osaka

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.99)
HEAKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPAIESE ANTANCTIC WHALING FLEET
Froi15 Sept 1946
to 21 Sept 1946
Name of Company
TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Completion
Estinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
Engine
Equi
Average
of Completion
Fumi Maru
Catcher
300
Kawasaki Ship-
Construction
93%
70%
52%
71%
15 October 1946
No. 3
yard, Kobe
Fumi Maru
Catcher
387
Akkeshi lend
In operation
No. 5
station,
Hokkaido
Seki Maru
Catcher
298
Akkeshi land
In operation
No. 3
station,
Hokkaido
Seki Maru
Catcher
300
Mitsubishi
Construction
90%
75%
50%
71%
15 October 1946
shipyard, Tama,
Okayama Pref.
Seki Maru
Catcher
300
Mitsubishi
Construction
85%
50%
30%
55%
15 October 1946
No. 5
shipyard, Tama
Okayama Pref.

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl No. 3 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 647
LIST OF WHALING LAND STATIONS IN JAPANESE HOME
ISLANDS
Name of land
Location
Companies
stations
Nippon
Taiyo Kyokuyo
Suisan
Gyogyo Hogei
TOTAL
1. Abashiri
Abashiri Machi, Abashiri Gun,
x
1
Hokkaido
2. Kiritappu
Hamanaka Mura, Akkeshi Gun,
Hokkaido
x
1
3. Akkeshi
Akkeshi Machi, Akkeshi Gun,
Hokkaido
X
1
4. Monbetsu
Monbetsu Machi, Monbetsu Gun,
Hokkaido
x
x
2
5. Kushiro
Kushiro S.i, Hokkaido
x
1
6. Muroran
Muroran Shi, Hokkaido
x
1
7. Same
Hachinohe Shi, Aomori Frefecture
x
1
8. Kamaishi
Kamaishi Shi, Iwate Prefecture
x
x
x
3
9. Ayukawa
Ayukawa Machi, Ojika Gun,
Miyagi Prefecture
x
x
x
3
10. Taiji
Taiji Machi, Higashimuro Gun,
Wakayama Prefecture
x
1
11. Oshima
Oshima Mura, Higashimuro Gun,
Wakayama Prefecture
x
x
2
12. Senzaki
Senzaki Machi, Otsu Gun,
Yamaguchi Prefecture
x
1
13. Yobuko
Yobuko Machi, Higashimatsuura
Gun,Saga Prefecture
x
1
14. Arikawa
Arikawa Machi, Minamimatsuura
Gun, Nagasaki Prefecture
x
1
15. Kabashima
Kabashima Mura, Minamimatsuura
Gun, Nagasaki Prefecture
x
1
16. Tomie
Tomie Machi, Minamimatsuura Gun
Nagasaki Prefecture
x
1
17. Ohama
Ohama Mura, Minamimatsuura Gun
Nagasaki Prefecture
x
1
18. Ikezuki
Ikezuki Mura, Kitamatsuura Gun,
Nagasaki Prefecture
x
1
19. Okochi
Toyosaki Mura, Kamiagata Gun,
Nagasaki Prefecture
x
1
20. Iki
Takawa Mura, Iki Gun,
Nagasaki Prefecture
x
1
21. Koshikijima
Koshikijima Mura, Satsuma Gun,
Kagoshima Prefecture
X
1
22. Teuchi
Shimokoshiki Mura, Satsuma Gun,
Kagoshima Prefecture
x
1
23. Tonoura
Nango Mura, Minaminaka Gun,
Miyazaki Prefecture
x
1
TOTAL
14
7
8
29
NOTE: Information as submttted by Japanese Bureau of Fisheries 27 Sept 46.

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.96)
Enc1 No. 4 of Tokyo Despatch No. 647
·142°
144°
128°
130°
132°
50°
50°
LOCATION OF WHALING LAND STATIONS
IN JAPANESE HOME ISLANDS
48°
48
Legends:
KARAFUTO
Taiyo Gyogyo Co.
Nippon Suisan Co.
Kyokuyo Hogei Co.
42°
46°
46
142°
144
124°
126
S
E
A
40
O F
A
P
A
KOREA
38
36°
FUKU
Matsue
KYÖTO
E
OKOCHI
OKAYAMN
HYO
SHIMA
Ohayema
SENZAKI
34°
20.0
Hiroshima
IKI
Toaushims"
YOBUKO
TAIJ
IKEZUKI
Köchi
ARIKAWA
OSH
FUKUOKA
EHIME
SHIKOKU
KABASHIMA
Kumamoto
OHAMA
TOMIE
32°
KYÜSHū
KUMAMOTO
TONOURA
KOSHIKI
MILES
Mryazski
TEUCHI
40
80
121
126°
128°
130°
132°
134°

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.95)
136°
138
140°
142
0
GATION OF WHALING LAND STATIONS
IN JAPANESE HOME ISLANDS
△OMOHBETSU
HOKKAIDÖ
ABASHIRI
1s:
KIRITAPPU
Taiyo Gyogyo Co.
KUSHIRO
Nippom Suisan Co.
Kyokuyo Hogei Co.
MURORAN
42°
0
S
E
A
AOMORI
SAME
40°
KAMAISHI
J
A
P
A
N
004
AYUKAWA
38°
Nigate
HONSHÜ
FUKUSHIMA
Kanazawe
TOYAMA
GUMMA
Utsunomlys
Mito
HS
36°
Meobeshi
IBARAKI
Fukui
2
SAITAMA
FUKU
Urawaj
xaty
Chibe
ANASHD
Matsue
KYÖTO!
Gitu
CHIBA
LOKAYAMN
HYO
SHIGA
AICHI
0
SHIMA
Okayama
Köbe
Tau
Hireshime
HIR
34°
HI
0
140°
142°
144°
TAIJI
126°
128°
130°
K&ch.
OKINAWA
OSHIMA
EHIME
SHIKOKU
BCILES
28°
SEA
28°
ONOURA
CHINA
120
160
200
32°
OKINAWA
OCEAN
MILES
26°
EAST
Kaha
0
40
80
120
160
200
KILOMETERS
DACIFIC
2
NCRTH
132°
134°
136
138°
124°
129
128
130°

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.96)
TR
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Confidential
Tokyo, October 14, 1946
No. 649
DCR
REPURTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
NOV-1 1946
JBJECT:
Training of Whaling Inspectors and Provisions for
Penalties for Violations of Whaling Agreements and
Ordinances.
4
C
OFFICE CF
15
INTERNATIOXAL TRADE POLICY
Honorable
teo
NOV 4 1946
The Secretary of State
20
Washington
DF:RTMET OF STATE
C
RAJ
C
Sir:
E10d, 628/9.2 06,
I have the honor to refer to the Department's telegram
500, September 27, and to this Mission's telegram 466,
October 12, 1946, regarding the training of whaling inspectors
and provisions for penalties for violation of whaling agre-
ements and ordinances, and to forward herewith a copy of
1/2/
(a) "Regulation Law of Factory Whaling," (b) "Ministerial
3/
Ordinance," (c) extracts of "The Articles of Penal Provisions
894.628/10-1446
4/
in Fisheries Law," and (d) a memorandum from the Natural
Resources Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, dated October 11, 1946.
Respectully yours,
IJA
George Atcheson, Jr.
JK
Enclosures:
1/ "Regulation Law of Factory Whaling"
2/ "Ministerial Ordinance"
3/ Extracts of "The Articles of Penal Provisions
in Fisheries Law"
4/ Memorandum from the Natural Resources Section,
GHQ, SCAP, dated Oct. 11, 1946.
Original and Hectograph to Department
780
GAbbey:df
DCR - IIP Unit
NOV 5-1946
Ana!.
H..
FILED
Rev.
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl No. 1 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 649
Regulation Law of Factory Whaling
Article 40.
For the purpose of operating factory whaling, it is
approved to use only one factory ship in the North Pacific
Ocean north of 200 North Latitude (including the Berling
Sea, the Sea of Okhotsk, and the Arctic Ocean, the same
in the followings).
Article 41.
It is forbidden to operate factory whaling in the
area surrounded by Longitudes 1800 North and 1590 East,
Latitudes 20° North and 52° 30' North.
Article 4l,II It is forbidden to take or kill Grey Whales and/or
Right Whales (including Bowheads).
Article 4l,III It is forbidden to take or kill the following whales.
1. Calves, suckling whales, or female whales which are
accompanied by calves or suckling whales.
Blue whales under 21.34 meters long
3.
Fin whales under 16.77 meters long
4.
Humpback whales under 10.67 meters long
5.
Sei whales under 10.67 meters long
6. Sperm whales under 10.67 meters long
Length in relation to any whale of the preceding paragraph
from No. 1 to No. 6 means the distance measured on the
level in a straight line between the tip of the upper jaw
and notch between the flukes of the tail.
Article 4l,IV. It is forbidden to take or kill baleen whales in any
water south of 4o0 South Latitude except the period from
8th day of December to 7th day of next March.
Article 4l,V. It is forbidden to use the factory ship for the
purpose of treating baleen whales in any other water
during one year after the period prescribed in the pre-
ceding Article which was operated in the water south of

=== Page 522 === (confidence 1.00)
40° South Latitude for the same purpose.
Article 42,
It is forbidden to convert any equipment of a factory
ship used for treating whales, provided that it is per-
mitted by the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry.
Article 42,II. The fullest possible use shall be made of all whales
taken.
The oil shall be extracted by boiling or otherwise
from all blubber, meat, bones, and all parts of whales,
but it is approved not to extract the oil from the follow-
ing:
1. The internal organs, baleen, or fins.
2. Whales or parts of whales intended for human food, .
feeding animals, or other suitable uses.
3. The meat of sperm whales.
Article 42,III An Superintendent of whaling or any one who directs
the business in place of a factory ship should take proper
measures in order not to catch or kill a greater number
of whales than can be delivered on board of the factory
ship within a period of 33 hours from the time of the
killing of each whale.
Article 42,IV. Gunners and crews of factory ships or of whale
catchers attached to them, shall be engaged on terms such
that their remuneration shall depend to a considerable
extent upon such rate as the number, size, species, oil
and yield of whales taken.
No remuneration, calculated by reference to their
result of their work, shall be paid to the gunners and
crews of whale catchers in respect of any whales the
taking of which is forbidden by this regulation.
Any person who operates factory whaling shall make
an account showing the total emolument of each gunner
and member of the crew and the detailed statement in

=== Page 523 === (confidence 1.00)
Encl No. 2 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 649
MINISTRIAL ORDINANCE
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
No.
Sept.
1946.
The following temporary reform shall be made in Article 41, No 4
of Regulation Law of Factory Fishing.
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry
Hiroo Wada
Notwithstanding Article 41, No. 4 of the Regulation Law of
Factory Fishing, baleen whales may be taken in any water south of
400 South Latitude during the period from the 6th day of December
1946, to the 7th day of April 1947.
Notwithstanding Article 41, No. 4 and the provision of the
preceding paragraph, humpback whales shall not be taken in the preced-
ing water during the period from the 8th of December 1946, to the 7th
day of April 1947.
This ordinance shall be put in force on and after the day of its
promulgation.

=== Page 524 === (confidence 1.00)
Encl No. 3 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 649
The extracts of the Articles of Penal provisions in
Fisheries Law
Article 35
No steamship trawler fishing, factory ship fishing,
steamship whaling or Danish seine fishing shall be operated
without a permission of the competent Minister in accordance
with orders.
The restriction or prohibitions in reference to the
preceding paragraph are decided by the competent Minister.
Article 59
In case of steamship trawler fishing or factory ship
fishing, anyone who violated the provisions of Par. 1 of
Article 35, or the restrictions or prohibitions of Par. 2 of
the same Art. is subject to a fine of ¥5,000 or less; in case
of steamship whaling or Danish seine fishing, anyone who
violated the provisions of Par. 1 of the same Art., the
restrictions or prohibitions of Par. 2 of the same Art., or
the provisions of the Article 36 shall be subject to a fine
of ¥2,000 or less.
In this case the catch, products and fishing implements
possessed or kept by the offender may be confiscated.
Provided that the stated things possessed by the
offender cannot be confiscated in part or wholly, the price
corresponding to them may be forfeited.
Penal regulations as regards violation of the provi-
sions of Orders (Law No. 84 September 18, 1890)
Any person who violated the provisions of orders shall
be subject to a fine of ¥2oo or less, or to imprisonment for
one year or less in accordance with regulations provided for
the respective order.

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.99)
Enc1 No. 4 of Tokyo
Despatch No. 649
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
MEMORANDUM
1. Reference is made to Washington Radio State Serial 500,
dated 27 September, in which State Department requests details re-
garding training of whaling inspectors and information regarding
provisions for penalties for violation of whaling agreements and
ordinances. Information is also desired on provisions being made
for biological investigations, use of the Japanese Merchant
Marine flag, and the reported killing of a right whale during the
1945-46 Bonin Islands Whaling Season.
2. There is no special training system used for training
inspectors of whaling operations. Qualifications of inspectors
are as follows:
a. Inspectors must be graduates of a Fisheries College
or University.
b. Inspectors are usually selected from employees of
the Whaling Section of the Bureau of Fisheries and especially
from those whose work is concerned with supervision of whaling
regulations.
c. Inspectors must be physically fit and be between the
ages of 20 to 50 years.
d. The Japanese Bureau of Fisheries appoints two whaling
inspectors for each factory ship. Therefore, the number of inspec-
tors varies according to the number of factory ships in operation.
The inspectors are appointed to serve for a period of one year but
may be reappointed from year to year. One of the two appointees
must have had previous service aboard a factory ship as a whaling
inspector and must be an "Official Technician Second Class."
(Fisheries Technicians are given ratings commensurate with their
educational background, experience, and length of service with the
Bureau of Fisheries). No official Japanese Government inspection
is provided for whaling land stations.
3. There exists several provisions for penalties for viola-
tions of "Regulations of Whaling Factory Ships" and under the
factory ships section of the Fishery Law. Copies of these laws and
regulations as submitted 9 October 1946 by the Japanese Bureau of
Fisheries are enclosed. In addition, there exists Imperial Ordi-
nance No. 311 dated 11 June 1946, which provides a penalty of
¥ 75,000 or 10 years imprisonment for the violation of a SCAP
directive. Inasmuch as any violations of the International Whaling
Agreement would be in violation of SCAP directives SCAPIN 233 dated
3 November 1945 and SCAPIN 1154 dated 24 August 1946, it would
appear that the provisions of Imperial Ordinance No. 31l could be
invoked.
4. The Japanese Bureau of Fisheries was notified by this
Section that the provisions for penalties for violations of

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.99)
whaling regulations were inadequate in comparison to those
provided by the United States which has a maximum penalty of
$10,000 or 6 months imprisonment or both. In order to clarify
the penalty provisions and to increase the penalties the Bureau
has instigated proceedings to have a new Imperial Ordinance issued
which will deal with penalties for violations of whaling regulations
exclusively.
5. A memorandum to the Imperial Japanese Government is being
prepared requesting that biological investigations be undertaken
and the specific data requested in the subject radio are noted.
Issuance of this memorandum is being delayed until the procedures
for biologists as mentioned in the last paragraph of the subject
radio is received from Washington.
6. Data on the type and kind of flag to be used by the
Japanese Antarctic whaling fleet will be the subject of a separate
check-sheet to you.
7. According to statistical records submitted to Natural
Resources Section, SCAP, by the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries, no
right whales were killed during 1945-1946 Bonin whaling operations.
3 Inc1s:
Incl 1 - Regulation Law of Factory Whaling. (In Dupl)
Incl 2 - Ministrial Ordinance. (In Dupl)
Incl 3 - Extracts of the Articles of Penal Provisions in the
Japanese Fishery Law. (In Dupl)
- - - H.G.S. -

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.98)
CHARLES E. JACKSON
TELEPHONE
GENERAL MANAGER
NATIONAL 2216
RAYMOND E. STEELE
ASSISTANT MANAGER
TELETYPEWRITER NUMBER
WA 140
MAL XAVIER
FIELD REPRESENTATIVE
NATIONAL FISHERIES INSTITUTE, INC.
WASHINGTON  D. C.
SUITE 228, VICTOR BUILDING
INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
724 NINTH STREET. N. W., ZONE 1
October 15, 1946
OCT171946
DEPARTMENT OF STÁTE
Mr. William E. Flory
Office of International Trade Policies
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
894.628/10-1546
Dear Bill:
In order that you may be informed, I am enclosing a copy of a letter by our
good friend, Ben Shipman, to the Secretary of War concerning agar and his
desire to make a trip to Japan in connection with this business. Chairman
Bland, of the House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, has mani-
fested a great deal of interest in this project and has personally written
the Secretaries of War, Interior, and Commerce. A copy of this letter is
also enclosed.
Sooner or later I imagine that the matter will come before you. I am, there-
fore, acquainting you with the subject for I may have occasion to follow it
up later.
Sincerely yours,
Charlie
Charles E. Jackson
General Manager
(Encs.
CS/A
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
J. LAWRENCE ALPHEN. PRESIDENT
GENERAL BEAFOODS CORPORATION
2
NEW, YORK, NEW YORK
T. F. SANDOZ
O. L. CARR. VICE-PRESIDENT
F. M. BUNDY. SECRETARY
HARRY L. CLAXTON. TREABURER
COLUMBIA RIVER PACKERS ASSN.
MID CENTRAL FISH COMPANY
GORTON-PEW FISHERIES, LTD.
R. W. CLAXTON COMPANY
ASTORIA, OREGON
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI
GLOUCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SOL FASS
IRVING USEN
JEROME KISELIK
H. J. TILLMAN
IBAAC FASB COMPANY
O'DONNELL-USEN CORPORATION
FLAG FISH COMPANY
SAN JUAN FISHING & PACKING CO.
PORTBMOUTH, VIRGINIA
BOSTON,MASSACHUSETTS
NEW YORK, NEW YORK
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.98)
C
C
0
LAW OFFICES
0
P
BENJAMIN W. SHIPMAN
P
Y
Suite 5ll Pacific Mutual Building
Y
Los Angeles 14
Michigan 4047
October 4th, 1946
Hon. Schuyler O. Bland
House Office Building
Washington, D. C.
My dear Judge:
Don't ever get yourself in a position where you promise a short letter giving a recital
of an extensive transaction. It's tough.
I am enclosing the letter we were discussing about the matter of agar to Mr. Patterson,
the Secretary of War. I am assuming he is the person to be addressed. I know you wili
guide me as to whether he is the one or not.
Frankly, Judge, I am not sure that I have presented the matter clearly or that it con-
tains everything it should. You try to condense things and you lose perspective, so I
don't know just what kind of a job I have done. Our hope lies in the fact that it will
have your support.
I am here to follow any instructions and suggestions you give me, and I shall be more
than grateful to receive them. I am taking the liberty of sending a copy of this to
Charlie Jackson, who was present, of course, during our discussions.
I need not reiterate what a pleasure it has been to me to have met you both in Chicago
and in Virginia Beach. You are one of the few men that fits all of the expectations.
My kindest regards to you and Mrs. Bland.
Sincerely,
FWS:LU
Encl.

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.99)
C
AMERICAN AGAR & CHEMICAL CO.
0
0
Post Office Box 431
0
P
San Diego, Cabifornia
P
Y
Y
511 Pacific Mutual Building
Los Angeles 14, California
October 4th, 1946
Hon. Robert P. Patterson
Secretary of War
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
This company is known as American Agar and Chemical Company. The word
"Chemical" in the name, however, is practically a misnomer, because we handle
no chemicals except agar, which is manufactured by us from a weed knowm as
Gelidium for which diving operations have to be conducted. The weed occurs
in the ocean from 15 to 30 feet under water, and is usually found in rocky
formations. Agar is used in medicine, pharmacy, food and industry. Its
critical use, however, is in laboratories, where it is used for the purpose
of permitting culture growth upon slides, and in which use there is no sub-
stitute for true agar, that is, agar made from Gelidium. Before the war,
Japan had practically a world monopoly on the production of agar.
There have been several attempts in the past to manufacture agar in this
country, but they were unsuccessful because of the difficulty of securing the
weed, of which the main source is Mexico. So far as we know, before the war,
when it was possible to obtain weed in Mexico, the Japanese used to harvest it
or buy it up and ship it to Japan.
My associate,who is the President of the company, became interested in
agar about l937, realizing the necessity for the product and our almost com-
plete dependence upon Japan for our supply of it. By rendering financial
assistance to a gentleman who was attempting to revive the industry again in
California, this company was formed, and during the war we were practically
the only supplier of agar to Defense Supplies Corporation, and various contract
holders of the Army and Navy. Strange as it may seem, the operation was not a
particularly profitable one, due to the difficulty of securing the raw material,
and due to poor enforcement of its regulations by the War Production Board.
We tried to develop a source of raw material in California, spending substantial
amounts of money, but results were very poor. In a further attempt to assure a
permanent supply of the agar weed, that is, Gelidium, we entered into a contract
with a Mexican company, so that we could enable them to comply with a concession
that they had from the Mexican government for the exploitation of the Gelidium.
This necessitated the erection of a plant at Ensenada, Lower California, at our
expense, but in which we have no ownership interest, our sole interest being that,
by the contract, the Mexican company was to supply us with all of the excess

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Gelidium which they produce beyond their own needs. We are keeping that avenue
of supply open, though it has become rather meager by reason of the fact that
the Mexican producers have so many more profitable items available from time to
time, particularly insofar as divers are concerned, abalone at the present time
offering fabulous earnings.
If the Mexican source of supply had to be abandoned, for lack of raw mate-
rial, in the event of another war we again would be dependent entirely for
supplies of agar upon Japan, as the quantities of the raw material obtainable
along the California coast are negligible.
It would appear that it would be well to have an American agar industry that
can not only relieve the present world wide demand for agar, but can be ready to
supply the Government and its contractors with agar in the event of any future
necessity. To maintain that industry it has to be supplied with adequate raw
materials so that it can exist during competitive times.
There is a lot of Gelidium in Japan and also around the possessions that
she has lost, such as Formosa, Korea, and Karafuto, and if we were able to
secure sufficient quantities of the weed from Japan, we could keep the industry
going in this country, and, at the same time, preserve the Mexican source so
that it would be available in case of an emergency where critical needs would
have to be supplied from close-by sources. Moreover, the sale of the weed to
us from Japan, in addition to keeping the industry alive in this country and
supplying this country with very high-grade agar, would also provide an outlet
for raw materials for Japan, because the weed has been cultivated around those
islands for, so far as we know, centuries. If the disposal of any raw material
also is a reparations problem, that would be aided thereby. The raw material
would be paid for in dollars in this country.
It is not our desire to suppress the Japanese manufacture of agar or kill
a Japanese industry. We do feel, however, that if it is at all possible an
American industry supplying a critical need should be kept alive, without, of
course, any cost to the Government.
of
The maintenance of the industry in this country and the securing/the
supply of raw material, I think would be best arranged if it were possible to go
to Japan and be of any aid possible to the Military Government in making the
necessary arrangements. I would greatly appreciate it if arrangements for a
visit of short duration could be made, so that the problem could be worked out
there one way or the other.
Naturally, a fuller recital of the matters herein set forth would be less
jarring and more clearly establish the importance of preserving an adequate
agar industry in the United States, but it is for the sake of brevity that this
recital is sketchily written. I need not, however, state that any and all
information will be made available and presented in a more comprehensive form.

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
What relief we are to receive, however, by way of being able to get
proper supplies, has to be done within a reasonable period of time.
Respectfully submitted
AMERICAN AGAR AND CHEMICAL COMPANY
Benjamin W. Shipman
Vice President
FWS:LU

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Committee on
Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Washington 3, D. C.
October 10, 1946
Honorable Robert P. Patterson
Secretary of War
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
As Chairman of the Conmittee on Merchant Marine and
Fisheries of the House of Representatives, I am very much interested
in the manufacture of agar by the American Agar and Chemical Company,
of San Viego, Jalifornia, of which Mr. Benjamin N. Shipman is Presi-
dent. I am writing to solicit your personal study of the beneficial,
medicinal, and laboratory uses that are made of true agar, - that is,
agar made from the weed, known as Gelidium.
It appears that at one time we were solely dependent upon
Japan for agar, but that durin: the war the american Agar and Chem-
ical Company was the onl: source of supply of this product to
Defense Suprlies Corporation and various contract holders of the
Army and Navy.
It anpears that the need for a rermanent supply of the agar
weed necessitated a contrict by the American Company with a Mexican
Connany in order to secure the benefit of certain concessions made
by the Mexican Government to the Mexican Company, and this necessi-
tated the erection of a plant at Ensenade, Lower California, at the
expense of the Americn Company, but in which it had no ownership
interest further than that the rexican Conpany was to supply all
of the excess Gelidium projuced by them beyond their own needs.
The Mexican producers have many more profitable items available
from time to time so far as their divers are concerned, as for in-
stance, abalone at the present time offers fabulous returns.
There is an ample sup ly of Gelidium in Japan, around her
former possessions of Formosa, Korea, and narafuto. If these sup-
plies could be made available to the merican Company, it would
enable them to survive and also to preserve the Lexican source so
that it vould be available in cuse of an emergency. The preserva-
tion and maintenance of an American Company is essential, and I am
told that this may be done without cost to the United States if
properly encouraged. The sale for Japan would be paid for in
dollars in this country, and contribute to the promotion of commerce
in the United States and prove a source of profit for Japan.

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
If, therefore, a plan can be worked out whereby the
Japanese supply of Gelidiem may be used by the American Company,
it will contribute to promote the trade with Mexico and Japan, and
to preserve an essential American industry.
I know Mr. Shipman, President of the American Company.
He is reliable, and I believe the matter sufficiently important
for consideration by the Secretaries of War, Interior, and Commerce.
accordingly, I am writing similarly to each Secretary indicated
with the hope that a united effort may be made to solve this problem
in a way to promote the interest of America, Mexico and Japan.
I hope that Mr. Shipman may be afforded an opportunity,
if he so desires, of submitting in greater detail the factors
incidental to the development of this industry and the maintenance
of the existing industry.
Yours very sincerely,
Chairman

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.97)
TR
25
/R lease index and return
to I - Fisheries and ilulife
Branch
PERSONAL
October , 1946
894.628/10-1746
CONFIDENTIAL
0CT3019
liy dear ir. Carver:
Thank you for your kind letter of October 17, 1946 with
reference to the Antarctic catch limitation on whales and to
Japanese whaling.
The officials of the Federal Government are in full agree-
ment with your opinion on the Antarctic catch limitation, namely
that a limit on catoh should be maintained. I agree with you
that from a strictly conservation standpoint, the figure of 16,000
units is too high to assure rebuilding of the stocks. At the same
time, there will undoubtedly be pressure for an increase to 20,000
units from certain delegations because the fats and oils outlook
for 1947-48, as well as the outlook for whale oil prices, is not
yet clear.
With respect to the Japanese whaling operations, the Norwegian,
British, New Zealand, Soviet and Australian Governments have been
given full explanations of General kacarthur's action along the
CS/V
following lines:
1. This authorization is on a one-season basis and there is
no commitment on the part of the United States to agree to future
expeditions.
2. Determination of the future of Japanese whaling, as well as
the disposition of Japanese vessels, completed or under construction,
is a matter for allied determination.
294
3. The
Clifford N. Carver,
35 Water Street,
New York, Now York.
-1746

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
3. The present expedition must conform to all requirements ef
international agreements with respect to the regulation of whaling
to which the United States is a party.
4. All whale oil produced shall be subjeet to allecetion by
the International Eaergeney Food Council.
It is understood that this will be an allied expedition under
the occupation flag and that inspection will be undertaken as an allied
operation. It is further understood that the catch of the expeditien
will be included within the 16,000 unit limit. While protosel and
diplomatic procedures make it difficult to release the substance of
friendly intergovernmental conversations to the press, efforts are
being made with a view to placing the facts before the publie. If
this can be accomplished at an early date, I believe that it will serve
to provide the clarification which you have suggested.
I am enolosing a copy of a rough draft of a proposal which may
serve as a basis for discussion at the whaling conferenoe. I will send
you and other interested persons a cleaner draft within several days.
I am most anxious to have your coments on this proposel as a
basis for developing the instructions to the Amerioan group at the
conference. We are planning to have an industry meeting in Washington
on November 11, 1946. You will receive formal notice of this in due
course. However, if you should be in Waahington in the meantime, or
should prefer to meet st soms other time, either with ms or with the
entire group of the Federal officers who have participated in the work
so far, I should be most happy to arrange it.
thile we recognise that you have only limited time to devote to
this matter, we are looking forward to such observations as you may
care to make in whatever way will constitute the least burden upon
you.
Sincerely yours,
William E. S. Flory
Acting Assistant Chief
Intermational Resources Division
Enclosure:
troc ovy f
15/2/46
CR
OCT
30
1946 P.M.

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.95)
FR
UNITED STATES COLITICAL ADVISER
3
FOR JAPAN
RECEIVED
CEPARTHENT OF STATE
PNOY1  9.2
Tokyo, October 18, 1946
Restricted
DCR
No. 657
SUBJECT:
Japanese Government Request for Permission to
Fish in North Pacific Areas.
OFFICE CF
INTERNATIONAL CRADE POLICY
The Honorable
2
NOV 6 1946
894.628/10-1846
The Secretary of State
Washington
3
DEPARTMT  STE
Sir:
21R
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a letter with
22
a supporting memorandum from the Central Liaison Office
of the Japanese Government, dated September 13, 1946,
IEE
to General Headquarters, Cupreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, in Which it is requested by the Japanese Govern-
ment that Japanese fishing interests be permitted to
operate in the seas off both sides of Kamchatka Peninsula,
northwestern part of Bering Sea, and vwaters around the
19
Kurile Islands. In previous years the Japanese have con-
ducted extensive operations in these areas in part based
upon treaty arrangements with Soviet Russia and in part
as high seas activities.
There is also enclosed e memorandum from the Natural
Resources Section to the Diplomatic Section on this subject.
CS/
DEPARTMENTOF
In this memorandum the belief is expressed that interests
REPORTING VIS
DIVISION OF LOFLIGN
NOV -11946
of the United States would be strenuously opposed to any
Japenese fishing operations in the Bering Sea or areas in
2.
the vicinity of the Aleutian Islands. It therefore appears
to us doubtful that it would be desirable for General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, to
forward this request to the Soviet representative in Japan
in spite of the emphasis which the Japanese Government has
placed on the acute need for additional food supplies and
3
in spite of previous Japanese treaty arrangements with
Soviet Russia to fish in these areas.
JA
In this connection' it will be recalled that, as reported
in our Despatch No. 481, subject "Extension of Japanese
Fishing and Whaling Areas," dated July 1, 1946, the Sovi
FILED
Government refused an earlier Japanese request to operat
fisheries concessions in this general area.
62
the high seas and in waters of Allied nations, is of such
controversial
DCR - ITP Onit
-1846
H.P
Annl
BRT

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.99)
75
Tokyo's Despatch No. 657
October 18,1946
-2-
controversial nature and of such international interest
that the views of the Department are respectfully
requested in the premises.
Respectfully yours,
Georgé Atcheson, Jr.
Enclosures:
1. Copy of letter from Japanese
Government dated 13 September
1946, with enclosure.
2. Memorandum from Natural Resources
Section to Diplomatic Section
dated 17 September 1946.
Original and hectograph to Department.
780
GAAbbey : cbk

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 657, October 18, 1946,
subject: "Japanese Government Request for Permission to Fish
63
in North Pacific Areas"
4.628
73
IMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
Central Liaison Office
10-1846
TO: GENERAL HEADQUARTERS OF THE SUPREME COMMANDER
FOR THE ALLIED POWERS.
FROM: Central Liaison Office, Tokyo.
SUBJECT: Request for Permission of Fishing in Northern
Waters.
C.L.O. No. 4656(EA)
13 September 1946
1. Reference:
a.
AG 800.217(22 Jun 46) NR (SCAPIN-1033), subject:
"Area Authorized for Japanese Fishing and Whaling."
b.
AG 800.217 (6 Aug 46) NR (SCAPIN-1103), subject:
"Japanese Whaling Operation in the Antarctic."
2. The Japanese Government hereby expresses its gratitude to
the General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, for the permission granted by the reference Memoranda
for the Japanese Whaling and fishing activities in the inter-
national grounds.
3. The Japanese Government is, however, anxious to have the
valuable fishing grounds in northern waters, i.e., seas off
both sides of Kamchatka Peninsula, north-western part of
Bering Sea and waters on both sides of Kurile Islands, be added
to the areas at present allotted for the Japanese fishing
operations, as the Japanese fishermen are highly experienced
and exceedingly skillfull in the particular classes of work
to be done in these waters.
4. Such being the case, the Japanese Government is anxious to
exploit, according to the attached lan, this valuable northern
area at present untouched and, believing thereby to greatly
assist in relieving the present food shortage, it earnestly
wishes its request may be given due consideration.
FOR THE PRESIDENT:
/s/ K. Asakai
(K. Asakai)
Director of General Affairs,
Central Liaison Office.
Enclosure: Fishing projects as indicated
in Para. 4 above.

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.99)
FISHERY IN THE NORTHERN WATERS
1. Thanks to the expansion of fishing grounds hither to granted by
the General Headquarters of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, the amount of marine products of this country has remarkably
increased, and yet the supply thereof is far behind the demand of the
Japanese people now being stricken with food shortage. Strenuous
efforts have been made for the increase of marine products within
the authorized aregs by expediting ship-building and supplying neces-
sary materials in this field. However, further increase in marine
products can not be expected under the present circumstances.
2. The Northern Sea around Kamchatka Peninsula and the Kurile
Islands abounds in marine products so much that a greater production
can be secured in this area by comparatively small using number of
fishing boats now available.
Z. From this area about 300,000 tons of marine products were gained
annually in the pre-war time, the most of which were consumed as an
important foodstuff in winter in the rural districts of central and
Northern Japan. Since the cessation of supply of these sea products
from the said area during and after the war, the people in those
districts have been in great distress, as no other substitute is
available.
Such being the case, the Japanese Government is anxious to re-
sume the fishery in the said area by such means as effect little on
other countries.
3. The Japanese fishermen have long experience of over thirty years
in fishery in the Northern Sea and they earnestly hope to contribute
to the increase of food production by engaging in the fishery in
that area. In view of the current food situation and especially of
acute deficiency of protein and fat in diet, the Japanese Government
regards the resumption of the fishery in the Northern Sea as a vital
question and the favourable consideration thereto of the General
Headquarters of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers is
earnestly requested.
4. The following is a tentative plan for 1947 fishery season:
Methods of Operation
Number of fishing
Outputs
fleets or whalers
Crab Floating Cannery
7 fleets
5,650 tons (253,000
in the Okhotsk Sea
cases of canned crab
meat inclusive)
Salmon Floating Cannery
2 fleets
10,200 tons (206,000
in the Okhotsk Sea
cases of canned
salmon inclusive)
Trawling by mother boats
in the Okhotsk Sea
3 fleets
11,404 tons
Whaling around the
Kurile Islands
7 whalers
10,970 tons
Total
12 fleets
7 whalers
38,224 tons
5. The details of the above plan are described below:
a. Crab Floating Cannery in the Okhotsk Sea.
A great number of Taraba crabs are f ound in the continental
shelf lying off the west coast of Kamchatka Peninsula. The catch-

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
ing operation takes place from April to September by a fleet con-
sisting of a cannery factory ship of some 3,000 to 10,000 tons
and some ten to twenty fishing boats.
In the pre-war time ten fleets were in operation in this area,
producing about 300,000 cases of canned crabs.
By the Fishery Convention between the U.S.S.R. and Japan,
special fishing grounds for taraba crabs were established and float-
ing cannery was agreed to be operated by both nationals in the open
sea, three miles off the Asiatic Soviet Coast.
The number of cannery fleets operated by Russians was about
ten at its maximum in 1930 and was recently decreased to about four
and in 1947 four or five fleets are expected to engage in the
fishery in this area. No-catch during and after the war off the
western coast of Kamchatka Peninsula must have resulted in the con-
siderable increase of the aquatic resources in this area and the
vastness of the area will afford ample room for the operation of
twenty fleets.
A tentative plan is outlined as follows:
(1) Fishery ground as shown in the map attached hereto.
East Akhotsk Sea, in latitude 51 N. and latitude 58 N. from
12 miles to 40 miles off the West Coast of Kamchatka.
(2) Fishery season:
From April to September.
(3) Vessels to be used:
Factory ships, 7,000-10,000 G/T.
Fishing boats....
.20
Kawasakai (open fishing boats).
.98
Fish carriers, 2,O0o G/T.....
3
(4) Number of persons
3,570
(5)
Products of canned crab
5,650
(6)
Main materials:
Fuel oil
2,771 k.1.
Steel and iron
2,233 tons
Cotton yarn
430 tons
Hemp
539,922 1bs
(7) Names of vessels to be arranged for this purpose:
Factory ships
Mitsu Maru
5,479 G/T
Kankyo Maru
2,933
Two of 3,ooo ton class
Three of 10,000 ton class
Fish carriers
Toyo Maru
2,225 G/T
Banshu Maru No. 37
1,000
Banshu Maru No. 38
1,000""
Oneéof 2,000 ton class
b.
Salmon Floating Cannery Around Southern Kamcha tka and
North Kurile Islands.
The salmon and trout fishing and cannery will be operated

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
around Southern Kamchatka and North Kurile Islands from May to
August. A fleet for this purpose will be organized with a ship
of 6,000 to 10,000 ton class with a cannery factory and saltery
on board and about fifty fishing boats.
In the pre-war time Japanese fleets only were operated in
this area, six factory ships and about three hundred fishing boats
taking part in salmon fishery and cannery.
The salmon tribe fishery in the open sea around Kamchatka is
the primary object of the Fishery Convention between the U.S.S.R.
and Japan. Through mutual agreement between the two countries,
both nationals were entitled to engage in salmon fishery in the
open sea three miles off from the Asiatic Soviet Coast like other
fishery. While canned salmon are marketed all over the world, the
demand for salted salmon as an important foodstuff in winter is
so great in Japan especially in the rural districts of central and
northern Japan.
The salmon cat ch in the sea around Kamchatka and the Kurile
Islands by Japanese amounted to about 200,000 tons a ye ar in the
pre-war time and much resources must have been stored in this area
since the war paralyzed the fishing industry.
It is unknown to what extent the U.S.S.R. will exploit marine
resources in this area for the coming season, but it may be diffi-
cult that she will revive fishing industry to the pre-war level.
A tentative plan for this fishery is outlined as follows:
(1) Fishery ground as shown in the map attached hereto:
Off the east and west coasts of Kamchatka Peninsula
and off the Northern Kurile Islands.
In latitude 50 N. and latitude 56 N., from 12 miles
to 40 miles off the coast.
(2) Fishery season:
From May to August.
(3) Vessels to be used:
Factory ships, 6,000 to 10,000 ton class ...... 2
Fishing boats .......
.100
Kawasaki (open fishing boats).
16
Fish carriers, 2,000 ton class
4
(4) Number of persons:
2,280
(5)
 Amount of production:
Canned salmon
4,400 tons
(206,000 cases)
Salted salmon
5,800 tons
Total
10,200 tons
(6) Main materials:
Fuel oil
3,190 k.1.
Salt
3,352 tons
Steel and iron
1,627 tons
cotton yarn
330 tons
Hemp
508,686 1bs
(7)
Factory ships and fish carriers to be arranged for this
purpose:
undecided

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
c. Trawling by Mother Ships in the East Okhotsk Sea.
The fishery of flat fish and cod in the continental shelf lying
in the east of Okhotsk Sea and shelves lying off the east coast of
Kamchatka Peninsula and off the coast of Olytorakii district is
operated from May to September by trawling. A fleet is to be organ-
ized with a mother ship, a trawler, and about ten Danish seine-boats.
Two Japanese fleets took parts in this fishery before the war
for the purpose of supplying fish for domestic consumption.
The aquatic resources in that area are immense and the method
of obtaining them is rather simple as compared with that of other
industry of mass production. Yet no one has ever tried to exploit
this under-sea resources. The fishery in this area as an alternative
for abundant salmon catch which has been lost to Japanese is of ut-
most necessity at this critical time of food shortage.
The following is the outline of a tentative plan for this fishery:
(1) Fishing ground as shown in the map attached hereto:
a.
Olyutorskii and Navadin districts, in latitude 60 N.
and latitude 64 N., from 12 miles to 40 miless
off the coast.
b.
Off the west coast of Kamchatka Peninsula, in
latitude 51 N. and latitude 56 N., from 12 miles
to 40 miles off the coast.
(2) Fishery season:
From May to September.
(3) Vessels to be used:
Mother ships, 7,000 - 10,000 ton class ...
38
Trawlers ....
Danish seine-boats
23
Fish carriers, 1,000-5,000 ton class
4
(4) Number of persons:
1,520
(5)
Amount of production:
Salted fish
7,100 tons
Fish meal
3,040"
Frozen fish
1,200"
Miscellaneous
64"
Total
12,404"
(6) Main materials:
Fuel oil
6,704 k.1.
Salt
2,520 tons
Steel and iron
470"
Hemp
464,600 1bs
(7) Names of vessels to be arranged for this purpose:
Mother ships
Tadotsu Maru
9,976 G/T
Two of 7,000 ton class
Fish carriers
Toyo Maru
2,225 G/T
Chikuzan Maru
1,061"
Two of 1,000-5,000 ton class

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
d. Whaling off the Kurile Islands.
Whaling off the Kurile Islands will be restored by the opera-
tion of seven whalers. A greater part of Japan's whaling products
was obtained from this area in the pre-war time. Because of
difficulty to secure land stations for whaling under the present
circumstances, fishing carriers of large type will be used in whaling.
The following is the outlined scheme of whaling off the Kurile
Islands:
(1) Fishing ground as shown in the map herewith attached:
Off the coast of the Kurile Islands situated in the
north in latitude 43 N., from 12 miles to 100 miles
off the coast.
(2) Fishery season:
From May to August.
(3) Vessels to be used:
Whalers.
7
Fish carriers, 3,000 ton class
1
11
1,000 ton class
2
(4) Number of persons:
650
(5)
Amount of production:
10,970 tons
(6)
Main materials:
Fuel oil
3,000 k.1.
Salt
3,920 tons
Steel and iron
152 tons
Hemp
11,718 1bs
Wire rope
33 tons
(7) Names of vessels to be arranged for this purpose:
Fish carriers
Chikuzen Maru
1,061 G/
Sagami Maru
999
Toyo Maru
2,225
11

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 657, October 18, 1946,
subject: "Japanese Government Request for Permission to Fish
in North Pacific Areas"
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
HGS/RHF/d
File No: NR 800.217 (17 Sep 1946) Fi Subject: Japanese Request for
Permission to fish in Northern Waters.
From: NR
To: DS
Date: 17 Sep 1946
1. Reference attached memorandum from the Imperial Japanese
Government to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, C.L.0. No. 4656 (EA), 13 September 1946, subject:
"Request for permission of Fishing in Northern Waters."
2. Inasmuch as the area referred to in this memorandum is
adjacent to Russian or Russia occupied territory this matter is
forwarded to the Diplomatic Section for presentation to the
Russian Liaison Officer in Tokyo or to the Soviet Member of the
Allied Council for Japanif the Diplomatic Section deems such
action appropriate.
3. It is the belief of the Natural Resources Section that
interests in the United States would be strenuously opposed to
any Japanese fishing operations in Bering Sea or areas in the
vicinity of the Aleutian Islands.
1 Incl: as indicated in par 1 with incl thereto.
H.G.S.

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.96)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
TYPE HERE CLEARLYJHE
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
RESTRICTED
Washington,
A-177
NO.
TIME
Dec 23, 1946
2640
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER TO THE
2640
SUPREME COMMAIDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
894.628/10-1846
TOKYO.
Reference Political Adviser's despatch no. 657, Octoter 18,
1946, with regard to Japanese Government's recuest for permission
to fish in Morth Pacific ereas.
K
The Far Eastern Commission has directed that a sub-committee
be formed to consider possible revisions in FEC-035, with respect
to Jcnrnese fishing rnd wheling activities.
Until conclusion is reached by FEC on this matter Dept. concurs
in SCAP's view that presentation of Jepenese request to Soviet
representttive in Jepan should be delayed.
Byrues
(
CS/MM
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
wss
N
DEO 21
SARNS
JK
A-H
IR: ERVanSant: bp
12/16/46
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1946 - 603442

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.97)
Ref. 2282/-/46
HD
AIDE
MEMOIRE
His Majesty's Government have now considered the
Department of State's Aide Memoire of the 3rd October and,
having regard to the adjustments which it is hoped can be
894.628/10-1846
arranged on the basis of the mbassy's communication of
the 14th October and of the additional comments hereunder,
wish to state that they are prepared to waive their ob-
jections to the proposed whaling expedition.
2.
His Majesty's Government reiterate their desire
that a way will be found whereby the provisions of the
Supreme Commander's directive of the 23rd August, 1946, can
be nullified.
3.
Arrangements are being made to provide two United
Kingdom inspectors with previous Antarctic experience for
service with the expedition. Their salaries will be paid
in the first instance by His Majesty's Government, but, as
it is the British practice to charge licence fees to British
whaling vessels in order to provide the salaries and expenses
CS/
of the inspectors, His Majesty's Government consider it proper
that the salaries and all other expenses of these inspectors
be met from the proceeds of the voyage. In view of the length
of the period of absence, and, in particular, the fact that
the inspectors will have to travel by air from England to
the point of assembly, it would not be possible for His Majesty!
Government to provide rations for these men, and it is earnestly
hoped that the Supreme Commander will be able to provide
rations on the sae scale as for the United States inspectors.
rilk
Other/
41

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Other necessary equipment can, however, be provided.
4.
In order that transport can be arranged, His
Majesty's Government would be grateful for the earliest
indication of the date when, and place where, the inspec-
tors are to report.
5.
His majesty's Government have expressed to the
Governments of Australia, New Zealand and Norway the hope
that they will also be prepared to appoint one or more
inspectors to join the expedition.
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON, D.C.
18th October, 1946.

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.96)
AIDE-MÉMOIRE
894.628/10-1846
With reference to the inquiry of the British Embassy
in 1ts ide-mémoire of October 18, 1946, with regard to
the SCAP direotive of August 23, 1946, zuthorizing the
J:panese Government to convert a tanker into a whale
proceseing ship, conversion to be completed in May, 1947,
informetion has been received from the Supreme Commander
that the use of thie ship for Bonin Island whaling
operetions, for which it was intended, has now been
found to be impracticable. Consequently conversion
operetione will not be continued and, beyond the comple-
tion of the hull to e point where launching is possible,
CS/V
no further construotion or conversion will be carried
out pending decision regarding the future use of the
veseel.
With regard to the route, sohedule and other arrange-
ments affeoting the earingntrolled Antaretic whaling
主
expedition, the following information has been received
from SCAP:
Bui3

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
"The first units of the SOAP-sontrolled Antaretie
Whaling Expedition, sonsisting of the factory ehip
HASHIDATE MARU and six killer boats, departed from
Yokosuka November 15, followed two days later by
the carrier TADOTSU MARU. The second part of the
fleet consisting of the faotory ship NISSHIN MARU,
theee carrier ships (TENYO MAFU, BANSHU MA U and
3. NSHU MA U No. 32) and five k1ller boats. left
Nagaeak1 November 18. One killer boat ran aground
und 1s being replaced with another soheduled to
depart November 29. The NISSHIN MAHU suffered a
few days delay beoause of engine trouble. The
BaNSHU MARU No. 35 and BANSHU MARU No. 36 wore to
lecve Nagasaki December 2. The oil transport
SAN DIEGO MAHU is to leave Yokosuka December 12.
"The sailing course runs southwesterly fron
Japan off the oast coast of Mindanao into the
Celebes Ses, through Maoasaar and Lombok Straits
and thence southeasterly on a route approximately
60 miles off the west coast of Australia to a

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.94)
destination between 120 degrees and 130 degrees east
longitude at 60 degrees south latitude. The whaling
vessels are prohibited from approaching eleser
than twelve miles to any land beyond the home islands
exoept in passage of the Lombok Straits where,
as a matter of convenience to the British Goverament,
the United Kingdom observer 1s to be taken abeurd.
The northern boundary of the area in which whaling
1s to be condueted under s0AP direotivo 1s several
hundred miles distant from the nearest portions of
Australle, Taemania and New Zealand.
"Shipe will steam et approximately ten knots,
pessing through the Lombok Straits approximately
two weeks after departure and arriving at the
dectination approximately 30 days after departure."
Department of State,
hi
Washington,
December: 1940
DEC
eeD
JA:ALDunning/pm
BC
A-H
12/5/48/℃

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.96)
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
MESSAGE:
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
A-162
Washington,
NO.
TIME.
2618
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER TO THE
Nov 25, 1946
SUPREME COMLANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
2618
894.628/10-1846
TOKYO.
Rcference Political Adviser's A-93, October 18, 1946.
The final paragraph of the Norwegien note received by the
Department on September 17 refers to a conversation between Acting
Secretary Acheson and Mr. Knut Lykke, then Charge d'Affaires of the
Norwegian Embassy, on August 19, 1946, in Mr. Acheson's office. At
that time Mr. Lykke stated that his Government regretted that it had
not been consulted prior to the authorization of the expedition. He
laid emphasis on both the economic and psychological importance of the
whaling industry to the Norwegians. He stated that when the catch limit
of 16, 00o tlue whale units was established it was not anticipated that
the Germans or the Japanese would be permitted to engage in whaling.
He further stressed the Japanese practice in the past of ignoring the
international whaling egreements.
Mr. Lykke then exoressed the desire of his Government as follows:
1. That, if possible, SCAP be directed to rescind the authorization.
2. If impossible to reverse the decision, then the Norwegiens
desired tht the expedition be undertaken by Norway and that the vessels
be manned by Norwegien crews. Mr. Lykke suggested that if Japan needed
C
CS/A
the whele oil, she might purchase it from Norway.
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
Mr. Acheson assured Mr. Lykke that a thorough inguiry into the
894.628/
(oFFices onLY)problem would bemade.
Ackuson
Acheson
42
P.M.
Acting
(TNESF)
RERUS
4
F:ERVanSant:bp
11/14/46
JK
NOE
-1846
W
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1946 - 6B3442

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.96)
5434
PREPARING OFFICE
TGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE,WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Gollect
CLABSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
894.628/10-1846
OCT181946
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
531
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
BRIT EMB in note delivered DEPT today has ex-
pressed BRIT GOVT willingness waive objections to
proposed Antarctic whaling expedition. EMB states
arrangements being made provide two United Kingdom
inspectors with previous Antarctic experience for
service with expedition. BRIT GOVT agreeable pay
salaries in first instance but considers proper that
C
S
salaries end other expenses these inspectors be met
A
from proceeds voyage. kxxxkxxxdoxatkaxxexpadkkkax
BRIT GOVT agrees provide necessary equipment but
in view duration expedition and
states that/fact inspectors must travel by air from
England to point of assembly impossible provide
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
5
(OFFICES ONLY)
rations end therefore hopes SCAP may be able furnish
7
rations on same scale as for US inspectors. Finally
EMB asks earliest indication of dete and place
inspectors should report.
DEPT feels
2/0
PRINTING OFFICE-1946

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.97)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
-2-
DEPT feels in view BRIT waiver objections to expedi-
tion and cooperative attitude every effort should be
make exception to general rule in this particular case and
exerted/meet request regarding rations either from
BRIT Commonwealth or SCAP sources. With regard
amounts of salaries (SCAP C-65657, 29 SEPT), EMB
has agreed telegraph London immediately for this info.
SCAP comments requested.
(HB)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
00T 18
FE
IR
10-18-4013
(cleared by phone
Ju
with Mr. VanSant)
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-194

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.91)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INTERNATIONAL RESOURBES DIVISION
NOV 11946
ERUS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ALRGRas
5420
From:
Tox'e
894.628/10-1846
Noted:
October 1., 1?46
Ree':
Oct. 31, 1946
A
ACTION-ITP
NFO:
Dc/R secret ry of Stete,
A-H
es ington.
XITH
A-5, ctobe 18, 1946
DU/L
OCD
efer nce De rt...ert's A13. se tober 26. 194 ond   t ont's
ESP
IC
telem 417, July 28, 1946.
In the finel aragt oh of the lior. egian note received oy the De mrte
ment on Seutember 1? eno forworded in the pe mrteent s sir ran uncer
1R
refercnce, it is stated: "The very valid r asona for the o poaition of
- the Norwegian Government to eny Japanese wheling o  ration have been
explained before, end I shall not "ecanitalate them here." A cereful
search of our files indicates that we have not received the deteils of
the horwegian Government's protgst concerning tre forthcoming Juoanese
wheling o eretion.
DEC 4 1946
"e shoula much a mreciate rrcoiving n full the r asons for the
FILED
Norwegian coposit on.
IP
790
.. i PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
C

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.95)
1
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
8-x
London via War
Action: ITP
Jnfo
Dated October 21, 1946
EUR
DCA
w/n
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 9:47 a.m., 21st
OCD
VD
Control 7001
IC
DC/R
No paraphrase necessary.
INTERNATIONAL RESOURBES DIVISION
lupted 10/93/46
WESF
SECSTATE
894.628/10-2146
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
8955, October 21, 1 p.m.
Because British delegation whaling conference leaves
November 10 FONOFF particularly desirous receive draft
agenda rules procedure mentioned DEPCIRTEL October 1
noon as being airmailed.
When can Embassy except receive
them.
GALLMAN
MRM: ACM
RESTRICTED
946 001 21 Pi 07
IF
rri
R
m
0C7281946
FILED
1.R
つ
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.91)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE-WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
i Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
1
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
PLAD
Charge to
6933
061 25 1940
894.628/10-2146
7365
cel be
albaney
DrAFT
ux euted
DC/T
D i nit
E
CS
V
at
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
 U S. GOVERNMENT PRINTINO OFFICE-194

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.83)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
Calleee
Bepartment of State
Chirgo Depontomoat:
Weohlngten
Cherge to
at pecial
Acheron
(EGC)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
nesd.
(OPFICES ONLY)
P.H.N
I.P
77 - X000
.
5

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.95)
Delivend
M. Hraest
M. Emmerson
Ref. 2282/--/46
Oe8.31, 19%.
MEMORANDUM
The information given telephonically to this
Embassy on the 26th October in regard to the date and
place of assembly for whaling inspectors was conmuni-
cated immediately to His Majesty's Government.
A reply has now been received to the effect that,
because of the infrequency of the Air Service to Hong
Kong and the difficulty of completing medical and other
arrangements within the short time available, it would,
unfortunately, not be possible for British inspectors
to leave London before 16th November at the earliest.
They would thus only reach Hong Kong on 21st November.
894.628/10-2146
His Majesty's Government do not wish the departure
of the expedition to be delayed on this account,ut would
be glad to learn vwhether any alternative can be saggsted
by which the inspectors could catch the expeditio en
7
route. Failing such facility His Majesty's Government
regret that it will not be possible to provide British
inspectors.
..
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON, D.C.
31st October, 1946.
CS/H
y
f
2

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.97)
an
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
NOV 1 1946
U.S. URGENT
SUPREME COMT ANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
544
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
Following message has been sent to War Dept for
894.628/10-2246
approval and transmission to SCAP:
294.628
QUOTE: Brit EIB noW states (REURTEL 482, Oct 22)
United Kingdom inspectors because of infrequency air
service Hongkong and difficulty completing medical
other arrangements cannot arrive Hongkong before
Nov 21. Ei.B states Brit GOVT does not wish delay de-
parture expedition this account but inquires whether
any alternative can be suggested. SCAP comments re-
quested re feasibility PTIT inspectors joining expedition
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
vhen it passes through Lombok Straits if Netherlands GOVT
(OFFICES ONLY)
9:9
grants permission (The Hague 868, Oct 29, repeated to
C
S
Tokyo). Suggest matter might be discussed with Nether-
/HH
lands Iission Tokyo.
2
Norwegian
r Unit
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.95)
.PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
Collect
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGES
Charge Department:
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
-2-
Norwegian E.B has just notified Dept Lt. CoM.Ostby
(DEPTEL 540, Oct 29) unable join whaling expedition and
Norwegian GOVT cannot at this time provide another
inspector. EB inquires whether one of Norwegian
inspectors on board factory ship in Antarctic might
be permitted to board one of Japanese factory ships
for short period of time in case factory ships should
meet on catching grounds and such visits would be
practicable. SCAP comments requested re feasibility
this arrangement. UI:QUOTE
(jCP)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
016
Cleand by
JA:JKEmmerson:mls
MCP
elaplioni
telephone
10-36-46
FE
A-H
BC
Mu.hinehang

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.78)
FE
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNILATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEORAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
orrice of
ASTERN AFFAIRS
11-X
16
Pokyo via Var
Qusan
Act1
Info.
EOF
DC/
CONEIIECFTAL
DC
JE
Brolnk
A A
COT
FC
C0/R
SEOSC
(11 # 2ed  8
9xi1. 12/27/46. 0
sice
1
 o arreeaulo t furnislig atlons fer
628/10
Polvodoe in reeoe in om me as the u1
 or corronweu ccurat n orce, rarly
o unnoitisn Ce monveulth
Lted.ng inpoutoehoud re ort as oon
-2246
in g ot n 1 uo than Noombor
 Lecon. SA.Vhalors
cuora  Unite State Aumy ofrices cnd
thriale tr oule urenae ill rot bo met frm rre
coe lr uad exrene: a mart 
tPced fror le  1 only ot
nvl ey n i uid he voroaymen
po  . vall reauly be rred t so
trotnd co rsoympot.
:n
re cee or ts vype re ther vhe
moy ma.Fo ools ta Unted Kn
cou ou oule o eive the salaries ere othe e
Ju  wnnela to ScAr  recto . nariy c to
Fou  1 t in tance by Unlped Ying aen Gove anere and. 1
3o ce  ot to bo  Le jea t of United Riagdon ocouratien
ex olei .mbuemt b arn.
N
0
 ar cie rce o rrented for ? Unavea Lingoor In
ct   pevaee ith foruhcomr Antarotie whaline 
Dt  an   ul . Aut 
1946
d boured ealiest.
7
ACHRSCN
R
C
Nor. Mesung delaged in transmiscion.
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.95)
-7799
Io
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
10P
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
Chargo to
U.S. URGENT
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
6pr
TCKYO
540
894.628/10-2246
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
594.628 10-2246
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
Norwegian Govt proposes send Lt. Com. Harald
Ostby as whaling inspector to accompany SCAP expedi-
tion. Ostby born Feb 2, 1907, employed whaling
inspector by Norvegian Dept Commerce since 1936.
Salary to be same as that specified by British
(REDEPTEL 535, Oct 24). Norwegian EMB requests SCAP.
provide rations and pay salary from proceeds expedi-
re
inspectors
tion. Substance SCAP reply/ BRIT/(URTEL 482, Oct 22)
/H
H
communicated to Norwegians. Since charge against
occupation cost not applicable in case Norwegians
18
DISTRIBUTION
20
SCAP comments invited. Meantime Norwegian EMB has
894.628
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
been informed Allied inspectors are to report SCAP
DUR
Nov 8 and that expedition sails Nov 12. SCAP clearance
WD to SCAP.
()
0-22.46
 28 1946 F
mcpp
JA: JKEmmerson:mls NOE
IR
JK
A-H
10-28-46
(Cleared by tele-
pone with Mr. VanSant)

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.95)
EUR
Ni to Ah. Haque
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
OFFILE
0CT 2 5 1946
DEPART MENT OF STATE
9
Tokyo via War
Action: EUR
Tated October 24, 1946
Info
S
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 11:17 a.m., 24th
U
LE
Control 8247
FE
DC/L
No paraphrase necessary.
ITP
ESP
TRC
SECSTATE
10~
894.628/10-2446
U-E
A-H
OCD
485, Octobes 24
FC
DC/R
Ungently requeut Dept take necessary action to
obtain agreement of Netherlands Govt to use by Japanese
wlaling fleet of passage thr ough Lombok Strait re-
ween Talonds of Bel1 and Lombok on outbound voyage
 fortheomtng whol:ng expeditton. Agreement requested
bseause direet route requirer passage Lombok Strait which
is only  naut cal miles in width at nerrowest point.
Japanege irtain, and United States Nevy sources
here  onfirm, snot Lombok Stratt Is rocognized ocean
hlgaway and conaldered by all nations to be part of
h' gh peas. Altornate and indirect, tortuous route
witch would permit hips to stey ls miles from any
Tand involves pa sa e thxough unfamiliar and normally
unfrequented wasex with unknown mine fields and other
he ards via Muluksehe Soas, Ceram Sea, Banda Sea and
aeund Sermate  slards Into Timor Sea This course
weuld necensitate additionel 3o4 nautical miles and
36 hours of travel each way in addition to estimated
extra 3oo tons of fuel oil" ScAP ond United Kingdom
tnspeetors will accompany all vessels.
Urgent action ry Department and Netherlands Govt
on this request will be greatly apprecialed as expeition
6s11s November 12th.
FILED
2
T:EG
ATCHESON
9
96
FESTRICTED
LRC
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.94)
ER
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTG
EGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASBIFICATION OF THE
Depa
State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
6752
OCT 2 4 1946
70—
894.628/10-2446
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
535
INFO: VAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
DEPT informed by BRIT EB (REDEPTEL 531, Oct 18)
that salaries to be paid inspectors on whaling factory
ships by BRIT GOVT will be 36 pounds, 13 shillings,
4 pence per month exclusive food and accommodation.
Acheson
CS
Acting
(gicp)
V
WHR
946 0OCT 24 PM 6 46
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
RELEASE DESH
TELEGRAP
DC/T
01
Cleared by
209
JA:JKhmmerson:xa
A-H
10/23/46
8KE
2
 U. S. GOVEANMENT PRINTINO OFFICE-134

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.94)
7117
ER
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLABSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
RESTRICTED
Charge to
OCT 2 5 1946
894.628/10-2446
AMEMBASSY,
7p
小.
THE HAGUE.
10-2226
60
Following
ote Detow is Tokyo's 485 to DEPT Oct 24.
QUOTE Urgently request DEPT take necessary action
to obtain agreement of Netherlands GOVT to use by
Japanese whaling fleet of passage through Lombok Strait
between islands of Bali and Lombok on outbound voyage
of forthcoming whaling expedition. Agreement requested
because direct route require passage Lombok Strait
which is only 1l nautical miles in width at narrowest
point.
8
Japanese maintain, and United States Navy sources
N
here confirm, that Loabok Strait is recognized ocean
DOR
nighway and considered by all nations to be part of
hign seas. Alternate and indirect, tortuous route
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
which would permit ships to stay 12 miles from any
69
unfrequenteu waters with unknown mine fields and other
6
hazards via Muluksche Seas, Ceram Sea. Banda Sea and
人
around Sermata Islands into Timor Sea. This course
8
would necessitate additional 304 nautical miles and
ò
1
3ö hours of travel each way in addition to estimated
人
f
extra
f

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.93)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
NESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
RESTRICTED
Charge to
-2-
extra 3CO tons of fuel oil. SCAP and United Kingdom
inspectors will accompany all vessels.
Urgent action by Department and Netherlands GOVT
on this request will be greatly appreciated as expedition
sails November 12. END QUOTE
Expedition will be under SCAP flag and control.
DPT favors request and suggests you cable Tokyo direct
if NETH GOVT agrees.
Achesom
icting
(/)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
dHer
JA
FE
NOE:FENolting:jt
SEA
JKE
1川1
10-25-46
452
Ca
001 25
 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-19A

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.93)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGQING. TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
118
Washington
RESTRICTED
Charge to
25
894.628/10-2446
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
7 p
528
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
Text URTEL 485 October 24 sent to Hague with
request they take up matter with NETH GOVT and advise
you directly.
Acheson
Acting
(gkp)
946 OCT 25 PM 7
RELEASE DESK
CS/V
TELEGRAPI
DC/T
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
894.628/10-244%
(OFFICES ONLY)
0
hul
JCp
JA:JKEmmerson:xa
FE
A-H
10-25146
SEA
11
00
23
U S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-194F

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
7-X
Tokyo via War
Acticn-ITP
Info:
OCT291946
Dated October 25, 196
LE
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
FE
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 6:12 p.m., 25th.
DC/
ESF
Control 8814
TR;
A-H
No paraphrase necessary
INTERNATIONAL RESQURCES DIVISION
OCD
FL
OCT 281946
DC/R
SECSTATE
T
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
URGENT
.86, October 25
Reference second paregrayh DEPTEL/5oo September 28.
1. We now loarn that as SCAJAP clag has been given
international notification to be flcwn by special category
of shlps under Jananese operation, is cannot be used for
11
whaling expedition. There is no ScAp flag.
2. If complaining covernments were agreeable, simplest
procedure wouid be use of Japenese Morchant Marine Flag for
894.628
reasons thet under International Law and usage, flag indicatos
ownership. nationality or registry and while these ships
are under ScAp control they are Japanese-owned. Possible
solution is to fly Japanese Flag with reversed colors-white
bail on red field. Request urgent approval this flag and
if epproved request Department promuigate this flag inter-
nationally and give any other international notifications
necessary. Flag to be used must be decided upen immediatoly
and necessary notifications given because November 12 is
date of scheduled sailing of expedition.
Request Department's
views earliest.
2
5
946 0CT 26
4
9
ABC
RESTRICTED
NORV
FLED
3E
R
1946
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.94)
a
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEPHONE
Memorandum of Conversation
inith he tith
DATE:1 October 29, 1946
Teluraus n Thr
SUBJECT:
Use of SCAP Flag on Japanese Whaling Expedition
PARTICIPANTS:
Colonel. Metze, Navy Department
Mr. Klise, ONI, Navy Department
Mr. Deimel
COPIES TO:
6
Colonel Metze told me that the Operation Plan of July 6, 1946 of the Commander
1-1493
Naval Forces Japan, who is also SCAJAP, states with reference to Japanese merchant
2
vessels that with only a few minor exceptions all such vessels over lo0 gross tons
Y
are operated by the Japanese civil merchant marine commission which in turn is under
control of SCAJAP; that Japanese merchant vessels fly the merchant ensign only but
that the Liberty and other United States owned ships operated by Japanese crews in
repatriation fly the merchant ensign plus a special flag adapted from the interna-
0
tional code "option" (letter O). This international code flag is a yellow over
red triangle. The SCAJkP flag substitutes green for the yellow. Japanese naval
2
ships engaged in repatriation fly the Japanese merchant ensign plus another special
SCAJAP flag adapted from the international code "easy" (letter E). This flag is
red and blue, subdivided vertically and the modifications of the SCAJAP flag has
been by cutting a triangle out of the outer or blue segment.
2
Naval Operations informed Colonel Metze that the special flags for SCAJAP
were given approval by the Chief of Operations. Col. Metze pointed out with refer-
ence to the use of either of the SCAP flags for the whaling expedition that it would
involve a departure: the first SCAP flag is used only for U.S. owned vessels manned
by Japanese crew and engaged in repatriation; the second SCAJAP flag is used only
by Japanese naval ships engaged in repatriation. However, we agreed that it would
appear simplest to extend the applicability of either of these flags than to devise
and promulgate a completely new one.
I discussed this with Mr. Klise, Far Eastern Section, ONI, who called me yester
day and he concurred in these views.

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.84)
-2-
I then discussed the foregoing with Mr. Fearey in JA, who agreed to pre-
pare an appropriate telegram for Tokyo to indicate preliminary views here as to
desirability of extending anplication of SCAJAP flag, and to inquire as to hw
this flag was internationally promulgated. Since this solution might offer some
difficulties, I agreed to ask the Navy Department to begin exploration of problem
of approving new SCAP flag, using reversed colors of Japanese merchant marine
flag - i.e. using white ball on red field. I then called Colonel Metze back and
asked if he would initiate inguiries along this line.
Lenni Att catted latm, aid afh der cusov
wit Feaney he had lreated Caft Brenahad (?) whs had
hondled the mon, oho qnre hei dala a 
ins finnlyalt (inally y A, a tarhuij
I Nary). Ther wanid errered Jaht meushand
manie og nt nyt deonat. Fearey's lela
tnn smendd undiy.
894.628/10-2546
SD:HLDEIMEL,JR:HH

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.92)
8373
ar
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CLABSIFICATION OF THE
Collect
OPH
MESSAGE:
Department of State
Charge Department:
RESTRICTED
894.628/10-25
Washington
Charge to
STATE
1.0
URGENT
OCT 3 16
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
5P.M.
543
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
546
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
894.628/
essage subuittabto
9
REURTEL 486 October 25 followingAfiled ith WAR DEPT
approal and
wb
for transmission to SCAP: QUOTE Preliminary view here
eithe
one of
favors extension SCAJAP flagsmodified from international
Option or Easy to cover whaling. Approval new reverse
color Japanese flag would take longer,
connotations.
GS
mabuabyrscr Taking no action until
informed your preference. and Promulgating procedure could be that
wb
previously employed. B for SCAJAP flag. UNQUOTE
894.
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
SJK
SD KE H
JA:RAFearey:xa
FE
IR
(Cleared
7
(Cleared
10-29-46
by telephone)
2
by telephone)
246 OCT 31 PM 4
He
Unit
E
0
aff
1
DC/T
Rev.
LEASE
AS
E
2
Cot.
G
5
E
R
0
A
3

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.98)
HB
A
NEW ZEALAND LEGATION
894.628/10-2946
0301946
ARTMENT OF STATE
October 29, 1946
Dear lir. Vincent,
Following our telephone conversation today I am en-
closing herewith a note (in the form of an aide-memoire)
of the vievs of the New Zealand Government in reply to the
aide-memoire of the Depertment of State dated October 4,
94.628/8.23
1946.
I understand from Mr. Graves tnat any Allied inspectors
ap ointed are required to report in Tokyo by November 8th,
and I expect to receive very early word from Wellington as
to whether or not New Zealand will be wishing to appoint an
inspector.
Yours sincerely,
EpPowles
G.R. Powles,
encl.
First Secretary.
894.628
CS7V
1946
Mr. Jonn Carter Vincent,
State Department,
WASHINGTON, D.C.
10-2946

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.98)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
The New Zealand Government has carefully considered the aide-memoire of the
Department of State dated October 4, 1946.
The New Zealand Government wishes at the outset to express its appreciation
that its main objections to the proposed Japanese whaling expedition have been
met. It is also pleased to note that all the whale oil obteined will be subject
to I.E.F.C. allocation and th&t the provisions of the International Whaling
Convention will be strictly observed.
Furthermore, great importance is att: ched to the assurance that the long
tern future of Ja panese whaling end the ultimate disposition of Japanese whaling
facilities will be a matter for Allied consultation and decision, and that no
possible future expedition will be approved without prior consultation with the
Governnents concerned. The Ne: Zealand Government considers it important that
future policy shoul be discussed and settled as soon as possible.
It is noted thet after leaving Japan tho expedition will not approach any
land, ana it is assumed that this includes the shores of the Ross Dependency.
It is lso assumed that arrengements are bein made for refuelling vhich will
not make it necessary for the expedition to use any southern ports, but in due
course in orm tion would be welcomed re trding the fuelling plan and the route
the expedition will take.
Since it appears to be impracticable to have complete Allied crews, the
New Zealand Government is retitied to note that the expedition will be under
complete A.lied control and will be accompenied by personnel from SCAP head-
cuarters. In view of the fact thet the Japanese personnel concerned are to be
screened by SCP, no further recommendations concerning security safeguards are
made at present, but it is desired thet it be clearly understood thst in this
respect, as in :ll others, this expedition crectes no precedent for the future.
The Ne: Zealand Government welcomes the invitation to be essociated in the
provision of additional Allied inspectors for the expedition and is urgently
consiierin whether it will be in a position to accept the invitation.
Finally, it is desired to mention the directive of the Supreme Commander
of the 3rd Aurust, 1946 releting to the conversion of : partly built ship into
a whaling factory ship, and to state that the provisions of this directive can
not but be understood in some quarters as tendin to prejudice any decision
relating to the future of Japenese whaling and consequently it is sincerely
hoped thet such directive will be cancelled at an early dite.
In the circunstunces, and subject to the comments made above, the objections
to the proposed expedition are therefore withdrawn.
P
New Zeal nd Legation,
Washington, D.C.
October 29, 1946.

=== Page 574 === (confidence 0.95)
AIDE-MÉMOIRE
894.628/10-2946
With reference to the inguiry of the New Zealand
1203+770-29
Legation in 1ts a1de-memoire of Ootober 9, 1946, with
regard to the SCAP directive of Angust 23, 1946,
εuthorizing the Japenese Government to convert a tanker
into ε hele proceesing ship, conversion to be completed
un
in M: y, 1947, 1nformat1on has been received from the
Supreme Commander thet the use of this ship for Bonin
Island wheling operatione, for which it was intended,
has now been found to be imprecticable. Consequently
conversion operetions will not be continued and, beyond
the completion of the hull to a point where launching 1s
possible, no further conatruction or conversion will
CS/V
be carried out pending decision regarding the future
use of the veseel.
With regard to the route, sohedule and other arrange-
894.628/10-299
ments affecting the SCaP-oontrolled Antaretic whaling
expedition, the following information has been received
from SCAP:
1.013

=== Page 575 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
"The first units of the ECAP-controlled Ant-
aretio Whaling Expedition, consisting of the
factory ship HASHIDATI MARU and six killer beats,
departed from Yokosuka November 15, followed two
days later by the carrier TADOTSU MAHU. The seeond
part of the fleet consisting of the factory ship
NISSHIN MARU, threo Carrier ships (TENYO HARU,
BaNSHU MARU and BANSHU MARU No. 32) and f1ve
killer boats, left Negasaki November 18. One
killer boat ran aground and is being replaced with
another soheduled to depart November 29. The
NISSHIN MeRU suffered & few daya delay because of
engine trouble. The BANSHU MARU No. 35 and BANSHU
Ms U No. 36 were to leave Nagasaki December 2.
The o1l transport SAN DIEGO MARU is to leave
Yokosuka December 12.
"The sailing course runs southwesterly from
Jip n off the east coast of Mindanao. into the
Celebes See, through Maoassar and Lombok Straits
and thence southeesterly on & route approximately

=== Page 576 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
60 miles off the wst coast of Australia to a
destination between 120 degrees and 130 degrees
east longitude at 60 degrees south latitude. The
whaling vessele are prohibited from approsching
oloser than twelve miles to any land beyond the
home 1slands except in passage of the Lombok
Straits where, as a matter of convenienee to the
Britiah Government, the United Kingdom obeerver is
to be taken aboard. The northern boundary of the
area in which whaling 1s to be conduoted under
SCAP directive 1s several hundred miles distant
from the nearest portions of Australia, Tasmania and
New Zealand.
"Ships will steam et approximately ten knots,
passing through the Lombok Streite epproximately
two weeks efter deperture ond arriving at the
destination approximetely 30 daye after departure.
true copy of
Department of State,
origt.
Washington, December1 31946
NESF
DEC
18 1945
alD
11
JA:ALDunning/pm
FE
IR BC
A-H

=== Page 577 === (confidence 0.99)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
The Department of State desires to refer to the
New Zealand Legation's aide-mémoire of May 6, 1948, reply-
ing to the Department's aide-mémoire of April 13, 1948,
in which the Department offered to transmit to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan for his considera-
tion such views as the New Zealand Government might care
to submit regarding a contemplated third SCAP-administered,
Japanese-manned Antaretic whaling expedition.
A message has now been received from the Supreme
Commander advising that he has decided, after careful
consideration of the New Zealand Government and other
interested Governments' views, to authorize a third expedi-
tion. The reasons leaning him to this decision are stated
to be the same as those necessitating the first and second
expeditions, notably the centinuing acute shortage of nec-
essary food prouucts in Japan and the importance of maximiz-
ing foreiun exchange resources for the procurement of
essential imports for Japan. The Supreme Commander further
states, however, that in view of the New Zealand and other
Governments' objection to the inclusion of a third factory
ship, and because of his desire to meet these Governments'
wishes in the matter of Japanese whaling to the largest
possible extent consistent with the effective performance
of the occupation mission, he has decided not to authorize
the addition of a tird ship.
With reference to the New Zealand Government's opinion
that the whole question of Japanese participation in
Antarctic whaling should be settled in the Far Eastern
Commission, the position of the United states Government
on this question has already been made clear in connection
with the previous expeditions and need not be repeated

=== Page 578 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
here. It 1s the view of thie Government that the Supreme
Commander has authaity under the provisions of FEC-O35, or under
his general powers as "thesole exeuctive authority for the
Allied Powers in Japan", to authorize the subject expedition,
and that he should do so.
The Department of State is gratified to note that the
New Zealand Government offers no objection to the despatch of
a SCAP-administered Antarctic whaling expedition this year.
It is assumed that the Supreme Commander will follow the same
procedures for advising interested governments of the route
and other pe ticu rs of the third expedition as he did last
year.
If the New Zeelnd Government desires to assure itself
on this point it is suggested that it address its inquiries
directly to the Supreme Commander.
BC
FE
0
ROE
NA:RAFearey/fhh

=== Page 579 === (confidence 0.98)
TO BE TRANSMITTED
AIRGRAM SENT
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
Department of State
NO. A-157
Washington,
TIME
2114
2114
Nov 20, 1946
894.628/10-2946
To the
United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the /llied Powers,
Tokyo.
For your information following is text of note
received from the Tew Zealand Legation on October 29,
1946 on the subject of Japanese Antarctic whaling
exredition:
"ihe  ew Healand Governnent has carefully con-
sidered the aide-re cire of the Department of State
cated Octoher 4, 1946.
"The Hev csland covernr ent wishes at the outset
to express its ar reciation that its main objections
to the prcposed Jrrenere whaling expedition have been
net. It is also pleared to note that all the whale
cil obtained will be subject to I.E.F.C. allocation
and that the provirions of the International haling
Convention will be strictly observed.
"Furthern ore, great importance is attached to the
ass rance that the long term future of Japanese whaling
end the ltimate disposition of Japanese whaling facili-
ties will he a matter for Allied consultation and
cecision, and that no possible future expedition will
be approved without prior consultetion with the Govern-
ments concerned. he lew Zealand Government considers
it importent that future policy cho ld be discussed and
C
setiled as soon as possible.
S
"It is noted that after leaving Japan the expedition
2
will not approach any land, and it is assumed that this
p
includes the shores of the Ross Dependency. It is also
assumed that arrangements are being made for refuelling
which will not make it necessary for the expedition to
use any

=== Page 580 === (confidence 0.96)
TO BE TRANSMITTED
AIRGRAM SENT
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
Department of State
NO.
Washington,
TIME
A-157 to Tokyo
-2-
use any so thern ports, but in due course information
would ie velconed regarding the f elling plan and the
route the expedition will take.
"Since it appears to be impracticable to have com-
plete .llied crews, the New  ealand Government is
gratified to note that the expedition will be under
complete 'llied control and will be acco! panied by person-
nel from SCAr headcuarters. In view of the fact that
the Japanese personnel concerned are to be screened by
CAP, no further reconr endations concerning security
safeguards are nade at present, but it is desired that
it be clearly understood that in this respect, as in
all others, this expedition creates no precedent for
the future.
"The ew Fcaland Government welcomes the invitation
to be associated in the provision of additional Allied
inspectors for the expedition and is urgently consider-
ing whether it will be in a position to accept the
invitation.
"Finally, it is desired to nention the directive of
the upreme Co mander of the 23rd A gust, 1946 relating
to the conversion of e rartly built ship into a whaling
factory ship, and to state that the provisions of this
cirective can not but be understood in some quarters as
tending to prejudice any decision relating to the future
of Japanese whaling and consequently it is sincerely
hoped that such directive wili be cancelled at an early
date.
"In the circumstences, end subject to the comments
nade above, the chjections to the proposed expedition are
therefore withdrawn."
Acting
P
aid. by War-CA D (Chard)
16
ENNS
JA: JKBanerson:n1s
IR
BCA-H
0
77-76-46

=== Page 581 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONSAND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
CCT301946
1
The Hle
Action: EUR
Info:
Deted October 29, 1946
FE
ITP
RESTRICTED
Rec'd 3:35 p.m.. 29th
ESP
TRC
Control 9812
UE
A-H
Parephrase hefore communicating except to Govt Agencies
OCD
FC
DC/R
SECSTATE
868, october 29. 5 p.m.
FONOFP states Navy Ministry approes (REDEPTEL 60),
October 25 and Tokyo's 48s to Dept October 24) passage
hrongh Lombok Surait by Jespanose whaling fleet pro-
vided passege in connintous and no stop made. Overseas
Mirs mury ls vesomoring matsor to Netherlands Indies Govt to
gether with comment of Navy Hinistry with request reply be
sablca direet to Nethenlends: Mirsion Tokyo. Informant
addcd that vhile no ob jection pansage can be perceived
heve cnd belleves permisslen will be granted, possibility
894.628/
neverchelese existo ndles eovs may raise objectaons.
Dent vo Deot as 868, repented to Tokyo.
YOPNBECK
BB CD
0
1
RO PREOTED
2
9
4€
NOV 1 1946
FILED
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 582 === (confidence 0.95)
1556
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHIR
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collact
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
RESTRICTED
Charge to
Anmin Coman
NOV 7 1906
CONSULATE GENERAL,
14,628/10
894.628
BATAVIAJAYA
894,627/10--4
-296
Dept Oct 25 requested E.B Th Hague approach
Netherlands GOVT to obtain agreemer use by SCAP-
/10-2946
controlled Jepanese antarctic whalin: fleet of
passage through Lombok Strait on outhound voyage
whaling expedition. MB replied Oct 29 that Dutch
Havy  inistry approved passage providing continuous
and no stons made. Dutch For'n Office stated Over-
CS/HH
seas ! inistry had referred matter NEI GOVT together
that
With Navy Linistry comment and req uest /reply be
cabled direct Netherlands Lission, Tokyo.
SCAP has not yet received confirmation Dutch
permission pass Lombok Strait and requests Dept exert
further efforts expedite final confirmation. Fleet
894,628
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
expects arrive vicinity Lombok Nov 23.
(OFFICES ONLY)
EVR
Dept susgests you inquire NEI GOVT this matter
notify
before sailing date Nov 12.
and regmests Tokyo bexnptified direct./ Repeated to Tokyo.
Ccheaan
wiel
Acting
(T.1)
-29
JA:JIEmmerson:mls
SEA
(LOE
A-H
Code Room: Please repeat to Tokyo. 57

=== Page 583 === (confidence 0.96)
A-H
JAN 1 0 19
NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON 7. D. C.
5
RECEIVED
DEPART
16 COT
901
Excellency:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt
of the Acting Secretary's note of October 16, 1946,
regarding the question of Japanese whaling in the
8
6
Antarctic under authority of the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers.
28/10-3046
The Royal Norwegian Government understands
from your note that the United States Government finds
it necessary to uphold the decision to send out two
JAN 13 1947
FILED
whaling expeditions from Japan for the coming season.
Even though my Government has to acquiesce in this
CA
factual situation, it is still of the opinion that it
is unfortunate, from reasons previously advanced, that
the Japanese whaling expeditions have been authorized.
d'Affaires on September 6, 1946
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
presented
-3046
His Excellency James F. Byrnes
Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.

=== Page 584 === (confidence 0.97)
NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON 7. D. C.
一2 -
presented an Aide-Memoire regarding certain British
proposals, he orally expressed my Government's support
of the representations made by the British Embassy
against the Supreme Commander's directive of August 23,
authorizing the conversion of a tanker into a whale
processing ship to be completed after the end of the
coming season. My Government upholds its strong objection
against the construction of a third Japanese factory
ship. It presumee that under no circumstances will
permission be given for Japanese whaling operations in
future seasons.
The Norwegian Government will be glad to pro-
vide one Norwegian inspector for the expedition, and
intends to assign Lieutenant-Commander Harald Ostby of
the Royal Norwegian Naval Reserve. Lieutenant-Commander
Ostby was born February 2, 1907. He was a whaling
inspector for the Ministry of Commerce from 1936 until
the war, and since then has been employed in the Whaling
Division

=== Page 585 === (confidence 0.98)
NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON 7. D. C.
- 3 -
Division of that Ministry. It is presumed that he will
receive the same remuneration and accomodation as the
American and British inspectors, and that the Supreme
Commander will find it possible to provide his sub-
sistence. My Government is prepared to pay his salary
and expenses in the first instance, but expects that
these outlays will be reimbursed out of the proceeds
of the expedition.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances
of my highest consideration.
For the Ambassador:
Law I. Jorstad
2
No.:
KL/LC

=== Page 586 === (confidence 0.95)
JA
NOr
DEC131946
Excelleney:
I have the honor to scknowledge the receipt of your
note No. 362 end to inform you, with regard to the S0AP
directive of August 23, 1946, author1zing the Japenese
894.628/10-3046
Governmont to convert a tanker into & whale prooeesing
ship, converslon to be completed in May, l94?, that
infor ..tion h.e been received from the Supreme Comaender
thit the use of this ehip for Bonin Ieland wheling
operatiens, for whlch it was intended, has now been
found to se impr cticable. Coneequently converslon
operations will not be continued, end, beyond the comple-
tion of the tull to a point where launching 1s possible,
CS/A
no further construotion or converslon will be carried
out pending cecislon regarding the future use of the
vesrel.
ith regard to the route, eohedule the other
B
arrangements affecting the SC. P-controlled Anteretio
His Excellency
Wilhelm Munthe do Norgenstierne
Ambsesedor of Morway
Pcc 13

=== Page 587 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 =
whaling expedition, the following information has beem
reoeived from SOAP:
"The first units of the SCAP-controlled Antaretie
Whaling Expedition, consisting of the factory ship
H&SHIDATF MATU and six killer boats, departed from
Yokosuka November 15, followed two days later by
the carrier TADOTSU MAPU. The second part of the
flect conslating of the factory ship NISSHIN MARU,
three Carrier shipe (TENYO MARU, BANSHU MARU and
BaNSHU MASU No. 32) and five killer boate, left
Nag seki November 18. One killer boat ran aground
n 1e being re loced with another scheduled to
de art November 9. The NISSHIN MARU suffered a
few d ye del y bec use of engine trouble. The
 NHU MARU No. 55 nd BANSHU MATU No. 36 were to
Le ve Nagacaki December ?. The Oil transport SAN
DIEGO MARU 1s to leave Yokosuka December 12.
"The sailing course runs southwesterly from
Japan off the esst coast of Mindanao into the
Celebes Sea, through Maosssar and Lombok Straits
and thence southeasterly on a route approximately

=== Page 588 === (confidence 0.93)
60 miles off the west eeast of Anstralis to a
destination between 120 degrees and 130 degrees
east long1tude at 60 degrees south latitude. The
whaling vessela are prohibited from approaching
clocer than twive miles to any land beyond the
home islands except in passage or the Lombok
Straits where, as a matter of convenienee to the
British Government, tne United Kingdom observer
1s to be taken aboard. The nortnern boundary of
the ares in whioh whaling is to be condueted under
So.P direotive is several hundred miles distant from
the nearest portions of Australia, Tasmania and
New Zealand.
"Ships will steam at approximately ten knots,
paneing through the Lombok Straits approximately
two weeks after departure ano arriving at the
destination approximately 30 days after departure."
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of
y highest consideration.
For the Seeretary of State:
o8
DEG 46
JOHN H.HILLDRING
thw
QID
JA:ALDunning/pm
IR
NOE
12/3/48/L

=== Page 589 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMINENTELEGRAM
3-X
8:10am
Action: FE
Control 1014
Info
0
EUR
Rec'd November 4, 1946
DC/L
5:30 p.m.
FROM:
Tokyo via War
IPP
nov.3
ESP
TO
Sacretary of State
do
TRC
A-H
NO:
494, Thirty-first
OCD
FC
PLIORITY
DC/R
1. Although T pway is not in position to recover expenses
nd salery of ats Whaling inspectors by making them pert of
occupetlon costs. at is not felt that there would be eny
justification in paying sclary and expenses of Norweglen
89
Inspecter from priceeds f expedition. Each ship will
nave adeguate mumber of ellted inspeetors without the
94.6
Norvegian end the sending of a Norvegien inspector is
entirely veluntary on the part of the Norwegian Govermment.
Veile star enprovee essignment of edditional allied in-
2
upootors and will welcome the maximum number (total of 4)
8
possihle to sccommodate. REoURTEL 431, September 29, there
would appear tn be no jusr ificetion in treating the sslery
of the Norwecier inapeetor any differently from those of
0
ther allied iuspectors.
-3146
a. Sor egreeable to furnishing rations for Norwegian in-
Um2
"poeter an same manner as other aid is extended to allied
personne namely on doller reimbursement basis. Assume
11.546
Horwegians wils make availabte dollar deposits to cover
these cou s.
No did
3. Son? cueerunce is granted It. Commander Harald Ostby
tor serviee as whal ng anspector vath forthcoming Ante rotic
Phe ing Exnedition. Date required in SoAp Cireular S August
3o shouid be furnished earliest. This clearance granted
providing Cutby can report not leter than November 8 to
Fisherien Division Matural Resourees Section, SCAP. Trans-
portation to and from Japan to be raid for by Ostby or by
REDEPTEL S4O, October 29.
Norwegian Goveronent.
874.628/10-2246
NO
ATCHESON
FILED
8
Mote:
Meusage deleyed in transminsion.
1946
GD: JRMC
CONPIDENTLAL
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURMED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 590 === (confidence 0.95)
ÜNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
As Cont
FOR JAPAN
DEPART
REPORTING SERVIGES
DIVISION OF FORFIGN
Restricted
Tokyo, October 31, 1946
676
SUBJECT: Weekly Report on Japanese Whaling Activities
894.628/10-3146
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to
refer to this Mission's despatch No. 647, October 14, 1946,
with which were submitted reports on Japanese whaling
ACTIO
activities for the period September 15-22, 1946, and to
21R
enclose herewith the following reports for the period
COPIBS
September 22-0ctober 12, 1946, prepared by the Natural
T08
Resources Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
—A
for the Allied Powers:
1√K2
Weekly Report of Whaling Activities in Japanese
Coastal waters for the period 22 through 28 September 1946.
1FE21
Weekly report of Whaling Activities in Japanese
A-+
Coastal waters for the period 29 September through 5 October
1946.
60CD
Weekly Report of Whaling Activities in Japanese
Coastal Waters for the period 6 through 12 October 1946.
Whale Products Derived from Japanese Coastal Whaling
Activities for periods 22 through 28 September, 29 September
through 5 October, and 6 October through 12 October 1946.
5/
Weekly Status Report of the 1946-47 Japanese Antarctic
Whaling Fleet for the period 22 through 28 September 1946.
6/
Weekly Status Report of the 1946-47 Japanese Antarctic
Whaling Fleet for the period 29 September through 5 October
1946.
71
Weekly Status Report of the 1946-47 JapanegysAntarctic
Whaling Fleet for the period 6 through 12 Ogtmber 1946.
.FERNATIONAL RESOB
Enclosures:
As stated (single copy only)
Original and Hectograph to Department
C
2
8
780
DCB APfUnit
GAAbbey:ebk
tev
iat.
mn

=== Page 591 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 676, October 31, 1946,
entitled :"Weekly Repbrt on Japanese Whaling Activities"
WEEKLY REPORT OF WILALING ACTIVITTES IN JAPANESE COASTAL
WATERS
From 22 Sept 1946 to 28 Sept 1946 (Incl.)
Report No.3
Neme of land
Name of whale
Number of whales caught
stations operated
catchers operated
Fin
Sei
Sperm
Total
I. NIITCN SUISAN CO.
Kiritappu
0
0
5
5
(Hamanaka-mura,
Akebono Maru
Hokkaido)
Nissui Maru Ho. 1
Suwa Maru
Taihei Maru No. 1
Same
0
1
1
2
(Hachinohe-shi
Koun Maru No. 1
Aomori Pref.)
Seikai Maru No. 2
Togo Maru No. 2
Kamaishi
O
3
1
4
(Kamaishi-shi,
Etorofu Maru
Iwate Pref.)
Koun Maru No. 2
Koyo Maru
Sazanami Maru
Seikai Maru No. ll
Showa Maru No. 10
Takunan Maru No. 3
Ayukawa
0
0
9
9
(Ayukawa-machi,
Shonen Maru No. 8
Miyagi Pref.)
Shonan Maru No. 11
Kabashima
0
0
0
0
(Kabashima-maru
Hogei Maru No. 1
Nagasaki Pref.)
Seikai Maru No. 8
Okochi
(Tsushima Is.,
Nissui Maru No. 2
0
O
0
0
Naasaki Pref.)
Togo Maru No. 1
TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Akkeshi
(Akkeshi-machi,
Daito Maru No. 1
2
4
14
20
Hokkaido)
Daito Maru No. 3
Fumi Maru
Fumi Maru No. 5
Seki Maru No. 2
Toshi Maru No. 3
anel/

=== Page 592 === (confidence 0.98)
Name of land
Name of whale
Number of whales caught
stations operated
catchers operated
Fin
Sei
Sperm
Total
Ayukawa
0
9
12
12
(Ayukawa Machi
Fumi Maru No. 5
Miyagi Pref.)
KYOKUYO HOGEI CO
Kushiro
0
0
0
0
(Kushiro-shi,
Fuku Maru
Hokkaido)
Ayukawa
0
0
3
3
(Ayukawa-machi,
Toyo Maru
Miyagi Pref.)
TCTAL
2
8
45
55
II. None of the following vessels operat d during this period:
Name of vessel
Owner
Reason
Seikai Laru No. 5 a Ninpon Suisan Co.
Undergoing minor repairs at
Hakodate, Hokkaido.
Seikai Maru No. 10 b/ Nippon Suisan Co.
Undergoing minor repairs to
Tobata, Fukuoka Pref.
Takunan Maru No. 2
Nippon Suisan Co.
Undergoing repair at Innoshima,
Hiroshima Pref.
Seki Maru No. 3
Taiyo yogyo Co.
Undergoing repair at Shimonoseki,
Yamaguchi Pref.
Kaito Maru
Kyokuyo Hogei Co.
Salvaged and under repair at
Nagasaki
Kyo Maru No. 1
Kyokuyo Ho ei Co.
Undergoing repair at Shiogama,
Miyagi Pref.
Sachi Maru
Kyokuyo Hogei Co.
Undergoing repair at Shiogama,
Miyagi Pref.
This vessel was erroneously reported in Weekly Report No. 2 as being at
Tobata, Fukuoka Prefecture.
b/
This vessel was erroneously reported in Weekly Report No. 2 as being at
Hakodate, Hokkaido.

=== Page 593 === (confidence 0.99)
III. Whaling Vessels under construction:
Name and Owner
Type
Gross
Average
Estimated date
of Vessel
of
Tonnage
Location
of work
of completion.
Vessel
completed
KYOKUYO HOGEI CO
Kyo Maru No 2
Catcher
270
Kobe
99%
2 October 1946
Kyo Maru No 3
Catcher
370
Aioi City
hyogo Pref. 98%
8 Octooar 1946
Kyo Maru No 5
Catcher
370
Aioi City
Hyogo Pref. 50%
30 November 1946
Kyo Maru No 6
Catcher 370
Aioi City
Hyogo Pref. 30%
31 December 1946
Kyokuyo Haru
Factory Ship 10,000
Aioi City
No 1
Hyogo Pref. 47%
May 1947
TAIYO GYOGYO CO
Seki Maru No 6
Catcher 300
Osaka
69%
10 November 1946

=== Page 594 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo!'s Despatch No. 676, October 31, 1946,
entitled: "Weekly Report on Japanese Whaling Activities"
WEEKLY REPORT OF WHALING ACTIVITIES IN JAPANESE
COASTAL WATERS
From 29 September 46 to 5 October 194o(Incl)
Report No.
Name of land
Name of whale
Number of whales caught
stations operated
catchers operated
Fin
Sei
Sperm
Total
I. NIPPON SUISAN CO
Kiritappu
0
0
0
0
(Hamanaka-maru,
Nissui Maru No. 1
Hokkaido)
Suwa Maru
Taihei Maru No. 1
Kamaishi
0
0
14
14
(Kamaishi-shi,
Etorofu Maru
Iwate Fref.)
Koun Maru No. 1
Koun maru No. 2
Seikai maru lo. 2 (left Kamaishi on 30 Sept. for
Seikai Laru No. 11 Ayukawa)
Ayukawa
(Ayukawa-machi,
Ake bono maru
Miyagi Pref.)
Sazanami Maru
Togo Maru No. 2 (rived on 1 October. from Kamaishi)
Kabashima
0
0
1
1
(Kabashima-maru,
nogei Maru No. 1
Nagasaki Pref.)
Nissui Maru No. 2
Togo Maru No. 1
Okochi a
0
0
0
0
(Tsushima Is.,
Nissui Maru No. 
Nagasaki Pref.)
Togo Maru No. 1
TAIYC GYOGYO CO.
Akkeshi
0
9
18
27
Takkeshi-machi,
Daito haru No. 1
Hokkaido)
Daito Maru No. 3
Fumi Maru
Seki laru No. 2 (left Akkeshi on 1 Oct for Ayukawa)
Toshi Maru No. 3
Ayukawa
0
0
18
18
(Ayukawa-mura,
Fumi Laru No. 5
Kiyagi Pref.)
Seki Maru No. 2 (arrived on 3 Cct from Akkeshi)
Se12

=== Page 595 === (confidence 0.96)
Name of land
Name of whale
Number of whales caught
stations operated
catchers operated
Fin
Sei
Sperm
Total
KYOKUYO HOGEI CO
Kushiro
0
0
0
0
(Kushiro-shi,
Fuku Maru
Hokkaido)
Ayukawa
0
0
6
6
(Ayukawa-machi,
ayo maru o. 1
Miyagi Pref.)
Toyo Meru
TOTAL
0
9
58
67
a
This land statien was closed for
ne season on 3 0ctober 1946 and al1
attached whale catcher boats werc assigned to Kabashima land station.
II. None of the following vessels operated during this period:
Name ana Owner of
Vessel
Reason
rron ls co.
koyo Maru
Repair at Osaka
Seikai Maru No. 5
Repair at akodate, Hokkaido.
Seikai Lmaru No. 8
Repair at Osaka
Seikai Maru No. 10
Repair at Tobata, Fukuoka Pref.
Shonan Maru No. 8
Repair at Osaka
Shonan Maru Jo. 1l
Repair et Innoshima, Hiroshima Pref.
Showa Haru No. 10
Repair at Osaka
Takunan iaru No. 2
Repair at Innoshima, Hiroshima Pref.
Takunan Maru No. 3
Repair at Osaka
TAIYO GYOGYO CO.
Seki Maru No. 3
Repuir t Shimonoseki, Yamaguchi Pref.
YOHUYO HOI CO.
Kaito maru
Ceased all repair vork; asandoned
as a
whale catcher
Sachi maru
Repair at Shiogama, miyagi Pref.

=== Page 596 === (confidence 0.97)
III. Whaling Vessels under construction:
Name and Owner
Estimated
of Vessel
Type of
Gross
Average
Date of
Vessel
Tonnage
Location
of work
Completion
Completed
KYOKUYO HOGLI CO
Completed
Kyo Maru No. 2
Catcher
<70
Kobe
100%
2 October 46
Kyo Maru No. 3
Catcher
370
Aioi Hyogo
Pref.
99%
8 October 46
Ryo maru No. 5
Catcher
370
Aioi dyoo
Pref.
53%
30 November 46
Kyo maru o. 6
Catcher
370
Aioi Hyogo
rref
30%
31 December 46
K oruyo aru o 1
ractory ship 10,000
Aioi Hyogo
Fref
47%
May 1947
TY  
Beki maru o. 
Catcher
300
Osaka
72
10 November 46

=== Page 597 === (confidence 0.87)
Enclosure No. 3 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 676, October 31, 1946,
subject: "Weekly Report on Japanese Whaling Activities"
WEYLY CT CF ING HIVITT IN JIPLESE CONSTAL
RS
From 6 Cctober 194o to 12 Cctober 19!6 (incl)
Re port No.5
Hame of land
u.e of wale
.umber of whales caught
stations onerated
oetchers oper ted
lue
Ein
sei
Sperm
Total
I.
Kiritanou
1
0
1
0
2
(-,
Rissui haru do. 1
kkaido )
uva maru
Tuinei mmru No. 1
Leunaisui
0
C
0
20
20
Thamaisni-shi
.tororn aru
Iwate rref.)
oun ru . 1
o uru 
ik mr 
ceikui maru No. 1l
yukaw
(k- h,
e vono Haru
0
0
0
0
O
Miyuci Prei.)
ear d rard
Lo mr o.
habasnime
0
C
0
0
0
(ntcashima-mura,
esei maru mo. 1
na. usaki iref.)
issuimuru o. 
rogo aru no. 1
T YY C0.
kke shi
0
2
4
9
15
(Akke shi-machi,
Daito maru .c. 1
nokkaido)
Daito Naru No. 3
Fuuni Maru
Loshi maru no. 3
Ayukawa
(Ayukawa-machi,
Seki Haru No. 
0
O
J
11
11
Miyagi Pref.)
YORUYO HOT C0.
0
0
0
0
lushiro
(Kushiro-shi
Fuku Maru
iokkaido)
1#3

=== Page 598 === (confidence 0.97)
Name of land
Hame of whale
Jumber of whales oaught
stations operated
catchers operated
Blue
Fin
Sei
Sperm
Total
Ayukawa,
0
0
0
0
8
(Ayukawa-machi,
Kyo Maru No. 1
Miyagi Pref.)
Kyo Maru No. 2
Sachi Maru
Toyo Maru
TOTAL
1
2
5
48
56
II. None of tne following vessels operated during tnis period.
Name and Owner of
Vessel
PEASON
 . 
Seikai maru o. 5
nepair at Hakodate, Hokkaido.
Seikai Maru o. 8
Repair at Shimonseki, Yamaguchi Pref.
Seikai Maru No. 10
Repair at Tobata, Fukuoka Prefecture.
III. whaling vessels under construction:
Average
Name and Owner
lype of
Gross
of work
Estimated date
of Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Location
completed
of completion
IYOKUYO HOGLI CC
completed
Kyo Maru No. 2
Catcher
270
Kobe
100%
2 October 1946
kyo Meru No. 3
cetcher
370
Aioi,Hyogo
co...pleted
Fref.
100%
11 October 1946
Kyo Maru No. 5
catcher
370
Aioi, Hyogo
Pref.
60%
30 November 1946
Kyo Maru No. 6
catcher
370
Aioi, Hyogo
Pref.
32%
31 December 1946
Kyokuyo Maru No l factory
ship
10,000
Aioi, Ayogo
Pref
48%
May 1947
TAIYO GYOGYO CO
Seki Maru o. 6
Catcher
300
Osaka
75%
8 November 1946

=== Page 599 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 4 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 676, October 31, 1946,
.entitled."Weekly Reporton Japanese Whaling Activities"
WHALE PRODUCTS DERIVED FROM JAPANESE COASTAL WHALING ACTIVITIES
1. Period: 22 September 1946 - 28 September 1946 inclusive.
(uantities in Metrio Tons)
rotal No.
Blubber
Company
Whales
Oil
Meat
Blubber
for
Other
Total
Captured
Sperm
Other
Leather
Nippon Suisan Co
20
22.30
0.70
108.10
104.30
1.40
52.20 289.00
Taiyo Gyogyo Co
32
13.01
2.20
243.63
21.57
5.20
88.19 373.80
Kyokuyo Hogei .Co
3
2.35
0
15.13
6.48
1.11
7.05 32.12
TOTAL
55
37.66
2.90
366.86
132.35
7.71
147.44 694.92
2. Period: 29 September 1946 - 5 October 1946 inclusive.
Total No.
Blubber
Company
Whales
Oil
Meat
Blubber
for
Other
Total
Captured
Sperm
Other
Leather
Nippon Suisan Co
16
9.00
0
60.70
56.70
0
13.90 146.30
Taiyo Gyogyo Co
45
9.00
2.70
169.20
35.00
3.60
64.50 284.00
Kyokuyo Hogei Co
6
6.53
0
40.12
0
1.82
15.94
64.41
TOTAL
67
24.53
2.70
276.02
91.70
5.42
94.34 494.71
3.
Period: 6 October 1946 - 12 October 1946 inclusive.
Total No.
Blubber
Company
Thales
Oil
Meat
Blubber
for
Other
Total
Captured
Sperin
Other
Leather
Nippon Suisan Co
22
1.72
.11
05.86
48.40
0
19.73 135.82
Taiyo Gyogyo Co
26
10.00
.54
130.34
22.70
6.31
61.20 237.09
Kyokuyo Hogei Co
8
3.68
0
<4,00
17.40
2.19
14.07 61.40
TOTL
56
15.40
.55
2<6.20
88.56
8.50
95.00 434.31
SoURCE: Above statistics were submitted by the Japanese Bureau of Fisheries.
Dnel4

=== Page 600 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 5 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 676, October 31, 1946, subject: "Weekly
Report on Japanese Whaling Activities"
HESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPAKESE ANTUCTIC WHALING FLMET
Fro.: 22 Sept 1946tc 28 Sept 1946 Inal
Hame ef Companyippon Guisan Gompany
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Pype of Mork
Percentage of Coanletion
Lstinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
angine
Mcui
Average
of Completion
Hashidate
10.020
Innosh ima
Conversion
82%
87%
65%
78%
15 October 1946
Factory
Hiroshima Pref.
Maru
hip
Tadotsu
Carrier
9.976
Kobe
Conversion
100%
100%
63%
88%
15 October 1946
Maru
Koyo Maru
Catcher
370
Enroute to
Repair
15 Ootober 1946
Osaka
Shonan Maru
Catcher
350
Enroute to
Repair
15 October 1946
Osaka
No.8
Shonan Maru
Catcher
350
Enroute to
Repair
15 October 1946
No.11
Innoshima
Takumen
Catcher
350
Innosh ima,
Repair
15 0ctober 1946
Maru No.
Hirosh ima Pref
15 October 1946
Takuman
Catcher
350
Osaka
Repair
Maru No. 3
Takumen
Maru No. 8
Catcher
350
Beached at
Abandoned
Ayukawa
Anil# 5

=== Page 601 === (confidence 0.98)
HEAKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPANESE ANTARCTIC WHALING FLEET
Fro.
22 Sept 1946
to
28 Sept 1946 Incl.
Hame of Company
TAIYO GYOGYO CO
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Pype of Work
Percentage of Coapletion
Estinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposation
Hull
angine
Mqui
Average
of Completion
Nisshin
Factory
11,000
Nagasaki
Conversion from
88%
98%
55%
80%
20 0ct 46
Maru
sinip
Oil Tanker
No 1
Tenyo
Carrier
10,000
Nagasaii
Conversion
90%
100%
70%
87%
20 0ct 46
Maru
San Diego Oil
7,268
Yoko suca
In operation
Maru
Tanker
under COMNAVJAP
Banshu
Carrier
1,000
Shimono seid
Overhaul and
100%
32%
40%
57%
20 Nov 46
Maru
repair
No 36
Banshu
Carrier
993
Shimonoseld
In operation
Maru
No 35
Banshu
Carrier
983
Shimonoseid
In operation
Maru .
Banshu
Carrier
782
Haito date
In Operation
Maru
No 32
Funi Maru Catcher
300
Osaka
Construction
91%
89%
65%
81%
25 0ct 46
No 2
96%
73%
45%
71%
25 0ct 46
Fund Maru Catcher
300
Kobe
Construction
No 3 1

=== Page 602 === (confidence 0.96)
HEAKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAYARESE ANTRCTIC WHALING FLEET
Fro.:
22 Sept 46
to
28 Sept 46 Incl
Name of Conmpary
TAI YO GYOGYO CO
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Mork
Percentage of Con.nletion
Lstinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
angine
scui
Average
of Completion
Fund Marr
Catcher
387
Ayukawa
In operation
No 5
Hiyagi Pref
Seki Maru
Catcher
298
Shimonoseid
In operation
No 3
Seidi Maru
Catcher
300
Tama, Okayama
Construction
96%
80%
62%
79%
15 0ct 46
Pref
Seid Maru
Catcher
300
Tama, Okayama
Construction
90%
57
37%
61%
20 0ct 46
. No 5
Pref

=== Page 603 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 6 to Tokyo's Depatch No. 676, October 31, 1946, subject: "Weekly
Report on Japanese Whaling"
HESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAYARESE ANTLARCTIC WHALING FLMET
Fro.1
29 Sept 46
5 Oct 46 Incl
Name of Company
NIPPON SUISAN CO
ame of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Canaletion
Estinated Date
essel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
angine
Squi
Average
of Completion
Hashi date
95%
95%
85%
95%
15 0ct 46
Maru
Factory
10,020
Innoshima,
Conversion
ship
Hiroshima Pref
100%
100%
75%
91%
15 Oct 46
Tacotsu Carrier
9,976
Kobe
Conversion
Meru
10%
25 0ct 46
Koyo
Catcher
370
Osaka
Repair
Maru
Shonan
20%
Maru
Catcher
350
Osaica
Repair
25 0ct 46
No 8
Shonan
Maru
Catcher
350
Innoshima,
Repeir
0%
25 0ct 46
Hircshime Pref
No 11
Telrunad
35%
25 0ct 46
Maru
Catcher
350
Innoshima,
Repair
No 2
Hiroshima Pref
Taiunan
20%
25 0ct 46
Maru
Catcher
350
Oseka
No 3
Takunah
Maru
Catcher
350
Beached at
Abandoned
No 8
Ayukawa
Anelt 6

=== Page 604 === (confidence 0.98)
HESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPANESE ANT.ARCTIC WHALING FLEET
Fro.l
29 Sept 46
to
5 Oct 46 Incl
TAIYO GYOGYO CO
Hame of Company
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Work
Percentage of Can,letion
Lstinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
ungine
squi
Average
of Completion
Nisshin
Factory
11,000
Nagasakd
Conversion
89%
98%
60%
82%
20 0ct 46
Maru No 1
ship
95%
100
75%
90%
20 0ct 46
Tenyo Maru Carrier
10,000
Nagasaid
Conversion
San Dego
Oil Tanker
7,268
Yokosuka
In operation
Maru
under COMNAVJAP
100%
35%
42%
59%
20 Nov 46
Banghu
Carrier
1,000
Shimonoseid
Overhaul and
Maru No 35
repair
Banshu
Carrier
993
Shimonoseid
In operation
Maru No 35
Banshu
Carrier
983
Shimonosedi
In operation
Maru
Banshu
Carrier
782
Hakodate
In operation
Maru No 32
97
89%
70%
85%
22 0ct 46
Fumi Maru
Catcher
300
Osake
Construction
No 2
Fumi Maru
98%
79%
55%
77%
25 0ct 46
No 3
Catcher
300
Kobe
Construction

=== Page 605 === (confidence 0.98)
HESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPANESE ANTUCTIC WHALING FLMET
From
29 Sept 46
to
5 Oct 46 Incl
Name of Company
TAI YO GYOGYO CO
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Pype of Mork
Percentage of Caapletion
Estinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
angine
cui
Average
of Campletion
Fumi Maru
Catcher
387
Ayukawa
In operation
No 5
Hiyagi Pref
Seki Maru
Catcher
298
Shimonosekd
In operation
No 3
98%
88%
70%
85%
20 0ct 46
Seki Marul
Catcher
300
Tama, Okeyame
Construction
Pref
95%
75%
45%
71%
25 0ct 46
Seid Maru
Catcher
300
Tama, Okayama
Construction
No 5
Pref

=== Page 606 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 7 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 676, October 31, 1946, subject:
"Weekly Report on Japanese Whaling Activities"
WESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPANESE ANTAURCTIC WHALING FLEET
Fro.1
6 0ct 46
to
12 Oct 46 Incl
Name of Company
NIPPON SUISAN CO
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Mork
Percentage of Coapletion
Estinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
angino
Mqui
Average
of Completion
Hashi dat
Factory
10,020
Inno shima,
Conversion
98%
98%
95%
97%
15 Oct 46
Maru
ship
Hiroshima Pref
Tado tsu
Carrier
9,976
Kobe
Conversion
100%
100%
86%
95%
15 Oct 46
liaru
45%
Koyo Maru
Catcher
370
Osaka
Repair
25 0ct 46
50%
Shonan
Catcher
350
Osaica
Repair
25 0ct 46
Maru No
Shonan
Maru
Catcher
350
Innoshima,
Repair
70%
25 0ct 46
No 11
Hiroshima Pref
Taiunan
Catcher
350
Innoshima,
Repair
70%
25 0ct 46
Maru No
Hiroshima Pref
40%
25 0ct 46
Taiunan
Catcher
350
Osakca
Repair
Maru No 3
Taiunan
Catcher
350
Beached at
Abandoned
Maru No
Ayukawa
20%
25 0ct 46
Showe
Catcher
264
Kobe OSAKA
Repair
Maru No 10
Inel # 7

=== Page 607 === (confidence 0.97)
HESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAYANESE ANTRCTIC WILALING FLEET
6 0ct 46
12 Oct 46 Incl
Fro.1
to
TAIYO GYOGYO CO
Hame of Company
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Pype of Mork
Percentage of Con,letion
Lstinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
angine
mqui
Average
of Completion
93%
98%
75%
88%
20 0ct 46
Nisshin
Factory
11,000
Nagasaid
Conversion
Maru No
snip
98%
100%
90%
96%
20 0ct 46
Tenyo
Carrier
10,000
Negasald
Conversion
Maru
San ego Oil
7,268
Yokosuka
In operation
Maru
Taniter
under COMNAVJAP
100%
37%
50%
62
30 Nov 46
Banshu
Carrier
1,000
Shimonoseid
Overhaul and
·Maru
repair
No 36
Banshu
Carrier
993
Shimonosekd
In operation
Maru
No 35
Banshu
Carrier
983
Shimonoseici
In operation
Maru
199%
93%
85%
920
22 Oct 46
Banshu
Carrier
782
Aomori,
In operation
Maru
Aomori Pref
No 32
Fumi Maru Catcher
300
Osaikca
Construction
No 2

=== Page 608 === (confidence 0.98)
HEEKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPANESE ANTUCTIC WHALDG FLEET
Fro.l
6 0ct 46
to
12 Oct 46 Incl
TAI YO GYOGYO CO
Name of Company
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Mork
Percentage of Con,letion
Estinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
ngino
qui.
Average
of Completion
99%
88%
78%
87%
25 0ct 46
Fumi Maru
Catcher
300
Kobe
Construction
No 3
Fumi Maru
Catcher
387
Shimonoseid
Repair
20%
25 0ct 46
No 5
Seid Maru
Catcher
298
Shimonoseki
Repair
65%
30 0ct 46
No 3
Seid Meru
Catcher
300
Tama, Okayama:
Construction
99%
95%
85%
93%
20 0ct 46
Pref
98%
88%
75%
87%
25 0ct 46
Seii Maruj
Catcher
300
Tama, Okayamaj
Construction
No 5
Pref

=== Page 609 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF ATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
November 5, 1946
Mr. Claxton:
Would you please handle the
attached letter from the Civil
Affairs Division? It appears
that CAD has furnished the informa-
tion which the State Department
desired from SCAP. If so, the
cable need not be dispatched.
lamem
W. M. Cameron
Fil

=== Page 610 === (confidence 0.98)
ASSISTANT
A-H
WAR DEPARTMENT
NOV 51946
WAR DEPARTMENT SPECIAL STAFF
GENERAL HILLDRING
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
WDSCA 091.31
1 November 1946
Honorable J. H. nilldring
assistant Secretary of State
"ashington, D. C.
Dear General Hilldring:
On 22 Uctober t.is Division received a cable from your
office for concurrence and dispatcn to SCAr, requesting in-
formation concerning the pearl industry in Japan. Contact
was made with Mr. aston, CAl-State, concerning the advisa-
bility of asking SCAr the proposed question by telecon in-
stead of sendin it oy cable. It was also recommended to
Mr. uaston that any reference to a particular individual or
firm be deleted. It was sugested at this time that this
matter fell within the scope of activities of USCC and that
this agency should rightfully supply the information. Mr.
Laston stated that USCC had been contacted but that a satis-
factory answer had not been obtained.
Mr. aston concurred in the suggested transmission and
11-146
the question was placed on the ar Department telecon of
24 uctober. CAP was asked:
"State and War have had numerous inquiries con-
cerning status of the pearl industry in Japan and
the date of availability of exports. Individuals
who have been in Japan and with Japanese contacts
state that Fi's are well stocked and Japanese growers
have quantities of merchandise for export. American
dealers are quite anxious for the product. Send in-
formation soonest concerning this merchandise."
The answer SCAP gave was as follows:
"No program before 1st quarter 1947. At that
time 125, 000 grams expected to be shipped and same
amount quarterly thereafter. Tnis constitutes old
stocks, no new stocks until late 1947."
The inclosed cable is therefore returned, in the light of
the above, with the recommenoation that it not be dispatched.
Singerely yours,
.Chad
Inclosure
O. P. CHOIS
Draft Cable
Major Generan, USA
dtd 22 ct.
Chief, Civif Affairs Division

=== Page 611 === (confidence 0.96)
WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DEPARTMENT SPECIAL STAFF
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
WDSCA 091.31
29 October 1946
Honorable J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary of State
washington, D. C.
ba6 gron1
1
Attention: Mr.Saston
Domr irr lton:
teference your proposed cable and the telephone conversa-
tion with Lt. Col. Linvill of my staff, I am sending you-the
message sent CAP concerning the pearl industry and their reply
thereto. The question was asked Scap auring a teleeon en
Thursaay, 24 Uctober 1946.
SCAr was asked: "State and war have had numerous inquiries
concerning status of the pearl industry in Japan and the date of
availability of exports. Individuals who have been in Japan and
with Japanese contacts state that Px's are well stocked and
Japanese growers have quantities of merchandise for export. Amer-
ican dealers are quite anxious for the product. Send information
soonest concerning this merchandise."
The answer SCAP gave was as follows: "No program before 1st
quarter 1947. At that time 125,000 grams expected to be shipped
and same amount quarterly thereafter. This constitutes old stocks,
no new stocks until late 1947."
The inciosed cable is therefore returned, in light of the
avove, with the recommendation that it not be dispatched.
Sincerely yours,
Inclosure
O. P. ECHOLS
Draft Cable
Major General, USA
dtd 22 Oct
Chief, Civil Affairs Division

=== Page 612 === (confidence 0.95)
Y
TANDARD FORM NO.4
DATE: 10/22/46
To : Colonel Chard
FROM : Mr. Easton
suct: Cultured Pearls from Japan.
The Department has received information
that cultured pearls are no longer scarce in
Japan and that stocks are piling up in the Post
Exchanges, either because prices are too high
or because the saturation point has been reached
in sales. Consequently, the Department would
like to send the attached proposed cable to.
SCAP, transmitting this information and request-
ing advice as to the present status of the pearl
inäustry and when exports can be expected.
nuglai

=== Page 613 === (confidence 0.98)
1429
DRAFT OF CABLE
DATE: 10/22/46
PREPARED BY:
EXTENSION:
CLASSIFICATION:
CRYPTO. SYSTEM(S):
PRECEDENCE:
THEATER ADDRESS (ES):
NAME:
ACTION OR INFORMATION:
TO:
SCAP
FOR:
FOR:
Action
State (Gen. Hilldring)
(CONCURRED IN BY:
CONTENTS OF THIS DRAFT:
(COORDINATED WITH
(
DISTRIBUTION DESIRED:
OPD-Mr. Petersen: CAD State: CAD.
NOTE: Submit this original in detail and one (1) tissue copy of text only. Double-space.
Goldstone of Imperial Pearl Syndicate, former Consultant
for US Senate Small Business Comnittee, states his Japan grower
who has offered pearls freely to Post Exchanges in Japan has
quantities of merchandise for export. Also states stocks piling
up in PX's. Can you give status of pearl industry and idea
when exports can be expected.
MEMO FOR RECORD:
(Establishing factual
background and nec-
essity for cable)
25 -82539 -2M

=== Page 614 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF ST
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Office of
NOV 4 -1946
AR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIRY:15
CONFIDENTIAL
Genartment of State
No paruphrase neceupary
JA
Control 824
15
Action: FE
Info:
11:53 8.m.
EUR
DC/I.
FROM:
Tokyo via War
ITP
ESP
TO:
Secretary or State
no diet
U-E
A-H
NO:
497, Novomber 3.
OCD
DO/R
SCAP ras no objection so British inspoctcrs joining
894.628
expedition (RtDEPmiL 544, Novemper 1) at Lombok Straits
providing Bricish fovt makos all necessary arrangements
vivb Neroerlands Gevt and provicing further that the
expediti on is not delayed. Confirmation thet 2 British
inspectoes vill beard curing passage of Lombok Straits
must oe received by soap not later than Novomber 8 in
order that neccostry supplies mey be Looded. Also re-
quese commirmetion that British Govt will pey for sup-
Tino and other details
plies wath doller reimbursement
of rendezvous to be worked out after confirmation. Wo
understand Nether ands Mission bere has no authority in
346
matter but ve are inforuring then of foregoing
2
Sonr has no on jeetion in principle to one Norwegian
Inspeotor poardiny factory ship in Antarctic for short
period of vine shiuld fectory ships meet on catching
grounds and such risit is practiceble. Final decision
es to detalls will be mede by senior SoAP representative
on posrd Jepanest factory ships from whon permission
should be obuainet before boarding.
AMCHESON
NOV 20 1946
CONFDENTTAL
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 615 === (confidence 0.92)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Chorge Department:
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
U.S. URGENT
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
6pm
TOKYO
350
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
894.628
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
594-628/11-346
xxxxxxxx
1) BRIT EMB states one United Kingdom
inspector (REURTEL 497, Nov 3) can arrive Surabaya
546
by mid-day Nov 2l if expedition proceeds through
Lombok Straits. BRIT GOVT has approached Netherlands
GOVT regarding arrangements. Second inspector cannot
be sent.
2) B states BRIT GOVT agreeable pay for
supplies by dollar reimbursement and requests suitable
rations for one inspector be loaded if passage through
DISTRIBUTION
Lombok Straits confirmed and above date satisfactory.
894.62
DESIRED
(OFFICES QNLY)
3) Request confirmation route of expedition and
t
estimated date arrival vicinity Lombok. xo
cecheson
DCR-
((kn)
NOV
M
Rev.
16
JA: JKEdmerson:mls
te leplione
11-4-45
FE
te2ey
pason
A-H
SEA
vu.

=== Page 616 === (confidence 0.97)
Deleieved t
M Emmerson
Nov.4, 1546
Ref. 2282/--/46
MEMORANDUM
In connexion with this Embassy's Memorandum
of 4th November it is requested that the State
Department will inform the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers that, provided the route of the whaling
expedition is such that there is a reasonable chance
that the British inspector will be able to join it
en route, His Majesty's Government agree to reimburse
the United States Authorities in dollars for the cost
of the rations provided for that inspector.
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON, D.C.
894.628/11-446
4th November, 1946.
7
SEP 241951
FILED
CS/H

=== Page 617 === (confidence 0.98)
Ref.2282/--/46
MEMORANDUM
This Embassy wishes to refer to the Memorandun of 31st
October regarding the attachment of whaling inspectors to the
proposed Antarctic expedition fron Japan.
The information given by?State Department on 3lst
October was communicated to His Majesty's Governnent, and it
is now learned that they are prepared to fly one inspector
to Sourabaya by midday, 2lst November, on the assumption that
the Supreme Commander will allow hin to board the expedition
and that the Netherlands Government will permit the expedition
to pass through the Lombok Strait.
His Majesty's Consul General at Batavia has also been
instructed to seek the permission of the Netherlands author-
894.628/11-446
ities for this inspector to land at Sourabaya,and to ascertain
what arrangements could be made for hin to reach a suitable
place for picking up the expedition.
7
His Majesty's Governnent regret that the second inspector
cannot now be appointed.
This mbassy would be grateful to learn as early as
possible whether the route of the expedition asses through
the Lombok Strait and, if so, the scheduled date n which the
4 1951
ED
ships would be in that vicinity.
On the assumption that it will be possible for the in-
spector to join the expedition, His Majesty's Government would
be glad if the Supreme Commander could be asked to direct that
suitable rations be loaded.
S5
BRITISH EABASSY,
WASHINGTON, D.C.,
H
4th November, 1946.
T

=== Page 618 === (confidence 0.87)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONSAND MICORDS
NTOFSTTE
TELECRAPH BRAICH
NOV-61946
TELEGRAM
Depertment of State
n
CTFD
Contro1 1367
1-M
Action.
Rec'd November 5, 296
Info:
4:45. p.m.
DA
LE
Tyo  V
DC/L
TPP
I'R
UE
A-H
OCI
u
. n y CINCAFPAC tO War
894.628
DA'P
ar0uer 20:
nmanderava Activities
! sy of 1ntermational lav
fMerchant Marine
(Reurad W-94370)
Iav. with modif!ed intermationa!
in n Yone, inga ore, Melbourmo,
::co and chinese porta in the
can:Marine Fiag lus modiried
vod hi; thorefore already well
546
 vatereRe uest immediato
aMerchant Marine
 r  Fer Jap ships ennged
t1.gently roquest reply
so proper flags.
1a . Me rehant Mar ne Flag bas
ni:inf mat fo) this point
ATCHESON
NOV 12 1946
FLL
PESTRICT
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 619 === (confidence 0.96)
1565
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
RESTRICTED
Charge to
URGENT
NOV 7 1946
894.628
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
REURTEL 499 NOV 5 following message has been sent
-546
to War Dept for approval and transmission to SCAP:
QUOTE Use of SCAJAP flag E (Jap Merchant Marine
FlaE plus modified international E) authorized. Inter-
CS
national notification extension this combination to
whaling vill be given here. Request SCAP promulgate
/HH
locally. UNQUOTE
Ucheson
8
DISTRIBUTION
Acting
6
DESIRED
15 NOV 7
(OFFICES ONLY)
RELEASE DE
628
TELEGRAY
DC/T
PM 5
E
S
Fipjd
Hp
JA:RAFearey/mls
FE
IR
A-H
Col, mit
11/7/46
(Cleared
avy(
by phone)

=== Page 620 === (confidence 0.92)
Form DS-302
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
ACTION COPY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
RESTRICTED
4:35pm
4
Control 2131
Action:
FE
Rec'd November 7 1946
Info
EUR
0/L
nolefieds
FROM: Pokyo vla War
ITP
NOV7
SJA
ESP
TO
Seeretnry  Suate
OFD
U-E
NO.
5o. Novemer €
A-H
OCD
FC
Refevenee Depts 4. Hovember 1, 7 p.m.
DER
Jopanese Antea tl shsling flee is antioipate
refueling catene posts as son on or about
November o no th Austra 1a Arrangements
could be mrde vo ave whaling ressels stand by 12
894.6
miles cfr poroh  pok o uk
nspectors
IF u insveeto m meke ll necossery arrange-
6
jectior
Ur 1un Mis mor here orally informed.
2
8
seap most have so ifien on renerding British
wi shes fo
e  bofor N vomber
Poregoing ueses as porrlel alternative to
-646
boardire bup o
PrOURAD 497, NOvember 3,
10 66391
A
NOV 12 1946
FILED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 621 === (confidence 0.94)
PREPARING OFFICE
OUTGQING'TELEGRAM
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
Charge Department:
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
NOV 6 1946
1278
U.S. URGENT
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
894.628
TOKYO
INFO: WAR DEPT CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR POLITICAL ADVISER
Following message has been sent to War DEPT for
approval and transmission to SCAP:
-646
State Dept
QUOTE DPT informed by Australian EMB that
Australian GOVT sending one whaling inspector,
Kenneth James Connan, who 1s leaving Sidney NOv 6
State
with ETA Japan 1630 NOV 10. EMB and x assume
Australian GOVT has communicated directly SCAP re
R
arrangements for this inspector join whalinsrexpedi-
tion. UNQUOTE
DC/T
C
Adreson
CC
n
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
Cictir
(OFFICES ONLY)
H
(gyce)
2
rub
JA: JKEnmerson:mls
FE
A-H
11-6-46
P.M.X.
C
5
 U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-A€

=== Page 622 === (confidence 0.91)
Form DS-302
(7-2-40)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
CONFIDENTIAL
4:95pm
4
Control 2133
Action:
FE
Ree
mber 7, 1946
Info
p.m.
EUR
FROM:
Tokye via War
DO/L.
NOV
ITP
T
Sere  o St
ESF
STATE
U-E
NC
50rembe
A-H
89
OCD
URGENT
FO
Y/R
Fire tm irwa lon permisslon paae Lonbok Straits
net ye ve oived f om Ne herLands Irdles Government.
Acythig  epe mer ean o te expedite final confirmation
2
permiseir passage tombek vii be greatly appreciated.
8
Undes presemm F aa, estimated da e errival vieialty
Loben 23 
REDEPEEL 55OT.
RtR sos  me ed de e errival cf Perth 29th
No veu o S date re lons fer one inspector being
746
icaueu n u la on incd Kingdem, inspector will
boaro erer ff  tok tr Yerth.
ATCHESON
N.F E
NOV 12
FILD
1946
CC FIDENT IAL
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
H
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 623 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STAT
Restricted
Tokyo, November 7, 1946
No. 690
Ie
u.:
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FORFIGE
UBJECT: Weelly Report on Japanese Whaling Activities
NOV 2 5 1946
OF STATE
L
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to
refer to this Mission's despatch No. 676, October 31, 1946,
with which were submitted reports on Japanese whaling
activities for the period September 22-0ctober 12, 1946,
and to enclose herewith the following reports for the
period October 13-October 19, 1946, prepared by the
Natural Resources Section, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers:
894.628/
1/
Weekly Report for whaling activities in Japanese
Coastal Waters for the period 13 through 19 October
TU:
1946.
2/
Whale Products Derived from Japanese Coastal Whaling
Activities for the period 13 through 19 October 1946.
3/
Weekly status report of the 1946-47 Japanese Antarctic
Whaling Fleet for the period 13 through 19 October
1946.
Enclosures:
/ copy
ERUS
As stated (1/ and 2/ in
12/10/46
triplicate; 3/ single copy
OF STATE
only.)
Criginal and Hectograph to Department
780
GAAbbey:cbk
FILED
mns

=== Page 624 === (confidence 0.85)
HERLY REOFT CF ..L.. ACLIVIIIS IN JAPANESE COASTAL WATERS
From 13 Cctover 40 1o 19 Octover 1940 (Ino1)
neort
 21 L id
Hame or ule
Huaver of,Whales Caught
St'ns Coerited
Jatchers Ce.sled
Fin
Se1 Sperm
Total
I. .i..t.. I. c.
.irituj u
0
3
0
3
u
..issui ru ..o. 1
..okkiao)
Juwe Haru
raini .ru o. 1
raacisni
0
0
6
6
1 1 1-
tororu .ru
noun ru ..o. 1
seikui maru o. 
sei!i .ru o. 1l
yukun
0
0
5
5
(ayu..1
ru
. iyai iref)
Sazanasi Faru
Togo Muru Ho. 2
hu s.i
C
0
0
0
Teusnime ur.
i.ar
 uSaki Pre1)
issui .ur. .o. < (Le1t 1or enzari on 14 Oct)
100.1
eki
0
0
0
0
Tuenzuki-...cni
i: sui maru No. 
Yucucni rret)
  .
kesr.i
0
3
0
3
kesi-,
Daito arn .1
Rornaido)
Duito  ro o. 
runi aru
Ayukuva
0
15
15
 .
Seki maru o.2
Miyai rref.)
Poshi iru . 3 (Arrived on 15 Cct from akkeshi)

=== Page 625 === (confidence 0.99)
Name of Land
Name of Whale
Number of
Whales Caught
Stations Operated
Catchers Operated
Fin
Sei
Sperm
Total
KYOKUYO HOGEI CO.
Kushiro
1
0
0
1
(Kushiro-Shi
Fuku Maru
Hokkaido)
Kyo Maru No. 1 (Arrived on 15 Oct from Ayukawa)
Ayukawa
0
0
1
1
(Ayukawa-liachi,
Kyo Maru No. 2
Miyagi Pref.)
Sachi Maru
Toyo Lieru
TOTAL
1
6
27
34
II. None of the Following Vessels operated During t is period:
Name of Vessel
Owner
Reason
Seikai Maru No. 5
Nippon Suisan Co.
Undergoing repair at Hakodate
Seikai Maru No. 8
Hippon Suisan Co.
Undergoing repair at Shimono-
seki.
Seikai Maru No. 10
Nippon Suisan Co.
Undergoing repair at Tobata
III. Vessels under Construction:
Name and Cwner
Type of
Gross
Average
Estimated
of Vessel
Vessels
Tonnage
Location
of Work
date of Com-
completed
pletion.
KYOKUYO HCGEI CO.
Kyo Maru No. 5
Cathcer
370
Aioi Hyogo
68%
30 Nov 1946
Kyo Maru No. 6
Catcher
370
Pref.
38%
31 Dec 1946
Kyokuyo Maru No. 1 Factory Snip 10,00o
Aioi Hyogo
48%
Mey 1947
Pref

=== Page 626 === (confidence 0.99)
WEEKLY REPORT ON WHALING IN THE ADJACENT WATERS.
No. 6 (From Oct. 13 to Oct. 19 1946)
October 23, 1946
BUREAU OF FISHERY
1. Humber of whale caught.
Name of Land Stations
Name of Whale
Humber of Whales Caught
Operated
Catchers Operated
Fin. Sei. Sperm. Total
NIPPON SUISAN CO
Kiritappu
Nissui Maru No 1
3
3
(Hamanaka-Mura
Suwa Maru
Hokkaido)
Taihei Maru No 1
Kamai shi
Etorofu Maru
6
6
(Kamaishi→Shi
Koun Maru No 1
Iwate Pre.)
Koun Maru No 2
Seikai Maru No 2
Seikai Maru No 11
Ayukawa
Akebono Maru
5
5
(Ayukawa-Machi
Sazanami Maru
Miyagi Pre.)
Togo Maru No 2
Kabashima
Hogei Maru No 1
(Kabashima-Mura
Togo Maru No 1
Nagasaki Pre.)
Nissui Maru No 2
(Left for Senzaki
on Oct. 14)
Senzaki
Nissui Maru No 2
(Senzaki-Machi
(Arrived on Oct. 19)
Yamaguchi Pre.)
TAIYO GYOGYO CO
Akkeshi
Fumi Maru
(Alkeshi→Machi
Daito Maru No 1
Hokkaido)
Daito Maru No 3
3
3
Ayukawa
Seki Maru No 2
15
15
(AyukawarMachi
Toshi Maru No 3
Miyagi Pre.)
(Arrived on Oct, 15
from Akkeshi)
KYOKUYO HOGEI CO
Kushiro
Fuku Maru
1
1
(Kushiro-Shi
Kyo Maru No 1
Hokkaido)
(Arrived on Oct. 19
from Ayukawa)
Ayukawa
Toyo Maru
1
1
(Ayukewa-Machi
Kyo Maru No 2
Miyagi Pre.)
Sachi Maru

=== Page 627 === (confidence 0.98)
Husber of Whales Caught
TOTAL
1
6
27
34
2. Mone of the following vessels operated during this period.
Hame of Company
Name of Vessels
Remarks
Nippon Suisan Co
Seikai Maru No 8
Under repairing at
Shimonoseki
Seikai Maru No 10
Under repairing at
Tobata
Seikai Maru No 5
Under repairing at
Hakodate
3. Output of products.
Nippon Suisan
Taiyo Gyogyo Kyokuyo Hogei
Item
Company
Company
Company
Total
Whale Oil
1.800 Kg.
1.000 Kg.
280 g.
3.08 Kg.
Sperm Oil
7.600
7.500
420
15.520
Whale Meat
68.100
122.000
7.390
197.490
Blubber (for food)
73.600
14.000
5.760
93.360
Blubber (for leather)
0
3.000
70
3.070
Bome Meal
6.500
6.600
1.090
14.190
Others
40.600
37.600
2.650
80.850
TOTAL
198.200
191.700
17.660
407.560

=== Page 628 === (confidence 0.98)
WHALE PRODUCTS DERIVED FROM JAFAIESE COASTAL WHALING ACTIVITIES
From 13 October 1946 To 19 October 1946 (Incl)
(Metric Tons)
Number
Blubbar
Company
Of Whales
Oil
l1eat
Blubber
for
Other Total
Captured
Sperm
Other
for food
Leather
Nippon Suisan
Company
14
7.60
1.80
68.10
73.60
0
47.10 19820
Taiyo Gyogyo
Company
18
7.50
1.00
122.00
14.00
3.00
44.20 19170
Kyokuyo Hogei
Company
2
42
.28
7.39
5.76
.07
3.74 1766
TOTAL
34
14.52
3.08
197.49
93.36
3.07
95.04 407.56
SOURCE:
Above Statistics weie submitted by the Japanese Bureau of
Fisheries on 23 October 1946.

=== Page 629 === (confidence 0.98)
HEEKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPAKESE ANTARCTIC WILALING FLMET
Fro.l
1 3 0ct 1946
to
19 Oct 1946 Incl.
Name of Company
Nippon Suisen Co.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Mork
Percentage of Connletion
Estinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposation
Hull
angine
qui
Average
of Completion.
Hashidate
Factory
10,020
Osaka
Loading Supplies
100%
100%
100%
100%
Complted 15 Oct
1946
Maru
Ship
(Arrived from
Innoshima 18 0ct)
Tadotsu
Carrier
9,976
Kobe
Cónversion
100%
100%
99%
99%
22 0ct 1946
Maru
Koyo Maru
Catcher
370
Osaka
Repeir
70%
25.0ot 1946
Shonan Maru
No.8
Catcher
350
Osaka
Repair
80%
25 0ct 1946
Leave dry dook
Shonan Mari
Innoshima
No. 11
Catcher
350
Hiroshima Pref Repair
100%
22 0ct 1946
Leave dry dock
Takunan Mayu
Innoshime
90%
25 0ot 1946
No. 2
Catcher
350
Hiro shima Pref.Repeir
Takunan Maru
65%
25 0ct 1946
No. 3
Catcher
3.50
Osake
Repair
Showe Maru
No. 10
Catcher
264
Osaka
Repair
50%
25 0ct 1946

=== Page 630 === (confidence 0.98)
HESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPANLSE ANTAUCTIC WILLING FLMET
Fro.1 13 Oct 1946
to 19 Oct 1946 Incl.
Hame of Company Teiyo Gyogyo Co.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Mork
Percentage of Connletion
Lstinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
angine
squi
Average
of Completion
Nisshin Meru
Factory
11,781
Negasaki
Co nversion
97%
100%
90%
98%
20 Oct 1946
No. 1
Ship
from oil tanker
Tenyo Maru
Carrier
10,269
Nagasaki
Conversion
100%
100%
100%
100%
Completed 15 Oct
1946
San Diego
Oil Tanker
7.268
Hakata
Trensporting cil
Maru
for commaujap
Banshu Maru
Carrier
1,000
Shimonoseki
Overhaul and
100 %
39%
68%
69%
30 Nov. 1946
No. 36
repair
Banshu Maru
Carrier
993
Shimonoseki
Repair
85%
30%
60%
31 0ct 1946
No. 35
Banshu Maru Carrier
983
Shimonoseki
In operation
Banshu Maru Carrier
782
Shimo noseki
In operation
No. 32
Fumi Maru
Catcher
300
Ogaka
Construction
100%
96%
90%
95%
26 0ct 1946
No. 2
Fumi Maru
Catcher
300
Kobe
Construction
100%
95%
95%
97%
25 0ot 1946
No. 3

=== Page 631 === (confidence 0.98)
HEKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAYANESE ANTURCTIC WLALING FLEET
Fro.: 13 Oct 1946
to 19 0ct 1946
Name of Conmpany Taiyo Gyogyo Co.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Pype of Work
Percentage of Comnletion
Lstinated Datè
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposation
Hull
argine
Mqui
Average
of Completion
Fumi Maru
Catcher
387
Shimo noseki
Repair
50%
40%
45%
25 0ot 1946
No. 5
Seki Maru
Catcher
298
Shimonoseki
Repair
95%
70%
80%
30 0ct 1946
Seki Maru
Catcher
300
Tama, Okayama
Construction
100%
99%
98%
99%
20 0ot 1946
Pref.
Seki Maru
Catcher
300
Tama, Okayama
Construction
100%
95%
90%
95%
25 0ct 1946
No. 5
Pref.

=== Page 632 === (confidence 0.97)
HESKLY STATUS REPORT OF TE 1946-1947 JAYARESE ANTRCTIC WLALING FLEET
Fro.: 13 October
to 19 0ctober 1946
Name of CompanyNippon Suisan K.I.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Mork
Percentage of Connletion
Lstinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
angine
Mqui
Average
of Completion
Bashidate Facto ry
10020.59
Osaka (left
Conversion
100%
100%
100%
100%
Complated on
Maru
Innoshima on
15 0ct 1946
17th & arrixed
at Osaka on
18th O0ct)
Koyo Maru Catcher
364.41
Osaka
Repair
70%
25 0ct 1946
No.8 Sho
355.79
80%
nan Maru
No. 11
354.25
Innoshime
100%
Trial rum finished
Shonan
Expected to leave
Maru
dock on 22nd Oct.
No. 2
343.46
90%
Expected to leave
Takuman
dock on 25 Oct.
Maru
No. 3
343.46
Fujinagata
65%
Takunan
S.Y., Osaka
Maru
No. 10
264.30
Osaka
50%
Showa
Maru
Tadotsu Carrier
9976.89
Kawasaki S.Y.
Maru
Kobe
Conversion
100%
100%
99%
99%
Expected to be
completed on
22nd or 23rd
Oct.

=== Page 633 === (confidence 0.98)
WESKLY STATUS REPORT OF THE 1946-1947 JAPANESE ANTARCTIC WHALIHG FLEET
Fro.1 13th Oct.
to 19th Oct.
Name of Company
Taiyo Gyogyo K.K.
Name of
Type of
Gross
Location of
Type of Mork
Percentage of Completion
Estinated Date
Vessel
Vessel
Tonnage
Vessel
or Disposition
Hull
angine
Squi
Average
of Completion.
Nissin-Maru
Factory
11.781.04 Mitsubisi
Conversion
97
100
90
98
20th Oct.
No. 1
Ship
Nagasaki
Funii Maru Catcher
304 Kawasaki Senshu
Construction
100
96
90
95
26th 0ct.
No. 2
No. 3
FuniiMaru
about 300
Kobe
100
95
95
97
25th Oct.
Funii Maru
日
384.8
Simonoseki
Docking for
50
40
45
25th Oot.
No. 5
Repair
Seki Maru
No. 3
300.9
Docking for
SekiMaru
about 30d Mitsui Jamano
Repair
Construction
95
70
80
30th 0ct.
100
95
90
95
25th Oct.
No. 5
Hyogo Prf.
Seki Maru
Mi tsui Jemano
100
99
98
99
20th Oct.
Tenyo-Maru
Carrier
10,269.01
Mitsubisi
Nagaseki
Conversion
100
100
100
100
Completed 15 Oct.
Banshu-Maru
e
1.000
Simonoseki
Construction
100
39
68
69
30th Nov.
No.36
Banshu-Maru
983
Co mpleted
Banshu-Maru
782
No. 32
Banshu-Maru
993
Docking for Repair
85
30
60
31st Oct.
No. 35
San Diego
O11 Tanker
7.268
Hakata
Shifting fuel oil
Maru
to another oil tanker
Fu mi Maru
Catcher
about 300
Kawasaki Senshu
91
85
60
81
8th Nov.
No. 6
(Coastal
Whaling)

=== Page 634 === (confidence 0.95)
LEY TS R F T 1946-1947 JA A AIC  
rm.: 13th 0ct. 1946 ic 19 th 0ata 1946
The Kyokuyo Whal ing Co. Ltd.
Hame of Copary
Nane of
Ty e of
Gross
Location of
type or ork
ercentage of ia. letion
Lstiated Date
Vescel
Vessel
Tonnage
Jessei
or Dispoctc
ill
average
of canpletion.
Yyo Maru
Catcher
370
Harima Ship -
Construction
80%
83
40%
688
30th Nov. 46
No. 5
yard
Kyo Maru
Catcher
370
Harima Ship-
Co nstruction
40%
63
10%
38
31th Doc. 46
No.6
yard
Kyokuyo
Whaling
10.000
Harima Ship-
Conversion
60%
60%
5
48%
May 47
Maru
Factory
yard
No. 1
Ship
Kyo Maru
Catcher
370
Harima
Construction
100%
100%
100%
100%
11th Oet. 46
No. 3
Shipyard
(Comploted)
