894.20223 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Peru Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., January 18 (File 1723)
ID: 894.20223-1723   Pages: 202   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20223-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
EDGAR
DE OF STATE
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
SECURITY
Batreau of Inuestigation
51945
SY FILE COPY
ea Department of
shington,D.C.
PERSONAL AND CO
PIAL
1945
BY SPECIAI
MESSENGER
Return immed
IN REPLY, PLEASE RD
FILE NUMBER
Date:
January 13, 1915.
2ill
94.20223/+-1845
1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B
Lyon-LR
Chief
AL WAR PROBLEMS
Division of ForeignJestivity Corrlation
DIVISION
ARTMEN
Departnent of State
1945
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
POPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject:
NO3UO YATOH; et al
PERU
There is attached a copy of a report received from a confidential
source in Lima, Peru, reflecting the identities and activities of sixteen
2
individuals whose Peruvian addresses appeared in the adaress book of Nobuo
Yatoh. It will be recailed that this latter individual was reportedly engaged
in Japanese espionage activities in South America from 1940 until his repa-
triation to Japan in June, 1943.
This inform tion has b en made available to the American Enbassy,
una Haval Attaehes in bima, roru.
F
cc - Assistant Chief of Stafi, G-2
cc - Director or Naval Intelligence
1875
War Department, Washington, D.C.
Navy Department, Washington, D.C.
Attention: Brigadier General C. W. Clarke

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
deported, another was in fact sent in his stead. Available depertatiem reserds
reveal the name of ICHIkAwA as having been deported in 1942, and bsequemt
investigation by reliable Japanese souroe D correberates these reserds.
Souree D spoke to ICH IKAwA's wife who stated that her husband had beem handling
financial affairs for RINZo TsUCHIYA, a Japanese who had been deperted pre-
viously. Upon ICHIKAwA s deportation, S CHTYA ceased to receive money and
had written to ameertai the renson.
"HANAHACHTRO TTE"
The name of TIk appoars in YAT's address book in juxtaposition with the
name "Antigua Casa Holtig." Source A reporte that the latter name refers to
a store located at Carabaya 559, Lima, under the proprietorship of a Japamese,
FERNANDO K. SAKATA, dealing in electrical equipment. Souree B reperte that
ITE, whose name is also spelled HE THAClH TRO IDE, was formorly empleyed by
this firm. He left the firm in 1942 and moved to Tingo Maria, Peru, leeated
in the eastern jungles, where he has since been engaged in raising tea on a
plantation of his own proprietorship. He has ot visited Limm since moving
to Tingo Maria.
"ANTONT LULLI
Mascaron 587, Lima
Casilla 2232. Tolophone 30061"
Souree E has previously furnished a reliable credit report in which it 
revealed that LULJ.I is an Italian, married to a Peruvian, and that he resemt-
ly took out Peruvian citizenship papers. He has been in Peru for mmny years
and is *ell regarded in business circles. However, an anonymous mouree of
unknown reliability reported in July 1942 that LULLI was a sealous Paseist.
Source F, an Italian and a member of the Italia Libre Association and a
former active member of the Fascist Party in Peru, has subsequently reperted
that LULLI is the Peruvin: representative of the Sohaeffer Pon Company of the
United States and that he, Source F, knov positively that LULLI has nover
been a member of the F scist Party nor has he ever entertained any Fassist
sentiments.
GOTTH ILF MOLL
Goneral Orbegoso 285
Eighth block, Avenida 3razil
Tolophone 11785"
"F. J. MOLL
Apartado 1261, Josd Arnaldo Marques 1680
(Fabrioa de Tejidos Moll, Avenida Brazil
8th Blogk. Callo General Orbegoso 291)"
It has been previously ascertained that the two addresses listed abeve pertain
to the same individual whose full and correct name is FRTEDRICH GOTTHILF MOLL.
MOLL is a prominent businessman in Peru and a naturalised Peruvian ef German
extraction. His factories, "Fabrica de Tejidos Moll," "Perumm de Aluminie
Resord, S.A.," and "Moll and Company," have been ineluded in the Preelaimed
List of Certain Blocked Nationals along with the name of MOLL himself.
- 2 -

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
He was placed on the Proclaimed List, according to Bouree G, thereughly re
liable, because of his employment of individuals in pesitione of responsibility
who were known to have been active i Nasi Party motivities in Peru prier to
the severance of relations between Peru and Germmny. Theroughly reliable
Germmn Source H, a formor active ember of the Nasi Party, has stated that
MOLL was never a member of the Part and that he came to Peru just after Werld
ar I as an amployue of the unnc Aleran. At no time did he participate in
the mativities of te Jerma colony but devoted himself assiduously to building
up his own businesses which he initiated after resigning from the Bnneo Aloman.
Source H deocrioed fOLL ae follos:
Age
50 years
Height
507
Weight
220 lbs.
Hair
ark; close ropped
Eyof
Broun
Complexion
Olive
Build
Fat
aritatatus
arried
Citizenehi
Poruvian citizen by naturalisation
"GUILUERMO NOMURA"
Tho name of Noun A appeaa i YATu s nudresr book just below that of . J.
MOLL. Souree B has roported thnt O!lUhA, until recently, worked in the
factory belonging to OLL and that he was previously employed by CAsA roHIcA
located at La Palm and Aumente, Lima. NOMURA has no regular mployment at
the present time but is receiving a monthly payment fron MoLL, aseording to
Souree B. Source E, ho in th course of credit investigation coneeming
NOMURA contacted MOLL, corroborated Source C in his statement that NomURA s
in the employ of MoLl for sevoral years. Source E added that he moted in
the capacity of a commission agent ellin textiles from MoLL's fastery,
principally to Japanese bazaars in Lima. He remmined in MOLl's employment
until 1939 when he was discharged. His former prinoipals do not know his
present whereabouts. Source  stated that NoMURA came to Peru from Japan,
where he was born, as an employee of CASA ICi TCAWA and remained with that
concern until 1939. In contrast to what MoLL told Source E in corroborating
what Souree B reported, Source advised thnt Subject NOMURA loft MOLL'
employ of his own accord in 1944 and is receiving a pension from MOLL at the
present time. Sinee July l944, he has been working in the laundry "Sakura,"
Calle Patos, (Jiron Arequipa) 580, vhich is under the proprietorship of 8.
KANEKO. NOMURA is living at Calle Arnaldo Marques 1680 and is married to
TEREZA HANAKA MURATA who has stated to Source  that her husband pends most
of his evenings away fron home in the company of other Japanese. NomuRA and
his wife have two childron, FEs.RICO, aged 4, and HARTHA, aged 10 months.
His brother-in-law, BDUARDO MURATA, a Peruvian by birth but of Japanese
parentage, has entered the military school located at Chorrillos, Peru.
Subjoct is desoribed by Source B as follows:
Age
34
Height
504
weight
190 1b.
Build
Obese
Nationality
Japanese
- 3-

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.94)
Byes
Dark, mall
Glasses
Yos
Marital status Married
"BUNJI OASHI
Post Orfice Box 460
Taibe.Lme"
OAHI, who full nam ia BUJI ASI (WATANABE) alias Bunji Chah1, ha
previously been reported by thoroughly reliable Source I as having been ome
of the direotor of CASA TA BO, also knon as the PAC F IC TRADTNG COMPANY,
Ltd. TABo has long sinee ceased activity but its name presently appears
on the Proclaimed List of Certain Blocked Nationals. It will be recalled
that CAsA TA BO is one of the important Japanese bus ness houses in Li
and that the Pacific Trading Company, Ltd., of Japan, which had offiees
throughout Bouth America and in the United Statee, was thought to be one of
the centere of Japanese espionage. Source E has furnished the following
oredit roport concerning OAsl!I:
OAsHI is a Japanese; he entered Peru on July 9, 19 2, from Yokohama; he re
ides at Manuel del Pino 579, Lima, and is married to a Peruvian woman of
Japanese extraction. For several yoars he was in the employ of I. wAtANO,
ating as a salesman. "ATANo established himself in business in June 1933
to ast as the exolusive representative of the Pacific Trading Company, Ltd.,
of Kobe, Japan, and as uc ae angaged in the import-export busino and
dealt locally in textiles, haberdashery, provisions, etc. His offices were
located at Edificio La Auxiliar 2lo-2ll, Lima, (no known as Edificie L
Nacional.)On July 27, 1938, "ATAN0 organized a collective partnership ontitled
SOC TEDAL ANoNTHA TATBO with. a registered capitel of s/1O,Ooo (approximtoly
$1,55o U.s.). Those holding an interest i the partnership were: BUNJI
OASHI, JUAN BARTHELMES (ACEVEDO), KATSUYOSHT FL, TTA ZUS UKI, anD TWAO TAKENAKE
MINAMI. Although inoorporated under its om name, it as regarded in the
local business cirole as a branch or affiliate of the Pacific Trading Company
whose oxelusive ropresentative ir Peru until 193 vas I. "ATANO.
Scuree J, a Peruvian busine: sman in Limm, stated that subject oes not appar
to be ongaged in any commeroial activity at the present time but draws a
monthly salary from the Pacific Trading Company through the Spanish Embassy.
Souree D stated that subjoct married KTMIKO TSI TVIYA in May 1944, who is not,
as Souree & roported, a Peruvian but rathor a Japanese, aged 25, who arrived
in Peru in 1938. Although QASI ie not employed at the present time, he re-
mains i: charge of all the coumercial ut: lities of CASA TATBO. OASHI is
describod as follows:
Ago
42
Sex
Malo
Nationality
Japanese
Race
Yellow
Oceupation
Herchant

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
Marital Status
Married
Relatives
W1fe KIMIKO BHIMIYA OASHI
Speech
Speaks Japanese and Spanish
"OKUGAWA
Calle Zamudio"
"TORA OKUGAWA
Post Office Box 24. Huangayo"
It has been previously reported that OK GAvA was a good friend of Subjoet
YATOH and that YATOH lived in O GA"A's home during his brief sojourn in Lim.
Also, it was reported previously by Source B that OKUGAwA, who is the pre
prietor of SOC TEDAD COMEFC TAL T. OKUGAWA y C TA., a nOw dofunet busimo hou
which was located at Calle Zamudio 655, also had a basaar in Huaneayo where
he is at the present time. Source E, in a credit report, disolosed that
Subject' basaar appears un er the name of YUSET OKUGAwA and was established
in Huancayo in 1918. This basaar is considered one of the most important in
it locality and has an estimated capital of 15, o00. OKuaAWA made frequent
trips to Japan and while away left hie business i charge of a countrymmn, one
H. AR TTOMI, whose nam also appears in the addrees book of YATOH. OKUGAwA'
firm in Lima was organized on January 1, 1940. Source D roport that oxUGAWA
is algo known a ALBERTO OK GA"A and TORA) OKUGAA.
Thoroughly reliable Source K has furnished the xtranjeria card of okuGaw
which reveals that his carnet number is 42596; that he is of Japanese mation
ality, born February 14, 1902, in Yamaguchi; that he is married to TosHK0
OKUGAwA, also of Japanese nationality; and that they have no children. Ho
ontered Peru at Callao on November 12, 1927, ith Japanese Passport #39433,
issued on Septomber 12, 1927, in the Prefecture of Yamaguchi, Japan. His
residence is listed as Calle Real 53l, uancayo. Subject is deseribed in the
records of the Extranjeria as foilos:
Age
42, born 2/14/02
Race
Yellow
Nationality
Japanese
Height
502"
Hair
Black
Eyes
ark
Occupation
Merchant
Carnet
42596
Marital Status
Marriod to TOSH IKo DKUGAWA
Residence
Calle Real 53l, Huaneayo, Peru
Speech
Japanese and Spanish
MASABURO OTA
Peru Monka, Apartado 680
Pams1e 0lava 139. Lim"
Source B reports that Subjoot is the former manager of Peru Menka Kabushiki
Kaisha (Peru Menka Cerporation). He was deported early in 1942 and it has
been ascertained by Seurce B that he is presently in Japan.
-5-

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
"W. REINHARD
d-H111
It has been previously reported that the full name of this individuml is
WRNER RE TNHARD, l1ving at Cipreces 229, San Isidro, Limm, Telephene 16909.
He has been in the employ of the firm formerly known as Gulda-Hillmam new
known as Gulda y Cfa., located at studios 425-431, Lima. Souree L thor
oughly rellable A merican bus nessman in Peru, stated that RE INHARD i pre
ontly unomployed, having Lee. roloased from Gulda y Cfa., whore he was
manager, in or about August 1 44. hile orking for the firm he participated
in the profit of the company and in 193 onrned more than 8, oo0. He 
the only German ho remained vit the firm after the "house cleaning" brought
about by their inclusion on e Proclaimed List. He came to Limm in about
1937 and it ha been reported to fource L thnt shortly thoreafter he 
foroed to relinquish his membershi, in tho German Club because of his Jewih
origin. Both he and his wife are ragarded as anti-Nasi in their sympathies.
Following the vath of the late  LA, T'lARD had an alteroation with
C LA's wife and lost is position ne manager of the firm. In apite of this,
Mre. GuLA regard him as honest and hard»orking. According to Souree Le,
FRE KHICY LOSEN, a German who as: aleased fron Gulda y Cfa. at the time of
the "house cleaning," has stated that he thought it strange that REINHARD 
allowed to remmin on in  is posit ion because he ras the woret Nazi of th
all."
S ure M, an merican banaor i. Lima, dvised thnt althouch RE DNHARD talk
anti-Nasi he does not fee certa: that RE IhAi 's political convictions are
anti-Nazi. Source  nas statad thi he has had business aaling with RI
HARD and knows him personally. IE .A. did not resign from tho Gorman Cl
insofar as Source H, o as a member him elf, knows. Soure H stated that
he saw RETn.AR: at the (lub as late ae 1940; he ras not a momber of the Nas1
Party and was one of the fe. at the C ub who dared to critieise the Nasi
regime. He prophosied that Germany #ould lose the war and that the Blitskrieg
of England woul fail. He al:o criticized the internal politios of Hitler.
Among the other duties of RETNHARi in the firm of Gulda y Cfa.  that 
buyer, in which capacity he would naturally be contacted by NOBUO YATON mhould
YAToH have business ealings with the firm. For this reason, Souree H feels
that no importance can be attached to the fact that RETNHARD's name ap-
peared in the address book of YATOH.
"ENBHT SATEKATA
Callo "aranios 1206. Lima"
It has been previously reperted by Source B that Subject's name as it appears
above is the result of a mistranslation. SATEKATA's true name, ascording te
Bourcs B, ie ENJT OaATA, a retired radiologist who was formerly a member of
the Sociedad Central Japonesa (Japanese Central Society) of Lim. In an
effort to determine whether the two individuals are in fact identieal, Souree
D called on OGATA and verified the information furnished by Souree B, amplify-
ing it by stating that OGATA came to Peru 30 years ago and exersised his
prefession of radiologist and specialist in mmssage until his retirement a
few yeare ago. He holds a registered diplomm issued in Tokyo in 1933 to
prastise his profession. He is the owner of License #507 issued by the
- 6 -

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
Peruvian Govermment. He is the father of KIKUAKI OGaTA also kmewn as LUB
OGatA, aged 29, who studied medicine in Germany and is presently serving is a
German hespital. A second child is a girl, MARGARIrA OGATA, mmrried te JUN
KITSUTANI, former imperter in Peru and presently detained in Tems. Nis
third child is HUNBERTo KE ICHI OGATA, presently studying economies at the mi
ersity of San Maroos, Lima, and a graduate of the Japanese High Sehool LIMA
NIPPO.
Souree D could find no one in the Japanere colony who had ever heard of NsHI
SATEKATA and in view of the fact that OGATA has lived at the address indieeted
for SATEKATA for the past 10 years or more, he feels that an orror must xist.
OGATA is described as follo»s:
Name
ENJT OGATA aka Tet suo Ogata
Ago
54
Nationality
Japanese
Race
Yellow
Hair
black
Eyes
Brown
Profession
Masseur and radiologist
Mrital status
"idower
Relatives
KTKUAKT OGATA, 29
LAHGAH TTA OGATA KITSUTANI
UMBERTO KE TCIHT OGATA
Marks
eare moustache
"SHOICHT TAKAHASHI
Fabrica Nacional de Medias e? Tnca, SA.
Jiron Iquique 476, Lima
Apartado 1414"
It has been previou:ly reported by Fource M, a reliable souree but whose infor
tion is Bometime erroneous, that TAKAHASHI is the brother of RINUEMON TAKAHASHI
who was President of the Japanese Central ociety in 1935 and ho as doported
on June 16, 1942, aboard the "SS SlAWNEE." According to Source B, TAKAHASHI
was the Director-Manager of the Fujii Trading Company, Calle Zarate 429, and
he later became manager of Fabrica Nacional de Medias el Inea, B.A., stoeking
factory in Limm. He is presently living at Santa Maria 554, Lima, and frequemt-
ly visits the home of one KAwAMoTO, former manager of Fabrica Nacional, whe
resides at Avenida Chorrillos 409, Barranco, Peru. Source B advised that
TAKAHASHI has o employmont at the present time and is not engaged in any
activities connected ith the Japanese colony or the Japanese war offort.
"SHINO TAMURA (Peruvian Ropresentative)
Caridano 616 (Should be Caridad)
Apartado 2615."
Source A condueted a surveillanee on the house of TAMURA, losated at Calle
Buenaventura Aguirre 399, Lima, for 10 days from November 3 to Nevember 13,
1944, and wms able to observe no activity. The neighborhood investigatiem
indicated that Subjeot is presently in Arequipa, Peru, where he has a business.
-7-

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
The address Caridad 616, Lima, is now seupled by a Japanese, HBAo MYAm,
former newspaperman. Dsvestigation by Souree 0 ir Arequipa resulted mesmtively.
it having proved impessible to locate TAmuRA there. Source O was wmable te
discever any business owmed by a Japanese of that name.
"JUAN TANTDA
Calle Capon 706. Lime"
It has been previously roported by Source B that TANT A is a Japanese, mrrid
to a Peruvian, presently living at Calle Santa Roma, Lima, Peru. He was
formerly a traveling agent for Casa Kawamoto. Subsequent investigation by beth
Souree B and Souree A revealed that TANI A is not active at the present time
and has no means of livelihood. He is not known to have beon aetive in the
activities of the Japanese colony and no reports have been received to indieate
that he as in any wmy engaged i subversive activities.
"H. TOGITA
Milagro 410, Apartado 374
L1"
Souree B previously has reported thet Subject, ho had an import business, w
a member of the Japanese Contral Society for 10 yoare and a member of the
Directive Board of the Japanese Tmport-Export Society of Peru. He is presently
President of CLB KUMauoto and at the present time has in his possession all 
the archives of the Import-Export Society and often visits the Spanish Ebassy.
Hi full name i HARUKACHT TOGITA. Source D stated that CLUB KUMAMOTO i 
organization of Japanese fro the Prefecture of Kumamoto, Japan. It was fomded
about 15 years ago as a mutual aid society it: headquarters at the eormer of
San Diego and Zavala. ToctTA has Ferved as President of the organization sinee
1938 and the activities of the or anization are carried on in his heme loated
at Milagros 510, Limm. According to Source D, ToGITA was an imperter who omed
a shirt factory and sold his goode throughout Peru. He has been in Poru fer
22 years. He is describ d by Source  as follows:
Ag€
50
Height
57"
weight
175 lb.
Nationality
Japanese
Race
Yellow
Hair
ark
Eyes
Brown; wea: s glasses
Marks
Scar over left oyebrow
Other than the fnct that Subjest is guarding the arehives of the Japanese
Impert-Export Society and is President of CLUB KUMAMOTO, no inferation has
bean received to indicate that he was engaged in activities whieh might preve
inimical to the Allied Cause.
"SETTARO TOJO
s/o Poru Menka Xaimha. Anartado 680. Limm
ToJo was formerly employed by Peru Menka in Lima, Peru, together with his brother
-8-

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.82)
mmAmo ToJO. Ho was deported together with his brether em April 4, 1942,
Deard the "s TOLDN."
- 9 -

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
MENT OF STAIR
OFFICE Of
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AFF
FEB 11945
Jederal Bureau of Inuestiga
gited States Department of
D!
RECELVED
lashington, D.C.
JAN01945
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
IN RALY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NUMBER
COR
Date:
January 28, 1945
To:
Mr. FrederickB
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau
Investigation
1845
bubject:
JUAN BARTHEL ES
FEB 1945
20le
PERU
the above-captioned individual, there is being transmitted herewith a
memorancun reflectin that this individual is reported to be still repre
senting Japanese commercial interests in Peru. It will be observed that
there are some indications that he may be acting as a go-between in obtaining
merchandise for blacklisted Japanese firms from the Ezra Chrem & Company.
40
This infor..ation has been obtained from a confidential source believed
to be reliaole anu is being made availavle to the Foreign Economic Admintatration.
The Alerican Enbassy, as well as the ilitary and Naval Attaches at Lima,Per
have also been furnished this information.
5
inclosure
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
cc - Director of Naval Intelligonce
War Department, ashington, D.C.
Navy Department, Washington, D.C.
Attention: Brigadier General C. W. Clarke

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
Deeember 28, 1944
Re: JUAN BARTHEL  Jun Barthe
It will be remembered that in 1943 JN BAkTHELMES of Limm, Peru, received
a letter containing certain instrestieme to the Japanese colony of Pord
purperting to come fron the then apmmese Minister in Santiago, Chile.
It has further been indieated that ver a peried of several years BARthla
had been associated with sevaral Japamese firms and was still handling the
interests of the firm TABO, S.A., in Perd. Subjeet was also memtiemed im
a coded communication bet een Limm, Pord, and Buenos Aires, Argentima, in
whieh it was stated that BARTHELies' conduet was weder poliee surveillanse
and requesting ti at no further communications be sent to him.
Source C, a reliable Peruvian official source, advised that the house in
which BARTHELES lives at Avenida Ignacio Merino 1862, Lim, ms registered
in the name of his wife, CARME OSA ALVEZ E BA THELMS, and  valued at
5/12, 000 (approximately 1, 85 .5. at the presont rate of exshange.)
Ro:iable Source D adviued that Subject had never rented an offiee at the
Ediricio Nacioml (formerly the Edificio Royal). It will be noted that
8. A. TAB0 formerly hnd offices 210 and "21l in this building.
Source F, an aquaintance of Subject BARTHELES, stated that he had formerly
been employed ly important Japaneve firme and was now in eharge of the Japan-
ese commereial interests in Perd. Sorce F confirmed this statement and
added that BAELs, in his opinion (Source F, ws not an pleyee of
EZRA CHREM & CaPANY but was apparently acting as a link betweem the A
CHRKM firm and Japanese firms on the Proclaimed List whieh were able through
this means to otain merchandise and continue operating. No further iafer
tion from themsourees could be obtained,
Source  advise that Bubject had alwaye defended the intereste of the
Japanese colony having repreeented the intereste of the firm S. A. TAmo,
and had recentl' assosiated himself in a glass business with IBAAC and JAIm
CHREM, with a opital of 8/15, 000 (approx mately $2,300 U.S.  the presemt
rate of exehang.) He drives a car with Licenee #55107 whieh was forly
the property ofHIeo ANDO, deported mmnager of the firm S. A. TAmO. Bubjeet
has been seen agood deal of the time in the offices of Dr. CARLOs BAsURTO,
an attormey witl offises in the Edificio Nacional, and in the offises f EkA
OHREM & COMPANY at Jirên Ayasueho #233. Subject has traveled to Chinsha
several times e Sundays with Dr. BAsUkto and has made his headquarters at
the offiees of IZRA CHREM in Chinoha.
Jul0.1974
1.51 2
10/11/781
- 1

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
January201
CONFIDENTIAL
0.3827
To the
Officer in Charge of the Ameriean Mission,
Lima.
243
The Seoretazy of State refers to the Eabamsyts
despatoh no. 438, May 29, 1944 coneerning the
preparation for publication of a manusamipt by
Mr. John K. Emmerson entitled "The Japanese in
Peru". It will be recalled that one sopy of this
manusoript was given to the Peruvian Foreign Office
in order to make sure that no statements in the
045
In view or the Department's interest in the
possibility of publishing the manusoript in question,
it would be very muoh appreciated if the Embassy
could asoertain whether the Peruvian Foreign Orfss
has completed its examination of the manusaript.
Any comments that the Embassy sees fit to add to
of the Peruvian Foreign Ofrice would also be apprseiated.
DCR - ARA Unit
nal....
Rev.
hhm
Cat.
Dist.
CD
8
1/8/45

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
IRECIAL WAR PROBLEMS
DIVISION
Bederal Buyéau of nuestis
-51945
DEPA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
FEB 2 - 1945
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NUMBER 64-30860-3
JAN
Date:
January
4.20223/1-
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
HR
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
AMERHAHMLPUBALAFSAIN
From:
x灯
Subject: Sakuichi Wakao - Peru
2345
As of possible interest to you, there is  opy or
report received from a confidential source in Lima, Peru, reflecting the
activities of the above individual. It will be noted that Wakao cireulated
a letter which stated that the Japanese internees in the United States were
mistreated. Moreover, it will be observed that the firm formerly owmed by
the subject is on the United States Proclaimed List, but be is presently
unemployed. This report also reflects that the subject was connected with
Itsuke Tanabe (deported) in the distribution of Japanese propaganda film.
This information has been made available to the American Embaby
2
to the Military and Naval Attaches in Lima, Peru.
3
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence oc - Assistant Chief of Staff, 2
War Department, Washingtonf-D.
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier General Carter
by
Enclosure
S

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
Deeember 20, 1944
ROI SAKUICHT WAKAO
LPery
Souree C" has reported that there were to Poruvian police aboard the 
ACONCAGm when it made a t rip to tne mited States in June 1943 with Japanos
deportees aboard. when these two officiale returned to Peru, they brouht with
them correapondence from some of the Japanese interned in concentration camps
in the Umited states and by this means the letters escaped censorehip. Ome
letter addressed to a Mr. "AKAo was fror. the wife of MAGoICHT KATO.  ms be
lioved that this AkAo was the owner of a amall shop in venida Maneo Capee in
the La Vieteria district of Lima, Peru.
Souree c" further reported that, according to his source of informmtion, waro
had cireulated this letter among the Japanese in Lima. The letter was mid to
contain allegations thnt the Japanose ere put to forced labor in the coneemtre-
tion camps; that they did not receive proper attention whon they wore ill; that
they were poorly fed; and that the .omen were tll treated by the authorities,
not only in the United States but durin,: the voyage to the United states.
Souree "I," fro: whon Source c" had received his information, ws able to
amplify the abeve only vith the aduress of wakao's shop, which ms mmid to be
Manco Capac 31-321. On the basis of the above report, Souree "D" in July 1944,
in a list of possible Japanese agents in Peru, listed "Akao as a propagandist.
The voyage of the SS AC) CA UA roferred to above started at V·lparaiso, Chile,
where Japane e devortees fron Chile were taken aboard, and touched at Callae,
Poru, on June ?o, 1944, here voluntary Japanese deportees fron Peru were also
taken aboard.
According to Source "E," n conpletely reliable source who was mctive in arranging
for the deportations aboard this ahip, there ere no Peruvian officials tho
traveled to the United States; there ere, however, two Chilean poliee. On the
return trip the officials brought ith them a letter from NoBUo YAToH, 
Japanese espionago agent ho had boen repatriated from Bolivia on the  AconcAGuA.
This letter was turned over to the Peruvian police who examined it and found it
to be innoouous, containing a thank-you note t: a woman of Spanish name residing
in La Paz, Bolivia. The officials stated that this was the only letter which
had bee" given to thom by any Japaneso for delivery.
SH IZUKI KATO was doported aboard the SS COUCAGUA with her two children, KEZUI
and KAzu0. Her Peruvian carnet number as 33366 and she was the bearer of Pae
port 365672, issued on July 31, 1940, in Japan. She left Peru voluntarily to
Join her husband, MAGOIC I KATO also known as CARLOS KATO who had been previously
deported on January 10, 1943, aboard the SS FREDER ICK C. JOHNSON. He  the
proprietor of Kato y Cia., S. A., a Japanese store in Limm on the United States
Proclaimed List of Cortain Bloeked Nationals.
- 1 -

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
Asserding te an offisial publication of the Japanese Central Sesiety of Peru,
MGOICHI KATO was Vice President of the Society in 1933, aseerding te the
Peruvian Directory GUTA LAScANO of 1940-1941, he was a member of the diresterate
and head of the section on instruction of the Japanese Central Sesiety is 1940.
Ascording to Source "F," a Japane e regarded as reliable, he mas seeretary 
the Society in 1941.
Those positions ic kA'r) held  the Japanese c lony, coupled with roport
that he was a Majo:  t e Japanese Aruy and had held meet ngs with prominent
Japanese in his home, resultod in nis deportation.
Rogardloss of the truth of the details in the original complaint in instamt
report, the important question posed by it is shether Subject AkAo is engaged
in Japaneso propaganda activitias.
Investigations in Japanese matter: in Peru have fn:led, to date, to unoove
examples of nny Japane:e printod propaganda since Peru severed relations with
Japan in January 1942.
wAkAo as one if the proprietors of a Basar knosn as S. "AkAo, S. A., located
in Manco Capac 317, which Bazar appoar: on the Proclaimed List of Cortain
Blocked at onals. Accord ngt Source G, coupletely reliable, the Basar 
a corporation established in 1930 it) a declared capital of s/10,00o (Apprexd-
mately £1,550 U.S.) as of 1936. Tts stockholdore were AYUICHI WAKA0, the
Subject; ISAO ENDO, and HASANAO SUGTYAMA. The Bazar dealt in hardware nd
novelties and had business dealings with the Proclalmed List firms of shII
and COMPANY and the FIJII TRAD NO COUPANY. According to Souroe G, the fir
was placed on the Proclaimed List because Subject had served as President of
the Japanese ociety of the district of La Victoria in Lim. In 1944, with the
approval of the Superintendencia de Economia of the Peruvian Government whish
is charged itn the liquidation of Japane e businesses, Basar Wakao was
transferred to the three Peruvians who aro the o ners of the building in which
the Basar is houses. The funde from this tran action are frozed by the Paruvian
Government.
According to the Registry of Foreig Firms of the Peruvian Extranjeria,
SAKUICHT "AkA0, Carnet 19546, was listed as the proprietor of Basar Wakmo
and the following were listed as employees:
MASANAO BUGTYANA
Carnet #15843
HIBAO ENDO
Carnet #5402
ARUEAKAO
Carnet19547
TOSHIKO SUGTYANA
Carnet 415844
HARUE AkAO is the wife of Subjoct. HISAO ENDO, whose Peruvian am 1 MIGUBL
ENDO, is Subjoct's cousin. In the address book of NOBUO YATOH, the Japmose
espionage agent referred to heretofore who was in Peru from sugust to Desember
of 1940, appeared the following entry: "MTCUEI HTSA ENDO, wonide Manse Cape
317-321, Basar Wakao, Lima."
-2-

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
An investigatien of ENDo's activities has failed to establish thet he has beem
engaged in subversive aetivities. His name's appearanse in Yaron's address
beek might be explained by the fact that YAtOH while in Bouth Ameriee repre-
serted two Japanese business houses. According to Bouree , mmo resided at
Manse Capac 317, in the same building as the Bazar, but sinee the Basar hes
boon losd ENs hereabute areunknon.
Souree H, a Peruvian investigator ragarded as reliable, has reported thet the
Basar is now closed and Sub jact has moved to Manco Capac 1364, where he live
in the home of a Japanese by the name of KAi:S HENDA, a carpenter by prefession.
Bouree  condueted a surveillance of bot the store an: the house in whi
subjeet "AtAo is no" living but as unable to discover any unusuml aetivity.
Bouree F reported that Subject has been very prominent in the Japamese eelery
having been President of the Japanese Fociety of the district of La Visteria
and a member of the "Comitiva de la Sociedad Central Japonese" (Fellewere "
the Japanese Central Society). As President of the Society of the distriet
of La Victoria, Subject would have aff liation vith the Central Sesioty.
Source I, -oll informed in matter of Japanese activities in Peru, has reperted
that the Japanese Central Society in cooperation ith the Japanese Lemmtiem
virtually directed all of the activities of tho Japanese colony in Poru frem
the year of its founding in l9l" unt il it as clo: ed a few days after Deeber
7.1941.
Source F stated that Subject WAkAo imported Japanese motion pietures direstly
from Japan, the pictures being of a propaganda nature and designed to make
known to the Peruvians the accomplishmonts of Japanese industry. Souree
stated that AkAo had the permiss ion of the Japanese Government to exhibit 
pioture during each month of the year. In tie .ork he was amsisted by rrsus
TANABE.
Bouree J, a source ithin the Peruvian police, as reported that n Ootober 17.
1943, the Briada Internacional searched the home of TANABE and found four
Japanese motion pioture films nich had been brought to Peru prior to Deebe
7, 1941. These films wero newsreels showing scenes of Japanese industry and
one doalt it the arriva! f a Japane. e Government lelegation to Poru.
TANABE as a resident of the La Victoria district of Peru, living at Lum
Pisarro 599 and he was the o ner of a bakery shop known as Panaderfa Patria.
located at Humboldt 515, Lima, hih had a capital of s/20, 000 (3,100 U.8.).
It was also reported by Source  that TANABE was a former President of the
Japanese Central ociety. The records of tho Society do not ber this out and
it is probable that he vas a former President of the Society for the distriet
of L Victoria.
Reporte of unknon reliability from Sources K, L, and B have indieated that
TANABE was an ex-Japanese Army officer; that he held meetings in his heme
-3-

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.94)
where pelitieal matters were diseussed, and that he was active in the
UNTON REVOLUC TONARIA, a Peruvian political party whioh at one time ws pre
Fasoist. TANA B as doported aboard the USAT CIBA on Maroh 1, 1944.
Subjoot is desoribed by Souroe H a follo
Name
SAKUTCHTWAKAO
Ago
About 40
Sex
Malo
Race
Yellow
Nationality
Japanese
Hoight
5°4"
"eight
170 1bε.
Build
Heavy
Hair
Black
Byee
Black
Glasses
Occasionally wears dark glasses
Speoch
Speaks Spanish and Japanose
Occupation
Storokeeper
Carnet
19546
Marital Status
Married: ife ARUE WAKAO

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF BTATE
OFFICE oF
t.
AMFRICANREPUBICEPAIRS
Office of
EMBASSY OFITHE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRC
NI319458
COIFIDENTIAL
Lime, February 20, 1945
No. 2663
Subject: Japanese in Peru.
The Honorable
The Secr tary of State,
Was ington.
Sir:
L
I hav. the nonor to refer to te Department's instruo
894.20223/2
tion No. 3827 of January 20, 1945, anc to 1nstruction No. 3290
of May 17, 1944, enclosin; a report entitled "The Japanese in
Peru" for sublission to the Peruvian Foreign Office, with a
view to obtaini its p roval for the publication of the same.
Reference may also be made to the Department's telegram No. 458
of May 5, 1944, l to this Embassy's Despatch No. 9327 of
March 27, 1944, on this same subject.
After repeated requests for a repl, from the Foreign Office,
the Secretary General finally informed me a day or so ago that.
from the point of view of the Peruvian Government, it would be
preferable if this re ort were not published at the present time.
20
He snve as a Fenson tant the late President Leguia had been very
active in bringin Jananese into Peru and should the Peruvian
Government ap rove tie pub is in of the report it might be con-
5
sidered by th friends o: Leuia s ? reflection upon that worthy.
I was somewhat surprised at this tenderness for the memory of one
who, from y observations, is not held in too great favor by the
present generation of Peruvian politicians. I supposed, however,
that with the presidential and parliamentary elections in the
offing there woulc be a natural desire to offend no element. I.
therefore, inquired of the Secretary General if he thought the
matter might be reconsidered after the presidential elections, and
JUN 14 1945
he replied in the affirmative; statin that, in that event, the
FILED
Foreign Office might suggest deletions or changes of phraseology
of certain portions of the text.
Respectfully yours,
C dohie
J. C. Whate
820.02
JCW/fw
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1:1
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION
e

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.91)
12459
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DINBCTOR
United StatesD
M OT JUSTItAPERSONAL AND CONFIBMNTIAL
BY SPECLAL MS
mastington,. C.
Date:
March 15, 1945
8
4
To:
Mr. Frederick . Lyon
MAR 1 91915
N006
4
chief
ARTMENT OF STATE
C
5
At the present time his
be doporiel nowever, this a was lever omp.stod.
only known means or incone is selling novelties.
A copy of this roport is available to the United States Embassy, as
well as the Military and Naval Attaches in Lima, Peru.
Enclosure
cc - Direotor of Naval Intelligona
Assistant Chief of Staff, -2
20223
PORYICTORY
Navy Denartment, Washington,B.C.
War Department, Washington, D.C.
BUY
Attentioigau General c. W. Clarke
lile
WAR
BONDS
3/3-1545
STAMPS
bisn
C.R.T.
1945

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.94)
February 28, 1945
FoI M NUEI. FUSUMADA, dth alias,
MANUE YUSHIRO FUSUMADA
Lima, Peru
Through an unsigned letter in Spanish dated February 11, 1944,
addressed to the United States Consul in Lima, Paru, it was learned that
MANUE, FUSUMADA of Barraneo, Lma, Peru, was empleyed as interpreter at
the Spanish Colegdo, probably Jesus Maria, and that he as middleman
between the Japanese and reruvian officials. The letter deseribed FusumaDA
as a naturalised Peruvian who worked for a Japanese newspaper and stated
that he was considered dangerous. FUSUMADA is on the United States Proelaimed
Lst.
From the Oficina de xtranjerfa (Alien Hogistration Buremu) it was
a certained that Subject was born in Fukuoko, Japan, Ootober 1, 1889, and
entered Peru Decomber 27, 1906, on board the "YTUKISIHA MARU", proeeeding
from Yokoham, Japan. At this time he advised that he had not previously
lived in Paru; that he did not intend to return to his native sountrys that
he had never been in prison or on charity; that he did not beleng to any
politieal organisations edther in Poru or in Japan; that he had never been
deported from Peruvian territory; that he had relatives in Peru; and that
he wished to become a aitison. His religion ms listed as Catholie and his
ocoupation as commercial.
From Source C, a confidential source of informmtion who is considered
reliable and who has mumerous contacts wdthin the Japanese Colony in Limm,
it was ascertained that Subjest formerly had a bazaar in Avenida Grau 485,
Barraneo, frem about 1929 to 1934. In 1930 he was President of the Japamese
Central Soedety of Barranee and, according to YANO SEJII KAWAKAMI, SUEJIRO
KONO, Y. NIsHINO, and others, it was ascertained that Subject s entrusted
with large sums of money by members of the Japanese Colony. He mubsequently
relinquished the presideney of the Japanese Central Society but remmined in
the background as an adviser. He has two sons and a daughter who, th the
rest of his family, returned to Japan in 1936. He was a professer of physioal
edueation and an interpreter in the Japanese Sahool in Jemus Maria.
Aecerding to this infermant, rUsuMADA was a person who had the
emtire comfidemee of the Japamese Colony and, as a result of the great
comfidemee pleeed in him and the fands whieh were at his dispesal, he made
bed investmeats whieh resulted in his having to go into bankruptey and he
did met re-enter busimess. In 1936 he werked as a malesman for the PACIFICO
TEXTIL CO. and during this time he werked regalarly and had a good ineome,
thanks to kie Large, mumber of austemers. He asseelated with a goed class
26112, 1916-F212
By 
12111178.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
1
of people. In 1942 he quit working fer the PACIFIC0 TExTIL 00. and,
accerding to his "frionds" at this time he received a notifieation of
deportation as a result of which he left Jemus Maria and wont to Barraneo
to live with a famdly by the name of SUkJIR0 in Calle Bregante 118.
This family advised that the only business Subject has that they know of
is the selling of novelties, from which he manages to keop in poaket change.
They state that sometimes Subject sponds the night away from home and that
he is ofton i) the company of the KAWAMI family.
From the record. I tho ficina de Extranjorfa the following
doscri,tion was obtained:
Name
MANUEL rUSUMADA, th li,
MANUE!YOSHIRO FUSUMADA
Race
Yollow
Nationalit.
Jupanese
Color
Yellow
Build
Fat
Hoight
1.62 (5° 4")
Face
Oval, clean shaven
Forehead
wide
Eyes
Black
Nose
Straight
Mou th
egular
'eoularities
Jses rimmed glasses
Present residence
Calle Bregante 118, Barranco, Lima, Peru
Former residences
Wiracocha 1570, Lima, Peru
Carcilozo de la Vega 1598, Lima, Peru
Carnet#
8365
-2-

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.90)
29923
JOHN
D018
Hederal Bureau of nurstigation
United States Department of Justice PERSONAL AND COMTM
HY SPECIAL 
Washington,D.C.
IN REPLY, PLEASE REPER TO
RL
FILE NUMER 64-31029
DIVI
1945
bate:
(π
neaora
uum cuncerninr the atove-caj tioned subjeet. t is noted tn t ne was criginally
reporteu as extremely pro-Japanese unu allegealy held meetings in his photographic
shop. ne was the official photographer of the Japanese colony and Legation at
Lima, Peru. No evidence has been developeu indicating that the subject is now
89420223
engageu in subversive activities.
This information has been received from a confidential source, considernd
reliable, una is availalle to the American Embassy at Lima, Peru.
cc - Director f laval Intelli;ence
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
Navy epartment
G-2, War Department
hashington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
enclosure
Attention: Brigadier General Carter W. Cl
11
4151
12111178

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
Mareh 8, 1945
Re1 HYOCHICHI SATO, alia
HYOKICHI SATO
Lim, Poru
Source C, whose reliability is not kmowm, advised that Subjeet
NYommIGHI SATo, the owner of the photography shop on Calle Billimgharst 731,
Iáma, Peru, was extremely pro-Japanese and frequently held Japamese meetings
at his shop. From the Peruvian Orieina de Extranjerfa (Aliem Registratien
Bureau) it was ascertained that Subject wmas bern in 1898 in Japam, and eam
to Peru in 1930 on board the L. JAPomsA from Yekehamm, Japan. Ne advised
that his last residence was in Japan, that he would reside in Lám, that
he had mot previously lived in Peru, that he did not intend te returm to
his mative eoustry, that he had never been in prison or om sharity, that
he was a member of no political parties, that he had no oeeupation in Peru,
that he possessed more than 2,000 soles, that he had no relatives in Peru,
and that he did mot imtend to become naturalized. He advised that he was
married to Yoko sato and that they had three children. His Carnet de Extran-
jerfa mmber is 9528.
From Souree D, who is believed to be reliable and who has mumerous
asquaimtanees in the Japanese Colony, it was ascertained that in 1936 Subjeet
made a trip to Japan in order to learn photography. He returned to Peru
after a year and one-half and had hardly arrived in Poru when he for unknowm
reasoms began travelling all over the country for a period of about six momths.
It was following this trip in the year 1938 that he opened his phetegraph
stadie. He was the official photographer for the Japanese Colemy and the
Japamese Legatien. He has a younger brother who wmas the agent fer the
Insaramee Cempany of South Ameriea and worked all over the country selling
imsaranee, as a result of which he had mumerous acquaintances in the Japasese
Colemy. This brother was a member of the Japanese Central Society where he
was estrested with expemses and money collections when it became mecessary
in the Japamese Colomy. During the first part of 1941 he returmed te Japan
with Subjeet's wife and ahildren.
From Souree E, who is known to have conmectiems within the Japanese
Coleny and who is believed to be reliable, the above imformatien ms eenfirmed.
Ne stated further that sabjeet's studie whieh is kmown as the caiewraL is
lecated at Calle Billimghurst 731, and that he has twe Japamese empleyees and
a eeek. All of his photegraphie equipment and material is purehased frem a
Peruvian salesma. This souree of informatiem stated that frem all he as
able to aseertain Subjeet lives in constant fear of being sest to a comeem-
tratiom eemp. His mephew, LUIs KIYOsHI SATO, eame te Peru im 1933 and is in
charge of the studdo. He was baptised and his gedfather is the Semater frem
Areqipa, Dr. ELIAs LOzaDA BMaVENTE whe Lives in Avemida La Pas lOgO, San
Msel, Ldm, Peru. BENavEwns is their lawyer and makes mearartees for both
the studie and the SAros. All of the pictures of the Japanese banquets and

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
gatherings have disappeared from the walls of the studio. Frem the orielm
de Extranjerfa (Alien Registration Bureau) it wms ascertaimed thet KIYosnI
SAT0 was borm in 1919 at Yamagata and that he arrived in Peru im 1935 
beard the HoIYo MARU from Japan. He is a bacheler, and his Carnet de Idemtidad
mumber is 768.
The following description of Subject was obtained frem the ofieim
de Extranjerfa:
Name
HYOKIGHI SATO
RaGe
Yellow
Color
Yellow
Build
Regular
Height
5° 3"
Hair
Black
Eyes
Brown
Face
0val
Forehead
Regular
Nose
Rommn
Mouth
Regular
Chin
Clean Shaven
Address
Jirón Pasco 731, Lima, Poru
Libreta mumber
15405
The following deseription of KIYosHI SATo was obtained frem the
resords of the ofioimm de Extranjerfa:
Name
KIYOSHI SATO
Nationality
Japanese
Occupation
Businessman
Coler
Yellow
Raee
Yellow
Build
Rogular
Neight
5°3
Faee
Oval
Ferchead
8mall
Byee
Brown
Hair
Black
Nese
Reman
Mouth
Small
Chim
Cleam Shavem
Address
Jirón Pasee 731, Lim, Peru
Billingurst 73i, Lim, Peru
Labreta mumber
15599
-2-

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.92)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
51324
OFRICE OF
cce
VERICANREPUBACAFFAING
Bureay af knuatigation
kited Stategdépartmeit of Sustics
NYWC
ashington,.PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL L
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
DafR
FAIR.
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NUMBER 105-5280
Date:
April 30, 1945
MAY 1 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick D. Lyon
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
4
From:
John dgar Hoover - Jirector, ederal Lureau of Investigation
894.
Subject:
Riyoko Kiyohird, alias Korio Kiyojiro,
icardo Kiyoniro, icardo Mijojiro, Kiyoko Kiyojiro - Peru
5
2
as of possible interest to you, there is transmitted herewith a memorand
summarizing material available at Lina, Feru, concerning the above-captioned subje.
It is noted that this individual is a Japanese, born in 1907, who arrived in Peru N
in 1929 from Japan. He made a trip to Japan in 1936. t the present time, there 
is no indication that he is envaged in subversive activities.
This information has Leen made available to the American Embassy at ma Peru.
S
894.20223
ce - Mirector of Maval Intellivence
ssistant Shief of Staff
avy bopartment
1-2, ar mpartment
MAY
ashinton
ashington, ). .
FILED
C
nclosure
attention: irigadier ceneral carter
Cla
Jan. 23,1976: FB12
1945
E
045

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
Mareh 6, 1945
Re: RIYOKO KTYOHIRO alias Korio Kiyojiro
Ricardo Kiyohiro, Ricardo Kiyojiro,
Kiyoko Kiyojiro
SEC UR ITY MATTER--J
It was reported in Way 1944 by Source C, a reliable Japanee whose
father has been one of the most prominent persons in the Japanese eolony i
Lim, that KORTO KTYOJTKO was a newspaperman employed by the Japanese daily
newspaper "Perd Jiho" whioh was published in Lima, Peru, up until Deeember
8, 1941. In 1938, according to Sou ce C, KTY0JTh0 left off working for the
newspaper and went to work for the Japanese Legation where he was ployed
in the file room as head of the Archive and librarian and where he also
acted as correspondent. When the Japanese Legation was closed in January
1942, KIYOJTRO set up a small pastry shop in Calle Josd Galves, Callao, Paru.
Souroe C stated that it appeared strange that this individual, who had been
important in the Japanese colony and who was versed in all mmtters relating
to his co-nationals, had been allowed to romain in Peru while persons of
lesser importance were deported.
Investigation revealed that Subject of Source C's report was identical with
RIYOKO KIYOHIRO, whose pastry shop was located nt Ca1lo Jos& Calves #210,
Callao, Peru. This individual, whos• Alien Registration number at the
Peruvian Extranjerfa is 16086, is, according to the records of the Extran-
jerfa as made available by Source D, a Japanese national of Buddhist religion
and a merchant by profession. He was born in Japan in l907 in the Profocture
of Hiroshim and is married to HANUKO KTYOH TRO, and they have one daughter.
KIYOH IRO arrived in Peru in 1929 aboard the SS ANY WARU from Yokoham,
Japan, bearing Passport 304195. Upon registering at the Extranjerfa in
1940, KIY0HIR0 declared that he had S/2, 000 (approximately $300 U.8.) or
more and that he had never been in prison nor the subjoct of charity. He
said also that he had relatives in Peru; that he did not know whether he would
return to Japan and that he did not intend to become naturalized. Ho do
elared that he had not and would not enter political activities. Upon
registering in 1940 he produced a previous Alien Registration Carnet #44837
issued in Lima, Peru.
The rocords of the Peruvian Extranjerfa further revealed that RIYoHRo re
turned to Japan sometime after his first coming to Peru because his passpert
was last visaed at Yokohamm on April i7, 1936. The records also indieated
that he was living at Montezum #9l6, Cellao, Peru.
Source E, regarded as reliable, furnished the following credit report 
KIYOHDROI
KIYOHIRO took over his business from another countryman by the name of KAsMA.
It is a sonfeotionery shop located at Josd Galves 2lo, Callao, Poru. In
May 1940, he obtained Municipal License #5747. According to information
- 1 -

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.94)
received from persons interviewed by Souree E, Subjest's business in the
past was operated on a quite profitable basis but it appears that, as a
result of lack of capital, it has lost much of its fermer prestiss. The
capital invested by kTYatRo is estimated to be about 8/3, ooo (apprexi-
mately 500 U.s.). KTY T0 is unknown to local bank and trade eirelee
in Callao, Peru, and the amount of his resoure is unknown. Hewever,
from appearances it is estimated that they are smll. Persons interviowed
by Source E speak well of Subject 's conduct, stating that he is a hard
worker and gives the appearance of a law-abiding person whose only pre
occupation is his business. His wife HANUKO KIYOH TRO, aged 21 and borm
in Callao, Peru, assists him in his business. KIYOH IRO's residenee is
at Montosumm #916, C-llao, Peru.
Source F, regarded as roliable, reported that KIYoHTRO is presently re
iding wit his father-in-law, NAKANICHK TOMINAGA, who formerly operated
a bakery and pastry shop at Montezuma #9l6. The pastry shop of Subjeet,
whose name as it ap onro on the Municipal Liconse for his pastry shop is
KIYOKO KTYOJTRO, was formerly owmed by KASMA ThHAO who is presently in
Japan. The clientele of this pastry shop is almost entirely Japanese and
Subject owns a icycle with which he delivers pastry to his customers.
This bicycle has Cor e:cial License Plate 548, Callao, 1944.
Source F reported that  eurveillance maintained on KIYoH DRo during the
latter part of January and the firat of February 1945 rovealed no unusual
activitios on Sub iect s part.
Source G, within the P ruvian olice, : eported that the Brigada Inter
nacional has no record which would indicate that KIYoHIko has engaged in
subversive activities since leaving the Japaneee Logation.
KTYOHTRO 1s described as follows:
Name
H. TYOK KIYa: DO alias Korio Kiyojiro,
Picardo Kiyohiro, Ricardo Kiyojiro,
Kiyoko Kiyojiro
Sax
vale
Race
Yellow
Age
38, born 1907
hesidence
Montezuma 916, Callao, Peru
Business
JosA Galvez 210, Callao, Peru
Height
505
Weight
130 lb.
Build
Slender
Hair
Black, parted on left side
Eyes
Brown, wears black horn-rimmed glasses
Occupation
Baker, newspaperman
Marital status
Married, wife HANUKO KIYOHDRe, 
Cataline Kiyohiro
- 2 -

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
Relatives
Fathor-in-law NAKANICHE
TOMTNAGA
Wife and one child
Nationality
Japanese
Languages
Spanish and Japanese
Documents
Peruvian Alion Registration
Carnet #16086
Japanese Passport #0304195,
last ivsaed on April 17.
1936, Yokohamm, Japan
-3-

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.93)
57303
DIVIS16
Date:
May 5, 1945
EPARTMENT OF STATE
To:
Mr. Prederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
John agar Hoover - Director, Federal Buream of Investigation
nc
subjoot:
Yoshiyuki Tamura
Japanese
7HAY 7 1945
Lima, Peru
memorandum which contains information received from reliable and comfidemtial
sources conceraing the activities of the above-captioned Japanese imdividual.
You will note that the subject was born in Japan in 1907 and during the past
ten years has resided at Lima, Peru where he has been active with the
Japanese newspaper "Peru Kiho" which mow is not operating. In l9ss subjest
made a trip to Japan under the auspices of the Japanese Govermment amd
returned to Peru Ostensibly as correspondent of the Domei Press.
5
This information is available to the American Embassy at Lime.
Peru.
Enclosure
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
cc - Director of Maval Intelligence
War Department
Havy Department
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C
405
4945
YJUN 5
SO
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DOOLASSINIED
-16n.22,1976-31#2
1217128
BruB
mon

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
Apr11 18, 1945
LE: YOSHIYUKI TAMURA
Thoroughly reliable Source C within the Spanish Embesmy
at Lime, Perú, edvised that a wemorandum was prepared by an orrieer
of the Spanish Ebassy thought to be Count MARIANO FERNANDEZ BURETA,
as follows:
"On the first of march (1944), Mr. KNhICHI YOKOTA was ex-
pelled from the country. Since the month of June of l941 he
had been acting as Cnief of the Japanese Colony and was in
charge of the tusk of reporting about the economic situation
of the solicitors for assistance. According to the indioations
of YOKOTA, YOSlIYUkI T mURA, who had previously collaborated
with him, replaced  i. in this mission."
YokoTA, referred to in this memorandum, whose full name
1s KAiIcHI ALrONS0 YOKOTA, is a Japanese who was born in 1884 in
Japan and entered rerú in 1909. He was a brother-in-law of wealthy
and prominent T.TsUJ Iko kU. CToBI, ueported, and was employed by
hUhoToBI in nis firm T. KUnoTuBI Co. YOKOTA, who acted as advisor
for the Japanese in rerú and frequented the Japanese Embassy before
1t wus closed in January, l942, is reported to have received prope-
ganda from rgentine and to have neld und attended meeting of
Japanese and associated with influential Japanese and Peruvians.
He was reported oy a deported Japanese woman to be a spy working
for tne Lmperial Japanese lovernment and together with KazukI
PAT IshI influenced the Spanish  bussador to insist on the deporta-
tion uf a Japanese woman wno indicete that sne ight cooperate
with the reruvian overnment in ivin inforintion about Japanese.
The above Lnforration concerning TohOTA has been compiled
by completely reliable Source D. It will be recalled that the
TATIShI referred to above was nired by the Spanish Ambassador as
a translator und has likewise been de orted.
Attention was first drawn to YOshlYUkI TAmURA in March,
1943, when it was learned turough Source E that Lis name had been
furnished to the Peruvian Minister of Government by a Japanese
source as a Japanese potentially dangerous because of the position
he once held as Peruvian correspondent for the Dome1 Press and re-
porter on the Japanese newspaper published in Lime "reru Jiho."
Immediately after YokOT's deportation, the Brigada Inter-
necional of the Peruvian rolice became interested in subject TAMURA.
Their investigations indicated him to be one or the leeding Japanese
in the Lima Colony and it appeared that Japanese were bringing their
problems to him. Reliable Source F within the Police Department
-1 -

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.95)
reported thet subject was considered to be dangerous beceuse of
his profession whioh ave nim no useful employment sinee all
Japanese newspapers had been closed by the Peruvian Government
in December of 194l.
The Alien .egistration records of the Peruvian Extran-
jería reveal thet subject resides at Calle conventillo, San Pedro
de Nolasco (Jirón Cusco), No. 733, Interior 7, Lima. He is 
Japanese national, bearer of Alien hegistration Carnet No. 21777,
and professes to be of the suddhist feith. He entered Peru on
Passport No. 0342837 issued by the Japanese Government in Kobe,
Japan in ly38 and visaed there by the Peruvian Consulate in the
same year. Re entered Perú March 9, l936. lHe deolared thet he
had been born in l907 in akayame, Japen; that ne intended to
settle in Lime; that he pos: essed 2,o0o Soles (approximately three
hundred dollars) or more, and tnet he was married to TokIko TAuURA
and had one minor child. lle stated his occupation to be that of
newspaperman. The Alien .egistration records, which were prepered
in l94u, indioated that subject lad rormerly been the possessor of
Alien Registration carnet No. 48316.
A credit investi ation conducted by Souroe G failed to
establish that subject nad en eged in any conmerciel activities in
Perú and representatives of the ieruvian Iress deelared that they
had never heurd his nume in connection with the local press. This
did not ean to say, owever, thet ne ay not heve been connected
with the Jupanese hewspeper . erá Jiho," since members of the
Spanish language newspapers had listle contact with the Japanese
press. sually reliable source  re orts ut subject had been on
the starf of "I eruu iho" for ten yoars wnien would indicate that he
nad seen in ierú previous to the uate iven in tne Extranjerfa
records ror is arrival in rerú. owever, subject was called to
Japan in ly38 oy the Japanese overnment for consultation. while in
Japan he was ade reruvian correspondent for the covernment con-
trolled Domei ress and returned to Terú in tnis capacity.
During the years before the relations between Japan and
Perú were broken, subjeot served as Secretery and Treasurer of the
Japanese School, scuela Japonesa Jesús Marfa, a Japenese controlled
institution of learning operated by the Japanese Central Society
of Lime, lerú. lie wes a permenent nember of the committee which
organized the yearly celebration of the Jupunese festival on the
29th of April.
Source i has stated that he was one of the acquaintanees
of YoshIto A NO, a Japanese businessman whose headquarters were
in Panama and who is known to have been an espionage agent in the
employ of the Japenese Government. A Ano wes a partner in the Lime
- 2 -

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
firm of K. T. SUETomI end for tnis reason had frequent oecamion to
come to Lime and contact mebers of the local Japanese colony. 
nature of subject's connection with A Ano hes not, however, beem
established.
From Junuary, 1942, until Larch 24, 1945, the Spanish
Embassy hes represented Japenese interests in Perú. These interests
are under the management of Count nLño FEkNANDEZ BURETA,  momber
of the Spanish Diplomatic staff who is charged with handling all of
the Axis interests. According to Japanese Source I the funotions
of the Spanish bassy with relation to Japanese interests consisted
of the following:
1. Laynent f rensions to impecunious Japanese.
2. renewal of lien egistration Carnets for Japenese
foreigmers. This must be done every six months and tre foreigner
must pay 30 Soles or l per cent of is monthly salar/, whiohever is
smaller. If a foreigner wishes to pay less than 30 : oles, he must
furnish a decleration as to his monthly income and this must be
guaranteed by a responsible erson.
3. The preparation of lists of Jepanese who desire to be
sent to Detention Carps in the United stutes. This function is an
outgrowth of en atterpt on the art or the Peruvian Government to
allow fe ilies of involuntarily de orted Japanese to join the deportees.
4. Transmission of oey o uniteu tates detainees from
frienus und relatives in rerú.
5. The representation of Jupanese nationals in disputes
with the ieruvian authorities.
8. Supervision of the disputes of property of deported
Japanese.
Jupenese Source H states that the activities of subjeet
consist largely in the investi ation of needy Japanese to determine
whetner they are entitled to a pension. Japanese Source I has said
that between 12 and 15,000 Soles (approximate1y 2,000 to 2,500
dollars) is paid montly by the Spanish mbassy out of funds
furnished them by the Jupanese Government for pension cases. Souroe
H also declares that subject is active in the metter of the disposition
of the property of deported Jspanese. It is reported by Souree I
that subject places those wno receive a pension under oath that ir
they have declered falsely as to their necessity they will reimburse
the Japanese Government for all money they have received. He also
tells them that at the ternination of the war they will be condueted
to Japan and will be punished there for any misrepresentation.
-3-

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.95)
Altnough the Spanish Government ceased to represent the
interests of the Japanese in  erú on March 24, 1945, and broke re-
lations with Jepen on April 1l, Source I reports thet subjeet, who
maintains an office in the Embussy, is still active there as are
LUIS OKMOTO (YokOYAA) and one TU: possibly identical with
I T. KUl, xecutive-secretary or ihe Japanese Central Soeiety
in 1934 and Chairian of its Physical culture committee in l955.
On arch 24 Japanese runds were imediately frozen by the Spanish
Embassy and TAUka is at the present time extremely active In
attempting to free sufficient funds so that the persons who depend
upon pensions will not be destitute.
Subject hes long been active in the affairs of the oolony
and as been re orted by Source J as luving worked closely with
Mo AY, de orted April 1, 1944. ARY was a naturalized
Peruvian who had been in ierú ror 25 years snd was one of the out-
standing leaders of the Japanese Colony. lie was a member of the
Founders conmittee of the Japanese Lentral Society and held many
offices within this orgunization. he served es advisor to KANkIchI
YokOTA in Japanese matters. he inforiation concerning ARAY which
appears above vas conpiled y reliable Source K.
When VIcfoh  I was deported early in 1934 the
Spanish Abassador ade a request of tne  eruvian Minister of
Governent thet t..e latter inuiente whetner he had any objection
to the m.bassy hrin U  to (fo oY) in hIsh's stead
as Jupanese translator.  uro is a second eneration Jaranese
born In LLme in lul8 who had forierly veen cn loyed by "rerd Jiho"
and is known to be e leader of ne second eneration Japanese and
a prominent menber of the o I KI, or Japanese Youth
Federation. Source F states hut no such request was made by the
Spanish Embassy concerning T.U. The igada Internacional con-
siders OkmoTo to be nothing more than a screen who acts in a
clerical capacity and ukes translations for the Embassy. TAluRA
is in fact In charge of all that concerns the Japanese in rerú and
those shut have been deported.
. Japanese source whose reliability is not established,
recently re orted that today the three persons who are the leaders
of the Spanish Colony are G.EICnI AKI, IJIRO TABATA and subjeet
TulUla. They all live at Calle Conventiilo, San Pedro de Nolasoo 73s.
AlakI is the owner of u perfume factory who is known to have been
well acqua inted with NOsuo YATOH, a Japanese espionage egent de-
ported from Ecuador in June of 1943. YAToH was a house guest of
ARAkI in Lime on one occasion. TBATA has often been recommended
for deportation because of his former prominence in Japanese affairs
in Lime. He hes been able to avoid expulsion through the inter-
cession of Mrs. MNUEL PRADO, wife of the President of Perú, who
is reported to be godparent of is children.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
Desoription:
Name:
YOSHIYUKI TAMURA
hesidence:
Calle conventillo de San Pedro de Nolaseo,
(Jirón Cusco), No. 733, Apartment 7,
Lima.
Telephone:
34540
Sex:
Male
Race:
Oriental
Nationality:
Japanese
Age:
38 (born 1907)
Height:
5 feet 7 inches
Neight:
180 pounds
Build:
Heavy set
Hair:
Black
Eyes:
rown, weurs lasses
Complexion:
Yellow
Scar
1 inch long over left eyebrow
Languages:
Japanese and poor Spaniah
Occupation:
Press representative
Larital status:
Married
Iumediate
relatives:
ife, TOnIKO
Doowments:
Peruvien Alien hegistration Card 21777
Japanese 1ussport 0342837 issued
obe, Japan, 1938.
- 5-

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
74317
Fh.States Bepartment af Sistirs
DC/R
mshington 25, D. C.
PERSONAL AND CONFIDITI
FILE NO.
peot
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Date:
May 22, 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. oon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
MAY.2 3 1945
Department of State
gAFrom:
John Edgar Hoover, Director - Federal Bureau of mvestigation
Subject:
KEISABURO SATO
894.20223/5-2245
Japanese Subject - Peru
As of possible interest to you, there is being transmitted herewith
a memorandum received from reliable confidential sources which contains
information regarding the current activities of the above-captioned Japanese
subject.
It is indicated that this individual was the former President of
the Japanese Society at Huaral, Chancay Valley, Peru, and that he was born
in Miyage, Japan, in 1885. He arrived in Peru in 1913 and although he has
been connected with agricultural endeavors, at the present time he is employed
in a work camp operated by the Peruvian Ministry of Public Health. As you
will note, there is no indication that he is engaged or has engaged in
espionage or subversive activities.
This information has been made availablc to the American Embassy
at Lima.
Enclosure
ECUHOMIC
n8
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
JUN 25 1945
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier General C. W. Clarke
Confid
Director of Neval Intelligence
Bms
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
JUL3
moy
Jan 25, 1976 - F81 #2
By℃86m
12111178

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.95)
Apr11 24, 1945
O: KEISABURO SATO
ima, Peru
Infortion vas recedved from reliable Seuree C to the effest
that KAZUYOBHI MTATEISHI, formerly of the Spanish Tmbassy in Limm, had
reeeived a letter dated July 15, 1943, frem one MASARO NAKAMA leested in
the Huaral and Chaneay Valley ef Peru. The letter was apparertly im amewer
to a letter ∞neerming the relief of poor Japanese in the vieimity where
NAKAMA lived. NAKAMA stated that there was no Japanese in the aree whe
sould certify these whe were in need of relief md added thet it would be
cemvesdemt for all the Japanese in that aree if the former Presidemts of
the Japanese Assediatien were entrusted with that respensibility. The abeve-
eaptioned individual ms listed as ene of three fermer Presidents of the
Japamese Asseciation in that arem.
Souree D, a highly placed source in thu Poruvian Extranjerfa,
indieated that their reeerds showed this individual to have beem berm in
Miyage, Japan, om July 27, 1885, and that he arrived in Peru on Febeuary 24,
1913. He indicated his religlon was Buddhimm and that his prefessiem ms
farming. He is married te JUmIyo SAto and Extranjerfa reeerds imdieate he
resides at Calle Domingo Millán 834, Urbanización Jemle Marfa, Lim, Peru.
He holds Peruviam Carnet #26910.
Reliable Seurse E, who is acquainted wdth Japanese activities in
the Chaneay Valley advised that the above-captiened imdividual wus the firet
Presidemt of the Japanese Central Society of the Chaneay Valley and as one
of the feumders of the Seciety. He worked as  farmer on the Hasiende
Esquivel under the Proprieterahip of IKUMarsu OKADA who has been deperted.
It ms stated that SATO personally had me great influemee but doe to his
cemmeetien with OKADA he was elected president.
Seuree F, a reliable Peruvian businessman whe frequemtly makes
trips to Huaral and vieinity, stated that SATO was not kmewm among the
busimesmmem ef Huaral and that in all prebability he was some small farmer
in the neighberhood.
Souree C, a reliable Poruvian busimessman, effered the following
imformatiem regarding SAT0: "On his arrival in Peru abeut 33 years age,
SATO settled in Camma, Peru, where he rented some mall farme and later
west breke. He them meved to Sante Domings, about 60 miles frem Huaral,
Chameay Valley, Peru, where he remted 20 famegadas (abeut 32 aeres) where

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
he was exelusively dedieated to agrioulture until the land wes takem frem
him in l942. He knows a groat deal about the aultivation of eetten. He
remained in Huaral until January or February, 1945, when he moved te Láma
and he presently resides at Calle Sinahi Recem 1574, Urbandmedm Jemds Marfa,
LAmm, Peru. It is believed that this heuse is borrewed from amether pereem
and that he will move when he finds another house cleser te his werk. He
wms fermerly well-to-do but his economie situation is extremely medest at
the presemt time and he is working in a work camp operated by the Ministry
of Publie Health. It was stated that this job was obtained through ome Sr.
LEQUIA.
"SAT0 is married and has six childron, the eldest baing 18 and the
youmgest, 3 years old. He is very proud and it is maid that he is evem
somtemptuous of other Japanese. lie has never returned to Japan and at eme
time he attempted to beeome a naturalised I  ruvian. It is believed that he
lest a great deal of money in this attempt. He was never chi f of the Japanese
bt ms an assesiate of other Japanese farmers in this region." Souree G
added that in his opinion, this individual was not engaged in espiomage er
mbveradve activities.
SATO is described as follows:
Borm
Miyago, Japan, 7/27/85
Age
61 years
Heigh's
5°3"
Weight
130 1bs.
Hair
Black, almost bald
Eyes
Dark brown
Eyebrows
Thiak
Faoe
Oval
Peruvian Carnet
#26910
Remarks:
Uses glasses, has thick lips.
-2-

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.93)
1448J
FC-
Mederal Bureau of Inuestigation
United States Department of Justire
DC/A
Mashington 25, D. C.
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
ast
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
FILE NO.
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
11
Date:
May 22, 1945
Nwe
ElJtUMIC
To:
Kr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlatin
JUN 25 1945
Denartment of State
From:
John dgar Hoover, Director - Federal Bur
ENT OF
Subject:
TAKEO KIKKAWA
C:
JAPANESE - FERU
C
As of possible intercst to you, there is transmitted herewith a
1.
memorandum received from relialle confidential sources which contains infor-
mation concerning the above Japanese subject.
You will note that the subject, aged thirty-six, formerly was
iN
mployed at the railroad station at Miyagi-Ken, Japan, and that he came to
Feru in 1929 where he settled at Chiclayo. It appears that he took over the
leadership of the Japanese in thet area after the deportation of Usaburo
(
Maoki in 1943, but there is no indication that he is engaged in espionage
or subversive activities at the present time.
i.
1.
This infonmation has been made available to the American Embassy
小
at Lima, Peru.
Ci
Enclosure
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washin ton, D. C.
FORNEION ACTIVITY
Attention: Brigadier General C. ". Clarke
MAY 2 3 1945
Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, L. C.
894.200
β11.13
3
n,111
1945
1211.178

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.94)
April 28, 1945
he:
TAKEO KPKKANA, aKu
KE NGO KAWA
Lim, leru
Information was received from reliable Souree C that KIKKAWA
was a close associ te of UABUR MAoKJ, former head of the Jupanese
Society in Chiclayo, oru, and that when the latter ms deported from
Poru in 1943 KiK0 AwA took over the leadorshi f the Japanose for thi
area.
Source D, a reliuble police offiaial of Chiclayo, Peru, advised
that KI KAA ormerly resided in Miyagi-Ken, Japan, and that he arrived in
Cullao, Peru, in l929. He went to Chiclayo, Peru, where he perated a
barber shop from 1929 to 1939 at Calle Saenz Pana 233. For mome time thor
after he was an  loyee of KNGo GAwA in u all grocory store. GAWA
and KIkKA A had both worked in the Hailroad Station in Miyagi-Ken, Japan,
and had come to Poru together. Neither is married and at the present time
they are Just barely making a living rai ming chickens at Virgilio Dall'Orso
204, Chielayo, Peru. Fron 1939 to 1941, they lived with J0RaE KATsUYI
KIKKAwA of Calle Toatro, Chiclayo, who is a cousin of TAKEO KIKKAWA and who
was deported from Peru on January 10, 1943. In 1942 they lived at the
corner of Maravillas and 7 de Enero, Chiclayo, and in 1943 they lived at
Calle Alrrodo Laponint 613, Chiclayo, Paru.
Feliable Souroes F and F of Chialayo advsed that although
KIKkawA is seen frequently on the streets and in publie places in Chielayo,
there is no indication ho is engaged in aspionage or mubveraive activities.
TAKEO KIKKAWA is described as follow:
Nationality
Jupanese
Age
36 years (1945)
Hedight
5044
Weight
143 1bs.
Passport
099694
Carnet
46725
Education
Primary
Harital tatus
Single
Occupation
Chicken farmer

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.93)
Jan. 23, 1976- FB12
DGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
820m
Bederal Bureau of InesgatantB. AAIRS
United States Department of Justies
DTe
BY SPECIAL MEBENGER
3
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NUMBER 64-31038
C
Date:
June 23, 1945
JUL141945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
JEH rom:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Sub JOCT: PEDRO KICHINOSUKE YOSINMOTO - PERU
There is transmitted herewith as of possible interest a memorandum
which has been received from reliable, confidential sources and which contains
information concerning the above subject. You will note that this Japanese
individual is alleged to hold valuable properties in Lime and that he is reported
to be in contact with politically important persons in Peru. Investigation
has not revealed that this subject has been recently engaged in subversive
activities.
894.20223
This information has been made available to the American Embassy in
Lima, Peru.
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Navy Department, Washington, PO
FILE
Attention: Brigadier General
Carter W. Clarke
23y
Enclosure

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
May 24, 19145
H: PLDRO KICFINOSUKE YOSHIMOTO
Lima, ieru
Source C, a reliuble Individual who has many
contacts wi thin the Japanese colony of Lima, furniahed the
followIng !nfornat!on with regard to PEDRO KICHINOSUKE
YOSHIM)TO:
Subjoct, who 1s 58 years of age, 1 a Japanese na-
tlonal porn in the vepartment of nagosnima, Japan. According
to source C, ')S: I )ro 1s a relatively wealthy Japanese who
owns a lar e dairy farm as well as five separate small farms
In the Jesus waria Sectlon of Ima. Ihe dairy, according to
C, employs many peraons and has three delivery trucks as well
as a large stable of cows. Source C continued stating that
the Subject lives or. one of 1s far..s located at Huiracocha 1824
In Jesus maria. According to C the Subject enjoys a groat
ceal of Influence with the Peruvian Senator from Trujillo,
ur. GANOZA CHOPITEA, as well as with other politically important
persons in Peru. Source C pointed out as an example that when
police raiced Japanose establishments in the Jesus Maria area,
Yos !Is)To was a le to pay certain police officiala in order to
ease the burdens of is fellow Japanese. It was also said
that notwithstanding the fact that the Subject has bad milk
in his dairy, when he talks with the Chief of Investigations
he is able to avold fines. Source C added that the Prefoct
of Police of Jesus Maria also :Ives him permission to travel
to Trujillo where it 1s believed YoSHIMoTo has cortain holdings.
Source C, however, stated that to the best of his knowlodge
YJSi:INOTo was not engaged in activities of a subversive nature
In Peru at the present time, but keeps himself entirely occupied
in guarding his holdings from complete confiscation by the
Peruvian Police.
Source D, another reliable indlvidual who has con-
nections within the Japanese colony of Peru, confirmed the
fact that YoSl IMoTo is considered to be a wealthy Japanese who
holds various propertles and houses in the Jesus Maria Section
of Lima, these houses being rented to Japanese families.
According to D, Subject holds properties on Calle Husares do
Junin 651, Cali• Huiracocha 1556 - 1570, and Huiracocha 1800 -
1832. Source D stated that YösliImotó owns a Ford car, license
No. 59137. Source D was unable to roport any activities of a
subversive nature carried on by the Subject at the present time.
It is interesting to note that a public announce-
ment appeared in the Lima newspaper "El Comercio" on February 7,
-1 -

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
1945, bringing to the attention of the public that the
dairy of the Subject of instant case located on Jiron
Pachiteu 388 ad been selzed and would be sold at publio
auction under the aus ices of the Superintondoncia do
Economia. nccordin; to this announcenent, the assots listed
amounted to 3.520.35 soles (about 650 U.8.).
:t 1s to be  oted that Revision No. 7 of tho Pro-
claimed List of certaln locked nationals dated March 22, 1944.
1ncluded the name of PEDko YUS' IMOTO, Huiracoche 824, Pachiton
388, L1..a, Peru.
Source L, a Peruvian jovernment official, revealed
that no record of the Subjoct's name could  found within
the records of the Perivian )ficina de Extranjoria (Peruvian
Allen egistrutlon Bureau).

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.92)
AR HOOVER
Federal BurgayAdt"
FFICE
United States
Lamptice
Mashiugton 25l2 C1945
BeBx
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NO. 64-30916
Date:
June 26, 1945
fmw
To:
Mir. Frederick B. Lyon
JUL 1 4 1945
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
EIR
Ne
Subject:
Yukio Yoshioka
Peru
20223/6-2645
As of interest to you there is transmitted herevith a memorandum
2
summarizing information available in Peru concerning the above captioned
Japanese subject. This information has been received from reliable confi-
dential sources.
The subject has been affiliated with the Central Japanese Society
and in 19l1 was Treasurer of this organization. He is a merchant although
it is reported that since he has been included on the Proclaimed List his
business in Peru has been liquidated. As you will note, there is no infor
mation that this indivi lual at the pres nt time is engaged in subversive
activities.
This information has been made available to the United States
Embassy in Lima, Peru.
Enclosure
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier General Carter W. Clarke
AUG 221945
n1.1
RH
FILD
JUN 28 1945
Maehtial File
24
DLCLAHED
Ja1n 23, 1976 - FB1#2
By s, Date
12/11178

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
May 24, 1945
RE: YUKIO YOSHIOKA
Lima, Peru
Source C, a United States lovernment official re-
siding in Lima, stated that the subject, who in 1941 rented
1.. 3ox 1438, main rost Jffice Building, Lima, Poru, was
the Director of the Japanese Association of Commerce and In-
dustry of Poru. ihis source continued tating that YuSHIOkA
formerly was the presiuent of Y. T. YOStiIOKA and Company,
Calle Siete Jeringas 844, Lima, Peru. Ihe employees of this
firm were as follows:
TERUYOSHI SHIMIZU
IWATAHO JITSUYA
SATORU SANRINDO
YSUKAWA HAMADA
RYOYU KUWAE
Source D, an individual who has reliablo Japanese
connections in Lima, was able to furnish the following informa-
tion wi th regard to the subfect of instant case:
YUKIO YOS' IOKA, a Japanose national married to 
Japanese woman, was the Director General of the firm known as
Y. YOShIokA and Co., importers, with offices in the Calle Siote
Joringas #844. According to Source D, the firm has been 11-
quidated with YOSHIOkA still as the head of the company. Bo-
fore the war, according to this source, the company had business
directly with Japan and claimed assets amounting to one half a
mill1on Sole ($70,000 US). The older brother of YUKIo
YoSHIOkA, who was the first president of the firm, made a trip
to Japan in company with YUkIo's father and relinquished the
presidency of the company to the subject. After that the
subject's father and elder brother made purchases in Japan to
send to the firm in Peru. According to Source D, YUKIO YOSHIOkA
was a member of the board of Directors of the Society of Imports
and Exports, Commerce and Industry, a Japanese Society of Peru.
Ihis association was charged with making contacts wi th difforent
Peruvian firma and factories on behalf of factories in Japan.
The expenses of this society were paid directly from Japan and
it was said that it was sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce
of Japan. The directors of this society were chosen from the
most important Japanese importers in Lima. For example, --
-1-

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
S. KAWAMOTO and Company
YUKIO YOSHIOKA and Company
T. KUROTOBO and Company
H. LAYASHI and Company
RICARDO TAKAHASHI nd Company
SHIZUKA TAEI and Company
ISHII Hnos.
I. MORIMOTO and Company
YOSHITARO TSUCHIYA and Company
K. KUDO and Company
T. TANIGUCIII and Company
TIENDAS META S.A.
FABRICA NACIONAL DE LAMPAHAS L IHA
FABRICA LE S R HOS DE LA UNION DE ICHICAWA
à. KAWAY Hnos.
Source L continued stating there is no doubt YUkIo
YOShIOkA was a member of the ""en Persons Club," which was a
society of the most important Japanese importers in Lima formed
to crush all classes of competition opposed to them. This
club established relatlons with lar e factories in Japan and
with the best commercial firms.
According to Source D, YOS!!IOKA at the present time
owns an automob1le license No. 62071 and makes frequent trips
outside of Lima. However, D stated that he knew of no activi-
ties presently being carried out by the subject that could be
considered inimical to the best interests of the United Nations.
Source E, another reliable individual, who has many
Japanese contacts in Lima, stated that YUKIO YOSHIOKA had been
in Peru for more than 32 years having voyaged to this country
with his father and older brother. YosHIokA commonced his
activities in the commercial field as a salesman and little by
little worked himself into a position where he had a house of
his own which he turned over to the business of public baths
in Jiron Ayacucho 66l. Soon after this he rented another site
in the Jiron Ayacucho in Lima and started the business of mer-
chandising. A short time thereafter poth the father and elder
brother of the subject returned to Japan leaving the subjoct
in complete charge of the store. Thereupon YoShIokA, together
with his business partner, TERNYASHI SHIMIZU, continued 1n the
business finally moving to No. 844 in the Jiron Ayacucho with
both of their families. It was here that they began importing
on a grand scale and as late as 194l 1mported merchandise from
Germany, Japan, Csechoslovakia; mainly rubber goods, toys, pots
and pans, underclothes, Japanese slippers, and other inexpensive
articles. The business grew at a great rate until it was
liquidated by the Peruvian Government in 1942. Source E pointed
- 2 -

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
out that YUkIo YOS: IOkA held the following positiomin the
Japanese Central Society of Lima, Peru:
1937
reasurer
1939
Treasurer
1940
- Vice-iresident
1941
- .reasurer
Source  confirmed the report that the subject wa
one of the founders of the Japanese Society of Importers and
Exporters in Peru and also had been a member of various Japanese
committees within the Japanese colony in Lima. In his capacity
as a rich merchant, he came to the aid of many poverty strickon
Japanese In Lima.
Source E continued statin: that after his business
was dissolved in 1942 subject was able to obtain the protoction
of one GALVEZ, who 1s now the Frefect of the Department of Puno.
Through this deal he was able to save some of his personal
fortune. At the present time Y)S!IOkA lives together with hi
business partner S I..IzU with their wives, and it was believed
by Source E that YoS IJKA poses as SIMIZU so as to avoid perseou-
tion by the Peruvian Police. It was also stated by E that at
the present time subject is suffering from a disease of the
stomach and is entirely Inactive. The only activities carried
out by YoSllIOkA at the present time are occasional rides in hi
car or trips to the eacles around Lima to fish.
Source F, a Peruvian official, reported that the
records of the Oficina de Extranjeria, Peruvian Alien Rogis-
tration vureau, reflect that YUKIO Y)S IOKA is a Japanes
c1tizen w1th Carnet No. 16565, born 1n Japan on Novomber 28,
1898. According to F, subject professes the Buddhist reli-
ion and Hs occupation 1s listed as that of a merchant.
YOSHIOKA arrived in Peru from Kobe, Japan, in 1928,
bearing Japanese passport No. 74583 1ssued in Kobe. He 1s
married to NAOE YOSHIOKA and 1s stated to have one minor
daughter. His last residence is listed as Jiron Ayacucho 744.
The following description is set forth of Subject
YOSHIOKA:
Race
- Yellow
Color
- Yellow
Build
- hegular
-3-

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.95)
Height
5'2"
Face
- Uval
Forehead
- Regular
Eyes
- Brown
Nos●
- Stralght
outh
- Rogular
Chin
- Shaven
llair
- Black
Distinguishing
Features
- Uses eyeglasses.
-4-

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.90)
Mederal Bureau of Inuestigation
n
HX
United States Department of Justire
AC
Mashingtan 25, D. C.
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FY SPECIAL MESSENGER
FLNO.105-5864
94.20223/7-3
Date:
July 31, 1945
AUG
To:
"r. derick.on
SChief
1945
Diviston of reign Activity Correlation
Department ofrstate
Y
From:
John drar koover - irector, eueral ureau of nvestigation
Subject:
rostf uki Taaura
remF
()
3
F
Phere is transmi tted nerewith a memorandum concerning the above subject who is
now reported to lu workin in the Japune Section at the wedish Legation. It is repor
This information has been mude availatle to the american Embassy at Lima, Peru.
Confidenti
0
8.
cc - irector of aval Intelligence
assistant Shief of Staff
Navy epartnent
-, ar Department
G
Washington,
washington, D. .
20233
19
CS/D
unclosure
Anal
..ilitary Intelligen
Service
1h
2
1C.1
(1).=1
a

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.95)
June 26, 1945
ROI YOSH TYUKI TAMURA
SEC UF ITY MATTEH - J
YOSH IYUKI TAMURA, a Japanese newspaperman, became one cf the representative
of Japanese Colony interests in 1944. In 1938, he made a trip to Japam at
the request of the Japanese Government and returned to Peru as correspemdent
of Domei Press.
Reliable Informnt C, a Peruvian-born Japanese, has advised that the
Arehives of the Japanese Section of the Spanish Embassy have been moved
to the Swedish Legation where a separate section is being set up to handle
Japanese affairs. Souree C further advised that when it besame kmewm that
Sweden was likely to handle Japanese interests, TAMURA approached the Swedish
Legation on :he proposition of working in the Japanese Seetion. He now gees
to the Swedish Logation each day.
Reliable Souree D, a source within the Swedish Legation, has advised that
TAMURA and LUIS OKAMOTO, a Japanese translator, have been working in the
Japanem Section of the Swedish Legation for approxi ately three weeks.
SourceC has further advised that TAMURA frequently visits the former Japanese
Consulte on Jiron Nasea 598 which is closed and guarded. This building
formeily was under the protection o' the Spanish Embassy and has undoubtedly
passe under the proteetion of the wedish Legation as part of the Japanese
intonsts in Lim.
Aocoding to Source C and Source E, a source in the Division of Investiga-
tion of the Lime Poliee Department, TAMURA is not known to be engaged in
any ubversive activity at the present time. He confines his daily routine
to stending to his work in the Japanese Secton of the Swedish Legation.
21410112
B: syr
~111178
-1-

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.94)
OFFICE OI
JONNEDGAR HOOVER
AMERICAN HEPUBLIC AFFAIRS
DIRECTOR
AUG 13 1945
Federal Bureau of Inueltigation
United States Departmeni of Justice
Mashington 25,D.€
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
DC/K
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
64-50994
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Date:
August 7, 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
Washington, . C.
getFrom:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
894.20223/
Subjeot:
Japanese Instructor
Lima, Peru
心
Bunei Makada, a Japanese resident of Lima, Feru.
You will note that this individual is engaged in teaching the Japanese
language to young Peruvian-Japanese students, although it does not appear that he
is at present engaged in subversive activities. This information has been receive
from confidential reliable sources.
This informaticn has been made available to the merican Embassy in
Lime, Peru.
(7
Enclosure
CC
Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
CC
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
Confidential File
Military Intelligence Service
CS/MAJ
Jun. 23, 1976- F812
12/11178
AUG1
DCR - ARA Unit
FILED
Anal
VICTORY
BUY
.
M.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.92)
PERSOMAL AND GOSFIDESPIAL
64-30094
BY SPEOIAL MESSEIGR
Date.
August 7, 1945
Tos
Mr. Frederiek B. Lyen
Chiof
Divisiem of Foreign Activity Correlatiom
Department of state
Washingtem, D. C.
Frem:
Joha Mgar Heover - Direetor, Pederal Bureeu of Investigatiom
Subject: Japamese Imstrueter
Lime, Peru
As of possible interest, there is tranemitted a memeramdm cemeerming
Bunei Makada, a Japancse resident of Lime, Peru.
You will mote that this individual is engaged in teeching the Japasese
language to young Peruvias-Japanese students, although it dees net appear that he
is at present engaged in subversive activities. This infermatiem has been reeeived
frem cemfidential reliable sourees.
This informatiom has been made available te the Ameriean mabesey in
Lime, Peru.
Baelecure
Direeter of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washingten, D. C.
 Assiatant Chief of Staff, 0-2
War Department, Washingten, D. C.
Attentien: Reeding Pamel
Military Intelligenee serviee

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
July 6, 1945
Re: BUNEI NAKADA, aka Buno1 Nakada
LIMA, PERU
It is recalled that NAKADA, a former secretary of the CENTRAL JAPANBSE
Soc IETY, and active in the Japanese colony of Lima, was alleged to be
conducting Japanese schools in Limm.
Souree "", a Peruvian investigator with many contacts in the Japamese
colemy of Lima, confirmed the fact that NaxaDa is presently engaged in
teaching Japanese reading and writing to selected ehildren of Japanese
mationals residing in Lima.
NAkaDA was desoribed as an intelligent and astute individual. He knows
that the teaching of Japanese is prohibited and before he will undertake
to teach a pupil, the pupil must meet the following requiremomts:
1. He must be the son of Japanese parents.
2. He must be recommended by a third person.
3. He must have a real desire to learn Japanese.
4. The family must have good antecedents.
5. The pupil must be a person of confidonee.
6. The pupil must have relatives in Japan.
Ascording to the source, NAkADA carries on his teaching by going to the
homes of his pupils. He does not have a school of his owm. He leaves
his residence located over a bakery in Calle Huanuea, 265-269, Lim, every
morning at 7-30 AM and is gone until eight in the evoning. He follows this
routine every day except Sundays and holidays.
The souree coneluded stating that no indication had been found refleeting
that NAkADA was using his language classes to carry out activities of a
subversive nature.
-1-

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Jederal Bureau of Hnus
wWc
AMI MILAN HEPULIL APPAIRD
Mashington, DJG.
AUG21945
PEPSONAL AND CONFILENTIAL
IN REPLY, PLEASE RIFER TO
BY SPECTAL MESSENGER
394.20223/8
FILE NUMBER
Date:
Aurust 18, 1945
AUG 2 0 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lon
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
PARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State
M
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: Fumizo Iki, also known as Fumizo Ito
Peru
As of interest to you, there is transmitted a memorandum concerning the abo
subject received from reliable confidential sources. You will note that this subject
has been reported as former president of the Japanese Aesociation of the Chancay Vslle
lie is approximately 60 years old and has resided in reru for more than 30 years, and
will note it is not indicated that he is engaged in subversive activities.
C
PAu.
This information nas been made availalle to the American Embassy in Lin
Enclosure
894.2
cc - Director of Naval Intellience
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
Navy Iepartment, Nashington, D. C.
War Department, Washington, D. C.
le
FORVICTORY
Attention: Reading Panel
02
BUY
Military Intelligence
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS
1312
-184
e
2111/18

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
Jume 30, 1945
Re: FUMIZO DKI, aka Fumiso Ito
LIMA, PERU
Informtion was received from reliable source C to the effeet that subjeet
was a former President of the Japanese Association of the Chaneay Valley.
No record of this individual could be looated in the records of the Peruviam
Extrajería.
Source D, a reliable Peruvian Investigator offered the following inform-
tion regarding the above captioned individual:
He has resided in Peru for more than thirty years and is mrried to a
Peruvian of the Japanese race who was born in Trujillo. He has sis shildren,
the eldest being seventeen years old. In 1914, he was working as an epleyee
of one FORTUNATO GANOZA (Y CHOPITEA) on the Haoienda Laredo near TruJille,
Peru. He later moved to the Santa Valley where he engaged in agrieulture
unsuecessfully. He then went to Huaeho, Peru, for a short time where he
went bankrupt. He then moved to the Chaneay Valley where he grew eettom
on ronted land of the Hacienda Esquivel. He remmined here uatil his land
was taken from him soon after United States and Japan went to war after
which he settled in Lim. Although unemployed and poor, he reeently went
to Trujillo to visit his wife's family and to Cañete to see a son who was
sick. He was a member of the Japanese Society of the Chaneay Valley but he
was never head of the Japanese in this region. At one time he was fairly
well off but at present he is in reduced economic ciroumstanees. His wife
is a good friend of CARLOs LARCO (HERRERA) and it is said that he has
borrowed money from him. There is no indication that this indiviml has
ever been engaged in any espionage or subversive activities.
This individual is desoribed as follows:
Nationality
Japanese
Age
About 60 years
Height
About 5' 6"
Weight
About 145 1bs
Hair
Greying, orow out
Nose
Regular
Lips
Thin
Face
oval
Build
Regular
Marital Status
Married
Present Address
Callojdm #1, Calle Saens Peßa 638, Lima.
Remarks
Lacks some teeth, likes Dmsaic pottery

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lima, Peru, May 8, 1946
CONPIAL
DECLASSIFIED
DC/R
F0 11652, Sec, 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
No. 1444
7/3/l4-20077
Asel NARs. Date 4.20:77
Subject:
Rumors ih Japanese Colony in Peru
0
JCH
that Japan Has Hot Lost the War
5
The Honorabfe
3 1946 Lile
24
gshington.
RECORO
Sir
I have the honor to quote below the contents of a
memorandum from the Legal Attaché stating that rumors
are circulating throughout the Japanese colony in Peru
894.20223/5-846
that Japan has not actually lost the war and that General
MacArthur and his forces who survived the "attempted
landing" are prisoners:
"Information has come to the attention of
this office through a reliable Japanese informant
to the effect that numerous rumors are circulating
in the Japanese colony in Lima that Japan has not
actually lost the war and that, in fact, MacArthur
DIVISION OF FORIGA
is a prisoner, together vith such members of his
Army as survived the 'attemoted landing'.
21946
"The source advised that these rumors have re-
OF STATE
sulted from the receipt of various letters by Jap-
anese residing in Peru from relatives and friends
in Japan. This mail is said to bear postmarks from
various coast cities of the United States. Accord-
ing to the explanation given in one of the letters
such mail is given to crew members of American
freighters prior to their departure from Japanese
ports. The crew members in turn mail the letters
upon arrival in the United States.
"Efforts have been made to secure the letters
CS/A
or envelopes for examination. However, such efforts
have met thus far with negative results due to the
fact that the informant has been ostracized to some
degree by the Japanese colony due to the fact that
it has become known that he has furnished informa-
tion to the Peruvian Police."
Any additional information which may be obtained con-
cerning this matter, including the originals or copies of
any letters spreading these stories, will be immediately
forwarded to the Department.
FILED
Respectfully
 14 1946
Walter J. Donnelly,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
711
DCR - ARA Unit
Anal B.MBi
BCConnelly/ps
To the Dept. in original and hectograph
A

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
IRECTOR
Jedéral Bureau of Inuestigation
United States Department of JustiroEClAssIfIED
n
E O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (
Mashington,D.C.
4B/H.4-20.22.
By.1s. Date -20=77
PERSONAL AND GONFIDENTIAL
et
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
FILE NUMBER
01946
Reb
Con
Date:
July 9, 1946
AITAINS
DC/R
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
1946
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
894.20223/7-946
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: AIKOKU DOSHI KAY
Peru
Information has been received that a secret Japanese organization
captioned as above has been formed within the Japanese colony in Lima,
by a former Japanese Army officer who arrived in that city appmimately
three weeks ago from Brazil, where he acted as an organizer for Shindo
Domei. This inaivi ual reportedly is clanuestinely contacting small groups
of Japanese whom he advises that the war is not over and that the Japanese
are still fighting. It is r-ported that he has collected approximately
20,O00 Peruvian soles for the crganization. Japanese who have resisted
joining the organization are reported as fearful of reprisals and
indicate that the organization is evidently comprised of fanatics and for
terroristic purposes. A translation of the name of the society is said
to be Society of Patriots of Our Country of Peru.
CS/V
cc: Chief of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
894.
cc: Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
AUG 2 8 1946
War Department, Washington, D. C.
FILED
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Service

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.90)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lime, Peru, July 18, 1946
DECLASSIFIED
E 0 11E52, Se 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
SLORET
710/lt. 4-20-27
1.0. 112
jje
4-20:77
Subject:
New Jupurese Secret Society Formed in
Lina to leretuste Tdeals of Japanese
Har Hongers
011
el- Sabbed
The onoreble
The Secretery of state,
 me anduam-fc
815746
teshinton.
Sir:
894.20223/7-1846
1 hove t  honer t refer to the mbassy's despatch
no. 144. o1 , 1 4 reportin the existence in Lima
among the : ese Jolony of rumors that Japan had not
lost te war, und to enelose » co!y or a report from the
Legal Attache dated uly il which indiutes that a society
1.1
with thet tno it. view its cet ially been established in
Lime. The iounder is suid to be a Jepanese who clandes-
tinely entereu Fer fro irazil. Fe holds frequent
meetings attended e.  e by some thirty dirferent
Jupunese ut wnich he expounds the views of the Japanese
war lords.  is rel orte to have coll ected from S/20, 000
to S/40,coc (vetween 3,ece and ,000) llecedly for use
of destitute Jupanese. he Swedish Legation, which is in
cherge of assistin indi ent Jaranese, has steted that the
members of this utuel i Jociety heve refused to call at
the Legation to discuss tneir or enizetion and its pur-
poses.
 sunnary r the report roliows:
AIKOKU DOSHI K.I (Societ oF Patriots of Japan
in Peru) reported to have been established
December 7, 1945. embers allecedly refused
CS/A
to admit dereat of Japen und are attempting to
keep alive the principles of the wer-time
Jepanese regime. President of Society reported
SEP 13 1946
FILD
to be KENICHIRO SHTABUKURO. o activity re-
yut
ported until May 20, 1946, when four of the
twelve founder members filed e petition with
the Peruvien Police requesting permission to
establish a "utual Aid Society" to assist
destitute Japanese. Japanese source reports
this was to have been used as a cover for sub-
ject organization. Petition was denied. Re-
ports received that two Japanese from Brazil
arrived in Lima clandestinely approximately
S
EED
May 15, 1946, via an overland route without
i identification or travel documents. One of the
3
T
OEPARTE
ii
latter,
a
DOA
D..

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
.#2 of Despatoh No. 112 dated
-y 18, 1946 from American
Embassy, Lima, Peru
- 2 -
latter, who has used the names ABE and MATSUSHIMA,
reported to be speaking at secret meetings of
subject organization, denying that Japan has lost
the war and urging them to continue fighting. He
has allegedly claimed to be an ex-army officer who
assisted in organizine the "SHINDO REMAEI", a
terroristic secret organization in Brazil, and who
is now traveling to visit other Japanese colonies
to encourage similar organizations. Many Japanese
in Lima who are non-members are reported to be
concerned over nossibility of terrorism and re-
prisals.
Respectfully yours,
Pre loce Leae fe,
Prentice Cooper
41、1
Enclosure:
Report from
Legal Attaché
820.02
BCConnelly/ps
To the Department in
orginal and hectograph.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
Enctosure to Despatch No. 112 dated
July 18, 1946 from American Embassy,
Lima, Peru
July 11, 1946
RE: AIKOKU DOSHI KAI, also known as
AIKOKU DISHI KAY
Source C, a Japanese national, advised that he had
recently secured informetion to the effect that on December
7, 1945, twelve Japanese in Lima had founded the "AIkOKU
DoSHI KAI." A translation of the latter is said to read
"Society of Patriots of Our Country (Japan) in Peru."
According to this source, the organization was founded
for the purpose of keeping alive the ideals and principles
of the wartime Japanese regime. In line with this, they
allegedly refused to admit the defeat of Japan and are
"Continuing the fight." As of the present time the source
was unaware of any activity on their part with the exception
of the attempt to form a Mutual Aid Society which will be
discussed hereafter.
Source C further stated that a picture of the twelve
founder members had come into his possession. A caption
written in Japanese characters across the top of the picture
is translated es follows: "AIKOKU DISHI KAI founded December
7, 1945. This photograph has been taken to commemorate the
founding by the original members." Eleven of the Jepanese
appearing in the photograph have been identified as:
SAKUTA
KENICHIRO SHIMABUKURO, President
KOGEN IZENA
YUKI (YOSHICAME) TOYAMA
KAZUO KASANO
YAGUI
SEIICHI ZAKIMI
HOAN (JUAN) ARAKAKI
KEIBO (KALE) ARAKAKI
RYOTEI NAKAMA
SAKUTA
The twelfth founder member has not as yet been identified.
The leading element in the organization appears to be
SHIMABUKURO who, as above indicated, is reported to be the
President. Source C advises that he is a fanatic Japanese
who would be a "naturel leader" of such an organization. He
maintains his residence and his business, & small cafe, at
Avenida José Leal No. ll5. The meetings of the organization
have been held in large part at this address.
On May 20, 1946, a petition was presented to the Peruvian
Police by KOGEN IZENA, Carnet No. 22041, Avenida Arenales 2016;
YUKI (YOSHICAME) TOYAMA, Carnet No. 18282, Calle Urubamba 516,
(second floor, Apartment No. 1); JUAN ARAKAKI, Carnet No. 15502,
Calle Sanders 493; and KEIBO (KAME) ARAKAKI, Carnet No. 15003,
Avenida José Leal 787, requesting permission for the formation
of a "Mutual Aid Society" to care for destitute Japanese. This
petition was denied by the Police. It will be noted that the
four Japanese who presented the petition all figure as founder
members of the AIKOKU DISHI KAI. At the time that the petition
was presented, however, the Police were unaware of the existence
of the latter organization and attached no particular importance
to the petition.
It should also be noted that in connection with the above
petition

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2 to Enclosure to Deppatch
No. 112 dated July 18, 1946 from
American Embassy, Lima, Peru
-2
petition the Swedish Legation has been administering Japanese
funds in caring for destitute Japanese families as part of
its duties since it assumed the representation of the Japanese
interests from the Spanish Embassy during the war. It has
been ascerteined that no effort was made on the part of the
petitioners to contact, the Swedish Legation regarding the
proposed "Mutual Aid Society." In addition, when the Swedish
Legation attempted to contact the petitioners to inquire
concerning the matter the latter refused to come to the
Legetion to discuss it. This was considered to be somewhat
unusual inasmuch as all previous questions concerning desti-
tute Japenese had been presented by the colony to the Swedish
Legation.
Source C stated that the purpose for the above-mentioned
petition was to secure a legelly constituted "front" for the
activities of the AIKOKU DOSHI KAI. He further indicated that
it has been rumored that from S/20,000 to S/40,000 ($3,000
to 6,Ooo) have been collected from the Japanese colony for
the treasury of the AIKOKU DOSHI KAI.
In connection with the present activities of the AIkokU
DOSHI KAI, Source C stated that two members of the SHINDQ
REMMEI, a secret Japanese organization in Brazil, had arrived
in Lime about the middle of May. The trip was made clandes-
tinely without travel or identification documents. They are
said to have mede the trip overland from Sao Paulo, Brazil,
via Argentine and Chile. Source C also stated that some re-
ports indicate that they arrived by way of Iquitos, Peru. As
yet he hes beeln unable to verify the actual route followed by
the two Japanese. The purpose of their visit is said to be
the organization of a group here along the same line as that
followed in Brazil. One of the Brazilian Japanese is reported
to be meeting with members of the AIKOKU DOSHI KAI at frequent
intervals to effect this. He is said to carry a letter from
a Japanese in San Francisco which describes the total de-
struction of the latter city by Japanese military forces.
The authenticity of this letter apparently is not doubted by
members of the local organization. His approach in encouraging
the Japanese to continue to fight is accompanied by threats
that in the event they fail to cooperate, their names will
be placed on a "bleck list" which will be given to the Japanese
Diplomatic Mission when the latter returns to Peru. He has
also stated that the organization has its own methods of deal-
ing with those who betray the orgenization.
Source C indicated thet there is considerable resistance
in the local Japanese Colony against the formation of such a
Society here. At the same time, many of the intelligent
Japanese are seriously concerned inasmuch as they fear the
use of terrorism and reprisals by the organization against
non-members of the Japanese Colony.
Source D, a Japanese national who had been prominent in
Lima business circles for many years, confirmed the fore-
going information regarding the existence of the AIKOKU DOSHI
KAI and the recent arrival of the two Japanese from Brazil.
He stated that meetings have taken place since their arrival
at the small restaurant run by one KASAGI in Calle 2Oth of
September, at the Restaurent ISHIMIYA whIch is owned by MASAYOSI
SATO on

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
Fage #3 to Enclosure to Despatch
No. 112 dated July 18, 1946 from
American Embassy, Lima, Peru
-3-
SATO on Calle Zamudio, at the photograph shop of one SHIRASAKA
on Calle Siete Jeringas, at a small restaurant on Calle Oyos,
and at Calle Restauración No. 20l. He advised that approximately
30 Japanese attended each meeting and that the conversation was
entirely in Japanese. The principal speaker in each case has
been one of the Japanese fron Brazil who is referred to by the
names ABE and MATSUSHIMA. During a conversation with the latter,
Source D allegedly questioned him regarding his true name. The
latter indicated at that time that his real name was ABE; however,
the source tends to doubt this and is convinced that both names
are aliases.
Source D stated that the President of the AIKOKU DOSHI KAI
is KENICHIRO SHIMABUKURO and the Vice President is one KENTARO
KOBAYASHI. The latter has allegedly indicated to the source
that the organization has collected in the neighborhood of
S/20,000 to carry on its work.
In reporting the procedure at the meetings Source D stated
that the progrem followed was usually the same in each case.
He pointed out that although some of the persons such as the
President and Vice President attended each meeting, the majority
of the Japanese attending were different in each case. ABE
generally begins by recounting the difficulties which he and
his companion experienced during their trip from Brazil. He
then launches into a discussion regarding the importance of
bringing the truth to the Jepanese in Peru concerning the war.
He thereupon reviews the history of the war, emphasizing that
all reports that Japan has lost the war are false and that any-
one who accepts such a belief should be punished as a traitor
(i.e.executed). As above mentioned, he then circulates the
letter regarding the destruction of San Francisco and enlarges
upon it for the benefit of the audience. He is said to be an
accomplished speaker along rabble-rousing lines. The source
advised that he speaks no Spanish and very little Portuguese.
Source D went on to say that no one in the colony has as
yet seen the second Japanese. This procedure has been explained
by ABE as being necessary for security reasons. He has told him
audiences that his companion is remaining unknown as long as he,
ABE, remains in Lime in order to insure the success of the work.
He points out in this connection that in the event of his arrest
the unknown companion will be able to continue with the organiza-
tion. The source is not convinced that there actually is a
second Japanese and feels that perhaps this device is being used
by ABE to discourage the giving out of information regarding his
activities.
Source D has reported further that on Friday, June 28,
there was a meeting of the leading elements of the AIkOkU DoSHI
KAI at the house of SHIMABUKURO, José Leal No. 1l5. This meeting
was presided over by ABE and its purpose was to point out to the
leaders that ABE was not satisfied with their leadership. He
suggested that it might be found necessary to replace them with
"men of action." He explained that in Brazil he knew of a
community of some 85,000 Japanese in which more than 50% were
well organized. He also stated that the secret society SHINDO
REMMEI continued to grow in Brazil and had established many
branches

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
age #4 to Enclosu'e to Despatch
No. 112 dated July 187 1946 from
American Embassy, Lima, Peru
-4-
branches in different parts of that country.
In addition to his activities with the SHINDo REMMEI, ABE
later advised Source D that he was also involved in the activities
of an organization which he referred to as "KETSU MEI DAN."
Source D gathered thet this was also a secret society which exists
in Brazil but with a smeller membership than that of the SHINDo
REMMEI.
Source E, a reliable Peruvian police officer, stated that
information hed come to his attention indicating that one
SAULO CACHAY (ROJAS) was involved with the Japanese who were
attempting to organize the utual Aid Society above described.
It appeers that CiCHAY hes told the Japenese that for a certain
remuneration he would use his influence to secure the approval
of the Peruvian Government for the organization of the Society.
As a matter of fact, CACHAY enjoys an extremely poor reputation
in Lima and Source E is extremely doubtful that his collaboration
will be of any assistance to the Japanese. CaCHAY is director
of "El Triunfo," a smell monthly paper with a very small cir-
culation. He leads a hand-to-mouth existence and consistently
lacks the necessary funds for the development of his paper which
is poorly regarded in local newspaper circles.
A description of ABE, as furnished by Source D, is as fol-
lows:
Name
ABE (possibly an alias)
Alias
MATSUSHIMA
Nationality
Jepanese
Race
Yellow
Age
Approximately 50
Height
57"
Weight
145 pounds
Build
Slender
Eyes
Brown, Slanted
Hair
Black
Glasses
Uses glasses to read
Mus tache
Small, Black
Languages
Jepanese and a little Portuguese
Profession
Fornerly officer in Japanese Army
Residence
From time to time is known to
stay in one of the rooms con-
nected with the Japanese
bakeries situated at 773 Jiron
Cuzco.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.97)
DC/R ROUTING SLIP
FROM
NC
ACTION:
CCPIPS TC

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.92)
DERECTOR
Jederal Bureau of Inué
OFFICE OF
n
United States Department,mtRdmrtteoallc AflAiRG
Mashington,194
File
PESQIAL AND 
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
BY SPILIAL LESSENGER
10-23-46
JA
1946
FILE NUMBER
Date:
Aurust 1, 1946
To:
Ir. Jack Neal
De/R
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
rom:
John  dgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
AIKOK DSHI KAI, alsO knoWm ns AIKOK" DOSHI KAY
Peru
894.20223/8-14€
eference is made to my letter dated July 9, 1946, advising that a
sccret Japanese or anization has recently been formed within the Japanese
colony in Lima, Feru.
Enclosed herewith is a memorandim prepared by a confidential and
reliable source relatin to the or anization, purposes, and aims of this
"roup.
The information containe in the enclosed memorandun has been made
availablc to ihe Americun mbassies in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and Lima, Peru.
Enclosure
DEC :SSIFIED
cc
hief of Naval Intelligence
10 11652 Sec
3)or (E)
CS/HH
73/H4.20.27
Navy Department
42077
Washin~ton, D. C.
CC
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
FILED
War Department
894.20223
1946
Hashington, D. C.
Attenton: eading Panel
Liitary Intelligence Service
C
.11
19 A 2
RERDS
Le
8
46

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
PERSONAL AND CONPIDENTIAL
BY SPECLAL MESSENGER
Date:
August 1, 1946
To:
Mr. Jaok Neal
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigatien
Subjeots
AIKOKU DOBHI KAI, also knOWn as AIKOKU DOSHI KAY
Peru
Referonce is made to my letter dated July 9, 1946, advising that a
seoret Japanese organisation has recently been formed within the Japamese
colony in Lima, Peru.
Enclosed herewith is a memorandum prepared by a cenfidential and
reliable source relating to the organization, purposes, and aims of this
group.
The information contained in the enclosed memorandum has been made
available to the American Embassies in Rio de Janeiro, Brasil and Limm, Peru.
Enclosure
oo
Chiof of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
00
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Service

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.80)
ju-y 11, 1010
1100n1
-y: 0;gi8:
I ( cictf triot or Jepan in uru)
re, orted to i. ve beer. estb. isned Jece.ber 7, l94s.
melsero ulle culy refused to ud it defeat of Jupen and
ure attenptin to keep tiive the princl; les or the wer-
tie Ju, al.ese .e, i t..resident or. ouitt, re, orted to
eotiviorted until
 z,,  1 or  tweive found  mbor
rll.d eetition wit.  . cruviel ice re ueatinr
eri . t utul iu oclcty to
it ilut u . Jnese suurce reports
i vee r ror aubuot orani
zalion.titi.  el i.e, orts jeceived thet two
Jopunese iro. jz. c. iveu i. i claiuestiely p
roai.tly. ,, vi  verlu route itnout
luentiricoliun os trvl uucu.e. is. J.e of the Lotter,
ho usd I,rortd to
ue s; eaninr at Bcc.,t mecti.. s os suoject orgonizotion,
denyin tnct J ur.  lost tt ar and ur ing thom
to o t.ue ii tir.. he us eile edly claimed to o
an exr y oir  usist. d in or anizine the
" 1,  terrori  scciet orge ization in
rezil, cnu o  no. i velin to vislt other Jepo
nese colons t c. e si.il or ni.ations. ny
Jupanese in l. wo cre ol.-me sers ure re orted to be
cuncerrcu r i ii  te. ori nd roprisels.
source , u J, cncse lti, vised lhct  uad
recontiy secured in, srt:on. vo t.e efltct t on December 7,
ab, twelve Ja unese in. Lle m rou ded the "in t hI
nnI." . translilior of tt la ter is saiu lo reud "oooisty
of rutriotn of Jur couniry (Ju on) ir . cru."
ocordin to thin source, he or, unlzelion a founded
for the purpose of ce, uiive e i euls nu rinoiples of
the artie Jopenese rer ime. I iine ith this, they allegedly
refused lo ud.lt tn defeat o Jopan ond are "continuing the
fight." na or the present lime the sourue wes unaware of any
bolivity on thelr pert wiln tht exception or the ettempt to form
a sutual lu society whict. will se diseussed hereefter.
-1-

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.91)
Souree C rurtner stuted tuat e pioture or the swelve
founder members had come into his possession. A caption
written in Jspanese cherecters across the top of the pisture
is translated as follows: "AIKOKU DOBlI ..AI founded Deeember
7, l9ss. This photograph nas been taken to commamorete the
founding by the original members." Eleven of the Japanese
appearing in the photogreph have b en identiried as:
SA UA
.M.CHIRO SHIMABUKURO, Preidont
KOGEN T
YUAI (YOSHICAA) TOYAMA
KAZUU ASANO
YAGUI
SEIICuI ZAKI.I
 () 
 () I
RYOTEI NARA.
CAKUA
The twelftn rounder member nus not as yet been
identiried.
The leudine eienment in the organization eppears to
be lilknbuUno who, s above indicated, is reported to be the
resident. Source c advises tiet lhe is e fenatic Japanose
who wouid be a "netural leader" of suoh an organizetion. He
caintains nia resiucnce ad his business, e amell cafe, et
Avenlue José Leal Ne. llo. Lhe eetin s or the organization
have been neld in lar e  art ut tnis sduress.
on ay z, L o, a etition s esented to the
Peruvian 1olice by ho Ln, carnet No. 22041, venide
Arenales 2010; YUnI (1...t..) T0Y.., Curnet No. 18282,
Calle Urubambu 5lo, (scoond fioor, Apurt. .ent No. 1); JUAN AhAkAkI,
Carnet No. 1550s, Calle Sanders 493; and IB0 (Am) ARAAkI,
Carnet No. 15o03, venide José Leal 787, requesting permission
for the formetion of a "mutual Aid society" to care for desti-
tute Jepanese. Ihis petition was denied by the Police. It
will be noted that the four Japanese who presented the petition
all figure as founder members or the AIkokU DosHI XAI. At the
time that the petition was presented, however, the Police were
unsware of the existenoe of the latter organizetion and atteehed
no partioular importance to the petition.
It ahould also be noted t et in conneotion with the
above petitiom the Swedish Legation has been administering
Japanese funds in caring for destitute Jepanese families as
part of its dutiem since it essumed the representation of the
Japanese interests Irom the Spanish Embassy during the war.
It has been eseerteined that no effort wes made on the part
of the petitioners to contact the Swedish Legation regarding
-2 -

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.93)
the proposed "Mutual Aid Society." In addition, when the
Swedish Logation attempted to contact the petitioners to
inquire conceruing the metter the latter refused to come to
the Legation to disouss it. This was considered to be some-
whet unusuel inasmuch us all previous questions coneerning
destitute Japanese had been presented by the colony to the
Swedish Legation.
source C steted thet the purpose for the above-
wentioned petition wos to secure " legally constituted "front"
ror the ectivitles or the hIKOkt DosI  AI. He further
indiceted that it has Deen rumored t..at from 8/z0,0o0 to
S/40, (, to , ) ve ben collet fr th J
nese colony for tne treasury or tne . IkokU DosllI KAI.
I. conneotion viln trs present votivilies or the
ainunt susllI hI, Source t stuted thut two members or the
Shs II, a secret Japnese orgnization in Breil, had
arrived in Lime moout the middle or May. The trip was mode
olandestinely without travel or identification doeuments. They
are said to heve made the trip overland from Sao Paulo, Bresil,
vie Argentine and chile. source C also stated that some re-
ports Indioate thet they arrived by way of Iquitos, Peru. As
yet he hus been wnable to veriry the actual route followed by
the two Japanese. the  ur, ose or saeir visit is seid to be the
organizetion of  roup ere uion the sane line as that fol-
Lowed in razir. une of cne ruzilian Ja unese is reported to
be meetine witn meubers oi tue ihu oiml I ut frequent
intervale to erfcut wis. He is suiu to carry a letter from e
Japanese in sen Francisco whicn describes the totel destruetion
of the Lutter city oy Jupanese military Torces. The authentieity
of tnls letter upparently is not doubted oy members of the
Locel organizetion. His spprosch in encouraging the Japanese
to continue to right is accompanied by threets that in the
event they fail to cooperate, their names will be plaeed om 
"black list" whiok will be  iven to the Japenese Diplomatie
Mission when the latter returns to rcru. He has also stated
that whe organization has its own methods of desling with those
who betray the organizotion.
Source C indicated that there is considerable re-
sistence in the local Japanese Colony against the formetion of
such e Society here. At the same time, many of the intelligent
Japanese are seriously concerned inasmuch ss they fear the use
of terroriam and reprisals by the organization egsinst nom-
members of the Japanese Colony.
一 3 -

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.94)
Source D, s Jepanese nationel who had been prominent
in Lims business circles for many years, confirmed the fore-
going informwtion regardin the existenoe of the AIkokU DOsHI
KAI and the recent errival of the two Japanese from Brezil.
He stated that meetings have taken lece since their arrival
at the mmell restaurant run by one K.saGI in Calle zoth of
Se tember, at the kestaurent Isil IY. whion is owned by MAsaYosI
S.To on Calle ∠amudio, ut t..e photogreph shop of one SHIrasAkA
on calle Siete Jeringas, ot a amell restaurent on Calle Oyos,
and at calle estaurucion Ao. z0l. lie advised tuet approximately
30 Japanese attended each me ting and tnt the conversation was
entirely in Jepanese. The principel speaker in esch cese hes
been one of the Japanese from Brazil who is referred to by the
names  und  UsHi. Juring a conversetion with the Latter,
Source D ali gedly uestioned him regardin his true name. The
letter indicuted at thut time tot his eal name wes ABe; however.
the source tends to doubt this und is convinced that both names
are aliases.
Source D steted thot the iresident of the AIkokU
Dos.I I is K IcIo Un ud he Vice Preident is
oneTnno holaY Sil. The letter hes allegedly indicated to
the source that he organication nes colleoted in the moighber
hood of s/zo, Ooo to cairy on its work.
In reportin the procedue ut the meetings Souree D
sleled that the program ro lowed wes ususliy the same in eeoh
case. e pointed out tet ultnouh some of the persons such
as the rresident and Vice :resident attended each meeting, the
njority or the Japanese attendin were different in euch ease.
B generelly begins by recounting the diffioulties whioh he and
his companion experienced durin their trip from Brazil. He
then launohes into e discussion regarding the importanee of
bringing the truth to the Japenese in eru concerning the wer.
He thereupon reviews the history of the war, emphasizing that
all reports thet Japan has lost the wer are false and thet any-
one who accepte such a belier should be punished as a traiter
(1.e. exeouted). As above mentioned, he then cireulates the
letter regerding the destruction of San Franeiseo and enlerges
upon it for the benefit of the audience. He is said to be an
accomplished speeker elon rabbie-rousing lines. The souree
advised thst he speaks no Spanish and very little Fortuguese.
Source D went on to say lnat no one in the colony has
as yet seen the sesond Japenese. This procedure has been ex-
plained by Bt as being necessary for security reasons. He hes
told his audiences tist his companion is remaining unknown as
long as he, i, remeins in Lima in order to insure tne success

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.93)
of the work. He points out in this sonneotion that in the
event of his arrest the unknown compenion will be able to
sontinue with the organizstion. The souree is not convinsed
that there aotually is a second Japanese and feels that per-
heps this device is bein used by ABE to discourage the giving
out of informetion regerding his activities.
Source D nus reported further thet on Friday, June
2s, there was a meeting or the leading elements of the AIkoky
DOsllI kAI at the house of idUkUho, Jos6 Leal No. 11s. This
meetins was presided over by  BE and its purpose was to point
out to the leaders that r wes not satisfied with their leader
ship. He suggested teet it mi ht be found necessary to repleee
them with "men or sotion." He ex lained that in Brasil he knew
of a community or some 65, Jo0 Japanese in which more then sos
were well organized. He also stated thet the seeret mesiety
SilfhDo REkakI continued to grow in Brazil and had established meny
brenohes in different perts or that country.
In ddition to nis activitles witn the SHInDo RmnkI,
 later advised Source D tnat he was elso involved in the
aotivities of un organization whicn he referred to es "xetsu MEI
An." sourge D gathered that t..is was aiso a seoret soeiet
waion exists in rezil out witn a Smeller membership than that
of the Do .
Source E,  rerieule . eruvian police officer, stated
thet information ind come to nis attention indicating that one
o CntY (hu) was involved witn the Japanese who were
ettempling to orgenize the utuel ia  cuiety above desoribed.
It appeers that CathaY pas toid the Japanese that ror e certain
remunerution he would use nis influence to secure the approval
of the reruvian Government for tue organization of the Seeiety.
As e matter of fact, c.ChnY enjoys sn extremely poor reputatiom
in Lima and Source E is extremely doubtful that his collaboretiem
will be of any assistance to the Japanese. CAChAY is direeter
of "kl Triunfo," a small mont ly paper with e very mmell oir-
culetion. He leads a hand-to-mouth existence end eonsistently
Lacks the necessery funas for the development of his paper
whion is pourly regerded in local newspaper cireles.
A deseription of AL, os rurnished by S uree D, is
as follow:
- 5 -

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.91)
Name
 (possibly an alies)
Alias
USHLA
Nationality
Japanese
0
Yellow
Age
Approximately 50
Heigut
57
weight
145 pounds
Build
Slender
Eyes
Brow.., Slanted
heir
slook
Glasses
Üses glosges to read
ust.cne
meli, Black
languages
Jepenese und a little Porluguese
rofession
Formerly ofricer in Japanese Army
residence
From time to time is known to
stuy in one of the rooms eon-
neoted witn he Japanese
bakeries situeted et 773 Jirom
Cuzco.
- 8-

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION COPY
CIVISION OF
COMMONICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
3
Lima
SPD
Deted August 16,06
AC1. F
Inr
SCRI
Rec'd 8 0. p n., 1oth
S
U
ARA
ont o1 5190
FE
S/
 raphrase before commuri ating to anyone.
0.1
FR
STATE
AUG 1 9 1946
D.F
884 Aumu3t 16, 5 P
REEMB c13patel 112, 11y 18, 1946.
894.
On Aug st 3, 1946 1 uvian pollce arrested
uzc Abe, apinese nati ral, in Huaral, Peru, where
20223/8-
n vas meet:ng with appiimately 35 Japanese nation.1s
ciice seized 12 rolls 1 mm home muvies and 2 projet.
gether wirh quantity ( propagand and documents 1
panese lanfuage. Abe representative of Shind
mme1 of Brs2:1 and arr ed in Lime, May 29, 194(
Ith Takeshi Torigce, al of Braz1i to organize
panese here into natic listie grcup which affirns
yalty to mperor and der unces all Japanese who be
1646
Han lost the war. Abc corganized Aikcku loshi he.
 Lima into suen an org:. Ization. Police subseq: un'ly
: rested Torigoe in Lima cnd in all have arrested
oproximately 25 Japanesc. Indications are that
pproximately 40o Japane in Peru telong to such group
iIthough no acts of viol :e have occurred in Lima
L:vestigation reflects thei members of Aikoku Dosh:
Ai1 have threateneu non-n nbers with physica! violente
they did not Join orgac lzation Police authoritics
Confidential File
ive stated they wiil mal effcrts to heve Abe and
 prigoe repatriated to Japin through assistance of
ited States Government Situation has received
onsiderable play in local press with several newspapers
iving it sensationu treatment. LA TRIBUNA,
OCT
o. 1 lal Aprista
FILED
281946
SECRET
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.91)
SECRET
-2- #884, August 16, 5 p.n., from Lima
officiel Aprista organ. il: editorial of August 16.
ewphasized necd for prote ting amosratie form of
 vernment againat threets such as Communism and secret
lerrorlstio Jananese organizations.
COOPER
JUE:JS
SOTT

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.95)
De repily refer to
MEMORANDUM
Augant 20, 
CFID
SECRET
To:
It. Colonel Charles B. Smith,
Chief, Washington Liaison Branch,
Room 20 814 The Pentagon,
894.20223/8-1646
War Department.
From:
J. D. Neal, Chief, Division of
Foreign Activity Correlation.
Subject: Kenmo ABx and Takeshi Torigos, arrest in Peru
894.20223/8-1646
There is anclosed for information a paraphraaed copy of smcaxt
telegram No. 884 ef August 16, 1946 from the American Embasay at
Lima, Peru concerning the arrest in Peru of Kenso Abe and Takeshi
Torigoe, nationals.
Particular attention is invited to the statement of the Paruvian
police that they will endeavor to have abe and Torigoe returned to
Japan through the assi stance of this Government.
CS
/HH
Enclosure:
Paraphrase of telegram No. 881.
of August 16, 1946 from Lima, Poru
Confide
2022
Le
3
8-1646

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM
FROM:
LIMA, PERU
NO. 884
TO :
SECRETARY OF STATE
DATE: August 16, 1946
This regards the Lmbassy despatch 112 dated 18 July 1946.
The Peruvian police on 3 August 1946 arrested a Japanese national
by the name of Kenzo Abe in Huaral, Peru, where 35 Japanese nationals
were being met by hin. Two projectors, 12 rolls of 16 mm home movies
and a quantity of propaganda end documents in the Japanese language,
were seized by the police. Abe is su posed to have arrived in Lima 24
ay, 194ó, with Takeshi Torigoe and it is said that he is a representative
of Shindo Remi of Erazil. It is their idea to organize the Japanese
here into a nationalistic Croup which will denounce Japanese who feel
that Japn lost the war and they continue to remain loyal to the Emperor.
Approximately 25 Japenese have been arrested in Lima by the police and
Torigeo was also one of this number. It is believed that in Peru about
400 Japenese belon to this group. The Aikoku Doshi Kai of Lima, was
reorganized into a Japanese national organization by Abe. In Lima no
acts of vialence rave t ken place but upon making a few investigations
it was found that non-members were threatened by the Aikoku Doshi Kai
if they id not join the crganization. It was stated by the police that
they will ask the  S Government to repetriate Abe and Torigoe to
Japan. Considerable play has been given tiie situation by several news-
ers in Peru, na cly the LAThIBuhA, the orficial Aprista organ, who
in an editcrial en lo august made emphasis to the fact that it was necessary
to pretect the demeeratic icrn cr overrment against both Communism and
secret orcanie tiors that were based on the Japanese terrorist principle.
COOPER

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
SPECIAL PROJECTS
DIVISION
(1).C
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DECLASSIFIED
OF THE
RECEIVED
3.E) and 5(D) or (E)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF'ST
Lima, Peru, August2,
Jile
Bj.
10.20-46
No. 273
Subject:
Arrest of Organizers and Members of
Japanese Nationalistic Society in
Peru
ARA
The Ambassador has the honor to refer to the Embassy's
telegram no. 884 of August 16, 5 pm, reporting the arrest
by the Peruvian police of Kenzo Abe, representative of the
Japanese secret organization SHINDO REMMEI of Brazil, and
a number of other Japanese belonging to the Japanese
nationalistic society AIKOKU DOSHI KAI of Lima, which Abo
reorganized, and to transmit herewith a copy of a detailed
report on this matter prepared by the Legal Attach.
The report makes reference to a previous report from
the Office of the Legal Attaché dated July 11, 1946, which
894.20223/8-2346
set forth the background information on AIKOKU DOSHÍ KAI
(a copy of this report was submitted with the Embassy's
despatch no. 112 of July 18, 1946), and gives supplementary
information obtained since the arrest of Kenzo Abe and his
co-worker, Takeshi Torigoo. rercs Wen  n t nay
The names of the officers and the founder members (12)
of the AIKOKU DOSHI KAI are listed in the report, as are
the Japanese who were arrested at Huaral and Lima, totaling
25. A translation of the constitution of this society is
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
given.
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
SEP 10 1946
EPORTING SERVICES
Upon his arrest, Abe had in his possession numerous
documents written in Japanese, one of which was a list of
the names of so-called unpatriotic Japanese who were de-
scribed as enemies of the new organization. The documents
revealed that plans had been started to found a women's
organization which would function as a counterpart of the
CS
AIKOKU DOSHI KAI.
0
Abe, upon interrogation by the police, admitted that
he had come to Peru on a "mission" to organize the Japanem
in this country, following which he intended to proceed tor
the United States for the same purpose. He planned to vis
Colombia and Venezuela and other places en route to the
United States to carry on organizational work. During the
course of his stay in Peru, Abe disclosed that he had par-
ticipated in approximately thirty meetings in the headquarters
of the society in Lima and at the homes of various members.
About 45 copies of a booklet brought from Brazil containing
894,2022
the tenets of the SHINDO REMMEI were allegedly distributed
by Abe prior to his arrest.
The report contains considerable information concerning
the activities
rd13
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
111

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #2 of Despatoh No. 273
datod August 23, 1946 from
Amerioan Embassy, Lima, Peru
AIR MAIL
- 2 -
the activities and scope of the SHINDO REMMEI in Brazil as
divulged by Abe and Torigoe.
According to the report, the questioning of the Japanese
involved in this matter is continuing at the headquarters of
the Division of Investiations of the Peruvian Police De-
partment in Lima.
The report states that it is likely that the Peruvian
Government will reyuest the assistance of the United States
Government in effecting the deportation of Abe and Torigoe
to Japan.
Enclosure:
Copy of report from
Legal Attaché dated
Auust 13, 1946
711
LeslieWJohnson/ps
To the Department in
original and hectograph

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure to Despatoh No. 273 dated
August 23, 1946 from American Embassy,
Lima, Peru
MEMORANDUM FOR: THE AMBASSADOR
FROM: THE LEGAL ATTACHE
RE:
AIKOKU DOSHI KAI
Reference is made to the report of this office dated July
11, 1946, which set out background information concerning the
AIKOKU DOSHI KAI (Society of Patriots of Japan in Peru) which
was established December 7, 1945. The following 1s supplementary
information which has been received since the arrest of KENZO
ABE and TAKESHI TORIGOE in Huaral, Peru, August 3, last.
It will be recalled thet the two above-mentioned Japanese
were reported to have entered Peru in May, 1946, after having
traveled overland from Brazil. Reports have been received from
the latter country to the effect that the terrorist activities
of the SHINDO REMMEI have reached serious proportions.
The name of the organization SHINDO REMMEI or SHINDO RENMEI
has been variously translated as the Society of the Imperial
Divine Road and as the League of Loyal Brazilian-born Japanese.
The Society is most active in the State of Sao Paulo and its
President is one JUNGI KIKAWA, an ex-Colonel in the Japanese
Army. The Society hes been increasingly active of recent weeks
having been credited by newspapers and the authorities of Sao
Paulo with the assassination of various Brazilian-born Japanese.
The organization is accused of being ultra-nationalistio in
character and threatens all those Japanese who have refused to
believe that Japan actually won the war.
They claim that loyal Japanese, that is loyal to the Emper-
or, will have the first opportunity to buy at low prices land
in those territories captured by the Japanese. It has been
stated that members of the organization have been selling lands
in Borneo, the Philippines, and Singapore.
The Brazilian authorities feel that the effect of such
widespread Japanese nationalism is convincing Japanese agri-
cultural workers there is no further need to work for their
living and that they will soon either go home or settle in
occupied territories.
The assassins said to be used by the organization are
composed of youths who have accepted the "Kamaikaze" tradition
and have taken upon themselves the duty of killing and terror-
izing those who believe that Japan has been defeated.
KAZUO KAZANO, Vice President of the AIKOKU DOSHI KAI,
when questioned by the police advised that he had first met
ABE at the headquarters of the organization on Calle Jose
Leal 1l5. At that time ABE told KAZANO that he had been sent
by the SHINDO REMMEI in Brazil to Peru for the purpose of
organizing the Japanese in this country. KAzAno further stated
that ABk had told him that he had been one of the founder
members of the SHINDO REMMEI in Brazil. During the course of
subsequent conversations with ABE, KAZAnO said that the former
had indicated

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2 of Enclosure to
Despatoh No. 273 dated August
23, 1946 from American Embassy,
Lima, Peru
- 2 -
had indicated that 26 Japanese had been "executed" by members
of the SHINDO REMMEI in Brazil because they had opposed the
work of the organization and thereby hed become traitors to
Japan.
KAZANO advised thet the officers of the AIKOKU DOSHI KAI
at the time of the arrests of August 3, last, were as follows:
President - KOGEN IZENA
Vice President - KAZUO KAZANO
Treasurer - YINTARO SAKUDA (replaced by KAME ARAKAKI)
Foreign Secretary - YOSHICAME TOYAMA
Directors - KENICHIRO SHIMABUKURO
KOMESABURO YBIKU
SENSHO YAGUI
YINTARO SAKUDA (following his replacement
as treasurer)
Prior to the arrests made by the Peruvian Police, this
office secured a copy of the constitution of the AIKOKU DOSHI
KAI which is translated as follows:
"ARTICLE I
"This organization is formed by the Japanese in Peru who
are devoted to a high spirit of sacrifice and who wish to con-
serve their traditional loyalty and faithfulnems to their
Emperor and to their Fatherland. All those who are traitors
to their country will be excluded from membership.
"ARTICLE II
"The object of the organization will be to assist the
glorious government of the Emperor, whose power is infinite,
with faithfulness and bravery, obeying thus the Third Article
of the Constitution.
"The individuals who are not loyal to the Emperor and to
his people will be thoroughly investigated. Those who are
traitors to their country will be severely punished.
"The members of the organization will listen to the
legitimate news broadcasts which are sent directly from Japan
and will advise their associates accordingly in order to keep
abreast of the ideas of the Fatherland and its present progress.
"ARTICLE III
"The obligations of the members of this organization are:
a. To investigate and to file the names of those persons
who are not loyal to the Emperor, noting the degree of the
disloyalty.
b. To arrange for the mutual protection of members of the
society who noed financial assistance.
o. To commence immediately the instruction of Japanese
children,

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3 of Enclosure to
Despatoh No. 273 dated August
23, 1946 from American
Embassy, Lima, Peru
-3-
children, emphasizing the principles and ideals upon whioh the
organization is based and acquainting them with the true nature
of the Japanese people.
"ARTICLE IV
"Funds will be collected for the expenses of the organiza-
tion which will be expended in the investigation and study of
the most important problems which arise in the Japanese colony
in Peru. The funds will also be used for the instruction,
investigation, and protection of members which has been set
out above.
"ARTICLE V
"Declaration. Having been moved by the international
reaction and the state of affairs existing in this country we
are forming this society of mutual aid for the studying and
investigating of the most important problems which are arising
in the Japanese colony in order to aid the progress of the
Japanese Government.
"We have to begin.
"We must begin immediately.
"SEAL"
Full names of the twelve founder members of the AIkOkU
DOSHI KAI are set out below:
Name
Carnet Number
NAOKI SAKUDA
KENICHIRO SHIMABUKURO
18810
KOZEN IZENA
22041
YOSHIKAME TOYAMA
18282
KAZUO KAZANO
KOMESABURO YABIKU (OP YBIKU)
18564
SENSHO YAGUI
15886
JOSE SAKIME
PEDRO SUZUKI
JUAN ARAKAKI
15002
KAME ARAKAKI
15003
YINTARO SAKUDA
20453
KENZO ABE was arrested while a meeting of Japanese was
in process at the Hacienda Esquivel, which is located outside
Huaral. At the time of the arrest the following Japanese were
arrested:
Name
Carnet Number
KENZO ABE
CHOGORO WATANABE (SATO)
27550
TATSUZO (Or YAISUKO) SHIODA
26995
KANSAKU YAMAMOTO
22303
MASAICHI YAMASHITA
16159
TOMEICHI TAKATA
15227
KATSUGORO MURATA
22109
YAICHI TANIGUCHI
17614
TSUGUO NISHDMURA
27993
Following

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4 of Enolosure to
Despatch No. 273 dated August
23, 1946 from American
Embassy, Lima, Peru
Following the arrests in Huaral the police picked up the
following Japanese in Lima:
Name
Carnet Number
NAOKI SAKUDA
KENICHIRO SHIMABUKURO
18810
KOZEN IZENA
22041
YOSHIKAME TOYAMA
18282
KOMESABURO YABIKU (OP YBIKU)
18564
SENSHO YAGUI
15886
JOSE SAKIME
JUAN ARAKAKI
15002
KAME ARAKAKI
15003
YINTARO SAKUDA
20453
ICHIRO NAKAMA
26290
YASUKICHI SATO
15607
HIDETOSHI OSHIRO
18972
KOKUJO KOCHI
TAKESHI TORIGOE
ITARO SAKUDA
At the time of ABE's arrest in luaral he had in his
possession a Bell und Howell l6 mm. motion picture projector
and eleven rolls of film. One of these rolls was a Japanese
Mickey Mouse production which was made in Kobe, Japan in 1931.
The balance of the films consisted of Japanese home movies
made in the same year in Kobe, Japan, which starred an unknown
Japanese actress in the role of a spy during the Manchurian
war. The pictures naturally showed the Japanese in an heroic
role against a military background. However, it is not felt
that the movies were made as propaganda and it is believed that
they were shown on the occasion of the meeting in Huaral as a
means to assure a good attendance.
Numerous documents written in Japanese were found in ABE's
possession at the time of his arrest. A translation of most of
these has not as yet been completed. However, it is interesting
to note that on a sheet of notebook paper which was found in his
wallet at the time of his arrest ABE had noted the names of
thirteen Japanese who were described as "anti-patriotio" and
as enemies of the new organization. These names are as follows:
KURIHARA (Cia. TAISHO SHOKAY)
HASHIRO SATO (JOSHIRO)
YOSHIYUKI TAMURA
SEIJIRO TABATA
SEIGORO KAWAMOTO
KATZUO KAZANO
YONUYE TAKESHI
PEDRO NABETA
ALBERTO NABETA
YOEI ARAKAKI
SENSHI SAITO (Or SATO) (BARRANCO)
SAIZO NAGASAKI
YOSHITAKI KANASHIRO (Huaral)
From further

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #5 of Enclosure to
Despatoh No. 273 dated August
23, 1946 from American
Embassy, Lima, Peru
- 5-
From further documents found in his possession it was
ascertained that plans were under foot for the formation of a
women's organization which would function as a feminine counter
part to the AIKOKU DOSHI KAI. This group of women apparontly
contributed the sum of S/520.o0 toward the work of the AIKOkU
DOSHI KAI. A list of the founder members of the feminine or-
ganization, together with the amounts contributed by them is as
follows:
NOVORIKAWA KAMEKO
S/50.00
SAKUDA TOYOKE
35.00
SAKUDA KAMIKO
35.00
SHIMABUKURO SADAKO
30.00
YAGUE KAMAKO
30.00
SHUIKE EKUYA
30.00
TANIGUCHI JANAKE
20.00
OSHIRO KEIKO
20.00
NAKASHIMA TOYOKE
20.00
YMAFUKE SADAKO
20.00
KANEMOTO MINEKO
20.00
KANEMOTO YONEKO
20.00
KAMINE KANE
20.00
SAKIME ZEIKO
20.00
UYEMA KIKUYE
20.00
SHIMABUKURO KAMADA
20.00
ZAKIME SEICHI
20.00
FUKINAKA KIMIKO
15.00
TAMASHIRO CHURUKO
10.00
TOYAMA UTO
10.00
ARAKAKI MASU
10.00
OSHIRO NAE
10.00
MIASHIRO KANA
10.00
CHINEN KAME
10.00
YAGUE CHURUKO
5.00
KANAMOTO SADAKO
20.00
During the interrogation of KENZo ABE the following in-
formation was developed regarding his background and activities.
He was born in Fukushima, Japan, July 17, 1895. On October 9,
1932 he left Japan aboard the Santosu Maru en route to Brazil.
He arrived at the port of Santos, Brazil, and traveled from
there to Sao Paulo where he allegedly resided for l4 years.
During his residence in the latter state he was purportedly
employed as an agricultural worker by OGATA and Company. He
claims to have been employed by that company in the growing of
silk worms. He allegedly received 500 Cruzeiros ($25.00 U.S.)
per month. It should be noted in this connection that his
appearance and bearing are not those of a low class peon. On
the contrary, he gives every impression of being a high class
intelligent Japanese.
When questioned regarding the activities of the SHINDO
REMMEI in Brazil ABE stated that there were some 75,O00 Japanese
in the state of Sao Paulo. Generally speaking, they were said
by him to fall into two groups, one whioh believed that Japan
had won the war and one which was convinoed that they had lost.
The former group was originally divided into four separate
organizations.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #6 or Enclosu , to
Despatch No. 273 daved August
23, 1946 from American
Embassy, Lima, Peru
-6-
organizations. They were:
1. Chudó Remmei
2。
Zaigó Gunyindan
3.
Aikoku Sekishindan
4. Shindo Remmei
ABE stated that inasmuch as the objectives of all four
groups were identical, they subsequently reorganized as one
Organization under the name SHINDO REMMEI. He emphasized
that the motives of this organization were patriotio in nature.
As members they were "united to fight for Japan" and to combat
the "traitors" who believed that Japan had lost the war.
During the first part of the interrogation ABE stated that
he had left Sao Paulo, Brazil, March 10, 1946, with TAKESHI
TORIGOE, en route to the Panama Canal where he planned to sail
for Japan aboard one of the Japanese war ships which, according
to him, are presently located there. He stated that he pro-
ceeded to Peru via the following route: Sao Paulo, Campo Grande
Corumba (Brazil); Santa Cruz, Cochabamba, Oruro, La Paz (Bolivia);
Cuzco, Abancay, Nazca, Ica, and Lima (Peru). They arrived in
Lima on May 29, last.
Upon his arrival in Peru ABE stated that he was astonished
at the lack of unity in the local Japanese colony. He thereupon
decided to remain in Lima for several months to assist them in
organizing into a unified partiotic group. With this end in
view he gave a series of conferences designed to stimulate the
patriotic spirit of the Japanese here.
Later on in the interrogation, however, ABE stated that he
had come to Peru on a "mission" to organize the Japanese in this
country. Following this he intended to proceed to the United
States for the same purpose, pausing en route for organizetional
work in Colombia and Venezuela and other places where there
were Japanese nationals.
In discussing his work in Peru ABE said that he had met
considerable resistance from a group of Japanese whom he
classified as "traitorous." (The names of these Japanese are
listed above). He alleged that he had attampted to arrange
an interview with them to convince them of the error of their
ways. However, in the last moment plans were abandoned for the
"oonference" when ABE received the information that they were
planning to attack him.
During the course of his work in Peru he admits having
given approximately 30 conferences in the headquarters of the
AIKOKU DOSHI KAI at Calle Jose Leal 1l5 and at the homes of
various of the members. During this period he admits to having
collected some S/2,500 which had been spent in the purchase of
olothes, food, lodging and transportation. Before his de-
parture from Brazil he arranged for the mimeographing of a
small booklet which contains the tenets and beliefs of the
SHINDO REMEI. Sixty copies of this booklet were allegedly
brought

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #7 of Enclosureb
Despatoh No. 273 dated August
23, 1946 from American
Embassy, Lima, Peru
- 7 -
brought by ABE and his companion to Peru. (Copies of this
publication are in the possession of this office) He dis-
tributed all but approximately 15 copies prior to his arrest.
The balance was seized by the police and confiscated. In
this connection ABE explined that the SHINDO REMMEI edited
a monthly mimeographed meazine in Brazil for the purpose of
circulating the true news about Japan. The title of this
monthly publication is said tc be "Noticiario." The general
theme of the articles appearin therein is that Japan has not
lost the war.
Later in the interrogation when ABE was questioned further
regarding the SHINDo REIMEI he stated that it had approximately
30,O00 members. BE stated that although he believed in the
principles and ideals of the SHINDO REMMEI he had not wished to
belong to the organization because of the violence which it had
encouragea against the traitorous elements of the Japanese colony
there. He added that at least 28 of the latter had been assas-
sinated in Sao Paulo. He then stated that he had not come to
Peru as a representative of the SHINDO REMMEI but had made the
trip on his own initiative without having been commissioned either
by his government or by any other group. When it was pointed out
to ABE that his statements were inconsistent he refused to answer.
Later in the course of the questioning, however, he admitted that
he had assisted in the organizational work of the SHINDO REMMEI
in Sao Paulo and that he had come to Peru to continue in the same
effort.
When questioned regarding his companion TAKESHI TORIGOE,
ABE said that he was a patriot although too violent for his,
ABE's, tastes. He said that he had fallen out with the latter
because TORIGOE insisted on the princinle of the use of terrorism
against the "traitors". For this reason ABE explained that he
had separated from TORIGOE upon his arrival in Lima and had not
associated with him since then.
TAKESHI TORIGOE stated that he was born November 12, 1919
in Fukuoka, Japan. He said that he had arrived in Brazii from
Japan September 26, 1933. At the time of his arrest he carried
with him Certificate of Residence No. l687 which was issued in
Lins, State of Sao Paulo, Brazil, December 31, 1939.
TORIGOE stated that he had met ABE on January 5, 1946, at
a bar in Lins. He said that ABE, in talking about the war, had
told him that there was a Japanese squadron in Panama and that
he would like to have TORIGOE accompany him on a journey which
he was planning to make to that place with the idea of taking
passage to Japan. TORIGOE indicated that since he was a
patriotic Japanese he wished to return to his country and that
therefore he had decided to accompany ABE as indicated. He
said that they departed from Sao Paulo March 8 and after fol-
lowing the same route as above described by ABE arrived in Lima
May 29, 1946.
When questioned further regarding ABE, TORIGOE recalled
that ABE

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #6 of Enclosure to
Despatoh No. 273 dated August
23, 1946 from American
Embassy, Lima, Peru
- 8 -
that ABE had been arrested in Brazil for approximately a year
and had been released by the authorities in November, 1945.
He went on to say that ABE hed told him that he, ABE, had been
a sailor and that he was well acquainted with the Hawaiian
Islands, Asia, anu Aunerica. During the trip through Bolivia ho
said that ABE had met with various Japanese in La Paz in the
home of KOMORI TOSHIGIRO. From the latter source the travelers
received 12,00o pesos Bolivianos with which they were able to
continue their journey.
When ABE was later requestioned concerning his arrest in
Brazil he admitted that he had been jailed for ten months for
having carried a letter from one MURAI to another Japanese
referred to as SENAGA. ABE claimed that he did not know what
was contained in the letter but that both SENAGA and MURAI
were arrested at the same time and that all of them remained
prisoners for approximately one year.
The questioning of the Japanese involved in this matter
is continuing at the headquarters of the Division of Investiga-
tions. The foregoing sets out the infonmation which has thus
far been developed. This office also has in its possession
photographs and fingerprints of ABE and TORIGOE which will be
forwarded to the FBI in Washington.
During the course of conversations with the Peruvian
Police offioials in charge of this investigation the suggestion
was made by them that the two Brazilian Japanese be deported
to Japan. With that idea in mind it is very likely that a
request will be made by the Peruvian Government for the assistance
of the United States Government in effecting the deportation of
these Japanese.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.92)
6.
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
File
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lima, Peru, September 4, 1946
1021446
CONFIDENTIAL
IC/R
No. 310
Subject:
Ju: rent lecel ution Promulgated
DEPARTMENT OF
utiorizin Expulsion from Peru
REPORTING SENVILL:
DIVISION OF FI.n.
SEP 1 9 1946
of Two Japanese Nationals, Organizers
of Japanese Nationalistic Society
The Ambassador has the honor to report the promulga-
tion of a Supreme Resolution dated August 26, 146
authorizing the expulsion Trom Peru of Abe Kenso also
kalled Kenzo Abe or Hatzushima) and Tekeshi TorIgoe,
Japanese nationals, for having entered Peru illegally
and engagint: in activities contrary to the public order.
The text of the Resolution as published in El Peruano,
894.20223/9-446
1/
the ofricial daily, on September 3 is transmitted here-
with.
As reported in the Embassy's secret despatch no.
273 of August 23, 1y46, Abe and Torigoe wepe the organizers
of the Japanese nationalistic society AIKOKU DOSHI KAI of
Lima. They were arrested by the Peruvian police on August
3, 1946。
Enclosure:
Text of Supreme Resolution,
El Peruano, Sept. 3, 1946
711
LeslieWJohnson/ps
To the Department in
CS/A
origfnal and hegtograph
EPARTMENT OF STATE
ECRS ANCH
2
EP
S
00 14
BN
m/a1
@E

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tespatch No. 310
deted September 4, 1946 from
merican mbassy, Lime, Feru
.1
Terueno, Sept. 3, 1946
Expulsión de japoneses
RESOLUCION SUPBEMA
Lima. 26 de agosto de 1946
Visto el expediente que se acom-
paña. organizado contra don Abe
Kenso o Matzushima y don Takeshi
Torigoe. ambos de nacionalidad ja-
ponesa. por haber ingresado cÍan-
des tinamente al pais y dedicarse a
actividades contrarias al orden pú-
blico
Teniendo en consideración que
las infracciones en referencia es-
tán contempladas en el inciso 1)
del artículo 8" del Reglamento de
Inmigración y en el articulo 6 do
la Ley N 4145.
Con el voto consultivo del Conse-
jo de Ministres
SE RESUELVE
Autorizase a la Dirección Gene-
ral de la Guardia Civil y Policia.
para que proceda a la expulsión del
país de los súbditos japoneses Abe
Kenso o Matzushima y Takeshi To-
rigoe. por los motivos expuestos en
la presente Resolucion.
Regístrese. comuniauese s archi-
vese.
Una rúbrica del señor Presiden.
te de la República.
RODRIGUEZ.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIG SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lima, Peru, September 26, 1946
CONFIDENTIAL
No. 420
REPOR
DIY:  DF FORIGN
Subject:
supre..t esolution i ronulgated
uthorizin xpulsion of Japanese
l.ational from Peru
1946
The vabassedor has the honor to report zhe promylga-
tion of a Supreme Resolution dated September 11, 1946,
authorizine the expulsion from Peru of Kintaro Kobayash
a Japanese national, for "havin engaged in activities
contrary to the public order, aemocratic organization and
security of the State."
85
A copy of the Resolution as publ ished in El Peruano,
4.2022
1/
the orficial daily, on September 25 is transmitted herewith.
It has been learned from the Peruvian police that
Kintaro Kobayashi held the post of Secretary General, and
wes one of the founder members, of the Japanese nationalis-
tic society AIKOKU DOSHI KAI of Lima. He is considered to
be the most dangerous of the local Japanese residents. He
has lived in Feru for thirty years. The police report that
5-
Kintaro Kobayashi sent his wife and child to Japan prior to
4 a
the last war.
2
ARA
2646
Kintaro hobu/ashi was arrested by the Peruvian Police
subse uent to the detention of the !ain group of Japanese,
members of IKOKU DOSHI KI, listea in the enclosure to
OCD
the Embassy's secret despatch no. 273 of ugust 23, 1946.
Enclosure:
Copy of Supreme Resolution,
El Peruano, September 25, 1946
711.5
LeslieWJohnson/ps
To the Department in
original and hectograph
9460C110 53
EP TATE
CNC
DCR - AEA Unit
Anall1
EE
UC/R
894.20223
60
171
FEB
FILED

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despetch No. 420
duted September 26, 1946 from
american Lmbessy, Lime, Peru
∴1
Peruuno, Cept. 25, 1946
Expulsión de Extranje-
ros por Indeseables
RESOLUCION SUPREMA
Lima. 11 de setiembre de 1946.
Visto el expediente que se a-
compaña, organizado contra el
súbdito japonés Kintaro Koba
vashi. por el que se acredita ha-
ber intervenido en actividades con-
trarias al orden público. organi-
zación democrática y seguridad
del Estado:
Estando a las conclusiones de
la Reso ución VII de la Confe-
rencia sobre Problemas de la
Guerra y la Paz, cuyos acuerdos
han sido ratificados por el Con-
greso Nacional; y
Con el voto consultivo del Con-
sejo de Ministros;
SE RESUELVE:
Autorizase a la Dirección Ge-
neral de la Guardia Civil y Po-
licía. para que proceda a expul-
sar del país el súbdito japonés
Kintaro Kobayashi. por indesea-
ble.
Registrese. comuniauese y ar-
chivese.
Rúbrica del señor Presidente de
la República.
RODRIGUEZ.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
File
1
Lima
Action: FC
Dated Cctubor 1, 1946
10-10-+6
Info:
S
SEORET
Rec'd 7: 44 p.m., 1st
U
ARA
Control 36
FE
S/GC
Paraphrase before cormunicating to anyone
OCD
EOR/X
DC/R
SECSTATE
894.20223/10-146
1035, October 1. 5 p m
Foreiga Orfice ima today orally requested assistance
US Government for deportation three dangerous Japanese
naed: ? ne Abe Konso, also called Kenzo Abe or Matzushima,
Fwo) Tekishi Torigoe, (Thrae) Kintaro Kobayashi (see my
onfidentlal despatches 310, September 4 and 420, September
26, 1946) against whonm devortation orders have been 1ssued
by Peruvien Government for activities contrary to public
order. They wore found to be prencipal leaders information
of Japaiese national:stic terroristic society Aikoku Doshi
Ka1 (30o MYTEL. 884, ugust 16, 5 p.m.).
Respoctfully suggost War Department may be able to
use 1ts racilitiee relating to transportation from Peru,
custody and other dotails
Please reply by telegraph
COOPER
EKH:EL
Conf
SEGRET
2
OCT 10 1946
OCT2 1946
FILED
DECLASSIFIED
NND 280069
By TG /C. NARS, Date P 24.78
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.93)
OUTGOINGTELEGRAM
Bepartmegbsat State
YChange Degerteent
0CT9
Cherge to
23
SECRET
icating to anyo
AMEMBASSY,
LIMA.
850
00
394.20223/10-146
Your Secret Telegram 1035, October 1, 5 pm.
Preliminary talk with War Dept indicates possibility
of arranging transportation. The Dept needs the
following information:
(1) Is the Peruvian Government willing to
pay for the cost of transportation and
cost of custody?
(2)
When will the three Japanese be ready
for deportation?
icison
Canal Zone?
894.
Actimg
Confidential File
DISTRIBUTION
NWC
SPD
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
Cleared with
Cleared with
DC/T
Mr. Chappell
Mr. Hall by
he
by phone
phone.
0
FC:HHBarger:abc 10-9-46
1
2
DOR - ARA Unit
2
Anal Z18
Rev.
0
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.92)
NO.4308
UNRESTRICT.D
Airmail
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
São ra 1o, razil, October 16, 1946
File
SuBJECT IC (I.1) - ncknowleuring recelpt of Japanese
11-21-46
ne. spapers.
C.
0
IUO ARCA
DIVISION - (ADA)
W
THE
HONDRABLE
NOV 5 1346
3
0
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
2
100
DFPAF
C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON.
1
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FORL IGN
.1.
SIR
894.20223/10-1646
I have the ho. or to r fer to the Department's
1946
Instr  tions dated ie t mber 25, 1. 46, Suptember 26,
1e46 and octoter 8, 1. 46 ac to acknovledge rece1pt
of all nerspapers tranomitted a enclosures to the
atove mentioned instrtions.
he be artment's kind atte tior to thic mat er
is v ry much anp reciated.
:espectfully yours,
01C
A:A
Cecil M. P. Cross
Amerian onsul Ceneral
800
GO
CIPCRO,/Jz
FILED
894.20223
1946
li. 1 in
1-165

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.95)
4306
UNNESTRICTED
A1rma1l
São Paulo, Bras11, October 16, 1946
OIc (INP) - Acknowlodging recoipt of Japanese
newspapers.
I have the honor to refer to the Departmems's
Instructions dated September 25, 1946, September 26,
1946 and 0ctober 8, 1946 and to ackmowledge receipt
of all newspapers transmitted as enelesures to the
above mentioned instructions.
The Department's kind attention to this mmtter
is very mah appreciated.
Respeetfully yours,
Ceoil M. P. Cress
American Consul General
800
CMPCROSS/Jz

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTWITY
THE FOREION SERVICE
5
OF THEER
UNITED STATES OF
OCT301946
Lima, Peru, October 17
QEPART
RESPRICTED
C
gho
No54
Subject: Abe Kenso, Detained Japanee National,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Appeals to President of Ropublio
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION ON FOLIGN
OCT 25 1946
894.20223/9.446
despatch no. 310 of/September 4, 1946, concerning the 1ssu-
ance of deportation orders by the Peruvian Government against
Abe Kenso and Takeshi Torigoe, Japanese nationals who organ-
iZod the Japanese nationalistic society AIKOKU DOSHI KAI of
Lima, and to report that Abe Kenso has addressed an appeal
to the President of the Ropublic, the text of which was pub-
lished in the press, requesting an audience with the President
or the Foreign Minister in order to explain the motives of his
trip to Peru and other South American countries, his "true
military rank and other international affairs".
In the communication he described himself first as an
envoy of the Government of Tokyo and later as an emissary of
the Great Japanese Empire. He denied he was a terrorist or
a member of a society or group pursuing those ends. He
202
alleged that one of the principal reasons for his trip was
to obtain an accounting of the funds sent from Japan to Peru
through the Swedish Legation to aid distressed Japanese
nationals. Abe Konso charged that these funds were misappro-
2
ACTION
priated by some of the Japanese here. He closes his appeal by
FC
requesting that his application for repatriation be held in
COPIES
abeyance and that he be granted provisional liberty.
108
EUR/X
Abe Kenso also addressed identical letters to the direc-
AR
tors of the newspapers El Comercio and La Prensa in which he
JA
expressed his thanks to the Peruvian nation for having ex-
tended its hospitality to 25,00o Japanese subjects, and as-
01C
serted that he came to Peru on a special mission for his
1:00D
government to organize the Japanese nationals. He then al-
leged that his purpose was to give counsel to fifty or sixtyo
Japanese who defiled the Japanese flag and debased the pictu
FILED
of Emperor Hirohito. "I have come to place these malcontent
who have left the good path on the right road", he stated. He
signed the lotters as "Delegate of Japan for South America"
C
Clippings containing a reproduction of Abe Konso's com
S
munication to the President and the tor of his letters to
In this connection, reference is made to the Embassy's
secret telogram no. l035 of October 1, 5 p.m., concerning the
request of the Peruvian Foreign Office for the assistance of
the United States Government in effecting the deportation of
Abe Kenso and two other dangerous Japanese mentioned in the
Embassy's despatches nos. 310 of September 4 and 420 of
b'e,'oed
Enclosures:
Clippings, El Comeroio, Oct. 16
and La Prensa, 0ot. 15, 1946
711
LeslieWJohnson/ps
To the Department in original end heotograph

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.92)
Abe Kenso el japonés que se encuet-
tra recluído en el Sexto, que ee. ka
pidiendo hablar con él o con el Mina-
tro de Relaciones Exteriores a fim de
comunicarle el motivo de su viajeal
Pera.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.83)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 554 dated October
17, 1946 from American Embassy, Lime, Peru-
El Comercio, Cctober 16, 1946
Elmemorialde AbeKensopidiendol
con el Presidente de la Republe
Abe Kense y laa
Una entrevista con el Inspector General de Imv
nes.—No procederia la libertad provisional solieitada.
estar en estos
¿Son solventes los fiadores de Abe Kenso?—Deportarie
al enigmático nipón.
Aver, en estas mismas columpas re-/
nos saludó cordialmente, hablándomos
velamos que Abe Kenso, el enk
del mismo asunto a que ibaãos 
NTO-
tros. ¿Sabian ustedes, nos manin
ristas, había presentado un
que Abe enso ha repartido ropa
pidiendo una entrevista
Beñor
los prasos del Sexto, y que casí
Presidente de la República en su de-
mente les da fruta, que especialme
fecto con el señor Ministro de Relacio-
hace llevar por sus connacionales?.
nes Exteriores, anticipando que él es un
La verdad es que no lo sabiamos. Pues
Enviado del Gobierno de Tokio aue
cs clerto y sorprendente, contestamos,
viaja de incógnito.
y en sgruida nos despedimos, al ver
Fue con relación a esto, que ayer,
pasar àl Jefe General de Investiga-
con el propósito de informar a nuestros
ciones.
lectores de este nuevo y sensacional
Cuando llegamos a la oficina del
giro de los sucesos que se iniciaron con
Inspector General. nos hicimos anun-
las detenciones que se llevaron a cabo
clar can el ayudante, y en breves ins-
en Huaral, ya hace algunas semanas.
tantes fuimos recibidos. Prente a el,
que nos dirigimos a la Jefatura Gene
manifestamos nuestro propósito que fue
ral de Investigaciones para averig
deferido cortesmente.
sobre la solicitud de Abe Kenso.
—Bfectivamente, la Dirección Ge-
lus sobre el/curso del'se
En los pasillos de la Prefectura
al de la Cuardia Civil nos pidio in-
encontramos con un viejo amigo,
me sobre la Mbertad provisional de for Presidente de la Rd
Seler Prosdeste do la topébltas.
Abe Eaaso, Lateraeto a ol Oaeree) Go,as vee Proel.
deate do Ia Ropéblles, sospeuesshoste, éloes
 r  de,    
pgee ou progsode ssempo, l0 reoge ésopener lo eosoosrso o sto
,
1a  a .
free doteseste en eate luges do reeluesda, me  rade qee el e
Ba Prestéoate do lo Ropébiseo ne ho ressbsdo dee eolsestedee enteesd
res que de elevede é u eossatoate per sasarmodio do la Jofatre
Gntral do Iavestianesenes  que regate to  atetere mpereeer 
e prooomela a fia eo ezpllearle peroenalmeato el mosive da as vieje
a) Pord, eeas Ropéblseas sudamrleaaas, en  doreete, al se corla
 e   , 
tlo do que s éignere esueherme.
do o male ses, soesstate doatarse do la s  
Sa pooes pelabeas dird e moted euo o) monselal do eger.
ao gus.  s,  o lo te as o m aos 
Lo rirad ee la ereemela de ees aabia usted reelbide lee des voltes.
  de   , g
agapera do lo vesed do lo be, al eleo bublore eoà
Matate do Belaesenes gterieree no sontes a bien efrme.
alotde que no woia as Pordi
Ne op soser Presldease as aloesto, ns terrerios, as
t pr a s - Ad    .
alelmee tos doglerables.
Gee do lo geerre.
ade kmsa

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 554 dated
October 17, 1946 from Americen Embassy,
Lime, Peru
La Frensu, 0ct. 15, 1946
INTERESES GENERALES
sendero, y esa misión e completa-
mente pacifica, ajena a todo acto de
terrorismo. Y aquí cabe un ejemplo:
i un peruano pisoteara su bandera o
Carta de Abe Kenso
insultara a su Primer Mandataric.
¿no se haría acaso acreedor a una
pena? Desde luego que si, y este su-
Lima, 12 de Octubre de 1946.
cederia en cualquier nación del mun-
Sr. Director del diario "La Prensa".
do. Este ejemplo no quiere decir
Distinguido señor:
tampoco que yo haya venido a cas-
Sirvase dar acogida en las colum-
tigar a los súbditos; no, sólo be veni-
nas de su prestigioso diario a estas
do a aconsejarlos.
pocas lineas que desde mi reclusión
del cuartel sexto, las dirijo en espe-
Debo manifestar al pueblo peruano
ra de que el sentimiento humano del
que desde que llegué a este país, he
pueblo peruano las ha de interpretar
tenido y tengo hasta ahora el mismo
como una queja verdaderamente sin-
interés de sostener una charla con
cera de un comisionado japonés que
el señor Presidente de la República
pr encargo especial de su patria se
o con el señor Ministro de Relacio-
balla en este país.
nes Exteriores, pera explicar con ma-.
En primer término agradezco pro-
yor detalle el hecho de haber venido
fundamente a la nación peruana, que
a este hemisferio. Si ingresé sin pe-
ha sabido dispensar hospitalidad a
saporte, ello se debe a la ruptura de
25,000 súbditos japoneses, los cuales
relaciones del Perú con el Imperio
se han portado siempre como perso-
Japonés, ya que si tal situación no
nas verdaderamente laboriosas, entre-
hubiera existido hubiera entrado con
gadas al trabajo, ya sea en el co-
toda mi documentación en orden.
mercio, la agricultura o la industria.
El día 3 de Agosto del año en cur-
contribuvendo de este modo a hacer
so, fueron detenidos varios japoneses
en lo posibie más barata la vida, co-
sin tener ninguna culpabilidad, los
mo una compensación a la acogida
cuales fueron puestos en libertad des-
que le ha dispensado este país de
pués de algunos dias, solamente Gen-
Sud América.
taro Kobayashi se encuentra detenido
En segundo lugar debo referirme a
hace 70 días sin que exista motivo
mi presencia en el Perú, ella se de-
para que no se le ponga en libertad.
be, y es necesario que sea sabido.
En cuanto a mi situación, espero
para evitar cualquier sospecha infun-
que después que se les esta carta,e
dada, que sólo he venido en misión
tome en consideración, que hace mu-
especial de mi gobierno a organizar
cho tiempo que se me tiene detenido.
a mis connacionalos, no ha hacer po-
En todo caso, pido desde ahora, que
lítica en ningún sentido con respecto
si se me ha de deportar se me deje
al Perú ni ningún otro pais: puesto
unos dias libre para preparar mi
que han llegado noticias al Japón de
equipaje, ya cuo no soy ningún tarro-
que un pequeño grupo que fluctúa en-
rista.
tre 50 o 60 personas de nacionalidad
Agradeciéndole anticipedamente la
japonesa han pisoteado la bandera de
buena acogida que dispense usted a
su patría y echado por el suelo el re-
la presente me suscribo stentaments.
trato del Emperador Hirohito. Ha ve-
Abe Keneo,
nido a eso. à encauzar por el cami-
Dalegado del Japón para Sud Amé-
no del bien a esos malos compatrio-
rica.
tas gue se han apartado del buen
Rog. 30814

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.92)
n
Mashington,D.C.
October 30, 1946
Ra
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FLE NUMBER
Jack D. Neal
Mr. jbopbooododbxoxdooox
Chief
1946
8
XX
1146
M..itary Intelligence Service
3046
Dear Sir:
For you: informatior., I am attaching hereto a communication
which may be of interest toc you.
Very truly yours,
Ee. &boover
8
Evaluation:
6
Received from reliable and
John Edgar Hoover
xx
confidential source
Director
20
From confidential source
0
previously found reliable
2
Not verified by investigation
3. 3.
2
1.171
Available to Embassy in
3
xx
country of origin
DECLASSIFIED
Attachment
NoO 280069
By 2y Mas, Dote 8.22.2

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.82)
september 27, 1940
1....1I
II.  clbnea  Jupn
Li. , cm7, . 
iven to cniLion it irivalra rezil
  , L, o n  
Jepanese nulilsia iron ao Teuio.  adalt
to iwve veen un or: anizer for Hil.vu I in so
ul une tri to reru lo reb ize Japonos
here in sil  or.. conatitution of .Lkoku
1 udo ted Jurc , 19so, at meetine 2od by
versni i: ited to loyal und patriotlo
Jupanese in  ru," excludin, ell "traitoro" (1..
lhose uo erieve Jepnu hus lost the war). Further
provisions ror i veati.tion und punishment of
treicors, utusl essistii.ce Ior destitute Japanese,
and educacion of anilaren ulon "troditional dope-
nese lines." roilo..in bdoptiou or oonstitution,
C2
 be an lite sive work in Jupenese colony in Li.
giving aone 3 confererces aurine monthe or June
and July, ly4o. memsership i.creased to so0 in
Li aree durim t perjc. roupe lso orgaized
in Huancayo snu nuaral lotul ie up roximutely 70
omber. nile mettin in hueral on ugust 3,
lo,  us urrsted oyruvin polic, togther
witn approximutely 5 Jejentse natinals. Aine
were orou nt to Line ut a inctrcerated. This weo
rollaed ,v y arrest or Tonlgo
and 16 maditiunal lecuin: weubers of Ikont os8I
AaI in Limt. vlice seized l. roils lo m. nome
movie nu tno rojeolurs, together witnuantity
of propac ulue ui. documents in Jepenese Langumge.
sinoe arrest, . . s stuled tct ne is apeoial seeret
onvoy of Jo, snese Lmpericl overnment." Ituough
no uots oi vilece  vs tn l ce in Li, 
bers or in nt iI a ve inreetened non mombers
both in oonversation una in enonyuous letters.
rlens were in progress for organization or remmle
auxiliary. ist of wenbers set out. Hunoku DahI
KaI, an orkanizetion simil r to Ikau hI a.
whien wes organized Deoemver , 1945, in Huaneayo.
Peru, applied to rrillate with IkkU sinl I.
Constitutions ond by-laws or coth trensleted and
set out. Documents in possession of arrested Japa-
nese tra:sisted and sumarries set out. Supreme
- 1 -

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.88)
resolution passed by reruvian Goverament ordering
depOrtation of ABE, TORIGOE, and KINTARO KOBAYAI,
assistance or U. S. Government in effeeting deperte-
tlon of these Japanese to Japan.
It will be recelled that the AIkokU posHI kaI (soeiety
by 13 Japanese nationais residin in Lime. The members of this
organization refused to admit the defeat or Japen ond formed this
soeiety to keep elive the principles of the wartime Japeneme
regime.
Source C, wnose informetion hes been reliable, edvised
thet the complete names o1 the ls founuer members are as
follows:
Hame
carnet Humber
18810
I
22041
YIY
18282
8564
Y.OU
10306
15002
 AAAKI
15003
YIN ARO  
20453
KARO AY.HI
16248
ource c furter advised that the officers of the
organizallon are s folions:
Fresident
Vice President
 (b 7.19 t
Generel Seoretery
y 7, 1946)
 Y (my 7, 1946 to d 
arrest August 6, 1946)
Foreign seoretary
YOS TOYAA
YINTR U (December 7, 1946, to Jme, 19)
f'reasurer
K kkI (June, l946, to date of arrest
nugust 4, 1948).
-2-

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.93)
Direetor (Voeale) KICHIRO NABUKURO (Ater M , 1)
KOMKBABURO YABIKU
SHENSO YAGUI
YINTARO SAKUDA (June 19s, to dete 
arrest, August 4, 1966)
YINSAKU SUZUKI
JUAN ARAKAKI
JOBE SAKDI
Souree D, who hs furnisned reliable informmtiem is
the pest regardint Japanese matters, Furnished this orries with
a copy or a ximeographed propaganda booklet sontaining at pages
and written in Japanese. He reported that betweem s@ mmd 4e
copies or this publicution were being cireulated amens the
Japanese colony in Limm.  transle ion refleots thet it eem-
tains what purports to be the true story of the Japemese vistery
in world wer II. It follows the line of the wartime Japememe
propagande extolling the virtues of the Japanese reee sme eem-
demning the United Nutions. Its apparent purpose is to eomvimee
doubting Japanese that Ja an did in fact win the war and thet all
reports to the sontrery are merely propagande efforts om the
part of the United Stetes.
Source D also made available a copy of the Comstitutiom
of the AIk ht hI anI wich was drawn up and adopted  the
organization et a meetin whicn wes held on June 4, l9es, under
the leaders ip of ih. translation of chis document is 
rollows:
"ARTICLE I
"This organ ization is roresd by the Japanese in Peru
who are devoted to a high spirit of secrifice and who wimh to
conserve their treditional loyalty and faithfulness to their
Emperor and to their Fatherland. All those who are treiters
to their country will be exeluded from membermhip.
"ARTIC. II
The objest of the organization will be to assist the
glorious government of the Emperor, whose power is infimite
with faithfulness and bravery, obeying thus the Third Artiele
of the constitution.
"The individuals wno are not loyal to the Emperer and
to his people will be thoroughly investigated. These whe are
treitors to their country will be severly punished.
- 3 -
5

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.91)
"The members of the organizetion will listen te the
Le itimste news broudcunts w. ich are sent direetly from Japem
and will advise their associates accordingly in order te keep
abreast of the idess of the Fotherlund and its present progrem.
"ARTICLE III
"The ooligations of the members of this organizetiem
are:
"e. To investigute and to rile the names of those
persons who are not loyel to the mperor, noting the deree
or the disloyolty.
"b. ro arren e for the mutual proteetion of members
of the sosiety who need financisl assistance.
"o. To commence imediutely the instruotion of
Japanese children, emphasizing te  rinciples end ideals upon
whioh the organ izetion is uased und acqualntin; them wish the
true nature of le Jupanese people.
"AnFicl IV
"Iands will se collceted ror the expenses of the
organization v ien ill ve ex esded in. vne investigetion and
study or the most  or snt problems hicn arise in the Japanese
colony in reru. e fus  ill lso e used for tne in
struction, investig sio, u rotection of members which ne
been set out tove.
"nTICL V
"veoleration. Having veen moved by the inter-
nationel reaction and the state of alfairs existing in this
cu ntry we ere forming tis society of mutual aid for the
studying and investiguting of tae most important problems
whioh sre arising in the Japenese colony in order to aid the
progress of the Japanese Government.
"e have to begin.
" bgin imediate.
"SEAL"
-4-

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.89)
On Agust 3, 19.6, 20  proeded to the
Heeiends ksquivel situated on lhe outskirts of Huaral, Yeras
to address a group or Japanese nationals. while me emgeged
Following the arrest all but nine were released. Theme mime
were brought to Lime and incarcerated. Their nemes are as
follows:
Carnat Mumber
KANZO.B
CHOGORO.TA(ATO)
27550
TATSUZO (Or YAISUKO) SHIODA
26995
KANSAKU YAMAMOTO
82305
MASAICHI YMASHITA
16159
TOMKICHI TAK.TA
16227
K.TBUGORO MUR.TA
22109
YAICHI TANIGUCHI
19614
TSUOUO NISHLHU
27995
On August 4, l94o, the police arrested the follow
ing Japenese in Lima:
hume
Carnet Number
Tmsel Poalool
16246
AINANO OY.SHI
RAOKI DAKUDA
18810
KOZN LZNA
22041
YOHIKAM TOY
18882
KOSAURO YABIKU (O YBIKU)
18564
SESHO YAGUI
15886
JUSE SAKIME
JU 
15008
KAME ARAKAKI
15003
YINTARO SAKUDA
20455
ICHIRO NAKANA
26290
YASUKICHI ATO
15607
HIDETOBHI OSHIRO
18972
KOKUJO KOCHI
IT.RO SAKUDA
- 5-

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.93)
At the time of 's arrest in Huaral he hed im s
po: session a Bell und Howell l6 mm. motion pieture projester
Mouse produstion whioh was m de in Kobe, Japan, in losl. me
belance of the films consiated of Jupanese home movies made
in the same year in Koce, Japen, whioh starred an wmkmem
Japanese aotress in the role of e spy during the Memehariem
wer. The pictures naturelly showed the Jepanese in mm herele
role agminst a militery baokground. It in believed that they
were shown on the oceasion of the meeting in Huarel es a meams
to assure a ood attendance.
During the interrogution of Kn20 A the following
He wes born in Fukushime, Japan, July 17, l895. On Outober 9,
193z he Lert Jayan aboerd he Suntosu Maru en route to Bramil.
He arrived at the port of Santos, Brazil, and traveled frem there
to Sao feulo where he allegedly resided for le years. Daring
his residenoe in the lutter stete ne wes purportedly empleyed
as an agriaulturel worker by aTA and Company. He elaims s
have been employed by that company in the growing of silk werms.
He allegedly received 500 Cruzeiros (2o.0 U.S.) per month. It
should be noted in l is conneotion thet his appearanee and
bearing ere not those of a low cless peon. On the contrery, he
gives every impression or bein a high cluss intelligent
Jupanese.
nen uestioned regeruin the ectivities of the SHINDo
I in razil, . stuled tt cere were so 95, 00o
Japanese in the stote of sao aulo. Generelly speaking, they
were said by him to full into two  roups, one which believed
that Ju an had won the wer and one whien was convineed thet they
had Lost. The former roup was arlginaly divided into four
separate organizetions. They were:
1. chudé Renmei
2. igó Gunyinuan
Aikoku Sekishinden
4.
Shindo Renmei
Al stated thst inasauch as the objectives of all
four groups were identical, they subsequently reorganized es
one organizetion under the name SHINDo EhMkI. He emphesised
that the motives of this organization were pstriotie in mature.
As members they were "united to fight for Japan" and to sombet
the "treitors" who believed that Jepan hed lost the war.
- 6 -

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.95)
During the first part of the interrogatiom amm
stated that he hud Left Sao Paulo, Brezil, Mareh l0, lsse.
with TakksliI TOhIGOE, en route to the Pename Canal where
he planned to sail for Japan aboard one or the Japamese wer
ships whieh, acsordine to him, are presently loested there.
He stated thet he proceeded to Peru via the following route:
Seo Paulo, Campo Grande, coruabe (Brazil); Sante Crus.
Coshabembe, Oruro, La raz (Bolivis); Cuzeo, Abancay, Nases, Iee,
and Lime (Peru). They errived in Lima on ay 29, Last.
Upon his arrival in reru  stated thut he was
astonisned at the Luck of unity in the local Japanese eolomy.
He thereupon decided to r mein in Lime for several months to
assist them in organizing into a unified patriotie group. with
this end in view he gave a series of conferences desigmed to
stimulate the patriotio spirit or the Japanese here.
Later on in the interrogation, however, A stated
that he had come to reru on a "mission" to organize the
Japenese in this country. Followin this he intended to pre-
seed to the United States for the same purpose, pausing m
route for orcenizetional work in Colombis and Venesuels end
other pleces where there were Japanese nationals.
In discussine nie  ork in reru  seid that he had
met considerabie resist nce rro a r up of Japanese whem he
classiried us "traltorous." he uile ed that he hed attempted
to arrange en interview with thet to convince tnem of the error
of their ways. However, in te Lust moment plans were abandoned
for the "eonferenee" when t received the inrormation thet they
were planning to atteck nim.
Yumerous documents written in Jepanese were found in
AB's possession at the time of his arrest. On a sheet of
notebook psper whieh wes found in his wallet at the time of above
arrest Ank hed noted the nemes of tiirteen Japanese of that group
who were desoribed as "anti-patriotie" and as enemies of the new
organizetion. These names ore as follows:
KURDHARA (CÍ. TAISHO SHOTAY)
LASHIRO SATO (JOSHIRO)
YOSHIYUKI TAMÚHA
SEIJIRO TABATA
SEIGORO KAWAMOTO
KTZUO KAZANO
YONUYE TAKESHI
-7-

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.92)
FEDRO NABETA
ALBERTO NATA
YORI ARANAKI
SHI SAITO (or T) (rroo)
SAIZO L.GABAKI
YOSHITAI RANASHIRO (Huaral)
During the courme of is work in Peru he admits maving
given approximstely 30 conferences in the headquarters of the
AIKOkU DUSHI KAI at Cslle Jose Leel 115 and at the hemes t
verious of the members. During this period he admits te avins
colleoted some s/2,sou wnich nad been spent in the purehese 
let whioh contains the tenets and beliefs of the ShInDo RmimI.
sixty copies of this booklet were allegedly brought by An and
his campanion to Peru. He distributed all but appreximately
15 copies prior to nis errest. The balanoe was meised by the
police and confiscated. In this connection ABk explmimed that
the Silhso  likl edited a montnly mimeographed magesime ia Brail
for the purpose of ciroulating the true news about Japem. the
title of this monthly  ublicstion is said to be "Metisiario."
the general theme of the srticles appearing therein is thet Jepem
hos not lost the war.
Later in ne interrogction  nen A was questioned
further regurdine the nli nI he stated thet it hed
roimetely ,o mebers.  atulea that although he be
lieved in the principles nd ideels of the lInDo ENmI, he
nad not wished to belon to the orgen ization beesuse of the
violenee which it had encouraged egainst the traitorous elements
of the Japanese colony there. He added thst at least ms of the
latter had been asmassinsted in Seo raulo. He then stated that he
had not come to Peru as a reprementative of the ShInDo muxI but hed
made the trip on his wn initiative without having been eemmis-
sioned either by his government or by any other group. whem it
was pointed out to Bä tict nis statements were incensistent,
however, he sdmitted that he had assisted in the organisetiomal
work or the ShInvo hmeI in Sao raulo and thet ne had eeme to
reru to continue in the same effort.
ahen questioned regarding nis companion TakeshI
TohIco, A said that he was a patriot although too violemt fer
nis, AB's, tastes. He maid that he hed fallen out with the
Latter because TokIGuE insisted on the principle of the use of
terrorism against the "traitors." Yor this reason A e-
plained thst he had separated from TORIGOE upon his arrival
In Lime and had not associated with him since then.
- 8 -

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.92)
hen aß was questioned conoerning his arrest im
Brazil he admitted that he had been jailed for ten months fer
heving carried a letter from one MUkaI to another Japemese
referred to as SkNGA. Ak olaimed that he did not know whet
was contained in the letter but that both BEN GA and MURAI
were arrested at the same time and tiat all of them remeimed
prisoners for epproximetely one yeur.
From further doouments found in nis possessiem is
was ascertained that plans were underfoot for the formatiem of
a women's organization whieh would funotion as a feminime soumter
pert to the AIAOkU Dos HI KAI. This group of womem epparemsly
contributed toward the work or the IkOkU DosHI KAI the sm of
S/bz0.00. A list of the founder members of the feminime e
ganization, together with the amounts sontri buted by them is
es follows:
NOVORlANA K
S/50.00
BAKUDA TOYOKE
36.00
b .
35.00
.U.
50.00
YAGUI O
30.00
SHUIKE EAUYA
30.00
AIGUCHI J
20.00
20.00
20.00
. Y
20.00
20.00
AO INKO
20.00
 Y
80.00
BAK L EIKO
80.00
UYLMA KIKUYE
20.00
20.00
ShIMABUKURO KAANDA
20.00
∠AKLE SEICHI
FUKINAA. KIMIKO
15.00
10.00
TAMASHIRO CHURUKO
TOYALA UTO
10.00
10.00
ARAKAKI NASU
10.00
OSHIAO NAR
10.00
LIAsHlno KNA
10.00
CINN KAME
5.00
YAGUK CHURUKO
20.00
KANAMOTO SADAKO
Another dooument in his possession indiested thst he
was colleeting funds for the supposed purpose of sending e
delegation to Japan. The translation or this doeument Is as
follows:
- 9 -

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.92)
THE UCT F NNDING A DELEGATION TO JAPA
"The greet war of Kastern sie hes terminated with
a crisis which still does ot permit the formulating of pre-
dietions ouwernin, the future.
"However, it comforts us grestly to see in this serioms
hour the greatnees or our mother sountry whieh is engaged in me
of the most gigantio tasks of its history. This coneerns the
esteblisliment of peace, ror the realisstion of whioh our sountry
is overeoming tnousands nd thousands of dirfieulties.
'ievertneless, in spite of these actual inecmtrevertible
facts there are individuels amony the Japanese residents in
verious South Americun countries who believe thst Japem has lost
the war whion just termineted. .orse still, they have deseereted
membere of tihe Seered Imperial Family, thus eommitting me of
the most irreverent and censureble sots which a Japanese subjeet
can commit.
"In view of these ciroumstances we heve reselved to
create a committee which will undertake the sending of e dele-
gation to Japan in order that they might bring us the true and
cleer picture about the situation efter  vine made on-the-seeme
observations.
"Therefore, we desire tuut lhe distinguimned and
intelligent members or the colony will cindly make wvailable
their esteemed spiritual and wateriel essistence.
"Drawn up June 5, lyso (Twenty-firat year of the Showm
Arm).
"DIACTED TO HL BRS OF THE JAFANSE COLONY R
SIUING IN . EHU BY HE COMI. TEE IN CH MGE OF SENDING A DELZ
GATION TO JA: N.
"LILT OF DONORS
"Amount
Donor
Address
1,000 peaos
Sr. Chogoro Salo
Barranes
1,000 pesos
sr.
Kochi
Lims
100 pesos
ympethizer
Barranes
170 pesos
ympathizer
Barrenes
100 pesos
55.
Hatana be
Humcho
-10-

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.91)
"ABun
sdress
10 pesos
Sr. Sakay
Barrence
150 pesos
Sy.-pethizer
-一
120 pesos
Bre. Sato Iwaya
Lime
A wristwatch
Sr. Kenichiro Shimmbukure Lime
suit und other
sr. Kooni
Limm
articles
Almo in Aba's possession at the time or his arrest
was a gold medal insorived in Japanese chermoters whieh are
translated es follows: ", resented to KNz) BE by the AIkomy
D0. HI .I, July 13, 1946." Ih1 medal was presented te A
on this occssion at a din er uttended by the Leading elememts
of the .IkokU DosHI h I. The speeoh of presentatiom was mde
by KOkn LNA, President of the AIKOKU DOsHI KAI. It is re
ported thet the idee of eiving ABt e medal origimated with KIntano
KOBAYASHI, General Secretery of the Society.
When interrogated by the pelice TAkkshI TokiGo stated
that he was born November 12, 1919, in Fukuoke, Japan. He meid
that he hed arrived in srezil from Japan, September 26, l935.
At the time of his srrest he carried with him Certiricate af
Residence No. 1687 which us issued in Lins, Stete of Sao Paule,
Braz11, December 31, 1939.
fokIG0 teted tnt e d met  on Junuary 5, 1946,
at a bar in Lins. He said tnot m, in talking about the wer.
hed told uim that there was e Japanese squadron in Funame and
tnat ne would like to have fonlOs accompany nim on e Jourmey
whicn he was lannin to make to that place with the idem of
taking passege to Jepen. TonIGOE indieated thet since he was
a petriotio Japanese Le wisned to return to his country end thet
therefore he had decided to accompany ABk as indiested. He mmid
that they departed from Seo raulo Maroh 8 and after following the
Bame route as above described by  BE, arrived in Lime May 29.
1946.
when questioned further regarding ABa, TohIGok re-
salled tmut ho had been arreated in arazil for approximately
 year and Lad been released by the authorities in November,
1e45. He went n to may that Aa had told nim that he, Amm,
hed been a sailor und that he was well mequainted with the
Hawaiian Islands, Asiu, und Amerios. During the trip through
-11-

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.90)
Bolivis he seid that Abk hed met with various Japenese in
Le Faz in the home of KOMORI TOSHIG IRO. Frem the latter mewree
the travelers received 12,000 pesos Bolivianos with whish they
were able to coutinue their journey.
Razuo kazano, Vice rresident or the Alkoxu DOsmI KAI,
when questloned by the police advised thet he had firss mes
ABe ut the heedquartera of the orgenizetion on Calle Jose Leal
115. At that time t lold Kan0 thet he hnd been ment by the
Shlhbo khsI in Brazil to Peru for the purpoae of ergamimlng
the Japanese in this country. KnZan0 further stated that An
had told him that he had been one of the rounder members of the
ShliDo  EhI in Brazil. During the course of subsegmemt seme
vermations with Bk, K Znh0 said that the former had imdiested
thst £6 Japenese had been "executed" by members of the Bhimmo
HhdkI in Brazil because they hed opposed the work of the e
ganization and thereby hod become traitors to Japen.
As above noted, XINTaRo KOnaYASHI waa eleeted General
Secretury of the AIKOkU DüsthI KAI on May 7, 1946, to replmee
RIcHlk sHIßukUo. wen questioned by the poliee,
AhnYnSiI stated that he as 5z years of ege, = gardener 
profession, and tuat he resided in the asaje Centrel, Interier
"B", Rimec, Lima. During nis interrocation he confirmed the
fect thet  had steted on numerous occasions that he hed
come from srazil us e representative or the lINDo RknI. He
further stated taat he, kosnY sliI, ned resided in Peru 3o years.
He indioated tiat he was married and hed one child. He sald that
ne hed sent his wife anu chilu to Jepan prior to the war.
Several days followin the interrogation by the poliee,
the Winister of Government was appromehed by severel Japemess
whose names appear in the list of "treitors" above set out.
These Japanese indiceted to the Minister thet they eonsidered
KUlAYAsiI to be the most dangerous of the local members of the
AIKUkU DOsHI KAI and requested thet the Peruvian Government
arrange for his ceportetion to Japan.
KO IzN., Pre1dent of Lhe .KKU OSHI KAI.
advised the police thot he was 64 years of ase, possessed
Identirication Carnet No. zsoel, and resided at José Leal i1s.
when westioned regarding As, Izkis steted thet he had eome to
reru ror the purpose of foundine e "benerit" organisstiem in the
losal Japanese solony. In explaining this point he sdded that
Abk "had assisted in organizing = similer troup in Bresil under
the name SHINDO ENkEI." He stated further that the AIKoKU
- 12 

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.93)
DuGiI I had reeruited 300 wembers in the Lime aree by the
lime the arrests were wade as above noted. He went  te sas
that the AIkUkU DosHI I hed the same besis end eime as te
BRINDO RKNMEI.
At the time of nis arrest In had in his peamessiem
a dooument carryin the title "Constitution of the Sesiety
zation in Japanese i: the HOkOKU DOSHI KAI. When questime
regarding the neture or this society IzinA stated that it had
been organized in Huencayo on December 6, 1945, on the mame
besis es that of the AIkOKU DosHI KAI, whioh was organised im
Lime the following dey. He added that when the organizatiem in
Huanoayo Learned of the presence or  in Lime, it hed semt
RYOMI HIYANE, a member of the founding committee, to Lime to
contect I Eh. for the purpose of susgesting thet both groups be
united under the Aik  DsI I organization. These aramge
ments were being ade at the time I . was arrested, whish
sccounts for the above dooument whioh was found in IŽkna's pos-
sessim. It is translated as follows:
"CONSTITUTIN A YLS   SOCITY OF
TRIUTS HESIDING IN HUANCAYO
"rticle I
"This soclety will e oulled the 'Society of ratriots
of ruancayo.' Its dule or founding will be set es December 6,
1945, und its meetin luce wil1 be at fembo street No. 102
in uanoayo.
"rtiole II
"This society will ve formed by the organizatiom of
Loyal and patriotio Jupanese who trust in the grest Japenese
Empire and the Imperial Government and who possess a reel
knowledge or the actual situation.
"Artiole III
"The sosiety hes as its ends the exalting of the
Japanese spirit, the developing or s close relationship amsns
its members in an atmosphere of unity, and the stimalatimg im
them of the healthy desire of conquering. In the pursaing or
these ends the sosiety will sontribute to the hermony of the
local Japenese community.
- 13-

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.94)
"Artiole IV
"Those who cre not wembers or this sosiety bat whe
are in accord with its ends will be considered es members whem
they have been approved by the Bourd or Direetors.
"Article V
"The reguler meetings will be held on December 6, 
the Emperor's birthday, and on the 15th of August of eaek year.
The speoial meetings will be called when necessary by the
Fresident with the prior approval of the Board of Direeters.
"Artiole VI
"In order to administer and direct the mosiety, the
following positions will be esto lished: rresident, vise
President, Generel Sesretary, Treusurer, secretary, end various
direstors.
"article vII
"The positions of the society will carry no selary
and the officers will hold office for one year. Frier te the
termination of the terw of orfice, the officers mmy be re-
lieved of their responsibilities if circumstences demend it.
Article VIII
"The monthly uues will se rixed at /l.oo whion the
wembers will pey for the maintenance of the society.
"artiele Ls
"It will be necessary for expenditures to be ep-
proved by the Boord or Directors before peing paid from soslety
funds.
"Artiole 
"Matters not contemplated by this Constitutiom and
Bylews will be disoussed und approved by the Bosrd or Direeters
before being pleced in effect. Additions and eliminatiems to
or from this Comstitution and Bylaws must be taken up at e
general meeting.
-14-

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.85)
"Artiole XI
"In the event tuut the sosiety finds itmelf ebliged
to disaolve, the funds will be delivered te the Japemese d
Cross through the Foreign Ministey of the Japanese Govermmemt
"ddendm
"The direotion of the society during the period
December 6, 1945 to December 6, 1946, wil1 be handled by the
committee of founding members. Following December 6, lsss, the
direction will be handled by duly eleeted members.
"Adopted December 6, 1945.
"List of founding mewbers:
"CUI.TAE O. OUNDIN LLERS
(Bosrd of Jirectors)
YAAGUCHI. YIHO
MATAYJHI KYUO (YU)
ONOJIM (ONOSHLMA). AKN
HOJO, .YOTA
()
, 
YY
Y, Y
"Urisinal Domieile
"Name
YAMAUUCHI, YOSHITARO
Prefecture of akmyam
SHIIHI, KIU.
99
Khime
ONOJIM., SAKON
Yamagate
H ADA, SEIKICHI
Yamagete
MIUR, KUNIGORO
Yamegate
ENDO, SASUKE
Yamagete
A, RYOYU
n
Yamagate
AMANO, KINAI
3
Fukushims
HARUYAMA, SOJIRO
rukushime
KAWAHIMA, SIZO
Kumsmeto
YASUDA, SHUKICHI
Nars
Yamsshiro, Hozen
Okinawe
-15-

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.88)
"Nane
"Original penterr
IN DUYL, OTSUHIKO
Frefecture of Yames
KUBOKA EIKO
ATAYOSHI, SEIKO
TAYOSHI;KYUS.O (RYU.HO)
ee
HIYANE, RYOMEI
n
HOJO, RYOTA
n
HIGASHIZEKO. SHLKI
MIYAHIR., SHUNSEI
UENO, YASUYOSHI
90
n
NOMOTO, MOMO.O
n
n
SAITO, HIN HDN
n
CHINEN. RYUAI
n
SAKIHANA, SHUNEI
n
NAMA, KOTARO
ICHIKANA, KENΔO
11
SUKHIRO, RIJU
n
7
YANO, KÓJIRO
9
OH. TA. KOSUKE
n
wakayeme
HHA. KYUGO
Fukuoks
CHINAN, IKICI
Okinewe
"ume
orininal vomicile
"Date of Kntrx
n, 
.refecture of Akita
Marah 10, 1946
YTO, 
Fukuy
June 20, 1946
, 
Hiroshima
July 1, 1946
NUBI, JIRO
Okinswa
July 9, 1966"
Upon receiváng the above inrormation the polise
arrested the committee of founding members in Huancayo with the
exeeption or kYoMaI HIYANE who could not be located. These
Japanese were brought to Lime and are presently incareereted
here.
On September 3, 1946, a notice appeared in "El Permane,"
ofriciel Government newspaper, to the effest thot a Supreme
Deeree hed been passed by the Leruvian Government on August 26,
1946, ordering the expulsion from Peru of KEN20 ABE end TAkeshI
TORIGOR.
On September 25, 19s6, a similar notice appeared in
"El  ruano" to the effect thet a Supreme Decree had beem passed
-16-

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.87)
on September 11, 1946, ordering the expulsion from Perm 
△INT..RO KOBAYASHI.
Source , e relieble Peruvian police orrioial, ms
advised the police have sucgested to the Peruvien Foreigm Ofriee
that efforts be made to secure the cooperetion or the Umited
States Government in effectine the deportation of the above
mentioned three Japanese to Japan.
Follow in the issubnce of the Supreme Deeree of septembes
11 ooncerning KOnYnI, the other Japanese who hed been im-
carcerated ss above noted were released.
Durine the  eriod from September 23 through September
27, unonymous letters were received by the following Japanese.
aii of whom are cone lmred us "traitors" by the AIkokU DosHI KAI:
kI, YouI
1 UYh, .I
020
MOTO, SEIGORO
..Im , 
monlaoro, 1cnlh.o
UJ
1r0 
an, cidIno
 YY
The above letters were identicel in composition.
Source C advises that they were apperently written by three
difrerent individuels. However, the wajority of the letsers
appeer to have been written by one individual. After compering
the letters with hendwriting mpecimens in his rile Souree G
states that he is convinoed thet the individual who composed
the letter and wrote most of the copies was KENICnIRO SHIMABUKURO.
After talking to the l2 Japanese whose names are set
out a bove, Source C indicated tihat it was the consensus of
Oinion tht YOSHICA TOYA, KON L, nd CHOGORO SATO
were also involved in the writing of the anonymoms letters. A
translation of these letters reads as follows:
"TO THE THAITORS
-17-

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.95)
"with your versistent affirmstion of the defeet of
Japen in the wer you, the traitors, heve dimhonored the sessed
name or the mother country. Furtner, you have eaused è ais-
colony. You nnve also committed the unpurdenable eet of de-
nouneing vefore the authorities of this country (Peru), whe have
been bribed by you, the petriotio work of those whe, like our
selves, ure sure of the viotory of Japan.
"The Jupanese colony w1ll never forget the despiemble
conduet of you who heve betrayed your oountry by pleeing aif-
rioulties in the way of the righteous recial sampaim of the
patriots. In doing so you heve resorted to many forbiddem metheds.
"Aside from the egotistical desire to win persemel
gein, you are a sroup of human beings who, like animals, leek
personality snd petriotism.
"We invite you who still believe in the defeat e
Japan to see with your own eyes the light of truth of the
reality for whioh the world has suffered and espeeially in
bustern Asia.
"nhut has revealed to us tie happenings of asia?
st is happenin to the world? Is it possiole perhaps to
aisouss tiese topios wi lhout kno in the world reelity?
"Do you the traitors who decree the defeat of Japen
kno. oy clonce the 21 , rticles of the Treaty of Peace which was
signed on the deck of the ex-horth mericen airplene carrier
"Missouri" (captured by the Japanese Nuvy in the Philippimes)
which ocourred in the Bay of Tokyo, September 1, 1saß? Perhaps
not. You who ere sleves to cold are rejoicing besause of the
fall of our mother country in the same menner as the Jews. It
is very possible also thut you heve forgotten the greetmess of
the Japanese spirit. otually thet is the case. There ere me
greater fools then yourselves. How are you able to walk through
the streetef :usillanimous treitors such us you are do met
have the least reason to continue living on this earth as
Jepanese subjests. You would contribute something to the raee
ir you would decide to plece an immediate end to your days.
But you, bessuse you are cowards ere not capable of edepting
such a determimation.
"We the patriots are working in unselfishness and
with great saerifiees for the prosperity and greetness of the
- 18 -

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
"Jepenese nation. You have placed dirrieulties in the way ef this
work whieh we have begun even to the point of having us jailek.
"Because of this attitude wllion you have taken agmimst
us we are not allowed to consider you as real Japanese subjests.
"Think well and consult your oonseienee and you will
know how mistaken you are.
"Through the meane which you have adopted, the result
of selfish personal interest, you heve only thrown a disgreeeful
shadow over the future of our race.
"rossibly you are satisfied with this prospeet and
are oongratulating yourselves upon the success whioh you have
obtained in mecuring our errest and imprisonment in jail.
However, this means nothing to us. sooner or later the momemt
will come in which you will wuve to mount the exeeutiom platferm
to ve guillotined. It will ve the moment in whioh you will pay
for having been enemies of the rece and the mother country.
Aweit tuis moment but beforehend wash your neoks well.
"Traitors! Do not ory or scream in desperatiom. we
huve prepared everything that is necessary to prepare. e
recommend to you thwt you say goodbye to those who are dear to
you and make a toast to your uncestors even though it be only
alass of ater.
"Before finisaine tnis notice, we send to you one
last word.
"What is the reason for your social position, for
your fortunes, and for your knowledge? Are they not oonseorated
to the serviees of the rece end of the nation?
"However, what is it that you nave done? In plaee of
serving you have impeded our patriotic racial movement and have
offended the wortliy name of our mother country by the most
abominable acts.
"And if this were not enough, your treason has earried
you so far as to place you in eontact and in sccord with a
Padre named YONkkAwA who has been deported from Japan far his
espionsge activities. Furthermore, you have been groveling
before the American and reruvian authorities to have us arrested
and pleced in the hands or the latter.
- 19 -

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.91)
"These sensurable ests wuieh you have sommitted
turough egents hired by you with money or the Jews eannet be
rorgivon.
"Traitors, whet a diamal lot is yours!
"How will you aocount to our wother Country?"
-20 -

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
A-161
Washington,
NO.
2617
TIME.
894.20223/10-3146
TO THE
UNITED STATES PCLITICAL ADVISER TO THE
AELBA661
SUPREME COM IDE FOR HE ALLID POWER
TOKYO.
Nov 25, 1946 2617
In connection with recent Japanese terroristic
activities in Brazil and Peru, the Peruvian police
recently detained Japanese national Abe Kenso for his
participation in these activities. Presidential
decree has been issued ordering his repatriation to
Japan, together with two other Japanese who collaborated
with him.
Abe has requested an audience with the President
of Peru "in order to explain the motives for his trip
to Peru". Abe has publicly claimed to be a rear ad-
miral in the Japanese Navy and that he was an envoy
of Emperor Hirohito, charged with unifying the Japanese
in South America. The Department requests that any
information regarding Abe and his claims to be a rear
admiral and an envoy of Emperor Hirohito be forwarded,
using the heading PANJAP to expedite handling.
.P7
acting
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
DCR NF Uni1
S
8920223
(OFFICES ONLY)
NO. 22 346
894.20223
0-3146
FC:HHBarger:mm
11/18/46
JA
#
ONY

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lima, Poru, Ootober 31, 1946
RESTRICTED
No. 623
Subject: Abe Kenso, Detained Japanese National,
Claims to be Rear Admiral in Japanose
Navy
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Ambassador has the honor to refer to despatoh no.
REPORTING SERVICES
DIVISION OF FOREIGN
NOV 12 1946
554 of Ootober 17, 1946, concerning the appeal addressed
by Abe Kenso, a detained Japanese national awaiting de-
portation to Japan, to the President of the Republio re-
questing an audience in order to explain the motives for
his trip to Peru and his alleged military rank, and to
report that Kenso, in a recent press interview at his place
of confinement, claimed to be a rear admiral in the Japanese
navy.
Abe Kenso asserted that he was an envoy of Emperor
Hirohito charged with unifying the Japanese in South Amerioa.
He professed to have democratic tendenoies and to be a be-
liever in the Catholic doctrine. He said that he possessed
no personal documents but indicated that he might be able
to obtain a Japanese military register from a oo-national
89
1-FC
in Peru so as to prove his military rank.
4
Konso complained that the high Peruvian authorities
-EURA
had ignored his appeal and that, the charges against him havim
4-ARA
been approved, he was to be deported. He stated that he felt
certain that a canvass of the Japanese nationals in Peru as
2
—A
to his person and his mission would be favorable and would
2
confirm that he had committed no act harmful to Japan nor
endangered public order in Peru. His interviewer noted that
1iSy
there were about thirty Japanese at the jail waiting to see
him.
3146
Jur
711
LeslieWJohnson/ps
n/12/46
To the Department in
original and hectograph
CS/A
AIIINC
DEC 9 - 1946
FILED
ARA
894.202
BMRuan

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.89)
SECRET
ACMPARSY
2
2,0 to 2, 500. Urge guarantee o1 costs so that arrangements
may be made promptly. Telegraph reply.
acheson
acti
(gwa)
BUTION
REL
FC2HH
gor:oma
11/6/46

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
Fily
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SEORET
Control 594
2
Action-FU
Rec'd November 2, 1946
Info:
3:40 p.m.
心
894.20223
FROM:
Lima
ARA
FE
TO:
Becretary of State
UCD
3PD
NO
11?7. November ?, Noon
FUR-X
d/: ~Ne-17N
CA/T
De nite renoated regueats no reply received from Foreign
Du/s
(frice concerning payment by Paru of deportatfon costs
three dangeyous Janant 3c political organizere mentioned
MYTEL 1035. 0ctobeY 1. 5 r.m. (REDEPTELS 85o, October 9
and 23?, Cct ber 30) wno have now been given court tria1
but whe are now under denortation orders by Executive
decree and are ready for dencrtation soon as arrangoments
246
ry be made.
Lima  lice are very anxloua to get rid of them immediately
and have informally advlued Embassy Legal Attache that they
aro doubtful whether Peruvjan funds aveilable to pay de-
nortatlon costs, saying if US Government unable to bear
costs tranaportation to Janan, tho three Jans likely will
be oscorted to and placed over Peruvian border with orders
not to return. Embaasy believes these men should not be
left at laryre any place in the Americas. Military Attache
ready arrange custody and trananortation to Canal Zone soon
as instructed.
COOPER
C
en
GD:CWD
2
FILED
12 1946
C
DECLASSIF.ED
NNO 280069
SECRET
PERMANÉNT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
Le Comment al botlonw oymens
CON - Mr. Lón:
TO
DATE: November 6, 1946.
FC - Mr. Neal:
FROM : FC - r. Barger:
SUBJECT: Deportation of Three Japanese Nationals from Peru.
The Department has received several telegrams from +he Embassy in
Lima indicating that Abe, Kenzo; Takeshi, Torigoe and Kobayashi, Kintaro,
Japanese nationals, have been arrested by the Peruvian Police for their
connection with Japanese terroristic activities in that country.
The Embassy stated that they had received an informal request for
894.20223/11
assistance in having these three individuals repatriated to Japan.
Following a discussion with the ar Department, we informed the Embassy
in Lima that repatriation under custody could be effected but requested
that the Peruvian Government guarantee the cost.
The Department has just received a telegram stating that despite
repeated requests by the Embassy no reply was received from the Peruvian
Foreign Office re payment for the deportation of the abovementioned
Japanese political organizers. The telegram added that the Japanese in
question are under deportation orders by Executive Decree and are ready
for deportation as soon as necessary arrangements may be made.
It is indicated by the Embassy that the Lima Police are very anxious
to get rid of Abe and Kobayashi and Takeshi, and have informally advised
the Legal Attache of the Embassy that they are doubtful if Peruvian
funds are available to defray the cost of deportation. They added,
however, that if the United States Government was unable to bear the
a
cost, the three Japanese would probably be escorted to and placed over
the Peruvian border with orders not to return. The Embassy stated that
OEQLSSIFIED
it believes that these three men should not be left at large any place
in the Americas and that the Military Attache can arrange custody and
transportation to the Canal Zone as soon as instructed.
CS
1./2
FC has discussed the matter with SPD, and it was decided to leave
it to the Director of this office for decision as to whether or not
the United States Government should undertake to defray the costs, as
the War Department will undoubtedly insist that we guarantee payment.
By
It would undoubtedly create a precedent for Uncle Sam to under
write the cost of deportations in the future but, on the ather hand,
the three Japanese mentioned are considered by us to be dangerps to
hemispheric security.
It will be recalled that Abe and Takeshi were activein the terror
itial
istic activitiea which occurred in southern Brazil and that they came
E
to
NOV01946

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
to Peru to organize a similar group through the Shindo Renmei, which as
instrumental in the murders of many peaceful citizens of Brasil. There
is attached a report from the FBI giving further details on the activities
of these individuals should it be necessary in arriving at some decision.
The var Department has indicated that the cost of deportation under
custody would probably amount to from $2,000 to $2,500 for the three
Japanese. A telegram is being sent today to the Embassy in Lima inform-
ing them of the approximate cost of deportation and urging that they
again approach the Peruvian Government with the request that it guarantee
these costs. However, a decision by the Director of this office on this
matter would be appreciated so that corresponding steps might be taken
in the event that the Peruvian Government failed to guarantee payment.
Attachment:
FBI report, dated October 30, 1946.
It should be
Peuurin Son't won't pay.
This de weat
understoad, howenn , that
-Atces at montride mistt landle such cs?
xu1B
FC:HHBarger:emaa

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
SECRET
Lima, November 19, 1946.
No. 713
Proposed Repatriation of
Subject:
Abe r.enso, Japanese Organizer.
and two other Japanese.
A-
The lionorable
The secretary of state,
Weshington.
Referring to the vepartment's secret telegram No. 9ll,
dated November 8th, 10 a.m., instructing the Ambassador to inform
the Foreign Office that the cost of repatriating the three Jap-
anese who are now being held in prison at Lima will be from
$2000 to 2500, I have the honor to report that this information
was brought to the attention of the Foreign Office. The only
reply so far received was the statement that the information
would be brought to the attention of the Ministry of Interior
894.20223/
10/2
(which has charge of incarceration and deportation of individuals).
The Peruvian Government clearly desires to get rid of the
three Japanese but it has not yet indicated any willingness to
ay
assume the costs involved in deportation. The Legal Attaché of
this Embassy has stated that the last time he talked with the
Peruvian police about this matter, they seemed to have in mind
that if the United States was not able to take charge of the
Japanese and bear the costs of repatriation, the three men would
11-1946
be mllowed by the Peruvian Government to pay their own passage
or have it paid by any interested parties to any place outside
ENRA
of Peru. This line of thought does not seem to take into consid-
eration the difficulties likely to be encountered in arranging
AN'A
JA
for the entry of persons of Japanese nationality into any country
other than Japan.
5C1c
3SND
There is enclosed a clipping from LA PRENSA of Lima, dated
1/
November 16, 1946, quoting a further letter from Abe Keneo, the
604
leader in the affairs leading up to the arrest of himself and the
C23
other two Japanese.
2/
In this letter, translation of which is also enclosed, Abe Kenso
3na
takes a slightly different line from that assumed in his previous
letters. He states that he was commissioned by his Government to
visit Brazil, Bolivia and Peru and to inform himself of the situa-
1423/46
tion of his subjects. He statee that he arrived in Brazil on the
11th of November, 1945, in a warship and says (in translation) "I
only wish to look after my subjects".
As soon as any further information is available on this subjeet,
it will be brought to the Department's attention.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassader:
M. W de Zamhert.
R. M. de Lembert,
Enslesures:

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
AIR MAIL
American Embassy, Lima.
Despatch No. 713, Nov. 19, 1946.
-2
Enclosures:
1- Clipping from LA PNSA of November 16, 1946, 1n one copy only
2-iranslation of clippin forming enclosure 1.
RMdelambert-hkl

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
American Embassy, Lima,
Despatoh No. 713, Nov. 19, 1946.
Enclosure 1 to despatch No. 713 of November 19, 1946 from the Embassy
at Lima.
C1IPPING FROM LA PRENSA of November 16, 1946.
"Carta de Abe Kenso"
INTERESES GENERALES
CARTA DE ABE KENSO
Sea mi primera palabra la de 
gradecer a esta noble tierra perua-
na. la hospitalidad que brinda  to-
dos los extranjeros que tenemos la
suerte de llegar hasta aquí, y espe-
cialmente en nombre de la colonia
japonesa, que 25 mil de sus hijos
viven felices, al amparo de sus le
yes y de su nunca bien ponderada
hidalguia.
Desde el 14 de agosto de 1945, 
que terminó la guerra que salvó 
la humanidad de mayores desastres,
fui comisionado por mi gobierna,
para visitar el Brasil, Bolivia y al
Perú e informarme de la situnción
de mis súbditos y de sus necesida-
des, de modo de poder llevar hasta
Tokio una versión exacta de mi mi-
sión.
Habiendo llegado el 11 de noviem-
hre del año pasado al Brasil, en um
buque de guerra, mi único afán,
después de mi estada en esa era
visitar Bolivia y el Perú y palpar
personalmente cuáles eran las ne
cesidades de los japoneses residen-
tes en estos pueblos de Sud-América
y poder dar fidelisima informacióm
a mi Patria.
Desde el 29 de mayo de este año,
en que llegué al Perú, después de
visitar Brasil y Bolivia, he encon-
trado a mis connacionales en desa-
cuerdo por el feliz término de la
guerra; término éste que dará al
Munda verdadera democracia, tan-
to a los pueblos de Europa y Asía
como a los de Américn, chicos y
grandes, ricos y pobres. todos, to-
ios deberán manejar su comercio
nterior y exterior con amplia liher-
tad, negociando espontánea y libre-
mente con cualquier otro país del
Continente.
Yo no traigo ningún interés per-
sonal, solamente quiero velar por
mis súbditos, por su unión. y por
wu-bienestar y agradecer nuevamen-
te a este gran pueblo peruano que
ya desde el Japón yo qulero.
No soy terrorista como falsamen-
te se me titula, soy hombre honra-
do, y no me explico quien pueda
haber inventado ese ardid, para de
sacreditar y frustrar asi mi misión.
Soy, solamente, un comisionado del
Gobierne de Tokio, que hasta ahors
sufre más de tres meses de prisión.
sin saber hasta euándo dure mi cau-
tiverio, el que espero termine lo mas
pronto y poder realisar mis ideales
de converser com el Goblerme del
Perù.
Delagade del Japón.
R. B1714

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
American Embassy, Lima,
AIR MAIL
Despatch No. 713, Nov. 19, 1946
Enclosure 2 to despatch No. 713 of November 19, 1946 from the Embassy
at Lime.
TRANSLATION
ITEMS OF GNEAL INTEREST.
Letter from Abe kenso.
Let me first express my gratitude to the fine country of Peru, for
the hospitality it offers to all of us foreigners who are lucky enough
to reach here end, especiully, in the name of the Japanese Colony, for
the fact that 25,000 of its sons live happily, under the protection of
its (Peru's) laws, the liberality of which car never be sufficiently
praised.
since the 14 of August, 1945, the date on whicl ended the war,
thus saving humanity from even greater disesters, I was commissioned
by my Government to visit Brazil, Bolivia and Peru to acquaint myself
with the situation of my subjects and with their needs, in order that
I might report to Tokyo the result of my findings.
Having arrived in vrazil on the llth of November of last year,
on a warship, my only desire after visiting that country was to go
to Bolivia and Peru and to see for myself what were the needs of
the Japanese subjects resident in these cities of South Americe,
and make a careful report of tre same to my own country.
Since the 29th of May of this year, the day on which I arrived
in Peru, after visiting Brazil and Bolivia, I have encountered among
my co-nationals disagreement for the happy termination of the war;
a termination which will give to the world real democracy, not only
to the peoples of urope and Asia but also to the peoples of America,
small and big, rich and poor, to everyone - each one should manage
its own domestic and foreign commerce with the necessary freedom,
dealing spontaneously and freely with any country of the Continent.
I did not come with any personal motive. I only wish to look
after my subjects, - their unity and their welfare, - and again to
thank the grand Peruvian people, whom I cared for even before I left
Japan.
I am not a terrorist as I have been falsely titled, I am an
honest man and I cannot understand who could have invented this story
to discredit and frustrate my mission. I am simply an agent of the
Government of Tokyo, who up to now has suffered three months of
imprisonment, without knowing when I shall be released, my one hope
being that I may be released as soon as possible and that I may
realize my desire to talk to the Government of Peru.
Abe Kenso
Delegate from Japan
Trans. & Typed-hkl

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
JAN 91947
CONFIDENTIAL
no.369
To the
United States Political Adviser to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
894.20223/11
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State refers to the Politieal
Adviser's airgram 125 dated December 17, 1946 regardins
ABE Kenso, and reports that subject, as well as twe
other collaborators in Japanese terroristic activities
in Peru, TORIGOE Takesh1 and KOBAYASHI KintarO, all
Japanese nationals, are now in Panama in army custedy
en route to Japan.
The above cited Japanese were arrested by the
Peruvian authorities in September of 1946 for organising
1946
a Japanese terroristie society which attempted te "pum-
ish unpatriotie Japanese in Peru". The organisatiem,
to convinee the Japanese in Peru that Japan had met been
defeated. Abe travelled from Brasil, where he had beem
active in similar activities, to Peru in May of 1946.
Following his ineareeration, Abe Kenso made extrava-
gant claims regarding his position in the Japamese
Govermment and attempted to see the Pregident ef Pera
ARA Unit
DOB-

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.95)
as may seem fit.
Enclosure:
Copy 1tr from Abe
Kenso from La Prensa
16 Nov. 1946
A trve capy 
the sigad g
894.20223/12-1746
JAN 8 1947 P. M.
1/3/47

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 766
Lima, Docember 2, 1946.
D01R
CEORET
Subject: Proposed Deportation of Kensó Abe and Two Other
Japanese from Peru.
6 DE 6
tie
70: 1NNA 2naucthin
113/87
894.2022
The honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
Referring to my secret despatch No. 713, dated November 19, 1946
3/1
and to previous correspondence concerning the proposed deportation of
Kenso Abe (or Abe Kenso) and two other dangerous Japanese from Peru,
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a memorandum from the Legal
2
Attaché of this Embassy concerning a conversation which he held with
-2
the Inspector General of the Division of Investigations of the Police
46
/EURX
these three Japanese organizers to Japan.
4ARA
The Police now seem to have in mind that even if it does become
IJA
necessary to release the two less dangerous of the three Japanese
concerned, who may be regarded in the light of followers of Konso
3SPD
Abe, they tim hope that a way may be found to deport Kenso Abe to
Japan, and suggest that the approximately $325.00 now in his posses-
GOCD
sion be used to pay for a one-way ticket from Peru to the United
 CLFIED
aRs, te
States, with the expectation that the United States Government will
509℃
take care of the expenses of deporting him from there to Japan.
1C3M
This plan does not take into consideration the danger of Kenso Abe
not arriving in the United States if he is transported without being
under guard.
3na
SP2
Cl_2
Frequent inquiry has been made at the Ministry of Foreigh Affairs
concerning the decision of the Peruvian Government with respect to the
2/23/41
payment of the expenses for the deportation of the three Japanese as
mentioned in the Department's secret telegram No. 9ll of November Sth,
C
10 a.m.. The reply always is the same, that the matter has been brought
S
to the attention of the Ministry of Interior and that any infomation
received from that Ministry will be brought to the Embeesy's attention.
R
Thus it appears that the Peruvian Foreign Office is no  taking an astiv
interest in trying to prosure the funds required for dportation and
despite the clear indications that these three Japanes were tively
R
E
mru
TFI

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
AIR MAIL
American Embassy,Lime,
Despatch #766, Doc. 2, 1946.
-2-
engaged in organizing the Japanese community in Peru along the lines
of "Jepan not having lost the war", and using terroristic methods
in connection with such organization, it seems evident that the
Peruvian government nas not so far felt that it should pay the
amount of from 2,000 to 2,500 to cover the expenses of their
deportation to Japan.
The mbassy reels that from the point of view of the United
States government it would be a great mistake to allow these three
Japanese to be at liberty any place in the Americas for they
almost certainly will continue to try to lead the Japanese resi-
dents to organize into groups that will be opposed to the interests
of the United states, and their methods here have clearly been
along lines thet have instilled fear in the peacefully inclined
Japanese.
respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
 4. d Laubert
R. L.. deLambert,
First Secretary of Embassy.
unclosure:
Copy of memorandun dated November 29, 1946 from the Legal Attaché
of the Embassy to r. R.L. deLambert.
H.deLambert-hkl

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
AIR MAIL
'merican Embassy, Lima,
Despatch #766, Dec. 2, 1946.
Enclosure to despatch No. 766 of December 2, 1946 from the Embassy
at Lima.
Office of Legal nttache
mbassy of the United tates of America
Lime, Feru
l.ovember 29, 1946.
ECA.DU FU: Mr. DeLamuert
From:
The Legal attache
te:
renso abe, et al
onfirmint our telephone conversation of this morning, the
following is an account of the conversation between the writer
and ur.  CkACIC CSPEDES Y UIROZ, Inspector General of the
Division or Investigations:
Dr. ESPEDES advised the writer thet it is becoming increas-
ingly dirficult for them to hold ABi, TC..IGOE, and KOBAYASHI in
jail in view of their long incarceration and the extended period
of time which has elapsed since the passing of the Supreme Decree
ordering their expulsion. He stated further that he was most
anxious to get the matter settled and would cooperate in any way
to resolve the situation.
He went on to say that in his opinion (in which the writer
concurs) ABh was the most uangerous of the three Japanese. The
presence of the remeining two in the estern hemisphere would not
constitute the danger which woulu be the case if ABE were allowed
to remain. In view of this fact sr. CESPEDES asked the writer if
it would be possible to ueport only ABE to Japan. ie felt that
this would, perhaps, cut down the expenditure on the part of the
Peruvian government and would be likely to lead to a more expedi-
tious handling of the entire matter.
So far as the expenses of aeportation are concerned, it should
be noted that ABE presently has in his possession $275.00 U.S. and
350 soles ($50.00 U.S.). This amount can be used to aid in the
defraying of the expenses involved. As a matter of fact, Dr.
CESPEDES suggested that the money in ABE's possession be utilized
to buy him a one-way ticket to the Uniteu States, from whence he
could be sent to Japan by the U.S. authorities. The writer indicated
that the matter must necessarily be hanaled through diplomatic
channels and that any arrangement which was made would have to be
effected through the Peruvian Foreign Office and the United States
Department of State.
cc: ilitary Attache.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
MESSAG
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
_A_xtbxx 12
NO.
Washington,
TIME
Jan 8, 1947
AMEMBASSY,
709
LIMA.
769
894.20223/12-246
With reference to Embassy's secret despatch
no. 766 of December?, 1946, secret despatch no. 713
of November 19, 1946 and previous communications on
subject of Abe Kenso, the Department has received the
following information from Tokyo: The Japanese Govern-
ment has stated that "according to the investigation
by the Second Demobilization Bureau (former Japanese
Ministry of Navy), there is not such a person by name
in the Japanese Navy and there is also no fact that the
Japanese Government has despatched such a person as a
delegate to promote unity amongst Japanese people in
South America".
This information is being submitted for the
Lmbassy's information and such use as the Embassy
sees fit to make of it.
Byrnes
XX
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
Bmya
CS/R
(OFFICES ONLY)
1人
894.20228
etm.
894.20223/12-246
2-26
FC:HHBarger:mm
1/3/47
NWC
HC

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
United States Departmsnt gi Justicr
Washington, B.C.
December 11, 1946
IN REPLY, PLEASE REPER TO
FILE No.
file
PERSONAL AND CONPIDTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
1946
Mr. Jack D. Neal
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
10)2
Chief of Naval Intelligence
894.20223/12-1146
Navy Department
Constitution Avenue
Washington 25, D. C.
Director of Intelligence
3.
War Department General Staff
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel Branch
Dear Sir:
For your information, I am attaching hereto a communication
which may be of interest to you.
Le
8
Very truly yours,
Ce. ahoover
CS
Evaluation:
894.20223/12
Received from reliable and
John Edgar Hoover
V
confidential source
Director
From confidential source
previously found reliable
FEB 27 1947
Not verified by investigation
FILED
Available to Embassy in
country of origin
DECLASSIFIED
NN2 280049
Attachment
By 2 NABS, Date 2.29.22

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.86)
1.ovember 21, 1946
U
ctel.i ttters se..t to . e.vers i. Local Jupenese
culol.y rrom  e, temver 23 to e1 tember 27, last, were
co. ies ir. uri inal written by : .. . During
sctuser .s wrote letters to the eruvien rolioe,
it edilors of several Ltwa,upere und the Iresident
of tne .e ublic rotustin. lis incuroeration and
uesoricinn lseir us u. .vo of tnt covernment or
.oxyo, truveli inco ito in out erica. Letters
tralslated end Bet out. J I,, d RIO
rewain incurcerated in i . escription of
..... st out.
It will be recall a tt uurin the eriod
e, te..ber £3 - 27, 1 46, e serics of t..reatenir. lettere were
recelved by u nwater or Jo unese in te locul colony who were
not in byipathy witn tnt nt l I. This letter ad-
dressed luem as "truitors" wd threatelled then. ith deeth for
wavin etruyed their otner country.
our  hs vi eu tt vetween 3 und 40 letter
were ser.t. nese were .1 lue. tical co ies fro. l.e original
w..ich waa re, u:ed 
.. au led out of jo1l by
t..e voy wlho urins i. ..is od tnree ti. .es e day. the
lelter was deliveruu  i  ur it. I.i at Jiron cuzeo
773.  will b reoelled,  is e eter of the ikoku
I.I .I. ) in t cnctd  l o.
ene.al toretory or t.e I ht .i I, wno me a nuaber
of copies theroor. Phe copies a.d the originul were theroupon
returied to  who pluced thew in envelopes, addressed and
stu.y, ed them. he then dolivered them to one KOr. UHo KocHI,
...t .0. 15449, Culle róueres . 80, who mailed then at
te cer.tral rost Jrfice in Lime. The foregoing was also
c..cc.ed Lirou source D and found to be oourete.
J Jolover 9, lyso, tne followint letter wes sent
Iro. . to the heed of the sivision of Investigetions. It
was writlen in spenish by anotner Jupanese at 's direotion
ui.d is tranalated us rollowe:
"eñor cnier of Investieations
"weur ir:
WERAL DU E OTICATION

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.83)
"I ruspeolrully requent you not to rorget the
conversetion wnion we hed tnis morning.
"1. so not or et wint you he ve seid conoering
lhe point in uestion. It is understood umong Jupanese
Lat the uuthoritics of tis oounlry hove nothing to do
therewith.
".  are we tree Jupanese eld n Jail?
For noluinc more l..ur. lor lettere. I wisn to know mare
ou.crete reuson.s.
"3. us enenieu no ve reporlod to you oon-
ceruisg us mve tuld Lol.in. but lios.
".  uut l all cue nwpapere in Li wr
majin, tnut ali he Ju,uncse were leced at liborty
throuln tne operution of sone low.
"5. y are te uniese colony und their nowspepers
civet com, lete rreedon und . ot che Jepanese colony?
"o. I isn to a,eah itn lhe slx individwals foce
lo foce aud question theu.
"7. .eru ossessca conctitutional prooedure but
G t  I.
"B/ A. "
rolloving is a translotion of a Letter direoted
by    to th edltor or " . relnso" wiion ppered in
tt per un Jolober l, Lo:
"Jeñor iroctor o ue lewje. er 'l . rense'
"Distinguished ir:
" ould you ploene ive apace in the oolumns or
your well-known newspeper to these few lines waion I
a direetint from y cell of lue etn comiserle in the
hope that the human sentiwent of the reruvian people will
lead t em to interpret tuem us a reully sincere eompleint
by e Jajanese who is in this country (reru) entrusted by
nis country (Jepan) with a special misslon.
"In tue firat place I luank the iuruvian natlon
proroundly ror ivingextended its nospitelity to £5,000
- & -

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.85)
"Jupanese suojects. he latler neve olways onduoted hem
melvem in a truly industrious manner devoted to their work,
ve it In coimeroe, u riculture or industry. Phey con-
trivute in tain rser toward .educin the coet or living
a u capeusutron ror tie eaylun whion has been extended
to tnem by thls oountry (. ru) of  utl morioe.
"In l..e second piace I munt rerer to ay presenee
in . uru. I oruer lo ov lu uny unfounded susploion, it
in nocary tt it le nnov lt I nve oome oniy on
speclui misslun ror ..y overl..ent to urrmnize y co
nutiunuis unu nut to en u  in local political onouvers
in o.y senve witn referonce lo . cru or ony oluer country.
I a ve oeen sent because news ns arrived in Japen that è
auall roup or cu or oo Ju, onese lhus defiled the fleg
of their country (Ja;an) oid dobased lhe  ioture or the
eror, irohito. I ve ce to place tee mloontent
nno ve left tt ood potn n he ricut rond. Taie mieslon
is co letely ,eaveful anu fur from my uot or terroriam.
  ouse in point: Is u roruvion deriled nis fleg or in-
sulted tie sresident oula ue not be deserving of è ponalty?
It is obvlous tict lis woulu de crue ond would h pen in
uny couniry os tne world. he eium ie wnion I hove yuoted
o ot  t I ve   t, is  utjoo
Do, I heve only co lu  ive Lu counbel.
"I ust mne it cleor to the  ruvian people that
fron lne lay I urrived in u.ls country I nave had and
continue to dave witil she prenent moment the desire to
peon it the resident .  e, ublic o ith the
Minister or foreien elations to explain in greater detell
y wavint come lu this lhomisphere. Ir I entered without
a posepart it ie win olly to le rupture or relotions
between. ru and we Jopanese upire. Ir tnis altuetion
iad not existed, I would have entered with all my pepers
in order.
" ug ust  or this year vorious Jupanese wore
arrested who were not oulpuble in the allghtest. Phe
Latter were plaoed ut liberty ufter a few days with the
exeeption or k in.) Uy I who ua remined in prison
for 7o deye. There exists no reason «ny no should not be
looed ut liburty.
"In view or wy sltustion I nope hat after reeding
this letter it will be taken into eonsiderution thet I
- 3 -

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.86)
"have been Laprisoned for a consideraule period. In any
evert, I uak liit is I aust be dejorted I be given è fow
doys at lluerty to repere my lu ga  in view of the
Ioot L. t I um l.o le. rorist.
"norni. you i. vace I e uuce ivn to
Lue roreo1 1 in
". In.cerely yours.
"sele ate or Jupon ror outh  rioo."
U Jclover lo, lot, "il comeroio" publiahed the
followin iutter waioh o sent from   to.rosident
". enor  rebidet of he e. ublio:
" s,. rosutly held n cne on comisarle,
presents i: res, tcte to lne reeidet of the nepublio
ul.d say8:
"That upon delivering to our lawyer yesterday 
doowelt si ned  yeelr alid olner oonetionals, 
In numbes, wio aie alss istalied ere I wes informed thet
you, wenor .residert or whe  aputlio, hove not received
two eurlier doou er.ts lich I sent to you through he
Jeneral headquarters of investirutions. In these two
earlier doouitnts I requeated that you do me the fever
of grentine  en uudience in order taut I mignt explain
to you personully le reeson of y trip to reru und other
-outh erlcen Ropublios. In view or iis and ir it will
not be possiole to receive .e , arsonslly I will refer
wymelr to your chenoellor in orter tut ir he will be
so kind es to liaten to me.
"In o fow worde I will tell you l.at the dooument
of yesteruay wu si, ned uy me i lne belier lst you hed
received whe two previous ubove-menlioned doeuscnts and
thet you, us well as the foreign hinister, uid not dosire
to lislen to .
"I am not seäer .resident " criminel or terrorist
nor do I belons to eny soeiety or group wlich has such
ands. I can reveel ay true identity only to you or to
your chuncellor but I can sey in mdvunce that I 

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.87)
u vey os  v oe ve 
Journeying through South merle In oonneetlon with
certuin dirferences uon y co-n tionols wlich were
osuaed by Le wur.
"It is is consluerution or cin ruct tuot I vermit
yselr to coll to your allention lict ..y euriler roqueste
luve not ai rived in your hande, and to nak you to arrange
for an audience in order to cx lain to you the reesen of
y tp to s ud b oub rlou gountr
true military renk and otuer internetlongl effere a
gonfldentlal nuture wnlon you will know how to judge with
your well-known to ents and wiion I wave not boen able to
desoribe before l..e , ulice uutnoritics or your counlry
who deserve   reulest res, cct, i viow or the publleity
wuion lhe rueu oi lie o, ital would ve ivn the
(relerri.& it is believed to whe "internutional afraire
of a conrlden.tlal noture").
".o, I repuut, it in not yo siule for you to lloten
to  in view of the ly int. rnal alfoirs of he country
whiou ocoujy your li.e, I be: or y u to ake the noeeseery
arrange ents o at your cnanccllor will  isten to m.
"Japen Is en orphur. itnout dipiastio representetion
In li.ese countries. It nus received information, however,
that he money,  nion nos been sent durin the wer through
tue . wedish Le, ction to care ror lne Japanese who are
In a dirrioult situction vecuuse of tc restriuted measures
imposed by the uperintenderoy f conony of the reruvlen
Covernment, nos been used by certain Jepenese, treitors to
wheir counlry, the sane indivldunls who have eooused 
so tet tes lil r.ot e obli ed to account for their
Lisdeeds. It is recessury (for Japen) to dooument the
aotivities or its sub ects re. I lve nere one or the
besio poiuts or y trip. l.e ubjcct of wlicn I was not
able to wake known to ll.en (iis co-netionsls) because it
would not nove deen pocsiole ror we to arrive at the truth
or the fuots ir ley ad known tne mlnsion whlon brought
me to eru.
"I beg or you lnat before you arrive ot any com-
ulusion thet you listen to un iesery of the creet
Japanese mpire and do we the honor or freeine me frem
this imprisonment whion I um patiently surfering for m
country in deploreale surround ings and conditions.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.84)
"meanwaile would you do  the ovor or ondline y o
quest ror repetrlation wülon I heve drewn up and whleh,
an of the  resent lime, has  ot seen soted upon.
"waitin to e heurd u you, I salute you.
". ,eolfully,
/11.20
". .. I ver or you ut you wiil uruer y provisionel
liverty under personel uaruntee  individuls with
wore tian ls years reslucnce in. . eru und who are property
owners Dere.
In che arternoon edition or "l cuscrolo" or oetober
17, ly u, lhe followin article a.. eured:
"The letter lioh    hue direoted to the
resident of the e uclic askin ror an interview with him
or wit the inister ur oreig elntione he produeed
ention in to e declaretione ue in the lotter.
"he etainee stated rou n e medlu of the
 oruvlun olice thct, amon olner thin s, lhe money
whloh dud been pent y Jujau lo care ror Ju aneae in
cru who were in u wad situstion seouuse of the restriotions
pluced by lue coverlu ent, Lad been Luzen by otner Japanese
and lt tais was lne princi, al resson wiy  ) hed
oone to cru ne to ther outn mrioon countrl.
"I. urdes  veriry lhe wtter we  roceoded to the
wedler Le alion where we were informed lhat in wey, loss,
Lhe Lecation tock oharie of Jupanese inlerests in reru.
.ctuslly .ey continued witn the routine afrairs in the
consulur rieid. Duriln. ils time iey distriuted
official Ja, uneme funds in limited suma for humanitarian
molives to Leedy Ja, anese. ihese funds uud been left in
Lin oountry Dy she Ja,anese Le ution. since the date
or laking over lae Japanese affairs, no money wes re-
oelved from Japen -urin, the wer by the swedian Legetion.
"The swodisn Lection nos no iatormtion tht A
 is u . cole lasury of Jan nor o it received
any mdvice to ihls effect iru che wedian le, otion in
一  -

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.82)
"rokyo. In viow or the puasing of the supreme Resolatiom
orderin lne exjulsion rom he country of AB Ks0
le Lecation, siice it wes in cherge or rutine mtters
invoivin Jajanese interests in  ru, received from  E
 t reueat tt tre e tranmited to the
authoritics iis desire tat the order of expulslon be
fulrllicd e soon es.ossible....
"F inclly,   uuo sent a lotter to the
.realde. or le uulic unln .at   herd con
ceri.ine lie minsion to reru. ccompanyins the letter
wes the requcet llat certeli. of ui: co-nutionals who have
resided in  cre more that lt yours ure asking for and
uarartyin Le ,rovislonal liberty of K0. Following
we rurnlsh lie, ersonal uatu o the Ju anese who are
suarantyins tne enl tic Jo, oncse ( hid o) with heir
com.erolel csteclisinxnte une t..eir finatciel solveney:
". , residi t roceren o, crnet de
extranjerlu pumuer -578l, ho os resided more then 20
feors in . eru....
"l. L JuU. residin t. runcisco .izarro 799.
carnet number 17377....
"adi.o . ..I..t, residin at rre cisco . izarro 40.
wo lus resided ure n  jears i ru....
"I.ic..i ... rouc..I, residing ut un criatóbel No. 1075,
sho  reided mo:e un L yeoie in Peru....
   D, Carnet . zo7 (). storekeoper et
l . i t t is n ly
sent by the overn nt of okyo to wiify the Ja anese
and ls un o connicential mieslon or verifyin certin
doto cocerin the woney ioh wes sent fron Japan to
cere for the needy Ju, anese in rcru. He guerentoes thut
  does vot selun to any terrorist seot and
Lt Lue acousat ons cude by cerlain Ja,anese are unjust.
"Y..lnIcni .r0, resiain at . on .edro nolaseo No. 795.
...hes wld tet de hes not si ned lse reyuest of
provivional liberty but t..ut we ls roudy to do so at any
moment. lie furtuer stotes tiet de is sure, as is the
mjority, bst de is ut & mber or ay terrariat sroup
and tt he ls coisioned by the Japanose Jovernment
whion wimhes to arrence the smmll dirferenees by peeeeful
lesesures."

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.77)
 cotober I, io, the suruvien roreign Orsiee
orelly requested lne vessy for eusialance in effeeting the
deio of ,  Y. 
epartent subsequenlly uvlbed ht tne doport lion oould b
maldlod is the euvian soverlllt wos willlng to pay the
cot ror, in ld ount to n , and .o.
ials wcter wus discussud wits the rcruvien rorolen Ofrice by
the vsay uut us yet no ll.awer hae been reoeived fro the
ruvian Joverunent.
  ruvin. ice sve uvised tt it i doubsul
tt t.ey will e uure to hold lic Jup anese Lnderinitely and
thet ulees u. ran e..e. is uie mde in he neur ruture for thot
deporlution to Japan, it i: very iikuly that they will be wearted
to e ruvi border nd iced t ibrty.
ineical scription orY i 
rolions:
ote os irth
Junury 7, Loua
Looe or irtn
Jo, an
utionulity
JuJuneBe
.8ce
Yellow
Hei.nt
33
ei.nt
Lt jd
mais
, rayin
rour und lanted
ours und orn
1 nt nand nus been dadly
purned
Jouption
ardoner
.ddreds
tje ertrel, B. .ime. Li.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.89)
OUTGOINGTELEGRAM
Department of State
DEC121946
SECRET
AMEMBASSY,
LIMA.
Zpm
972
Reference DEPTEL 850, October 9 and subsequent.
60
Reply required by December 20. As last resort if
20223/12-124
Paruvians unwilling pay c ost repatriation DEPT
willing guarantee. Should understand, however, this
894.20223/10.196
creates no precedent.
Mu
15 DEC 12 PM 6 45
RELEASE DESK
TELEGRAPH
C
DISTRIBUTION
D
S
DESIRED
(OFFICZS ONLY)
DEC 12 345P.M.
021
894.20223/
2-246
FC:HHBarger:mm
SPD
49℃
Mr. Chappell
N.F.C.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.92)
Form De-302
(7-2-46)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEBARTMENT OF STATE
18
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
·CONPIDENTIAL
X-9
Aotion:
FO
Control 5025
Info:
A-H
Rec'd December 17, 1946
ARA
5.53 p.m.
FE
TRC
FROM:
L1mn
SPPROLCTS
SPD
DC/R
IVISION
TO:
Socretary of State
0781
NO.
1263, December 17, 4 n.m.
PARIMENTFTE
DPPFFL 972, December 12.
The three Japanese Natlonnle w1'l  eave Lima December 19 in
Poruvian Air Torce r1rnlane (C 47 registration number 424)
08
For JHiami vin Albrook Field, Canal Zone and Jamaica. This
6
Is "aru's contribution to cost repatriation. Ministe. Foreign
1irs und other government departments here aasuming re-
sp nsibility for custody Jananese to Miami where the  will
20223/1
iin them over to our authorities. Eypect airplane rrive
Y1 December 2o. I have informed Peruvian offic1als our
m: 1tary authorit:es Canal Zone will take custody Japanose
urcn arrlvn here and turn them over to Peruviun authorities
uon eparture plane for Miami.
Three Japanese names rererted EMBTEL 1035 October 7. They
2
re reing den ed from Peru under supreme resolutions August
26 and Feptember 1.
1746
CDELIED
Repeated Panama for General Crittenberger
CNN
COOPER
DFS:FS
By
7
SF
nan
DEPARNTMENT OF STATY
E
C
FILED
Major Wright,MIS
22
informed by telephone
1946
and in agreement with
above. WFC
12/18/
CONFIDENTIAL
X
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.85)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPHI
JAN 91947
A-HH
uspolnd
xat
DIVISION
JAN 7- 1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ron
.
From
4374
A
TokYo
ACTION:FC
INFO:
Doteur
December 17. 1346.
DC/R
S
c.
Dec. 27, 9:36a.m.
U
110
FE
DC/L
894.20223/12-1746
A
OCD
ESP
CIG
vi Goverm
en  ste th orhn to the
averticstion vy thr becot Jecgetlirrtion Du cau (former Jabenese
Liny f vy). s  t uch  n o   the
Jeas eo Srve ent There te alee no foct thet the Japenete Geverno
ment wpe deepatchon sier a prreon ce r celecrto ts promote unity
m  J     r"
Phe Japonene ovornarat ren rrguestcd the Loeel police author
ir to choc for c srofi e ontity
wms
JATUT
JAN 1 3 1947
FILED
701.3
by
xe
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
D8-9
DIVISION OF
ACTIONO
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
x-2
CONFIDENTIAL
Action: FO
Info:
Control 5079
A-H
ARA
Rec'd December 17, 1946
FE
7:08 p.m.
OCD
TRC
CON
FROM: I.1ma
SPD
DC/R
TO:
Secretary of State
CIG
894.20223/12-
NO:
1264, December 17, 4 p.m.
Permission requested flight per Air Force C-47 regular
No. 424 departing Lima December 19. Itinerary Albrook
Field, Canal Zone, Jamaica, Miami, San Antonio, Washington.
Purpose of flight transport personnel to ferry airoraft
recently purchased.
Plane will also transport 3 Japanese nationals being
deported to Jepan in accordance agreement between United
States and Peru (DEPTEL 972, December 12).
Repeated Panama for General Crittenburger.
COOPER
SW:NB
7
cian
StCOP
DEC 19 1946
CONFIDENTIAL
FILED
LRC
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.93)
DO VOT DETACH FROM "HITE COPY
yn.
R E C O R D C O P Y
THE ATTACHED WHITE COPY OF A TELEGRAM OR AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE YEL-
LOW ACTION COPY  HICH. AS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTTAL
RECCRDS BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
THE CORY MUST BE RETURVED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
894.20223/12-1946
-0-
ADR1
FILD
1947
SECRET FILE

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
INFORMATION
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
COPY
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INCOMINGTELEGRAM
7-D
SECRET
Aotion: SPD
Control 5864
Info
ARA
Roc'd December 19, 1946
FE
11:28 p.m.
OCD
ESP
VD
FRON: L1ma
FC
CIG
TC:
Secretory of tate
DC/R
NO:
1271, necombr 1o  p.m.
∴2-/12-1746
Referenco Departmont a te legram NIAct g80. December
18, noon.
Threc Japanese lof: Lima on Peruvian Air Force plane
early this morning in custody pilot of plane who stated
he had copies of Peruvian expulsion orders which he will
deliver to United States military authorities Canal Zone.
About 50 Jopanoso at nirport to see deportees off.
Am advisd by American ubassy Panama that United
States rmy will take charge of them upon arrival
Canal "one.
COOPER
EEC: HME
13)…163.
9m
QR.T.
DECLASSIFIED
NND 280009
By /1o/S. NARS, Date 8.25.28
12-1946
SECRET

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Lima, December 19, 1946
No.
890
Subject:
Deportation of three Japanese
nationals from Peru
2
SPECIAL PROJECTS
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
CLAN
1947
Washington.
12-1946
DEPARTMENT ÒF STATE
Si
894.20223
SPD
894.20223/12-19
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's telegram
1/
No. 1271, December 19 and to enclose copies of a report
prepared by the Legal Attaché of the Embassy on the de-
parture of the Japanese from Lima.
The airplane left Limatambo airport at 6:30 a.m.
today and is scheduled to arrive at Albrook Field,
Canal Zone, this afternoon. The Japanese nationals
will be turned over to the custody of the military auth-
orities in the Canal Zone.
S'SPD
Respectfully yours,
Prentice Cooper
1.FE
4 ARA
1Ja
Prentice Cooper
Enclosure:
1. Report by the
Legal Attaché
CS/A
JANS 1947
711
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WJDonnelly:rvb
To the Department in
DECLASSIFIED
original and hectograph.
947A  92
NN.) 280069
By ZG/C. NARS, Date 8.2y. 2
OVvVISIN F FR
MAIL  OOM
SECRÉT FILE
C}
Unit
FILED
na
1947
Cat
Dist.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.93)
1, despatch No. 890, December 19, 1946, American Embassy, Li
December 19, 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR: THE AMBASSADOR
ATTENTION : MR. DONNELLY
FROM
: THE LEGAL ATTACHÉ
RE
: AIKOKU DOSHI KAI - DEPORTATION OF ABE,
TORIGOE, AND KOBAYASHI
in accordance wit  erep nt disaussed
yeaterday th writer procceded to tir Prefacturn this
morning nt 4:30 a.m. wir te three ni ove-captioned
Japane were rendy or denarture. e: were then tnken
to the airpor  crtod of rive reruvian detcctives.
At the nirport t ir  rrons an. luace were searched by
the Peruvinn Luvestl atorr arorementIoned. They were there-
upon deliverc into tlc custo iy of Captain Gervasi, the pilot
of ne olane car.y irg tl. deportees to Panuma.
CaptnIn ccrvari a vised tic writer that he had in his
possessior copie: of the orderr o! expulsion which he
would procent to the nited ot tes lilitary Authorities in
Panama. Im ediotely orior o) ic take-off Señor Justo
Frins, Subinspector o nvertintions, delivered to Cap
tain Gervasi the snlvocorluctor for the three deportees.
There vere some 5c Japan at the nirport to sec the
deportces of. o e'fo: t wa: rn e by thc Peruvinn sol-
diers nt thc nirport t r vent tic entry of these indi-
vidunls. However, all urangnent: were made without
incident nnd une plan took off nt 6:25 a.m. Including
the prisonere thcre were 21 pan: sengere and five crew
memters. he deportees vere cItunted in approximntely
the mi ldle o t pa: ren er cnnc in the plane and Cap-
tain crvari n viced the writer thnt as soon ar they were
placed on lonrd he wou! orler thnt they be plnced in
handcuffs in the intereatr of sccurity.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.79)
JAN 141947
disposisiet.
##
Jasemese were fonsel by the Farevian Gevaranent te be éhe prssipe?
Dsahi Si. a Far
1
fhe Perwvien poliee etate shet Mistare Kebayaski held the poaiviem
of Sgoretory Gemeral and was one of the founding members of the gapanose
nationelistie cociety roferred to. He is considered to be the most
Japanese Eapiro. He donied ho was a teprerist er a msber at aañ
C
S
his intentiem to give sowasal to firty or sixty Japanese sho defiled the
Japasess flag and debesed the pioture of Eaperer Birohito.
69
Thaze is no imformation on fakiaki Torigeo boyenå the statemans by
94.262
the Peraviam Government that he was coneidered dengerous end was ame of
the prinsiyal
2.3
Wer Department Ganesal Stafr,
Plans and Operations Division,
Kashington 5. D. C.
IK

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.77)
the prásospal landere La the Fapanese uatiaralsotse asd semsseleds
 D
Pors has eslled upem the Ua'tod States Gavomneas to masdes in
repatriatins thaso siree dangorons Japenoco in the inserost os Madg
pharde soourity der ssslutiem 7 at Mesiee dáty. t weld alse be
te the invevess es sais Geramns to rmve a sy alome we
States Geverment will masist in the repatriatiem of these
Jayemese frem the Pameme Gamal Esme to Jupem.
The Department has no wishes with regart to the altimate dispemésdee
of these thres Japensse after thsir axrival in Japen. It is felt that the
Suprene Comander for the Allied Poweve with kmowiedge of their baekgre
and cssen for depertation frem this Womiephore will diapome of thess
peroons sm he mees fit.
Chief, Speeial Prejeets pivisiea
FAN 24
Wo
W.2.C.
gna
SPD:WFChappell:as
12/26/46
OBF

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.90)
JAN 14194
m reply refer to
PD
or tne Intelligenoe Divieion and Mr. Chappoll
of the Special Projeots Division of the Bsate
Department with regard to the sest imvelved in
transperting three Japanese frem the Gamal Zene
te a West Ceast eity in the United States and
tralsperting them at its owm eest hy air te the
in assisting the Peruvian Gevermmemt in this
soaneetion, slnce shese Japenese are ceasidered
dangerous to hemispherie security.
The Departmeat of state therefere agrees
CS/A
sests fer these three imdividuals frem the Saaal
Zene te Japan via the United States.
Yory traly yours,
JAN 14 19.. P.M.
122/

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
AIRG
r.
2144
(ap)
FEB131947
TUKYO
730046
Dated: n1. 6. 1947
nec'd. Fob. 11, 1947
10
12:51 p.m.
secretory of tate.
nhiacton.
A
ACTION-FC
n-17, Janurv 28. 1947
INFO:
DC/R
efence Deartrent' A-161 o1 November ?5, 1946, my 125
S
of rcember 17. 1946, and Dever trent'a confidential aail instruction
U
io. 309 of Januery 9. 1947, concerning the exoule1on from reru of
89
UE
the Jrpanese national, nenzo Abe.
EUR
4.2022
ARA
There i quotea Lelow for the Denartrent' infarmation the
FE
text of note virtale No 1/n.. of Junuary 6. 1947. from the Imperial
DC/2
Jrpenese : inistr: of rorelen nffairs to the Swediah Diplometic
OCD
Hision in Japan on this mubject:
CIG
ESP
"The Inporial Japanese  in stry  Foreign Affr ire
3/1
oresents its compliments to ne Swediah Diplomtic Mission
in Japan pnd with reference to the latter" Note Vorbale
BB-351/46, (ated 7 November 194o and thc former's Note
1
Verbale No. 39/R J, dated 29 November 1946, concerning the
2847
Japanese national. Kenzo Abi, who is reported to be emelled
from Feru owing to unlawful entrance into the aid country.
nan the honour to inform the Swediah Dilomatic Mission of
the following additional informotion on the subject person
furnished by the police stat on of the subject person'
domicile to the inquiry from the Ministry:
"Name: Aenzo ABE
"Birth date: 17 July 1895.
"Legal domicile: 24. Uyehata, Sasava-mura, Shinobu-
pun, rukuo':ima srefecture, Japan.
"rermonal History. He wr born a the fourth son of a
farcer, Tomikichi Ab (legal domicile: 56, Funaishi, Sakuraroto,
:izuho-mura, Shinobu-gun, rukus ima Prefecture, Japan) and
nchd
FILED
18 1947
王
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.91)
TokyoB17
January 28,1947.
-2
engeged in agriculture at Lore. But thereafter he removed
to Osaka and wes employed by the lectric Bureau of that
city as motor-man. In August 1928 he cet up a separate es-
tablishment at the above-mentioned legal domicile but has
never teen there. It io rumoured thet about May 1939 he
removed from Osaka to Tokyo ane was engaged in chauffer there.
It seems that he thereafte changed his address often. But
even his true elder sieter, Tougi HOnDA. who is now engaged
in griculture : t the came village of his legal domicile, has
not henre from him since he reroved to Osaka.
"ilitary Service: He was to serve in the navy but
excopted oving to phy sical diuqual ificetion on the occasion
of the phyoienl cxeminsiion when he wss going to enter his
bar acks.
"rrevicus Cifencer No rocorde at his legal domicile.
"Icmily: Lecordine to the registry book at the village
off ice of lis lcgal domicile. it is pentioned that he married
Tak, Ool, the second wife, in Judy 1932."
The fo mesing note vorbele was traneritted to he Swedich
Daplonat e baceion through this Mision.
DTHHOP
cting
oole:
RESTRICTED

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.95)
BI
Jederal Burean of Inuestigation
United States Bepartment of Sustirs
ashington.D.g.
DEPANTMENT OF STATE
 0m 25, 1947
IN REPLY. PLEABE REPER TO
AIRERICAN REPUBI.IC AFFAIHO
CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
FILE NUMBER
MAR 3 1 1947
3.6
Mr. Jack D. Neal
HKF
Dhief
Nwe
Division of Foreign A tivity Correlation
Department of State
DAA
Chief of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
lile
Constitution Avenue
Washington 25, D. C.
OF
894.20223/2-2547
Director of Intelligence
War Department General Staff
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel Branch
Dear Sir:
For your information, I am attaching hereto a communication
which may be of interest to you.
Filo
JUN 10 10E/A
DEPLASSIFIED
FILED
2a) 780049
By C
Very truly yours,
Nas. Date 924.28
Ce. &oover
Evaluation:
Received from reliable and
John Edgar Hoover
confidential source
Director
From confidential source
previously found reliable
Not verified by investigation
m
Available to Embassy in
country of origin
Attachment

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.95)
Jamuary 29, 1947
REI AIKOKU DOBHT KAI
LIMA, PERU
SYNOPS DS :
KENBO ABE, KENTARO KOBAYABHI, anD TAKESHI TORIGOE
deperted from Lima, Peru via Perwvian Army aireraft
12-19-46. Plane proceeded to Panam where it left
deportees in custody U. S. military authorities fer
later deportation to Japan. Additional doeuments
found in ABE's pessession regarding formation of
seeret society under name"AIKOKU RENI." Transla-
tien set out. Form letter for use in threateming
non-members of organization translated and set out.
DETAILS1
KENBO ABE, KENTARO KOBAYASH I, and TAKESH I TORIGOE wore deperTed frem
Lima, Peru December 19, 1946 on board Peruvian Army transport aireraft No. 424.
On the same date they were delivered by the Peruvian military autherities
to the Umited States military authorities at Panam, C. Z. for future depor-
tation to Japan.
Prior to the depertation, additional documents in the Japanese
language were found in ABE's possession. The first document deals with the
organisation of a patriotic society entitled the "Aikoku Renmei". It is trans-
lated ns follows:
"PREFACE
"The missiem of the Japanese race is of great impertanse. It must
construet a better werld eut of the present state of things.
"Clesely united we mon and women must work to mke an Asiatie werld
free of serrow and suffering.
"Te bring about this great task it is necessary te have eemplete
awareness semeerming the present werld situatiem, and, likewise, fer the
Japanese residing in the various Central and South Americam cewrtries te be
porfeetly wmited.
-1-1.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.96)
Missiem of the members of the Japanese coleny
durins the precent histerical stase
"Compatriets: In view of the important situation assumed by the
Japanese race in the concert of nations of the world, follewing resent evemts
in Asia as in other parts of the glebe, we believe it preper te address eur-
selves te you in erder to advise you that it is necessary fer  te reflest
 what we are to do in the future se that we my effieiestly earry out our
rele in the task of aiding our Fatherland.
"Ome of the principal problems, the solution of whieh rests upem our
shoulders, is to attain unity among the members of the celemy. We mst emdeaver
that this task be carried out with the clear purpose of referming the presemt
state of things, impressing the new directions whish charasterise the mreh of
humanity and eliminating the shameful diversion created by discussiems ef the
outeome of the war.
"We must not forget that we owe our existenee to our Fatherland.
Thanks to it, we are today living and working in these coumstries. These whe,
without taking inte account this essential condition of our life, try te dis-
suss preblems coneerning our nationality, are putting forth epimioms which
lask seriowness and which are, rather, destructive, egotistieal er interested.
"As leyal Japanese we must be spiritually united to the fate of our
race. Among us there must be community of happiness or sorrow. There mmst
exist a spirit of mutual aid, which constitutes the basis of secial harmomy.
"Time comtinues inexorably to mrch on.
"We find ourselves in the era of radio and aviation, the progress
of which has lessened time and distance enormously.
"At a stage like the present there is no room, as heretofore, fer
egotistisal or iselationist ideas. It is time for Japanese subjests seattered
in the diverse Central and South American countries to ferm a spiritwal mity
and te dedisate themselves, always in close relationship, te ecemomie and
secial astivities in such a way that posterity will in no wise deplere eur werk.
"Our purpose is, therefore, to sarry out a great movememt temding to
umify Japanese subjects under the inspiration of new pacifistie ideals.
"Hoping that this will soom take plase, we request of you your
desided cceperatiom fer the accemplishment of the serious missiem whish de-
velves upen ws.
"The  of 216 trater
-2 -

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.97)
"At dawm em December 16 there were shet a group of 216 traitere
whe, during the war, had blasphemed by werd and deed against mombere ef the
Imperial Family and had critieised the national harmomy.
"These traitors arrived in Japan in two groupe: one with Yokeham
as destimatiom and the other enroute to Kobe. Numerous subjeets repatriated
frem the United States had traveled on the same ships.
"The shooting took place on the deck of the ship in which they
traveled, after a list of all the traitors had been read.
"The elimination of such disloyal subjects is due to the fast that
their presence is unnecessary and would only mke diffieult the proseeutiem
of mational plans.
"We Japanese must remember this event well and, aleng these limes,
we advise those who believe through questioning their own semseiemsee that
they have deviated from the true line which Japanese must follew te resemsider
their present status.
Zominine Movement
"The feminine movement has no other object than to stress what has
been expressed in previous opportunities by authorised individuals eemeerming
the rights of women.
"At presemt, with the exception of a few nations, womem are net givem
the proper impertanee as regards their right to discuss political affairs.
"Da this respect, the event which has just taken plase in the 96th
Ordimary Legislature of the Japanese Parliament in which thirty-seven repre-
sentatives are femles, can be considered as a great event in the histery ef
femimine movements.
"It is truly a transcendental event which induces us te cemsider the
new turn taken by the social movement.
"Previously there were numerous mutual aid societies formed by wemem,
but a feminime asseciation, political in character, with a diresting purpese,
has not existed.
"It is due to the present war that the feminine movement has begm
te asquire impertamse, to sueh a point that wemankind is teday effered a breed
horisem with multiple pessibilities of social eemquest.
"Im this way wemen have been able te setisfy eme of their dearest
aspiratioms. They have beem able to exile an old regime whieh swbjested them
to dependemey upen man, and to create a new ene in whieh beth have equality
of rights and oppertumities.
- 3-

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.98)
"New then, fer the free exereising of the right whish has beem
comsurred, it is indispensable to fase seriomsly the problem of heme life,
especially wherever wommn's work in the home can be an obstaele fer her
political activities.
"It is necessary to renew completely the previous regime simse with-
out sush a renewal it would be very diffieult, though not impessible, fer
women to mintaim their rights. The problom for immediate selutiom, therefere,
is that of the hours of which women can dispose for activities in the peli-
tical field.
"Now then, how can the necessary time for such mctivities be obtained
from the hours dedicated to housekeeping?
"There must be found a formula which will permit the comstitutiom of
an ideal home.
"There are many interesting matters which, after being diseuesed
by womem, ean be rapidly solved. Such are, for example, research comeerming
preparation of nourishing foods, education of children in the home, hygione,
social relations with neighbors and relatives, religious life, etc.
"Due to the importance of such matters it is necessary for women
to have available two or three hours daily for the discussion of those preb-
lom which are vital for the normalizing of social life.
"The participation of women in the solution of social preblem is
necessary and desirable inasmuch as their presence means not only the comtri-
bution of their health and constructive judgment, but also because it is
likely to give a certain softness to the harshness of life.
"Women today have a most important role. Their authority, im comse-
quenee, has gone beyond the narrow limits of the home and eneompasses sesiety
and humanity as a whole.
Comtemts of the pease treaty
"Declaratioms of an important government official regarding the eom-
tents of the Peace Treaty which was signed on Beptember 1 of last year im the
Oulf of Tokyo.
"The Poase Treaty consists of 21 articles, and the outstanding peimts
are as follows:
"1. The Pamame and Sues Canals are to be admimistered by Japam fer
thirty years from date.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.97)
"2. The heavy industries of the United States are to be admimistered
by Japan for five years from this date.
"3. World commerce will be directed by Japan during the fellewing
two years.
"4. Recogmition of the independence of Germany.
"5. Concentrate in Arabia and Palestine all the Jows who are now
seattered throughout the world and place them under the eustedy
of an international organism.
"Upon analyzing the twenty-one articles of this Peace Treaty, what
ean we deduet concerning the Chiang rai Shek regime? If this war has ended
with a great Allied victory, why, then, has the Chiang Kai Shek regime Jeimed
the Nanking Government? Has it been forced to do so? What is the meaning of
the abandonment of the city of Chungking by Chiang and the transfer of his
governuent to Naruto, which is located in the interior of the eouatry.
THE AS IATIC NATIONS CONSTITUTE THEMSELVES
IITO INDEPENDENT AND SOVERICN STATES
"1. French Indochina becomes independent and calls iteelf the
Kingdom of Annan.
"2. The Kingdom of Burma, as you know, became independent befere
the Great East Asia War.
"3. Borneo, Sumatra and Java become independent kingdoms.
"4. On the 4th of March of this year India deolared itself independent.
"5. Australia is about to announce its independence.
"6. The Allied occupation forces in Germany are evacuating that
country slowly.
"7. The concentration of Jews in Palestine is taking plase. Great
Britain, in the first instance, and the different Buropean
coumtries are carrying this out. Da South Ameriea, as lecal
newspapers have reported, the Argentine government has deereed
the deportation to Palestine of Jewe resident in the eowmtry.
"8. The Japanese Navy has begun to inspect merehant ships in the
three eeeans (Pacifie, Atlantie and Indian).
"As we iaformed in the previous issue, as seem as the war
ended our mavy started inspesting foreign ships sailing the Atlantie
Osean.
-5-

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
"9. It is also a fact that such inspections are taking plase in
the Pacific, as attested by the statements of the crew of a
North American merohant ship which ar: ived at the port of
C....... a short time ago.
CREATION OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE
 ECONOMIC STABILIZATION
"There has just been created in Japan the Central Committee of Beenomie
Stabilisatiom for the purpose of insuring and protecting the eeemomie life of
the people.
"It is considered an absolute necessity to readjust the eeomomis
strueture of Japan in order to face the probleme which will arise as a result
of the return of Japanese oceupation troops presently in different plases of
Asia, as well as the repatriation of Japanese subjects resident in various
countriee.
"WHY ISN'T JAPAN'S VICTORY
ANNOUNCED TO THE WORLD?
"We have learned that mny people are surprised that Japan abstaims
from annoumeing to the world its victory in this war, if it has really beem
wom. Here is the reason:
"Above all, it is necessary to understand well the meaning of the war
in which Japan was engaged. As Konoye stated, its principal purpose was the
establishment of the Asiatic sphere and the realisation of the happimess of
humanity as a whole. To announce the victory of Japan would be the same as
preclaiming the defeat of the Allied Nations. If this annoumeement had been
made, the Umited States would have been dealt a mortal blow in the political
and esonomie order, as well as in a moral sense. Its internatiomal prestige
would have been unhinged. The value of its money would have suffered such
devaluation that it might have brought about misfortune and misery to millions
of men in the nations which comprise its sphere of influence.
ECT OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
AIKOKU RENMEI' (Patriotic League)
"The war in Greater East Asia, whieh lasted four years, ended a year
age and simee its termimatiom te date there is still no trustworthy effisial
mews cemeerming the true result of the war. This situatiom has givem rise te
Japanese subjects making a series of suppesitions and of epimions being divided
ixte twe groups - seme mmintain that Japan has been victorious and ethers assert
that it has beem defeated.
- 6 -

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
"But, instead of engaging in discussions of this mature ameng fellew
sitisens, we must above all know exactly the purpose pursued by Japan in the
war. Omee this point has been made clear, matters can be discussed and better
appreciated.
"During the war we Japanese residing abroad had beem wmable, mmeh
to our sorrow, to help the Fatherland mterially; nevertheless, we believe
that this desire to help can be manifested in other ways. As is kmem, the
paeifying ef the world has begun in Asia, led by Japan. In view of this
onceuraging reality, how can we help our Fatherland in the great task that it
is aceomplishing? By joining together in an atmosphere of opem harmemy. We
have ergamized the Patriotic League "Aikoku Renmei" for the purpese of
unifying the Japanese in order to give a vigorous push to the task of re-
establishing justice in the worla.
"May God desire that our aear compatriots join as soom as pessible
and sponsor our purpose.
"PRINC IPAL PURPOSES (of the "Patriotic Loague")
1. To exalt the Japanese spirit through an adequate collective educatiom;
2. To give the broaaest material and spiritual aid to the Fatherland;
3. To refute all propaganda and to give true news.
"BLANK FORM FOR HEGISTRATION
DN THE PATRIOTIC LEAGUE
"The undersigned, .
. , being in agreement
with the purpose pursued by the Patriotic League and wishing
to belong to it, promises to pay the sum of s/ . . . . . . .
for dues, corresponding to the months of . . . . .
Dato
To the gentlemen of the Patriotic League.
"PROJECTED STATUTES OF THE PATRIOTIC LEAGUE
"Art. 1 - The League weuld be known as "Aikoku Renmei" (Patriotie League)
"Art. 2 - The headquarters of the League will be established
- 7-

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.97)
"Art. 3 - The purpeses of the League are: To ebtain for its assesiatee a
correet view of the reality of the world; to lead its efferts
towards a more effect've help for Japan; to assist the indigemt.
"Art. 4 - The League will be constituted by the union of institutions which
have over ten Japanese members resident in Peru.
"Art. 5 - The League will summon an Ordinary Goneral Assembly once a year,
at which time a statement will be mmade concerning the progrese
of the institution, as well as of the finaneial status.
"Art. 6 - The General Assembly is constituted of delogates of affiliated
institutions and the members of the Executive Board of the League.
"Art. 7 - The League will call for an Extraordinary Genoral Assombly in the
following cnses:
(a) If accorded by the Exocut ive Board of the Loague.
(b) If aceorded by the majority of the members.
"Art. 8 - For the development and fulfillment of administrative fumetiome, the
League will ostablish the following offices, which are to be held
for the period of ome year:
(1) Several advisors
(2) A President
(3) A Vice President
(4) A Treasurer
(5) A Vice Treasurer
(6) A Secretary
(7) Two Treasury Inspectors
(ε) Several specialists for each branch of activity
(9) Several members at large.
"Art. 9 - The Presidemt of the League represents the League. The Vice Presidemt
helps the President and takes his place in the ovent that the latter
should be unable to perform his duties.
"Art. lo- The Vice Treasurer is in charge of keeping books for the League.
"Art. ll- The Secretary will be in charge of office matters and will be at the
orders of the President.
"Art. 12- The Treasury Dmspestor shall advise the financial state of the League
and his sigmature must be attached to all financial reports.
- 8-

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.97)
"Art. 13 - The Specialists will be in charge of the directiem of each branch
ascerding to the orders of the President and will be guided by the
Seeretary of the League.
"Art. 14 - The Advisers of the League are the consultative organ of the
President of the League and have the right te express their peints
of view at meetings of the Executive Board and at gemeral asseblies.
"Art. 15 - The mombers at large may vote on projects introduced by the
Executive Beard. They may also fill the pest of direster of amy
one of the branches.
"Art. 16 - Delegates from institutions affiliated to the League mmst attend
goneral assemblies. Affiliated entities my sond ome delegate
for every ten of their mombers.
"Art. 17 - Momthly dues amount to 8/ . . . . and should be paid te the
treasury of the League.
"Art. 18 - The League will establish the following departments:
(1) Department of Control and Orientation
(2) Department of Investigations and Information
(3) Department of Organization and Propaganda
(4) Department of Education and Printed Matter
(5) Department of Assistance and Foreign Relatioms
(6) Department of Feminine Matters
"Art. 19 - Individuals whe have been outstanding for their serviees te the
League shall be rewarded at the Executive Board meeting er at the
General Assemblies.
"Art. 20 - Mombers of the League who have impeded in the develepment of its
work and whe have attempted against the good mame of the Japanese
race shall be expelled from the League at Executive Board meetings
or General Assemblies.
"Art. 21 - Da the evemt of the dissolution of the League, its assets shall be
destined to aiding indigent Japanese."
Acsempanying the feregoing doeument was the draft of a form letter
which was apparemtly te be used in warming those Japanese whe did mot seeperate
with the members of the seeret sesiety. This is translated as fellews:
- 9 -

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
"WARNINO
"Dear Friend:
"Bocause of our patriotic desire to defend the unity of
the Japanese race, we take the liberty te give you the follewing
warning:
"We advise you that we are firmly decided to put an end,
if necessary by force and at your own residence, te your mehima-
tiems whieh tend to harness or to ereate difficulties for the
sampaigning in which we are engaged.
"We are not making this warning only through capricious-
ness or the desire to provoke conflicts. On the contrary, we are
mking this warning so that you shall have a real undentanding
soncerming the true situation in Japan and also so that you shall
become leyal Japanese in order to help us.
"But if your attitude or conduct continues to se comtrary
to our purposes, in spite of this warning, we shall regret te be
forced to take some measures against you for the sake of the
interests of our nationality.
"August, 1946
"Mombers of the Patriotic League
"To Mr.:
Follewing the depertation, three thousand membership carnets for the
ADKOKU DOSHI KAI were fouad by the Peruvian Police in the possession of KOZEN
IzEMA, the President of that society. These were confiscated by the Poliee.
-10-

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
AOH
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
American Embassy, Lima, Peru,
CONFIDE TIAL
May 12, 1949.
Action Assigned to
450
 · DIVISION OF
Aotion Taken
NORTHEAST tASIN AFFNRSeru
MAY 2 -4 1949
ate of sn  acti
The Houorable
PARTMENT OF STATE
REC'D
on Of rice Sa
Washington.
MAY 1 7
S:r:
ACTION
ARA
T ae the honor to report that it has been learned that
there ure three Japanese societies funotioning in Peru with
INFO
headquarters in Lima. They are as follows:
DCR
OLI
Ascciación Mutual-Cultural Japonesa (Japanese utual
FE
Cultural Asacciation) (Raza Yamoto)
POS
Sodiedad Mutualista Japonesa (Japanese Mutualist Society)
8
Lia utual!dad Japonesa (Japanese Mutuelity League).
9
4.2
A t)rf hese organizations also heve Japanese names.
C
 nd of the war the Swedish Legatio. in Lime
202
Ifire interests of Japanese in Feru. end also
 T Government interests here. Followir the
2
d ef e war the Uited States, British end Chinese mbassies
tor ver m the Swedish Legation the representation of
Japantse Ccveimaen' interests including especially the sum of
5
more hsn i40,Oc0 in cash which is still on deposit at the Lima
-1
bra f  Rcyal Bank of Canada, subject to joint action by
the airs of the three governments indicated above. The
249
Son continued in cherge of Japanese welfare inter-
s : Peru. and besides keeping control of Japanese welfare
fu,tinued to maintain at the Swedish Legation a
Japaness clerk who :s principally in charge of Japanese welfare.
XR
The infomalion contained in this despatch with respect to
Japanese crganizatious was prepared by the Japanese clerk in
Swish Lecatica
701.5823
arred that the first two organizations listed
sh  upposed to be, purely for mutual welfare
 iatn of the Japanese resident here. The
first one mentioned, the Asociación Mutual-Cultural Japonesa,
strt a elegation to the Swedish Legation in order to reguest
inforation about the proposed Japanese Commercial Lission
scheduled
CONFILENTIAL
JUN 6 194
FILJD
ACTION COPY

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.85)
 AI LUTUAL - CILTIRAL JAPONESA
(RAZA YALATO)
1 A DE JTA DIRETIVA
N1cha Sin Sar
Fasryesu P ar
Shinichi . elr Ivemoto
Fershiro Saito Seito
Youesuae Shi yo Shl yo
Akir Yori Ishizuke
Shinsuke kuvahere Okel
S1ichi Sakure1 Seloir: i
Yasuta Makino T.
Sesciehi Furukawa Kino
Tamekichi Hirate Inoue
Muichi Tajiri Tajiri
Chari Feai Seki
Suikichi Taire Kuriyrma
Aljunto Dos compia de PESTIMONIO
001101..

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.93)
Lara,
-2-
CCNFIDENTIAL
i! Peru. They stated thet besides wishing to be
 'he ielegation for commercisl purposes they also
ranil an official reception and other social
.t members of the comunerciel mission.
rzation, the Sociedad Lutualista Jauopasa,
ar and this year, requested permission feon
nt to hoist the Japanese flag to erhor with
vr their hones on april 29, the mpor's
st yeer nor this year wes any answer fe-
fore the members of the Society did not raise
 shing for permission to raise their flags, as
 Foriv an lew, the Presiuent of the Lise Lutu-
nt  cireuler in the Japanese language to the
at rganization instructing them to raise the
  anese flags at their homes or places of business
and in the circular indicated the manner in which
  ne. So far as has been learned, the flags were
i  he of the President of the Society and of two
Ler ptraons (possibly more), but when the local police in the
Le1  d  td them to take dom. the flags, that was
frher incident.
It as beun learned that despite the fact that the Jaranese
er prted to maintain only organizations of a mutual and
ultral ature in Peru, the Liga Mutualidad Japonese is in
Tepanese organization which still pres hes the
  infallibility and claims that Japan hus not
T ure enlosed copies of documents concerning each of
tho three oraizations listed above, in the order in which
they are listed. For the sociaclón Mutual-Cultural Japonesa
1-21
ther is a Ist of the Directing Council, together with one
ropy of tho Span sh text of the Constitution of this Associa-
-6/
tlos. Fer the Sociedad Mutualista Japonesa there are enclcsed
& statement iving various information about the organization,
inciud ing the name of the President, two pages of text of
Japanese haracters and a translation of an invitation to
celebrate the Emperor's birthday on April 29, as well as a
"opy of the request addressed to the Linister of Interior and
Folice for authorization to fly the Japanese flag on April 29.
the Liga Mutualidad Japonesa there are enclosed a copy of
er in Snanish, addressed to the Swedish Minister in Lima
 dat- f April 19, 1947, giving a list of the officers of
ne urgernzat on, a brief sheet of information in English, and
a copy of the Tapanese text of the leaflet issued by the organi-
zation tcgether with a Spanish translation thereof, issued by
the organizet1on under date of April 22, 1949.
Respectfully yours,
Haike H Tittmmen
at.
Harcld h. Tittmann.
Enclosures:
1-2/ Documents pertaining to Japanese Mutual-Cultural Assn.
3-6/ Doeuments pertaining to Japanese Mutualist Society
7.lc/ Documents pertaining to Japanese Mutuality League.
321.5
Rdelambert/apl
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.97)
10
SOCIEDAD MUTUALISTA JAPONESA
Address: Jirón Huanta 876
Lima
Presilent: Dairciu Imafuk
No:e: The seal of the society reads in Spanish:
"SOCIEDAD LUTUALISTA JAPONESA"
but in Japanese:
Zaihi Nipponjin Kodo (ej Koydc) Rense1
(Henmei ~ soeiedad, lige
Kodo
- el cemino del Emperador
Koydo
- mutual
Nipponjin-japoneses
Zaihi
... en el Peru)
The actual transletiou into Spanish.
therefore, is:
"La Liga de los Japoneses residentes e el
Peru, que siguen el camino; señalrdo por ei
Emperador"
luvitation for the 29th of April (Birthde. of the
Japanese Emperor) - see translation.
Tote. Severel songs appealing to the old Japenese feith
Yo. 14 "Song of the People from the Victorioue
Country"
22
"Loyalty"
28
"To our Navy (to our battle-s rps)
46
"The Traitors Against the Conntry Must
be Punishea"
60
"The Certainess of Victory" (Japen ca
never be beaten)
Same theme as 46
Appealed to Peruvian euthorities for permissi'n to hoist
Jepanece flags on April 29th (copy from similer application
last year enclosed) No answer.
Copied/jm

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
TRADUCCION
INVITACION
Le saludo muy atentamente y le felicito de que usts y su
fimilic se hallen bien y prosperando día a día.
Con mctivo del próximo feliz dfa de "Tenchosetsu", crgani-
zaia por la Zaihi Nipponjin Kodo Renmei (Sociedad Mutalistia
Japonesa, se 1levará a efecto el dfa de 29 de Abril, a la
l.oo de la tarde, la tercera gran actuacián litereria de
jóvenes y niños para exaltar el espíritu japonés y, al
mismo tiempo, un nutrido progreme bailes regionales, en el
Teatro Apolc, y espero se sirva darnos su opinión sobre la
actuación.
Fsperando ser honrado con la asistencia de usted y de su
digna familia. me suscribo de usted como su atto. y S. S.
22 de Ahril
Presidente de la Zaihi Nipponjin Kodo Renmei
Dairoku Imafuku
Copied/jm

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.96)
RADUCCION
entumente y le felicito de que uct y ut:
n bien y prosperando uía & día.
róximo feliz día de "Tenchosetsu", rgani
1 Nipponjin Kodo Renmei (Socieded Mutalistia
vará a efecto el dfa de 29 de Abril, a la
, la tercera gran actunción litereria de
para exaltar el espíritu japonés y. al
 nutrido programe bailes re ionales. en el
espero st sirva drnos s opinión sobre la
nrado con la asisteucia de usted y de su
ae suscribo de usted como su atto. y S. S.
22 de Ahr11
Presidente de la Zaihi Nipponjin Kodo Renmei
Dairoku Imafuku

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.96)
Sollo Ministerio de Gobierao
Abril 21 de 1948
LESA DE PARTES
Señor Ministro de Estado en el Despacjo de Gobiernc y
Policia:
rairoku Imnfuku y Shinichiro Shimrhukuro Presidente
y Secr t ro, respectivemeute de la "SOCIEDAD LUTUALISTA
JAPolmSa" aute su digno despacho nos presentenos y decimos:
Nos permitimos solicitar, muy respectuosamente de Ud.,
senor Ministro, autorización pora cler izar nuestrs bandera
en fa 29 del pres=nte, en que la Colonia Japonesa, radicada
en este iren Peru, celebra su aniversario petric, sujetándose
8 lns leyes y rerlamentos que normon la colocación de benderas
it lcs pafses extranjeros.
S1 es verdad que no están todavfe completamente res-
tablecidas las relaciones diylomáticas de nuestro pafs con el
Peru. también es verdad, que ya se han levantado las restric-
cloles que pesaban contre los pafses que integraban el Ejedirante
la Guerra Mundian última, conforme el decreto supreme del 3 de
setiem're de 1946.
Por estas razones, pedincs a usted señor Ministro,
que previo los trámites e que haye lurer, se nos conceda dicha
authorización y a más o menos 20, 000 mil japoneses residentes
en este hospitalario pafs durante más de 20 años, aunque ea
por ese día en que eomo ya hemos expresado, se celebra el
Aniversario del Japón,
Lima, 20 de abril de 1948.
Copied/jm

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
COPIA
LIGA DE MUTUALIDAD JAPONESA
Lima - Peru
Lima, 19 de abril de 1947.
Of.n0 8 -
Exmo. señor Ministro de Suecia.
Lima.-
Me es particularmente grato dirigirme a Ud., para poner
en su conocimiento, la nómina que compone la Junta Directiva de
ésta Liga y que verbalmente ofreciera enviar a esa Legación,
por intermedio de su Agregado Civil.
Presidente
Kokuho Koche.
Vice-Presidente
Toku Matayoshi
Secretario
Maritake Sueyoshi
Tesorero
Sayo Uyike
Consejeros
Kanseku Yamamoto
n
Chogoro Watanave
n
Kissaburu Nakemura
Proseeretario
Seiei Nagata
Pro-Tesorero
Asimismo cumplimos señor Ministro, con enviar una
copia de nuestros Estatutos elevado a Minuta Pública con fecha
23 de enero del presente año é inscrito en los Registros Públicos
con fecha 17 de los corrientes.
Dios guarde a Ud.
(firmado)
Kokuho Koche
Presidente
Sello.
Copied/jm

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.98)
LIGA MUTUALIDAD JAPONESA
Address: Av. Próceres 356 (may be 556)
President: Kokuho Koche, eddress see above
Seal here indicates correctly "kYODO" (mutuel).
Issued pamphlet (encl.) for April 29, the birthday
of the Japanese Emperor, urging the Japanese in Peru
to hoist Japanese flags (together with Peruvian ones)
- see Translation.
No permission asked for - nor granted.
Flags actually hoisted - among others - on the
following houses
Av. Próceres 356 (meye 556) house of
Kokuho Koche, President of Society
Av. Próceres 401
Av. Próceres 585
Flags taken down after police intervened.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
brazos abiertos la esperada Fiesta Macional (Teachosetsu) que ya 
avecina. (Aparece dibujado un sol nasiente y las banderas peruasa y
japonesa con una leyenda que diee: Felicitacion.- Tenchosetsu (Fiesta
Nacionel que se celebraba antes de la guerra para festejar el natalicio
del Emperador del Japón).
Debajo de los dihujos figura le siguiente leyenda: "Intervenid (o
Asistid) a l Gran Fiesta Deportiva en conmenoración de este feliz dfe.
izando cala miembro las banderas del Japóu y del Peru.//El programa de
las pruebas deportivas serán repartidos ImroRAcIoN!!! /en su oportunidad.
Compatriotss gue habeis recibido la sengre de la raza Yamato:
A! lellarnos en la vfspera de nuestra eaperada y brillente fiesta del
Tenchosetsu. todos, desde los ancienos hasta los jóvenes, unidos, celebremos
con toda solemnidel el feliz día, izando las benderas del Japón y del Porull
!irad (aquf figura debujado un sol radiante) la majestuona figura del
Emperador que ilumine al mundo, y todos los pafses del orbe asf como todos
los seres del espacio reciben el celor de Su Majestad. habiendo logrado
inspirándose en su grandioso ideal del "Hekio ichu" (Esta palabra
tralucida literelmente significa: Todos bajo un solo techo), establecer
la paz mundial eterna. Los dirigentes de las diferentes'naciones del
mundo actuel, todoe, se afanan por constituir un puevo mundo. Además
los pueblos de las naciones atrasadas así como otros pueblos de las
naciones débiles, están siendo librados completamente de las desgracias
de la guerra mundial, gracias a la bondad de nuestro Emperador. Y es.
por lo tanto, que actualmente todos los hombres del mundo le rinden a
nuestro Emperador el más fevoroso y respetuoso homensje por los favores
recibidos.
Los japoneses que no festejen el felis día que se avecina,
izando.
Copied/jm

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure no. 2 to. despatch no. 430
dated May 12, 1949 from the
American Embassy, Lima.
CONSTITUCION DE ASOCIACION DENONIWADA
"ASOCIACION MUTUAI - CUI TURAL JAPONBSA"
(Rnza Yamato)
En lima, a siete de abril de m1l novecientos cuarenta 1 sie-
to, ante mf, Gastón Garcfa Rada, Notario Páblico y de Hncienda de
esta Capital y testigos aue al final se expresam, comparocen: lee
señores Nakaichi Sakamoto Sakamoto, Japonds, casado, comercimte,
con cornet de extranjerfa námero veintiun m1l cuntrocientoe nuove,
con el inpuesto resp ctivo pagado al dfa; Wasayasu Tanake Bto, ja-
ponés, de estado civil viudo, mecanico, con cnrnet de extranjoría
núrero veinte y dos mil doscientos veinte y cuntro, con el corres-
ponddante ixpuesto pagado al dia; Shinichi Maeda Ywamoto, Japon6s,
casado, comerciante, con carnet de extranjeria numero veinte  nuo-
ve  il tresc'entos veInte y dos, con el impuesto respectivo pagado
al dia; Hedshiro Scito Saito, japonés, casudo, relojero, con carnot
de extraujerfn nánero veintiun mil ciento treinta y cuatro, con la
constanc'n de encontrarse con el impuesto pagado al dfa; Yonosuro
Shigyo Shigyo, japonéa, casndo, mecánico, con carnet de extranjo-
rfa número diez y nueve mil seiscientos setenta y nueve, con el co-
rrespondientc impucsto pacndo a] dia; Akire Mori Ychizuka, Japom6s,
casndo, africultor, con curnot ac cxtranjerfa numero cinco mil no-
vecientos setento y seis, con cl corresponáfente impuesto pagado
a! din; Sh'nsuke Kawuhara Okay, japonés, soltero, comerciante, com
carnet de extrenjerfa námero diez y scis mil quinientos ochonte 
dos, con e? correspondierte impuesto pagndo al dia; Seiich1 Baku-
ray Motesakurai, japenés, casado, cemerciante, con carnet de extram-
jerfe numero veinte y tres mil ciento echente y seis, con la res-
pective constancia de validez; Tasuta Wakime Taie, Japenss, esee
cientes cincuents y siete, cen el cerrespondiente impusste

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.92)
el cerrespendionte iupuesto pagede al dses Temota
japemés, casede, cemercimte, cem carnet de extremferíe
quince mil cuatrecientes tres, con el impueste pegado el asey
chi Tajira Tajiri, japonés, soltere, cemercimte, cm earmo
extranjerfa námero quince mil ochociente cincmenta y des, m 
impuesto respectivo pegado al dfa; Chir1 Nagay Seki, Japonés, ea-
ando, comercinnte, con cornet de extranjerfa mumore veinte mi1
renta y tres, con ln conatancia de haber pagado el impeeste res-
pective; y Suikichi Taire Iuriyama, Japonés, casade, empleade, eom
carnet de extremjerie numero veinte y dos mil ochectontes mevente
y seis, con el correspondiente impuesto pagado al dfe.
Los comparecientes son mayores de edad, de esta vecindad, intell-
pentes en el 1d1omn cnstellano, y en ejercicio de sus dereches c1-
viles, a quienes conozco, de que doy fé; come de haber cumplide
con lo prescrito en los artículos treinta y oche al cuaremte y uno
de la Ley de Notariade; me entregan una minuta firmeda para que su
contenido sen elevado a 1nstrumente páblice, la que señalada com
ei número "trescientos seis", queda archivada en mi legeje corres
pondiente y cuyo tenor literal es come sigue: - -
MINUTA
Señor Notario:- Sfrvnse usted extender en su Registre de Escritu-
ras Póbliccs, unn de constitución de asocinci6n que, nosetres, Ma-
kaichi Sakamote, Presidente; Masayasu Tamaka, Vice-Presidonte; Shi-
nichi Yaeda, Secretario; Heichire Saito, Tesorere; Yemesuke Shigye,
Fiscal; Akira Mori, Pro-Secrotarie; Shimsuke Kawuhare, Pre-Teserero!
Seiichi Sakuray, Bibliotecario; Yasuta Makine, Sasaichi Purumake,
Tamekichi Hirata, Vuichi Tajira, Chiri Nagay y Suikichi Taira, Ve-
cales, de la Asociacióm Mutual - Cultural Japonese (Resa Yamate)s
debidamente suterisades per la Asamblea General de Asesisdes, de
feche dies y nueve de los corrientes, ceme censte del aete de foje
mueve, del libre respective que se servird usted imsertar 
bimes en les términee signientes:
PRI.MERO
LA ASOOT ACION MUTUAL-CULTURAL JAPONBS A" (ROGO

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.92)
on la calle Pechacutec mámiere mil quimieztes quimee
•l veinte y ouatre de enero del presente
ciém pasaré a formar rarte de es'tn escriture, per asamblem
de asociados de diez y nueve del mes en curso, nos ha omferido
wandato esrecial, rnrn elevar a escritura pública sus estatutee
recabar su personerfa jurfdica.-
SEGUNDO
La "Asociación Mutuc) - Cul tura] Japonesa" (Raza Yamato), gosa de
peculio prorio, censtitufdo por los muebles y enseres de su local
socicl y por ]n sume de soles oro un mil trescientos novente, dope
eitndos y n cargo del Tesorero de la Institución; y. además,  ba
previsto, en sus estetutos, In wnnern de esegurar y, al mismo tióm
po, eumentar, su pntrimonto.
TERCERO
Habiendo, antes, la Asociaci6n practicndo actos de los que están
perritidos por ln ley, la Asamblea Generel de Asociados ha convont-
do retrotraer los efertos de ln inaoripción ? lns fechas en que di-
chos nctos se practicaron, declarándolos, en consecuencia, válidoe
 conformes.-
CUARTO
Los estatutos de la Asociación, que deben ser elevados a escritura
páblica, han sido aprobados por la Asarblea General de nsociadoe,
en sestones de nueve y dicecinueve de los corrientes; y son los que
n continunci6n se trasunten:
E S T A T U TO S
DE LA ASCCIACION MUTUAL - CULTURAI. JAPONESA (RaZa Yamato)
CAPITULO
PRIMERO
DE SU CONSTITUCTON Y FINES
ARTICULO PRIMERO
La "Aseciaci6m Mutual - Cultural" Japonese (Raze Yamate), esté cams-
tituída per todes los japeneses residentes en el Perá, sualquiers
que sea su estede civil, edad, sexe, cendieilm econsmica  luger
de residencia, que hayem ctmplide cem imsertbiree en el
asssides de la Imstitestén, cemferme al regl

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.94)
ARTICULO SEGUNDO
La Asociaciém se ha fundade y establecide para cumplir
tes finalidades:
a).- Para procurer una mavor vinculación y acercamiente culturel
económico y social con los peruanos;
b).- Estrechar los vinculos de amistad entre los nsocindos y sws
familias  establecer reciprocn ayuda y cooperaci6n; -
c).- Procurar el auxilio mutual, la defensa jurídica gratuíte y de-
más beneficios especificamente consignade en los presentee oste-
tutos:-
ARTICULO TERCERO
la Asocinción tomnrá a su cargo, como una de sus principalos fima-
lidades, el aux1lie económico y humanitario de los japomeses que
aún no siendo miembros de ln instituc16n, se encontraram en condi-
ciones de no sufragar sus gastos de curación, enfermedad, invali-
dez, vejez y funerales.
C A P T T U I O
SEGUNDO
DE IA DURACION Y DOMICIITO
ARTICULO CUARTO
In durnc1ón de la Asoc'nc16m es por tiempo 1ndefinide
ARTTOUIO QUINTO
El domicilie de la Asociación es la ciudad de Lima, donde se em-
cuentra su centro principal.
Sin embargo, puede establecer filiales en cualquier lugar de la
República cuyos domicilies serán los de sus respectivas sedess -
CAPITULOTERCERO
DE LAS ACTIVIDADES DE LA ASOCTACION
ARTICULO SEXTO
Sen actividades de la Aseciaciém
a).- Celebrer charles, cemferencies, comcurses • eventes depertivee
en forma periédica; - -
b).- Mantemer relecienes culturales, intelectuales y eepertives
sem tede clase de iastitusiemes del pefs; 7.
e)o- Desarrellar o1 hem

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.94)
1 estrechar los vfnculos con el P
AR TICULO SRXTO
La Aseciación y sus miembros ne podrám intervenir en activide
de indole polftica e cooperar individual o colectivmente
de una ideología o partido político peruane.- Ia infracoi
respen
te artículo será causal para separar de la Asociación a lo
sables
CAFI T UI O
CUARTO
DE LOS SOCTOS
PICULO SEPTINO
Son socios todos los japonesos res!dentes en el Perú qua hayam
cumnlido con inscribirse en el Pegistro de asociados y roumen lo
requisitos exigidos por el reglamento interno
ARTICULO OCTAVO
ios soc1os son:
u).- Socios nctivos, gue a su vez se dividen en dos cetegorías, 
suber:
Primero.- Socios activos fundndores; y,
Segundo.- Socios honorarios
ARTICULO NOVENO
Son consideredos como socios activos fundndores i todos los que di-
recta o indirectamonte hubieran intervenido en ln constituci6n de
la Asocinción y oue hubieren frmndo el ncta de su fundactón.- -
ARTICULO DECIMO
Todos los socios activos, fundadores o nó, gozan de iguales dore-
chos y bligaciones, y tienen Ins mismns oportunidndes en la parti-
cipaci6n, dirección y gobierno de la Asociación
ARTICULO UNDECIMO
Son obligaciomes de los sscis activos:
a).- Pager sus cetizaciones ordinarias y extraordinarias;
b).- Asistir a las juntas generales y a todes les actes seciales
le Instituciém;
e).- Elegir la junte Directiva y aceptar tedes les earges que
sea per eleceiém  designacim

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.95)
d).- Oumplir las dispesiciomes del presente estatute.
ARTICULO DUODECIMO
Sem dereches de les
e).- Elegir y ser elegide;
b).- Gozar del amparo de la 1nstituci6n dentre de los 1fmites f1-
jados por su reglamento; -
c).- Recibir los beneficios establecides en estos estatutes; 7.
d).- Denunciar ante las juntas generales las infracciones que se
hubieran cometido contro los presemtes estatutes por la Junta Di-
rectiva o por cualquiera de los nsocindos
ARTJCUIO DECTMO TERCERO
Se pierde la cnlidad de asociado y los goces que esta calided otorga:
a).- Por expuls16n; y
b).- Por suspens1ón.
ARTICUIO DECIMO CUARTO
Ln suspensión procede por adeudar tres mensualidades; per descome-
cer los cauerdos legitimemente tomados por la juntn general • por
la juntn directiva; por atenter contra la salud • la honorabilided
de algún nsociado; y, por tomar el nombre de la Asociaci6m para fi-
nes lucrativos o de otra índole
ARTICUIO DECIVO QUINTO
En caso de adeudo de mensualidades la pérdida de los dereches o-
menzará a regir desde el dia siguiente al de la notificación de la
decisión tomada por la Junts Directiva.- Sin embarge, 6sta, per
equidad, puede conceder un plaze de tolerancia, no mayer de treinta
dfas, para que el eseciade cenferme su situaciém. -
ARTICULO DECIMO SEXTO
La expulsión precede cuando el asociade atente centra la segurided
económice, estabilidad institucienal, • contra el patrimemie y. buon
nembre de la Asociaciém; cuande atenten en ferme grave cemtre les
bienes, fmilie, salud u hemer de ume e más aseciadee; y, cuende

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.92)
 ARTICULO DECIMO SBTINO
Los secios suspendidos están en la obligacién de pagar s
saciones y los excluídos lns cuotes que adeuden.-
ARTICULO D CIVO OCTAVO
Para que procedn ln ox; ulsi6n c 1a suspens1ón es ind1spensable
oue se heya ccnprobudo, are e inequfvocanente el hecho o caus
imputaco; que ln Junt: 're tiva ucuerde por mayorfa absoluta de
votos y uue 1a Junte Sanera] rat fique por 1Fun) mavorfa; que la
ruscluc'sn sea poeste en onocin'tnto del exrulando o suspendido;
 éste hara an na y ue nedie, cuando menos, ocho dfas,
des Ja pat cicución su ir Tuntn Genernl  el comienzo de au  jo
cursn.---
ARTICU O LECTO NOVENO
Pambién 1s Juntn Direct'vn puede imroner la snnsión de multa
Ios sccics cue ircurrteran en le fa'tn de pago de sus cotizacio
nes ordin r'as o eytr ordinarias; a los inaststentes a las Jun-
tos Gonerales y cuando have motivo o cousa suficiente, a juicio
de ln Junta Directiva, pare iuponerins.- ins multas no podrán ser
merores qve el valor de une cotización mensual ni meyor que el to-
tal de las cotizaciones correspondientes a un semestre.- Las mul-
tns se harán efectivas por el Tesorero y el Voccl de turn com-
juntamente.
CAPITUIO
QUINTO
ARTICULO VIGESIMO
Es patrimonio de la Asncinción todos los bienes que actualmonte
posee y los que en el futuro adquiera por compra, legado, done-
c16n, cesión o por otro tftulo oneroso o pratuito, y las smas
de dinere que recnude por concepto de cotizeciones y el produete
de lns multas impuestas a sus nsocicdos; y el de las actuaciomes
sociales y deportivas.
ARTICULC VIGESIMO PRIMERO
La Junta Directiva es ln encargada de la administractém del pe-
trimonie de la Asecimcién.- Séle ella pedrd dispomer de s
y rentes en les cases y hesta les limites fijadee per eat

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.92)
to.- No pedré contratar sebre el tetal del patrimemio de
Asociación.
ARTICULO VIGESIMO SEGUNDO
En todos los casos en que la Directiva trate o comtrate sobre los
bienes o rentns de ln Asocinción, deherh, obligntoriamente, ca
nicar a la Junta Generul ncerca de In forma y condiciones del ac-
to o contrato a ce .etrarse
ATICULO VIGESTMO TEHCARO
 ant s de la Asociación, prinordialmente, están conatituides
rcr lis s'guiontes cntr
a) .- Por e) 1ugo de a cutir .ción monsur) ce soles oro tres. por
soc'o;
b).-  or e) abono ce lns cuotns mutuarins, sohre enfermedad y muer
te, cnyo nonto quedurá determinado de ncuerdo con el námero de 
cics;
c) .- Lns mu!tas ( ue evontu lrente inponga a los miembros de la
Junte Directiva, la cue no podrá ser menor de soles oro cien, y
a los dcmhs socios infractorios, que no podrá ser menor de soles
d).- Lns sumns que se recnuden en lns nctuncionee sociales y de-
portives; y,
e).- Por el derecho de otorgmiento de carnet e insignta de la
asociac1ón
ARTICULO VIGESIVO CUARTO
In economfn de la Asocinción estrrá a cargo y responsnbilidad del
Tesorero, el que esta obligndo a faccionar trimestralmente balem-
ces bajo la supervigilancin de la Junta Directiva; y, anualmonte,
rendirá cuenta detallada y justificada de tode el movimiento ecen6-
mice de la Asociación.- Todo ingreso o ogmese se hará constar me-
diante recibos  se anotará en los libros de contabilidad abier-
tos con arregle a ley

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.87)
CAPITULO
SRXTO
DE LOS
BENEFICIOS
ARTICUIC VIGESJNO QUINTO
Le "nsociac1ón Mutun] - Cultura] Japonesa" (Raza Yamato), reeono-
ce los sopuientes heraricios a f vor de sus nsociudos:
a).- A percirir la sunn  soles oro doscientos. en cas de muer
te de au cervure, hijos e Fadres;
r).- 1 ue a nd ciban 1 sura de soles oro guinientos 
coso de su fullaclrlanto;
c).-A recr 1o ua
olas cro dosciantos cincuanta cuando
eatviere enaro1 soo
d).- A recihir sele co len cuando energaren su cónvugo. bijo
 adras; 
e).- A la densn urraion gratufta an todos sun sunto civiles
y comerctalee en qua sean parte y an nquellos que lo sean sus pa-
dres, hiion o cónmgo..
AFTTCULO VICESTYO SEXTO
Los benef'cios raconocidos en l artfculo anterior se podrán re-
clngar a partir de) tercer mes de ln Inscripción como asociade y
slerpre aue el beneficiado estuv ure al corriente con sus cuotas
ordinnrina v extraordinorins.- Empero, s! el esnciado falleciere
antes de vencido el plnzo a aue se contrae este artfculo, los
deudos tendrán derecho a percibir unn sume 1gual a la mitad de
la cunota mutuaria.
CAPITULO
SBTIYO
DEL GOBIERNO DE LA ASOCTACION
ARTICULO VIGESIMO SETIMO
In Asociación esth dirigida, pobernada y administrain por:
a) .- Ia Asamblea • junta gonernl de asociados;
b).- Por la Jumta Directiva; y.
c).- Per les cemités • delegados.
ARTICULO VIGESINO OCTAVO
La Asmbles Gemeral es el érgane supreme de la Ascciaciém y eeté
cematiíée per tedee lee esecides- Sue deesa

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.94)
ARTICULO VIGESIMO NOVENO
Las Juntas o asnmblens gonerales serán ordinarias y extraordss
rias
Ins primeras se realiznrán el veinte de enero y el veinto de ju-
nio de cada año; y l's extraordinnrias cunndo acuerde la Jmte
Directiva o sen solicitado nor ln quinta parte de los Asoctados
ARTICUUO TRIGESIMO
El orgnnismo inmediato n In Asnrblec o Junta General es la Junte
irectivn, y esth constitufdn por doce miembros, distribufd on
ics pipu'rntes carroe
a).- Presidente;
b).- vice-rresidente;
c).- Tescrero;
d).- Secretnrio;
e) .- Fisca];
f).- Pro-Secretnrio;
g).- Pro-Tesorero;
h).- Bibllotecario;
1).- Seis Vocales
ARTTCULO TRIOESIMO PRIMERO
Todo socio aue se encuentrn al corriente en sus obligaciones y no
esth suspendido, puede ser elegido parn ocupar cualquier cargo
de la Junta Directiva
ARTTCUL C TRTGESTVO SEGUNDO
In Junta Directiva representa oficialmente a todos los asociades
y está encargada de cumplir y hecer cumplir lcs disposiciemes de
estos estatutos y los acuerdos y decisiones temados por las Assm-
bleas • Juntns Generales.- Igualmente está obligade a auspieiar
las actunciones, culturales, sociales, y deportives de la
ci6m, así como proteger lss aspiraciones constructivas de
aseciades
ARTICULO TRIOESIMO TERCERO
La Junta Direstive esté faculted

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.95)
que me éstén contemplades per estes estatutes.- sin
pedrá medificar ninguma de sus decisienes sim previe eemeulta
acuerdo de la Asamblea • Junta General
ARTICULO TRIGESJMO CUARTO
El Preaidente es ln nutoridad máxima de la Junta Directiva; coms-
tituye su representante legal y tiene las siguientes atribuciemes:
a).- Cumplir y hacer cumplir las disposiciones de les presemtes
estatutos; los ncuerdos de la Junta Directiva y de las Asambleas
o Juntas Generales, bajo responsabilidad;
b) .- Suscribir con el Secretarie todas lns actas y despache de
la Asociaci6n;
c) .- Autorizer y poner el visto bueno a todes los pagos que efee-
táe la Caja de la Asociación y verificar las cuentas de la
rerfa;
d) .- Convocar y presidir lns sesiones de la Junta Directive y de
las Juntas • Ascmbleas Generales ordinnrias y extraordinarias; y
e).- Presentar una memorin anual que comprenda su gesti6n adminis-
trativa y las sugerencias necesarias para la mejor marche institu-
cional.
ARTICUIO TRIGESIMO QUINTO
El Vice-Presidente tendrá las mismas funciones y atribuciomee del
Presidente cunndo éste se encuentre impedide en sus fumciones per
razón de ausencia, enfermedad o muerte.
ARTICULO TRIGESIMO SEXTO
La Presidencia queda vacan
a).- Por ausencia que dure más de dos me
b).- Per enfermedad que le impesibilite seguir ejerciende sus fm-
eione
e).- Per inasistencia e más de tres sesiones censeeutives per
ses me justificades.
ARTICULO TRIGESIMO SETINO
El Toserere es el depesitarie y respemsd le immediate de
la Asesiaeiéa.- Bl guarde les valores

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.95)
que ingrèse a la Caja de le institur  m.- Sue atribueiemee
a).- Girar los recibes de c、 tiznciones erdinariss
rias y demás oblignciones que imperten uma obligaciém em dimeres
y pasarlos al Presidente para su visación;
b).- Pagar los auxilios mutunles por razón de muerte, enfermoded
o invalidez;
c).- Presentar trimestralmente el balnnce de la 1mstituci6m pare
su aprobnción por la Junta Directiva; y al finalizar el eñe soeial,
presentar el balance documentado de todo el añe de su gesti6m; - -
d) .- Remitir al Secretario ln rel ación de todos los asociados aptos
parn votar que estén a! corriente en sus pagos;
e).- Retener, constantarente, en la Caja de la Instituci6n hasta
soles oro quinientos pern ntender los gnstos e imprevistes que pu-
dieran presentarse; 
f).- Controlnr y mejorar la economfa social. - -
ARTICULO TRIGESIMO OCTAVO
El Secretari•, tendrá Ins obligaciones siguientes: refrendar las
resoluciones adoptadas por la Junta Directiva, después de la firme
del Presidente; remitir lns listas de nuevos socios al Teserere
para los efectos de sus funciones; inscribir a los mistentes e
las asenbleas o juntns generales y anotar a los incorrientes pare
los efectos de lns multas; citar a las sesiones de Jumta Directive
y de Asamblens o Juntas Generales; ejercer sus funciones propias
en dichas sesiones; y llevar el libro de actas, suscribiéndele de
su puño y letra y refrendándolo con su firma.
ARTICULO TRIGESIMO NOVENO
El Pro-Secretario y el Pro-Tesorero, tendrán las mismas fumcienes
y las mismas atribucienes que el Teserero y el Secretarie, euamãe
éstes se hallen impedides per ausencie, enfermedad • liceneie.-
También en caso de fallecimiemte de equelles les sustituirém.
ARTICULO CUADRIGESIMO
Cuande el Teserere y Secretario están en fumeiemes, el Pro-s

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.94)
lles, y también, come ergenizaderes de las actueciomes eule
sociales y depertivas.
ARTTCULO CUADRTGESTWO PRIMERO
El Fiscal tendrá a su carge el mantenimiente de la ergmisaeiéey
disciplina dentro o fuera de la Instituci6n, procurando en tode
y más •levada
momento que los nsocindon obaerven ln mejor/conducta con releci6m
a los fines y objetivos de la Asociación
En los casos en cue la Junta Directiva juzgue las faltas graves
cometidas por un nsocindo, está obligade a formular la cerrespem-
diente denuncia escrita v contrelar la investigaci6n y eseleree1-
miento de los hechos denuncindos.
Así es su obligación cuidar y controlar a los empleados de la
1nst1tuc16n.
ARTICULO CUADRIGESIMO SEGUNDO
Jos Vocales ejercerén lns functones de control y vigilancia, com-
juntemente con el Piscal de le buenn marcha de la Asociación, du-
rente el turno aue les corresponde
Los Vocales ejercerán al ternadamente de dos en dos, cada tres meses.
ARTICULO CUADRIGESJMO TERCERO
El Bibljotecario estará enccrgade de formar ln Biblioteca de le
Asocinción mediante el plan cue debe formular previamonte cuidande
de la integridad de los volámenes a su cargo y erganizande el rel
de lecturas, charlas, conferencias y demas actuaciones culturales,
conjuntamente con los miembros de la Junta Directiva facultades
para este fin en les articules trigésime novene y cuadrigesimes-.-
ARTICULO CUADRIGESIMO CUARTO
Le Junta Directive se reunirá pera deliberer sebre les asuntes eem-
cermientes a la Asociacién per le menos une ves al mes em sesienes;
pudiende hacerle extraerdinariamente cuantas veces lo requiera la
marehs institueionel
ARTICULO CUADRTORSTWO QUINTO
La Asscissiém pedrá eemstituir "Cemités" previnsieles eé
talee en sualguier lpger de la Ropéblies, en lae

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.94)
existam por lo menos dies secios actives.- Bstes mis
nizarán de acuerdo com estes estatutes y con las dispesieiome
acuerdos que tome la Junta Directiva, las Juntas Gemerales  les
que ellos mismos se 1mpongan, séempre qve ne sean contraries 
las normas genernles aue rigon a la Asociaci6n.
El Presidente de esta Asociación será el inmediato enlace con la
Junta Directiva de la Asociación, con sede en Lima.- Las atribu-
clones y funciones de los comités se repirén, por las disposicio-
nes contenidas en el Reglnmento interno de la Asociaci6n.- - - -
ARTJCULO CUADFIGESINO SEXTO
Ia Junta Directive podrá, en atención a sus actividades y finali-
dades, designar comisiones que la asesoren y coadyuven on su laber.
Ins corisiones estafén compuestns de tres miembros, y serán las
siguientes: de Cultura; de Deportes; de Asuntos Pomeninos; Mutua-
l1dad y Socorro; Asuntos Iegales y Control Econ6mico.
ARTICULO CUADRIGESTYO SETIMO
Lns comiséones se designarán por mayr fa absoluta de votos y serán
ratificadas por la Asamblea o Junta General; pero el contrel y vi-
gilancia corresponde a la Junta Directiva.-
C AP I TULO
O C T A V O
DE LAS SESIONES
ARTTCULO CUADRTGESTYO OCTAVO
Para la renliznción de lns sesiones de Juntas e Asambleas Generales
es requisito indispensable In concurrencia del setenticince per
ciento de los socios aptos para votar y que haye side convocada
per el Presidente
La citación se hará per medio de los periédices • per esqueles •
per ambes medies a la ves, cen una anticipación de oche dias, y
estará a carge del Secretarie.
ARTICULO CUADRIGESIMO NOVENO
Si a la primere citaciém me pudierem cemeurris el mimere de sesies
guade fecha declarándese en eete dltime ease que la eeeide e 

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.96)
tuaré con el mémero de secies concurrentes y que les meverée
mades serán obligateries pasa todos les eciade
ARTICULO QUINCUAGESIMO
Las sesiones de la Junte Directiva se efectuarán monsuelmonte, el
áltimo aábrdo de cada mes.
Los acuerdos tom dos serhn comunicados a todos los secios dontre
de las veinte y cuntro horas s'guientes y a más tardar antes de
los tres dfas.- El querum, forme y demás circunstancias serám deter
minndos por el Reglamento interne de la Asocincióm.-
ARTICUIO QUINCUAGESIMO PRIMERO
Las actas que se sienten de las sesiones serán firmadas per tedes
los miembros de la Junta Directive y refrendadas por •l Secretarie.
CAPITUIO
NOVENO
DE IAS FLECCTONES
ARTICULO QUTNCUAGESIVO SEGUNDO
Las elecciones de Junta Directiva se realizarán en le Asamblea •
Junta General del veinte de enero.- Es indisrensable para efeetuar
elecciones ln concurrencia del ochenta por ciento de los asociades
habiles para votar. -
ARTICULO UINCUAGESIMO TERCERO
Los que resulten elegidos serán proclamados por el Presidente ce-
sante, debiendo encargarse de sus unciones la nueva Junte Diree-
tiva a más tardar a los ocho días
ARTICUIO QUINCUAGESIMO CUARTO
Todos los miembros, alguno o algunes de la Junta Directiva pueden
ser reelegidos indefinidamente
ARTICULO QUINCUAGESIMO QUINTO
Em la sestón de Junte Gemeral en que preséen juremente les miembres
de la nueva Junta Directiva, se leeré la momeria del Presidente e-
sante cerrespendiente al añe de su gestiém y se leerá la mémería
y balamee presentade per el Teserere.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
'CAPITULO
DECINO
DE LA DISOLUCION
ARTICULO QUINCUAGESIMO SEXTO
la disolución de lu Asociación se realizará en los siguientes
a).- Cuando lo pidan el ochenta por ciento de sus miombree:
b).- Por declnrnci6n de qutebra;
c).- Por lns crusns previstns en el articule sesenta del C6digo
C111
ARTICULO .UINCUAGESIMO SETIMO
En todos los casos de disolución, la última Junta Directive cum-
plirh con poner en conocimiento de la autoridad polftice y de sus
acreedores y deudoves el hecho de Jn disolución para los efectes
legales pertienentes.
DISPOSICION TRANSITORIA
Los presentes estatutos comenzarán a regir en cuanto hayan sido
inscritos en el Registro de Personas Jur'dicas; y no podrá ser
modificade ninguna de sus disposiciones sine un añe después de he-
ber sido aprobndos, y siempre con noticia del Registro de Personas
Juridicas
Usted, señor Notario, agregue lo de ley  pase los partes respecti-
Lima, diez y nueve de marse de mil nevecientos cunrenta y siete.--
Pirmade:- N. Sakamote.- M. Tanaka.- Shinichi Maeda.- Heishire Saite.-
S. Taira.- S. Kawuhara.- A. Mori.- S. Purunaka.- Y. Makine.- Y.
Shigye.- S. Sakuray.- Chiri Nagay.- T. Hirata.- N. Tajiri.
ANOTACION A LA MINUTA
Caja de Depésitos y Censigmacienes.- Departamento de Receudaeiém.
Secciém Alcabala, Registre • Impueste a la Renta del Capital Mevi-
Le he luger e impueste.- Artfeule dece de le ley de veintitree
de mil echssiemtes moveate y seis L

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.95)
de mil nevecientos cuarento À siete.- Pirmade:- P. Armiiles
Velasce.- Un selle de la Sección Control y Revisi6m Logal.- S
Jefe
INSERTO
COMPROBANTE
Gastón Garcfa Rada, Notario Páblice y de Hacienda de ta eapital,
certifice: que he tenido a la vista el libre de actes de Jumtes
Generales de la "Asocinción Mutual-Cultural Japonesa" (Rase Yama-
to), debidamente legalizado y llevade conforme a ley, y que a fo-
jas siete de dicho libro corre el ncta de Junta eneral de fecha
nueve de marze de mil novecientos cuarentisiete, cuya parte posti-
nente es como sigue:
"Acto sepuido el señor Nagay expres6 que ln comisi6n redactore de
estatutos habfn entregade dentro del plaze fijado por la Junta -
neral anterior y oue conforme se habín ncordede, los había citade
el dfa de hoy para discutir dichos estatutos.- Despuds de la lee-
tura genoral del rroyecto se abrió a dehate cadn uno de los capf-
tulo
Con la intervención de grnn mayorfa de los asistentes se d16 por
aprobndo los cinco primeros capítulos, relativos a la constituciém
y fines de la Asociación, plazo y domicilio, actividades, socios
y régimen económice.
No habjendo otras cosas que tratar, el Presidente suspendi6 la
sesión siende lns tres y treinta de la tarde, notificande a les
presentes para la próxima junta general que debe reunirse el dies
y nueve del mes en curse con el objete de seguir discutionde lee
estatutos.- K. Susiki.- Y. Taniuchi.- S. Taira.- Y. Saite.- B. Hi-
rata.- K. Siayasu.- K. Ysizuka.- H. Saite.- Keichi Sate.- T. Kia-
nura.- Y. Shigye.- 3. Maeda.- Nerie Sakamete.- N. Sakamete.- K.
Wakida.- Tomemi Sete.- W. J. Kega.- S. Kuwahara.- 8. Yeshida.- .
Yeshikawa.- T. Hirata.- N. Watamabe.- muichi Tajirt.
Yasuta Makine.- A. Meri.- Temeichi Tansks.
Chir1 Nagay.- S. Sakaray".- Asf cemste del aete al prineipio

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.93)
de mil nevecientes cudrenta y siete.- Firmade: Gastén Gareía
Wotario.- Un sello-
O T R O
Gastón Garcfa Rade, Notnrio Páblico y de Hacitenda de esta capital,
certifico: cue he tenido a ln vista el libro de actas de juntas
generales de la Asociaci6n Vutual - Cultural Japonesa (Raza Yama-
to) y que a fojas nueve del 1nd1cado libro corre el acta de Junta
General de fecha diez y nueve de marze de mil novecientos cuarem-
ta y siete, cuyn parte pertinente es como sigue:- - -
"Lefda y aprobada cue fué el ncta de ln sesión anterior, •l Pre-
eidente manifest6 que conforme se habia acordade en la roumi6n pa-
sada, se pedia poner on debcte los capitulos de los estetatos que
faltaban conocer a asarrlen.- Abierto el debate muchos asamblefs-
tns intervinieron en lns discustones especinlmente en el punte re-
lativo a los boneficios cue reconocfa ln nsociación a sus asocia-
dos t a lns atrihuciones de los miembros de la Junta Directive 
establecimientus e los Cosités provincinles  depnrtamentales.-
Sometida a votnción capítulo por cnpitulo, quedo aprobade por ma-
yoria nbsoluta de votos los siguientes capitulos: de los Bemofi-
clos; del Gobierno de ln Asociación; de Ins sesiones; de las eloo-
ciones y de unn disposicón transitoria relativa a la modificsei6n
y vigencia de los estatutos.- Acto seguido a propuesta del soñor
Sakamoto, se proced'6 a elegir ls Junta Directive pare el presente
año social; habiendo resultade elegidos los siguientes señoress
Nakaichi Sakamote, Presidente; Masavasu Tanaka: Vice-Presidente;
Shinich1 Mauda: Secretarie; Akira Meri: Pre-Secretarie; Heishire
Saite: Tesorero; Shimsuke Kewahare: Pro-Tesorere; Yonesuke Shigye:
Fiscal; Selichi Sakuray: Bibliotecarée; Vocales: Yasuta Makime, Se-
saichi Purunaka, Tamekichi Hirate, Muichi Jariri; Chiri Nagay, Sui-
kichi Taira.- Bl misme señer Sakamote pidié que se suterisare a los
miembres de la Jumte Directive para que se emcergare de elev
eseritura pébliee les eststutes eprebades y recsbare su
juríéien a fin que pudiera ejereer sus setividades litee

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.90)
to a debate la proposict6n, rué ampl1mente diseutide, habs
acordade per mayoria abselute de votes cemferir mendete eapeeial
amplie y suficiente a los señeres miembres de la Junita Direetive
pera que hagan todos los trimitos neceserios pare conseguir la
inscripción de la Asoc'nc1ón en ol Registro de Personas Jurídiees
 nutorizándolos 1gunlmente narn efectuar los gaetos qne diohas
opernciones recuteran.- Cue este poder o autorizact6m comprondfe
la gest1ón de todo cmanto ruere menester narn la conseousi6m del
fin pere que se habfa otorgndo.- S.Tatra.- Y. Sato.- K. Tasuki.-
K. Suivasu.- Y. Tamiguchi.- X. Yoshizuki.- H. Saito.- Kijohi Seto.-
T. Kimura.- Y. Sigvo.- S. Maede.- Norio Sakamoto.- N. Sakamete.-
. "akidn.- S. Sakuray.- Chiri Wapay.- Tomomi Seto.- W. J. Koga.-
S. Kuwehara.- Y. Yoshikewe.- T. Hirata.- S. Yahida.- S. Kawaguchi.-
M. "atanabe.- Vu'chi Tajira.- Ynsuta Makino.- Tomoichi Takata.-
A. Mori.- S. Furukabe.- Y. Tanaka
As1 consta del ncta nl principio mencionada a ln ne me remito on
caso nesesnrie.- 1ma, dos de abril de m1l novecientes cuarenta 
siete.- Firmado: Gnstón Gnrcfa Rnda.- Notario.- Um sello.--
CONCIUSION
Instrufdos los otorgnntes del objeto  rnes de esta escriture
que les fué lefda por mf, se nfirmaron y ratificarom on su conte-
nide, de oue doy fé; firmande con los testigos sefores: Gilborte
Pérez Castre y Nicasie Jorge Grndos Ramos, sufragantes, con libre-
tas electorales números: doscientos cincuentidos mil trescientes
ochentidos y noventicuatre mil seiscientos siete, respectivamente;
mayores de eded, de esta vecindnd, a quienes también conesee; de
todo lo que doy réz-Firmado: W. Sakameto.- . Tamaka.- H. Saite.-
3. Maoda.- Y. Shigye.- S. Kawuhara.- S. Sakuray.- A. Weri.- Yasu-
ta Wakime.- 3. Purukeme.- T. Hirata.- N. Tajiri.- Chiri Magay.-
S. Taira.- Gilberte Péres Castre.-. Jesge Grades.- Gestén Gareía
Reda.- Noterio.- - -
 r d a
(velte) dt ter ri d

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.92)
I a solicitud de parte interesada, expido este PRiukn tstwom
en Lima, a siete de abril de mil novecientos cuarentisiete.-
Firmado: Gastén Garcfa Rada.- Notario - Abegado.- Um sello.
INSCRIPCION: Registrada 1n Asocinc16n a fs. 59 del tomo 2• do1
Registro de Asocinc1ones de L1ma con fechn 15 de abr11 de 1947.-
Pirmado: Gastón Garcfa Rndn.- Notario Pablico.- Un sello.-------

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.96)
Enolosure no 4 to deapatch, no. 430
May 12, 1949, American Embassy, Lima.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.71)
六余雲後日本子供壬城百合子
元三十三年生
平子經孝行金城光男
月
宮平良雄為節句大城武勝
わか
あ x 宮平 月正行思孝降嘉山先士
二人那嶺朝信
2一あ父小波律榮次
二生
之かう长快勝正

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.69)
Up
S

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.75)
Epc losure ho..9 to ospatoh. no. 430
dated May 12, 1949 from the American Imbessy, Lime.
正直達大德望天長節凡彼皆岡手支上守歡喜
待望天長法命月前迫天下昊天晴
民族の血沒を受け太我同脫諸君來為天長佳
明日現母世震入洽人正至尚氏字宙正視存寸る萬物一切
上既正命曰礼た八紘一宇大理想基て最早
永遠の世思平和は成立されたのでありますえうして現

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.75)
21
各個口於て日
を揭揚し當
力佳節至景
祝大運動書
△報告
下昊天晴
永遠の世思平和は成立された乃あますえうして現
の去思劣等国民や其の他弼風の民は我加天皇陛
われえうした古無数の人達は我が天皇産下の思
累人類の大いなる敵と見辯さても致し方は
此然的口日被而國旗之揭楊事為様口早急進
在秘日本人共同聯盟四月世二日
書員各位及訂一般術
Lima-Poni
