894.20211 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In United States Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., M (File 1073)
ID: 894.20211-1073   Pages: 210   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20211-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
PSTATE
TATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1939
WASHINGTON
DIVISION OF
1 : vision ofe
STERN AFFAIRS
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
Tee
partment ef State
With reference to my report vent you February 6,
1939 from Seattle and with reference to C. T. Takahash1,
a Japanese residing at 507 Twenty-second Avenue, North,
Seattle, I have to submit a supplementary report from
894.20211/234
Post Office Inspector Morse dated February 7, 1939.
Sincerely yours,
963
R. C. Bannerman
Chief Special Agent
Department of State
894.20211

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
Post Office Department
S. H. Morse
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR
CASE No. 101117-C.
Inspector
Seattle, Washington
February 7, 1939.
Subject:
Mr. R. C. Bannerman
Chief Special Agent
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Bannerman:
Supplementing my preliminary report to your office dated
January 31, 1939, concerning the activities of Mr. C. T.
Trahashi, a Japanese of Seattle, Washington. further informa-
tion was received yesterday from the Director of Foreign
Commerce in Seattle and a prominent importer and exporter in
this city.
Mr. Takahashi is said to have s ome connection with the
Chinese Import and Export Company of Shanghai, China. This
concern is believed to be under British management if not
owned and ∞ntrolled by English capital.
Takahashi has been in Seattle since 1898. His credit is
not good for any large amount but his banking transactions in
Seattle have been fairly satisfactory. Other importers end
exporters do not give him a good reputation. They state frankly
that he is tricky in connection with letters of credit by which
scran iron or other merchandise is purchased in this country;
that practically all of his operations have been conducted with
letters of credit obtained from Japan; that in some cases he has
shipped scrap iron or other merchandise from Seattle under what
were alleged to be irrevocable bills of lading but that letters
of credit have been canceled while the shipments were in mid-
ocean and the shippers were obliged to take serious losses.
He also ships ores or concentrates to Japan if same are
obtainable but his reputation is such it is difficult for him
to obtain very much merchandise of that sort. He imports very
little merchandise but sometimes handles lamps, silk, China

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
101117-0.
wood oil or a few specialties. He is known to be interested in
mining and is reputed in this city to have connections and of-
fices in California as already indicated in my previous report
and it would appear that the most of his business at the present
time is handled or conducted by associates in California.
Very little is known as to his personal babits but in his
dealings he is regarded as quite talkative, more or less of a
braggart, unscrupulous if an opportunity is afforded, and
questionable in some of h s dealings.
In the event anything new should develop or important
investigation obtained you will be promptly advised.
Sincerely yours,
S.H.Wone
Post Office Inspector.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 2, 1939.
Tokyo's despatoh No. 3888 of May 10, 1939,
entitled "Statement of Foreign Office Official
Regarding Japanese Propaganda in the United
States", encloses a copy in translation of a
statement made by a Japanese Third Secretary of
Embassy who recently visited the United States.
This Japanese expresses the belief that Japanese
propaganda is not so inept as it has been
commonly held to be.
The despatoh need not be read.
ary:REK
FE:SaX

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
THE FOEIGN SERVICE
1939 NAY 29 PM 3 20
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 10, 1939.
No. 3888.
SUBJECT:
STATEMENT OF FOREIGN OFFICE OFFICIAL REGARDING
JAPANESE PROPAGANDA IN THI UNITED STATES.
844.20211
894.20211/235
vistor of
TAR CASTERN AFFAIRS
MA 81 1939
Department of Stare
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to transmit a translation of an article,
captioned "Japan Not Necessarily Inapt at Propaganda, Foreign
Office Official Back from America Says", which appeared in
the May lOth edition of the ASAHI SHIMBUN.
The
F

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The article publishes a statement reportedly made by
Mr. Jun Tsuchiya, an official of the Foreign Office Informa-
tion Bureau, upon his return to Japan from the United States
where he had been sent by the Foreign Office on a publicity
mission, in which he comments on American reaction to the
events in the Far East and on Japanese publicity and propa-
ganda in the United States. In this latter connection it
will be noted that Mr. Tsuchiya is reported to have stated
as the result of his survey that he believes that Japanese
propaganda is not so inept as it has been commonly held to
be.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
JE:C
Enclosure:
1/As stated above.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 3888 of May 10, 1939
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Japan Not Necessarily Inapt at Propaganda
Foreign Orrice Orrical Back from America
Says
ASAHI SHIMBUN, May 10
Mr. Jun Tsuchiya, 38, senior official of the first
section of the Foreign Orfice Information Bureau, who had
been touring the United States on a publicity mission under
orders of Mr. Tatsuo Kawai, director of the Bureau, since
the end of February, arrived at Yokohama by the HIKAWA MARU
on May 8 and yesterday afternoon made his report to his
chief. Speaking of his impression still fresh from America,
Mr. Tsuchiya said:
"As I have many acquaintances among Americans, I went
among them since my arrival at San Francisco on March ll
wherever there is a Japanese diplomatic estahlishment: Los
Angeles, New Orleans, Washington, New York, Chicago, Port-
land and Seattle, making a speedy inspection of these cities'
reactions to the events in the Far East.
"As the result of my survey, I have arrived at the
conclusion that the commonly-held idea of Japan being inapt
at propaganda and China being a master of its is mistaken.
Ture, public opinion in the United States concerning Japan
1s pretty bad but it so happens that while the Chinese are
denouncing Japan, the Japanese are merely explaining their
righteous position. Now, to say 'I am in the right' is
poor propaganda but to say 'That fellow is a bad character'
will attract attention. Thus there is no need of consider-
ing whother Japan is good at propaganda or not. Japan has

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
only to declare its consistent policy, the unshakable at-
titude of the Empire.
"Although publio opinion against Japan is pretty bad,
Amoricans are free-thinking and straightforward in their
dealings so that men who really understand Japan's position
are not lacking. Personally, I hed no unpleasant experience
anywhere.
"The Japanese pavilions at the San Francisco and New
York world's fairs were great successes. They exercised
much effect in making Americens realize the stately advance
of Japan affected little by the war and in showing the land
of their fathers to second-generation Japanese. The New
York pavilion, on a much larger scale, of shrine structure
with a garden of fountain and stream, was very popular. It
served an ironical contrast with the dozen-storied Soviet
pavilion across the way which the Russians spent enormous
sums to build, with revolutionary slogans on the roof.
"The congratulatory message of Premier Hiranuma re-
layed by N.B.C. throughout the United States made a good
impression and even the somewhat anti-Japanese New York
Herald-Tribune devoted half a page and printed the full
toxt.
"As to the movie film at issue, 'March of Time', I
thought something must be done about it when I saw it at
a preview at the company's office on Lexington Avenue in
Now York on April 7, especially as I helped the cameraman
Victor Jorgens to make the film when he was in Tokyo last
fall. The film is a two-reel talkie, cultural film, en-
titled: 'Japan, leader of the Far East'. The last scene

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
ts accompanied by the announcement: 'Before the rising
power of Japan ascending like the morning sun, the rights
and interests of Britain and the United States must
vanish like the morning dew'. On the whole, it is not
bad so far as depicting the strength and unity of Japan
1s concerned but in order to appeal to the general masses
in America, Japan is treated as the aggressor and Manchoukuo
as a puppet.
"There is also a scene in which Japanese factory girls
are described as receiving only 14 cents a day. So I went
at once to the editor of the film and demanded that such
continuities be cut. But, taken in all, I was relieved
to find that the reaction to the film was unexpectedly
favorable."
*****

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
RHOEIVED
DIVISION OF FAREASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 23 1939
March 17, 1939.
DIVISION OF
Mrs. Smith's observations in
regard to the Japanese problem in
her community indicate that she is
a person of unusual penetration.
She urges the importance of meas-
ures being taken to counteract
foreign--particularly Japanese--
propaganda in this country and, as
one specifio measure, she advocates
the control of foreign language
schools through legislation requir-
ing that all teachers therein be
American-born citizens. She recog-
nizes however that such a measure
would only be of contributory value and
that the only long-range solution of
the Japanese problem is to overcome
race prejudice in the United States
so that the Japanese born here may
feel that they belong in America.
Mrs. Smith's letter would ap-
pear to call for no action by the
Department other than acknowledgment.
—mm.
FE.Ballantine:JPS

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.94)
HLOEIVED
Santa MarTz, Callf
PARTMENT OF STATE
February 28
1939 MAR 13 PM 12, 59
MAR 14
Sumner Welle,
U. B. Under Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
INILATION
AND RECORDS
My Dear Mr. Welle:
Replying to your letter to me of Feb. and, in anster
894120211
to one of mine on the Japanese situation here on the coast, and the
propaganda that is oonstantly going through foreign language schools
and even through the churches, I call your attention to the attached
clipping, and beg that you will call Mr. Dies' attention to the con-
tento of my letter, BEING CARUFUL, HOWEVER, TO ELIMINATE MY NAME;
IDENTITY, PLACE OF RESIDENCE, OR OTHER REFRENCES WHICH MIGHT IDENTIFY
VE.
These people here can be terrible when suspicious or aroused.
Mr. Wells, I tell you again that the only way that we
can control these foreign language sohools even a little bit, is to
make a law that all teachers must be American-born citizens. This would
not oure the evil, because Japan might take them back to be eduoated,
after theyw ere born here, as is constantly being done, but I think such
a law would help. Even a few years in our sohools makes some difference
in the viewpoint of the second generation, and we cannot blame them for
leaning on Japan after all, for they are not acoepted sopially or in-
here
dustrially here on the coast. There is no future open to these young
Jpnese fine as many of thm are, except within their own group.
Agrieulture is about the only thing open to them, and many of the b
mot want to do what their parents did. They are just nomal in
with the wistful dreams all good boys have, of a responsible plase 
They weat  iak They want to fed that they heleng.
Dowa
they feel this way, and they bitterly resent being
Then when Japan zeaches

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
Bre ready to listen. What else is there for thm? They
ffering here from an inferiority complex, to compensate for which
their elders have idealized and dwelt upon Japan as a superior, al-
most heavenly, country. Yes, they are Japanese, but they would edly
become lo0% Amerioan if we would take them in.
However, the situation is inherently ugly. We have a largo
and fast-growing minority group here, that, fire as many of them are,
we are not willing to assimilate. (I say "we", meaning the majority
of our people, cr nearly all of them) The Japanese are barred, altho
they take prizes in all our schools, and. have a proud ambitious temper-
a ent:
Japan is very, very clever, or cunning. Sometimes I feel sure
that the Japanese government has taken advantage of our Christian church-
oo, to
Christian groupe here and see to it that the ministers
are first mineration Japenese. The last time I was in Santa Barbara
I was told that they were not havine church in the morning for the young
people, as the"new minister"was"just from Japan and does not speak ng-
lish! I have noticed a gocd deal of this, and I told you in my other
letter how the older boys' class was taken away from me because my in-
fluenoe over them was becoming marked.
Japan is holding these people, and yet, perhaps Japan feels like
a shmpherd over them, knowing how limited their future is here, and is
trying to find a future for them, in case we refuse to ever take them in.
Or, perhaps, who knows, the Japanese government figures that in
time these people will outnumber us or be stronger than we and take what
they figure is their share of opportunity? This would mean inevitable
conflict. The Japanese are a dynamic people, always busy.
Through our churohes and mors liberal avenues of society, I am
trying to bring about more sooial contaot between the two groupe here.
The Young People's society of one of our ohurohes was the guest of the
Japanese young people not long ago, on a Sunday evening, after the devo-
sionalhour,
and everyone had a wonderfully good time. There is no
mll why these groups should not mingle oftemer, exoept the

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
rents that the youngsters of the two groups may now and
fall im Love" and want to marry. That might happen oocasionally,
rim we will have to take, if one could call it a "risk". It
an aooopted fact in the Hawaiian Ielands, and has produeed
me nter-sacial group, and the ohildren of such unions sem to be a
wery high type.
Raee projudice is, however, as you know, the hardest thing there
is, to overcome.
I do not truet the Japaness government, but I feel sure that if
we could make these young Japanese who have born and resred here, feel
that they really belonged, they would gladly become real Americans. The
long-range solution is to make them feel that they Do belong, and that
is where people like myself are trying to pionser.
Meanwhile something should be done to control or counter-act, if
poseible, the constant stream of propaganda from Japan. THAt is the
businessof people like you, and our governm ent.
why oould not foreign language schools be abolished altogether,
fohools
or teaohers be compelled to teach only in Quercathout subjects rela-
ting to foreim oultures and foreign lands? Then we might understand what
is being taught.
Foreign language sohoole are one of the greatestmenaces that our
Democracy has, as theyfurnish centers for propaganda. Our churches need
more supervision, also., and that is a job for the district superintendents.
with best wishes, I remain,
Very truly yours,
(Mrs.) Marguerite I Smith,
The foreign
P. O. Box 399,
remepapere and
c/o W. L. Smith, Mgr., Paoific Coast Co.
reagazicces are
a minace, too, but
Santa Maria,
California.
not as diiestly, parhaps.
Santa Barbara County.
orer the childen.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
Considers
New Alien Laws
WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 (INS)
Far-reaching legislation to bring
Nazi, Fascist and Communist or-
ganizations under federal sur-
veillance, bar their members or
sympathizers from government
jobs, and to cause mandatory de-
portation of their alien support-
ers, is being considered for in
troduction by Chairman Dies of
the house committee investigat
ingun-merican activities.
Dies has been in consultation
with legislative experts and at-
torneys to determine if the fol
lowing can be achieved by con
stitutional means:
1. Compulsory licensing of all
organizations preaching racial.
religious or class intolerance, or
advocating change to another
form of government; retention of
a license to be conditioned upon
regular reports to the state de-
partment setting forth objec-
tives, names of all officers and
W
members, and all sources of rev-
K
enue.
tc
2. Prohibiting appointment of
n
an official of the government, or
n
the hiring of an employe by the
government, who preaches, ad
si
vocates or is a member of an or-
h
ganization preaching or advocat-
B
ing racial, religious or class intol.
erance, or change to another
form ofgovernment.
St
3. Mandatory deportation of
n
any alien advocating racial, re.
又
ligious or class intolerance, or
E
sedition.
0

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.88)
Marersaieee
y dear Mza. Saith:
Mr. Welles has asked me to acknowledge the resekpt
of your letter under date February 29, l9ss, in whieh,
in rempemse to the suggestion contained in his lester te
you of February 2, l939, you offered further commemts,
supplememtins those contained in your lester of Jammery Se,
in referense to the problems presented by the Jepanese
894.20211/236
populatiem im your community.
The Bepartment appreciates the interest which
prempted you to communioate your views so frankly and
fully. You may feel assured that the subjeet of your
lester will centimue to engage the Departmest's earmess
study ane thet, in conneotien with aay use that may be
maée ef the ceatents ef your lester, eare will be saken
to eveid all referenee whieh might idemsify you therewith.
Sineerely yours,
m
MAR 22 1939
Divisien of Per Méstera Affaire
.
A tw
the
nal.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
Jamuary 30, 1939
MR. HORNBECK
JAN 3 0 1939
V- Dr. Hornbeok
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE - Mr. Hamilton
What do you make of this letter?
I wish you would acknowledge it for
me after speaking with me concerning
the nature of the reply.
Division of
B
FAR EASTERA AFFAIRS
partment of State
rebruary 8 1989
RECEIVED
FEB 6-1939
U
DIVISION OF

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
FEB 3
1539
Santa Maria, California
MR. HORNDECK
Under Seoretary of State Sumner Welles,
JAN 3 0 1939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
United States' Department of State,
Washington, D.
C.
Subjeot-- Japanese-American residente.
Dear Mr. Welles:
This letter, concerning a matter very vital to the
welfare and defense of our country, comes to you most reluctantly,
and in striotest confidence.
The writer's life would be in danger, should she be
894.20211
indentified with the following matter, by those with whom she is more
or less associated.
For four years the writer has been a teacher in the
Sunday sohool of the local Japanese Union Christian church-- a Mission
Board ohurch still being supported in part by the Congregational,
Methodist and Presbyterian joint Mission Board.
The local group of Japanese Christians are fine people,
in their way, and one grows very fond of them. But, when the war in
Asia broke out, it was not long before it became evident that the en-
tire sympathies of the older people,at least, were with Japan. A natural
thing, of course, but, through the Japanese Language Bohool, and recently
through the ghuroh and Sunday Sohool, a continuous flow of propaganda
goes out to the children and young people, so that they think we menigoa
US
"do not understand" the situation in Asia, and that Japan is orumedin
1n a "moly war" against Communim in Asia, eto.
The local minister, and all of the temchere in the Langue
school, are first generation Japanese, right frem Japan, and Ixem begin-
ning to wonder, of late, if the minister, good man as he is, is net am
gemt ef the Jaranese goverment. I think they feel that we erican
and seoretly despise us, sometimes, even while

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
(the two merioan women temohers) well emough,  leng a we do
amything ageinst their war in Asia, or interfere with their plans.
My elass of High School boye, whom I had taught for three years, was
mildren, althe I protested that I hachever taught primary work. The real
season the older boys were taken from me was that I had thm to a lunoheen
at my home, and afterward they asked me some questions about wnat I thought
of the situation in Asia. I told them how it appeared to me, and they
argued from a number of points (points whioh were patently a part of the
propaganda they had had instilled into them--as, for instance, that Chiang
Kai Shek was a rank Communist, when, of course, he is in reality a Christian,
latee
axi  is.his, wife) These boys must havessaid something to their parents,
ornargued with their parents, for they, the boys, are very fond of me, and
reepect my opinion. Result: the olass was taken from me; I was given
some very little ones, and then WE wERE GIVEN THE RUW AROUND. There wae no
class-rocm available, it seemed (there was, of course, but such was the
xouse) and we were shunted from one room to another and then into an
alcove off of the FRONT VESTIBULE, in the oold and draft, with doore opening
into the ohapel and the assembly and the Eunday School departments. My
little ones had pioked up their little ohairs each Sunday, to move, and, as
the situation ms impossible in the vestibule, I thought of the kitohen. I
took them out to the kitchen, so oold and ohilly we nearly freeze, and there
we have been holding our olastge ever since Christmas.
Last Sunday myfboys told me they were going to organize a senior
Christian Endeavor sroup of their own, as they were too old for one group,
and too young for another, and they AsKEDMeTo BE THEIR ADVIsOR. I was
happy to premise that I would, but was not present that Sunday wvening when
mey anised. They said they would rather decide on the officers, and on
edtaim "detaile" by thmeelves. The next Sunday morning when I had finisk
h y y l, e ofmy fomr boy  to  n a vey.
matter had beem decided for thm by the pastor, and sh

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.97)
"Japanese young man 24 years old, from Ban Jose". Of course I
wesemi to tell the boys not to feel so badly over the way things had
mo and assured him that I would always be their friend, and hoped they
would ome to me for advsce or noip. (They niel nst de alloned to)
These young boye are pitiful. In fact all these second generation
youngstere are. They dare not disobey their parents or "Teacher" as they
call their minister (he teaches in the language sohool each week day after
regular sohool, and on Saturdays nearly all day) and obedience is an inte-
gral part of thm. Japan is doing everything in its power to hold them,
through the elders, and I know now that even the Chrietian ohurches are
met muoh more than avenues of propaganda and organization for thm.
You have no idea of the olose-knit organization of these people. They
are like the German poople-- experte at organization and sticking together.
The second generation would like to become American, but are not allowed to,
because of the influence of their parents. They are born here, but are not
oitisens at heart.
Last Sunday I had to sit blankly for nearly an hour,listening to an
animated address by the minister, in whioh the word "Shanghai" frequently
ocourred. He is a very olever and comio actor, when he chooses, and he
had them laughing heartily, and then, a little later, was swaying them in
a serious mood. One of the girle next to me said, in a pitiful effort to
impress me (they know I don't approve of the war) "You know Mrs. Smith,
Sensi (teaoher) said that the little Chinese children, even four years old,
moke cigarettes; and the first thing they ask the Japanese soldiers for, is
a oigarette. And you know, the soldiers are establishing sohools for thm,
to help thm, and----! Just then an interruption oame, but I could guess
the rest. I had set for three quarters of an hour in a supposedly Christiam
Sunday Sohool, and listened, in the churoh enviroment, to a flow of propa-
gmade, in a language I could not understand. It has happened a number of
smee befere, as the ohildren would tell me snatches which gave it away.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
ome meraing (his nglisk is not good, but passable) and epoke on
Fing qualities" of Baint Paul. Re mphasised that Paul was e
, and said that God had no use fer "asy-going" Christians!
Ome of the young girle of the churoh works in my home. From her I learaed,
that the churoh people do not want me to learn the Japanese language. she
aid not tell me this oonsoiously or willingly; nevertheless she gave it away.
The Minister offered to teach me a few years ago, albeit rather reluotantly,
but when I mentioned it a few months ago, he pretended not to have time.
Every dollar of money they can oollect or sorape, inoluding, I have no
doubt, some of the money that the Mission Board gives for their shmr "ohuroh"
upkeep, goes to Japan. A good many have gone to Japan and baok, to visit
relatives, so they say. But they all have the same unvarying exouse, to
"visit a siok mother! They are not honest, even in pretending to be Christian.
Or, rather, they just don't know Christianity as we all ought to know it, im
1te passion for truth. They are like others,in making religion serve "natponal-
1
The superintendent of the Sunday sohool, a young woman born and reared in
this country, was sent back to Japan this past summer, for three months, and
thoroughly indoctrinated before returning here.
We American people are, indeed, "easy going". Fifty per cent of the
atering High Sohool Freshman olass in Santa Maria, in 1936, was Japanesd
I presme the peroentage is every bit as high in l939, tho I do not have the
figures this year. We are breaking our backs paying taxes for fine sohools
to educate these oriental ohildren, and then they go right from our schools
to their own Japanese "language" sohool, to be propagandised right out of
any American background we try to give thm! Even their "churoh"-- a beauti-
ful mew $16,000 struoture, the finest Japanese ohuroh on the coast,-- is used
Yox prepagands purposes. This churoh was half paid for, or more than half
potd for, with Mission funde!
The Japemese children, the older ones, tell me that the American newe-
merioans can not reed.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
ary:
Something must be done at onoe, to curb or abolish the
language"schools" and the foreign periodicals, but, as Dorothy
son says, we citizens of the dmocracies are viotime of a terrible
kness. Fasoim takes advantage of the very things that we prize and that
give us our liberty. Fascim imposes upon us, while our democratic oonstitu-
tions, national and state, hold us helpless to help ourselves.
I hed our local Assemblyman ask for an opinion from the California
State Legislative Council, as to how to surt these schools; and the upshot
of a lengthy analysis of provisione of our national and state constitutions
made it plain that about all we can legally do, is to require that teachers
in foreign language sohools shall be American born citizens. That would help
to Japan
a good deal, for the ties/are not so strong in the second generation, as a rule.
But I feel that our very existence is in danger here on the Pacific Coast.
We have, I think, several hundred thousand Japanese, from Seattle to Lcs Angeles,
and I doubt if even a handful has any loyalty to this country, or would have, in
a orisim.
Really, it is a menace beyond computation, for these people are not
assimilable. If we could  end them all home, we would be doing a great service
to the present and the future-partioularly the future.
I like them personally. I know how easy it is to confuse nationalim
with roligion. We did 1t in 19l6. But I see the great danger ahead.
I oannot say a word lccally, or to the Miesion Board, without grave
danger to myself. These people are cl ever and they find out things. I have
said plenty to one or two people in authority, here at home, and they have prom-
1sed to take it up with the Board, but, if the Japanese people or community.
not just the Chriatian ones, were to find out that I had reported these things,
I might not dare to have my milk supply delivered at night. I have neighbors
of this race all around me on my atreet, and not all are Chrietiansl
Can the United States' government find a pretoxt or interpretation of
our law, on whion it might close all the "language sshcole", and abollsh the
circulation of foreign newspapere? It Must do so, for self-preservation!e

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
Tasoim is actively at work in this country, as we already know,
ng the Germans and the Japanese, and probably, to some extont,among
the Italians. The Italians in Santa Barbara a fow years ago, took a de-
cided stand in defending Mussolini, from criticim.
If these three nationalities ever join foroes to disrupt our form
of governmont, they may do so. God forbid!
five
Not one Amerioan in  hundred tnousand or more, knows the Japanese
LU BUT NEARLY ALL JAPANESE HERE KNOW SOMETHING OF ENGLIH AND
THE SECOND GENERATION, OF COURSE, ARE WELL EDUCATED IN IT.
They are multiplying very rapidly, and we are not assimilating or
holding the children that are born here. Japan is holdine them, thru
their elders.
Thie letter is striotly confidential. I am eager to see a national
law passed regulating these schools or doing away witt them.
Please do not reveal my name, if you use thie infomation I have
given you.
Sircerely youre,
P. 0. Box 393, c/o Walter L. Smith,
Manager Pacific Coast Coal and Lumber Co.,
Santa Maria, California,
Santa Barbara County.
Kindly send me a confidential reply to the above address, if possible,
as I would like to know if anything can be,or ls being, done to control
theee echoole, or what tentative ateps may be taken, with a view to
aboliehing or controlling them.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
February 2 1989
My dear Miss Smith:
I have received your letter under date January 34,
1939, in whioh you express in confidence your views in
regard to problems presented by the Japanese population
00
in your community.
6
The information and comments contained in your
202
letter, which are based upon your experience as a
teacher in the Sunday school of your local Japanese
church, are of much interest. I wish to assure you
2
that the spirit which prompted you to write is appre-
C1
7
ciated and that the subjeot of your letter will be
given the Depertment's earnest attention.
Should you feel in position to furnish the Depart-
ment the name and address of the Japanese pastor re-
ferred to in your letter, the Department would give
consideration to inviting the pastor's attention to the
Rules
Miss Marguerite Smith,
Care of Mr. Walter L. Smith,
C
Post Office Box 399,
S
Santa Maria, California.
KFC

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
Rules and Regulations Governing the Registration of
Agents of Foreign Principale under the Act of Congress
approved June 8, 1938. We would also be glad to re-
ceive any further information or comments which you
might wish to offer in connection with such subjeot
matters as are dealt with in your letter under refer-
ence. The Department will of course not disclose your
name or identity in connection with any use that may be
made of the information furnished by you.
Sincerely yours,
Sumner Welles
A truecepy of
the signed erigi-
nal.
72
Jus
Co
FEYJWB:HES
FE
PA/H
2-2
mmh

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
May 26, 1939.
DE.
aque.
The attached letter from Mrs.
Marguerite I. Smith, which is the third
she has addressed to the Department
this year, contains interesting material
but is largely repetitious of information
contained in her previous letters. In
viow of this fact and of the further
fact that the Department's reply to Mrs.
Smith's second letter was signed by Mr.
Hamilton, it is thought that the reply
to the present letter should not be of
a character which would serve unduly
to encourage Mrs. Smith to write again
and that the reply might appropriately
be signed by Mr. Hamilton. However,
if Mr. Welles so desires, FE would be
glad to have the draft reply retyped
for signature by Mr. Welles.
—m. m.N
MR. HURABCK
MAY 21939
FE:ZES:JPS

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDERSECRETARY
May 24, 1939
1: "lsion of
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
MA. £5 1939
PA/H - Dr Hornbeck
Depertment of State
RE - Mr. Hapalton:
I have received a further
letter whioh I attach herewith
from Mrs. Smith of Santa Maria,
California. If, as I suppose,
some acknowledgment is necessary,
please draft for my signature
what you consider appropriate.
MR/AURNBECK
MAY 261939
U:SIV

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.94)
844.24-
May 29 1939
mmunity Club
RECEIVED
(FD)
alid.
(EXTRMELY CONFIDENTIAL)
1039 N
Livision of
May 22, 1939
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AMA. 25 1939
Hon. Sumner Welles,
SUBJECT:
105
Depertment of State
U. S. Under-Seoretary of Stat
Japrhese American Residents.
Washington, D. C.
21939
My Dear Mr. Welles:
Please disregard
894.20211
89
happen to have at hand just now, and this letter will not wait.
I m not, in any way, ropresenting my club,in what I am about to
all
202
write, for I would not dare divulge to/olub-members some of the
matters I have given to you in recent weeks.
As I wrote you before, I have a little Japanese
girl in my home, whom we have treated almost as a daughter, ever
2
C
sinoe she came to live with us three years ago. Also for the past
8
four years I have worked in the Japanese Union Christian ohuroh,as
one of two white persons who work there. I also have a next-door
neighbor, a big packer and shipper, whom we have known intimately for
years, and who is in Japan right now. I think he is, without doubt,
a "big shot" over there, altho he lives modestly (but nieely) here,
and passes for an ordinary business man. I have seen photographe of
army generals in hie home. The generals were, or are, hie relatives
I have told you sème things, about the sulien under-
国
ourrent mong the Japanese here, or many of thm. About how thejiread
the periodieals and newspapers from Tokyo and believe them wholly,
and think ours all lie. About how those in the Christian faith have
rationalised their religion to make it fit their nationalsm. About
hew imgrained is their belief in the superiority of their race and
2
their mative land and culture, over ours. About how this idea is
3
8

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
munity Club
of SANTA MARIA • Santa Maria, California
May 22nd, 1939
fostered from babyhood and right along through ohildhood into adult-
hood, by the Japanese language sohools, where the children go after
regular sohool hours and on Saturdays. The propaganda is earried on
also right in the churohes and Sunday Sohools, in the Japanese lang-
uage, and we, who do not speak it or understand it, are helpless. We
know it goes on, because we oan oatoh a word now and then, and some
innocent youggster, anxious to impress his Sunday sohool teacher, will
translate some of it. We hear the word "Shanghai" time after time, in
a Sunday Bohool address, and learn that the minister is telling how
fine everything is there sinoe the Japanese troops took over, and" how
noble the Japanese soldiers are.
This morning my Japanese girl, altho she loves us and trusts us,
was sullen and quiet, after a week-and visit to her home. While read
ing the morning paper, I talked with her, as I always do, about the day's
news, and referred to the latest aotion of the "Japanese Militarists".
(I have always told her that the militarists have misled and deceived
the people of Japan, who do not have any opportunity to know the truth
about many things, on account of censorship and an authoritarian form
of government) Suddenly she whirled on me, and said, with eyes flash-
ing with only partly conoealed anger, "You would not dare make such
rmarks to any other Japanese. I suppose you think of me as an American,
but you forget that I m a Japanese. I don't want to hear about it!
This has not happened except once before, when she first cme
to us, and she got up from the dinner table, (when there are no guests,
she eats with us) and said angrily, "The American newspapers all lie.
I de not mnt to hear any more about it! Of course this was extrmely

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
nunity Club
of SANTA MARIA • Santa Maria, California
impertinent, as she was merely a listener to the conversation of
my husband and myself, and we always try to be kindly and dispassion-
ate as possible in speaking about Japan in her: presence.
This girl wes born here. I attribute her present fit of sullen-
ness to the fact that she spent the week-end at home, just after the
the one
episode in Kulang-su and/in Shanghai. These Japanese get the news
from Tokyo every day over the radio, and in their newspapers. What
they receive is a completely biased version, of course. They are told
not to listen to, or read. American remarks or news dispatohes, be-
cause the papers all lie, and those American citizens whom they cannot
label that way, they say, "do not understand" conditions over there.
Mr. Seoretary, have you ever read Dr. James A. 3. Soherer's
book, "Japan Defies the World"? If not, for your country's sake.
read it. There you will learn just what the ambitions of the Japanese
militarists really are. Dr. Soherer taught in the University of Saga,
Japan, in the nineties, and has written text-books on Japanese anoient,
medieval and modern history. His "Romanoe of Japan Thru the Ages" is
used as a standard text-book in Japanese higher sohools.
Dr. Soherer received a decoration from the mperor of Japan,
a year ago last July, and when his book was impending, the J. consul
from Los Angeles warned him to "go easy" about telling the faots, or
his decoration might be resoinded. So Dr. Soherer sent the decoration
carefully back to the mperor, via the Gonsul, with his regrets! Dr.
Soherer said he was going to tell the truth, and all of it, and he has
dono so.
 Dr. Soherer was President of California Institute of Tech-
nology a few years ago, and is now a professor in Berkeley.
A returned Presbyterian educates from Korea, Dr. Ralph Reiner,

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
mmunity Club
of SANTA MARIA • Santa Maria, California
May 32, 1939
who was raised in Santa Maria, and whose father still lives here,
told us, while on furlough here the other day (because Christian
schools in Korea have shut dowm rather than go through certain Shinto
observanoes insisted upon by the Japanese government) that Dr. Scherer's
book was probably the most accurate pioture of true faote in regard to
Japan, exoept one. The other book oited, I have forgotten the name of,
but had already read "Japan Defies the World". Dr. Soherer loves the
Japanese people, whom he says have been betrayed, but who are dangerous
so long as they are so mieled.
For the sake of the future welfare of our country, Mr. Seore-
tary, please gonsult with Mr. Morgenthau, show him this letter but keep
my name out of it, and in fact, do not let the letter remain out of
YOUP OWn F1LOS, BUT SEE TO IT THAT JAPAN GETS NO MONEY. THE BEST THING
FOR UB THAT COULD POSSIBLY HAPPEN IS FOR THE JAPANESE "BIG FIVE" anD
the Beoret Glique of the army, TO BE DEFEATED ECONOMICALLY IF NOT MILI-
TARILY. IT IS OUR ONLY HOPE OF AVOIDING A MORRIBLE RACIAL WAR, AS SOON
AS THEY LEADERB FEEL ABLE TO WAGE ONE. The Seoond generation 1• being
held in a vise here. I told you how my class of High Sohool boys was
taken away from me, because they began to ask me politioal questions,
and my answers did not tally with what they were constantly being told!
I feel sorry for the young people here, and can even sympathise
with the blind devotion of the first generation. It ie natural, but,
-with the constant propaganda through the language sohools and from
Tokyo, and even through our Christian mission ohurohes, 1t is HoRRIBLY
DANGEROUS FOR UB.
I m not a fanatic, but a Christian woman, loving these people
CONFLICT IN the future.
sincerely yours,

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Mrs. Walter L. Smith,
P. 0. Box 399,
Santa Maria, California.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Japan Seeks War
Funds in'U. S.
WASHINGTON, May 21 (INS)
Diplomatic quarters today dis-
closed that the Japanese govern-
ment has established an official
finance mission in the United
States for the first time in his-
tory in a "desperate" effort to
secure loans for developing oc-
cupied Chinese areas and prose-
cuting the Sino-Japanese war.
Well informed sources said
certain elements in the Japa-
nese cabinet consider the mis-
sion's efforts may spell the dif-
ference between the success or
failure of Japan's aspiration for
a "new order in Asia," welding
Japan, Manchukuo and China in
an economic, political and cul-
tural bloc.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.90)
May 29 1939
My dear Mrs. Smith:
Mr. welles has asked me to acknowledge the reseips
of your letter of May 22, l939, in whieh you refer to
previous correspondence and give additiemal informatien
and a further expression of your views in regard to
certain phases of American-Japanese relations.
894.20211/238
The informatien and views conveyed in your letter
are of interest to the Department and the spirit which
prempted yeu to communicate them to the Department is
appreciated.
Simeerely yours,
M. M.A.
Maxwell X.. Mamilton
Chior
Division ef Par Eastern Affairs
Mrs. walter L. Smith,
Pest Offise Bex sse,
Samta Maria, Callfermia.
U
PA/H
S井

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
FILE NUMBER
The letter, with any enclosures, bearing
this file number has been returned to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation via the Orfice of Security,
Ju1y 1, 1957.
3
3

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
June 7,1939.
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I have to acknowledge with thanks the receipt of
your letter dated June 2,1939, addressed to the Secretary
of State, in further reference to the case entitled
"Takahisa Hattori; Jiro Takeda, Espionage".
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
George S. Messersmith
Assistant Secretary
John Mgar Hoover, Esquire,
Direetor, Federal Buremu of Investigation,
Department of Justice,
Washington, D.C.
A-M:W:MJ
A true copy of
the algnedforigi-
0

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
894.20211
240

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
to
June 7,1939.
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I have to meknowledge with thanks the receipt of
894.20211/240
your letter dated June 5,1939, addressed to the Secretary
of State, in connection with the case entitled "Charles
Magata; Espionage".
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
George S. Messersmith
Assistant Secretary
John Mgar Hoover, Esquire,
Direetor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justice,
Washington, D.C.
AMIIN
A tree copy of
the signed brigi-

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.72)
894.20211 /241
PL

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
June 12,1989.
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I acknowledge with thanks the receipt of your
894.20211/24
letter of June 9,1939, addressed to the Secretary
of State, in conneotion with the case entitled
"Sehei Ono; Espionage". This Department would appreciate
receiving any additional information in this case which
may be obtained by your Bureau.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
George S. Messeramith
Assistant Secretary
John Mgar Hoover, Esquire,
Direetor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justiee,
Washington, D.C.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN 1 3 1939
Department of State
A true copy of
the slgand rigi-
nal.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.84)
894.20211/242
FIF

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTMENT OF STATE
HON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 16, 1939.
Mr. Warren:
FE has no information
in regard to Shiro Omachi
referred to in the attached
letter of June 13, 1939, from
the Department of Justice.
FE:ShAsbury
mm.1

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.84)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
a一m
hored
D C R:
dx:
Do you have anything on SHT RO OMACHI?
Fletcher Warren.
June 15, 1939.
1939
divisden od
PAR EASTERN AFFAINS
C
101939
REOORDS
F1:
Department ot State
A
2
15.1
2
、八
刀

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
June 20,1939.
My Cear Mr. Hoover:
I aekmowledge with appreciation the receipt
of your letter of June 13,1939, addressed to the
894.20211/242
Seeretary of State, with whioh you enclosed a copy
of a report in the case entitled "Shiro Omachi,
Espionage".
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
George S. Messersmith
Assistant Secretary
John Mgar Hoover, Esquire,
Direetor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Washington, D.C.
F/WB

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.88)
OUT
DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS CHARGED
OFFICE AND PERSON
DATE OF CHARGE AND
(Subject, file number or title, type of document, and date,
TO WHOM CHARGED
BY WHOM CHARGED
security classification, number of items, etc.)
DRw peR
800.014/1-349
SEP 2 7 1955
Tis
D-2 th e dires
VC-
15
814.21211/2
Rsc
to file
oaf
3/27/57
20-1066(6-2-04)
USE OTHER SIDE-CANCEL CHARGE OUT WHEN FILES RETURNED
16—70099-1 SPO

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.93)
Mmyuen A-my
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
June 23rd, 1939.
SPECIALAGENTINCHARRECTF!GL
NEw Ygkx DIVISSON
1. o26 193
Fale fevarrerf.
NEW
CITY
DVISION OF
CHI
JUN 24 1939
Mr. R. C. Bannerman,
20 Oni, bid, T 7 B 2,
Chief Special Agent,
6-27-39,
Department of State.
fwaner.
Dear Mir. Bannerman:-
The Alien Squad of the Folice Department telephoned
today to say that RYOICHI HARA, a Japanese, aged 27 years,
894.20211/244
described as being 5' ?", and an engineer employed on the SS
YAMACOTO MARU is said to have deserted his ship in Brooklyn, N. Y.
on June 14, 1939. He was seen to leave the ship but nothing has
been heard of him since. He has dark hair and eyes. The ship
belongs to the Yamashita Line, 17 Battery Place, M. Y., with
Brooklyn dock at Pier foot of 33rd Street.
The Alien Squad say that this chap might be a "spy"
and for this reason they were reporting his desertion to this
department.
Sincerely yours,
JJJitch
FILED
Special Agent in Charge.
WD.
F/FG

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
A-M
June 27, 1939.
Confidential
Memorandum for Commander Nixon:
As of possible interest to the Office of Naval
Intelligenoe there is quoted below information which
has been received by the Department of State:
"The Allen Squad of the Police Department
telephoned today to say that Ryolohi Hara, a
Japanese, aged 27 years, described as being
5' 2", and an engineer employed on the SS
YAMACOTO MARU 1s sa1d to have deserted h1s ship
1n Brooklyn, N. Y. on June 14, 1939. He was
seen to leave the ship but nothing has been
heard of him since. He has dark hair and eyes.
The ship belongs to the Yamashita Line, 17
Battery Fiaoe, N. Y., with Brooklyn dock at
Pier foot of 33rd Street.
"The Alien Squad say that this chap might
be a 'spy' and for this reason they were report-
ing his desertion to this department."
This information 1s also being sent to the M.I.D.
and F.B.I.
fr.
WIG

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
A-M
June 27, 1939.
Conridontial
Memorandum for Colonel Churohill:
As of possible interest to the Division of
Military Intelligenoe there 1s quoted below information
which has been recelved by the Department of State:
"The Alien Squad of the Polioe Department
telephoned today to say that RYOICHI HARA, a
Japanese, aged 27 years, desoribed as being
5' 2", and an engineer employed on the S8
YAMACOTO MARU 1s sa1d to have deserted h1s ship
1n Brooklyn, N. Y. on June 14, 1939. He was
seen to leave the ship but nothing has been
heard of him since. He has dark hair and eyes.
The ship belongs to the Yamashita Line, 17
Battery Place, N. Y., with Brooklyn dock at
Pier foot of 33rd Street.
"The Alien Squad say that this chap might
be a 'spy' and for this reason they were report-
ing his desertion to this department."
This information is also being sent to the N.I.0.
and F.B.I.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
A-X
June 27, 1939.
Confidential
Memorandum for Mr. Tamm:
As of possible interest to the Federal Bureau of
Investigatlon there 1s quoted below information which
has been received by the Department of State:
"The Alien Squad of the Police Department
telephoned today to say that RYOICHI HARA, a
Japanese, aged 27 years, desoribed as being
5' 2", and an engineer employed on the 38
YAMACOTO MARU is said to have deserted his sh1p
in Brooklyn, N. Y. on June 14, 1939. He wes
seen to leave the ship but nothing has been
heard of him since. He ha: dark hair and eyes.
The ship belongs to the Yamashita Line, 17
Battery Plaoe, N. Y., with Brooklyn dook at
Pier foot of 33rd Street.
"The A?1en Squad say that this chap might
be a 'spy' and for this reason they were report-
ing his desertion to this department."
This information 1s also being sent to the M.I.D.
and N.I.O.
V:OB:S8

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.89)
LEGAL ADVISER
LES KRAMER
Congress of the United
States 5 15.0
CMMITTEES:
SANGELES
ACCOUNTS
IMMIGRATION
OUSe of REPrESEntatibEEPARTMENT OF STATmALATION
GRAYOE A. KILROY
PATENTS
Washington, D.C.
DEMOCRATIC STEERING COMMITTEE
SECRETAHY OF
June 27, 1989
A88ISTANT
RECEED
JUN 2H 1939
21
M
Mr. A. M. Warren
Jon of
Chief, Visa Division
FD LASTERN AFFAIRS
4
Room 144 State Department
Washington, D. C.
ni
My dear Mr. Warren:
The messenger boy had already Teft for
your office this afternoon when I sent this newspaper clip-
ping.
I believe you will find it guite interosting.
202
Most cordially,
CHARLES KRAMER, M. C.
245
C3.-
5

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
Secretary of State and Mrs.
Cordell Hull, who also attended
the dinner, were on hand tó see
the couple off. The Hulls headed
the official party which first wel-
ock, 3, E glish-born child now liv-
comed them to American soil at
smile by her attempt to curtsy when
Niagara Falls, Wednesday.
The President and Mrs. Roose-
ption for B
persons.
(AP). Wirephot
velt left Washington on the spe-
KICAN
Japanese Ship
ial Presidential train for Hyde
ark only a few minutes after
e royal special left. They will
entertain the royal couple there
Y TODAY
tomorrow night and Sunday.
Caught by Navy
A detail of 200 regular police
guarded the station, in contrast
to the Army, marine and sailor
escort which greeted the mon-
The trial, announced
Fast Trawler Discovered
archs on arriving in Washington.
tly before it began,
Off Fleet's Secret Base
Secret service and
Scotland
minutes.
Yard agents were
scattered
as disconcerted only
at San Clemente Island
through the crowds.
Obviously weary, the King and
e court declined to
Queen nevertheless smiled and
information as to the
Resentment and suspicion of waved at the hoarsely cheering
uts of her husband.
ppeared from a Mos.
the motives of Japanese traw!
throngs.
1 shortly before she ers in the Eastern Pacifie flared
CROWD YELLS HAPPILY
ted Dec. 9, 1937.
anew yesterday among naval otfi-
Before their rain pulled out
sband, known both as
cers when a fat teet traswher
they made aom appean ance on the
hrnold Rubens and as
faying the enstgn of the Re ong
ream phhttorm, the Queen chat-
jobinson, has not been
Sun was canght in the shados
tung sanly with Mr Hull. who
since, despite efforts of
of San Clemente Iskand. the
tood below. A crowd of 100
n to Page 6, Column 4
Navy's secret off-hore training
which had forced its way into the
base.
station yelled happily.
nd in Sea
Detection of the craft in striet-
During a crowded program to-
ly forbidden waters came just
day the King sealed a previous
as the United States Fleet put pledge of renewed Anglo-Ameri-
to sea for the first tactical ma- can f r i e n d s hi p by placing
Smith's
neuvers since it returned from
wreaths at the tombs of George
Atlantic waters.
Washington and the Unknown
Soldier. In one is enshrined the
FLEET WATCHED
remains of a patriot who founded
irons brought up the
It followed closely upon what
a democracy in bloody rebellion
threatened to become an inter against the British. In the other
age and one wheel of
national incident at Los Angeles lies the American doughboyde an
alver painted" airplane.
Harbor recently as the fleet ar- 159 years later fought besily
è washed away the rest
rived home from the pring
English Tommy on the mudo
wreckage before Gale
it aboard his trawler.
cruise.
battlefields of France.
the tide changed he
At that time a Japamese silk
In a third ceremony rich with
find it again.
liner. the Akiura Maru, was an-
implications of new understand-
chored at the breakwater en-
ing between Americans and Brit-
-pound. 65-horsepower
high-wing monoplane
tance in a strategie spot from
ons, the King and Queen were
Smith took off from
which to observe details of the
received by members of Congress
rd Beach in the early
Navy's biggest and newest fight-
in the vast rotunda of the Capitol
Sunday morning. May
ing ships.
which was partially destroyed by
an aluminum painted
BOUND FOR JAPAN
British marauders in 1812. Today
the high-domed chamber is filled
Although naval spokesmen de-
with statuary and paintings
bile
nied officially that the trawler
which depict the victory of the
was ordered out of the area, it
New World settlers over their
was believed that this actually
English forebears.
took place and that the trawler
GUESTS CHECKED
d Coal'
Turn to Page 3, Column 7
Despite efforts of the British
Embassy to keep secret tempo-
Orville Wright Flies
rarily the list, of guests at the
King's dinner for the President,
t substance. The insti-
newspapermen stationed near
can be manufactured
First Time in 10 Years
the gates recorded the arrival of
10 cents a gallon and
various Cabinet members, Con-
kpected mileage would
gressional officials and others in-
to 17 miles a gallon.
DAYTON (O.) June 9. (AP)—Or-
vited to the select gathering.
honstration was made
ville Wright, co-inventor of the
The event drew together indi-
roup of scientists and
airplane, for the first time in ap-
viduals familiar with or expert
who attended the an-
proximately 10 years took an air-
on international affairs, includ-
ntion of the American
plane ride today.
ing Secretary of State and Mrs.
1 Association.
The trip was made in the DC-4
Cordell Hull, former Republican
ve about a year's re-
Douglas 42-passenger land plane,
Secretary of State and Mrs. Hen-
k to do on 'liquid coal'
which was at Wright Field for
ry L. Stimson, Undersecretary of
will be ready for the
inspection by Air Corps officers.
State and Mrs. Sumner Welles,
r. Godwin said.
Wright, due to an injury received
Senator Key Pittman, chairman
ock model automobile
in a plane crash in 1908, has not
in the demonstration. been flying in recent years.
Turn to Page A, Column 1

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
894.20211/246
F

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 7, 1939.
A一M
Mr. Warren:
B has no information in
regard to the Japanese mentioned
in Mr. Hoover's letter of
June 29, 1939.
mm.H

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.87)
ARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
S
Please look this ooe
carefully v reteren wrth
any remock, to F W
(a-m). Zhauko
fap
7-5-39.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
JUL 11 1939
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I appreclate your letter of June 29, l9s9, adaressed
to the Searetary of state, with which you enolosed a
report in conneotion with the case entitled "s. MORIhIRA,
alias Mariharia; ESPIONAGE." Should any additional in-
894.20211/246
formation be obtained in this case I should be pleased
to receive coples of it for the use of this Department.
Bineerely yours,
George S. Messersmith
Assistant Secretary
John Eagar Hoover, Esquire,
Direetor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justiee,
Washington, D. 0.
F
3

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
894.20211 /247

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
JUI 11 1936
My dear Mr. Heever:
I meknowledge with thanks the receipt of your
letter of June 30, 1939, addressed to the Becretary
of State in regard to the ease entitled "Shiro Omachi;
894.20211/247
Esplonage." It is noted that the case is now con-
sidered as elosed.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
George S. Messeremith
Assistant Seeretary
The Honorable
Jehn Eágar Neover,
Direster, Federal Bureau ef Investigatien,
A true copy of
F/FG
the olgnedorigi-
Bepartment of Justice.
A-M:F5L0:8S 7-11-30

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
894.20211/248

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
JUL 11 1939
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I appreciate your sending the Department of State
a copy of the report of Speaial Agent Louis D. Wine,
dated June 15, 1939, whioh you enolosed 1n your letter
894.20211/248
of June 30, 1939, addressed to the Secretary of State
in regard to the oase entitled "Sehei Ono; Espionage."
Please send this Department copies of any additional
reports on this case which your Bureau may receive.
Sineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
George B. Messersmith
Assistant Beeretary
The Honorable
Jehn Eagar Heever,
Direstor, Federel Bureau of Investigation,
A tree copy of
F/FG
Department of Justiee.
(A-M:FW:LG:SS
7-11-30

=== Page 59 === (confidence 1.00)
894.20211/249

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
894.20211/250

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
JUL 11 193S
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I have received your letter of July 5, 1939 in
894.20211/
comneetion with the oase entitled "Japanese Dual Gitisen-
ship; Espionage". I thank you for sending me this informa-
tion.
Sinoerely yours,
2
250
George S. Messersmith
Assistant Beoretary
John Edgar Hoover, Esquire,
Direotor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justice,
F/FQ
Washington, D. 0.
A true cppy of
the slepesorigi-
nal.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.93)
AM
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Ma. Wanren
Jederal Bureau of Inuestigation
United States Bepartment of Justire
Mashington,D.C.
July 7, 1939
10109
Honorable George S. Messersmith
Assistant Secretary of State
ORDS
894.20211
Washington, D. C.
4
My dear Mr. Messersmith:
894.20211/251
I wish to acknowledge with thanks your
memorandum dated June 27, 1939, setting forth infor-
mation concerning Ryoichi Hara.
Sincerely yours,
1. L . atoover
phn Edgar Hoover
Director
FIH
F/A

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
894.20211/252

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
894.20211
My dear r. Hoover:
In the absenoe of Mr. Messeremith, permit me
to aaknowledge with appreciation the receipt of your
letter of July 11, 1939, addressed to the Seoretary
894.20211/252
of state in onneotion with the oase entitled
"Japanese Dual Citizenship; Espionage."
Sineerely yours,
Fletoher Warren
Exeoutive Assistant to
Assistant Seoretary of State Messersmith
The Honorable
John Eagar Hoover,
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
United States Department of Justiee.
F/FG
foof.
Ts:ss

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
894.20211/2.53

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.94)
JUL 19 1939
My dear Mr. Hoover:
In the absence of Mr. Messersmith I am acknowledg-
1ng the receipt of your letter of July 17, 1939 ad-
894.20211/253
dressed to the Searetary of state, in which you emelesed
a report on the case entitled "Syoiti Morihire, with
aliases; Espionage."
Sincerely yours,
Fleteher Warren
Executive Assistant to
Assistant Seoretary of State Messermith
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
JUL 21 1939
Jehn Eagar Hoover,
Department of Stale
Direotor, Federal Bureau of Iavestigtion,
United States Department of Justiee.
. feof.
mal.
/rd:VTs-88
7-19.39

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
894.20211/254

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
July 29, 1939
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I aoknowledge with thanks the receipt of your
letter of July 26, 1939, addressed to the Beoretary
of State, with whioh you submit a copy of a further
894.20211/254
report in the case entitled "Jesse S. Shima: Japanese
Spy Ring: Eepionage". It would be apprestated if
you would send this Department oopies of any additional
information which may be obtained in this case.
Sincerely yours,
Fleteher Warren
Executive Assistant to Assistant
Seeretary of State Hessersmith
John Eagar Hoover, Esquire,
Direetor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justiee,
F/FG
Washington, D. C.
A true copy ut
the aigned orig
fey.
A-MIFWIHVH:8S 7/31

=== Page 69 === (confidence 1.00)
894.20211/255

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.82)
 STATE
193
haste
romowlecgg
By Form
Filo
Depir,
that Jofoauese.-  has!
li otticet.- mas
Beea
The
Reen there fm
hare
Segea (T) Jean
F
orer.
mav, thst
His refsly

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.83)
2. "that li tine of pelace
wothin Courd The.
Jorise fo
She to read,
Tply their worte fat
out thew ttTde ath.
If Come out iu the's
De Morei Crlamm-
Way,
Jor au
sutt, loohing
the Nen
ad drers, in
Tork Velepohrne Jook
Came acrase the-fl-
Iomerj. Headquarterr
Jafoauese Army-and

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.81)
Aremn."He ddcoibleal.
to siake a call ou
theur, -and asked for
the head n au, wke wab
Jery aou-Cornittal, = and
he alloned-he
May" bat he diicorer
ed,- 20 ree varlcing,
fut-do
bat T hote tie the geub-
papoofrer gerttrda that
the Jafo-Iflishts,rielude

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.82)
Mst oublirhed Same.
ni "the Beadert Drast"
vrote
The-Jap
I told heve that wa
(8at,
a. s mistatre,
The to Ren headquantirs,
Mrn Zovis of Moston
told me last muth

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.82)
Wen Jorh. Tat send
I Edsar Hoorer,-al
erimau
Nazi apent
mav @arren ou Sub-
Cheadquartos i bew
Edrar Horer
Jork,)
he
Kluge chauped the
Bund"
name to thet's ereman
Amerieau.
and,- regaled, a

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.81)
a Tnek, or Go aso,
matai fun of t
President,
Asaericaur
Veern to stand In
abuse frow forleign-
Thein
Shelos,
ordered our
anoy Grom
ofbanere
Qmerican
o, Maay.
the abore Lacident,

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.81)
Wartani here
for ale
there Jlars,
Sires
the Wited Ptatev,
the "Sood  oafficcent
reavon; to break.
Fe ssile be mele rid
of her, av ohe lis
nv k. a. Barr
Alaericau Boru
and, a Deinacrot,
f they mere not at uu dertang
rair,

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.80)
AFTER 5 DAYS RETURN TO
AUG 8
Fot 84
α
6 PM
a
Prides Crotun
Wrashritou
For the head
D. C,
hope
- bu al exfseat, ths
glyaing trifth the the Japsavede
ri The Jafo anede Ain Sass ador
av V hart totdt you
hat eud; lud
Pannat, Itfolann, or raise
at

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Japanese espiomage aotivities.
894.20211/256
Copy of statement made by Alberti Duarte Rauromet regarding.-
Duarte elaims he has frequently seen two Japanese trams-
ferring from Japanese oceam limers to fishing boats to ob-
tain information as to the movements of Umited States war
ships.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Despatoh # 69
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From|
Monterrey(MoDonough)
Dated July 24, 1939
To
File No.
800.20210/345
.B. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540
AM

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
A-M
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP26 1939
FE--Mr. SaliSury:
Department of State
Plead
read the attached letter from
the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Do
you know whether the individuals named are
attached to the Japanese Consulate at San
Francisco, California? Miss Jones in DP
tells me that she has no record of any kind
concerning the persons named.
fep
September 26, 1939.
A-M:FW:DMZ

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF PERSONNEL
SUPERVISION AND MANAGEMENT
September 26,1939.
A-M
yarren:
have no record of any kind
conoerning these individuals.
M. Jones.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Mess Jou:
fyou tell me
meh nomed? thank
fararresp
you.
9.25-39.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.93)
VER
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Jederal Bureau of Inuestigation
SEP 2 6 1939
Anited States DepartmenfafJuga
PARTMENTOFST
Department of State
Mashington,.C.
zile
September 9 3EB23  11 57
fivariery
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
The lionorable
AND RECORDS
The Secretary or State
Washington, . C.
October 14 1939
lTa Aol, alias ..
441
Kozine; KOlAnO MINAKUTI, alias
Kot ro MinakuchI. ESPIONAGE.
My dear ar. Secretery:
894.20211/257
Pleyse be advised thet .. uitaro Kojima and
Kotaro Mihakuti, also usin. the name or Kotaro Minakuchi,
are reported to have arrived in Son Francisco,
Calirornia, 1rom Japen, on pebruary 22, 1939, and
allegedly made representat ons to the effect that they
are organizin a corpor tion or the purpose of shippin
oil to Joo:n.
Iniormetlon n s been o tain u to the erfect that
the  bove nemeu inuivi ur ls  re possibly sttacned to the
Jepunese tonsulate tt San pranclsco, calilornia, ane it
is aesired th t you auvise whether Kojime and Minaxuchi
ore, in ruct, connected wit: any .oreign consulate in
tnis country.
incerely yours,
1. Le . tooven
ON POLITICA
TELATIGIS
ohn Edgar Hoover
C
Director
DE PARTMENT OF STATE
2 3 2
FEG
223
224A
225
250

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.94)
Dete
14, 1989.
My dear Mr. Hoever:
I askmowledge receipt of your letter of September 2s,
894.20211/257
l9se, addressed to the Secretary of State, in regard to
E. GITARO KOJIMA, alias E. G. KOzima; KOTARO MINAKUTI,
alias Kotaro Minakuehi; ESPIONAGE. You inquire whether
KOJIMA and MINAKUCHI are, in faet, connected with any
foreigm comsulate in this sountry.
In reply I may advise you that the records of this
Departmemt fail to show that persons under the names
givem are connested with any foreign consulates. I regret
that the reply to your request has been inadvertently
delayed.
Sineerely yours,
George S. Wessermith
Assistant Seeretary
ester, Federal Burean of Investigation,
opartmens of Justiee,
Washington, D. C.
A true copy of
2

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.94)
memoranda to
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
one) 10/24/89
DUNG
McL
This telEgram must bE
closely paraphrased bE
Nome. to Lomdons
forE bEing communicated
London.
4/1/40-R2.2N.
to anyonE (a)
Dated October 24, 1939.
REcEivEd 2.18 p.m.
SEcrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
2147, October 24, 7 pom.
894.20211/258
STRICTLY PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL BOR DUNN
FROM JOHNSON.
Masatsugu Fukuda mentioned in my confidential
mEmorandum no 155, October 5 last sailEd yEstErday from
Southampton in cabin 17 steamship STATENDAM duE NEw York
City October 31.
KENNEDY.
DDM
FILEL
21039
A
ADVISER
0612 1939
DEPARTMENT OF STATL

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
pck
VA DUNN
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 155
Confidential
LONDON, October 5, 1939.
Memorandum
A Japanese named Masatsugu FUKUDA, who is
the Manager of Iida & Company, an Import and
Export firm, is proposing to leave England for
the United States about the middle of this month.
FUKUDa first arrived in England in 1933
and originally the authorities there had reason
to believe that he was engaged in the collection
of intelligence information.
Although these
suspicions have not been substantiated, it was
thought this information might be appreciated.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.90)
心ER
Oetober 28, 1939.
COAPIDENTIAL.
Memorandum fer Mr. Tamm:
Information has been reoeived from abroad that 
Japanese nomed Hasatougu Pu kuda, tho le the  anager of
Iide and Company, an Lmport and export firm, salled
from Southampton on October , 1959 1n oub1n 170 on
the steamehip Statendam. Aue at New York City on Ooto-
ber 31.
Kr. Fukuda firet arrived in England in 1933, and
there have been rumors that he hae been engaged in the
celleetion of intelllgence information. Any informa-
tion that the Bureau way have or that may come to its
attemtion with regard to Mr. Fukuda will be appreoiated.
This information 1s also being communlested to Captain
Mixon of the Ofrice of Naval Intelligenee, and to
Colonel Churehill of the vilitary Intelligenee Division
of the War Department.
gsM
pe
ae M
feop
ENIRENIRMB

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.95)
DER
00tober 25, 1930.
CONFIDENTIAL.
Nemoranaum for Colonel Churohill:
Information has been received from abroad that a
Japanese named Masatsugu Fukuda, who 1s the Manager of
Iida and Company, an import and export firm, sailed
from Southampton on October 23, 1939 in cabin 170 on
the steamship Statendam, due at New York City on Octo-
ber 31.
Mr. Fukuda first arrived in England in 1933, and
there have been rumors that he has been engaged in the
collection of intelligence information. Any informa-
tion that the Military Intelligenoe Division may have
or that may come to its attention with regard to
Mr. Fukuda will be appreciated. This information is
also being communioated to Captain Nixon of the Office
of Naval Intelligenee, and to Mr. Tamm of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
gsm
a-2m
feof
Eu: REM : RMB

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.94)
pCR
No. 103
CONFIDENTIAL.
MEMORANDUM
APR 4 - 1940
(to London)
894.2021
With referenee to H.V.J. memorandum no. 155
of Ootober 5, 1939 and telegram no. 2147 of Octo-
ber 24, 7 p.m., regarding Masatsugu Fukuda, he
arrived at New York on Ootober 3l on the steamship
一
Statendem as indicated. He was in possession of a
2
visa permitting a sixty-day stay in transit to
58
Japan via San Franoisco, to which latter point he
already had a tioket.
258
894.20211
Ae copy of
the signed orig
inai.
aes.
a-13
f.y.
Eu:REM:RMB 4/1/40
G

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.83)
Jederal Bureau of Inuestigation
United States Department of Justice
55
Mashington,D.C.
5
9
N
E0RDS
S
2
November 2, 1939
EN
4
2
1920
R
A
SUPE
NC.
Theecretary of St: te
71339
Washington, U. C.
My dear Mr. teepet ry:
894.20211
Infor ono ureru to te
was tken to the polie u phee lon t re ure
they vere helu Por  uetion te sto  ha d volosed.
Co
The photo m hs di. clorod mer oue te om toe r
the identity of ich the tmen Police o t could not
894.20211/
recommize. On tis o  on omoto  uriv o96
Oldsmobile beorine 1opa Ho Yok license Tr-yr6  nd vos in
posseesion of iver iceeoh in teated  cd
as beine Kew Ca rdk ne, Sols Groensell vemde,  Yort cite.
Okenoto inforned the orie ts of the Cor en Poliee   ptrount
that he hed been in the Uniten tetero ty or
and at thrt ti ei ted punio to Je n  the
next tro or t cont e Police
Orficiels on the nicht of n ut , 19.
2
On t , toe, it roortt t e
5
inivie no
6
the rirht rpt ae  etoryt Pto,  t, ne on
November 4, 1o3,  toon trkim hoore he in t y y
FD
of oublie bulleine in fackene ek, e. Jereey.
11339
It has been reoortet tnt on  ril 5, 1oo, 4
Japanese drivine n  utonorile bencin 1o9  Yoe lie ure
N-23-41 was observeu takins shoto mt he of the  York
Harbor from the Panhatt n tridre. Th re liomme lter cre
issued to Lire. one orr, 15 Centr1 Prrt ut,  Yor: City,
for a 1937 L t lHe couse. The Jo nose in t'as tn tonce then
noticiny thet he was beine observee, hastily drove  ey /t
such a speed it was toperent he was enueavorin to avoid
detection.
A

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.80)
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
--
November ?, 1939
The recorde of the Pureeu of Natury lination und
Immirration ct lis Toland, reflect tet "ohi eo Oko moto"
arrived in the United :t ten fron Poulo ne, Pr nce, on
November 4, 1op9, boe the   int Louis, t velin under
passport do. -l17, 19, hich   nen t er, Germ ny,
on Oetober,1
ivK,Jn,
ndoo,
at o, k-o, ,
dilot fort  ont.
As soon as the in ormation was obtaincd inaicnting
that he was connected with the Jaoanese Government, investiration
was discontinued. It will be appreciated if the State D.o tnt
o
Coverun nt, af to, .t o cety wo tot sot r o
tion wy proee n teut  o ot c to lote
ivounity.
. La. dhoover
X

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.94)
10
November 9, 1959.
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I thank you for your letter of November 2, 1939 ad-
dressed to the Seoretary of State, in whioh you set forth
oertain information with regard to one Shigaru (probably
the spelling should be Shigoru) Okamoto and one Shigeo
894.2021
Okamoto. You request to be informed whether Okamoto 1s
a representative of the Japanese Government and if so in
what capaoity, so that further investigation may proceed
in the event that he is not entitled to diplomatio immunity.
The records of this Department show that there 1s a
2
Japanese olerk in the Japanese Consulate General in New
259
York City whose full name 1s Kaoru Okameto and that he
assumed his duties 1n the United States in January 1936.
Kis residence 1s given as 300 West One Hundred and Winth
A
Street, New York City. However, it is not believed that
there
John Eagar Hoover, Esquire,
Direstor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justiee,
Washington, D. 0.
4

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.94)
there is any conneetion between Kaoru Okamete and the
Shigaru Okamote mentloned in your letter under aeknewl-
edgment. Purthermore, it is not clear whether there is
any conneetion between Shigaru Okamoto and Shigeo Okamoto
meationed in the first and fourth paragraphs of that
letter. It would seem that in the absence of further
evidenee to the contrary Shigaru Okamoto 1s not entitled
to diplomatio immunity and that your investigation might
proceed until you have svidence that he is an employee
of the Japanese Government.
Bineerely yours,
George s. Nessersmith
Assistant Seeretary
true copy
OR
fy.
FE
gmo
A-:FV:PMZ

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
894.20211/260

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.95)
Nevember 17, 1989.
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I thank you for your letter of Nevember 14, 1o39, nd-
dressed to the Seeretary of State, with whish you en-
elosed a sopy of the report of Spesial Agent Emory E.
Bundy in the case entitled "George Nishisaka, with alias,
et al; Espionage".
894.20211/260
Bineerely yours,
George B. Messersmith
Assistant Sesretary
John Eagar Roover, Esquire,
A true copy f
the signed origly
nal. 
Direstor, Federal Bureau of Investigationl
Department of Justiee,
A
Washington, D. 0.
ff.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
89420211/262

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
November 21, 1989.
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I aaknowledge with appreciation the receipt of your
894.20211/262
lester of November 16, 1939 addressed to the Seeretary of
State in regard to the sase entitled "Jesse S. Shima,
with allases; Japanese Spy Ring: Espionage".
Sineerely yours,
George S. Messersmith
Assistant Seeretary
FA
John Bagar Hoover, Eequire,
Direetor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justiee,
Washingtom, D. 0.
true
fop.
copy

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.89)
ARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Vincele tte
ACR:
Pleaos maki the
attached a part four
fileon
Shgma-
an
A
Zbi c.
UNICATIONS
8
RECORDS
f.%
STATE
00
1-8-40

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
JAN
1940
Washington Star
STATE
MO JAN 8  11 00
Jamfor Lack of $500
Shima
(Continued From First Page.)
$24,000 Still Due
him. When Mr. Shima appeared
here, the writ of ne exeat was served
Ex-Secretary Whose
upon him and he was taken to Dis-
trict Jail, where he has since re-
Alimony Is Unpaid
mained.
Moved for Early Trial.
By WILLIAM A. MILLEN.
In September Mr. Shima moved
Jesse S. Shima, 34, the Japanese
the court for an early trial, de-
secretary who was willed s200,000 by
claring that he was without funds
FW 894.20211/262
the late Mrs. Mary F. Henderson,
to pay alimony and counsel fees and
and later agreed to accept s67,500
had been in District Jail since Au-
in full payment, has been in District
gust 15 because of his inabiity 'to
Jail fince August 1s because of in-
post the $500 ne exeat bond. In
March Justice Bailey signed a tem-
porary injunction against the Union
Dickinson Letts overruled Mr.
Trust Co., administrator and trus-
tee of Mrs. Henderson's estate, pre-
venting it from paying funds in its
ton or post the bond. The justice
hands to the Japanese.
also turned down Mr. Shima's re-
Mr. Shima has advised District
quest to advance a divorce case
Court that he lost money in a res-
gainst him out of its regular order.
taurant venture in Connecticut and
Balance of $24,000.
that there are other suits pending
There is a balance of some $24,000
against him here. The balance of
due Mr. Shima under the Hender-
about $24,000 is due him when cer-
son agreement, but his lawyers say
tain real estate of the Henderson
he cannot touch that, as it is tied up
JESSE S. SHIMA.
estate is sold, District Court is ad-
by court order.
vised through his counsel, John
Just how long Mr. Shima will
under a temporary alimony order,
Wattawa and Vivian O. Hill.
have to remain in District Jail—fail-
signed by Justice Jennings Bailey.
ing his putting up the $500 bond—
requiring him since June to pay $75
$4,216 Suit for Beard.
 problematical, as his lawyers say
monthly to the wife.
Among the litigation pending
now that his case will not come
According to her counsel, a writ
against him, Mr. Shima advised the
up, in the ordinary course, for eight
of ne exeat was issued against Mr.
court, is a bill for 84,216 for alleged
months to a year.
Shima in April, but he was living
Mrs. Sobretta Brown Shima, 33,
Arrears $525.
in Connecticut for a time then, but
under the new civil rules, designed
room and board, fled by his father-
in-law, Thomas Brown. Attorney
Wellford contends that Mr. Shima
1214 Linden street N.E., as his wife,
to facilitate the securing of in-
is in contempt of court now for fail-
brought suit in District Court
formation from an opponent, the
ure to pay alimony as ordered, as
against Mr. Shima for limited di-
lawyers for the Japanese were re-
well as a ss00 fee for the plaintif's
vorce and alimony. Her attorney.
quired to produce him here-other-
lawyer, which the court allowed him.
Richard E. Wellford, contends that
wise judgment would go against
Under the will of Mrs. Henderson
Mr. Shima is now in arrears for $525,
(See SHIMA, Page A-3.)
Mr. Shima was bequeathed $100,800
in cash and a trust fund of $100,880
was set up in his favor, but due to
the contest by her heirs, he agrepd
to accept s67,500 in cash. The wife's
lawyer says that he took ss,0p0
cash out of the District, when he
opened his restaurant in Stamford,
Conn. The residence of the Japs-
nese here was recently given
2946 Carlton avenue N.E.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
894.20211/263
KILLED TO 8OO.OI B II REGISTRATION/SCHREINER

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.93)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Visit of Tomemori Nakamo and Shigeo Tajika, Japamese,
to Mesrieo and their returm to the United states.
894.202
Comprehensive report on the,- Tajiks is eommseted with
"Okura A: Co.(Trading),Ltd.,(iasa,Tokie. meloses
eLipping from the VALLEY SUNDAY STAR of Ostober
1lth contaiming an asoount of the,- and a phote-
graphie copy of a letter, in Japanese, foued in the
possession of Makano whieh costains the words "stam-
dard O11 company" and "wilmingtome".
264
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeDeemteh # 585
(Despatoh, telegram, instruotion, letter, etc.)
From
moroe_(Goforth)
Dated Ogtober 28.1959
To
File No. ._812.6s/626
U. 8. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1—1540
AM

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.94)
894.20211 /265

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.90)
Nevember 29, 1990.
894.20211/265
My dear Mr. Hoover:
I appreciate your sending the copy of the report
of Bpeeial Agent E. F. NoCarthy, submitted in the case
entitled "Takahisa Hattori, Jiro Takeda, Espionage",
whieh was enelosed in your letter of November 25, 1939
addressed to the Beeretary of State.
Sincerely yours,
George B. Messersmith
Assistant Beeretary
A
John Eagar Hoover, Esquire,
Direstor, Foderal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justise,
Washington, D. C.
a tus
anue A.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Kosaku Mizusawa, Japanese Minister to Panama: Confidential
information has been received that - is alleged to be
connected with the Intelligence Bureau of the Japanese
Foreign Office. Reported that he will visit Chicago,
Washington and New York City before returning to Panama
for the purpose of giving new instructions to all
Japanese agents.
894.20211/266
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
letter
(Deepatoh, telegram, instructiom, lettes, eto.)
From
DatedNov..15.1939
Justice Dept.
x x
File No.
701.9419/6
U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-18O
2097

=== Page 104 === (confidence 1.00)
894.20211/267

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.87)
December 6, 1939
 Gear Br. Eeover:
I asknswledge the reseipt of your letter of
Bevember s9, lsse, addressed to the Seeretary of state,
894.20211/267
with which you sramamitted a copy of the report of
spesial Agent V. Y. Eumphreys in the ease entitled
*Sames Zamemds, with allases; Mr. ---- Sato; Eaplonege".
and reqeested to be advised whether or not the Depart-
ment of state has any record of this individsal's being
cownested with the Japamese Sovernment in any official
paclty in the United states.
In reply you are aevieed that the records of thas
Department do mot show that there is any one comnseted
 the Japamese Consulate Goneral in Mew York umder
 o.e, the resrds  d t
Japamese Geasal at Cemtral Dellang, Thire Avesme.
seatsle,
J.Mo Beever,
spt of Jutie,

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.86)
,    
Now Tork morle Paire, soe mn4 Plese, mapesde, Loms
Ialand, New Yort, and that Mies Izko sazto 1e an Ameri-
eam elork in the Japamese Goasulate, Board of Trade Butlé-
ing. Pourth Avemue, Portland, Oregen.
Referenee may aleo be made to moJI Osato whe 1e
reglstered pursuant to the registration of fereism
principals aet as a Japanese agont of the Beard of Tour-
let Inesstry, Japanese Govermment Mailways, SSl Pifth
Avemme, New Tork City. A phetestatie eopy of the megis-
tratien statement submitted by smoj1 Oeate has beem somt
to the Bepartment of Justiee in compllanse with the re-
quest contaimed in your letter of November 29, l939.
Simeerely yours,
Gcerge S. Meseeremith
Ascietamt Sesretary
OR
A true copy of
the signeorigj-
DEC 8 1952
nal.
DEC 8 19
EE

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
894.20211/268

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.84)
Deesmber 6, 1900
Gear Er. Neever:
Los me asknewledge with thanke the reeeipt of
yomr letter of Deesmber 2, l939, addressed to the
searetary ef state, in regard to the ease entitled
*Sade Yesimme, mith aliases; Espienage".
Sineerely yours,
Geors s. Eessersmita
Assistamt seeretary
r. d. Bégar Leover,
BArecter, Pederal Burmem ef Investigation,
Department of Justice,
mahingten, B. G.
A true copy of
the signedforigi-
furl.
nak
due
0.1

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.96)
PCx
POLITICAL
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
MR. DUNN
OF THE
MAR 3 11938
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
LONDON, March 22, 1939.
26 to luse
844.20211
No. 102
11/25/29
note
CONFIDENTIAL
861.20211
MEMORANDUM
The authorities here state that they have re-
894.20211/26
ceived information from a very secret source that
a White Russian named Basil E. de Kanel, who is
working for the Japanese as a Secret agent in the
Far East, is in touch with a person named M. de
Kapel, 819 West 180th Street, New York City.
269
While there may be nothing more than a family
connection between these two individuals our friends
suggest that it might be well to make a few inquiries
concerning the latter, and they would be most grateful
for any information which may be obtained about M. de
Kanel.
FA
DEC 6- 1939
FILED

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.87)
pcR
o. 76
W
1920
Referenee 1s made to H.V.J. memerandum no. 102
ef Marsh 22, 1930 in whieh information was reqmested
regarding N. de Kanel, 819 West l80th Street, Now
894.2021
Tosk 01ty.
An iaterim repers has now beem ressived which
shows that the person in questien is Nrs. Nary de Kamel,
of 819 West 180th Street. Mrs. Kanel, who was berm at
一
Nowehwang, Nanehuria, has been conneeted with the Chil-
2
269
drem's Aid Seeiety at New York fer the past six years.
She is alse kmowm as Mrs. Efram de Kanel. Nre. de Kamel
was married at Dalney, Manchuria, to Efran de Kazel en
May 29, 190s. She had graduated from a Tieatsin Nespi-
A
tal in 190e and had dome seeial werk in Tsehita,
sibnria. She entered the Werld War as a murse, and was
Matren of No. F Evasmatien Nespital for four yeare as
simpherepele, and later served at Sebastepel, Crimee,
Aassss. she is said te heve been eeaneetéa wite the
Amean Red Gross rellet vesk at Siapherepele and
late

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.93)
2
later Jeined the British Relief and Recenstruetien
Funke ef the Grimes and erganised a children's heme
at Baleslava, Crimee. After the evacuatien of Grimes
she was tramsported to Constantimeple, where she was
matros of a shildrem's home for three years on the
Islamd ef Pratie. After her serviee in the Crimea
and Genstantimople, she is said to have been transferred
to Berlin, where she was eonneeted with the German Red
Cress as an adviser on Russian relies.
Nrs. de Kamel arrived in the United States in
192s, and werked first at the New York Orthepedie
Respital as a nurse and later as a murse fer three and
a half years at the Liberty Naternity Hospital in
Breoklym. Two of Mrs. de Kanel's ehildren reside in
the United states, one, her oldest ahild, whe is new
married, her married name being Sacks, resides at
Saranae Lake, New Yerk, and the other, a boy, mamed
Vladimir, residing with the mether in New Yerk.
Amether boy, Warsilie, 32 years of age, mow resides in
Shanghai.
Krs. de Iamel elaims to have a British baskgrouad,
and that her maiden mame was Nary Lerensen. She is
reperted to be anti-commanist and anti-semitie, and
semeubere between 55 and 6o years ef age. A recomt
aheek

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.86)
一.
shesk of her mat1 shows that on Septesber 24, 1080
a letter pestmarked Guilaferd, Surrey, was sent to
Mrs. de Kanel by "Saparva", Reseaere Gardens, Chil.
werth, Surrey.
Any further informatien received with regard to
Nrs. de Kamel will be communicated promptly.
Snas
a-2m
feop
EN:REM:RMB 11/27/39

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.94)
lacl
APR 1 5 1939
My dear Mr. Heover:
I should appreelate it very muoh if you wwuld obtain
for me any information avallable regarding the person
894.20211/269
named M. de Kanel, 819 West 180th Street, New York City.
It is understood that a White Russian named Basil E.
de Kamel, who is working for the Japanese as a seoret
agent in the Far East, 1s corresponding with this person
in New York City.
The matter of course 1s very delicate, and it may
be nothing more than a family conneotion between these
two persons, but any information obtainable would be
hishly appreciated.
Sineerely yours,
James Clement Dunn
Adviser on Politieal Melations
A
John
mr Noover, Eequire,
Direetor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justiee,
Washington, D. C.
Eu:M:LF

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.95)
DCR
CONFIRENTIAL
No. 90
FEB171940
MEMORANDUM
(to London)
Reference is made to J.C.D. memorandum no. 76
of November 28, 1930 regarding M. de Kanel, 819 West
100th Street, New York City.
There is little information to add to what has
been conveyed previously. It appears that she was
born at Eckernforde, Germany on Maroh 8, l0s2 and that
she is of English deseent. Her maiden name was Mary
Leremsen. On Jume 12, 190s she married at Dalny.
Manehuria, Efrem DeKanel who was born on Deeember 18,
1872 at St. Petersburg, Russia, his present address
being unknowm. She last heard from her husband Just
prier te sailing for the United States in Mareh, 1926.
She hes three children, Mrs. Madia βlask who was borm
as Bekernforde, Germany, November 11, 1904 and whe
mow resides in Wew York; Besil DeKanel who was born
at

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.78)
ae. Rseie en Ny la, o, and Vltir Denl
 bo en Desember 6, o at Rkevaferte, S.
now ressd mether.
Nothing detrisental 1s knowm regarding Mre. Deßamel.
Tuce
aa
rom
A-B
Eu!RfM:MMY:SS
fof
2/16/40

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
DCA
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Mederal Bureau of Inuestigation
United States Department of Justice
Mashington,D.C.
MR. DUNN
APR261939
April 24, 1939
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Mr. James Clenent Dunn
Adviser on PAitical Relations
My dear Mr. Secretery:
I wish to acknowledge receipt of your letter
dated April 15, 1939, requesting thet inquiry be made
894.20211/270
concerning a person named M. de Kanel.
I have instructea the New York Office of this
Bureau to conduct the desired investigation in connection
with this matter. As soon as any inform tion is received
concerning the above namea indiviaual, it will be forwaraed
to you.
Sincerely yours,
. Le . tooven
John Edgar Hoover
Director
DEC 6 - 1939
A
FILED

=== Page 117 === (confidence 1.00)
894.20211/271

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Collaboration of chinese workers with Japanese
consular officers in san Francisco and New York
reported. No details of their labors are knowm.
894.20211/272
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memorandum
(Deepatoh, telegram, iastruotiom, letter, etc.)
From/
Dated.....Nov..8,.1939
State..Dept..rE (Benninghoff)
Froood
702.9411/554
File No.
1-1840
McC

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.95)
Foum B
Division or
FAR EASTAN AFFAIN
Depertment of State
81 Yesemite,
Oakland, California,
DIViS.Un Jr
Apri1 21, 1938.
COMMUNICATIONS
Have just sent you by wire, my thanks for
our pardoning Dr Townsend.
Mr Hull rep;ied to the note I sent you a
ew years back - regarding the secret plans I saw of a
Foreign country. The note is of utmost importance at this
time. I meant to come to see you, but from over work, lost
my sight After fighting the same battle fo life that you
fought, and, ;ole you. winning, this last blow was too much'
I can see very well to go where I please,
to do what I like, but cannot read a line' This means some
one must read all my letters. Just one person to trust
Mr illigan, Central bank,I4, Broadway, Oakland, Calif.
Now, in Santa Monica Cal, there is a man iI
have good reason to nelieve, sernig Japan's interests. I
have known him many years-in a way to know his character-
At any rate, it is very worth while to look into his present
activities, as well as those of the past five years. As a
tip, he was at one time in thr consiiar service,
First last and always, I am for justice
and my country'
Good wishes and good luck, andm thanks,
Helen Wilde Alexander,
MAY-41938
FILED
I wrote this myself, and wull mail it myself.
( 911., H
N. Aly ardr,
Rest

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
UNITEDSI
AND
C
APR.
730PN
7930
Franklin D, Roosevelt,
The White House,
Washington,
n, C.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AND
REOEIVED
APR 14 15
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
PC
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
8
Waslinigtn, D
Depoc
Hearng
in reading f
An rarires decacterst
and hight
time to
tenor right here at S telh.
Plants, in Olico, and N. Y.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.86)
Japanese straighet firnm the
Crient hava been fr the
Plant and have been gisen
tauris manufacturing
Drame Steel Co, the S teel and
Insteo Co in Cleolandthin
to that hg explosing to lte

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.86)
'I think et about time ur
Grrernment stefe im and
forbids amfoue entering
ser Plants.
It secms as though theer
Steel w ov. hava mst emoighe
theer Frdil Company Heads
could refura gracefully.
tooperig you mil take bana of
this matler at mee, and save

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.81)
this naton  yd
trotle,
Sthank you
Your's Haichfelly.
An 1mos ican.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.86)
WN.
NGSTO
APR'S
Seuretary
1936
Hull,
Waelunigtne,
α.
Perconol.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.91)
CHARGE SLIP
File No. 894, 20211
RemarkS
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
10-12-45- 9-
329
C8-Van Osd

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.85)
y Form A
SS
89420211-
NEW YORK CITY
23.23.95th st, Jachoou Hts.
U.S. Jecleligener Lewer
Ch10/20/38
Washnnigton D. C.
Fentlee,
The occunances mentoned
holow, may on may not be of any
siguifeeence, Iut am eaeeing thenN
to yonr attention as of suak miportand
as yon may attach. to then
a fuend of mire who has heen
memployed for rome mouths has
had occanion to cover the cety quite
thorcnghly in searchig for a jot
ared has on revral oecasions
notced the folconniy hopvenring.
心
An expennol car, loaded wiih
Japanose duves to some ceutial
ponit, where it parhs. Lmmediately
the parengers spread out with
cameras, gong ii all drectious,
pholographiis large bunldmgs and
other landuarhs.
This reeems to be being done very
syrtemateally, as it bas teen seam
on reneral occanons ein differnt pacts
of new Yoch.
Yoms wery twg
CEaudnon

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.78)
一
2
MOENOWLEDGMENT
AND CRATION
division of
EASTERN AFEAIRS
yapartment of s
8
037
F. Rooscrelts
H k6
力
J ant puiluig somo sonce
OF
anbl san oith y om
Imas go ing ttrough the lob
of the yrits Aolel rothe I lrie.t.
aulln I sa  late 2 live-
- his to dis a jap, py pritiung
out cirtinli catichi lon the
map fou L D. S. sta ler and
talbing to arottet gak he po
inted o th co ust finee Nar
the Medicon bordi Land
ab: ng to uil Califtria
liid. Ihare ecr izs
to beliese this jap isa spy
as  wad character and

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.80)
7
2
as soon as drcaine 1
ptred and I fearmbled t
Flaer l woldh
should be k fit oe our
coast liis
I ful itry tul
Geshanca
I t tud
oy this transactid..
Iremarn yoit loxt
rsfrct
WL A, C. S. Birdsny
-1e. S
1601
NOV 2419
NO37
Acknowledged
Fil•
8s

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.85)
Milwanhee Kise. Jau. 14, 193
1036 Walmmb s, S. S. Brawer
A
President:-
fle
DIVISION
Enclosed please fond map
894.202V
which wes
pronded on Jafswarr
ch
especcally
I large eisy like Ner York
2
11
Thunking
on haping
D
Yours very Aruly
S. J. Prawer
-8
to Segl. 1036 ralmet . Mlwan 

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.90)
ENT CITY-OWNED RAPID TRANSIT RAILROAD.
STORIA
CORONA
F
E
COURTS
CONEY
OCEAN
ROUTES OF THE
INTERBOROUGH
RAPID TRANSIT
COMPANY
CENTRAL
PARK
UNION"
BRAND
REGISTERED
LASTLENA
STP2.NG T
RCSTCNA
EENS
UTICAAVE
BRONX
SUTTERA.E
LATOUSHE
RUTLANC R
PXFANL
ZEREGA AVE.
VBICA
DDLETOWN RD.
PEMNSTLANA AVE.
DUMÉE AVE
MILLETS OT BLVD.
③malorsame
JAPAN

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.84)
7
7
RECEIVEL
ARIMENT OF STATE
file
Vzg.c.
A daile Long hand editesn
SOF
Ch
Horvey aGvers
A
822 abama S.
Irn J'r ancesas
Calif.
8
一
894.20211-
00
0
2
11
Members, of Isis Grce lenei's Dabenet
A
The Unite Horse
Kashington,
MAR 11
D.E
3

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.89)
Jontlemen of Phe babinet:
A fine fire hrof, bellet froof, block house in the
Penter ofa sihite mans district, thongh a drstrict
Where mhite men mere druren ant.
feust another enration for more condeserable
Drientals to some to the United Itates, sguat in
San Tranenscs, and give birth to an army of
so called cit zens, rotrithstandng theif sparents
mere Sandedim our Itate contrary San
and Goutrary to the desures of ohr Atgenship.
is Suled by Triglish sutyects Jices fit to
takd good care not to let thond prullaff Sa
reen, ox any Brittish prasession.
Sapital and help prom aur City edafrestration,
organzations, and indwiduals, to feather the rest
of the Drientale.
Just where this Japanese institution has

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.88)
2
approyimatel tight thonsand lemerceans lived.
There Dame along ra Dunning a ggre gation af
ittle brown min, encedently a neumber of sicture
bredes, all af which Ior who, wore admitted or
Ganed admittance, inls the t s, throng & the hull
of organgations and workers sock as the
Sabration ermy, or religiaus agy anzations, who,
working lindar the impresion tiat all men are
Preated Egual, this the Oruentals harg as muen
Right here as any one tse. Phus those religias
Torganzations, Ihare seuccecded and still Coatine
feartigydarily do they Freck on San Dransesse.
Those runneng fitlle brown men, had a well set
fplan, to Locate tn some rery farorable thart of
aur bity and redge thepoalves ia and wodge
Cur mercaans duft. Oh zes: ease: Ie rery much
Leke your vacant housé. How much you sell or
reat for or row muau, maty ou tihe  ase i!
The Kouse Lad heen redting for 35.
So! you good man! you Tharge to Gele for your
wonderful Sastle. Igere you 50.0s Moath-fine years
Lease I hay water you no spiend fre ents refrairs.
The greed of the real estate barons, was aromsed
byready momey. The fproperty owners oxe after anather

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.89)
3
became affected hy the same gred epidemie.
Uery slowly anD offectively, The Dunning little
Afroon fren worked afut their soffeme.
Befone Long, one fomile would move out of athe
destrictPon accounay their endesirable
neighbors. The tme same when those tunning
tiefle fapanese, sprang a surprise on the greed)
reab estate, ornery, Tand ather hogs, rhalmoulte
They sould gat fanay wwith. It.
Hell! Pease! Dlike renew Sease!
Jast timie Ivery good! IThelp you much!
Beg hig reaft ato. Just now  murst dedme,
Ponly can feay Jhalf rhat kefore.
I the dustrict trecame so settled mith
Orcentals and iheir follomers, that the property
Dould not te rented to a white man, the
result beng, that if the onnor did not rent
to the fapanese at their frice, it would stay
radant until dooms day
Ihis writer, tas srent such overtinie as a
member as a Chrestean hurch, tnd nerer neglected
t pay his nay as a churah member.
as I have done my bit, for meseonary work,
and ather deeds apordimary helpfulners,

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.89)
4
Nals, om ge ded hy my hristian lomercoan
spiret, ttretard Tohe hrogres af Dricatale,
en ss far as this State SBaliformia is Concerned.
 more Comfortable and sirosscerous, than they
plock here in solesak Pats.
Lee how they tey their way ints thes or
any ather stafe.
aways well be, an enterral mar on, methin
ofr County. Heat is the same mar that
fererails all over the orldoxly in thell.s.
we ds not chof afp our nosk to apite our
face. Detween Saher andBafictal ew
Balifornia, var is the rame frecicely for it:
Dafrital m its greed sfor Imoney, more
money, here ar alsen here, must Fiefld the whijh
hand.In greldring zhat Flack snake

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.89)
5
Phork day aud night, Sundays and to
hell vith holidays,racations ofe overtime
Jeay!
Whrut that time when the BigBastern States
want some mmodity, whick me Thare,, they
wart it! thats tfat, Heck with Lefbor
Conditirns on Saliformas, me rant the stuff
and re want it theap. He have oue own
troubles! Let Balifornia vak aut for ets
own In den tate.
daily sheet.
Incronly defference betmeen fajianese
-invadeds a Ehima snd Etll Criental caraders
in balifomia, is that he Dhma inraders
enraded mirongh fore of arms while the
GalyforniiTenvaders Jeursue a sreaky Sighly
Educated way, A quiet-easy smoath tricky Tray.
SrayDatter and act sute-niee ate to Thurah
nembers and said members well fall over the
feew, to help them, sokile a feror down and

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.88)
6
out maz well rdie in his basement cahade.
for the want of a whishy stimulant or
bread.
Jes! That Jahanese Dock Hose Sras beer
finisbetI How The! How Sreet!
Jest a tittle more internal ammunition
Furnished. to fight against AmerecauJabor
laf Ealifornia.
Ond halla Goa a yaue,
Bome to the tord, says the Sabration tormy,
whe was made the goat throngk the
broson man.
Harrey A. Evens.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
2331 Berkeley Ave.,
Los Angeles, Calif.,
Janmuary 4th, 1935.
Division of
54
he White House,
MabfauryHowe
Washington, D. C. 1935 JAN 14 PM 1 39
Dear Mr. President:
Secy. to the President
8
incident that occurred pne day or the week of Aug. 25th
last, on the boat that went from Los Angeles to Catalina
Island.
Acknowl'ege
2
The enclosed clipping from the Los Angeles
Times of January 2nd, brought this incident to imy mind. λ
There were a small group of five Orientals,
Japanese, I believe, on the boat, apparently having a
pleasant time. One of the group would extract a few
papers from his pocket and read, the rest paid strict
attention, then would laugh and seemed very amused.
When the boat left the dock, these men were very inter-
ested in the harbour and one stepped up on a chair seat
raised his camera above his head, snapped a picture and
returned the camera to his pocket and as the boat neared
the breakwater, this same man repeated his act, taking
another picture, unmolested, neither passengers nor
crew seemed to pay any attention to this small group.
I realize that it is far too late for any in-
vestigation, but I do feel that it is not too late yet
to have this race of people or any other for that matter
watched a little more closely, and our highways and
harbours guarded perhaps a little more carefully.
m
I believe there are soldiers stationed at
Fort McArthur and other California Harbours thascould
be utilized for "Observation Guard Patrol" instead or
the minor and less important duties they are no per-
forming.
191
G
3
Sincerely hoping that your good health will
continue so that you may live to see your ideal and
goal accomplished, I am,

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANESE
FACES QUI
ON PHOT
Harbor Pictu
Cause Inquiry
Released Pending Hearing,
Man Silent on Report
J ANESE FILM
He's Naval Officer.
INQUIRY SLATED
ST. PETERSBURG (FIa.)
(Continued from First Page)
Jan. 1. (AP)—A Japanese de-
which police said Matsuda was tak
tained here for investigation
ing pictures of the harbor were cor
after he was found taking
Jacksonville for development.
pictures of the harbor was
In an area which Chief Lipphard
released from jail early to-
said the Japanese was sweeping
night and taken to a hotel by
with a long-range German camer:
lay the U.S.S. Trenton. flagship of
immigration officers. The
the special nava! service squadron
man gave his name as Yoshio
stationed here. and
Matsuda and said he had
Guard base.
The detective chief quoted the
the Coast
taken pictures in severa
man as saying he took pictures for
his own pleasure, but said he ad-
American cities. Chief of
mitted the film was sent to New
Detectives Lipphard quoted
York for printing and eventual con-
signment to Japan.
him as saying the pictures
TOKIO SAYS OFFICER
were sent to New York for
TRAVELING IN AMERICA
relay to Japan.
TOKIO, Jan. 2. (Wednesday) (A)
Immigration offcials said they
A Navy Department spokesman said
today Lieutenant-Conmmander Yo-
were investigating whether the man
shio Matsuda. a naval engineer, 1s
entered this country legally.
traveling in America as an inspec-
They refused to discuss the case
tor in connection with naval pur-
further, except to say the Japanese
chases.
will be given a hearing here to-
morrow before S. B. Hopkins, im-
migration agent in charge of the
Tampa office.
TAKEN FOR AUTO RIDE
It was disclosed that the agents
took the man for a two-hour auto-
mobile ride this afternoon while
questioning him, and then returned
him to the City Jail where he was
in a jail cell four or five hours.
Lipphard quoted the Japanese as
saying he entered this country about
a year ago at San Franciscb, but
the immigration office at Tama
announced the man said he enteid
at Seattle, Wash. Telegraphic
quiry
was made to the1
office.
SILENT ON COMMISST
Shown a dispatch from Ne
commander in the Japanese navy,
he said:
"I will not confirm or deny that
I am a lleutenant-commander.
Neither will I confirm or deny that
I was recommended to her by the
Japanese Bmbassy,
"I left New Yark one week ago,
alone.
"When I get back to New York I

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.93)
26
. Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
F1
STATE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
RECEIVED
DEPA
AUG 26 1939
aug. 24,1939
COMMUN
早舌蚪
Sumner Welles,
HEADQUARTERS
1281 Fort Street
Under Stocietary Of State
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
file
894.
Deyartment of State
Representative in Washington, D.C.
KILSOO K. HAAN
Wasknigton de.
Ch
20
OFFICERS
your Epelleny:
又
President
SHINHO CHAR
Vice-President
It may sound pren fome
SUNCHOO CHOI
Secretary
to remnied your Exeelloney of ous
CHANGDUK CHOI
Treasurer
JHAIKUN SUR
letters of in formations n the past,
farticularh of Sat Brta 
DIRECTORS
Chairman
CHANHO MIN
and U.s.s R. be Jopan addresedt
DOIN KWON
BONGKWAN CHUNG
TAISUNG LEE
Mahy mary not agree with our
BAIKSOO KIM
CHANGYIK OH
wmnformants-however much water hand
jad the bridge of itertin
mntrigue.
We fean the realgatiom of an
underotandning will starth the world
894.20211-
tetween thesr conmrtrirs detinmital
t the secuily and stability of Sacifii
Suicerely Yours
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding
Kt. Hoan
Nilaos

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
Sino-Korean Peoples League
Kilsoo K. Haan, Washington Representative
Telephone: Linooln 5187
August 19, 1939
FOR THE PRESS - (For Immediate Release )
Japan wants its "new order in Asia" sympathetically understood by Ameri-
can collegos and American churohes and will spend three million yen (approximately
$800,000) in the United States to attain this objeotive.
The foregoing oharge wos made today by Kilsoo K. Haan, Washington repre-
sentative of the Sino-Korean Peoples League, and is based, he said, on confidential
dispatohes received from Tokyo.
"The Japanese Foreign Office Cultural Bureau has evolved the plan and ob-
tained the appropriation", said Mr. Haan. "The first American educator selected to
be so 'honored' is Prof Dale D. Weloh, the president of the University of Dubuque,
Iowa. He will be advised by Dr. Katsu Koike, a Japanese educator who will sail
early next month for the United States. Other American educators and ohuroh offi-
oials will be given the same opportunity as that afforded Prof. Welch. The Cul-
tural Bureau's plan contemplates the seleotion of at least 300 American eduoators
and churohmen. They also will enlist Amerioan part-time students in various
universities.
"This none too subtle propaganda is alloged to have the backing of the
Amerioan Counoil, Institute of Pacific Relations, with headquarters in Now York,
whose representatives have been conferring with Japanese officials in Tokyo for
some time. The 'new plan' is, of course, just another attempt to have Americans
see Japan's problem through Japanized colored glasses.
"The American public may well recall that in 1935, the same agenoies
introduced Japanized textbooks in the high sohools of Hawaii, as well as in the
Linooln high sohool of New York City. Petition by Sino-Korean Peoples League to
the 1935 Territorial Legislature, March 27th, aided by the vigorous protest of the
California Joint Immigration Committee, resulted in the Japanized textbooks being
withdrawn 15 months later."
In reply to the California Joint Immigration Committee's protest, Mr.
Frederick V. Fiold, secretary to the American Council. Institute of Pacific Rela-
tions, in June 1936 replied:
"You are right in questioning the prooedure under whioh further material
for enlightenment of American youth was being colleoted last year under the auspices
of the Society for International Cultural Relations in Japan.........The American
Coumoil will now endeavor to meet this need without Japanese cooperation."
Mr. Haan also deolared he might ask the Dies Committee on Un-American
activities to investigate the present situation if necessary.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
(Not printed at Government expense)
UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA
Congressional Record
PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
CONGRESS WANTS PEACE—JAPAN
white race under the Japan guided "Asia for Asiatics" policy. it
WANTS P-I-E-C-E
would also mean the end of democracy in the Pacific for many
generations to come.
If you gentlemen believe American laborers will peacefully
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
nese standard of living, you can ignore Japan's military conquest
work for 10 to 75 cents a day in order to compete with the Japa-
OF
of Korea and China. On the contrary, if you believe that Amer-
Ican laborers deserve the protection of Congress for a livable
HON. VINCENT F. HARRINGTON
wage and a decent standard of living, by all means protect and
maintain American influence in the Far East.
OF IOWA
Events of the last few months in the Pacific will speak for
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
itself.
The Hawaii Sentinel (May 25) reports. that an American citizen
Thursday, July 27, 1939
of Japanese ancestry was detained in Honolulu. All the propa-
ganda materials were confiscated. It is alleged that the printed
matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese Navy
LETTER FROM REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SINO-KOREAN
League." It also reported that startling news articles appeared
PEOPLES LEAGUE
in Japan. "praising the loyalty of Hawailan-born Japanese to
the mother country." It was one of these stories which told how
the Japanese in Hawail. including American citizens of Japanese
Mr. HARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, under leave to extend
ancestry "signed pledges of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
my remarks, I include herein a letter addressed by Kilsoo K.
Another report on June 25 says that the Japanese offcers of the
Haan, Washington representative of the Sino-Korean Peoples
S. S. Taiyo Maru (a Japanese merchantship, N. Y. K. line) "refused
point blank to open a mysterious safe to United States customs in-
League, to the House Foreign, Naval, and Military Affairs
spections" contrary to and violating the spirit of the commercial
Committees. This letter is of particular interest in view of
treaty of 1911.
the action of the State Department in taking steps to abro-
The arrogant attitude of Japanese offcials is not new to Hawall;
that is. to those Americans who are not afrald to talk. They will
gate the 1911 Treaty of Commerce and Navigation with Japan.
tell you many an interesting incident of Japanese display of arro-
SINO-KOREAN PEOPLES LEAGUE,
gance toward Americans even in Hawail.
During the Japanese census in 1935 the leading Japanese daily
Washington, D. C., July 25, 1939.
printed in the Japanese section:
Honorable Members of the House Foreign, Naval, and Military
Affairs Committees, the Seventy-sixth Congress, Washington,
"QUESTIONABLE POINTS
D. C.
"This census is taken to determine the population (Japanese).
HonozalE Gentrmn: We are informed that 280 Japanese
and it is not connected in any way with information papers com-
"Ronins," political assassins, have been sent by Japan during the
piled for the government authorities (American Government).
past 2 months to Shanghal, with the objective view of creating a
"reign of terror" in the International Settlement this coming
Hence illegal entrants need not be afraid of making out this report."
The Associated Press reports on July 20 that "The Japanese sol-
diers had torn down and destroyed an American flag flown over the
September.
"Ronins." or Japan's political assassins. are employed by the
Standard Oil Co.'s installation at Chinglingki. Yangtze River port."
militarists whenever they desire to make a strategic move. The
stallation, drove out the Chinese staff, and damaged the property.
This account said about 100 Japanese infantrymen entered the in-
Queen of Korea was murdered by Japan's Ronins in this manner.
Our informers urgently warned that the Ronins are going to at-
tack Occidentals in the International Settlement, creating a "reign
severely by a Japanese sentry here last night, apparently because
officer aboard the United States gunboat Guam, was beaten
The United Press reports on July 23 that, "R. A. Baker, warrant
of terror" against the white people.
I can vividly picture Japanese Consul General Fukuma, of Hono-
he was walking on the wrong side of a street in the Japanese-
lulu, calmly and seriously, with his smiling eyes, talking to me.
controlled area."
While Congress talks of "peace, peace," the Japanese are taking
He said:
"American Congress very smart, you know, very smart; agree
American interests by "pieces" in China. We fear the 280 Japanese
"Ronins," who are reported sent to Shanghal, are there not to
not to agree with President.
"Few more years Japan clean up all American business in
create peace for occidentals nor for China, but to create, as re-
You see Congress want peace, peace, all the time
ported. a "reign of terror" against the white people for obvious
peace. Japan want peace, too, you know. Yes; Japan want peace."
reasons.
We, therefore, urgently plea that the Members of the House
And he then spelled the word "peace"—"p-1-e-c-e."
Foreign, Naval, and Military Affairs Committees, take immediate
Vandenberg's resolution, abrogation of the American-Japan
Gentlemen, we humbly and sincerely urge you to adopt Senator
steps to adopt Senator VAndznvrñg's resolution to abrogate the
American-Japan commercial and navigation treaty of 1911 as a
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of 1911.
Buch an action by the Seventy-sixth Congres will discourage
gesture of warning to Japan that the American Congress will not
tolerate Japan's practice of nipping off American interests by
the militarists and their followers while encouraging and strength-
ming the morale of the Chinese, Koreans, and the liberal Jap-
"pieces" in China.
"Those who wish to get a glimpse of the trend of future events
anese elements in Japan.
We sincerely and justly fear, If the Seventy-sixth Congress neg-
Korea." (Quotation from Willard Price.)
in Asia should not neglect to study that vivid object lesson,
lects or refuses to take such step or steps to create a "moral
armament" against the militarists, American rights will be fla-
Respectrully submitted.
prantly violated and eventually chased out of the Far East.
KILsOO K. HAAN,
Americs's defeat will not only tend to encourage the hatred of
Washtngton Representative of the
Stno-Korean Peoples League.
10804817257
U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1939

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
孔
Sino-Korean Peopleat
AUG 2 9 1939
FOR THE PRESS - (For Immediate Release )
Japan wants its "new order in Asia" sympathetically understood by Ameri-
can colleges and American churches and will spend three million yen (approximately
800,000) in the United States to attain this objeotive.
The foregoing charge wes made today by Kilsoo K. Haan, Washington repre-
sentative of the Sino-Korean Peoples League, and is based, he said, on confidential
dispatches received from Tokyo.
"The Japanese Foreign Office Cultural Bureau has evolved the plan and ob-
tained the appropriation", said Mr. Haan. "The first American educator selected to
be so 'honored' is Prof Dale D. Weloh, the president of the University of Dubuque,
Iowa. He will be advised by Dr. Katsu Koike, a Japanese educator. who will sail
early next month for the United States. Other Amerioan educators and church offi-
cials will be given the same opportunity as that afforded Prof. Weloh. The Cul-
tural Bureau's plan contemplates the selection of at least 300 Amerioan eduoators
and churchmen. They also will enlist American part-time students in various
universities.
"This none too subtle propaganda is alleged to have the backing of the
Amerioan Counoil, Institute of Paoific Relations, with headquarters in New York,
whose representatives have been conferring with Japanese officials in Tokyo for
some time. The 'new plan' is, of course, just another attempt to have Americans
see Japan's problem through Japanized oolored glasses.
"The Amerioan public may well recall that in l935, the same agencies
introduced Japanized textbooks in the high schools of Hawaii, as well as in the
Linooln high sohool of New York City. Petition by Sino-Korean Peoples League to
the 1936 Iurritorial Legislature, March 27th, aided by the vigorous protest of tha
FILED
California "oint Immigration Committee, resulted in the Japanized textbooks being
withdrawn: months later."
In , ply to the California Joint Immigration Committee's protest, Mr.
CO
Frederick V. Field, secretary to the American Council, Institute of Pacific Rela-
tions, in June 1936 replied:
"You are right in questioning the procedure under which further material
for enlightenment of American youth was being colleoted last year under the auspices
of the Society for International Cultural Relations in Japan.........The American
Counoil will now endeavor to meet this need without Japanese cooperation."
Mr. Haan also deolared he might ask the Dies Committee on Un-American
activities to investigate the present situation if necessary.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
Not printed at Government expense)
UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA
Congressional Record
PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
CONGRESS WANTS PEACE—JAPAN
white race under the Japan guided "Asia for Asiatics" policy, it
WANTS P-I-E-C-E
would also mean the end of democracy in the Pacific for many
generations to come.
If you gentlemen believe American laborers will peacefully
work for 10 to 75 cents a day in order to compete with the Japa-
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
nese standard of living, you can ignore Japan's military conquest
OF
of Korea and China. On the contrary, if you believe that Amer-
ican laborers deserve the protection of Congress for a livable
HON. VINCENT F. HARRINGTON
wage and a decent standard of living. by all means protect and
maintain American influence in the Far East.
OF IOWA
Events of the last few months in the Pacific will speak for
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
itself.
The Hawail Sentinel (May 25) reports. that an American citizen
Thursday, July 27, 1939
of Japanese ancestry was detained in Honolulu. All the propa-
ganda materials were confiscated. It is alleged that the printed
matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese Navy
LETTER FROM REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SINO-KOREAN
League." It also reported that startling news articles appeared
PEOPLES LEAGUE
in Japan. "praising the loyalty of Hawallan-born Japanese to
the mother country." It was one of these stories which told how
the Japanese in Hawali. including American citizens of Japanese
Mr. HARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, under leave to extend
ancestry "signed pledges of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
my remarks, I include herein a letter addressed by Kilsoo K.
Another report on June 25 says that the Japanese officers of the
Haan, Washington representative of the Sino-Korean Peoples
S. S. Taiyo Maru (a Japanese merchantship. N. Y. K. line) "refused
point blank to open a mysterious safe to United States customs in-
League, to the House Foreign, Naval, and Military Affairs
spections" contrary to and violating the spirit of the commercial
Committees. This letter is of particular interest in view of
treaty of 1911.
the action of the State Department in taking steps to abro-
The arrogant attitude of Japanese offcials is not new to Hawail;
that is, to those Americans who are not afraid to talk. They will
gate the 1911 Treaty of Commerce and Navigation with Japan.
tell you many an interesting incident of Japanese display of arro-
SINO-KOREAN PEOPLES LEAGUE,
gance toward Americans even in Hawail.
Washington, D. C., July 25, 1939.
During the Japanese census in 1935 the leading Japanese dally
printed in the Japanese section:
Honorable Members of the House Foreign, Naval, and Military
Affairs Committees, the Seventy-sixth Congress, Washington,
"QUESTIONABLE POINTS
D. C.
"This census is taken to determine the population (Japanese),
HONoRALE GentLEmEN: We are informed that 280 Japanese
and it is not connected in any way with information papers com-
"Ronins," political assassins, have been sent by Japan during the
piled for the government authorities (American Government).
past 2 months to Shanghal, with the objective view of creating a
Hence illegal entrants need not be afraid of making out this report."
"reign of terror" in the International Settlement this coming
The Associated Press reports on July 20 that "The Japanese sol-
militarists whenever they desire to make a strategic move. The
September.
"Ronins," or Japan's political assassins, are employed by the
This account said about 100 Japanese infantrymen entered the in-
diers had torn down and destroyed an American flag flown over the
Standard Oil Co.'s installation at Chinglingki. Yangtze River port."
Queen of Korea was murdered by Japan's Ronins in this manner.
stallation, drove out the Chinese staff, and damaged the property.
Our informers urgently warned that the Ronins are going to at-
tack Occidentals in the International Settlement, creating a "reign
offcer aboard the United States gunboat Guam, was beaten
The United Press reports on July 23 that, "R. A. Baker, warrant
of terror" against the white people.
severely by a Japanese sentry here.last night, apparently because
lulu, calmly and seriously, with his smiling eyes, talking to me.
I can vividly picture Japanese Consul General Fukuma. of Hono-
controlled area."
he was walking on the wrong side of a street in the Japanese-
While Congress talks of "peace, peace," the Japanese are taking
He said:
"American Congress very smart, you know, very smart; agree
American interests by "pieces" in China. We fear the 280 Japanese
"Ronins," who are reported sent to Shanghai, are there not to
not to agree with President.
"Few more years Japan clean up all American business in
create peace for occidentals nor for China. but to create, as re-
China. •
You see Congress want peace, peace, all the time
ported. a "reign of terror" against the white people for obvious
peace. Japan want peace, too, you know. Yes; Japan want peace."
reasons.
We, therefore, urgently plea that the Members of the House
Vandenberg's resolution, abrogation of the American-Japan
And he then spelled the word "peace"—"p-1-e-c-e."
Gentlemen, we humbly and sincerely urge you to adopt Senator
Foreign, Naval, and Military Affairs Committees, take immediate
steps to adopt Senator VAndenvegg's resolution to abrogate the
American-Japan commercial and navigation treaty of 1911 as a
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of 1911.
Such an action by the Seventy-sixth Congres will discourage
gesture of warning to Japan that the American Congress will not
the militarists and their followers while encouraging and strength-
tolerate Japan's practice of nipping off American interests by
ening the morale of the Chinese, Koreans, and the liberal Jap-
"pieces" in China.
"Those who wish to get a glimpse of the trend of future events
anese elements in Japan.
We sincerely and justly fear, if the Seventy-sixth Congress neg-
In Asia should not neglect to study that vivid object lesson,
Korea." (Quotation from Willard Price.)
lects or refuses to take such step or steps to create a "moral
armament" against the militarists, American rights will be fla-
Respectfully submitted.
grantly violated and eventually chased out of the Par East.
KILSOO K. HAAN,
America's defeat will not only tend to encourage the hatred of
Washington Representative of the
Sino-Korean Peoples League.
168948—17257
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICEI 19S9

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
REBPEOTFULLY REFERRED
TO THB
ltte
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MstM Dutyne
Sino-Korean Peoples League
Kilsoo K. Haan, Washington Representative
Telephone: Linooln 5187
Secretary to the President
August 19, 1939
FOR THE PRESS - (For Immediate Release )
Japan wants its "new order in Asia" sympathetically understood by Ameri-
can colleges and American churches and will spend three million yen (approximately
$800,000) in the United States to attain this objeotive.
The foregoing oharge was made today by Kilsoo K. Haan, Washington repre-
sentative of the Sino-Korean Peoples League, and is based, he said, on confidential
dispatches received from Tokyo.
"The Japanese Foreign Office Cultural Bureau has evolved the plan and ob-
tained the appropriation", said Mr. Haan. "The first American educator selected to
be so 'honored' is Prof Dale D. Welch, the president of the University of Dubuque,
Iowa. He will be advised by Dr. Katsu Koike, a Japanese educator. who will sail
early next month for the United States. Other American educators and church offi-
cials will be given the same opportunity as that afforded Prof. Weloh. The Cul-
tural Bureau's plan contemplates the selection of at least 300 Amerioan eduoators
and ohurohmen. They also will enlist American part-time students in various
universities.
"This none too subtle propaganda is alleged to have the backing of the
Amerioan Council, Institute of Paoific Relations, with headquarters in New York,
whose representatives have been conferring with Japanese officials in Tokyo for
some time. The 'new plan' is, of course, just another attempt to have Americans
see Japan's problem through Japanized colored glasses.
"The Amerioan public may well recall that in l935, the same agencies
introduced Japanized textbooks in the high sohools of Hawaii, as well as in the
Lincoln high sohool of New York City. Petition by Sino-Korean Peoples League to
the 1935 Territorial Legislature, March 27th, aided by the vigorous protest of the
California Joint Immigration Committee, resulted in the Japanized textbooks being
withdrawn 15 months later."
In reply to the California Joint Immigration Committee's protest, Mr.
Frederiok V. Field, secretary to the American Council. Institute of Pacifio Rela-
tions, in June 1936 replied:
"You are right in questioning the procedure under which further material
for enlightenment of American youth was being collected last year under the auspices
of the Society for International Cultural Relations in Japan.........The American
Counoil will now endeavor to meet this need without Japanese cooperation."
Mr. Haan also deolared he might ask the Dies Committee on Un-American
activities to investigate the present situation if necessary.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.98)
at Government expense)
UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA
Congressional Record
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
CONGRESS WANTS PEACE—JAPAN
white race under the Japan guided "Asia for Asiatics" policy, it
would also mean the end of democracy in the Pacific for many
WANTS P-I-E-C-E
generations to come.
If you gentlemen believe American laborers will peacefully
work for 10 to 75 cents a day in order to compete with the Japa-
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
nese standard of living, you can ignore Japan's military conquest
of Korea and China. On the contrary. if you believe that Amer-
OF
tcan laborers deserve the protection of Congress for a livable
HON. VINCENT F. HARRINGTON
wage and a decent standard of living, by all means protect and
maintain American influence in the Far East.
OF IOWA
Events of the last few months in the Pacific will speak for
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
itself.
The Hawaii Sentinel (May 25) reports. that an American citizen
Thursday. July 27, 1939
of Japanese ancestry was detained in Honolulu. All the propa-
ganda materials were confiscated. It is alleged that the printed
matter "advoci.ted the formation of an outright Japanese Navy
LETTER FROM REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SINO-KOREAN
League." It also reported that startling news articies appeared
DEODI FS
LEACUE
Mr. HARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, under leave to extend
the Japanese in Hawaii. including American citizens of Japanese
ancestry "signed pledges of loyalty to Japan in their own blood."
my remarks, I include herein a letter addressed by Kilsoo K.
Another report on June 25 says that the Japanese offcers of the
Haan, Washington representative of the Sino-Korean Peoples
S. S. Taiyo Maru (a Japanese merchantship. N. Y. K. line) "refused
League, to the House Foreign, Naval, and Military Affairs
point blank to open a mysterious safe to United States customs in-
spections" contrary to and violating the spirit of the commercial
Committees. This letter is of particular interest in view of
treaty of 1911.
the action of the State Department in taking steps to abro-
The arrogant attitude of Japanese officials is not new to Hawall;
gate the 1911 Treaty of Commerce and Navigation with Japan.
that is. to those Americans who are not afraid to talk. They will
tell you many an interesting incident of Japanese display of arro-
SINO-KOREAN PEOPLES LEAGUE,
gance toward Americans even in Hawail.
Washington, D. C., July 25, 1939.
During the Japanese census in 1935 the leading Japanese daily
Honorable Members of the House Foreign, Naval, and Military
printed in the Japanese section:
Affairs Committees, the Seventy-sixth Congress, Washington,
"QUESTIONABLE POINTS
D. C.
"This census is taken to determine the population (Japanese),
Honoralz Grntrmrn: We are informed that 280 Japanese
and it is not connected in any way with information papers com-
"Ronins," political assassins, have been sent by Japan during the
piled for the government authorities (American Government).
past 2 months to Shanghai, with the objective view of creating a
Hence illegal entrants need not be afraid of making out this report."
"reign of terror" in the International Settlement this coming
The Associated Press reports on July 20 that "The Japanese sol-
September.
diers had torn down and destroyed an American flag flown over the
"Ronins," or Japan's political assassins, are employed by the
Standard Oll Co.'s installation at Chinglingki, Yangtze River port."
militarists whenever they desire to make a strategic move. The
This account said about 100 Japanese infantrymen entered the in-
Queen of Korea was murdered by Japan's Ronins in this manner.
stallation, drove out the Chinese staff, and damaged the property.
Our informers urgently warned that the Ronins are going to at-
The United Press reports on July 23 that, "R. A. Baker, warrant
tack Occidentals in the International Settlement, creating a "reign
officer aboard the United States gunboat Guam, was beaten
of terror" against the white people.
severely by a Japanese sentry here last night, apparently because
I can vividly picture Japanese Consul General Fukuma, of Hono-
he was walking on the wrong side of a street in the Japanese-
lulu, calmly and seriously, with his smiling eyes, talking to me.
controlled area.
He said:
While Congress talks of "peace, peace," the Japanese are taking
"American Congress very smart, you know, very smart; agree
American interests by "pleces" in China. We fear the 280 Japanese
not to agree with President.
"Ronins." who are reported sent to Shanghai, are there not to
"Few more years Japan clean up all American business in
create peace for occidentals nor for China, but to create, as re-
China.
You see Congress want peace, peace, all the time
ported, a "reign of terror" against the white people for obvious
peace. Japan want peace, too, you know. Yes: Japan want peace."
reasons.
And he then spelled the word "peace"—"p-1-e-c-e."
We, therefore, urgently plea that the Members of the House
Gentlemen, we humbly and sincerely urge you to adopt Senator
Foreign, Naval, and Military Affairs Committees, take immediate
Vandenberg's resolution, abrogation of the American-Japan
steps to adopt Senator VAndznveg's resolution to abrogate the
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of 1911.
American-Japan commercial and navigation treaty of 1911 as a
Such an action by the Seventy-sixth Congres will discourage
gesture of warning to Japan that the American Congress will not
the militarists and their followers while encouraging and strength-
tolerate Japan's practice of nipping off American interests by
ening the morale of the Chinese, Koreans, and the liberal Jap-
"pieces" in China.
anese elements in Japan.
"Those who wish to get a glimpse of the trend of future events
We sincerely and justly fear, if the Seventy-sixth Congress neg-
in Asia should not neglect to study that vivid object lesson,
lects or refuses to take such step or steps to create a "moral
Korea." (Quotation from Willard Price.)
armament" against the militarists, American rights will be fla-
Respectrully submitted.
grantly violated and eventually chased out of the Far East.
KIlsoO K. HaAn,
merica's defeat will not only tend to encourage the hatred of
Washington Representative of the
048—17257
Stno-Korean Peoples League.
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 19S9

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
SINO-KOREAN PEOPLES' LEAGUE
ington Headquarters:
101 D Street, Northeast
Phone: Linooln 5187
Washington, D. C.
November 24, 1939
fe
Dr. Philip C. Jessup
President, Amerioan Counoil
894.20211
Chairman, Pacifio Counoil and
ch
International Committee of
The Institute of Pacifio Relations
Institute of Paoific Relations,
894.20211
Seventh International Conference
Virginia Beach, Virginia, U.S.A.
Honorable President Jessup:
The Sino-Korean Peoples' League do voioe the sentiment of Koreans living in Hawaii
and America, and we do humbly subsoribe to this petition and to this plea and we do
most urgently beg that the exeoutives of the American Council make an investigation
of the past and the present policies which have the nature of aiding and encouraging
Japanese propaganda in Hawaii and America. Japanization activities as conduoted by
the Japanese through the good offices of the Institute of Pacific Relations is decid-
edly un-American and most assuredly contrary to the best interest of peace of the
Pacifio and partioularly it has caused the weakening of the seourity of the United
States in the Pacifio area.
We fear the effeot of the Institute's "Japan's Cultural Introduction Program" has
created an unhealthy and perplexing situation. In reality the result of such a pro-
gram has defeated the original purpose and good intent. Instead of furthering a study
of peace, it has unfortunately invited grave danger in the Far East, by becoming a
tool of Japanese in Hawaii and in America.
Behind the similes of the Japanese militarists and behind the so-called introduo-
tion of Japanese oulture to America, are hidden motives unhealthy for America and
partioularly unhealthy for American citizens of Japanese ancestry.
The American Counoil - Institute of Pacific Relations - as we understand "adheres
to the prinoiples of complete freedom of soientific inquiry, broad hospitality to all
points of view but subservient to none, and demooratic procedure in the conduct of
its affairs." Although our past experiences with the American Council have been the
contrary to the published principles - we pray that this petition be receive and
considered in the spirit as declared by the American Counoil.
FILED
Dr. Nitobe's Report Aided Japan Militarists
9
Some years ago Dr. Inazo Nitobe,President of the Japan Council, Institutef Pacif-
ic Relations, made an extensive and valuable survey of American Public Opinion toward
Japan. The Amerioan Council greatly aided Dr. Nitobe in his effort to get a true pio-
ture of American Publio Opinion.
It was reliably reported that this "Survey" was the most influential factor in the
decision of Japan Supreme War Counoil to heighten Japan's undeclared war of aggression
on China. Morally, the Amerioan Counoil became a party to such an intrigue in the
subjugation of China. The summarized report of Dr. Nitobe is as follows:
"Amerioa has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country. They
possess neither the intelligenoe nor the vision to see things as they are. Con-
sequently, what they say in publio, though not worth listening to, is swallowed
by the ignorant.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
lip C. Jessup, President
Council - Institute of Pacifio Relations, etc.
Nov. 24, 1939 page -2-
(Dr. Nitobe's report continued) -
"Men in educational oiroles, jurists, and students of international law are
mostly sticklers for legal teohnicalities.
"The distribution of wealth in America is unequal, as shown by the army of
14,000,000 unemployed and the staggering amount of pensions. One quarter of the
total population depends on Government oharity. These people shudder at the mere
mention of hostilities.
"You can make them listen to reason more easily than others. So why not introduce
to them our cultural attainments.
"There are many Americans who defend Japan at almost every turn, even at the risk
of personal injury."
Dr. Nitobe's suggestion to utilize Japanese culture as propaganda seemed to strike
a new keynote. Immediately the Society for International Cultural Relations was form-
ed, with Setsuichi Aoki as secretary and the former Consul-General Kanekazui Okada of
Honolulu, Hawaii, as head of the Cultural Promotion Bureau. The Society's polioy as
Aoki outlined, was to Japanize the American children, not only in Hawaii but of the
mainland. Aoki deolared that:-
"For several years the sohool heads in Hawaii and America, with the aid of many
influential educators and missionaries, made a thorough survey of American text-
books for the Japanese Society. The Survey revealed that if proper propaganda is
systematioally carried out in the schools, the American children will become
strong friends of Japan."
The following Rengo Radio Service dispatch will enlighten any intelligent American
as to the significance and dangers of Japanese cultural propaganda in America and
partioularly in Hawaii:
Rengo Radio Service Dispatoh
"Culture Bureau has big plans. Tokyo Foreign Office to introduce Japan abroad on
huge scale.
"Tokyo, July 21, 1934. With Kanekazu Okada now at Honolulu in the capaoity of
Consul-General promoted to head of the cultural promotion of "peaceful diplomacy"
in this period of emergenoy.
"At a departmental conference, foreign office officials decided to ask an appro-
priation of 3,500,000 yen for the culture promotion bureau.
"The task of the bureau will be to introduce Japan and the Japanese oulture abroad
on a large, organized scale.
"Japanese cultural centers will be established in a number of world capitals such
as London, Paris, Berlin, New York and Rio de Janero. Special importance will be
laid to the one at New York."
The plans for Amerioan school penetration are far reaching as is characteristio of
Japan. If the sohool children "become strong friends of Japan" as Aoki expressed it,
when they become of voting age in the years to follow, Japan will be able to greatly
influenoe American Far Eastern polioy to her liking. The distressing and the most un-
fortunate part is the American Counoil appeared to have swallowed this Japanized pill.
Soon the Japanized textbook was introduced in the private and publio high sohools
of Hawaii and in the Linooln High, Columbia University. This textbook was apparently
Japan's "proper propaganda systematioally oarried out in the sohools" to reach the
hundreds of thousands of adolesoent Americans. The Institute of Pacifio Relations was
to beoome the messenger of Japanese Cultural Propaganda in the American sohools.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
Toan Council - Institute of Pacifio Relations
Nov. 24, 1939
page -&-
The Sino-Korean's Peoples' League knowing the Japanese olever method of propaganda
ade strong protest to the Commissioners of the Department of Publio Instruotion in
Dee. 1l, l934. A petition was also presented to the Hawaiian Territorial Legislature
Maroh 27, 1935.
Getting no result, exocept denials and jeers, assistance was enlisted, For 18
months, with the aid of the California Joint Immigration Committee in San Franoisoo,
petition was presented to the California State Superintendent of Publio Instruction
June 2l, l935. Many more followed to many universities inoluding the University of
Columbia, New York City.
American Counoil Admits Mistake - Textbooks Withdrawn
June, l936, the American Counoil's field seoretary replied to the protest of the
California Joint Immigration Committee, which was as follows:
"You are right in questioning the procedure under which further material for the
enlightenment of American youth was being oolleoted last year under the auspices of
the Society for International Cultural Relations in Japan. The idea proved unwork-
able and the Society has given up the project. In its justification it should be add-
ed, however, that the sponsorship which the Japanese Society oame to assume in this
project was not originally of its own desire, but resulted from the recognition by
Amerioan members of the I.P.R., of which I was one.----The American Counoil will now
endeavor to meet this need without Japanese cooperation."
Needs Further Clarification
In fairness to the innocent members of the Amerioan Council, the executives of the
Council should endeavor to learn the truth as to what extent the Japanese Council ex-
ert their influence over the policies of the American Council, Institute of Pacific
Relations. There seems to be so much of disorepancy and contradiction of statements
by leading officials, that one cannot help but believe there is more than this chance
overlordship of the American Council by the Japanese militarists through their re-
speotive agents and officials.
The following letter from the Superintendent, Dept.
of Public Instruction of Hawaii, may enlighten its significance. The letter is as
follows: -
" November 18, 1936
"Dear Mr. Haan:
Thank you for your letter of Nov. l7th. I like the spirit in which it was written.
Mr. Field's statement in regard to the "Society for International Cultural Rela-
tions" is rather surprising, in view of the fact that all local members of the Insti-
tute of Pacific Relations seem to be in complete ignorance of any suggestions ever
having been made as to the desirability of such a program. It is gratifying to know
that such plans have been entirely dropped."
Once Again Japan Imposes on the American Council, I. P. R.
Last year the Japanese Foreign Office Cultural Promotion Bureau evolved another
unique plan to Japanize Amerioan publio eyes to see the so-called "New Order in Asia"
through the Japanized oolored glasses. It was reliably reported that Japan through
the Society of International Cultural Relations and the Japan Council, Institute of
Pacifio Relations, are ready to spend 3 million yen in the American colleges, univer-
sities and churohes, to obtain their objective. These none too subtle propaganda in
the name of oultural studies are said to have the "backing of the American Counoil,
with headquarters in New York". The report stated that "the American Council will
assist the Japanese to place many Japanese and pro-Japanese European professors in the
colleges and universities! It is also reported "many part-time student propagandists
will be enlisted to carry on cultural propaganda in their respeotive communities."

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
lip C. Jessup, President
merioan Counoil - Institute of Paoifio Relations Nov. 24, l939
page -4-
The Cultural Bureau's plan contemplates the seleotion of at least 300 American ed-
ucators and churohmen to aid the Japanese oultural propaganda in America.
Among the members of the Amerioan Counoil who conferred with the Japanese officials
in Japan is said to be one Dr. Ernest 0. Hauser. His comment and advice to the Jap-
anese leaders may be of interest to the American Counoil. Dr. Hauser's Comment and
Advioe as reported: -
"Anti-Japanese sentiment is slow to grow in the U.S., even in New York City----In
California where anti-Japanese sentiment supposedly runs high, I found the people
keep to a realistio attitude.----The anti-Japanese and boycott campaign when they
did come centered in the colleges, whioh young anti-Fascist idealists prepared
signs and principles----.
"Left wing groups of course took a prominent part----The situation was often made
more complex by unofficial peoples' envoys whose talks were very much like pamph-
lets which you prepared for use in America.
"My advice is, center your propaganda in the colleges and churches-----don't send
any more Peoples' Peace Missions. American educators and church leaders can do
more for you.
"The succession of Chinese defeats reacted unfavorably with Amerioans who like to
back only winners. This does not mean that anti-Japanese feeling has entirely
died out, but the peak is passed and seems to be on the downhill road."
Will the Amerioan Council onoe more cooperate with the Japanese leaders like Vis.
count Ishii to carry on the present project as reported? If the American Council do,
the publio should know the full meaning of its value so it oan carefully evaluate for
its own safety. In the face of the past experiences one cannot be blamed if one feels
that something is drastically wrong somewhere and that wrong must be righted by all
means, soon.
Visoount Ishii, "The Poo Bah"
Visoount K. Ishii is the "Poo Par" in the Mikado's Empire building oampaign. The
engineering of this project is said to come from Ishii, the Vice Chairman of the In-
ternational Committee, Institute of Pacific Relations. Ishii holds four strategic
offioial positions, backed by the powerful militarists in Japan and by many American
friends in the American Council. He is not only a director of the Society for Inter-
national Cultural Relations of Japan, but also holds the presidenoy of the two most
influential organizations: namely, the Japan - Council - Institute of Paoific Rela-
tions and the (anti-Amerioan) Institute for the Eduoation of Oversea Japanese. These
positions backed by many well known American eduoators, churchmen, and financiers, he
virtually oontrols an unlimited influence among the Japanese abroad.
Truly Visoount Ishii is the "Poo Bat" in the Empire building campaign for the
Mikado.
The Institute for Education of Oversea Japanese - a powerful anti-American institution
As president of the above institution, he said, July 2, 1934, that -
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing the
Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other words,
leave the seoond generation in the land of their residence, but don't let them
forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, select Japanese goods,
in voting - cast the ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
The Amerioan oitisens of Japanese anoestry are doing what Ishii outlined - for the
glory of Japan. Today almost two thirds of the American oitizens of Japanese anoestry
retain Japanese oitisenship. There are also more than 50.000 residing in Japan who

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
Philip C. Jessup, President
Amerioan Coumoil, Institute of Paoifio Relations
Nov. 24, 1939
page -5-
are gradually sent to Hawaii and Amerioa to take their places of leadership in the
Japanese oommunities. The unity of these Japanised Amerioan oitiaens is becoming more
and more a problem for thinking Americans in Hawaii. The objeotive of the Institute
as deolared by Ishii in 1933, - is
"to educate the ohildren of Japanese living abroad, in order to establish a founda-
tion for their future oversea development, and by solving the problem of the educa-
tion of these children, to enoourage oversea expansion."
Under the goneralship of Visoount Ishii and his kind, the Japanese language sohools
are growing in number and the American citizens of Japanese ancestry becoming more
and more Japanized in spirit. The following statistios of the Japanese language
schools in Hawaii and statement made by two leading Japanese - one a Christian, the
other a Buddhist, will be of interest to the Institute.
The Growth of Japanese Language Schools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language School in Hawaii, said (1935)
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese community
seems to be Japanized more and more.---The language sohools are beginning to dis-
play the real color of Japanism. Imperial Rescript is boldly read and taught,---"
Imperial Rescript: "We shall build our capital all over the world and make the
whole world our domain."
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to inspect the
Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (Mar. 27, 1934)
——-
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and Buddhist
organizations in the Japanese communities is grand, for they are the mother-bodies
for fostering the national conscience, Japan's civilization and Japan's spirit."
Last May 25th the Hawaii Sentinel reported that an American citizen of Japanese an-
cestry was detained in Honolulu; all the propaganda materials were confisoated. It
was alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy league". It also reported that startling news articles appeared in Japan.
"praising the loyalty of Hawaiian born Japanese to the mother country". It was in
one of these stories which told how the Japanese in Hawaii including American citizens
of Japanese anoestry "signed pledges of loyalty to Japan in their own blood".
Doubt the Sinoerity of Ishii and his Crowd
Can the members of the American Counoil believe in the sinoerity of Viscount Ishii
and his orowd of outthroats? He has been active, undermining Americanism while up-
building "Nipp-on-ism", for years. His military orowd are bent on carrying out a
oampaign of conquest in China with suoh diabolioally inhuman slaughter of human beings
as they did in Korea. You who have witnessed the events of Japanese aggression in
China cannot deny the faot that there are more institutions of learning, art and
peaceful industries bombed and destroyed - Why? The answer is obvious. Japan and
Japan's oulture must be supreme.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
Philip C. Jossup, President
Am. Counoil, Institute of Pacifio Relations
Nov. 24, 1939
page -6-
Dr. Yoshi S. Kuno (Japanese) in his late book "Japanese Expansion on the Asiatio
Continent", had this to say - 7 years Invasion of Korem, 1592-1599 -
"At the time of Hideyoshi's invasion, the civilization of Korea had reached its
peak. She had metallic movable type several years before its invention in the
Oodident. The Japanese gathered up most of this type and took it to Japan, it was
only after her invation of Korea that Japan learned to print books with any facil-
ity. From Korea, Japan also learned the art of weaving various kinds of goods.
The most noteworthy industrial knowledge that Japan gained from Korea was the man-
ufacture of porcelain ware. Such famous wares as those of Satsuma, Hirado, Raku-
zan, Agano, Takatori and Hagi, which are famous today as special products of Japan,
were originated by skilled laborers in Korea whom various Japanese feudal lords
tok prisoners and settled permanently in the various provinces. It is said the
prooess is now a lost art in Korea.
"World history contains no parallel to this wholesale uprooting of civilization."
This is a strange world, so peouliarly perplexing. The Japs can lie like hell,
bomb and slaughter human beings to kingdom come, slap and kick Americans all over
Asia - first in Korea, then in Manohuria, North and South China, they make Japs out
of American citizens, plan oversea expansion through Japanization of American citi-
zens - yet the American Council pay more respect to the Japs - while ignoring their
true friends; strange world.
American Council Unfair to Koreans
When the first International Conference was called by the Institute of Pacific
Relations in Honolulu, the Institute invited the Koreans to send their representatives
from Korea, Hawaii and America. Since then, Koreans from Hawaii and America have
been barred. Why, may we ask?
Surely the Institute has not forgotten its lofty and worthy undertaking so soon.
We refuse to believe the American Council has become a heartless mechanioal peace
machinery who fears Japan's military might and insists upon technicalities as Dr.
Nitobe desoribes the Americans to be.
The Koreans feel that the Institute's refusal to listen to our plea for representa-
tion is unfair and unreasonable. In its moral sense the American Council is putting
a gag over our mouth. We also feel if the Amerioan Council continues to refuse
Koreans' plea - the Institute too is persecuting and tormenting 23 million souls of
Koreans as the Japanese masters do. Is this the aim of the Institute? No.
We often wonder what would have been the outoome of the Amerioan Revolution had
men like Lafayette and the King of France refused to listen to the plea of Benjamin
Franklin. The great Liberator, Abraham Linooln, once said: -
"Those who deny others liberty do not deserve it themselves, under the rule of a
Just God theyoannot long retain it."
Key to Peace Is Democracy
We believe the key to a lasting and a construotive peace in the Pacific is in its
sinoere practice of the principle of Demooracy as it has been applied in the United
States of America ever sinoe the Declaration of American Independence.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
Dr. Philip C. Jessup, President
Am. Counoil - Institute of Pacifio Relations
Nov. 24, 1939
page -7-
Many nations have come and gone and have left little worthy impress upon the life
of human happiness. However, the Declaration of American Independence bore upon its
face an indelible mark of distinction and presaged the development of a theory and a
policy contrary to totalitarianism of that day or as of ours.
Of this theory and policy the keynote was "freedom". Freedom of individual, in
order that he might work out his destiny; freedom in government in order that human
facilities might have free course; freedom in commerce in order that the resources of
the earth might be developed and rendered fruitful in the increase of human wealth,
contentment and happiness.
The Japanese militarists and their cultural propaganda is gradually weakening
Amerioanism in the Paoific. We fear that Americanism in Hawaii will be nipped off by
the powerful Tokyo machine, "Nipp-on-ism", unless the American Council and other like
organizations center their interest in Washington rather than in Tokyo.
Fully realizing the consequences of the weak protesting against the powerful; - we
with assuranoe of our profound respect to truth and faith in the sportsmanship of
Amerioanism, humbly submit this frank and "straight from the shoulder" petition and
ploa for your early consideration.
Believing in the final triumph of justice and truth, we remain
Respeotfully yours,
Kilsoo K. Haan
Washington Representative of the
SINO-KOREAN PEOPLES' LEAGUE

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.97)
SINO-KOREAN PEOPLES' LEAGUE
ngton Headquarters:
1 D Street, Northeast
STATE
Phone: Linooln 5187
Washington, D. C.
RECEIVED
November 24, 1939
1939
Dr. Philip C. Jessup
DIVISION OF
International Committee of
The Institute of Pacifio Relations
Institute of Paoifio Relations,
Seventh International Conference
Virginia Beaoh, Virginia, U.S.A.
Honorable President Jessup:
The Sino-Korean Peoples' League do voioe the sentiment of Koreans living in Hawaii
and America, and we do humbly subsoribe to this petition and to this plea and we do
most urgently beg that the exeoutives of the Amerioan Council make an investigation
of the past and the present policies which have the nature of aiding and encouraging
Japanese propaganda in Hawaii and America. Japanization activities as conduoted by
the Japanese through the good offices of the Institute of Pacific Relations is decid-
edly un-American and most assuredly contrary to the best interest of peace of the
Pacifio and partioularly it has caused the weakening of the seourity of the United
States in the Pacifio area.
Wo fear the effeot of the Institute's "Japan's Cultural Introduotion Program" has
reated an unhealthy and perplexing situation. In reality the result of such a pro-
ram has defeated the original purpose and good intent. Instead of furthering a study
of peace, it has unfortunately invited grave danger in the Far East, by beooming a
tool of Japanese in Hawaii and in America.
Bohind the similes of the Japanese militerists and behind the so-oalled introduo-
tion of Japanese oulture to America, are hidden motives unhealthy for America and
partioularly unhealthy for American citizens of Japanese ancestry.
The Amerioan Council - Institute of Pacific Relations - as we understand "adheres
to the prinoiples of complete freedom of soientific inquiry, broad hospitality ta all
points of view but subservient to none, and demooratic procedure in the conduct or
1=1
its affairs." Although our past experienoes with the American Council have been the
ILD
contrary to the published prinoiples - we pray that this petition be received and.
considered in the spirit as declared by the American Counoil.
0
3
9
Dr. Nitobe's Report Aided Japan Militarists
Some years ago Dr. Inazo Nitobe,President of the Japan Council. Institute of Pacif-
io Relations, made an extensive and valuable survey of American Public Opinion toward
Japan. The American Council greatly aided Dr. Nitobe in his effort to get a true pic-
ture of American Public Opinion.
It was reliably reported that this "Survey" was the most influential faotor in the
deeision of Japan Supreme War Counoil to heighten Japan's undeclared war of aggression
on Chimm. Morally, the American Council became a party to such an intrigue in the
subjugation of China. The summarized report of Dr. Kitobe is as follows:
"Ameriee hes more peace at any price missionaries than any other country. They
posseew meither the intelligence nor the vision to see things as they are. Con-
by the igmorant.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
Ip C. Jessup, President
moil - Institute of Pacifio Relations, otc.
Nov. 24, 1939 page -2
Nitobe's roport continued) -
"Men in educational ciroles, jurists, and students of international law are
mostly stioklers for legal technicalities,
"The distribution of wealth in Ameriea is unequal, as shown by the army of
14,000,000 unemployed and the staggering amount of pensions. One quarter of the
total population depends on Government charity. These people shudder at the mere
mention of hostilities.
"You oan make them listen to reason more easily than others. So why not introduce
to them our oultural attainments.
"There are many Amerioans who defend Japan at almost every turn, even at the risk
of personal injury."
Dr. Nitobe's suggestion to utilize Japanese culture as propaganda seemed to strike
a new keynote. Immediately the Society for International Cultural Relations was form-
ed, with Setsuichi Aoki as seoretary and the former Consul-General Kanekazui Okada of
Honolulu, Hawaii, as head of the Cultural Promotion Bureau. The Society's policy as
Aoki outlined, was to Japanize the American children. not only in Hawaii but of the
mainland. Aoki deolared that:-
"For several years the school heads in Hawaii and America, with the aid of many
influential educators and missionaries, made a thorough survey of American text-
books for the Japanese Society. The Survey revealed that if proper propaganda is
systematically carried out in the sohools, the American children will become
strong friends of Japan."
The following Rengo Radio Service dispatch will enlighten any intelligent American
as to the significance and dangers of Japanese cultural propaganda in America and
particularly in Hawaii:
Rengo Radio Service Dispatoh
"Culture Bureau has big plans. Tokyo Foreign Office to introduce Japan abroad on
huge soale.
"Tokyo, July 21, 1934. With Kanekazu Okada now at Honolulu in the oapaoity of
Consul-General promoted to head of the cultural promotion of "peaceful diplomaoy"
in this period of emergenoy.
"At a departmental conference, foreign office officials decided to ask an appro-
priation of 3,500,000 yen for the culture promotion bureau.
"The task of the bureau will be to introduce Japan and the Japanese culture abroad
on a large, organized soale.
"Japanese cultural centers will be established in a number of world capitals such
as London, Paris, Berlin, New York and Rio de Janero. Special importance will be
laid to the one at New York."
The plans for American school penetration are far reaching as is oharacteristio of
Japan. If the sohool ohildren "become strong friends of Japan" as Aoki expressed it,
when they become of voting age in the years to follow, Japan will be able to greatly
influenoe American Far Eastern policy to her liking. The distressing and the most un-
fortunate part is the American Council appeared to have swallowed this Japanized pill.
Soon the Japanized textbook was introduced in the private and publio high sohools
of Hawaii and in the Linooln High, Columbia University. This textbook was apparently
Japan's "proper propaganda systematically oarried out in the sohools" to reach the
hundreds of thousands of adolescent Americans. The Institute of Pacific Relations was
to become the messenger of Japanese Cultural Propaganda in the American sohools.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
lip C. Jessup. President
Moriean Coumcil - Institute of Pacifio Relations Nov. 24, 1939
page -s-
The Sino-Korean's Peoples' League knowing the Japanese olever mothod of propaganda
made strong protest to the Commissioners of the Depertment of Publio Instruotion in
Dee. 1l, l9s4. A petition was also presented to the Hawaiian Territorial Legislature
Maroh 27, 1935.
Getting no result, except denials and jeers, assistance was enlisted. For 18
months, with the aid of the California Joint Immigration Committee in San Franoisco,
petition was presented to the California State Superintendent of Public Instruetion
June 21, 1935. Many more followed to many universities inoluding the University of
Columbia, Now York City.
Amerioan Counoil Admits Mistake - Textbooks Withdrawn
June, l936, the Amerioan Council's field seoretary replied to the protest of the
California Joint Immigration Committee, which was as follows:
"You are right in questioning the procedure under which further material for the
enlightenment of American youth was being oollected last year under the auspices of
the Society for International Cultural Relations in Japan. The idea proved unwork-
able and the Society has given up the project. In its justification it should be add-
ed, however, that the sponsorship which the Japanese Society oame to assume in this
projeot was not originally of its own desire, but resulted from the recognition by
American members of the I.P.R., of whioh I was one.----The American Counoil will now
endeavor to meet this need without Japanese cooperation."
Needs Further Clarification
In fairness to the innocent members of the American Council, the executives of the
Council should endeavor to learn the truth as to what extent the Japanese Council ex-
ert their influence over the policies of the American Council, Institute of Pacific
Relations. There seems to be so much of discrepancy and contradiction of statements
by leading officials, that one cannot help but believe there is more than this chance
overlordship of the Amerioan Counoil by the Japanese militarists through their re-
speotive agents and officials. The following letter from the Superintendent, Dept.
of Public Instruction of Hawaii, may enlighten its significance. The letter is as
follows: -
" November 18, 1938
"Dear Mr. Haan:
Thank you for your letter of Nov. l7th. I like the spirit in which it was written.
Mr. Field's statement in regard to the "Society for International Cultural Rela-
tions" is rather surprising. in view of the faot that all looal members of the Insti-
tute of Pacifio Relations seem to be in complete ignorance of any suggestions ever
having been made as to the desirability of suoh a program. It is gratifying to know
that suoh plans have been entirely dropped."
Once Again Japan Imposes on the American Council, I. P. R.
Last year the Japanese Foreign Office Cultural Promotion Bureau evolved another
unique plan to Japanise American publio eyes to see the so-called "New Order in Asia"
through the Japanised colored glasses. It was reliably reported that Japan through
the Society of International Cultural Relations and the Japan Council, Institute of
Pacific Relations, are ready to spend 3 million yen in the American colleges, univer-
sities and churohes, to obtain their objective. These none too subtle propaganda in
the name of oultural studies are said to have the "backing of the Amerioan Council,
with headquarters in New York". The report stated that "the Amerioan Council will
assist the Japanese to place many Japanese and pro-Japanese European professors in the
colleges and umiversities" It is also reported many part-time student propagandists
will be enlisted to carry on cultural propaganda in their respective communities."

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
C. Jessup, President
Heam Counoil - Institute of Pacific Relations
Nov. 24, 1939
page -4-
The Cultural Bureau's plan contemplates the seleotion of at least 300 American ed-
ueators and churohmen to aid the Japanese oultural propaganda in America.
Among the members of the Amerioan Counoil who conferred with the Japanese officials
in Japan is said to be one Dr. Ernest O. Hauser, His comment and advice to the Jap-
anese leaders may be of interest to the American Counoil, Dr, Hauser's Comment and
Advloe as reported: -
"Anti-Japanese sentiment is slow to grow in the U.S., even in New York City----In
California where anti-Japanese sentiment supposedly runs high, I found the people
keep to a realistic attitude.----The anti-Japanese and boycott oampaign when they
did come centered in the colleges, which young anti-Fascist idealists prepared
signs and prinoiples---.
"Left wing groups of course took a prominent part----The situation was often made
more complex by unofficial peoples' envoys whose talks were very much like pamph-
lets which you prepared for use in America.
"My advice is, center your propaganda in the colleges and churches-----don't send
any more Peoples' Peace Missions. American educators and church leaders can do
more for you.
"The succession of Chinese defeats reacted unfavorably with Amerioans who like to
baok only winners. This does not mean that anti-Japanese feeling has entirely
died out, but the peak is passed and seems to be on the downhill road."
Will the American Counoil once more cooperate with the Japanese leaders like Vis-
count Ishii to oarry on the present project as reported? If the American Council do,
the publio should know the full meaning of its value so it oan carefully evaluate for
its own safety. In the face of the past experiences one cannot be blamed if one feels
that something is drastioally wrong somewhere and that wrong must be righted by all
means, soon.
Visoount Ishii, "The Poo Par"
Visoount K. Ishii is the "Poo Par" in the Mikado's Empire building campaign. The
engineering of this project is said to come from Ishii, the Vice Chairman of the In-
ternational Committee, Institute of Pacifio Relations. Ishii holds four strategio
official positions, backed by the powerful militarists in Japan and by many American
friends in the Amerioan Council. He is not only a director of the Society for Inter-
national Cultural Relations of Japan, but also holds the presidency of the two most
influential organizations: namely, the Japan - Council - Institute of Pacific Rela-
tions and the (anti-American) Institute for the Education of Oversea Japanese. These
positions backed by many well known American educators, ohurchmen, and financiers, he
virtually controls an unlimited influence among the Japanese abroad.
Truly Visoount Ishii is the "Poo Par" in the Empire building campaign for the
Mikado.
The Institute for Education of Oversea Japanese - a powerful anti-American institution
As president of the above institution, he said, July 2, 1934, that -
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing the
Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other words,
leave the seoond generation in the land of their residence, but don't let them
forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, seleot Japanese goods,
in voting - cast the ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
The Amerioan citizens of Japanese anoestry are doing what Ishii outlined - for the
glory of Japan. Today almost two thirds of the American oitizens of Japanese anoestry
retain Japanese citizenship. There are also more than 50,000 residing in Japan who

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
 C: Jessup. President
Pioan Counoil, Institute of Pacifio Relations Nov. 24, 1939
page -5-
F gradually sent to Hawaii and America to take their places of leadership in the
Japanese communities. The unity of these Japanised Amerioan citisens is becoming more
and more a problem for thinking Amerioans in Hawaii. The objective of the Institute
as deolared by Ishii in 1933, - is
"to edueate the ohildren of Japanese living abroad, in order to establish a founda-
tion for their future oversea development, and by solving the problem of the educa-
tion of these children, to enoourage oversea expansion."
Under the generalship of Visoount Ishii and his kind, the Japanese language sohools
are growing in number and the American citizens of Japanese ancestry becoming more
and more Japanized in spirit. The following statistics of the Japanese language
schools in Hawaii and statement made by two leading Japanese - one a Christian, the
other a Buddhist, will be of interest to the Institute.
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language School in Hawaii, said (1935)
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direotion and the Japanese community
seems to be Japanized more and more.---The language schools are beginning to dis-
play the real color of Japanism. Imperial Rescript is boldly read and taught,---"
Imperial Rescript: "We shall build our capital all over the world and make the
whole world our domain."
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to inspect the
Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (Mar. 27, 1934) ---
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and Buddhist
organizations in the Japanese communities is grand, for they are the mother-bodies
for fostering the national conscience, Japan's civilization and Japan's spirit."
Last May 25th the Hawaii Sentinel reported that an American citizen of Japanese an-
cestry was detained in Honolulu; all the propaganda materials were confiscated. It
was alleged that the printed matter "advocated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy league". It also reported that startling news artioles appeared in Japan,
"praising the loyalty of Hawaiian born Japanese to the mother country". It was in
one of these stories which told how the Japanese in Hawaii including American citizens
of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges of loyalty to Japan in their own blood".
Doubt the Sinoerity of Ishii and his Crowd
Can the members of the American Council believe in the sinoerity of Viscount Ishii
and his orowd of outthroats? He has been active, undermining Americanism while up-
building "Nipp-on-ism", for years. His military crowd are bent on oarrying out a
campaign of oonquest in China with such diabolically inhuman slaughter of human beings
as they did in Korea. You who have witnessed the events of Japanese aggression in
China cannot deny the fact that there are more institutions of learning, art and
peaceful industries bombed and destroyed - Why? The answer is obvious. Japan and
Japan's oulture must be supreme.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
Hilip C. Jessup. President
Am. Counoil, Institute of Pacifio Relations
Nov. 24, 1939
page -6-
Dr. Yoshi S. Kuno (Japanese) in his late book "Japanese Expansion on the Asiatio
Continent", had this to say - 7 years Invasion of Korea, 1592-1599 -
"At the time of Hideyoshi's invasion, the civilization of Korea had reaohed its
peak. She had metallic movable type several years before its invention in the
Oocident. The Japanese gathered up most of this type and took it to Japan, it was
only after her invation of Korea that Japan learned to print books with any facil-
ity. From Korea, Japan also learned the art of weaving various kinds of goods.
The most noteworthy industrial knowledge that Japan gained from Korea was the man-
ufacture of porcelain ware. Such famous wares as those of Satsuma, Hirado, Raku-
zan, Agano, Takatori and Hagi, which are famous today as special products of Japan,
were originated by skilled laborers in Korea whom various Japanese feudal lords
took prisoners and settled permanently in the various provinces. It is said the
prooess is now a lost art in Korea.
"World history contains no parallel to this wholesale uprooting of civilization."
This is a strange world, so peculiarly perplexing. The Japs can lie like hell,
bomb and slaughter human beings to kingdom come, slap and kick Americans all over
Asia - first in Korea, then in Manohuria, North and South China, they make Japs out
of Amerioan citizens, plan oversea expansion through Japanization of American citi-
zens - yet the American Counoil pay more respect to the Japs - while ignoring their
true friends; strange world.
American Counoil Unfair to Koreans
When the first International Conference was called by the Institute of Pacific
Relations in Honolulu, the Institute invited the Koreans to send their representatives
from Korea. Hawaii and America. Sinoe then, Koreans from Hawaii and America have
been barred. Why, may we ask?
Surely the Institute has not forgotten its lofty and worthy undertaking so soon.
We refuse to believe the Amerioan Council has become a heartless mechanical peace
machinery who fears Japan's military might and insists upon technicalities as Dr.
Nitobe desoribes the Americans to be.
The Koreans feel that the Institute's refusal to listen to our plea for representa-
tion is unfair and unreasonable. In its moral sense the American Council is putting
a gag over our mouth. We also feel if the American Council continues to refuse
Koreans' plea - the Institute too is persecuting and tormenting 23 million souls of
Koreans as the Japanese masters do. Is this the aim of the Institute? No.
We often wonder what would have been the outoome of the American Revolution had
men like Lafayette and the King of France refused to listen to the plea of Benjamin
Franklin. The great Liberator, Abraham Linooln, onoe said: -
"Those who deny others liberty do not deserve it themselves, under the rule of a
Just God theyoannot long retain it."
Key to Peace Is Democracy
We believe the key to a lasting and a construotive peace in the Pacific is in its
sinoere practioe of the principle of Demooraoy as it has been applied in the United
States of America ever sinoe the Deolaration of American Independence.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
Dr. Philip C. Jessup. President
Am. Counoil - Institute of Pacifio Relations
Nov. 24, 1939
page -7-
Many nations have come and gone and have left little worthy impress upon the life
of human happiness. However, the Declaration of American Independence bore upon its
face an indelible mark of distinction and presaged the development of a theory and a
polioy contrary to totalitarianism of that day or as of ours.
Of this theory and polioy the keynote was "freedom". Freedom of individual, in
order that he might work out his destiny; freedom in government in order that human
facilities might have free course; freedom in commerce in order that the resources of
the earth might be developed and rendered fruitful in the inorease of human wealth,
contentment and happiness.
The Japanese militarists and their oultural propaganda is gradually weakening
Amerioanism in the Pacific. We fear that Americanism in Hawaii will be nipped off by
the powerful Tokyo machine, "Nipp-on-ism", unless the American Council and other like
organizations center their interest in Washington rather than in Tokyo.
Fully realizing the consequences of the weak protesting against the powerful; - we
with assuranoe of our profound respect to truth and faith in the sportsmanship of
Amerioanism, humbly submit this frank and "straight from the shoulder" petition and
plea for your early consideration.
Believing in the final triumph of justice and truth, we remain
Respeotfully yours,
Kilsoo K. Haan
Washington Representative of the
SINO-KOREAN PEOPLES' LEAGUE

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
September 14, 1939
FE
Mr. Hamilton:
Fory suck
acknowledgment
as you aem appropriate.
n
U:SW: W

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.93)
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
1939 SEP 1. AM 9 28
Sept. yr,1939
8
Sie Welle
早舌蚪
94.
AFFAIRS
ARS RESORDS
HEADQUARTERS
Assistant Secretary Of State
1281 Fort Street
20
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
Washnigton d.C.
Representative in Washington, D.C.
KILSOO K. HAAN
Honorable Sii:
OFFICERS
There are much greater danges
President
SHINHO CHAR
mi the Pacifie than mi the atlantie, th
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
Secretary
Euroge there an England and France whil
CHANGDUK CHOI
Treasurer
ni the Pacifie oner an emergenay arsio
JHAIKUN SUR
Amenea niay alone bear the burdem.
DIRECTORS
Chairman
Henee any secret underslandnig betweend
CHANHO MIN
DOIN KWON
Auglo-Japan and Russo-Fijan will gut
BONGKWAN CHUNG
TAISUNG LEE
BAIKSOO KIM
CHANGYIK OH
We are of the fermn convection that unleso
America stand firm and mamitain the
fresent preition ,eveutually Tapan wikl
bekone of umbridled and untamed to
Enclozed fuid a nunz clpjuing - Lam touring many
citiis to do our share, beliernig ni Angien and geayung
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding
Kilaoo K. Saan

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
SEATTLE POST-INTELLIGENCER, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1939
American Orientals
Urged to Be Loyal
6
Now is the time for all Orientals not be too highly emphasised,
who are American citizens, or who
stated.
live under the American flag, to
He pointed out that the recent re
demonstrate and prove their loyalty
port of Dr. Laura Thompson, re
3
to the United States.
search associate in anthropology
So declared Kilsoo K. Haan,
at the University of Hawail, de
Washington, D. C., representative
clares that the people of Guam
of the Sino-Korean Peoples' League
of Hawaii, upon his arrival in Se-
"fear Japanese domination and
attle yesterday to organize an
they do not wish to come under
American-Korean Citizens' Club.
Japan. Hence, they strongly desire
"This is a time of emergency,
American fortification."
and time for Orientals to show
their loyalty by being good Amer-
Referring to the organization of
icans and prcaticing and stress-
American-Korean Citisens' . Clubs
ing Americanism," he declared.
throughout the county, Haan ob-
POINTB TO HAWAII
served:
"Korean-Americans have not
Haan particularly stressed the
participated sufficiently in Amer-
need of more Americanism in
ican community life, largely be-
Hawali.
cause they are sensitive, due to
"American leaders overlook
their relatively small numbere In
many angles in Hawall," he con.
this country. The organization
tended. "For example, the Japa-
of clubs will better enable th
nese government provides schol-
to overcome that situatlon."
arahip funds in Hawall and fi
nance and educate American citi.
FINNS NEUTRAL
zens of Japanese ancestry-for
the benefit of Japan, and not for
HELSINKI, Finland, Sept. 1
the benefit of America."
(AP)—Foreign Minister Eljas Erk
In the face of grave and perplex-
ko broadcast an appeal today to all
ing contingencies in the Far East Finns to help the government
the strategical value of Hawail can- guard Finland's neutrality.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
. . Sino-Korean Peoples League . .
101 D STREET N. E.
WASHINGTON. D. C.
PHONE LINCOLN 5187
RESPECTFULLY REFERRED
TO THE
1368 W. Jefferson Blvd.,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
早舌蚪
Los Angeles, California
MH M hityie
HEADQUARTERS
September 28, 1939
1281 Fort Street
Honolulu, Hawaii T. H.
Secretary to the President
S
Representative in Washington, D.C.
KILSOO K. HAAN
Mr. Stephen Early,
Secretary to President Roosevelt,
Washington, D. C.
OFFICERS
My dear Mr. Early:
President
SHINHO CHAR
According to the press reports the Japanese Toreign
Vice-President
SUNCHOO CHOI
Office seem to be frantically trying to woo America
into another of the so-called U.S.-Japan trade under-
Secretary
CHANGDUK CHOI
standings for peace in the Pacific.
Treasurer
Needless for me to warn that Japan's Foreign Office
JHAIKUN SUR
is not the power, nor has the power to back up its
promises after putting its signature into any of
the international treaties.
DIRECTORS
Chairman
Unless the Emperor, who is God as well as an Emperor
CHANHO MIN
of Japan, personally signs the treaties, the militarists,
DOIN KWON
both the Army and the Navy, have the right to break the
BONGKWAN CHUNG
treaties. Under the traditions of Japan's so-called
TAISUNG LEE
constitutional rights, the Army or the Navy's action
BAIKSOO KIM
is only answerable to the Emperor. He alone has the
CHANGYIK OH
right to curb the militarists. The head of the
Cabinet at no time has a right to force the resignation,
or the Premiere will never have a chance to form a new
Cabinet without the consent of the Army and Navy
Supreme War Council's consent.
Hence, all future treaties must have the personal
signature of the Emperor of Japan, otherwise you can
reasonably expect the results to be disastrous, and
disadvantageous to Americas future security.
The Anglo American Aid to Japan have in reality built up an Oriental
Frankenstein in the Far East. The continued aid in supplying Japan
with 57% of war supplies is likened to a man digging his own grave.
Ameriea's talk of the so-called Great Trade Profits in trading with
Japan must be faced with the other side of its grave possibilities.
Sir, it is an undeniable fact, due to the fear of Japan's growing
military and naval strength and her aggressive foreign policy in the
Far East, America has been forced to match two dollars to every dollar
The Korean people ask your sympathetic understanding

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
made out of the profits from the trade conducted with Japan.
These amounts put into the fortifications in Hawaii, in the
Philippines, Alaska, Panama and the Pacific Coast, is an
evidence in itself. The reality of the thing is it does not
pay to continue its trade with Japan, unless its objectives
are for the good of human happiness and a just and humane
trade pact.
May I ask what kind of a business is this - to me it is not
sound business policy. Any trade policy between America and
Japan must be for the good of America first, for the greater
number of Americans, rather than the privileged few. Such
trade acts have been an inspiration on the part of the
American business men to debunct the American Korean Treaty
of May 22, 1882 at the expense of Korea's liberty and inde-
pendence.
UNNEUTRAL NEUTRALITY
The Neutrality Law has definitely aided Japan against China,
England and France. One may ask who would prevent Japan buying
all the war supplies and other essentials from America and resell
it to Germany. This can be done through trans-shipping through
the Trans-Siberian Railroad into Germany. Undoubtedly, at the
expense of the future of China and the future trade of England
and France in the Far East, American business men will make much
money out of these chaotic conditions in the Far East and Europe.
I favor the repeal of the Embargo clause only to a degree, because
I can see that the repeal in itself is an act of choosing a lessor
evil of the two. One must face reality; if one does, one can
readily see whether the embargo is retained or repealed, Japan
will be the lucky one. Hence, one cannot but feel apprehensive
of the future of America, in the Pacific. Within a decade America
will face a formidable contender for the mastery of the Pacific.
The Frankenstein, which the Anglo-American policies have built in
the Far East, possess a new type of military power, its combination
of the Orient and the Occident and its cunningness of the Japanized
Orient and the Germanized brutality cannot be overlooked.
Did you know the Shinto Kami or Japanese Shinto God is said to have
the characteristics of a dove, a mother, a fox, a pack of wolves,
a tiger and dragon?
Japanese National Religion teaches that one must be kind like a
dove, loving like a mother, cunning like a fox, create collective
strength like a pack of wolves, fierceness like a tiger and frighten
its adversary with power like thunder.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Slapping of American citizens, raiding American newspapers
and agencies, bombing and disregarding American rights, are
all of the outcome of the militarism, combined with the
National Religious teachings, with the characteristics as
stated above.
AMERICA'S PROBLEM
To me, America's real problem is in the Pacific and not in the
Atlantic. In Europe there is England and France, while in the
Pacific America will face Japan and Soviet Russia alone, or
the combination of Japan and Soviet Russia. Once Japan masters
China and its millions of man-power, and exploits the resources
and man-power, America will meet a master-mind in the Pacific
area, particularly Hawaii, Latin America and the South American
Republics will be vulnerable.
Already the Japanese militarists are using the Japanese Foreign
Effice and the industrialists of Japan, enticing American
financiers and industrialist once more to do the dirty work for
Japan's ascendency to a greater economic power, as she did in
the past. Mr. Harriman, the President of Union Pacific Railroad
and Mr. Nicholas Roosevelt, a cousin of President Theodore
Roosevelt, in the years of 1905 and 1910 were the victims of
such enticements. Nicholas Roosevelt became the intermediary
in getting loans of millions of dollars of American money for
the power of Japan in the Far East. While Mr. Harriman publicly
predicted that the American flag will have no place in the Far
East. Numerous other financiers, educators and diplomats did
everything possible to build up Japan as she is today.
We finu today already American's are building oil refineries,
sheet zr:al foundaries and many other essential war industries
in Japau, Korea and Manchuria, with American money, American
brains an. American patents, all for the aid to buildup Japan's
power in vhs Far East. This I believe is an act of self-
destruction. Unless America faces this issue squarely and pre-
vents its destructive competition in the Pacific area, we will
dig our own grave. Hence, may I say the new so-called re-approach-
ment on the part of the Japanese Foreign Office, with America's
State Department must be looked upon with apprehensive eyes,
reminding oneself of the great dangers lying ahead of us.
We believe America must maintain its influence in the Pacific area.
America's influence alone will save the Democratic spirits, its
ideals and political philosophy in the Pacific area. Our hope lies
within the security and the strength of America. This we hope you
will be cognisant of.
Respectfully yours,
Kilaoo K. Haan

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.97)
DCR
SINO-KOREAN PEOPLES' LEAGUE
son Readquarters:
D Street, Wertheast
Phone: Linooln 5187
Washington. D. C.
November 24. 1939
Dr. Philip C. Jessup
Presidemt, American Counoil
Chairman, Paeific Council and
International Comittee of
The Institute of Paoifio Relations
Institute of Pacifio Relations,
Seventh International Conferenoe
RBS.
Virginia Beaoh, Virginia, U.S.A.
TW
744.20211
Honorable President Jessup:
BDC
Bew
The Sino-Korean Peoples' League do voice the sentiment of Koreans living in Hawaii
and America, and we do humbly subsoribe to this petition and to this plea and we do
most urgently beg that the exeoutives of the American Council make an investigation
of the past and the present policies which have the nature of aiding and enoouraging
ALP
Japanese propaganda in Hawaii and America. Japanization activities as conducted by
the Japanese through the good offices of the Institute of Pacific Relations is decid-
94.20211
edly un-Amerioan and most assuredly contrary to the best interest of peace of the
Pacifie and partioularly it has caused the weakening of the security of the United
States in the Pacifio area.
We fear the effeot of the Institute's "Japan's Cultural Introduction Program" has
oreated an unhealthy and perplexing situation. In reality the result of such a pro-
gram has defeated the original purpose and good intent. Instead of furthering a study
of peace, it has unfortunately invited grave danger in the Far East, by becoming a
tool of Japanese in Hawaii and in Amerioa.
Behind the similes of the Japanese militarists and behind the so-called introduo-
tion of Japanese oulture to America, are hidden motives unhealthy for America and
partioularly unhealthy for American citizens of Japanese ancestry.
The Amerioan Counoil - Institute of Pacifio Relations - as we understand "adheres
to the prinoiples of complete freedom of soientific inquiry, broad hospitality to all
points of view but subservient to none, and demooratic procedure in the conduct of
its affairs." Although our past experiences with the American Council have been the
contrary to the published prinoiples - we pray that this petition be received and
considered in the spirit as deolared by the American Council.
Dr. Nitobe's Report Aided Japan Militarists
Some years ago Dr. Inazo Nitobe, President of the Japan Council, Institute of Pacif-
io Relations, made an extensive and valuable survey of American Public Opinion toward
Japan. The American Council greatly aided Dr. Nitobe in his effort to get a true pic-
ture of American Publio Opinion.
It was reliably reported that this "Survey" was the most influential factor in the
decision of Japan Supreme War Counoil to heighten Japan's undeolared war of aggression
on China. Morally, the American Counoil became a party to suoh an intrigue in the
subjugation of China. The sumarised report of Dr. Mitobe is as follows:
"America has more peace at any price missionaries than any other country. They
possess neither the intelligenee nor the vision to see things as they are. Con-
sequently. what they say in publie, though not worth listening to, is swallowed
by the igmerant.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
Ap C. Jessup, Presidest
moil - Institute of Pacific Relations, etc.
Nov. 24, 1939 page -2-
Mitobe's roport oontinued) -
"Men in educational oiroles, jurists, and students of international law are
mostly sticklers for legal technicalities,
"The distribution of wealth in America is unequal, as shewn by the army of
14,000,000 unemployed and the staggering amount of pensions. One quarter of the
total population depends on Government oharity. These people shudder at the mere
mention of hostilities.
"You can make them listen to reason more easily than others. So why not introduce
to them our cultural attainments.
"There are many Americans who defend Japan at almost every turn, even at the risk
of personal injury."
Dr. Nitobe's suggestion to utilize Japanese culture as propaganda seemed to strike
a new keynote. Immediately the Society for International Cultural Relations was form-
ed, with Setsuiohi Aoki as secretary and the former Consul-General Kanekazui Okada of
Honolulu, Hawaii, as head of the Cultural Promotion Bureau. The Society's policy as
Aoki outlined, was to Japanize the American children, not only in Hawaii but of the
mainland. Aoki deolared that:-
"For several years the sohool heads in Hawaii and America, with the aid of many
influential educators and missionaries, made a thorough survey of American text-
books for the Japanese Society. The Survey revealed that if proper propaganda is
systematioally carried out in the sohools, the American children will become
strong friends of Japan."
The following Rengo Radio Service dispatoh will enlighten any intelligent American
as to the significance and dangers of Japanese cultural propaganda in America and
partioularly in Hawaii:
Rengo Radio Service Dispatoh
"Culture Bureau has big plans. Tokyo Foreign Office to introduce Japan abroad on
huge soale.
"Tokyo, July 21, 1934. With Kanekazu Okada now at Honolulu in the capaoity of
Consul-Goneral promoted to head of the cultural promotion of "peaceful diplomaoy"
in this period of emergency.
"At a departmental conference, foreign office officials decided to ask an appro-
priation of 3,500,000 yen for the oulture promotion bureau.
"The task of the bureau will be to introduce Japan and the Japanese oulture abroad
on a large, organized scale.
"Japanese oultural centers will be established in a number of world capitals such
as London, Paris, Berlin. New York and Rio de Janero. Special importance will be
laid to the one at New York."
The plans for Amerioan sohool penetration are far reaching as is characteristio of
Japan. If the sohool children "become strong friends of Japan" as Aoki expressed it,
when they beoome of voting age in the years to follow, Japan will be able to greatly
influence Amerioan Far Eastern polioy to her liking. The distressing and the most un-
fortunate part is the Amerioan Counoil appeared to have swallowed this Japanized pill.
Soon the Japanized textbook was introduoed in the private and public high sohools
of Hawaii and in the Linooln High, Columbia University. This textbook was apparently
Japan's "proper propaganda systematically carried out in the schools" to reaoh the
hundreds of thousands of adolescent Americans. The Institute of Pacifio Relations was
to become the messenger of Japanese Cultural Propaganda in the American schools.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
Ip C. Jessup, President
Pioan Counoil - Institute of Pacifio Relations Nov. 24, 1939
page -3-
The Sino-Korean's Peoples' League knowing the Japanese olever method of propaganda
made strong protest to the Commissioners of the Department of Public Instruotion in
Dee. 1l. l934. A petition was also presented to the Hawaiian Territorial Legislature
Maroh 27, 1935.
Getting no result, exoept denials and jeers, assistance was enlisted. For 18
months, with the aid of the California Joint Immigration Committee in San Francisoo,
petition was presented to the California State Superintendent of Publio Instruction
June 21, l935. Many more followed to many universities inoluding the University of
Columbia, New York City.
Amerioan Counoil Admits Mistake - Textbooks Withdrawn
June, 1936, the Amerioan Council's field seoretary replied to the protest of the
California Joint Immigration Committee, which was as follows:
"You are right in questioning the procedure under which further material for the
enlightenment of Amerioan youth was being collected last year under the auspices of
the Society for International Cultural Relations in Japan. The idea proved unwork-
able and the Society has given up the project. In its justification it should be add-
ed, however. that the sponsorship which the Japanese Society came to assume in this
projeot was not originally of its own desire, but resulted from the recognition by
Amerioan members of the I.P.R., of which I was one.----The American Counoil will now
endeavor to meet this need without Japanese cooperation."
Needs Further Clarification
In fairness to the innocent members of the American Council, the exeoutives of the
Counoil should endeavor to learn the truth as to what extent the Japanese Council ex-
ert their influence over the policies of the American Council, Institute of Pacifio
Relations. There seems to be so much of discrepancy and contradiction of statements
by leading officials, that one cannot help but believe there is more than this chance
overlordship of the Amerioan Council by the Japanese militarists through their re-
speotive agents and officials. The following letter from the Superintendent, Dept.
of Public Instruotion of Hawaii, may enlighten its significance. The letter is as
follows: -
" November 18, 1938
"Dear Mr. Haan:
Thank you for your letter of Nov. l7th. I like the spirit in which it was written.
Mr. Field's statement in regard to the "Society for International Cultural Rela-
tions" is rather surprising, in view of the faot that all local members of the Insti-
tute of Pacifio Relations seem to be in complete ignorance of any suggestions ever
having been made as to the desirability of such a program. It is gratifying to know
that suoh plans have been entirely dropped."
Once Again Japan Imposes on the American Council, I. P. R.
Last year the Japanese Foreign Office Cultural Promotion Bureau evolved another
unique plan to Japanize American publio eyes to see the so-called "New Order in Asia"
through the Japanized oolored glasses. It was reliably reported that Japan through
the Society of International Cultural Relations and the Japan Council, Institute of
Pacifio Relations, are ready to spend 3 million yen in the American colleges, univer-
sities and churohes, to obtain their objective. These none too subtle propaganda in
the name of oultural studies are said to have the "backing of the American Counoil,
with headquarters in New York". The report stated that "the Amerioan Council will
assist the Japanese to place many Japanese and pro-Japanese European professors in the
colleges and universities! It is also reported 'many part-time student propagandists
will be enlisted to carry on cultural propaganda in their respective communities."

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
Hip C. Jessup, President
oriean Counoil - Institute of Pacifio Relations Nov. 24, 1939
page -4-
The Cultural Bureau's plan contemplates the selection of at least 3o0 American ed-
ucators and churohmen to aid the Japanese oultural propaganda in Amerioa.
Among the members of the Amerioan Counoil who conferred with the Japanese officials
in Japan is said to be one Dr, Ernest O. Hauser, His comment and advice to the Jap-
anese leaders may be of interest to the Ameriean Counoil, Dr. Hauser's Comment and
Advice as reported: -
"Anti-Japanese sentiment is slow to grow in the U.S., even in New York City----In
California where anti-Japanese sentiment supposedly runs high, I found the people
keep to a realistic attitude.----The anti-Japanese and boycott campaign when they
did come centered in the colleges, which young anti-Fascist idealists prepared
signs and prinoiples-----
"Loft wing groups of course took a prominent part----The situation was often made
more complex by unofficial peoples' envoys whose talks were very much like pamph-
lets which you prepared for use in America.
"My advice is, center your propaganda in the colleges and churches-----don't send
any more Peoples' Peace Missions. American eduoators and church leaders can do
more for you.
"The succession of Chinese defeats reacted unfavorably with Amerioans who like to
back only winners. This does not mean that anti-Japanese feeling has entirely
died out, but the peak is passed and seems to be on the downhill road."
Will the American Council once more cooperate with the Japanese leaders like Vis-
count Ishii to carry on the present project as reported? If the American Council do,
the public should know the full meaning of its value so it can carefully evaluate for
its own safety. In the face of the past experiences one cannot be blamed if one feels
that something is drastioally wrong somewhere and that wrong must be righted by all
means, soon.
Visoount Ishii, "The Poo Par"
Visoount K. Ishii is the "Poo Par" in the Mikado's Empire building campaign. The
engineering of this project is said to come from Ishii, the Vice Chairman of the In-
ternational Committee, Institute of Pacific Relations. Ishii holds four strategio
official positions, backed by the powerful militarists in Japan and by many Amerioan
friends in the American Council. He is not only a director of the Society for Inter-
national Cultural Relations of Japan, but also holds the presidenoy of the two most
influential organizations: namely, the Japan - Counoil - Institute of Paoific Rela-
tions and the (anti-Amerioan) Institute for the Education of Oversea Japanese. These
positions backed by many well known American educators, churchmen, and financiers, he
virtually controls an unlimited influence among the Japanese abroad.
Truly Visoount Ishii is the "Poo Par" in the Empire building campaign for the
Mikado.
The Institute for Education of Oversea Japanese - a powerful anti-American institution
As president of the above institution, he said, July 2, 1934, that -
"The Institute of Overseas Peoples Education is an organization for infusing the
Japanese spirit into the second generation of Japanese abroad. In other words,
leave the second generation in the land of their residence, but don't let them
forget the Japanese spirit. It is this way. In buying, seleot Japanese goods.
in voting - cast the ballot for politicians friendly to Japanese."
The Amerioan citisens of Japanese anoestry are doing what Ishii outlined - for the
glory of Japan. Today almost two thirds of the American citizens of Japanese ancestry
retain Japanese citisenship. There are also more than 50,000 residing in Japan who

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
Ap C. Jessup. President
ioan Counoil, Institute of Pacifio Relations
Nov. 24. 1939
page -5-
re gradually sent to Hawaii and America to take their places of leadership in the
Japanese communities. The unity of these Japanised Amerioan citisens is becoming more
and more a problem for thinking Amerioans in Hawaii. The objeotive of the Institute
as deolared by Ishii in l933, - is
"to educate the ohildren of Japanese living abroad, in order to establish a founda-
tion for their future oversea development, and by solving the problem of the educa-
tion of these children, to enoourage oversea expansion."
Under the generalship of Visoount Ishii and his kind, the Japanese language sohools
are growing in number and the American citizens of Japanese ancestry becoming more
and more Japanized in spirit. The following statistios of the Japanese language
schools in Hawaii and statement made by two leading Japanese - one a Christian, the
other a Buddhist, will be of interest to the Institute.
The Growth of Japanese Language Sohools in Hawaii
Attendance in the
American Public Schools
Japanese Language Schools
1921
19,311
18,612
1925
28,363
19,648
1930
39,115
38,162
1935
45,121
42,665
Rev. Takie Okumura, the founder of the Japanese Language School in Hawaii, said (1935)
"Today the pendulum has swung in the opposite direction and the Japanese community
seems to be Japanized more and more.---The language schools are beginning to dis-
play the real color of Japanism. Imperial Rescript is boldly read and taught,---"
Imperial Rescript: "We shall build our capital all over the world and make the
whole world our domain."
Rev. Shinryu Umehara, Japanese Buddhist priest who was sent to America to inspect the
Japanese language schools in the Pacific Coast and Hawaii, said (Mar. 27, 1934) ---
Translation by U. S. Army Intelligence Department:
"I felt while I was in America that the existence of Japanese schools and Buddhist
organizations in the Japanese communities is grand, for they are the mother-bodies
for fostering the national consoienoe, Japan's civilization and Japan's spirit."
Last May 25th the Hawaii Sentinel reported that an American citizen of Japanese an-
cestry was detained in Honolulu; all the propaganda materials were confisoated. It
was alleged that the printed matter "advooated the formation of an outright Japanese
Navy league". It also reported that startling news articles appeared in Japan,
"praising the loyalty of Hawaiian born Japanese to the mother country". It was in
one of these stories which told how the Japanese in Hawaii including American citizens
of Japanese ancestry "signed pledges of loyalty to Japan in their own blood".
Doubt the Sinoerity of Ishii and his Crowd
Can the members of the American Council believe in the sincerity of Viscount Ishii
and his crowd of outthroats? He has been active, undermining Americanism while up-
building "Nipp-on-ism", for years. His military crowd are bent on oarrying out a
campaign of conquest in China with such diabolioally inhuman slaughter of human beings
as they did in Korea. You who have witnessed the events of Japanese aggression in
China cannot deny the fact that there are more institutions of learning, art and
peaceful industries bombed and destroyed - Why? The answer is obvious. Japan and
Japan's oulture must be supreme.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
Philip C. Jéssup, President
m. Counoil, Institute of Pacifio Relations
Nov. 24, 1939
page -6-
Dr. Yoshi S. Kuno (Japanese) in his late book "Japanese Expansion on the Asiatic
Continent", had this to say - 7 years Invasion of Korea, 1592-1599 -
"At the time of Hideyoshi!s invasion, the civilization of Korea had reached its
peak. She had metallic movable type several years before its invention in the
Occident. The Japanese gathered up most of this type and took it to Japan, it was
only after her invation of Korea that Japan learned to print books with any facil-
ity. From Korea, Japan also learned the art of weaving various kinds of goods.
The most noteworthy industrial knowledge that Japan gained from Korea was the man-
ufacture of porcelain ware. Such famous wares as those of Satsuma, Hirado, Raku-
zan, Agano, Takatori and Hagi. which are famous today as special products of Japan,
were originated by skilled laborers in Korea whom various Japanese feudal lords
took prisoners and settled permanently in the various provinces. It is said the
process is now a lost art in Korea.
"World history contains no parallel to this wholesale uprooting of civilization."
This is a strange world, so peouliarly perplexing. The Japs can lie like hell,
bomb and slaughter human beings to kingdom come, slap and kick Americans all over
Asia - first in Korea, then in Manohuria, North and South China, they make Japs out
of American citizens, plan oversea expansion through Japanizetion of American citi-
zens - yet the Amerioan Council pay more respect to the Japs - while ignoring their
true friends; strange world.
American Council Unfair to Koreans
When the first International Conference was called by the Institute of Pacific
Relations in Honolulu, the Institute invited the Koreans to send their representatives
from Korea, Hawaii and Amerioa. Since then, Koreans from Hawaii and America have
been barred. Why, may we ask?
Surely the Institute has not forgotten its lofty and worthy undertaking so soon.
We refuse to believe the Amerioan Council has become a heartless mechanical peace
machinery who fears Japan's military might and insists upon technicalities as Dr.
Nitobe desoribes the Americans to be.
The Koreans feel that the Institute's refusal to listen to our plea for representa-
tion is unfair and unreasonable. In its moral sense the American Council is putting
a gag over our mouth. We also feel if the American Council continues to refuse
Koreans' plea - the Institute too is persecuting and tormenting 23 million souls of
Koreans as the Japanese masters do. Is this the aim of the Institute? No.
We often wonder what would have been the outoome of the American Revolution had
men like Lafayette and the King of France refused to listen to the plea of Benjamin
Franklin. The great Liberator, Abraham Linooln, once said: -
"Those who deny others liberty do not deserve it themselves, under the rule of a
Just God theyoannot long retain it."
Key to Peace Is Democracy
We believe the key to a lasting and a constructive peace in the Pacific is in its
sincere practice of the prinoiple of Democracy as it has been applied in the United
States of Amerioa ever since the Declaration of American Independence.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
Dr. Philip C. Jessup, President
Am. Council - Institute of Pacifio Relations
Nov. 24, 1939
page -7-
Many nations have come and gone and have left little worthy impress upon the life
of human happiness. However, the Declaration of American Independence bore upon its
faoe an indelible mark of distinotion and presaged the development of a theory and a
polioy contrary to totalitarianism of that day or as of ours.
Of this theory and policy the keynote was "freedom". Freedom of individual, in
order that he might work out his destiny; freedom in government in order that human
facilities might have free course; freedom in commerce in order that the resouroes of
the earth might be developed and rendered fruitful in the inorease of human wealth,
contentment and happiness.
The Japanese militarists and their cultural propaganda is gradually weakening
Amerioanism in the Pacific. We fear that Americanism in Hawaii will be nipped off by
the powerful Tokyo machine, "Nipp-on-ism", unless the American Council and other like
organizations center their interest in Washington rather than in Tokyo.
Fully realizing the consequenoes of the weak protesting against the powerful; - we
with assurance of our profound respeot to truth and faith in the sportsmanship of
Amerioanism, humbly submit this frank and "straight from the shoulder" petition and
plea for your early consideration.
Believing in the final triumph of justice and truth, we remain
Respeotfully yours,
Kilsoo K. Haan
Washington Representative of the
SINO-KOREAN PEOPLES' LEAGUE

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
El Monte, Cal
FOR AOKNOWLWDGMENT
AND CONBIDARATION
Sep't. 20, 1938.
8
MstM Dutyne
To Whonn It May Concern;
力
EASTERN AFFAINS
1-1938
2
Dear Sirs:
Departmenr of Stast
0
2
Articles in, the
894.20211
1
daily papers are oftes misleading
espionage on the Pacific Coast have
very blind, for
laynman, save known of these
activities for tuenty- nine years.
Not only among
A
their fleets brut
through out all
industries where these people may
be found. A thorough investigation
mont aud produce merchauts would
also disclose a very thorough oud
systematic set up. couducted Of these
people.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.92)
2
The there is a pretonse of freindly
elationship betueen Nations at the
Basic Plans  Characteristics shows
pery plainly what our Nation is
facing and thou inade quately we
pre prepared for the break thiat
draws mearer every day.
This "spoutaneous Espiosiors" comes
froun the heart of Au American
who wishes to remain,
Respectfully yours,
Leo. F. Leason,
3102 Court Adair,
El orte,
Calit.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.78)
ho ansmen
Syoh 16thgy.
quied and
siguotne is
Dear Dii
tu to day "ten
Bbid gon V. 's. anidunct
Iou. they
ters,-kii bem Tack
for ligit Jlant,-and
Tited Recoathy, oul rert,
I de'sconereld ale this
lii the Jume aueufer

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.83)
2 "Readnr Disert." a
Srau devne  olmimest?
li the
bein JorleJab.
Htaal quaiters
Head
the
alh auother,
Jagoau-
quarters of
there,
Equitatle Trust. ald
certai ly Kean
and they
they should have re-
fo arted Same) the other

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.84)
I oren to Sopercor's Soland.
Saed refharter, asked fon
the klad smaa,-, whew
he Cacme out he may
quete hou - Coaeenth al,
And Daid,-  aftes the
Male othacned,- thes
"Tou So Poreit this."
Te allrned he mat,-
Bah there Crere 20,
bi that that office
he ded aol Say Chon
mary lei the bther.
Thay may hare Changed
Theen thein quarters, dnia
Aound out.- gut
Bei's
ald Vuleyshone Vook.
the

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.78)
4
mill tell the t a1
Shn &orie of 'Mati
told the Jush recentey
Peutre-Lei
Ractiegellea
Nen Jarh.f they most-
ed Busrnersoffece-
thein i Waohea'stou.
H
S should are,
Tein reks
is ouly a

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.82)
gen trid out kil
California,-or Deatte,
thats what, theer they
and
are here for.
that is what, they
are at. Su addditoh,
it is fush re cantly that
the Japaaere ordered
onl op our thifas out
of thtr hartar. to
bit ill befit uy to tatey
leps a
Vlry truts
duyesnaWarn

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.84)
J.A. - Shen I, afsan
duraded Chilia, the.
aunonnced- it wat
there, the tulen ted-
to tatke ho territary,
thee,- and no Jorisonent
Knowu,- the Jout
to death 2 0r0oo Nores
mere atsaulted and
vrolatect.the I ared
knout,- the hav ko
Bud Paenot
houor
promise
hat the.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.77)
Lott
N
J. F. Roosenelct
President
DIVISION OF
162221
COMMUNICITIONS
Warhington
AND FLOORDS
S. doe Mesill
89422
my DeanhnMRooenvelt
Sometim cgosrieaed anuticle
-ington taking fricturean the haper atated itne-
eocry Sun day during the sunmes orrie yeirs
ago that had tange casks which canried he avy and
thim what they wore doing there, the said he
me maeing Thapheeyreuat nkcn y
und in iin he Backelone of Song Grland Nor
fim Jamaicadong drlandin he old toon of
thing BroighQueem Nerorh lotit a 
oongdrland Soundant Sonasland Gity and
sumbinding Country and the Palasades Hedeelron
rive,mth Tomer nvien Attante I eean
and may out on Soong Fland and the Nanons!
State Vonght  onn thu Ficect. tis located niglet

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.74)
e the rold Fuin n t0o he 1989-1980
it cs twell to keep a lrokout on thore
nere I thought it hert to rite after neading
Aed ful better atout itt. Thii pripertilhas
en in te Famile eonl meed
fecurs,
Phede(M. Pelty

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
Forest Grove, Oregon
April 21, 1939
RESPECTFULLY REFERRED
FOR ACKNOWLEDGMENT
894.20211
Hon. Franklin D. Roosevelt
RECEIVED
ANL CONBIDERATION
White House
1939
MH M Dutyre
Washington, D. C.
LIVISION OF
Dear Mr. President:
My lotter of the llth to ou which you forwarded to Mr. Lewis, Aeronautfc
20211
Supervison, reached him safely. I thmk :ou for your kindness in this
matter.
In that certain letter I made a statement regarding the Japanese wishing
to buy light metal and ore through me. There has been developments since
that I believe are of vital importance for you to know, for they concern
the welfare of America, and especially the western part. When I met
that Japanese mining engineer in an office in Portland, I had a witness
with me, and he made this statement, "We wish to buy the light ore if there
is enough of it; also we will buy other mineral deposits." He also said
this: "If United States would stop selling us scrap iron and oil, from
whom we got 90%, only producing 10% ourselves, we would have to stop
fighting the war in China." He was leaving in a few days for Japan, so
I following it up to find out those who were buying the deposits of mineral
or metal, and I took it up with the Japanese Consul, and the assistant
Consul gave me the names of 3 companies in Seattle: C. T. Takahashi & Co
212 5th Ave. S., Seattle, Washingtpn; Mitsui & Co. Bxchange Bldg. Seattle;
Mitsubishi Trading Co. Exchange Bldg. Seattle, Washington.
Since hearing from r. Lewis I tried to get out a uniform light metal
andin doing so I had to contact a party in Portland regarding a suitable
smelter. He in turn told me that I would have to contact other parties,
which he calledup and made arrangements for me to interview them, letting
them know that I had fine samples of ore. He sout me to their office.
When they saw the ore they became interested and wanted to know where it
came from, and I told them within a radius of lo0 miles frmm Portland.
thoytold me that they were the financers of the firm, and they would have to send
me to the manager. Ho called the manager, and told him I was coming to see him
about getting the ore smeltered. Then he handed me the address and name of
their manager. When I read it, I turned to him and told him I could not take
the ore to the manager for he is wanting this ore to sell to the Japanese,
and I will not let it get into the hands of the Japanese. He asked me how
I Imew that. I told him that because in his office I contacted the Japanese
who was ...: their mining engineer, who admitted that he was the one that
FILED
made another sale of ore to the Japanese. I have looked into it further,
and find that they are selling anything that the Japanese wants through
our country.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
Hon. Franklin D. Roosevelt
April 21, 1939
Page 2
Also in making trips from British Columbia to Los Angeles, and over
in the Eastern parts, I find that the Japanese have every place of vantage
occupied in the disguise of truck gardening, etc. They have it covered, from
my observation, so that they can destroy our highways and railroads and
leave all our western cities isolated one fron the other.
Fou might be very familiar with these circumstances, but I feel
that as an American citizen, it is my duty to give you the true observations
of a resident of this vicinity. There is a great deal more of this
pro-Japanese ovidence that I am unable, because of the lack of time and
pace, to give you, but this hasty picture should suffice to give you
some idea of my candid observations.
Thanking you for your kindness and consideration in this matter,
I am,
Yours very sincerely,
A. C. PHILIP
G C Otrili

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.89)
DAN. F. RITTER
6.3 Devn Struet
North Artington N. J.
AUG 9. 1938
AUG 1 - 1938
89420211
Acknowle~bou
Mr. tull
Foum A
Po8
Secretary of otate,
ch
894.
Washinytor,
AF EASTERE AFFAIRS
S.C.
20
My Dem Sin:
2
11
Mpon reading
the fate of Hawain clipper
tter,
and Mr. Watem Choy one
Ilan
of the passengars with large
Sum of mony aboand for
miclied to belein the
Japs are responritle fa thi
coincidence.
There is much spy work
as weel ao the fapo in ithis
conmitry , and they are many

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.87)
i
betrang thei own sonity for
the dollar. We should have
eapecially at this trive secret
dervice mon, more mon in
the Sntelligence dept. placed
in boast towns along the
attautir and Pacific coasto.
also on watero where our
big boats fly ouer lonely
oreano, Paicfii ocean whne
the gap is not to be tusted.
Watch the Jap, he is our beggot
enermy, dont trust ihem, they
Thay an stealnng or salmon in
alaaka.
I would love to seve my
coity in ihe line of unk, but
I ann aly a W PA. worker,
Yomo Respestfucy,
DanF. a.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.89)
6? Devon Stret
North Arlington N. J.
JUN 13 1938
Mr. Cordell Hall,
V.S. Dearetary of Itate,
894.24
Washngtn
=DC
Dea Sa:
I take the privlege
Ritti
in condong you a few clifping
from ite Hevs papno if you
wrll kidly read.
Dont you thrink it souado
ri diculous to send protet
to Japun and an thn othen hand
US. supplying her with matorid
etc. it is like, say I would
hand a man a gum and
he would start phootung people
them I would proteat at itir mad
acthion.
why dout you start a drive
on ithose who actually sell

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
Italy Spye Y. S. Aids
Asks Fair Play
Japanese Bombing
he Chriadian Selenes Monitor
ROME, June
(AP)—Virginio
Nirosch! Nogochi, artist, and Miss
Gayda, frequently the editorial
Haru Matsul, author.
mouthpiece of,the Fascist Govern-
Dr. Yu challenged his country's
ment, asserted today that while
well wishers to show their friend-
Washington protested against bom-
ship through practical statesman-
bardment of civilians in China, the
ship, charging that America had
United States was selling bombing
bandoned its traditional policies in
planes to the Japanese.
the Pacific, closing its doors ω
Signor Gayda declared State De-
China's war plight after generations
partment figures showed that the
of holding them open to spread
United States sold $1,334,000 worth
lemocratic ideas and of protesting
of bombing planes to the Japanese
perpetual friendship.
in May.
"There is hiding in America to-
lay great opportunity for your
tatesmen," Dr. Yu said. "It is high
time for you to realise that the least
your country can do is to reiterate
what is right and what is just.
Xin th United States the fact is not be-
"Who furnishes oil for the air-
planes that bomb our villages? Who
Ing mlased that Japan has become the
is selling Japan the raw materials
second largest buyer of American arms,
of war? We have no other answer-
ammuhition, and implements of war in-
American merchants are partly re-
cluding war planes. For long it has been
sponsible. Yet we Chinese consider
America our best friend.
widely known in the United States, and
"Cannot your statesmen formu-
widely regretted, that American scrap iron
late a nonparticipation in aggres-
and other war products have been helping
sion policy? There is a challenge to
Japan in its aggression on China.
the American people and a great
challenge to the democratic coun-
tries for the crystallisation of actions
which would work in the interest of
justice and fair play."
Civil»ns'as Military Objectives
States don't like Japan's policy of
bombiny . hinese cities! Well, a high
ofcial of Japari's Navy takes cognizance
of this dislike. He says the policy will be
pursued "with even greater vigor."
In other words, mere protests will build
no bombproof shelters for Chinese
civilians.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
olini Retorts to Hull
European crisis.
The editorial said this was
warning to Déstators" and 
June 3. with an admonition that the
"To defend Democracy and
United tates before trying to
humarise their own internal peace
humanise warfare in Europe should
before turning to the war of others,
learn to protect its own children.
Americans should have another sosl:
The paper, in a brier editorial,
that of guarding the safety of their
obviously referred to recent kidnap-
children in their homes, which is
ings in the United States, accounts
A B O for peoples who aspire to be
of which have been widely published
civilised."
in the Italian press.
Il Tevere, a less authoritative
I Popolo aaid that Mr. Hull's
Rome newspaper, yesterday replied
to Mr. Hull's speech by cailing him
with announosment of the American
that the United States halt kidnep.-
Navy's next maneuvers, involving
ings lynchings, and other crimes of
violence before trying to humanise
1GLAND
European war.
Virginia Streetcars
For Japanese Shells
Special to The Christian Science Monitor
DANVILLE, Va.—Parts of Dan-
ville's old fleet of streetcars may
soon be projectiles, used by Japan
to bombard the Chinese lines.
Most of the metal in the cars has
been bought by a concern that is
sending it to Norfolk, where it is
being shipped to Japan to meet the
demand for war material.
The bodies of the cars are becom-
ing refreshment stands on the near-
by highwaya.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.88)
was niaterial, stop this supijy
Japai' with war material,
stop buying or selling to her,
this would do more then on
the othe hand as stateld ou
first page of letter.
We should be an example lov
othr conssterirs in slea d of other.
Countirin critioizing no.
Otaly hue ao you dee ou the
twe clipping from ruws papers
hus hu opinon etc.
Stop selling to counterien
at war
my blood boils whem Isee
News Roel moing picture of dopar
fighting China, pitifal sight of
Olrnsax womnded and deal.
Sou't buy or seel to
Japarr. Yous Repidfult,
San t. Rian.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.84)
Acknowledged
By Form
File
38
houm A
128
SPRUCEWOOD
Secuetary stall
SMYRNA DELAWARE
Jme 10.1938
894.
1938 JUN
30 It vems to mo that
every full bloaded ammashold
70
2
protut aggruet thi enclosed"Made
in Jahan" of on waere'd shentanem.
Lo thia of on fl age heing mande
in Japan. It is antragerne t a lam
whoul d purhihit it. bast anmme
u
I toko a trih from Leahe Llomint
n
San ligo, at thi chatiaw at Leake
Leomar mero Wi mniformed Jahi
eypery place. Japranad called
fost a home
Conning  eo mang faha

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.81)
Acknowledged
By Form
38
File
JUN221938
4 fhe fan hes ment w far as San
16
Fransi eco to emh ark for Jahan, non.
20
th min had hrday t hhotat l
211
anr moyntang,. Sone oni gard
"Woll what difference did thatmati
I aaid my tratins  hombing a
great dsal It would cantion againet
certain hrights, and thiy mire on thi
Pacifis crnats, Our Panama Canal
aught to ho wery ghe arily gwar ded.
n
We ae reahz n g dy thi agruewani
Chnia that Sahah hhe no merey.I
wont huny ang thing "TMade ris Jahan"
Ihptleam at a pressimist.but
alashaor a marning to us,
Dspectfully
A. (.A.)Mary Shn ane.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.92)
Acknowledged
By Form
File
38
UN221938
y Evening Wilmington, Delaware, Saturday, June 11, 1938
Japan Makes Capital of Our Capital
0
c
r
c
a
a
te
n
ir
tc
rl
de
h
C
As part of her campaign to protect American manufacturers from cheap-
h holde, the exhtblt indludes, Teft to right, a sarbied replios of the
shion, a Washington Monument ash, tray.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
094.20211 Tachibana, Itaru
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese Lt. Commander Itaru Tatibana.
Ordered to leave by US Government, after
894.20211 TACHIBANA, ITARU/22
a charge of espionage was brought against
him, was among passengers aboard NITTA MARU.
y
AB
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
DESC. ENTRY
(Deepatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Dated June 21, 1941
WASHINGTON EVENING STAR
PS/BJH
T6XX
File No. 862.20218/226
U. 6. G0VNT NTING OI 1—1546

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apr11 24, 1935.
A petition signed by the representa-
tives in Hawaii of the Sino-Korean People's
League requests an investigation by the
Territorial Legislature of Japanization
activities in Hawaii.
The petition recounts, in not too
coherent a manner, the efforts of Japanese
leaders to resist Americanization of second-
The charges are too
generation Japanese.
general to be of much interest.
WTT/DLY

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.91)
HEADQUARTERS HAWAIIAN DEPARTMENT
1.
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF FOR MILITARY INTELLIGENCE
291 maab. 0v
In reply refer to:
FORT SHAFTER, T. H.
2627-H-392
335.5 (0-3)
WER PARTMENT
APR251935
March 29, 1955.
DIVISION OF
RECORDS
Subject: Petition requs
sion by Territorial
Division of
Legislature of Japanization eetivities in Hawaii.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
4APH 23 1935
Tos
The Aseistent Chief of Staff, G-&,
Wer Department, Washington, D. C.
Dapartont ol State
L6
l. Inelosed herewith are two eopies of e petition
密
addressed to both Houses of the Territerial Legislature and
signed by W. K. Lyhan as the representative in Hewaii of the
Sino-Koreen People's League whose headqusrters are said to be
in Shanghai, China.
894.20211
2. In this conneetion your attention is invited to
previous correspondence concerning the activities of one Kilsoo
Haan (alies W. K. Lyhan), particularly your seoret letter to
this offiee of June l0, 1933, Subject: Espionage groupa in
Hawaii, and aleo the report of a speeial agent of the Depart-
ment of Justice, dated April 24, l935, submitted by your offiee
by routing slip, dated June 5, i9S3.
S. The inelosed petition was submitted by Kilsoo
Hean, alias W. K. Lyhan, to both the Senete and the House of
4
Representatives of the Hawaiian Legislature on Mareh 27, l935.
In the Senate it was read and was referred to the Camittee on
Edueation. To date the House has taken no action on it, If
and as important developments attend this petition in the Leg-
islature, they will be raported.
JAMES I. MUIR,
Lt. Colonel, Genoral Steff Corps,
A. 0. of S., a-2.
2 Inele-
Copies of petition.
C.3

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.90)
THE SINO-KOREAN PEOPLE• 3 LEAGUE
1465 Pers Street
2657-11-392
Honlulu, Oam, T. H.
Maroh 27, 195.
Jde
To the Honorable Membere of the
Senate ond the Houso of Representatives
Rogular Session of 1936, Territorial Legislature.
Capital Builaing.
Honoulu. T. H.
Gentlemen:
The sine-korean eople's ue subsoribe to tnis etition and to
this plen we do urgently beg that the nonoruble mmmbers of t ne senate and
the House of Ropresontative of the Regilar Jemsion of l9 6, institute n
inguiry imto the Japanisation motivities in the Territory of lawaii and
review the situation ith the view of determining the feots and infomma-
sion contained herewith and to find ways and means, looking towerd the har-
nessing of mmen institutions and organizations, eto., "thet amphasize ro-
sial consciousness and Japanese loyalty and sulture in such manner that
the seeond generation Japanese are hampered in their preparation for mer-
iown eitizonship."
In th inguiry, we ask that the follo dng fuots and infomation be
given primary consideration.
1. Japan's proposal to instruot our publio sopool students
through the distri bution of textbooks, reference books for
teachers, reading materials, portfolios containin Ju anese
piotorial and other graphio materials for sohool room use.
oto., compiled in Japan.
Japanization otivities in pnerl.
Rosult of Ja anization in agaii.
 The alerming internetional si tuation in tie acifio and
Jaan's militant atti tude toward merica.
The tenacious and persistont resisting of Amorioaniam by the Japanese
leaders in general. have amused muon doubt and uneaainess in Hawuii and it
hus also areated a peauliar impresaion mong the U. s. of ficials, detrimen-
tal to Hawali'e present political status.
The éituation has resulted as mu on due to the ethnic, religious, edu-
catlonal and politioal graups forming an effestivo sivio sobesion and it is
also due to the contributory influenoe exmrted by the government of Japen
through tm applioation of varicus means upon ite subjects, to whion the
Japanese in Haamll are siving full ccoperation. This ad tuation is made pos-
sible beemuse the reciai element are of equivalent or approximately equiva-
lent strength, mumerioally, culturally and cconomically.
The intelleotuals are found actively engaged in the task of erganising
G
mational mmmories and hopes around Japan. Hissery, literature, ars, sineme,
radie psogrem, idealosy, esee, are woven tegether in an attempt te develop
a politioal iaterest and loyalty csntering around their mmperer.
The lesues imvelved in the Japanese problem in Hawmil Gan be best sel-
ved if every Ammrioan csuse thmir patriotism to heed the counsels and warn-

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.88)
Mhe founder of ur Great publie, The United itates of America and
at patriot Thomae Jefferzon, the man who drew the immortal "Deolare-
Indpendonce of Asris."
If these two great Americans were in Hawaii today, they would have re-
peated these very words once more, -—
"Against thm ingidious viles of foreign influenoe, I conjure you
to believe me, fellow citizens, the jealousy of a free people cught
to be constantly wake, since history and experience prove that for
eign influence is one of the most baneful foes of republioan goverm-
ment."
--was ningt on.
"To be pre ared for wer is one or the most effeotive means of
preserving peace."
-—washington.
Thomas Jefroreon sald ansn to thoss wise counsels and warnings and add-
ed mis min, to his countrymen gainst
-
"the inmidlous intri ne ad arsistent influance or foreln mutions."
Whather wo wish to fase the facts or not it romains that the intense
nesiomalietis as well s racial solidificution of the Orientals in the Pr
Sast under the new banner of "Asia for aiatios" nd the collaboration or
sueh influence in Hawali will be most sigmificsnt fuoter whion will eventual-
Ly determine the meaurity s woll as the oange of politioul atatus to tate-
bood or to Commission form of Covernment
If and when we imore theso fustors und camtimue tihe "homalimali" poli-
ay. we will have no one to blame out ourselves.
The present situation affords ahe acld test for lawail statesmanshi.
JAKANCHOP OSL
The Sino-Korean People's League were informed by its agent in Tokyo.
Japan, tmt the Foreign and Eduoational Ministries of ths Jupanese Covernmmnt
granted offlsial sanotion to the projest, proposed by the 3oolety of Inter-
national Cultural Relasion.
supy (Pro of harge) all pblio sohools of aii wit ret-
erence books for temoners, reading materials, portfolics contain-
ing Japanese piotorial und otner graphic materdals for sohool-
room use, ets....
In conneotion with the free distribution of Japanese textbooks, it
is said tmt Mr Oade, she head or the ltural Bureau and former Congul-
Goneral in Hamai1, atated:
"That all the necessary asrangemmnte mave been made wi in the
Publie Instruetien, also d th the various religioua and social
Leaders in Hawaii."
Mr. setmmeshi Aakd, Generel-scoretary of sh soclety of Intemation-
al Oultural Relation, maid:
"Vor mveml yeara tho sahool heads in Kasii and Ariaa with
the mid ef many infhmential edacators and missionarics made a
therough survey of Ameriean textbooks for she Japanese seciety.
The mrvey revealed that if preper prepaganda is systematically
carried cut in the sohsels, the American shildren will beeoms
streng friends of Japan."
-3-

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.86)
The above infommation later roceived confimmation in an isom pub-
bed in the "Prums-Pacifio," Tokyo, Japan, in the fomm of an interview
Late in Novambor, 1934.
"Through the pulioation of reading aterials, new roference
textbooks for teashers, better methols of teaahing and portfol-
los containing plotorial and other graphic matorials for soheol-
room ase wdll be undertaken as a definite international and edu-
Gatlonal bodies in Jaan.
The projeot was wocepted at  meeting ednesday evening at
the Kolaisai Buica Shinkokai or the Sooiety for the Promotion of
Intermational Cultural Relation by roprementatives of the Bo-
Glety, The Japaness Council of the Institate of raoifio Rela-
tions. the lmperial Association of duostion, and, Education
and Foreign Ministries. The Jomsittee fomed at tne meeting
with officials, the two mdnistries aasociato meubes will be-
gin to funotion soon, it was wald by Mr. 3etmuloni Aokd. s0-
aretary-General of Rokssi unka hinkoki to a ropresenta-
tive or ie Tras-ruolgio. ovamabes 2o
The projest waish will cin wdth sohouis in mori ws
stimulated by a fue reaaalny survoy or taxtboace used in er-
10 0l, ."
 r 4, l9,   i, oo. J,  
i tan de 
VHign moheol students in .. so ve given books with sorreot
insormtion on Japan."
P itom stao t tooiey, to.
"desided on a plm to be followed for the compilation of school
textbooks so be used ut igh sohools in tne U. . for diffusing
corroot infarmation on Jn.
Aocording to the plan, the collooting and provisional compi-
lation of materi als on Japn will be undertakeen by a somittee
Inaludin both ri. und ese mmbere. Materials or in-
stmuctione on Japan will sover lmost every phase of modem
Japen, ambrusing topios on the govermment, coonomio and social.
art, eto., whioh will be prosented in a way that will appeal to
th vge hig sshool adn in Ari.
Another item whioh further mibetantiated the above mentioned informe-
tion ppearei in Japn Times, Fobruary 26, 1935. The itm states:
Pa sooiety whiah was eatabliahed in April last yer by the
Poreign inlatry Offiaials a other influential people, it 
devoted itself to propaganda, -dispatahing Japanese lecturers
abroad, sontributing cultural matorials, asslstancs to foreign-
er atudying of thinge Japanese and other ontergrises.
' The Soslety has been honored wdth the graslous donation from
his Majesty's Bousehold and H.l.H. Prinoe Tokmmatsu (brother to
the Emperor) kindly consented to become  resident d' honneur of
the oy, o....
Materials en Japan for sahool use abread.
The objest of this work is to mpply matarials on Japanese oul-
ture to both teashers in mnd students or higz schools in the
United states and is baing prepared with the cooperation of the
Institute of racifio Ralation," eto...
Six months prier to this desision on April 12, Count Ayak Debayama,

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.78)
Gesdety La to serve as a alearing hease for all Japas-
oss peeple."
 l. the soe de a rt ef 200,000 e: in As
200,000 yen, nd the Imerial asabeld Minissry dsh she reae Iadntrdal
Géanss, Míasai and Mitaubitaa, centributed about a milllen yen. In loss,
The rospeotus and saheme of the soalety, stated 
"a massen in oxder so seoure and strengthen its pesision in
the comity os nas lons, mast andewrer to promete the valne and
prestise of its cum sulturo The disfusien of mewledee regart-
ing & matlon is net only necessary fer the parpese er eahamsing
iss preati, bu: aill alac acrve tc mm its peeple siive to
their pead tien in the werid and so streagthen their sease of
melf-resyeet.  o aico to world bostor wequalnted mth the
paul sislfienee uf Jaanome and Oriontal culture, is m im
portant aaty fur the saie of Japan."
r aivisors of tiw soolety are is follous:
Prime Minister.
L. Erahe Yusa.
Hinister of Imverial Honsoheld.
. Kai Kirot.
Vinlster of Pereigm Affairs.
Mr. Geaj1 Md.
Minister ef Dncatien.
Tiscomnt Kimjire Lahii, resident of Institute for the
Eâneatien ef Orersee Japansse.
. Toji ae.
President of tho Imperial ieademy.
persenally aypointed by the Eaperer.
Fráace Lyeaate Tokmgamm, Connt Nobasaki Makine, mad Coant
mip myouure.
Mser D. . , the therity  Orie ue  t
Peore Ghab, Toiyo. Japan, on Decanher 5, 1334, peiated eut she Latent and
" socioty — 1s Latont on advertiaiur Jagme abrend in the
enme wey as the Japan Tearlst Baresn or the Nippen Yaiesn Naiaha."
Gonslassn of t Ledalatuse, we prey that yen weuld sy asd fathem
assten la masts. The sss o? his tak onn be smd uy ae tolloes
  Ja st d  t  g  d

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.89)
Is imperative tht the Legislsture mace a surrey and ine titute
miry to determine the extent of Japanese cultural imovedge, ouston,
y. irt, eto., aoquired uy the Jamss socond gmm ion. We be
Isve aoquired enough Japanese culture, apirit, lan guage, eto.; so muoh so
that the morits and offeotivenese of the present oiltural movements of the
Institute of acifie Ralations, the Department of ublic Instruction, var-
lous other religious and edzoational institutions and organizations seem
doubtful.
It is often stated by naval experts that strategio situation of Japan
Is almost perfeot. This strategie strongth, Japan aoquired largaly through
the Wasnington Treaty in return for tho aasirance by Jupun, promising to re-
frain from territorial expansion in Chime and tme racific. This promise
she nover int ended to keep.
in all intermetional conferences Japan follo wed an ident ioal m thed of
bluff, suaily sonvineing other nations of her sincerity and honesty. but
the resuit of oonferonges have been most disast rous to the natione whe have
imgalioisl truetal her
 ost dord h r cotivetivities ofth
above institutions and organizations m mout tno same fate.
The department of ublio inmtriotion, on tne Zist day of Jamary
stated. "this department has Gcoperated witn his group (Rov. T. Clamure's)
in promoting langago sohools in the publio sohoel buildings." On the 2lst
day of Pebrumry, Superintendent Mr. Lon: in reply to an inguiry frem Jan
Francisco Chroniele) to Mr. Geerge E. Oollins. the Chairmmn of the Terri-
torial Board of sohool Commissioners, wrote a lengthy letter stating th't.
"preotically all of the textbooks now being in use in the publis sshools are
the regilar ublications of much woll known mainlend fims, eto.". to which
the ino-Korean eople's League replied on the bth of laroh -
"I have noted tat you at langth explained the textbooics
now being in use at the publio schools of Hawmi i. is I gather
from the inguiry, 1 believe it hs nothing whatsoever to do
with the textbooks now being in use."
in Longe letter to Xn Georg . Collins furtrer revealed timt —-
"Phe firet arart of a similar study of Ja n nve been ca-
pleted by Miss rast (member of erican Counoil of te Inati-
tute of racifio Rale tMons). 3he also mad the asistance of Dr.
Gregg M. Sinelair, Asmoiste refessor of English, University
of Hasad i, and Dr. Masami chi Royama, Visiting Professor, Uni-
veralty of Hawd 1, Seteber 1934 to January 1935."
Dr. Royam ame to Hawei i under the yroll of the Univermity from
the Japemese Imperial Univeraity of Toiyo, Japn: a member of the Japan
Counsil or the Imtitute of aaifio Rela dons. During his stay re the
represem ative of the Sino-Korewn oople's League had the rivilege of in-
terviewing the aminent professor. Diring the inte views, he expreesed
tht "all tm Orientals should unite under the oaderanip of Japen in op-
poding the Oscidental powers in the Far Eust and in the radifio Area."
He most emphatioally statmd that the "Open Door Polioy" should be Junied
and the Momroe Doct m of Asia for Asiatios be placed in its stead."
When jekingly rominded thet his rearks and attituds were contrary
to Amrican pellcles and at bast under the payroll of sim Umivesmity ef
Hall  should be mre carel, to wian me reied  mile. 
Jagan have gtmed her ground inan by inch by mrd persistent
wsk us ng every oppertumities no mat tor hew insigmifiomt it
maybo."
-6-

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.85)
md if he bal loved in the Amerioanisati on of the Japanese des-
o i, he saids
"From ac Oriental to an Oriental, do you think the Jagane
desomndants can be made into Amoricans, whils Japan is at its
ascendonoy to world mapreuey?"
In re tarming to Japan, Dr. Royama is said to have made the following
romarcs:
"The Open Door poliay ms it as been in the pest will no
longer be of avall to dotermine the destiny of china or of the
Par Eas. Bush dootz no should be donounood. -—
The aome is true in the Guse of mvei disament. Japan
did whst she thought justd ried but the United States re fumed
to reso gnize the adequmoy of the gro unds on whion Japan aoted.
Jome are apt to desoribe tho prosent sitmation as a camse of pos -
alble war between t he tvo m dons. while others refmain from pes-
simiem over te situatiou, holdin tmt now that both arsies
mave alari filed their positons fro their om standpoints, thee
should be no more di sauasion, unlese tho Jnited itates is in-
alined to int erfere with the a mese at tu do. there fore the con-
troveray is no: likely to sary the two matlons to war.
'Nevertheless no one oan guarantee that there will be no war
in the na tu re."
JA ANLATION LOTIVITIES D GNERAL
iGorornor, . . Frear. onoe aid:
"Phe most important problem of this eritory is the Charo-
tor of the children who are to bedome au? tature aitisens. the-
ther Aasel i ll have a comdesion form a govermment. or whe-
ther she will be grented a statohoed will largaly detewmined by
the oharacter of our oumre cit isems. ill these atizens of
Odental deseente aot s the U. 3. sit izens or subject of Japn
or as sitizon hf-mericn and hlf-J mnese, is a mst im-
portant problem."
About sixty pe roent or ar pu io soiool children are of Japnese
desdenta and wors t han 95 po roent a these Ja mese ahild ron attend the
Japmese langge sohools, and about 7  rcent a them a directly under
the buddhist influsme, anre sahool wase re boldly - "deslared that they
are teaahing Japamese spirit throngh the mdium or Japamse langmage," and
they al ao dealare thmt "Imperial resoripe ia boldly read and taught."
Aside from the langage sohoals, they arm uder tre dgid family sys-
tem, thmir condust axl attitude wro alsal y suarded by their mothe and
Yathere.
Jan we conscientdoualy may that the Japmose during te pest malf a
contury made sn honest effort toward Ammriganization? Or can they be rey
and tmaly become loyal citisans is they am alloved te purmme the preeent
Japanese poliay?
The mal and most aritioal tost pemois of leyul ty and true aitizen-
ahip oms after sahoel noure and particulmrly in ans scomemis field after
greduation. The Oriental young man and mmn are at a state of maniry as-
ter grada ation, momshow through airoust amoes t mir alose tles a' assecia
téen wlth the things Ariem and intimt conast are ant lose and lest
te avist inte the csenomis flald dthest men saidmee er sdvice te cempete
wen the expesenoed businesean of their eee. Goneequm ty almest 90 per
cone are foreed besk to the fold of Japemese influenee and pever. they are
plesed in a peai sien in whi an they have l2 ttle aholee, tat te follow the
feetstope of the ir elders.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.81)
well kmown Ao rioan mission o sker, maids
"y personal view mavore the mi ght of Jaameme arente in
Hamdi to masn their Gháldren the Jupaneso lmguage, hut I
regres timt many of the Japmese sonools under the corn rol od
the uddista omptasize racial aonmmicusmess snd Japmese loy-
aity and oulturm in mion a mmmr t mt the second ganoration
or Japaneso are humpe red in their reparations for Amrioam
sisizonship.
'At a date not far distant, nearly all of the Buddnist
soboals were taughnt by so-called Buddhist riests. whe ther
they were bonafide budanist ur leste or not I am unb to y.
but they wore admitted by aur Immiracion Deartment as Minie-
ters" aui wore classified as Buddhist priests. It is my opin-
ion tmt she groatest stambling blook to the rogross of the
Japemese langage sehoals in iai! wuld be removed if they
had no aonmstion whatsoever witn the Buddhist religion. The
fuot tt te ooois re mintied for urpoes er n
mastery o to an a . prements à dit oulty and a adrit of
int ule ranoe in a amunit ios me re uddalst rienve au the con-
trolling int uenge. Tais kind of thin may be arirut for n
bat in my opinion it is umortamte in merlos."
Hov. Paesl Gausare or aiki Jastie Jaron, the Younder or the How
Am doen Conferonee." awi the Vico-President af the "prinoe Pusnimi soholar
anip Aesooistion a Hawaili. " frankly conr irmed the above view in a atate-
mant made in the New American Cont renoe on Juno 16, 1934. e said,
"Poday the endalum nas swne in the opposlte direotion
and to Ja mese aoanity ecem to i Jaanised more nd more.
Singe its vistory in we uprome Jourt, the enguge sohools
aro beginnine to dimlay the real aalor of Jmism."
Anotr Jaes. Rev. Shinryu Umehara. who e from J  to in
apeet the Baddhist argemizatione and language achools of Ragaii and the
afio Joass, prior to uhe Y. . B. . dogt ion suilin to Japam. said:
(Rev. T. Geumara's tramiation).
"I am profoundly impressed at we great place of the
Jaese lnage sohools and te suddiet tomples in the
Jnese eomminity. Th, are  hot-bed or Puai consoioue
nose, Ja ane se oulture md spirit. e to."
Based on the statlstios of the aese o l-Genera there are
only 4,13l Japnese ari stims in awii: there are erhaps fow thouand
more whe drirts from Buadniam to Caristiunity nd visa veres due to ooonomio.
poll dcal wad soalal resmnns hevertheless the fast remains tat even the
handfal of Japsmese chedstiuns mve undertacen thei: ahare of dntiee to-
ward the maintonanoe a Japanization.
It is interesting to note that some seven years asp. the rap-rasido
Union ammrded & sirst prise to a Japamese anmáetian youtn in an orasieal
esy. The gst t nis essay is s follows:
"Way should we be ashammd of ar Japanese blood? Pere is
no oumm, no rean an to be aahemmd. o ougnt to be prond of
our rese, the noble Yamsto rase. (ur ruse does mot vaunt te
ghary of mtosiaiim, no. Tmank God, no. Bus te glery of
lofty egiritual, cultural achievementsl The shining blessom of
Yaaso damahil The subiime magnifloenoe of Bushide, the
apirit of samrais Ths radimt splender of a oulmre mallow
th the sperienee and wisdom of the ages. Leyalty, hener.
dourage and courteny  the se eardi mal virtmes ar the mahi.
the sar, lot us b  to Am ee. Net as absteet vi
tmas, iat as pmoti cal virmes exmmpliried in aar daily liv-
1.00."
一一

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.80)
 Japanese churaee fregently eman the Manohurisn question and
Feumities in their regular morning servioes.
The leall offlcers of to :rinoe uaaimi soholamhip Asmoiat lon of
Hasaii are Christiana than Buddhista. Its wotiviti n and tie adoption of
s above mme is sulf-evidont. Omo wio recelve finazsial aid and political
push fom the abore associat ion, are anler aal oaligation to the Prince of
Japan. In its practical sonse thie is the most effeotive me thod of Japanima-
t1on.
Under this llr ition, J i  ri fi id fo g
da. no doubt ahe ms taken every advant a. Obviously under ite variou
peace movemonts and romotions of ulturi rolation aotivit les we find.
in a th   i wit  i in th 
motion of merlaanlantion uooram. trey ure sastuaicualy tryin to use the
Amerdon to urtur Jaistion  vo ios in mi.
Jai vi t  rve
overy tredu us dien ii luense  sltaae. a., sow fit to dedlare in
July 2. 19 O
"le n io    their residns.
but don't t tm forgt the Jnese irit. It is thie wy.
In buyine dolost Ja mese goals, in voting oast we bal lot for
volitiolas Priendy to Janege.
ANATIOTIVITI
Pomape the most stri ane sult ur Ja lzation cotiwitios oan be
seen in the appal lin murber or dual citizens of Japane se anoestry in Hasedi.
The reault o  trition  or 19 is rtilarl a forceful illus
tration.
The intent o the patrdadon Lw was to ease te Amerime and to
disarm them from doubting the aimority of the es ovemment nd also
to countermct the itense anti-Jagane se feeling uring the yeare of 1921-
l924. It was publieal ly stted by many Jaanese leeder e that the Expatria-
tion Law was somarable to an anawer to  miden's prayer. The lw sbled
11 the Js deson e soe 66.647 (Jne 30, 192) to take 
expatriation papers, thus oustins off tho stigna of dual citizenahip status.
It was al so said th the silr bon troafter wl beco tomtioaly
fuil fledged Amcican d tisms, unless tiy dosired to reln Jaese su-
jest. The lw ws uol. Lowevor., it we ilod  the benning of en-
lightened friendly ralationshlp between the twe reat people of the racifis.
 o li si  h Jne CoGr, it ow
that thas far less than 9 peroent af the 66,64y dual citizens aomally took
advantage of the lam In other worde mly b, 76s axpatriated Even thie mall
mumber sannot be honostly said the they tve vuluntarily took ch step be-
saume of their loylty to mrl. ority of these men and wn o said
to haw dom so purely r palitdcal and oconomio reasons.
What about the 9,3o who were born sinoo 19as? Are they teohnioally
l00 pereent merinan altisn ur mlfm riom rhlf Jpaneer Statistios
shew th  of 39,310 u to June 30, 194, the pent of 17,25 shildren
or 46 pe roemt ave valuntarily rogisteroù at the Japanese Consnlate beceming
dual atisms.
Th) met remlt of tse Expatriasion Law is a nHoux," for teday o have
78, T04 das1 c1tizens  Japanese nocstzy.
-9 -

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.88)
ast wities. This situation has not ben the result of mre acdident.
 it me beem dme to teir consistent and systemato Japanized aotivi-
ies minoo they landed in Hawali.
The department of publio instru otion few yeare ago evidently saw the
detrimental effeot of dual-status and damanded tiat all sohoal teachers of
Japenese anoestry have thelr citizensd, status be olarified.
Sometime in Novanber of 1934, it is said timt the Japamese fames
though the Japanese language seool leaders requested the terrisorial
Boerl of Sohoel Oommdsad omers to anan go t e mohool hours of the publie
sehoels, in order to relieve the fanmers in whion their anildren can be
employed tor pioking the coffee daring the coffee season.
The sohool Commissioners gave t eir request every comiderutien and
rooommended the houre or 7 am. to 12 noon and asked a trial of the ahumd
sohedule. Ho ver. wing the spirit typiol to the militant Ja.mese, they
refused oven to try to surry out tme oool Commiemlonera' recommendution.
Instead or coo e rati n they deal red . a trie and refued t. sond t eir
ahildron to trion pbio sdool f seven dys.
 di aplay of unrosonable and un- rioan bevior are o so rere
in Hasii. Little more than a ear ap the Japanese community th reatened to
boyoott the lonolulu dvertiser.
The Honolul: dvertisers edi torial is self-eviden t:-
"Attacking n merican Ideal.
"we are inford tht a ouy of influenti al Jmese elders
mod a meetig edmsday to devise a plan for punisning the adver-
tiser This apes offense is thet it published a tter from
a viaiting tourist just ruturmed fom Jupam. The le tter firat
robuied the Advertiser for our oditorial of felioitation on the
birth af an heir to the Japmese throne, then it added statements
of opinion about the Japmese sovement. These statements the
Japane se e lders do not 11ke
If the Japamese elders in Honolulu understand ole siy the
basis upon whicn they propoue boycot ting the dvertiser well and
good. But they s hould understand all the implioations in 
American commnity. as Am réoan oi tisms or at least as sople whe
have east in their lot with m dom ins ttutions in an Amerion
oummnity. they would see. to punien an Ameriom ne wapaper for
follováng the Amerioan polioy of llowing freedom of epeeoh to
an riotisn.
"If the Japnese eldere undors tand t mt lot them go abead.
Thay wall soon understand t hat they ave taken a atand whioh they
will find it impossiblo to justify. -- If they pro pose being
god dti sens of on Ameroan community.
That is their problem. They mat fimi tim anawers.
tas for the Advertiser, it is lappy to oarry on under the ban-
ner of free spoech, free disussion, an advocate of Am doan
ideals, free from divided loyalties and dual st andsrds: th all the
power we pessess. Anyone attaccing us on that ground will find
himselr trying to uphold a dir fioult thesis."
The mest striking example is the asti tade of the Japanese ofioial and
tihe leaders in Hawnd 1.
-20-

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.85)
Hr. Giahiro Masuo, the seoretary of the Japane se Jonaulate stated on
Baptember 12, 1934, to un ing1y:
"1. It is proper way that the mon and wo an whose names
arn recorded in the censue rogister of Japen do re port their
marriao to this Conmmlete, e to.
"2. If they do not report their marria to this Conmulate
they will remain singles in ke Census-Rogiater ar Japan, ad
the birth of their children, there fore will not be peparted to
this efflce but be reported to the Bourd of Hoal th of Terdtory
of Hawa1s.
Mote tida atatgmant: • It is not neoossary to say tmt aion ahildron
hold merdoan oitizaneip enly."
In viow  cn onrielal a inion it is evi ont that no mator what aws
are assed a wit omies t Jaae overnnent mmake to the. . the
stas a e Japaese desoent: will ws ramain hlese md w
mo
Uni oub todly Ja un movs tt tis a breuan of "Intermution cood
Zaith." Jagan met be made to realize tn s she may carry the logie of
necemsity too for.
The resstration a? mrri a is not l, for ever anese youth is
roquired to regater when they beoome ad dlitary . It the youtn don't
do it, at least their prente register it for them, thus avoiding ny seriois
doubt. The mjority of tm Jamese noters in the islan de give every ai
tance to thom. in faot it is sadia that the hotels are too wdlling to cooper
ato with the Ja meae Conslte. The Japanese youths sy:
"The arente are forod to do it, for oterd ss tueir
roltives roaiding in Jan would be unianed, fimd or otneráse
made to suffor."
a. inaidious fo rdgn influence, dangerous t o memoanism are oeng
carded out Andireetly and unless the lamasers of Bamii find weys and means
to harmess and avert suen asuvities, Hami i's situation will be perilous.
THE ALANLING INTTNA TIONA SITUATION B THE
PA OIRIC AND JATAROS MILITANT ATTITUDE TOVARD AMER ICA.
Amerioa in the ourse of her west ward move tevard the yar Sast, fre-
quently pams to near blows with Japan. Tie Japamse belleve, the purohase
of Alaska, the annexation af hilippines and Hamai1. the fumcus John Hay'a
Open-Door Pollay, the Wasnington Jonferonse in 1922, merioa's non-recogmi-
tion poliay of Manamukmo and the extension of airlie aoross the raoifio are
the acte of stepping on Japan's tos, it has aggravated and atraimd the ro-
lationmhip between the two sountries.
Japan on the other hand played a unique role of a strategist. She
studied the art of jujitsu and beome a victor seising and claiming all the
strategie points in the continontal Asia and the facific md directly block-
ing America's peaceful advance. Japan stretohed ber amm teward the nerth
an pessessed the arile and half of sakhalin, directly on the northerm air
sense. she sumingly (in the mme of necessity) seised Kerea and foreefully
seimed time thee Zas tem Frovinoes of Hamomria and Jehol, frustrating the
eeememée espemslon ef the Feers. She pessssses Pemmess amd the shain ef
Lslamis merth of Pomose to Japm roper, blooking mre than hmalf of Chinats
-11-

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.88)
Tas doors ahe holds the my to the msterm half of the rasifis Coean.
theee ahmin of ialends for thousanks of miles, atretoims from Bonin to the
Marshalls and mrres ao the natural airplano oarrier of Japan's air foroo,
cosling staßome for hor avy, rendesvous for her sutarimes and tim step
ping stome for her aruy. The proximity of these idlan s make the Thilip
pines, Guam and Hawai1 vulne rable. Strutegically thay will becomm a diroot
throat to Cal ifornia and possiblo Panama Canal.
The morld's eyes are upon Japan and the Jaited States, mover before
the resirio problom attracted so maan attention. Every move in fokye and
Washington is being fol lowod by wutohnul oyos, they are oager and intensely
interested to mow what will the next move be.
Will Ammrioa give up she come roial El-Dorodo of the Yar East? will
she give up the Pagirio andates to Jopan pemmnently for the sake of "peaoe
at any prico." Grant ing that Amorioa give up the hilippine Ialands and the
Pagifio Eandates, will the sasrifice on se rt of Anmric guaruntee tie
safety and sem rity of Cuam and Hwaii from pn' s Militrlem?
The political exerts and ti int urnstional ace ut uny rice ao-
fists who had hoped and raligloualy believed timt the ashingt n Haval
Treaty nd Nime rower Treaty baomd by Kello gimm would make It impossible
for ay of whe big powers to overthrow the status-que in the asifio were
mis taen. To-day wo find not only Jaan is bont on a polioy of military
conquest und expanalon on the siatio meinland. bat that er vy men apeek
of duplioatiny the sea, the muosessful policy of the Japenose army in the
On Maro 10, 1936, me Japanose War Department 1amued 200,000 pumpalets
titled "The Dotemad mation of the Jaanese Nation at the Time of Orisie."
It de  in pr
"Japen is the tabilising fastor in tho st Asi ani we
world stage is fully quulified in status as wal i as atrength
to ast as a loading power. The Japmese mstion e tadns the mt-
ural and unepiled virtues of the uman being, which has alevated
to a vory high degree of refi mement. The mtional virtues cannot
be compared with the morality of those matlons dven to fi gting
amone themselves on the continents and whose souls have een
ranised and defommed. Their morality is composed of imividual-
imm, egotiem and mmterialiam. The Japsn ese sense of "self" is
not ogo. The "wolf" is to them a mamber f the tate, of wich
the Emperor is the mualeus. In other vords. solf is imeparable
from the State. From this conceptien spring filial pie ty and
loyal ty to the Emperor. If it could be oxtanded to all humen
beings their eventual welfare would be assured."
aur preaant dompatla troubles ase the canggsuegoss of the
impartasion of Weatmm diviliaatien, but the tim in rtuning
for rentifiaadon of the situation. Tim Japanese people mst
realise the mission tint has been entrusted to tam."
The axpeiemes or the pst hmlf a century ms shop that triyial and
fresh demnds. Imstead of al laying thems elvee to the suse of earne st peace
and cooperation for mmtal bemefit, she hme taken adventage of the good-
intontion compromie es, comstantly preserving militunt resouroes for future
Gomasst.
Bot long ago "Ripley' s Beliove it or not" revealed un imerest ing in-
femes ien, refleeting apon Japan's ruthless and alever commraial mes heds.
It revealed thas Japan "in erder to compete with Sedish mas ch maicing fims.
the Japamese named a tom in Japam "Swedon," shen printed Mede in Sweden"
an their mten boxes.
-18 -

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.82)
À deoade aso the publia would ave langed. if anyone prediod Japen's
pmality. It was raliably reparted that the Japaneus, Swodlah and sovies
Bs mat theritios o co to  genent in Re York Ciy with
rmapest to prioe and sales torritories in the U. s., Japan holding the upper
hand over its agree:ent.
Undar t r oritio sittion, it is no proosed by he Jap-
ese govemont to carry oat ito ropaginde in the publio sohoola. the ver-
Leus techniques umployea in the aiffersnt l ald of moveents for we purpose
of promoting Jajanizatlon mus: be Glosely sorutinized, diseoted and then
analyais shouid be mule o tr rolative siifiamt faators.
In every oountry the sonool systan, wet ior in public or in rivate
hande is an importt y in ti durminaton or io utitude or ti net
goneration. The aaocls are te organisal tranamiters of group radition
and of gronp wisuon ad on tho las tio mini of youth groap ohamatere my
be written almost indelibly. Eopeoiay in reoent times te public sohoal.s
have ome doubly aigni'loant.
ontlr   cver  i  in ariod or one cne tion
th majority of t oultion o y aver ute po ro its
sohools and thle gomsration rocoives the impress sosioty sncoses to stam
upon it throagh the saiouls.
flerofore. a jst doal alon b ta cor ole monbes of to lgial sure
mast be emphasized ss vital fastor in sooial nd mationl life.
In presenting tls otition, tne ino-Koronm Poople's Lougue wisn it
be ko n that tho irit  motive of tio tition is xrely for me sake
of dvasome or sotrustiv merinia in li.
If the ae y aigee ble ss or fts tht  embe the
presont politisa stes of te Teritory. wo hoge that the tonorable mombere,
iv tue fuos and hrases you fran d ja oonidetion wd th the same
sirit and motive.
o bellove in  i. d i  eerv sic or its ideal. Un-
fortunately. it soem the resent economic. alugation, roli dous and politi-
cal situation in Hawdi is motuing mor t s an unsiee conromise o that
lulism inuo  iture of non-simlliub forig inrluome and culture
w W dton  Jofforsn h dnsii agt it.
Wi tn sc of r rofo r d te t in
r L t  i      y i
tion in the Roglar Jession uf 1335, Tereitori Lagial ature.
Youre vory respestfully.
(signed)
. . L
(Lypod)
KLYN
Beresnt ative of the Sino-Kore an
eopl a Leage in Haii.
