894.544 Intellectual And Industrial Property. Applications For Patents And Copyrights, Registration Of Particular Trade Marks, And Contests Arising Therefrom Are Arranged Alphabetically Under The Respective Numbers., Copyrights. ** Country (File 1047)
ID: 894.544-1047   Pages: 126   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.544-intellectual-and-industrial-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.544/
894.544-Davis,W.Jefferson/9
Memorandum
SEE
FOR
State Department
5
McClure
Sent.15,1933
FROM.Treaty-Di-via-ion
(
) DATED
111kb/1
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
The Pirating by a Jap ese publisher of a bouk
by an American author,W.Jefferson Davis, entitled
JAPAN - THE AIR MENACE OF THL PACIFIC. In ConneO-
ion wi th this case submits Policy Memorandum Nunber
652. Sees no protection in Ja n for translations.
Urges the importance of adherence by the United States
2
to the International Convention for the Protection of
Literary and Artistic Works.
fpg

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
894.544
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE893.544/46
FOR
Memorandum
State Department
Treaty Division
FROM
(McClure
.) DATED
Oct. 25,1935
894.544/6
TO
NAME
1—1127
Copyright protoction in China and Japan: Conversation with
REGARDING:
Mr. Charles E. Keck, Manager Overseas Dopartment, Scott,
Foresman and Company.
FRG.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.544/7
4.A 2/308
SEE
FOR 1:68
FROM
Japan
(vill) DATED N
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Japanese Coryrirnt Javs.
Re ort elutive to -. Encloser co ies of
Laws and Regulations.
G
7

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.90)
TELEPHONE JOHN 4-I540
CABLE ADDRESS LAHL
E
LARKIN. ANDREWS & MCNAUGITON
HN LARKIN IBG2 
LEXANDERSANDRE
COMMUNNAIONS
ND EDS
COUNSELORS AT LAW
AEGAN AXIVISER
JO NO SIAIG
H
Jilay
MUTUAL LIFE BUILDING
OEPARTMENI
3
936 DEC 9
32 LIBERTY STREET NEW YORK
De cember 8 1936.
Statu Dapartment
Washington, D. C
844.54-
19 1958
Dear Sirs:
894.544/8
We represent publishers Who are interestea
in the situation raised by the unauthorizeu publica-
tion in Japan by certain Japanese ferioaic ls of copy-
righteu American publications.
A few years ago the Register of Copyrights
furnishe us with Copyright Cifice Pulletin No. 1l
in reference to Jupanass Copyricht La. But as that
bulletin is dated 190o it seems possible liat there
may be recent treaties er rotocols .ith Jupan or to
which Japan is a purty wn ch may aifect the present
legal si tuation.
If you can give us any infor..ation on that
subject we will be much ouliged.
Yours truly,
EC
ASA-H
1936
F/FG

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
cemver 19 1936
ta reply refer to
Le 894.544/8
Mr. Alexander S. Andrewe,
Larkin, Andrews and MoNaughton,
32 L1berty Street,
894.544/8
New York, New York.
sir:
Referring to your letter of December 8, 1936, there
are transmitted herewith copies of the two conventions
hereinafter listed which bave been conoluded between the
Un1 ted States and Japan:
(1) Copyright Convention oncluded November 10,
1905, wh1ch became effeotive May 10, 1906.
(2) Convention for the Protection of Trade Marks
in Chima, onoluded May 19, 1908.
Artiele II of this Convention relates to copy-
right proteotion.
Mo subsequent agreement respecting copyrights has
been conoludee between the United States and Japan.
Possibly you my obtain informtion in regard to
the opyright laws of Japan by commmieating with the
Division

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
Divisiom of Commercial Laws, Bureau of Foreign and Domestie
Commeroe, Department of Commeroe.
very truly yours,
For the Acting Seoretary of State:
Green H. Hackworth,
Legal Adviser.
Enclosures:
Copyright Convention concluded
November 10, 1905.
Convention for the Proteotion
of Trade Marks in China,
concluded May 19, 1908.
DEC 18 1930
员
T.D
L:FXW:RH:DW:88
13/15-12/16
mmn
A ty
the sigge
origi-
CM.B.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.94)
1206
Mnrch 81937
e.
The Honorable
Joseph C. Orew,
Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
894.544/8A
The Department's attention has been called,
by the offioe of the Register of Copyrights, to a
Tokyo despatah dated January 27, 1937, published in
the periodioal "Variety" for February 17, 1937. A
copy of the despatoh is enolosed herowith.
It is requested that the Embasay obtain a copy
or other account of the judioial decision referred
to, and transmit the same in translation to the De-
partment. It is further requested that the Embaesy
give attention to the question of the protection of
Amerioan copyrights in Japan and report to the Depart-
ment any cases of whioh it has knowledge in which
infringoment of suoh oopyrights has ooourred.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
RWALTRE
Enclesure:
BY
As stated.
11
FE
TD
:8:37
A bue cops 
F/FG
@m.13.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
LVD
VARIMMY, Pebruary 17, 1937
JAPAN
D. 45.
(Do0.Bk.6, p. 318)
COURT RULING FAVORS COPYRIGHT PIRACY, ALREADY COMMON,
IN JAPAN.
Tokyo, Jan. 27, 1937.
Looks like there's going to be a new freedom for
Jap publishers, producers end recorders who make their
living pirating books, tunes and whatnot from works
copyrighted in other countries. In the past those
gentry have been considerably harassed by the activities
of Dr. Wilhelm Plage, German legalite, who has, at
froquont intervals, haled them into court for copyright
infringement. In most cases compromises were made
before the cases came to trial.
From now on its going to be/horse of another color,
Judge Toshio Fujishima of the Tokyo Looal Court having
deoided Friday (zt) that only the 'victims' of an
infringement are entitled to bring aotion under Japanese
law, and as Dr. Plage was clearly not the 'victim' in
his thirty or more oases pending, no relief could be
expeoted or would be forthcoming.
While Dr. Plage has a number of times appeared for
various foreign interests, the case whioh upset his well-
laid plans to force payment of royalties to his clients
was against the Shochiku Theatrical Co. and its managing
direotor, Shiro Kido, for having produoed Japanese
versions of Meyerferster's Alt Heidelburg at the Tokyo
Shochiku theatre and portions of Pucoini's 'Madame
Butterfly' at the Osaka Kabuki theatre.
Reversal
Lower court decided in favor of Dr. Plage and
assessed a fine of fifty yen against Kido. On appeal,
the higher court reversed the decision, and in doing
so makes it extremely difficult for foreign copyright
owners to protect themselves in this country.
In arguing his case Dr. Plage cited the Berne
Copyright Treaty to whioh Japan is a signatory, but the
Judge deolared no dioe as the Berne Convention did not
provide for transfer of oopyright. Himonner cited
artiole 15 of the Japanese oopyright law, which states
that copyrights, like immovables, must be registered
when

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
when transferred. Such being the case, Dr. Plage
was informed that he could consider that he had only
sustained damages in free competition. As e parting
shot Hizonner pointed out that artiole 44 of the
Japanese law requires that suit be brought in the
name of the 'viotim.'
Typed by MPF -
Rovised KGC-MPF
February 26, 1937.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
0
6
4.544/
SEE
554.A 2/371a
FOR#1243
6
FROXJapan
(Gre) DATEDApr. 22.1937
TO
NAME
1127
REGARDING:
Rome (1928) Revision of the Convention for the
Protection of Literary and Artistic Works.
Requests information in connection with report
that Japanese courts are failing to enforce
the provision of the Convention which requires
copyright without formality.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 16, 1937.
This is a long and somewhat involved
report on a judgment in a Japanese court
affecting foreign copyright protection in
Japan. It is of interest to FE largely
for purposes of reference.
At the present time copyright protec-
tion of American citizens in Japan is
dependent upon the obtaining of Japanese
copyrights by such American citizens in
accordance with Japanese law, in as much
as the United States has not adhered to
the Berne convention for the protection
of conyrights. Our treaty with Japan makes
no mention of copyrights, and whatever
treaty right to copyright protection in
Japan as American citizens are in position
to claim would probably derive from that
part of the treaty which states that Ameri-
can citizens shall have liberty generally
to do anything incident to or necessary for
trade upon the same terms as native sub-
jects. The Embassy is not aware of any
current instance of infringement in Japan
of Japanese copyrights owned by American
citizens.
FE:WTTVIC

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.91)
TD
LEGALVADVISER
JuL 20 1937
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Le
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2486.
Tokyo, June 26, 1937.
SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT JUDGMENT.
C
Coby to loamnce
PAN FASTERN AFFAIRS
9371  1 35
2 Copisto Obyn'k affice
SNO
(1byhadd) 713-14)37
394.544/10
SRDS
TREATY DIVISION
CO
A
JUL 131937
AC/
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECORDINC DFSK
For Distribution-Chek
Yes
No
Grade
For
In U. S.A.
The Secretary of State,
T
Washington.
15-1937
sif:
A-0/C
The Embassy duly received the Department's instructions
554.4237/a
1206, March 8, 1937, and No. 1243, Apri1 22, 1937,
in Japan. Instruction No. l206 enclosed copy of an arti-
81937
cle in the February 17, l937, issue of the periodical
PTPD
VARIETY, reporting an alleged Japanese court decision de-
rogatory to the protection of foreign copyrights in Japan;
and instruction No. 1243 referred to statements by Mr.
John G. Paine that the courts of Japan have held that
foreign copyrights cannot be protected in Japan except
upon compliance with the formalities of Japanese registra-
tion.
The Embassy has carefully investigated the matter and
G
believes

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
believes that both Mr. Paine and the article in VARIETY
refer to the same court decision delivered by the Tokyo
Ku Saibansho (Tokyo Local Court) on December 28, 1936.
To understand this case certain background is necessary.
From March 31 to April 11, 1934, the Shochiku Kogyo
Kabushiki Kaisha (Shochiku Theatrical Company) caused to
be played at its theater in Asakusa, Tokyo, acts II to V
of Meyer-Foerster's "Alt Heidelberg" and from May 1 to
May 16, 1934, caused to be played at its theater in Sen-
nichimae, Osaka, extracts from Puccini's "Madam Butterfly".
Dr. Wilhelm Plage of Tokyo, who represents a large number
of European and American copyright owners, entered & legal
complaint against the above performances.
Dr. Plage had before him two alternatives: either to
bring civil suit against the theatrical company for damages,
or to cause criminal proceedings to be brought. Civil
action in Japan takes a long time, generally from two to
five years, and criminal proceedings therefore have certain
advantages. The Japanese judicial system, based on the
system of Roman law, gives to the public procurators exten-
sive authority, including certain powers partaking of the
powers of the judges. It was to the public procurator of
the Tokyo Local Court that Dr. Plage took his complaint.
The procurator investigated the complaint, found basis for
criminal proceedings, and fined the legal representative
of the theatrical company (Mr. Shiro Kido) in the sum of
fifty yen. Dissatisfied with this action, the theatrical
company then exercised its right of having the procurator's
action reviewed by the court; and the court (Tokyo Local
Court, Judge Toshio Fujishima) reversed the procurator's
decision

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
decision and dismissed the case on the grounds that, for
the purposes of Japanese law, the complainant was not the
proved owner of the copyright in question.
From this decision Dr. Plage had and has no right of
appeal. The action is a criminal action, and the court
weighs the case as between the public procurator and the
theatrical company which protests the procurator's fine.
The copyright owners are free to proceed with civil action
for damages, and are free to cause other criminal actions
to be brought in specific cases. But appeal from the de-
cision of December 28 by the complainant is not possible
under the Japanese legal system. The December 28 decision
rests upon the principle that in instances of foreign
copyrights, a criminal case against infringement can not
be instituted by a party claiming to be an assignee unless
the assignment has been duly registered in Japan previous
to the infringement. On June 12, 1934, after the infringing
performances, the complainant submitted to the court (in
the person of the procurator) evidence of acting for the
assignee in both instances of infringement. Dr. Plage,
acting through Japanese attorney, had had the complaint
brought in the name of the Vertriebstelle und Verlag Deutscher
Buehnenschriftsteller und Buehnenkomponisten, a German com-
pany (Germany being an adherent of the Berne convention for
the protection of literary and artistic works, of which
Japan is also an adherent), assignee (19l4) of the German
copyright of "Alt Heidelberg" originally held by Meyer-
Foerster, and in the name of G. Ricordi, an Italian firm
(Italy being also an adherent of the convention), assignee
(l90l) of the Italian copyrights of "Madam Butterfly"
originally held by Giacomo Puccini (music) and Giuseppe
Giacosa

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Giacosa and L. Illica (words). The decision of December
28, 1936, cites the signature of the revised Berne con-
vention on June 2, l928, and ratification by Japan on
June 5, 1931, but finds that the convention is for the
protection of authors and lacks provisions for cases in-
volving assignment of copyrights by authors. Since such
provisions are lacking the court has recourse to the pro-
visions of Japanese law, which are to govern in all in-
stances except those otherwise provided by treaty.
The court then cites article 15 of th Japanese copy-
right law which provides that the assignment of copyrights
is not enforceable against third parties unless such as-
signment is duly registered under Japanese law prior to
the infringement. Because assignment of the "Alt Heidel-
berg" and "Madam Butterfly" copyrights to the complaining
firms was not registered prior to the infriuging performances,
the case is dismissed.
Has this decision of December 28, 1936, fixed an important
principle in the law of international copyright protection
in Japan? The Embassy's opinion is that it has not. (1)
It is a lower court decision. (2) Competent legal advice ex-
presses the view that it is in probable conflict with pre-
vious verdict of a higher court. (3) The December 28 deci-
sion is of limited applicability, being in a criminal pro-
ceeding. (4) It is colored by the effects of a bitter feud
between Dr. Plage and Japanese theatrical interests. (5)
Recent prompt attachment of some ten thousand volumes by
another Japanese court in response to an action brought by
Dr. Plage on behalf of foreign assignees of foreign copy-
rights indicates that no sweeping new principle is generally
recognized.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
recognized.
For the confidential information of the Department,
the Embassy believes it worth mentioning, for purposes
of appraisal of the significance of the decision of
December 28, 1936, the pertinent fact that there has
often been, among Japanese, doubt of the legal competence
of Dr. Plage to act for European and American copyright
owners whom he has often stated to be his clients. Some
Japanese have at times felt that he was pressing a few
cases in court and obtaining many private settlements
out of court for which he had no legal responsibility.
This doubt has of course given rise to resentment.
The Embassy notes the Department's mention of possible
adherence of the United States to the Rome revision (l928)
of the Berne convention, by action of the Senate at the
present session. At the present time, so far as the Embassy
is aware, copyright protection of American citizens in
Japan is dependent upon the obtaining of Japanese copyrights
by such American citizens in accordance with Japanese law.
PaTeus
(For the copyright laws and regulations of Japan the De-
partment is respectfully referred to enclosures Nos. 1, 2,
and 3 to despatch No. 1568, November 29, 1935.) Article
XV of the treaty of commerce and navigation between the
United States and Japan signed at Washington on February
21, l9l1, provides for the protection of American citizens
in regard to patents, trade-marks, and designs, upon fulfill-
ment of the formalities prescribed by law. The treaty makes
no mention, in any article, of copyrights. Such treaty
right to copyright protection in Japan as American citizens
are

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
are in position to claim probably derives from that part
of the first article of the l9ll treaty which states that
American citizens shall have liberty genera ly to do any-
thing incident to or necessary for trade upon the same
terms as native subjects, submitting themselves to the
laws and regulations established in Japan.
.The Embassy is not aware of any current instance of
infringement in Japan of Japanese copyrights owned by
American citizens. But adherence to the erne convention
by the United States should add substantially to the protec-
ticn of American literary and artistic works in this coun-
try, by reason of making compliance with Japanese formali-
ties unnecessary. It is the opinion of the Embassy, and
it is also the opinion of legal authorities consulted by
the Embassy, that the Japanese courts desire (for prestige
if for no other reason) to protect foreign copyrights under
the terms of the Berne convention. A question which makes
copyright litigation in this country a somewhat precarious
matter is that precedents to assist in determining extent
of damages are few and inconclusive, and it will be a matter
of time for the courts to build up a body of precedent
which will make the determination of damages practically
automatic; but the Embassy sees no reason to doubt that
such precedents will little by little be accumulated. With
increasing judicial protection of foreign copyrights, adherence
to the Berne convention by the United States should become
more and more profitable, so far as American rights in
Japan

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.91)
- 7 -
Japan are concerned.
Respectfully yours,
Mh. 
Joseph C. Grew
854.
CC:g

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.89)
Jaly 26 1937
COEFIDENTIAL
My dear Senater Duffy:
You may pesmibly reeall that, in the midat of his
tessimeny befere the Bubeemmittee of the Committee of
Fereign Relations, of whieh you are Chairman, Mr. John G.
Paime, en Apr1l 12, 1937, made certain remarks about
894.
a ease befere a eeurt in Japan mhieh he regarded as
of impertasse to Amsriean cepyright interests.
544/
As a result of this testimemy, the Department in-
strusted she Amerieam Ambassader at Tokye to investi-
sate the situatien, partieularly in the light of the
0
probeble usefulmess of the Geaventien fer the Pretection
of laterary and Artistie Werks in preteeting Ameriean
Seste in Japm.
As you kmes, dapen is ene of the twe er three eut-
stamding ceuntries in which Amerieas cepyright helders
have expesiensed greatest diffieulties beesmse of the
lesk ef smffieient preteetion.
the Bepartmsat has new recstved a despatek frem
F
the
1
AA
the Zenerable
9.
t.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
Ambasseder at Tekye, dated Jume 26, 19s7, which een-
tains the fellewing statement.
"The Rbassy metes the Department's
mentiem of possible adherenee of the Daited
States to the Reme revisiom (19se) of the
Berme conventiom, by estion of the Senate
at the present sessiom. At the present time,
so far as the Embassy is aware, copyright
protection of Ameriean citizens in Japan
is dependent upon the obtaining of Japanese
copyrights by sueh Ameriean eitizens in
aesordance with Japanese law. (For the
copyright laws and regulations of Japan
the Department is respectrully referred
to enelosures Nos. 1. 2, and 3 to despatch
No. 1568, November 29, 1935.) Artiole IV
of the treaty of commeroe and navigation
between the Umited States and Japan signed
at Washington em February 2l, l9ll, provides
fer the preteetien of merieam citizens in
regard to patents, trade-marks, and designs,
upem fulrillment of the formalities preseribed
by law. The treaty makes no mention, in any
artiele, of copyrights."
There remains in force, it is true, the convention of
190s, between the Umited States and Japan, dealing with
cepyrights, but it fails to furaish adequate protectiom.
he mbessy adds that:
"Adherenee to the Berme convention by
 United states ahould add substantially
t the pretestien of Ameriean literary and
artistie works im this country, by reascm of
makirg compliance with Japanese formalities
ummessary. It is the epinion of the Embessy,
and it is also the opimion of legal authorities
ceasulted by the Embassy, that the Japanese
courts desire (for prestige if for no ether
reasem) to preteet foreign cepyrights under
the terms of the Berme comvemtiom. A questien
which makes cepyrighs litigaticn in this country
a semewhat preearious metter is thet precedents
te assist in determining extent of damages are
fow and ineemelusive, and it will be a matter
of sime for the courts to build up a body of
presedent whiek will make the determinatien
a

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.88)
-8
ef dameges prestieally antematies but the
Vith inereasing judicial preteetien ef fereign
cepyrights, adherenee to the Berme eeavention
by the Uaited states should become more and
more prefitable, so far as Ameriean rights in
Japan are coneeraed."
sineerely yours,
Wallece MeClure, Chairman,
Interdepartmental Committee on Copyright.
A true copy of
thened origi-
OR
Thoted
7/16/37
FE
QMB.
LE
JUL 25. 1937.: 0::
m.m.1A
7716737

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.90)
Mly 26 1957
COHEIDENTIAL
My dear Semater Pittmen:
As a result of testimony given befere the suboem-
mittee of the Gemmittee en Foreign Relatiens which,
under the Chairmanship of the Nenerable F. Ryan Duffy,
held hearings en April 12 and 13, 1937, on the pending
894.
cepyright treaty, the Department instrusted the American
Zmbassy at Tekye to investigate eertain phases of the
544/10
situatien in Japan, as it affests the sights of Ameriean
euners of eopyrights.
The Department is now in reseipt of a despatch,
dated Jume 26, 1957, frem the Embassy, in which the
fellowing statemsmt eceurs.
"the Eabessy netes the Departmeat's
mentsem ef pesslhe adhezenee of the Vaited
F/AA
the Bopertmont is zespestfully referred
to
The Zemesable
Ley Páttmm.
dted tetes emte.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.94)
at Waskingten en February 21, l9ll, prevides
fer the preteetiem of Amerieem eitisems in
regard te petents, trade-marks, and desigas,
by law. The treaty makes no mention, in any
artiele, of eepyrights."
There remmins in foree, it is true, the conventiom of
1908, between the United States and Japan, dealing with
sepyrights, but it fails to furnish adequate protection.
The Embassy adds that:
"Adherence to the Berne conventiom by
the Uaited states should add substantially
to the pretestiem of Amerieam literary and
artistie works in this country, by reason of
making sompliance with Japanese formalities
ummessssary. It is the epiniom of the Embassy,
and it is alse the opimiom of legal authorities
consalted by the Embassy, that the Japanese
eeurts desire (for prestigo if for no other
reasem) to protest foreign sopyrights under
the terms of the Berne convention. A question
whiek makes cepyright litigatiom in this eountry
a semewhat presarious matter is that preeedents
te assist in determining extent of damages are
fow and ineemelusive, and it will be a matter
of time for the courts to build up a body of
ef dameges prestieally autematie; but the
Dmbassy sees me reason to doubt that suck
préeedeats will little by little be aeeumlated.
With imsreesing judieil protestiem of fereign
by the Uaited states sheuld beeeme mere and
mare prefitable, se far as Amerieam rights
in Japen are eoneermed."
As yom knew, Japen is one of the twe or three out-
stending comtries in whick Ameriean cepyright helders
. have experieneed greatest dirfieulties because ef the
100k

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.85)
-8
Lesk ef saffietent preteetion.
sineerely yours,
Wallaee MeClure, Chairman,
Interdepartmental Committee on Copyright.
ue copy of
signed origi
OF
nal
JUI 71937。
BN
Thoted,
Jus
LE
FE
nm.n
UL25,1937.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.92)
to
July 23 1937
Beer Mr. Everett:
In respemse to iastrustions frem this Department,
the American Embassy at Tokyo has transmitted despatch
89
me. s6ss, dated Jume 26, 198?, relating te the judgment
4
of e Japanese eourt in a matter pertaining te cepyright.
544/
A eepy ef this despateh is enelesed herewith.
As the mtter dealt with is of cemsiderable imper-
tamee to American cemmersial interests, it is suggested
that you may eare te make kmewn the centents of the
despateh te the representatives of these erganisatiems
with whem you have zesently been in eenferenee and per-
heps alse to eartain ethers, sesh as the Ameziean society
of Gemposess, Authers and Publishers. Gepies of the
despateh have besm traasmitted to the Register of Gepy-
zights end eestain pertiens of the despatch are being
tremsmitted te the Ghairmen of the senate Gommattee en
F/
Peseigm Relatiene and te the Ghairmen of the subeemmittee
thereef
AA
ursa Evesett, Begare,
ief of mvien ef Gommersial Lams.
Sepertnt of Commree.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.90)
thereef, appeinted te consider the pending Genventien fer
the Pretectiem ef Literary and Artistie Werks. Inferme-
tien cemmumieated to persons outside the Government
ought mot to be attributed to this Department or to the
Embassy.
sineerely yours,
Wallaee MoClure, Chairman
N1.
Enolosure:
FE
1937
From Embassy, Tokyo
m.m.t
no. 2486, June 26, 1937.
LE
Thoted
A thue copy of
uL 2s,19373
37
nR
the aigned origi-
07113

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.88)
July 28 1937
Bear Golonel Bouvé:
Seme moaths age you brought to my attention a Tekyo
dempateh dated Janwary 27, 1937, publ1shed in the per1-
odieal Vazietl for Pebruary 17, 1937, regarding a judi-
8
eial decisien in Jagan affeeting copyrights. Ls a ze-
6
44
sals of your eemmmieation, the Department sent an in-
544/1
strustien, dated Mareh 8, 19s7, to the Ameriean Embassy
at Tekye, requesting iaformation regarding aetion of
the court. subeequently, the Embassy was infermed of
0
eertain testimemy given by Mr. Jehn G. Paine, Chairmen
of the Beard of the Musie Publishers' preteetive Assccis-
sáen, befere a hearing held by a sabeemmittee of the
Sttee en Fereige Relatiens ef the senate, mhich wes
eemstésring the pending Geaventien fer the preteetion of
Láterary and Artistie Verks. This testimeny apparently
seferred te the same ease that had been reperted in
Dariatz.
The
F/AA
Gelenel 6. L. Louré,
Regleter of ppighte,
Aheery ef Gegress.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.94)
The Department is mew in receipt of a despatch,
2406, dated Jume 26, 1937, from the American Embassy
at Tokye, relating to the judgment in question. A copy
of this despatoh is enclosed herewith.
Sincerely yours,
Wallace MoClure,
Chairman, Interdepartmental
Committee on Copyright.
Enclosure:
From Eabassy, Tokyo
Le. 2486, June 26, 1937,
(copy).
hoted
vn
JUL 17 1937.
137
7/16/
FE
JUL 22. 19373
ONO.13.
LE
n.md
A true copy of
7/15
the signed origi-

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
File
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
RECEIVED
Wrare
DEPARTMETUST AND DOMESTIC COMMERCE
WASHINGTON
1937 JUL 30 PM 38
July 28, 1938
DIVISION OF
COHMUPCATIONS
Dr. Wallace MAdlure, ChtS rman
25-JLB
IN REPLY REFER TO
Interdepartmental Committee on Conyriht
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. McClure:
In Mr. Everett's ausence, I nave to ac iovledre your
letter of July 23 in wicn you kiidly call our attentioo to Des-
patch No. 2486, dated June 26, 1937, from tne American Emvassy
at Tokyo, rel-ting to tre juogment of a Japanese court in a mat-
ter pertaining to copyrignt.
The decision is an important one, and I am confident
894.544/1
that it will be of interest to tnose organizations witn wnom we
nave recently been in conference as well as others concerned with
copyright matters.
I am going to bring tis matter to t e attention of
tnose Divisions nic. nave veen morki.. witn tnis Division in the
conferences recently nad witn organizations inter sted in liter-
ary and artistic property protection. In accordance with your
suggestion, I shall remind them tnat infornation communicated to
persons outsice the Government in tnis rerard sn? ld not be t-
triouted to tue Departmert of State or the Am rican E...assy at
Tokyo.
Very truly yours,
James L. Brovm,
Acting Cnief, Division of Commercial Laws.
F/AA

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
DEPARTMENT OFWTANSTON
August 26, 1937.
DIVISION OF
Dr. Wallace MeClure, Chainman,
IN REPLY REFER TO 25
Interdeparthtental Committee on Copyright,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. McClure:
89
4.544/1
Our Motion Picture Division forwarded to
Mr. Gabriel L. Hess an abstract of the despatch from
the Embassy at Tokyo, enclosed with your letter
TD 894.544/10. of July 23. Mr. Hess in turn forwarded
the abstract to Mr. Edwin P. Kilroe, Legal Department
of the Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation. Mr. Hess
has now sent me a copy of a letter which he received
2
from Mr. Kilroe, from which I take, for your informa-
tion, the following:
"I have read the opinion with much
interest. Of course, I cannot agree with
the contention that we would have full
copyright protection in Japan without formali-
ties if we immediately adhere to the Berne
Convention. The reservations made by Japan
on her adherence to the various Berne
Conventions reserve to Japan formalities
APR
and translation rights. Japan has never
FILED
given up these rights even in her treaty
relations with other countries.
：胃
191
"The opinion apparently has overlooked
C2
3
our treaty with Japan which was signed
at Tokyo on November 10, 1905, and ratified
by the United States Senate on February 28.
1906, approved by the President of the
United States on March 7, 1906, ratified by
Japan on April 28, 1906, and proclaimed by
the President of the United States on May
ATY DIVISION
17, 1906. Under this treaty or convention,
LG30 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
the works of subjects or citizens of the United
States are protccted "on the same basis on
which protection is granted" to the subjects or
citizens of Jepan. Each party to that convention
reserves to itself translation rights. Article
2 of the treaty provides:
The subjects or citizens of each
of the two High Contracting Parties
may, without authorization, translate
books, pamphlets, or other writings,
dramatic works and musical composi-
tions published in the dominions
of the other by the subjects or citi-
zens of the latter, and print and
publish such translations.'
"Dr. McClure of the Department of State, at a hear-
ing before the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs on March
28, 1934, in discussing this treaty, said:
The Bi-Lateral Treaty gives us no
protection whatever in the matter of
translations. We tried to get it
when we negotiated the agreement and
we failed. The Japanese would not
give it.
The opinion states:
'But adherence to the Berue Convention
by the United States should aid sub-
stantially to the protection of
American literary and artistic works
in this country, by reason of making
compliance with Japanese formalities
unnecessary.'
"As I have already indicated in making this statement,
the opinion is mistaken and overlooks the reservations
that Japan has always kept when she adhered to the various
Berne Conventions. The present adherence of the United
States to the Berne Convention would not add one iota to the
protection to the works of Amcrican citizens in Japan. In

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
-3 -
order to give Americ an authors full protection, it would
be necessary to redraft the Berne Convention, setting
forth in detail the rights enjoyed in each country and
these rights, of course, should be identical for each
country. This position has been fully explained in the
survey made by the Motion Picture Industry on the ad-
herence of the United States to the Berne Convention
and in all statements made by the Industry before the
various committees at Washington.
"Piracy of works of American authors, including
musical works, is very prevalent in Japan and my informa-
tion is that the piracy is not restricted to the works of
American authors. As a matter of fact, there is now in
distribution in Japan, without authority or peralssion,
a series of Shirley Temple song albums."
Very truly yours,
C
Querna
Evereh
Guerra Everett,
Chief, Division of Commercial Laws.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
3
RECEIVED
FOX
SIDNEY R.KENT
nna
ARTMENT OF STATE
TWENTIETH CENTURY-FOX FILM CORPORATION
19382242
HEAD OFFICE 444 WEST 56T STREET, NEW YORK
OF THE WORLD
BRANCHES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES
COMMNS
January 31, 1938.
Legal Department
File
Dr. Wallace McClure,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
894.544/1
My dear Doctor McClure:
Please pardon the delay in writing to you on the
copyright problem in Japan which we discussed before
Senator Duffy on Friday, January 14, 1938.
I have cabled our solicitors in England for infor-
mation on the grievances, if any, of the English book
publishers, music publishers and English Performing Right
3
Society. I have also cabled our copyright advisers in
Japan for information on this point.
I call your attention to the decision in Japan of
December 28, 1936, on the Doctor Plage case, which of
course does not answer our problem. The decision in that
case rested upon the failure of Dr. Plage to comply with
Article 15 of the Japanese Copyright Act, referring to the
registration of assignments of copyright. For your ready
reference, I am enclosing the following:
MAY 231
A brief statement of the Plage case, to which there
is attached a discussion by N. D. Golden of the Motion
FILED
Picture Division, Department of Commerce; a statement by
myself; clippings from various newspapers; and an opinion
from McIvor, Kauffman, Smith & Yamamoto of Tokyo. There
3
is also attached the following newspaper clippings:
Motion Picture Daily July 10, 1936, Variety October 14,
1936 and Sun February 14, 1935 (a very interesting article).
I am also enclosing a letter sent to me by Mr. A. G. Doyle,
dated June 8, 1937.
As soon as I hear from our solicitors in England
and Japan, I will forward the data to you.
Very sincerely yours,
EgNibao
EDWIN P. KILROE
EPK:G

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
COPYRIGHT PROTECTION OF WORKS OF FOREIGN
AUTHORS IN JAPAN - BERNE CONVENTION
LO CAL COURT
TOKYO, JAPAN
VERTRIEBSTELLE UND VERL AG DEUTSCHER
BUCHNENSCHRI FTSTELLER UND BUCHNENCOMPONISTEN,
a German company (Dr. Wilhelm Plage, Agent),
December 28,
Plaintiff,
1936
versus
: Judge Toshio
Fujishima.
SHOCKIKU THEATRICAL COMPANY,
Defendant.
STATEMENT
Vertriebstelle und Verlag Deutscher Buchnenschrift-
steller und Buchnencomponisten performed in a theatre in
Tokyo in March and April 1934 parts of ALT HEIDELRERG by Meyer-
Foerster and MADAM BUTTERFLY from May 1 to May 16, 1934, without
permission of the ∞ pyright proprietors.
Dr. Wilhelm Plage representing the copyright proprie-
tors (Vertriebstelle und Verlag Deutscher Buchnenschrift-
steller und Buchnencomponisten) of the two works, lodged a
complaint with the public procurator at Tokyo who fined the
defendant 50 yen. The defendant had the act ion of the
procurator reviewed by the Local Court.
The Local Court reversed the procurator's decision
and dismissed the case on the ground that the assignment from
the copyright proprietors to Dr. Plage had not been registered
under Article 15 of the Japanese Copyright Law. Inasmuch as
the action was of a criminal nature, the plaintiff had no
right of appeal.
Contents:
1. Discussion and criticism by N. D. Golden,
Chief of the Motion Picture Division,
Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C.
2.
Criticism by Edwin P. Kilroe,
August 13, 1937.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
COPYRIGHT PROTECTION OF WORKS OF FOREIGN
AUGHORS IN JAPAN - BERNE CONVENTION
3. Clippings:
(a)
Variety, February 17, 1937
(b)
Variety, June 23, 1937
(c)
Japan Advertiser (see letter from
A. G. Doyle, June 8, 1937)
4.
Opinion by Mc Ivor, Kauffman, Smith
and Yamamoto, September 14, 1937.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
COPYRIGHT PROTECTION OF WORKS OF FOREIGN
AUTHORS IN JAPAN - BERNE CONVENTION
Discussion and criticism by N. D. Golden, Chief
of the Motion Picture Division, Department of
Commerce, Washington, D.C.
An article in the February 17, 1937 issue of the
periodical VARIETY, reporting an alleged Japa.iese court
decision derogatory to the protection of foreign copy-
rights in Japan referred to statements by Mr. John G.
Paine that the courts of Japan have held that foreign
copyrights cannot be protected in Japan except upon
compliance with the fomnalities of Japanese registration.
Careful investigation of the matter reveals that
both lr. Paine and the article in VARIETY refer to the
same court decision delivered by the Tokyo Ku Saibansho
(Tokyo Local Court) on December 2&, 1936. To under-
stand this case certain background is necessary.
From March 31 to April 11, 1934, the Shochiku
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha (Shochiku Theatrical Company)
caused to be played at its theater in Asalusa, Tokyo,
acts II to V of Heyer-Foerster's "Alt Heidelberg" and
from liay 1 to May 16, 1934, caused to be played at
its theater in Sennichimae, Osaka, extracts from Puccini's
"Madam Lutterfly". Dr. Wilhelm Piage of Tokyo, who
represents a large nuiber of European and American copy-
right ovmers, entered a le al complaint against the
above performances.
Dr. Pla e had before him two alternatives; either
to bring civil suit against the theatrical company for
damages, or to cause criminal proceedings to be brought.
Civil action in Japan takes a long time, generally from
two to five years, and criminal proceedings therefore
have certain advantages. The Japanese judicial system,
based on the system of Roman law, gi es to the public
procurators extensive authority, including certain
powers partaking of the powers of the judges. It was
to the public procurator of the Tokyo Local Court that
Dr. Plage took his complaint. The procurator investi-
gated the complaint, found basis for criminal proceedings,
and fined the legal representative of the theatrical
company (Mr. Shiro Kido) in the sum of fifty yen. Dis-
satisfied with this action, the theatrical company then
exercised its right of having the procurator's action
reviewed by the court; and the court (Tokyo Local
Court, Judge Toshio Fujishima) reversed the procurator's
decision and dismissed the case on the grounds that,
for the purposes of Japanese law, the complainant was

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
COPYRIGHT PROTECTION OF WORKS OF FOREIGN
AUTHORS IN JAPAN - BERNE CONVENTION
not the proved owmer of the copyright in question.
From this decision Dr. Plage had and has no right
of appeal. The action is a criminal action, and te
court weighs the case as between the public procurator
and the theatrical company which protests the procura-
tor's fine. The copyright owners are free to proceed
with civil action for dama es, and are free to cause
other criminal actions to be brought in specific cases.
But appeal from the decision of Decemb r 28 by the com-
plainant is not possible under the Japanese legal system.
The December 28 decision rests upon the principle that in
instances of foreign copyrights, a criminal case against
infringement can not be instituted by a party claiming to
be an assignee unless the assignment has been duly regis-
tered in Japan previous to the infringement. On June 12,
1934, after the infringing performances, the com, lainant
submitted to the court  in the person of the procurator)
evidence of acting for the assignee in both instances of
infringement. Dr. Plage, acting through Japanese attorney,
had had the complaint brought in the name of the Vertrieb-
stelle und Verlag Deutscher Buchnenschriftsteller und
Buchnenkomponisten, a German company (Germany being an
adherent of the Berne convention for the protection of
literary and artistic works, of which Japan is also an
adherent), assignee (19l4) of the German copyright of
"Alt Heidelberg" originally held by Meyer-Foerster, and
in the name of C. Ricordi, an Italian firm (Italy being
also an adherent of the convention), assignee (190l) of
the
Italian copyrights of "Liadam Butterfly" originally held
by Giacomo Puccini (music) and Giuseppe Giacosa and
L. Illica (words). The decision of December 2, 1936
cites the signature of the revised Berne convention on
June 2, 1928, and ratification by Japan on June 5, 1931,
but finds that the convention is for the protection of
authors and lacks provisions for cases involving assign-
ment of copyrights by authors. Since such provisions are
lacking the court has recourse to the provisions of
Japanese law, which are to govern in all instances except
those otherwise provided by treaty.
The court then cites article 15 of the Japanese copy-
right law which provides that the assignment of copyrights
is not enforceable against third parties unless such as-
signment is duly registered under Japanese law prior to
the infringement. Because signment of the "Alt

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
COPYRIGIT PROTECTION OP WORKS OF PORHIGN
ATHOR IN JAAN -  COVTIN
Heidelberg" and "Madam Butterfly" copyrights to the
complaining firms was not registered prior to the in-
fringing performances, the case is dismissed.
Has this decision of December 28, 1936, fixed
an important principle in the law of international
copyright protection in Japan? Opinion is that it has
not. (1) It is a lower court decision. (2) Compe-
tent legal advice expresses the view that it is in
probable conflict with previous verdict of a higher
court. (3) The December 28 decision is of limited
applicability, being in a criminal prcceeding. (4) It
is colored by the effects of a bitter feud between Dr.
Plage and Japanese theatrical interests. (5) Recent
prompt attachment of some ten thousand volumes by an-
other Japanese court in response to an action brought
by Dr. Plage on behalf of foreign assignees of foreign
copyrights indicates that no sweeping new principle is
generally recognized.
It is confidentially believed that for purposes
of appraisal of the significance of the decis ion of
December 28, 1936, the pertinent fact that there has
often been, amon Japanese, doubt of the legal compet-
ence of Dr. Plage to act for European and American copy-
right owners whom he has often stated to be his clients.
Some Japanese have at times felt that he was pressing
a few cases in court and obtaining many private settle-
ments out of court for which he had no legal responsi-
bility. This doubt has of course given rise to resentment.
It is noted that there is a liklihood of possible
adherence of the United States to the Rome revision
(1928) of the Berne convention, by action of the Senate
at the present session. At the present t ime, so far
as is known, copyright protection of American citizens
in Japan is dependent upon the obtaining of Japanese
copyrights by such American citizens in accordance with
Japanese law. Article XV of the treaty of commerce and
navigation between the United States and Japan signed at
Washington on February 21, 19ll, providesfor the protec-
tion of American citizens in regard to patents, trade-
marks, and designs, upon fulfillment of the formalities
prescribed by law. The treaty makes no mention, in any
article, of copyrights. Such treaty right to copyright
protection in Japan as American citizens are in position
to claim probably derives from that part of the first

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
COPYRIGHT PROTECTION OF WORKS OF FOREIGN
AUTHORS IN JAPAN - BERNE CONVENTION
article of the l9ll treaty which states that American
citizens shall have liberty generally to do anything
incident to or necessary for trade upon the same ternms
as native subjects, submitting thenselves to the laws
and regulations estailished in Japan.
There is no indication of any current instances
of infringement in Japan of Japanese copyrights owned
by American citizens. But adherence to the Berne con-
vention by the United States should add substantially
to the protection of American literary and artistic
works in this country, by reason of making compliance
with Japanese formalities unnecessary. It is the opinion
of legal authorities consulted that the Japanese courts
desire (for prestige if for no other reason) to protect
foreign copyrights under the terms of the Berne conven-
tion. A question which makes copyright litigation in
this country a somewhat precarious atter is that prece-
dents to assist in determining extent of danages are few
and inconclusive, and it will be a matter of time for the
courts to build up a body of precedent which will make
the determination of damages practically automatic; but
there is no reason to doubt that such precedents will
little by little be accunulated. With increasing judicial
prot ection of foreign copyrights, adherence to the Derne
convention by the United States should become more and
more profitable, so far as American rights in Japan are
concerned.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
COPYRIGHT PROTECTION OF WORKS OF FOREIGN
AUTHORS IN JAPAN - BERNE CONVENTION
Crit1cism by Edwin P. K1lroe, August 13, 1937
lany thanks for your letter of August
11, 1937 in which you enclose an opinion from r.
N. D. Golden of the Departnent of Comnerce on copy-
right protection in Japan.
I have read Nr. Golden's opinion with
much interest. Of course, I cannot agre with Hr.
Golden's contention that we would have full copyright
protection in Japan without formalitics if we im ediately
adhere to the Berne Convention. The reservations made
by Japan on her adherence to the various Berne Conven-
tions reserve to Japan for alities and translation
rights. Japan has never iven up these rights even in
her trouty relations with other countries.
Mr. Golden apparently has overlooked
our treaty with Japan which was signed at Tokyo on
November 10, 1905 and ratified by the United States
Senate on February 20, 1906, approved by the President
of the United States on Harch 7, 1906, ratified by Japan
on April 28, 1906 and proclai ed by the Preside t of the
Unitcd States on ay 17, 1906. Under this trcaty or
convention, the works of subjects or citizens of the
United States are protected "on the same basis on which
protection is granted" to the subjects or citizens of
Japan. Each party to that convention reserves to itself
translation rights. Article 2 of the treaty provides:
"The subjects or citizens of each of the two
High Contracting Parties may, without author-
ization, translate books, pampilets, or other
writings, dramatic vorks and musical composi-
tions published in the dominions of the other
by the subjects or citizens of the latter, and
print and publish such translations".
Dr. McClure of the State Department, at a
hearing before the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs on
March 28, 1934 in discussing this treaty, said:
"The Bi-Lateral Treaty gives us no protection
whatever in the matter of translations. We
tried to get it when we negotiated the agree-
ment and we failed. The Japanese would not
give it."

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
COPYRIGHT PROTECTION OF WORKS OF POREIGN
AUTHORS IN JAPAN - BERNE CONVENTION
Mr. Golden states:
"But adherence to the Berne Convention by
the United States should aid substantial!y
to the protection of Americ an literary and
artistic works in this country, by reason
of making compliance with Japanese formal-
ities unnecessary".
As I have already indicated in making
this statement, Mr. Golden is mistaken and overlooks
the reservations that Japan has always kept when she
adhered to the various Berne Conventions. The preseni,
adherence of the United States to the Berne Convention
would not add one iota to the protection to the works
of American citizens in Japan. In order to give
American authors full protection, it would be necessary
to re-draft the Berne Convent ion setting forth in detail
the rights enjoyed in each country and these rights, of
course, should be iden tical for each country. This posi-
tion has been fully explained in the survey made by the
Motion Picture Industry on the adherence of the United
States to the Berne Convention and in all statements
made by the Industry before the various committees at
Washington.
Piracy of works of American authors, in-
cluding musical works, is very prevalent in Japan and
my infarmation is that the piracy is not restricteu to
the works of American authors. As a matter of fact,
there is now in distribution in Japan without authority
or permission, a series of Shirley Temple song albums.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
COPYRIGHT BATTLE
RENEWED BY PLAGE
German Agent For Music Writ-
ers. Publishers Has 6,000
Volumes Attached
Rumored to have left for his home
in Germany. Dr. Wilhelm Plge. re
prementative af European music copy-
right holders, descended on the Shun
juaha publishing office at Nihonbash.
Tuesday with  group of baillffs who
attached about 6.or9 vohumes of foreign
musical numbers and books an musi
saye the Asahi.
Tuken completely by surfitt the
publisbers whp are defendanis in
suit for peyment of royalty fled b:
Mr. Plage, stood by while legal agents
placed seis on  differenusica
collections and 19 publicationsclud
ing the Complete Musical w
the Worid, edited in Jepes
As int about  other litigations. Dr
Plage sued the Shunjusha last August
for infringement of copyalght Dr
Hehing hodes. ls conferring with his
legpal adviaer. He advocates umiting all
Japanese defendánts against Dr. Plage.
Japanese conupanies have refuped to
pay the royalties demandery Ds
Plage on the ground that they are ex-
ceasive. Dr. Kanda estimates his own
lomm, resulting from the attachment. at
0. He declares that onty one or
two pleees in each book encraach on
copyrights of fareign composere or pub-
lisher. for this reason he doabts the
legality of seizing the whole volume.
Mr. Yoshihiko Kido. Mr Plage's at
torney, told the Asmhi thst aithough
the Shochiku intsreste won their case
in January when Dr. Plage sued them
for uging the opera Madame. Beatterfly
without permission. another case will
be instituted in the civil court instead
of the eriminal court. where the frst
case was tried.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.91)
UNITE
representative from Europe. because the
FYRIGHT SUFTS
Throeten More Than
by Sturepean Agent
was thought to have
opeber of persone promi-
musicians and the

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.91)
APAN ADVERTISER, T
PLAGE CONTRADICTS
COMPROMISE RUMOR
Copyright Holders' Representa-
Rapid lement 
Bes les suita arainst atheater g
tive Expects Musicians to
such as the Shochiku and Toho cha
and against coneert musiclans D:
Settle in Full
Plage has brought action against the
dancehalls He als, plans 1o bring
pressure against the use without pay
NEW SUITS PROJECTED
ment of copyright musn in Jupane
pictures and to arrange for royalties
for the copyr ghted muss appearngn
Foreign Clubs Asked to Pay
imported films He exp ts to have al
of these cases sttled i one or tw
Royalties for Music at
years
Dances and Parties
Acm. gong Japanesecom
posers and publshers for protection
of thesr nghts abroad has tbeen start
ed by Dr Pay With that purgx
No compromuse has been made with
in mind he nas founded the Japane
Japanese copyright nfringers and
Musu Authiors and Pubiishcr A
mone is contemplated r ding Dr
ctaton which will become a mernt
Withelm Plage lral ptat
themal coprght cate
hhethepee
European and Amer 
holders whe denmes the revent Kok
xn
nn report that he had reduced rovalty
fres to a tenth of the amount oruunal-
nese muse playeo arred 1
stated In this way Japl
ly asked in  settlement negotiated
will get something out of le Berre
w:th Mr Kyosuke Kami. acting for
convention
the Nippon Music Society He  deal
Concert Rate Low
ind with the musicians individually.
The concert rate for copyrigh
not through the Nippon Music Society
precs nt Y1o arrported Dr
"Mr. Kam: was informed by the pro
Ploge stated The fuite te  single
curator as to the legality of my claims
pler 15
and advised to settle the matter ont of
There  a reatortion  man co
court." Dr Plage said in an interview
righted preces are ud  one 
with The Japan Advertiser "We have
ning Mu uf thu st whuh ma
met, and he has smid that he will pay
n: hugh l adde  meceanary be
In full."
cour of the difficolt of lectrr
To facilitate payments and obtain
That is why mociety members pay onts
cheaper rates for individual mus:-
half In fact if a number of pe
cians. Dr. Plage has founded the So-
are ued the :ate for a mciet mcin
ciety for the Propagation of Modern
ber may be as low as  so for ach
Music. the members of which pay only
haly the umial charges Copyright of
be added
fenders who offer to setthe out of court
Dr Plag is the representative here
are ranted membership in this society
reau for the Protection of Mechanica!
of the BIEM the Inwrmatona? Bu
As the beneits of membership are re
roactive. this automatically reduces
with phonograph reproduction the
Copyright. which deals principal!,
their past indebtedness to the copyright
owners to half.
Clate Shoukd Pay
international carte! for the ontrol of
performing rights and numerous Eu
ropean and American publishers H
Copyright fees should be paid not
only for music used in concert. thea-
almo is the agent for special group
ter and radio performances, Dr Plage
Composera. Authors and Publishers
such as the American Asciation
continued, but fer that used at mem-
He deals not on'y with singing. re
bership social affairs of Japenese and
cording cont und brodeasting
foreign clubs and societles Such socia!
rights but with the right to print
events as the recent Coronation Ball at
sheet music and the use of opyright
the Impertal Hotel and club dances at
which musicians are used should pay
munc in operetta or revue form.
People go to a party and have a good
time. but they never think of the com-
posers who made that good time poe-
dale." he aemerted. "The incorme com-
posers receive frosa records hes drop-
med. As for shest music, who plays
sheet music when he can turn on the
redle and get what he wants'? So the
commpoders must depend on perform-
ace rogaltiés.
The Internatlonal Women's Clube of
Robe and Yakobeme recognime this ob-
llgation, he contiased. They know that
rebos for such functioms is very low, se
smo adoniamion toe la charged. Thetr
peeeee rake, Se xample, is only 
yoer, he moted.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.92)
APAN ADVERTISER, T
COMPROMISE RUMOR
Copyright Holders' Representa-
Rapid Settlemeni Seas
Besides sults against thealer grouj
tive Expects Musicians to
such  the Shochiku and Toho chains
and aainst concert musicians D
Settle in Full
Plage has brought action against the
dancehalls. He also plans to bring
premsure against the use without pay
NEW SUITS PROJECTED
ment of copyright music in Japane
pictures and to arrange for royalties
for the copy ghted musie sppearing in
Foreign Clubs Asked to Pay
imported Alms He expevts to have all
of theme cases settled i one or two
Royalties for Music at
years
Dances and Parties
Acto in rgang Japanes n
porers nt publishers for protect
of thesr rights abroad ha leen statt
ed by Dr Plage With tha! purp
No compromise has been made with
in mind he has founded the Japanes
Japanese copyright infringers. and
Music Authors and Pubiisher A.
none is contemplated. according to D:
cistion. which will become a mente
Wilhelm Plage. loval reprementative 
of the international copyright caite
Thin ill mean that the represt
European and American copyright
tives of that cartel in the varrous fo
holders. who denies the recent Koku-
cn countries will have the respon
mun report that he had reduced rovalty
sibility of collecting rovaltues for Japm
fees to a tenth of the amount original-
nee muste played aboad Dr Pla
tated In this way Japm a
ly ed a ttlement negotiated
will get something out of te Ben
Ath Mr Kyosuke Kaini acting for
onvention
the Nippon Musit Societ, He is dea!
Concert Rate Law
un with the musicians individually
The concert rate foopvg
not through the Nippon Musm Society
preces s not Y10 a reported D
"Mr Kam: was informed by the pro
Pla Twefk
curator as to the legality  my clann)
prce 1
and ad ised to sttle the matter out of
Thereard
court" D: Plagt said in an intervir
rd
with The Jupan Advertisx: "We have
mel and he has said thal he will pay
snh
in fun"
caue of the difticult of
To facilitate payments and obtain
That is why werety members pay or
cheaper rates for individual mus
hult In fact if number 
cians. Dr Plage has founded the So
are ued the rate for  ot.
ciety for the Propagation of Modern
ber may be as low  Y1 s0 for cnch
Music. the members of which pay only
he added
hilf the usual charges Copyright of-
Dr Plae is the representative her
fenders who offer to settle out of court
of the BiEM the Internationa B
are granted membership in this society
reau for the Protection of Mechanica!
As the beneßts of membership are re-
Copyright which deal. princpse
roactive. this automatically reduces
with phonogroph reproduction the
their pasi indebtedness to the copyright
international cartel for the ontr 
owners to half.
perforiming rights and mumerou k
Clahe Should Pay
Copyright fees should be paid not
ropean and American publishers H.
almo s the aent for special group
only for music used in concert. thea-
ter and radio performances, Dr Plage
Composers. Authors and Publishers
such as the American Asoclation of
continued. but for that used at mem-
He deals not on'y with singing ro
bership sociai affairs of Japanese and
ording coner! and broadeasting
foreign clubs und socistles Such social
right hut with the right to print
events as the recent Coronation Bell at
sheet musi and the u of opyright
the Imperial Hotel and club dances at
mune in operetia or revue form
which musicians are used should pay
People go to a party and have a oxnd
time. but they never think of the com
posers who made that good time pos-
sible." he amerted. "The income com-
posers receive from records has drop-
ped. As for sheet music. who plays
sheet music when he can turn on the
radio and get what he wants? So the
composers must depend on perform-
ance rogalties."
The Internationei Women's Clubs of
Kobe and Yokoheems recognive this ob-
llgation, he continwed. They know that
they would barve to pay rogaltdes ln
Ingland. and they do it here. The
rates for much functiome is very low. e
no adosiamom Toe la charmed. Theter
present rate, Soe example, la only 
 yeer, he toted.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
COPYRIGHT PROTECTION OF WORKS OF FOREIGN
AUTHORS IN JAPAN - BERNE CONVENT ION
Opinion by Mc Ivor, Kauffman, Smith & Yamamoto,
3ept ember 14, 1937.
In response to your letter of September 8th,
we advise you that the conclusion of the opinion of
the Court in respect to actions brcught by Plage
party had no right to claim for infringement of copy-
right under the Japanese Copyright Law. This conclu-
sion of the opinion is based on the interpretation by
the Court of the provisions of the Japanese Copyright
Law and the Berne Treaty regarding the protection of
literary and artistic works.
We refer to a judgment rendered by the
Tokyo Local Court on December 28, 1936, for a criminal
action brought by Vertriebsstelle and Verlag deutscher
Buhnenschriftsteller und & C. (Italian firm) against
Shochiku Kogyo K.K., under which the action by the
plaintiffs was rejected by the Court under the follow-
ing reason.
Plage party is not the original owner of
copyright, but is an assignee of copyright which was
formerly owned by German and Italian. According to
the Japanese Copyright Law it is provided in Article
28 that in respect to the copyright owned by foreigners
the provisions of this law shall be applicable unless
otherwise provided in treaties. In investigating
the contents of the Berne Treaty No. 4, dated July 18,
1931, to which Japan, Germany, and Italy are the
parties, there is no provision found which defines
the effect of an assignment of copyright, and there-
fore the effect of such assi gnment should be governed
by the Japanese Copyright law. Article 15 of the
Japanese Copyright Law provides that a succession,
assignment and pledge of copyright shall not be pro-
tected against the third party unless such succession,
assignment and pledge are registered, and according
to Article l6 of the above law the registration shall
be made by the administrative authorities in accord-
ance with the provisions of the ordinance, In other
words, the registration shall be applied for by an
applicant to the Minister of Home Affairs and the
completion of registration shall be published by the
Official Gazette. Plage party has not fulfilled

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
COPYRIGHT PROTECTION OF WORKS OF FOREIGN
AUTHORS IN JAPAN- BERNE CONVENTION
the above requirements of the Japanese Copyright Law
in respect to the assignment of copyright, and there-
fore Plage party shall not be regarded as the assignee
and the present owner of copyright in question under
the Japanese Copyright Law; and accordingly Plage
party shal. not be a sufferer under the Copyright Law,
who will be a proper party to bring action under said
law.
According to the above judgment Plage party
is in no way protected by the Copyright Law while it
might be possible for t hem to fi ght under the Japanese
Civil Code for damages by tort or competition of
business.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
TWENTI ETH CENTURY-FOX (FAR EAST), InC.
Idzumo Building
No. 2, Ginza 8-Chome, Kyobashi-Ku
Tokyo, Japan, June 8th, 1937
Mr. Edwin P. Kilroe
Legal Department
New York Office
Dear Mr. Kilroe:
In accordance with instructions outlined in your letter of
April 7th, I attempted to get in touch with Dr. Plage but
as yet, he has failed to reply to my letters. He is un-
doubtedly preoccupied with more important matters, judging
from the attached clippings which appeared in the local
newspapers.
I have had a talk with our local counsel and he is more or
less of the same opinion as myself. Legally, Dr. Plage is
right but his chances for success in the Japanese courts are
very slim. If you wo uld consult Mr. Hake on the matter he is
in a position to explain the reason for this statement. The
Japanese are not going to let a foreigner tell them how
their music industry should be run; especially when his system
is such a radical change from that to which they are accus-
tomed. Plage, through his activities, has incurred the dis-
pleasure of several important Japanese firms and sooner or
later they will find an excuse to deport him.
Also, you will note from the enclosed clippings that Plage
has named the Shochiku Company as one of the defendants.
This particular company controls 6o% cf the theatres in
Japan and is responsible for about 50% of our revenue from
this territory. I wouldn't like to endanger our relation-
ship with the Shochiku Company by having it known that
we were associated with Dr. Plage in his fight against
the Japanese music world.
Very truly yours,
A. G. Doyle /s/
A. G. Doyle
AGD:SF
Manager
hb

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
Native Production
 TETSUYA MORI
Toskyo, June 23. —At a recent most-
to the international conference on re-
vision of the Berne Copyright Con-
vention, scheduled for Bruseels, Beigi-
wo't, bu? since indefinitely postponsed,
st'rmined to launch a vigorous pro-
at the postponement.
?.& group declared that the delay
inevitably will impede the progress of
the Japanese film industry, viewing the
provision which gives the composer
rights on sound pictures as working a
decided inconvenience on various pro-
ducing companies here.
They pointed out also the necessity
of finally settling the statum oi scom-
ario writers, and ci clarifying the
copyright laws on music used in films
dstributors who handle such fims.
Trade paper reports here indicate
that Ichizo Kobayashi, thestre mag-
mate and importer of films, shortly will
launch a large scaie production ven-
ture, which has been rumored in fim
circles for some time. He returned
recently from a tour of Europe and
the United States, during which he
studied film methods.
He has just completed plans for a
new distributing organization, in as-
sociation with P.C.L. and J.O. Talkie,
which will handle the distribution of
Japanese films. A joint investment of
1,000,000 yen has been made in the
new company, it is said. The plans
call for six productions monthly from
P.C.L. and J.O. Talkie.
Indication of the intention of Jap-
anese producers to impart a more uni-
versal appeal to their product is seen
in the fact that the Shochiku Cinema
Co. sent a unit to location in Tibet to
film "Male vs. Female."
A second production of the same
character is in work by the Yoko-
hama Cinema Co., which has sent an
expedition to South America for six
months.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
January 28, 1939.
In reply refer to
29 894.844/15
My dear Mr. MoGraw:
Referring to the Department's letter of Septem-
ber 27, l938, and previous correspondence, regarding
the publioation in Japan of books copyrighted in the United
894.544/1
States, you are informed that the Department has received
from the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo a despatoh dated Decem-
ber 10, 1938, ent1tled "Amerioan Copyrights 1n Japan".
This despatoh, while apparently adding no information
direotly pertainint to your rip inal inquiry, contains
a number of atstement waich. it  beileved, will be
of interest to you. A copy is, accordinly, enclosed.
Sinoerely yours,
Enolosure:
For the Seoretary of State:
From Tokyo,
December 10,
1938 - oopy.
Wallace MoClure,
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division.
Nr. Ourtis W. MoGraw,
Vi President and Treasurer,
F/NB
MoGraw-Hill Book Company, Ino.,
CR
330 West Forty-seoond Street,
New York, New York.
JAN 3
1.
Fill

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.82)
Variety
10/14/36
BURTON CRANE
Tokya, Segt. 18.
Bvery ense in se eftem some opti-
mmlet pote the ldea that momething
euake te be dene to stup the Japa-
moe prectlee of pirating furcign
ne or Ceer day.A relaive
populer songs Bomething ought to.
sclate wirkins n commttelé
den d g ae for CLeaka d K
wmariape warth mome trosble-ne hoed
 stopplng lt wouldn't be worth
La bethéer abost it uatomn there laa
 the country, owned large-
Thes aaybedy who can wrtte Jape-
 by the rich. who want their
moee lyrics-and they're escerdta-
by eamy. dace mo rhymes are re-
are and ecentrale on standerd
gadred and a apa hond can be pro-
and the atsesken.
The omly musical instrument
capltal wcarinx his office tm hie hat
whdeh is gemerally played in this
Moas les Todts de Parts.' a hit
comtry. outaide of the old Japaert
atréngn d bamboo flutend
name, came eut in ive etitionm.
wbüch ant carry a forelgn .
here Carlocs, Tucaracha Jal
is the harmenica Therefore
deux Amours. 'Falling in Lve
Agnto' Parlex mol dAmour: Di-
ins
nah and dozen- more have tu en
published ltaneh t e or
more 1y uxht muste houses
ace harepe
the st is memmaide
most yd. h
Sine ba  lame pb
much money to spend. the shiret
lsher has any ots danage sults
musie market is limtted Resded
would le wastes of tine in any
songs outsell the sheets by alout
nt But en if asset were
10 to one. But there is little pi it-
there sults would te useless Dam-
in of such tunes, because the 
age actlons are almost unknown io
peors of Japanese ditties gener ily
Japan. Japanese law provides for
make their publication deals .e
them. hut the courts have pretty
the record is released and th
well climinated them by the man-
llobers ket head startn. whi hup
ner in which te have admtnistered
others from horning in.
the lau Jostlee doren't mean
much Peace doss If one msn has an
With forekgn tunes. especially
upcentrove oble nt and unother
those plugged in imported mu-
infrinkes t the ot will wth t
Gims. the situation is difterent lie
et a compomtr th the reoult
tui may come to thia co
that what  le tghtis
months after being relensed abroad
dividedif st re bought
d T T  The publlohern
against one  the publtshers of
have ample opportunit, t get their
Merr) Wolow Waltz for example.
bands on the misir Then the
the ount would probably wag a
proreme in simple. Thay simpily
reproing nnget say naughty.
write in Japanese lyi on the
naukhty Don: publlsh that song
originat printed copy. or pste
anmon the to
Japaneme lyrles oet the foreign
turn oves the unsold ples worth
wordm paint vut the mame s the
perhaps $3 Then thie publisner
foreken putdtshers and hair cutr
could go ut and strnd something
made.
eise If be wore told to desist from
Figures
all such practtees he would merely
Varry has ubtained qulationn
change hix naine or start another
from  cuple of printer and
compny and eiervone save the
therefere. ix abie to statr zuthorità-
plaintint would fet thst justlee had
atrety that 1 non coplen of any ppu-
inen ione
Lar meng which can be printd on
Less Disc Lifting
aix pagea includinx (wo-color cover.
There is lesr piratonk in the pho
emm be turnéd out in Japan for lra
nograph recond buslness. because
 .  in a sheel carrying
there are only 17 manufacturers and
they are rasler to catch and hold
accountable. Still. it would be in-
teresting to know how many of the
Coretgn lunes recorded here 
reed from matric
lto
tr muthor and compoerrs Pree-
l few. perhape. for the Iiti in
rope demands 1tc for a double
record made of . couple of its tunes.
ad that worke out at se wen. al-
planta. Beeorde are commoaly soe
ée retañors at 1.00 yen. Im other
werds, a doesm't pay to recerd F.u-
roee mers ss e can
ladge the royallion.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
894.544/13
May 20, 1938.
Dear Mr. Kilroe:
In your letter of January 31, 1938, which, with its
enolosures, was read with interest and appreciation in
894.544/13
the Department, you stated that you were expecting addi-
tional material relating to the copyright situation in
Japan from your solioitors in England, and that you
would forward such material to the Department when re-
ceived.
Nothing has been heard from you sinoe in regard to
it, but if you are still interested in having the case
looked into by the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo, I am sure
that the Department will be very glad to consider such
astion.
Sincerely yours,
F/WB
Mallace Modlure,
Assistant Ghief, Treaty Division.
Besin P. Dilroe,
21
OR
A true gapy of
466 wost seth street,
1958
23 1938.
the sigood origi-
Now York, Now York.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
TREATY DIVISION
JUN 30 1938
CENTURY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JOSEPH M. SCHENCK
TWENTIETH CENTURY-FOX FILM CORPORATION
SIDNEY R KENT
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
PRESIDENT
HEAD OFFICE 444 WEST 56T STREET, NEW YORK
BRANCHES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES OF THE WORLD
CABLE ADDRESS CENTFOX NEW Y RK
TREATY DIVISION
May 25, 1938
STATE
894.5
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECFTVED
Dr. Wallace McClure
JUN:0938
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
My dear Dr. McClure:
13
I have your letter of May 20, 1938
894.544/14
on the copyright situation in Japan.
I have received information from our
English solicitor and also from our solicitor in
Japan. However, I have not had the time to digest
the information but expect to do so in the near
future and will be glad to send you a copy.
In the meantime, I should be glad to
have such informati on as the Embassy at Tokyo
may see fit to gather.
Very sincerely yours,
Eppilea
K:N
EDWIN P. KILROE
F/FG
11

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
FD
6.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
August 9 1989
1939 JAN 9 PM 2 40
AMERICAN EMBASSY
VIS ON OF
CMMUNICAFIONS
No. 3512
AND RECORDS
, 1938.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN COPYRICHTS IN JAPAN.
ion of
ALTAIRS
A
of State
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
894.544/15
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Vashington.
Sir:
In reference to the Department's instruction 1583 of
September 29, 1938, and to previous despatches and instructions
with regard to the treatment in Janan of copyrights of
American nationals, I have the honor to submit the following
current study of the subject.
FILED
I.
F/A
Copyright relations between the United States and
Japan are governed by the l905 copyright convention signed
at Tokyo, November 10, 1905, and proclaimed May 17, 1906
(Malloy,
11

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
(Malloy, volume I, 1776-1909, page 1037).
Article I states: "The subjects or citizens of each
of the two High Contracting Parties shall enjoy in the
dominions of the other, the protection of copyright for
their works of literature and art as well as photographs,
against illegal reproduction, on the same basis on which
protection is granted to the subjects or citizens of the
other, subject however to the provisions of Article II of
the present Convention."
Article II: "The subjects or citizens of each of the
two High Contracting Parties may without authorization
translate books, pamphlets or any other writings, dramatic
works, and musical compositions published in the dominions
of the other by the subjects or citizens of the latter, and
print and publish such translations."
Within article III it is stated: "Either of the
Contracting Parties shall have the right at any time to give
notice to the other of its intention to terminate the
present Convention, and at the expiration of three months
after such notice is given this Convention shell wholly cease
and determine."
Under the terms of the 1905 copyright convention it
appears that a work which is published by an American author
in the United States and enjoys copyright protection there
may not be published in Japan in the original language except
as authorized by the copyright owner. It would seem to be
the understanding of the Japanese Foreign Office and of the
Japanese courts (as well as of the publishing trade and the
legal

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
legal profession) that such protection holds in Japan
without any aot of registering or copyrighting in Japan
by the American copyright owner. (Patent and trade mark
protection is in a different category and aoes require in
each instance registration in Japan; but this is because
such protection derives from article 15 of the 19ll treaty
of commerce and navicetion which uses the specific words
"upon fulfillment of the formalities prescribed by law"
which do not appear in the l905 copyright convention.)
工I.
Japan's copyright relations with other foreign countries
are affected by the fact tnat Janan is a member of the
international union establishti by the so-called Berne
convention. At the time of the 1908 revision of the erne
convention Japan made a reservation (which is still effective)
that unless an author translates his work into Japanese
within ten years his copyright protection in Japan expires.
Under the union copyright owners in countries signatory to
the convention automatically enjoy in Japan for ten years
protection against translations.
It is the understanding of the mbassy that at a
preliminary technical discussion in Paris in November l938
preparatory for further revision of the Berne convention at
Paris in l939, Japanese representatives favored abandonment
of this translation protection for even the period of ten
years. The Embassy further understands that Japan intends
to

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
to press this point when the conference for revision is
in session. The Department perhaps has from Paris further
information on the subject.
工II.
It would appear to be the opinion of the Japanese
Foreign Office that in instances when an American author
publishes a work in the United States and si ultaneously
in a country which is a member of the international copyright
union, such work is subject to immediate translation into
Japanese and publication in Japan without violation of treaty
provisions. The specific provisions of article II of the
1905 convention between the United States and Japan appear
to be held to supersede the general protection of the erne
convention when the author is an American citizen.
If, in the event that the United States becomes a
member of the international copyright union, and in the
event of continuance in force of the 1905 convention, the
Japanese courts sustain the present apparent view of the
Japanese Foreign Office in this matter, American nationals
would not acguire translation protection in Japan by reason
of the Berne convention. Denunciation or revision of the l905
convention would be necessary.
It is probable that, because of the provisions of the
1905 convention, it is impossible for an American owner of
an American copyright to obtain a Japanese copyright of a
translation into Japanese which will protect against other
translations of the work into Japanese.
IV.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
IV.
Although the Embassy has no new information to add
to that cont ined in despatch 2818, March 18, 1938, on
the subject of sale in Janan of pirated printings in English
of American copyrighted works, the Department may be
interested in a rou h picture of the number of American
titles which are currently published in Japan in Japanese
translation. It has been impracticable to make an exhaustive
study, partly because publication indexes do not exist and
partly because the Japanese language is awkward in rendering
foreign names and foreign titles and they are therefore not
definitely recognizable. Tinal identification of Japenese
writings as being translations of certain American works
would require comparison between the Japanese publications
and the American origin&ls, to which in most cases the Embassy
of course does not have access. elow is a partial list
for the purpose of conveying some approximate idea of the
volume of this traffic, and the Embassy must reiterate that
titles mentioned herein have not been positively identified
with the originals.
During 1937 and 1938 there have appeared in Japan books
in the Japanese lenguage which seem to be translations of
the following:
Margaret Mitchell, GONE WITH THE WIND, published by
several Japanese publishers.
W. Jefferson Davis, JAPAN, TIE AIR MENACE OF THE PACIFIC.
Alexis Carrel, MAN THE UNKNOWN (Harper)
Dale

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Dale Carnegie, HOW TO WIN FRIENDS AND INFLUENCE PEOPLE,
published by several Japanese publishers.
Robert M. Hutchins on university education.
Walter B. Fitkin (several of his books but titles
not recognizaule).
Several books by Pearl Buck but with titles of
meanin differin from the titles used in
the originals. These have been published in
some instances by more than one publisher.
John Lossing uck on land utilization in Chin&.
A work on climate and civilization, a parently
by an author named Hutchinson.
A work on personnel  uestions by an author whose
name is rendered as Morgan.
A work on preparedness and national economics,
author's name unrecognizable.
A work on health, by a physician whose name is
rendered as Fix.
A work on electric locomotives, by an author whose
name is rendered as Johnson.
A work on industrial material, author's name not
recognizable.
A book by Warren Hilton.
A theory of scientific factory management, author's
name not recognizable.
Biography by Genghis Khan by an author whose name
is rendered as Fox.
A biography of Nietzsche.
A

=== Page 60 === (confidence 1.00)
-7-
A book on a better world, by an author whose name
is rendered as Norman.
Two books on Mongolia, authors' nemes not recogni-
zable.
A book on the Fraser method of dairy farming.
A book on four weeks in the trenches.
A work on the chenistry of opium alcaloids, by an
author whose name is rendered as Small.
Ernest Thompson eton on animals.
A work on humanism and the fine arts, author's name
not recognizable.
A work on the history of books, author's name not
recognizable.
Several unidentified books on spies.
Eugene O Neill, MOURNING BECOMES ELECTRA.
TOBACCO ROAD.
DEAD END.
Ralph Townsend on American policy in the Far East.
An introduction to the new economics by an author
whose name is not recognizable.
A work on electrical engineering by an author whose
name is rendered as Whitehead.
A biography of Leonardo de Vinci.
A book on present day Spain, author's name apparently
Dennis.
A work on cooperative insurance translated by the
well-known religious leader Kagawa; name of
the author of the original not recognizable.
A

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
A number of detective stories which cannot be
identified.
A considerable number of religious and semi-reli ious
books, not identified, on such subjects as the
principle points in the lire of Jesus, the gospel
and modern people, fundamental principles of Cal-
Holy
vinism, tie church and the/Ghost, creative
reli ious education, the aisciple Paul, the
thoughts of St. Augustine, the gospel of God.
V.
Most of the publishin in Janan of American copyrighted
material is in Japanese translation. If the United States
seeks to protect against such translating, edherence to
the convention covernin the international union for the
protection of literary and artistic works may not be enough.
It is probable that, in event of such adherence, Japan will
hold that the specific terms of the bilaterel 1905 copyright
convention between Janan and the United States (giving Japanese
the right to publish without authorization translations of
works published in the United States by American citizens)
supersede the general provisions of the convention governing
the international union. Furthermore, Japan seeks to extend
to its relations with other countries, including members of
the international copyright union, the same exemption for
translations; and by the time of American entrance into the
union, or shortly thereafter, Japan may perhaps have attached
a reservation to its adherence to the union ceasing all
protection against translations into Japanese.
The

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
The apparent Jananese view is that the publication
of a Japanese translation does not diminish the demand
for the foreign-language original; and that, secondly,
Japanese should have the right without authorization to
translate and publish any foreign work. If the foreign
interest is solely in the receipt of a royalty, it is not
unlikely that in the negotiating of any new copyright
convention Japan will be found ready to consider provi ions
for the payment of low royalty to the foreign copyright
owner (say equal to the translator's royalty). It is
extremely unlikely that in the negotiating of any new
copyright convention Japan will accede to any provision
recognizing in the foreign copyright owner the right to
prevent translation by withholding permission.
Respectfully yours
Lへ
Joseph C. Grew
854
CC:am

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.90)
Jammary s, 1990.
My dear Mr. Taft:
Referring to previous sorrespondenee with refer-
ense to Sone Vith the Vink, you may be iaterested in a
despatah, copy of which is enolosed, which the Depart-
894.544/1
ment has reseived from the American Embassy at Tokyo
unter Gate of Desember 10, 19ss, entitled "American Gopy-
pights in Japam". Your attention is particularly diree-
ted to the list of published worke ascompanying the des-
patch.
5
Gopies of this lester and the despateh, ineluding
the list, are being transmitted to Mrs. Mareh, Nr. Kitch-
ell, ama Mr. Brett.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seeretary of Stase:
Rnclesurel
Wallace MeCluse
F/WB
14 1 ,
Now Yask, How Test.
the

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.92)
Jammary 00, 10090.
My dear Mr. Nodraw:
Referring to the Department's letter of Septem-
ber 27, 10s8, and previous correspondenee, regarding
the publioation in Japan of books copyrighted in the United
894.544/1
states, you are informed that the Department has reseived
frem the Ameriean Imbassy at Tokyo a despateh dated Deesm-
ber 10, loss, entitled "American Copyrights in Japan".
this despateh, while apparently adding no information
5
direetly pertaining to your original inquiry, contains
mber ef statements whieh, it is believed, will be
ef interest to you. A copy is, accordingly, enclosed.
sineerely yours,
meleoure:
For the Searetary of State:
Wallase MeClure,
1
3
/WB
FE

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
Jamuary 28, 1939.
In reply refer to
8D 894.844/18
My doar Mrs. Marsh:
You may possibly recall that, in one of our oonversa-
tions regarding the unauthorized publication of transla-
tions of Gone with the wind, I mentioned the possibility
that a translation without the author's permis ion might
89
sometime appear in Japan. The Department has now received
from the Amerloan Embassy at Tokyo a despatoh dated Deoem-
5
44
ber 10, 1938, on the generel subjeot of American copyrights
in Japan, which 1ndioates that a translation r transla-
tions of your book have been brought cut by several Japa-
nese publishors.
The Department 1s, of course, notifying Ar. Taft,
Mr. Mitohell, and Mr. Brett of the receipt of this infor-
mation. A copy of the Department's letter to Mr. Taft
1s enolosed.
There is, for the moment, nothing to report with
reference to the pending treaty for the proteotion of
T
literary
Mrs. John R. Marsh,
4 Seventeenth Street NE.,
Atlanta, Georgia.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.92)
laterary and artistie werks. I have not, hewever, for-
gotten your generous offer to assist in making knewn the
desirability of favorable mction by the Semate, and I
shall mot fail to call upon you 1f and when am appropriate
time arises. Please be assured that the Department has
in me sonse forgetten your needs or those of other Ameri-
eam authers in this conneetion and that we are giving
careful and constant attention to the matter.
With kindest regards to Mr. Marsh, and with appre-
eiatien for the Christmes greetings received, I remain
Sincerely yours,
Wallaoe MoClure
Mmelesure:
To Mr. Taft,
Jammary 26, 1939,
with ezelosure.
CR
18.
E
QM.73
dis
TD:WeC:MS:SS

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.95)
Jamuary 28, 1939.
reply refor to
004.844/15
My dear Mr. Brest:
Roferring to our previous correspondenoe with regard
to the publieation of Gone With the Wind in certain coun-
tries, without the author's permission, there is enolosed
894.54
a oopy of a letter, with acoompanying despatoh from the
American Embassy at Tokyo, whioh the Department 1s today
sonding to Mr. Taft with referenoe to the fact that a
translation has been published in Japan.
eincerely yours.
For the ery 
Wallace MoClure,
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division.
Enolosure:
To Mr. Taft, Janu-
ary 28, 1939, with
enclosure.
T
Mr. George P. Brett, Jr.
President, The Macmillan Company.
CR
30193
60 Firth Avenue,
New York, New York.
td:WMc:mn
FE
am

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.93)
January 28, 1939.
In reply refer to
894.844/18
My dear Mr. Mitohell:
Referring to our previous correspondence with re-
gard to the publloation of Gone with the wind in cortain
countries, without the author's permisslon, there is en-
894.544/1
olosed a oopy of a letter, with accomnanying despatoh
from the Amerloan Embaesy at Tokyo, whioh the Dopart-
ment is today sending to Hr. Taft with reference to
the faot that a translatiou hag been iblis e? in Japan.
Sincerely yo rs,
xratt
Wallaoe MoClure,
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division.
Enclosure:
To Mr. Tat, Jay-
ary 28, 1939, with
enolosure.
Mr. Stevens Mitoholl,
F/WB
603-6 Peters Bu1lding,
2
Atlanta, Georgia.
td:WMo:mn
FE
—0m1

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.94)
January 12, 1939.
My dear Mr. Brown:
There is enelosed, for your information and that of
the Department of Gommeree, a copy of despateh no. 3512
from the American Embassy at Tokyo, dated December 10,
19s8, en the subjeot "American Copyrights in Japan".
894.544/15
This despatch is believed to contain a mumber of
items of information whioh are of umusual interest. The
Department will, aecordingly, be very much pleased to
reseive your comment with reference to them.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Wallace MeClure
Assistant Chier, Treaty Division
Enelesure:
Frem mabassy Tokye no. 3512,
Deesmber 10, 1938.
Mr. James L. Brown,
ORYNA
A tue copy of
Mivisien of Fereign Tariffs,
the sigged origi-
JAN 28 1939
Mal.
F/WB
Sup
FE

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.90)
Jameary 12, 1959.
Dear Fransis:
A despateh, dated December 10, 1938, from the Ameri-
am Mbamay at Tokyo, which has just been received in the
Department, contains some information whioh I belleve
wall interest you and concerning which I should like very
894.544/
meh to reseive your comment.
The Embassy saye that it understands that at  pre-
samimary teshnieal diseussion in Paris (evidently meaming
Brussels) in November l938 preparatory to further revi-
5
Mion of the Bern Convention Japanese representatives
favered abandonment even of such proteetion against trans-
lations as is now ascorded under the ten-year reservation
waie Japan made in becoming a party to the Gonvention for
the Preseetion of Literary and Artistic Worke. The 
bessy furtmer understands that Japan Antende to prees
this peimt whem the conference for revirion has assembled.
The
Dr. Franaks Deda,
Baheel of La,
11

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
The Embassy goes on to say that the apparent Japanese
view is that the publieation of a Japasese translation
deee not diminish the demand for the foreigm-language
original. Furthermore, the Japanese take the view that
they should have the right without authorization to trans-
late and publish any foreign work. If the foreign inter-
est is senfined to the matter of royalties, it is met un-
likely that, in negotiating any new copyright convention,
Japan will be found ready to consider provistons for the
payment of small royalties to the foreign copyright owner,
perhaps equal to the reyalties received by the translator.
It appears to be extremely unlikely that, in respest of
axy new convention, Japan will acoede to any provision
resogmising in the foreign copyright owner the right to
prevemt treaslation by withholding permission.
Sinoerely yours,
Wallase MoGlure
J
CRA
1939
JAN 28
A true copy of
the sipeed origi-
nal.
OFE
mmk

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.95)
Jamuary 12, 1929.
Dear Colenel Bouvé:
There is enelosed, for your information and that of
the Gepyright Office, a eopy of despatch no. 3512 from
the Amerieam Embassy at Tokyo, dated December 10, 1938,
894.544/15
on the subjeet "Amerlean Copyrights 1n Japan".
This despateh is believed to contain a number of
items of information which are of unusual interest. the
Department will, accordingly, be very much pleased to
receive your comment with reference to them.
Sineerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Wallace MeGlure
SNA
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division
JAN 8 1939
Frem Eabasay Tekyo no. 3312,
Bessmber 10, 1938.
A true copy of
Gelemel G. L. Bouvé,
the sign origi-
nal.
Register of Gepyrights,
Labrary ef Gengress.
F/WB
E
FE

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.88)
Jannary 80 1989
.1644
To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Beeretary of sate eskmowledges the receipt of
the Ambassader's despateh me. 3812 of December 10, 19se,
emsitled "Ameriean Copyrights in Japen". This despateh
894.544/15
is of partieular interest, and the Department desires
to exprese its gratifieation and commendation in regard
to it. Farther informatien of similar eharester will
be appresiased as it may from time to time be available
in the abessy.
894.840/18
A true sopy of
JAN 28 1939
wmce
1
FE
LE
~A

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
X
3
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREATY DIVISION
PM 3 07
120
TREATY DRASION 31
January 12, 1939.
Div
FAR EAS
JAN 251939 The Dopgight Situation in Japan.
AND RECORDS
fe
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Duspatch no. 3512 dated December 10, 1938, from the
American Embassy at Tokyo, deals with the subject of Ameri-
can copyrights in Japan and presents some unusually inter-
F
esting information.
894.544
It indicates, for instance, that the Japanese Govern-
894.544/1
ment, under the bilateral copyright convention of 1905,
is disposed to recognize copyright whioh Americans have
obtained for their works in the United States and to pro-
tect the same, so far as the original 1s concerned, in
Japan without the necessity of any sort of formalities in
Japan. On the other hand, in view of the provision of the
convention of l905 excepting out translatione, Japan has ot
been disposed to proteot American works from translation,
even though they are published simultaneously in one of
the countries of the Union for the Protection of Literary
and Artistie Works, the convention of which imposes upon
against
Japan the duty of protecting translations.
The exouse
for this attitude is that the specific provisions of the
bilateral
F/WB

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
bilateral convention govern as between the United States
and Japan, being superior to any obligations of the general
convention. It will be remembered that, even under the
general convention, a reservation by Japan limits the pro-
inraspect
tection of translations to ten years' duration.
It 1s not believed that Japan 1s justified in the
foregoing attitude with reference to its obligations under
the general convention, but obviously this Government 1s
not in a position to protest under a convention to which
it 1s not a party.
The Embassy believes that, if and when the United
States becomes a party to the general oonvention, it will
be necessary to terminate the bilateral convention. This
can be done on notice of three months under the terms of
the bilateral convention itself. Obviously the Depart-
ment should bear this fact in mind for appropriate action
should the Senate act upon the general convention which is
1s pending before it.
The Embasey also calls attention to the attitude
understood to have been expressed by representatives of
Japan attending a meeting in Europe preliminary to the
expeoted Brussels conference for the revision of the gen-
eral convention. Apparently the Japanese Government 1s
proposing to limit still further the proteotion whioh 1t
1.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
will nedbet
is willing to give to translations, though there is also
indication that it will favor some sort of a compulsory
license system, with consequent payment of royalties, in-
stead.
The despatch gives a long list of books, headed by .
"Gone With the Wind", and "Japan, The Air Menace of the
Pacific" which cases have been so prominently before the
Department in recent years.
The Embassy's despatch is a part of a case which com-
menoed at the request of the MoGraw-Hill Book Company, but
obviously its contents are of much wider interest. Indeed,
there is nothing specifically applying to the case of the
MoGraw-Hill Book Company's original complaint regarding the
sale in Japan of unauthorized copies of its publications.
The distribution of the despatoh, according4, should
include, in addition to a letter to the MoGraw-Hill Book
Company, giving such of its contents as seem to have a
general pertinenoy to that company's problem, notification
of the attorneys and publishers of "Gone With the Wind", and
notification of other interested Departments of this Gov-
ernment. It seems unnecessary to call the matter to the
attention of Mr. W. Jeffereon Davis, author of "Japan, The
Air Menace of the Pacifio", as he 1s already aware of the
piraoy

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
-4
piracy of his book in Japan, whereas this appears to be
the first notice that has come in respeot of "Gone With
the Wind".
rever, I felt it desirable to send a personal
letter on the subject to Miss Mitohell (in private life,
Mrs. Marsh), author of "Gone With the Wind", and also a
personal letter to Professor Francis Deak of the Columbia
University Sohool of Law, who attended the meeting at Brus-
sels preparatory to the intended general copyright confer-
ence there, to whioh the Embassy apparently alludes, though
1t speaks of the meeting as having been at Paris.
Pro-
fessor Deak's comment upon what the Embassy says in this
connection may be of some usefulness to the Department.
He represented at the Brussels meeting, which took place
last fall, the American National Committee on International
Intelleotual Cooperation, of which the Committee for the
Study of Copyright (the executive secretary of which 1s
Dr. Edith Ware), is a suboommittee.
Finally, it is suggested that a brief third person
note be sent to the Embassy commending it upon the inter-
esting despatoh which it has transmitted to the Department.
/13/39
0MO.7B.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.95)
October 20 1999
0.1824
To the Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
The Department refere to the Embassy's despatch
no. 3512 of Deoember 10, 1938 ent1tled "merican Copy-
894.544/15
rights in Japan", and, oalling attention to the listing
of the novel "Gone With the Wind", on page 5, transmits
herewith, as of interest to the Embassy, a oopy of a
Letter from Margaret Mitohell, author of "Gone With the
Wind", dated Ootober 9, 1939, which has been received
by an offioer of the Department.
Partioular attention
is called to the second paragraph.
Enelosure:
Copy of letter from
Margaret Mitchell.
F/WB
804.544/15
A
true cnpy of
the
1π
cmB
10/17

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
TREATY DIVISION
File1
VRIGHTS
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
RCD:MPF
COPYRIGHT OFFICE
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENI OF AL
1939 FE3 15 AM 9 23
February 14, 1939
he
The Secretary ofstateS
Diision of
Washington, DND RECORDS
FAM EASTERE AFFAIRS
Sir:
Reference is made to your letter (TD 894.544/15) dated
January 12, enclosing a copy of a despatch from the American
Embassy at Tokio, of December 10, as to the copyright situation
in Japan with reference particularly to the practice of pub-
lishing unauthorized translations into Japanese of works by
American authors. This practice, as stated in the despatch,
894.544/16
does not violate the treaty relations between the United States
and Japan, because Article II of the treaty of 1905, between
Japan and the United States, expressly permits the subjects or
citizens of either country to translate the works of subjects or
citizens of the other country, and to print and publish them,
without authorization. The American Embassy includes in its
despatch a considerable list of works by well-known American
authors which have been thus translated and published.
The despatch refers to the :tatus of the right of trans-
lation in Japan under the Berne Conv 1 tion, to which Japan has
adhered. The Convention, while now guaranteeing a full right of
translation, permits a reservation under which the translating
right is restricted to a period of ten years, unless sooner exer-
cised. Doubt is expressed in the despatch as to whether even
this limited right of translation would be secured by American
authors in the event of the adherence of the United States to the
Berne Convention, because in the view of Japanese authorities the
treaty with the United States would always allow complete freedom
of translation so far as American works are concerned.
It is further suggested that the inclination in Japan
appears to be, at the present time, to demand complete freedom of
translation into oriental languages generally, and that Japan will
probably make such a demand at the next conference for revision of
the Berne Convention, possibly citing the provisions of the treaty
with the United States as a precedent. It is stated, however, that
in the negotiating of any new convention with Japan that country might
be found ready to consider provisions for the payment of a lo royalty
on translations, even though refusing to extend any right to prevent
such translations.
4

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
RCD:MPF
The Secretary of State --Page 2
2-14-39
The Department of State indicates that it would be pleased to
have the comment of the Register of Copyrights on the information
contained in the despatch.
It would seem probable that the unusual latitude extended to
Japan in the treaty of 1905, with reference to the issue of trans-
lations, was based somewhat on the feeling that half a loaf is
better than no bread, and that Japan would not be willing to enter
into reciprocal copyright relations on any other basis. There may
further have been the feeling that the dissemination of American
works in Japan through translations, was of sufficient advantage
in promoting cultural relations between the two countries, to
justify disregarding the interests of those authors (not so many
when the treaty was made as now) whose works would command circu-
lation in translation in Japan. The first of these motives is
presumably still operative, since the despatch indicates no dis-
position on the part of Japan to yield in the matter of free trans-
lation, but on the contrary a disposition to insist upon it more
strongly. The second motive, that of improving cultural relations,
may perhaps be of less importance today. The question whether
anything could be gained, however, by denouncing the treaty, seems
decidedly debatable. There are other rights in addition to those of
translation which may be valuable to American authors in Japan, and
which may be covered by their copyrights there.
As to the possibility of Japanese insisting upon complete
freedom of translation at the next conference for revision of the
Berne Convention, it is pointed out that an attempt on the part of
Turkey to adhere to the Convention with such a reservation some
time ago was unsuccessful, in view of the fact that the Convention
itself does not permit of a reservation so sweeping.
It does not seem that the attitude of Japan with reference
to the Berne Convention, or the right of translation thereunder,
would be of very great importance in considering the question of
adherence on the part of the United States.
CARuure
Respectfully,
Register of Copyrights

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
THE BOARD
AW.JR
Mc GRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY·INC.
ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENTS
FOSS
McORAW-HILL BUILDING
Fle!
CURTIS G BENJAMIN
COLLEGE DEPARTMENT
S. THOMPSON
330 WEST 42NO STREET
FRANK L. EGNER
CE PRESIDENT
MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT
RTIS W.McGRAW
NEW YORK.N.Y.
weur
WILLIAM E. HAWKE
VICE PRESIDENT AND TREASURER
"MC GRAW HILL"NEW YORK
CABLE ADDRESS
ALDWYCH HOUSE, W C 2.
LONDON
HUGH J KELLY
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT
SECRETARYBASST THEASURER
TRADE DEPARTMENT
February 6
1 9 3 9
February 15 1939
Dr. Wallace McClure
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Doctor McClure:
Thank you exceedingly for your letter of
January 28, ith vhich you enclosed the despatch
of December 10, 1938 entitled "American Cooyrights
in Japan", forwarded from the American Embassy at
Tokyo.
894.544/17
We, of course, kne: in genertl, Japan's
copyright regulations but this report as certainly
most interesting as well as enlightening and we are
much indebted therefor.
You are quite right that this information
does not directly pertain to our original inquiry
and I hope that some time in the near future,
information can be obtained through our Embassy
in Tokyo as to the piracy of our books, about which
we have had auch previous correspondence. The same
thing, of course, pplies to the piracy in the
Philippines as well as China, but those latter two
are not as imoortant at the present time.
Again we say we &re most indebted for your
help and assistance and any further information or
light you can obtain on the subject will be greatly
appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
CWM: MK

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.93)
February 15 1989
-1659
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
894.544/17
Upon the receipt of the Embassy's despatah no. 3512
of Beeember 10, 1938 entisled "Ameriean Cow rights in Japam"
a sopy was transmitted to the XoGraw-Hill Book Sempany, In-
corporated, of New York. The Department has now ressived
a reply from the Company, dated February 6, loso, mma is
eneloming a copy of the same for the Embassy's information
and for the purpose of indicating the desire of the esm
pany te reseive any additional infermation that may from
time to time be available pertaining direstly to the we-
autherised issuance an Japan of the company's publieatioms.
Very traly yours,
For the Seorotary of stase:
R. WALTON MOORE
F/A
u.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
CULTURAL
Of
REOEIVED
JUN 1939
REATYDIVISION
July 25, 1939.
ASSISTAT
193SI OF
MR.
In 1ts despatch no. 3512 of December 10, 1938, en-
titled "American Copy rights in Japan", the American Embassy
at Tokyo listed a large number of titles of American books
of whioh pirated editions had appeared in Japanese trans-
lation. Among these was the following item:
"Several books by Pearl Buck but with titles of
meaning differing from the titles used in
the originals. These have been published
994.244
in some instances by more than one publisher."
894.544/18
In this connection, the Department may be interested
in a statement appearing in English in the April issue of
"Japan Advertiser". Accordingly, there is attached a copy
of the olipping.
JUL 29 1939
MR. MOORE
JUL 3 1 1939
hoted
FILED
F/A
7/26/39
am.B.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
Suit Initiated by Good Earth Translator Given
to Procurators, With New Charge
The processes of law took an unexpected turn yester-
day in the case of Fukazawa vs Nii and the Daiichi Shobo,
all involved in a legal squabble over the translation of
Mrs. Pearl Buck's best seller, The Good Earth, according
to the Hochi.
The litigation yesterday took on the aspect of a
criminal case, rather than a civil suit, when perplexed
officers of the Metropolitan Police Board turned it over
to the procurators. As it stands, 1t appears that no
one wili benefit, least of all Mr. Shosaku Fukazawa, who
started it all.
Last year Mr. Fukazawa, a relatively obscure writer
and translator, wrestled long and arduously with the Eng-
l1sh text of The Good Earth, finally converting 1t into
Japanese. He took the translation to the Daiioh1 Shobo,
publishing house, to see about marketing it. The latter
suggested discreetly that 1t would be more profitable for
all concerned 1f the work were published under the name
of Mr. Kaku Ni1, popular author who has a wide following.
Mr. Fukazawa consented, being more 1nterested in the
financial returns than the glory of having his name before
the public.
The book, credited to Hr. Ni1, sold like a house afire
and everyone prospered except Mr. Fukazawa, who did all the
work, according to his complaint. His share of the royal-
ties was negligible, and he was not consulted regarding
new editions, he declared when he filed suit against Mr.
Ni1 and Mr. Yukuo Haruyama, manager of the publishing
house. The book already has sold more than l00,000 cop-
1es, and Mr. Ni1, who wrote nothibg but his name, 1s alieged
to have rece1ved something l1ke 10,000.
After studying the case, the police decided they could
find no evidenoe of fraud, as charged by Mr. Fukazawa.
They did deoide, however, that there had been misrepresen-
tation under the Copyright Law - a criminal matter which

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Obnceivably may involve the plaintiff, Mr. Fukazawa, as a
conspirator.
If indioted and found guilty, the offenders would be
subjeot to a slight fine and a rebuke at the most, but it
1s extremely unlikely that Mr. Fukazawa would stand to
collect any damages. However, he most likely will be
given belated recognition for translating the work in any
subsequent editions.
Japan Advertiser, April 1ssue.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.95)
August 9 1989
no. 1788
To the American Chargé d'Affaires,
Tokyo.
Reference 1s made to the Embassy's despatch no. 3512
894.544
of December 10, 1938 and to other despatohes relating to
American copyright in Japan. There is enolosed, as of
894.544/18
interest in this conneotion, and for the information of
the Embassy, a copy of a portion of a letter received
by one of the officers of the Department from Mrs. Mar-
garet Mitohell Marsh, author of "Gone With the Wind".
No instruetion is contemplated in regard to this
letter, but should there be any comment whioh seems to
A
the Embassy to be pertinent, the Department will be
glad to roeeiv it.
Enolosures:
1. Cepy of porsien
2.Memoranda, referred to
in posteript of letter
from Mrs. Marsh.
AUG 8 1959 PM
AUG 9 1930
A true copy
8/s
thyersgned origi-
Cnw3

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
WHITMAN, RANSOM,COULSON & GOETZ
4O WALL STREET,NEW YORK
Fle
CHARLBS S.WHITMAN
WILLIAM L. RANSOM
ROBERT E.COULSON
JACOB H.GOETZ
COLLEY E. WILLIAMS
WILLIAM G.CHAMBERS
RICHARD JOYCE SMITH
TALBERT W.SPRAGUE
JAMBS K. POLK
TRAVIS H. WHITNEY
JESSE BAY ROBINSON
HENRY S. REEDER
Dr. Wallace McClure,
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
894.544/19
Dear Dr. McClure:
Enclosed is a copy of a letter which I wrote on
January 13, 1939, to a Japanese publisher who
calmly adopted the name of the publication "News-
week", published by one of our clients. We have
never had any reply to our letter of last January
and are informed that the publication of the Jap-
anese periodical is still continuing.
The reason I am sending you this correspondence is
to ask you whether the situation in Tokyo 1s like
that in Shanghai and does not permit of any effec-
tive remedy for unfair competition of this sort.
Sincerely yours,
Rohntr. Coelem
F/A

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
WHITMAN, RANSOM, COULSON & GOETZ
40 WALL STREET, NEW YORK
January 13, 1939
Mr. W. R. Wills,
Publisher,
Japan News-Week,
4 Tamuracho, Nichome, Shiba-ku,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Sir:-
Our valued client, Weekly Publications,
Inc., 1s the publisher of the magazine "Newsweek"
which, for a number of years, has had a large circu-
lation in the United States. The publication 1s
copyrighted in the United States and its name is
also duly registered pursuant to the Trademark Laws
of the United States.
There has come to the attention of our
olient a copy of the first issue of your publication,
dated November 12, 1938, entitled "Japan News-Week",
which 1s being circulated in the United States.
In our opinion your use of the words "News-
Week" in connection with your publication is an in-
fringement of the rights of our client. We hope that
you will be able to advise us that it is feasible for
you to make such change in your title as will avoid
conflict and confusion.
Please let us hear from you about this mat-
ter at your early convenience.
Very truly yours,
WHITMAN, RANSOM, COULSON & GOETZ

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.94)
August 19 1939
My dear Mr. Coulson:
This will aaknowledge the receipt of your letter
of August 16, l939 regarding the Japanese publication
under e title whieh you deem to be in unfair competi-
tion with the publication "News Week", issued by one
of your elients.
The Department will give careful consideration
to this matter and you will be advised in due course
whether there appears to be available any remedy for
894.
the situation of whieh you complain.
544/19
Sinoerely yours,
For the Beeretary of State:
Wallase MeOlure.
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division.
Ju
OR
F/A
AUG 18 1959
Mr. Robers E. Coulson,
40 Wall street,
New Yosk, Now York.
SRIgA origi-
td:WXo:mn 8/17

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
WHITMAN, RANSOM,COULSON & GOETZ
4O WALL STREET,NEW YORK
TREATY DIVISION
CHARLBS S. WHITMAN
WILLIAM L. RANSOM
ROBBRT E.COULSON
JACOB H. GOBTZ
weeu
COLLEY E. WILLIAMS
WILLIAM G.CHAMBERS
RICHARD JOYCE SMITH
TALBERT W. SPRAGUE
LEPARTMEN
JAMES K. POLK
TRAVIS H. WHITNEY
JBSSE BAY ROBINSON
HENRY S. REEDER
CAMERON F.MACRAE
June 24, 1941.
Dr. Wallace MeClure,
Assistant Chief,
Treaty Division, Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. McClure:
On August 16, 1939, we wrotc you regarding
the publicat:on in Japan of a weekly newspaper entitled
"Japan News-Weck." Our client, Weekly Publicat ons, Inc.,
publisher of the weekly news magazine "Newsweek", which
has foreign as weli as national distribution, felt at
that time that the distribution in the United States of
two weeklies under similar names would cause confusion
among the reading public and would also damage the re-
putation and good-will which t has built up at great
expense.
The present world situation has further accen-
tuated this feeling, particularly in view of the unsettled
relationship between this country and Japan. Our client
is also disturbed for the reason that ideas and views which
may have been or may be expressed in the Japanese weekly,
and which may be contrary to our client's editorial policy,
may be attributed to it to its injury and damage.
We are forwarding to you for your information
photostat copies of "International News Service" release,
dated June 6, 1941, and of an article which appeared in
the June 6, 1941, issue of the San Diego (California)
Tribune-Sun. While it is true that in this particular
case the fact that the source of the release was the Japa-
nese publication was mentioned, the similarity in names
may well be confusing to the general reader, and, in any
event, our client fears that some time in the future refer-
ence to such source may be inadvertently omitted.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
Dr. Wallace McClure,
-2-
June 24, 1941.
While it is possible under the regulations of the
Treasury Department to seek to prevent the entry into the
United States of future issues of the Japanese publication
itself on the ground that they infringe upon our client's
trademark which has been registered in the United States,
neither we nor our client is desirous of taking any steps
which might result in publicity in Japan or in this country
which might have a detrimental effect upon any program of the
State Department in regard to the relations between the two
countries.
In any event, if such steps were taken, this would
not prevent the circulation in the United States of items
taken from the Japanese publicat on which are received in
this country via radio, cable or telephone, and which may be
attributed incorrectly to our client.
The reason I am sending you the enclesed material
is to acquaint you with the matter before taking any steps
under the Treasury Regulations, and, also, to inquire whether,
under the present disturbed relations, yon consider that there
is any effective method of dealing with the problem under any
of the existing treaties between this country and Japan.
I shall greatly appreciate hearing from you at your
earliest convenience with regard to the above.
Sincerely yours,
Roluts Conlem
Enclosures

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
LIPPING
BUREAU
RS STREET. NEW YORK
M
JIEGO. CALTRIBUNE-SUN
Circ. D. 46.371
JUN6 1941
Tokyo Newsweek
Backs Roosevelt
Blast at Nazis
TOKYO. June 6 (I.N.S.)-A pro-
posa that Japan "reconsider her po-
sition" under the tripartite agree-
ment to enable a compromise with
the United States was voiced by the
Japanese publication Newsweek to-
day.
At the same time. the review sur-
prisingly remarked that "partial
dissociation of Japan from Nazism
is not so inconceivable as it may
appear at first sight."
President Roosevelt's failure to
mention Japan during his recent
fireside chat pledging unremitting
American aid to Great Britain
against the axis prompted News-
week to review the whole general
situation.
Appeasement Not Wanted
"Any attempt to force appease-
ment in the Pacific is bound to
fail." the American-edited- maga-
zine said. "although there appear to
be chances left for a Japanese-
American compromise.
"One apparent obstacle to this
procedure is the tripartite pact.
But if that treaty is truly an in-
strument designed to prevent spread
of European hostilities as the Jap-
anese have frequently contended.
then surely some means must be
available to prevent the pact from
becoming a cause of conflict be-
tween Japan and America.
(Editor's note: Japanese quarters
In New York could not say whether
Newsweek's resume had any goy-
ernment approval. It was broad-
cast to the United States. however.
by the official Japanese news
agency Domei.)
Anxious to Avoid War
"With American involvement in
the European war seemingly in-
escapable, the chances of hostili-
ties in the Pacific threaten to grow.
and presumably Japan is equally
anxious to avoid them as the United
States.
"To this end it would seem wise
for the Japanese government first
of all to re-examine its commit-
ments under the tripartite pact and
if any room whatever has been left
for amicable action. to set about de-
termining the extent to which the
United States will compromise.
"If the president's omission was
due to belief that war with Japan
is not essential for protection of
the United States. then there is a
possibility of rerching some sort of
arrangement. either femporary or
semi- permanent. through which
conflict might be avoided even
should the United States enter the
European war."
Agree With F.D.R.
Newsweek expressed complete
agreement with President Roose-
velt's denunciation of the axis.
"We are convinced." the magazine
said. "that by showing such full
recogmition of the menace to Ameri-
can safety nd by committing the
nation. Reosevelt has adopted the
oniy course by which the darger
can be terminated.
"Many Japanese have con nded
"t this country is
:nem-
oup. it f

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
CAL.. TRIBUNE SUN
irc. D. 46.371
JUN 6 1941
Tokyo Newsweek
Backs Roosevelt
Blast at Nazis
TORYO June § (INS)-A pro-
posa that Japan, "reconsider her po-
sition" under the tripartite agree-
ment to enabie a compromise with
the United States was voiced by the
Japanese publication Newsweek to-
day.
At the same time. the review sur-
prisingly remarked that "partial
dissociation of Japan from Nazism
is not so inconceivable as it may
appear at first sight"
President Roosevelt's failure to
mention Japan during his recent
fireside chat pledging unremitting
American aid to Great Britain
against the axis prompted News-
week to review the whole general
situation.
Appeasement Not Wanted
"Any attempt to force appease-
ment in the Pacific is bound to
fail.". the American-edited maga-
zine said. "although there appear to
be chances left for a Japanese-
American compromise.
"One apparent obstacle to this
procedure is the tripartite pact.
But if that treaty is truly an in-
strument designed to prevent spread
of European hostilities as the Jap-
anese have frequently contended.
then surely some means must be
available to prevent the pact from
becoming a cause of conflict be-
tween Japan and America.
(Editor's note: Japanese quarters
In New York could not say whether
Newaweek's resume had any gov-
ernment approval. It was broad-
cast to the United States. however,
by the official Japanese news
agency Domei.)
Anxious to Avold War
"With American involvement in
the European war seemingly in-
escapable, the chances of hostili-
ties in the Pacific ghreaten to grow.
and presumably Japan is equally
anxious to avoid them as the United
States.
"To this end, it would seem wise
for the Japanese government first
of all to re-examine its commit-
ments under the tripartite pact and
if any room whatever has been left
for amicable action. to set about de-
termining the extent to which the
United States will compromise.
"If the president's omission was
due to belief that war with Japan
fs not essential for protection of
the United States. then there is a
possibility of resching some sort of
arrangement. either femporary or
semi- permanent. through which
conflict might be avoided even
should the United States enter the
European war."
Agree With F.D.R.
Newsweek expressed complete
agreement with President Roose-
velt's denunciation of the axis.
"We are convinced." the magazine
said. "that by showing such full
recognition of the menace to Ameri.
can safety and by committing the
nation. Rcosevelt has adopted te
only course by which the danger
can be terminated.
"Many Japanese have contended
th while this country is mem-
'he axis group, it is neither

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
HNA72 BULLETIN.
TOKYO, JUNE G-CINS)--A PROPOSAL THAT JAPAN "RECONSIDEK HEK POSITION
UNDER THE TRIPARTITE AGFEEMENT TO ENABLE A COMPROMISE WITH THE UNITED
STATES WAS VOICED BY THE JAPANESE PUBLICATION NEWSWEEK TODAY.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE REVIEW SURPRISINGLY REMARKED THAT "PARTIAL
DISSOCIATION OF JAPAN FROM NAZISM IS NOT SO INCONCEIVABLE AS IT MAY
APPEAK AT FIRST SIGHT."
MOKE 1104ASD
HNA73 ADD NEWSWEEK--TOKYO XXX SIGHT.
PKESIDENT KOOSEVELT'S FAILURE TO MENTION JAPAN DURING HIS RECENT
FIAESIDE CHAT PLEDGING UNREMITTING AMERICAN AID TO GREAT BRITAIN AGAINST
THE AXIS PROMPTED NEWSWEEK TO REVIEW THE WHOLE GENERAL SITUATION.
"ANY ATTEMPT TO FORCE APPEASEMENT IN THE PACIAIC IS BOUND TO FAIL."
THE AMERICAN-EDITED MAGAZINE SAID, ALTHOUGH THER APPEAR TO BE CHANCES
LEFT FOR A JAPANESE-AMERICAN COMPROMISE.
ONE APPARENT OBSTACLE TO THIS PROCEDURE IS THE TRIPARTITE PACT.
BUT IF THAT TREATY IS TRULY AN INSTRUMENT DESIGNED TO PREVENT SPREAD OF
EUKOPEAN HOSTILITIES AS THE JAPANESE HAVE FREQUENTLY, CONTENDED, THEN
SURELY SOME MEANS MUST BE AVAILABLE TO PREVENT THE PACT FROM BECOMING
A CAUSE OF CONFLICT BETWEEN JAPAN AND AMERICA.
(EDITOR'S NOTE: JAPANESE QUARTERS IN NEW YORK COULD NOT SAY
WHETHER NEWSWEEK'S RESUME HAD ANY GOVERNMENT APPROVAL. IT WAS B-ROAD-
CAST TO THE UNITED STATES, HOWEVER, BY THE OFFICIAL JAPANESE NEWS AGENCY
DOMEI.)
WITH AMERICAN INVOLVEMENT IN THE EUKOPEAN WAR SEEMINGLY INESCAPABLE,
THE CHANCES OF HOSTILITIES IN THE PACIFIC THREATEN TO GROW, AND PRESUM-
ABLY JAPAN IS EQUALLY ANXIOUS TO AVOID THEM AS THE UNITED STATES.
(MOKE)--1114ASD
HNA74 ADD NEWSWEEK--TOKYO XXX STATES.
TO THIS END IT WOULD SEEM WISE FOR THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT FIRST OF
ALL TO REEXAMINE ITS COMMITMENTS UNDER THE TRI-PARTITE PACT AND IF ANY
ROOM WHATEVER HAS BEEN LEFT FOR AMICABLE ACTION, TO SET ABOUT DETERMIN-
ING THE EXTENT TO WHICH THE UNITED STATES WILL COMPROMISE.
IF THE PRESIDENT'S OMISSION WAS DUE TO BELIEF THAT WAR WITH JAPAN
IS NOT ESSENTIAL FOR PROTECTION OF THE UNITED STATES, THEN THERE IS A
POSSIBILITY OF REACHING SOME SORT OF ARRANGEMENT, EITHER TEMPORARY OR
SEMI-PERMANENT, THROUGH WHICH CONFLICT MIGHT BE AVOIDED EVEN SHOULD THE
UNITED STATES ENTER THE EUROPEAN WAR.
NEWSWEEK EXPRESSED COMPLETE AGREEMENT WITH PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT'S
DENUNCIATION OF THE AXIS.
WE ARE CONVINCED," THE MAGAZINE SAID, THAT BY SHOWING SUCH FULL
RECOGNITION OF THE MENACE TO AMERICAN SAFETY AND BY COMMITTING THE
NATION, ME. ROOSEVELT HAS ADOPTED THE ONLY COURSE BY WHICH THE DANGER
CAN BE TERMINATED.
PAKTIAL DISSOCIATION OF JAPAN FROM NAZISM IS NOT SO INCONCEIVABLE
AS IT MAY APPEAR AT FIRST SIGHT.
MANY JAPANESE HAVE CONTENDED THAT WHILE THIS COUNTKY IS A MEMBER
OF THE AXIS GKOUP, IT IS NEITHEK FASCIST NOR NAZI.
1118ASD
CM GA MKTS

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.88)
CHARGE SLIP
894.544
File No.
Remarks
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
CHARGE TO—
yu
FEFumer
4
10-3-36
743.37
TD
203.3F
1011 T) me Chne
 TD-mClu
5-19-38
with 14
13
6-30-38
≠19
TD
L.DEP
206lue
PA H- Duv2
3-13-x2

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.92)
CHARGE SLIP
894.=4
File No.
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REMARKS
20+te 1.D
Au
6.104
19660 TD Mc Clue
8-4-41

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.544 N
SEE812.544.GONE WITHTHE WIND/4
FOR
FROM ..Taft,.Walhridge..S.
DATEDAuguat.111938
TO
NAME
1-1127
WITI
REGARDING:
Foreign translation rights of GONE WI TH THE WIND.
Inquiry as to whether the book is protected under the Berne
TH
Convention in Japan; and, if not, if there is any way in
addition to the Berne Convention by whioh proteotion may
be obtained there.
mjd

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
SUBJECT
Infringement of McGraw-Hill
copyri;hts in Japan.
DATE
U94.544 MCGRAW-HILL
CASE NUMBER
No.
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
IMMAN OF THE BOARD
H.McGRAW.JR
Mc GRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY·INC.
ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENTS
TIN M. FOSS
CURTIS G BENJAMIN
PRESIDENT
McGRAW-HILL BUILDING
COLLEGE DEPARTMENT
JAMES S. THOMPSON
33O WEST 42ND STREET
FRANK L EGNER
VICE PRESIDENT
NEW YORK.N.Y.
MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT
CURTIS W. McGRAW
JOSEPH A HYLAND
WILLIAM E HAWKE
VICE PRESIDENT AND TREASURER
SECRETARYBASST TREASURER
"MC GRAW HILL"NEW YORK
CABLE ADDRESS
ALDWYCH HOUSE.WC 2
LONDON
HUGH J KELLY
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT
TRADE DEPARTMENT
new
January 4
1 9 3 8
TREATY DIVISION
Flen
Dr. Wallace McClure
8
State Department
6
Washington, D. C.
Wrue
4
Dear Dr. McClure:
DEPARTMENT OFSIA
544 MCGRAW-HILL
I am enclosing cony of : letter which we
just received from our agents in Japan, the "aruzen
Company, telling us confidentially that several of
our titles which are pirated in China are being
imported and sold in Japan.
In discussing this with Mr. Frederic Melcher
of the Publishers' Weekly, he suggested, because
neither of us had any ideas as to what, if anything,
could be done about such : situation, that I write
to you.
We, of course, have known for a long time
about the pirating in Chine. et least several
hundred of our books have been set up and are being
sold at about one-half or one-third our price. We
had hoped that the situation in China would not
spread to Japan. From the letter it would seem that
the Maruzen Company are not sure whether the books
are actually manufactured in China or not, for they
merely say, "It seems to us that they &re".
Incidentally, please note that all the books
of ours listed in their letter are on aeroplanes,
plus our CHEMICAL ENGINEERS' HANDBOOK, all of which
F/MR
fit in with their present military scheme of things.
I am not sure of the present treaty, if any,
between the United States and Japan on copyright
matters and whether or not it is possible to do
anything under the present situation.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
Mc GRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY·INC.
Wallace McClure
PAGE
-2-
DATE 1/4/38
We can, of course, ask Maruzen to purchase
and obtain some of the nirated editions being sold in
Japan, and I suppose make a formal comola int. Whetner
or not this will do any good under present conditions,
we do not know, but your advice and counsel on this
matter will be very helpful to us.
Very truly yours,
McGRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY, Inc.
urts n. lucfr
CWM: MK
Vice President and Treasarer.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
O P Y
COPY
MARUZEN COMPANY, Ltd.
6 Tori-Nichome Nihonbashi Tokyo
P. O. Box 605, Tokyo Central
December 11, 1937
McGraw-Hill Book Comnany, Inc.
330 West 42nd Street
New York, N. Y.
Dear Sirs:
CONFIDENTIAL
We hasten to inform you that we have recently dis-
covered the reprint editions of the undermentioned books
being sold here in secret but extensively to the students
at the extraordinarily cheap prices as mentioned below by
the Onkodo Shobo, No. 68, 9-chome, Higashi-Nodamachi,
Kitaku, Osaka. It seems to us that the books are printed
in Tientsin, China and imported by the named bookstore.
It is really our fear that the sale of your
original editions is hindered by the dist: ibution of such
reprints, and hope you will proaotly take proper counter-
measures to prevent such illegal sale in tis country to
maintain the market for your editions.
We would ask you to treat this information strictly
confidential and never let any body know our name as a
source of information. Furthermore, though we do not like
to go into any trouble or dispute with trade here directly,
we are prepared to help you secretly whenever your cir-
cumstance necessitates.
Trusting the above will be appreciated by you, and
hoping to hear from you in due course,
Yours very truly,
For MARUZEN COMPANY, LTD.
(Bigned) R. Kanazawa, Director.
Perry - Chemical Engineers Handbook 1934 Vol. I - ¥ 8.00
Perry - Chemical Engineers Handbook
Vol. II -
8.00
Nelson - Seaplane Design
5.00
Prandtl & Tietjens - Fundamentals of Hydro- and
Aeromechanics
7.00
Weick - Aircraft Propeller Design, 1930
7.00
Wood - Technical Aerodynamics, 1935
7.00
Younger - Structural Design of Metal Airplanes
8.00

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
January 5, 1938.
My dear Mr. MoGraw:
894.544
Your letter of January 4, 1938, in whioh you refer
to the sale, in Japan, of certain books of which you own
the copyright, was duly received today.
Before making any recommendation to the Department
MCGRAW-HiLL/
cemserning a possible instruction to the American Embassy
atofokyo I should like to know definitely whether the
books referred to have been formally copyrighted in
Japan, so that there can be no question of Japanese pro-
teation of the books whioh are on sale by your agent there.
In the sesond place, referring to the request for
2
seareey on the part of the Maruzen Company, do you think
shat they would objeet to representatioms whieh the
Embassy might make to the Japanese Government or to an
interview by e representative of the Embessy?
F/MR
Vise President and Treasmrer,
MeGeaw-Kill Boek Compaxy, Ineorporated,
Now York, Now Yers.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
I am sure that 1t will be the desire of the Depart-
ment to assist in this matter if it is pessible to de se.
As you probably know, treaty proteetion of copyright
1s at present wholly inadequate as respects Japan.
Japan is, however, a party to the Convention for the
Proteetion of Literary and Artistic Works. That Conven-
tion, in the form of 1ts latest revision at Rome, 1928,
was recently reported favorably by the Committee on
Foreign Relations of the United States Senate and is now
on the executive calendar. Should the Senate itself take
favorable action at an early date, there seens every
reason to believe that the ability of your Government to
protect your interests in Japan would be very materially
increased.
Upon the receipt of your reply, I will see what can
be done and will suggest that the Department advise you
further.
sinoerely yours,
Wallaoe MoClure,
Chairman, Interdepartmental
Committee en Copyright.
the
A true copy of
the signed origi-
TD:WMOC:HGK
nal.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
OF THE BOARD
GRAW.JR
Mc GRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY·INC.
ASSISTANT VICL PRESIDENTS
M.FOSS
CURTIS G BENJAMIN
IDENT
McGRAW-HILL BUILDING
COLLEGE DEPARTMENT
ES S. THOMPSON
33O WEST 42ND STREET
FRANK L EGNER
VICE PRESIDENT
MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT
CURTIS W. MCGRAW
NEW YORK. N.Y.
JOSEPH A HYLAND
WILLIAM E HAWKE
VICE PRESIDENT AND TREASURER
SECRETARYBASST TRIASURER
"MCGRAW HILL"NEW YORK
CABLE ADDRFSS
ALDWYCH HOUSE WC 2
LONDON
HUGH J KELLY
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT
TRADE DEPARTMENT
January 8th
REATY DIVISION
Dr. Wallace McClure
Fle
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. McClure:
3
DEPARTMENI OFAT
6
I appreciate exceedingly your letter of January
4.544
5th concerning the sale, in Japan, of certain of our books on
which we hold copyright and which have been reported pirated.
We do not copyright our books in Japan, nor do
any publishers as far as I know. We, as well as a good many
other publishers, have dealt for a great many years with
MC
Maruzen and Company, and have always had the best possible
relationships with them from every standpoint. I am not sure
GRAW-
of this point, but it may be that our books would be considered
to be copyrighted in Japan because we copyright practically all
of our books in England. I am sure that the entire list of
our pirated books given you in my letter of January 4th are
all copyrighted in England. In other words, even though the
HiLL/
United States is not a subscriber to the International Copyright
Union, England and Japan are and our books being copyrighted
in England may be sufficient.
I cannot see why Maruzen and Company requested
C!
secrecy in this matter but I can easily inquire. I cannot see
also that they would object in any way to representations which
our Embassy might make to the Japanese Government, or to an
interview by a representative from our Embassy. I am glad
that you feel that the Department will be willing to assist us
because if such pirating is allowed to go on, sales of American
books in Japan would amount to little or nothing within a very
short time as has been the case, as you probably well know, in
China.
Possibly, before any of us go to any length in
this matter, it would be best for me to write to Maruzen and
Company asking more about the whole situation. I could ask
/MR
them whether or not they would object to any protest, or to a
visit from a representative from our Embassy. I couid also

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.96)
Mc GRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY·INC.
Dr. Wallace McClure
PAGE -2-
DATE 1/8/38
Washington, D. C.
ask them to make a purchase of a pirated book thereby getting
evidence. This should tell us pretty definitely whether the
book was set up in China or Japan, and would give us more in-
formation on which to base our judgment as to what is best to
be done.
We will, of course, be guided by anything you
think best and I will await your reply before writing Maruzen
and Company. Please be assured also that your help and guid-
ance in this matter  much appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
McGRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY, Inc.,
Turth n uc w
CWM:HML
Vice President and Treasurer.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.93)
January 18 1988
My dear Mr. McGraw:
This is to aoknowledge your letter of January 8,
193e, with further reference to the sale, in Japan, of
what are reported to be pirated editions of certain
894.544 MCGRAW-
books in whioh you hold oopyright.
Inasmuch as Artiole 4 of the Convention for the
Proteotion of Literary and Artistic Works provides copy-
right protection for authors whosd works are "published
for the first time in one of the countries of the Umion",
it is pertinent to inquire whether your books, which
have been oopyrighted in Eagland, were published there
H
simaltaneously with their publication in the Umited states.
Beoks are regarded in Eagland as having been simultaneoualy
4
paalished there if not more than two weeks elapees betweem
their zstual publieation in this coumtry and in Englamd.
The
Mr. Ourtis W. MoGsaw.
Viso Presisent and Treasurer,
Momram-Mill Boek Company, Inecrporated,
330 Rest Forty-sssond stzeet,
F
New Yowk, Yew York.
/MR

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.95)
-8
The attitude of the Japanese Government towards sueh
simultaneeus publieatiom is not known, but many of
the eeuntries of the Union have respeeted sueh publica-
tion in England and have accordingly regarded American
books so copyrighted in England as entitled to copyright
1n the countries of the Union for the Protection of
Literary and Artistie Works.
It would seem to be appropriate for you to ascertain
direetly from the Maruzen Company why it is that they
fear any publieity in this matter. In order to save time,
hewever, the Department is sonding forward the correspond-
enee that has already accrued with you to the American
Embassy at Tokyo in order that it may be used on occasion.
The Embasay 1s being 1natructed not to take any chanoe of
making use of the information in a way that might embarrass
or endanger your agents. It is suggosted that, in ad-
dressing your agente, you propose to them that, 1f they
have ne objeetions, they themselves get in touch with
the Embassy and inform the Eabassy what 1f any action
might be injurious to them. If there is no objection
on their part, the Embassy can go ahead with its investiga-
siem. On the other hand, should they not get in touch
with the Embassy, but inform you that there is no objee-
tien, the Department ean request the Embassy by telegraph
to take up the ease.
Io

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.91)
-3
It seems partieularly impertant to aseertaim whethes
the pirated editions are being published in Chima er
Japan. Any information that you can obtaim regarding
this matter, whether from the purehase of copies of the
pirated editions, or otherwise, will be very much ap-
preoiated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Searetary of State:
Wallaoe MoClure,
Assistant Chief,
Treaty Division.
the
origi-
R
JAN 18 1538.PM
FE
ta; WMo:MIM:88
gub
IW

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.94)
J8LDETY
.1416
The Honorable
Jemeph C. Grew,
89
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
5
44
sir!
The Department transmits herewith, for your informa-
MCGRAW-
tlon and for the reoordn of the imbanny, coples of
letters dated Janumry 4 an  January 8, 1938, from the
Viee Fresident and Treasurer of the WoGraw-Hill Book
Company, Inoorporated of New York, relating to the al-
7
leged piraey of numer, , books published by it. The
letter of January 4, ls. contains a copy of a letter
5
from Maruzen Company, L1m. lod, 6 Tor1-Niohome Nihonbash1
Tokye, P. 0. Box 605, Tokyc Central, the MoGraw-Hill
Company's agent in Japan. Copies of the replies sent to
the MeOraw-Hill Book Company under date of January 5,
1938, and thie date, are also enolosed.
The sorrespondenee Ss self-explanatory, but the De-
partment desires to emphasize the fast that in view of
7
the third paragraph of the Maruzen Company's letter, you
/NR
should not sommumieate with it, or take any metien that
might emberrass it, waless you are netified by the
compamy of its willingmess to have you preesed with the
masser, er unlese yeu roseive further imstruetiem frem
the Departmont.
Upen

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.89)
Upen the reesipe of further infereatien fren the
Medoaw-il Beok Gompany, the Department expeets to ia-
merest you further, pessibly w telegraph.
In se far as you are able to do so within the limita-
tiems abeve set forth, the Department would like to have
you investigate the sitwation to whioh attention is
ealled with a view to determiming whether any of the
pirated editiens referred to are published in Japan or
whether they are imperted from Thima; also, whether books
published simultameously in the United states and in a
csuntry party to the Goaventien fer the Preteetien of
Literary aad Artistie Werks are accerded copgright pro-
teetien in Japan en the basis of the Convention for the
Pretestien of Literary and Artistie Works. For your com-
venienes a eepy of this convention is enelosed. This
sept is centained in Senate Exeeutive Report No. 1,
7sth Geagress, 2d sessiom. You will note, accerdingly,
thas the eeavention has been faverably reperted by the
Commastee en Fereign Relations and that it is new ex the
Semate seeutive ealendar. The Department is not, hew-
ever, in a pesitien to prediet whem astien by the Senate
may be takes. Yeur attenties is partieularly ealled to
pah (2) of Artile 16 of the cenvention. It 1a
hee tw the Repertet thas the my bo the haste for
rae tn reparing the piresies in question.
Per the Besvetary of stater
BWalton Moore
A true copy of

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.89)
with enelesure.
2.
Frem MoGraw-Miil Book Company,
Incerperated, January 8, 1938.
3.
To Moßraw-Mill Boek Company,
Inserperated, January 5, 1938.
4.
To Mo@raw-Hill Book Company,
Incerperated.
5.
Semate Exesutive Report No. 1.
JAN
W/2/10/2
Jub

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.96)
TD
LEGAL ADVISER
FE
MAY
211938
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
305
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 18, 1938.
No. 2818.
SUBJECT: MCGRAW-HILL COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT.
Division cr
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 00 1038
May 24 1958
Department of State
DEPARIMEN
894.544 MCGRAW-HILL/
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
The Embassy duly received instruction 14l6 January 18,
l938 with which there were enclosed copies of correspondence
9
between the McGraw-Hill Book Company and an officer of the
Department on the subject of the alleged piracy in Japan of
FILED
numerous books published by that company. The Embassy par
5
ticularly noted the Department's instruction that no actionbe
8
taken unless the Embassy be notified by the Maruzen Company of
Tokyo
11
F/M

=== Page 113 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Tokyo, representatives in Japan of the McGraw-Hill Book
Company, of willingness to have the matter pursued.
On March 12 a representative of the Maruzen Company
called at the Embassy and the matter was discussed. Accord-
ing to his information, the pirated books are being sold
only by one bookseller (Onkodo Shobo, 68 Higashi noda-machi,
9 chome, Kita-ku, Osaka), and the method of selling is to
approach directly engineering students at the universities
in Kyoto and Osaka. The Maruzen Company has supplied to the
Embassy a mimeographed list, with prices, of books sold by
this method by the Onkodo Shobo. The Maruzen Company has no
information that the pirated books are being sold also in the
Tokyo area, and discreet indirect inquiry by the Embassy has
disclosed that none of the pirated books are on sale in Tokyo
bookstores which make a specialty of engineering books.
The Department will be kept informed of any later def-
V elopments in the Embassy's investigation.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
854
CC:C

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
McGRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY·INC.
ASSISTANR WIEE PRESIDENTS
CURTIS 6.BENJAMIN
COLLEGE DEPARTHENT
JOSEPH A. HYLAND
LONDON
SH HOUSE,W.C.2.
HUGH J. KELLY
TRADE DEPARTHENT
34 TREATY DIVISION
261938
ANU RECORDS
February 1
9 3 8
894.544 MCGRAW-HiLL /7
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dr. Wallace McClure
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division
Department of State
May 24 1938.
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. McClure:
Absence from the office has delayed my
answering your letter of January 18 concerning the
sale in Japan of certain of our books on which we
hold the copyrlght and which have been reported
pirated. I apologize for the seeming neglect and
I do want you to know we enprec!ate your help in
this matter.
It was our feeling thet there was copyright
protection for authors whose works "ere published for
the first time in one of the countries in the Union.
However, the point that in England books are con-
sidered as being published simultaneously if there
is not more than two weeks between their actual
publication in this country and in England, I did
not know about or had forgotten it.
I should say that all of our new books were
delivered in England within two weeks of thelr pub-
lication here or at the latest within three weeks.
In England, we also supply, on demand from the Copy-
right Agent, practically all of our books. I should
think that the Japanese Government would or should
respect the English rule in this regard.
In accordance with the suggestion in your
letter, we are writing to the Maruzen Company asking
ω
why they fear any publicity in this matter and vill
report to you their enswer.
I note that you &re asking your department
to forward our correspondence to our Embassy in Tokyo
but that they will not use it in any way which might

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.91)
Mc GRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY·INC.
Wallace McClure
PAGE --
DATE 2/1/38
embarrass our agents. I ill also tell our agent
that we desire them to discuss this matter with the
Embassy, givin: the Embassy more detail. I yet
cannot see any reason why tuey should not nt to
vork vitn us.
vill also ask Aeruven to determine
whether the oirated edit ons are being oublished
in China or Janan :nd ulso reuest that tney give
any other inrort tion hien wy be pertinent.
Agin ith thanes for ur assistanee.
Ver talyur.
MeGh-HLL, DOOA COPANY, Inc.
CWn:X
Vice President end Tre: surer.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
McGRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY·INC.
ASSISTANT VICE PREBIDENTS
RECEWEBAW-HILL BUILDING
CURTIS G BENJAMIN
OFPARTMENTOFSIATE
NEWHORK.N.Y.
.NeGRAW
AM E. HAWKE
"MC GRAW HILL NEW YORK
1938 MAY 23 AM 11 34
CABLE ADDRESS
ALDWYCH HOUSE, W.C.2.
LONDON
HUGHJ
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
201938
MMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
April 6
1 9 3 8
Dr. Wallace McClure
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division
Department of State
894.544 MCGRAW-HILL/8
Washington, D. C.
Dear Doctor McClure:
You will recall our correspondence con-
cerning the report from Maruzen & Comnany of Tokyo,
Japan, that several of our books were appearing in
pirated editions in Japan.
You kindly gave us information in this
matter and then forwarded the correspondence to
our Embassy in Tokyo. At the sane time, we wrote
Maruzen telling then to get in touch with the
American Embassy, as suggested by you, and asking
if they would not give them every cooperation.
Enclosed herewith is & copy of a letter
received from Maruzen which ! pass on for your
information. Pos ibly by this time you vill have
had & report fron our Embassy as to the extent
of this pirating end I shall be pleased to have
that information at your convenlence. I would
also like to know if you feel there is anything
else to be done about this matter at the present
time.
Again, with our appreciation of your
cooperation,
Sincerely yours,
Lurti w. ltue Frow
CWM:MK
F/8

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
MA R UZ E N C OA P A N Y,L T D.
6 Tori-Nichome Nihonbashi Tokyo
P.O. Box 605 Tokyo Central
March 17, 1938
McGraw-Hill Book Company
New York
N. Y.
Attention Mr. Curtis W. AcGra
Gentlemen:
According to your letter CWa:mk of February l,
we have got in touch with the American Embassy her
regarding the pirated editions of your sever:l books
being sold by Onkodo Shobo of Osaka, and fully explained
the matter to them. At their request, we also sent them
a circular of the bookstore sho ng the titles of the
pirate editions as an evidence, and asked then to take
prompt and prooer measures. They confirmed us that they
would arrange to stop their illegal action as soon as
possible.
You mention in your letter that you cannot
understand the reason why we asked you to treat our in-
formation confidentially and asked us to explain this
point. We would state that through our bitter experiences
in the past, we do not like to be known as an informent
of such a matter by the trade here and put to any trouble
or dispute with them, causing unnecessary bad feelings
toward us.
This is fully appreciated by the American
Embassy and we are sure that you will also vell appre-
ciate our desire. We are prepared to render any further
assistance to the Embassy.
Hoping the matter will be settled to our
mutual satisfaction at the earliest date and assuring
you of our best cooperation for the sale of your pub-
lications here.
Yours very truly,
mARUZEN COmPANY, Ltd.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.90)
Za zeply zefo to
May 19. 1038.
My dear Mr. MoGeaw:
8
6
with reference to your letters of rebruary 1, 193s,
4
5
and April 6, 1938, dealing with piracy of your publications
in Japan, I can report little that is pertinent in advices
reseived frem the American Embassy at Tokyo.
MCGRAW
The Embassy has stated that it will keep the Depart-
ment informed. To date, however, the only information
reosived is that on Mareh 12 a representative of the Maru-
工
sen Company called at the Embassy and the matter was dis-
oussed. Ascording to the infermation of this representa-
tive, the pirated books were being sold only by one book-
6
seller (Onkedo Shobo, 68 Migashi meda-mach1, 9 cheme,
Kita-ku, Osaka). The methed of selling was to appreech
direstly engimsering students at the umiversities in
Kyoto and Osaka. The Marusen Company supplied to the
Embassy a mimeographed list, with priees, of beeks sold
1F
W
is.
B
6

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.92)
-9
by thie methed by the Onkodo Shobo. The Marusen Cempamy
had mo iaformation that the pirated books were being seld
alee in the Tokyo area, but an inquiry condusted by the
Embassy disolosed that none of them were on sale in Tokyo
book stores understood to make a specialty of engineering
books.
The Department is sending an additional instruotion
to the Embassy inquiring whether anything further has
transpired.
Sincerely yours,
Wallaoe Mollure,
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division.
MAY 21 1938.
A true copy d
the sighed origi-
CR
nal.
QMV.13.
taswMoinn
TE

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.93)
From The Publishere' Weekly, p. 1267.
March 19, 1938
This copy for Dr. MeClure
Doc. Bk. 6,
File
FEOEPVED
Wn
MAY 23 1938
EXCHANGES WITH JAPAN
Simon & Schuster have received a letter from Tokio stating that the pub-
lishing house of Sogan Sha has sold 15,500 copies of a condensed edition of
Dale Carnegie's "How to Win Friends and Influence People." That firm writes
that they "have taken the liberty of publishing this modified Japanese edition
before applying to you or to the author for any form of permission. Legally
speaking, we are not obliged to get any sort of permission because the two
nations are not contracting parties to the international copyright treaties,
but morally, and for the sake of courtesy, we ought to have written you earlier
89
and for that neglect we again ask for your generous excuse."
4
This belated acknowledgement cannot bring much comfort to Mr. Carnegie
or his American publishers. The Japanese book trade is usually very punctilious
It buys a large quantity of American trade books through Henry M. Snyaer & Co.
This act of piracy is a surprise breach of a friendly relationship. Japan is
a Union country and grants ten years copyright protection to books before they
can be translated into Japanese except by arrangement.
We also have just received a clipping of an editorial in the Japan Times
& Mail, Tokio, December 20th, protesting against criticism that has been re-
ceived there from an English publisher and also from an American bookseller
against the Japanese program in China. These criticisms have been followed up
by refusal to do business with Japanese dealers. We believe that the interrup-
tion of the exchange of ideas through any disruption of the book business is
unfortunate, because the book business is highly important as an aid to inter-
national unuerstanding.
We hope that Japan will continue to be an open market for American books
(and that the Japanese will give the customary recognition and protection to
American authors and publishers) and that whatever material of a cultural sort
O
we can purchase from Japan we shall continue to buy.
7
It is not quite clean from the quoeation
so
asked. or whechth it bas been obtainnd.
but at any rate it eas nt asted
F/WB
in the fist peace.
The base canmegie booues tos been on the
best beeer list for monthon
looof

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.91)
may 24 1938.
1499
The Honorable
894.544 MCGRAW-
Jeseph G. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
six:
Referring to the Department's instruotion no. 1416
of Jamwary 18, 1938, and to the Embassy's despatch no.
2018 of Mareh 18, 1938, in reply, the Department will
be glad to be informed whether, as suggested in the
last paragraph of the despatch, there have been any
further develepments in regard to the piracy of beoks
published by the MoGrar-Mill Beek Gampany, Ine.
In this esmnestiem, there is melessd a copp of e
Letter dated March 17, 193s, which the Marusen Gempeny
has addressed to the MoGraw-Hill Book Gompany, Ino.,
a sppy of which was furnished to the Department by the
latter.
thes, ia this same general anection, the Depatt
mest desires to express ite grevings coscesm zegasding the
mtpistien ef esses of piresy ia Japen and al ia
F/WB
 1f thee a  y s ehe

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.92)
be  e uly ben asstud ia cine,
the Bepartment would partieularly like to reseive it.
There is emelesed, as ef possible saterest, an exesrps
from The Pahlisheze! Reckly, organ of the book publishers,
for March 19, 1938, entitled "Exohanges with Japan". The
foot-nete is from a penned statement by Mr. Richard C. De
Welf, Assistant Register of Copyrights. The exeerpt was
received in the Department from the Copyright Office.
The convention for the protection of literary and ar-
tistie werks is still pending before the Senate where prog-
ress appears to have been blooked owing to a number of cir-
oumstanses, chiefly the epposition of organised laber.
The contimued pirasy of American books in Japan is, of
course, a powerful argument in favor of the adherenee by
the Umited Stases to this treaty. It is for this reason,
among others, that the Dspartment partioularly desires to
reseive all of the information which the Embassy may from
time to time be in a positien to furnish.
vezy truly yours,
For the Sesretary of state:
R. Walton Moore
Enclesures:
A true copy 
eour
gub

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.95)
JAMMC GRAWJR
Mc GRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY·INC.
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
MARTIN M FOSS
PRESIDENI
MCGRAW
LDING
RLCEIVED
CURTIS G BENJAMIN
ULPAHIMENT
JAMES S THOMPSON
CURTIS W McGRAW
WILLIAM E HAWKE
VICE PRESIDENT AND THIAOHER
"MCGRAW HILL NEW YORK
CAHIE ADDRISS
LONDON
PM1
HUGH J KELLY
JOSEPH A HYLAND
PHODUCTION DEPARTMENT
THADE DEPARTMENT
May 25th
TREATY DIVISION
Dr. Wallace McClure
894.544 MCGRAW-HILL
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Doctor McClure:
Thank you for your letter of May 19 con-
cerning the piracy of our publications in Japan.
Let me say again that we appreciate
your help and cooperation in this matter and
we naturally will be pleased to have any
additional information you may receive from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
From the information you now give me,
it would seem that at the moment the selling of
pirated books was limited to one bookseller in
Osaka. We certainly hope it does not spread.
I am wondering also if there is any
action which we might get Maruzen to institute
against the pirating bookseller and others in
the future if they should pirate, too.
Sincerely yours,
F/
D
Enrhs w. mefw
CWM:MK

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
JAM
M-GRAW.IR
McGRAW-HILL. BOOK COMPANY·INC.
CHAIRMAN OI THE BUAH
MARTIN M FOSS
CORTIC C BENJAMIN
PRESIDENT
BUILDING
COLLEGE DEPARTMENT
JAMES S THOMPSON
FRANK L EGNER
VICE PRESIDENT
MAU ORDERDEPARIMENT
CURTIS W MCCRAW
NEW YORK.NY.
JOSEPH A HYLAND
WILLIAM E HAWKE
VICE PRESIDENT AND THEAURL
"MC GRAW HILL"NEW YORK
CABLE AUDRESS
ALDWYCH HOUSE WC 2
LONUON
HUGHKELLY
PRODULTION DE PARTMENT
,53。
September 10
894.544 MCGRAW-HILL
File
Dr. Wallace McClure
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division
Gane
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Doctor McClure:
My follow-up file brings up our
correspondence concerning book piracy in
Japan.
Are there any further points which
have come up in regard to this matter which
you care to pass on for our information?
May we also say once again that
we appreciate the help and cooperation you
C.
are giving us.
Sincerely yours,
CWM:MK
F/WB

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.96)
September 27, 1938.
My dear Mr. MoGraw:
Your letter of September 10, 1938, relating to
894.544 MC GRAW-H
cerrespondence with the American Embassy at Tokyo on
the subjeet of book piraoy in Japan, was reoeived in
due course. The Department has no further information
on the subjeot, ne reply having as yet been recsived
to its most recent instruotion, transmitted in May of
this year, to the Embassy. A follow-up instruetion in
regard to this matter is now being transmitted.
Sineerely yeurs,
For the Searetary of State:
Wallace MoGlure
Assistant Chief, Treaty Division
4
Mr. Curtis W. MeGraw,
Vice President and Treasurer,
F/A
MoGraw-Hill Book Company, Ino.,
OR
330 West 42nd Street,
SEP 28 1938.
New Yerk, New York.
SEP 28 1938.P
D: WM: BMF: 8S
FE
A true
Ji
the sig
nal.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.96)
september 29 1938."
.1583
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
894.544 MC
Reference is made to the Department's instruotion
mo. 1499 of May 24, 1938, relating to the infringement
of copyright in general, and in partioular to the infringe-
ment of certain copyrights belonging to the MoGraw-Hill
Book Company, Inoorporated. This instruction is not
GRAW-
intemded to imply undue delay in hearing further from you,
but te remind you of the continuing interest of the
Department in this subjeet, further inquiry having been
received from the MoGraw-Hill Book Company.
You will bear in mind, of course, that, with the
begimming of the new year, the question of Congressional
5
legislation, and of Senatorial action upon the pending
Convention for the Proteotien of Literary and Artistie
F/A
Werks, may again become a subject of immediate interest
and comeern.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
OR
R. WALTON MOORE
SEP 28 1938
SEP 28 1938.PM
006.644 MeGees-K111/0
A trugy copy
5
FE
TD:F:SS 9-27
the skannd urg
jois
nal.
