894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., September 9, 1942 - October 3, 1944 (File 1453)
ID: 894.00-1453   Pages: 304   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-26
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
buts
tel lyl
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OCT 15 1942
RECEIVED
DATE:
OCT 1 6 1942
September 9, 1942
Chinese ints
Mr. A. A. Gromyko, Counselor of the Soviet Embassy,
PARTICIPANTS:
and Mr. Durbrow, Division of European Affairs, State
Department.
DVISION
vision of
FUROPIAN
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
COPIES TO:
144
OCT 1 4 1942
894.00/1168
Department of State
At Mr. Atherton's suggestion I asked Mr. Gromyko to
call this afternoon and informed him or the pertinent
parts of the telegram dated September 5, 1942 from
Chungking relative to the Chinese interpretation of the
10
resignation of Togo, the Japanese Foreign Minister.
In contrast to this interpretation I also informed
Mr. Gromyko of the interpretation given to this event
by reports from neutral souroes in Europe (Vichy's tele-
gram po. 1303, September 5, 1 p.m.) to the effeot that
the resignation was due primarily to the reactions of
Mr. Togo to the creation of the Greater East Asia
Ministry in the Japanese Government.
PS/DLB
Mr. Gromyko thanked me for giving him this informa-
tion which he stated was of definite interest to the
Soviet Embassy.
OCT 161942
FILED
Bu: ED: B

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
September 8, 1942.
In a telegram from Chungking dated September 5, 1942,
the American Ambassador to China reports, inter alis, that
the ohief of one of the departments in the Chinese Foreign
Orfice who has had experience in Japan interprets the
assumption by General Tojo of the portfolio of Foreign
Minister in Japan as an indication that the diplomatio
phase of Japanese-Soviet Union relations has reached the
point of failure and that General Tojo is prepared, unless
a final demand for an arrangement satisfactory to Japan
is met, to take military aotion.
In contrast to this opinion, there has come to the
Department of State a report giving estimate of a highly
plaoed offioial in the Far East of a neutral power. There
is attributed to the said offioial a statement of opinion
to the effeot that the displacement of Foreign Minister Togo
probably was due to opposition by Togo to General Tojo's
plan for the oreation of a speoial agenoy to deal with
Japan's relations with other areas in the "Greater East
Asia Prosperity Sphere".

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
CUROPEAN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STA
RELATIONS
00161942
OCT 15 1942
Captain MoCrea, Naval Aide to the President, called
me on the telephone this noon and stated that the
Secretary of the Navy had mentioned in press conference
894.00/
this morning a telegram which MoCrea thought was from
Gauss at Chungking giving the Chinese estimate of the
implications of the displacement of Foreign Minister Toge
from the Japanese Cabinet and assumption by General Tojo
9
of the Foreign Offioe portfolio. The Chinese estimate
6
was, according to Captain MoCrea's account of the telegram,
that this meant that the Japanese military leadership,
having made certain demands upon the Soviet Government,
11
intended, unless they received in the near future from
S
the Soviet Government a favorable reply, to attack the
LLB
Soviet Union.
The President had asked Captain MoCrea to bring the
above to the attention of Mr. Welles and to suggest that
Mr. Welles bring it to the attention of the Soviet Ambas-
sador. Captain MoCrea had disoovered that Mr. Welles is
not in town and he therefore was informing me.
I stated that I would call the matter to the attention
1
161942
信
of the Seoretary of State.
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
September 8, 1942.
In a telegram from Chungking dated September 5, 1942,
the American Ambessador to Chime reports, imter alia, thas
the ehief of one of the departments in the Chimese Foreigm
Orfiee who has had experience in Japan interprets the
assumption by General rojo of the portfolio of Foreign
Minister in Japan as an indioation that the diplomatie
phase of Japanese-Soviet Jnion relations has remehed the
point of failure and that Ceneral rojo is prepared, unless
a final demand for an arrangement satisfactory to Japan
is met, to take military motion.
In contrast to this opinion, there has come to the
Depertment of tate a report siving estimate of a nighly
plaeed ofriolal In the Yar ast of a noutrel pownr. There
is attributed to ti snid offioinl a statement of opinion
to the effeot that the displeoement of Foreign Minister Togo
probably was due to opposition by Togo to General Tojo's
plan for the creation of a speoiul agenoy to deal with
Japam's relatious with other areas in the "Greater Fest
Asia Presperity phere".

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.91)
A4/B
OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERV
WASHINGTON. D. C.
NOV 2 4 1942
November 23, 1942
KECUTIVE ASSISTANT TO
t. a
LONG
NOV 2 5 1942
tr. Breckanridge Long
roh
Assistant Secretary of State
FW 894.00/
MR. BRANDT
d02 State Department
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Long:
I am tranamitting herewith a
copy of Interview No. 16, "Conditions in
SPECIAL
0L11/20·hbf
Tokyo after December 7, 194l." This 1s
UIVISION
a supplement to our Report No. 77, "Informa-
tion Gathered on the 'S. S. Gripaholm!,"
NOV 28 1942
a copy of which was sent to you under datd
of September 26, l942. It 1s classified as
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
confidential.
Sincerely yours
2  0  1 17
enae
OF SATE
OATION
BC
ISION OF
William L. Langer
EVED
Direotor, Bramh of
FEPRENT
Research & Analysis
3
Enclosure
NOV 3 0 1942
FILED
DECLASSIFIED
PS/MM
E.Q. 11052. Sc. 3(E) ang 500. gr 0
NND750065
 H/CD NARS. Da NOV. 27 1974

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Copy No. 
OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES
Research and analysis Branch
Far Eastern Section.
INTERVIEW No. 16
(Supplement to Report No. 77: Information Gathered on
the S. S. Gripsholm)
With: Mr. Russell L. Durgin
Date: August 1942
Subject: Conditions in Tokyo
Place: S. S. Gripsholm
after Dec. 7, 1941
INTRODUCTION
Mr. Durgin, who spent some 20 years with the YMCA in Tokyo, had
an unusually wide acquaintance among Japanese. Since after the out-
break of war in the Facific Mr. Durgin was one of only a few
Americans who were free to move about in Tokyo, the information which
he was able to give about conditions in that city during the first
half of this year is of unusual value.
TREATMENT OF AMERICANS
From the point of view of the treatment by the Japanese
after December 7, 194l, Mr. Durgin classed americans in Japan as
follows: (1) Free, (2) interned at home, (3) interned in camp, and
(4) imprisoned. Of the 130 Protestant missionaries in Japan about
110 came into the hands of the Japaneso authorities because of their
citizenship. about 60 were interned; the others were free -- that is
free within the city of residence. In the group which was imprisoned
(6152)

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2 -
were two american women -- Alice Grube of Osaka and Phyllis argyl
of Tokyo -- although women more often than men were allowed to move
about freely. In Tokyo, for instance, only seven merican men, of
whom Mr. Durgin was one, were "free"; the others were A. J. Stirewalt,
R. D. McCoy, M. S. Frehn, Dr. Henry Topping, J. F. Gressitt, and
Paul S. Mayer.
Mr. Durgin believes that his acquaintance with police offi-
cials, due to the service he had rendered in connection with two trials,
may have accounted for his being "free." When police called and
searched Mr. Durgin's house, as they did those (f others, Mr. Durgin
asked about his status and was told that, wiile he could not luave
Tokyo, he could use his discretion in going about the city. On sub-
sequent visits, the police expressed an interest in whether he got
food enough.
Mr. Durgin's wife started for the United States on Ducember 2
on the "Tatsuta Mamu," which turned back and arrived in Yokohama on
December 15. Mrs. Durgin was held in a hotel in Yokohama until the
twenty-first, when she was allowed to leave after securing a guarantee
for her hotel bill. During the week she was in Yokohama she had no
change of clothes. She was unable to see any rhyme or reason in the
treatment of herself or many of the others.
SHORTAGES
During the six months following December 7, Mr. Durgin was
able to make personal observations of conditions in Tokyo. Since he
had no servants and did his own marketing he was in a position to
know the prices and shortages of food particularly. General figures

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
CONPIDENTTL
on food supplies after war started he could not supply. In the
circumstances in which he found himself he feli it advisable not to
be too inquisitive. The rationing of food was controlled through
tickets and by local groups, his own local group being made up of
nine households. These groups are called tonari gumi and ranged from
5 or 6 to 20 households. The final determination as to the allotting
of tickets seems to have been made in a general office for the city.
Distribution of the tickets was through the head of a group to the
houses in his group.
Control of the distribution of rice begun in May or June
1941. Some revision in the amounts allotted was made at about the
time thut the Pacific war began, but up until June 1942 there had
been no further change. There wus complaint under the surface about
the scarcity of rice, and it was the general belief that in families
with growing boys there was not sufficient food. another cause of
complaint was the mixing of the rice, especially when it was mixed
with inferior gruins. Rice tickets could be turned in for bread.
Other commodities which c.une under the ticket system were
sugar (like rice, controlled before December 7, 1941), shoyu, miso,
sult, fish, meit (one-quarter pound once a month) and clothing (which,
after Februury 1942, was put on the point system).
The fish deuler with whom the Durgin's daalt hud 305 fumilies
as regular customers. When fish was available a sign was put up in
front of his shop -- "Nos. 1-75," say, -- and families with those
numbers sent representatives who lined up to buy fish. Next day per-
haps the sign would aay "Nos: 76-200." The dealer estimated how much

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
CONFIDENTIAL
he had to divide and took care of as many as he could from day to
day. (Mr. Durgin heard no mention of the danger of submarines in
connection with the shortage of fish.)
Commoditiés not on the ticket system but obtainable only
through the tonari gumi were: Eggs (after March, four. or five a.
month for two persons) and chicken (a slice once a month).
In general, the people just didn't eat eggs, meat, or fish --
fish perhaps about once a week. While Japanese and foreigners were
treated alike, to some extent the Durgins had an advantage in that
they got a little help from friends.
Foreign groceries such as spaghetti and macaroni were very
scarce, and jams and preserves not buyable. The difficulty of getting
vegetables was explained by Mr. Durgin as due to transportation prob-
lems, to lack of manpower, and to price control. There were always
long lines of women waiting to buy vegetables, which were handled in
the same way as fish.
After a time it became very difficult to get milk. From the
end of april the Durgin's were unable to get milk from the milkman who
had been serving them. He introduced Mr. Durgin to a man from another
ward who was likewise unable to provide milk. Mr. Durgin went to the
police for a milk ticket. He got none. He went to the ward officials.
Still no ticket. It was possible to apply for milk for invalids, but
Mr. Durgin preferred not to make such an application. He went to
the general office for Tokyo where the chief of the economics section
proved to be an old student of his. Through him Mr. Durgin finally
succeeded in getting milk.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-5 -
Clothing was put on a rationing system in February 1942.
One hundred points were allowed per person per year, 60 of which
might be used during the first 6 months. Six pairs of tabi were
allowed per year. Enough cloth for a kimona took 25 points, and a
rain coat, 30 points. Silk things called for fewer points than those
of rayon or cotton mixture.
The shortage of leather was very evident and shoes were
very expensive. Shoes formerly made for ¥20 cost ¥40 or ¥50 in May
or June 1942, if they could be bought at all, and were obviously of
inferior leather. athletic equipment was under very strict control.
Electricity, light, and gas were limited to some fraction
of the consumption of the previous year. Cas was so strictly limited
that, according to Mr. Durgin, it got so that one could not take a
bath.
Bank accounts were also controlled. However, while Mr. Durgin
spoke of "freezing" as involving americans, and of general controls
over the accounts of Japanese, he was not well informed as to the
nature of these general controls. There was discussion in the papera
of the reorganization of the Bank of Japan but, again, Mr. Durgin
knew none of the details except that the reorganization had to do with
the Coprosperity Sphere.
Hundreds of automobiles were idle or jacked up. This,
Mr. Durgin explained by the lack of rubber or gasoline, probably gaso-
line. There was no kerosene or gasoline purchasable after about
Ootober 1940. Before that time three gallons of gasoline a month
had been obtainable. as to rubber, in March or april of this year
rubber bulls were distributed to the school onildren as evidence of

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
CONFIDENTIAL
the arrival of "treasure-ships" from the south.
The men in charge at various hospitals said that there was
a shortage of medicine and complained particularly of the lack of
ether.
Nails (during the past year), sheet iron, and, in general,
commoditias made of metal were not purchasable. There was a great
effort to bring in by voluntary contributicns scrap metal of all sorts.
at a meeting in Tokyo where voluntary contributions of scrap metal
were asked for, the Japanese secretary of the nerican School ugreed
to give up the metal fence around the school. For this he got f2o0,
although it cost f1,600 to take it down and put up a picket fence in
its place. When the secretary usked why in view of all the things
coming from the south, it was necessary to give up everything of metal,
there was no answer, he told lir. Durgin, excupt a smile. at this
meeting there was grumbling and vigorous complaint. In fact, one man
expressed himself so strongly that the secretary of the American School
was astounded.
POLITICAL CONDITIONS
The interview turned to political matters. Mr. Durgin stated
in reply to a question that there has been general pressure toward
unity in Japan, which he believed was a result to be expected of war.
The differences betwean the gendarmerie and army, about which others
spoke, was not ap arent to Mr. Durgin.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
JAPAN'S RELATIONS WITH GERMANY AND ITALY
Up to about 6 months ago Germany exerted considerable
Anfluence in Japan, but the Germane are not happy about things there
today. For the past 6 months Germans and Italians have bean more
olosely watched than have the Americans; for instance, when a Misei
party was being held at Mr. Durgin's at the same time a dance was
taking place at a German residence in the neighborhood, thare was no
interest on the part of the police in the Nisei party, but the Germans
were called in, questioned closely, and asked about every person at
the party.
Mr. Durgin was able to learn little about Jupunese trade
with'Germany or Italy during the war. He said that the Italian com-
murcial attaché told him in the spring thut some trade was going
through, but gave no definite information as to details, except that
Fiat cars had gotten through to Japan since December 194l. This
Mr. Durgin did not verify. There was no information at all about
trade with Germany.
JAPANESE MORALE
Price control was regarded by Mr. Durgin as the chief cause
of dispute and dissatisfaction among the people. The control of prices
is regarded by the Japanese furmer in particular as unfair. at the
same time there was no evidence of other olashes of interest in con-
neotion with price control. While the people felt that they were
being checked and surrounded on all sides, they accepted this situa-
tion because they recognised the fundamental importance of the plans
of the military.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
-8 -
CONFIDENTIAL
ATTITUDE TOWARD THE WAR
The attitude of the people whom Mr. Durgin knew toward the
: present war is hard to estimate. It was difficult to get people whom
he knew to talk ahout the war. The accepted opinion emphasizes the
attack upon British and american imperialism in the Far Est. Japan
is constantly said to be "freeing".others. In this connection, how-
ever, Mr. Durgin mentioned Tojo's speech of last January which prom-
ised freedom to the Philippines and was followed by many statements
of plans for the Philippines in the future, plans quite inconsistent
with any real freedom from Japanese control.
n Navy spokesman, Hiraidi, frequently during the spring
warned Japan it should be prepared for 200 years of war. In the
opinion of one of Mr. Durgin's civilian friends there may be some
basis for this statement. The usual statement in Japan, however, refers
to a 10-year war.
Mr. Durgin spoke of a conversation he had with Matsuoka about
the middle of 1940, during which Matsuoka made the following remark:
"My heart is with merica, but my head is with Japan." During this
same conversation Matsuoka came near to predicting the trip he made
to urope at a later time. This trip Mr. Durgin pointed out came to
an end just before the German attack on Russia.
APaN AND THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS
at the end of our interview, Mr. Durgin referred to an
ditorial which he had read in a Japanese periodical in about the.
pear 19l9. The editoril..asserted that the creation of a League was
* highly desirable thing; it would require, however, certain supre-
national features. The only power in the world, said the editorial,

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
- 9 -
OONFIDENTIAL
with a viewpoint above that of the nation and of national interests
is the Emperor of Japan. The conclusion was that the only hope of
success for a League lay in making the Emperor of Japan the head of it.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.94)
Division of
EASTS
7192
Im reply refer to
FW 894.00/11
My dear Mr. Langer:
I aoknowledge with thanks the receipt
of your letter of Novomber 23, 1942, trans-
mitting a copy of the interesting interview
had with Mr. Russell L. Durgin who returned
70
on the Gripaholm from Tokyo.
TW
Sincerely yours,
Breckinridge Long
Assistant Seoretary
Mr. William L. Langer,
Direotor, Branoh of Researoh & Analysis,
Orrice of Strategio Services,
Washington, D. C.
PS/MM
A-L/B:GLB:MWS
ALD
11-25-42

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVIGES
GUIDENTIAL
WASHINGTON, D. C.
9.ROATVWD
NOV 25 1942
November 23, 1942
DCR
aile
Goorge Gordon
Acting Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
144 State Department Building
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Gordon:
894.00/1170
I am transmitting herewith a copy
of Interview No. 16, "Conditions in Tokyo
after December 7, 194l." This is a supple-
ment to our Report No. 77, "Information
Gathered on the 'S. S. Gripsholm'," a copy
of which was sent to you under date of
894.00
September 19, 1942.It is classified as
confidential.
sincerely youm,
Tilla..
2
1942
William L. Langer
Director, Branch'of
Research & Analysis
Enclosure
PS/HCW
DECLASSIFIED
E.Q. 11652. Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (I)
NND 750065
1974

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
Copy No. 13
CONFIDENTIAL
OFFICE OF STRaTEGIC SERVICES
Research and analysis Branch
Far Eastern Section
INTERVIEW No. 16
(Supplement to Report No. 77: Information Gathered on
the S. S. Gripsholm)
With: Mr. Russell L. Durgin
Date: August 1942
Subject: Conditions in Tokyo
Place: S. S. Gripsholm
after Dec. 7, 1941
INTRODUCTION
Mr. Durgin, who spent some 20 years with the YMCA in Tokyo, had
an unusually wide acquaintance among Japanese. Since after the out-
break of war in the Pacific Mr. Durgin was one of only a few
Americans who were free to move about in Tokyo, the information which
he was able to give about conditions in that city during the first
half of this year is of unusual value.
TREATMENT OF AMERICANS
From the point of view of the treatment by the Japanese
after December 7, 1941, Mr. Durgin classed americans in Japan as
followa: (1) Free, (2) interned at home, (3) interned in camp, and
(4) imprisoned. of the 130 Protestant missionaries in Japan about
110 case into the hands of the Japanesu authorities because of their
citisenship. about 60 were interned; the others were free -- that is
free within the city of residence. In the group which was imprisoned
(6152)

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL
were two american women -- Alice Grube of Osaka and Phyllis argyl
of Tokyo -- although women more often than men were allowed to move
about freely. In Tokyo, for instance, only seven merican men, of
whom Mr. Durgin was one, were "free"; the others were A. J. Stirewalt,
4
R. D. McCoy, M. S. Frehn, Dr. Henry Topping, J. F. Gressitt, and
Paul S. Mayer.
Mr. Durgin believes that his acquaintance with police offi-
cials, due to the service he had rendered in connection with two trials,
may have accounted for his being "fres." When police called and
searched Mr. Durgin's house, as they did those of others, Mr. Durgin
asked about his status and was told that, while he could not laave
Tokyo, he could use his discretion in going about the city.  On sub-
sequent visits, the police expressed an interest in whether he got
food enough.
Mr. Durgin's wife started for the United States on December 2
on the "Tatsuta Maru," which turned back and arrived in Yokohama on
December 15. Mrs. Durgin was held in a hotel in Yokohama until the
twenty-first, when she was allowed to leave after securing a guarantee
for her hotel bill. During the week she was in Yokohama she had no
change of clothes.  She was unable to see any rhyme or reason in the
treatment of herself or many of the others.
SHORTAGES
During the six months following Decamber 7, Mr. Durgin was
able to make personal observations of conditions in Tokyo. Sinca he
had no servants and did his own marketing he was in a position to
khow the prices and shortages of food particularly. General figures

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
OONPIDENTLAL
on food supplies after war started he could not supply. In the
circumstances in which he found himself he felt it advisable not to
be too inquisitive. The rationing of food was controlled through
tickets and by local groups, his own local group being made up of
nine households. These groups are called tonari gumi and ranged from
5 or 6 to 20 households. The final determination as to the allotting
of tickets seems to have been made in a general office for the city.
Distribution of the tickets was through the head of a group to the
houses in his group..
Control of the distribution of rice began in May or June
194l. Some revision in the amounts allotted was made at about the
time thut the Pacific war began, but up until June 1942 there had
been no further change. There wus complaint under the surface about
the scarcity of rice, and it was the general belief that in families
with growing boys there was not sufficient food. another cause of
complaint was the mixing of the rice, especially when it was mixed
with inferior gruins. Rice tickets could be turned in for bread.
Other commodities which c.une under the ticket system were
sugar (like rice, controlled before December 7, 194l), shoyu, miso,
sult, fish, mest (one-quarter pound once a month) and clothing (which,
after Februury 1942, was put on the point system).
The fish deuler with whom the Durgin's dealt hud 305 fumilies
as regular customers. When fish was available a sign was put up in
front of his shop -- "Nos. 1-75," say, -- and families with those
numbers sent representatives who lined up to buy fish. Next day per-
haps the sign would say "Nos. 76-200." The dealer estimated how much

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
CONFIDENTIAL
he had to divide and took care of as many as he could from day to
day. (Mr. Durgin heard no mention of the danger of submarines in
connection with the shortage of fish.)
Commodities not on the ticket system but obtainable only
through the tonari gumi were: Eggs (after March, four or five a.
month for two persons) and chicken (a slice once a month).
In general, the people just didn't eat eggs, meat, or fish --
fish perhaps about once a week. While Japanese and foreigners were
treated alike, to some extent the Durgins had an advantage in that
they got a little help from friends.
Foreign groceries such as spaghetti and macaroni were very
scarce, and jams and preserves not buyable. The difficulty of getting
vegetables was explained by Mr. Durgin as due to transportation prob-
lems, to lack of manpower, and to price control. There were always
long lines of women waiting to buy vegetables, which were handled in
the same way as fish.
After a time it became very difficult to get milk. From the
end of april the Durgin's were unable to get milk from the milkman who
had been serving them. He introduced Mr. Durgin to a man from another
ward who was likewise unable to provide milk. Mr. Durgin went to the
police for a milk ticket. He got none. He went to the ward officials.
Still no ticket. It was possible to apply for milk for invalids, but
Mr. Durgin preferred not to make such an application. He went to
the general office for Tokyo where the chief of the economics section
proved to be an old student of his. Through him Mr. Durgin finally
succeeded in getting milk.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
CONPIDENTIAL
Clothing was put on a rationing system in February 1942.
One hundred points were allowed per person per year, 60 of which
might be used during the first 6 months. Six pairs of tabi were
allowed per year. nough cloth for a kimona took 25 points, and a
rain coat, 30 points. Silk things called for fewer points than those
of rayon or çotton mixture.
The shortage of leather was very evident and shoes were
very expensive. Shoes formerly made for ¥20 cost ¥40 or ¥50 in May
or June 1942, if they could be bought at all, and were obviously of
inferior leather. athletic equipment was under very strict control.
Electricity, light, and gas were limited to some fraction
of the consumption of the previous year. Cas was so strictly limited
that, according to Mr. Durgin, it got so that one could not take a
bath.
Bank accounts were also controlled. However, while Mr. Durgin
.spoke of "freezing" is involving americans, and of general controls
over the accounts of Japanese, he was not well. informed as to the
nature of these general controls. There was discussion in the papers
of the reorganization of the Bank of Japan but, again, Mr. Durgin
knew none of the details except that the reorganization had to do with
the Coprosperity Sphere.
Hundreds of automobiles were idle or jacked up. This,
Mr. Durgin explained by the lack of rubber or gasoline, probably gaso-
line. There was no kerosene or gasoline purchasable after about
October 1940. Before that time three gallons of gasoline a month
had been obtainable. as to rubber, in March or april of this year
rubber balls were distributed to the school children as evidence of

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
-0 -
CONFIDENTIAL
the arrival of "treasure-ships" from the south.
The men in charge at various hospitals said that there was
a shortage of medicine and complained particularly of the lack of
ether.
Nails (during the past year), sheet iron, and, in general,
commodities made of metal were not purchasable. There was a great
effort to bring in by voluntary contributions scrap metal of all sorts.
at a meeting in Tokyo where voluntary contributions of scrap metal
were asked for, the Japanese secretary of the anerican School ugreed
to give up the metal fence around the school. For this he got f200,
although it cost f1, 600 to take it down and put up a picket fence in
its place. When the secretary usked why in view of all the things
coming from the south, it was necessary to give up everything of metal,
there was no answer, he told ir. Durgin, excupt a smile. at this
meeting there was grumbling und vigorous complaint. In fact, one man
expressed himself so strongly that the secretary of the American School
was astounded.
POLITICAL CONDITIONS
The interview turned to political matters. Mr. Durgin stated
in reply to a question that there has been general pressure toward
unity in Japan, which he believed was a result to be expected of war.
The differences betwean the gendarmerie und army, about which others
spoke, was not ap arent to Mr. Durgin.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7-
JAPAN'S RELATIONS WITH GERMANY AND ITALY
Up to about 6 months ago Germany exerted considerable
influence in Japan, but the Germans are not happy about things there
today. For the past 6 months Germans and Italians have bean more
closely watched than have the Americans; for instance, when a Nisei
party was being held at Mr. Durgin's at the same time a dance was
taking place at a German residence in the neighborhood, there was no
interest on the part of the police in the Nisei party, but the Germans
were called in, questioned closely, and asked about every person at
the party.
Mr. Durgin was able to learn little about Jipunese trade
with Germany or Italy during the war. He said that the Italian com-
mercial attaché told him in the spring thut some trade wus going
through, but gave no definite information as to details, except that
Fiat cars had gotten through to Japan since December 194l. This
Mr. Durgin did not verify. There was no information at all about
trade with Germany.
JAPANESE MORALE
Price control was regarded by Mr. Durgin as the chief cause
of dispute and dissatisfaction among the people. The control of prices
is regarded by the Japanese furmer in particular as unfair. at the
same time there was no evidence of other clashes of interest in con-
nection with price control. hile the people felt that they were
being checked and surrounded on all sides, tlhey accepted this situa-
tion because they recognized the fundamental importance of the plans
of the military.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
CONFIDENTIAL
ATTITUDE TOWARD THE WAR
The attitude of the people whom Mr. Durgin knew toward the
present war is hard to estimate. It was difficult to get people whom
he knew to talk about the war. The accepted opinion emphasizes the
attack upon British and nmerican imperialism in the Far East. Japan
is constantly said to be "freeing" others. In this connection, how-
ever, Mr. Durgin mentioned Tojo's speech of last January which prom-
ised freedom to the Philippines and was followed by many statements
of plans for the Philippines in the future, plans quite inconsistent
with any real freedom from Japanese control.
a Navy spokesman, Hiraidi, frequently during the spring
warned Japan it should be prepared for 200 years of war. In the
opinion of one of Mr. Durgin's civilian friends there may be some
basis for this statement. The usual statement in Japan, however, refers
to a 10-year war.
Mr. Durgin spoke of a conversation he had with Matsuoka about
the middle of 1940, during which Matsuoka made the following remark:
"My heart is with america, but my head is with Japan." During this
same conversation Matsuoka came near to predicting the trip he made
to urope at a later time. This trip Mr. Durgin pointed out came to
an end just before the German atiack on Russia.
JAPAN AND THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS
at the end of our interview, Mr. Durgin referred to an
editorial which he had read in a Japanese periodical in about the.
year 1919. The editoril..asserted that the creation of a League was
a highly desirable thing; it would require, however, certain supra-
national features. The only power in the world, said the editorial,

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
- 9 -
OONFIDENTIAL
with a viewpoint above that of the nution and of national interests
is the Emperor of Japan. The conclusion was that the only hope of
success for a League lay in making the mperor of Japan the head of it.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japan's political affairs.
Transmits information regarding the new Japanese Ministry
of greater east Asiatic affairs according to Tohyo broad-
casts.
694.00/11
gms
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memorandum
(Dempatok, telegram, tmstraotiom, letter, etc.)
From
Dated ..
November.5.1942
State Department
Far Fastern Affairs
(Brnninghoff)
File No.
894.002/525
1171

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE OF THE ADVISE
INIERNATIUNAL ECONOMIC AN
EB2-1943
HEL
Chungking
This tElegram must bE
close1y paraphrased bE-
Dated January 21, 1943
forE bEing communicated FROM
to enyonE. (SC)
Reo1d 11:30 a.m., 22nd
SEorEtary of StatE,
of
Eashington.
JAN25 1943
pa mant of State
894.00/1172
94.00
116, January 21, 4 p.m.
Enmbassy has obtained follovin information from
unofficial sources.
In connection with report that meeting of Dlet in
Tolyo vas postponed on account or duE to illnEss of
Tojo, rumor has reached herE that an unsuccEssful
attempt on TojoIs lifE was madE. Other unsubtantiated
rEports indicatE that (onε) Tojo vas giv En incrEased
powers at rEcent Privy Council mEcting (twc) forty
spindles?
pEr cEnt of JapanEsE pindlEs arE to  E condEmnEd and thE
FEB
metallic ratErial usEd for othcr EssEntial nEEds (threE)
FILED
3-1943
a larcE increasE in output of chemicals has bEen ordered
(four) thE pricE of tobacco products has incrEased onE
hundred pEr cEnt to providE incomc and (fivE) budget
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
has been incrEased from sixteen tot venty-fivE billion
JAN 26 1943
yEn (not stated whether this is to cover ordinary and
9
Extraorainary Expenditures).
idential File
Embassy has no mEans of checlting authenticity of
forecoing information.
CAUSS
CSB

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.94)
deral Burean of Inurstigution
Do Department of Justice
DEPA
mshirngtan, B.C.
JAN 10 943
Divis on of
Dateo: JAN 26 1943,.
FAR EASTON AFFAIRS
FE33-1943
To:
Renerabla
Lesistant reeesy of State
Dapa poont of State
Department of State
JAN 2 6 1943
Mashingten, D. 0.
MR. BERLE
From: J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau or Investigation
SubJOCT: JAPANESE OUTLOOK
There is attached herete a memorandum concerning Japanese commereial,
pelitieal, meral and spiritual outleek, which may be of interest. This
infermation has been received frem a reliable source.
894.00/1173
The abeve is also being furnished to the Trade Intelligence Divisien,
Office of Experts, Washingten, D. C.
894.0
Enclesure
ce: Direeter of Maval Intelligence
Eavy Department
Washington, D. C.
ee: Majer Gemeral Geerge V. Strong
Assistant Chiof of Staff
G-2, War Department
Washingten, D. C.
-EB4 7445
JAN 27 1943
PS/HCW
BUY

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
CC-288
AN 26 1543
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
Date: Hemorable Adolf A. Berle. Jr.
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Assistant Secretary of State
To:
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Subject:
There is attached hereto a memorandum comserning Japamese commereial.
pelitieal, moral mnd spiritual outleek, whieh may be of iaterest. This
imfermatiem has been reseived from a reliable souree.
The abeve is also being furmished to the Trade Intelligence Divisien,
Office of Experts, Washimgten, D. C.
Bnclesare
ce: Direster ef Maval Intelligence
Eavy Department
Washington, D. C.
ce:
Major Gemeral George V. Strong
Lesistant Chiof of Staff
G-2, War Department
Waskingten, D. C.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
261543
KEMORANDUM
JAPANESE OUTLOOK
Social Aspeat
Omitting the nobility and the ruling classes, the social situation of
the popular masses is disastrous. The work of productiom falle almost en-
tirely on the women. It is calculated that there are 10 million women oc-
cupied in agriculture, 2 million in the textile industries, 1,200,000 im
various industries and 1 million in business. It is calculated that there
are 2 million in domestic service. The salaries are in the neighborhoed of
$1.50 Argentine per diem (1 Yen 20 Sen). There is no labor legislatiem or
trade organizations, and Article 17 of the "Tchan Ke Atshu" (Police Code)
considers strikes a crime, and strikers as common malefactors. The people
submit to this situation, partly on account of their Buddhist fatalim and
partly because they are accustomed to denial and sacrifice.
Pelitical Aspect
Political struggles in Japan are almost non-existent. Politics are
led by the nobility and the military classes. Among the military classes
there are several castes which, at the same time as they struggle with the
mobility. fight among themselves. There are three political parties in Japan;
all censidered democratic: the "Kokuminto" party, the"Seiyukai" and the
"Kemsekai", but none of the three has an established program and their
figaring as an opposing factor is only occasional. The struggle between the
military is reduced to two principal castes: the "Shogun" and the "Semurai".
The "Shogum", theoretically fallen frem the political arema in 1870, in
reality exists, and is the most serious force opposing the Emperor, although
composed of courtiers. The other party, the "Samurai", whose motte is
leyalty and obedience to the mperor, eren at the expense of their lives,
is the most mamerous and the most fanatic. It is that which took Japan to
war with Chime, (they are Smintes), and later with the U.S. Its members
ceme from the middle classes (bourgeoisie), whe are completely at variance
with the "Marakin". The "Marakin" are the "new-rich" in Japan, those who
made momey in a short time, especially after the war of l914.
Maral Aapeet
In the morale of the Japanese people, one finds a level mach lower than
that of the most backward oriental country. The "Geishaya", the "Jeraja"
and the restaurants with the "Oiran" and the "Hetairas" form an incredible
mumber. The "Geishaya". place of the Geishas, are dens of corruptien,
the Geishas being merely "educated" professienals, educated frem yeuth in
their prefessien. These places are preferred by the "Barakin" on asseant ef
their high prices. There are some 20,000 Geishas in Japan.
The "Jereja" (pepular brothels) possess, 1n Japam, 200,000 inmates. ("Jere")

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.93)
- 2 -
The Restaurants which have the "oiran" and the Hetairas" (Girls) who
exeroise freely the profession of prostitution, mumber 60,000 adheramts.
All this 1s legalised by the State and tolerated by "Seciety" as a pablie
good.
Intritual Aspect
In this aspect, the Japanese people is an intricate malgamatien.
Shimtos, Beddhists, Confucionists, Evangelists, Catholics are all represented,
in the order given. But always, the basis of unity is the family, of which
the "Semier Family", that which composes the grandparents and their ramifi-
eatiems, is the heed, and over this latter there is the "Kem" (clan), a gremp
of various families, joimed by geographical relationship, or belemging to
a commen place.
Sancluciene
Leeerding to the Japanese synthesis of history with regard to the rising
of Japam as a Matien: "After various generations of celestial divimities, the
grandeem of Amaterasu, Nonigi No. Mi Kote occupied Hinga, where there follewed
three of his descendants, the third, Jimme Teme being the one who founded the
Eapire, handing over the government to the Haman Gods, whose descendant, after
25 centaries, today governs Japan"
The Japamese Constitution is founded on the besic principle that the
Emperer is the first and greatest divinity, and states: "The Japanese Empire
will be gevermed by a dynasty of Emperors, contimmous and uminterrapted,
antil Btermity."
Lamch
The Japamese residente in western countries (taking the Argentime as a
besis) accastemed te eivilised life, are able to mcogaise the backwardmess
of Japes, although through selidarity or necessity or through conferming to
the Baddkist faith, de met publish the fact. Their quietade is due more to
their comformist faith than te amy other camse. In spite of the "Wipem Sawa".
in spite of the "Black Dragon" sect, and in spite of the offieial and semi-
effieial emissaries, visible and invisible, of Japan, there are in existemee
in the Argeatime, partisans of the three political parties mentiemed abeve.
there are moralists, leaders, and, abeve all, Japaaese whe, meoustemed to
westerm culture, are ashamed of the social orgamisatien of their couatry.
There are the "Narakim" whe kmow that at home they are hamiliated, aad there
are the variess religiens divisiens whieh, if ome day they beeame aware of
the existemee of a Ged whe was not their sovereign, wuld make the pelitieal
beses of Japan shake. All those elements, altheugh matagenistie among them-
selves, eeuld meve tewards a single end. Sarreptieieasly at first, ees-
tiensly later eheesing the persens with eare, aad werking under ocover, they
conld ferm a eurrent smtagenistie to the geverament af the Japemese Eapire
and its represeatatives, always, mtarally, ea behalf of the pelitieal,
sesial, meral and spiriteal well-being of Japan, sdace the sensibility ef
the Japemese dees met permit facing this matter in aay other way. All
this,maturally, requires time, at least three moaths to "imoubate" the

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.92)
-3.
matter (the surreptieious part), three months of organisatien, and at least
six meaths te obtain positive and public results, eriginating in the Japa-
mess themselves. Also, this will require special expenses for transport
(mebilisation), meetings, printing, etc.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.94)
MRBECK
VISION OF FAN
February 3, 1943.
The astaehed memorandum by
to the earrying out of various
sasgestions for revisions) is in
 Judgment first-rate. We have
given a copy to Mr. Grew as of
possible suggestive value in
rounding out some of his talks.
A copy of the memorandum is
attached for your files.
3.70.
FE:OH:HES

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Apr11 30, 1942
Elements of Weakness in the Japanese People
and in the Japanese Position
light of Japan's military suocesses since
194l, upsetting many estimates which had been
her military resources, equipment and prowess and
the qualities of her people, one might be inclined to think
that the Japanese are perhaps invincible. And indeed they
are very formidable, possessing social, personal and
military virtues and an increasingly strong strategic
position that makes them a dangerous and deadly foe.
However, even Achilles had his vulnerable heel, and Japan
has many weak spots.
In the matter of material capacity for modern warfare,
1t is unwise to belittle Japanese resources and potentiali-
ties, especially in view of vast stores of goods and
FEB
FILED
raw material resources that have fallen into Japanese
4.00
8
hands since the beginning of the war. Nor is it wise to
1943
ascribe to the Japanese inferior craftsmanship in the
manufacture of modern weapons of war or inferior skill in
handling such weapons. The evidence is to the contrary.
Neverthelels, without going into detail and without making
comparisons in respect to craftsmanship or skill in handling
weapons, it is a fact that Japan is-still in process of
becoming industrialized whereas we are the leading in-
dustrial nation of the world and that when we get into our
planned

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
planned stride of naval construction and of plane,
tank or ordnance production, such construotion and
produotion will far exceed Japan's. This being
the case, it is simple arithmetio that, if this
superior weight of armament on sea, land and air
1s brought to bear long enough upon Japan, com-
pelling her to employ incessantly all her weapons,
there will come a point when her war output will
lag behind consumption.
We should not look for political weaknesses
within Japan in wartime.
In 1ssues with for-
eigners, Japanese invariably band together against
the alien, regardless of the justice of the case,
and it may be expected that in the national peril
1nvolved in a war with America the Japanese people will
work as one man to win the war, as they did in the
Russo-Japanese War, when for instance even certain
oollege

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
college professors too old to fight were said to have dis-
guised themselves as Korean porters and wharf coolies to
py on the enemy. As a corollary of their unfailing devotion
and loyalty to each other, the Japanese in their relations
with non-Japanese have been correspondingly invariably dis-
criminatory and unjust toward non-Japanese races of the
Empire and toward inhabitants of Japanese-occupied territories,
which have utterly alienated these races and inhabitants
from the Japanese. The Germans with their technical leader-
ship and established superiority in certain cultural fields
undoubtedly have some admirers and ready followers among
their neighbors in central Europe, but because of Japanese
cultural inferiority and unjust, greedy and discriminatory
policies toward subject races and neighbors, the Koreans
or Chinese who would not do teir share to hasten Japan's
downfall when the tide begins to turn against the Japa-
nese would be comparatively few.
The unity of the Japanese people in the face of national
danger and in dealing with alien races does not necessarily
imply that there is solidarity or even harmony in the Japanese
social structure. There are deep-seated conflicts between
the urban communities and the farm population, between the
conservative Imperial Court and the extremists, between parliamem-
tarians and politicians on the one side and the bureaucracies
and the

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
and the fighting services on the other, between mercan-
tile interests and the army, which advocates planned and
state-controlled economy, between those who want Japan to
march with the West and those who want her to return to
the pristine Japanese way of life, between clans and cliques
and classes entrenched in a privileged position and elements
covetous of that position. The more spectacular of the
successive political crises and explosions in Japan dur-
ing the 'thirties and since reflect the inherent disharmony
in Japanese society.
In 1930 Premier Hamaguchi secured ratification of the
London Naval Treaty over the objections of some high naval
officers, but shortly after was attacked and died of wounds
inflicted by a nationalist who disagreed with his policy.
Two years later, when the elderly Tsuyoshi Inukai was
Premier and during a period of acute distress in rural
districts, a bomb was thrown at the carriage of the Emperor
and Empress in a cortege in Tokyo in protest against the
Government's policy of favoring business and financial.
interests at the expense of the farming population. Shortly
after an ex-minister of Finance and the chairman of the
great

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-4a-
great meroantile house of Mitsui, both noted for their
liboralism and international cooperation, were slain by
members of the reactionary Blood Brotherhood League. Then
on May 15, 1932, a junta of Army and Navy cadets and junior
officers, impatient with Inukai's measures to reform
parliamentarism and to relieve the farmers, murdered the
old Premier himself. On the same day a group of insurgent
farmers made an abortive effort to cut off Tokyo's
electrical power supply as a demonstration against the
indifference to the suffering in rural districts of the
urban population. After a period of quiet, the struggle
between representative government, international cooperation,
big business and laissez faire economy on the one hand
and reaction, ultra-nationalism and socialistic regulation
on the other flared up in the notorious February 26, 1936,
"Incident", when some 1500 extremist officers and soldiers
in Tokyo mutinied and attempted to assassinate the members
of the cabinet and the leading personages close to the
Emperor, succeeding in the attempt in murdering a number of
Japan's great statesmen. The manifesto of the muniteers
branded all senior statesmen, military cliques, plutocrats,
bureauorats and political parties as traitors.
Harmony

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
-4b-
Harmony does not even exist within the army itself.
In July l935, for example, Premier Hayashi, himself a
a
General, dismissed General Mazaki,/fire-eating nationalist
notorious for his contempt of representative government and
for his advocacy of state-controlled economy, as Inspector
General of Military Education. In the following month
a Colonel Saburo Aizawa, nationalist fanatic and noted
swordsman, entered Hayashi's office and not finding him
there cut down his assistant, Major General Nagata, instead.
During his trial Aizawa defended his deed on the ground
that it was aimed against elder statesmen, powerful financiers
and bureaucrats and against "the fad of mahjong and caf6s"
(viz., Westernism) which was "corrupting the youth of the
country".
The undercurrent of conflict and the intolerance of
differing opinion in Japanese society are also revealed in the
fact that in the years 1933-36, 59,013* persons were arrested
in Japan on the charge of harboring, preaching or carrying
out "dangerous thoughts", viz., ideas questioning the state
of affairs.
After the February 26, 1936, ,"Incident", with the
progressive cowing of the forces of reason and conservation,
political violence became less common. However, evidences of
the
"Presumably official figures published in the Japan
Times, Foreign Office organ, of August 15, 1936.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
-4c-
the gulf between and of the uncompromising spirit of
the several elements of Japanese society were to be found in
the kaleidoscopic changes of government -- there have been
eight cabinets since the February 26, 1936, ,"Indident" --
and the frequent resighations of individual ministers. In
this connection may be mentioned the resignation en masse of
officers of the Foreign Office on October 3, 1939 because
these officials disapproved the establishment of a new
Ministry of Trade that would take over some of their
department's functions. Again in the second half of 194l,
when American-Japanese relations were approaching a crisis,
violence was once more threatened and even flared up to
remove opposition. The ultra-nationalist Tohokai party,
led by Seigo Nakano, issued threats of wholesale assassina-
tion of appeasers in Japanese foreign policy, and Nakano
defied the Home Minister, Baron Hiranuma, to arrest him.
Nakano remained at liberty, but Baron Hiranuma, outstanding
opponent of the Axis alliance and of nationalized economy,
was seriously wounded in two attempts made on his life
within three days in mid-August l94l.
Thus

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-4d-
Thus the events that have brought Japan to her
present pass have not represented the composite wishes
of Japanese society, but rather the inflexible will of
headstrong seotions and groups, and if there have not
been in Japan concentration camps for non-conformists
as in Germany, there have been arrests, assassinations
and mutiny to remove and intimidate opposition. It is
obvious that a house as divided within itself as is
Japan will be under great strain in the storm that united
and outraged demooracy will raise for her.
The

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
The Japanese tactical prinoiple in any sort of physical
competition, especially in war and battle, is to get a light-
ning start and stay in the lead. This principle is based on
the theory, deriving from their own psychology, that the
adversary loses heart if he is behind. In athletio contests
this tendenoy to be overcome by despair and quit when not in
the lead is marked among Japanese. As the present war is not
an athletio contest, with a time limit insufficient to allow
the adversary to even the score or get the lead, but a contest
of infinite time in which to recapture and widen the lead, it
is not at all improbable that this psyohological weakness of
the Japanese may assert itself in unpredictable ways.
The Japanese soldier thinks that he possesses in unsur-
passed degree a virtue known as "gambari". "Gambari" trans-
lated means "stubbornness plus", and a well-known Japanese
proverb says that if one holds on long enough the other
fellow will give in. The Japanese soldier's experience in
his wars since 1895 has on the whole served to give him a
low idea of the other fellow's "gambari". However, in recent
instances where the other fellow has displayed "gambari" the
Japanese soldier has been nonplussed and beaten. At Nomonhan
in l939, for example, when the Russians held their ground and
fought as savagely as the Japanese, the Japanese were glad to
call off the fight after losing some 18,000 men.
Laok

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
Laok of inventiveness and lack of spontaneity are es-
tablished weaknesses in the Japanese character. As long
as Japanese had unrestrioted intercourse with the great in-
dustrial nations and had access to scientifio inventions
and improvements, they were able, by industry and applica-
tion, to copy and make the fullest use of these inventions
and improvements, and the measure of their mastery of them
has been apparent in their fighting in this war. But
American inventive genius will improve on the weapons at
present in use and create new weapons, and the Japanese
beeause of their physical isolation will be unable to learn
of and

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-
of and eepy these improved and new weapons in time to utilize
them effeetively. It may thus be expeoted that as the war
progresses the Japanese will be fighting with obsolete
weapens, having failed up to the present because of their
lack of originality to perfeot any tool or invent any
mechanical device of importance. Again, everything has gone
well with the Japanese up to the present because they have
been planning and preparing for this war for years, whereas
their enemies obviously had hoped for peace and planned
only defensive action. But we may assume that our general
staffs are devising new strategy and alternative strategy
full of ounning and surprise. If this strategy is not on
the blueprints of the Japanese general staffs we may, be-
cause of the well-knonsterility of the Japanese mind,
count on considerable confusion among the Japanese and
delay in meeting the new situations.
Another charaoteristio of the Japanese is hesitation
and uncertainty in action arising from the practice of dif-
fusing responsibility and making important decisions col-
lestively and after long disoussion. If we can place before
the Japanese a series of new and unexpeeted situations, it
1s not at all unlikely that the Japanese, because of this
habit oflong disoussion and division of responsibility,
will be umable to meet them quickly enough.
B!

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
-7a-
Here mention may be made of a defect in Japanese
society that oan soaroely fail to make its effeot felt
in a long, all-out war: the abased state of woman in
Japan. Woman's position in society and in the family and
her legal rights are inferior to those of Japanese man,
and by oustom the pursuit of happiness in Japan is only the
man's privilege. Facilities for higher education of women
are inadequate and neglected. Woman is also exoluded from
participation in the affairs of the nation. It would seem
to be a reasonable contention that a nation whose women
have little more than primary education and lead the most
restrioted lives can hardly have the capacity for total
war of a nation whose women are educated, enjoy equality
with men, and are free to contribute their ideas and
abilities to the nation.
Japanese

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
-8
Japanese national health, as proved by the death rate
of her population, is the poorest among advaneed states.
In l938, the last year for which we have figures, the death
rate per thousand population was 17.4 (in 1924 1t was 21.2,
and in 1931, 19.0). In order to show how high this death
rate is, the death rate per thousand in certain other
oountries 1s given below:
United States in 1939
10.7
United Kingdom in 1938
11.6
Germany 1n 1938
11.7
Italy in 1938
14.2
Argentina in 1939
10.7
Netherlands in 1939
8.6
Sweden in 1939
11.5
Switzerland in 1938
12.1
Although there is believed to be sufficlent food in Japan
for subsistence needs, reports coming out of the country
just before the present war began showed that the publio
health was suffering as a consequence of the rationing
of carbohydrates and proteins and of the abnormally long
working hours. It stands to reason that with a general
low physical vitality to begin with, as evidenced by their
very high death rate, there will be a progressive weakening
of resistance among the Japanese oivilian population to
the inoreasing strain and fatigue and rationing and priva-
tions whieh the war with us will cause.
Oecidental writers who studied the Japanese people as
they were emerging frem their isolation some 50 or 60 years
ago were

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
ago were struck by the extent of superstition among all
elasses. Time and the 1mpact with the west have mot broughs
abeut any appreciable change in this respect, and Japamese
today are still slaves of superstition, especially in their
private lives and in their household affairs. For instanee,
most Japanese travelers, even men of the world, still are
never without their pocket compass for fear they may lose
their bearings in some new plaoe and sleep lying from north
to south, the position in which corpses are laid, which
will surely result in their early death. Dreams to most
Japanese are still full of the portent of things to come.
Some soothsayers in Japan enjoy national prestige and their
oracles concerning national and international affairs are
respeoted and believed in even by ministers of state. It
1s expeoted that, when things begin to go wrong with the
Japanese, there will be assooiation of misfortune and mis-
haps with forgotten and fanoied omens and that gripping
fear of the supernatural will add to the other factors
that will weaken Japanese morale.
In conolusion a word might be said of an imponderable
and yet serious weakness in the Japanese character: its
deficieney in the sense of abstraot justice, its impercep-
tion of right and wrong. Because of this insensitivity to
true ethiss, the polity of the Japanese people since Japan
omerged

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-10
emerged from her seolusion has had no other guides but
material gain, self-interest, and vanity. Thus the history
of Japan's foreign relations in modern times has been almost
an unbroken tale of opportunism, of disregard of and enoroach-
ment on the rights of others, of special concessions exaoted
by force, of seizure and robbery of property, of conquest of
weak neighbors, of commercial monopoly, of absence of true
international cooperation, of abuse of hospitality extended
to her people, of greed, of absence of magnanimity, of deceit
and broken pledges, of commercial exploitation of opium and
narcotio drugs, of unfair trade competition and generally of
all take and no give. At the same time Japan's reoord has
been that of a pushing, vain upstart, striving for front
rank and ciroumstance. "As ye sow so shall ye reap." What
has been the result of Japan's unsorupulous, opportunistic,
olimbing career? Where does Japan stand today in the feelings
of other peoples? Is there a nation so hated by its subjeot
races and neighbors and so generally mistrusted and disliked
by the world at large? We do not even exolude Germany,
Japan's ally for the moment, from Japan's ill-wishers, as
the memory of the spoliation by Japan of their Paoifio
possessions in the World War, of Kaiser Wilhelm II's "Yellow
Peril" theory, and of Japan's role in the Versailles Peace
Conference is still too fresh in the minds of the German
poople

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
people for them to have kindly feelings toward
Japan.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.92)
ENCLOSURES
NEIOENTIAL
Copy No.
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION W. D. G. S.
MILITARY ATTACHÉ REPORT
JAPAII
Organization of Jupanese National
(Oountry reported em)
Subjectaaacietion..of..Political.Sarxice
I. G. No. 3020
(Brief desoriptive title)
From M. A. China
Report No. 115.
DatDecember 30.1942.
Souree and degree of rellability:
Source:
Japanese Official Regulations furnished and trans-
lated by agent of Free French in Chungking, China
Reliability: Considered reliable.
SummamY.--Here enter careful summary of report, containing substance succinctly stated; include
imaportant facts, names, places, dates, etc.
894.00/1175
Organization, rules and regulations
of the Japanose National Association of
Political Service.
FAR EASTRS
V25144
DECLASSIFIED
E.O. 11652. Sec. 3E) cmd 5(D) or 
1021210/13
Depa r of Sae
894.00
QSD lgtter, May 3. 1972
(Note by F.E., M.I.S.: The English translntions
more commonly used for the organizations descrihed
in this report pre Imperial Rule Assistance
Associaticn rnd Imporial Rule Assistence Political
Society.).
PS/HCW
ABVISER
27194
G-2 (2), US.FCBI, Enbaßsy,
File
Distribution by originator
• Routing space below for use in M. I. D. The section indicating thg distribution will place a check mark in
the tower part of the recipients' box in case one copy only is to go to him, or will indicate the number of coples
in case more than one should be sent. The message center of the Intelligence Branch will draw & circle around
the box of the recipient to which the particular copy is to go.
GHQ
0-1
0-8
04
WPD
ONI
Stato)
Comm.
Treas.
F. B. I.
A. W. O.
0. G.
Ind. Coll.
3
x
8.8.
A.O.ofB.
Chier IB
MA Sec.
FL Se0.
Rec. Bec.
x
Trans.
Bec.
.CIB
B80
P. and T.
Oont.
Inf.
Coord.
Beo.
OLLA
Center
Tank
Alr
BE
CE
SE
RE
WE
FE
LA
Bit.
Cont.
Diasem.
Field
ABW
USW
ASWA
x
Pers.
CHIEFS OF ARMS
AND SERVICES
Tmf.
FA
OAO
AO
AAF
Big.
Armd.
Ord.
Qi
OWB
Med.
Attacbé at
OG Ph.
CG Paa.
OG Haw!
OSS
CHI
x
x
CONFOENTIA

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.94)
T.ISEI YOKUS.NAI
(N. TTONL ASSOCIATION OF POLITICA SERVICE)
The reason for the foundation of the
Teisei Yokusankai.
B. The Soöiety's Position a nd Pluns after
its modification:
(1) Its sphere of & ctivities
(2)
Vays and means for developgent
(三)
Nethods adopted for the ronewal
of the maohinery of operation.
(4) Personnc) .of the. Society
C. The formation and function of the Central
Cc-operative Council.
D. The ramifications of the Taisei Yokmsunkai,
its rules and regulations.
A.
THE RSON FOR TIE FOUNDATION OF THE TISEE YORUSIKAI
In July, 1940, Konoye wee called upon for the
second time to form a Cubinet. Fron fis experience of
failure with tis pretious Cabinet, he realized thal noth-
ing could be aoconplished without strengthening the na-
tional structure. He formed a preparatory committee in
August, und in Octoter founded the Taisei Yokusankui
(National association of Political Service), a society,
under tho aegis of the Throne, oonsisting of the loading
Japanese rudicels representing every sphere of activity,
for the sake of helping the government to make the mean-
ing of the present war olear to the poople in order to
safeguard the mobilization system. He himsolf becane
Director-General of the Taisei Yokusaskai, with aamiral
Suetsuu us Chairmun of the Central Co-operative Jounoil.
Three prinoiples were laid cown:
1. To establish the Hew Order of Greater asia based on
the Japuneso national fundamental'spirit, this laber
to progress to the establishmant of the New Order
of the World.
2. To expound the significance of the Japanese natlon-
ality, to rejuvenate all political systems, to de-
velop the power of the country to its full strength.
and to uchiev the structure of & vell-defended
oountry.
3. To attuin the stute of abgolute Joyalty to the Throne
and full ouppdrt of the Political Super-Struoture by
everyone performint his duty towurds tho mation.
Caed
From: M.. Chinn. pd
Report lo.1151
December 30, 1942
30
C1as a
Paige 2.
Po1 T 

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
B. THE SOCILTY'S POSITION & PLNS AFT.R ITS ODIFIC TION
After Tojo bad formed his Cabinet (October 18,
1941) the situation in the Ptcific becane so serious
that at was felt'that full support of the Government
was the only way to'combine the military and:civil ad-
ministration and'obtuin maximum results.
The Yokusan Seijikai (Society for Supporting
the Government) was, thererore, formed in  ay, 1942.
and the funotional: powers or the Taisei Yokusankai en-
larged. On the 15th uy, 1942, the, proposa1 for the .
renewal of the functional powers of the Taisei Yokusun-
kai was passed, with the following" aims and objeots:
To fulfil the mission of the Taisei Yokusan-
kai and cstablish a popular centralized organization to
engender the wholehearted support und loyalty of the
people, it was decided to gather al! extsting national
novements under the banner of the' Taisei Yokusankui,
grudually ratifying und developing it to its full ca-
pacity, to ensure that all the poople work unergetical-
ly for the com.non oause.
(1) The Sphere of activities of the Taisei Yokusankai
(a) The firm estublishment of à nutional organize-
tion based on the principles of the Taisei
Yokusankai
(b) The advangement of the movement for the support
or the Political Super-structury by uniformity
of thought rnd directins the totul efforts of
the people los the lines or hational defense
and wartime economy.
(o) National treining, which is subdivided into:
(i)' deteral truinins, and
(11) Truining in Nationl Dofense.
-In connection with the above. training, an in-
vestigation will be made into the'attitude of
mindof the people and the degree to which they
have been iabued with the higher idea, and the
direction and disposal of nationul produocion.
(2) ways and ieuns for the further developaent of the
Taleei Yokusankai are as follows:
(a) The transfer to the direotion of the Taisei
Yokusunkai of ll national movenente and thoir
subsidiary aseociutions, such as Industrial,
Agricultural, Commerical, Shipping, eto.,which
are to be dedicated to the nationul cause.
(b) To undeztake electoral reform, encourage fru-
gality and the saving of money and materiuls,
and advance the national heulth movement.
CONFIDENTIAL
Report do.115n
Docod

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAD
(o) To tranafer to the Taisei Yokugankal al: uutiom 1
training institutions at present under civil control.
(d) To work out a budget covering futare subsidies to
adwinistrative departwents whiol: will now be uni-
fied under the Talsoi Yokusankai
(e) The Preaier to supervise the Taisei Yosusankai,
while associate orgenizations will be under the
-direction of the ministers concerncd.
(f) To reorganize the existing structure of the Taisei
Yokusanka1.
(g) To fimanoo the Taisei Yokusankai by a Goverament
subsidy and also by public subscriptions.
(h) To reorganize and strengthen all district and local
associations, whioh, while retaining self-government,
will be under the guidance of the Taisci Yokugankai.
(3) Lethods adoutod for the renewal of the machinery of
pperation.
To adjust the present struoture along the lines of the
alms and objoots fixed by the Cabinet at t he meeting
held on the 15th May, 1942, the following will be
adopted:
(a) The Taisel Yokusankai, keeping in close contact
with the Government, und in co-operation with the
Yokusei Seijikai, will form a natiosal organization
for the support of the Governent, strossing the
importance of national support of the Politicel
Super-structure.
(b) The functimal capacity of the Tatsoi Yokusaniai
will be readjusted to the highest degree.
(o) The aotivitios of the Leadquarters of the Taisel
Yokusankal will oentre round the planning, direction,
instruotion and aotual praotice of the movenent for
furthering full support of the Government. The main
rosponsibility will be shouldered by workers of the
looal branch offfoes, the Dai Nippon Yokusan Youth
Corps, and distriot orgacizations.
(d) The name of the "Inquiry Comaittee" shall be changed
to "Inguiry Mission" und it shall be engaged in in-
oreasing the fanotionel powers of the Taisei Yoku-
sankai.
(e) Efforte will'be pade to iaprove and strengthen the
chinery for ublio training.
(r) lhen readjusted, the Talsei Yokusanisai will inquire
into ways and means of enlarging the cotivities of
the local branch org nizations..
CONFDENITAL
Report Mo.115a Deoember 30, 194

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
(g) There will be five Buroaux and a Control Cammittpe,
under the. Direotor' of Business, as under:
General Bureau
Training Bureau
Operations Bureau
Bureau for the Roconstruction of usia
Inquiry Bureau
Control Comaittee
4 THs RINOIPAL OFFICKRS of the Taisei Yokusanka1 are:
Director-General
Tojo (Premier)
Deputy. Direotor-General
Ando
Dirootor of General Business
Goto Funio
Read of the General Buread
Kodehira Gonlchi
ofricerein-Charge of Training
Bureau
Ishiguro Hiddhiko
Ofricer-in-Charge of Operations
Dureau
Likawa Kutauzo
ofricer-in-Charge of Bureau
for Rocpastruotion of Asia
Nugai Riutaro
afficer-in-Charge of Inquiry
Bureau
Kashima Korinosuka
C. THE FORETION AND TIE FUNOTION OF THL CENTR.L CO-OPER TIVE
COJICIL
The Central Co-operative Counoil is to be affilluted
with tho Tfisei Yokugankai and aias to maintaib contuot with
the representatives of the people in order to effect the
nutiouul politigal mobilization. Its full namo will be "The
National Central Co-operative Council". An account of this
Council had been published in the Taisei Yokasankai Report,
Ho.1, as tollowe:
"Th funotional auty of the Co-operative Counoil is
to collect the real publio opinion (not generul publio
opinion) and convey it to the high authorities and
at the same t ime to vnligliten the popple with the
trend of the nationsl policy.
"as it is the political driving force for the recon-
struotion of an expanded national defense, the
Gouncillors, tharefore, must be ideologically ca-
pable of such a new polity in addition to dedicating
themselves enthusiastically to the cause of the Tai-
sei Yokusankai."
The ooastitution and orgunizution of the Central
Co-operative Counoil, whiph were adopted during the third
meeting held from the 26th to. the 29th Septeaber, 1942,
muy ba outlimed as follows:
The, Chairgan
CouncTllors
Natters relating to the strapgthening of
organizations governlna ideological warture
Lattere relating So the national mobilt
ONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
3rd Committee: liatters relating ta the inorease of
production.
4th Committee: Matters ralating to the increase of
foodstuffs.
Sth Cmagittee: Satters relating to wartime livelihood.
6th Committee: Matters relating to the increase of
national strength.
The Cheirman ut the, mgeting.of the Cousoil on
this ocoasion was ando, Deputy Direotor-General of the
"Faisei Yokusankai. The Chairman of each Gommittee shell
be responsible for forming a special caamittae to study
the proposuis thut ure to be put before the.meatiag, and
be invested with power to oonyene meetings.
The constituonbies of the Couneillors of the
Contral Co-operative Council shall be classified aocord-
ing to professlon and district representod, und they chall
he aleoted by the peoplo.
D. RULES ND ROGULTIONS OF TIE TALNLT YOKJSKT
(1) The movenent shall be calied the ov ment of the
Taisei Yokusankni, and the hole.popalation shull
take purt in it.
(2) The movement ains to ocstablise ap organization for
thepromotion of full support und wholehearted ser-
vicc to the country by the paople? in order to. en-
qure its amooth workiuy and the reulazation of its
prinoiples.
(3) The Taisei Yokusanxai. fe hereby arganized soley
for the direction und furtherance of the movenent.
(4) The Direotor-General shali solest from those who ad-
hera to the principles und.-prectice of the Taisei
Yokusaakai. pnd nominate thent as besic. members of
the Sociesy:
(5) The ofrioe bearors of the Sooiety shallbe:
Direotor-General
Deputy Directors-General
Aàviaors
Directora of General affahrs (soue of
whom shall be on peruanent duty).
The office of theDireator-General shall be filled
by the Premier hiaser orbyone.appoiuted by him.
The offices of Deputy Directebs-Genecal, dtisers
and Directors of General ffairs slall be uppointed
by thie Director-Gpmeral.
(6) The Director-Gens ra1' sall be the leader of the
Society and shallIpeue instraotions from time to
 tims as to ite policies.
Hoport .213a Dedamber 30, 1942.
Pag

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTAL
(7) The Deputy mirootors-General shall assist the Dirootor-
General in discherging his duty, und as oocasion de-
mands, shall aot in the place of the Direotor-Generail.
(8) Advisers shall give advice to the Directcr-General as
occasion arisos.
(9) Direotors of Generel Affairs shall ussist the Dircotor'
General with details of any matter of importanos to
the Socioty, und those on permanent duty shall deal
with all the business of the Sooiety..
(10) The Central Haadquartors of the Society shull be in
Tokyo.
(1l) For faoilitating tho diaposal of business at Central
Headquarters, there shall be a general office with
the following departments:
One officer in oharge of Central Headquarters
One offioer and one assistant officer in
charge of every depurtment
The offices of the officer in oharge of Centrul Head-
quarters and the officer in charge of each of the
departaerts shill be filled by tho permaneat Directors
or Generel Affairs.
The officer in charge of Central Headjuarters
and officers and assistant officers in sharge of the
departnents shall be appointed by the Director-Gonercl.
The duty and responsibility of cach of the de-
partments shall be assigned separutely.
(12) Certain counsellors in the general office of Central
Headquarters will undertake tho planning of activities..
Posts of oousellors shall be appointed by the Directer-
General.
(13) There shull be a Central Co-operative Council affiliated
with the Central Headquerters.
Seats of the Counoillors of the Central Co-operative
Counoil sha!l be appointed by the Director-General.
Falf of the seats of the Councillors shall be filled
by the appointnents of the Director-Gonerul fron the
candidates recowrended by the provincial prefeotuie
und district co-operutive councils.
(14) a brunch of the Tuisei Yokusankai, with a Co-cperat ive
Council attaolied, shall be founded in eaoh province,
prefocture, distriot, city, town, village and other
suitable places. The structure of the branoh shall
be the same as t hat of the Central leadquaters.
From. M?A.Chine
Report No 215a
De00.nber 30,2942.
Page
CONFDENTIAL

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
(15) The finance of tue Socioty shall be met by
subsoriptions, Government subsidies, and other
sources.
(16) The Direntor-General alone shall determine the
framing or revising of the rules und regulations
of the Scciety.
MORRIS B. DLPASS, JR
Lieutenent Colonel, infantry,
nobing Lilátany Abta he.
CONFIDENTTAL
December 30, 1942
BaRe 8.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
N SERVICE
ERICA
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
SPARTT F STATE
ABVISER
IBtabal
Turkey, March 3, 1943.
CONFIDENN
1943
EE
OF STATE
13
SUBJECT:
A Reportton Gurrent Oonditions In Japan.
1943
mgiestatayge ane
f State
THE HONORABLE
47/43
essplentEncl
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHING ON. 4/17/43 C3
SIR:
I have the honor to report upon.current conditions
APR:-1943
In Japan as seen by Mr. Ramon LAVALLE, an official of
the Argentine Republic, who has just arrived in Istanbul
from Japan after crossing Siberia to Turkey with his wife
rear.
Mr. Ramon Lavalle was a Special Attaché in the
Argentine Embassy at Tokyo and arrived there at the
beginning of April 1942 from Hong Kong, where he had
been the Argentine Consul. He has been in the Argentine
Foreign Service since 1934, serving in Madrid and Glasgow,
prior to his Hong Kong appointment. He states that he
knows well several American members of the former
Consulate General at Hong Kong and he impresses this
office as being careful and reliable in all his state-
ments. Vice Consul Roy M. Melbourne, who was formerly
asigned to Japan, after several conversations with Nr.
Lavalle believes that the picture he gives of present
gaytions in Japan is essentially correct.
As of further information to the Department there
TIMES AND ADVERTISER, the latest of which is
ecer 8, 1942.
summary of the subjects discussed in this despatch
5
ven below:
Experiences in Hong Kong
Attempted Poisoning of Mr. Lavalle
Current Japanese Morale
Dissemination of Allied News
General Eoonomic Conditions
Treatment of Foreigners
The Swiss Authorities
PS/JW
Treatment of United Nations' Nationals
Arrests of Japanese
Ships Exploded in Yokohama Harbor
The Removal of the German Ambassador
Communications Between Japan and the Outside World
Communicationa

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
2
Communications with Germany
Rail Communications in Japan
Departure from Japan
Travel Through Siberia
Siberian Observations
Experiences in Hong Kong.
At the time of the Japanese attack against Hong Kong,
Mr. Lavalle was residing in Kowloon and the account of his
personal experiences and scenes that he witnessed are in
conformity with those related by the Americans evacuated
from Hong Kong upon the exchange vessel ASAMA MARU. At
the end of March Mr. Lavalle and his family, together with
other foreign officials in Hong Kong, were brought by
convoy to Japan. He relates that in Formosa, where the
party remained a week, the Japanese authorities broke all
the official seals and went through every bit of his
package and official consular records despite his protests.
Upon his arrival in Japan, Mr. Lavalle was appointed
a Special Attaché to the Argentine Embassy and remained
in that capacity until his departure from Japan on January
9th.
Attompted Poisoning of Mr. Lavalle:
When Mr. Lavalle reached Tokyo at the beginning of
April his Embassy was naturally very curious to learn the
truth regarding Japanese treatment of civilians and war
prisoners in Hong Kong. He states that he told the
Argentinian Chargé d'Affaires the true story of the brutal
and inhuman treatment suffered by all foreigners in Hong
Kong and on April 4, 1942, the Argentine Embassy despatched
a lengthy code telegram to Buenos Aires upon the subject.
He claims, however, that the codes of the Argentine Republic
1n use in Japan are very old and clearly are known to the
Japanese. On April 5th he had lunch in the Imperial Hotel
in Tokyo with his wife and child and was served identical
food with them, but at the end of the meal he alone took
a cup of tea. One hour later he experienced terrific pains,
fell unconscious, and was brought to a hospital in a most
serious condition, where he remained for a time in grave
danger of death. He was confined to a hospital and to bed
for two months. He was attended by a German Jewish doctor,
who told him privately that after the war and when it was
safe for him to do so, that he would willingly certify that
Mr. Lavalle had been poisoned. He states that even now he
still feels the effects of the ordeal in weak eyesight and
occasional giddiness and general weakness. The case was
immediately taken up by the Argentine Chargé d'Affaires,
who found it necessary to go to the private residence of
the Foreign Minister before he could secure an interview,
and Mr. Lavalle states that a representation in the strongest
terms was made to this Japanese authority, who offered
absolutely no comment or apology.
Current

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Current Japanese Morale.
Mr. Lavalle had been in Japan in 1931 and 1932, so
that he was no stranger to the country when he arrived
in April 1942. He was a careful observer and left Japan
with the certain conviction that Japanese public morale
1s completely unshaken and high. The complaints heard
by Americans prior to their departure from Japan of the
food shortage and poor quality of the food, he reports
have been intensified, but that it has no appreciable
effect as yet upon Japanese wartime morale. The Japanese
war communiqués released to the public are still glaringly
successful from the Japanese viewpoint and Japanese are
stated to be forbidden to inquire of foreigners regarding
the trend of Allied war news broadcasts. The only slight
break in the Japanese public's serenity of mind regarding
the progress of war was brought to Mr. Lavalle's attention
when after the so-called Second Naval Battle of the Solomons
and a Japense communiqué that one of their battleships had
been sunk and another damaged, two Japanese employees of
the Argentine Embassy openly asked if this were true and
1f it was given in the Allied news broadcasts, since they
were concerned that Japan had suffered such a loss, which
was the most serious announced up to that date by the
Japanese Navy.
With regard to the attitude of the Japanese people in
this war, Mr. Lavalle verifies that the people are absolute-
ly united in what they consider to be virtually a religious
and racial war and that the Japanese people will never admit
defeat until they are absolutely crushed.
A great fear of the Japanese people, however, is stated
to be Soviet Russia. This is claimed to be steadily growing
and Mr. Lavalle paints the picture of the Japanese scanning
their morning papers anxiously for any report of Japanese-
Soviet clashes. No account of the Russian offensive is said
to have appeared in Japanese newspapers prior to his departure,
but rumor and the very fact that Russia is still resisting
strongly have given rise to grave apprehensions on the part
of Japan with regard to this neighbor.
Dissemination of Allied News.
About four times weekly in Tokyo, Mr. Lavalle reports,
the Argentine Chargé d'Arfaires and the Spanish Minister
combine to put out a wartime news bulletin containing
interesting items from the Allied broadcasts. This bulletin
is made in about twenty copies and is most discreetly
distributed to prominent foreigners and to some Japanese.
From these persons the news continues by word of mouth. The
Spanish Minister is said to present one copy to Mrs. Sawada,
the wife of the former Japanese Ambassador to France, whoin
the privacy of her own home types a few copies and distributes
them to some American nisei.
General

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Goneral Economic Conditions.
The Japanese Government is reported to be still
adhering to its officially sponsored low-price policy
in order to avoid inflation within the country. How-
ever, this office's informant states that prices never-
theless are slowly rising and that the Japanese working
class are securing more money and are "prosperous" for
their scale of living. A typical lunch at Lohmeyer's
restaurant or the Imperial hotel in Tokyo costs between
2 1/2 and 3 1/2 yen and dinner in these same establish-
ments costs between 5 1/2 and 6 yen. There is still the
same shortage of commodities available to the general
public and this has become accentuated with the increasing
difficulties of transport from overseas.
The subject of Japanese overseas transport is covered
in a separate report, No. 6 or March 2, 1943, entitled
"Japanese Wartime Shipping: June 1942 to January 1943."
However, in connection with this despatch the statement
of a prominent Osaka Shosen Kaisha official to Mr. Lavalle
is again worth quoting here. The Japenese stated that
business leaders in the country realized that sufficient
ocean tonnage transport was fundamental for a Japanese
victory, that Japan could not possibly construct the
needed tonnage, and that necessarily Japan would lose
the war.
Because of the scarcity of industrial materials,
with the lack of adequate transport, Japanese industry
is said to be experiencing difficulties in maintaining
a full wartime production schedule. There are claimed
to be large quantities of materials at overseas points
piled high in warehouses and in docks awaiting shipment
to Japan, which is impossible because of the shipping
shortage.
Treatment or Foreigners.
From Mr. Lavalle's observations it appears that the
Japanese are not favoring any foreigners now residing in
Japan, inoluding their allies, Germany and Italy. He
states that there is a coldness between the Germans and
Japanese and that the Italians are little respected by
them. The French residents in Japan he believes to be
the worst treated and to be subjected to many indignities,
from which their mbassador is not exoluded. The Germans
are seid to have a communal food commissary system for
their mationals, but the other nationals are not said to
have been able to organize their food distribution system
on such a basis.
The Soviet Embassy in Tokyo is stated to be most
carefully guarded by the Japanese and officials of the
Embassy are closely shadowed wherever they go. Never-
theless it is Mr. Lavalle's contention, based upon
personal

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
personal relations with the Russians, that they are able
to secure a quantity of useful information to a greater
extent than the representatives of any other country now
in Tokyo.
When Mr. Lavalle left Japan, the country was in the
throes of one of its periodic anti-spy campaigns, which
was pushed with great vigor by the authorities. Since
the war it has been impossible for any Japanese officially
to mingle with foreigners and although invitations are
accepted by them, at the last minute they are always
cancelled through illness or some similar excuse.
The Swiss Authorities.
Mr. Lavalle states that the Swiss authorities in
Japan, charged with the protection of Allied interests,
are not greatly respected by the Japanese. He states
as positive knowledge that the Swiss Minister is considered
pro-Axis and pro-Japanese and is said to have remcrked
to the Argentine Chargé d'Affaires when the latter first
turned over British interests to the Swiss, that "there
would be trouble for about two years until Japan won the
war." Mr. Robert HAUSHEER, known to all those interned
in the American and British Embassies in Tokyo as the
Swiss Third Secretary who was of the greatest assistance
to them, was forced to resign his position as a result
of a disagreement with his Minister on the subject of
protection of Allied interests, and is now living private-
ly in Kobe. When questioned upon the attitude adopted by
the Swiss Legation in Tokyo after the report of the "suicide"
of Mr. BOSSERT, who had been sent to Formosa in behalf of
American interests, Mr. Lavalle stated that the Swiss
Minister issued strict instructions to all Swiss nationals
not to discuss the case, and, although he is not certain,
some Swiss informed him that they do not believe the real
account of the incident had been reported to Switzerland.
Treatment or United Nations' Nationals.
It is related that the condition of United Nations'
civilians interned in Japan is considered satisfactory
by the Swiss, although no other foreign representatives
in Japan are naturally in a position to verify this. Mr.
Lavalle, however, relates seeing in November l942 a group
of 12 Canadian and British soldiers arriving at a Yokohama
railroad station in such a pitiable state of malnutrition
that it was necessary for the Japanese guards to assist
them in walking.
The nisei in Japan are claimed to be closely watched
and are not trusted. The story was reliably given to Mr.
Lavalle of a young nisei couple, who one evening nostalgically
played American music on their victrola and sang some
Lmerican songs. Their house was entered by the police,
thedr

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
their records were broken and they were severely beaten.
Economically also conditions are most difficult for them.
On the other hand, since there is such a great need for
persons of Japanese race who speak English in the southern
occupied areas, the Greater East Asia Ministry is said to
be seeking to use numbers of nisei in this capacity. An
influential Japanese, who is claimed to do everything
possible to assist the nisei, is Mrs. Sawada, the wife
of the former ambassador to France.
Arrests of Japanese.
The Japanese authorities are stated to have arrested
at least 10 professors of Keio and Imperial Universities
during the autumn of 1942, apparently because of some
disagreement with Government policies. Additionally, at
a slightly later time, some university students also were
reported to have been arrested. This may be used as an
indication that although the Japanese public is solidly
behind its present military leaders, there are elements
of dissidence among intellectual and industrial circles
that require suppression by those in power. Mr. Lavalle
states that he has heard of several thinking and prominent
Japanese who have expressed their complete disagreement
with the course adopted by the military authorities in
this war.
Shins Exoloded in Yokohama Harbor.
Towards the end of November 1942, there was a terrific
series of explosions in Yokohama harbor, followed by a
large conflagration that destroyed six vessels that were
moored at the main wharf in Yokohama near the American
Consulate General building there. Explosions continued
all day and warehouses on the dock and buildings surrounding
the area were particularly shaken and all glass in the
buildings in the waterfront area were broken. Three days
later Mr. Lavalle visited Yokohama and the fires were still
burning. He states that the most reliable sources have
indicated that the conflagration involved the formerly
British vessel NANKING, which had been converted into a
raider, 2 German raiders, 1 of 10,000 and the other of
12,000 tons, 2 Japanese freighters or raiders and 1
Japanese tanker.  The vessels were reported to have been
loading ammunition, in the course of which an accident
ocourred, which resulted in the ultimate destruction of
the 6 ships. The Japanese tanker was said to have been
supplying these vessels with oil at the time and thus
added additional fuel to the conflagration. Announced
casualties were go Germans killed upon the 2 raiders,
and 160 wounded. l00 coolies also were reported to have
been killed.
The Removal of the Garman Ambassador.
The story that is told in official foreign eircles
1n

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
in Tokyo and which is said to be generally believed
regarding the removal of the former German Ambassador, General
Eugen OTT, is stated by this office's informant to be due
to difriculties in which the Ambassador's son reportedly
was involved with Gestapo agents at the German Embassy.
Two German correspondents were said to have been acoused
by the Gestapo of being agents of a foreign power. In
the course of their conrinement in the German Embassy, the
Ambassador's son, who allegedly knew one of the accused
men quite well, attempted to intercede actively for him.
This was discovered by the Gestapo agents, according to
a report and there were serious difficulties during the
summer of 1942, which finally resulted in the Ambassador's
son leaving Japan in September upon a German blockade
runner, which was bound for Germany with supplies and
other Germans to join the army. The Ambassador reportedly
protested to Berlin regarding the whole affair and received
no satisfaction, except that the difficulties then brought
to a head resulted in his removal as ambassador.
Communications Between Japan and the Outside World.
The Argentine Embassy in Tokyo is stated to have no
communication with Buenos Aires except by telegram and
telephone. No attempts are made by this Embassy to send
letters or other communications to its Government. Mr.
Lavalle did not bring any official Argentine communications
with him, in view of his travel through Soviet Russia,
since his Government had no established relations with
that country and since he was traveling at his own risk.
The Swiss Legation also is unable to send out any mail
from Japan and Mr. Lavalle reportedly brought with him
19 letters from the Swiss ofricials in Tokyo. In the
month of December 1942 the Swedish Minister received a
letter from his country dated July, and this was said to
be quite normal.
It thus can be seen that mail communications between
Japan and outside countries are extremely slow and difficult.
However, the sole exception to these difficult communications
is the Soviet Russian Embassy, which reportedly has a
regular monthly courier service to and from Japan via
Korea or Dairen to Manchuria and the Siberian border.
Communications with Germany.
Communications with Germany are said to be kept open
by blockade runners of the two countries which travel
between the Far Bast and Europe by circuitous routes.
Mr. Lavalle states that he believes these ships leave
Japan carrying official German communications and men
for the army at the rate of one a month and that in
Kobe a German raider appears for refitting and supply
on an average of once a month.
Ra11

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Rail Communications in Japan.
It 1s stated that rail transport has noticeably
increased since the outbreak of the war and that severe
restrictions are now imposed upon civilian passenger
traffic of all kinds. As an example of the way the
authorities discourage rail trafric, Mr. Lavalle reports
that during the New Year's holidays all first and second
class coaches, dining cars and sleepers, were removed
and that only third class coaches were run throughout
the country.
Departure from Japan.
Because of his difficulty with the Japanese authorities,
Mr. Lavalle believed that it would be exceedingly trying
to leave Japan. Nevertheless arrangements were made through
the Argentine Embassy for him to proceed via Soviet Russia.
Through the Soviet Embassy it was possible for him to secure
a Soviet transit visa, although the Argentine Republic had
no diplomatic relations with Soviet Russia. When his plans
matured it was necessary for Mr. Lavalle to sign a statement
made by the Argentine Embassy that he was traveling through
Soviet Russia at his own risk and without the protection
of his own Government. However, the Soviet Embassy gave
him an introductory letter in the form of "To Whom It May
Concern", which requested all Soviet Government officials
to extend him every possible courtesy.
Permission was secured from the Japanese to leave the
Japanese Empire and arrangements were made for Mr. Lavalle
and his family to proceed to Siberia via Korea. At the
last minute the Japanese told him that it was impossible
to proceed by that way for military reasons. After the
usual bickerings and delays common to Japanese authorities
when they are performing an unwilling service, Mr. Lavalle
and his family were requested to be ready within a day to
go to Kobe and take ship for Dairen. This time limit was
unexpeotedly moved up, until actually Mr. Lavalle and his
family had one hour's notice to catch the train for Kobe,
and he surprised the Japanese authorities by being able to
be ready within that time limit. He and his family left
Kobe on January 9th and the trip from Kobe by boat was
made under most severe blackout restrictions and was ac-
companied by the strictest precautions against Allied sub-
marines and was not particularly pleasant. During the
journey, in fact until he crossed the Manchurian-Siberian
border, Mr. Lavalle carried a pistol on his person at all
times, since he naturally was not certain what aggressive
acts the Japanese might attempt against him and his family
during the course of the trip. The trip was made by rail
to Manchouli and Mr. Lavalle was greatly relieved when he
crossed into Russian territory on January 17th.
Travel Through Siberia.
In his travel with his family through Siberia, Mr.
Lavalle

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
894.00/1176
Levalle went by rail the entire distance, except for a
steemer trip across the Caspian Sea. From the Manchurian
border to Chita it took two days and it was necessary to
change there and take another train to Novorsibisk, which
was reached five days later. There was a wait of one day
and the party then left by train for Tashkend, which
distance also took five days. There was another wait of
three days at Tashkend and on January 29th the party left
for Krasnovosk via Samarkand on a train trip that lasted
three days. Krasnovosk is a port on the Caspian Sea and
a wait of three days was necessary here until passage
PACKAGE
was secured on a ship that left on Tebruary 4th for Baku
and arrived there on February 6th. There followed another
few days delay, when it was then possible to leave on
February 9th for Tiflis, which was reached on February
10th. On February 13th the party left Tiflis for Leninakan,
arrived there the same day, and changed to another small
train which took them in a few hours to the Turkish border,
which they then crossed. A wait of several days at Kars
1n Turkey was necessary to secure through reservations to
S
Istanbul, and then the party proceeded to this city by
way of Erzerum and Ankara.
FILED
Siberian Observations.
The treatment accorded Mr. Lavalle and his family
throughout his stay in Soviet Russia was said to be
IN THE
excellent. The introductory letter from the Soviet
Embassy at Tokyo was most useful to him and he experienced
no difficulties traveling upon his Argentine official
passport. He stated that throughout the trip upon all
the railroads there were definite signs of war activity,
with shipments of freight and troops being freguently
encountered. The family diet throughout the trip consisted
BULKY FILE
mainly of canned sardines, but he reported a welcome change
at Krasnovosk on the Caspian Sea, where they were proudly
served some American canned goods by the local hotel.
Spirit with regard to the war was high in every district
in which he traveled, and because of rail deleys he was
in some localities for several days and talked freely to
those who spoke any foreign language.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
 (h
Microfilm made of three
issues of the JAPAN TIMES
AND ADVERTISER of December
8, 1942.
7/7/43
820.02
Burton Y. Berry
American Consul
mm/sn
To Department in original
and hectograph.
heeto seut to Dca-C.B.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF CURRENT INFORMATION/L
March 24, 1943
When this came to me in Feb. there
was attached a carbon copy of a reply
stating that Mr Heller's letter was being
referred to the appropriate
agenoies of the govt. That carbon
copy is not now attached, why I do not
know.
In accordance with the statement
in the reply and of the memo. of FE
of Feb. 12 attached to the file, I
gave a copy to OWI on Feb. 15th as
shown by my endorsement on the letter
at that time.
Later I found that PA/H had some
misgivings about the matter, and after
a conversation w1th Mr Hornbeck I
informed OWI tkmr of our misgivings
and stated that Mr Heller's suggestion
was merely passed on to OwI for such
use as they saw fit to make of it but
that it did not necessarily have
the endorsement of this Dept.
As the carbon of the reply of
Feb. is not now attached I am unable
to determine whether or not this
letter has been answered or even
acknowledged. If this has not been
done it should be done now.
Div
FAR:
V

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 12, 1943
Caldwell:
February 18, 1943
Reference the attached letter from
Mr. Heller dated February 2, 1943, which
Mr. Grew has referred to FE.
It is believed that Mr. Heller's
suggestion is worthy of consideration by
some such agency as OWI.
If you concur you may wi sh to give
a copy of Mr. Heller's letter to OWI.
oyuB
FE:B1shop:ALM/MS

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
TMENT OF STATE
THE BECRETARY
February 4, 1943
For appropriate reply.
9.4.
Joseph C. Grew
SA/G: jog:nn

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
Heller & Heller
COUNBELLORS AT LAW
I8E MONTAGUE STREET
BROOKLYN. N.Y.
LOUIB B.HELLER
HARRY HELLER
2730
February 2, 1943
 AFFAIRS
Special Assistant
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C
Asknow:
Dear Sir:
bunnr E1/L
I noticed your reference to Dr. Inaze
Nitobe in your "Report from Tokyo". I have a letter
he sent me on May 25, 1926 in which he predicts that
the fate of a power intent on conquering other peoples
894.00/1177
must be "decline and fall".
I thought you might be interested in
it and I am therefore sending you a photostatic copy
of his letter.
The Peace Club of the College of the
City of New York to which Dr. Nitobe refers, was one
of countless projects undertaken during the past two
docades by rank and file American citizens through-
out our country -- men and women who were striving
earnestly and in good faith, in different ways, to
advance the cause of international peace. Yes, Amer-
icans have been sincere in their quest for peace.
894.00
And, therefore, Sir, as you have stated, "We came to
the brink of war cleanly and honorably....
As one of the many who strove to main-
tain the peace, I can not help but ask myself, "Was
Dr. Nitobe sincere in his letter of May 25, 1926?"
At the time of his death in 1933, the New York Times
referred to him as the "Father of Japanese Liberalism"
Was Dr. Nitobe really a democrat and a sincere advoeatet
of peace? If he was, then is it not wise, for the Jake
veal to the American people more about this type of
Japanese -- those who before the war earnestly advocated
the demooratic way of life and today as you say, "yearn
in secret merely to be allowed to pursue their normal
beauty-loving lives in peace in their own homes and in
their own oultural surroundings". -- (P. 70)

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
Heller & Heller
COUNBELLORS AT LAW
I8S MONTAGUE STREET
BROOKLYN, N. Y.
LOUIS B.HELLER
HARRY HELLER
TRIANGLE 5-
-2730
-2-
Would it not be a good idea to compile
a pamphlet of genuinely expressed statements by Japan-
ese statesmen, living and dead, such as the one I quote
herein by Dr. Nitobe, so that the present Japanese war
lords can stand condemned of their ruthless crime against
Japan and civilization out of the mouths of their own
fellow-countrymen.
If there have been enlightened elder
statesmen of Japan genuinely interested in preserving
the peace only to have been over-ridden by the utterly
ruthless extremest elements in the country, as you say,
then why not bring the pronouncements of these over-
ruled statesmen to light and thus keep alive the dif-
ferences of opinion that existed in Japan before the war.
Wouldn't this be an effective way to ex-
plode the myth of the indivisible unity of thought and
feeling of the so-called fanatical "Jap"?
Yours very sincerely,
Hany Helle
hh/ir

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
NATHONS
GENEA
25th June 1926.
Dear Mr. Heller
It is very good of you to let me have an
account of the Peace Club that you have started at your
College. You say that you have been advised by Profes-
sor Overstreet in the. formation of the Club. I daresay
you will not easily have a better adviser. Certainly
no country can dispense with the public opinion for the
promotion of peace ideals, and the Leugue of Nations
itself oan fulfil its task only. when backed by the
sentiments of peace. We have lived too long under war-
olouds.
America, whioh is the leading country of the
world at present, oan certainly set an example in this
respect.  If I have read the history of the worid aright
pretty nearly all the countries that have become great
have used their greatness, that is, their power, for an
unworthy end, either in pampering luxury or in conquering
other peoples. The result of both has been very much
the same, namely, decline and fall. But there are indi
oations, it seems to me, that your country is not follow-
ing exaotly in the footsteps of the nations that become
great and fall. I was particularly plea ed, therefore.
to see such a work started as yours. Are you cooperating
with other organi sat ions with a similar purpose?  I have
noticed thut there are so many well-meaning people who.
frustrate their own work by trying to work isolated.
In union is strength; but you know that from your history
better than I do. Certainly the Mon-Partisan Association
of the Le gue of Nations in your country will supply you
with material concerning the organi gation in Geneva.I
nave notlced liat it is duing i great propegande work.
and if you get into communication wi th that Association
and with the Brit ish League of Nit!cns Union (15 Grosvenor
Gardens, London, S.W.l.) you will get Ilenty of m terial
and very good material too. Here in the Le gue of lNation
whioh, as you know, is a governmental body, we: cannot do
propaganda work like the two nasocrations- I have named;
ut if I can be of ayy seryice to you, I shall be yery
elad.
Yours very t
Inago
Nutolec
Harry Heller Es
108 Vernon Avonue
Brooklyn, N.Y.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
February 4, 1943
February 18, 1943
Mr. Harry Heller,
185 Montague Stroet,
Brooklyn, Now York.
Dear Sir:
As your letter of February 2 has been re-
ceived just tefore the moment of my departure
on a long speaking tour through the South, I
am referring it for consideration to the Divi-
sion of Far Eastern Affairs in the Department
of State.
Very truly yours,
Joseph C. Grew

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.92)
Febraary 18, 1948
PAH
ly refor to
Wy dear Mr. Heller:
Mr. Josoph C. Grew has roferred to the Division
of Far Bastern Affaire your letter to him of Pobruary .
19e5e You enolosedwith your letter to Mr. Orew a
hotostatie oopy of a letter dated Juno 85, l9ne, which
894.00/1177
ir. Imaso Nitobe sent to you, and sugcested that it may
pe worth while for propaganda purpomes to compile a
pamphlet made up of statoments, similar to Dr. Nitobe's
lotter to you, whiah have boun made by Japanese statommen.
89400
It is belloved that your suggostion may be of
Interest to the offioe of War Information and to other
agencies of the Goverment primarily interested in
propaganda activities. We are therefore taking steps
to bring your lotter to tho attontion of such agonoies.
The spirit whioh prompted you to mke your oug-
gestion is much appreciated.
Sincorely yours,
R.L.S
Robert L. Smyth
Assistant Chief
Divimion of Par Easterm Affairs
Mr. Harry Heller,
PS /JW
A llya copy 
185 Nontague 3treet,
FEB 16 1943
ty
FEB 17 1943PM
Brooklyn, Now York.
(16
FEIMWBIALH/MS
FE
P4
Jeo
2-10-43
SICH

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.95)
DC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
v.le
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
4~8
November 30, 1942
Administrative Chengee in the Japanese
Empire since the Outbreak of Wer.
MN.HORNECK
OCEIVED
194?
DEC=1942
Introdugtion
APR1
Avsilable 1nformation regarding wartime admini
to warrant drawing final conclusions regarding govern-
mental trende in that country. These changes point, how-
ever, to more centrallzed control of the administration of
colonies and conquered territories, and to inoreaaing mil1-
tary direction of governient affairs. Thie military direc-
tion operates to a considerable extent, however, through
specially constituted agencies which, et least nominally,
are organized on a civilian basis.
The decline in the authority and 1mportence of the
89400
Foreign Office is e notable example cf the dwindling in-
fluence of the civilien element in Janoneee Government. It
seeme cleur that the new Ministry of Greater East Asiatic
Affaire, which inherits the ecoromic, political and cul-
tural funotions of the Foreigr Cffice in occupied territory.
was crepted to cerve as the tcol for implementing the Japa-
nese
program in ccnquered territory.
Apparently related to the creation of this new Ministry
are the abolition of the Minietry of Overseas Affairs and
the steps taken to integrate the edministration of the Em-
pire more closely with that cf Japan proper. The real reason
for the increased central direction of colonial affairs 1s
obscure but it is hardly to be expected that these measures
augur any relaxation of Jenen'e highly autocratio rule of
1ts possesslons.
A system of "officially recommended" crndidaten for
the Lower House of the Diet was improvised just before the
lest eleotion to 1nsure the election of candidates eccept-
able to the government. This system can be interpreted only
as a stratagem conceived to cbviate, without openly repudiat-
ing the conatitutional forme of representative government,
any poseibility of Japan's militery government being challenged
Electiona
The normal four year term of membere of the Lower Hour
of the Japanese Diet exp1red in the apring of 194l but 
3
extended

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
extended for one year. On February 18, 1942, however,
the Japanese Cabinet decided to hold a "drastio reforma-
tion eleotion" this year, differing from the old-style
elections in order to promote completion of the so-called
Greater East Asia War. Only candidates familiar with
Greater East Asin problems would be considered acceptable
to the Government, it was announoed. As politioal parties
were disbanded in 1940, some substitute method of placing
candidates before the voters had to be employed. The
system devised was the setting up within the Imperial Rule
Assistance Association of a nominating council, appointed
by the Association president, General Nobuyuki Abe (former
Prime Min1ster, August 30, 1939 to January 15, 1940), the
sole function of which was to select and recommend suitable
candidates for Diet seats.
An election was held as scheduled on April 30, 1942 and,
according to Ambassador Grew's despatch of August 19, 1942,
381 of the successful candidates had been recommended by the
counoil. This figure represents approximately 82 per cent
of the total membership (466) of the Lower House. In this
connection Ambassador Grew's despatch of August 19 remarks
that "although these results represented an overwhelming
viotory for the Council's candidates, there was considerable
shaking of heads on the part of the people over this system
of 'officially recommended' candidates". That despatch also
mentions thet practioally every prominent leader of extreme
rightist affiliation, including many with police records of
implication in crimes of political violence, appears in the
list of successful candidates.
The offioial attitude toward the elections was expressed
in a pre-election Diet speech by Premier Tojo, excerpts from
which were quoted in a Tokyo broadoast of March 26. The
Prime Minister was reported to have denied charges of undue
Government meddling with the election process, adding that
"the candidates will be elected by the people according to
the method we think right". He announoed that there would
be no eleotion campaign and the radio report of his speech
closed with the ambiguous threat, "We will enforce punishment
of those who make such statements as bring unnecessary sus-
picion on people engaged in the war".
Imperial Rule Assistance Association*
It will be recalled that the Imperial Rule Assistanee
Assooiation was oreated by Prince Konoye in the autumn of
1940
•The Fcc Weekly Reviey of Offioial Foreign Brosdoasts
(November 20-26, 1942) remarks that the terms "National
Servioe

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
1940 as a purely civic body to serve as a link between the
peeple and the Govermment, a function which, it was con-
sidered, the largely disoredited Diet had failed to perform.
After the eleetion of the new Diet representatives, the
Goverament took steps apparently intended to bolster the
authority of the IRAA. On June 8 the Tokyo radio reported
the merging with the IRAA of six national organizations,
namely, the Japan Industrial Patriotic Association, the
Agrioultural Patriotic Society, the Commercial Patriotie
Association, the Marine Transportation Association, the
Japan Women's Federation, and the Japan Youths' Federation.
A Tokyo broadoast of June 9 announced that the Vioe-president
of the Association had been appointed a State Minister without
portfolio. The radio later announced that a series of con-
ferences would begin in July to plan further steps for unify-
ing various patriotic organizations under the IRÀ.
A Tokyo broadoast of June 10 reported the establishment
of five new bureaus in the IRaa "for tightening the Govern-
ment's control over various phases of Japanese life". The
new bureaus are: General Affairs, Training, Experiment,
China Arfairs, and Investigation. Two of the men chosen to
head these new bureaus were former vice-ministers and a
third a former prefeotural governor. The following unrelated
radio items are mentioned as indicative of the wide range of
activities to which the Association may apply itself: it
was announced on July 20 that the IRAA had chosen 67 members
to serve in its "race committee"; on August 14 that ward
associations in Tokyo would be uniried under the IRAA; on
October 1 that coordination of the IRAA's movements in areas
outside Japan had been disoussed in a meeting of the Assoe1-
ation; on November 12 that "in order to conoentrate on the
increase of fighting strength by cooperation with the Gov-
ernment, the IRaA established a Deliberative Counoil"; and
on November 20 that the Ministry of Greater East Asiatio
Affairs would hold its "first get together meeting" with
the Greater East Asiatic Ministry Committee of the IRAA on
November 24.
The exact funotions of the IRAA and the machinery
through which it operates still remain confused and obsoure.
It is diffioult, therefore, to determine whether the Govern-
ment is really succeeding in welding it into a useful tool
os
*(Cont'a) Service Association" and the Natiomal Serviee
Pelitical Couneil" appear to be used im DOnEI English trans-
missiens as new appellations for the Imperial Rule Assistanee
Asseeiation and the Imperial Rule Assistance Politieal Seciety,
respeetively. No effieial announcement to this effeet, how-
ever, has been monitored.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
of authoritarian government. It may be assumed, however,
that sinoe it continues to receive mention in Japanese
broadcasts and since its field of activity appears to be
continuing to expand, there is no immediate intention of
abandoning it or of allowing it to die of neglect. It
may be recalled that the Association provided machinery,
at the time of the last election, for sponsoring Govern-
ment oandidates for Diet seats. In this instance, at
least, one example may be seen of the Association having
served a definite purpose.
Imperial Rule Assistance Political Society
Sinoe the dissolution of the old political parties
in l940, a real need has existed for some organization to
serve as a steering force in Japanese politics. Since it
has always been maintained that the IRAA is a purely civil
and non-political organization, it must be assumed that
it is not qualified to perform this funotion. (It can
hardly be mainteined, however, that the activities of the
IRAA nominating council, in connection with the last Diet
election, were completely non-political. That utilization
of the Association for such a political purpose may have
been considered exceptional is indicated, however, by the
oreation, soon after the election, of an outright political
organization, the Imperial Rule Assistence Political Society,
which presumably will relleve the IRAA of such extraneous
funotions.)
In an endeavor, apparently to oreate a substitute for
the old political parties, the Imperial Rule Assistanoe
Politioal Society was 1naugurated on May 20, 1942 with
General Nobuyuki Abe as President. In his speech at the
inaugural meeting of the Society, President Abe described
the ambitious scope of the Sooiety's activities. He 1s
quoted by the Japanese radio as stating: "The area of the
Greater East Asia War now extends even to the Indian Ocean
.... But the ideals of Japan must spread over an even larger
area -- the world.... We must remake politics and economy
in order to bring about the establishment of Greater East
Asia. The important mission of the Imperial Rule Assistance
Political Society is to form the political structure of the
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.
Ambassador Grew's despatoh of August 19, 1942 comments:
"Study of the pronounoements in regard to this
organization reveals that there is still great
unoertainty

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
-5
uncertainty and confusion in the minds of not only
the publio but even of the leaders and organizers
of the Association /Imperial Rule Assistance
Political Society as to 1ts precise funotions.
It is clear that the new organization aspires to be
the nucleous of all political thought in Japan, per-
haps patterned after the Fascist Party in Italy or
the Nazi Party in Germany, but it 1s equally clear
that no one, not even the sponsors of the Association
/Imperial Rule Assistance Political Society have a
definite program in mind. Moreover, there has in-
evitably arisen confusion between the functions of
the IRAA, of the IRAPA /Imperial Rule Assistance
Political Society/, and of the Diet itself. Late in
the Spring it was reported that there was aorimonious
discussion over the respective functions of the two
assooiations."
After the first announcements regarding its organiza-
tion, the Society has received little radio comment.
Abolition of the "Parliamentary Vice Miniater and Councilor
system".
A Tokyo broadoast of June 2 announced that, in order
to promote greater efficienoy, committees within the vari-
ous Ministries of the Japanese Cabinet had been formed,
composed of members of the House of Peers, the House of
Representatives and selected scholars. "With the formation
of these committees in each Ministry, the present parlia-
mentary Vice Minister and councilor system will be abolished."
(Since l924 a parliamentary vice minister and a parliamentary
counselor have been appointed to each ministry for the
ostensible purpose of maintaining liaison between the gov-
ernment and the houses of the Diet. There was thus a vice
minister and a counselor, one for the House of Peers and
another for the House of Representatives, attached to each
Ministry. The occupants of these positions ohanged with
the Cabinet.)
Administratora for Occupied Arean
In order to release administrative officials for ser-
vice in Japanese-occupied territories, the Tokyo radio
reported on June 23 that the number of administrative
offioials in Japan would be reduced by some 30 per cent
in central offices and 20 per cent in rural offices. A
broadoast of August 21 mentioned that the move to supply
personnel

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
-6
personnel for administrative work in the southern regions
would result in "revolutionary streamlining" of the ad-
ministrative system and would affect 45,236 persons, not
only in government offices of Japan proper but also in
the Chosen and Taiwan Governments-General and the Kwantung
Bureau. Officials despatched to the southern regions be-
come members of the Japanese military administration there.
A broadoast of September 15 announoed that the Govern-
ment would establish a Southern Development Camp, under the
direct supervision of the Cabinet, for the training of ad-
ministrative officials to be despatched to the southern
regions. The sum of yen 396,000 was set aside for the
project and the opening date was set for October 1. "Gov-
ernment officials, civilian firm members and graduates of
universities, colleges and secondary schools" are to re-
ceive training at the Camp.
Colonial Government
The Ministry of Greater East Asiatic Affairs was
created on November 1, 1942 to supervise all Japanese
aotivities, other than military and naval, in occupied
territories, including Manchuria. (The present disoussion
is limited to Japan and the Empire and therefore no attempt
1s made here to desoribe the activities of the new Ministry
in their relation to foreign territory under Japanese mili-
tary occupation or control. A memorandum of November 5,
prepared in FE, treats of this new Ministry.) Some sweep-
ing administrative changes were effeoted in the Japanese
internal and colonial administrative system concurrently
with and, at least partially, as a result of the estab-
lishment of the new Ministry. Perhaps the most striking
development was the abolition of the Ministry of Overseas
Affairs, which was established in l929 and whioh supervised
the administrative work of the Chosen and Taiwan Governments-
General, the Kwantung and Karafuto Governments, and the busi-
ness operations of the South Manohuria Railway Company and
the Oriental Development Company.
From radio reports from Tokyo it is possible to piece
together a general outline of the changes to which the
oreation of a new and the abolition of an old ministry will
give rise.
Kxantung Leased Territory. It is learned from a Tokyo
broadoast of September 1 that all matters pertaining to the
Kwantung

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Kwantung Bureau now fall under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Greater East Asiatio Affairs. Since Manohuria
is inoluded in the new Ministry's sphere, it seems logical
that the Kwantung Bureau as well, which funotions under
the control of the Japanese Ambassador at Hsinking, is
also under the supervision of the new Ministry. (The
Kwantung Bureau was established on December 26, 1934 at
Hsinking under the control of the Japanese Ambassador there
and most of the administrative powers formerly vested in
the Government of the Kwantung Leased Territory were trans-
ferred to the President of the Bureau.)
Karafuto. According to a Tokyo broadoast of Septem-
ber 1, "Karafuto shall be included in the administration
of Japan proper". The Tokyo radio stated on September 1l
that Karafuto "shall be inoluded within the jurisdiction
of the Home Ministry, instead of the Overseas Ministry as
at present". It appears from the foregoing that Karafuto
1s to be placed within the administrative system of Japan
proper and it is therefore assumed that, as in the Hokkaido,
1te government will approximate that of the Jepanese pre-
feotures.
Chosen and Taiwan. Chosen and Taiwan heretofore have
been administered by governments-general, which, except
for certain supervisory powers vested in the Ministry of
Overseas Affairs, operated independently of the administra-
tive system of Japan proper. It now appears, however, that
steps are being taken to integrate them more closely into
the administrative system of Japan. The Ministry of Home
Affaire, which supervises the prefectural governments of
Japan proper, henceforth will exercise supervisory funotions
in Chocen and Taiwan which previously appertained to the
now defunct Overseas Ministry. Tokyo broadoast on Septem-
ber 11:
"Problems 1n connection with the unifioation of
various problems within and without Japan proper and
control of business affairs of the Chosen Government
General, the Taiwen Government General and the Karafuto
Government Office shall be under the Home Ministry.
For the convenience of administrative purposes, the
Superintendents' Bureau of the Home Ministry shall be
oreated and its personnel shall be appointed mostly
from the personnel of the Overseas Ministry and the
officials of....Bureau. A co-ordination committee
shall be created in the Home Ministry to bring about
a close relationship between various appropriate
bureaus concerning Japan proper, Chosen, Taiwan and
Karafuto."
An interesting

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
-8
An interesting innovation under the new aystem is
provision for the extension of the jurisdiction of the
several ministries in the Japanese Cabinet to the affairs
of Chosen and Taiwan. Heretofore administretion of Chosen
and Taiwan has been organized on a basis distinct and
separate from Japan proper but the broadoast of September 1l
states thet in Chosen "business affairs, according to their
nature, shall be administered by the Premier or the proper
Minister". The Taiwen Government-General, according to the
same broadoast, "shall be controlled by the Premier or the
proper Minister, according to the nature of. the business
involved, according to the regulations, and the jurisdictions
of these Ministries, restricted under the present law, shall
be expanded". While it is indicated that the administration
of both Chosen and Taiwan will reamin in the hands of their
respective Governments-General, it may be assumed that the
authority and independence of those Governments-General will
be curtailed as a result of the participation of the ministries
of the central government in colonial administration. The
supervisory functions of the several Japanese Cabinet ministers
to be exercised in Chosen and Taiwan are enumerated in the
monitored report of an Information Board announcement of
September 1l, as follows:
"The parts of the Chosen and Taiwan Governments-
General to be supervised by the Premier or respective
ministers are as follows: A--Army conscription by the
Premier. B--Taxation, currenoy and population matters
by the Finance Minister. C--Education problems con-
cerning universities, colleges, technical sohools and
other schools and the promotion of education, by the
Education Ministry. D--...and other foodstuffs, both
agrioultural and marine, by the Agriculture and
Forestry Ministry. E--Important industries, trades,
engineering and flood prevention works by the Commeroe
and Industry Minister. F--The Postal service, wireless
communication, sea transportation, coastal navigation
and transportation by the Commerce and Industry Ministry.
G--The railways by the Railway Ministry. H-Foreign
trade by the Finance Minister and the Commeroe and
Industry Minister."
Ministry of Foreign Affaira
The Tokyo radio reported an important reorganization
of the Japanese Foreign Orrice, effeotive November 1, 1942.
The outstanding feature of this reorganization was the
relinquishment by the Foreign Office of its important
eoonom1e

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
•conomic, political and cultural functions in Japanese-
occupied territories and the delegation of those funotions
to the newly oreated Ministry of Greater East Asiatio
Affairs. Only matters of a "purely diplomatio nature"
will be left within the jurlsdiotion of the Foreign Office
in these areas.
As now constituted, the Foreign Office consists of
only four bureaus, namely, Political Affairs, Trade,
Treaties and Research. Aithough information concerning
the exact functions of these bureaus 1s lacking, it is
reported that the Bureau of Political Affairs has absorbed
the Bureaus of European, Asiatic and American Affairs and
also has taken over "diplomatic affairs" relating to
"Greater East Asia", previously handled by the Bureaus of
East Asiatic and South Seas Affairs. These latter two
bureaus have been transferred to the Ministry of Greater
East Asiatic Affairs.
An interesting sidelight on this diminution of the
powers of the Foreign Office is the resignation of Foreign
Minister Togo, "for purely personal reasons", on the same
day (September 1) that the first announcement was made of
plans to create the Ministry of Greater East Asiatio Affairs,
and the subsequent appointment to that post of Masayuk1
Tani whose principal distinction has been his close assoc1-
ation in recent years with the Japanese military program
in China.
LES
FE::MJT

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
November 30, 1942
Mpiniatrative Changen in the Lapanann
mpire alnan the Qutbreak of Yar.
Intreduetion
Available information regarding wartime administre-
tive changes in Japan 1s too fragmentary and inoemplete
to warrant drawing final conolusions regarding govern-
mental trende in that country. These ohanges point, how-
ever, to more centralized control of the administration of
colonies and conquered territories, and to inereasing mili-
tary direotion of government affairs. Thie military diree-
tion operates to a considerable extent, however, through
speolally constituted agencies which, at least nominally,
are organized on a civilian basis.
The deeline in the authority and 1mportenee of the
Foreign Office is a notable example of the dwindling in-
fluenee of the civilisn element in Japenese Government. It
seems olear that the new Ministry of Greater East Asiatic
Affairs, which inherits the eoonomic, political and eul-
turel functions of the Foreign Ofrice in oeoupied territory,
was orested to serve as the tool for implementing the Jape-
nese y program in conquered territory.
Apparently related to the orestion of this new Ministry
are the abelition of the Ministry of Overseas Affairs and
the steps taken to integrate the administration of the Em-
pire more closely with that of Japan proper. The real resson
for the ineressed central direotion of colonial affaire is
obsoure but it is hardly to be expeoted that these measures
augur any relamtion of Japen's highly autoeratio rule of
1ts possessions.
A syetem of "officially recommended" candidates for
the Lower House of the Diet was improvised just before the
last eleetion to insure the election of eandidates seeept-
able to the government. This system can be interpreted omly
as a stratagem eoneeived to obvinte, without openly repudiet-
ing the constitutional forms of representative government,
any possibility of Janan's military government being challenged.
Eleassens
The normal four year term of members of the Lewer Houss
of the Japemese Diet expired in the spring of 194l but was
extended

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
extended for one year. On February 18, 1942, hevever,
the Japanese Cabinet decided to hold a "drastie reforme-
tion eleetion" this year, differing from the old-style
eleetions in order to promote completion of the so-called
Greater East Asla War. Only candidates famillar with
Greater East Asin problems would be considered meceptable
te the Government, it was announoed. As politieal parties
were disbanded in l940, some substitute method of plaeing
sandidates before the voters had to be employed. The
ayetem detised was the setting up within the Imperial Rule
Assistance Associstion of : nomineting couneil, appointed
by the Asscciation president, General Nobuyaki Abe (former
Prime Minister, August 30, 1939 to January 18, 1940), the
sole funetion of whioh was to select and recommend suitable
cendidates for Diet seats.
An eleotion was held as scheduled on Apr1l 30, 1942 and,
according to Ambaseador Grew's despatch of August 19, 1942,
38l of the suceessful candidntes hnd been recommended by the
couneil. This figure represents approximately 8? per cent
of the total membership (46s) of the Lower House. In this
connection Ambassador Grew's despatoh of August 19 remarks
that "although these results represented an overwhelming
vietory for the Counoil's candidates, there was considerable
shaking of hesds on the part of the people over this system
of 'officially recommended' candidates". Thet despateh also
mentions that prectically every prominent leader of extreme
rightist affiliation, including many with poliee records of
implieation in orimes of political violenoe, appears in the
list of suscessful sandidates.
The offioial attitude toward the eleations was expressed
in a pre-election Diet speech by Premier Tojo, exeerpts from
whieh were quoted in a Tokyo brondoast of Hareh 26. The
Prime Minister was reported to have denied chargee of undue
Government meddling with the eleotion prooess, adding shat
"the candidates will be eleoted by the people according te
the method we think right". He announeed that there would
be me eleetion campaign and the radio report of his speech
elosed with the ambiguous threat, "We will enforee punishment
of those who make such statements as bring unneeessary sue-
pleien on people engaged in the war
Immertal Bule saslatanae sacsalation"
It will be recalled that the Imperial Rule Assistanee
Assoeiation was ereated by Prinee Komoye in the autumm of
1940
•The Poc Weekly Reviey of Orricial Foreign Broedeaste
(Nevember 20-26, 1942) remarks that the terms "Natiomal
serviee

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.94)
-3
1960 as a purely eivie body to serve as a link between the
peeple and the Gevernment, a fanetiom whiek, 1s was ees-
sidered, the largely diseredited Diet had failed to perform.
After the election of the new Diet representatives, the
Government took steps epparently imtended to bolster the
authority of the IRAA. On Jume B the Tokye radio reported
the merging with the IRaA of six national organisatioms,
namely, the Japan Industrial Patriotio Assoelation, the
Agrieuitural Patriotie Society, the Commereial Patriotie
Assosiation, the Marine Transportstion Association, the
Japan Women's Federation, and the Japan Youths' Federation.
A fokyo breadeast of June 9 announeed that the viee-president
of the Assoeiation had been appointed a 3tate Hinister without
pertfolio. The radio later announced that a series of eom-
ferenees would begin in July to plan further stepe for unify-
ing varlous patriotic organizations under the IAAA.
A Tokyo broadeast of June l0 reported the establishment
of five new bureeus in the IRas "for tightening the Govera-
ment's control over various phases of Japanese life". The
mew bureaus are: General Affairs, Traiming, Experiment,
Chins Affairs, and Investigation. Two of the men ehosen to
heed these new bureaus were former viee-ministers and a
third a former prefeetural govermor. The following unrelated
radio items are mentioned as indieative of the wide range of
metivities to which the Assoeiation may apply iteelf: it
was announeed on July 20 that the IRAA had ohosen 67 members
to serve in its "raee committee"; on August l4 that ward
associstiome in Tokyo would be unified under the IRAA; on
Oetober 1 that eoordination of the Inas's movements in areas
outside Japan had been diseussed in a meeting of the Assosi-
ation; on November 12 that "in order to coneentrate on the
1merease of fighting strength by eooperation with the Gov-
ermment, the IRaa established a Deliberative Couneil"; and
om Nevember 20 that the Mimistry of Greater East Aslatie
Affairs would hold its "firet get togother meeting" with
the Oreater East Aslatie Hinlstry Committee of the IRAs on
November 24.
The ezaet funetions of the IRAs and the mechinery
through whieh it operetes still remain confused and obseure.
It is aiffieult, therefere, te desermime whether the Govern-
ment ie really sueceeding in welding 1t iate a useful seel
of
*(dent'a) Serviee Aaceeiatten" and the Nationel Servion
Pelisieal Coumeil" appear te be wsed im DOèEI Zaglish trans-
missieme as mew appellatiems fer the Imperial Rale Assistaaée
Asseelatien and she Imperial Rale Assistamee Pelisieal Seslety,
respeesively. No effieial aaneumeement to thi- effeet, hou-
ever, has been menitered.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
-4
of authoritarian government. It may be assumed, however,
that since it continues to receive mention in Japanese
broadeasts and since its field of activity appears to be
eontinuing to expand, there is no immediate intention of
abandoning it or of allowing it to die of negleet. It
may be reealled that the Assesistion provided maehinery,
at the time of the last eleotion, for sponsoring Govern-
ment candidates for Diet seats. In this instanee, at
least, one example may be seen of the Assooiation having
served a definite purpose.
Imperial Bule sasiatance Palitiaal Soclatx
Since the dissolution of the old political parties
1n l940, a real need has existed for some organization to
serve as a steering force in Japanese politios. Since it
has alwaye been maintained that the IRAA 1s a purely oivil
and non-political organization, it must be assumed that
it is not qualified to perform this funotion. (It can
hardly be maintained, however, that the eotivities of the
InAA nomineting counoil, in connection with the last Diet
•leotion, were completely non-political. That utilization
of the Association for such a political purpose may have
been considered excertional is indicated, however, by the
oreation, soon after the election, of an outright politioal
organization, the Imperial Rule Assistance Folitical Sooiety,
which presumably will relieve the IRAa of suoh extrsneous
funotions.)
In an endeavor, apparently to oreate e substitute for
the cld political parties, the Imperial Rule Assistance
Polit1oal Society wes inaugurated on May 20, 1942 with
General Nobuyuki Abe as President. In his speech at the
inaugural meeting of the Society, President Abe desoribed
the ambitious soope of the Society's mctivities. He 1s
quoted by the Japanese radio as stating: "The area of the
Greater East Asia War now extends even to the Indian Oeean
.... But the ideals of Japan must spread over an even larger
area -- the world.... we must remake politics and economy
in order to bring about the establishment of Greater East
Asia. The important mission of the Imperial Rule Assistanee
Political Society is to form the politioal structure of the
Greater East Asia Cu-Prosperity Sphere.
Ambassador Grew's dempatch of August 19, 1942 comments:
study of the pronouneements in regard to this
organization reveals that there is still great
uneerteinty

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
uneertainty and confusion in the minds of not only
the publie but even of the leaders and organisers
of the Associatioa ZImperial Rule Assistanse
Political Society as to its precise funetions.
It 1s clear that the new organization aspires to be
the nueleous of all politioal thought in Japan, per-
haps patterned after the Fascist Party in Italy or
the Nazi Party in Germany, but it 1s equally elear
that no one, not even the sponsors of the Agsooiation
LImperial Rule Assistance Political Society have a
definite program in mind. Moreover, there has in-
evitably arisen confusion between the funotions of
the IRAA, of the IRAPA /Imperial Rule Assistanee
Political Sooiety, and of the Diet itself. Late in
the Spring it was reported that there was morimonious
disoussion over the respective functions of the two
associctions."
After the first announoemente regerding ite organiza-
tion, the Sooiety hae received little radio comment.
Abalition of the "Parliamentary Vian Minlatar and Gounallar
axatn.
A Tokyo brondoast of June ? announoed that, in order
to promote greater efricienoy, committees within the vari-
ous Ministries of the Japmnese Cabinet had been formed,
composed of members of the House of Peers, the House of
Representatives and seleoted soholprs. "with the formation
of these committees in ench Ministry, the present parlia-
mentary Vice Minister and counoilor system will be abolished.
(Since l924 a parliamentary vice minister and * parliamentary
oounselor have been appointed to each ministry for the
ostensible purpose of maintaining lialson between the gov-
ernment and the houses of the Diet. There was thus a viee
minister and a counselor, one for the House of Peers and
another for the House of Representatives, etteshed to eaeh
Ministry. The ocoupante of these positions ohanged with
the Cabinet.)
AAainiatratora Lar Pacupied Arean
In order to release administrative offioisls for ser-
viee in Japanese-occupied territories, the Tokyo radie
reported on Jume 23 that the number of administrative
offieiale in Japan would be redueed by some 30 per sent
In central offices and 20 per cent in rural offiees. A
breadeast of August 2l mentioned that the move to supply
personnel

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
-a
personnel for administrative work in the southern regions
would result in "revolutionary streamlining" of the ad-
ministrative system and would affeet 45,236 persons, not
only in government offiees of Japan proper but also in
the Chosen and Taiwan Governments-General and the Kwantung
Bureau. Orrioials despetahed to the southern regions bee
come members of the Japanese military administration there.
A broadoast of September 15 announoed that the Govern-
ment would establish a Southern Development Camp, under she
direct supervision of the Cabinet, for the training of ad-
ministrative ofrioials to be despetohed to the southern
regions. The sum of yen 396,000 wss set as1de for the
projeet and the epening date was set for Ootober 1. "Gov-
ornment officials, oivilian firm members end gradustes of
universities, colleges and secondary schools" nre to re-
ceive training at the Camp.
Colenial Government
The Ministry of Greater East Asiatio Affairs was
created on November 1, 1942 to supervise all Japanese
activities, other than military and navsl, in ocoupied
territories, ineluding Manohuria. (The present disoussion
is limited to Japan and the Empire and therefore no attempt
1s made here to desoribe the aotivities of the new Ministry
in their relation to foreign territory under Japanese mili
tary ocoupation or control. A memorandum of November 5,
prepared in FE, treats of this new Ministry.) Some sweep-
ing adminietrstive changes were effeoted in the Japanese
internal and colonial administrative syatem conourrently
with and, at least partially, as & result of the estab-
lishment of the new Ministry. Perhaps the most striking
development wes the abolition of the Ministry of Overseas
Affairs, whieh was establ1shed in l929 and whieh supervised
the administrative work of the Chosen and Taiwan Governments-
Genersl, the Kwantung and Karefuto Governments, and the busi-
ness operations of the South Manchuria Railway Company and
the Oriental Development Company.
From redio reports from Tokyo it 1s possible to pieee
together a general outline of the ohanges to which the
crestion of a new and the abolition of an old ministry will
give riee.
Kwantang Leasnd Tarritarx. It 1s learned from a Tokyo
broadeast of September 1 that all mattere pertaining to the
Kwantung

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
Iwantung Bureau now fall under the jurisdiotion of the
Ministry of Greater East Asiatie Arfairs. Simce Nanehuria
1s ineluded in the new Ministry's sphere, 1t seems logieal
that the Kwantung Bureau as well, whioh funetions under
the control of the Jananese Ambassador at Heinking, 1s
also under the supervision of the new Ministry.(The
Kwantung Bureau was establ1shed on Deeember 26, 1934 at
Rsinking under the control of the Japanese Ambassador there
and most of the administrative powers formerly vested in
the Government of the Kwantung Leased Territory were trane-
ferred to the President of the Buresu.)
Karafuta. Aocording to a Tokyo broadoast of Septem-
ber 1, "Karafuto shall be inoluded in the administration
of Japan proper". The Tokyo radio stated on September 1l
that Karafuto "shall be inoluded within the juriediction
of the Home Ministry, instead of the Overeeas Minlstry as
at present". It appears from the foregoing that Karsfuto
1s to be placed within the administrative system of Japan
proper and it is therefore assumed that, as in the Hokkaido,
its government will approximate that of the Japanese pre-
feotures.
Chanen and Taivan. Chosen and Taiwan heretofore have
been administered by governments-general, whioh, except
for certain supervisory powers vested in the Ministry of
Overseas Affaire, operated independently of the administre-
tive system of Japan proper. It now mppears, however, that
stepe are belng taken to integrate them more olosely into
the administrative system of Japan. The Hinistry of Home
Affairs, whioh supervises the prefeotural governments of
Japan proper, henceforth will exercise supervisory funetions
in Chosen and Taiwan whioh previously appertained to the
now defunot Overseas Min1stry. Tokyo broadoast on Septem-
ber 11:
"Problems in connection with the unifioation of
various probleme within and without Japan proper and
control of bueiness affsirs of the Chosen Government
Generel, the Taiwen Government Generel and the Karafuto
Government Ofrice shall be under the Heme Ministry.
For the convenience of administrative purposes, the
Superintendents' Bureau of the Home Ministry shall be
oreated and its personnel shall be appointed mostly
from the personnel of the Overseas Ministry and the
officisls of....Bureau. A co-ordinetion committee
shall be oreated in the Home Ministry to bring about
 close relationship between various appropriate
bureaus coneerning Japan proper, Chosen, Taiwan and
Karafuto."
An interesting

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
-8
An interesting innovation under the new aystem 1s
prevision for the extension of the jurisdiotion of the
several ministries in the Japanese Cabinet to the affairs
of Chosen and Taiwan. Heretofore administration of Chosen
and Taiwen has been organised on a basis distinet and
separate from Japan proper but the broadoast of September 11
states that in Chosen "business affnirs, according to their
nature, shall be administered by the Premier or the proper
Minister". The Taiwan Government-General, according to the
same broadeast, "shall be controlled by the Premier or the
proper Minister, according to the nature of the bueiness
involved, according to the regulations, and the jurisdietions
of these Ministries, restrioted under the present law, shall
be expanded". While it is indicated thst the administration
of both Chosen and Taiwan will reamin in the hands of their
respective Governments-Deneral, it may be assumed that the
authority and independence of those Governments-General will
be eurtailed as a result of the partioipation of the ministries
of the central government in colonial administration. The
supervisory funotions of the several Japanese Cabinet ministers
to be exeroised in Chosen and Taiwan are enumerated in the
monitored report of an Information Board announoement of
September ll, as follows:
"The parts of the Chosen and Taiwan Governments-
General to be supervised by the Premier or respective
ministers are as follows: A--Army consoription by the
Premier. B--Taxation, currenoy snd ponulation matters
by the Finanoe Minister. C--Eduoation problems con-
cerning universities, colleges, technical sohools and
other sohools and the promotion of eduoation, by the
Education Ministry. D--...and other foodstuffs, both
agrieultural and marine, by the Agrioulture and
Forestry Ministry. E--Important industries, trades,
engineering and flood prevention works by the Commeree
and Industry Minister. F--The Postel service, wireless
communiostion, see transportation, coastal navigation
and transportation by the Commerce and Industry Ministry.
G--The railways by the Railway Ministry. H--Foreign
trade by the Finance Minister and the Commeroe and
Industry Minister."
Minlatrx at Eerain sccasra
The Tokyo radio reported an important reorganization
of the Japanese Foreign Ofrice, effeotive November 1, l942.
The outstanding feature of this reorganization was the
relinquisment by the Foreign Offiee of its impertent
●eonom1e

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
-9-
omemie, pelitioal and cultural functions in Japanese-
eseupied territories end the delegation of those funetions
to the newly oreated Ministry of Greater East Asiatie
Affairs. Only matters of a "purely diplomatio nature"
will be left within the juriedlotion of the Foreign Ofriee
in these areas.
As now oonstituted, the Foreign Office oonsists of
only four bumemus, namely, Political Arfaire, Trade,
Treaties and Researoh. Although information coneerning
the exact funotions of these bureaus is lmoking, it is
reported that the Buresu of Political Affairs has absorbed
the Bureaus of European, Asistio and American Affaire and
also has taken over "diplomatic affairs" relating to
"Greater East Asia", previously handled by the Bureaus of
East Asiatio and South Seas Affairs. These latter two
bureaus have been transferred to the Ministry of Greater
East Asimtio Affairs.
An interesting sidelight on this diminution of the
powers of the Foreign Ofrioe is the resignation of Foreign
Minister Togo, "for purely personel reasons", ontthe same
day (September 1) that the first announoement was made of
plans to oreate the Ministry of Greater East Asiatie Affeirs,
and the subsequent appointment to that post of Masayuk1
Tani whose prinoipal distinotion has been his olose assooi-
ation in recent yesrs with the Japanese military program
in China.
FE:COOperIMJF

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
File
1BS MONTAGUE STREET
RECEIVE
LOUIS B.HELLER
2729
2730
894.00/1179
March 11, 1943
Robert Smyth, Assistant Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
Thank you very much for your communi-
cation of February 18th, 1943. I am happy to learn that
your pacifio bureau may make use of my document.
I would appreciate it very much if
anything further develops in the matter with reference
PE
to my idea of preparing a pamphlet made up of statements
similar to Dr. Nitobe's letter to me.
MAR1 3 1943
/FP
FILED
Yours very truly,
Hany Heller.
hh/1r

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.95)
COPIES IN PARAPHRASE
SENT TO O N L. AND
M.I.D. IN CONFIDENCE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JNB
Chungking via N.R.
This telegram must be
olosely paraphrased be-
Dated Apr1l 24, 1943
fore being communlosted
FROM
to anyéne. ((80)
Rec'd ll: e.m.
DIVISION 
MR. HORNBECK
SUROPLAN
Diviston of
ADVISER
1-1943
Secretary of State,
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
Ca
Departmentof State
Zelegranes to Kensbyober,
587, Apr11 24, 11 a.m.
With regerd toan's ernointment as
894.00/1180
Foreign Orlice Minister at Tokyo, Director of
Information Depot: of Foreign Office expressed
following views to our assistant commercial attache.
(1) Shingemitsu "seems to be a liberal possibly
pro-British and anti-Bolshivist." Former Jap Ambassador
USSR, heiis well informed on Russian affairs and an
excellent man to throw smoke screen over Jap diplometio
MAY 5 - 1943
moves. His eppointment comes as result of newly
FILFD
esteblished Axis policy to heve Russia make seperate
peace with Germany.
PS/A
(2) Informant expressed greet concern over possible
German-Jap rapproachement with Russia saying that "we,
Confidential File
IB
China end the U.S. must find some wey to prevent this
from happening".
(3) In support of his thesis concerning Jap
attempts to heve Russia meke a separete peace with
Germeny, he cited following: (a) recent Axis attempts
to make
20g/π

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
-8- #687, April 24, 11 a.m., from Chungking via N.R.
to meke capital out of Adiral Standley's reported
statements conoerning Russian leck of eppreciation of
Lend-Lease eid, the atrocity story concerning massacre
of Polish officers by Soviets end the Polish Russian
border dispute; (b) ectivities of Jap representatives
in Russia (Sato, ambassador st Kuibyshev, 1s engaged
in trying to bring sbout Russo-Germen peace end Morishima,
his assistant with rank of Minister, now in Tokyo, a
few days ago had long talk with Tojo eccording Tokyo
radio); (c) Germany has recently been meking much use
out of unconcitional surrencer" stetements of United
Nat ons leaders, Germen people being informed of them
possibly to prepare them for certain developments most
favorable of which would oe e seperate peace with Russia.
(4) Shigemitau's appointment also deemed significant
since he was recently Jap Ambessedor to Nanking where
he was instrumental in getting thet regime to declare
war on Britain and the U.S. He probably laid down
broad plans for Nanking Jap cooperation in waging war
against United Nat'one and possibly also aainst Russia
if neoessary.
(5) View expressed Japens policy now is to reech
understanding with Russia. If present Axis ettempts to
have Soviets make separete pesce fail Japan "may take
aotion when Germany starts its summer campaign against
Russia.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
-3- #587, apr1l 24, 11 e.m., from Chungking via N.R.
Russia.
The Embassy will comment on foregoing views in
following telegram.
VINCENT
WSB

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.90)
STRICILY CONFIDENTIAL
CONTTNNTLAL
PARAPRRASB
(no581)
A talegred dated Apr11 24, 1943 from the Amerieen
Imbassy at Chuagking, reeds subatentially as followe:
Mavrv The followine views with regard to the appolataent of
Shigemissu as Japanese Forelgn ldinister were expreesed to
the sslstant Commerolal Atteon by the irestor of the
Informatloa Departaent of the hinese Poreign Ofrice is
Changking:
(a) The new foreign &iniater would see: to be a
liberal and possibly anti-Bolshevist an: pro-British. He
is well-informed on Coviet affaire and was formerly Aabasss-
dor there. He would be an exoellent person to throw a
cover over Japunese liplomutio anouvers. The newly
establiahed iis polioy to cause Russia to pake a separate
peaee witn Cermany nas broucht a sut higenitau's appoint-
nent.
(b) tatia t.t sone way uust by found by the joited
states and hina  prevont a rup roehalent batwoen the
Soviet Uaion and Garnany and Japan, the Sabassy's informant
expreosed great ounoarn ovor that possibility.
(o) To support his contention that Japan as sought
so bring about a separate peace between Geraany and Russis,
he pointed to: (1) Much use has been made recently by
Germeay of the "unoonditiuaal surrender" stateaents of
United Bations leadere -- possibly to prepare them for
certain developments post fevorable of whion would be 
separate peace with lussla, the German people are being
informed of these "unoonditional surrender" statements;
(2) The mctivities of Jap representatives in Russia
(Morishime, Minister Counselor of the Japanese mbassy
in Soviet Russie and now in Tokyo, has had a long talk with
the Japanese Prenier and the Japanese abassador Sato, as
Kuibyahev, is angaged in atteapts to bring about Russo-
German peaces (3) The Axis has resently atsempted to make
sapisal gut of atrocisy stories conserning alleged masssere
of Polieh ofriears by the Soviete, the Polish-Rusaian berder
dispate, and sdairal Standley's reported statements coneern-
lng Rusaian leek of appreeiation of Lend-Lease ald.
(a) sigatrianee me also attaned to shigecltoy's
abeat Menkiag's deslaration of war on he Üaited States and
Britata. walle at Nanking he probably drew up broed pless
for
Às

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.87)
the Sevies Daioa.
(0) Although Japan's polloy 1s mow to reeeh am meder
stemding wish Boviet Russia, 1f Axis atteapts bring
aboms a sepasate pesse with the Soviets should fall
Japan may, when Cerzany opens 1ts summer campaign in
Rassia, sake eetion.
In  following telegran abassy will commem
os
she feregoing viows.
34-27-Y3
MIS
mmo
FE:MWB:ALM

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM SENT
RICTOS
Department of State
Washin
April , 1943
BASSY,
CHUNGKING (CHINA)
561
STRICTLY 8 NFIDENTIAL
One. The following comment on the re cent changes in the
Japnose Cabinet has been received from our Fmbassy at London:
A British jourmalist formorly prominent in Shanrhai ad-
vanced the thesis that shi eritu' o is t pave the way for
8
a compromise peace In a. muc!
rrin for the
defeat of Germany and the concentration o: nited Nations
foroes against itself. Foreln  ffice officials disccunt
this thesis and express the belief that higemitsu was
180A
appointed primarily to facilitate implementation of the new
QUOTE liberal policy UN¿l'OTE towar: China. Another British
offioial expressed some apr. ehension that Sh: ge. itsu's
appointment might cause additional Chinese to join the
Nanking regime. The British Foreign Office seemed to feel
Confidential Fue
that Japan was following a military policy not repeat not
involving new aggressive action but rather a policy of
consolidating present gains.
Two. Comment by of icers of the Department is as follows
PS/WVS
10-00000-1

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.95)
TO BB TRANHTTED
S OPFICE
SECRIT
TELEGRAM SENT
COMFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
CLEAR
Depertment:
Department of State
AIRGRAM
Full rabe
Bay letter
Washington.
Might leécer
-2-
Cheage to
The Japanese Government in making the recent changes in
the Japanese Cabinet was probably motivated largely by a desire
to take up all slack in internal administration, to take ad-
vantage of the most competent administrators available, to
bring about greater unity in home affairs and in foreign and
domestic propaganda, and to facilitate consolidation of Japan's
position and prosecution of the w r. In reneral, it is believed
that the new appointments  tne ohinet do, in fact, represent
o would not repeat
a strengthening of t umese overmen.
not sean to suggest deviation in basic policies.
Shigemitsu, who nas served as ambassador in Soviet Russia,
in England, and in China, is probably better qualified than any
other statesman in Japan to deal with a wide range of problems in
foreign affairs such as Axis relations, soviet neutrality, rela-
tions with puppets and possible future peace overtures. He aided
the inauguration last November of Japan's UOTE soft UNQUOTE polioy
toward China and should be more acceptable to the puppet Chinese
than his predecessor. While not especially popular with Soviet
officlals it is believed that he is not repeat not disliked by
the Soviet Government. Shigemitsu has on previous occasions let
it be known that he favors completely Japan's domination of East
Asia.
Tinstphood by
M..

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
OFFICS
HETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
CLEAR
épartments
Department of State
AIRGRAM
Full rate
Deg letter
Might letter
Washington.
-3
Charge to
8
For some time Japan has desi red to bring about peace between
Gormany and Soviet Russia. Japan's efforts in this direotion will
probably continue.
Settlement of the QUOTE China incident UNQUOTE has been pro-
mised the Japanese people for the past several years. The former
polioy of terror and pillage has failed and, with Shigemitsu as
Foreign Minister, the QUT soft uT poliey may be pushed
vigorously in an effort to brin but  preuter degree of coopera-
tion from puppet Chinese and to create in fact civil war in China.
Similarly Japan may attempt to promete better relations with the
inhabitants of other occupied regions. Past events have shown,
however, that Japan always reverts to a policy of enslavement of
conquered peoples and no repeat no basic change in Japanese character
or Japanese policy of absolute comination is foreseeable.
In summary, it is believed that the Japanese Government has
beon strengthened; that the changes in themselves do not repeat not
offer positive indications that a new offensive is planned for the
immediate future; that Japan may be expooted to continue its diplo-
matio efforts to strengthen its relations with Soviet Russia and,
if possibl•, to bring about a peace between Soviet Russia and
Germany; that the expedient of a QUOTE soft UNQUOTE policy toward
Chine and possibly toward other peoples in the oooupied regions
Emotphared by
Sant la aperater

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.92)
SECRET
TELEGRAM SENT
RESTRICTED
CLEAR
Department of State
AIRGRAM
Beg letter
Wight letter
-4
Washington.
Charge to
may be further pursued; and that intensive efforts to augment
Japan's production and war potential at home and throughout oooupied
aroas will be continued. Possible sudden and extensive Japanese
military operations in new fields cannot repeat not be ruled out.
Japan remains militarily capable of a ma jor new offensive. Also,
while Japan is zealous in uardins its wn interests in the war,
Japan cannot repeat not, it is believed, irore entirely the xis
position as e whole.
Hulf
1m
mwB
FE:MWB:ALM
FE
PA/H
Eu
28 1943
3.7.4.
Crr3
ar
M..
19.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.94)
804.00/
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Conditions in Japan:
Info  of onversation with Ferid Tek, Turkish Ambassador
to Japan who has just arrived in Ankara from his post,
relative to -.
894.00/11
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTel 026 3m
(Deopat, telegram, latrton, Lette, t.)
From
Turkey (Ankara) (Steinhardt)
DatedMay 18. 1943
To
Confidential File
File No. 740.0011 Pac1f1o War/3254
B. B. 0NT PRN  1-1849
100
1181

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 8, 1943
Chungking's despatoh no. 1128 of
April 30, 1943, oontains 1n 1ts
first enolosure speoulation over the
recent Japanese Cabinet ohanges by
Shao Yu-lin, Direotor of Chungking's
Department of Information of the
Foreign Ministry, and in the second
enclosure speculation emanating from
General Wang Peng-sheng, Adviser to
the Generalissimo on Japanese affaira
I think you will find both en-
olosures worth reading.
894.00/1182

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.94)
COPIES SENT
O.N.I. AND M.I.D
EMBASSY OFTHE
E
5-31-93
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1943
No. 1128
UIVISUIN OF GORCIAL AFFAIRS
Subject:
Interpretations of Recent
Japanese Cabinet Changes.
AIMAIL
CONFIDENTIAL
3
5
The-Honorabte
For⊥
1n U S
The Seoretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
LU
SIRU.L FC
x94n
eB
ecores
w
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's tele-
C
grams to the Department No. 587, April 24, 11 a.m. and
1443
No. 596, April 24, 6 p.m. concerning representative
Chines interpretations of the recent cabinet changes
in Jpan. In this connection I am forwarding herewi th
copy or a memorandum dated Anril 23, 1943, concerning
conversation held by Carl H. Boehringer, Assistant
Commercial Attache, wi th Mr. Shao Yu-lin, Director of
the Department of Information of the finistry for Foreign
Affairs, and a translation of an editoriel entitled "The
Internal and External Implications of the Partial Re-
organization of the Tojo Cabinet" which apneared in
the April 23, 1943 issue of the Ta Kung Pao, Chungking.
A summary of Mr. Boehringer's memorandum was forwarded
to the Department in telegram No. 587 of April 24, 11 a.m.
The editorial from the Ta Kung Pao is of interest
mainly because it is reliably said either to have heen
written by or inspired by Generel Wang Pen -sheng,
19 1943
adviser to the Generalissino on Japanese affairs. Mr.
Timothy Tientseh Mar, General Wang's assistant, informed
Mr. Boehringer that the foregoing was the case.
According to the editorial, the present changes
indicate. that the Tojo cabinet has grown weaker and
has become mired by difficulties. The Japanese are
expeoted to follow their persistent policy of commit-
ting an outrage abroad in order to produce a pacifying
effect at home. No prediction is made, however, as to
where and against whom the next outrage will be committe.
It is stated that the Nanking regime declared war on
the United States and Great Britain in order to comply witi
the wishes of Germany and that Japan was at first opposed
sinoe she did not want to have the Nanking government rep-
resented at the peace conference following Axis viotory
on an equal footing with Japan. In another paragraph of
the editorial the statement appears that "1t is no exag-
geration when we say that the present reorganization of
the Bjo cabinet is made in acgordanee with the orders of
Hitler".
copy
The
NT CF BTATE

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
The editorial points out that, contrary to recent
eustom, Shigemitsu repertedly said nothing about adhering
to the Russo-Japanese neutrality paet when he took over
the post of foreign mintmter. At the same time, Amau
spoke of a "new werld omder" rather than the "new order
in east Asia". From this and some ciroumstantial evidence
it is inferred that Japan is playing into Germany's hands
and that the Axis nations are making preparations for a
groat move and that "Japan has walked another step on the
road to Berlin".
In the olosing paragraph, it is stated that the re-
organization of the Tojo cabinet has a great bearing on
Japan both internally and externally. A Tokyo broadoast
on the cabinet shanges is then quoted to the effeot that
externally the eabinet will promote Axis relations and
internally it will cooperate with the Assistance Political
Association (?) so that Japan's political strength will
be unified. "This is honest talk", it is asserted, adding
that "it is most imperative that China, Britain, Ameriea
and Russia should be watohful over the promotion of Axis
relations by Tojo".
The views attributed to General Vang coineide with
those expressed by Shao vu-lin in only a few respeets.
Toe much emphasis seems to be plaeed by General Wang on
the Importanee of German influence in Japanese pelitieal
affmirs. A mere remlistie attitude in this regard is
taken by Mr. Shao who feels that Japan will ceoperate
with Germamy if it suits Japan's strategieal plans.
Agreement is found, however, in the statements that the
rosent sabinet shanges seem to presage seme move of great
international significance.
Roppoepfully yours,
NulatViant
John Carter Vimeent
chargè d'Arfaires a.1.
Emelesures:
Copy of memerandam ef conversation
Copy ef twemslation frem the Ta Kung Pae,
Apri1 23, 1943
In simgle eepy to the Bepartmeyt
711Jap
CHB/gws

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
Apr11 23, 1943
MORANDUM TO MR. VINCENT REGARDING CONVERSATION WITH MR.
SHAO YU-LIN IN CONNEOTION WITH THE RECENT CABINET CHANGES
IN JAPAN
Mr. Sheo Yu-lin, director of the Department of Inform-
ation or the Mihistry for Foreign Affairs, opened the inter-
view by saying that he had a lengthy telegram prepared con-
cerming the recent cabinet changes in Japan which he was
imterested in sending to Mr. T. V. Soong at Washington.
This cable apparently represented the views of the Ministry
for Foreign Affairs. Ar. Shao suggested that I take the
cable and have the Embassy send it to the Department for
its ewn information and also to make the material avail-
able to Mr. Soong. Ireplied that, while personally I
sew no objection to this proposal, I would naturally have
to refer the matter to you and suggested that we get in
toueh with you by telephone.
Mr. Shao then seemed to lose interest in his proposal
and said he would give his own views on the sub jeot of the
Japanose oabinet changes. He spoke for more than 45 minutes
and, as I was leaving, pointed out that he had spoken muoh
more frankly to me than he had to newsnaper reporters. He
intimated that the material given me was substantially what
he had proposed sending to Mr. Soong.
Mr. Shao devoted the entire interview to the appoint-
mont of Shigemitsu as Foreign Minister in Tokyo. He dis-
missed the other appointments as having local significance
only.
According to Mr. Shac, there have recently been evi-
dences of Japanese and German efforts to alienate Russia
from the United Nations. The Axis has attempted to make
capital, for example, out of Ambassador Standley's reported
statement concerning Russia's lack of appreciation of
Amorioan Lend-Lease aid, out of the atrocity story con-
cerning the massacre of Polish army offieers by the Russians,
and out of the Polish-Russian border dispute.
In Mr. Shao's opinion, much significance should be
attached to the fact that Mr. Goro Morishima, Japanese
Minister to Kuibyshev assisting the Japanese Ambassador
there, was reoalled to Tokyo last December and, according
to Japanese radio broadoasts, had a long talk with Premier
Tojo a few days ago. "Morishima is an expert in intrigue",
Mr. Shao said. "His return to Japan and his reoent talk
wd th Tojo naturally bring up the question: why did he have
to return to Japan for such a long visit? It ould be only
beeeuse he was on extraordinary business", he added.
Mr. Sheo declared that, with the exoeption of the fish-
eries negotiations, whioh have been amicably settled for
another year, there is now no important business to be
negotiated botween Japan and Soviet Russia. With the fisheries
question settled, he pointed out, one is foroed to conolude
that there must be something signifioant under disoussion
between Japan and Russia. In this conneotion, Mr. Shao said
it is "wieely known" that Sato, the Japanese Ambassador to
Ru

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
waia, has been attempting to bring about peace between
Germany and Russia and that he is the source of numerous
rumors concerning such a peaee.
After giving this background of Japanese attempts
to arrive at a rapprochement with Russia and to aot as
go-between in negottating peace between Russia and Germany,
Mr. Sheo took up the subjeot of Shigemitsu's appeintment.
Coneerning Shigemitsu himself, Mr. Shao said that he was
a man of two personalities. In the first place, he "seems
to be a liberal, possibly pro-British and in this charmster
he also seems to be anti-Bolshevist". In the secend place,
however, he was the former Japanese ambassador to Russia
and thus knows somothing about Russia. Thus, Mr. Shao
pointed out, he is an etcellent man to throw a smoke sereen
over Japanese diplomatic moves.
According to Mr. Shao, the best possible policy for
Japan now is to reach an understanding with Russia. Japan
will try first to get such an understanding by politioal
means or pressure. Failing in this maneuver, whieh in-
volves the negotiation of a Russo-German peace, Japan
"may take astion when Germany starts on its summer offen-
sive against Russia", he said.
Thus Shigomitsu is the logical choioe, both for carry-
ing on these negotiations and also to carry on if Japan
does attack Russia. In that event, Mr. Shao explained,
shigemitsu and the Japanese will set themselves up as
leaders in the fight against Communism and will even try
to ealist support from the United States and Great Britain
for this policy. In other words, Mr. Shao said, the Japanese
would make the claim that they are fighting the Boisheviks
and Communism as an excuse for war against the Soviet Union.
Mr. Shao was of the opinion that Shigemitsu's activities
while Japanese mbassader to the Nanking regime, during which
me he brought about Nanking's deelaration of war on the
United States and Great Britain, may be linked up with present
and future developments insofar as he (Shigemitsu) is con-
cerned. In other words, he succeeded in lining up the Nanking
regime's support for the general fight for the Co-Prosperity
Sphere and also, if necessary, for the ooming fight with
Russia. This having been done, his next move was to return
to Tokyo and direet negotiations wien Russia as indicated.
In foousing attention on the other end of the Axis
again, Mr. Shao said that Germany has recently made great
use of the "uneomditional surrender" statements put forth
by leaders of the United Nations. The people in Germany
have been teld ef these statements and have been prepared
for certain developments, the most favorable (for Germany)
being a. separate peaee with Russia whieh would permit her
te face Britaim and the United States without fear of the
easterm freat and Russia. Japan, would alse like to have
massia as a pemeeful neighberlam least for the time being,
se she could dotote her fuil attention to other areas in
the Paeifie.
Mr. sheo was very serieus in making his coneluding
tat：

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
tatement: "Ir we allow this to be realized (German-
Tmmemese rapproehement with Russia) the entire world
tuation will be ohanged. We, Chine and the United
States, must find some way to prevent this from happen-
ing, openly or secretly", he said.
At the end of the interview I questioned Mr. Sheo
about the telegram he had prepared for Mr. Soong and asked
if he would sare to make a copy of it available to the
mbassy, even if it was decided not to send it to Washing-
ton. He said that he had changed his mind about sending
it to Mr. Soong, who could get the ideas outlined above in
a brief telegram.
Carl H. Boehringer,
Assistant Commercial Attaché
CHB/gws

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
THE INTERNAL AND EITERNAL IMPLICATIONS
OF THE PARTIAL REORGANIZATION OF THE TOJO CABINET
(2diterial from the April 23, 1943 issue
of the Ta Kung Pee, Chungking, translated
by S. L. Pun of the Ameriean Embassy, Ohungking)
On the evening of April 20 the Tojo cabinet made
ammoumeement ef its partial reorganization, in which
shigemitsu was eppointed as foreign minister, Ando as
home minister, Tojo himself as minister of edueation
conourrently, Yamaseki as mintster of agrioulture and
forestry, Oese as minister without portfolio and Amau
as direator of intelligence and publicity ofrice. Such
an event is not entirely meaningless in Japanese home
politics and diplomaoy. Our observations are as follow:
I. When Tojo was appointed prime minister, he first
adopted the system of having few cabinet officers, and the
ministers appointed by him merely included unimportant
personages of third and fourth class. At that time, we
made the comment that the Tojo cabinet was the strongest
Japanese cabinet since Japan's invasion of China, since
the wer lords could dominate these few unimportant men
and do whatever they wished to do. As a result, Tojo
made his plans and proceeded to wage a lightning war on
a large soale in the Pacific. After Tojo had robbed
everything in the South Seas, the lightning war became
a protracted war, and his cabinet then became weak. It
may be recalled that last July Tojo announoed that his
cabinet would not undergo any reorganization. However,
in September he vacated one of his own posts and appointed
Tani as foreign minister. In March this year, he appointed
seven men, inoluding Yuki Toyoda, as councillors of the
cabinet. Although this was stated to be an attempt to
strengthen his cabinet, it actually shows that his cabinet
had beoome weak.
Now that he has partially reorganized his cabinet on a
large soale and recruited persons of many-sided personalities
into his cabinet, it shows that his cabinet is much weaker.
During the time when Konoye was in power, he also reorganized
his oabinet on many occasions and tried to make use of persons
who represented various political factions in his cabinet.
However, these people conrlict with each other and offset
eaoh other. Thus, on the surface his cabinet was strengthened
but it actumlly became more delicate and impotent.
We may also view the present reorganization of the Tojo
cabinet in the same light. That is to say, the Tojo cabinet
has gradually beoome mired by diffioulties.
II. In spite of this, the persistent way of Japanese
militarists in doing things is like this: the greater their
imtermal dirfioulties, the more they desire to commit an out-
rage in order to produce some pacification effect at home.
As far as diplomatio relations are concerned, this reorgan-
isation of the Tojo cabinet also has its background. We
know mow that the deolaratiom of war by Wang Ching-wei against
Britain and Americe in the early part of this year was prompted

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
by the wishes of Germany. At that time, Stahmer, the
German ambassador to the puppet Nanking regime, was
forging ahead with this plan. This aroused considerable
Opposition in Japanese political cireles which, in view
of the experience gained from the last European war, did
not want Wang's puppet regime to aoquire the status of
mitting in on the peace sonferenoe on an equal footing
tm Japan after the Axis viotory. In the meantime,
his mission was comsummated. This is why he is favorably
impressed by Germany.
Now Stahmer has been transferred to the post of German
ambassador to Japan, which move was followed by Shigemitsu's
appointment as foreign minister, and they are generally ∞n-
sidered to be a good pair. The British and Americans have
mistaken Shigemitsu for an orthodox diplomat of Japan and
entertain certain fanoies coneerning him. We wish to point
out a few things for their notice.
(a) The appointment ceremony in the palace for Tojo
and others was held at 10: 30 p.m. on April 20. Before noon
on the same day Stahmer and his wife were granted an inter-
view by the Japanese emperor and queen. This means that
Germany was told beforehand of the reorganization of the
Japenese eabinet in aocordanoe with instruetions from
Borlin.
(b) After the signing of the Soviet-Japanese neutral-
1ty treaty, every new Japanese foreign minister used to
re-eonfirm this treaty upon assumption of his pest. In
the 97th session of the Diet, Tojo stated that Soviet-
Japanese relations would undergo no ohange and that they
would be regulated by the noutrality peet. When Tami
assumed the post of foreign minister, he too stated that
the Japanese policy towards the Soviet-Japanese neutrality
paet had not ohanged. All of this was disliked by Hitler.
Now Shigemitsu has come onto the stage. In his breadeast
he mentioned nothing about Soviet-Japanese relations, ner
maything about the neutrality paet. Shigemitsu is mpeh
smarter than his two predecessors.
(e) Simultaneously, when Amem, the old brand faseist
diseiple, assumed his post and gavedais reseption to news-
papermen, he said nothing about the "New Order in Bast
Asia" but loudly olamored for a "New World Order". What he
said is this: "For the sake of solidirying its owm exist-
amée as well as fer building up a new world order, Japan
mst emerge vieterious frem this war". Now Shigemitsu
has said nothing about Soviet Russia and Ameu has loudly
aried ont for a mow world oréer. hem this is keare by
sitler he will ceerteimly sey with a smiling face shst thess
in neserdanes with the wrders of Hitler.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
pelitical strategy. He is trying to recover his prestige
wer his Axis oomrades and ease the oscillating attitude
 ttaly. The strategy is also aimed at producing pressure
arop and Geering to visit Rome and he later summoned
ar from Nemkine to Tokyo and also made transfers of
pmots for his embassadors to the Vatican and Madrid.
Following the reorganization of the Tojo cabinet,
migemiteu has now come onto the atage. Looking at this
entire link of events, traces of Axis diplomacy may be
found. Juaging from these events, we may say that the
Axis mations are making preparations for a great move,
and Japam has walked another step on the road to Berlin.
Just where Japan will commit its outrage, it is unneces-
sery for us to make too early a prediotion. After all,
China, Britain, Ameriea and Russia should all be watehful
in the matter.
III. Shigemitsu was Japanese ambassador to the puppet
Nanking regime and Ando was the political adviser to the
puppet regime at Peiping and conourrently deputy-director
of Its Bia-Min-Hui (New People's Society). Their appoint-
memt as mimisters in the Tojo cabinet is tantamount to
telling Wang Ching-wei and Chu Sen "please relieve yourselves
from anxiety sinoe your backer has become minister". Judging
from this and Tojo's recent visits to Nanking and Changohun
(Hsinking). it shows that Japan considers the oceupied ter-
ritory of China to be very important and wishes to strengthen
its puppets and intensify its exploitation. Japan is actually
carrying out its persistent polioy.
Besides this, there were other motives behind the soenes.
Shigemitsu is a Japanese diplomat of the Shidehara clique.
He was formerly counseler of the Japanese Embassy in Germany
an& ambessador to Great Britain and Soviet Russia. He could
easily be Looked upon by the European and American people
as representing the Japanese olique which advocates peace,
and would thus produee the effect of camouflage. British
and Amerieen publie opinion and certain observers are now
really allured by this camouflage without a olear under-
standing of the genuine Shigemitsu when he is on the stage.
Besides peinting out in the above Shigemitsu's relations
with Germany, if we made a study of him tegether with Amau,
the mut itselr is eraeked. In the eyes of British mnd Ameri-
amns, Shigemitsu is a white fese, wkile Ameu is a black face
ant im meted for his announoement of domineting mast Asia
Amle en April 17, 1934. He and sairatori ame the twe fescist
shass of the Japenese eiplemstio cirele. He was Japanese
ambeesader to Italy. If anyone should imagine that shigemtssu
mtgkt leusch a peese offensive, he may reed Amen?s anaounee-
mont wns may thns get mode then half of the amawer.
Ande has hed the experienee of manuracturing fascist
theertne in Pipine in adartica to experiemee in admimistering

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
the gendarmes in his own country. That Tojo has now
way. This point has already been peroeived by all.
IV. That Tojo has inoluded Yamasaki and Oasa of the
Jepanese politioal parties into his cabinet is proof that
Tojo' cabinet has turned wwak and he thus wishes to
gabber the men from aifferent oliques in order to show
tme extensive oomposition of his eabinet. This move has
its iateraal complications. Following this reorganization
or the Japanese cabinet, we can predict that one thing will
happen in Japanese internal affairs, namely, the Dmperial
Assistaemoe Pelitieal Association (Imperial Rule Assistance
Association ?) and the Assistance Politioal Association,
resembling neither donkey nor horse, will soon be amalgamated
and reorganized. This is because Ando is the deputy-director
of the Imperial Assistance Political Association while Tojo
is its direetor conourrently; vamasaki is ehief of general
affairs of the Assistance Politieal Associatlon, and Oasa
1s the ohief of general affairs of Imperial Assistanee
Politieal Association. As these people have now been
insluded in the eabinet, it is possible that they may
arrite at a compromise with each other and reorganize
thmselves.
Summarizing the above four points, we feel that the
reorganization of the Tejo cabinet has a great bearing on
Japan both internally and externally. In a Tokyo broad-
sast on the reorganization of the Tojo cabinet it was
stated that externally the cabinet will promote Axis
relatlons and that internally it will cooperate wdth the
Assistanse Politioal Association so that Japam's politieal
strength may be unified. This is honest talk. It is thus
mest imperative that China, Britain, America and Russia
should be watohful over the promotion of Axis relations
by Tojo.
(True copy
9s
(Compared

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1128
Chungking, Apr1l 30, 1943
Bubject:
Interpretations of Recent
Japanese Cabinet Changes.
AIR MAIL
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's tele-
grams to the Department No. 587, Aprii. 24, 11 a.m. and
No. 596, April 24, 6 p.11. coucerring repreaentative
Chinese interpretations of the racant cabinet changes
in Japan. In this conuection I an forwnrdin, herewi th
copy or a memorandum dated April 3, ?743, concernin
a conversation held b: rl il. Boenringer, Assistant
Commercial Attache, wi th r. Shao Yu-lin, Director of
the Department of Informetion of the !inistry for Foreign
894.00/1182
Affairs, and a translation of an editoriel entitled "The
Internal and Externel Implications of the Partinl Ro-
organization of the Tojo Cabinet" which apnenred in
the April 23, 1943 issue of the Tn Kung Pao, Chingkin.
A swnmary of ir. Hoehringer's nerorandum was forwarded
to the Department in telegran ilo. 587 of April 24, 11 a.m.
The editorial fro the Ta kung Pac is of interest
mainly because it is rallably snid elther to have heen
written by or inapired by Generel Wang Pen -slheng,
adviser to the Generalissimo on Javanese affairs. Ir.
Timothy Tientseh ler, General Wang's ass!stant, informed
Mr. Boehringer that the foregoing was the case.
According to the editoriel, the present olhanges
indicate that the Tojo cabinet hes grown weaker and
has becoma mired by difficulties. The Jananese are
expeoted to follow their neraistent policy of commit-
ting an outrage abroad in order to produce a pacifyirg
effoot at home. No prediction is made, however, as to
where and against whom the next outrage will he cormitted.
It is stated that the Nanking regime declared war on
the United States and Great Britain in order to comply with
the wishes of Germany and that Japan was at firat opposed
sinoe she did not want to have the Nanking government rep-
resented at the peace conference followine Axie viotory
ou an oqual footing with Japan. In another paragraph of
the editorial the statement appears that "it is no exap-
geration when we say that the present reorganization of
the Ho oabinet is made in accordance with the orders of
Hitler".
The

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
The oditorial points out that, contrary to recent
oustom, Shigemitau reportedly said nothing about adhering
to the Russo-Japanese neutrality peot when he took over
the post of foreign minister. At the sare time, Amau
spoke of a "new world order" rather than the "new order
in east Asie". From this and sone circumstantial evidenoe
it is inferred that Japan is playing into Germany's hands
and thut the Axis nations are making proparations for a
great move and that "Tapan has walked another step on the
road to Berlin".
In the olosins paragroph, it is stoted that the re-
organization of the Tojo cabinet has a great bearing on
Japan both internally and externally. A Tokyo broadoast
on the cabinet ohanges is then cuotod to the effoct that
externally the cabinot will pronoto Axis ralations and
internally it will cooperute with the Assistance Political
Association (") so thut Jepan's political strongth will
be uniried. "This is honest talk", it is asserted, adding
thet "it is nost imperati ve that China, Britain, America
and Russia al ould be watohful over the pronotlon of Axis
relations by Tolo".
The vievs attributed to General lang coincide with
those expressed by Thao Yu-Lin in only a few respects.
Too muoh emphasis seens t, be pleced by General Yang on
the importance of German influence in Tapnnese political
affairs. A more rerlistic ett:tude in this regurd is
taken by lir. Shao who feels that Tapan will cooporate
with Germany if it suits Japan's stratecical pluns.
Agreg:ent is found, l wever, in the statements that the
reoent cabinet chenges seem to presage some move of great
internntional significance.
Respectfully rours,
John Carter Vincent
Cherge d'Affoiros a.1.
Enclosures:
Copy of memorandum of conversution
Copy of translution from the Tn Kung Pao,
April 23, 1943
In single copy to the Dopartment
711Jap
CHB/gwB

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
Apr11 23, 1943
PRANDOM TO HR. VIHORNT REGARDING CONVSRSATION WITH MR.
YU-LIN IN CONNECTION WITH THE RECRNT CABINET CHANGES
IN JAPAN
 Mr. Sheo Yu-lin, director of the Department of Inform-
ation of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, opened the inter-
vlew by saying that he had a lengthy telegram prepared ocon-
varnins the recent cabinet changes in Japan which he was
Imterested in sending to lir. T. V. Soong at Washington.
This cable apparently represanted the views of the Ministry
for Foreign Affairs. Mr. Shao suggested that I take the
cable and have the Embassy send it to the Department for
its oym information and also to make the material avail-
able to Hr. Soong. I replied that, while personally I
saw no objeotion to this proposal, I would naturally have
to refer the matter to you end suggested that we get in
touch with you by telephone.
Mr. Shao then seamed to lose interest in his proposal
and said he would give his own views on the subjeot of the
Japanese cabinet changes. He spoke for more than 45 minutes
and, as I was leaving, pointed out that he had spoken much
more frankly to me than he had to newspaper reporters. He
intimated that the material given me was substantially vhat
he had proposed sending to Mr. Soong.
Mr. Shao devoted the entire interview to the appoint-
ment of Shigemitau as Foreign Minister in Tokyo. He dis-
missed the other appointments as having local significance
only.
According to Mr. Shao, there have recently been evi-
dences of Japanese and German efforts to alienate Russia
from the United Nations. The Axis has attempted to make
capital, for example, out of Ambassador Standley's reported
statement conoerning Russia's lack of appreciation of
Amerioan Lend-Lease aid, out of the atrocity story con-
cerning the massaore of Polish army officers by the Russians,
and out of the Polish-Russian border dispute.
In Mr. Shao's opinion, much significance should be
attaohed to the fact that Mr. Goro Ilorishima, Japanese
Minister to Kuibyshev assisting the Japanese Ambassador
there, was recalled to Tokyo last December and, according
to Japanese radio broadoasts, had a long talk wi th Premier
Tojo a few days ago. "Vorishima is an expert in intrigue",
Mr. Shao said. "His return to Japan and his recent talk
d th Tojo neturally bring up the question: why did he have
to return to Japan for suoh a long visit? It could be only
beasuse he was on extraordinary business", he added.
Mr. Sheo deolared that, with the exoeption of the fish-
eries negotiations, whioh have been amioably settled for
amother year, there is now no important business to be
negotlated between Japan and Soviet Russia. With the fisheries
mestion settled, he pointed out, one is forced to conclude
thet there must be something signifioant under disoussion
between Japan and Russis. In this conneotion, Mr. Shao said
It is "widely knawm" thet Bato, the Japanese Ambassador to
Russia

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Russie, has been attempting to bring about peace between
Germany and Russia and that he is the souroe of numerous
rumors concerning such a peace.
After giving this background of Japanese attempts
to arrive at a rapproohement with Russia and to act as
go-between in negotiating peace between Russia and Germany,
Mr. Shao took up the subject of Shigemitsu's appointment.
Concerning Shigemitsu himself, Mr. Shao said that he was
a man of two personalities. In the first place, he "seems
to be a liberal, possibly pro-British and in this charaoter
he also seems to be anti-Bolshevist". In the second plaoe,
however, he was the former Japanese ambassador to Russia
and thus knows something about Russia. Thus, Mr. Shao
pointed out, he is an exoellent man to throw a smoke soreen
over Japanese diplomatio moves.
According to Mr. Shao, the bost possible polioy for
Japan now is to reach an understanding with Russia. Japan
wiil try first to get such an understanding by political
means or pressure. Failing in this maneuver, which in-
volves the negotiation of a Russo-German peace, Japan
"may take action when Germany starts on its summer offen-
sive against Russia", he said.
Thus Shigemitsu 1s the logical choice, both for carry-
ing on these negotiations and also to carry on if Japan
does attack Russia. In that event, Mr. Shao explained,
Shigemitsu and the Japenese will set themselves up as
leaders in the fight against Communism and will even try
to enlist support from the United States and Great Britain
for this polioy. In other words, Mr. Shao said, the Japanese
would make the claim that they are fighting the Bolsheviks
and Communiam as an exouse for war against the Soviet Union.
Mr. Shao was of the opinion that Shigemitsu's aotivities
while Japanese ambassador to the Nanking regime, during which
time he brought about Nanking's deolaration of war on the
United States and Great Britain, may be linked up with present
and future developments insofar as he (Shigemitsu) is oon-
oerned. In other words, he suoceeded in lining up the Nanking
regime's support for the general fight for the Co-Prosperity
Sphere and also, if necessary, for the coming fight with
Russia. This having been done, his next move was to return
to Tokyo and direct negotiations with Russia as indicated.
In foousing attention on the other end of the Axis
again, Nr. Shao said that Germany has recently made great
use or the "unconditional surrender" statements put forth
by leaders of the United Nations. The people in Germany
have been told of these statements and have been prepared
for certain developments, the most favorable (for Germany)
being a separate peace with Russia whioh would permit her
to face Britain and the United States without fear of the
eastern front and Russia. Japan would also like to have
Russia as a peaceful neighbor, at least for the time being,
so she could devote her full attention to other areas in
the Paoirio.
Mr. Shao was very merious in making his conoluding
statement!

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
ent: "If we allow this to be realized (German-
se rapprochement with Russia) the entire world
tuation will be changed. We, China and the United
must find some way to prevent this from happen-
penly or secretly", he said.
At the end of the interview I questioned Mr. Shao
about the telegram he had prepared for Mr. Soong and asked
if he would care to make a copy of it aveilable to the
Mmbassy, even if it was deoided not to send it to Wasbing-
ton. He said that he had ohanged his mind about sending
it to Mr. Soong, who could get the 1deas outlined above in
a brief telegram.
Carl H. Boehringer,
Assistant Commeroial Attaché
CHB/gws

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
THE INTERNAL AND KXTERNAL IMPLICATIONS
 PARTIAL RRORGANIZATION OF THE TOJO CABINET
(Mditorial from the April 23, 1943 ismue
of the Ta Kung Pao, Chungking, translated
by S. L. Pun of the Amerioan Embassy, Chungking)
On the ovening of April 20 the Tojo cabinet made
announcement of its partial reorganization, in which
Shigemitsu was appointed as foreign minister, Ando as
home minister, Tojo himselr as minister of education
conourrently, Yamasaki as minister of agriculture and
forestry, Oasa as minister without portrolio and Amau
as direotor of intelligence and publioity ofrioe. Suoh
an event is not entirely meaningless in Japanese home
politics and diplomaoy. Our observations are as fallow:
I. When Tojo was appointed prime minister, he first
adopted the system of having few cabinet officers, and the
ministers appointed by him merely inoluded unimportant
personages of third and fourth class. At that time, we
made the comment that the Tojo cabinet was the strongest
Japanese cabinet since Japan's invasion of China, sinoe
the war lords could dominate these few unimportant men
and do whatever they wished to do. As a result, Tojo
made his plans and proceeded to wage a lightning war on
a large soale in the Pacific. After Tojo had robbed
everything in the South Seas, the lightning war became
a protracted war, and his cabinet then became weak. It
may be reoalled that last July Tojo announoed that his
cabinet would not undergo any reorganization. However,
in September he vacated one or his own posts and appointed
Tani as foreign minister. In Haroh this year, he appointed
seven men, including Yuki Toyoda, as counoillors of the
cabinet. Although this was stated to be an attempt to
strengthen his cabinet, it aotually shows that his cabinet
had beoome weak.
Now that he has partially reorganized his cabinet on a
large soale and recruited persons of many-sided personalities
into his cabinet, it shows that his cabinet is muah weaker.
During the time when Konoye was in power, he also reorganized
his oabinet on many occasions and trid to make use of persons
who represented various political factions in his cabinet.
However, these people conflict with each other and offset
eaoh other. Thus, on the surface tis cabinet was strengthened
but it actually became more delioate and impotent.
We may also view the present reorganization or the Tojo
cabinet in the same light. That is to say, the Tojo cabinet
has gradually become mired by difriculties.
II. In spite of this, the persistent way of Japanese
militarists in doing things is like this: the greater their
internal dirfioulties, the more they desire to commit an out-
rage in order to produce some pacifioation effeot at home.
As far as diplomatio relations are conoerned, this reorgan-
ization of the Tojo cabinet also has its background. We
know now that the deolaration of war by Wang Ching-wei against
Britain and Amerios in the early part of this year was prompted
y

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
the wishes of Germady. At that time, Stahmer, the
Berman mabassador to the puppet Nanking regime, was
Torging ahead with this plan. This aroused considerable
of the experienee gained from the last Europeen war, did
not want Wang's puppet regime to acquire the status of
sitting in on the peace conference on an equal feoting
with Japan after the Axis viotory. In the meantime,
Shigemitsu exohanged ideas and made persuasive arguments
between Nanking and Tokyo by making trips to and fro until
his mission was consummated. This is why he is favorably
impressed by Germany.
Now Stahmer has been transferred to the post of German
ambassador to Japan, whioh move was followed by Shigemitsu's
appointment as foreign minister, and they are generally con-
sidered to be a good pair. The British and Americans have
mistaken Shigemitsu for an orthodox diplomat of Japan and
entertain certain fanoies conoerning him. We wish to point
out a few things for their notice.
(a) The appointment ceremony in the palace for Tojo
and others was held at 10:30 p.m. on April 20. Before noon
on the same day Stahmer and his wife were granted an inter-
view by the Jmpanese emperor and queen. This means that
Germany was told beforehand of the reorganization of the
Japanese cabinet in accordance with instructions from
Berlin.
(b) After the signing of the Soviet-Jananese neutral-
ity treaty, every new Japanese foreign minister used to
re-confirm this treaty upon assumption of his post. In
the 97th session of the Diet, Tojo stated that Roviet-
Japanese relations would undergo no ohange and that they
would be regulsted by the neutrality pact. When Tani
assumed the post or foreign minister, he too stated that
the Japanese policy towards the Soviet-Japanese neutrality
paot had not changed. All or this was disliked by Hitler.
Now Shigemitsu has come onto the stage. In his broadeast
he mentioned nothing about Soviet-Japanese relations, nor
anything about the neutrality paot. Shigemitsu is mich
smarter than his two predecessors.
(o) Simultaneously, when Amau, the old brand fasoist
disoiple, assumed his post and gave his reception to news-
papermen,.he said nothing about the "New Order in Rast
Asia" but loudly olamored for a "New World Order". What he
said is this: "For the sake of solidirying its own exist-
ence as well as for building up anew world order, Japan
must emerge viotorious from this war". Now Shigemitsu
has said nothing about Soviet Russia and Amau has loudly
oried out for a new world order. When this is heard by
Hitler he will certainly say with a smiling face that these
boys are teaohable. Thus it is no exaggeration whem we say
that the present reorganization or the Tojo cabinet is made
in accordanoe with the orders of Hitler.
Now let us look further into the bottom of thinss.
Bitler's counter offensive against Kharkov is fought for
po11t1002

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.95)
posts for his mbeasadere to the Vatiean and Medrid.
Following the reorganization of the Tojo cabinet,
shimemitou has mow come onto the stage. Looking at this
eatire link of events, treces of Axis diplomacy may be
Found. Judging from these events, we may say thst the
and Japän has walked another step on the soad to Berlin.
sary for us to make too early a prediotion. After all
Chims, Britain, America and Russia should all be watabful
inthe matter.
III. Shigemitsu wes Japanese ambassador to the puypet
Nanking regime and Ando was the politieal adviser to the
puppet regime at Peiping and conourrently deputy-director
af its Bin-Hin-Hui (New People's Society). Thoir appoint-
ment-as ministers in the Tojo cabinet is tantamount to.
telling Wang Ching-msi and Chu Sen "pleass relieve yóurselves
from anxiety sinee your backer has become minister". Judging
from this amd Tojo's recent visits to Nanking and Ohangohun
(Hsinking), it mhows that Japan sonsiders the ocoupied ter-
ritory of Chine to be very important and wishes to strengthen
1ts puppets and intensify ite exploitation. Japan is motually
carrying out its persistent polioy.
Besides this, there were other motives behind the soenes.
Shigemitau is a Japanese diplomat or the Shidekara clique.
He was formerly counselor of the Japanese Embesay in Germeny
and ambassador to Great Britain and Sovist Russie. He oould
easily be looked upon by the turopean and Amerfean people
really allured by tass camourlage withous a clear enäer-
Besides pointing out in the ahove Shigemitmits relations
with Germany, if we made a study of him together with Amak.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.95)
la his own country. Thet Tojo has now
him ms minister of home affairs is becaume'
erul in supprossing the anti-wer elahents la
This mnd the fact that Tojo now holds the oon-
post of minister of education to supprams odu-
pamese political parties into his cabinet is proor that
Tojo's eabinet has turned wesk and he thus wiahes to
tather the men from different oliques in order to show
the extensive composition of his cabinet. This move.has
its internal complications. Following this reorganization
of the Japanese babinet, we oan predict that one thing will
Assistamoe Political Association (Imperial Rule Assistanee.
Amsociation ?) and the Assistance Political Association.
resembling neither donkey nor horse, will soon be amalgamated
and reorganized. This is because Ando is the deputy-director
of the Imperial Assistance Political Association while Tojo
is its direotor conourrently; vamasaki is chief of general
affairs of the Assistance Political Association, and Qasa
is the phief or general affairs of Imperial Assistance
Politlcal Association. As these people heve now been
indluded in the cabinet, it is possible that they may
arrive at a compromise with each other and reorganize
ehemeelves.
Summarising the above four points, we feel that the
reergmnisation of the Tojo cabinet has a great bearing on
Fom the reorganization of the Tojo cabinet it was
atated that externally the cabinet will promote Axis
relattens and that internally it will cooperate with the
Asststance Political Association so that Japan's politioal
msreneth may be uniried. This is honest talk. It is thus
most Imperative that China, Britain, America and Russia
should be watahful over the promotion of Axis relations
byTodo.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.94)
JUL13 1943
JUN £ 6 1943
BIVISION OF
1943 UN 23 
S
NEAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
QNUATION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DIVISION OF
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
ECONOMIC STUDIES
JUL191943
DEPARY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AR FASTERN
JUL 194
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Istanbul, Turkey, May 26, 1943.
Department of Sae
894.00/11
25E
CONFIDENTIAL
26ma
Sapyto 
JUN 2 8 1943
THE HONORABLE
tnary
83
WASHINGTON.
STATE
SIR:
DEFARTUF
I have the honor
 report upon the result of an
interview with a member of the Turkish diplomatic party
that left Japan on April lst of this year and reached
Istanbul on May l4th. In deference to the ofrioe's
source, his name is not mentioned, but he may be
deemed thoroughly reliable, since he has lived for
many years in Japan and appeared thoroughly aoquainted
with conditions in the country. In general, his ob-
servations confirm the information previously submit-
tod to the Department in despaton No. 223 of Maroh 3,
1943 entitled "A Roport on Current Conditions in Japan."
This most recent source, however, was able to bring
these observations up to the point of his departure
in April, while the prior information geased in January.
894.00/76
Japanese Morale:
PS/RGB
Japanese public morale is still very high and the
people appear most optimistic and determined, since
they feel in a most fundamental sense that it is a
question of the defeat of the Allies or the complete
erushing of their country by its enemies. Aside from
the unthinking mass of the people, who hear absolutely
no information from the Allied side, because of the
extremely stringent Japanese censorship measures that
were perfeeted prior to the wutbreak of the war, thete
are elements amons she educatoa and thimrins people in
the
KETILI ANU BENABILITATION
1943
APLHATIUN
U2: 1943
BERARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
the country who openly in conversation are expressing
their doubts regarding the possibility of ultimate
success. These people claim that Japan at te outbreak
of the war adopted a blitzkrieg system of attaok which
assured quick and, early suocesses, but they now eomment
that viotories appear very slow in coming and that,
after all, the United States and Great Britain are
most powerful nations and have immense resouroes to
draw upon. Although the authorities ban the use of
radios by Japanese subjects, whenever a foreigner
wishes to dispose of a short-wave radio or if he plans
to leave, several interested Japanese privately express
their wish to buy the radio for whatever price the
seller wishes.
Propaganda Methods:
Japanese propaganda methods used to stimulate
hatred of the United States and Great Britain are said
to involve the placing of large caricaturés ana cartoons
of Allied figures along such public places as the Ginza
in Tokyo, with these figures sometimes being represented
as being heavily pummelled by Japanese. Another device
is to draw the American flag or the British Union-Jack
on heavily frequented street corners, suoh as the main
intersections on the Ginza, in order that the Japanese
may figuratively step upon these flags. The anti-
Amerioan and anti-British propaganda campaign is in
full tide and greatly exploited by the authorities
for their war purposes.
Rolations with Germans and Italians:
The Japanese are stated to be on better terms with
the Germans than with the nationals of any other Axis
states. The Germans are extremely useful to Japan in
the country's war effort and henoe, are respeoted for
this. However, the Italians are belittled by the Japa-
nese, who seem to care nothing for them and refer
contomptuously to Mussolini as being nothing but a
mouth-piece for Hitler.
Preparation for Air-raids:
Since the Amorioan air-raid upon Japan in April 1942,
the traveler states that the Japanese have become very
cautious and have intensified their air-raid precautions
in every respect. Surprise blackouts are held at irre-
gular intervals, as well as surprise daylight air-raid
drills, with the effeot of allegedly bringing air-raid
preeautions to a point whereby emergenoy personnel are
in action within a comparatively short time and a total
blaskeut is possible most rapidly. No additions have
boon
10177

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
besn made to anti-airraid technique or emergeney personmol
organisation and implements supplied to them, which are
already familiar to the Department.
Army Mobilization:
Mobilization for the army is olaimed to continue
at the normal pace prevailing prior to the war with
the United States. At certain intervals classes are
called for service without publicity and every effort
is made to place this action upon a most quiet, almost
secretive, basis.
No Material Evidence of the Occupation of the
Southern Regions:
In securing oommodities there is stated to be little
evidence to the general public of the raw materials made
available to the country by the occupation of the southern
regions. The traveler stated that all commodities from
the south that do arrive are completely utilized by
industry in the war effort and, consequently, are not
available to individual consumers. For example, tires
are very soarce, as well as automobile batteries. It
1s necessary for the various embassies or legations to
apply to the Japanese officials when these are needed
and an application of the Turkish Legation for automobile
tires involved a wait of between four to five months
before the permission and the tires were received.
Taxis are stated to be in very poor condition. They
all now consume charooal and the tires are not in
very good state.
Induetrial Development:
An important aspect of the Japanese picture that
was emphasized by the recent arrival was the fact that
industrial activity was on the inorease. Although he
had no conorete data with regard to the looations and
types of plants involved in this growing industrial
activity, certain observations that were made in this
regard are considered of value. For example, labor
is so scarce that it is practically impossible for
business firms to find office boys, and foreigners
cannot find house amahs for less than lo0 yen a month,
since this labor source is now being tapped by the
war faotories, whioh are said to pay between 4-5 yen
a day for unskilled labor.
This office's informant states that plants are
going up throughout Japan and many German engineers
and teehnicians are being busily employed in Japan to
this end. The principal types of industrial plants
mentioned
10177
1017

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
mentioned by the traveler as being upon the increase
were those manufacturing sulphate of ammonia and those
devoted to the German process of securing liquified
fuel from coal, which is said within recent months to
have been intensified in public and press discussions.
The Kawasaki river between Tokyo and Yokohama is
alleged to be one section witnessing this inoreased
industrialization, although the informant has heard,
without possessing any definite particulars, that
this industrialization process is more lively in the
Osaka area.
Commodity Prices and Rationing:
The new arrival reported that the Japanese autho-
rities have succeeded in stemming any possible inflation
within the country fairly successfully and that prices
are rigidly controlled, so that there is no undue hard-
ship from this aspect of the economic situation for the
Japanese public, outside of tne necessity for abiding
by the strict rationing procedure.
Upon the traveler's ueparture from Japan lo0 momme
(600 grams) of sugar were allocated to foreigners each
month. This office's source believed tnet for Japanese the
ration was at least 60 percent less. The official price
for 100 momme of sugar was about 25 sen, although on the
blaok market a like quantity of sugar could be secured
for yen 1.50 to yen 1.80. The bread ration for foreigners
was half a kin per person aaily, which is believed to be
slightly less than a pound. The flour ration, again for
foreigners, wes about 8 pounds a month. Each person was
entitled to only loo momme a month of meat and the offi-
oial price was said to be yen 1.60, elthough, in common
with other black market prices, comaodities could be
secured at prices approximately five to sir times greater
than the official figure.
After the war with the United States had begun,
a system of clothing ration ticket was instituted, which
was based on the principle of l00 points to be consumed
in a year. The informant stated that in February this
olothing rationing system was revised to comprise only
80 points in ration tiokets serving to cover an indivi-
dual's olothing requirements. Under this system 60
points are stated to be deduoted for a suit and a shirt
takes 12 olothing ration points. There is a olothing
black market, however, and the Consulate General's
informant states that he seoured three yards of wool
material, not or the best quality, at a oost of 250
yen. Fer better material the price allegedly amounts
to as muoh  400 to 500 yen.
The
10171

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
The Curreney Black Market:
Some interesting comments upon the black market and
currency, effective upon the informant's departure from
Japan, were given. There is stated to be a black market
in American dollars in Japan, whereby one can secure an
American dollar for between yen 7.30 to yen 5, which was
the experience of a person well known to the traveler.
In Shanghai the blaok market is quoted as enabling 14
yen to buy an American doller, while in Peking in April
the rate was 15 yen to the dollar. In Shangai 70 C.R.B.
(Central Reserve Bank of China) notes for one American
dollar was the black market rate.
Travel Restrictions and Railway Traffic:
Travel for foreigners in Japan is now extremely
restricted and foreigners without official passports
are unable to travel from Tokyo to Yokohama. To go
there it is necessery for a foreigner to apply at the
police headquarters of tne district in whicn ne resiues,
where a form must be filled out iving all the parti-
culars of the trip. Foreign government officials are
said to be granted travel permits for local travel such
as between Tokyo and Yokohama on a tnree months basis,
while Germans and Italiens are the recipients of special
travel passes, which enable them to go from Tokyo to
Kobe without securing a permit in advance.
The railroads are stated to be exceedingly congested
and some passenger trains have been withdrawn, in order
to secure increased right of way for needed freight. This
oongestion is alleged to be much more marked than at the
outbreak of the war.
Travel from Japan:
When the Turkish diplomatic party made its plans
to leave Japan it enoountered no difficulties with the
Japanese in its departure plans. The group finally
left on April lst and proceeded by way of Shimonoseki,
thence by boat to Fusan and Korea, followed by a railway
journey to Manohuria and thence orossing into Siberia.
The trip from Tokyo to Shimonoseki was made without
escort and the trip from Shimonosek1 to Fusan was made
during the day. A life-boat drill was held immediately
after the departure from port, whioh drill was preceded
by a leeture given by the captain, in which he omphasized
the need for taking safety measures, of knowing how to
use the life preservers, and of being acquainted with
the life-boat stations.
giberian
10171
1017

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.97)
Biberian Observations:
Upon crossing the border into Siberia, the party
as estorted by a Russian "tourist representative"
until they reached Tiflis. This person clearly was a
Government official and spoke both French and English,
with which the representative conversed with the party
during the trip.
Russian morale in the war was stated to be very
high, although the people clearly were suffering from
many privations. Propaganda was most intensive against
the Germans and anti-Nazi posters were widespread. In
all towns and railway stations where the party stopped
on route the news was broadcast through loud-speakers
at periodio intervals.
Indicative of feeling towards the Americans and
the British was an incident in Siberia described by
the traveler as having occured when he went to a Russian
bath-house. The traveler, inquiring in English for hot
water, soap and towels, was immediately given the best
faoilities, and, having some knowledge of Russian
although concealing this, he heard the Russians enthu-
siastically remarking that he must be an American or
British engineer who had come to assist Russia in the
war.
Respectfully yours,
h
Burton Y. Berry
American Consul
To Department in original and hotograph.
File No. 820.02
R0M/mp
10177

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.94)
894.00/
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Stretegic objectives in Tokyo ares and
postwar plenning suggestions.
Encloses cony of Renort, May 5, 1943, by Ewing C.
Sadler, Justice Denartment, regarding -.
894.001184:
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
PS/ELB
(Deapato, telogram, testrectlon, lete, et.)
From
Wer Denertment
DatedJune 18,1943
xoxx
Plo No. __740.0011 Pec1f1c.War/3361.
1184

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.94)
894.00
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Political affairs in Japan.
Requests certain information regarding merohant
vessels laanched in Korea and Japan by individual
shipyards and months in 1943. FOR FOWLER FROA STONE,
BOARD OF ECONOMIC WARFARE.
894.00/1184
sms
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Confidential File
See
Tal.#877. 5.pm
(Bespetob, letogram, lastruction, letter, e.)
Dated .....
..July.9..1943.
To
China(Chngking)
File No. .95.00/43
1-1840

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.95)
MINT OF STATE
1943
NOV 2 2 1943
BION OF
GURDS
UNICATIONS
toth of the Co.
aser's Office brought
this memorandum saying
to have it reposing in
statement of the Depart-
mt's opinion concerning
the Japanese.
NOV 2
FILED
1943
RA: JCD: SJN

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.94)
RuA1..
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLICS
September 10, 1943
GIAA - M. Nod FIAo1Bgo:
HDCLIVED
ing you, for your
information and with the sugges-
tion that it might be of interest
to the Coordination Committees,
a memorandum prepared by an ofri-
cer of the Department who has
spent many years in Japan concern-
ing Mr. Stephen Naft's booklet
entitled "Japan's Menace to the
Americas". I have already sent
copy of this memorandum to the
Ceordination Committee for Quito
whieh, as I understand it, is
preparing a series of radio pro-
grams.
WeliV Stabler
894.06
NOV 22 1943
FILED
RA:WS:MEG

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.95)
Iame Qusreatione in resará tg "Igpan'n Menace a the
Chapter III
This ohapter diseusses the myths of Japan's origin
whieh constitute the nation's folklore as mush as the
steries in the Seok of Genesis constitute the Christian
894.00/11
story of the beginnings of man. In general the state-
meats appearing in this ohapter are true and have been
made by Japanese leaders from time to same. I believe
that it is a mistake to state that the Japanese prepese
to impose their own religion on other matlens. They have
imposed it on the Koreans, but these people have the
status of Japanese subjects. The recent trend has been
for the Japanese to attempt to divert or utilise the
religiens in ocoupied territories for their own use. In
this cennection, it is suggested that for propaganda pur-
8
poses in South Americe it might be well to utilise the
5
manner in whieh the Japanese Army in the Philippines 1s
using the Catholio Churoh there to further its own
politieal ends.
2
Chapter IV
This chapter whioh attempts to desoribe living and
soeial conditions in Japan 1s, it is thought, distinetly
unfair. It is true that the people are worked very hard,
that the agrioultural situation is bad, that there 1s
widespread poverty, and that women do nos enjoy as faver-
able a pesition in society as in wessern nations. Mowever,
these peeple are used to these conditions and knew no ether?
henee it cannet be said that they are unhappy or are grumblims
against conditiene. The desoription on page 74 of the pesttion
of Japanese wemen in society is inacourate. At the present
sime women have certain legal rights, and, for imstamee,
eannet be divereed without cause as was fermerly the ease.
Neither can a huaband sell his wife to a faetory er a
stanees a father mey de s0. On pegée76 and 76 there 1s a
semeetiemal beek by Alezamder Pernikeff. It is true that
the abuses deseribed in his beok aetually teok plase, bus
the smplieatiem ceetateed in the dessripsion that thonsands
P
of every Amerteen elty.
S/KN
Oheptere V aa VI

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
queted verbatim but will be used as background material
in the preparation of radio seripts.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.95)
894.00/
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Strategic Objectives in Tokyo Area end Postwar
Planning Sugrestions.
Expresses thanks for letter of June 18, 1943,
enclosing cony of renort entitled -, and submits
thoughts and observations in regerd to this
894.00/1185
remort.
PS/ELB
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Letter
See
(Despatok, telegram, tmstraction, lettes, eto.)
Dated
June 20, 1943
PYUNT
War Department.
To
Filo No. 740.0011 Pacific Wer/3361
1185
1-1840

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 23, 1943
Beferenee Chungking's underlying
mspateh mo. 1365 of July 20, 1943 rogarding
 epinien of General Wang Peng-sheng on
he Japanese Diet Session July 16 - 18.
General Wang stated that t he most
Important work of the Diet was the bill
regarding industrial readjustment, designed
to shift all possible machinery and manpower
to war time produotion and to scrap all
obsolete and excess machinery principally for
use in ship building. He pointed out that
the Japanese military would attain greater
mobility beeause of the increased number of
ships and because additional shipping would
be freed by the movement of processing
plants to mining areas on the continent.
He stated also that the increased economic
control whioh the military would gain by the
onforcement of the law would eliminate any
remaining political opposition.
General Wang estimated that some two
million persons would be thrown out of
employment by the readjustment, of which he
believed some 75 percent would remain
unemployed. The Embassy pointed out that it
seemed unlikely that such a high peroentage
would remain unemployed.
Aocording to General Wang the Diet passed
a budget of : 6,100,000,000. Japanese broad-
easts monitored in the United States reported
a budget of  620,003,000.
wwish wonldh
FR: Johansdn: MS
woune
s4

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
MR. HONBECK
AUG 25 1943
EMBASSY OF THE
No. 1365
Chungking, July 20, 1943
Subject: Transmittal of Memorandum of Conversation
10
in Regard to Significance of Extraordinary
22
07
June 16-18, 1943.
PH
DIVISION OF
CONFIDENTE
RECE
ZUONOMIO STUDIES
5
SEP 5 -19434
Fd.c..W.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
DCA
The Secretary of State,
Grade
Washington, D. C.
For
There is transmitted herewith a ∞py of a memorandum
RECORDS
donversation between General Wang Peng-sheng, the
Goneralissimo's expert on Japanese affairs, and an officer
Rthe Embassy on the significance of the extraordinary
sion of the Japanese Diet held on June 16 to 18 inclusive.
According to General Wang, the most important work
SEP 28 19
accomplished by this session of the Diet was the passing
of the industrial readjustments bill. He stated that the
general objeotives of the bill were to shift all machinery
894.00
possible to wartime production, to scrap all obsolete and
excess machinery in order to obtain iron and other metals,
and to place the released skilled laborers in munitions
plants. Through enforcement of this measure the Japanese
Government hoped to increase efficiency in production, to
894.032
exeroise still greater control in allocation of skilled
Taberors and of resources, and to reduce inter-ministry
datidn and confusion to the minimum.
deneral Wang expressed his opinions on the industrial
reejastments law from the financial, political, economic,
mintary and social standpoints. These opinions are sum-
marised briefly as follows:
SEP
1. Financial: 0f the Yen 6,100,000,000 budget passed
the Diot for the announoed purpose or carrying out the
Office of the Chief Clurk
visions of the law, it is believed that only from ven
PHOTUGHAPHIC SLUTIUN
900,000,000 to Yen 1,500,000,000 (from 16 to 24 per cent
the total amount) will actually be used for this purpose.
The remainder apparently will be used for military purposes.
2. Political: Enforoement of the law will cause the
complete Towafall or politioal parties formerly backed by
the plutoorats and industrial magnates. At the same time,
the power of the Government will be greatly inoreased and
dt/the expense of these plutoerats and magnates. Medium-
sised and small manufeeturers, farmerly leagued with fascist
wa rightist organisations, willbbe wiped out but the rightist
 whieh they spensored will survive to be taken over by

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
3. Eoonomic: The gist of the proposed readjustment
is to shift all metals obtained by sorapping obsolete and
unused machinery to shipbuilding.
4. Military: Enforeement of the law will remult in
greater mobility of the Japanese armed forces by inoreasing
and improving communication facilities.
5. Social: About 2,000,000 persons, mostly mon, will
be thrown out or work through enforcement of the law. In-
oluding their dependents, about 10,000,000 will be affected.
Some of those without work will be absorbed by other industries
and by the armed foroes but about 75 per cent will remain
unemployed.
It is believed that General Wang's views on the impor-
tance and possible effects of the industrial readjustments
law are worth more than passing attention. His views on the
possible social reperoussions, however, appear to be un-
founded sinee, owing to the critical position of Japan in
industrial and agrioultural labor, it does not seem likely
that 75 per eent of the 2,000,000 laborers expected to lose
their jobs will continue to remain unemployed for an in-
definite period. This point was called to General Wang's
attention but he refused to alter his first estimate.
Rospeotfully yours,
Goorge Ateheson, jr.
Charge d'Affaires a.i.
Enelosure:
Memorandum of conversation
In single o∞py to the Department
800 Japan
anB/ews

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.98)
NDUM OF CONVERSATION
July 9, 1943
Subject: Signifioance of Extraordinary Session of
Japanese Diet at Tokyo, June 16-18, 1943.
Present:
General Wang Peng-sheng, the Generalissimo's
Expert on Japanese Affairs and Head of the
Institute of International Problems of the
Chinese Military Council.
Dr. T. T. Mar, General Wang's Assistant
Mr. Boehringer
General Wang stated that, in his opinion, the most
important work accomplished by the extraordinary Diet
session, which met at Tokyo from June 16 to 18, 1943
inclusive, was the passing of the industrial readjust-
ments bill. Mis comments on the signiricance of this
law were given under a number of headings, ineluding
finaneial, political, economic, military and social.
Before taking up his disoussion of the law under the
foregoing headings, General Wang stated that its general
objeotives were to shift all machinery possible to wartime
production, to sorap all obsolete and exoess maohinery in
order to obtain iron and other metals, and to place the
released skilled workers in munitions plants. Regarding
unskilled laborers, he expressed the opinion that certain
numbers would be absorbed by the armed foroes. He said
that, in accordanoe with the industrial readjustments law,
the Japanese Government hoped to inorease efficiency in
produotion, to exeroise still greater control in allocation
of skilled laborers and of resources, and to reduce inter-
ministry friotion and confusion to the minimum.
Following are the opinions expressed by General Wang
on the signifioant features of the industrial readjustments
law:
1. Finanoial: The Diet passed a budget amounting to
Yon 6,100,000,000. 0f this amount, at most Yen 1,500,000,000
appears to be set aside for industrial readjustments, but a
figure of perhaps Yen 1,000,000,000 might be more correot.
The remainder appears to be earmarked for military expendi-
tures, a point which was not made clear in Japanese broad-
casts. Funds required for exeoution or the industrial read-
justments law, designed largely to reimburse faotory owners
for maohinery taken up by the Government or sorapped and also
to make payments to small manufacturers and employees to
enable them to tide over the period of unemployment, will not
be paid out in cash but mainly in credit notes on the national
treasury. Only about ten per cent of the total amount required
will be paid out in cash, while the balance will be covered
by credit notes.
The implioations of the foregoing appear obvious. The
Japanese, desiring to keep secret all information regarding
expeaditures for military purposes, have passed the huge
budget of Yen 6,100,000,000 for the announoed purpose of
sarrying out the provisions of the industrial reedjustments
lew. Aesuelly, however, only from 16 to 24 per oent of the
total will be used for this purpose, the balanee apparently
being set asise for military purposes.
2.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
2. Political: The significance of the industrial
readjustments law from the political standpoint falls
under the following sub-headings: (a) The inference to
be made is that the law will cause the complete downfall
of politioal parties formerly backed by the plutocrats
and industrial magnates in Japan. Contrariwise, the power
of the Government is greatly increased and at the expense
of the plutoorats and magnates; (b) Medium-sized and small
manufacturers, formerly leagued with fascist and radioal
groups of rightist tendenoies, will be wiped out after the
kaw is fully enforoed. These rightist groups will be taken
over by the military and will assert themselves to an in-
creasing extent in the future; (c) The law will affeet those in the
highest strata of society in Japan, particularly the dosest
advisers of the Emperor formerly backed by financiers and
industrialists. Enforoement of the law will lessen their
influenee and consequently increase the influence of the
militarists. "Gentlemen close to the Emperor will be re-
plaoed by swashbucklers", he said.
The law is also of significance to the United Nations.
In planning our propaganda work for Japanese consumption,
it must be remembered that all liberal elements have now
been driven from power in Japan and are completely impotent.
We formerly believed we could support the liberal element,
but now we have no alternative than to fight it out with
the militarists. The war must be carried to Japan, the
milftarists crushed and the munitions plants levelled to
the ground.
3. Eoonomic: The economic significance of the indus-
trial readfustments law is of major importanoe. The passing
of this law should not be construed as pointing to early
collapsedr Japan. It should be considered as being a new
step designed to regenerate Japanese economio power. The
situation may be likened to that of a sick man who needs
blood transfusions from members of his family.
The gist of the projected readjustments, from the
eeonemic standpoint, is to shift all metals obtained by
serapping obsolete and unused maohinery to shipbuilding,
which is regarded as the most important item at the present
time. Ships are needed in order to bring resources from
the oceupied areas, for in this lies the only hope of sur-
vival of Japanese economy. The fact that the shipping
preblem is a "terrible headache" for the Japanese ean be
seen frem the great attention being paid to censtruetion
of weeden ships and to the shifting or industriel plants
to ceeupfed areas on the Asiatic mainland. Here these
plants ean utilime local resourees without facing the
problem of communications.
From this it can be seen that the Japanese are trying
to save themselves. Our best line of attack, therefore,
1s te'give Japan mo time to build ships and to destrey the
plamte em the meimland as well as communieation lines.
4. Mlitery: The industrial readjustments law is
designed to Ixeréase and imprere communieation fecilities.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
by supplying metals for shipbuilding, it will onable the
Jepanese to build more ships, and by transferring plants
to the mainland it will release ships for purely military
needs. The law, therefore, will result in greater mobility
of the Japanese armed forces.
5. Social: The industrial readjustments law will
cause about 2,000,000 persons, mostly men, to be thrown
out of work. Including their dependents, the total number
likely to be affected is about 10,000,000. A certain per-
gentage will be absorbed by the armed foroes and in other
industries but about 75 per cent of those about to be thrown
out of work will remain unemployed. This group will con-
stitute a weak point in Japanese economy and will also con-
stitute a point of attack for propaganda work in Japan by
the United Nations.
Carl H. Boehringer
CHB/owo

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
8940023-FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITEC STATES OF AMERICA
1365
Chungking, July 20, 1943
Subject: Transmittal of Memorandum of Conversation
in Regard to Significance of Extraordinary
June 16-18, 1943.
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
There is transmitted herewith a ∞py of a memorandum
of conversation between General Wang Peng-sheng, the
Generalissimo's expert on Japanese affairs, and an officer
of the Embassy on the significance of the extraordinary
session of the Japanese Diet held on June 16 to 18 inclusive.
394.00/1186
According to General Wang, the most important work
accomplished by this session of the Diet was the passing
of the industrial readjustments bill. He stated that the
general objectives of the bill were to shift all machinery
possible to wartime production, to scrap all obsolete and
exoess machinery in order to obtain iron and other metals,
and to place the released skilled laborers in munitions
plants. Through enforcement of this measure the Japanese
Government hoped to inorease effioiency in production, to
exeroise still greater control in allocation of skilled
laborers and of resources, and to reduoe inter-ministry
friotion and confusion to the minimum.
"General Vang expressed his opinions on the industrial
readjustments law from the financial, political, economic,
military and sooial standpoints. These opinions are sum-
marized briefly as follows:
1. Financ1al: 0f the Yen 6,100,000,000 budget passed
by the Diot for the announced purpose of carrying out the
provisions of the law, it is believed that only from ven
1,000,000,000 to Yen 1,500,000,000 (from 16 to 24 per cent
of the total amount) will actually be used for this purpose.
The remeinder apparently will be used for military purposes.
2. Politioal: Enforcement of the law will cause the
oumplete downrall or political parties formerly backed by
the plutoarats and industrial magnates. At the same tine,
the power of the Government will be greatly inoreased and
m the expense of these plutoorats and magnates. fedium-
sised and small manufaoturers, formerly leagued with fascist
mnd rightist organizations, will be wiped out but the rightist
uyy which they sponsored will survive to be taken over by
military. Enforoement of the law wilI also affeot those
the highest strata of Japanese society, partioularly the
mat aavimers or the Amperor who were formerly tbacked by
ars and industrialists.
2e

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
3. Roonomio: The gist or the proposed readjustment
is to shift all motals obtained by sorapping obsolete and
unused machinery to shipbuilding.
4. Milltary: Enforoement or the law will reeult in
greater mobility or the Japanese armed forces by inoreasing
and improving oommunication facilities.
5. Soo1al: About 2,000,000 persons, mostly men, w1ll
be thrown out or work through enforcement of the law. In-
oluding their dependents, about 10,000,000 will be affeoted.
Some of those without work will be absorbod by other industries
and by the armed foroes but about 75 per cent will remain
unemployed.
It is belioved that General Wang's views on the impor-
tance and possible effects of the industrial readjustments
law are worth more than passing attention. Pis views on the
possible social reperoussions, however, appear to be un-
founded since, owing to the oriticel position of Japan in
industrial and agricultural labor, 1t does not seem likely
that 75 per cent of the 2,000,000 laborers expected to lose
their jobs will continue to remain unemployed for en in-
definite period. This point was called to General Wang's
attention but he refused to alter his first estimate.
Respeotfully yours,
Goorge'Atcheson, jr.
Charge d'Affaires a.i.
Enolosure:
Memorandum of conversation
In single ∞py to the Depertmer.t
800 Japan
CHB/gws

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
DRANDOM OF CONVERSATION
July 9, 1943
Subject: Signiricance of Extraordinary Session of
Japanese Diet at Tokyo, June 16-18, 1943.
Present: General Wang Peng-sheng, the Generalissimo's
Expert on Japanese Affairs end Read of the
Institute of International Problems of the
Chinese Military Council.
Dr. T. T. Mar, General Wang's Assistant
Mr. Boehringer
General Wang stated that, in his opinion, the most
important work acoomplished by the extraordinary Diet
session, whioh met at Tokyo from June 16 to 18, 1943
inolusive, was the passing of the industrial roadjust-
ments bill." Mis comments on the signifioance of this
law were given under a number of headings, inoluding
finanoial, political, eoonomio, military and social.
Before taking up his discussion of the law under the
foregoing headings, General Wang steted that its general
objectives were to shift all maohinery possible to wartime
produotion, to sorap all obsolete and excess mechinery in
order to obtain iron and other metals, and to place the
released skilled workers in munitions plants. Regarding
unskilled laborers, he expressed the opinion that certain
numbers would be absorbed by the armed forces. He said
that, in acoordanoe with the industrial readjustments law,
the Japanese Government hoped to inorease efriciency in
produotion, to exeroise still greater control in allocation
of skilled laborers and of resources, and to reduce inter-
ministry friction and confusion to the minimum.
Following are the opinions expressed by General "ang
on the signiricant features of the industrial readjustments
law:
1. Pinanoial: The Diet passed a budget anounting to
Yen 6,100,000,000. 0r th1s awount, at most Yen 1,500,000,000
appears to be set aside for industrial readjustments, but a
rigure of perhaps Yon 1,000,000,000 might be more correot.
The remainder appears to be earmarked for military expendi-
tures, a point which was not made clear in Japanese broad-
casts. Funds required for execution of the industrial read-
justments law, designed largely to reimburse faotory owmers
for maohinery taken up by the Government or sorapped and also
to make payments to small manufaoturers and employees to
enable them to tide over the period of unemployment, will not
be paid out in oash but mainly in oredit notes on the nationel
treasury. Only about ten per cent of the total amount required
will be paid out in cash, while the balanoe will be covered
by oredit notes.
The implications of the foregoing appear obvious. The
Japanese, desiring to keep seoret all information regarding
expenditures for military purposes, have passed the huge
buaget of Yon 6,100,000,000 ror the announoed purpose of
carryimg out the provisions of the industrial readjustments
lmw. Aetually, however, only from 16 to 24 per cent of the
total will be used for this purpose, the balance apparently
being met eside for military purposes.
2。

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
2. Political: The signiricance of the industrial
juatments law from the political standpoint falls
under the following sub-headings: (a) The inference to
he mede is that the law will cause the complete downfall
 political parties formerly backed by the plutoorats
and industrial magnates in Japan. Contrariwise, the power
of the Government is greatly inoreased and at the expense
of the plutoorats and magnates; (b) Medium-sized and small
manufmoturers, formerly leagued with fascist and radioal
roups of rightist tendenoles, will be wiped out after the
.is fully enforced. These rightist groups will be taken
over by the military and will assert themselves to an in-
droasing extent in the future; (o) The law will affeot those in the
highest strata of society in Japan, particularly the cbsest
advisers of the Emperor formerly backed by financiers and
industrialists. Enforoement of the law will lessen their
Influence and consequently inorease the influence of the
militarists. "Gentlemen close to the mperor will be re-
placed by swashbuoklers", he said.
The law is also of significance to the United Nations.
In planning our propaganda work for Japanese consumption,
it must be remembered that all liberal elements have now
been driven from power in Japan and are completely impotent.
We formerly believed we oould support the liberal element,
but now we have no alternative than to fight it out with
the militarists. The war must be oarried to Japan, the
militarists orushed and the munitions plants levelled to
the ground.
3. Soonomio: The economio significance of the indus-
trial readjustments law is of major importanoe. The passing
of this lew should not be construed as pointing to early
oollapsed Japan. It should be considered as being a new
step designed to regenerate Japanese economic power. The
situation may be likened to that of a sick man who needs
blood transfusions from members of his family.
The gist of the projeoted readjustments, from the
economic standpoint, is to shirt all metals obtained by
sorapping obsolete and unused maohinery to shipbuilding,
whioh is regarded as the most important item at the present
time. Ships are needed in order to bring resourees from
the oooupied areas, for in this lies the only hope of sur-
vival of Japanese eoonomy. The faot that the shipping
problem is  "torrible headaohe" for the Japanese can be
seen from the great attention being paid to construotion
of: wooden ships and to the shifting of industrial plants
to ocoupied areas on the Asiatic mainland. Here these
plants pan utilize looal resources without facing the
problem of communications.
From this it can be seen that the Japanese are trying
to,save themselves. Our best line or attack, therefore,
im to sive Japan no time to build ships and to destroy the
plants on the mainland as well as communication lines.
ilitary: The industrial readjustments law is
desigmed to inorease and improve communication facilities.
By

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
by supplying metals for shipbuilding, it will enable the
Japanese to build more ships, and by transferring plants
to the mainland it will release ships for purely military
needs. The law, therefore, will result in greater mobility
of the Japanese armed forces.
5. Social: The industrial readjustments law will
cause about 2,000,000 persons, mostly mer, to be thrown
out of work. Including their dependents, the total number
likely to be affected 1s about 10,000,000. A certain per-
centage will be absorhed by the armed forces and in other
industries but about 75 per cent of those about to be thrown
out of work will remain unemployed. This group will con-
stitute a weak point in Japanese economy end will also con-
stitute a point of attack for propaganda work in Janan by
the United Nations.
Carl H. Boehringer
CHB/BWs

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
POLITICAL
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
MHHUH
CK
406 341943
SEP 9 1943
EMBASSY OFITHE
Gis
No. 1377
Chungking, July 22, 1943
Dooument entitled "The 82nd Extra-
rdinary Session of the Japanese Diet and its
lation to Home and Foreign Affairs".
NFIDENTIAL
MIS,DWI, DSS
The Honorable
RECORDS
Reco
The Seoretary of State,
CATIONS
Washington, D. C.
00T3
Sir:
3
I have the honor to transmit a copy of a transTation
of a seoret document prepared and translated by Dr. T. T.
Mar, special assistant to General Wang Peng-sheng, head of
894.00
the International Researoh Bureau of the National Military
894.00/1187
Council and the Generalissimo's leading adviser on Japanese
affairs. The dooument is entitled "The 82nd Extraordinary
Session of the Japanese Diet and its Reletion to Home and
Foroign Affairs". It was prepared, according to Dr. Mar,
just before. the Diet's session was held on June 16-18 in-
olusive and was circulated here only among highest Chinese
officials. Dr. Mar was a second secretary of the Chinese
Embassy at Tokyo for several years prior to 1937 and has a
good nowledge of the Japanese language. Since his return
to China early in l938 he has been associated with Goneral
ÀND RECORDS
ollowing is a summary of statements made in the
-at d document: The agenda of the Diet's session, as
anngunded by Domei news agency on May 28, was to be centered
FILED
in th question of the readjustment of industries, aiming
marcigularly at increased production of munitions and other
161943
Matgrials of military signiricance. Japan has recently
been larmed over the productiwe power of the United States
and realizes that it lags behind in the production of air-
oraft and ships. Because of this realization, Japan is
"now putting forward the most rigid demands whioh will sur-
pass any ountry in control, conoentration of produotive
power and saorifice". The February 1943 issue of the CHUO
KORON, Japanese politiob-economio journal, is quoted to
the offeot that, owing to the offensive or the United
Nations in the Solomons, Japan altered its appraisal of-
the United States' produotive power to estimates made
this point before the outbreak or the Pacific War.
Inoreasing conoern over the expanding productive power
of the United Statem is being felt in Japan. So great hes
PS/J
OCT 15 1943
DIVIBION OF
POLITICAL STUDIES
SEP 17194
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
 terms of statistics and figures of production". The
same journal, in its March 1943 issue, again attaoked those
thinking of making peace and charged them with usurping the
supreme power by suggesting peace. The CHUO KORON of
Maroh 1943 contained the following statements:
"Recently a oertain class of people in Japan
repeatedly demanded the conclusion of the war within
a short period. They even secretly discussed the terms
and conditions on which peace with Great Britain and
Amerioa should be based. The suggestion and movement
of a school of thought of a certain researoh institute
are too detested to be tolerated."
The phrase "a school of thought of a certain research
institute" appears to refer to Konoye and his group of
conservatives.
From the foregoing it is concluded that there are
Japanese who advocate peace. Even Premier Tojo seems to
have been affeeted since he adopted a safety-first policy
by fortifying strategic positions in the occupied areas
and by urging increased production for war needs. Tojo
reportedly also watohed closely the possible changes in
the war situation brought about by the German statemate
in Russia and tried to preserve as much power as possible
in order to cope with post-war problems.
The conflict between the conservative and radical
elements in Japan has become accentuated. The former are
1nterested in making peace with the Anglo-Ameriean powers
while the latter advocate waging war on Soviet Russia.
Japan has now come to a cross-road in its relations with
Russia. "If anything prevents the outbreak of war (between
Japan and Russia) or delays it, it will be due to some un-
settled oonditions in Japan", and,"should there be a sudden
collapse of the Cabinet the Kwantung Army would most probably
use Viadivostok as their Pearl Harbor".
Respeetfully yours,
George? Ateheson, jr./
Charge d'Arfaires a 1.
Okr
Emelesure: 
Cepy of translatien of
sesret decument, as stated.
In single cepy to the Department
600 Japan
GB/gWs

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
ION
SECRET
6/43
W-43
The 82nd Extraordinary Session of the Japanese
Diet and its Relation to Home and Foreign Affairs
In previous extraordinary sessions of the Japanese Diet
as recorded in history, convocations were made either for
the purpose of deolaration of war, such as in the 7th (against
China), the 2lst (agatnst Russia), the 34th (against Germany),
and the 77th (against Britain and Americal, or in connection
with re-election or home affairs, especially concerning fin-
anoial matters as in the 3rd, 6th, 12th, 18th, 32nd, 39th,
46th, 53rd, 55th, 58th and 61st. The extraordinary sessions
convened in conneotion with war were not to deoide whether
war should be deolared or peace preserved, but only to
announce to the Diet the secret decision of the Emperor-
in-Counoil, to ask the Diet to pass the supplementary budget
bill, to express the attitude adopted by the Government towards
its people and foreign countries, and to charge the.people
with the responsibility of prosecution of war. Actually, the
Diet has no power to vote for or against the deolaration of
war, as the oonstitution defines that the power of deolaration
of war or negotiation for peace rests entirely with the
Emperor. Hence it is not exceptional if the 82nd session is
being held solely for the purpose of declaring the Government's
polioy in foreign matters. As the parties in the present Diet
are not as complete as before, it cannot serve as many purposes
as it did in other extraordinary sessions. In short, the true
aspoot of Japan's polioy in foreign matters, and the opportune
time fixed for suoh adoption will not have been ohanged in any
way as a result of holding this session, for the whole matter
deponds upon the secret decision of the Emperor-in-Council.
The Domei News Agenoy in its report of May 28 reported
that the agenda of the session would center around the question
of readjustment of industries, aiming perticularly at produc-
tion. The wholesale readjustment of the industries, it
reported, did not only mean to re-arrange the functional
capacity for production, but also to reform indirectly the
nature of economio production. This may be regarded as an
"Industrial Revolution", and is what Domei termed "The Radical
Changes" or "Rovolutionization of Industries". But the fact
is that Japanese Imperialism has been pushed one step further
towards that of state-ownership. The following changes may
take place:
1. Modirioation of management, ohanging private management
to state management or state control.
2. Suspension of manufacture of all civilian requirements
and some military requirements in favor of productive power
for turning out military requirements most urgently needed.
Lately, Japan has been alarmed by the produotive power of
Ameriea. Knowing that they lag behind in the produotion of
airerart and shipping, the Japanese are now putting forward
the most rigid demands which will surpass any country in con-
trol, comeentration of productive power, and saorifice. An
artlele in the "Chuo Koran" of February reads, inter alia,
since

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
inoe the Solomons have been fiercely counterattacked, the
viowpoint on the appraisal of America's productive power had
been turned into that of pre-war days of the Pacifio". The
incitement, and the great fear the Japanese have can in this
way be olearly peroeived.
The two possible changes mentioned in the above are
naturally unacceptable to the financiers, as the strong
argument they put forward in the question "Whowowns - Private
or State?" in the Blst session clearly showed. Examining
the records of the session of February one will find out
what Takuo Godo said during the interpellation in the House
of Peers. He said, "I had been working in state-managed
factories for nine years and again in privately-owmed ones
for nine years. In my experience, the degree of efficienoy
in produotion of the former is always relatively smaller
than that of the latter". Tojo, in reply, stated, "The
Government has great faith in the ample powers of the people
for stepping up production. Moreover, the Government intends
to take advantage of this and use it to the full. Should the
Gevernment decide to put a control over it, it will be done
with due regard and respeot to the good-will and enthusiasm
of the manufaeturers. Provisions for their free development
to the fullest extent will also be taken into consideration.
(Applause!) I have not yet had in my mind any scheme for
state-owned industries or to set up any machinery for uni-
fieation of control". This shows how muoh the Government
has given in to the financiers.
The so-called Extra-Ordinance of Administration has never
come into full effeot. When the financiers became submis-
sive, due to the inoreasing seriousness of the menace to
Japan by Amerioa's productive powers, they even went so far
as te suggest suing for peace. The "Chuo Koron", of the
Deoember, 1942, issue, oritioized them as weighing the war
situation in terms of statistios and figures of produotion.
The same periodioal of the Maroh, 1943, issue again attaoked
them and eharged them with usurping the supreme power by
suggesting peace. At this juneture the Government decided
to get rid of the doubtful members of the Konoye clique from
the Cabinet and carried out the partial reorganization (of
the Cabinet) in order to put into practice what Tojo called
the unification of state management. As for the suspension
of production of civilian requirements, and non-essential
artioles in order to put full power on production of certain
eategories of military requirements, this will have to wait
umtil the maohinery of state control for total production
is funotioning effeotively.
Many industries of the plutooratio concerns have since
been amalgamated in the state-owned cartels. Other indus-
tries of maller coneerns were foreed to stop operations on
account of labor and material contrel. This evidently is
met what the plutoerats would like. Domei called this
"Industrial Revolution". Its prediotion that this question
will be the eenter of diseussion in the Diet is not without
reeses as it is what the Radieals of the Right wing originally
advoeated as "Rendition of Industries to the State".
2

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
In this session, the question of Industrial Rovolution will
be the center of heated discussion and it will also be the
main point of political controversy. It will be interesting
to see how the Government is going to get out of this diffi-
sulty. It may cause the downfall of the Government and the
formation of a new Cabinet.
The other reasons Domei mentioned for oonvening the extra-
ordinary session of the Diet are to make known to the world
Japan's military and political polioy in dealing with the
global war and to her people (indicating the financiers) the
seriousness of the worid war situation. By bringing forward
a foreign issue, the Government tries to divert the serious-
ness of the controversy in the Diet. But what is the sub-
stance of its foreign polioy? will the Government announce
the tendenoy of its deliberation so as to appease the pluto-
crats, or the tendenoy of its new adventure to bring pressure
to bear on them? This all depends upon to what degree the
apprehension of the Japanese Government has attained in the
international situation and how it proposes to meet the
situation.
The moeting of Roosevelt and Churchill in May and Joseph
Davies' special mission to Russia are the two main factors
that will influence the discussion on the international situa-
tion. The main subjeet disoussed at the Roosevelt-Churohill
meeting was how the European war should be oonduoted to over-
throw Hitler's regime, and how to cope with the situation
after the collapse of the Hitlerites. Though America tries
hard to minimize the menace from Japan, at the same time the
question of defeating Germany is of great concern to here
In short, this was a conference between Britain and America
to decide ways and means to grasp the world situation, present
and future. But what of Japan's views in this regard, how
will she react? Two proposals at least have been put forward
by two politioal oliques.
1. The conservative faction (the Showa Ken Kyu Kai elique,
having the plutoorats as their politioal center) maintain that
big military operations should be suspended and suggests that
peace should be negotiated with Britain and Amerioa. The
"Chuo Koron" of the March, 1943, issue states, "Recently a
eertain class of people in Japan repeatedly demanded the con-
olusion of the war within a short period; they even seeretly
diseussed the terms and conditions on which peace with Great
Britein and America should be based. The suggestion and move-
mont of the direotors of a school of thought of a certain
researoh institute (seemingly referring to Konoye) are too
detestable to be tolerated". From this it is clear that
there ere Japanese who advocate peace. Tojo, though he did
net go se far as to suggest making peace, yet at the time when
Germany's offensive egainst Russia oame to a standstill he was
nevertheless affeeted by this idea to the extent that he
aéopted the safety first polioy. He started to fortify
strategie positiens in the occupied areas and at the same time
urged for inereese of war produetien; he watohed closely the
pessible shanges of the situation and tried to preserve as
mmek pewer as he pessibly ceuld for coping with pest-war
probleme. It was fust as their old diplomat, Kosaku Tamure,
hed said, "Hereafter, whether the world be dominated by
Britain and Ameriea, or by Germany or Italy, unless Japan
h

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
real power and strength she will not be able to maintain
position". No doubt, the safety first policy adopted by
o was influenced by this. Japan's feeling towards Russia
is mone too good, but she knows many changes will take plaoe
after. the war, so perhaps it will be better for her, for the
time being, to retain the "muddling through" polioy in the
relationships with her neighbor in order to serve her purpose
of preserving her strength for dealing with future politioal
ohangos.
2. The radical faotion maintains that war should be de-
elared on Russia at once. (The report in the "Chuo Koron"
on the informal disoussion of the military and naval officers
depioted a vivid pioture). Being irritated by the closer
relationship between America and the Soviet Union they even
intensify their advocation for such a war. Possibly, on the
other hand, Tojo may have been influenced by this. Looking
into the recent movements of the Japanese one will find that
there are signs to show that what the radioal faction has
advocated seems to heve an influence on the Government's
foreien polioy. However, it will be interesting to watch
the developments round about the date of the opening of the
extraordinary session.
Members of the Konoye clique have resigned from the Cab-
inet and the whole trend of events in Tokyo is in a state of
oseillation with the radical elements more active. Now that
the Comintern has been dissolved, if Japan wishes to preserve
her neutrality paot with Russia, she must renounoe the Anti-
Communist pact. But she may not be in a position to do so
owing to the disadvantage she may incur and the pressure the
Axis may bring to bear on her. She, however, will not be
able to make further use of the pretext that the Anti-Com-
munist paot is not aimed at Russia herself, but at the
Communist International. Japan has now come to a oross-
road in her relationship with Russia. She will have to
decide either to remain at peace with her or to go to war.
Should there be a sudden collapse of the Cabinet the Kwan-
tung Army would most probably use Vladivostok as their Pearl
Harbor, and stage the same aot again.
Objeetively speaking, the state of relationship between
Japan and Russia has come to a crisis. In Japan there is no
one whe can stop the present war except the Empress Dowager
whe is in possession of the power. On the Russian side,
unless Stalin will give to Japan the seoret of his conver-
sation with Joseph Davies, and guarantee that Russia will
never lease her eastern territories to the Allies to be used
as a base to launch an offensive on Japan, her suspicion will
net be allayed and sooner or later she will seize an oppor-
tunity to take aotion. It is most unlikely that Stalin would
do sueh a thing and disregard the assistance Russia gets from
Ameriea. Therefore, if anything prevents the outbreak of war
or delays it, it will be due to some unsettled conditions in
Japem herself. The future attitude adopted by the Allies
towards mussie, the mount of gssistance and the probability
of the epening of the second front in Europe may also have
am effeeé on Ssalim in his final decisien. The adoption of
she ateatude of the British and French at the Mumish con-
famenee may imduse some foreign influence to effeet ohenges.
The

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
consolidation of the Allies to hold on to the advantageous
ituation is essential. In case the Government does not launch
an offensive against Russia before the opening of the extra-
ordinary session of the Diet in order to force the Diet to
pass the Government's bill - a bill to enforce its power to
conriseate industrial properties - against the plutocrats.
it will be interesting to watch its next move by taking notiee
of any seoret session held or any supplementary military bud-
get passed during the extraordinary session.
True oopy

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 7, 1943
HMB
094.00/1187
Reference is made to the attached despatch
from Chungking, no. 1377, July 22, 1943, with
which there is transmitted in translation a
8
secret Chinese document entitled "The 82nd
Extraordinary Session of the Japanese Diet a
its Relation to Home and Foreign Affairs":
of the statenents made in this document con-
tained on pages 1 and 2 of the attached des-
patch. Perhaps the most significant statement
is the one that there exists in Japan a groun
which is advocating peace and has allegedly
gone so far as to suggest the terms of the
peace between Japan and the United States and
Great Britain. Even Premier Tojo has report-
edly been affected.
Dr. Liar, formerly Second Secretary of the
Chinese Enbassy at Tokyo, author of the secret
document, asserts that the conflict between
the conservative and radical elements in Japan
has become accentuated, that the former desire
peace while the latter urge war on Soviet
Russia. The author concludes that "should
Kwantung Army would most probably use Vladi
vostok as their Pearl Harbor".
一
mub
FE:BiSHop:ALM
1943

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.95)
894.00
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japan': Philosophy of Life:
Memorandum regarding -.
894.00/1188
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memo
(Deopatoh, telogram, iastruotiom, Letter, eta.)
PS/HWL
From
Dated .....Jan. 26.1942
State.Dept...(Emmerson)
To
Far Bastern Affairs
740.0011 Pacific War/20377
File No.
1186

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.90)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
near the Polish Government
LONDON, September 9, 1943.
No.397.
1414
went or State
Strictly Confidential:
RB
PA  SA
Subject: Attaching copy of
report entitled
a32 1
V JNICATIONS
D R
"Disorientation in
EVED
HO NOSIA
Japanese policy"
17
h
6
k
YH
No
101
In US.▲
Honorable
The Secretary of State.
Washington D.C.
894.00
894.00/11
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to attach hereto copy of report
entitled: "Disorientation in Japanese policy" under
dateline August 10, 1943, handed me by the Chief of
Polish Political Intelligence.
Respectfully yours,
89
AND RECORDS
C
A..Drexe! Biddle Jr
11,
M H
ADVISER
To the Department in original and hectograph.
OCT441943
JEnclosure:
DEPARTWE
FILED PS/B
1/, Report as stated.
91943
AJDBJr8DAS
Meeto sent to DOA
W2
C

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1 to Despatch Polish Series No.397
dated September 9, 1943
SECRET:
10th August 1943.
Disorientation in Japanese policy.
A Japanese diplomat in a conversation which took place
in a neutral country on the 9th August made the following
analysis of the international situation and of its consequences
for Japan:
1. Mussolini's downfall has caused a far greater effect
in Germany than in Italy, Rumania or Hungary. This becomes
apparent when observing German internal conditions. At the
same time no deterioration has been noticed in the morale of
German troops on the Eastern front.
2. In view of the above a separate peace between Germany
and Russia would not necessarily bring about a strengthening of
Germany's military potentiality to be directed against the Anglo-
Americans, but could rather cause a further deepening of
depression inside Germany. If Germany makes peace with Russia
by agreeing to accept Russian peace conditions, every German
will take it as a disaster, and no propaganda will be able to
convince him to the contrary. Only an alliance with Russia
could therefore enable Germany to launch an attack on the
Western front, but even then the results would be doubtful. The
Russian territorial conditions, even if accepted by Germany,
could not be fulfilled until the war in the West is over, and
to this the Russians would hardly agree. Germany, however, must
keep the territory of the Ukraine until the end of the war,
because otherwise she would be threatened with a catastrophical
shortage of food.
3. Even if peace between Russia and Germany is concluded
the danger always remains that Germany will not be able to
survive such a political shock. On the other hand if Russia
accepts the assumption that peace is indivisible, she may
demand from Germany a capitulation on both fronts, i.e. also on
the Western front, thus bringing about a speedy termination of
the war. In such an event Japan would be left entirely alone.
4. In view of the above it would seem to be the best for
Japan to contribute to a neutralization of Russia by threatening
her in the Far East. (This eventuality has arisen in connection
with the observed lowering of morale inside Germany). Such a
move would undoubtedly bring considerable relief to the German
Army, whose situation on the Eastern front is getting more and
more difficult. Thus Japan is being faced with the problem of
declaring war on Russia. But in this connection first of all
the teohnical possibilities must be taken into consideration.
Japan could only declare war on Russia if she were sure that
she would be able within a fortnight to liquidate the Soviet
air bases in the region of Vladivostock-Khabarovsk, and then in
the second phase to launch a successful attack in the West, thus
throwing the Russian foroes behind Chyta and the Baikal. Only
under such circumstances Japan could risk a war with Russia, for
if she could not liquidate Russia at once, she would expose
herself to the dangers of Russian and American bombings.
5. Japan mast withdraw from the many fents on which she now
fights and which absorb too much of ber streagth. First of all
abo/

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
she must end the war with China. Japan now fights against
Csang-Kai-Shek whose forces are composed of two groups. One is
Csang-Kai-Shek's Army which does not represent great military
value. The Chinese resistance is concentrated in the Communist
Army which is well armed and equipped, and commanded by the most
able general and politican of today's China, in one word a man
who in every respect surpasses Czang-Kai-Shek. The latter is
entirely dependent on the support of the Communist Army. Japan
ought therefore to come to an understanding with the C. -in- C.
of the Communist Army and then the war in China will come to an
end automatically. An obstacle for this as well as for the
reaching of an understanding with Russia has been the Anti-
Komintern Pact.
The recent developments point out that Japan
ought to abandon the Anti-Komintern Pact, which is all the more
easy as formally the Komintern was disbanded and as a political
organization it does not exist any more. When Japan takes such
a step only then appropriate conditions will be created for
conversations with the Chinese Communist Army and also Russia.
But before this is effected changes must be carried out in Japan's
political life; all the generals who are responsible for the
present policy of the country must go, and amongst them Oshima
and many others.
The above argumentation of the Japanese diplomat shows that
in the Japanese political circles new political trends have become
apparent. It seems that the Japanese have realized that it is not
easy to bring about an understanding between Russia and Germany;
they are also afraid that if such an understanding is reached it
may have the effect of weakening Germany politically and hasten
the fall of the Third Reich, in which event Japan will be left
alone. There is a second alternative : to help Germany directly
by attacking Russia, but when taking into consideration such a
solution fears arise whether Japan will have enough strength to
beat Russia.
Consequently the alternatives for Japan to follow can be
summed up, as follows:
To abandon the Anti-Komintern Pact and the present Axis
polioy; this would mean a total break down of the Berlin-Rome-
Tokio Axis.
To change the present Japanese policy by dismissing the
present military team of politicians.
To endeavour to settle the conflict with China by Russian
intermediary.
To deepen the relations with Russia.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japan': Philosophy of Life:
Memorandum regarding -.
894.00/1188
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memo
(Deepatch, telegram, iastructiom, letter, eta.)
Dated ......Jan 26...1942
From
PS/HWL
State. Dept...(Emmerson)
To
Far Fastern Affairs
File No.
1186

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.96)
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
SIAT!
Jederal Darran of Jusrstigution
Antted States Drpartmrnt of Justir
OCT2 3 1943
ashtngton, D. U.
October 2 3 1943
MR. BFRLEY
PERSONAL AND CONFIDEN THAL
.BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
DCR
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
FARET
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Berle:
The followin: information is being forwarded to you for
such attention as you may deem appropriate.
894.00/1191
A hihly confidential and reliable source has indicated
that Larry Tohd, the representative of the Tass News Agency in
Washington, D. C., asked Ki lsoo Haan to explain the political
significance of the resignation of Kim Koo and the disintegration
of his govermment.
894.00
The same source disclosed that Haan infomed Mr. Tbdd
that Kim Koo was an anti-Communist Korean leader in Chungking who
has attacked Kim Yak-san, a Korean representavive to the Chinese
Government because the latter had collaborated with the Soviet
Government. Haan also stated that Kim Koo had since been re-
instated and that a conference was scheduled for October 9 at
Chungking to resolve the difficulties between these Korean factions.
Sincerely yours,
061301943
PS
frle
0CT 26 1943
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.93)
Divieson of
D VISION O
FAR EASTORN AEPAIRS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
NCV 271943
NUV 3 0 194.
Depas tment of State
Mosao
This telegram-must-be
FROM
paraphrasid before being
Dated November 24, 1943
oommunicated to anyone
other than a Governmental
Reo'd 11i08 a,mp, 25th.
agency. (BR)
Division 91
FAR LASTERN FAIRS
LIAISON
Storetary of State,
194
NOV26 1943
Washington.
Depas ment of Sta
2034, NOVEmbEr 24, 1 P.m., (SECIION ONE)
894.00
894.00/1
ThE NOVEmber 15 1ssuE of THE WiR AND THE WORKING
CLi3s contains an articlE by A. Ilin Entitled "on the
results of thE Eighty-third Extraordinary SEssion of
the JapanEsE ParliamEnt." ThE articlE viEws both the
domEstic and forE1gn mEasures adopted at this sEssion
92
as EvidencE of thE serious crisis confronting Japan.
ThE article bEgins by briefly tracing thE background
leading up to thE Eighty-third Extraordinary sEssion,
It points out that the Cabinet mEEting of September 20
outlined the agenda of this session, noting that at
PS/MO
894.032
this mEEting therE wErE considered thE Establishment of
st1ll closer cooperation betwEen thE army and the Govern-
ment, thE reorganization of thE politioal struoture in
preparation for decisivE battles and thE intensifioation
PLTCA US
DIAISION OF
751
of diplomatic activities. This meeting was followed by
C
Tojo's radio specoh Emphasizing that Japan must prepare
co
to resist thE Efforts of England and thE United States
3
orush her.
DEPAR MENT OF
The author

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-. #2038, NovEmber 24 1 Pom. (SECTION ONE) frem MOsoowe
The author here points out that Japan's prosptets
are bleake HE states: "Japan has been facing a determined
and many times more powerful enemy who after the serious
military reverses of the first period of the war in the
Paoifio not only was not foroed to his knees, as the
JapanesE imperialists certainly hoped, but on the
contrary hes developed the building of his armed foroes
on a gigantic scale to strike en answering blow at the
JapanesE military machine."
In thE light of thesE prospEcts thE JapanesE Govern-
ment has bEen hastily preparing a series of reorganization
mEasures in an Effort to 1noreasE product1on to mEet
the threat looming beforE thE country. The author Empha-
sizes Japan's fEar of sErial bonbardment. "ThE bombard-
ments of industrial centers and of wholE regions of
Germany by the Anglo-American air forces have aroused
such alarm in the country that thE Government of Japan
judging by a statement of Tojo, has been foroed to take
special measures for thE defensE of the largest Japaneme
cities EapEclally Tokyo from air raida." The author
also states:
"The extremt vulnerability of Japan from the sea
and from the .air and the general deficienoy of her
armament' nzi

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-#2034, November 24 1 p.m., (SECTION ONE) from Moseow
quentity?
armament in comparison with the quality and guality
of the armament of England and the Uaited States arouses
anxiety?
serious (#) among the Jepanese and forces the ruling
.circles to seek every possibility for the expansion of
wer production",
To meet this situation the Ministry of Munitions
headed by Tojo was established. Ilin outlinas the extra-
ordinary industrial nnd financial powers of this body
and mentions the ministerial reshuffle accompanying its
establishment. He notes that in the opinion of "govern-
ing circles" of Japan this measure should lead to a signi-
ficent increase in war production. The author also
lists a number of extraordinary laws passd by the eighty
third extraordinary sossion. The most important of these
empowers the government to appoint . to positions of
leadership in war production entorprises persons bearing
strict responsibility for the fulfillment of the govern-
mental by determined production sohedules of these enter-
prises.
He notes that the economic difficulties of Japan
at wer are becoming increasingly grevious. There is a
serious shortage of skilled personnel. Lack of raw
materials and

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.96)
-4- #2034, NovEmbEr 24. 1 p.m. (SECTION ONE) from Moscow
materials and consumers goods has Encouraged profiteer
ing.
The domestio political situation is also becom
ing increasingly strained. "The Efforts of the
JapanEsE ruling circles to strengthen thEir position
arE procEeding not only along the linEs of Economic
masures." In this connection thE author discusses
thE currEnt declinE in thE influEncE of thE JapanEsE
Fascist groups. HE points out that thE "socalled
Extremist" ElemEnts wErE thE chief support of Tojo's
government in the Early days of thE war. ThesE
Extremists hoped for thE victory of Fascist Germany
in EuropE and wErE the "inspirers of various anti-
Soviet plans." Domestically they sought to make
Japan a completely Pascist country.
HARRIMAN
() apparent omission
WSB

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
ARB
Moscow
This telegrsm must ke
perephresed befort being
Deted Nov ember 25, 1943
oommunioo ted to eny one
other then & GoveramentFROM
Rec!d 2:05 p.m.
gency,(BR)
Scoretery of Stote,
NOV 8 6 1943
Weshington.
Departinent of State
2034, November 25, 1 p.m. (SECTI0N TWO)
it thE present timE rift hes developed betwEen Tojo
End the ExtrEmists. ThE demegogut meosures of lctter in
Jepen's present grevE sd turtion sEem dengerous to
governing Elements of country. Their foreign orimtetion
in view of fect that Germeny is fecing ennihiletion does
not mzet with support cmong ruling ciroles of Jepen not
to mention populer mcsses. iuthor refers to suicide of
Nekeno Seigo,Fescist, Fs indicrtive of crises of Frscist
movement in Jrpen.
Repproohement hos teken plecE between Tojo Gcvern-
ment cnd court nobility end finrncirl groups. These
Elements euthor states now trying their hend rt
measures to stave off cctestrophe descending on Jipen.
Extremists who ere losing their influencE openly end
demonstretively expressing their opposition to new
ocurse. Author refers tc severel politicel incidents
of pest yerr.
Eighty

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.94)
2- 2034, Nov Ember 25, 1 p.m. (SECTION TWO), from Moscow.
Eighty third sessicn peid cttention to questions of
his
foreign polioy. IL in speeches of Tojo end
Portign Minister Shigemitsu sctting forth policy of
Erettrn Asic for eastern Asistics". He notes thet
this formult cemouflcges desires of Jepen for complete
dominetion of Ecstern :sie. The JopenesE politicirns
disguising their policy of brute forc: by skillful
demegoguey. Tck in: intc ccccunt their own Experience
end frilure of Hitlerite "new order" in EuropE they heve
Evclved policy by which they seek to win over to Jepen
populrtion of countries of eestern :sie end to Extrect
from thesE countries fcll utilizction of their metericl
end humen resources in w er egeinst the United Stetes
end England. For this purposE Jepan is crrrying on E
new "peacE offensive" in Chine and hes grented fake
independence to thE Philippine, Burme Etc.
Author ccncludes ty reitereting thet mersures
teken by Eighty-third session of thE JepenesE Perliement
in both domestio end fcreign spheres indicctE the serious
diffioulties of c militrry end politiorl character
confronting the JepenesE Empire. "Losing confidence in
posnibility of & frvorrble outcome of the wer inatigeted
in the Enormous xpanaes Erstern Asin the Jepenese
7
politioiens

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.91)
-2- #2034, November 25, 1 p.m. (SECTION TV0), frcm loscow.
pcliticirna rre (#), it Epperrs new wrys rnd merns tc
mrintrin their completE pcliticrl militrry (nd Eccncmic
dominence. The Filipincs found Expression in the
chrrrcter of the forein politicrl moves teken ct the
Eighty-third session of JepenesE Prrliement."
(END OF MESS:GE.)
H.RRD.:N
nC
(*) ppermt omission

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Representative Official Chinese opinion in regard to recent
Political Developments in Japan.
Submits-
894.00
t1
For the original paper from which reference is taken
93
See ...Dea.1823
(Despatoh, lelegram, isstraction, letter, etc.)
Mov. 17,1943
China (Chungking)
From
Dated
43
740.0011 Pacific War/3586
File No.
1-1800

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.85)
ber 31, 194
OBERLIN COLLEGE
SNOS
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY AND GEOGRAPHY
OBERLIN, OHIO
D.AR
Swallow Hall
19 N 12
R
Wuin of mo, Columchia,
AND
11-10 43
NOV13103
sirs.
a wttle paper which
some Ifmy mends iore smont e sent
894.0
are sure it suocid i enisned. Lo non
94
duggeohanw 20 
894.00
/FP
4 con
2
Tec ALLta
281944
FILED
leaching eog ro  turalian
H
中

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.95)
5
1945
Xn reply refer to
My dear Dr. Hubbard:
This is to ackmowledge the receipt of your letter
of November 10, 1943, enclosing a copy of a paper
ontitled "A Puture for Japan" and requesting the opinion
894.00
of the Department of State regarding the propriety of
your publishing it.
Your courtesy in bringing the study to the attention
of the Department is appreciated. While the opportunity
894.00/1194
to consider suggestions from individuals is welsomed,
you will understand, I feel sure, that it is impossible
for the Department to comment on the question of suita-
bility for publication. The manuseript is returned here-
with.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
E. Wilder Spaulding
Chief, Division of
Researoh and Publication
PS/FP
Enclosure:
K
Manusoript, returned.
BEC
80 19405
A true cop
Oeorge D. Hubbard, Ph.D.,
the sgond
Swallow Hall,
nal.
Univorsity of Missouri,
Columbia, Missouri.
PB WAB PET

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.95)
Division of
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
1940
RECEIVEDOF THE
UEPAHNNTERTSTARIOF AMERICA
Depa tment of State
Cogi-JA
1944 JAN 28 AM 10 13
AMERICAN EMBASSY
London,January 18,1944.
No. 13363
DIVISION OF
Subject: TransmitoammmeaimsSof Article
Entitled AmmeRErepmbese Emperor"
No
OF CURTENT
The Honorable
JALIKON LAISON
In L S A
The Secretary of Stater
Washington.
Sir:
894.00/11
I have the honor to transmit herewith for the Depart-
1/
ment's information three copies of an article from the
Manchester Guardian of January 11,1944, entitled "The
Japanese Emperor".
This article, which discusses the problem of dealing
with the Japanese Emperor in the post-war period, was
evidently occasioned by Mr. Grew's recent speech in the
United States, and may for that reason be of special in-
6
terest. The writer does not take a very definite stand on
5
the question but puts both sides of the argument for the
policy advocated by wir. Grew, pointing out meanwhile that
89400
"thegproblem is an interesting and a delicate one, for
he the Emperor is worshipped by millions of his subjects
as a god, the Son of Heaven, and there are no precedents
in history for dealing with vanquished deities." The writ-
er also points out that the Chinese, whose views must be
considered, "appear skeptical about preserving the status
quo, although no official statements have been made."
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
W. J. Gallman
Counselor of Embassy
FL
PS/LC
entitled "The Japanese Emperor"
HOB
from the Manchester Guardian of
Jamuary 11,1944.
SCB/PB
BATGMSO
AU

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclo.
fon1.
cadon,pglnd
N
11
THE JAPANESE EMPEROR
Future of a Puppet Deity
From a Correspondent
There has been some public, it has inspired in the Japanese people
discussion recently as to the future
has been of immense value to the
of the Japanese Emperor after the
miliiarists in their plans for
war. The problem is an interesting
aggression.
and a delicate one. for he is wor-
The question with fabricated
shipped by millions of his subjects as
idealisms always is how severe 
a god, the Son of Heaven, and there
testing they will withstand. The cult
are no precedents in history for
oi the Emperor has not been tested a!
all yet, and, vehile it might survive a
dealing with vanquished deities.
military defeat. the spectacle of the
The view of some experts. both
Tenno rec iving advice from white
British and American, is that the
barbarians might be too much for it.
present Tenno might be usefu! to the
Wership of the Emperor is. at bottom.
Allies as the head of a new, chastened
nothing but the self-adoration of the
Government after the war, basing
Japanese tribe. Like other island
their opinion on the fact that Hirohito
folk, the Japanese have a deep si nse
is known to be a mild-tempered.
of their own importance, of their own
have opposed the war-mongers, while
peaceable individual and thought to
remoteness from and superority to the
Shinto, the State religion of Japan. of
common run of continentad mankind.
which Emperor-worship is the
This has been fostered to a morbid
cardinal tenet and loyalty and sub-
degree by their self-mposed seclusion
mission the cardinal virtues, might
from the rest of the world and by
just as well become a weapon in
the:r consequent awkwardness and
democratic as in militarist hands.
feeling of insecurity. And so, if the
The Allies must not be blamed for
ordinary Japanese were dimly aware
undue cynicism or opportunism if
that it was the Army who had the real
they think along these lines. They
say in affairs, or at times the big
are not committed in the Far East, as
business men, he would not be dis-
in Europe. to the destruction of an
turbed as long as he supposed it to be
ideology or the arraignment of a
in the tribal interest.
political group. Their political task
If. on the other hand. he were to
in Japan will be more complicated
see his sacred ruler and the tribe's
than elsewhere owing to the country's
embodinment hand in glove with the
unique social structure. the lack of an
Western democracies the result might
organised democratic opposition, and
be a loss of faith. Is not the Emperor
the absence of what may be called
aware of this himself? We hear
a common idiom. The vision of a
much of his dislike of and opposition
Japan fanatieally and mystically
to the war with China and later with
bound to her Emperor, who in turn is
ourselves: but we hear nothing of any
disposed to co-operate with the
attempt to veto the plans or to appeal
Western Powers. is bound to attract
to the masses over the Army's head.
them.
Japan as a whole supported the Army
A MANUFACTURED LEGEND
and desired the war, and any action
For. after all. the Japanese Emperor
on the Emperor's part might have
resulted, if not in his downfall. at
has never had real power, having
least in a distinction being drawn in
always been a puppet in the hands of
the publhe mind between his persen
powerful chiques, so that, they will
ind concrete Japanese needs
argue, he may just as well serve a
CHINESE VIEW
beneficent pui pose now. The giones
The views of the Chinese on the
of the Sun Geddess and her progeny
subject of the Emperor's future are
belong to the legendary petiod of
Japan; since history came to be
interesting, for it is they who have to
written Emperors have been freely
live with Japan as neighbour. On
attacked, deposed. or compelled to
the whole. they appear sceptical
enter monasteries whenever they
about preserving the status quo.
failed to satisfy the famihes who held
although no official statements have
the reins.
During the Tokugawa era, from
been made. One Chinese newspaper
1603 to 1888. the time of Japan's
recently said that the "so-called
seclusion, the Emperor's functions
Tenno system. together with the
were mainly those of Shinto High
superstition of racial superiority and
Priest, and he had no voice in political
the belief in Japan as the land of the
affairs at all. After the Meiji
gods, must be abolished," because this
Restoration in 1868 (when the feudal
was the only way of striking at the
powers usurped by the Shoguns had
roots of Japanese militarism. This
been, theoretically, handed back to
sounds like common sense if we
the Emperor, a!though in reality they
remember tha enormous part the
were simply transferred to other
Emperor-myth has played in the
hands) a number of Japanese leaders.
present outbreak in Asia and the way
statesmen, soldiers, and writers, set
it enables the guilty to get away
out deliberately to revive the old
under the cloak of non-responsibility.
Shinto legends, and to inculcate in the
While it exists, there is always the
masses the idea of national superiority
chance of its getting into the wrong
and uniqueness. This was done for
hands, and the Chinese will not be
clear-cut political reasons, and it has
anxlous, when inilitary control of
been entirely successful. The hard
Japan inevitably relaxes, to fight this
core of loyalty and fanaticism which
war over again.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.96)
4 EMBASSY OF THE
RECEIVED
STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, January 17, 1944
1944 FEB 1 AM 10 01
Division of
No. 2033
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Subject: Conditions in Japan and Shangha.
2041844
COMMUNICATIONS
Depa tment of Stat
CONFIDENTIAL
AND RECORDS
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
LA
mID
FEA FE
0~1
Sir:
I haye the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
no. 1840 November 20, 1943, transmitting a copy of a report
on conditions in Shanghai by Mr. John Caldwell, OWI represen-
1/
tative, and to enclose a copy of a further report dated De-
cember 2, 1943, written by Mr. Caldwell at Futsing, Fukien
Province, in regard to conditions in Japan prior to July 1,
94.00
1943, and in Shanghg1 during October 1943.
894.00/11
Summary: According to a Chinese businessman who lived
in Nagasaki for 22 years prior to his departure therefrom
on July 1, 1943, food and clothing rationing in the Nagasaki
area is rigidly enforced. The metals snortage is so acute
that each family is allowed only one metal cooking pot or
pan. The number of ships regularly plying between Nagasaki
and Shanghai was reduced as of July 1, 1943, by sinkings,
6
from a total of four ships to but one and this was subsequent-
9
ly reported to have been sunk. Morale of the common people
is reported as being good. According to other Chinese inter-
viewed by Mr. Calawell, conditions at Shanghai were said to
be worse than those in Japan. The Japanese at Shanghai re-
portedly were dismantling a large scuttled Italian ship,
possibly the Conte Verde, in order to salvage the metal.
Respectfully yours,
C. E. Gauss
Enclosure:
1/ Mr. Caldwell's report dated
December 2, 1943.
PS/BMB
Single copy to the Departmont.
FILE
711 Jap
CHB/hcr
EE87194
DE

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 2033,
January 17, 1944, American Embassy,
Chungking.
ORT ON CONVERSATIONS NEAR FUTSING, FUKIEN PROVINCE,
TTH CHINESE RECENTLY RETURNED FROM JAPAN AND SHANGHAI
(Roport by Mr. John Caldwell, OWI representative at Foochow)
December 2, 1943
On November 29 and 30 I visited several villagos on
the Lungtien Peninsula southeast of Futsing where I mot and
talked with several persons who had recently returned from
Japan and Shanghai. The best informant was a man of 55,
named Kiang, who had been in the cloth retailing business
in Nagasaki for 22 years. He left there July 1, 1943 on the
Shanghai Maru. He was in Shanghai several months awaiting
transportation, then came south by way of Shen Chia Men,
arriving in October. The substance of his report follows:
FOOD RATIONING: The rice ration is nine ounces per day,
rigidly enforced for both rich and poor. One half ounce
of mien per month.
Sweet potatoes - 3 catties per family per day.
Irish potatoes - lt catties per family per day.
Vegotables - one hoad per family per day (daikon or cabbago?-Ed.).
Cooking oil - 12 ounces per month per five people.
Soap - one yen per month per person.
CLOTHING RATIONING: Point system rigidly in force, with each
person allowed lo0 points per year. An ordinary men's suit
with two pieces requires 60 points. Shoes, socks, thread,
etc. all must come from same lo0 points. All cloth is made
from grass now (probably vegetable fibre-Ed.).
METALs: Each family is allowed but one metal cooking pot or
pan. It may not be replaced if broken. Iron, copper and all
other types of metals taken up by the Government. within re-
cont months temples have been robbed of their metals. Bridge
railings, etc. have been taken up. Most things are now made
of wood, even bicycles. But recently wood and lumber have
been hard to get. No new house construction is possible.
(Chinose Communiats report that most bronze and iron momorial
statues have been "recruited" for war-Ed.)
SHIPPING: Informant said that shipping situation in Nagasaki
is acute. Originally 4 ships plied between Nagasaki and Shang-
hai - Nagasaki, Shanghai, Osaka and Tokyo Marus. All but the
Shanghai Maru had been sunk by July. (Roport of Shanghai Maru
sinking bolow.)
GENERAL: All young poople are gone. Girls from 16 years up
work in war plants. At harvest time city people are assigned
to the farms to help harvest crops. The Government takes all
farm produce at fixed prices. Morale of the common people
is reperted as good. In order to raise money the Japanese
Government has made insurance compulsory for all peeple. Each
citisem buys $2, 000 (probably yen) worth of insurance for which
he pays $24 per year. I gathered this was a form of enforeed
Aino-mura (
Talked wath

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Talked with two other men recently returned from Shanghai-
one within two days. Both came via Shen Chia Men. One had
been in Japan until recently. He reported living cenditions
An Shanghai worse than those in Japan, with the Japanese re-
moving all goods from Shanghai. Japanese reported to be tear-
ing up large scuttled Italian ship (Conte Vorde?) to salvage
the metal. They reported the ships listed above as sunk, also
reported that the Shanghai Maru was sunk by a submarine two
weeks. ago. One of the few survivors was a man with whom my
informant had talked. Only small ships plying between Shang-
hai and Japan now, and run infrequently. They estimated Ja-
panese strength in Shanghai area now at twelve to fifteen
thousand.
(Another report submitted by Caldwell as result of many
conversations said that Shen Chia Men and Nan Kan Tang were
the two chief trade and shipping control points of China
Coast south of Shanghai, with much trans-shipping. Former
is port on eastern end of largest of Chusan Islands, Ting-
hai (?), Lat. 30 n. Long. 122 degrees 18' E. (approximat•).
Latter near mouth of Min River, Fukien.)

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 17, 1943
-FB
There is attached a menorandum prepared
by Mr. Langdon, who was thetate Depart-
mont's representative on the second Gripsholm
ropatriation mission, which contains a
composite picture of the impressions regard-
ing conditions in Japan and occupied China
obtained by him from American repatriates.
The memorandun is well worth reading.
J.W.B.
MR. LON
Assistant Secretary
os ate
MR. ACHESON
of Stat
FE:JWB:ALM

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.95)
JAN 1 3 1944
BFRLE
DEC 17 1943
A-B
1043Degember 16, 1945
A
éncral Conditiona in Japan andrg
ed Chinn
JAN1
It is antictpated that à clear and comprehensive pie
Gecupied Chima will be brought out by the intelligenee
under the systematixed laterrogation prejest whioh was
DCR
jointly carried out on the return voyage by the interested
894.00
departments and other agencies of the devernment. Hewever,
file
as the reproduction and analysis of this intelligenee will
take some time, it is thought that the Department may in
the meantime be interested in the general temer of epinion
894.00/1197
orar
regarding the Japanese position as orally expressed by the
repatriates.
of State
JAN15I
Japanese morale. The morale of the Japanese popula-
tion is stil1 high but the élan and enthusiamm of l942
have disappeared with the "stalemating" of the war and a
defense paychology now pervades the nation. There is
some war weariness, especially among the businessmen, but
no apparent national brooding over the future or defeatim
or complaining. The nation has a good general idea of the
progress of the war but does not talk sbout it and seems
calm and not frightened. The people are "fully prepared"
JAN 22 ?!" walks around the oity blooks where there are sidewalks
and shelters in all back yards and open lots. In the air
raid drills the people now take their bedding quilts with
them to the alit trenohes and hold them over their heads
for protection. The. whole Empire is said to go on the
alert whenever it is attacked at any one point, say
Paramushiro or Marous Island.
Commodity situation. The economio situation of the
whele Far East is unamimously and emphatically deelared to
be growing pregressively worse. Cemmodities, especially
arban pepulation is concerned. In Japanese cities in 
FILED
partieular, controls ever all feeds (tea and seaweed 
ezeepted) are rigid and effeetive and the human system
must ad just itselr to progressively maller rations.
1944
Taberoslesis
Assistant Secretary
o1 state
MR. ACHESON
OEUARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Tubereulosis is on the inorease in Japanese cities and
resistance to disease is declining -- colds are said to
linger om indefinitely. The soldiers and sailors, however,
are well fed and healthy. Because transpertation for
meving produce and catehes of fish to the cities is
inadequate, the rural and fishing populations consume a
proportionately larger portion of their produce and on the
whole are gotting enough to eat. In Chinese cities, the
food situation is somewhat better than in Japan beeause
of black markets and ineffeotive controls, but more and
more substitutes of inferior types are being used... The
annual textile allowance per person is absurdly small. One of
the articles most difficult to obtain, even when one possesses
a ration ticket for it, is sewing and monding thread.
Causes of Shortages. Various explanations are given
for t he aoute shortage of food and every other necessity
of life. Some explanations are positive, others speculative.
In Japan Proper the declining number of powered vehieles
and craft to haul produce and fish from producing areas to
urban centers and of ships to move rice, grain and beans
from the Asiatic mainland is generally cited as the chief
cause of the food shortage. It is a fact that trucks and
automobiles have become very scaroe and that most of them
burn charcoal gas instead of gasoline. It is a fact alse
empty and lifeless, an occasional convoy or unescorted
wooden ship being the only visitors. And yet food is being
raised as before it is admitted. What is happening to it?
Where is the former surplus of millions of tons of soybeans,
grain and rice from Manchuria and Korea going to? Most
guesses are that food is being stock-piled by the
Government -- and it is true that rationed rice and grains
are often wormy, suggesting the use of ad stooks. However,
it does not seem logioal that the Japanese Government is
hearding food supplies to the extent of undermining the
health and strength of its great urban population. Very
probably insuperable difficulties in distribution are
doveloping.
Wooden ships. The wooden ship construotion program is
not as sucoessful as Japanese propaganda has led us to
believe. The ships being turned out under this pregram,
200 or 300 tons burden, seem seareely to have caught the
eye of the repatriates or to be accomplishing much in
actuality.
War industries

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
ar industries. It is generally believed that thee
indastries are being kept up and e ven expanded. Otherwise
it is asked, where are all the coal and metals and chemieal
that are apparently being produced in inereasing quantities
but being denied to oivilians going to? Dwellings in
both the Empire and ocoupied China are being stripped of
doorkmobs, iron railings and metal pots and pans, presumably
for munitions production, as they do not return to the
eivilian population in any form.
Occupied China. Literally millions of Japanese have
swarmed over to ocoupied China since the begimning of the
Paeifie War and are engaged chiefly in acquiring and
controlling the mineral, crop, livestook, hide, wool,
tobacco and cotton output in the locality. Japanese controls
and preemptions of this output are causing mounting dis-
content and soarcities. Japanese attempts& conciliation
are ineffective. Chinese contempt for Japanese in their
midst and obstructionism of Japanese activities are growing.
Pacification is not making much headway. If anything,
guerrilla activity is regaining vitality. In general the
whole situation in occupied China is becoming more confused
and heading toward chaos. Development of heavy industries
in Manchuria and North China seems to be continuing, whereas
in central and southern China the Japanese appear to be
interested only in stripping the land of its capital
•quipment and ourrent produotion.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.91)
Division o.
THE FOREIGN SERVICEFAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DUR
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
SC
tment of State
SPA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DEPARTMENT
London, January 29, 1944
No. 13,574
SUBJECT:
Transmitting Gunther Stein's Article
"Japan from the Inslde".
31V!
20
COUNICATIONS
194FE710
NR
ST
19409
5
OEPOEHT
3
F
894.00/1198
The Honorable
2BC
The Secretary of State,
40L
Washington.
18Pa
gww
Sir:
Jwe
2/8/44
2/17/44
I have the honor to transmit copy of a special
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
article, "Japan from the Inside" by Gunther Stein,
Chungking, published in The Manchester Guardian of
January 25, 1944.
SION OF
29 1944
Mr. Stein, whose comment is based upon impressions
obtained from a Chinese escaped from Japan, says that
the attitude of the Japanese people toward the war is
now completely fatalistic. He concludes that early
Allied bombings will have a surprisingly drastic effect
on the overstrained people and that raids will not
stimulate hatred of the enemies but of the Japanese
Government.
N  
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Doasa Sessawaysh
DEPARTMENT
Dorsey Gassaway Fisher
Second Secretary of Embassy
SP
Enclosure:
1/ As stated.
AR 13 1944
Heete sent to DCA
CGI:hjs
OFFICE OF
SPECIAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS
MAR 3 1
DEPARTMENTF ST T

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
PA
JAN 25 1944
JAPAN FROM THE INSIDE
Hope of Victory Lost: People Living in
Fear of Air Raids
From Gunther Stein
CHUNGKING, JANUARY 23.
are making on their physical and
A young Chinese who has escaped
nervous reserves.Children, students,
housewives, shopkeepers, and even
from Tokio, where for years he had
officials are being increasingly mobil-
lived intimately with Japanese of a!l
ised for agricultural work.
sections of the community, gave me
forced to train for two hours every
Most civilians, including women, are
his impressions of the attitude
morning
primitive fire-fighting
towards the war of the Japanese
methods, and prizes are given to those
who can throw water highest from
people. He said it is now completely
buckets.
fatalistic. The hope of victory
The age limit for military service is
vanished from among the masses of
no19. More and more C class men—
those who are of poor physique or
the Japanese people. intellectuals and
essential workers-are
being con-
business men, after the loss of Attu
scribed. so that. for example, the over-
Island and the German defeats.
rowded railways are now exclusively
run by new and inexperienced men
The young Chinese went on:
Sliopkeepers, professional men, officials,
Despair about the future outlook and
and many other civilians are forced to
:he rising fear of heavy Allied air raids
undergo two hours' military training
had caused the first real crisis when I
caily.
ieft Japan in September. This for the
IN SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES
lirst time revealed lack of confidence in
me Government, the Army, and the
The nddle schools nd the univer
Navy. The Government's assurances
tes areivirtualiy miltary campar The
hat the Japanese homeland would never
middle hools ónly Have lessons for two
be attacked were no longer believed.
People realised the pathetic inadequacy
hours a'day, the rest of the time being
of Japan's defences against air raids
devoted to drill. All the college classes
and the almosttotal lact of shelters?
i arts and law were. tobe osed
Realistic reports on the bombings of
January, and even, the scienge sudent
Getmany madé the deepest impression,
have little time fbr their'studles owing
and the warnings from Japanese corre-
totge abaolut priorityof military trains
spondents that the Japanese people must
ing.
Jearn lessons from the fate of Hamburg
Everybod heartily dislikes these
and Berlin: resulted in the frequency of
various services, but discipline is ruty
such remarks as " What can we do 1f the
lessly enforced and some patriotiem is
Government is doing nothing?
gitles will be simply wiped out."
Our
left.
The authoritles have announced that
a suprème eort is to be made this
CONSTANT FEAR
spring and summer in improv.ng the
Similarly the
recen! Government
tion, and pushing forward the drive for
home defences, increasing war produc-
attempt to prepare against panic by
more food. t is ssla that the present
stressing the inevitability of bombings
monthly 'plare putput l 1,500 and is
is having cnly negative results. The
to be rabed to 0o urtn Séptembe.
dangers from the atr are constantly dis-
and that shipbuilding is to be similarly
cussed everywhere. and the fear is
increased.
The owners of small and medium fac-
undisguised
I myselí know familles
tories which have long since been closed
where the children are not allowed to go
because the trade in consumer and ex-
far from their homes on sunny days.
port goods has almost completely died,
The food supplies, especially of the
were told that their machinery would be
cities. are now really insufficient. I. like
collected to enable the arms industrie
many other town dwellers. lived largely
to expand. The. Government's prodse
on the small daily ration of nine ounces
of this new great effort, which it was said
of rice and salted vegetables, which is
would make Japan stronger than ever,
the only food generally available Rice
somewhat allayed the crisis caused by
iincreasingly mixed with other food.
the lack of confdence, but this feeling
I was ways hungry in reeant months.
returned and assumed dangerous pro-
Fish, which used to be Japen's second
portlons when the fears of well-informed
staple food. has almost completely
people were found to be confürmed.
vanished from the cities owing to the
These fears are that the promised
ck of- fshermen and the use of most
shelters will be insuffcient on account
boats for transport.Even of
of the desperate dearth of man-power.
beancurd, which is playing a large part
steel, cement, and even timber; that
in Japanese diet, there is only four
the rise of war production will be insig-
ounces every third day. The monthly
nificant compared with that of the Allies,
rations have been curtailed, and are now
and that the supply situation is still
-meat two ounces, sugar three ounces.
worsening.
and three eggs if available. Fresh vege-
I watched Japan from the inside (con-
tables are extremly scarce in the cities
tinued my (nfórmant). Belleve me,
on account of the shortage of labour and
early Allled bombings will have a sur-
transport.
The lack of clothing is increasing.
prisingly drastic effect on the over-
strained people, whose entire attention
Most manufactured goods are unobtain-
is now focused on the defence of their
able. For months before my departure
lives against air reids. Raids will not
1 was uneble to buy soap.
stimulate hatred of the enemies but of
Apart from the increasing hardships
the Japanese Gavernment. Antl-war
the people are muffering bedly from the
feelng among a downcast people is
tremandous demands the authorities
already general.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.91)
LIAISON OFFICE
JA
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LA
Changking, January 27, 1944
No. 2076
Subject: Exclusive Press Report by Mr. Guenther Stein
to Christian Science Monitor on Conditions
in Japan Prior to September 1943.
2ca
iga
CONFIDENTIAL
28.
8ww
2/18/44
22
ATIONG
9
S
H
TheHonor
V
1U-L
CL
The Seretary of Stote,
124/44
E二
R
FEB
Waghingtou,
2 M/2FA
jww
sir
I have the onor  euclose  e of an exclusive press
report on conditiens in apan ar poscriped  a Chinese student
94.00
who left Jepan in Septerber le4a to Tr. other Stein, Chung-
king correspondent  t eristian Lcience onitor, and tele-
traphed to tie Monitor o January Th, 1944, fter certein sec-
tions had been delete m cerors.r. Stein's informant
reportedly leit Japan rter rauuatiug r luxuoka Imperial
6
University and arrived at me in csrl. in January 1944 after
9
travelline t rougn p orea, anciuria ae mort. Cnila. He is said
now to pe in the emp loy or emerel wen Peng-sneng, general
Chiang Kai-snek's adviser o apenese affairs, and is not avail-
able for further iiterro ation as ne reporiedly has left Chung-
2
king.
Er. Stein stated tnat  o sutmitteo uis repert for pre-
censoring to Jeneral Wane Peng-snen; tnat Jeneral Wang approved
it, and that the ce sors t.ereafter eleten tne sections in-
dicated. The Enbassy finds it difficult to understand why
some of the material was ieleted lut assumes that it was
caused b a desire on the part of t e cenrors not tc single
out for aeletion te comment: ude in re are to the reported
Communist anti-war novement in Japan anc the Jepanese fear
of Russia.
Sumnary. mr. Stein's informant stated tnat early heavy
bombing of Japan woula be most effective and miht cause sur-
prisingly favorable results for the Allies because trere is now.
a possibility of complete collapse of the Japanese peoples!
trust in their Government and Army. Tue Government is now
making desperate attempts to allay popular fears of air raids
and demands for protection by stressing its "supreme efforte"
at strengthenin Jepan's home defenses and also by promisin
a greatly increased output of munitions before the summer 
1944. The Government insists that these efforts will by S-
tember l944 completely change the situation in favor of Japn
Gullible people are regaining confidence. The drive for in
creased war production, especially of airplanes, must ng-taken
serious

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.83)
- 2-
Beriously.  l put t irerart was about 1,bo0
in Setor T  or  er or lea4 is
2,sco. Airerart 1rometion us ubsolute p piority over every-
thing else. Atterpts will be aie to solve tne labor short-
age problen  crepilation o Japenese civilians
and y imporutne mere wopers ror  ouria, Horen and For-
mosepLerrrnore tan ever
fetultie ane ot-or sot   ral. reod snortages
consuners! peas ore  ca ine  creasin ly searce. ilitary
training is ew  set v at sonouls and universi-
ls and offi-
cials are forced to undergo 
militarytraining
dail. Ent or Sumnr
f2r
cricl
Hecto sent to DO▲
C:/er

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.83)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch
No. 2076, January 27, 1944,
American Embassy, Chun ting.
Suristlo for
1, 144.
"IJuct ce 
auchuria and
nortn Ciun in 
rie laies. I visited
To, Yooh,,
cities last
Septomber,
teture of the
situatien isi 
lu ow years in
Litimete eobnct w
cls we too me
sorn aderet
aid
patriote
toe of
Japan le r
ireurstances
ca.ot be
wu weil, speak
e  
ver os 
"Liber.
Lapres-
sion that eri
tive a t a
Allies because bure
definite ot
reverurent
and Army.
ce ceveloped
stronel lastr,
Especiali er
the end or poreler
t
stron
agaiust
aware
the 
were s.ri.
e
theip so
evenoro
s
neavy pomrs.
telwitn
out an lter
ie  cevere
snorts
"oriulr like cteel,
cementa
"Ja. anesees.
  leseribe the
havoc wrougnt Ds AiLien voer
a Ferlin wnion
are known to re ieomur e l vuilt t an apanese
cities, use lenty   peul. ti ueseriptions wi tn
stern warnings to tre Japa..ere people to Lntensify tneir
own air protectien measures. t te pple's reaction is
'what can we do when tue m orities are doie totning? our
cities will simply be wiped out.' Similarly, tne covernnent's
attempt to harden the people's spirit and prep are acainst
panic py recent empnasls on tae plocan 'pombincs of pan
are inevitable' are lhavin only ne ative results. I now
fanilies who gid not permit thoir cuildren to o far from
home on sunny days last summer wnen everyboay constantly
expected air raids. The aan ers of air raids are freely
and constantly discussed in secrecy of fanily circles and
fear was undisguised among friends in universities, factories
and practically all circles whenever they felt free to talk
frankly. At present everybody is expecting materialization
of raids during the clear weather period of the coming summer.
The Government

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.82)
- 2 -
The Goveraneat is now asin lesperete at empts te allay
maniiest pepuler fear: a de anue or r tection y impress
ing then wion Isrpreme erforts! at stretnening Japan's
none defenses, and slso  reetly inereasin output of
munitions between ow a sum ler.he sovernment insists
teat taese sy reme esforts vill  S te cer le44 completely
chance t e stuation in taver  op cer the influence
of tnese pronises ana occa se  eviuence t.at the govern-
ment is radually pre. arie for prove eit of one defenses,
the curve ef coni lenee  lli: le peop le in teeir Govern-
ment was aain rt w en teft we contre in September.
e eonLe irel cetered en
come deteuser, me ory sevelopments in
or less i rAl iearan will toke
place earlreee ruction
proerams ore ey Step,otlow ese or te
severon
rvulsi
ople
tomestie werr
clear
o e uefe ses
is inadeguate
Allie
air otfersive
shtere
and espectalted large
seale su lies
ieror
Fromoreao
el rer
se1 tu
to rre
sovero
trous ree eroweetets
of wooe Lixee munt tre
early staes  f war.
terthods
of impreatie w etnre-stie ee leals
remain onaper.  tlen faetories nave
recently ve uitsl  s, uc old factories
nave peen rerove  re e ere else
toetrer and fo  rets ers. From tese
viewpointsoLeftears
ao. Greatest sis cireli: tin. civilians,
even women, are reed  t tors very morin
from five to seven.
nvetois are anaruc
terized by tihe fact tat tre m ritier ure ivie prizes
to tnose wno are t le  t row woter  e  nest out or
ouckets.
"It seems t et o Je anese ertort of reatly lncreasing
war production, es cuisli aes, ust e taken seriously.
I was tol reliatl t at en left cepan n September
the nonthly output  all tpes oi aircraft was apout 1,500
while vhe aim for tne sum er o. le44 is 2,bo0. All evidence
shows tnat aircraft production is mavin apsolute priority
over everything else and tre increase is attenpted ruthlessly
with all available means. Similarly it was intended to almost
double the cutput of warships urin the trim drive for in-
creased production of all essential war ...aterials wnich was
to start

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.80)
- 3 -
to start t is omar and reae  curi te comine
summer.
ortlreeies and werksnops
producint consumerst ede  r omestie peeas and exports
were already closeu cown  b ce of lya2, partly in order
to set labor free ior war   dustries, partly on account of
shortace of raw aterials, fuel and electrieity. Just before
I left the owners of se: ractories and work shops were
advised trat iale aesry s now i sed in the creat
effort or setti soiui mal itr e most i portant
pra cher o
ion o existi
latsf thie uer's
Poeton oriv  pel terree problem or
Lor ore li ats
a mreaee
ee For factory
laber . fresh
raaorosan
worerso
tories e:  ie
t,
20
C
tho
vinal coump
ratiowierel
reatdie
require cl
sort
eti
1
spric
reregtest,
in oreerv
ses
til
roiertly
in tne overnenu's des eree r
c afidence. lut tne ar
poret
cerestimnted teliev
e con Stper ta se Allied
embis wl a reese
people in t e suthoris 
l's tal de
fense end armamens e: forts."
snepore
 esee ser,tileetlsenae
loss ofAtula attitude
towerd e wer s  vtii. ie. ot lesi
tate  saying that a ti-war  tin is o eral
altiuh ore
D
B
tarked in reeara to b war an  ainst the
E
Y
Western Allied. t the peopl are t loscly watcneu y
L
the police, too stumed y tre  nexpected torn o: events
E
C
and danger or air bomoings to treir own lives, ane cc erally
T
E
too cowed and nabicuelly too oveulunt to ar to express their
E
N
feelines puplicly and to oppose the overment actively. It
D
S
is cnaracteristic for the fatalistic moon of Japanese civilians
0
that even privately tney are not uisc:sin the desire to
R
shape the

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.79)
sneet
l stetore tor  eapeetee
aefoot.
ritel
at t
ile
sote bLiev
aree r c ode of
opaese iervd en wno nave
no riht o expeet lire ter tm we  eretore do not
thinx of it. i ilurl. rierr w tous reel Justiried
in indulgin in all sort: of vice aurine their snort holiday
of death durine wi, thej elleve, the m eror wants them
to have comurts', l
Lo nd ell otner winds
 escspe vecnanism of
civiliens it
P war Lnous-
tries, t at
 nd all
articl
ey c
serld.
L.'L
 ve toply
D
E
L
E
"A
T
E
1
D
t
t5
E
art
ti
2
1ut1
()
exslu..
R
AP
Pecllaer
95
recc..bij
aione
app: reat r
showine res: eat
  l.
"or ell fo
 areislie
the most ad ae t  e .   
existce 
it Ls corsllee tere Sern accador
tt weat le  
"The ceath  t rt ose st leader Sei akano
was not suicide.
 war leu y To uus is Western
style raseist cre isotio was ow: and e stronly criti-
clzed one cover t, ceorl r  teiet coupera
tion with tne Axis pert ere when ne psored.
"An increasingl, low pirit ic also caused y crowing
hardships of tie people. while 1ood sup: lies In small towns
and villages are restricted ut still more or less sufricient,
the shortage in cities is Lettine worse on account of bad
distribution

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.77)
- 5 -
distrimution s ,e ether city people,
livee larel  rice  les ad was always
hungry altoug evi et enm weer teine mhe varely
sufricient rice ration remaluee enar en tast car or so
but rice is ow i creasingly mixed with Leans and corn which
people dislike.eat pations  c loas ave ceen curtailed
to about one-tenth, vein only a ot two ounces prmonth now.
Instead or ne maer vation  l t  cr ontly the
ration is cow t ree if veilai le.  out ly su ar ration
is taree oees. ven cen rd  rs a lere role in
1l ays cacn
sonth, ese  nrees if  ler nre suprieient.
radishes a ve etat reely aveil-
able atnelso
narcl
ortae
ofwer
recot
ceti 
1010
e lue
cods
are o
are
was
et cetere, we
shors eree
..
ariveseo
v. i tn-
sitar
to  ero wor
t also
11l
ren,s:t,e
rilt
aslin
le
eectle
1
E
1
Ary wos roer. ly loweros
re esses
tial worher faet ries
lties
lssof
ef evlians r to ute  o soer a tly
two cours o: es on. oail
e re alin tme reie deyliter trni.
in
uriversities al classes of urte  l were te ce cissolved
by tr is  e ary. All students re et in the raltest mili-
tary trai lile w ieh leaves relel: vely lit: le time ror useful
stucies like e in erine, c e irtr, et cetere. niversities,
colleces and schools are low ali virtrall, military canps.
Even suopleepers, certain pperessionels ad ofricials are
forced to nave two ours aa ily ilitar. trainine in the
evenines. Students ane all otuers p rsenally dislike it
but discipline is most strictly aiorced aic jou must not
forget tnat some patriotism is still left in them.
Japanese

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.82)
- 6 -
"Japanese people ow lit le  te no uin snipping
losses, apart irom toe lact tnet consideraul fewer ships
are calling at port: t an formerly, just like trains are fewer
and first and second class tr ins ave  se auolisned and
passenger cars are unbelievably overcrowuee. Practically
no ships co to Snangnai from the uert: d even comnuni-
cations witn Manenuria are steauily wersenine.
"many people of m acauatntance are mawere of the fate
of family ombere   Amy, y  e unt arine,
who Lo ao e
 erally be-
Lieved une prev
t es urposely
aelay ivin
totailies
rop he e tat
Cr
 pirit.I
know or patnetic cures
supporters, pot
cai pen-
tal narosnips.
" have wat
a ororthar
Japanese.
'eliov
a. eesily nave
surprisinciylarcei.tco
edlo ose
entire avtention is
 ear lives
aLainst air raias.
a tent tat
air raids wi ll have
atco
against tie enemies
or at,
tre war nas lasted
t.om."

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 19, 1944
With Chungking's underlying despatch
no. 2109 of February 2, 1944 there 1s
attached a copy of a despatch from Mr. Drum-
right on detail at Sian enclosing a copy
of his memorandum of conversation with a
Chinese student who left Tokyo on October 26,
1943. In regard to the informant, Mr. Drum-
right states "Mr. Chiao, in my opinion, 1s
one of the most intelligent and sound Chi-
nese observers of Japanese conditions I
have had the opportunity of meeting, not-
withstanding his youth."
This memorandum contains one of the most
interesting and useful accounts of conaitions
in Japan during 1943 which have come to JA's
attention. It is recommended that it be read
by all officers of FE.
The memorandum is adequately summarized
in Mr. Drumright's covering despatch. In
addition, for those who do not have time to
read the complete memorandum, the paragraph
on page 1 entitled "Attitude of people in
Japan" is recommended. The final two para-
graphe on page 4 may also be of interest.
JA:Behninghoff:MLS

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.92)
IA
A
EMBASSY OF THE
A
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DeRe
Chungking, February 2, 1944.
No. 2109
Subject: Conditions in Japan prior to November  13.
nop.f.le
Diviston of
DOR/O
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1194
Recording Desk
M1D.23
FEA.OSS 2
The Seretary of State,
JA
E
Mahington, D. C.
2
12-2G
3
π
12
MAR21
SSir
DFPA
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 2076, January 27, 1944, in regard to conditions in
1/
Japan prior to September, 1943, and to enclose a copy of
dospatch No. 11, January 24, 1944, from the Secretary on
detail at Sian, containing an account of conditions in
894.00/1200
94.00
Japan as described by a Chinese student who left that
country on November 2, 1943.
The enclosed despatch, which is adequately summarized,
confirms much of the information contained in the reference
dpatch and contains new material such as information on
the removal of civilians from strategic coastal areas, em-
pyment of Occideutal war prisoners as stevedores at Niiga-
and comnents on shipping at Nii ata and Rashin, Korea.
DIV
Respectfully yours,
1944
am
C. E. Gauss
Encldsure:
1/ Despatch from Secretary, Sian,
No. 11, January 24, 1944.
Single copy to the Department.
800 Jap
LIBERATED
CHB/hcr
MAR: 1944
PS
/BMB
271944

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. l to Despatch
No. 2109, February 2, 1944,
American Embassy, Chungking.
Second Secretary on detail at Sian,
January 24, 1944.
No. 11
SubJeot: CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
The Honorable
C. E. Gauss,
Amerioan Ambassador,
Chungking.
Sir:
I heve the honor to enclose, as of probable interest
to the Embassy, a memorandum prepared on the basis of a
conversation had on January 22, 1944, with a Chinese
student recently arrived from Japan. I believe that my
informant is reasonably well informed on Japanese conditions
and developments and that his comments thereon, as I have
recorded them, are worthy of interest.
Summary of memorandum. The enlightened section of the
Japanese populace 1s pessimistic over the future of the war.
The unmalightened section, fed by the propaganda of the
Japanese militarists, is still confident of victory. Fear
of the might of Russia and the United States is growing.
Repression of the liberties of the Japanese people is
stringent. Induotion of students into military service
started in September l943. Civilians were removed from
strategio coastal areas in July or August 1943. Civilians
are dispersing from populated centers in anticipation of
air raids. Rationing of food and clothing is general.
Many essential articles are unobtainable. The populace is
generally underfed. There is an acute shortage of manpower,
made up in part by the general employment of women in all
kinds of work. Occidentals vere seen working on the docks
at Niigata. Colonists are still goins to Manohuria.
Respectfully yours,
Everett F. Drumright
Second Secretary of Embassy
on detail at Sian
Enclosure:
1/ Memorandum

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.98)
MEMORANDUM
SubJeot: CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
I had a long conversation today with a Mr. Chiao
Wen-sheng (who because he has a family residing in Peiping
whe has spent the past two years in a Tokyo preparatory
engimeering college. He left Tokyo October 26, l943. Mr.
Chiao said that he had kept a comprehensive diary while in
turning to China. Mr. Chiao, in my opinion, is one of the
most intelligent and sound Chinese observers of Japanese
conditions I have had the opportunity of meeting, notwith-
standing his youth.
Attitude of people in Japan. The people of J pan (
according to Mr. Chiao) must be divided into two general
classfrioations for purposes of identifying their attitude:
(1 those with eduoation and enlightenment who are to be
found in the cities for the most part; ind (2 the unlettered
or rathor unlightened who are for the most part to be found
residing in thecountry districts. There is a general reali-
zation among the intelligentsia end persons with perception
that Japan is doomed to ultimate defeat. Their attitude is
one of deep gleom and foreboding for the future. This
attitude is general among educators, merchants, professional
people, et cetera. In the country among the lower classes.
however, the prevailing spirit is one of optimism. Here the
people are intoxicated with the propeganda of the Hapanese war
machine. They expeot a long but victorious war. They are not
yet conscious of the trend towerd defeat. With the defeat of
Italy, the gloom and pessimism among the middle and upper
olasses in Japan has deepened perceptibly. But even though
defeat is regarded as inevitable among people of peroeption,
there is no evidenee at this time of a trend toward surrender
or capitulation. The spirit is rather one of grim sacrifice,
to go forward to death, sadly it is true, yet tdthigrim resolve
and detormination to die for Emperor end country. At the
countless receptions held for those joining the colors the
general atmosphere is one of sedness mingled with tears and
there is muoh talk of going to the front to meet death.
Growing fear of Russia. The fear among the Jepanese of
Russia is deep and growing (according to Mr. Chiao).
United States regarded as strong foe. The Japanese
people are coming to realize that they have met a strong and
redoubtable foe in the United States (according to Mr. Chiao).
Fear of the enormous production records of the United States
prevails and is used by the Japanese militarists as a club
to foster inereasing production in Japan. Gone is the
feeling that the people of the United States were too soft
and luxury-loving and peace-loving to make the effort required
to defeat the Axis Powers. Intelligent Japanese now easily
pereeive that the Japanese militarists miscalouleted in regard
to the mmrtial spirit and energy of the United States.
Britain regarded as secondary foe. Great Britain's
military power 1s regarded by Japanese as being secondary to
that ef the United States and Russia (according to Mr. Chiao),
pessibly beeause British pewer is so far removed from the
theatre of the Paeifie confliot.
messien ef Japeneze moale. The Japanese people are
Then

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
re is no freedom of speech and control of the press and
ublieations is most rigid. The people are reluctant to
diseuss the war in public. Plainclothesmen are to be found
everywhere. The Japanese radio is almost wholly devoted to
the dismomination of propagande, and the trend of the press
im inereasingly in this direction. It is the purpose or this
in the announeement of war communiques and diseussions. The
poople, of Japan have no way of knowing precisely about war
devolopments.
Induetion of students. Japanese middle school and
colloge students were not1ried September 15, l943 that those
over 21 must report for military service. Those studying
soienee and allied subjects were exempted. At the same time
announoemont was made that Japanese males between the ages
of 17(?) and 45 must report for consoription, whether for
induotion into military service or for labor. Those working
in eertain defined unessential occupations were notified that
they eould no longer serve in such occupations. These ineluded
barbers, bath house attendents, et cetera. Students reported
for physical examinations on September 25, 1943, and by the
latter part of October 1943 middle schools were partially
deserted and colleges even more vacant. Many sohools were
ferced to elose and in others edmeation was seriously hampered.
Many students left the colleges reluctantly. Care had to be
taken to prevent prospeotive induotees from various walks of
life from fleeing with a view to avoiding military life.
Removal of civilians from coastal areas. In July or August
1943 all civilians living in proximity to the obest of Japan in
the vicinity of military zones were required to remove therefrom.
Dispersal of civilians from populated centers. There is
fear In Japan of enemy eir attacks. It 1s prevalent among the
people, many of whom are dispersing to the country.
Economie conditions in Japan. Rationing is general, both
for food and elething. Clothing is rationed on a point system
of l00 points per year, of which an overcoat takes 63 points,
a pair of sox 3 points et cetera. Cotton cloth is unprocurable.
Wool is not available. The bilk of the Japanese people now wear
olothing made of rayon or silk. The Japanese people are becoming
shabby in appearance. The rayon clothing is not durable. There
is no leather for shoes which are now made of fish skin. The
steres are now depleted of stocks of goods. Several of the
large Tekyo department stores have had to close all but one or
twe floors because of dwindling supplies of goods. There is
very little produetion of consumer goods in Japan teday, the
faetories having been converted to the produetlon of war
materials. Most shops are selling stocks previously held.
There is no rubber for the Japanese people and also ne gasoline.
All shipping is devoted to the transport of war supplies and
persensel. The Japanese people are reseiving no material
benefit frem the seizure or the resourees of the south seas.
The Jepanese people are seriously underfed because the food
obtaimed by may of ratieaing is insuffieient and poor in quality.
bally Im the cities, In 1943 a typieal diet consisted er
Ths prekwestem ef sweet potatees has been eneeuraged

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
go. Only a handful of cers may be seen operating in Jepan
these are reserved for military or other offieial use.
oh buses as there are are powered with charooal, not gaseline.
rem January or February 1943 those Japanese fortunate enough
obtain rice had to start eating the unpolished variety. The
use of polished rice was forbidden from that time. Trawel by
plane in Japan is reserved solely for official use. There is
no longer coal in Japan for heating purposes. Schools, shops,
publie offiees and the like are no longer heated. There is a
great seareity.of metals of all kinds. All sorap metal has
Iong sinee been gathered for military use. There is an acute
shortage of paper. Books are extremely scarce. There have been
no new books printed, that is, text books, sinoe 1938. The
railmays are not exceptionally crowded and continue to run on
time; the same applies to the electric tram service which
funetions with its old time efficiency. Wood is increasingly
used in place of metal.
Foreigners working on docks. Mr. Chiao stated that when
he went to embark on the Hakmsan Maru(@/i/乙) at Niigata, on
the west coast of Japan, on November 2, 1943, to return to
China, he saw working on the docks about 200 or more foreigners.
He said that these foreigners were wearing trousers of a deep
blue color, worn brown leather shoes, old felt hats. Each
foreigner had a number on the outer clothing on his back.
These foreigners, that is, Occidentals, appeared to range
between 20 and 40 years of age, according to Mr. Chiao. They
were performing ordinary coolie dook work. Mr. Chiao said
that when he witnessed them they were unloading iron ore from
flat cars and placing it into warehouses. They were also
pushing flatoars on which the iron ore had been transported.
Mr. Chiao said that he saw e Japanese with e long heavy club
in his hand supervising the foreigners in their work. This
Japanese issued his commands in Japanese to the foreigners.
Mr. Chiao said that he did not see the foreigners talking
among themselves at any time vhen under his observation. He
said he could not ascertain their nationality. He said that
they looked tired and thin, and that they were working in the
rain. He stated that the Japanese overseer wore a rubber rain-
coat while the foreigners wore nothing more than a fiber
matting over their shoulders (common among coolies in China
and Japam) to proteot them from the rain.
Shortage of manpower in Japan: employment of women. Mr.
Chiao Said that Japan is suffering from an acute manpower
shortage. He said that this is reflected espeeially in
deereased agrioultural production and the chronie shortage
of foodsturfs. The number of women working in the faetories
and shops, on communieations, and on the ferms has reached a
new high. He reported that 60 per cent of the railway workers
are new eomprised of women. They now pull the few rlekshaws
left in Japan. Mr. Chiao said that apart from the foreigners
emgleyed in doek work at Niigata virtually all other doek
workbrs were women.
Trim from Japan to China Mr. Chiao said that he had to
aly Severel times to the Tokye poliee before they would
asmit kim to leave Tekye. They finally gave him a pass when

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
tas of about 1200 tons in size. All three ships were
a gray and bore no identifying marks. His vessel
 no guns. In the harbor there were a great mmny
ng wooden vesmels and barges. Mr, Chiao maid that
with passengers. He estimated the number at 1200 to
and said that of these no less than a thousand were
ants appeared to be sick, tired and hungry, and wore
en or little children. Mr. Chiao observed that one
a time when that country is in the throes of an acute man-
power shortage is that it is easier to feed them in Manohuria.
Mr. Chiae said that during the journey across to Rashin,
Koree, everyone had his lifebelt besided him at all times.
Mr. Chiao maid that the voyage from Niigata to Rashin took
53 hours. As their ship arrived in port at 6 a.m. of November
5, 1943, a small vessel about the size of the Hakusan Maru
was seen leaving Rashin. l'here were no other vessels in port
at that time. There were numerous tugs and barges in the
harber, however. Mr. Chiao said that once ashore in Rashin
he observed a great number of what appeared to be new ware-
houses all of which were camouflaged. He said that he saw
several factory chimneys at Rashin. Mr. Chiao remarked that
the Chinese population in Rashin has dwindled to about 300
persons. From Rashin Mr. Chiao traveled by railway through
Changehun and Shanhaikuan to Peiping. He reported that the
railway is now double-tracked along the entire route. He
reported that the exit of people at  hanhaikuan is olosely
controlled and that none may go south unless in possession
of-passes. Mr. Chiao remarked that the examination of
Japanese at Rashin and Shanhaikuan was partioularly stringent
owing to the penchant of Japanese to endeevor to avoid
military service.
General view of conditions in Japan. Mr. Chiao expressed
the viow that Japanese internal conditions are such that Japan
will probably collapse within another year. He summed up the
chler problems confronting the Japanese as (1 shortage of
food and daily commodities, and (2 shortage of manpower. He
said that the Japanese had controlled commodity prioes with
remmrkable sueeess, so much so, in fact, that there were no
longer eemmodities on the markets.
Mr. Chiao expressed the view that the Japanese people
are not yet ready to eapitulate. But he said that a few
deeisive Allied victories over the Japanese Army will probably
result in the fall of the Tojo cabinet and a revision of
attitwee. Mr, Chiao remarked in this general conneetiem that
it is commen kmowledge in Japan that an underground struggle
is eonstantly going on between the politioians and the
milfteriste on the one hand, and the Army and Navy on the
otmer. In short, it is Mr. Chiao's view that conditions in
ganeral in Japan are far worse than most outsiders seem te
regard them as being.
B.P. D.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STAIES OF AMERICA
Chungking, February 2, 1944.
No. 2109
Subjoct: Conditions in Jepan prior to November
1943.
palfles
The Honorable
2
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Eibassy's despatch
No. 2076, January 27, 1044, in reteru to conu1tions in
1/
Japan prior to september, 1943, ana to enclose a copy of
despatch No. 11, January 24, :944, from the Secretarj on
detail at Sian, coitainin, an account of conditions in
D
Japan as described by a Chinese stuaent who left that
country on Hovember , 1943.
The enclosed des atch, wich is adequately sunnarized,
confirms much of te inforration ecntainei  tc reference
despetch and contains new eterial such as iniormation on
the removal of civiiians fron sirate ic coastal areas, on-
ployment of Jccidetal wer prisoners as stevedores at iiga-
ta anu comnents on sli pin ut ii, ata aa Sashin, orea.
Respectfully jpurs,
C.Eaus
Encldsure:
1/ Despatch from Secretary, Sian,
No. 11, January 21, 1044
Single copy to the Department.
800 Jap
CHB/hcr
PS
/DVB

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatoh
No. 2109, February 2, 1944,
American Lnbassy, Chungking
Second Seoretary on detail at Sian,
January 24, 1944.
No. 11
SubJeot: CONJITIONS IN JAPAN
The Honorable
C. E. Causs,
Amerioan Ambessador,
Chuneking.
Sir:
I have the honor to nclose, us of probable interest
to the Embassy, a memorandum preptreu on the besis of a
conversat1on had on January 22, 1944, v1th a Chinese
student recently arrived fro! Jepan. I believe thet my
informent is reesonably well informed on Jartnese conditions
and developments end that his comients thereon, as I heve
recorded them, ere vworthy of interest.
Surmary of memorandum. he enlishtened section of the
Japenese populace is pessimistic over the future of the wer.
The unenlightened section, fed by the propeganda of the
Japenese militarists, is still confident of victory. Fear
of the might of ussia and the linited States is growing.
Repression of the liberties of the Japenese people is
stringent. Inauction of students into militery service
sterted in cpteater 1943. 1viliens were removed from
streteg1c coustal areas in July or supust 1943. Civilians
are dispersin fror. populeted centers in anticipation of
air raids. Rationing of food cnd clothing 1s general.
Many essentinl articles are unobteineble. !he populace is
generelly underfed.  here is un acute shortege of manpower,
mede up in part by che general eploynent of women in all
kinds of work. (ccicentels vere seen working on the docks
at Niigete. Colonists are still oins to :anchuria.
iespectfully yours,
Everett F. Drumright
econd Secretary of Embassy
on detail et ian
Enclosure:
1/. Memorandum
71

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
MEMORANDUM
SUJOOT: CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
I had a long conversation today with a Nr. Chiao
on-sheng (who because he has a family resicing in Peiping
requests that his name not be given in case this material
1 made publio). Mr. Chiao is a Chinese student, aged 22,
ho hes spent the past two years in a Tokyo preparatory
engineering college. He left Tokyo Ootober 26, 1943. Mr.
aniao said that he had kept a comprehensive diary while in
Japan, but had burned it when he was on the point of re-
turning to China. Ir. Chiao, in my opinion, is one of the
most intelligent and sound Chinese observers of Japanese
conditions I have had the opportunity of meeting, notwith-
standing his youth.
Attitude of people in Japan. The people of Jppan (
acoording to Mr. Chiao) must be divided into two general
clessirioations for purposes of identifying their attitude:
(1 those with eduoation and enlightenment vho are to be
found in the cities for the most part; end (2 the unlettered
or rather unlightened who are for the most part to be found
residing in thecountry districts. There 1s a general reali-
zation among the intelligentsia and persons with perception
that Japan 1s coomed to ultimate defeat. Their attitude is
one of deep gloom end forebooing for the future. This
attitude is general emong educators, merchants, professional
people, et cetera. In the country among the lower classes.
however, the preveiling spirit is one of optimism. Here the
people are intoxicated with the propaganda of the Japanese war
machine. They expect a long but viotorious war. They are not
yet conssious of the trend towerd defeat. 1th the defeat of
Italy, the gloom and pessimism amons the aiddle and upper
classes in Japan has deepened peroeptibly. But even though
defeat is regarded as inevitable among people of perception,
there is no evidence at this time of a trend toward surrender
or capitulation. The spirit is rather one of grim sacrifice,
to go forward to death, sadly it is true, yet withicrim resolve
and determination to die for Emperor and country. At the
countless receptions held for those joining the colors the
general atmosphere is one of saaness mingled with teers and
there is much talk of going to the front to meet death.
Growing fear of Russia. The fear cmone the Jepenese of
Russia is deep and growing (according to r. Chiao).
United States regarded as strong foe. The Japanese
people are ooming to realize that they have met a strong and
rodoubtable foe in the United States (according to Mr. Chiao).
Fear of the enormous produotion record of the United tates
prevails and is used by the Japanese militarists as a club
to foster inoreasing production in Japan. Gone is the
feeling that the people of the United States were too soft
and luxury-loving and peace-loving to make the effort required
to defeat the Axis Powers. Intelligent Jepanese now easily
peroeive that the Japanese militarists miscaloulated in regard
to the martial spirit and energy of the United States.
Britain regarded as secondary foe. Grent Britain's
militery power is regarded by Japanese as being secondary to
of the United States and Russia (according to Mr. Chieo).
Mimly beeause British power is so far removed from the
atro of the Pecifio confliot.
rossion of Japanese people. The Japanese people are
to the very rigid oontrol or the Japanese militarists.
There

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.97)
-2~
There is no freedom of speech and control of the prese and
publications is most rigid. The people are reluctant to
dimeuss the war in publio. Plainclothesmen are to be found
everywhere. The Japanese radio is almost wholly devoted to
the dissemination of propeganda, and the trend of the press
fm inereasingly in this direction. It is the purpose of this
propaganda to sustain the martial spirit and morale of the
Japanese people. There is complete disregard or the truth
in the announcement of war communiques and discussions. 'The
people of Japan have no way of kmowing precisely about war
developmonts.
Inauction of students. Jepanese middle sohool and
colloge students were notiried September 15, 1943 thet those
over 21 must report for militery service. Those studying
soience and ellled subjects were exempted. At the same time
announoement was mede that Japanese males between the ages
of 17(?) and 45 must report for oonscription, whether for
induotion into military service or for lebor. Those working
in certain cerined unessentiel occupations were notified that
they could no longer serve in suoh occupations. These included
barbers, bath house attendents, et cetera. students reported
for physical examinations on september 25, 1943, and by the
latter part of ctober 1943 middle schools were partially
deserted and colleges even more vacant. 'any sohools were
forced to close and in others education was seriously hampered.
Many students left the colleges reluctantly. Care had to be
taken to prevent prospective inductees from verious walks of
life from fleeing with a view to avoiding military life.
Removal of civilians from coastal areas. In July or Auguet
1943 all civilians living in proximity to the obest of Japan in
the vicinity of military zones were required to remove thorefrom.
Dispersal of civilians from populated centers. There is
fear In Japen of enemy eir attacks. It is prevalent among the
people, many of whom ere dispersing to the country.
Economic conditions in Japan. rationing is general, both
for food and clothing. Clothing is rationed on a point system
of lo0 points per year, of which an overcoat takes 63 points.
a pair of sox 3 points et cetera. Cotton cloth is unprocurable.
Wool 1s not available. The bilk of the Japanese people now wear
olothing mede of reyon or silk. The Jepanese people are becoming
shabby in appearance. The reyon clothing is not durèble. There
is no leanher for shoes whioh are now made of fish skin. The
stores ere now depleted of stocks of goods. Several of the
large Tokyo department stores have had to close all but one or
two floors beoause of dwindling supplies of foods. There is
very little production of consumer roods in Japen today, the
factories havin: been oonverted to the produotion of war
materials. Most shops are selling stocks previously held.
There is no rubber for the Japanese people and also no gasoline.
All shipping is devoted to the transport of wer supplies and
personnel. The Japanese people are receiving no material
benefit from the seizure of the resouroes of the south seas.
The Japanese people are seriously underfed because the food
obteined by way of ratioking is insufricient and poor in quality.
There is very little rice available for the Japanese people,
espeeially in the cities. In l943 a typieal diet consisted of
gruel made of sweet potatoes, wheat flour and Indian corn
baaed. The produotlon of sweet potatoes has been enoouraged
sleally no meat in Japan for civilian consumption. The
before

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
are. Only a handful of cars may be seen operating in Jat
and theme are reserved for military or other ofriciel us
From January or Fobruery l943 those Japanese fortunate smough
to abtain rice had to start eating the unpolished variety. Th
use of polished rioe was forbidden from that time. Travel r
plane in Japan is reserved solely for official use. There is
no longer coal in Japan for heeting purposes. Sohools, shops
publio offioes and the like are no longer heated. There is a
kreat soaroity of metals of all kinds. All scrap metal has
long sinoe been gathered for military use. There is an aeute
shortage or paper. Books ame extremely scarce. There have been
no new books printed, that is, text tooks, since 1938. The
railways are not exceptionally crowded and continue to run on
time; the same applies to the electrio tram service which
functions with its ola time efficiency. Wood is increasingly
used in place of metal.
Foreigners working on docks. r. Chieo steted that when
he went to embark on the lakmsan aru(/i/) et Niigata, on
the west coast of Jepan, on November 2, 1943, to return to
Chine, he saw working on the docks about 2oo or more foreigners.
He said that these foreigners wcre wearing trousers of a deep
blue color. worn brown leather sroes. old felt hets. Each
foreigner had a number on the outer clothing on his back.
These foreigners, that is, Occidentals, erpeared to range
between 20 and 4o years of age, accorcins to r. Chiao. They
were performing orcinery coolie dock work. ?r. Chieo said
that when he witnessed them they were unloeding iron ore from
flat oars and plaoing it into warehouses. They were elso
pushing flatcars on which the iron ore had been trensported.
Mr. Chiao said thet he saw e Japanese with e long heavy club
in his hand supervising the foreigners in their work. This
Japenese issued his commands in Japanese to the foreigners.
Mr. Chiso said that he did not see the foreifners talking
among themselves at any time  hen under his observation. Ho
said he could not ascertain their nationelity. He said that
they looked tired and thin, and thet they were working in the
rain. He stated thet the Jepanese overseer wore a rubber rain-
coat while the foreigners vore nothing more than a fiber
matting over their shoulders (common among coolies in China
and Japan) to protect them from the rain.
Shortage of manpower in Jepan; employment of women. Mr.
Chiao said tet Japan Is sufferint from an acute manpower
shortage. He sni rhat this is reflected espeoially in
decreased agrioultural production and the chronic shortage
of foodstuffs. "he number of women working in the factories
and shops, on communications, and on the ferms has reaohed a
new high. He reported thet 60 per cent of the railway workers
are now oomprised of women. They now pull the few riokshaws
left in Japan. Mr. Chiao said that apart from the foreigners
employed in dook work at Niigata virtually all other dook
workers were women.
Trip from Japan to China. Mr. Chiao said that be had to
apply meveral times to the Tokyo poliee before they would
permit him to leave Tokyo. They finelly geve him a pass when
he told them that he had to return to Peiping to see his siok
other. He was allowed to take with him 200 yen for travel
e. He traveled by rail from Tokyo to Niigata on the west
2. l943. There was no advance notirication of me1l-
going on shipboard Mr. Chiao said that he maw only
mell freight vessels in port. He said the Hakusan

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
was of about 1200 tons in size. Al1 three ships were
mounted no guns. In the harbor there were a great many
tugs towing wooden vessels and barges. I'r. Chiao said that
on this partioular voyage the Hakusan Naru was absolutely
moked with passengers. He estimated the number at 1200 to
13o0 and said that of these no less than a thousand were
Japanese emigrants moving into Manchurie. Many of the
emigrants appeared to be siok, tired and hungry, and wore
1ittle more than rags. The ma jority were either old men and
women or little ohildren. Ir. Chiao observed thet one
reason why these people are being forced to leave Japan at
a time when that country is in the throes of an aoute man-
power shortage is that it is easier to feed them in Manchuria.
Mr. Chiao said that uuring the journey across to Rashin.
Korea, everyone had his lifebelt besided him at all times.
Mr. Chiao said thet the voyage from Niigata to hashin took
53 hours. As their ship arrived in port at 6 a.n. of November
5, 1943. a smal1 del about the size of the Hakusen Maru
wes seen leaving Rashin. here were no other vessels in port
at that time. There were numcrous tugs and barges in the
harbor, however. r. Chiao said that once ashore in Rashin
he observed a great number of what appeered to be new ware-
houses all of which were camoufleged. He said that he saw
several factory chimneys at vashin. 'r. Chiao remerked that
the Chinese population in Rashin hes dwindled to about 300
persons. From Rashin  r. Chieo traveled by reilway through
Changohun and Shanhaikuan to Ie1ping. te reported that the
railway is now double-tracked along the entire route. He
reported that the exit of people at  hanhaikuan is olosely
controlled and that none may o south unless in possession.
of paases. Mr. Chiao remarked that the examination of
Japanese at Rashin and Shanheikuan was particularly stringent
owing to the penchent of Japenese to endeevor to cvoid
military service.
General view of conditions in Jepan. r. Chiao expressed
the view that Japanese Internal conditions are such thet Japen
will probably collapse within another yeer. le sumed up the
chief problems confronting the Japanese as (1 sh:orttg• of
food and daily commodities, end (2 short: ge of manpower. He
said that the Japanese had controlled com ouity prices with
remarkable suoeess, so much so, in fact, that there vere no
longer commodities on the marksts.
Mr. Chiao expressed the view thet the Japanese people
are not yet ready to capitulate. But he said that a fow
decisive Allied viotories over the Jepanese Army will probebly
result in the fall of the Tojo cabinet end e revision of
attitude. Mr. Chiao remarked in this generel conneotion that
it is common kmowledge in Japan that an underground struggle
1s constantly going on between the politioians and the
militarists on the one hand, and the Army and Navy on the
other. In short, it is Mr. Chiao's view that conditions in
ganeral in Japan are far worse than most outsiders seem to
regard them as being.
E. F. D.
Sian, Shensi
"Jenuary 22, 1944.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Division of
FAR EASTERN MFAIRS
321944
Depa tment of State
FRQM
GLR-914
Loscow
This telegram must be
paraphrased before being
Dated February 22, 1944
communicaced to anyone
other than a Government
Rec'd 2:25 p.m., 23rd.
agency. (BR)
drletHison
Secretary of State
Hashington
588, February 22, 1 p.m.
loscow press for February 2e reported Asahi's publica-
804.00/1201
tion of official communiquE regarding confirmation of 29
laws passed by last Japanese parliament session imposing
significantly increased taxes.
Second Tokyo item reports Tojo's assumption of chief
general staff post in placε of Sugiyama with Usiroku as
assistant, replacement of Nagano by Simada as chief of
operations of JapanesE Navy, appointment of Siojiro as
commander in chief of central military district.
(1)
/RA
H.RRIMI.N
WSB
C
FEB 28 1944
FILED
2

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.96)
.DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DBCEXIOR
Liberated Areas Division
January 28, 1944
To:.
FE - r. Johans
894.00/1201 W2
From:
LA - Mr. Moffat 
Enclosed are the minutes of the last meeting of
the Ad Hoo Committee of the Naval Office for Occupied
Areas. If you have any corments, will you let me know
so that I can notify Captain Fence who sined the note
of transmittel?
I was sent only two copies and the other oopy I
have sent on to Mr. 3lekeslee. Cen you have your secre-
tary copy such parts as you want to keer for your files
and then return the enclcsed to me?
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
Attaohment.
MAY 181949
FILED
LA:ALlismeb

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.95)
D IN FE/JA
SECRET
MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE
AD HOC COMV ITTEE TO COFSIDER THE
PROPOSED TOLITICAL DIRECTIVE FOR THE MILITARY
GOVTRNMENT OF THE JAPANESE MANDATED ISLANDS
IN THE CENTRAL PACIFIC
HELD ON THURSDAY, 2O JANUARY 1944
T
A soecial meeting of the Ad Hoc Comrittee to consider
M
the Proposed Political Directive for the Vilitery Governrent
of the Japenese Mandeted Islends in the Centrel Pacific was
duly held in Room 3A946, Pentagon Building, Arlington, Virginia,
又
Thursday, 20 Januery 1944, st 1430 o'clock.
7
Those present were:
Yr. Abtot Low Voffat
State Department
9
Mr. M. M. Knight
Mr. Goorge H. Blakeslee
vr. poo R. Johensen
2
Yar Denrrtrent
Major T. R. Taylor (CAD)
0
Ceptein W. Grey (CAD)
Navel Office for
I1eut. Gomdr. leisshuch
Occupied Areas:
Lieut. Votaw
Lieut. Akerren
Encign Long
onrign ellons
Lieut. Comdr. Veleshuch acted as Cheiruen, and Ensign
Wellons kent the minutee of the meeting.
1. It was ngreed that the reading of the ninutes of the
previous meeting, held 11 Jenuary 1944, be postponed unt1l
representatives of the Treesury Department are present.
2. The reft of the Proposed Political Directive
presented for the consideration of the meeting of the
Ad Poc Committee ?0 January 1944 reads as followe:
(Here 1nsert taxt of Dreft of Jeruary 18, 1944 of
"PROPOSED FOLITICAL PIRECTIVE
FOR THE MILI ARY COUER"MET OF THE
CAROLINE ISLANDS" )
(Pages 2-4 of minutes)
SECRET

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Mr. Moffat raised the question as to why the Proposed
Political Directive as drafted applied only to the Caroline
Islands when the Economic Directive previously adopted applies
to all of the Japanese Mandated Islands in the Central Pao-
ific. After a general discussion the following motion made
by Mr. Moffat was unanimously carried.
"That the title of the Proposed Political Directive be
changed to read 'Political Directive for the Military Gov-
ernment of the Japanese Landated Islands in the Central
Pacific' and that this Directive supersede the previously
adopted 'Political Directive for the Military Government
of the Marshall Islands' dated 27 December 1943."
3. Each article of the Directive was read aloud by
Lieut. Votaw, and separately considered and discussed by
the committee. Thereafter the Committee agreed on the var-
1ous articles of the Directive as follows:
Art. 1. Accepted as drafted.
Art. 2. It was moved by Mr. Moffat and unanimously
carried: "that the letter 's' be added to the word 'area'
in the first sentence of article 2.
It was moved by Mr. Johansen and unanimously carried:
"that the phrase 'in accordance with international law'
be added to the last sentence of article 2.
Art. 3. It was moved by Mr. Johansen and unanimously
carried: "that the phrase 'or with the interests of the
United States' be deleted from article 3.
S E C R E T

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Art. 4. It was moved by Lieut. Akerman and unanimously
carried: "that article 4 be changed to read 'Japanese courts
will be suspended except in special cases at the discretion
of the Military Governor'."
Art. 5. It was moved by Captain Gray and unanimously
carried: "that the last sentence in article 5 be deleted."
It was moved by Lieut. Akerman and unanimously carried:
"that the following sentence be added to article 5 - 'In
the disoretion of the Military Governor, the sumary judicial
powers exercised by mtive ohiefs and headmen of the area
over minor offenses cammitted by the natives will be continued!"
Art. 6. It was moved by Mr. Moffatt and unanimously
carried: "that the phrase 'purposes of the occupation' be
substituted for the phrase iprovislons of this and all other
directives released by the Joint Chiefs of Staff' in the
first sentence of article 6.
Art. 7. (a) Accepted as drafted.
(b) Accepted as drafted.
(c) Messrs. Johansen and Moffat suggested that
(o) and (d) be combined and that a sentence be added to
the effect that: "All such persons should be accorded
treatment compatible with the Geneva Convention of
1929 relative to the treatment of prisoners of war."
These suggestions were not agreed upon, but the follow-
ing motion made by Mr. Knight was carried: "That the
Naval Office for Occupied Areas and the Special Division
of the State Department together draw up and agree
upon a new draft of (c) and (d) of artiole 7." (sub-
seqnently, in a telephone conversation between Liout.
Votaw and Mr. Guffler of the State Department, the
final wording of artiole 7 (o) was agreed upon as follows:
"At the discretion of the Military Governor, the
Japanese population, in part or in whole, may be
segregated and kept apart from the native population
if military necessity so requires. Japanese officials
and other persons whose activities may be harmful to
the military occupation will be interned. All such
persons should be accorded treatment compatible with
the Geneva Convention of l929 relative to the treatment
of prisoners of war insofar as it is applicable to
civilian internees.")
SECRET
-5-

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
(e) Accepted ne drafted to become 7 (d) in final
version.
Art. 8. Accepted es arefted.
Art. 9. It was moved by Mr. Moffat and carra:
"that the word 'other' before the word 'Jeponese' be deleted
throughout the ar'icle and that the following phrase be added
to the last sentence of erticle 9 - 'such es Chinese or native
inhabitante of other arecs which are to be restored to China'."
Mr. Moffat's motion to delete the phrase "after the war"
in the first sentence of erticle 9 wes carried.
Art. l0. Lieut. Votew sugpested a substitute paragraph
to take the place of Articles 10 and 11, w 1ch par graph he r
reed aloud. After due deli'erat on, Mr. Bakeelee moved that
the proposed guhstitution be made and the motion wae uneni-
mously carried. Thereunon the follovirg te ame the e thorized
Article l0: "In accorcance with internetional lew end con-
sistent with wilitery security, anily kcnor end rights, the
lives of persons, native customs, privete and clan property,
and religious convictions and cractices will be re spected and
freedom of prcas and speech vill be perritted."
"r. Moffat tren moved that the following sentence be
added to thr euthorized erticle lc: "No flogging or other
cruel runichment will be permitted." This rotion wee carried,
but Lieut. Votaw, Lieut. Akornar end Ensign Long and Ensign
Wellons voted in the negative on the ground that it vould be
imprecticable to interfere vith forms or wethods of punishment
customei ily used by n-tive chiefs end headnen arong the
netives.
Article 1l. Ce tsin Gray's motion that crticle 1l be
superseded by the following sentence vas carried: "The ccts
end conduct of the military will be irected towards winring
the loyalty and cooperation and good will of the n:tives."
-6-
SECRET

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Art. 12. Accented as drafted.
Art. 13. Mr. Moffet moved thet article 13 be super-
seded by the following redreft: "Schools for Japanese may
remain open at the discretion of the Militery Governor.
Japanese teachers will be removed from schools for natives
and, where possible, will be replaced by native or non-
enemy teachers. As soon as possible, Japenese will be
eliminated as the languege of instruction for the natives."
The motion was unanimously cerried.
Art. 14. Accepted ne arafted.
The irective as finally aonroved is as follows:
POLITICAL DIRECTIVE POR MILITARY CCY RNMENT OF THE JAPANESE
MAN ATED ISLANDS IN TUT CENTRAL FACIFIC
Art. 1. You will estoblish military government and
exercise the righte of an occunying power over all 1slends,
atolls and adjacent weters occupled by the forces under
your command.
Art. 2. You will spooint e Militery Governor or
Governors for the areas occupied. "nder vour directicn,
mainly through trained civil effairs officers of the U. S.
Navy, he (or they) will administer the militery government
in nccordence with 1nternotionel law.
Art. 3. All laws which are in confllct vith the
purposes of the occupation will be susornded.
Art. 4. Jepanese courts will b: susoended except in
special cesee at the discretion of the Military Governor.
Art. 5. The Militery Governor will be reeponsible for
the restoration end πeintenence of puhlic law and order. To
thie end exceptionel military courts vill bc esteblished. In
the diecretion of the vilitary Governor, the eummery judictel
powers exercised by native chiefe and heainen of the pres
over minor offenses com-itted by notives will be continued.
Art. 6. The Vilitery Governor will issue such proclema-
tions, orders, end regulations as may be necessery to carry
out the intent and purposes of the occupetion. Such proclama-
tions, orders end regulations will heve the force and effect
of law.
-7
SECRET

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Art. 7. The following security measures will be taken:
(e) Public officiele rnd employees of
Japenese nationnlity will be removed from office except in
special cases at the discretion of the vilitary Governor.
(b) All Japanese police will be removed at
the esrliest possible moment.
(c) At the discretion of the vilitary Governor,
the Japanese populstion, in part or in whole, may be segre-
geted and kept apert from the native population if nilitary
necessity so reouires. Japenese officials and ther persons
whose ectivities may be harmful to the military occupation
will be interned. All such persor: should be acccraed treat-
ment compatible with the Geneva Convention of 1929 reletive to
the treptment of prisonere of wer insofar as it is apolicable
to civilien internees.
(a) In aregc of Jerenese segregstion or concen-
tration, the villtary Governor oy permit Japanese nationals
to carry on minor governmental functions under his direction
and eupervision.
Art. 8. A native nolice force under Arerican officers
will be recruited and trained to reriace the Japanese police.
Until this has been done, you will provide the vilitary
Governor vith adenuate percornel for pclice auties.
Art. 9. Koreans are regardea by the United States as
havine a stetue different fron that of Jepanese subJects
of Jepenese rece, end ere regraed s citizene of p nttlon
to be re tored to sovereignty in a: course. This fact
should be teker into conaideretior. Siniler coneideretion
should be eccorded Japanese sublects o1 srecial stetus such
as Chinese or nstive inhabitants of other prees which are to
be restored to Chine.
Art. 10. In accordance vith international law and
consistent with military security,femily ronor and rights,
the lives of persons, nitive customs, private and clan
property, and religious convictions and practice, will be
respected and freedom of press and speech will be permitted.
No flogfing or other cruel punishment vill be permitted.
Art. ll. The acte and conduct of the military will be
direoted towards winring the loyalty and cooperation end
good will of the netives.
- 8 -
SECRET

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Art. 12. No political activity other than that
authorized by the Military Governor vill be permitted.
Art. 13. Schools for Japenese nay remain open at the
discretion of the Military Governor. Jananese teachers will
be rcmoved from schools for netives end, where possible,
will be replaced by notive or ron-eremy teachers. As soon
as possible, Japanese will be elimineted as the language of
instruction for the natives.
Art. 14. Hepresentatives of the civilien egencies of
the United States will not participate in the militery
government except at your discretjon.
4. Ceptein Gray suggested tret the Economic Directive
should contain a statement respecting the prctection of
property belonging to members of the nited Nations.
Lieut. Comdr. Weisshuch offered to consider this at a later
date.
Meeting ediourned: 1710
S. D. We1asbuch
A. E. WELLONS
Cheirman
Secretary
- 9 -
SECRET

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
278
Moscow
FROM
nis tolegram must be
paraphraded before being
Dated Pebruary 26, 1944
other than a Governmental
Rec'd 4:35 a.m. 27th
aganoy. (BR)
th
Diviston of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
vile
Secretary of State
4S
Washington.
7400
894.00/1202
649, February 26, 3 a.m.
Moscow newspapers of February 25 publish two
Tokyo despatches dealings with internal conditions in
Japan:
One of these despatches devotes five column inches
to citing and quoting ASAHI and TOKYO SHIMBUN regarding
unsatisfactory progress being made in decentralizing
the enterprises and dispersing the population of
Japanese cities. ASAHI since September the Government
has considered this an important measure of national
policy. The newspaper states that the decentralisati
must be carried out without delay and that the presents
tempo is very unsatisfactory in view of the stage now
PS/CF
reached by the war. In this work many unresolved
diffioulties are still observed.
TOKYO

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.97)
Pebruary 20, 8 a.m., from Mosoow
TOAYO SHINBU observes that the tempo of reducing
population of cities cannot be considered satiafactors
"at the present time when the ememy has reathed the
Mershall Islands. le speak thus because we fear that
something unusual may happen to Tokyo. The Government
must direct what should be done. If enterprises, shops
and compenies can be dispersed that will reduce street
traffic appreciably".
The other despatch cites Domei to the effect that
beginning February 16 the Japanese Government parallel
with the increase of direct taxes in Japan and Korea
increased four indirect texes including those on
necessities, on recreational establishments on theaters
and a special tax.
These items were published just under London
despatches reporting Allied communique on Pacific opera-
tions and President's statement concerning sinking of
over l000 Japanese transports and barges by United States
foroes during 1943. A total of almost 14 colum inches
of space was devoted to the Pacifio war and Japan, which
is most extensive coverage given to this arem in the
daizy press in news items in over a year with the exoep-
tion of report on Japanese treatment of American and
Filipino war

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.95)
26,8 asm., from Mossow
Itams regerding Japanese internal problems indio
pents increasing difriculties has been eppeerins
and more frequently and at greater length in the past
two months.
HARRIMAN
RR

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.95)
AREAS DIVIS
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, February 16, 1944.
No. 2167.
Subject:
Conditions in Japan Prior to
September, 1943.
Copn
2ea
47
C3
なA
0
3/3/44
The Honora ble
to of State
The Secretary of State,
2
Washington, D. C.
2人4
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the bassy
despatch no./2109, Febru ry 2, 1944, in regard to
conditions in Japan, nd to enclose a eepy of despateh
no. 26, February 7, 1944, from the Seeretary on detail
894.00
at Sian, containin an account of conditions in Japan
as described by a Chinese student who left that
country in September 1943.
Sumpary. Although the Japanese people wer
2
distarbed by military developments, in general they
203
were aecepting their Government's propaganda as gospel
truth and accordingly entertained great hopes for the
future. Hatred for the United States increased per-
ceptibly following the defeat at Attu and withdrawal
ω?
from Kiska. The intelligentsia were more antipathetie
PARIMENT OF STATE
toward the war than any other segment of the population.
ww
The Government reportedly feared that the people might
become subject to "fifth column" activity. The heavy
NS & RECCRDS
ISION OF
Allied bombings of urope made the Japanese become
increasingly apprehensive, fear of incendiary bombs
reportedly being particularly great. Japanese air
cadets were being enrolled between the ages of 15 and
18 and were receiving three years of training before
being sent to the front for combat duty. Travel for
civilians was difficult. bout 1,500,000 Korean
farmers had been brought to Japan for agricultural
work. There was a grave manpower shortage in Japan.
End of Summary.
FTLE
Respectfully yours,
7
C. E. Gauss
att
PS/HWL
Enqlosure:
Al
1. Copy of despatch no. 26,
February 7, 1944.
Original and hectograph to the Department
800 Jap
CHB/kky

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
aclosure no. 1 to despatch no. 2167 of February 16, 1944
Trom the American Embassy, Chungking.
BASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
becond ecretary on detail at Sian,
February 7, 1944.
No. 26
Subject: CONDITIONS IR J..
The Honorable
C. E. Gauss,
American mbassador,
Chungking.
Sir:
Referring to my despatch no. 11, January 24, 1944,
on the subject "Conaitions in Japan," I have the honor
to transmit herewith a further memorandun on that
subject.
Respectfully yours,
(Signed) Everett F. Drumright
Everett F. Drumright
Second Secretary on det il
at Sian
nclosure:
1/ Memorandum.
3

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
1MORANDUM
Subject: CONDITIONS IN JAPAN.
The following information in regard to conditions in
Japan was obtained indirectly from a student who left Japan
in September 1943 to return to China.
Morale of Japanese people. During the period of
prolonged Japanese victories in the early part of the war
the Japanese people were naturally happy nd confident of
the prowess of their righting foree.  However, following
the Japa ese def t at Attu nd tn ir withdrawal from
Kiska, their losses in the solomons nd in New Guinea,
the death of Yamomoto, et cetert, the J  unese Iublic
began to have its doubts of ultirte victory nd became
more and more disturbed. Indicutive of the public frame
of mind was  speoch delivered by former Aabassador Nomura
in which he was guoted as s ying tht the defense of the
Solomons was egual in importance to the defense of North
Africa and that what haprened in the olomons night decide
the course of the war in the Facific. although the Japanese
people have beon disturbed by recent military dovelopments,
in general they accept the Japanese Government's propaganda
as gospel truth and they nccorcingly entertain reat hopes
for the future. Generally speakine, the Japanese people
were supporting the Government whole-heartedly at the time
that informant left Japun. Hate of the people of Japan
for the United states rose perceptibly following the
Japanese defeat at Attu and the withdrawal from Kiska.
All Japanese feel the hardships of war. This is more
especially true of the intellectual classes who may be
said to be more antipathetic toward the war than any other
segment of the Japanese population. The shortage of consumer
goods is markedly felt by the Japanese populace. But the
power of the military class is so strong that it would be
very difficult for the people to manifest disapproval or
to oppose the prosecution of the war in any way. However,
because the war is apparently turning into a prolonged one,
the Government is said to fear that the people may become
subject to "fifth column" propaganda with disastrous results
to the prosecution of the war. Therefore, large numbers of
"political police" are utilized to spy on the people. An
important function of these police, who are everywhere,
is to examine into the people's thoughts.
Air raid precautions. Following the heavy allied
bombings of Europe during the past yoar, the people of
Japan have lived in very great fear of enemy air raids.
Mass terror is most noticeable in the large centers of
Tokyo, Yokohama, Kobe, Osaka, Nagoya and Kyoto. Nervous-
ness is everywhere evident in Japan. Following the
American aerial raid of april 18, 1942, the confidence of
the Japanese people in the Japanese air force waned con-
siderably and fear of further raids was very apparent.
Flaborate air raid precautions have been carried out in
Japan. A Young Women's Corps has been organized throughout
the country and the members have been trained to perform
air raid prevention activities. Before each house in the
cities of Japan will be found two small bags of sand, a
pa11

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
pail of water (soya pail), one shovel, and one square
mat. Each person always has a gas mask of cotton ready
for instant donning, and a steel helmet (this presumably
has reference to persons engaged in air raid preventive
activities), and each such person has a special uniform
for such work. Many Japanese now wear these uniforms
almost daily. Practice air raid alerts are carried out
at least once each month. When enemy planes are sighted
whistles are blown for a minute and a flag, half white
incendiary bombs is said to be particularly great in
Japan. Therefore in addition to the sand and water placed
in front of each house large casks holding water are
placed at intervals  long the strects; and in many places
cisterns 20 feet deep and 16 feet in diameter have been
constructed to hold water for use in fighting fire.
Many water pumps are also supplied along the streets.
Curiously, the running water supply is said to be cut off
on the sounding of an aerial alert in Japanese cities.
anti-aircraft guns are said to be inst lled chiefly in
the towers of the higher buildings and in the parks of
Japanese cities. ir raid prevention ctivities are
reported to have been much intensified since the heavy
bombings of Germany.
Notes on Japanese aviation. Japanese air cadets are
enrolled between the  ges of 15 and 18. after threc years
of training they are sent to the front for combat activity.
General Doihara is now Superintendent General of Aviation
in Japan. Japanese planes operate in the following
formations:
Small unit (小隊)
three planes
Medium unit(中隊)
nine planes
Large unit (大隊
twenty-seven planes
Location of certain Japanese air fields:
In the Tokyo area there is an air field known as
所澤飛行which is located near the 狭山 Park. There is
also a large aviation academy situated in this area.
(railway name) in the vicinity of 吉祥寺駅
In the vicinity of Yokohama there is an air field
known as 羽飛行. It is said to be situated near a
place called 大. This field is also called羽田周際飛行場
because planes In general may use this field.
There is said to be a very large air field known as
士浦行場 which is said to be situated in the vicinity
of . There is also an aviation academy in this area.
There is a field in福岡 which is called雁巢.
The majority of the Japanese airplane factories have
been established along the coast between Tokyo and Yokohama.
But as the war continues some of the plants are being
removed inland to other areas. A large majority of Japanese
factories is being converted to the manufacture of airplane
parts. Most Japanese tank-producing plants are also
established

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
established in the area between Tokyo and Yokohama,
although some are reported as being set up in the
interior of the country.
There is a very large factory situated at (*)
employing 60,000 men which is engaged in turning out
military equipment and supplies, the nature of which
was not specified.
Virtually all industry in Japan has been militarized
and all industrial roduction is controlled by the military
authorities.
Japan's chief dockyards are vituated at Yokohama
Tokyo, Fort arthur, Osaka, nc t vo places known as 
and . The construction of submarines is now regarded
as all-important. Phe use of wood in building ships is
now general owing to the shortage of iron and steel.
Communications. Jpnose communications are controlled
by the milit ry authorities. In reneral the travel of
people is dirricult. Unlens having cood roasons for travel-
ing and being in possession of  ermit it is difficult to
procure tickets.  Pravelers are restricted to 50 kilograms
of baggage. almost all communications re devoted to
war use.
Immigration of horean  riculturiats. Large numbers
of Korean farmers are being brought to Jupin to till the
soil of the country. There re 1,500, Ooo of them in
Japan already. They re r: uirod to assme Japunese names
on their arrival in Jupin. as peo le of n lien race
the Japanese in uneral sem to regard the koroans s a
future menace.
Manpower. hr is  rave shortue of anpower in
Japan. The old une the voune are Loing into the Pactories
by the thousands. The exodus from the tarms to the
factories is lso great. all able-bxlied  en of war age
are either ping off to wur or are being sent into factories
making war m terials of great importance to the prosecution
of the war. omen have t ken over virtully all non-
essentil cupati.
Ie of roports on illed  vounded soldiers etc.
Casualty lists are made ublic long ufter the casualties
have occurred. The perind usually runges from 6 months to
four years after the occurrence of the casualties.
Prisoners' camp. There is only one wr prisoners
camp in Japan. It is located at 普寺 in the vicinity of
. american, British and a few other nations
prisoners are kept there. ach day the prisoners go out
to perform agricultural work. The camp is supervised by
a famous Japanese professor of philosophy who is said to
speak about ten languages.
Rationing
(*) Place name omitted in original; Mr. Drumright
requested to supply.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.92)
-4-
Rationing. Mationing is ceneral in Japan. Many
ersatz products are now being used. Following are clothes
rationing points for various articles of wear:
Western style suit
30 points
Overcoat
50
Rain coat
50
Japanese pants
20
Sox
3
n
Student uniform
40
10
Tie
1
18
Hat
4
19
Handkerchief
1.
1"
Shawl
10
10
Shirt
6
10
Sian, Shensi,
February 7, 1944.
. F. D.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.94)
Chungking. February 16, 1944.
No. 2167.
Subjoot:
Conditione in Japan Prior to
Baptomber. 1942.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Siri
I have the honor to rofer to the abasay's
dospatah no. 2109, February 8. 1944, in ragard to
conditions in Japan, and to anelose a copy of despatch
no. 26, February 7, 1944, rrom the Seorotury on deta1l
at Sian, cantaining an account of conditions in Japan
894.00/1203
as dosoribed by a Chinese student who loft that
country in Septomber 1943.
Sumparr. lthough the Japanese people were
distarbed by military developments, in general they
were accepting their Govarnment's propagunda as gospel
truth and aceordingly entertained groat hopes for the
future. Hatred for the United Statee inoroased per-
ceptibly following the defeat at ttu and witharawal
from Kiska. The Intalligentsia ware more antipathetic
toward the mar than any other segment of the population.
The Government reportedly feared that the people might
become subjeot to "firth onlumn" aotivity. The heavy
Allied bombings of urope made the Japanese beoome
inereasingly apprehensive, fear of incendiary bombs
reportedly being pertioularly great. Japanese air
cadets were being enrolled between the ages or 15 and
18 and were receiving three yeara of training before
baing mant to the front for combat duty. Travel for
aivilians was dirricult About 1,B00,0oo Korean
farmers had been brought to Japan for agrioultural
worke There was a grave manpower shortage In Japas.
And of Bumary.
Reapectsully yours,
C. I. Causs
Enclosure:
1. Copy of despateh mo. 2s,
and heetograph to the Department.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.89)
mlosure no. i to dspatoh no. ele7 or Fobruary 1s.
 tha Amerionn Embassy, Ohungking.
EKHASSY OF THE
UNITXD BTATES OF ANBRICA
Sccond Sporetary on dstail at Sinmy
February 7, 1944.
5o.26
GUbJeOT: CONDITIONS IN JAYAN.
The Honorable
C. E. Guuss,
amcriaan Ambassador,
Chungking.
私r！
Rezerring to my deapatah no. 11, Jaauary 24, 1944,
an the eubject "Conditione in Jagnn," I have the honor
to tranemit herewith a furtber mumorandun on that
subject.
Reapactfully yours,
(Signed) Sverett F. Drumright
Averett J. Druasight
Socend Secretary on detail
at Sian
nolocures
1/ Memorandum.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.96)
M NORANDUM
GubJeOt: CONDITIONS IN J.UAN.
Tho following inforantion in rogard to oonditions in
Japan was obtained indirectly from a student vho left Japan
1n Soptamber 1943 to return to China.
Morale of Japangse poople. During the period of
prolonged Japanese viotorico In the early part of the war
the Japanese people were nuturally happy and conrident of
the proweas of their fighting forous. However, following
the Japaneee defeut at Attu and their withdrawal from
Xiska, their looses in the Eolomone and in New Guinoa.
the death of Tamomoto, et cetera, the Japanese public
began to have ita doubts of ultim:te victory and became
more and more disturbed. Indicutive of the publio frame
of mind was a speeoh deliverad by formor mbassador Homura
in whioh he was guoted as saying that the dofenee of the
Solomons ws oqual in importance to the defense of North
africn and that what happened in the Solomone aight decide
the course of the war in the Pacifio, lthouch the Japanese
people have been dieturbed by recent military developmento,
in gonernl thay acoept the Japanese Governmont's propaganda
as cospel truth and they acoordingly entertain great hopes
for the future. Generally spenking, the Japanese poople
were supporting the Govornment whole-heartedly ut the time
that informant left Japan. Hate of the people of Japan
for the United States rove percoptibly following the
Japaness defeat at Attu and the withdrawal from Kiska.
All Japanese feol the hardohipe of war. Thio is more
espocially true of the intelloctual claases who may be
Baid to be more antipnthetic toward the war than any other
segment of the Japnese population. The shortage of consumer
goods is markedly felt by the Japanose populace. But the
power of the military alnas is so strong that it would be
very difrioult for the people to manifest disapprovul or
to oppome the prossoution of the war in any way. However,
because the wir ie apparently turning into a prolonged one,
the Government is sald to foar that the people may become
subjeot to "fifth column" propacanda with dieastrous reoults
to the prosecution of the war. Therefore, large numbere of
"polltical police" are utilized to apy on tho people. an
important function of these polico, who are overywhere,
i0 to examine into the people's thoughts.
r raid precautiong. following tho heuvy allied
bombings or wurope during the past year, the people of
Japan have lived in very great foar or enemy air raids.
Mass terror in moet noticsable in tho large oanters of
Tokyo, Yokohama, Kobe, Osaka, Nagoya and Kyoto. Nervous-
ness is overywhere evident in Japan. Pollowing the
wmorican aorial raid of April 18, 1942, the conridence of
the Japanese people in the Japanese air force waned con-
siderably and fear of further raids was very apparent.
laborate air raid precautions have been carried out in
Japan. A Young Women's Corps has been organized throughout
soustry and the members have been trained to perform
said prevention activisies. Bafore ench homme in the
of Japam will be found two snall bags of sank,

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.94)
pail of water (soya pail), one shovel, and ome square
mat. Ynch person always has a gas mask of cotton ready
for instant donning, and a steel helmet (this presumably
has reference to persons engngsd in air raid preventive
aotivities), and eaoh suoh person hes a speoial uniform
For such mork. Many Japanese now wear these uniforms
almoss daily. Practics air raid alerts are carried out
at least once ench month. when anemy planes are sighted
whistles are blown for a minute and a flag, half white
and half blue ( S ) la hoisted. The foar of
incendiary bombs is said to be pertioularly grest in
Japan. Therefore in eddition to the nand and ater plaoud
in front of each houee large casks holding water are
placed at intervale along the streets; and in many places
disterns 20 feet deep nnd 16 feet in diameter Have been
construotod to hold water for uoe in fighting fire.
Kany wator pumpe are aleo supplied along the streots.
Curiously, the running water eupply is said to be cut off
on the sounding of an aerlul alert in Japanese sities.
amti-airoraft guns are said to be installed chiefly in
the towers or the highor buildingo and in the parks of
Japanose cities. air ruid provention activities are
raported to have been nuoh intenaified sinoe the heavy
bombings or Germany.
Notes on Javanese aviation. Japanese nir cadets are
enrolled between the ases of 15 and l8. nfter three years
of training thay are sent to the front for combut aotivity
General Dolhara is now Superintendent General of viation
in Japan. Japanese planes operate in the following
formations:
Small unit (!)
thrce planes
Medium unit()
nine planos
Lnrge unit (
twenty-seven planes
Looation of certain Japnnese air fields:
In the Tokyo aren thore is an air rield known us
which is located near the  Park. There is
also a large aviation academy situated ln this aroa.
There is another nir field known as tdrI near
(reilmay name) in the vicinity of t
In the vicinity of Yokohama thare is an air field
place paliod t. Thie cield io aleo callod
beeause planes in general may use thie field.
There 1s said to be a very large air field known as
th whiah is mald to be altuated in the vidinity
Thare is also an aviation academy in this arem.
Thore is a fiold in , which is onlled
The majority of the Japansse airplane factories have
beet sotablimbed along the doast between Tokyo and roköhama:
ut ms the may santimues nonw or the plants are being
Japanese tank-produoiss plants dre also

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.95)
-3~
established in the aroe butween Tokyo and Yokohama,
although some are reported as being vet up in the
interior of tho country.
There le a very large factory sltuated at (*)
employing 60,000 men whion is angaged in turning out
military oquipment and supplies, the naturo of whioh
was not specified.
Virtually all industry in Japan has boon militarized
and all industrial produotion is controlled by the military
authoritios.
Japan's chief dockyards are situated at Yokohama,
Tokyo, Port arthur, Osaka, and two places known as
and : The oonatruotion of submarines is now regarded
as all-important. The wo of wood in building shipe is
now genernl owing to tho shortage of iron and steel.
Comgunicatione. Japanese communiantiona are controlled
by the military authoritice. In general the travel of
peoplo is difricult. Unless having good rcasons for travel-
Ing and being in possevsion of e pcrmit it in difrioult to
procure tiokets.  Travelers are roetricted to 50 kilocrama
of baggage. Almont all conunioations ure dovoted to
war use.
Immigration of koroan agrioulturlcts. Large numbors
of Eorean furm re are being brought to Japan to till the
goil of the country. There are 1,500, 000 of them in
Japan alrendy. They are roguired to essume Japanese names
on their arrival in Japan. e people of un alien reoe
the Japanese in caneral seom to regard the Horoana as a
future menace.
Ennpower. There is a grave shortage of manpower in
Japan. the ola and the young are going into the factories
by the thouoande. The exodus from the farme to the
factories is also groat. all able-bodied men of war age
are either going afr to war or are being sont into factories
making war materials of. great importanoe to the prosecution
of the war. Women have taken over virtually all non-
assontial ocoupations.
Ieaunnos of raports on killed and wounded soldiers, eto.
Cesualty linte are made publio long after the caaualties
have ogourred. The poriod uoually rungee from e monthe to
four years after the ∞currence or the oasualtios.
Priconere' gamp. Thare in only one mir prisonero'
camp In Japan. It Io located at ? 2 in the vioinity of
* . merioan, British am a few other nations
prisonors aro kept there. wach day the prisoners go out
to perform agrioulturnl work. The oamp is supervised by
a famous Japanese professor or philosophy who io said to
spoak about ten lnnguages.
omitted in original; Mr. Drumright

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.89)
Rationing. Rutioning in uensral in Japan. Meay
creata prodvotn ara how be ng wed. Following are alomm
rutioning points for verio w artioles of wear:
Western style suit
30 points
Overobat
50
Rain Goat
50
Jupanese pants
20
Box
3
Stulent uaifora
40
10
1
Handkerohier
shawi
X
Shirt
10
8
n
Dian, Shenal,
Fobrmry 7, 1944.
S. F. D.

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.93)
9
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, March 7, 1944.
4.56
No. 2271.
Subjoct:
Conditions in Japan Prior to
October 1943.
APR 3
STAE
2Ca
NO11
2
gww
E3
5
ECEIVE
ab10 3/22/44
QEPARTENT
The
20
Secretary of State,
MID2, ONI +a
MAR
AND
Washington, D. C.
S1r:
594.00/1203
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatoh
no. 2167, February 16, 1944, in regard to conditions in
Japan, and to enclose copies of articles issued on
February 15 and 28, 1944, by the (Party) Ministry of
Information, Chungking, containing further information
on that subjeet as described by Chinese who left Japan
in October 1943.
ORIO
Summary. Food and clothing rationing beeame in-
creasingly severe and many foods such as beef, pork and
fish were available only in very small amounts. Bean
curd was no longer available, as all supplies were being
used for industrial purposes. Students dug slit tremehes
in cities for protection from air raids and alse worked
on farms. During the few months preeeding Oetober 1945
the Japanese became more and more gloomy and many people
1204
including students and professors, were arrested 
"dangerous thoughts" charges. A serious blow to Japanese
morale occurred with the death of Admiral Yamamote,
regarded in Japan as another Admiral Togo. At ieast two
thirds of Tokyo's inhabitaats were females. Many Japanese
went barefoot in rainy weather in order to preserte their
shoes. House to house census taking beeame more frequems,
mainly in connection with conseription and masion coupems.
COMMUNICATH
Even men above the age of 58 were called to sarve in the
citizens' militia corps. In order to get eneugh to eat
M
at Tokye restaurants, people mad to eat at three es mese
restaurants consecutively. The railways were reserved.
largely for troop transportatiom amd restrietions were
1944
rigidly enforced for travel by civilians. End of Sumary.
RECORDS
OFFICE OF
Respeetfully yours,
POLITICAL AFFAIRS
S
. Gauss
BMB
Enclosures: Tll
 1. Copy of article issued on
February 15, 1944;
2. Copy of artiole issaed on
February 28, 1944.
Original and heetograpa to Department.
WH
800 Jap
camykky

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.98)
holosure no. 1 to despatch no. 2271 of Maroh 7, 1944
from the American Embassy, Chungking.
China Information Committee
Daily Bulletin -- No. 882
February 15, 1944
RETURN FROM TOKYO
"After I arrived in Chungking I went to a small
restaurant and ate a large serving of beef. I had not
eaten so much beef in Tokyo in all of the past two years."
This was said by Ying Tso, a Chinese student who was
graduated from the Tokyo Imperial University last summer
and recently arrived in Chungking. He was sent to Japan
(which he left in October l943) to study by the puppet
government in the Northeastern Provinces. After graduation
a brother arranged for him to work in a puppet bank in
Peiping. He was anxious to get away from Jap domination
and succeeded in making his way from Peiping to Chungking.
He said that Japan started food rationing after the
outbreak of the Pacific War in l94l and that food was
distributed according to need, with manual workers receiving
more than students and teachers. Each student receives
less than a quarter of a pound of rice a day, which is
enough for one meal, and a small cash allowance, which is
enough for only a few biscuits.
Although Japan produces large quantities of bean curd
the students get none of it for bean curd now is used for
industrial purposes. Fish is available twice a month but
a small fish may be divided among as many as fifteen families.
The last pork that Mr. Ying had in Tokyo was at a New Year's
dinner party and the amount was insignificant.
Because of the shortage of food students in Japan take
little exeroise. Many of them go to bed early in the hope
that they can sleep and avoid the pangs of hunger.
When they do have a full meal it is likely to be of
some food like whale meat, which is now popular in Tokyo.
Whale skin shoes, despite their inferior quality, also are
popular, as the Japanese Army is using all ordinary leather.
Most Japanese wear worn wooden sandals and are likely
to have holes in their sooks, as the sook ration is six
pairs a year. Three towels per person can be purchased
each year. Kimonas, instead of falling almost to the
ground, do not cover the knees. Soap is strictly rationed,
three persons sharing one cake of soap per month. This
allotment is so small that soap rarely is used for bathing.
Metals are collected everywhere by local officials.
Window bars, iron gates, hardware and even nails are taken
from houses to add to the sorap piles. Buddhists have
surrendered their saored bells and statues.
H12

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
High school students have been used to dig slit
trenohes for air raid shelters in the cities. The
trenches looked to Mr. Ying like long grave openings.
Students also are used in labor corps on the farms, as
so many farmers have been sent to the front as soldiers.
Letters sent abroad are subject to striot oensorship.
Nothing can be said in them about the shortage of commodities.
The attitude of the Japanese people towards the war
varies from time to time. The attitude of Japanese students
and professors was optimistic when the Germans were driving
on Moscow, when Rommel was successful in North Africa, and
during the early stages of the Solomons campaign. The
Japanese defeats in the Solomons hurt morale and the loss
of Attu and Kiska was a severe blow. The Japanese had
given new names to these Aloutian islands and were listing
them as Japanese territory.
Mr. Ying says that during the last few months of his
stay in Tokyo the Japanese were becoming more and more
gloomy and that more and more people, including students
and professors, were being arrested for suoh crimes as
"dangerous thoughts." Types of thinking which the authorities
regard as dangerous become especially prevalent after a blow
to morale such as that of the death of Admiral Isoroku
Yamamoto, who was regarded in Japan as another Admiral Togo.
The Japanese like to drink and those who have lost
their enthusiasm for war beoause of the Japanese reverses
in the Pacifio are particularly anxious to have the solace
of wine. But wine is rationed and the shops frequently
sell out their supplies while long lines of customers
still wait outside.
: cupy:
tompred8

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure no. 2 to despatch no. 2271 of March 7, 1944
from the American Embassy, Chungking.
China Information Committee
Daily Bulletin -- No. 893
February 28, 1944
TOKYO SIDELIGHTS
At least two-thirds of the inhabitants in Tokyo
today are feminine. The males are outnumbered by women
and girls of all ages everywhere one goes.
The Japanese people have been fond of sweetmeats and
pastries. But in this long-drawn-out war they are no
longer able to satisfy their sweet tooth. Up and down
the streets of Tokyo there are no confectionaries or
bakeries.whGone are the attractive boxes of candies, cookies
and cakes/used to be displayed in the shop-windowe. Sugar,
candy and biscuits are rationed and only occasionally can
Tokyo residents get any of these foods.
Most of the shoppers in Tokyo, in waiting for their
turn to buy the things they need, have to hold ration
coupons in one hand and money in the other.
These are some of the impressions of daily life on
the Japanese home front related by a Chinese who recently
came to the interior from Japan through the occupied areas.
He had been in Tokyo for several years. He told of
rapid changes in the living conditions and daily lives of
the Japanese as compared with pre-war standards. He said
it is now common to see people of all ages walking barefooted
in the streets of Tokyo on rainy days.
The asphalt road surfaces have worn out, he said, so
cinders have been used to fill up the numerous holes.
Japanese wartime shoes as a rule do not last long on cinder
roads. To save their precious shoes many Japanese have
started walking bare-footed when it rains so that they will
have shoes to wear on good days.
House-to-house census taking has become more and more
frequent. The questionings and surveys are mainly in
connection with conscription and ration coupons. After
the drafting of practically all able bodied men into the
armed servioes, even men above the age of 58 have been
called to serve in the "Citizens Militia Corps."
The shortage of foods has turned most of the gardens
in Tokyo, including small back-yard gardens, into vegetable
patohos.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
2
Eggs are rarely seen in the market. If a siok man
or convalescent has to have eggs for food, he must produce
a dootor's certificate.
To the Japanese soy sauce is an essential item in
diet. But even soy sauce has been rationed. A Japanese
is now able to get only half as much soy sauce as he has
been accustomed to consume. Meat has become a lurury as
it has been striotly rationed. A Japanese civilian gets
meat about once a month.
There is, however, still one way of getting chicken
and eggs to eat. It is sometimes possible to get in a
restaurant a bowl of steamed rice with a few slices of
half-cooked chicken and eggs on top. This is a favorite
Japanese dish and is now more popular than ever.
Restaurants are said to be doing a roaring business--
as long as their supply of foods lasts. The prosperity
of restaurant business in Japan is unprecedented. But
restaurants cannot buy all the provisions they want or
used to get. There is a general restriction on the amount
of rice each customer is allowed to eat. At present no
customer is served more than a couple of ounces of rice.
In order to get enough to eat one has to eat in at least
three restaurants, going directly from one place to another.
This is by no means easy because all the restaurants are
crowded and usually sell all the food they have for one
meal in less than an hour's time.
Traveling is most difficult. The railways are mostly
reserved for troop transportation. Strict restrictions
are imposed on non-military personnel. A civilian desiring
to travel from one place to another by train must first
register his intention, destination and purpose. If his
application is approved he will be specifically assigned
to a certain train on a certain day. Japanese trains today
carry more passengers than the designed capacity. As the
cars are always jammed many passengers used to have to
stand all the way no matter how far they were going. As
a partial solution to this problem, the authorities have
adopted a "seat changing system." A signal is given at
regular intervals in the trains. When the signal is sounded,
all those who have been sitting are obliged to stand up
and let those who have been standing take the seats.
ompared:

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.93)
2101044
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
APR20
Chungking, March 14, 1944.
No. 2301.
LRD
Subject: Report on Conditions in Japan
ZA
9642524
Indicating Deterioration in
Health of Japanese.
EE
8
10 NOI
2ca
PAENT
2ga
3
CB
ffice of
SIEH AFFAINS
MAP P 944
Washington, D. C.
TY BIRACTO
Departmept of State
594.00
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
894.00
no. 2271, March 7, 1944, in regard to conditions in
Japan and to enclose a copy of despatch no. 48, February
17, 1944, from the Secretary on detail at Sian containing
further information on that subject reported by a Chinese
8
medical student who left Japan September 20, 1943. Mr.
94.00/1205
Drumright's despatch is of special interest as it assumab
contains reliable information in regard to a marked
deterioration in the health of the Japanese people.
Summary. An acute shortage of doctors and nurses
existed in Japan as well as at the fighting fronts.
Medicines were also short in supply. Many military
hospitals in Japan were filled with Japanese wounded.
Disx
The incidence of tuberculosis increased at a marked rate
due to malnutrition, overwork, strain and anxiety. The
Japanese people felt the impact of prolonged war to an
increasing extent and were plagued by a growing shortage
of consumer commodities, an increasingly acute labor
problem, a growing fear of air raids, and fear of defeat.
Workers in important factories were on 12-hour shifts
PS/FF
and were not given holidays. End of Summary.
Respectfully yours,
f2r
OFFICE OF
SPL POLIICA
C. E. Gauss
Encloshre
DEPARTMENT OF STR
1. Copy of despatch no. 48,
February 17, 1944, from
Secretary on detail at Sian.
Original and hectograph to the Departm
Copy to FKA, Chungking.
800 Jap
sto sent to Dan
DE
CHB/kky

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.96)
nolosure no. 1 to despatch no. 2301 of March 14, 1944
Trom the American Embassy, Chungking.
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Socond Secretary on detail at Sian,
February 17, 1944.
No. 48
SubJeCt: CONDITIONG IN JAPAN.
The Honorable C. E. Gauss,
American Ambassador,
Chungking.
Sir:
With reference to my despatches nos. 11, January
24, 1944, and 26, February 7,"1944, on the subject
"Conditions in Japan", I have the honor to submit here-
with a further memorandum on this same subject. The
enolosed memorandum is based on conversations recently
had with a Chinese student who stated that he left Japan
September 20, 1943.
Apart from his remarks bout the health of the
Japanese and the state of modical conditions in Japan,
my informant's description of conditions in Japan is
similar to the accounts I h vo received from other
Chinese arriving from Japan.
Respectfully yours,
(Signed) Everett F. Drumright
Everett F. Drumright
Sccond Secretary of Embussy
on detail at Sian
Enclosure:
1/ Memorandum.
U：
med

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
PEMORANDUL
SubjecT: CONDITIONS IN JAPAN.
Source. Mr. Ch'ih Ch'ien-yuan, a Chinese student
from Peiping, who states that he has completed four years'
medical study at Keio University, situated in a Tokyo
suburb. Mr. Ch'ih stated that he left Japan September 20,
1943 and that his reasons for leaving Japan were (1 fear
of forceful induction into the Japanese Army medical
corps, and (2 inability to obtain further setisfactory
education and training ut Kcio Uriversity, the medical
and other classes having been virtually denuded of students
by the drafting of Jupunese youth for military service.
Health of Japanese. Mr. Ch'ih stated that during
the six months immediately precedine his departure from
Japan, he served as an interne in a Tokyo hospital. He
stated that it is his observation that there is an acute
shortage of doetore md tr ined ursus in Jupan, us well
as at the fichtiag fronts. He lso ste ted that shortages
of medicines exist in Jap an. He exprensed the view that
Japanese-trained doctors ure inferior o those trained
in Western institutione or formerly tr ined in the Peiping
Union Medical Colloge. He remurked that Japanese hospitals
are by no means so sunitury us mi ght be supposed, being
below mission-orerated hospitals in China in hygienic
standards. He asserted that thore is a large number of
military hospitals in Japan which re illed with Japanese
wounded.
Mr. Ch'ih said that the incidence of tuberculosis in
Japan, always high in that country, is increasine at a
marked rate. Ho attributed this phenomenon to two muin
factors: (1 improper diet nd malnutrition of the great
bulk of the ropulation, and (2 overwork, strain und
anxiety. He rem.rked that the hospitals are overflowing
with tubereulosis putients. Mr. Ch'ih usserted that the
second great disease of Japun is syphilis and thit its
inroads on the people is very great.
Mr. Ch'ih remurked that the present-day Japanese diet
is inadequate. He asserted that sweet potatoes are now
a staple of the Japanese diet. He said that the Japanese
people never see meat and that while the supply of fish
is ample in certain areas such as Tokyo many ureas are
very short of this important food. He said that there
was no soarcity of vegetables. As regards rice, he
asserted that it is strictly rationed; each person is
limited to two small bowls per meal (say less than half
the average consumption in normal times). Nr. Ch ih
stated that the restaurants, which are always crowded to
overflowing, are open only at stated intervals, that is,
between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. and 8 p.m.
General conditions. Mr. Ch'ih said it was his
observation that the Japanese people are beginning more
and more to feel the impact of prolonged warfare in every
Bphoro

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
sphere of life. In this relation, he commented on
various factors such as malnutrition and increased
incidence of disease (as related above), the growing
shortage of consumer commodities, the increasingly
pressing labor problem, the growing fear of air raids,
and a growing consciousness mong the Japanese people
of the inability of the Japanese armed forces to defeat
their adversaries. Mr. Ch ih said that he regarded the
labor problem in Japan to be very acute. He said that
hours of work in the factories, vhich are devoted almost
exclusively to war production, are now very long. In
important factories operation is on a 24-hour basis
comprising a day and a night shift. Most war workers,
Mr. Ch'ih asserted, work a 12-hour shift with perhaps
one hour of this period devoted to relaxation and meals.
He added that workers are not given holidays. Like
other observers, Mr. Ch'ih remarked that Japanese women
have virtually taken over all unessential occupations;
in addition, they are working to some extent in the factories
and in heavy coolie labor. Japanese women are now a mainstay
of domestic agriculture. Nr. Ch'ih confirmed that the
migration of Korean agricultural lubor to Japanese farms
has been heavy.
E. F. D.
Sian, Shensi,
February 17, 1944.
True com
(rmumred:

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, China
ECONOMIC DIVISION
April 25, 1944
FEBY:1945
CONFIDENTIAL
Instruction
Office of
No. 2483
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASTERN AFFAIRS
1944
Subject:
Conditions in Japan in October 1943.
DIRECTOR
rment of State
2
No
The Henorab
The Seoretary of State,
0L.
UC
Pl
Wangton, D.C.
894.00/1206
Egir:
1:J
have the honor to enclose a copy of a report dated
4pril10, 1944, prepared by the local office of FEA, re-
garding conditions in Japan as described by a Chinese
woman who visited that country in October 1943.
Summary: Street cars in Tokyo stopped running at
about 9 p.m. Some official automobiles and a few private
94.00
cars were being operated, assumably burning gasoline,
while the few taxicabs burned charcoal. Blackouts were
CA
nforced throughout Japan and Korea; in Tokyo numerous
trenches were dug to afford protection from air raids.
EBcm
As a visitor without ration tickets, informant was unable
to make purchases in Tokyo shops but she arranged to have
JIVISION OF
German acquaintances make purchases for her. She was not
251944
MENT uT STATE
required to have ration tickets for meals. The portions
served, however, were inadequate. Many complaints were
heard at the Imperial Hotel, Tokyo, about the small por-
tions of food served there. The black market flourished
in Tokyo and commodities could be purchased at high prices.
Prior to her departure from Shanghai, informant had to
agree not to talx about conditions in Japan. End of Summary.
Shaughai
The Department is respectfully requested to inform us
if copies of reports such as the enclosed are received
direct by the Department from FEA in order that we may dis-
PS/LC
continue any duplicating effort.
Respectfully yours,
S- LAIS  DI
132
AYe71944
ARY
C. E. Gaus
SN STAT
olasure: U
19
Copy of roport dated April
prepared by local ofrice dyamy
Original and heotograph to the Department.
800 Jap
CmB:rls
WH

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
(Enclosure to Despatoh 2483 dated April 25, 1944)
(from the American Rmbassy, Chungking, China.)
CORRECT COPY: RLS
CHUNGKING 18.11
CONFIDENTIAL
Copy No. 5
UNITED STATES
FOREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
SPECIAL AREAS BRANCH
Report On
Interview With a Chinese Woman
Who Visited Japan
in
October 1943
CONTENTS
I. Foreword
II. Roliability of Informant
III. Routes Followed by Informant
Iv. Commonts by Informant on the Following:
1. Transportation
2. Air Raid Precautions
3. Communications
4. Prices and Cost of Living
5. Rationing
6. Food
7. Miseellaneous
Changking, China
April 10, 1944

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
Report on Interview with a Chinese woman who left Japan
at the end of October 1943.
I.
Foreword
The following miscellaneous information was provided by
a young Chinese woman who left Shanghai, September 25, 1943,
spent almost a month in Japan, and returned to Shanghai. Sub-
sequently she left Shanghai and came to Chungking.
II.
Reliability
The reliability of the informant cannot be accurately
judged. Possibly she is entirely reliable. By her own
statement she is well acquainted with responsible officials
of both the Free China Government and the Government of
occupied China. In Japan she was received in the home of a
middle-class Japanese family. While such a situation may seem
incomprehensible to some Americans, it is not unusual in China,
and such relationships do not necessarily mean that the in-
formant cannot be trusted.
As to the information provided, it may be generally
evaluated as "probably true". Some of it has been confirmed
by other sources, and all of it seems reasonable, in view of
other information.
III.
Routes Followed by Informant
Informant left Shangha1 on September 25, 1943, as a
passenger on a Japanese ship (the name of which she says she
cannot recall). The ship on which she traveled was one of
three similar ships in a convoy, protected by one submarine,
and one aeroplane which circled overhead. No prior announce-
ment had been made of the sailing. Two of the ships in the
convoy went to Nagasaki. The one on which informant was a
passenger entered the Inland Sea via Shimonoseki Strait and
anchored off Moji. Late in the afternoon the ships left
Moji for Kobe, and all passengers were required to stay in
their cabins for about one hour and one-half. Kobe was
reached the following morning.
Leaving Kobe by local train at 4 p.m., informant sat up
all night in a coach, and arrived at Yokohama at 6 a.m. the
xt morning. After breakfast with friends in Yokohama,
Tormant took the electric train for Tokyo at l0 a.m.,
iving at Central Station "about forty minutes" later.
When she left Tokyo, she took the "Fuji" Express from
8 a.m. the next morning. Leaving by the Shimoneseki-Fusan
teok the Mght train from Fusan to Peking via Mukden. The
trip from aking te shanghai was made by air.
IV.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
IV.
Comments by Informant on Miscellaneous Subjects, as follows:
TRANSPORTATION
Railways
The "Fuji Express" leaves Central Station, Tokyo at 1 p.m.,
daily. It arrives at Shimonoseki at 8 a.m., the following
morning. The train carries second class sleeping cars and a
diner. A local train leaves Kobe at 4 p.m., and arrives at
Yokohama at 6 a.m., the following morning. There are no sleep-
ing cars and no diner on this train. Electric trains from
Yokohama to Tokyo make the run in "about forty minutes". All
trains in Japan are very crowded. Trains in Korea are "very
dirty and poorly maintained".
Ships
The Shimonoseki-Fusan ferry leaves Shimonoseki soon
after 8 a.m., runs a zig-zag course all day, and reaches
Fusan "about dark" (November lst). The ferry itself was des-
oribed by informant as a "small" ship. The night runs by the
Shimonoseki-Fusan ferries have been discontinued.
No "big" ships were seen at Shimonoseki, Moji, Kobe, or
Yokohama. "A few small ships" were noted. No war ships of
any kind were seen in the ports named, nor in crossing from
Shimonoseki to Fusan.
Local Street Railways
Street sars in Tokyo stop running at about 9 p.m. and
there is no service until morning.
Automobiles
Some official automobiles and a few private cars were
seen operating in Tokyo. Informant believes they were burn-
ing gasoline. Taxicabs are not numerous and they burn char-
coal. Taxis are available only at certain places, such as
Contral Station and the Imperial Hotel. It is very diffi-
cult to find one elsewhere. Prospective passengers line up
with their baggage and wait their turn for taxis.
AIR RAID PRECAUTIONS
Tokyo is blacked out every night. There are no street
lights, and lights from shops, restaurants, movies, etc., do
not show in the streets. Informant reported that the black-
out exists throughout Japan and Korea. The oity of Antung
is also blacked out. Elsewhere in Manchuria and North China,
however, there is no black out. In riding through Japan and
Korea at night by train, no lights whatever can be seen in
the country or in villages.
Throughout Tokyo, "Air Raid Trenches" have been dug.
These are plain ditehes, "about five feet deep and leng
mough for four persons to squat in". When asked how many
suek tremehes have been provided, informant replied, "Oh,
plemty of them".
COMUNICATIONS ....

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
COMMUNICATIONS
Radios
Informant stated that there are no short-wave radio sets
available to the people in Japan and that there is no oppor-
tunity for them to hear foreign broadcasts. In Shanghai,
however, she stated that "lots of people have short-wave sets
and listen to foreign stations regularly, though they are not
supposed to".
PRICES AND COST OF LIVING
Hotel Rates
Informant paid 20 Yen per day for a room, with meals
included, at the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo. At Miyanoshita,
she paid 22 Yen per day for room and meals at the Fujiya Hotel.
Cigarette Prices
"Sakura" brand cigarettes were sold at 55 sen for 10
cigarettes, when an empty package was returned.
Clothing Prices
Informant purchased one kimono of pure silk, lined with
silk of poorer quality, for 22 Yen. She described this as a
"good" kimono. She also purchased a "cheaper" kimono, which
was unlined, for 15 yen.
RATIONING
As a visitor, informant had no ration tickets and could
not make purchases in shops. To overcome this she would pick
out what she wanted and have it bought for her by German
acquaintances in the hotel, who "seemed to be able to buy
things".
FOOD
As a visitor and guest, living in Japanese hotels, in-
formant had no ration tickets and required none. It was also
possible for her to eat in restaurants when she desired with-
out ration tickets. However, she described such restaurant
meals as "unsatisfactory because the portions are so mall
you are still hungry when you have eaten everything".
Meals are still being served in the Imperial Hotel dining
room, and in the basement grill there. The hotel is well
filled with Japanese and German business men, government
offieials, etc. She heard many of them complain that they
were not getting enough to eat and were "always hungry".
At a special breakfast served to informant by friends in
Yokohama, in their own home, the memu consisted of Japanese
pears, riee and tea. Asked whether the riee was white or
brewm, she stated definitely that it was "polished Japanese
riee and very white".
Informent ....

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
Informant stated that she heard there is a black market
in Tokyo and that almost anything is obtainable if you have
enough money. Those who have Chinese cooks seem to be faring
best and there is a saying in Tokyo, "To eat well, get a
Chinese cook".
MISCELLANEOUS
Entertainment
"Thore are lots of movies running in Tokyo and many plays,
but no cabarets". The movies show mostly war pictures and
propaganda films.
"Briefing" for Tokyo Visit
Before she was permitted to leave Shanghai, informant was
told that she should not talk about Shanghai, or conditions
thore, while she was in Tokyo, and had to agree to this stipu-
lation before she was given her travel papers. Informant
interpreted this requirement as an effort to keep people in
Tokyo from knowing that there is more food and generally
better conditions in Shanghai than in Japan.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.89)
M20. 1044
657
BESTRIGTER
To the
Offieer in Charge of the Ameriean Mission,
Chungking.
The Seoretary of Stnte refern t, the Mission's
894.00/1206
enf1dontial 1espatoh (No. 2483) of Apr1l 25, 1944 1n
regard to oonditions in Jepan in Ootober 1943. In reply
to the inquiry oontained in the last paragraph of the
despaten the Nisslon is informed that the Department does
not receive from the Foreign Foonomie Administratiom
reports such as thet contained in the deapateh under
referenee and denires that the Mission contimme to send
such reports.
804.00/1906
00m
9100
MAY 19.944 P.M.
BP
3
RB
人口
Chand ova

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.89)
Jume 26, 1944.
L  c
3
6
My dear Gemeral Dosovan:
Attentionl Lieuteaans-
4
Colemel I. D. Mamm
I have reseived reperts from Coteael Namm and
from Mr. Deeman, a member of the Far Last pamel, with
9
regard to projeets whieb have been presented to the
pamel for study, and I am now moved to lay before you
2
oertain thowghts in the hope that they may be helpful
In the earryins out of your operatlons as they epply
to the Tar Kastern enemy, Japan.
7
kxoept for oertain brief periodn, the politieal
and moral eomeepts of the Japanese people from the time
of their origin in remote antiquity watil their entry
inte the famlly of nations have developed wnder a
soclety and a more? system to she areation of which
the experienees of mankiad as a vhele have ceatribated
little or mothing. Their soeial syetem and behavier
patterm are esseatially those develeped uader tribal
conditiens. They have the peod aharaeteristies ef a
tribel semmmity - sohesiveness and suberdination to
a sentral autherity, loyalty to the eommunity, and
sourage - but they have al so the defeste or a tribal
cemmmmisy: lack of inisiative, reslstanee to shange,
at least ln many aspests of their seelal life, and
fear of tribal pametieas. The Latredsetiom ef Chimese
eulture of the Tang and Sung dymastles, the latredue-
tlem ef Oaristlamlty in the sixteemth aad sevemteemth
ceaturées, and mere reseatly the lapertatien ef western
knevledge siase the middle of the last eeatury have had
litsle effeet on the fundamental coneepts of the
Japanese
SS
Brigedler Gemeral William J. Denevan,
Direeter, Offiee of strategie Serviees,
Wamhington, D. 0.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.89)
8
Jepenese ae a aatien. The Japanese have perhape peleved
Their impeet an the individmnl hag been at
qualifled to take a plaee among the great pewers. Yet,
speeulatien In an effort to fix the fimal ebjeetives of
man, 1t has shown itself peculiarly impervious to
foreign ldeas.
It 1s during time or war tha? the Jharasterlsties
of she Japanese developed under trlbal conditione are
comspieuously present. Japan today is a united cation,
both in appearanee and fast, on the home fromt. It is
undivided in its determimation to proseeute the war,
and both the people at home and the soldlere at the
front show every evidenee of willingness to make
eztreme saerifiees. But every soslety has seme veak-
Besses, al though they may be more dirrieult te dieeera
in some seses than in ethers. There are weakaesses la
the Japanese individual and in the seeial streeture
whieh, ir properly exploited at the appropriate time,
sufriclently profound to contribute substaatially to
Japan's military defaat and eventual collapse.
As I stated on a certain occasion, "The Japasese
military maehins can and will be diseredited la the
A aleavage between
the people and the dapasese militarists vould, La ay
viow, be the wlsiaate objeesive te be alaed at, but
as seen as pessible te contribute t vard the briaging
aad antagoniame as those be tween the Aray and the Havy,
Lasustrial elemeats, and se en.
I preeee:

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.91)
I present below a fow suagestiens with regard to
the me thoda by vhich the exploitatian os dapanese la-
ternal divislens and weakmesses night be appreacheds
1. Preperly simea with military defeats, wedges
ean be driven inte these petential eleavagee which
sheulé aecelerate tme eventual eellapse of Japan.
2. with their rigid indoetrination and strist
eeaserahip, and the prohibisiom of shert-wave radle sets,
the Japanese are relatively immaae to propaganda freem
Western demearatle countries. The greet danger to them
lies in bering from within.
8. Oase the people or Japan, and partioularly
preminent lemders and groups, appoar to be questioning
the oonduet of the war and the hopes of viotory, the
entering wedge wil  have boen drivan.
4. For this reason i favor partioulmrly the
utllisatien of every underyround subversive method to
bring about these divislons and eleavages in ald of
allilary defeat.
5. Through Vapanese" broehures, news artioles,
memifestes, pemphless, learlets, wristen as perplexed
thouch leyal, Japanese would write them, we ean Latrodase
"dangeress thoughts" of whian the Japanese have beem
tradltiemally afraid.
6. In the Orient rumore spread like wilarire and
onee started are hard to stop or trase te their seuree.
Planted in the proper plaeee at the proper time they eas
be imvaluable instrumente of future collapee.
7. I will not atsemps to suggest the preeise meams
by whiek we may put into the mouths of she Japaness,
about doubt, confusion, paaie and moral collapse. Every
cemesivable reasomable method should be used, fer the
stakee are high.
0.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.92)
a. Wnile every effert, both open and subversive.
should be made, that whioh cvidenees a fissure frem
withim will be most likely to affeot the Japanese
mentality.
Binoore youre,
281P.N.
u
PEIJOGIAY

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICE
JUL7-19
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF
STATE
JUL 1 0 1944
6 July 1944
Offics of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 7-1944
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
Department of State
The Honorable
Ambassador Joseph C. Gre,
Department of State,
B94.00/7-644
Washington, D. C.
My dear r. Ambassador:
Thank you for your very courteous and
helpful letter in carrying out morale operations
against Japan.
17-644
To me, your suggestions as to methods
for exploiting the weaknesses of Japan seem
penetrating and possible of employment.
894,00
I am most grateful for your advice
and hope you ill permit us not only to inform
you of our progress, but also to profit from
your counsel.
Sincerely,
Nuh Dunn
William J. Donovan
Director
JUL 1 0 1844
DECLASSIFIED
E.0. 11632 Soc. 3(E) and 3(0) or (0)
/CMARS, Deto
TEIDEALTLA

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
Pappit
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION
 OF PHILIPPINE AFFAIRS
July 19, 1944
MEMORANDUM FOR FILES
Japanese Army Returns Businesses to Puppet
Philippine Republic
A radio broadcast from Manila on July llth states that the
Japanese Army in the Philippines had transferred to the "Govern-
mont of the Republic of the Philippines" a total of 24 Government-
owned or other industrial companies which heretofore had been ad-
ministered by the Japanese Army. The companies were listed as
follows:
894.00/7-1944
National Development Company
2.
National Abaca and Other Fibers Corporation
3.
National Coconut Corporation
4.
National Food Products Corporation
5.
National Warehousing Corporation
6.
National Footwear Corporation
7.
National Tobacco Corporation
8.
National Power Corporation
9.
Manila Railroad Company
10.
Peoples Homesite Corporation
11.
Cebu Portland Cement Company
12. Insular Sugar Refining Company
All of the above are organizations established by the Phil-
ippine Commonwealth Government.
13. Telegraph Enterprise of Bureau of Posts
14. Telephone Administration of Mountain Province and
NOV 15 1
Baguio City
15. Baguio Municipal Electric Enterprise
FIL
16. City of Manila Tramcar Enterprise
17. Manila Gas Company
196
S
The last two above were not Government enterfrises, the
H
Manila Tramoar Enterprise having been operated by the Manila
Eleotric Company, an American corporation, and the Manila Gas
Company also was American owned.
18. Philippine Sugar Association
19. Philippine Salt Control Association
20. Philippine Leaf Tobacco Association
21. Manila Tobacoo Association
22. Philippine
cen

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
22. Philippine Fertilizer Distribution Association
Philippine Shipping Association
Philippine Prime Commodities Control Association
Mone of the above were actually government enterprises.
The Philippine Sugar Association and the Manila Tobacco Associa-
tion were private trade associations before the war. All of the
rest were established by the Japanese Military Administration
after Japanese occupation. Ostensibly they were private trade
associations but actually were instrumentalities of the Japanese
organized to oontrol production and distribution of the various
commodities. All had Japanese advisers and were really Japanese
oontrolled.
The announcer, Arsenio Luz, spokesman of the Board of Infor-
mation, stresses the transfer of the properties as "a most sig-
nifioant step taken by the Imperial Japanese Army in building up
the new Government." He states further that "as a spontaneous
action on the part of the Republic" and as a mark of gratitude
and in pursuance of the pact of alliance the "Republic has invited
the Imperial Japanese Army to continue to operate the undertakings
which it considers essential to the Greater East Asia war". It
develops that the Japanese Army "graciously consented" to continue
to operate the first seventeen enterprises, leaving to the
"Republio" only the seven trade associations, which, as pre-
viously indioated are entirely under Japanese control.
This represents the ultimate in empty gestures and is very
poor propaganda since it is obvious that it represents merely the
return of nominal title to enterprises whioh were seized by the
Japanese Army. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance in the
puppet Government, Antonio de las Alas, 1s reported to have waxed
oloquent in appreciation of the gratitude of the Filipino people
for the kindness and benevolence of the Japanese Nation. He
states:
"It 1s a great pleasure for us to be able to lend for the
time being many of these enterprises to the Imperial
Japanese Army in fulfillment of the terms of the Paot of
Alliance but also as an act of gratitude on our part in
return for the benevolence and kindness shown to us on
many ocoasions by the Imperial Japanese Army."
The radio report fails to state whether the speaker choked while
uttering these noble sentiments.
I:P.P.steintorf:LOM

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.97)
uffit Gont
CONFIDENTIAL
For the personal information
FFANAS
OFFICE
JU: V41944
ENEMY RADIO DIGEST
DEPARTHI OF STATE
Prepared by the Department of Information and Public Relatlons
This is a summary of foreign broadcasts of particular
interest to the Philippine Government based on broadcasts
monitored by the Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Service of
the U.S. Federal Communications Commission.
Vol. III, No. 22
(Thursday) July 13, 1944
JAFS RETURN BUSINESSES TC REPUBLIC: The Manila Press Transmitter
reports in English: Manila; July 1l -"Arsenio Luz, Spokesman
for the Board of Informaticn, at a press conference at 3 p.m.
announced that the Imperial Japanese Army in the Philippines (had)
transferred a total of 24 Government-owned corporations and other
industrial companies which heretofore had been administered by
the army to the Governuont of the Republic of the Ihilippines.
"At the same time, he revealed that as a spontaneous action
on the part of the Re ublic, not only as a matter of gratitude
to Japan but also in pursuance of the provisions of the Pact of
lliance between the two countries. the Republic has invited
the Imperial Japanese Army to select and continue the operation
of (those) corporations or activities which it considers essential
cr necessary to the successrui prosecutfon of the C.E.A. War (and
which had been) transferred to the Republic.
"They follow: National Development Company, National Abaca
and other Fibers Corporation, National Coconut Corpcration,
National Food Products Corporation, National Warehousing Corpo-
ration, National Footwear Corporation,"National Tobaoco Corporatic
& National Power Corporation,'Manila Railroad Conpany,'oPeoples'
Homesite Corporation,) Cebu Portland Cement Company, Insular Sugar
Refining Corporation."
"The list oontinues: The former telegraph enterprise
operated by the Bureau'of Posts, telephone enterprises operated
by the Provincial Administration and City of Baguio, the electrio
enterprise of the City of Baguio, City of Manila tramcar enter-
rrise, the former Manila Gas Corporation. The Philippine Sugar
Association, the Philippine Salt Control Association; Philippine
Lear Tobacco Association, Manila Tobacco Association, Philippine
Fertilizer Distribution Association, Philippine Shipping Asso-
ciation, and the Philippine Prime Commodities Central Association.
"The Spokesman revealed that out of the above 24 establish-
ments the Imperial Army will retain part control and management
of the first 17 corporaticns upon the invitation of the Republic
in order to help the Japanese war effort. The Spokesman charao-
terised the transfer of the properties as a most signiricant step
 taken y the Imperial Japanese Army in economically building up
Re  Deernment.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
monitored by the Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Service of
the U.S. Federal Communications Commission.
Vol. III, No. 22
(Thursday) July 13, 1944
JAPS RETURN BUSINESSES TO REPUBLIC: The Manila Press Transmi¿ter
reports in English: Manila; July 1l -"Arsonio Luz, Spokesman
for the Board of Informaticn, at a press conference at 3 p.m.
announced that the Imperial Japanese Army in the Philippines (had)
transferred a total of 24 Government-owned corporations and other
industrial companies which heretofore had been administered by
the army to the Govern ent of the Republic of the 1hilippines.
"At the same time, he revealed that as a spontaneous action
on the part of the Re ublic, not only as a matter of gratitude
to Japan but also in pursuance of the provisions of the Pact of
lliance between the two countries. the Republic has invited
the Imperial Japanese Army to select and continue the operation
of (those) corporations or activities which it considers essential
cr necessary to the successful prosecutfon of the C.E.A. War (and
which had been) transferred to the Republic.
"They follow: National Development Company, National Abaca
and other Fibers Corporation, National Coconut orporation,
National Food Products Corporation, National Warehousing Corpo-
ration, National Footwear Corporation,"National Tobacco Corporatic
8 National Power Corporation,'Manila Railroad Conpany,'oPeoples!
Homesite Corporation, Cebu Portland Cement Company? Insular Sugar
Refining Corporation."
"The list continues: The former telegraph enterprise
operated by the Bureau'of Fosts, telephone enterprises operated
by the Provincial Administration and City of Baguio, the electrio
enterprise of the City of Baguio, City of Manila tramcar enter-
rrise, the former Manila Gas Corporation. The Philippine Sugar
Association, the Philippine Salt Control Association; Philippine
Leaf Tobacco Association, Manila Tobacco Association, Philippine
Fertilizer Distribution Association, Philippine Shipping Asso-
ciation, and the Philippine Prime Commodities Central Association.
"The Spokesman revealed that out of the above 24 establish-
ments the Imperial Army will retain part control and management
of the first 17 corporaticns upon the invitation of the Republic
in order to help the Japanese war effort. The Spokesman charao-
terized the transfer of the properties as a most significant step
taken by the Imperial Japanese Army in economically building up
the new Government.
"He said that with the return of these corporationsto the
Republic, the efforts of the Government to plan and provide for
national economy will be facilitated as it will be able to use
these corporations and cnterprises freely'to bring about national
reconstruction and econonic self-sufficienoy. He further states
that this transfer will all but put into effect the plans of the
Government to ameliorate the living condition of the people.
"In this way, the Republic will be permitted to be con-
sistent with its obligations and exeroise she attributes of an
independent state. The Spokesman stressed the faot that the
Filipino people are deoply grateful fer the Satest action of the
Imperial Army, being consistent as it is  th the repeased an-
ats that it is not Japan's dsrro to exploit or mono-
Paliippine economy.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
"The Manila Press Transmitter adds in English, Manila, July 7
Minuster of Finance, Antonio de las Alas today expressed the gra-
titude of the Filipino people for the kindness and benevolence
of the Japanese Nation in transferring the former Government-
(wned oorporations to the Republic, which was'announced by the
Board or Information this afternoon. He said, 'Truly we cannot
adequately express in words our deepest appreciation for suoh an
act of true management'.
"He added, 'In this connection, I would like to state that
it is a great pleasure for us to be able to lend for the time
being many of these enterprises to the Imperial Japanese Army
In fulfillment of the terms of the Pact of Alliance but also as
an act of gratitude on our part in return for the benevolence
and kindness shown to us on many occasions by the Imperlal Japant
ese Army.'
"It was revealed that Minister Alas headed the Philippine
committee which was formed a few months ago together with the
Japanese committees to discuss the transfer of corporations. The
Japanese'and Filipino cormittees held the first joint conference
March 28, 1944, during which high ranking army officers ex-
pressed a desire to exploit their transfer to the Republic. Sub-
secuent meetings were held as a result of which an &greement was
finally reached regarding the wholesale transfer of the establish-
nents involved. He also revealed (an agency) will be created soon
by both the Japanese and Philippine Government to carry out de-
cisions already reached."DR Q-4-5- 6
NEWS BRIErS: Tokjo, July 1o - "Jorge B. Vargas, Philippine
Ambassador to Japan, callca on Naoki Hoshino, Secrotary of the
Japanese Cabinet, July 7, at the official residence of the Premier
to report his return from a trip to the Philippines.
"Tokyo, July 1o - (Teraki Ono), a Japanose Catholic living
in the Philippines, has written to a Catholic paper published in
Japan conoerning 2ó Japanese Catholic nuns, rosident in the Is-
lands since December 1942. He stated that during that time they
had lived in the dormitories of the St. Paul and Holy Ghost
Cathedrals in Manila, and has vorked closely with Filipino nuns
in homes, schools, and nunneries. Ho concluded by explaining
that these nuna had recently returned to Japan.
.Manila, July 10 - President Jose P. Laurel of the Philippine
spoke to a group of 40 women leaders, educators, social workers,
and professionals headed by Mrm. Francisoa T. Benitez, director
of the Walibapi Womon's Bureau, at the Malacañan on July 8. The
Presidont deolared that Filipino women should be more active and
if necessary, be orucified on the cross of national salvation
so that we may either rise together, men and women, Filipinos
alike, or fall together.' Benigno S. Aquino was congratulated
by the President on coordinating women's activitios in the
ocuntry through the Kalibapi Women's Bureau.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
 a great pleasure for us to be able to lend for the tim
being many of these enterprises to the Imperial Japanese Army
In fulfillment of the terms of the Pact of Alliance but also as
 act of gratitude on our part in return for the benevolence
and kindness shown to us on many occasions by the Imperlal Japan
ese Army.'
"It was revealed that Minister Alas headed the Philippine
commtttee which was formed a few months ago together with the
Japanese committees to discuss the transfer of corporations. The
Japanese'and Filipino cormittees held the first joint conference
March 28, 1944, during which high ranking army officers ex-
pressed a desire to exploit their transfer to the Republic. Sub-
secuent meetings were held as a result of which an agreement was
finally reached regarding the wholesale transfer of the establish-
ents involved. He also revealed (an agency) will be created soon
by both the Japanese and Philippine Government to carry out de-
cisions already reached."DR Q-4-5- 6
NEWS BRIEFS: Tokyo, July 1o - "Jorge B. Vargas, Philippine
Ambassador to Japan, callca on Naoki Hoshino, Secrctary of the
Japanese Cabinet, July 7, at the official rosidenco of the Premier
to report his return from a trip to the Philippines.
"Tokyo, July 10 - (Teraki Ono), a Japanose Catholic living
in the Philippines, has written to a Catholic paper published in
Japan concerning. 2ó Japanese Catholic nuns, resident in the Is-
lands since December 1942. He stated that during that time they
had lived in the dormitories of the St. Paul and Holy Ghost
Cathedrals in Manila, and has orked closely with Filipino nuns
in homes, schools, and nunnories. Ho concluded by explaining
that these nuna had recently returned to Japan.
Manila, July 10 - President Jose P. Laurel of the Philippine
spoke to a group of 40 women leaders, educators, social workers,
and professionals headed by Mrm. Francisca T. Benitez, director
of the Kalibapi Vomon's Bureau, at the Malacañan on July 8. The
Presidont declared tnat Filipino women should be more active and
'if necessary, be crucified on tho cross of national salvation
so that we may either rise together, men and women, Filipinos
alike, or fall together.' Benigno S. Aquino was congratulated
by the President on coordinating women's activities in the
ccuntry through the alibapi Women's Bureau.
"Maila, July 10 - Camilo Osias, Philippine Minister of
ducation, will address the student body of our University of
the Philippines on July 14, speaking on 'The Stato University
as a Springboard'. He wili be introduced by Dr. ntonio G.
Sison, President of tho University." DR AA8-9

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.96)
JNCOMING
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATION
TELEGRAM
AND RECORDS
Colombo
this telegram must be
olosely pcraphrased be-
Dated Julj 20, 1944
fore being communicated
0C
to anyone. (SECRET)
Rec'd 12:34 pim
221944
Secretary of stato
Office of
ENN AFFAINS
FAR EASTERN A
Washington
JUL 25 1944
DEPUTY
Department o. S
IMPORTAIT
894.00/7-2044
224, Ju1y 20, 5 p.m.
It would bo most helpful in our relations with
American side of SEAC to lave telegraphic summary of
Popartment's interpretation of recent politicel develop-
ments nnd militery changes in Japan.
894.00/7-
BISHOP
JT
BB
AUG1-1944
FILED

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.95)
puxtment of State
Washingion.
221944
AMBHICAN CONSUL,
COLOMBO (CEYL.ON).
/6 TWENTY-SECOND
FOR BISHOP.
/7-2244
Following is text of ststement issued by Mr. Grew
July 20: QuoTE The resienntion of the Tojo Cabinet in
7-2244
Japan seems to me
Firet, it 18
the clearcet
sustained by the J
,nd, i+ follow
the usual Japane se pattern of tt acce t rce f paraonel
responsibility for fallures; third, it implies the
neeossity of bolstering a veakening morple on the part of
the Japaneee people by giving them something in the nature
of a new governmert, although we do not know whether Tojo
will reappear in it or not.
In thie connection I would exprese e word cf caution.
In all probability, the ohange of government in Japan will
entail no fundamental change of polioy in fighting the war
to the bitter end, for the old do-or-die fanatioal spirit
1s deeply engrained in the Japanese raoe. It 1s also
iapertant to bear in mind that Tojo is only one of a g
peral diotator in the Suropean 

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.94)
purtment of Sbtate
Washingion.
221944
AMBRICAN CONSUL,
COLMBO (CEYIL.ON).
/6 TWENTY-SECOND
0/7-2244
FOR BISHOP.
Following is text of ststement issued by Mr. Grew
July 2o: QuoTE The resienntion of the Tojo Cabinet in
7-2244
Japan seems to πe
Firet, it 19
the clearcst
sustained by the J
n, i+ follows
the usual Japane se pattern of tto accert rce f pareonel
responsibility for fallures; thir, it implies the
neoossity of bolstering a veakening morple on the part of
the Japaneee people by giving them something in the nature
of a new governmert, although we do not know whother Tojo
will reappear in it or not.
In this connection I would exprese e word of caution.
In all probability, the ohange of government in Japan will
entail no fundamental change of polioy in fighting the war
to the bitter end, for the old do-or-die fanatioal spirit
1s deeply engrained in the Japanese raoe. It 1s also
iapertant to bear in mind that Tojo is only one of a gry
 permoal diotator in the European n

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.89)
Wadhtngten.
-2
distatorship 1s exercised by a group which is still in
power. It would be short-sighted and dangerous to the
full proseoution of our own war effort to allow this
ohange to lull us into any wishful thinking or false
optimim. UNQUOTE
Hall
1m
B/OR
JUL 22:944P.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.96)
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
AUG 10 1944
ruein
RECEIVED
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
rtment of State
rnn
1844 AUG 8 AM 2 43
AMERICA
London, Aughst
DIVISION OF
COMMUNIGATIONS
OFFICE
AND RECORDS
No. 17240
Subjoot:
Times Article by Ambassador Craigie on Political
Changes in Japan
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
As of possible interest to the Department, I have the
honor to transmit herewith copies of an article by Sir
Robert Craigie, last British Ambassador to Japan, which
was published on the editorial page of the London Times on
July 31, l944. The article consists of a brief disoussion
of the significance of the recent Government changes in
Tokyo.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Dorsey Gassaway Fisher
Second Secretary of Embassy
Anolosure:
As stated, in triplicate
In single copy to the Department
DGF:fh

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.97)
Tosure No.tito despatoh No.173toor Gugust 2,1944
Tron the mbassy at London,England.
FArLF.
THE TIES
NJEER:
JUL 31 1944
CI
UPHEAVAL IN JAPAN
CHANGES TO ENSURE STIFFER
RESISTANCE
BID FOR ADDED NATIONAL EFFORT
By the Rt. Hon. Sir Robert Craigie
So momentous and near are the events finally, at home a people, possibly dis
in Hitler's Germany that the parallel
illusioned after so much boasting, but
evef ready to put up with rather more
political upheaval in Japan seems to be
than most nations in similar circuph
receiving here less attention than it de-
stances.
erves. True, in Japan the crisis has not
The characters of the dramads personed
s yet assumed the proportions of incipient
reyolt. but its effests may, in the long
the sceses. Kuninki Koiso, the polmlon
run. be not less far-reaching than the
general whose ambition has slways beed
movement in the Reich.
the premiership, is a militarist die-hard of
the old school, acceptable to the extremist
The tradition observed in Japan's
clement in the army. It is not un-
modern wars—the long struggle with
amusing to remember that when there was
China is an exception—is that the Cabinet
some question of sending General Koiso
which started the war should stay the
to negotiate a settlement with the Govern-
whole course, thus giving to the world an
ment of the Netherlands East Indies, his
impression of national unity and firm
proposals for the coercion of those reso-
lute Dutchmen were so extreme that they
resolve. Undoubtedly such was also the
proved too much even for that most
intention in this the greatest of Japan's
nationalistic of Foreign Ministers,
wars. The dismissal of General Tojo will,
Yosuke Matsuoka. Koiso equals Geseral
by its break with tradition, seem all the
more calamitous to the average Japanese.
acumen, and falls short of him in brain-
It is the beginning of the rift in the
power and organizing ability.
Japanese wall of militarism as surely as
Admiral Yonai, the new Minister of
the bomb in Hitler's council chamber
Marine, proved an eminently successful
marks the beginning of the end of
occupant of that post during the years
Nazism.
1937 to 1939. Both at that time and during
NO CHANGE OF POLICY
his brief premiership in 1940 he showed
himself opposed to extremist courses.
But do not let us delude ourselves into
and particularly to the conclusion of
thinking that the new Japanese Cabinet
an alllance with Germany Tang the
is about to sue for peace. From thie meagre
cherished ambition of the military jingoes.
detallt avalable to the public it seems
Like many of the wiser heads in Japan, he
probable that we are witnessing an
saw where war with the British Empire
and the United States must ultimataly lead
attempt to repair the fissures that have
his country. It was only after the col-
appeared m me pourical structure by
lapse of Prance that the relatively
broadening the basis of public support for
moderate Yonai-Arita combination had
the policy of resistance à purrance and by
to give way to that extremist Cabinet
reducing the friction between Army and
under Prince Konoe, which finally con-
Navy.
cluded the tripartite pact with the Axis.
What is the scene which General Koiso
SIGNS OF FRICTION
surveyed when he took over the reins of
These men of differing outlook, sup-
government ? Instead of a perimeter
ported by the War Lord Sugiyame as War
rumming in a mighty sweep from Burma to
Minister, the liberal-minded Mamoru
the Gilberts at an average distance of
Shigemitsu as Poreign Minister, and the
3,500 miles from Tokyo, he sees Japan's
able General Umezu as Chief of the
mer line of defenoss breached and the
llstangs frem the Philip-

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
general whose ambition has
The tradition obeerted in Japan's
the old school, acceptable to the estrepmist
element in the army. It is not un-
modern warsthe long struggle with
amusing to remember that when there was
China is an exception-is that the Cabinet
some question of sending General Koiso
which started the war should stay the
to negotiate a settlement with the Govern-
whole course, thus giving to the world an
ment of the Netherlands East Indies, his
impression of national unity and firm
proposals for the coercion of those reeo-
resoive. Undoubtedly such was also the
lute Dutchmen were so extreme that they
proved too much even for that most
intention in this the greatest of Japan's
wars. The dismissal of General Tojo will,
nationalistic of Foreign Ministers,
Yosuke Matsuoka. Koiso equals Gegeral
by its break with tradition, seem all the
more calamitous to the average Japanese.
It is the beginning of the rift in the
acumen, and falls short of him la rin-
Japanese wall of militarism as surely as
power and organizing ability.
Admiral Yonai, the new Minister of
the bomb in Hifler's council chamber
marks the beginning of the end of
Marine, proved an eminently successful
Nazism.
occupant of that post during the years
1937 to 1939. Both at that time and during
NO CHANGE OF POLICY
his brief premiership in 1940 he showed
But do not let us delude ourselves into
himself opposed to extremist courses.
and particularly to the conclusion of
thinking that the new Japanese Cabinet
an alliance with Germanylöng the
is about to sue for peace. From the meagre
cherished ambition of the military jingoes.
details avallable to the public it seems
Like many of the wiser heads in Japan, he
probable that we are witnessing an
saw where war with the' British Empire
attempt to repair the fissures that have
and the United States must ultimately lead
appeared In the polificar structure by
his country. It was only after the col-
lapse of France that the relatively
broadening the basis of public support for
moderate Yonai-Arita combination had
the policy of resistance à putrance and by
to give way to that extremist Cabinet
reducing the friction between Army and
under Prince Konoe, which finally con-
Navy.
cluded the tripartite pact with the Axis.
What is the scene which General Koiso
SIGNS OF FRICTION
surveyed when he took over the reins of
These men of differing outlook, sup-
government? Instead of a perimeter
ported by the War Lord Sugiyama as War
running in a mighty sweep from Burma to
the Gilberts at an average distance of
Minister, the liberal-minded Mamoru
3,500 miles from Tokyo, he sees Japan's
Shigemitsu as Foreign Minister, and the
inner line of defences breached and the
able General Umezu as Chief of the
Americans in possession of Saipan, barely
General Staf, will, it is anticipated, secure
1,500 miles from Tokyo to the north and
a wider measure of support throughout
about the same distance from the Philip-
the country than did, in its later stages.
pines to the west. This great forward
the "personalist" régime of General
surge has been achieved by the exercise of
clossly integrated air-sea power on the
which wotld De achieved in a denndcracy
grand acale. So powerful and skilful has
by the subetitution of a cbalition for a
been the attacking foros, so eficient the
solution of the supply and repair problems
An abi
pnly second in import-
along the lengthening lines of communica-
anee is probably the ellmination of fric-
tions, that the Japanese fleet has at no
tion between Arny and Navy. of which
time ventured to bar the American
advance in full force. On the other side
of the southern perimeter he sees the
frustration of the Japanese attempts to
invade India and the Japanese forces hard
put to it to hold Burma.
While their war was going well friction
could be reduced to a minimum ; but with
SANDS RUNNING OUT
the capture of Saipan and the failure of
What, then, can the new Cabinet and its
the Japanese navy to come out in full
advisers do to stem the enemy advance ?
force to its defence we can imagine the
They may hope to inaugurate operations
strains and stresses imposed upom inter-
hich will be at once more skilful and
service relations. Koiso and Yonai are
hore daring. The normal Japanese re-
well suited to the task of reconclling these
action would be to avert a major fleet
divergences in outlook.
action until the American lines of com-
Nevertheless it is highly doubtful
munication are at their longest and the
whether the measures taken will prove
Japanese at their shortest. The attack
anything more than palliatives. The
would then be delivered with maximum
strains and stresses must inevitably in-
strength. But the sands are running out.
crease as Japan's military situation de-
and it seems unlikely that the moment
teriorates. The fundamental fact is that
for a great trial of strength can be much
nation purtured on the idea of its own
lopser delayed.
avincibility finds itself face to face with
An his survey General Koiso will have
efeat. While discord grows in high
found some crumbs of comfort: the
places, a search for scapegoats has begun.
Japanese capital ship fleet (with its power-
The process will be accelerated as our
(ul new additiona) virtually intact; the
American allies come within easier bomb-
Japanese Army, strong numerically and
ing range of Japan's great industrial
technically, as yet little affected by its
areas. It is wisest. and safest to assume
losses in Burma, New Guinea, and the
that the Japanese will fight this war to a
islands of the Pacific ; vast stores of every
finish. But that finish will be accelerated
<ind of raw material accumulated against
if the symptoms of discord visible behind
he day when communications with the
the fall of Eiki Tojo tend to grow in depth
slands of the south are severed; and, and magnitude.

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPART
OF STATE
TERN AFFAIRS
Recent politr
1 developments in Japan:
The most important and interesting part f
the atteched report is adequately summarized on
the last page - 21. The summary reads:
"Within the last two months Japan ha cn-
pletely revamped its political organization,
but has done this entirely within the legal
framework of the Constitution and the Diet.
By winning a one-party election and organiz1
the Imperial Rule Assistance Political Socie
the controlling government clique made up of!
military, capitalistic, and bureaucratic fec
tions has now achieved a stranglehold on the0
country. Feced by the threat of the war and4
the hope of exploiting the southern reglone,N
the people are willing at the moment that this
should be so. Thus the Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere has been given the 'Green
Light' by the people of Japan, who now fervently
hope that it will work."
Excerpte belleved to be of value for FE
files have been taken from the report and
placed in the files. A copy of these excerpta
La attached and it 1s suggested that they be
reegRin full.
15
Anal
TE:BIShOP:MBW/MJF
IN
cat 
116823

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
Exeeppts taken from a report
AN ANALYSIS OF THE GEA POLICY
AND ITS POLITICAL BACKGROUND
prepared by the
Hawaiian Postal Censorship Station
June 1942 and sent to FC-Mr. Gordon
DO/R
under cover of a letter of August ll
from the Office of Censorship
AUG 191952
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
"Let us examine the proposed area of what i
Depertment of State
the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, as envisioned
by the Japanese. Broadeasting from Chungking, on Kay 19th,
Dr. T. Chiang, a Government spokesman, tells of a map pub-
l1shed in June, l941, with the sanotion of the Imperial
Japanese Government. It shows the sphere as inoluding
the whole of continental Asia, with the sole exception of
Arabia. The boundary-line ertends through the Persian
Gulf to the Caspåan Sea, temohing the great oil-fields at
Baku. Thenoe it runs northeasterly to the foot of the
Ural Mountains. It inoludes all of China, Indo-China
Thailand, the Malay Peninsula, Burma, the Dutch East Indies,
New Guinea, all of Sakhalin, the Philippines, the northern
tip of Australia including Darwin and Cape York, together
0
with the vast ocean areas and the many groups of Islands,
Q
including Guam and Yap. "The extent of Japan's sphere,"
says Dr. Chiang, 'stops short of continental Australia and
does not include the Hawaiian Islands, though mention has
been made of Alaska to be added within the sphere.'
"In part confirmation of this ambitious statement, a
8
Tokyo broadoast in Japanese on May 17th, states that the
area of the GEA Co-Prosperity sphere will embrace one
quarter of the entire globe, including India, Australia
and New Zealand. It points out that, in the GEA area
already conquered, Japan has all of the resources needed
to make her entirely self-sufficient, while America and
Britain have been deprived of vital and much-needed materials...
"At the second meeting of the Greater East Asia Inquiry
Board, held in Tokyo on May 4th, 1942, the following outline
of fundamental ideals was accepted:
"1. The GEA establishment is to be based upon the
spirit of the Japanese national structure, under the super-
vision of the military administration.
"2. The countries concerned shall have their natural
resources developed and extended in mutual oo-operation to
inerease the total eeonomio strength of the GEA.
"3. Japan

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
"3. Japan must foster an interest in international
relations and loyalty so that complete internal reorgani-
sation of these countries may be attained.
"4. Peoples within the GEA sphere must realize that
the fate of the GxA rests upon co-operation with the
military administration.
"5. The whole struoture must be departmentalized
into Industry and Produotion, Finance, Export Trade and
Soience. Special researches must be undertaken upon
infectious diseases, mineral resouroes, agricultural
produots and the transportation problems of the GkA area.
"6. Tours of industry must be organized for University
students, and a special GEA Eoonomics Section must be set
up to handle educational publicity through lectures, motion-
pioture films and similar methods...
"Within the last two months the politioal system of
Japan has been entirely revised, resulting in complete con-
trol both of politics and economics by the military-
capitalistio-bureauoratio elements of the nation. While
there has been a steady trend in this direotion for a
deoade or more, it has never been unopposed. Nothing
approaching the conditions brought about by a recent eleo-
tion for the imperial Diet has existed since feudalism was
swept away &o years ago. While it is of no ∞ncern at
present how long suoh conditions will continue in the face
of ultimate viotory or defeat, it seems vitally important
that Amerioans understand how Japan has reorganized and
centralized itself to meet the war threat. Here is given
a brief explanatory baokground and the various steps by
whioh the reorganization has been accomplished since the
beginning of 1942, with something of the economio results
already apparent.
"... There had been no election to the Diet sinoe the
spring of 1937 before the China Inoident began. The old
Diet had been under sufficient control to vote the huge
budgets required by the military for carrying on the China
war and preparing for the greater war to come. But it could
not be depended upon to support the sweeping changes now
planned, and doubtless it was deemed necessary to get the
support of the nation behind these changes by means of an
eleetion. It was announced, therefore, that one would be
held at the end of April. (First announcement of this must
havo

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
have been in February, for on the 23rd of that month,
accerding to a broadoast made Maroh 22, Premier Tojo
called together thirty-three national leaders and explained
the plans to them.)
"As these plans are now seen in retrospect, it appears
that the GEA concept, formerly a foreign polioy, had been
turned into the basis and rallying point of the reorganized
state. It was capable of appealing to the glory and greed
of the nation and was made palatable to the idealists by
the #co-prosperity sphere" promise. It served adequately
as the single and all-embracing plank of the IRAA, now
promoting and managing the eleotion. The election chairman
of this organization, General Nobuyuke Abe, former premier,
speaking in Japanese over the radio Maroh 22, is quoted as
saying to the organization's branch leaders:
"'Your first duty is to instill among the people a
strong stimulus toward fulfillment of the saored war,
thereby showing the true spirit of assisting the Imperial
rule and establishing a strong IRaA political struoture of
the nation.' (Translation by Station Ponda.) He went on
to reveal the way in which the government intended to gain
control of the Diet, which was simply by hand-pioking the
candidates, given the euphonius name of 'endorsing them.
Ho oontinuod:
"'In the past, candidates have been permitted to regis-
ter without any difrioulty ... Unquestionably there were
those eleoted who had every intenéion of giving all help to
the government ... but they (former Diet members) have been
an obstaole in the formation of the IRAA politioal struoture ...
(To ohoose men for its purpose) the IRAA political counoil
must carry on a detailed study of each candidate and then
conoentrate on the election (of those endorsed).' Abe then
asked for as many qualified men as possible to come forward,
that the seleotions might be wide...
"Fifteen million voters were qualified to go to the
polls on eleotion day, April 30. IRAA-endorsed candidates
won 387 out of the 477 seats in the House of Representatives.
There were 88/lidorsed candidates elected, or 22 per cent of
the membership, a significant number under the ciroumstanees.
Of those elected, 200 were new men taking their places for
the first time, and of this group l68 were endorsed by the
DRAA

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
IRAA (May 2).
"Eiection practices were somewhat improved over the
past, but still bad enough. In 1937 there had been 978
eases of violations (meaning vote selling, bribery and
worse), involving 1,827 people; in this election there
were only 431 cases involving 1,176 people (May 12).
"THE DMPZRIAL RULE ASSISTANCE POLITICAL SOCIETY
"With a large majority of the House behind him, over
half of whom were new members not conversant with parlia-
mentary taotios, and an enthusiastic nation, Premier Tojo
proceeded immediately after the election to embark on a
series of political moves which can have no parallel in
modern political history. To understand these moves fully,
it must be kept in mind, as already stated, that the Con-
stitution is sacrosanct, its provisions to be fulfilled
to the letter. But the letter is enough; formal recogni-
tion is about all the Japanese emperors have enjoyed for
centuries. In flousing the spirit of the Constitution and
substituting government by a olique, Tojo and his supporters
are acting direotly in the main tradition of Japanese poli-
tical procedure and are incurring no serious criticism for
so doing.
"His first step, May 4, was to announce t hat an extra-
ordinary session of the Diet would be convened May 27, 28
and 29. His second, May 7, was to call together a group of
77 men, leaders in finance, government, various influential
organizations, the army and navy. To these he explained
his ideas and asked them to serve as a supporting nuoleus
in putting them into effeot. It may be assumed with cer-
tainty that each man had long been previously aware of the
plan in general and was ready to act. The speed of what
followed indicates that carefully laid plans were being
followed.
" ... The meaning of national unity as a mall, one-
group control of national power and finance was revealed
suddenly on May 20, when, with a great burst of explana-
tions, there was announced the inaugural meeting on that
date of the new Imperial Rule Assistance Political Society
(Taisei Yokusan Selji Kai).
"This was made up of a select group chosen from the
original IRaA. The latter obviously, had grown too large
and held too many discordant elements, such as former
politioal

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
politieal leaders who had climbed on its bandwagon and
would be inolined to wrangle, real liberals, and plain
Sethers.* The original IRAA still continues in existence
as a large supporting group, and even attracts new nem-
bership as various smaller groups hasten to join up since
its sweeping success in the elections. Such for instance,
was the Tohokai, which dissolved and its membership was
taken into the fRAA and six of its officers made a part
of the select IRA Political Society (May 23).
"Invitations to join this select group were sent to
1044 people. They included the entire membership of the
new House of Representatives, the House of Peers, 14 mem-
bers of the Imperial household, all cabinet members, and
a group of important board and bureau heads. Of the num-
ber invited 23 persons declined outright to join and 89
others remained indeterminate by nos answering. (This is
opnsidered a more polite way of refusing than by a defin-
ite answer.) These 112 probably represent most of the
opposition to this movement in important places, and doubt-
less include many of the non-endorsed members of the House
of Representatives. Attending the inaugural meeting,
finally, were 933 persons which inoluded all of the cabinet
members except the Army and Navy Ministers who, for some
reason, did not join the organization (May 20).
"In the two weeks intervening between the first meet-
ing of the 77 and the inaugural meeting of the new poli-
tieal society, the 77 had made themselves into a central
counoil. It is obvious that in these 77 lies the om ef
support of the movement. They had eleoted directors and
standing directors, formed committees and named chairmen,
building up an extended framework for a powerful politioal
organization.
"(The 29 direotors named on the recommendation of
President Abe are: Michitomo Okuro, Sotaro Ishiwata,
Torotaro Ishizuka, Ryusaku Endo, Tadahiko Odada, Tadao
Oeata, Koso Ohota, Masatake Uota, Nagatani Okabe, Masanori
(Kusatsu), Isuneo Hanamitsu, Iohiro Kiyose, Kuniya Saito,
Fumio Goto, Tatsuo Godo, Geniohiro Kobayashi, Tadamasa
Sakai, Toshio Shiratori, Nobumasa Uyetsuga, Kotaro Sengoku,
Maseo Taki, Toshiki Tanaka, Ryutaro Nagai, Kingpro Hashimoto,
Aiiehiro Fujiyama, Yoneso Mayeda, Tatsunosuke Tamazaki
Chikangri Yokoyama and Tadaaki Ishiguro. (Ponda, May 20).
"(Thirteen standing direetors are: (Ishitate) Iwakuro,
Sotaro, Ishiwata, Kuwataro Ishizuka, Tadao Ohwata, Koso Ote,
Masataka

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
-6
Masataka Ota, Nawakami Okabe, Fumio Goto, Takuo Godo,
Jyutaro Nagai, Yonezo Mayeda, Tatsunosuke Yamazaki and
Fukenari Yokoyama. (Ponda, May 20).
"General Abe was eleoted president at the inaugural
meeting and Fumio Goto was made a sort of executive
seeretary. (Apparently he and Tatsunosuke Yamazaki had
been acting in this oapacity, doing the hard work of
organizing, for when it was all over they paid a thankful
visit to Meiji shrine.)
"The platform of the new organization, as given in the
English broadoast of May 20, states:
"'First, resolutely to proceed with the attainment of
the successful conolusion of the GEA war by consolidating
national political power in accordance with the essential
prinoiples of the national policy. Second, fimmly to estab-
lish the IRAPS Diet, in strict accordanoe with the provisions
of the Imperial Constitution, Third, to attain (firmness)
of the Imperial Rule Assistance movement, in olose allegiance
and cooperation with the IRAA. Fourth, to make efforts to
construot a new order of the world by setting up the GKA
co-prosperity sphere.'
"This resume, intended for foreign consumption, tells
very little. The ultimate object of the organization is
oontrol both of the politics and the economics of the
nation...
"Among the things accomplished before the Diet met was
the seleotion of the president and vice-president of the
House. These two were seleoted by Abe, but formally elected
at the Diet meeting. More important was the new way devised
for handling bills to be introduced into the House. A single
group hereafter will study all proposed bills, this group
replacing several whioh formerly funotioned on this matter.
Needless to say, in passing through this 'unified' channel,
only those bills approved by the IRapS will ever reach the
membership.
"While the election gave control of the House of Repre-
sentatives to the IRAPB, oontrol of the permanent House of
Peers required other tactics. These did not involve the
publie, however, so that little is heard about them. It
was anmounoed on May 25, that various factions in the House
of Peers had agreed to form coordinating committees to work
吐

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
with the IRAPS, so that for the present the Peers have
lined up with the controlling clique. Another means by
which the House of Peers was brought in line was by the
appointment of Abe to a seat in that body. As a member
he will be in a much better position to exercise needed
influence.
"The Diet actually opened on May 25, two days before
its ceremonious opening on May 27, with the Emperor present
as usual. During these two preliminary days members were
evidently seated and instructed in procedure. Without
parties on whioh to base seating arrangements, in the House,
a geographioal plan was followed. Prefectures were grouped
together in sequence, those at one end of the country on one
side, those from the other end on the opposite side. (May 23.)
"Five bills were presented to this Diet, three of them
on budgetary matters, two of them having to do with ship-
building. An additional budget of Yen 12,846,000 was asked
to inorease facilities for the training of seamen, and to
finanoe a GEA Construction Inquiry Board. The non-budgetary
bills provided ways and means for building ships more
rapidly, by subsidy and supply of materials. One bill also
had something to do with wage increases in industrial plants.
"SUMMARY
"Within the last two months Japan has oompletely
revamped its political organization, but has done this
entirely within the legal framework of the Constitution
and the Diet. By winning a one-party eleotion and organiz-
ing the Imperial Rule Assistance Politioal Society, the
controlling government clique made up of military, oapital-
istic, and bureaucratic factions has now achieved a strangle-
hold on the country. Faced by the threat of the war and
the hope of exploiting the southern regions, the people are
willing at the moment that this should be so. Thus the
Greater East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere has been given the
"Green Light" by the people of Japan, who now fervently
hope that it will work.
"Note: Transoripts of all broadoasts on whioh the above
report is based are available in the Press and Radio Depart-
ment, Office of Postal Censorship, Honolulu, T. H."

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.96)
DSTATES GOVERN
UNITE
RSOSIVED
W
MAY 3 1949.
DATE:8/29/44
DIVISIUN OF
Carlile:
894.00
This is a cepy of a memorandum submitted by
Mr. Allen H. Fry, Content Division of CIAA, Washington.
I phoned Mr. Pry and told him:
"This is putting the Japanese program
right back where it was before, except for
the elimination of Korean spies and the dis-
oussion of Emperor worship.
The Department is not interested in the
partioular type of smript - whether soap opera
or documentary. Political officers are inter-
ested in what is said about the Japanese life
and customs and their influenoeuupon their
behavior. This is in accordance with the in-
894.00/8-2944
formation transmitted to Mr. Ogilvie at the
time the original project was under consider-
ation.
It will be appreciated if you will seoure
from the specialists who are to provide the
material for this soript, a statement of the
argument whioh would be based upon a desoript-
ion of Japanese life and customs."
Mr. Fry promised to secure a brief of the argu-
ments which cisa desires suoh a series to present.
Attackment:
R:JBCarlile:BOH
FILLD

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
August 25, 1944
Mr. John Carlisle
M: Allan H. Fry
I should like to present for consideration by the Department and for
discussion next Thursday afternoon the following:
1. The attached memorandum originating in New York and addressed to
Mr. Roberts, Radio Production head, from Mr. Delgado -- a study proposing an
alternative series of programs on.inter-American cooperation to be done jointly
by the Department and the Coordinator.
You will recall the August 10 meeting in Mr. Beggs' office at which
time it was agreed that we submit to the Department several proposals for such
a series.
 Considerable discussion between this Office and the Radio Production
Office in New York seems to indicate the inadvisability, from a radio point of
view, of a "Buzz Sawyer" type of program illustrating the nature of the Japs.
We should like to present for reconsideration, therefore, a modification of the
original "La Mascara Sonriente" show. In this new series it is proposed that
the locale of operations be some Jap-occupied area so that adequate display can
be given to the effect of Jap occupation on the life, customs, morale and treat-
ment of the local inhabitants. This device of the locale will give, it is be-
lieved, an opportunity to point out the nature of the enemy in ali the necessary
facsimile detail. As to structure ana  lot, there has been suggested by New
York for your consideration either : running documentary on village life or a
"soap box opera" documentary-dramatic. Several areas have been under considera-
tion -- Burma, China, the Philippines, Manchukuo, Siam. It is further queried
by New York as to the. possibility of revolving this around a typical manufac-
tured underground activity. It is felt that ample documentation can be obtained
and that an authoritative note couid be lent through a possible cooperation of
script writers and researchers with appropriate members of the Department.
Attachments (2): Aug. 23/44 Wood - andrews memo
Aug. 23/44 Roberts - Delgado memo

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.96)
INCOMING
COMMUNICAT
TELEGRAM
AND RECON
AN
20-96
Ankara
This telegram must be
alosely paraphrased be-
Dated September 1, 1944
fore being communicated
Rec'd 10:37 p. PECIAL WAR PROBLEMS
to anyone. (CONFIDENTIAL)
DIVISION
Office of
USEP 5-1944
88
EAR EASTERN AFFAIS
Secretary of State,
6
194h
Washington.
DRPUTY DIRACTOR
Dpartment of State
00
1610, September 1, 1 p.m.
/5-144
Maurice Champoud, formerly Swiss Consul at Kobe,
Japan, has Just arrived in Ankara by way of the Soviet
Union having left Kobe on July 17. He has furnished
the following information concerning conditions in Japan:
894.00/
Practically all wooden buildings in Tokyo have been
9-144
torn down and large numbers of the population evacuated
into the interior. The Japanese population on the whole
remains hungry after 1ts two daily neals. Disorganization
in the transportation system and regulations forbidding
the removal of foodstuffs from one prefecture to another
prevent the proper distribution of supplies in Japan and
Japanese controlled territory. Most Japanese military
reverses are published in the press after some delay but
without details as to J panese lossee of men, planes or
ships. Any statement by Champoud on Japanese war pro-
@uotion would be a guess. Many Jarrnene, partioutfrly
 mlitary, profess still to believe in ultate
Japanese vtetory but they are unable to state how victory
1s to be

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
#1610, September 1, 1 p.m., from Ankara.
to  mohieved, Intercourse with Japanese officials
inoluding Porsign. Orrice ofricials or with other Japaness
is practically nonekistent. Foreign diplomatic and con-
sular officlals are required to obtain permission each
time they wish to leave the city to which they are as-
signed. Very few Japanese have short wave radios. The
wiss Logation is largely dependent for its foreign news
upon news broadcasts from San Francisco. The position of
the Emperor 1s unimpaired. On arrival at Mukden, Mr.
Champoud heard a rumor that Tojo had committed suicide.
Mr. Champoud submitted several months ago & 99 page
report on his investigation of American and British
note
Prisoner of War Camps on Formosa in the course of which
711.94114A
he saw General Wainwright and members of his staff. Pre-
sumably this report has reached the interested American
authorities; if not, I can telegraph eertain details 1f
desired. I believe that I can also obtain information in
reply to any specific questions which it may be desired
to ask in connection with this report or on other specifie
subjeots relating to conditions in Japan. Mr. Champoud
expeots to be in Turkey for approximately three weeks:
STEINHARDT
MB

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.97)
American Embassy, Ankara.
Urly
Beoretary of State, Washington,
DATED:
September 1, 1 p.m.
Masy-2
NUMBER:
1610
Da...3.1.44.Ah
Having left Kobe on the 17th of July, the former
Iwiss Consul at Kobe, Maurice Champoud, has just arrived
via the Soviet Union, in Ankara. He gave the following
information on Japanese conditions:
Great numbers of the population of Tokyo have moved
into the interior. Nearly all wooden buildings in Tokyo
have been demolished. Japan and Japanese-controlled
territories are suffering from the improper distribution
of supplies due to regulations prohibiting the transfer
of foodstuffs from one prefecture to another. The
disorganized system of transportation is also responsible
for this condition. The two daily meals leave most of
the Japanese population hungry. Although details are not
furnished with regard to losses ships, planes, or men,
the Japanese people are furnished with information concern-
ing military reverses. Champoud has no authentio infor-
mation concerning Japanese production. His statements
on this subject would merely be surmises. The belief
in Japan's final victory is still held by many Japanese
espeoially the military, but no one seems to be able
to give an explanation of how this 1s to be attained.
There

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
is praotioally no interoourse with Foreign Office
any other offioials. Each time foreign consular or
diplomatio officials desire to leave the city of their
amsignment, it is necessary for them to secure permission.
Short-wave radios are very few in Japan. The San Franolmeo
broadeasts are the chief sources of foreign news for the
wiss Legation. Nothing has impaired the position of the
Emperor. There was a rumor which Mr. Champoud heard in
Mukden that suioide had been committed by Tojo.
A report of ninety-nine pages was submitted by Mr.
Champoud just a few months ago with regard to his visits
to the prisoner of war camps in Formosa both British and
American. At that time General Wainwright was seen by Mr.
Champoud as well as members of General Wainwright's staff.
It is believed that the report has been received by the
Department. If it has not,it will be possible for me
to oable any details which might be wanted. It 1s expected
that Champoud will be in Turkey for a period of about three
weeks. If there are any specifio questions to whioh a
reply is desired with regard to conditions in Japan, I
believe it will be possible to obtain this information.
STEINHARDT
Paraphrased:SWP:AW:MKM

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2/00/14
ION OF CULTURAL RELATIONS
DicKover
hs
RSCEIVED
COMMI

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF CULTURAL RELATIONS
2.25.44
Me hrhurz
be referea to Mr. restrour,
chief of the Llivinion of
Jahanene affairs (JA),
MP
Coront (late, Margis) Ahigomobn Sonma
SEA

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.85)
100/44
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF CULTURAL RELATIONS
Bask
in
W45
me
this
FEB 2 4 1944

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.94)
894.00
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Hemorandum concerning Premier Koiso's Speech to the
85th Diet Session.
894.00/9-744
ce
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Menorandun
(Deepatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, sto.)
State Department (Kullgren)
Dated
Sept. 7, 1944
From/
T6
---Japanose-Affairs
S 740.0011 P.V./9-744
File No.
B. . 0NT PANN PPICE 1-1840

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.93)
894.00/9
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Memorandum concerning Premier Koiso's speech to the 85th
diet session.
894.00/9-744
ce
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Memorandum
Soe
(Despetah, telegram, imstraotlon, letter, eta.)
State Department
Sept. 7, 1944
From
Japanese Affairs
(Kullgren)
Dated
AH
SEE 740.0011 P.W./9-744
File No.
0..   110

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
20.88
Chungking, Chin
September 28, 1944
Juw
No. 3013
AR 17 1945
DC/R
subjoct:
Transmitting Translations of Articles on
Conditions in Japan from the Giefang Rhbao,
Chinese Communist Newspaper Published at
Yenan, Shensi Province.
CU
5
No
0
E
94 001 13
E
C
uJ
CR
lww
The Ambassador has the honor to enclose translations
MAR1
of three articles which appeared in the March 27, 1944
1ssue of the Giefang Rhbao, Chinese Communist newspaper
published at Yenan, shens1 province, in regard to con-
ditions in Japan. The translations, prepared by the
Co-ordinated Translation Center, recently established
by American military and civilian agencies at Chungking,
4
are transmitted to the Department as samples of the type
of material on Japan appearing in the Chinese Communist
press. The subjects covered in these translations in-
clude conditions for women on Japanese farms, sabotage
and strikes by workers in munitions plants, and the so-
called "purchasing troops" or Japanese urban dwellers
Recording Desk
who make periodic trips to rural districts for purchase
of foodstuffs. The Embassy is not retaining copies of
the translations for its files.
DIVISION OF
TENNSTORIAL STUDIES
OCT 2 | 1944
SEPARTMENT OF STATE
CS/D
Enclosures: ?
Translations of three articles from
March 27, 1944 issue of Giefang Rhbao,
as stated.
Osalid Original to Department
CHB:rob
850 JAP

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.92)
(Enolesure No. 1 to De
RESTRICTED
(2o. 5013, Sept. ss, 1946
CHUNGKING
TION: O.W.I./GUO
ACTION: O.W.I.
(4 coples -
U.S. uee y!
me for JIeA)
F.E.A.
- file
DECLASSIFIED
Fublished in YNAN, SHENsI, 27 March, 1944.
E.Q. 11652, Sec. 3(E) anJ 5(D) or (E)
ancsr Itr. 12
BELLISH LIFE FOR WOMEN IN JAPANESE FARN VILLAGES.
BY.NARS. DOto.?
The aggressive war of Japanese Fascists, like a plague, has
swept away the mmjority of able-bodied young men in Japanese farm
willages. Those remaining behind are mainly women, old-aged men,
md children. Thus, the life of Japanese women in far villages,
whe had already been leading an animal life before the war, has
beseme the more painful.
In the November 1943 issue of the Japanese N WOOLD
Magesine, the minutes of a farm village women's symposium was pub-
llahed. This mymposium was held in the (INokuc I ( ) vil-
Le the CHICHIBU (秩文) district of the SAITAma (琦 王)
prefeetwre in the vicinity of TOkYo, In which young women brigade
membere and the teaching and governing starf of the primary school
of the maid village--women whom the Japanese Fascists consider to
be mest rellable--participated. But even from the insufficient
Infermatien revealed in the minutes of this symposium we can see
hew mad are the Japanese women in the farm villages, groaning under
the yeke ef the Fascist militarists. Below are parts of the die-
legae queted frem the said symposlun:
Reperter: "Probably you are kept busy by the breeding of silk-
werms for most of your time?"
MokuchIs "of course we have to foed the silk-worms; but at
pmesent, as we are terribly short of working hands, we have to
werk in the fields too. Indeed, we are teribly busy!"
Reperter: "That's quite true. There are too few men!"
YouodA: "Onl There is not even one family in the village
shese hasband has not been called to the army!"
Reperter: "If that's the case, the burden shifted to the
shealders ef the wemen must be considerably heavy. Mereover, have
mot a great mumber of the young ludles left the villagea?"
YemoDas "That's true. Mest of them have entered the munitlem
Sectersep."
mesas "Mem, we have to get up at half past four in the mern-
In. and in sumer time we had to get up at four. Imediately
RESTRICTED

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
CHUNGKING
15 BEPT. 1044
we have got up, we must go to the field. Some of us go out
breakfast befer six."
MAkawAs "Baen time we have to cary back appraxlmateiy 10 km
(57. kiles) os firowood."
YomoDa: "But if we are to cary firewood from the hills for
five eenseoutive days, our heads would be about to faint and our
bmsks would pain terribly. we would then be unable to step out
of dears."
Roporter: "about at what time in the evening can you take
rest?"
YouoDhs "For us, there is no difference between the daytime
and the ovening. ne are busy fror the early morning up to the
ark night. Thore is a lot of work to do in the night too, such as
feeding the silk-worms. e are unable to take any rest before ten."
Osawa: "Now, we can manage to go to sle p only by eleven
o'elock in the night.
koporter: "That's to say you can only sleop for about five
hours?"
Hore, It should be noted that, women, who are conpelled under
amah eanditlons to work for lo to 19 hours a day, arenot given rest
before  after thet giving birth to their children. As has
Deen sald in the artiole "Sketches of Japanese women In Farm Vil-
lages", publ1mned in Ka120, September, 1943, "97% of the pregnant
mothers were given abselutely no rest berore thets giving birtn to
thelr enildren. Only % of them got a rest of from one day to three
weeks. Only loss than 1% of them got a rest of three weuks. 73%
 them get a rest of leas than a weak after giving birth to their
shildren. lá of them got a rust of from one week to two weeks.
abselutely nene who got a rest of more than three weeks after giv-
Ing birth to their children. Many of them have to join in the farm
werk the next day after giving birth. They have to help in mowing
the wheat, fertllising the vegetables, planting the beans, and in
twamspert labeur." But, hew about their living conditions? Please
roed the fellowing dialegue:
Reperter: "As yon werk so hard, propably the quantity of the
satlemed riee is not sufriclont to enable you to eat to satlatlon?"
Maawas "Take for instance the rationed rice fer the month
 angast. It is enly suffieient to cover the requirement of
fastoem days."
RESTRIUTED
onI: "we are eating ws potatop."

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRCTED
CO-OHDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
CHUN GKING
15: SEPT. 1944
perter: "Can you get rationed fish?"
TomoDA: "Almost none. In the past we could got rationed fish
least onee every three months. But now there is net even a
oBawA: "Absolutely no meat has ever been rationed."
Reporter: "But you can get sufficient amounts of augar, can't
you?"
YomoDA: "of course there is plenty of sugar. (Laughter).
Fer we absolutely can't afford to buy it!"
Roporter: "If there is no fish and not meat, how can you make
the shortage of albuminous subatance?"
YosllIDa: "That's just the point! what worrles the farm vil-
lagos now-a-days ls the fact that a great many atudents and vil-
lagers are afflicted with the diseese of anaemia of the brain.
INous: "The ratloned quantity of oll is also top small. If
we could got muah more of it, perhaps the situation might he some-
what eased.
YOmODAl "In summer tlme what we usually take for meal is
celd cooked rlce soaked with boiling water with a few pieces of
pickles.
The above dialogue is quoted from the Japanese N wOl ORLD
Magasine, from which we can easlly imagine that the actual situation
 the distressful life of Japanese women in farm villages must
be far meeh worse than is desoribed. As a result of these priva-
tiens, diseases and death come about. The writer of the above-men-
Slemed artiole, "Sketches of Japanese Women in Farm Villages , has
elted fron the book "war, Foodstuffs, and Agriculture" written by
Pefer AJoJ1 SLINOmIYA (  , 恭 = ) of the OSAKA UniVer-
sity of Cemmerce, the following statistics: "The highest rate of
death In the farm villages is that of bables and children. The
most highest is that of women and girls of the ages from ten to
ferty-five yeare old. The causes for the death are poor nutrition
and excessive labour."
appist. asetu, Cheh
RESTED
F C.T.C.
.R.2.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.93)
(melesure No. 2 to
CO-ORDDATED TRANSLATION GENTER
CHUNGKIEG
16 SEPT. 1944
ATIONI. O.W.I./GUO
ACTION: O.W.I.
U.S. use anly!
(4 ceples-
one for Jzea)
INFO: F.E.A.
- file
RON "EMY'S SITUATION" NO. 48.
SUpplement te GEIFANG RHBAO (The Emancipation Dally)
Published in YENAN, SHENSI, 27 March, 1944.
 "HCREASING PRODUCTION". (A DispaTch From TOKYO).
(Tmis alapatoh was sent out from Tokyo by a revolutionary
wooher at the end of last year; but it was only received by us
reeently after all kinds of difficulties.--ditor's note.)
Teday, 90x of the factorles in this country are controlled
y the Army and the Mavy. Military men decorated a th sabres
(La the case of large factories, field rank officers; in the case
af medlum and smaller factories, company rank officera) have been
plased in them. They are given the power to supervise the supply-
La of raw materlals, the quantity of production, the standard of
the products, the calculation of the comts, the probleme of the
werkers, eto., up even to the actual working process. In fact,
they are the diotators of the factorles. Under such conditions,
amy kind of liberty of the workers has, of course, heen completely
lest. Tmey are immediately cursed or punished ir there is the
alightest sign or mabotage. Participants in any strike, even if
Is ls based on the minimum demand of the workers, are to be arrested
Lemedlately by the gendarmes and the police. They will be sentenc-
e fer at least one year in accordance with the "General Nebillsa-
Slen Law". There are even some factorles where the law banning
any kimd ef strike ls shamelessly printed with large characters
 the walls by the gates of the factories.
Altheugh the suppression has been severe, cases of vielation
wer the ceuntry. There were even cases of strikes, while eases
of early quitting of werk and absences have been on the imerease.
All these explain the slackmess of the discipline in the facteries
nd mimes. Accerding to a repert based on investigations on the
gat by empleyees of the "mlental sconomio Gasette (  洋 
the pits enly frem five to seven days a menth. Thus, althengh the
munber of the mimers has increased, the quantity ef ceel predaced
hns met been Laeseased. Beaiges, I heve a frlend werking in the
mama meotrielty Plant( 消 )in Tono whe toldme
mas eases df easly quitting and absenees were very cemen. There
tat af the plant. Foe Lastanse, on the evening af Apell l8th
RESTRICTED

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
CO-ORDINATED TRANBLATION CENTER
bee 
CHUNGKING
16 SEPT. 1944
). thirty wer kers ef the (blank blank) plant in the vieiaity
 as-in the meraing m that same day Amerlean planes ralded
The sabetage by workers in munition facteries is a problem
mmich emuses the most headaches fer the Army and the capitallsts.
Pesgle are saying that the efficlency of Japanese workers is only
fleieney the Government has put in force bonus and competition
resalatiems which were successful only for a very short time.
Lomtemant Commander HauaDa ( ) of the Navy said sadly: "Dur-
Ing the competition campaign, the nail-hammering workers can hammer
ss malls an hour. But In ordinary time they can only hammer 500
La me whole day."
As far as I kmow, the sabotage of production is beins carried
eat by units of the same department of the working process within
the faetery. Most of the participants are workers of or above mid-
ale ase. They intontlonally slow down their working speed, or
pwetend to be careless and break intentionally the machines and
teels. mis happened with: the SaIBaUkA Electricity Plant and the
I Fine Mechanical Imploments Plant (日 立 精密 機 械 工 敲),
twe of the largest munition factories in Tokyo. There were such
eeerremces, too, in the KAwAZAkI Ship-Building Plant (  
plams whe were constantly asking for leaves. This aroused the
susglelen of the plant authorities who, after making an investiga-
siem, feund out something quite unexpected. These workers were
metmally dolng plece work through the -"imployment Agency". This
was peally serlous. Why did these workers prefer to work through
the "Mapleyment Agency?" Because there they could get a piece-
werk wage of 4 yen per day while the wage with the ship-building
plamt mas enly 80 sen per day.
The werkere were not satlafied with mabotage. They went one
step fwrther and started strikes. But now no news about strikes
&s allewed te be published. In the following I tell of twe or three
atstkes whleh I have heard about. In l940, werkers of the AIChI
Im mages. It ls maid that the leader of the strike was a comrade
e mee geimed eur eamp. Although the strike falled as a result
 strike breke out the mext spring (l94l). slmaltaneeusly
RESTRICTED

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
CO.ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
16 SEPT. 1044
CHUN GKING
as of a certain mnitions factory in the city of KawazakI
á ) in the vicinity of Tokyo initiated a struggle fer
wewksrs. werkers won their victory by this kind of disgulsed
strike.
Again, Korean workers in thecoal mines in Northern KYUsHU
starsed a strike demanding the abolition of the discriminate
mages and the unequal distributlon of resources. they struck for
four comsecutive daya and won a partial victory.
It Is also reported that strikes broke out in the OSAKA
Dork (  M  I y), In the MITSUBISI Ship-Bullding
motary(三菱造 船所)，in NAGASAKI.(長奇)，andin
ther munitlons factories. But, as I do not have trustworthy
soperts of thom, I shall give no account of them.
Judging from those bits of informetion stated above, we can
readlly see how the sentiment of the Japanese workers is towards
the war today. we can also see how they are struggling. tost of
the workere know pretty well who is to gain from the increasing
af peguctlon". kven the fascists would admit the facts. An
Army-fed writer once sai: "Now the workers do not like to work
mard. But why are they not willing to work hardy This is be-
ause the organisation of today can't urge them to work hard.
The capitalistio organisation turns the results of the labor of
the werkers into profits for the purses of the capitalists. This
argument would be admitted by anyone."
Fer C.T.C.
Typlst: seetu, Cheh
RESTRILIED
A. R.J.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.95)
(Enclosure No.
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
CHUNGKING
18 SSPT.
x: O.W.I./GUO
ACTION: O.W.I.
U.S. use only!
(4 coples -
1 for JIOA)
P.S.A.
INFO: Embassy
- file
MY'S SITUATION"ND. 48.
Suplement to GIEFANG RHBAO (The mancipat1on Dally)
Pubilmhed in YENAN, SHENSI, 27 March, 1944.
 PURCHASING THOOP"-A OLIMPSE OF THE NATIONAL LIFE IN JAPAN
In present-day JAPAn, despite the urging of the eating of
cearse rice or miscellaneous grains, there is a shortage of cureals.
Im the c1t1es, only 2.26 g0 (approximately 0.71868 pint, or 0.40se
litse) of cearse rice ls rationed to each adult dally. so for each
meal each person can hardly get one bowl of cooked rice. People
feel humgry immediately after they have finished their meal. The
sitmmtion is especlally awful for the children and t'e youngsters
e are just at the age of physical development. Their digeation
beeemes poor when they eat the coarse rice. ost of ther: suffer
frm digostive troubles.  his ls not only true with the foodstuffs;
fer even the ration of vegetables and fish is smal. Consequently
people living in the citles are compelled to find some other way
to get their food. Thus, the so-called "Purchasing roop" came into
being.
sandays and holidays are the days of mobilization of these
"Purchasing Troops". On such days, the trolley-cars from OxYo to
the outskirts are packed tignt full. Men and women of all classes,
young and old, middle and primary school atudents, are jam ed in
the cars of the trains. ven the tollets are ful  of people sitting
 papere put on the floor. Although their countenancos and clothes
are dlfferont from one another, there is one similarity, which is
that they are all carryin baga and baskete. They go to the country
farm houses early in the morning to buy rice, beans, and vegetables,
mave them packed in the bags and baskets, and come back to the city
with the harvest of their whole day's labour by the evening trolley-
ears. One writer desoribes humorously this kind of "purohasing
twains" In the following way: "Wether it is a fine or a rainy day,
as seon as you step Into the car you will find the scent of vegetables
pemetrating into your nose. The other day when I stepped into the
eas I thought I was mistakenly taking the train for vegetables and
froight. Am it was so crowded that ry fet felt numb, I lifted one
f them to change the position I had taken. But as soon as I had
lifted it I found no place to put it down again, not even the little
apase it had oocupied the mament befere. Then I had to stand on ene
feet all the time. Mereover, members of the "purchasing troop"
arownd me kept a suapiclous and frightened eye on the man who was
empty handed. I was constantly kmocked on the breast by radish and
 myback by burdook.
these poople are willing to spend car-fare to go to the country
RESTRICTED

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
GOORDDEATED TRANSLATION CENTER
18 SEPT. 1044
CHUNGKING
Mmiags en the black market. By Jume of last year, red beams
alremay being seld at 20 yen per phe (appreximately S.ls pints,
AmakI aximus abest the nusber ef the "purchasing troeps"
Altmeugh the government has issued laws banning the olandestine
pertatien of cereals, vegetables, etc., and though there are
these "purchasing troops". Thus, we frequently read in the
papere lamentatlons over such things, saying that they areths
geesslon of the weakness of the Japanese natlon. Since. lest win-
people of Tokyu to go to the CHIBA (千) district to
prehase" cereals and vegetables. Thus, the TokYo citizens are
eempelled to lead a life of half-starvation.
Typlst: Szetu, Cheh
For
RESTRICTED

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
Chungking, September 29, 1944,
3021
UNCLASSIFH
Subjeot:
Transmitting Report on Progra
orrie of
of Japanege Communist Party.
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
2ga
OCT 271944
gww
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
NOV241944
Department of State
1344
JF
he Secretary of State
Washington 25, D.C.
MID-2 CSSIPFT
Sir:
ONHIFEL-1JACA
1/
ese Communist Party" prepared by Mr. John S. Service,
Seoond Seoretary of Embassy on detail at General Stiiwell's
Headquarters, who is now at Yenan, Shensi (seat of the
2944
Chinese Communist regime), as a member of the United States
Army Observer Section.
Attached to Mr. Service's report are notes of a con-
uw
versation whioh he had on September 8, 1944 with OKANo Su-
sumu, described as a representative or the Japanese Commu-
nist Party who arrived in Yenan (apparently from Russia)
in the spring of 1943. There is outlined in the notes
what purports to be the program of the Japanese Communist
Party. According to this program, the future development
of Japan should evolve through three stages: First, the
termination of the war and the overthrow of the present
militarist regime, followed by the democratization of the
oountry and government; second, the completion of the
"Bourgeois Demooratio Revolution" and with it the elimina-
tion of all feudal remnants such as the Emperor, the no-
bility, Privy Council, House or Peers, the speoial privileges
of the militarists, social disorimination, et cstera; and
third, the gradual and progressive liquidation of capitalism
and the development in its place of full socialism.
Recorüng Desk
Mr. Service notes in his oovering report that the pro-
CS/D
DOT/0
gram of the Japanese Communist Party, as set forth by Mr.
Okano, is strikingly similar to that or the Chinese Commu-
nist Party; and he wonders whether the Japanese Communist
program owes anything to Mr. Okano's recent contaot with
Chinese Communist leaders. In this general conneotion, it
would be interesting to learn whether the programs of the
Chinese and Japanese Communist Barties are similar in their
broad.
0
CLASSIFIGATION CHANGED
ONCLASSIP
9.2944
231944
TO
DE
444
211:19-56

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
proad prinoiples to the programs of Communist parties in
other nations of the world.
Respectfully yours,
C. E. Gauss
melosure:
1/ Copy of report no. 24,
dated September 8, 1944.
Ozalid original to the Department.
800-Jap
EFD/ept

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
U.S. Army Observer Seetiom
UNCLASSIPE
APO 879
September 8, 1944.
The Program of the Japanese Communist Party.
Commanding General, Fwd. Eoh. USAF-CBI, APO 879
1. There ere attached notes of a conversation with Okano
 on September 8, 1944, in which Mr. Okano outlined in
detail the present program of the Japanese Communist Party.
2. A brief biographical sketoh of Mr. Okano has been
peepared by Mr. F. M. Fisher who it is understood will furnish
Sopies to the Headquarters and Embassy.
3. 1t is impossible to know how authoritatively and accurately
M. Okamo now speaks for the Communist Party within Japan. He
left that country in l932 as the representative of the Japanese
Communist Party to the Third Internationale. In 1935 while
la Mosoow he was elected a member of the rresidium of the
Executive Committee of the Third Internationale. He reached
Yenan in the Spring of 1943 (by means which he does not disouss)
and is regarded here as a representative of the Central committee
of the Japanese Communist Party. Although he has not been in
Japen for 12 years, there is occasional underground contaot
between the Japanese in Yenan and Communist groups within
Japan.
4. The program described by Mr. Okano is interesting for its
moderate character and its conoeption of the progress of Japan
toward socialism by a gradual development through political
demoeraoy and demoorasically controlled capitalism in which
the Communists will ally themselves with any genuinely demooratic
croups.
5. The similarities and parallels between Mr. Okano's
program and that of the Chinese Communist Party is striking.
It is, in fact, the same program with slight modifioations for
speeial conditions and the post-war status of Japan. It would
be interesting to know whether this program owes anything to
Mr. Okano's recent close contact with the Chinese Communist
leaders.
6. The Japanese.Communist Party is still small; Mr. Okano
himselr does not claim more than "a few thousand members". But
it bas the advantages of strong organization and loyal, active
and politioally experienoed membership. Ir its policies are,
as elaimed, congruent with our own hopes for a demooratio,
mom-militaristic Japan, we may wish to consider the adoption
teward it of an attitude of at least sympatatio support as
ome of the more dependably advanoed political groups within
Japan.
7. It is requested that copies of this report be transmitted
te the Ameriean Ambassador at Chungking and Headquarters, USar-CBI,
far the imfermmtion or Mr. Davies.
John S. Servioe

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
OGRAM OF THE JAPANESE COMMUNIST PARTY
Disoussion by
OKANO Susumu
Sept. 8, 1944
We must first rid Japan of militarism and persistent
foudalistio remnants in politios and economics. After the
establishment of democraoy, we will have a gradual develop-
mont from capitalism to socialism. All this development
should pass through three stages.
TRaT STAGE (Ending of the War and Reorganization of the Country)
I. PROGRAM
Stop work in the factories.
Foree the end of the war by crippling produotion at home.
Bring about peace.
(Okano assumes full surrender to the United Nations.)
B. Overthrow the present militarist government.
Purge the influence of the militarists from the government
and politics.
Punish the militarists and politicians who were responsible
for the war.
C.Demooratize the Government.
1. Institue universal suffrage -- for men and women,
without restriotions or qualirications.
2. Place full governing power in the Diet.
It must be free from the threat of arbitrary dissolution
by other constitutional organs.
It must have full power to initiate and pass legislation.
It should have a Cabinet responsible to it.
3. Foree: the retirement of the present Emperor -- if there
is any successor his constitutional powers must be
reduoed.
The present Emperor cannot escape some personal
responsibility for the war. He did not oppose
it at any stage although such aotion would
have been effeotive if strongly taken, expecially
at an early point in aggression suoh as when the
militarists invaded Manchuria.
4. But for the time being nothing will be done about
abolishing the institution of the Emperor.
We do not believe that the people of Japan are
ready to completely diseard the Emperor; we
are comtent to wait to see, and to be sure that
the time is right before we propose decisive aotion.
lastead we diseuss in our propaganda the nature of
the Emperor and his position. We explain and expose,
without making any direct attaok. We avoid the
slogan: "Down with the Emperor".
We think that any attempt, by us or by the United
Masions to ytilise the Emperor will be dangerous.
It een set an axample whioh may also be used
by groups working against our interests. It is
impersant to remember that it will not be easy
to treat the Emperer in the same mammer as the
British.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
British King. The whole problem of the future
of the Emperorship is better left alone for a
while.
5. The Privy Counoil, the House of Peers, and the peouliar
status of the "Elder Statesmen" should be reduced
toward eventual liquidation.
6. Full demooratio rights should be given the people.
These are the ordinary basio rights such as freedom of
speech, thought, expression, person and assembly.
The granting of these rights must mean the end of the
present police government and interference of the
police in the private lives of the oitizens.
7. All political parties must have freedom and legal recognition
This must include the Communist Party.
8. The present Constitution must be revised on the basis
of the above points.
This revision must inolude abolition of the special
powers enjoyed by the military, such as direct
aocess to the Emperor, supra-Cabinet status, and
control of the armed services by active members
of those services.
D. Place large scale monopoly capital under government control.
The war was started by the militarists with the support
of the big munitions manufacturers. The destruction of
the militarists will not be enough unless we also con-
trol their capitalist supporters.
This oontrol does not mean conriscation. This is not
either practical nor desirable now.
We may, however, confiscate excess profits.
(We will have been helped in these policies by
the rigid war-time control which has already been
established over industry. Intervention by the
government in management is now common. In this
sense the militarists have helped us.)
E. Japan's economy must be placed on a peaceful, non-milita-
ristio basis. (We assume that Japan will lose her colonies.)
1. The armament industries must be liquidated and their
plants converted to peaceful produotion.
2. Industrialization must be increased, must be more
highly developed, and must be more balanced.
After the war we fortunately will have:
) A mueh larger heavy industrial base.
(b) A large body of workers with new mechanical
skills.
(o) An industry capable of produoing mchine
tools, mmchinery, and other precision work.
We should therefore avoid the pre-war over-comcentration
on textiles and other light industry. Our industry
can be more diversified with greater emphasis on
quelity and presisiem work. (Important in this conversiom
will be the ratiomal use of the industrial progress made
by Japan during the wer.)
aacs eesmmplim tais suédealy; but should mke a
 a large mrket for mmehinery and betser
Jepan's agrieultusal prodmetion.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.97)
-3 -
A stert should be made toward the liquidation of feudalism
In land holding.
 1. The land of absentee landlords should be purohased by
the government.
2. This land should be mde available to land-poor peasants
on eesy terms. (Okano apparently prefers, however,
that tityle to the land remain with the government.)
3. Part of this land should be used for State demonstration
farms to experiment with and show the farmers the
actual advantages of full mechanization.
4. Through these State farms, and by other means, there
should be propaganda to encourage the peasants to
engage in group or cooperative farming, thus over-
coming the present conditions of exoessive sub-
division and soattered holding. The goal in this
will be voluntary collective farming.
(In this, also, the militarists have helped us
by their present intensive propaganda for
cooperative farming as a war measure.)
G. The living and working conditions of the workers must
be improved.
1. There should be the eight hour working day.
2. Factory l@gislation should fix minimum standards of
working conditions and treatment of workers.
3. Laws should proteot the rights of the workers for:
(a) Colleotive bargaining
(b) Recognition of unions
(o) The right to strike
(d) Social insurance.
(We do not expect to have minimum wage laws
at this stage.)
II. PARTICIPATING GROUPS
The Comunist Party will seek and welcome cooperation with
any roups whioh will support this general program.
This willingness to join with any group will extend to
the capitalists.
Our minimm program is the two main points: anti-militarism
and demooraoy. We will insist on these. We will not
insist on all other features of the program, such as
cooperativeyfarming, if they meet with general opposition.
III. FORM OF GOVERNMENT
There should be set up a "Peoples Democratio Government".
This will be composed of representatives of all demosratio
groups. These will inolude: bourgeoisis, liberals and
Coists.
(The inelusion of the Communists in the Government is of
the utmest impertanee. They have been the galy active
foree Fighting against the war. The liberals In Japan
sen wenk and leeking in courage and determination.
slens and developments toward another

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
PION OF FIRST STAGE
The length of this period will depend on two factors:
the progressive oharacter of the government itself;
the treatment of Japan by the Unit4 Nations.
1. If the government gives the people reasonable seourity
and happiness, it will be considered successful and will
last a long time. If it does not satisfy the majority
of the people, attempts will be made to overthrow it.
The government must therefore be progressive and re-
sponsive to the democratic desires of the people.
2. Its duration also depends on the attitude of and post-war
settlement imposed by the United Nations. If they
impose impossible indemnities, and make the position of
the eountry or the condition or the people seem hopeless,
they will rise against the government. If they give
Japan a fair settlement, the government will be able
to improve the general condition of the people and the
government will thus be stabilized.
(We can say that change toward more extreme forms of
government -- either progressive or reactionary --
will be slower if the condition of the bulk of the
people is fairly satisfactory. We prefer the slower
development.)
SECOND STAGE (Completion of the Bourgeois Demooratic Revolution)
The first stage cannot immediately accomplish the liquidation
of all feudal remnants in our society, partioularly on
the land.
In the second stage we hope to complete the liquidation of
these feudal traces and set up complete democracy on a
capitalistic basis.
There will be no distinct break between these two stages:
the transition and development will be gradual. The first
will merge into. the second. Some parts of the program
for the first stage may not be accomplished until the
second: part of the second may be aohieved while in most
other respeots we are still in the first stage. By the
end of the second stage, we should have liquidated all
foudal remnants, such as:
The Emperer
The nobility, Privy Council, House of Peers, "mlder
Statesmen".
The special privileges of the military
(The Army and Navy will be completely demoeratized)
The sooial disorimination against the Eta (outcasts)
 T (oili)
The aim of this stage will be to carry the development
through to full socialimm. This will mean the lsquidation

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
emr demosraey, then there will be a greater
or violent revolution.
eful development will be slow: but it will be
the slow but peaceful way.
r weapon is bringing about this development is
ation.
We antieipate that the whole process will take decades.
(I -- Okano -- only hope to see a demooratie Japan
during my lifetime.)
This development in Japan will be more rapid than in Chine.
Feudalistie remnants are not as strong in Japan as in
Chine, where they still form the basis of the economy.
and in addition, capitalism is more developed in Japen
than in China.
Japan, however, will be behind the more advanoed Western
Powers.
The greatest obstacle to the peaceful, orderly and progressit
development of Japan (and to the post-war security sought
by the United Nations) would be the undiminished power
and influence of the big capitalists. They must not
be left untouohed at the end of this war. We must be
on guard agminst their certain efforts to shield themselver
behind their liberal "fronts". 1f their power is not
ourtailed, they can prevent the demooratic, anti-militariss
rowth of Japan. They can be the major cause of another
world war.
A true cn
Egt

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
08-507
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION OR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADMINISTRATIVE DESIGNATION
REQUEST FOR CHANGE OF CLASSIFICATION
OR DESIGNATION
SECTION A
TO: 1. ORIGINATING OR ACTION OFFICE
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
NA
263€
NS
3262A
2. REQUESTER'S NAME
AREA OR AGENCY
EXTENSION
BUILDING
ROOM NO.
Department of Justice
3. OFFICE OF RECORD:
OCR, PD. etc. R./R
SECTION B
THE FOLLOWING
ATTACHED
DOCUMENT(S) NO LONGER APPEARS TO WARRANT ITS SECURITY CLASSIFICATION OR ADMIN-
DESCRIBED
ISTRATIVE CONTROL DESIGNATION.
TYPE OF DOCUMENT
Despatch 3021
and Renort o. 24. 9-8-41 b John rvice
TO:
DATE
Department of State
9-29-1山
FROM:
AmEmbassy Chun kin
SUBJECT:
Transmitting Leport on Ir rem of Japanese Comunist Party
PRESENT CLASSIFICATION OR DESIGNATION
REQUESTED CLASSIFICATION OR DESIGNATION
Secret
SECTION C
THE CHIEF OF THE OFFICE TO WHICH THIS FORM IS ADDRESSED OR A PERSON DESIGNATED BY HIM WILL REVIEW THE SUBJECT
DOCUMENT AND INDICATE THE DESIRED CLASSIFICATION OR ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL DESIGNATION.
CHANGE TO:
RETAIN PRESENT CLASSI-
TOP SECRET
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
UNCLASSIFIED
FICATION OR DESIGNATION
LIMITED OFFICIAL USE
OFFICIAL USE ONLY
"(If reclassified or redesignated to a higher classification explain on reverse side)
DATE
OFFICE
NO2r19,670 FE/NA
SECTION D
INSTRUCTIONS
(1) The requesting office will complete lines (1) and (2) of Section A and all of Section B of this form in
duplicate. If the request is from amother agency, OC/RM prepares the form.
(2) Both copies of this form together with onecopy of the document or documents concerned, when possible, will
be forwarded to the actiom or origiaating office concerned.
(8) The actiom or origizating office will, if the contemts warraat, declassify, dowagrade, or redesigmate the
docwmemt by completiag Sectiom C of this form in duplicate aad will route both copies to the office respomsible for
maiataising the official record copy. SY will take no action unless coacurrence is requested.
(4l The office that is the custodiam of the record copy, upon receipt of thia form, will file the original of
Porm D8-so? with the record copy, chasge the classification on the record copy of the documeat iavolved, forward the
duplicate copy of this form to the office isitiating the request, and notify all copy holders.
(5) The office which izitiated the request will sote the action takes and make the necessary chaages is classi-
ficatiom or desigaatios of docamemts is its possessios.
(6) Is cases where the origizating or actios office wishes to initiate the declassification or redesigaatios, the
emtire form will be completed asd rosted to the office maimtaiming the official record copy for attachmeat thereto.
(7) If the origiaating or actios office does mot hold the record copy, both completed copies of this form will
be returmed to OC/RM. OC/kn will forward the origizal of this form to the office holding the record copy.
(8) If the request is from aaother ageacy and if the classification or desigeation has been chaaged, OC/RM will
motify offices withis the Departmest holding copies of the documests.
(9) For al1 requests origizatisg outside the Departmest, OC/RM presests the request aad aotifies the reqeesting
ageacy of action taken.
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION OR
ADMINISTRATIVE DESIGNATION

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.96)
American Embasay, Chungking, China,
No. 105.
0otober 3, 1944.
RESTRICTED
/errice o1
FAR EASTEHA
CECEIVED
NOV 1 - 1944
C.2 1944
RESTRICIED
DEPUTY DIR
DIVISION OF
Depertment of Stalt
7
OCT 231944
DIVISION OF
DIVISION OF
894.00/10-344
TENHITORIAL STUDIES
RGANIZATION
N7 1944
(VO1)NSIATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DESCRIBED BY CHINGSE COMUNIST PAPER
Prepared by Carl H. Boehrineer
5:4.01/9.2544
Referenoe is made to the Embaesy's third person despatch
no. 3013, September 28, 1944, trenemitting translations of
articles on conditions in Jepan from the Giefang Rhbao,
Chinese Commun1st newspener published et Yenan, Shensl Pro-
vince. There are now enclosed tranelations of further ertioles
on that subject which appeared in the July 12, 1944 imsue of
the Giefang Rhbgo. The tranaletions were prepared by the
Amorican Co-ordinated Translation Center, Chungking, which
assigned them to the Embassy for sendins to washington.
The intensification of the rationine ay stem in Japen and
widespread violations of the regulations for rationing are
desoribed in the first article. The second articlo, purported-
ly based on material from the May 1944 issue of Ruii, a
CS/D
Japanese jourmal, deals with rumors prevalent in Japan. In
order to suppress rumors of a defeatist nature, the police
and gendarmes intensified censorahip of letters and assertedly
were surprised at the large number of letters containing
information of military signifioance and complaints against
retioning. "Excesgive spiritualism" is the main topio of the
third article whioh states that factory workers are urgently
in need of more rest and ahould be allowed to forego the air
raid precautionary training. The fourth artiole, entitled
"Lamentati on of the Doomed Jenemse Army", allegedly ontains
quotations from Japanese newspapers and periodicals pointing
1945
menss as the death of Admiral Koge, the threat of Allied
invasion of Japan, and fears of large-soale air raids.
It

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
It will be noted thst the elleged guotatlons from
Japaeee periodicals ond comment by the Chinese Conmunist
writers ere, in many cnses, difficult to di stinfuish.
Approved:
Car) H. Boehriyer,
C. E. Gauss
Second Secretory of Er be sry.
Enclosures:
Translationo fron July 12, 144 tesue
of the Giefent  bao.
Source:
Anericen Co-ordine ten P lation Center, Chungkins.
850 Jap
CHB/mc1
Hectopraph to the Departrent.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to report no, 105 dated Ootober 3,
1944 from Amer1can Embessy at Chungking,China.
(COPY)
DECLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
E.0. 11652.  3(2) a 5(D) gr ()
traumsw 1tr 1112/73
CO-ORDINATED TRANSLATION CENTER
By.
CHUNGKING
TR 13, 14, 15, 16
7 SEPT. 1944
TRANSIATION: O.W.I./GU)
ACTION: O.".I.
(4 conies)
Embassy
INFO: F.E.A.
- file
FROM: ENEMY'S SITUATION NO. 55.
Sunnlement to GIE NG RHHAO (The Emanc1pe tion Da1ly)
Pub11ahed 1n YENA', SHENSI, 12 Ju1y 1944.
1. THE ENEPY SOCTETY   NEAYINESS AND FRAUD"
Thie is an art' e siened by "An Po", describing the
intensification of he Janaiese retioning system and the
widespread infrin: ments upon po vernment rexulations.
Some rigures are iven to shw the reduation of rationed
goods, suoh es
Supar: 4 monthe ago each pe reon wae allowed to buy
half a ou'sy (about 250 grame); now 1t nes been reduced
to one- fth of t quentity.
.egetables: Up to three months apo, one was allowed
to uy 2 liang (abol 62 grame per dey); it hes been
f. ther reduced sinot April.
Cloth: The coupon: or cloth for olothime for this
year wero not availeble until last May, and the points
have been reduoed from the 100 of lest year to 40-50.
辰 雄). wrote in the Apr11 1944 1asue of KOROr:
There have been various arguments iF to
whether the rationed food in TokYo and SA 1s
sufficient to ksep the people from starvins or
not. In one of my latest artioles, I proposed
a ational campaien to swear that we could take
the rationed quantity, no matter how amall it
would be. Soon after, I received a letter from
one of my readers, interrogating ne, "Even
though you can taks it, are you sure that the
whole starff of your paper can also take it?
Stop such nonsense! " It meemed to me later that
this reader's complaint was not wd thout founda-
tion.
Under

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
Under the clroumstunces, the civilions heve natura'ly
devised various meane to obtein additionsl meterials for
their subsistence. Thus, "ghosts" (the fulsely reported
number of members of the farilies) unneared, as woll as
secret barter, hoerdine, bootlegginf, atc. The povsrn-
ment promulsated regul,tious in last apr1l which provided
heavy fines and imnrisonment of less then a year for suoh
tranagreasors of the lav. Fires un to 1,00 yen are to
be paid by those who re ke fulre reports of memhere of
families. (See ASAHT SBl, Ay 1, J944)
Nevertheloas, even the ASA Suu itrelr wrote on
Mey 2. "It 1s hietiIy problemastcn? t ether the block
market and 'ghosts' can be en 1 rely oxtlnguirhed without
an increspe of daily neceortt ee!"
In hie articlo put 1sed in C,  w1? 944 taruo.
MITARASIUI deplorce the deter1orotien of te or tore of his
countryren and Jaye nese socl ety.  y vary few peoule".
he Baye, "do not lie. Sveryly see to fI toet tellin
lies is justifieble no . noro seers to be no wey for tho
honest ren to live on. it's ie whole no tion bacoitng
cunning and deceitfut, tuere is definitely no hore for
vigtory.. . fow days te, Leut enent-Generel  
() lesonted in his ro cost The  kors in the
ammmunftion inaur tries ator!  toricls end soll then in
the bleck me rkot'."
The Jananeso poo's ro istonco to their militarists'
exploitation in te fors of tellinr liee end evading
government restrictione is or of the gigne thet the ruline
class in JApAl cat no Ionret rule the country na 1t did.
2. HUMORS PREVAIEIT IN JAAN
The Hay 1944 1er uo of the Jananese Joumal YUJT hes
been found to contain soro runora now pre val ont in JA AN.
Of the most cerious type 1s the report ahout Japanese
defeata in the Paciric. For exumplo, shen the Dathonyei
(大 ) (the Imperiel eadquarters), isrued 
communlque telling how lony erican aircrart carriers,
alrplanes, and warehine hnd buen destroyed, rumors would
ciroulate in the streate to the efrect thet a certein
number of Jarenese plenes which started from a certain
base at a certein hour was entiroly lost bocause not 
single one of them wes seen to return to its baee.
About the passive resis tance to the order of evacue-
tion, there was a rumor in TokYo thet the Ary hed puaranteed
that before the end of Sentember there would be absolutely
no danger of air raide, and that was why the people did not
follow the government order to eveouate to the countryside
and to partioipate actively in alrdefonoe activities.
One day, on one of the streets in a city in KYUSIIU,
a rumor had it that beginning from the next month, nobody
was to be permitted to draw his savings from the post
offiees. Às e result, in the mext morning there were large
crowds of people in front of the post offioes yelline to
withdraw their savings. This mas e protest mgainst the
compulsory mtionel savings, whioh total 36 billion yen.
Rumore

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.96)
-3
Rumors about black market prices are particularly
widespread and constitute the most disturbing factor in
the rationing system.
Attompting to prevent the apreading of such rumors,
enemy policemen and pendarmee are extremely buay in search-
ing for hortwave radio lintenere, strlotly censoring
lottors, and holding up all letters heving anything to do
with military seourity or cciavlaining against retioning.
The ceneorship wae surprised at the tremendous increese
of lotters harmful to military securlty and, therefore,
the authorities have atm ctly banned any unauthorized dis-
cuseion about the war situation and rationing. All Fascist
publioations and newepeners aro unanimous in wam ing tho
people against listenin to any rumors, which they allege
originate from Anglo-American or Commaunistio sources.
They also warn responsible ofricinls sgainst disclosine ang
conditions that are of A confidontisi nature even to their
wives.
It is similarly intarestinp that the fasolsts have
adopted a policy arainst cptimism and complacency. Ma jor
Hoizo YASUNo (安 野 兵告) in the gendarmerie said in
one of the sympostums, The Jepanese people would probably
like self-mede war reports to comfort themselves,This
ia exactly what the Amer junns vant us to do" Lieutenent-
Colonel Kunio AYAiA (火  邦法) of the Information
Department of the wur Minietry snid, "Rocently, the people
on the streets indulge in the thought that JAtAli is a noly
land, and the kamikaze (  ) (aivine wind) would blow
here whenever there ia uny crisis, no much so that it could
even blow the American flert and planes into pieces. Thoy
almo take delight in the thour it that there mipht eventua lly
be aplits amone the Allies. sich erroneoue concentions have
to be mashed, because only when wo exert our own efforts
and endure hardships to the leet, cen thare be any kamikaze".
(See FUJI quoted above)
The ASAIHI SHIMBUT: said on Parch 21, 1944: "Such rumors as:
'It was said that Nimitz's fleet had been entirely wined out'
and so on and so forth, wd doly ciroulated in offices and
streets, he ve the he rmful offects of faleely makine the people
feel at ease. . . .and so soften the sten determina tion of
the peonle."
3. SCRAPS FROM JAFANISE NEWSPAPERS:
(1) We Oppose "Excessive Spiritualism".
"One can't work uninterruntedly from early morning till
late in the night; recreation and rost are also necessary,"--
says the ASAHI SHI'BUN on 1ts 1arue of Anr11 2lat. Under the
slogan of "Increasing War Efforts", the workine hours of
Japenese laborers have been extended to fifteen or sixteen
hours a day. Moreover, the shortage of foodstuffs has joined
to make the laborere tired to death with the result that
tuberoulosis is prevailing. This situation is even frighten-
ing the enemy ruling classes. The ASAHI SHIMBUN says again
in its 1ssue of Apri1 28, 144:
"In several factories where work as bern carried on
all the night through, due to the decrease in efficiency

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.90)
-4=
as a result of excess weartness on the part of the laborers
it bas been found necessary to al low them to take a nap of
half-an-hour or even one whole hour et midnipht". It also
asserts that those laborers who havo worked all night the
day before should be exeupted from particire ting in the
practice of municiral enti-air raid precautions. It anye
that it is necessary to nmke a desper investi sati on bout
the various forms of the so-cal led training and practice
in which citizans are anked to articipate.
It demanda: "As Sunomye anà nolidnys for the etarf
membere he ve been aholieleu, wo ouw ht to el?or ther to
sleep in their hones for helf-on-hour more or one wrole
hour more co as to refresi tren fmn tho streino of the
work of the day. the wenriness fror workin throuch the
whole nie ht is deiferus
Speaking ee erel)y, exeesrl ve 'arIrit ollon' would
yield no pood. he  durlrr or a we rine Tite rust be
baaed on the mininum oun o ro uf n rest recutred.
They would not Jast lorp  you ed le larorers to run
a lone di stence race vi tn the a eee they ere surposed to
run a rece of 130 roto s.
(2) Totn re Devo  11k)
Recantl, . at atsrsot oor atlon s! on is the nhenonenon
that most of the mil ctnore. hesns they ere in the cities
or in the v'lleges, at darote or curslr: rilk. This affects
the health of babies  nei erubly rine the case of a
villaee ir Yanas  县系 refocturo as en illatra-
tive exam le, the nurtor or wothers tho do not have eut fi-
cient mi)' for thelr nobi es counted more then he lf of the
total nu: ber of the nt ratne nthere. In mort o" the cuscs
these mo hers coused to cecroto wilk two monshs sftor piving
birth t. their babiee. Conaecuent ly to weirht of their
babiee decreasee relnlively two montho mftor their birth.
An invatigation an to the caures phos thet, firstly, there
are rot sufficient mol es in tho vil lere and the ra ority of
the 'abor burden is shifted to tho shoul ers of the mothera:
secpldly, nutrltion for the potliore is insuffic tent. (Soe:
ASA'I M, M 5, 19..)
4. LAMENTATION OF TIE DOOITD JA AIWGE ARHY:
(1) The Va111ng of Goneral To.10.
During the short period of ono year from llarch of last
year to Maron or this year, two commenders-in-ohiof of
the Japanese Combined Fleet were killed by the Amerionns.
The inner bewilderment and feer of roJo were involunterily
expressed when he gave the followine talk at the time when
the funeral ceremony was belne held for Admiral l'ineichi
KOGA (    ) who hod recently been killed: hen the
Marshel (Admiral?) was in office the offensive started by
the Brit ish and mericane was junt being intensifind daily
and the war situstion wme taking a turn for the worse and
becoming more mevere. . . Thinkine of the death of the
Marabal (Admiral?), I can't help shedding warm tears . .. "
(See ASAHI BHIMBUN, May 12, 1944). On May 10th of th1s
yoar

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
year ToJO again cried before the Central Committee Sesrion
of the Netional General Mobilization Campaign: "The enemy's
offensive in the Pacific is terribly furious. It is being
carried forward on a lerge-scale and the progressing speed
is ebruptly rapid. At the present moment war on both
theatres of the Western and Bestern World is entering the
stage of deciaion. The national crisis in really dangerous".
(Se ASAHI SHIIBUN, May 15, 1944)
(2) Battle of Marshall Islende Graver than the
Mongolian Invasion.
In 1281 when the Monrolian fleet carryie a force of
150,000 was preparing to invade JArAN by cross1ng the sea
throuh TSUSHIMA (對  岛) and IKIJIMA (壶歧 岛)
the entire Janemse country was alarmed beyond moasure.
Emperior KAlEYAA (  ), being frightened out of his
wits, went to pay reepecta to the Shrine daily. Later,
JAPAN waa saved from cataatronhe only by the blowing of a
hurrloane which overturmed the Moneolian fleet when they
wore crossing the sea. This event is called in Japanese
history the "Monpolian Invaslon". and telkine about it
even now makes tho Jaroneee ohange their facial expressions.
But today when the Americens have occupied the mein 1slande
of the MARSHALJ. group, the feer and enxiety of the Japanese
militariste are fer greater than those of olden times.
Lioutenant Colonel Shifetoshi NAkAHARa (中原 茂 ) of
the Military Afrai rs Bureau of the enemy Ministry of Wer
Baid: "The distence from the VARSHALI. ISIANDS to JAPAN
Proper 1s fer nearer then that Trom TSUSHIMA end IKIJDMA
at the time of the Mopolien Invesion; for the distance from
the MARSHAIL ISIANDS to JAI AN "roper 1s only 5,OOO kilo-
meters whioh can easily be covered by an 8-hour flirht by
airplanes at the speed of 600 kilometers per hour." (See
CHUO KORON, Varoh, 1944). On February 28th of th1s yeer
ToJo expressed the sare kind of wailing before the Confer-
noe of Judiciel Officere when ho said: "The severity of
the present war develonment has reached a stage when the
prosperity or withering, security or pedshing of this country
running already for 3,c00 years w1ll be dec1ded!" (See CHUO
KORON, Apr11, 1944.)
(3) Japen Can't Even Stand One Airraid.
Speaking to pressmen of the CHUO KORON Society, Admiral
Ryozo NAkAMURA ( 中 寸, 良 三 ) said: "It would be terriblo
for ua to imagine, should JArAN suffer one big enemy air-
raid. This would be espeolally true, for the targets of
American bombing will be factories whioh have not got any
perfeot anti-air precaut lons end moreover are concentrated
in several industrie 1 regiona. (Quoted from CHUO KORON,
Beptamber, 1943.) Sa1j1 HASEGAA(长谷1/ 才次),
vice-chief of the Editorial Department of DomFI Newe Agenoy
and mouthpiece of the Jarenese Army, cried loudly: "In the
present southwestern Pacific wer we are deeply impresned by
the important role played by airplams. Airplanes will
not only determine the outoome of the prement war but
will also determim the rise or fall or the Empire. We can
all muffer to eat one bowl less of rice; but we must exert
our full strength to produce airplenes". (Quoted from
OHDO KORON, Janumry, 1944.)
