894.843 Taxes On Navigation., Japan, Harbor Or Port Dues., January 8, 1948 - November 17, 1948 (File 1674)
ID: 894.843-1674   Pages: 65   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.843-taxes-on-navigation
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
OF
AFFAIRS
NITED
STATES POLITICA
FOR JAPAN
No.19
A-S
UNCLAS
JAN 28 1913
Tokyo, Japan, January 8, 194
MR. SALTZMAN
subje
STATE
Janese Port Fasiliti
The Acting Political Adviser has the hener to eholose five coptee
1
of a sehedule dated August 1, 1947, showing the rates charged fereiga
vessels for use of Japanese port facilities. There are alse enclesed
894843/1-848
21
five copies of Ciroular No. 16, dated December 23, 1947 issued by this
Headquarters defining the term port facilities and containing provisions
far payment to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers of port.
charges listed in the schedule.
DIVIS:ON OF OCCUPIED AR AS
Ole
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
JAN 27 1948
RIMENT OF STATE
MENT OF STATE
Enclosures:
ACTION
1. schedule dated August 1, 1947,
entitled "Schedule of Rates
for Port Facilities at Japanese
ports". (five copies)
1948 JAN 15 PM 1 39
1947, entitled "Charges for In-
TRC
digenous Port Facilities fGnnished
to Foreign Vessels in Japanese
FEB
31948
Ports." (five copies)
hal and ozalid to the Department
MAR 17 1948
CS/V
RHBeshner/blc
DIVISION
LST
FILED
FEB
1948
SHIPPING DIVISION
3 A 11 2 45
DEPART
fier
8
48
2013

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
ITEDSTATES
OF AMERICA
SERVICE
Enclosures Nos. 1 and 2 to Despatch No. 19, dated
Jamuary 8, 19k8, from the Office of the U.8.
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeet
"Charges fer Use of Japaneso Port Facilities».

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
1 Aug 47
SCHEDULE OF RATES FOR PORT FACILITIES AT JAPANESE PORTS
Pilotage:per operation @ 10' draft 6% per every
foot & 1,000 ton
$ 7.35
Night service (extra)
4.41
Tug Hire:Sunrise to sunset
5.89
Sunset to midnight
8.83
Waiting (day) per hr
.59
a
(night)" n
89
Handling Lines:Sampan hire unshackling
2.94
Overtime or stormy weather
50% extra
At wharves: 3000 to 5000 gr. tons
6.48
5000 to 7000
8.24
7000 to 10000"
n
9.41
ex 3000
.88
Launch Service:Meet ship at Quarantine.
3.98
Service in port (3 RT per day)
7.65
Special uses, per hr
3.98
Laundry: (per piece)
.03
Buoy Hire: (per day) Under 5000 tons
2.94
10000
4.41
6.76
Over 15000
8.83
Wharfage: per net reg ton: Up to 24 hrs.
.0059
24 to 96
.0089
Over 96
.0118
Tonnege Dues: per net reg ton per call
.0165
n
n
year
.0495
Water: per metric ton, at Wharf
.07
Streem inside B/W
.135
outsi de"
.156
Night supply
Add 20%
1.
Page 1 of 3 pages.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
CARGO HANDLING
General Cargo
$.22 Per Ton
Pig Iron
22
Grain, bulk
22
Cement, peper bags
22.
gunny bags
22
Proephate Rock
22
Silk, Raw .
22
Petroleum, packaged
22
Lumber 480' BM
24
Cotton, U. S.
25
Scrap Iron
32
Refrigerated Cargo
33
Hazardous Cargo
.88.
Labor Standby - per man per hr.
6 a.m. - 6 p.m.
.15.
6 p.m - 6 a.m.
.19
Labor Overtime - per man per hr.
Loading and Discharging
6 p.m - 6 a.m.....
.17
Shifting Cargo - per man per hr., one hold to
another, 6 a.m. - 6 p.m. .. . .16.
6 p.m. - 6 a.m... .22.
When disch. to whf or lighters.
per ton
-73
Cleaning Holds - per man per hr.
6 a.m.. - 6. p.m.
.16
6 p.m. -6 a.m.
22
Winchmen - Overtime 6 p.m. -.6.a.m. per hr... .14
Carpenters - per man per day.
2.72
Overtime per hr. 6 p.. -6 a:me. ..30
Coopers
per man per day
1.76
Overtime per hr. 6 p.m. - 6 a.m. . .30
Watchmen -
per day, Hecdman . . . .
Gangway & Hold. 6 p.m. -M.D.-1 Day 1.41
M.D. - 6 a.m." 1.41
2.
Page 2 of 3 pages.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.93)
GENERAL HEADQULRTERS
SUPREME CO MMNDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Tallymen - per day
$1.76
Chief Checker
.1.41
è night, same as day, Ill night, same as
double day.
Hourly basis to midnight
44
Extra for each meal
15
Heavy Lifts - 2 - 5 tons
53 per ton
6 - 10
.71
11 - 15 
.88
16 - 20n
1.44
Over 20 tons
2.21
7
Crane Hire - (Floating)
Under 5 tons per lift
8.82 per lift
10
n
n
n
.10.29
15
n
It
ton
1.03
Ton
n
20
n
n
n
1.18
n
25
n
1.47
30
n
n
n
1.61
n
35
n
1
1.77
π
n
40
n
n
n
2.06
n
n
45
n
n
n
2.45
50
n
n
n
2.94
Towage charges (per trip)
7.35
Lighter Hire - per ton. Calculated on ship's
.176
rev tons actually in the
lighter
XXX
Lighter Demurrage - After first 48 hours per net
reg ton per day
.04
Measuring & Weighing - per ton
.03
3.
Page 3 of 3 pages.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
ALADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
CIRCULAR )
APO 500
23 December 1947
NO....16
CHARGES FOR INDI GENOUS PORT FACILITIES FURNISHED
TO FOREIGN VESSELS IN JAPAINESE PORTS
1. Reference. Schedule of Rates for Port Facilities in Japanese
Ports,, 1 August 1947.
2. Purpose. The purpose of this circular is to announce the
policy regarding charges for port facilities furnished from Japanose
sources to all vessels of foreign governnent registry, ownership or
operation that use Japanese ports.
3. Definitions. The following definitions of. terms are applicable
only to the policy herein:
a. Port Facilities include all labor, material, equipment and
supplies that are used or consumed in the movement of a vessel into
and out of a harbor, and in handling cargo for the vessel. These
facilities are categorized into the following three groups:
(1) Repairs and Supplies include bunkers, subsistence,
spare parts, material and labor for repairs, and all
other supplies furnished to vessels.
(2) Cargo Handling includes all labor, equipment and
supplies required to shift cargo on the vessel and
to discharge and load cargo between the vessel and
the pier, and cleaning holds.
(3) Port Entry and Ship Services include pilotage,
quarantine, immigration clearance, tonnage dues,
consular clearance, bills of health, wharfage, buoy
hire, shifting of vessels, line handling, garbage
disposal, watchmen, berthing, water and tuggage.
b. A Foreign Government is any government other than the
Japanese Governnent.
c. Occupation Cargo includes:
(1) Occupation Force Cargo. Cargo for the support of
the occupation forces.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
(Cir 16)
(2) Civilian Relief Cargo. Cargo imported for the
Japanese Government for relief of the Japanese
population, including cargo for prevention of
disease and unrest.
d. Commercial Cargo. All cargo other than occupation cargo,
including reparations cargo.
e. ixed Cargo includes both.occupation and commarcial cargo..
4. Sohedule of Rates. Charges for port facilities, other than
repairs and supplies, will be computed in accordance with Sohedule
of Rates for Port Facilities at Japanose Ports, 1 Aurust 1947, or as
subsequently revised. Copies of this schodule may be secured upon
application to the Commanding General, Dighth Arry, Attention: Transpor-
tation Section. Charges for repairs and supplies will be evaluated by
the Comanding Goneral, Eighth Army, in accordance with current procedures.
5. Effective Date. Effective 1 January 1s4s, reimbursement will
be made to the Supreme Commander for the llied Powers for port
facilities furnished to vessels using Japanese ports, for each port of
call, as outlined below.
6. All charges will be made against an operator or authorized
agent, or government, whichever is ap ropriate, by one of the following
methods:
a. Directly against an operator or authorizod agent, or
b. Through the government of registry, against an operator or
authorized agent, or
c. Against a government.
7. Port Facilities Furnished to Comnercial Vessels. Reimbursement
for port facilities furnished to co unercial vessels will be made by an
operator or authorized agent to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers as follows:
 a. When a vessel carries only occupation cargo, for the cost
of all repairs and supplies.
b. Wien a vessel carries only conmercial cargo, for the cost
of all port facilities furnished.
2

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
(Cir 16)
c. When
arries mixed pargo:
(1)
all repairs and supplies.
(2)
For cargo handling of commercial cargo.
(3)
For port entry and ship services for the account
of commercial cargo as follows:
(a) The total charges for port entry and ship
services will be computed as prescribed in
paragraph 4.
(b)
The percentage of commercial cargo to be dis-
charged and loaded at each port, based on the
total of cargo (occupation and commercial) to
be discharged and loaded at the same port, will
be computed. For the purpose of establishing
distribution of charges, each passenger will be
considered the equivalent of 20 revenue tons of
cargo.
(c)
Tho charges to he assessed for the account of
commercial cargo will be that percentage of the
total amount of charges for port entry and ship
services which corresponds to the percentage of
commercial argo as computed in accordance with
paragraph 7e(3)(b).
8. Port Facilities Furnished to Vessels Operated or Owmed and
Operated by Forein Governments which are Members of the Far Eastern
Comnission. a. Then a vessel carries only occupation cargo, port
facilities will be.furnished without reimbursement to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers.
b. Reimbursement for port facilities furnished these vessels
will be made by such foreign governments to the Supreme Commander for
the Allied'Powers as follows:
(1) Wien a vessel carries only commercial cargo, for the
cost of all port facilities furnished.
(2) When a vessel carries mixed cargo, for those facilities
aß prescribed in paragraph 7c.
3

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
(Cir 16)
9. Port Facilities Furnished to Vessels Operated or Owmed and
Operated by Foreign Governments which are not Members of the Far
Eastern Commission. Reimbursement for port facilities furnished these
vessels will be made by such foreign governments to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers in the same manner as prescribed for
commercial vessels, as set forth in paragraph 7a, b and c.
10. Port Facilities Furnished to Vessels in Cases of Emergency
Calls at Japanese Ports. Reimbursement for all port faoilities furnished,
except tonnage dues, will be made by the owner or operator to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers.
1l. Implementation. Procedures and instructions to implement the
provisions of this circular, consistent with established policies
governing shipping in Japanese waters will be published by the Commanding
General, Eighth Army.
AG 551 (23 Dec 47)CTS/TO-F
BY COIFLAIID OF GENERAL MaCARTHUR:
PAUL J. MUELLER,
Major General, General Staff Corps,
OFFICIAL:
rmloozy
Chief of Staff.
R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
sepe
June 30, 1948
In reply refer to
NA
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR EASTERN COMMISBION
W1th reference to SC 304/14, Port and Serviee Charges
174
on Foreign Vessels in Japan, which was forwarded by the
894.843/6-3048
Steering Committee to the Far Eastern Commission on
June 29, 1948, the United States Member 1s informed that
in vlew of the fact that the Steering Committee agreed to
aocept the United States amendment 1ncorporating Bo s04/14
1nto 0 273/13, Conduet of Trade with Japan, the Usited
States Government considers it desirable that a vote on
SC 304/1 be postp ned until the United States 1s pre-
694.001
pared to present its pos1tion on SC 273/13 to the Com-
mission.
Therefore, the United States Member 1s authorized
to request that a vote on SC 304/14 be deferred unless
ins ructions on the United States position with reference
to 80 273/13 are rece1ved.
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
of
CS/
sd orig
A
CONFIDENTIAL
PA
OE
FE
6/30/48
8
1757

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVIC
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMER
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPN
DCR
DIAGONOF
No. 532
NORTHPAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
SE1
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, Augast W 1948.
DÉPARTMENT OF BTATE
Subject:
Japanese Port Operations and Charges Therefor.
xR
894.843/8-1848
894.1561
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to transmit copies
of this Headquarters' Memorandum for the Japanese Government of
August 13, 1948 entitled "Japanese Port Operations and Charges for
Port Facilities and Terminal Services".
aAccording to the enclosed directive the Japanese Government
will, effective October 1, l948, be responsible for all port and
terminal operations and customs surveillance in connection with
T2.C
the handling of commercial cargoes and passengers, as well as
TRC
civilian relief cargoes, at the Tokyo-Yokohama and Kobe ports.
Port facilities not required by the Occupation forces are to be
released for this purpose by the Commanding General, Eighth Army.
OFD
Terminal operations are to be conducted in accordance with good
O人A
business practices the directive states, and should be conducted
De/k
by reliable Japanese commercial firms. Commercial cargo and pas-
senger handling is to be performed by authorized cargo handling
companies selected by the general shipping agencies.
The Japanese Government is also directed, effective October 1,
1948, to compute and assess charges in U.S. dollars or other currency
acceptable to the Supreme Commander, for all port facilities and
terminal services furnished from Japanese sources. The charges as-
sessed for port facilities and terminal services are to be in accord-
ance with the rates indicated in schedules attached to the directive.
In this connection, provision is made for the payment of terminal
charges in yen at the option of the party for whom the terminal
service is performed, such yen charges to be determined in accordance
with current Japanese business rates and practices.
withoing
Enclosure:
STAT
Memandum f August 13, 1948
entitled "Jgpanese Port Operations
and Charges for Port Facilities and
Temfinal epvices".
DC
ILIIES
Orfginalnd ozad to Department.
004
8-1848
DMBane/dbs
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 567 (30 Jul 48) GD
13 August 1948
SCAPIN 1927
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT .
SUBJECT:
Japanese Port Operations and Charges for Port
Facilities and Terminal Services
1. References.
a. Memorandum for the Japanese Government, AG 321 (8 Apr 46)
ESS/IE SCAPIN 941-A , dated 8 April 1946, subject, "Japanese Customs.
Organization."
b. Memorandum for the Japanese Government, AG 091.31 (4 Jun 46)
ESS/PC 'SCAPIN 996 , dated 4 June 1946, subject, "T1legal Import and
Export Trade."
c. Memorandum for the Japanese Government, AG O91.31 (19 Nov
46)0GA SCAPIN 1346, dated 19 November 1946, subject, "Import-Export
Control for Japan."
d. Memorandum for the Japanese Government, AG 334 (3 Apr 46)
ESS/IE SCAPIN 854, dated 3 April 1946, subject, "Board of Trade (Boeki-
Cho)."
e. Memorandum for the Japanese Government, AG 567 (1 Oct L7)PH
SCAPIN 1787 , dated 1 October 1947, subjeet, "Quarantine Installations
and Procedures."
f. Circular 10, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, dated 2 April 1948, subject, "Charges .for Indigenous
Pert. Facilities Furnished to Foreign Vessels in Japanese Ports."
g. Circular 2. General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, dated 4 February 1948, subject, "Port Facilities
for Foreign Vessels in Japanese Ports."
2. General. a. The Japanese Government will, effective 1 October
1948, subjeet to the supervision of the Commanding General, Eighth Army,
be responsible for all port operations, terminal operations and customs
surveillance in connection with the movement of civilian relief and
commercial cargoes and/or passengers to or from all foreign (non-Japanese)
vessels at the Tokyo-Yokohama and Kobe ports and for assessing United
States dollar charges for services and functions performed therefor as
prescribed herein. Piers, warehouses and other facilities not required

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 567 (30 Jul 48)GD
SCAPIN 1927
by the ocoupation forces will be released to the Japanese Government for
this purpose by the Commanding General, Eighth Army. The Japanese
Government will continue to perform required port operations at other
Japanese ports as at present subject'to supervision of the Commanding
General, Eighth Army.
b. The Japanese Government, through acceptable agencies desig-
nated by. the Japanese Government, will furnish all port facilities re-
quired at the Tokyo-Yokohama and Kobe ports and at other seaports of entry
in Japan by commercial and foreign government vessels carrying civilian
relief and commercial cargo and/or passengers, as defined by and in accord-
ance with Inclosure No. 1, "Charges for Port Facilities and Terminal
Services"; and will assume responsibility for such operations beginning
1 0ctober 1948.
c. The Japanese Government, through acceptable agencies desig-
nated by the Japanese Government, will be responsible for the following
terminal operations at Takashima and South Piers at Tokyo-Yokohama Port
and Hyogo and Naka Piers at Kobe Port, effective 1 October 1948; and for
such other piers as and when released by the Commanding General, Eighth
Army:
(1) Pier and warehouse operation.
(2) Safeguarding and accounting for cargoes, to inolude
certified tallying and maintenance of appropriate
records of cargo handled for the account of vessels.
(3)
Release of incoming cargo to consignees and receipt
for shipment of outgoing cargo.
(4)
Furnishing the labor, equip ent, supplies, tugs,
lighters and supervisorv and administrative personnel
necessary to provide satisfactory terminal services.
(5)
Computing, assessing, invoicing and assisting other-
wise in the procedure necessary to insure collection
of United States dollar charges by the Supreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers for all terminal facili-
ties furnished in connection with the handling, ware-
housing, safeguarding, accounting for, receipt and
forwarding of oommeroial cargo in accordance with the
instructions contained in this memorandum and the in-
closures thereto.
d. The Japanese Government, through acceptable agencies desig-
nated by the Japanese Govornment and subject to the supervision of the
Commanding General, Eighth Army, will be responsible for customs sur-
veillanoe at all piers, sheds, warehouses and customs compounds where
2

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 567 (30 Jul 48)GD.
SOAPIN 1927
commercial cargo and passengers are moved, loaded or unloaded; for the
clearance of such cargo and passengers; and that such movement of oom-
mercial cargoes and pasjengers. is in accordance with instruotions of
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers now in effeot or to be
placed in effect, and with Japanese Customs Laws and Regulations not in
conflict with such instructions.
3. Vessels and cargo to be handled.
a. In general, vessels which are. to diseharge or load only.
pocupation force. cargo and passengers will be discharged and, loaded by
the. oncupation forces. Vessels which are to discharge or load civilian
relief, reparations and/or commercial cargoes: and passengers will be dis-
charged, loaded and furnished other port facilities by the Japanese
Government or acceptable agencies designated by the Japanese Government.
Vessels which are to discharge or load mixed cargo and/or passengers will
normally be discharged or loaded by the Japanese when the preponderance
of cargo and/or passengers to be loaded or unloaded is civilian relief,
reparations and/or commercial cargo. The occupation force commander-at
the. appropriate port will decide in each case whether a vessel will be.
handled by the occupation forces or by the Japanese.
b. Civilian relief, reparations and. commercial cargoes will be
handled by the Japanese at such piers as are releasrd to the Japanese
Government and in accordance with the following:
(1) No civilian relief, reparations or commercial cargoes
will be discharged or loaded at occupation force.
operated piers excopt as approved in each case by the
occupation forcc port commander.
(2)
The unloading of occupation force cargo at Japanese
operated piers will be suporvised by the occupation
force port commander and such cargo will normally be
removed by occupation.force agencies from such piers
within seventy-two (72) hours after discharge.
(3)
Civilian relief and/or commercial cargoes unloadéd at
occupation force piers will be removed within seventy-
two (72) hours after discharge unless specifically ex-
empted from this requirement in each case by the Com-
manding General, Eighth-Army.
(4) Cargo handling and terminal oporations, with respect
to all foreign vessels in Japanese ports, will be on
a seven-day week, twenty-four-hour-day basis: The
Japanese Government will take necessary steps to as-
sure that sufficient facilities are provided to pre-
vent undue delay in diseharging or loading of vessels.
3

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 567 (30 Ju1 48)GD
SCAPIN 1927
The occupation force commander at the appropriate
port will determine which types of cargoes will be
given.priority in handling. The use of United States
Army materials " handling equipment for the move-
ment of cargoes designated herein as a Japanese
responsibility will be subject to availability and
approval of the Commanding General, Eighth Army. It
is expected thet the Japanese Government will take
prompt action to insure provision of necessary materi-
als handling equipment for all Japanese port oper
ations by 1 October 1948.
(5)
Effective 1 October 1948 the occupation force port
commanders at Tokyo-Yokohama and Kobe ports may de-
liver to the appropriate Japanese terminal operators
such commercial and civilian relief cargoes then
under their jurisdiction, or thereafter discharged by
the United States Army, and will obtain receipt there-
for. When such cargoes ar discharged by the oocu-
pation forces the responsibility of the Japanese Govern-
ment starts upon receipt of the cargo. Nothing herein
changes existing instructions regarding the furnishing
of receipts by the Japanese Government to military
government units for civilian relief cargoes.
c. The Japanese Government, or its authorized agents, is author-
ized to deal directly with authorized licensed genoral shipping agents
for the extension of port facilities from Japanese sources after as-
sumption of the responsibilities as outlined in paragraph 2 above.
d. General shipping agents may select, with respect to com-
mercial cargo and passengers, the authorized cargo handling company which
will perform the cargo handling for their vessels. The occupation force
port commander, however, shall, upon request, have priority on the utili-
zation of such companies for the handling of occupation force cargo.
4. Terminal Operation. Terminal operation will be conducted in
aocordance with good business practices. Terminal oprations at Japan-
ese Government owned piers should be conducted by reliable Japanese com-
mercial firms under contract to the Japanese Government, and terminal
peration at privately owned Japanese piers, when established, should be
conducted by Japanese commercial organizations designated by the pier
owners or lessees. All terminal operations will be porformed in accord-
ance with the following procedure:
a. Upon receipt of incoming commercial cargo the terminal oper-
ator will inform the consignce prior to delivery of cargo:
(1) That the cargo has arrived.
4

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 567 (30 Jul 48)GD
SCAPIN 1927
(2) Of the requirements of paragraph ib and c below and
that these requirements must be met prior:to:the
release of the carge.
(3) By invoice of the United States dollar charges which
must be paid or payment guaranteed in dollars or
other ourrency acceptable to the Supreme Commander
for.the Allied Powers.
b. Inceming commercial cargo will not be released for delivery
or shipment to consignees until all of the following conditions are met:
(1) Cargo is released by the local general shipping -agent
(er appropriate foreign government mission, if there
is no agent) for the vessel from which discharged.
(2) Gustoms clearance has been granted by the Japanese
Customs under supervision of the Commanding General,
Eighth Army.
(3)
Evidence is presented that the consignee has paid a
sum in United States dollars, or other currency ac-
ceptable to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, sufficient to cover all terminal charges as-
sessed; or has guaranteed such payment to the satis-
faction of the Supreme Cemmander for the Allied Powers;
or will pay for terminal services in yen under the
provisions. of paragraphe 4c and 5d below.
c. Charges in yen for:port facilities and terminal sèrvices
furnished and the collection thereof will.be in accordanee with current
Japanese business rates and:practices.
d Procurement demand receipts (GPA Form 2) will be executed
for occupation force cargo handled at Japanesc operated piers.
5. Charges for port facilities and terminal services:
a. Effective 1 October 1948 the Japanese Government, or accept-
able agencies desigrated by the Japanese Government, will compute and as-
sess charges in United States dollars or other currency acceptable to
the Supreme Cemmander for the Allied Powers, against foreign (non-
Japanese) vessel operators and/or governments, shipping agents, commercial
companies, individuals and others with legal access to such currency for
all port facilities and terminal services furnished from Japanese sources.
5

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 567 (30 Jul 48)GD
SCAPIN 1927
b. The computation of these charges will be based on and
will be in accordance with:
(1) The currently effective "Schedule of Rates for Port
Facilities at Japanese Ports," published by the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, attached as
Annex A to Inclosure No. 1.
(2)
The currently effective "Rates for Terminal Services"
attached as Annex B to Inclosure No. 1.
(3)
"Charges for Port Facilities and Terminal Services,"
Inclosure No. 1 hereto.
c. Itemized invoices of such computed charges for port facili-
ties and terminal services furnished from Japanese sources will be pre-
pared by the Japanese Government, or'acceptable agencies designated by
the Japanese Government, in accordance with the procedures outlined in
Inclosure No. 1 hereto, and forwarded to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers. One copy of such invoices will be forwarded directly to
the shipping agent or individual against whom the charges are being as-
sessed.
d. Payment for terminal services may be made in yen, in lieu
of the United States dollar charge prescribed herein, in accordance
with paragraph 4c above provided the government, commercial company,
individual or other agency for whom the terminal service is performed
so elects.
6. Liability and processing of claims.
a. The Japanese Government will be held liable for all damage
to or loss of cargo, equipment or gear not owned by the Japanese Govern-
ment or its authorized agents, but in the possession of and arising from
negligent or wrongful acts or omissions of the Japanese Government or
its authorized agents or agencies of the Japanese Government, incident
to the performance of port and/or terminal operations in compliance
with this memorandum.
b. The Japanese Government will prepare and submit to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers for approval by 1 September
1948 a plan for the submission, adjudication and settlement of approved
claims for such damage or loss by:
(1)
The payment thereof in foreign currency acceptable
to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
through the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
commercial account, or
6

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
AG 567 (30 Jul 48 )GD
SCAPIN 1927
(2) The payment thereof in yen as might be required.
7. The provisions of this memorandum do not change existing di-
rectives in connection with the responsibility of the Japanese Govern-
ment for handling reparations cargo and equipment. In this connection
reference is made to Memorandum for the Japanese Government, AG 387.6
(22 Ju1 47 )REP (SCAPIN 1751, dated 22 July 1947, subject, "Responsibility
of the Japanese Government for the Packaging, Transfer and Delivery of
Equipment and Records Allocated to Claimant Nations Under the Reparations
Program," as amended. The provisions of this memorandum do not apply
to facilities or services furnished Shipping Control Administration Japan
ships.
8. The Japanese Government will formulate its final organizational
and operational plan for full implementation of the provisions of this
memorandum and will submit ten (io) copies of this plan to the Supreme
Commander for the A1lied Powers not later than 1 September 1948.
a. Separate plans will be submitted for the Tokyo-Yokohama
and Kobe ports.
b. Each plan will be accompanied by functional charts and will
outline in detail the responsibilities, organization, operations and
allied functions of each Japanese governmental and/or commercial agency
involved.
c. The plan called for in paragraph 6b above will be included.
9. Procedures and instructions to implement this memorandum will
be published by the Commanding General, Eighth Army.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
Pnder
1 Incl
R. M. LEVY,
Charges for Port Facilities
Colonel, AGD,
and Terminal Services
Adjutant General.
w/Annexes A and B
7

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
: 'SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
•: APO 500
CHARGES FOR PORT FAC ILITIES AND TERMINAL SERVICES
1. Definitions. The following definitions are applicable only to the
provisions of this memorandum.
a. Port facilitios include all labor, material, equipment and
supplies that are used or consumed in the movement of a vessel into and
out of a harbor, and in handling cargo for the vessel. These facilities
are categorized into the following three groups:
(1) Repairs and supplies include bunkers, subsistence,
spare parts, material end labor for repairs and all
other supplies.furnished to vessels.
(2) Cargo handling inoludes all labor; equipment and sup-
plies required to shift cargo on the vessel and to.
discharge and:load eargo between the vessel and the
pier, and cleaning holds.
(3) Port entry and ship services include pilotage, quaran-
tine, immigration clearance, tonnage dues, consular
clearance, bills of health, wharfage, buoy hire, shift-
ing of vessels, line handling, garbage disposal, watoh-
men, berthing and tuggage.
b. Terminal services include all labor, material, equipment and
supplies that are used or consumed in the loading and landing, handling,
storage and movement of cargo and passengers between the ship's hook or
gangway and points of delivery as follows:
(1) Inbound cargo will be delivered or made accessible
by the terminal operator to the consignee at lighter,
pier, pier shed or terminal operator's warehouse.
(2) Outbound cargo will be delivered or made aocessible
by the shipper to the terminal operator for loading
aboard a vessel or for transhipment at the terminal
operator's warehouse, pier shed, pier or lighter.
c.. A foreign government is any government other than the
Japanese Government.
d. Occupation cargo includes:
(1) Occupation force cargo for the support of the ocoupa-
tion foroes.
Incl 1 to SCAPIN 1927

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
(2). Civilian relief cargo imported for the Japanese Govern-
ment for the relief of the Japanese population, inoluding
cargo for prevention of disease and unrest.
e. Reparations cargo is reparations goods designated and alloca-
ted to claimant nations by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
f. Commercial cargo is all cargo other than occupation and
reparations cargo.
g. Mixed cargo is any combination of cargo defined in paragraphs
1d, e and f.
h. A foreign vessel is any vessel of non-Japanese Government
registry except Shipping Control Administration Japan vessels.
i. Licensed generel shipping agents are those agents or
firms licensed by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to engage
in such business in Japan as is required to enable them to discherge
their responsibilities to the operators or shipping lines they represent.
2. General. Effective 1 October 1948 the Japanese Government,
or aoceptable agencies designated by the Japanese Government, will oom-
pute and assess charges for port facilities and terminal servioes furn-
ished at all ports from Japanese souroes as prescribed herein.
3. Charges for Port Fecilities.
a. All charges will be assessed by one of the following methods:
(1) Directly ageinst an operator or licensed general
shipping agent.
(2) Through the government of registry against an operator
or licensed general shipping agent.
(3) Directly aguinst a government.
b. Charges for ropairs, spare. parts materials and labor for
repairs will be assessed against all foreign vessels, except those vessels
operated or owned and operated by foreign governments which are members
of the Far Eastern Comnission when such vessels carry only occupation
force cargo. An invoice of the repairs performed and/or of the materiels
and labor furnished for repairs will be prepared by the Japenese and
forwarded to the Commanding General, Eighth Army. The Commanding General,
Eighth Army, will evaluate these invoices in United States dollars and
return them to the appropriate Japanese agenoy for processing in accord-
ance with the instructions contained herein.
c. Charges for supplies, other then material and spare parts
2

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
furnished for repairs, will be assessed against all foreign vessels exoept
those operated or owned end operated by foreign governments whioh are members
of the Far Eastern Commission when such vessels carry only occupation force
cargo. Invoices for such cherges will be processed in accordance with
paragraph 5b below.
d. Charges will be assessed against commercial vessels as: followss
(1) When a vessel carries only occupation faroe cargo' and/or
passengers or only ropnrations sargo, charges will be
assassed only for the oost of all repairs and supplies.
The va lue of cargo handling and' other port faoilitias
furnishod in conneotion with reparetions cargo will bo.
computed and reported in accordance with:.current.pro-
.cedure.
(2) When a vessel cerries only commeroial cargo, for the
cost of all port facilities furnished.
(3) When a vessel carries mixed cargo
(c) For sll repairs and supplies.
(b) For oorgo hendiing of commercial cargo.
(c) For port entry end ship services for comiercial cargo
nd/or passengors as follows:
1. The total cherges for port ontry and ship services
will be computed in accordance with current effec-
tive Schedule of Rates, Annex A.
2.  The pe roentege of commercial cargo to be dis-
chirged and loaded at each port, based on the
total of all cargo to be dischmrged and loaded
at the same port, will be computed. 'For the
purpose of establishing distribution of charges
each pessenger will be considered the equivalent
of 20 revenue tons of cargo.
3.
The charges to be assessed for the aocount of
ocmmorciel cergo will be that parcentage of the
tutal emount of charges for port entry and ship
services which corresponds to the porcentegu of
comnercial cargo as "computed in cccordence with
subperagraph 2 above.
(d) The valuo of ctrgo handling of reparations cargo
will be computed in yen end reported to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers for cherge ag inst
3

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
the reparations account of the olaimant nation in
accordence with the Far Eastern Commission policy
applicable to reparations goods.
(d) The velue of port entry and ship services fer the
amount of reperations cargo will be computed in yen
in the seme menner as is prescribed in paragraph
3d(3)(c)2 and 3 and cherged against the reparctions
account of the olcimant netion in accordance with
current procedure.
e. Vessels opercted or owned and operated by foreign governments
which are members of the Far Eastern Commission will not be assessed charges
for port fecilities when such vessels carry only occupetion force cargo.
When these vessels carry commercial cargo, reperations gargo or mixed oargo
the appropriate government will be assessed cherges for port facilitios
furnished as prescribed in paragraph 3d for commercial vessels.
f. Vessels operated or owned and opereted by foreign governments
which are not members of tha Fer Eastern Conmission will be assessed ohergos
as prescribed in paragraph 3d for ccmmercial vessels.
g. All foreign vessels calling at Japanose ports in crses of
emergency, except United States Army, United Ststos Air Force, United Stetos
Nevy and British Comaonwoalth Occupe tion Forco operated or owned and
operated vessels which carry occupation forco ccrgo, will be assessed
appropriate charges for nll port facilities excopt tonnage dues.
h. The Japanese Government, or acceptable agency designated by
the Japunese Governinent, will compute and assess in United Stutes dollers
εll charges, except for repairs and supplies, in accurdunce with the pro-
cedures cutlined above cnd bassd on the "Sohedula of Rates for Port Facili-
ties," Annex A, or as subsequently revised.
4. Charges for Terminal Services.
a. Cherges fer terminal services, including hendling, warehousing,
receipt end forwsrding, for commercial cargoes consigned to consignees
having legal access to United States dollars or other ourrenoy aooeptable
to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, will be oomputed in dcllers
by terminal operetors from the current Retes for Terminel Services, Annex B.
The foregoing does not epply to reperttions cargo.
b. Nothing in this memcrandum is intended to prohibit payment in
yen in lieu of the United Stetes dollar charge herein prescribed for torminel
services furnished from Japenese sources, provided that the government,
commercial company, individurl or other agency fcr whom such terminal
services ere furnished so elects. Collcction of such charges in yen for
termintl services will be in accordence with current Japanese business
retes nd practices.
4

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
5. Reimbursement Pr oedure for Port Facilities Furnished.
a. Itemized inv icus for. port fccilities furnished foreign vessels
from Jap nese souroes will. be prepored in English by the Japaneso Governmènt,
or an gency designated by the Japanese Government, based on the Sohedule
of Rates, Annex A. Five (5) capies of the invoice will be. forwarded to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, Attontion: ESS/FTC: :cnd. one? (1)
copy will be forwerded to the licensed goneral shipping agont, operator or
representetive of the faraign governmont us may be appropriate with a. 
notation thereon that. pryment, if not slreadymode, should be mado to the
Supreme Commender for the Allied Powers, Attention: ESs/FTC. A statement
to the offect that the itemized port f cilities have been received subject
to inv icing et prices current, signed by the moster of. such vosso! and
by the receiving officer, will be executed on each inv icc. All signatures
b. The United Strtos doller value f charges assessod for supplies
furnished (ctaer than me terial and spare perts for ropeirs) for whioh no
schodule of ratos in United States dollurs h s boen published. will be.
furnished by the Supreme Commn dor for the Allied Powers.(Ess). Invotces
fr such supplies will indicite the quantity and typ cf supplies  furnished
and will be furwarded tc the Supreme Gcmmander for the Alliad Puwers;
Attention: ESs/FTc, in accordenco with a cb ve, without indiceting.the
United States. doller value theroen.
c. When charges are assessed foreign vessels (except United States
Army and United Stetes Air F:rce vessels) for port facilities, other than
repairs and supplies, furnished from Jep nese s urods under procurement
demand to the cccupntion f rces using them at the Tokyo-Yokohama and Kobe
Army operated ports, 20% f such ch rges will bo creditod t the United
States Arny to c ver the c st cf Army port vernend, indluding supervision
of scldier labor. Nototi n will bo made n the inv ices rendered to that
effect. The GPA Form 2 will not be xecuted for such'services.
d. Procuremont demand receipts (GPi Form 2) will nut be exocuted
for Japanese supplies und services when chergos f r such supplies and ser-
vices  re nssessed in cc rdance with parugraphs 3.ond 4 obove, intsmuch
as such supplies an services are not for the ccup ticn forces.
6. Reimbursement Pr ceduro for Terminal Sorvices. Furnished.
n. Itemized inv ices: for terminal survices furnished in connegtion
with commercial carge will be prepared in English by the Japenese Govern-
ment, or acceptable egoncy designeted by the Japanese Guvernment, based on
the Ratos for Tormint1 Services, Annex B. Five (5) copies f. the inv ice
will be forwarded t the Supreme Cummander:f.r the Allied Powers, Atten-
tion: ESS/FTC, and une (1) copy will be. furwarded to. the consignee with
a notatien thereon thit payment, if aot already made, should be made to the
Supreme Commander for th. Allied Povers, Attention: ESs/FTC.
b. Ino ming commercial carg iny icing will be as follows
5

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
(1) If the consignee is a commercial company, foreign
guvernment mission or other agenoy whioh has provi-
ously guoranteed in writing to the Suprems Commandor
for the Allied Powers (ESS/FTC) the payment of
tem inal and shipping charges assessed against oargo
censigned to the agenoy, inv ices will be prepared
and forwarded as above after the cargo has been re-
ceived by or shipped to the cnsignee. Upon 'presen-
tation of the invcices suoh agencies will remit the.
required amount to the Supreme Commander for the allied
Powers, Attention: ESS/FTC, in United States dollars
cr other currenoy scceptable t the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers.
(2)
If the consignee is an individuel or an agonoy which
has nct previ usly guarunteed in writing to the Supreme
Commander fer the Allied Powers the payment of terminal
and shipping charges for the account of commereial cargo,
the total charges must be paid prior to release of the
cargo. In this case separate invoice entries will be.
made for storage end trucking charges.
charges to be assessed if carg is released to
censignee within five (5) days after consignee
is n tified his shipment has arrived, invoices will
indicate seperately the intransit storago charges
to be assessed per additi nal thirty (30) days if
cargo is not shipped within abuve five-day "free"
period. Intransit sturage charges to be paid to
the Supr eme Commander for the Allied Powers will
be c mputed as f the date of payment to the Supreme
C mmander for the Allied Powors, at which time the
terminal perotur may be netified to release the
cargo to the cinsignee. dditional storage charges
may be assessed the consigneo if carg: is not pioked
up r the terminal operator has not been instructed
by the consignee within five (5) days from date of
above payment as to whot disposition is to be made
of the cergc.
(b)
Invoices will bo propored up n receipt of the
cargo by the tennincl operater and forwarded as in
subparagraph 6a above. Consignee will be required
to present a copy of thepaid inv ice indicating
his choice under subporagreph 6b(2)(c) below prior
to relense or en shipment of his carg. unless
release is granted through the Japenese Government
by the Supreme C mmander fr the Allied Powers
6

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
(ESS/FTC) as in paragraph 6b(2)(a) above.
(0)
Delivery charges to be assossod in United States
dollars ageinst the consignee in accordanoe with
peragreph 6d below will be shown separately on
the invice. Payment to the Suprome Commander
for the Allied Powers will be based on the oon-
signee's determination whether he will pick up
the ocrgo at his oxponse or tem inal oporator is
to ship to destination.
o. Outgoing cargo invoicing will be as follows
(1) If the shipper is a commercial company, foreign govern-
ment mission or other agenoy whioh hes guaranteed payment
t. the Supreme Commandur for the Allied Powers, invoioing
will be accomplished as in subparagraph 6b(1) above
after carg is loaded aboard vessel.
(2) If the shippor is an individual or any agency whioh has
net guarenteed payment to tho Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, invoicing will be aocomplished as follows:
(0)
 No dollar chnrges for iiland shipping will be
assessed as it will be tho shippor's responsibility
to move his cargo into pier intransit warehouses.
Local truck hire rnd cargo handling may be furnished
by the turminal operator, however, and invoiced in
United Stetes dollers peyable to the Supreme Comm-
ander for the Allied Powers (Annex B).
(b)
Upon acceptence of outgoing corgo the terminal
operator will invoice for the necessery terminal
operation charges to doliver cargo to ship's hook.
Invoices will assess minimum charges to inolude
intransit storage until scheduled arrival time of
outbound vessel.
(c)
Shipper will be required to present copy of paid
invóice to torminal oporator prior to letter's
releasing cargo for loading aborrd outgoing vessel,
or curgo may be relensed for londing by the Japan-
ese Government when notified by tho Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers (Éss/Frc) that the invoice
has bèen'paid
d. Pickup and delivery servico will be by spocihl  urrangement
between the terminal operator and the shipper or reoeiver of the cargo.
7

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
(1) Deliver and, load inbound cargo aboard a railroad car or
deliver to a local railroad station.
(2) Pickup cargo from railroad depot or unload cargo from
railroad car and transport to terminal for outloading,
Appropriate United States dollar charges will be assessed for the above
service besed on the rates established in Annex B.
e. No provision is made herein for tho paymont in United States
dollars of charges assessed for the inland movement of commeroial cargo
by rail. Such cherges will be assessed and oollected in yen by the. Japan-
ese Government in accordance with current business praotioes. These yen
charges will not be collected by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
2 Annexes.
Annex A.. Schedulo of Rntes for Port
Fucilities at Japanese Ports,
1 October 1948
Annex B. - Rates for Terminal Services.
8

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME
COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
13 August 1948
SCHEDULE OF RATES FOR PORT FACILITIES AT JAPANESE PORTS
Effective
1 October 1948
CENERAL TERMS
SECTION
I
REPAIRS AND SUPPLIES
SECTION
II
STEVEDORING
SECTION III
PORT ENTRY AND SHIP SERVICES
SECTION
IV
EQUIPMENT HIRE
SEC TION
V
ANNEX A to INCL 1 to SCAPIN 1927

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POERS
APO 500
Effective
1 October 1948
SCHEDULE OF RATES FOR PORT FACILITIES AT JAPANESE PORTS
SECTION I
GENERAL TERMS
1. Schedule of Rates for Port Facilities at Japanese Ports, 1
August l947, is rescinded, and the following is substituted, effective
1 October 1948.
2. The rates, charges, rules and regulations herein, additions,
revisions or supplements hereto, shall apply on and after effective date
hereof or effective dates of additions, revisions or supplements hereto,
provided however, that when charges have been prepared at the rates in
effect, such rates shall prevail until completion of operation.
3. Terms are cash. All port facilities furnished, charges under
rates herein, or other charges not specifically fixed, are due as they
accrue, and are furnished and payable in accordance with the provisions
of Circular 2, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, 4 February 1948, and Circular 10. General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, 2 April 1948.
a. Cargo will be released to the consignee, or shipping agency,
or shipowner or individual responsible for such charges, only when charges
accrued under this schedule and in accordance with other terms, have either
been paid or adequate guarantee has been furnished for the payment thereof.
b. ∴ccounts remaining unpaid for 30 days from receipt of invoice
will bear interest at 6% per annum from date of receipt of invoice.
c. The terminal operators reserve the right to demand prepayment
of all charges on perishable freight, freight of unknown or doubtful value
and on household goods.
4. Use of piers, equipment, facilities or services shall be deemed
an acceptance of rates, terms and conditions herein.
5. Right is reserved by terminal operators to furnish all equipment,
supplies and material and to perform all services in connection with the
operation of their terminals under rates and conditions herein, or at
rates agreed upon for such items which are not included herein.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
6. Hazardous or offensive freight or freight which, by its nature,
is liable tod amage other freight, is subject to immediate removal,
either from the pier or pier premises or to other locations within said
premises, with all expense and risk of loss or damage for the account of
ship-owner, general shipping agency, shipper or consignee.
7. Freight remaining on pier or pier premises after expiration of
free time, and freight shut out at clearance of vessel may be piled or
repiled to make space,.transferred to other locations or receptacles
within pier premises, or removed to public or private warehouses with
all expense and risk of loss or damage for account of the ship-owmer,
general shipping agancy, shipper or consignee, as responsibility may
appear, at rates applicable for such services in eccordance with "Rates
for Terminal Services", 1 October 1948.
8. The acceptance, handling or storage of dangerous or hazardous
material shall be subject to special arrangements with terminal operators
and governed by applicable rules and regulations.
9. Glass, liquids and fragile articles will be accepted only at
owner's risk for breakage, leakage, or damage.
10. Delays in loading, unloading, receiving, deliveries, or handling
freight arising from combinations, riots, or strikes of any persons in
the employ of the terminal companics or in the services of others, or
arising from any other cause not reasonably within the control of the
terminal companies will not entitle the ship-owners, general shipping
agencies or consignees of the freight to waiver of any terminal charges
or expenses that may be incurred.
11. Rates named herein do. not include any insurance except that of
labor compensation to cover labor employed to porform services, and
liability insurance.
12. The rates named herein, additions, revisions, or supplements
thereto, are based upon existing traffic and labor conditions. If and
when these conditions change because of dcmands of labor for increased
wages, strikes, congestions, or other causes not reasonably within the
control of the terminal companies, resulting in an increased cost of ser
vice, the rates are subject to change without notice. Changes in rates
named herein for reasons other than stated will become effective 30 days
from date of publication.
13. If and when others than the terminal:companies are permitted to
perform services on the piers or premises of the terminal companies they
shall be liable for the injury of persons in their employ and shall also
2

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
be held responsiblc for loss, damage or theft by themselves or persons
in their employ.
14. The terminals will take reasonable precautions and oxercise
reasonable care to prevent loss of or damage to freight, and having taken
such measures, will not be responsible for any loss or damage caused by
earthquakes, fire, frost, heat, dampness, leakage, the elements, evaporation,
natural shrinkage, wastage or decay; animals, rats, mice, or other rodents,
moths, weevils or other insects; leakage or discharge from fire protection
systems, collapse of buildings or structures, breakdown of plant or machinery
or equipment; or by floats, logs or piling required in breasting vessels
away from wharf; nor will it be answerable for any loss, damage,. or delay
arising from insufficient notification or from war, insurrection, shortage
of labor, combinations, riots or strikes of any persons in its employ or.
in the services of others or from any consequences arising therefrom.
15. All tonnage rates for stevedoring will bo based on ship's mani-
fest revenue tons. Fractiors of a ton will be computed as a full ton.
16. Customs of the port.
a. When day or sunrise to sunset periods, night or sunset to sunrise
periods, and other alternate divisions of work periods are listed, the actual
hours of such periods will be determined by local almanac time or customs
existing at each port. This information may be secured from the terminal
operator at each port.
b. Other information regarding custons of the port and existing
practices and procedures adopted by and applicable to each port may be se-
cured from the terminal operator at each port.
3

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
Effective
1 October 1948
SCHEDULE OF RATES FOR PORT FACILITIES AT JAPANESE PORTS
SECTION II - REPAIRS AND SUPPLIES
A.
REPAIRS
1. Repairs to forelgn (non-Japanese) vessels will be furnished only
under the provisions of Circular 10, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, 2 April 1948.
2. The value of repairs, and all materials and supplies used in
accomplishing such repairs, will be estimated by the Commanding General,
Eighth Army.
B.
SUPPLIES
1. FUEL (Liquid, solid, galley coal) will be furnished at
current prices through authorized media.
2. SUBSISTENCE and SHIP STORES will be furnished at current.
prices through authorized media.
3.
BALLAST Loaded on vessel.
·Per metric ton:
$3.00
4.
WÄTER
a. Froni wharf.
Per metric. ton: . .07
b. From barge, inside breakwater.
11
.135
c.
From barge, outside breakwater.
11
135
PLUS: Distance from b/w to vessel.
Per ton/mile:
.045
d. Delivery between sunset and sunrise, add:
50%
50
DUNNAGE At current prices.
OTHER SUPPLIES At'current prices.
4

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
Effective
1 October 1948
SCHEDULE OF RATES FOR PORT FACILITIES AT JAPANESE PORTS
SECTION III - STEVEDORING
A.
GENERAL
1. Stevedoring is defined as loading or discharging cargo to or from ship's
tackle, with equipment normally used, in accordance with customs of the port.
2. Size and composition of a stevedore gang.
a. A stevedore gang working under normal and usual conditions handling
the following types of cargo, usually consists of eighteen to thirty-one men as
follows:
General Cargo
Reefer Cargo
Bulk Cargo
Hatch foreman
1
1
1
Signalman
1
1
1
Winchmen
2
2
2
Slingmen
2
2
2
Laborers
12
20
24-25
18
26
30-31
b. The size and composition of a stevedore gang requirod to handle
cargo efficiently may vary with bulk, heavy or bulky cargo, or heavy lifts, or
when stevedore gangs work in small or restricted spaces, compartments or
hatches. In such cases, or when unusual conditions arise, the actual size and
composition of a stevedore gang may be changed by agreement between the
terminal operator and the shipowner or general shipping egoncy.
3. Straight time and overtime hours for labor.
a. Except as otherwise provided, straight time hours are defined as
8 hours work between sunrise and sunset.
b. Except as otherwise provided, overtime hours are defined as:
(1) Those hours actually worked in excess of 8 hours between
sunrise and sunset.
(2)
Those hours actually worked between sunset and sunrise.
4. Basic and overtime retes for labor.
a. Except as otherwise provided, basic rate is the rate per day or
per hour for labor during straight time hours.
b. Except as otherwise provided, overtime rate is the percentage of
5

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
the basic rate plus the. basic rate per day or per hour for labor during
overtime hours, as follows:
(1) Between sunrise and sunset: Hours in excess
of.8 hours:
25%
(2)
Between sunset and 2300 or midnight:
25%
(3) Between 2300 or midnight and sunrise:
50%
5. Computation of overtime pay for labor.
a. Except as otherwise provided, a day's overtime pay will be
computed by adding the overtime percentage of the basic rate to the basic
rate.
b. Except as otherwise provided, an hour's overtime pay will be
computed by adding the overtime perccntage of 1/8 of the basić rate to
1/8 of the basic rate.
6. Vhen labor and equipment not normally used in'stevedoring are re-
quested by shipowner, general shipping agency or consignee, the cost there-
of, in accordance with the rates prescribed, will be charged against the
party who requested the employment and use of such labor and equipment.
7. When shore equipment is used for stevedoring a vessel at berth,
charges will be made for labor and equipmont hire, in accordance with the
rates prescribed in Section III, Part D, and Section V. The rates in
Section III, Part B, will not apply.
8. When shore equipment is. used.for stevedoring a vessel at berth,
and cargo is moved in a continuous operation between the vessel and pier
shed, charges will be made for labor and equipment hire, in accordance
with the rates prescribed in Section III, Part D, and Section V. The
rates in Section III, Part B, will not apply.
9. Stevedoring will be performed during overtime hours, outside
breakwater, or under other unusual conditions only when requested by ship-
owner, general shipping agency or consignee.
6

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION III - STEVEDORING
B.
CARGO CATEGORIES AND BASIC RATES PER TON
CAT.
R.TE
DESCRIPTION OF CARGO
1
15¢
Straw Products
2
18¢ Gravel, bulk
Sand, bulk
3
20¢
Bean cake
Gambier
Seeds, bag
Beans, bag
Grains, bag
Tea, case
Cigarettes; case
Nuts; bag, bulk
Tobacco, cask
Coal, dust, bulk
Peas, bag, bulk
Vegetables, dry, case
Flour, bag
Salt, bag
bag
Fruits, dry & dried
4
22¢
Abalone, dry
Cotton, raw, bales
Pearls, Necklace,imit:
Adanba hats, case
D. D. F.
Pig iron
Agar agar, case
Electric light bulbs
Pigments
Aluminum ware, case
Electrical devices
Poles, fishing
Antimony ware, case
Electrical materials
Poultry, packed
Auto accessories, bat-
Fans, desk
Projection equipment
teries, spare parts
Feathers
Pulp, dry
Bags, Boston
Fishing nets, cotton
Pumps
Bamboo goods, case
Forage, bundle
Radio sets, repair,
Bandage gauze, rolls
Gallnuts, case
spare parts
Baskets
General Cargo
Rice cultivators
Batteries, dry
Grains, bulk
Rope; manila
Beans, bulk
Grains, powder, bag
Salt, dust, bulk
Bone, animal, dust, bag
Gum copal
Seaweed, dried
Books
Gum dammar
Shells
Bristle, bristle fibers
Harmonicas
Shoes, leather,
Buttons
Hat bodies
canvas, rubber
Cable
Hemp, bale
Sickles
Cameras
Hides, dried
Silverware
Cards, playing
Hoes
Slide rules
Charcoal, straw bag
Kaolin, bag
Starch
Chicken incubators
Knives
Sugar, raw, refined
Chop Sticks
Leather belting,
Tableware
Christmas decorations
findings
Telephone subsectors
Clay, pencil, refractory
Magazines
Tires and tubes
Clocks
Mats
Toys, tin, mechanical
Coalite, bag, bulk
Meat, carcass, packed
Tungsten, case
Cokes, dust, bulk
Medical supplies
Wattle bark, bag
Communication,equipment
Microphones
Wire cloth, roll
Confectioneries
Mine lamps
Wooden fabrics &
Copra
Molasses, barrels
goods
Cord clothing
Ores, dust, bulk
Wool, felt
Cotton duck, linters,
Paper books, covers,
Wool, raw
piece goods, rags, yarn
goods
7

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION III - STEVEDORING
B.
CARGO CATEGORIES AND BASIC RATES PER TON - CONT.
CAT.
RATE
DESCRIPTION OF CARGO
5
24¢
Almina, bag
Dehydrated foods
Logs
Amplifiers
Dental supplies
Lumber
Automobiles, crated,
Drugs
Machinery
uncrated
Dyestuffs :
Medicines
Beer, bbls, bottles,
Electric Motors
Printing presses
case
Engines, diesel, semi-
Rayon picce goods, yarn
Butter
diesel
Scales
Canned goods &
Fertilizer, bag, bulk
Shutters
provisions
Freight cars
Slag cars
Carbon black
Iron,. scrap; pressed
Steam winches
Cement, barrel, drum
Lead ingots,
Stone
Cheese
concentrates
Sulphate of ammonia, bag
Clothing
Locomotives, steam,
Trucks, crated, uncrated
Coal, lump, bulk
eloc.
Zinc oxide
6
26¢
Copper ingots
Sulphate of ammonia,
Telephone' poles, wood
Crossties.
bulk
Timbers, mining
7
29¢
Bleaching powder
Caustic soda, drum
Matches
Calcium phosphide
Iron grain, bulk
Nitro-dyes
Camphor & products
Lime, bag
Soda, soda ash
8
31¢ Ores, lump, bulk
#Ores, special, bag
Salt, lump, bulk
9
33¢
Acetone
Glassware
Peroxide
Alcohol
Gunny bags, bale
Poisonous Gas
Ammonia, liquid
Hydrochloric acid
Porcelain ware
Asphalt, cask
Iron & products
Radio tubes, case
Benzene
Lard, can
Resin, barrel
Benzol'
Linseed oil, can
Roller bearings
Brick
Mercury
Rubber, crude, bag, case
Carbon bi-sulphide
Naphtha
Rubber, scrap, sheets
Carbonic acid gas
Nitric acid
Slate
Celluloid & products
Oil, lubricating, bbl,
Steel. & products
Compressed gas
case, drum
Sulphuric acid
Cutch, bag
Oil paper & similar
Telephone poles, metal
Earthenware
goods
Tin plates
Ether
*Ores, special, bulk
Vacuum bottles
Film
Paints
Vacuum tubes
Fish oils, drum
Perchlorate
Wattle extract
Glass, window
Cement, paper bag-
8

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION III - STEVEDORING
B. CARGO C:TEGORIES AND BASIC RATES FER TON - CONT.
CAT. RATE
DESCRIPTION
11
37¢
Cocoons
Hides, salted, bundle
Silk, raw, bale
Fish, frozen
Silk piece goods
12
40¢
Iron, scrap, bulk
13
42¢
Fish, salted, case
14
51¢
Ammonium nitrate
Explosive compounds
Metallic Kalium
Coke, large, lump, bulk
Fireworks
Metallic natrium
Detonators
Gunpowder
Nitro cellulose &
Dynamite
Magnesium powder
products
*Ores, special: Blacklead, Coppor, Ferro Silicon, Mica,
Sulphur, Zinc Concentrate.
Commoditics which are not listed in category groups will be
considered in the same category as other commodities of similar
size, weight, packing and vålue.
9

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
SECTION III - STEVEDORING
ADDITIONAL AND SUPPLEMENTARY CHARGES
C.
TYPE OF OPER.TION
*ADD. CHARGE
1. Special Storage Spaces.
Forecastles, afterhouses, deep tanks, underbridges,
reserve bunkers, refrigerator compartments, passenger
quarters and all stowage spaccs other than usual hatch
30%
space.
2. In refrigerated space!
80%
3. Shifting within vessel, with ship's gear from hold to hold:
100%
4. Transhipment with ship's gear directly from vessel to vessel:
100%
5. Measuring or weighing:
20%
6. Sorting cargo by marks:
50%
7. Erecting, tearing-down and removing bulk cargo bins. At
rates for labor in Part D, plus cost or rental of material.
8. Overtime rates.
1501 - 2300:
50%
2301 - 0700:
100%
9. Winter operations:
a. During winter season, from 1 November to 31 March.
(1) At ports on east coast of Honshu, north of 380 Lat.
20%
(2) At ports on west and north coasts of Honshu, north
of 35° Lat.
30%
b. During winter season, from 1 November to 30 April.
All ports in Hokkaido
40%
10. Valuable cargo.
a. Gold and silver bullion, coins, paper currency,
securities, jewelry:
.0001 of value
b. Other cargo, when value is declared,
Over $100 per package:
.0001 of value
Over $500 per ton:
.0001 of value
*Percentages of basic. rate, Section III B,. in addition to basic rate per ton.
10

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION III - STEVEDORING
D. LABOR
1. TALLYING.
Tallying for the account of vessel or cargo is
not included in any rate herein.
a. BASIC RATES.
Basic Rate
Type of Cargo
Per
Bulk, clean:
$025
Bagged, clean:
.04
Baled, cased, packaged, lumber, metals:
.05
Bulk and bagged (dusty, dirty), acids, drugs, chemicals:
.08
Hazardous, dangerous, inflammable:
.10
Livestock:
.02 per head
Poultry, other crated stock:
.02 per crate
b. ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
*Add.
Type of Operation
Charge
In stream, outside breakwater:
20%
Shifting between holds in the same vessel:
40%
Sorting:
20%
Overtime.
Dockside, 1501-2300:
50%
2301-0700:
100%
Shipside, 160l-2300:
50%
2301-0700:
100%
*Percentage of basic rate in addition to basic rate, la.
2.
OTHER LABOR.
BASIC RATE
a. CARPENTERS, per man, per day:
$2.70
b. COOPERS, per man, per day:
1.75
.c. WINCHMEN, per man, per day:
2.15
d. ORDINARY LABOR.
Foremen, per man, per day:
1.60
Laborers, per man, per day:
1.25
e. CLEANING HOLDS.
Per man, per hour:
.20
11

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION III - STEVEDORING
D. LABOR - CONT.
f. WATCHMEN (Shore), each shift
0801-1600
1601-2400 2401-~800
Head Watchmen:
$1:75
$1.85
$ 1.95
Asst. Head Watchman:
1.70
1.80
1.90
Watchman:
1.40
1.50
1.60
3. STiNDBY. Except as otherwise provided, when stevedore
gangs are ordered and standby; either before
beginning work or during work, except meal
hours or rest periods, as a result of con-
ditions beyond the control of the terminal
operator, the following charges will bo made:
a. Before operations begin, per gang per hour:
$ 4.00
If released vithout working, minimum charge is
for 4 hours.
b. During operations, except meal hours and rest
periods, per gang per hour:
4.00
Standby charges will be assossed for periods of 15
ninutes or longer, and will be computed in periods
of 15 minutes.
12

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POTERS
APO 500
Effective
1 October 1948
SCHEDULE OF RATES FOR PORT FACILITIES AT JAPANESE PORTS
SECTION IV
PORT ENTRY AND SHIP SERVICES
1. PILOTAGE
a. During local daylight almanac time. Each operation,
betwcen position outside breakwater. and inside. harbor.
Vessels under 1,000 GT and under 3 meters draft:
$ 7.50
PLUS, for each additional :1,000 GT or part:.
.45
PLUS, for each additional,1/3 meter draft or part:
45
b. Shifting anchorage. Inside breakwater:
7.50.
Outside breakwater:
9.00
c. During local night almanac time. In addition to rates
.in a .and .b.above, each operation:
4.50
2.
TONNAGE DUES
a. Each entry,
per net registered ton:
.0165
b.
Annual rate, payable in advance for calendar year on
first entry of vessel,
per net registered ton:
.0495
3. WHARFAGE
First 24 hour period,
per net registered ton:
.0059
After 24 hours & up to 96 hours
per net registered ton:
.0089
Over 96 hours, per 24 hours,
per net registered ton:
.003
4。
BUOY HIRE
Vessels
up to 5;000 GT
Per 24 hrs:
3.00
From 5,00l up to 10,000 GT
Per 24 hrs:
4.50
From 10,001 up to 15,000 GT
Per 24 hrs:
7.00
Over
15,000 GT
Per 24 hrs:
9.00
-13

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
SECTION IV - PORT ENTRY AND SHIP SERVICES - CONT.
5. LINE HANDLING
a. At buoy; inside breakwater, including sampan and labor.
Shackling and unshackling, sunrise to sunset:
$3:00
b: At berths, securing and releasing lines, sunrise to sunset.
Vessels
up to 3;000 GT
3.75
From 3;.001 up to 5;000 GT
4.75
From 5,001 up to 7;000 GT
5:50
From 7,001 up to 10;000 GT
7.25
From 10,001 up to 15;000 GT
8.50
Vessels
over 15,000 GT
11.50
c: Additional charges for line handling during hours other
than sunrise to sunset.
(1) Sunset to 2200:
50%
(2) 2201 to sunrise:
100%
6.
GARBACE DISPOS:L SERVICE Per each pick-up
$4.00
7.
LAUNCH SERVICE
a. First hour:
4.00
Each additional half hour or fraction:
2.00
b. Harbor taxi service. 3 scheduled calls per day:
8.08
8. TUG HIRE, for docking or undocking only, each tug.
1st
Each
Standby
Hour
Add. Hr.
Per Hour
Sunrise to sunset
$6.00
$3.00
$2.00
Sunset to sunrise
9.00
4.50
3.00
*When vessel is not ready for movement and tugs have been ordered
and standby 15 minutes or more, computed in periods of 15 minutes
or fractions from reporting time.
9. LAUNDRY
a. Ship's flat work, per piece:
$.03
b. Other laundry at current rates.
14

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POERS
APO 500
Effective
1 October 1948
SCHEDULE OF RATES FOR PORT FACILITIES AT JAPANESE PORTS
SECTION V - EQUIPMENT HIRE
E uipment requested by the shipowner, consignce, or shipper
which is in addition to equipment normally used in a stevedcring
operation, will be charged for at the rates listed herein.
When equipment is used during hours when technical employees
(equipment operators and engineers) and labor rcceive overtime pay,
additional charges will bo made for overtime as prescribed in para-
graph 4 below.
1. FLOATING CRANES
Minimum charge. Exclusive of tug hire:
$20.00
b.
Towing time. From and to crane anchorage, per half hour:
2.50
C.
Tug hire. See Section VI, Rates for Terminal Services.
d.
Standby. When crane stands by 15 minutes or more.
(1) Before operation begins, each 15 minutes or part:
2.50
Computed from the time crane arrives at working
spot, but not earlier than the time crane has been
ordered to report.
(2) During operation, except meal hours and rest
periods, each 15 minutes or part:
2.50
e. Tonnage Rates.
SIZE OF EACH LIFT
RATE
Up to 5 tons
per lift: $ 8.50
Over 5, up to 10 tons
per lift: 10.00
Over 10, up to 15 tons
per ton :
1.00
Over 15, up to 20 tons
per ton :
1.15
Over 20, up to 25 tons
per ton :
1.30
Over 25, up to 30 tons
per ton :
1.50
Over 30, up to 35 tons
per ton :
1.75
Over 35, up to 40 tons
per ton :
2.00
Over 40, up to 45 tons
per ton :
2.25
Over 45, up to 50 tons
per ton :
2.50
Over
50 tons
Upon Application
15

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION V - EJUIPMENT HIRE:- CONT.
f.
Minimum revenue. When all charges total less than
$20.00 per hour of operation, exclusive of tug hire,
minimum revenue, per hour:
$20.00
2. MOBILE CRANES, over 3 tons capacity.
a. Minimum charge.
10.00
b. Standby. hen equipment stands by 15 minutes or more.
(1) Before operation begins, each 15 minutes or part. 1.25
(2) During operation, .except meal hours and rest
periods, each 15 minutes or part:
1.25
c. Tonnage charge.
SIZE OF EACH LIFT
RATE
From 3, up to 5 tons
per lift:
$2.50
Over 5,' up to 10 tons
per ton. :
.50
Over 10, up to 15 tons
per ton :
.60
Over 15,"up to 20 tons
per ton :
.75
Over 20, up to 30 tons
per ton :
.90
Over
30 tons
Upon Application
d.
Minimum revenue. hen all charges total less than
$5.00 per hour of operation, minimum revenue,
per hour:
$5.00
3. MISCELLANEOUS PIER EQUIPMENT
R.TES PER HOUR
*Mobile land cranes, under 3 tons cap.
$ 1.50 (Minimum 4 hrs)
*Fork lift trucks
1.25 (Minimum 4 hrs)
*Tractors, large
1.00 (inimum 4 hrs)
*Tractors, small
.75(Minimum 4 hrs)
Trailers, large
.05
Trailers, small
.03
Other equipment
Upon Application
*Includes technical employees during straight time.
16

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
SEC TION V - EQUIPMENT HIRE - CONT.
Additional charges for technical employees and other labor
during overtime hours.
a. Technical Employees.
Overtime Rates
0601-2200
2201-0600
(1) If employee has not completed
8 hrs. work in day or 40 hrs.
work in week, per employee:
No add. chrg. 6¢ per hr.
(2)
If employee has completed 8
hrs. work in day or 40 hrs.
work in week, per employee:
14¢ per hr.
23¢ per hr.
b. Other Labor. At rates for additional pay during
overtime hours only in excess of basic rates, as
prescribed in Section III.
5. FIXED SHORE EQUIPMENT
Rates upon Application.
LIGHTERS
SEE SEC TION V, RATES FOR TERMINAL SERVIC ES.
17

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
13 August 1948
RATES FOR TERMINAL SERVICES
Effective
1 Ootober 1948
GENERAL TERMS AND BASIC RATES
SECTION
I
LANDING AND SHIPPING CARGO CATEGORIES
SECTION
II
LONGSHORING CARGO CATEGORIES
SECTION III
IN TRANSIT STORAGE
SECTION
IV
LIGHTERS
SECTION
V
TUG HIRE
SECTION
VI
TRUCK HIRE
SECTION VII
ANNEX B to INCL 1 to SCAPIN 1927

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
RATES FOR TERMINÁL SERVICES
Effective
1 0ctober 1948
SECTION I
A.
GENERAL TERMS
1. The rates, charges, rules and regulations herein,
additions, revisions or supplements thereto, shall apply on
all freight received at terminals on and after effective date
hereof or effective dates of additions, revisions or supplements
heretc provided, however, that when terminal charges have been
prepared at point of origin at the rates in effect on dato of
shipping such rates shall prevail even thcugh the shipment is re-
ceived at destination after effective date of the new rates, re-
visitns or supplements. Unless otherwise specified all transit
freight received at terminals and undelivered prior to effective
dates cf revisions or supplements hereto, shall be charged thé
rates in effect on the date such freight was received until en-
tire lot or shipment has been withdrawn.
2. Terms are cash. All charges under rates herein, or
other charges not specifically fixed are due and payable as they
accrue.
a. Cargo will be released to the consignee, or shipping
agency, or shipowner, or individual responsible for such charges,
only when charges accrued under this s chedule and in accordance
with other terms, have either been paid or adequate guarantee
has been furnished for the payment thereof.
b. Accounts.remaining unpaid for 30 days from receipt
of invoice will bear interest at 6% per annum from date of re-
ceipt of invoice.
c. The terminal operator reserves the right to demand
prepayment of all charges on perishable freight, freight of un-
known or doubtful value and on household goods.
3. Use of piers, warehouses, facilities or services shall
be deemed an acceptance of the rates, terms and conditions hercin.
1

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION I
A.
GENERAL TERMS, CONTINUED
4. Right is reserved by terminal operators to furnish all
equipment, supplies and material and to perform all services
in connection with the operation of their terrinals under.
rates.and conditions herein, or at rates agreed upon for such
items which are not included herein.
5. Hasardous or offensive freight or freight which,. by
its nature, is liable. to damage other freipht, is subject to
immediate removal, either from the pier or pier premises, or
to other locations within said premises, with all expense and
risk of loss or damage for the .account of owner, shipper or
consignee..
6. Freight remaining on pier or pier. premises after. ex-
piration of free time, and freight shut out at clearance of
vessel may be piled or repiled to make space, transferred to
other locations or receptacles within the.pier premises, or
remeved to public or private warehousos with all expense and
risk of loss or damage for account of the owner, shipper, con-
signee or carrier, as responsibility may appear.
7.. The acceptance, handling.or storage of explosives or
excessively inflammablc material shall be subject to special
arrangements with terminal operators and.goyerned by.appiicable
rules and regulations.
8. Glass, liquids and fragile articles. will be accepted
only at owner's risk for breakage, leakage or chafing.
9. Delays in loading, unloading, receiving, deliveries
or handling freight arising from combinations, riots or strikes
of any persons in the employ of the torminal companies or in
the services of others, or arising from any other cause not
reasonably within the control of the terminal companies will
not entitle the owners, shippers, consignees or carriers of the
freight to waiver of any terminal charges or oxpenses that may
be incurred.
10. Rates named herein do not include any insurance except
that of labor compensation to cover labor employed to perform
services, and liability insurance.
1l. The rates named herein, additions, revisions or sup-
plements thereto, are based upon existing traffic and labor
conditions. If and when. these conditions change because of de-
2

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION I
A. GENERAL TERMS, CONTINUED
mands of labor for increased wages, strikes, congestions, or
other causes not reasonably within the control of the terminal
companies, resulting in an increased cost of service, the
rates are subjeet to change without notice. Changes in rates
named herein for reasons other than sbated will become effect-
ive thirty (30) days from date of publication.
12. If and when others than the terminal companies are
permitted t perform services on the piers or premises of the
terminal companies they shall be liable for the injury of per-
sons in their employ and shall alse be held responsible for
loss, damage or theft by themselves or persons in their employ.
13. The terminals will take reasonable precautions and
exercise reasonable care to prevent loss of or damage to freight
and, having taken such measures, will not be responsible for
any loss or damage caused by fire, frost, heat, dampness, leak-
age, the elements, evaporation, natural shrinkage, wastage or
decay; animals, rats, mice or other rodents, moths, weevils or
ther insects; leakage or discharge from fire pretection sys-
tems, collapse of buildings or structures, breakdown of plant
or machinery or equipment; or by floats, logs or piling required
in breasting vessels away from wharf; nor will it be answerable
for any loss, damage or delay arising from insufficient notifi-
cation or from war, insurrection, shortage of labor, combinations,
riots or strikes of any persons in its employ or in the serv-
ices of others or from any gonsequences arising therefrom.
3

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
RATES FOR TERMINAL SERVICES
Effective
SECT ION I - B.
BASIC RATES
1 October 1948
SECTION II
SECTION III
SECT ION
SECT ION V
SECTION VI
SECT ION VII
(1)CARGO
(2)
(3)
IV
TUG HIRE
(4)TRUCK HIRE
CATEGORY
INTRANS IT
1st
TAdd.
Distance I Per
Landingi Shipping
LONGSHOR ING
STORAGE
LIGHTERS
H. P.
Hour
: Hours
KM
I Ton
1
.40
.30
.18
SEE
LIGHTER
Up to
30
3.00
2.00
Up to 2.44
2
.45
.34
.21
SECT ION
HIRE
31 to 50
6.00
2.50
Up to 4
.54
3
.50
.38
.23
IV
WITH TOW-
51 to 80
9.00
3.50
Up to 6
.62
4
.55
.41
.25
G, 17¢
81 to 150
12.00
5.00
Up to 8
.72
5
.60
.45
.28
PER TON
Over 150
UPON
Up to 10
.81
6
.65
.49
.30
SEE SECT
APPLICAT ION
Up to 12
.91
7
.70
.52
.32
V A
Per KM
8
.75
.56
.35
Over 12
.05
9
.80
.60
.37
LIGHTER
10
.85
.64
.40
GHARTR
DAILY HIRE
4
11
1.00
.75
.42
SEE SECT
SEE SECT.VII B
12
1.15
.86
.46
V B
13
1.25
.94
.58
14
1.30
.97
.76
15
1.45
1.09
16
1.70
1.27
17
2.10
1.57
All rates are for revenue tons, 40 cu ft or 1,000 KG (2,205 1bs), whichever is greater, unless otherwise
specified.
(1)
Commodities are grouped in categories for: a. Landing and Shipping. b. Longshoring.
To find cargo category, additional charges and other conditions, refer to section listed in each column.
(2)
Heavy and bulky cargo, see Section II. MINUM CHARGE: Ordinary Cargo,  .25. Valuable Cargo,  .50.
(3)
MINIUM CHARGE: Ordinary Cargo,  .15. Valuable Cargo, § .25.
(4)
MINIMUM CHARGE: .50.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADUARTERS
SUPREE COMMANDER FOR THE .LLIED FOERS
APO 500
Effective
1 October 1948
RATES FOR TERMINAL SERVICES
SECTION II - LANDING .ND SHIPPING RATES
A.
HEAVY AND BULKY CARGO
SIZE
RATE PER.TON
BY  EIGHT, EACH PIECE
LANDING
SHIPPING
From 1 to 2 Tons
2.25
88
From 2 to 3 Tons
1.45
1.00
From 3 to 4 Tons
1,68
1.18
From 4 to 5 Tons
1.92
1.25
From 5 to 7 Tons
2.65
1.86
From 7 to 10 Tons
3,50
2.48
From 10 to 15 Tons
4.60
Upon Application
From 15 to 20 Tons
5.30
From 20 to 30 Tons
5.90
Over
30 Tons
Upon Application
BY ME:SURE,EACH PIECE
From 1 to 2 Ton's
90
$.65
From 2 to 3 Tons
1.00
.71
From 3 to 4 Tons
1.12
.79
From 4 to 5 Tons
1.27
.88
From 5 to 10 Tons
1.53
1.06
From 10 to 15 Tons
1.92
1.33
From 15 to 20 Tons
2.30
1.63
From 20 to 30 Tons
2.65
1.92
Over
30 Tons
Upon Application
The rates listed above are applicable to only those commodities
that are not listed in cargo categories, Section II B.
5

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION II - LANDING AND SHIPPING RATES
B.
CARGO CATEGORIES
1
Gravel
Sand
2
Automobiles, uncrated
Straw products
Trucks, uncrated.
Coal, dust, bulk
3
Bean cake
Fruits, dry & dried
Potatoes
Beans, bag, bulk
Gambier
Salt, dust, bag
Cotton, raw, bales
Grains, bag
Seeds, bag
Cotton, duck, linters,
Nuts
Vegetables, dry
piece goods, rag, yarn
Ore, dust, bulk
Forage
Peas, bag
4
Charcoal
Copra, bag
Salt, dust; bulk
Clay, pencil, refractory
Grains, bulk
Stone
Coalite, bulk
Kaolin
5
Abalone, dry
Coal, lump, bulk
Gum dammar
Adanba hats
Coke, dust, bulk
Harmonicas
Agar agar
Comnunication equipment
Hat bodies
Aluminum ware
Confectioneries
Hides, dried
Antimony ware
Copper fingers
Hoes
Bags, Boston
Copper ingots
Knives
Bamboo goods
Cord clothing
Lead, lead concentrates
Bandage gauze, rolls
D. D. T.
Leather belting & findings
Baskets
Dental supplies
Logs
Batteries, dry
Drugs
Magazines
Bicycles
Electric light bulbs
Mats
Bobbins, bone
Electrical devices
Medical supplies
Bpne, animal, dust, bag
Electrical materials
Medicines
Books
Enameled ware
Microphones
Buttons
Fans, desk
Mine lamps
Cameras
Feathers
Ores, lump, bulk
Canned goods & provisions Fertilizer, bag
Paper books,goods,covers
Cards, playing
Fish oils
Paper cutting lnives
Cement, paper bag
Fishing nets, cotton
Pearls, necklace, imit.
Chicken incubators
Flour, bag
Pig iron
Chilies, dry
Gallnuts
Pigments
Chop sticks
General Cargo
Poles, fishing
Christmas decorations
Glassware
Porcelain ware
Cigarettes
Grains, powder, bag
Pumps
Clocks
Gum copal
Projection equipment
6

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION II - LANDING ND SHIPPING RATES
B.
CARGO CATEGORIES - CONTD
5 Radio sets, tubes, re-
Sickles
Tires and tubes
pair & spare parts
Silverware
Toys, tin & mechanical
Rayon piece goods & yarn
Slide rules
Wattle bark & extracts
Rice cultivators
Starch
Wire cloth
Rope, manila
Sugar, raw, refined
Vooden fabrics & goods
Seaweed, dried
Sulphate of ammonia
Zinc, zinc slabs
Shells
bulk, package
Zinc oxide
Shoddy
Tableware
Shoes, leather, rubber,
Telephone poles, wood
canvas
Telephone sub-sectors
ó
Amplifiers
Cement, bbl, drum
Liquors, case
Almina
Cheese
Locomotives, steam, elec.
Auto accessories, bat-
Dycstuffs
Machinery
teries, spare parts
Electric motors
Printing presses
Automobiles, crated
Engines, diesel, semi-
Scales
Beer, btld., case, bbl.
diesel
Steam winches
Butter
Freight cars
Trucks, crated
Cable
Iron, grain, bulk
ool felt
Carbon black
Caustic soda
Lumber
Soda, soda ash
Crossties
*Ores, spocial, bag
Timber, mining
Iron, scrap, pressed
Fulp, dry
hale oil
Lime
Salt, lump, bulk
8
Asphalt
Gunny bags
Slag cars
Boilers
hemp
Slate
Bricks
Iron and products
Steel and products
Bristle, bristle fibers
Lard
Tarpitch
Carbide
Linseed oil
Tea, case
Casin glue
Molasses, barrels
Telephone poles, metal
Clothing
*Ores, special, bulk
Tin plate
Crude rubber
Paints
Tobacco
Cutch
Resin
Vacuun bottles
Earthen ware
Roller bearings
Vacuum tubes
Fish, salted
Rubber, scrap, sheets
Vool grease
Glass, window
Shutters
Wool, raw, piece goods,
yarn
9 Fish, frozen
10 Coke, small, lump, bulk
Pitch, bulk
7

=== Page 53 === (confidence 1.00)
SECTION II - LANDING AND SHIPPING RATES
B.
CARGO CATEGORIES - CONTD
11
Iron, scrap, bulk
Oil, lubricating, bbl,
Silk piece goods
Cocoons
case, drum
Silk, raw, bale
12
Bleaching powder
Camphor and products
Nitro-dyes
Calcium phosphide
Matches
13
Alcohol
Compressed gas
Perchlorate
Ammonia, liquid
Ether
Peroxide
Benzene
Hydrochloric acid
roisonous. gas
Carbon bi-sulphide
Naphtha
Sulphuric acid
Carbonic acid gas
Nitric acid.
Celluloid and products
Oil paper
14.
Acetone
Film
Naphthalene
Benzol
Mercury
15
Hides, salted
16. Coke, large, lump, bulk
17
Ammonium nitrate
Fireworks
Metallic natrium
Detonators
Gunpowder
Nitro cellulose and
Dynamite
Magncsiun powder
products
Explosive compounds
Metallic kalium
* Ores, special: Blacklead, Copper, Ferro Silicon, Mica, Sulphur, Zinc.
Comnodities which are not listed will be considered in the same
category as other commodities of similar sizc, weight, packing and value.
8

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION II - LANDING ND SHIPPING RITES
C. SUPFLEMENTARY CHARGES
1. DEMURRAGE: oharges for demurrage, when beyond control of landing
or shipping agent, will be made in accordance with rates for:
a. STORAGE: Sections I and IV.
b. LIGHTERS: Sections I and V.
2. MOVING, TRUCKINC, STORAGE:. Charges will be made in accordance
with rates for those serviccs if consignee does not take de-
livery of cargo within time specified by Customs or Agent.
3. SPECLAL HANDLING: Charges will be made for special handling and
use of equipment under unusual circumstances, in accordance with
customs of the port.
4. VALUABLE C:RGO: Charges of .O0O5 will be made on declared value of
cargo when such declaration is made by shipper or consignee, as
follows:
VALUE:
$1o0. or mor, per package or c ontainer.
$500. or more per ton.
9

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMINDER FOR THE ALLIED PO ERS
APO 500
Effectivo
1 October 1948
RATES FOR TERMINAL SERVICES
SECTION III - LONGSHORING
A.
CARGO CaTEGORIES
1
Gravel
Sand
Straw products
2
Automobiles, uncrated
Gambier
Potatoes
Bean cake
Grains, bag
Seeds, bag
Beans, bag, bulk
Nuts
Trucks, uncrated
Forage
Peas, bag
Vegetables, dry
Fruits, dry & dried
3
Charcoal
Ore, dust, bulk
Salt, dust, bag
Coal, dust, bulk
4
Abalone, dried
Chilies, dry
Fans, desk
Adanba hats
Chop sticks
Feathers
Agar agar
Christmas decorations
Fish oils
Aluminum ware
Cigarettes
Fishing nets, cotton
Antimony ware
Clay, pencil, refractory
Flour, bag
Bags, Boston
Clocks
Gallnuts
Bamboo goods
Coalite, bulk
Ceneral Cargo
Bandage gauze, rolls
Coke, dust, bulk
Glassware
Baskets
Communication equipment
Grains, bulk
Batteries, dry
Confectioneries
Grains, powder, bag
Bicycles
Copper fingers
Gun copal
Bobbins, bone
Copra, bag
Gum dammar
Bone, animal, dust, bag
Cord clothing
Harmonicas
Books
Dehydrated foods
Hat bodies
Buttons
D'. D. T.
Hides, dried
Cameras
Dental supplies
Hoes
Canned goods & provisions
Electric light bulbs
Kaolin
Cards, playing
Electrical devices
Knives
Cement, paper bag
Electrical materials
Leather belting, findings
Chicken incubators
Enameled ware
Magazines
10

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION JII - LONGSHORING
CARGO CATEGORIS - CONT INUED
4
Mats
Projection equipment
Slide rules
Medical supplies
Pumps
Starch
Medicines
Radio sets, tubes, re-
Stone
Microphones
pair, spare parts
Sugar, rav:, refined
Mine lamps
Rice cultivators
Tableware
Ores, lump, bulk
Rope, manila
Telephone sub-sectors
Paper, books, covers,
Salt, dust, bulk
Tires and tubes
goods
Seaweed, dried
Toys, tin & mechanical
Paper cutting knives
Shells
Wattle bark & extracts
Pearls, necklace, imit.
Shoes, leather, canvas,
Wire cloth
Pigments
rubber
Wooden fabrics & goods
Poles, fishing
Sickles
Zinc oxide
Forcelain ware
Silverware
5
Almina
Drugs
Pig iron
Amplifiers
Dyestuffs
Frinting presses
automobiles, crated
lectric motors
Scales
Auto accessories, bat-
Engines, diesel, semi-
Shoddy
teries, spare parts
diesel
Steam winches
Beer, btld., case, barrel Fertilizer, bag
Sulphate of ammonia,
Butter
Freight cars
package
Cable
Lond, lead concentrates
Superphosphates
Carbon black
Liquors, case
Telephone poles, wood
Cement, barrel, drum
Locomotives, stean,
Trucks, crated
Cheese
electric
Wool felt
Coal, lump, bulk
Logs
Zinc, zinc slabs
Copper ingots
Machinery
6
Lime
Lumber
Sulphate of emmonia,
bulk
7
Caustic soda
Iron, grain, bulk
Timbers, mining
Crossties
Soda, soda ash
hale oil
8
Bleaching powder
Camphor and products
*Ores, special, bag
Bricks
Iron, scrap, pressed
Salt, lump, bulk
Boilers
Matches
Slate
Calcium phosphide
Nitro-dyes
11

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION III - LONGSHORING
C. RGO CATEGORI IS - CONT INUED
9
Alcohol
Fish, salted
Rayon piece goods, yarn
Ammonia, liquid
Glass, window
Resins
Asphalt
Gunny bags
Roller bearings
Benzene
Hemp
Rubber, scrap, sheets
Bristlc, bristle fibers
Hydrochloric acid
Shutters
Carbide
Iron and products
Slag cars
Carbon bi-sulphide
Lard
Steel and products
Carbonic acid gas
Linseed oil
Sulphuric acid
Casin glue
Molasses, barrels
Tea, case
Celluloid and products
Naphtha
Telephone poles, metal
Clothing
Nitric acid
Tin plate
Comprossed gas
Oil, lubricating, bbl.,
Tobacco
Cotton, raw, bales
case, drum
Vacuum bottles
Cotton, duck, lintors,
Oil paper
Vacuum tubes
piece goods, rag, yarn
*Ores, special, bulk
Vool grease
Crude rubber
Paints
Wool, raw, piece goods,
Cutch
Perchlorate
yarn
Earthen ware
Pcroxide
Ether
Poisonous gas
10
Acetone
Film
Naphthalene
Benzol
Mercury
11
Cocoons
hides, salted
Silk piece goods
Fish, frozon
Pulp, dry
Silk, raw
12
Coke, small, lump, bulk
Pitch, bulk
13
Ammonium nitrate
Fireworks
Motallic kalium
Detonators
Gunpowder
Metallic natrium
Dynamite
Iron, scrap, bulk
Nitro ccllulose and
Explosive compounds
Magnosium powder
products
14
Coke, large, lump, bulk
A longshoring operation consists of the handling and movement of cargo
with usual equipment, (fork lifts, tow motors, trailers, hind carts, etc.),
a normal distance, as determined by common practice and customs of the port.
Commodities which are not iisted will be considered in the same
category as other conoditics of similar size, weight, packing and value.
* Ores, special: Blacklead, Copper, Ferro Silicon, Mica, Sulphur, Zinc.
12

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
SECTION III - LONGSHORING
B.
ADDITIONAL CHARGES
*
SHIFTING CARGO.
On Shore:
70%
Between lighters:
80%
SORTING CARGO:
30%
MEASURING OR WEIGHING:
30%
RESTACKING.
Cargo under 2 meters high:
80%
STACKING OR RESTACKING.
Cargo over 2 meters high:
20%
OVERTIME.
1501 to 2300:
50%
2301 to 0700:
100%
STANDBY.
Over 15 minutes, per man per hour.
0701 to 1500:
$.15
1501 to 2200:
16
2201 to 0700:
.19
VALUABLE CARGO.
Gold, silver, bullion, jewelry, coins,
currency, precious and semi-precious
metals and stones, etc:
.0001 of
Value
Other cargo when declared.
Value.
Over l00. per pkge:
.0001 of
Value
Over 500. per ton:
.0001 of
Value
* Percentage of basic rates, SECTION I.
13

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
Effeotive
1 October 1948
RATES FOR TERMINAL SERVICES
SECTION IV - INTRANSIT STORAGE
TIME
RATE PER TON
MIN IMUM CHARGE
PIER SHEDS:
Up to 5th day
No charge
6th to 15th day
$ .012 per day
$ .01 per day
After 15th day
.Q24 per day
02 per day
TIMBER YARD WATERS:
Up to 10th day
No charge
11th to 20th day
.012 per day
01 per day
After-21st day
.018 per day
.02 per day
14

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
Effective
1 October 1948
RATES FOR TERMINAL SERVICES
SECTION V - LIGHTERS
A.
LIGHTER HIRE, WITH TOWING
BASIC RATES:
17 per revenue ton of cargo actually moved
by lighter between 2 points inside breakwater.
MIN IMUM CHARGE: 17 per ton of 80% of *lighter capaoity.
STANDBY:
When ordered and not used: 3 per ton of
*lighter capacity per day.
ADD IT IONAL CH:RGES
TRANSHIPMENT:
Inside breakwater. Between vessels:
30%
Outside breakwater. Between vessel and pier:
10%
Between vessels:
40%
MULTIPL LOAD ING OR DISCHARGING: Rate for total tonnage, plus,
for each loading or discharge stop over twos 10%
TOVING:
Distances over 3 KM, add tug. hire rates,
Section Vl, for time consumed in round trip.
L.BOR:
Trimning, or slinging and unslinging along
shore, by lighter crew:
25% of Long-
shoring
V.LU.BLE CARGO:
Gold, silver, bullion, jewelry, coins,
currency, precious and semi-precious metals
and stones, etc:
.0002 of value
Other cargo. when declared:
Value:
100 or more per package:
.0002 of value
$500 or more per ton:
0002 of value
DEMURRAGE:
Begins 72.hours after conmencing loading.
Rates for demurrage are the same as rates
for lighter charterage after 48 hours.
(See Section V B).
*Lighter capacity is measured tonnage (40 cu ft) up to coaming level.
15
7

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
GEWERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMLANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
Effeotive
1 October 1948
RATES FOR TERMINAL SERVICES
SECTION V - LIGHTERS
B.
LIGHTER CHARTER
* SIZE ÖF LIGITER
RITES PER LIGHTER
in MT of 40 cu ft
1st 48 hrs
After 48 hrs
Up to 30 MT
$2.70
 1.35 per day
31 to 40 MT
3.60
1.80 per day
41 to 50 MT
4.50
2.25 per day
51 to 60 MT
5.40
2.70 per day
61 to 70 MT
6.30
3.15 per day
71 to 80 MT
7.20
3.60 per day
81 to 100 MT
9.00
4.50 per day
101 to 150 MT
12.00
6.00 per day
151 to 200 MT
16.00
8.00 per day
201 to 250 MT
20.00
10.00 per day
251 to 300 MT
24.00
12.00 per day
301 to 400 MT
32.00
16.00 per day
Over 400 MT
4 per ton of MT oapacity of lighter
* SIZE OF LIGHTER IS MASURED SPACE UP TO COMING LEVEL.
18

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COM.NDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
Effective
1 Oatober 1948
RATES FOR TERMINAL SERVICES
SECTION VI - TUG HIRE RITES
PRIVATELY OWNED
TUGS
A.
BASIC
RATES
SIZE
OF
TUG
1st 2
HOURS
ADD HOURS
Up to 30 HP
$3.00
$2.00 per hour
31 to 50 HP
6.00
2.50
I
51 tc 80 HP
9.00
3.50
n
n
81 to 150 HP
12.00
5.00
11
12
Over 150 HP
R.TES FURNISHED UPON PPLIC..T ION
B
ADD IT ION..L CHIRGES
FROi 1801 to 2400
20%
FROM 2401 to 0600
50%
OUTSIDE BREAKWATER
20%
17

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
Effeotive
1 Ootober 1948
RATES FOR TERMINAL SERVICES
SECTION V11 - TRUCK HIRE
A.
MILEAGE
DISTANCE
PER TON
Up to
2 KM
$..44
Up to 4 KM
.54
Up to 6 KM
.62
Up to 8 KM
.72
Up to 10 KM
.81
Up to 12 KM
.91
Per KM, over 12 KM
.05
MIN IMUM CHARGE
.50
B. DAILY HIRE
C.FAC ITY
PER DAY
(Maximum Load)
(8
hrs,
60
KM)
c
Up to 3 Tons
9.00
Up to 4 Tons
12.00
Over 4 Tons
Rates Upon Application
18

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
HR
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRA
INCOMING TELEGRAM
PLAIN
A
Control 5881
141
7
DEPI. OF STATE
Rec'd November 17, 1948
Action: TR
4:24 a.m.
Info :
T
FROM: Tokyo
FE
OLI
TO:
Secretary of State
CIA
ITP
NO:
ZX 30098, November 17 (Army Message)
OFD
894.843/11-
DCR
FROM SCAP TO DEPT OF THE ARMY, STATE DEPARTMENT,
MARITCOM WASHINGTON, CG PHILCÓM, CG USAFIK.
Subject is review of rates for port facilities in
Japan.
Part one. Comprehensive review of present rate structue
X
for Japanese port facilities being initiated to insure
that true values are reflected in rate schedules.
A. Desire to secure rates for 1941 and current rates
1748
for: straight time stevedoring per ton of general
cargo, tallying, land and floating lift equipment
hire, tuggage for docking and undocking, towing and
transocean vessels, lighterage per cargo ton, lighter
hire, tug hire, and the following types of labor:
carpenters, coopers, winchmen, stevedores and ordinary
pier labor.
B. Desire to secure information in part one A for the
Pollowing areas:
Far East area to include Shanghai, Hong Kong, Singapore,
Manila, Batavia, Melbourne, Sydney, Pusan and Jinsen.
Middle East area to include Bombay, Calcutta, Karachi,
Alexandria.
Western area to 1nclude New York, New Orleans, San
Francisco, Vancouver, Rio De Janeiro, Montevideo,
JAN6
Valparaiso and Buenos Aires.
European
1949
PLAIN
B
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
NT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
PLAIN
-2- #zx 30098, November 17 (Army Message), from Tokyo
European area to include London, Liverpool, Naples,
Cherbourg and Marseilles.
Part Two. To Department of the Army, State and
Maritime Commission: request information, complete
or in fragmentary series, for ports in Middle East,
western and European area.
Part Three. To Conmanding General PHILCOM: request
information, complete or in fragmentary series, for
ports in Far East area, less Korean ports.
Fart Four. To Commanding General USAFIC: request
information for Pusan and Jinsen.
EMB:JAN
PLAIN
