894.20200 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In The World Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., May 6 (File 1464)
ID: 894.20200-1464   Pages: 277   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20200-military-affairs-army-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
RECEIVED
May 6, 1942
MAY 1 1 1942
OVISION OF
LES
894.
The attached pamphlet prepared by the
Counter Intelligence Section of the Military
Intelligence Service of the War Department con
tains but little information which is not
already well-known to officers of FE.
Paragraph 7, "Japanese 'Total Espionage'
in the Netherlands East Indies" contains the
most information which may be new to some
officers. The entire pamphlet is worth reading,
if there is time. The information contained in
this pamphlet is for official use only and not
for dissemination to the general public.
new
MAY 11 1942
FILHD
5
File
FE:Sonmidt:ALM
11

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
此
Division of
EE
FÁR EASTERN AFFAIRS
[CI BULL. 3]
M142
RESTRICTED
ULLETIN
MILITABY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE
WAR DEPARTMENT
MIS 383.4 (Fifth Columnists)
WASHINGTON, APRIL 5, 1942
JAPANESE TOTAL ESPIONAGE IN MANCHURIA,
CHHNA, AND THE NETHERLANDS EAST INDIES*
NOTICE
1. The information contained in this series of bulletins will be
restricted to items from reliable sources which are reasonably
894.2
confirmed.
2. Each command should circulate the available copies of this
document among its officers. Reproduction within the military
service is permitted provided (1) the source is stated, (2) the clas-
sitication is not changed, and (3) the information is safeguarded.
Attention is directed to paragraph 10a, AR 380-5, which is quoted
in part as follows: "A doeument * * * will be classified
and * * * marked restricted when information contained
therein is for official use only, or when its disclosu
be * * • denied the general public."
3. Suggestions for future Counterintelligence Bulletins
Any correspondence relating to them may be addressed
the Counterintelligence Group. Military Intelligence Ser
Department, Washington, D. C.
CONTENTS
Introduction
Background of Japanese "observation
Development of Japanese military espionage
The Tanaka Memorial
Action in Manchuria.
Japanese Fifth Column in China
Japanese "Total Espionage" in the Netherlands East Indies.
Summary-
1. Introduction.—The purpose of this bulleti
concrete examples the Japanese methods of espior
operations similar to those described in this bul
*Attention is invited to the following publications of the
Service:
(a) "Activities of the Fifth Column," Informatiom Bulletin
(b) "Lessons to be Drawn from Fifth Column Activities in 
gence Bulletin No. 1, MID 383.4.
(c) "Outline of Possible Fifth Column Action in the United 
gence Bulletin No. 2, MI8 3ss4.
OFFIC
453626° 42
MAY 4-1942
DEPARIMENT OF

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
[CI BULL 8]
2
nder way for some time in other Asiatic countries. Japanese
spies and other agents are busy also in the Latin American coun-
tries, Canada, and the United States of America. In the Western
Hemisphere, however, Japanese physical characteristics limit the
effectiveness of Japanese agents for certain types of work.
Consequently the Japanese are making full use of their Axis
allies and subverted minorities of other nationalities in carrying
out activities for which their own physical appearance disquali-
fies them. In short, the Japanese activity in Manchuria, China,
and the Netherlands East Indies is but a part of a world-wide
intercommunicating system of Axis spy and sabotage agencies.
2. Background of Japanese "observation".—The Japanese
have been accustomed through many centuries to espionage. The
ancient Japanese feudal government handed down an elaborate
system of political and police secret investigation. After the
ors to Japan had been opened in 1854 through the intervention
the United States, the Japanese developed a system of indus-
re to gain secrets useful in meeting the competition
e world. Since the people were already partially
hew commercial spying was easily learned. Japan
of all sorts abroad, and demanded as a trade prac-
ign concerns employ and train Japanese.
of embassies, consular agencies, business houses.
ing commissions was established and all Japanese
expected, as a patriotic duty, to report anything
Jearn which could be beneficial to Japan. Japanese
esidents, commercial travelers, students, or tourists
gularly. While all Japanese were not expressly sent
ntries as spies, all were to secure information if the
arose. The information gathered was sent through
nd embassies, or was reported upon return to Japan.
 were expected to pay a "courtesy call" at a branch
Office on their return. Particularly valuable
esidents abroad who never relinquished Japanese
e extreme fanaticism of the basic religious con-
ir Emperor is a son of God—that death for him
ven.
ent of Japanese military espionage.—a. Gen-
of Japan is answerable to the highest authority
at the legislature must vote funds and has the
es, the Army, and consequently its Intelligence

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
[CI BULL. 3]
3
Service, is not directly responsible to the elected representatives of
the people, but to the Mikado and his ministers. Since the Russo-
Japanese War (1904-05), the War Party (Army, Navy, and
heads of wealthy families that control financial, manufacturing,
and shipping interests) has steadily gained strength in the coun-
cils of the Emperor and the Elder Statesmen, and ther has been
a rapid development of imperialism. When the Army gives
offense to a foreign nation, apology must be made not by the
Army but by the Foreign Office. Hence, with complete liberty
of action assured, the Army has been able to maintain a con-
tinually expanding Intelligence Service.
The Japanese Military Intelligence Service began to send out
its own agents toward the end of the 19th century. Reserve,
retired, and active officers of the Army were dispatched under all
sorts of guises. They went as priests. "traveling men", and
tourists. Japanese Military Attaches throughout the world be-
gan to coordinate the information gathered through the previ-
ously established channels. The organizers of this new field for
Japanese espionage took full cognizance of the close relationship
between military effectiveness and industrial production. The
thorough and world-wide system of industrial espionage was now
diverted in part to matters military and naval. Industries which
could be converted to war use, as well as those already engaged
in military production, were studied. Total production, pos-
sible expansion, lines of supply, and destination of finished goods
were among the industrial subjects that received special
attention.
Ardent "joiners", the Japanese have maintained patriotic so-
cieties in every country to which they have emigrated. These
societies have served as "fronts" for espionage action. They
have, as well, been instrumental in persuading Japanese living
abroad to give their children Japanese citizenship by registering
their birth at Japanese consular offices, and to send their children
to Japan for education and military training. They have also
forced Japanese in foreign lands to contribute financial aid or
their services as agents. In locations where the nationality of
the Japanese would not be instantly obvious, these various patri-
otic societies sent representatives to aid in espionage and special-
ize in terrorism. These societies contain in their membership
many of the most intensely chauvinistic younger army officers.
b. Axis collaboration.—Since 1932, and perhaps longer, Japan
and Germany have collaborated in espionage and Fifth Column

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
4
activities. The collaboration is attributed largely to the work
of Lieutenant General Hiroshi Oshima and Major General
Eugene Ott. These men were at first military attaches and then
ambasadors of their respective countries. It is likely, however,
that General Kenji Doihara and Walther Nicolai, Japanese and
German intelligence leaders, were the behind-the-scenes moti-
vators of Axis collaboration.
This joint interchange of information has been expanded to
Japan's advantage. The Japanese had been greatly hampered
by their racial characteristics. The obviousness of their nation-
ality made necessary the hiring of "professional" European
agents. In a few cases, the loyalty of these agents could be
secured by personal threat or by holding families as hostages.
but in the main the agents could be trusted only so far as Japan
could outbid other nations. The alliance with the Axis gave
Japan the needed staff of agents without readily recognizable
physical characteristics. As an outgrowth of procuring German
agents, Japan has acquired the joint services of Italy's OVRA
(secret police), Spain's Falange, and the pro-Axis groups in all
countries. It has been reported that Japan has helped the Axis
less than the Axis has helped Japan, and that Germany has re-
peatedly complained of lack of full cooperation on the part of
Japan.
4. The Tanaka Memorial.—The Sino-Japanese War
(1894-95), the Russo-Japanese conflict, and the various incidents
leading to Japan's occupation of Korea and Formosa were early
steps in the development of Japanese imperialism. After the First
World War, Japan's ambitions began to take positive form. Her
"Asia for Asiatics" program was developed rapidly along the
lines of the Tanaka Memorial, a short report, allegedly written
in 1928 by Premier Tanaka. This memorial outlined Japan's
plan for conquest. The actions taken by Japan prior to 1928 in
her campaign for the dominance of Asia were described as neces-
sary. The conquest of Asia was stated as a prerequisite for
Japan's eventual achievement, namely, the military rule of the
world. The Memorial, which brushed aside a war with the
United States as a negligible step in the Japanese strides to
supreme power, was released by the Chinese as a publication to
reveal the plans of the Japanese. It was violently denounced
by the Japanese as a forgery, but, forgery or not, it has outlined
Japanese actions up to 1942. If the Tanaka Memorial was a
forgery, it was nevertheless written by some one thoroughly
acquainted with the ambitions of Japanese military circles.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
[CI BULL. 31
5
5. Action in Manchuria.—a. General.—The first step in
Japan's current expansion program was the invasion of Man-
churia. Because of its importance in the Japanese scheme and
because of its nearness to Japan, Manchuria was soon filled with
spies and other Japanese agents. The fairly stable Manchurian
government was eliminated when, on June 4, 1928, a bomb killed
Marshal Chang Tso-Lin and destroyed the railway coach in
which he was riding. An interesting technique was used on this
occasion. While the train was passing under a bridge, just south
of Mukden, the Marshal's coach was crushed from above by a
suspended bomb. The explosive was detonated from a position
which permitted such perfect timing that the principal damage
to the train was done to the Marshal's car. Japanese in other
cars were uninjured, but their presence on the train was an
excuse for the subsequent blaming of the bombing on "bandits"
and strong-arm Japanese intervention for the alleged purpose of
maintaining order.
b. Principal Fifth Column methods.—After the murder of
Marshal Chang Tso-Lin, Japanese spies, saboteurs, provocateurs
and, to a lesser extent, combat Fifth Columnists intensified their
efforts in Manchuria. Soon the Japanese had a highly analyzed
mass of reliable information gathered under their "total espion-
age" system. Several factors accelerated the next step, the
conquest of the country by Japanese military power:
(1) Thousands of Japanese had been constantly in Manchuria,
and many more now poured into the country. Agents and provoc-
ateurs had ready admission under any guise. The lack of a real
Chinese government prevented any effective control of immi-
gration from Japan.
(2) Japanese had long demanded and secured special privileges
for their business representatives. Immunity from Chinese law
allowed these commercial enterprises to serve as ready-made
"fronts" for any Japanese venture.
(3) Japanese troops already guarded certain properties held
by Japanese. These troops were constantly reinforced and con-
tributed to incidents engineered by provocateurs.
(4) Chinese bandits who had lived by force were promised
munitions, money, and greater opportunity for loot if they col-
laborated. The bandits, however, proved not only unreliable but
in some cases surprisingly imbued with extreme Chinese
patriotism.
(5) A widespread network of dealers in narcotics, an extremely
lucrative kidnap racket, a flourishing slave ring for prostitution

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
[CI BULL. 3]
6 .
interests, and many other kinds of criminal elements provided the
Japanese with opportunities not to be found elsewhere in such an
abundance. Contact with the leaders in these groups was made
and influence was secured by bribery or threat.
6. Japanese Fifth Column in China.—a. Agents.—Japa-
nese agents in China occupied positions representing all the social
and economic strata. They included consular officials, important
and lesser commercial men, tourists, dignitaries of religious
organizations, holders of Japanese positions in the concessions.
members of the Japanese military forces on station in China,
and a host of criminals.
It is reported that some 60,000 renegade Chinese from Man-
churia were scattered widely throughout China under the direc-
tion of the established Japanese agents. The renegade Chinese
were assigned various duties. They were to carry out such
normal spy missions as reporting on the strength and disposition
of Chinese troops and on the loyalty of the troops to their
officers. They were, in addition, to perform such tasks as the
murder or kidnapping of Chinese officials who showed no wish
to "collaborate".
b. Japanese Fifth Column aims.—Japan's Fifth Colunn in
China was formed for a dual purpose:
(1) To convince the majority of Chinese that it would be to
their gain to evict foreigners (European and American) and
collaborate with Japan.
(2) To prepare for the overthrow of the Chinese Government
by internal efforts. In the event of the failure of the internal
efforts, the Japanese were to be ready for military conquest.
making use of the Fifth Column to the greatest possible extent.
The Japanese planned in any case to manipulate events in such
a manner that the Chinese could be pointed to as the aggressors.
The Japanese aimed to exploit China by the same method-
employed in Manchuria. Since the Chinese were rapidly achiev.
ing a surprising unity in the face of the Japanese invasion threat.
conditions in China, however, were not so conducive to exploita-
tion. The Central Government of China had become a power
to be reckoned with. Its strength was increasing enormously.
as the Japanese showed signs of spreading their conquest into
China proper. Consequently, the recruitment of an effective
Fifth Column of native Chinese was not easy. Japan's failure
to form an effective Fifth Column is, of course, best shown by
the continued belligerency of the Chinese armies.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
[CI BULL. 3]
7
c. Propaganda.—The Japanese Government and commercial
representatives undertook to spread propaganda everywhere to
the effect that all Asiatics were brothers and, therefore, should
collaborate to exclude the "foreign devils". Japanese-owned
newspapers pressed this campaign continuously, and printing
shops were worked overtime, running off propaganda pamphlets.
The high-class Chinese merchants were contacted and subjected
to great pressure, with the threat of the loss of business. The
propaganda campaign was, however, carried on so intensely that
it acted as a boomerang. The Chinese instituted a "buy Chinese"
drive that eventually wound up as an out-and-out boycott of
Japanese goods.
The Japanese efforts to propagandize the poorer people failed
for two chief reasons:
(1) Since the Chinese had formerly been ruled by governments
that had contributed little to their welfare, the Central Govern-
ment's efforts to improve conditions for the common people were
arousing an amazing loyalty.
(2) Regardless of their attitude toward the home government,
those who had been subjected to the patronizing attitude of the
Japanese were not to be influenced by Japanese propaganda.
d. Political corruption.—The Japanese efforts to overthrow the
Chinese Central Government from within centered on a effort
to establish a rival government. Leading Chirese were con-
tacted through attempted bribery or threat. The Japanese,
through years of study of the positions and personal habits of
the men, thought that they were able to judge those readily
susceptible. That the Japanese were not more successful in gain-
ing converts of the type who now constitute the puppet govern-
ment of Wang Ching-Wei, is an excellent commentary on the
loyalty of the upper-class Chinese. It may be added that this
lack of success also reflects the healthy respect which even the
corruptible elements among Chinese citizens have for the effi-
ciency of General Chiang's intelligence service.
e. Norcoties.—Japanese agents were directed to have their as-
sistants work to defeat the Chinese government's campaign
against the use of nareoties. The government of General Chiang
was striving to combat the drug traffic, and was imposing severe
penalties upon those caught trafficking in drugs. The Japanese
aimed not only at having the use of narcotics more widespread,
but sought to obtain control of the illicit market. The Japanese
thus greatly weakened the Chinese population, particularly in

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
[CI BULL 8]
8
North China, by spreading the drug habit through greater dis-
tribution and much cheaper prices, while reaping an enormous
profit for their trouble.
The Japanese have denied the charges that they promoted the
narcotic traffic in Manchuria and China, but international com-
missions have substantiated the truth of the allegations. The
promotion of the drug habit, as a means of weakening a nation
in & time of supposed peace, has earned Japan the condemnation
of the world.
f. Provocation campaign.—Japanese agents were instructed to
begin a series of provocative acts which would convince the world
that the Japanese were being attacked. As in Manchuria. Japa-
nese troops were said to have been fired! upon by Chinese when
there were no Chinese within range. Japanese troops and civil-
ians were reported missing, and the Japanese demanded the right
to search Chinese army barracks and Government buildings.
Japanese of all classes claimed to have been robbed, kidnapped.
beaten, deprived of the rights of law, and so on to the end of
the fertile Japanese imagination. The Japanese press at home
and abroad literally screamed with indignation at unfounded
accounts of atrocious conduct by the Chinese.
g. Failure of Japanese program.—The Japanese schemes, how.
ever, did not have the wholesale success that was anticipated.
The agents of Japan slowly realized that the strength of the
Chinese Republic was growing, rather than weakening. The
widespread use of propaganda, the campaigns against the sta-
bility of the government, the open attempts at intimidation, the
vice-spreading, and other schemes caused the opposite reaction
to that planned.
h. Combat Fifth Column.—The Japanese. convinced of their
crushing military superiority over the poorly equipped Chinese.
saw little need for developing combat Fifth Column activities.
Since the outbreak of actual hostilities in July, 1937, the efforts
of the Japanese seem to have been limited to somewhat conven-
tional spying and to organizing for exploitation territory under
their occupation. No cases have been reported of Chinese defeats
occasioned by other than lack of the materials of war and the
necessary military training. The Chinese have been forced by
their lack of equipment to fight a semi-guerrilla war. They have
had to become masters of the system of unexpected attack, fol-
lowed by swift and well-organized retreat. The Japanese have
evidenced small ability to block these movements through gaining
advance information.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
[CI BULL. 3]
9
The lack of Japanese combat Fifth Column tactics against the
Chinese may be due to several causes:
(1) Contrary to the popular belief, the Chinese can usually
distinguish a Japanese from other orientals, and it is thus ex-
tremely difficult for agents of Japanese nationality to get behind
the Chinese lines.
(2) The Japanese are encountering increasing difficulty in se-
curing Chinese agents because of the risk of the renegades being
killed or drafted into the Chinese Army.
(3) Agents of other nationalities have become cognizant of
the treatment accorded all foreigners by the Japanese, as well
as of the methods of Japanese warfare, and have refused offers
except when subject to compulsion.
(4) Foreign agents are slow to accept work in China, since
they have learned that the Chinese are adept not only at dis-
covering spies but at devis: g appropriate means of making the
punishment fit the crime.
7. Japanese "Total Espionage" in the Netherlands East
Indies.—". General.--The Japanese, like the Germans. simul-
taneously extended their Fifth Column activities to all points
1. rked for future invasion. The similarity between the two
ems of weakening possible opponents is remarkable. Those
 are prone to attribute to the Germans the dubious honor of
orig nating all modern methods of infiltration into foreign lands
for  purpose of preparing a country's defeat may be in error.
An exainination of the Japanese Military Intelligence activities
will reveal that the Japanese, while they have learned to coordi-
nate their efforts by imitating certain German procedures, have
long had an organization in which the Germans have found many
features worth copying.
b. Early : Jorts.—As early as 1915, the Japanese intelligence
services began to send representatives to the various islands con-
stituting the Netherlands East Indies. These early delegates of
the Japanese investigative units arrived as fishermen, petty mer-
chants, barbers, photographers, dentists, ete., and as representa-
tives of major Japanese firms. They did their work well enough
to justify maintenance in positions and occupations which obvi-
ously were not self-supporting.
The South Seas Development Company, a Japanese organiza
tion of purely imperialistic design, moved into the territory be-
fore 1915. This "company" enjoyed financial and personnel
assistance from the Japanese Navy. Under the direction of the
Navy, employees of the company made surveys of the oil, mining,
453626°42——2

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
[0T BULL 8]
10
aad agricultural lands of New Guinea in 1914. Considerable
leased land in New Guinea was held for oil development.
Following the First World War period Japan tried in the
Dutch East Indies the same opportunist maneuvers that she at-
tempted further north. However, her unsuccessful demands
upon China for territorial and commercial rights were not
duplicated in the southern area. The Dutch for some 400 years
had maintained a friendly control over the peoples of the Neth-
erlands East Indies to their mutual satisfaction. Japan attempted
to provoke a situation which would justify her "protection"
of the Indies. Her agents were too few at the time to stir
real trouble and the control of the Japanese Government had not
passed sufficiently into the hands of the military to permit the
outright seizures to which the Japanese people have become ac-
customed in recent years.
The military clique in Japan was determined. however. th
the day would come when the seizure of the islands would brook
no interference at home or abroad. Working closely with sub-
versive organizations, the Japanese armed forces constantly
strengthened their attempts to undermine the Government of the
Netherlands East Indies.
c. Depression infiltration.—In 1931, the Japanese took advan-
tage of the world depression to attempt to create markets con-
trolled entirely by Japanese throughout the Netherlands East
Indies. The economic organization of the islands under Dutch
supervision, however, was too strong to permit the complete
success of such a venture.
d. "Asia for Asiatics".—During the early 30's, the military and
other expansionist cliques in Japan began an enormous expansion
of the "Nashinron", the doctrine of the "southward advance".
The intensely aggressive Black Dragon Society supplied agents
and funds for the "advance" into the Netherlands East Indies.
as well as the other southern Asiatic regions.
In 1935 the "Greater Asia Society", an organization made up
of Army and Navy officers and civilians holding high political
and commercial positions, began vigorous propaganda in support
of Japan's "mission" to create an "Asia for Asiatics". The inem-
bership of this society was of a nature that could provide agents
from all walks of life, and necessary capital.
e. Student propaganda.—The Japanese undertook to propa-
gandize the students of the Netherlands East Indies. The Dutch
Government had encouraged all educational programs. Taking
advantage of the open-mindedness of the local authorities, the

=== Page 12 === (confidence 1.00)
[CIBULL 3]
11
Japanese instituted a system of subsidized advanced education for
Netherlands East Indian natives. The students were taken to
Japan for the alleged purpose of education, but were in rality
there solely to be thoroughly indoctrinated with Japanese propa-
ganda. Any students who offered resistance to the propaganda
technique were either dropped at once and allowed to shift for
themselves, or were shipped back to the Indies on the first excuse.
Students were expected to organize and direct the spread of
Japanese propaganda upon their return to the Indies. The
attempt to propagandize the native students of the Netherlands
East Indies was notable only for its failure.
f. Mohammedan propaganda.—In 1935 the Black Dragon
Society was instrumental in launching the Japanese Fifth
Column upon another mission—that of propaganda among
Mohammedans, particularly in the regions constituting and
adjacent to the Netherlands East Indies. There existed in Japan
a small group of Mohammedans from Russian Turkestan. Using
this faction as a nucleus, the Japanese began to set themselves
up as the protector of Islam.
The Black Dragon Society trained and sent four students to
Egypt to prepare themselves as propagandists. These men were
afterwards joined by others who traveled throughout the Middle
and Far East with an infinitely more subtle program than the
blatant radio system set up by the Italians and Germans. It is
believed that the Japanese attempt to influence the Mohammedan
world has proved to be another failure. This is notably true in
the case of the Mohammedan Moros of Mindanao and smaller
Philippine Islands of the Sulu Sea.
g. Propaganda organs.—A Japanese naval spy undertook to
organize the publication of a native paper at Batavia for propa-
ganda purposes in 1938. Great interest was evidenced in this
project by the Office for Economic Investigation in Eastern Asia
of the South Manchurian Railroad. This "Office" was a spy-
training school. The organization subscribed 50,000 yen per
year for the establishment and maintenance of the projected
publication.
Native journalists from the Netherlands East Indies were
brought to Japan at the same time in an attempt to convert them
to a sympathetic view of Japan's ambitions. Some few were
willing to cooperate in an effort to sway the native population
from Dutch allegiance, and the Japanese were able to convert a
few publications of the native opposition political parties to
pro-Japanese attitudes.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
[CI BULL 8]
12
A schome to establish a Japanese-owned and consular-directed
paper in Batavia collapsed, before operations were begun, when
criminal proceedings were instituted against the editor for
embesslement in securing a printing establishment.
h. Oral propaganda.—Whispering campaigns were started by
the employees of Japanese commercial houses. Rumors spread
the story that the Japanese were invincible—that the Dutch
would never be able to stand up against any Nipponese on-
slaught—and would not be foolish enough to try. The Japanese
circulated a prophecy made by an ancient native duke that the
Javanese were to be independent, after a short period of govern-
ment by a yellow race. The Netherlands East Indians were urged
to believe that the yellow race mentioned in this age-old prophecy
was the Japanese. In the Celebes, the natives were told by Japa-
nese commercial men that the continually passing Dutch planes
were Japanese.
i. Radio propaganda.—The radio was used extensively by the
Japanese for disseminating propaganda directly from Japan.
According to reports by the Dutch, this program was. however,
☑ complete failure. The natives had not enough radios to make
the effort worth while in any case, and those who did have radios
were not of the elements that were susceptible to Japanese
propaganda.
j. Fishermen.—Fishermen of Japanese nationality presented
one of the most difficult sections of the Fifth Column for the
Dutch to combat. There were roughly 4,000 of them, in approxi-
mately 500 boats. They located at isolated or sparsely settled
points along the coast of the more than 7.000 islands that consti-
tute the Netherlands East Indies. From these bases of operations
the fishermen undertook surveys of surrounding waters and harbor
facilities.
The insolence and outright violence of the fishermen were
sources of endless trouble for the Dutch. The fishermen terror-
ized native populations of small islands, fished without regard
for the laws, and generally conducted themselves in a lawless
fashion. Opinion from Japanese ships was reported being
smuggled ashore on fishing boats.
Japanese officers stationed at Palau Islands, in the mandated
Caroline group, frequently visited the fishermen. It is reported
that these officers directed activities and returned periodically for
reports. The fishermen were reported in 1938 to be provisioning
Japanese submarines at Riouw.
In 1938, the fishermen, acting under instructions from agents,
began a series of provocative incidents. A Dutch patrol seaplane

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
[CI BULL. 3]
13
near the island of Billiton, south of Singapore, attempted to halt
a motorboat in territorial waters. The boat refused to stop, and
a warning shot was fired. The fishermen ignored the warning,
and a subsequent shot caused casualties. The Japanese Govern-
ment made an official complaint of this incident, and tried vainly
to establish grounds for an international issue.
A similar incident occurred shortly afterward on the western
coast of Borneo. On this occasion, a fishing boat was ordered
to heave to, but refused and continued under way. When warned
by a shot across the bows, the fishermen lined the rail and dared
the Dutch to open fire. Obviously this was done for purely
provocative purposes. Japanese were further reported as trying
to ram patrol seaplanes which landed for inspections.
The Japanese Oceanic Bonito and Tunny Fishing Company
was organized in November, 1940. The company was to employ
whalers for fishing. and proposed by means of fishermen to
supply the Indies with all the fish necessary. The Dutch soon
discovered that these whalers were to be manned by members of
the Japanese Naval Reserve and that the bases which were to
be established were in every case located with strategic regard
for Dutch naval bases.
k. Consular action.—Japanese Consul General Saito reported
the Billiton incident at the same time that he falsely re-
ported to the Japanese Foreign Office that British troops had
landed on Borneo. While occupying a position as an official
representative of the Japanese Government, Saito took advan-
tage of his immunity to provoke incidents, supervise spying, and
otherwise direct Fifth Column activities. His reports to the
home office were often false, and continually urged the Japanese
to take action that was unjustified.
1. Goverument-controlled Japanese commercial companies.—
The Japanese Government controlled many commercial compa-
nies which were engaged in trading in the Netherlands East
Indies. Some of these were firms of former high repute, and
some were established obviously for no other purpose than es-
pionage. Companies of both types employed helpers who were
trained in the spy school operated by the Japanese Ministry of
Foreign Relations and other agents who were regularly employed
as spies by the military services. Agencies of the Japanese com-
panies were especially likely to be opened at or near such places
as Surabaya, the great Java naval base.
The Oriental Development Company, which had achieved great
success in Japanizing the agricultural, commercial, and indus-

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
[CI BULL. 8]
14
trial fields in Korea and Manchuria, appeared in the Netherlands
East Indies in 1920 to attempt to spread its influence.
The. Formosa Colonizing Company moved into the field and
• acquired its only property, aside from some holdings in Siam
and Malaya, on the Island of Batam, directly across Singapore
Strait south of Singapore. Japanese naval officers found this
company's location ideal for the operations of their agents, and
a steady stream of officers visited the company.
The South Seas Development Company, mentioned above. was
the most militant of the government-controlled espionage con-
cerns. It enjoyed direct support of the Japanese Navy in secur-
ing finances and employees. Many of its employees were naval
reservists. As early as 1914, this company explored the mining
and agricultural areas of New Guinea, and undertook surveys
of areas of interest to the Navy. The work of this organization
was under the direction of the commander of the Naval station
at Palau. Using the South Seas Development Company as an
economic front, the Japanese in 1940 prepared landing fields and
established an air route to Dilli, capital of Portuguese Timor.
where they established a Japanese consulate with over 100 em-
ployees. They attempted unsuccessfully to obtain Dutch landing
fields for this line, using the same pressure tactics that were
employed in securing Indo-Chinesc bases for the Bangkok-Japan
line.
In the Celebes. the Japanese set up the Celebes Colonizing
Company as a branch of the South Seas Development Company.
The excuse for the existence of this new company was the copra
market in the Celebes and the Moluccas. But the copra market's
failure, with the attendant financial loss to the Japanese, seems
not to have affected the company's operations.
In Borneo, an organization known as the Oriental Colonizing
Company developed lumber interests on the island of Tarakan.
adjacent to the territory under development by Dutch oil inter-
ests. Early in 1940, the manager of the Japanese company faced
legal prosecution by the local authorities for inciting the natives
to revolt against the Dutch.
The Nanyo Storage Company, a leading Japanese propaganda
agency, trained its employees for espionage work in Batavia.
Those employees who were considered the most able were turned
over to the consulate for its use. This company rendered the
same espionage service for Germany, directing the efforts of its
gents against the activities of the British in Malaya.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
[CI BULL. 3]
15
For the purposes of port espionage, the Japanese made use of
the Pilot Pen Company. The salesmen of this company were
agents who by the natur: of their travels about the Netherlands
East Indies were in an excellent position to carry on espionage
and to direct the organization of local workers. Farmers and
shopkeepers were recruited to serve as saboteurs and Fifth Col-
umn agents.
The various companies, being government agencies. worked
in close cooperation. The President of the South Seas Company.
for instance, traveled throughout the Netherlands East Indies,
supposedly as a good-will ambassador. His real mission, how-
ever, was to coordinate espionage, to collect military information,
to arrange for sabotage, and to attempt the corruption of civil
and military officials in cooperation with the manager of the
Nanyo Storage Company.
m. Attempt to use Netherlands East Indies gorernment em-
ploy es.—A Japanese physician is reported to have attempted to
establish social contacts bet ween women employees of the Nether-
lands East Indies government offices and members of the Japa-
nese consular staffs, in the hope that the women could be
persuaded to disclose the contents of confidential documents.
n. Japanese gorernment control.—The Japanese government
held a partial control over practically all so-called private Japa-
nese concerns and associations, as well as over all social and
patriotic societies. These were called upon to play a definite
part in the "total espionage" system. They were expected not
only to supply agents for designated jobs, but to subscribe funds
for the furtherance of espionage work. They were to procure
required information, to buy land, to force the employment of
spies by concerns doing business with them, and to exercise
duress on Japanese residents in the Netherlands East Indies in
the interests of Japanese infiltration. Inasmuch as many of the
Japanese associations achieved a peculiar status approaching that
of consulates, they were in an excellent position to force the
cooperation of all Japanese.
o. Agitation for "protection".—After the German invasion of
the Netherlands on May 10, 1940, all Japanese associations, so-
cieties, and business houses were directed to agitate for Japanese
"protection", on the grounds that the Duteh government no longer
constituted a competent authority to govern the Indies properly.
In conjunction with this issue. rumors were started that the
British were about to undertake to rule the Netherlands East
Indies, and that Japan would insist upon the maintenance of
the status quo.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
[OIBULL3]
16
p. Towrists.—After the fall of the Netherlands, the Japanese
sent many Army and Navy officers to the Netherlands East Indies
as civilians or tourists. With this open display of the German
"tourist" technique, it became obvious that an invasion was merely
a matter of time.
q. Kobayashi mission.—The Japanese added a new practice to
the German methods when they sent the Kobayashi Mission on
• "good relations" trip to the Netherlands East Indies. This
alleged economic mission was sent to put on a show of strength
accompanied by honeyed werds in an effort to force acceptance
by the Dutch of trade relations which would reduce the Indies
to the state of a Japanese dependency. As a side-line, the Mis-
sion was to centralize all Japanese agencies, in preparation for
the impending military invasion, into a combat Fifth Column.
The aims of the Mission were to—
(1) Secure economic agreement by any means that would in-
sure Japan an adequate supply of raw materials for war purposes.
(2) Delay the Dutch armament program by peaceful promises.
(3) Prevent the Dutch from any cooperation with Great Brit-
ain and the United States, with the consequent result that the
Indies would enter Japan's "new order for Asia".
(4) Prevent the Dutch from preparing for the destruction
of oil fields and other raw material production.
(5) Prepare the Japanese Fifth Column for combat action.
(6) Renew the agreement as to the shipment of oil to Japan.
It is noteworthy to record that the Dutch refused to renew
their trade agreement with Japan.
r. German assistance.—At approximately the time of the
Kobayashi Mission, the German General Wenninger, who had
largely planned the German "blitzkreig" against Holland, ar-
rived in Japan to assist the Japanese in planning their Nether-
lands East Indies attack.
8. Preparation for puppet government.—On December 19. 1940.
the Japanese organized the Confederacy for the Liberation of
the Asiatic Nations of the Southeast. Under a program, which
was devised by Ogawa, the head of the previousiy mentioned spy-
training institute, a native prince was selected to rule the Nether-
lands East Indies as a Japanese puppet king of Java.
t. Home propaganda.—By a nation-wide press campaign of
complaints against the wrongs Japan was suffering at the hands
of the Dutch Colonial government, Japan adopted the German
method of preparing her people for a contemplated invasion.
Imaginary grievances were magnified to the point of appearing
as atrocities beyond comparison.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 1.00)
[CI BULL. 3]
17
u. Further consular action.—As a prelude to invasion, the
Japanese consular machinery in the Netherlands East Indies
heightened the pace of its subversive action and attempted by
all means at its disposal to undermine quickly the authority of the
Dutch government:
(1) Pressure was applied in intensified form to win over the
native political parties.
(2) Efforts to secure information through employees of the
Dutch government were redoubled.
(3) Financial support for propaganda journals, particularly
those printed in Chinese in Eastern Java, was increased.
(4) A private printing shop was procured in Batavia, and
a native propaganda journal was published. Dutch papers were
offered vastly increased advertisements in an effort to change their
editorial policies.
(5) Vice Consul Takagi was exempted from all consular
duties and established himself in the wharf distriet of Surabaya
as a potato dealer. He secured the assistance of Formosans as
agents, terrorists, and provocateurs. He procured an unlisted
and therefore supposedly untapped telephone. He began ener-
getically storing weapons.
(6) Spies were rushed in to work for the consulates as propa-
gandists among the Chinese population.
(7) Two of the agents trained in Egypt were brought to
Batavia to work as agents among the Mohammedans.
(8) A Japanese naval officer. Olita. was dispatched to examine
once again the west coast of Java for the most usable landing
places.
(9) A campaign of provocateurs was commenced on a scale
far exeeeding any previous efforts.
No confirmed reports have as yet been received on the actions
of the Japanese Fifth Column after the commencement of hos-
tilities. Indications are strong, however, that the successful dis-
persion tactics used by the attacking forces were designed to take
advantage of carefully surveyed situations and of assistance avail-
able from previously established agents.
8. Summary.—The military and so-called patriotic cliques of
Japan have been troubled with delusions of grandeur for 40
years. Japan, to them, has been the exclusive recipient of some-
thing spoken of reverently as a manifest destiny. Their inter-
pretation of this destiny's manifestations has made itself obvious
in their international conduct. Accused of harboring designs for
world domination, the Japanese, even as their Axis partners, have
453626-42
3

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
18
consistently insisted that their only desire was for their rightful
place in the community of nations. A proper definition of the
expression "rightful place" has never been discovered.
The Japanese have undertaken, by every means at their dis-
posal, to prepare the ground for the occupation of lands necessary
for the expression of their "manifest destiny". They have under-
taken to undermine established governments, to create revolu-
tionary parties, to bribe government officials and otherwise to
manufacture opportunities for the seizure of lands by methods
short of war. By means of diplomatic immunities, commercial
fronts, religious groups, language students, fishermen's organiza-
tions, and plain and fancy agents, they have continually planted
spies in other lands. They have used the Japanese interpretation
of dual citizenship and other supposedly international conven-
tions to suit their convenience.
They have now completed many years' studious spying, and
have embarked on a career of openly exploiting their "manifest"
destiny. With this embarkation they have changed the duties
of their espionage agents to actual collaboration in the war effort.
Henceforth these duties may be expected to include such activi-
ties as sabotage, and other forms of Fifth Column action. (See
C. I. Bull. No. 2, Military Intelligence Service, Counterintelligence
Branch: "Outline of Possible Fifth Column Action in the United
States," March 21, 1942.)

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
894.20200
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
6
SUBJECT
Organizational structure of Japanese Cabinet Intelligence
Department:
Encloses photostati€ copy of the -.
894.20200/2
2
For the riginal paper from which reference is taken
letter
See
(Deepatoh, telegram, iastraction, letter, sto.)
From
Dated-May-23,-1942
18
Justico.Dopt....
File No. ..894.02/22
PS/GMS

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
5
World Pesoemays, Ing  D vision of
RECEIVED
105 Park Avenue
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
PAPTMENT OF STATE
New York
9B
SEBA161942
PROPAGANDA IN HORLD WAR II
1942 E 14 PM 12 58
Geod evening: Last week we heard stories about a Japanese ul timatum to the Sovies
that shortly after this latest shake-up of the Japanese cabinet, Tokyo banded m
ultimatum to Moscow, involving the surrender of Asiatic Soviet territories into
Japanese hands, for protective custody, for the duration of the war.
894.20200/3
The story sounded quite understandable and vas therefore accepted in some
quarters as an accurate report. It seemed quite reasonable to expect that the
Japanese might venture a diplomatic proposal that would, in effect, bar Russian
territory in Asia from becoming a base of American operations against Japen. Since
these stories described Tokyo's proposal as an ultimatum, the inference widely
drawn was that Japan was preparing to invade Siberin if Moscow did not comply.
Your World Observer did not regard the story as authentic. It gate all
the indications of being a story deliberately planted by the Japanese to confuse
the United Nations. It was the hand of the Japanese propaganda machine at work,
with a specific objective.
Japan is not concerned about Siberia's becoming a bnsc of Americen
operations. She appears to believe that possibility is far off. She may reason that
the Soviet armies in Siberia are still largely dependent upon European Russia for
military supplies. Those European supplies are now sorely needed by Stalin's
armies in Europe. That need alone would make the Japanese conclude that the Soviet
P
forces in Asia would start no attack against Japan on their own accomt; so long
S/PGB
as Mitler had taken many of Russia's industrial aroas and was furioualy engaging
the Soviet armies west of the Ural Mountains. As for American forces being imvited
reasons
to uwe siberia as a base, Japan no doubt /. that the Soviet leaders would
hardly assume the burden of supplying a large detachment of Americans when they
are mow quite worried about supplying their own forces in Europe and Asia.
Japem may be assuming that Moscow will not allow even an Amerieem air
Seree-kevelvine fewer men then an aray-to be besed in Biberia. The moment 
Grdomm air foree started bomking from Biberia, the Japemese army from Memehatuo
essow mowe that. Tokyo knows that Moseow appreciatee thnt In thee
 soviet supply problen would beeome qute complsested nt sath
Conntial
feale nfdent tht,  ttere now stend, s

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
feports current in diplomatic circles imside China. It mas alleged
thet shortly after this latest shake-up of the Japanese cabinet, Tokyo handed m
ultimatum to Moscow, involving the surrender of Asiatic Soviet territories into
Japenese hands, for protective custody, for the duration of the war.
The story sounded quite understandable and was therefore accepted in some
quarters as an accurate report. It seemed quite reasonable to expect that the
20200/3
Japanese might venture a diplomatic proposal that would, in effect, bar Russian
territory in Asia from becoming a base of American operations against Japan. Since
these stories described Tokyo's proposal as an ultimatum, the inference widely
202
drawn was that Japan was preparing to invade Siberia if Moscow did not comply.
x
9
Your World Observer did not regard the story as authentic. It gate all
the indications of being a story deliberately planted by the Japanese to confuse
the United Nations. It was the hand of the Japanese propaganda machine at work,
with a specific objective.
Japan is not concerned about Siberia's becoming a bnsc of American
operations. She appears to believe that possibility is far off. She may reason that
the Soviet armies in Siberia are still largely dependent upon European Russia for
military supplies. Those European supplies are now sorely nceded by Stalin's
armies in Europe. That need alone would make the Japanese conclude that the Soviet
PS/PGB
forces in Asia would start no attack against Japan on their own account; so long
as Hitler had taken many of Russia's industrial aroas and was furiously engaging
the Soviet armies west of the Ural Mountains. As for American forces being invited
reasons
to use Biberia as a base, Japan no doubt / that the Soviet leaders would
hardly assume the burden of supplying a large detachment of Americans when they
are now quite worried about supplying their owm forces in Europe and Asia.
Japan may be assuming that Moscow will not allow even cn Americen air
foroe--involving fewer men than an army--to be besed in Siberia. The moment am
Amerioan air force started bombing from Siberia, the Japanese army from Manebukuo
would move. Moscow knows that. Tokyo knows that Moscow appreciates that. In that
siteation, the Soviet supply problem would beccme quite complicated and rathercs
Contial
grave. Japem farthergore feels coafident that, as matters now stand, it wmesd 

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
Week of
September 18, 1942
whington kmows that Moscow does not want us to try it. Moscow is not permitting
any forees of the United Naticns to be bnsed on its territcry. Japan knows that we
mow that policy of Mcacow.
The fact that Japan is not worried about a Soviet attack and that Moscow
will not permit American forces to be based in Siberia, is reason Number One for the
a
view that the report about/Tokyo ultimatum to Moscow, is a Japanese planted story-
just the work of Japan's propaganda machine.
Reason Number Two should explain why the Japanese planted that story. The
real worry of the Japanese lies in Burma. But if she could confuse us and influence
 to concentrate more of our war power in Alaska, the threat of American power in
India, just across from Burma might be less formidable. Japan will not attack
Siberia for the plain reason that Burma is rapidly becoming the Achilles heel of
Japan's Co-Prosperity Sphere. By threatening, thrcugh a planted story or some cther
maneuver, to begin a march on Siberia, Tokyo might succeed in forcing us to send
into the waters of Alaska more warships and so prevent the assignment of some of
those warships to the Bay of Bengal. By compelling us to become more cautious than
necessary about probable Japenese steps in the northern Pacific, Japan could
influence us to base far more men and more planes in Alaske then were nctuelly
required, and so prevent their being sent to India end China.
Those stories about an impending invasion of Siberie are just a part of
Japan's maneuvers to keep American power in India, at a minimum, in the impending
Battle of Burma. Japun knows that she cannot afford to waste her time in Siberia
when the greatest threat to oll her conquests is now being staged in enstern India.
Japan understands that the American forces in India are not being assembled there to
do a defensive job only. They have nct been sent there for the taak of holding India
against a Japanese invasion attempt. The Americans are apparently not planning to
fold their hands when the rainy season ends this week, and wait for the Japanese to
march from Burma into India. The Americans are undoubtedly orgunised to tcke the
offemsive and to attempt to crush the Japanese in Burme before they can get
started om a projected invasion of India.
We have been repeatedly warned that the Japanese do not play a defensive
hay are almays furioualy on the offensive. They are reekless about their use
and weapons. They count every risk worthshile if it gives promise of
mmly amchee abeed. They follow the prineiple that it is better to move
 day then to be retreattng a few mdles a day.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Just the work of Japan's propaganda
Reason Number Two should explain why the Japanese planted that story. The
real worry of the Japanese lies in Burma. But if she could confuse us and influence
u to concentrate more of our war power in Alaska, the threat of American power in
India, just across from Burma might be less formidable. Japan will not attack
Siberia for the plain reason that Burma is rapidly becoming the Achilles heel of
Japan's Co-Prosperity Sphere. By threatening, thrcugh a planted story or some other
maneuver, to begin a march on Siberia, Tokyo might succeed in forcing us to send
into the waters of Alaska more warships and so prevent the assigmment of some of
those warships to the Bay of Bengal. By compelling us to become more cautious than
necessary about probable Japanese steps in the northern Pacific, Japan could
influence us to base far more men and more plenes in Alaske then were nctuelly
required, and so prevent their being sent to India end China.
Those stories about an impending invasion of Siberie are just a part of
Japan's maneuvers to keep American power in India, at a minimum, in the impending
Battle of Burma. Japun knows that she cannot afford to waste her time in Siberia
when the greatest threat to oll her conquests is now being staged in enstern India.
Japan understands that the American forces in India are not being assembled there to
do a defensive job only. They have nct been sent there for the task of holding India
against a Japanese invasicn attempt. The Americans are apparently not planning to
fold their hands when the rainy season ends this week, and wait for the Japanese to
marah from Burma into India. The Americans are undoubtedly organized to tcke the
offensive and to attempt to crush the Japanese in Burmc before they can get
started on a projected invasion of India.
We have been repeatedly warned that the Japanese do not play a defensive
ame. They are always furiously on the offensive. They are reakless about their use
of manpower and weapons. They count every risk worthwhile if it gives promise of
putting them only inches ahead. They follow the principle that it is better to move
only e few inches ahead each day than to be retreating a few miles a day.
Since that is the spirit of the Japanese, they will not wmit for the
rReen, British and Indian troops to attack. They have probably conoentrated
ke land and air power in Burme, prepared for a surprise atteck agninst

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
LD OBSERVER-
Sept 1s, 1962
Andia, within a very few days.
Against that military background, the statement made last week on India
by Prime Minister Churchill, assumes tremendous importance. Mr. Edgar Snow has just
contributed an article on India to The Saturday Evening Post. He maintains that the
United Mations cannot "hold India against both the Indians and the Japanese." He
suggests we have no time to lose in the race for the wholehearted cooperation of
the people of India. He believes it is impossible for us to mobilize the manpower
we shall need to overcome Japan, if we dared reckon withcut the manpower of India.
The reason why we must act quickly to line up the great masses of India
on our side, does not lie in the violence and confusion generated by the civil
disobedience campaign. British police can keep violence under controi. But the
British police cannot keep the mind of the Indian individual under control. From
Mr. Snow's report, one draws the inescepable conclusion that the great bulk of the
Indian people is beginning to feel that no one is their friend--not even the United
States, the Soviet Union or China. When an individual allows himself to believe
that no one wants to help him and that no one is interested in hin, his morale
breaks dowm. He no longer cares what becomes of him. That despondency my penetrate
the masses of India so broadly that it may lead to disaster for us--for the entire
cause of the United Nations.
The situation in India obviously needs a dose of propaganda--of the
right kind of propaganda. It requires a proposal that will dissipate the Indian's
suspicions toward the British and other nations lined up with the United Nations.
Developments in London cnd in New Delhi lead to the belief last week
that the British leaders recognised that possible trend to national despondency in
Indie. Megotiations were taking place between the Viceroy and several prominent
Indians. It all pcints to British acceptance of the view that the United Nations
cammot hold India against both millions of dissatisfied Indians and the Japanese.
But that impression was quickly dispelled by Prime Minister Churchill's statement
Commons
in the House of/  that the British were not at all worried about the situation
in Indias that it was quite under control; that there were more white troops
Amedde Radie than ever bafore in India's history; that tite offer submitted by sir.
Party throughout India were promoted by a "fifth colum" of

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
Beptfs, 1062
ia, within a very few days.
Against that military background, the statement made last week on India
by Prime Minister Churchill, assumes tremendous importance. Mr. Edgar Snow bas just
contributed an article on India to The Saturday Evening Post. He maintains that the
United Nations cannot "hold India against both the Indians and the Japanese." He
suggests we have no time to lose in the race for the wholehearted cooperation of
the people of India. He believes it is impocsible for us to mobilise the manpower
we shall need to overcome Japan, if we dared reckon withcut the manpower of India.
The reason why we must act quickly to line up the great masses of India
on our side, does not lie in the violence and confusion generated by the civil
disobedience campaign. British police can keep violence under control. But the
British police cannot keep the mind of the Indian individual under control. From
Mr. Snow's report, one draws the inescepable conclusion that the great bulk of the
Indian people is beginning to feel that no one is their friend--not even the United
States, the Soviet Union or China. When an individual allows himself to believe
that no one wants to help him and that no one is interested in hin, his morale
breaks down. He no longer cares what becomes of him. That despondency my penetrate
the masses of India so broadly that it may lead to disaster for us--for the entire
cause of the United Nations.
The situation in India obviously needs a dose of propaganda--of the
right kind of propaganda. It requires a proposal that will dissipate the Indian's
suspicions toward the British and other nations lined up with the United Nations.
Developments in London cnd in New Delhi lead to the belief last week
that the British leaders recognised that possible trend to national despondency in
India. Mee tiations were taking place between the Viceroy and several prominent
Indians. It all points to British acceptance of the view that the United Nations
oammot hold India against both millions of dissatisfied Indians and the Japanese.
But that impression was quickly dispelled by Prime Minister Churchill's statement
Commons
in the House of/  that the British were not at all worried about the situation
is Indias that it was quite under control; that there were more white troops
Amsdde Emdie than ever before in India's history; that the offer submitted by sir.
Perty throughout Indie were promoted by a "fifth columm" of

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Beed to overcome Japan, if we dared reckon without the manpower of Indie.
The reason why we must act quickly to line up the great masses of India
on our side, does not lie in the violence and confusion generated by the civil
disobedience campaign. British police can keep violence under control. But the
British police cannot keep the mind of the Indian individual under control. From
Mr. Snow's report, one draws the inescapable conclusion that the great bulk of the
Indian people is beginning to feel that no one is their friend--not even the United
States, the Soviet Union or China. When an individual allows himself to believe
that no one wants to help him and that no one is interested in hin, his morale
breaks dowm. He no longer cares what becomes of him. That despondency my penetrate
the masses of India so broadly that it may lead to disaster for us--for the entire
cause of the United Nations.
The situation in India obviously needs a dose of propaganda--of the
right kind of propaganda. It requires a proposal that will dissipate the Indian's
suspicions toward the British and other nations lined up with the United Nations.
Developments in London cnd in New Delhi lead to the belief last week
that the British leaders recognized that possible trend to national despondency in
India. Negotiations were taking place between the Viceroy and several prominent
Indians. It all pcints to British acceptance of the view that the United Nations
cannot hold India against both millions of dissatisfied Indians and the Japanese.
But that impression was quickly dispelled by Prime Minister Churchill's statement
Conmons
in the House of / that the British were not at all worried about the situation
in India; that it was quite under control; that there were more white troops
inside India than ever before in India's history; that the offer submitted by Sir
Stafford Cripps must stand; and that the current civil disobedience activities of
the Congress Party throughout India were promoted by a "fifth columm" of
Japanese inspiration.
Mr. Churchill placed himself in complete opposition to the advice
extended by Mr. Snow in his Saturday Evening Post article. He apparently disagrees
with Mr. Snow that the United Nations have lost prestige in India and thct the
admiration of the Indian people can be recaptured by the United Nations only if
they will do something to relieve what Mr. Snow describes as India's growing

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
Week of
LD OBSERVER
September 18, 1062
pondency, traceable to her suspicions against the United Nations. Mr. Churehill
said nothing comparable to President Roosevelt's repeated pleas for the establish-
ment of the four human freedoms and Vice President Wallace's speech last May about
this being the century of the common man. The British Prime Minister took his stand
on the point that the proposal taken to India by Sir Stafford Cripps contains
the
sufficient power to rally all/peoples of India to the cause of Great Britain and
the United Nations.
Many Americans agree with Edgar Snow that the Indian situation is
critical and that we cannot be as ccmplacent about it as the British Prime
Minister. Many Americans have declared that Washington ought to intervene. It has
become quite clear however that Washington has no intention of interfering between
the Congress Party and the British government in India.
Coming months will decide whether Mr. Churchill's suggesticn of
Japanese fifth columm influence in the activities of the India Congress Party, was
the wiser propaganda course to heal the gaping wound in India, or the course
proposed by Edgar Snow. Mr. Snow felt that a new offer by the British would over-
come the existing rupture--and that the offer would be accepted even if it fell
somewhat short cf complete and immediate independence.
The propagandists of World War II are certainly trying hard to
influence military strategy and discontented millions in the world's populatioa.
The historians will report whether the propagandists are ignoring or
adequately respecting the increased intelligence of individuals and naticns. Good-
night.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
No. 3.
Consul General at Batavia, Java,
Temporarily at Melbourne, Australia,
October 26, 1942.
5
SUBJECT: General trend of Japanese
radio propaganda.
S
C
5
Cr.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
eshington.
Sir:
I have the honor to submit herein a brief
study of Japanese radio propaganda.
894.20200/5
This report is the first of & series devoted
to the study of Japanese propaganda. Despatch
no. 4, for example, will have as its subject,
"Australia: One objective of Japanese Propaganda".
Other subjects will be discussed in the series
above mentioned.
Japanese radio propaganda has two distinct
objectives.
One is to prove to the natives of
the oecupied countries, especially of the Nether-
lands Indies, that Japan is the natural leader of
all Asia.....the one country chosen to free all
Asiatics from Western rule.
The other purpose
Is to prove to the United States, the British Em-
pire and to all other white peoples, that the na-
tives of the occupied countries have welcomed the
Japanese with open arms, that they dosire to mas-
ter the Japanese language at once, and that they
recognize the Japanese as superior in every way
to the peoples of the Occidental world.
FOLEC
In radio propaganda directed towards Australia
and probably prepared especially for Australian
consumption, the main purposes appear to be the
following: (1)
1. Japanese treat prisoners well.
2. Japanese soldiers are gallant and chivalrous.
PS/PGB
3. Japan stands for religious tolerance.
4. National independence is the prime aim
of the "Greater Bast Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere".
5. Japan is making special efforts to care
for the physical welfare of the natives
of occupies areas.
(1) Based on an outline prepared by the
Australian Broadcasting Commission.
D
3

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Commission.
Treatment of prisoners of war
and internees by Japan:
The Japanese, especially through the broad-
casting station at Batavia, have endeavored to
impress upon the people of Australia the fact
that Japan and Japanese soldiers are most chival-
rous to civilian internees and to prisoners-of-war.
At the same time, they are stressing the alleged
brutality of Americans and British to the Japanese.
For example, Batavie radio quotes "Herr Eduard Egli",
who is said to be the Red Cross Representative at
Hong Kong, as saying that "The treatment in the
Hong Kong prison camps was unequalled in the world!
Treatment of prisoners and internees at Hong hong
was further emphasized by Batavia when it said that
the Japanese in "Pursuing tne policy in making lives
for internees more comfortable, a swimming meeting
was held in Hong rong on Saturday, and later a mus-
ical programme was given on the lawns of the intern-
ment camp".
Batavia also recently repcrted that 18oo Fili-
pinos had been released from internment, "in accordance
with the benevolent policy or ippon authorities".
In describing this as part of the process of gradually
releasing all prisoners of war, the spokesman said,
"Such action is very rare in world history". "Our
policy is to release all Filipino prisoners who show
willingness to understund the Junanese. All peoples
in the South who wish to improve their standards must
cooperate with Japan."
Batevia has also broadcust that urs. neath, the
wife of Lieutenant General Heath, formerly Commander
of the British Third rmy in .alayu, who was seriously
ill, was removed to the hospital.General Heath was
permitted to see his wife and "both were overwhelned
at Jepanese kindness".
Japanese boraucasts constantly speak of "onor-
able treatment to the vanguished enemy nd of kind
deeds and courteous behavior" by Jupanese.
The follovine re extrects from a -utevie broad-
cast in Enelish on October 10, 1942:
"Goou news for tne pople of ritain was
brought by Sir Robert Craigie, former British
Ambussador to B.......there are 400 to
500 British internees left in Nippon and of
these not more than loo wish to return to Bri-
tain.....the representative in Nippon of the
International Red Cross Committee also confirmed
the considerate treatment accorded to enemy
internees.....a Domei correspondent revealed
that enemy internees are enjoying a standard
of life equal to, if not higher than, well-to-
do Nippon subjects".

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Nippon subjects.
Butavia also suid that "the Counsellor of the
British mbassy in Shanghui stated that British
Subjects in Shanghai still worked with the Munici-
pal Council. That makes 8ooo British subjects
who are cooperating.
It will be seen from these
examples that vippon treats her prisoners with honor
and consideration".
On the other hand, both Tokyo and butavia con-
stantly speak of the brutality of the British and of
the Americans.
Butavia recently said: "Jupanese rrested in
Noumea on December 7 were Iorced to sleep in the
open. They were taken b boat to an abandoned
church on an island fortress where tney had to sleep
on damp floors. They were forced to work on ships
which had grounded.
ceven died in Australia as a
result of maltreatment.
On October 21, 1942, Ba-
tavia went to great pains to announce that the names
of ten Nippon internees who died recently in America
and Australia were announced by the Foreign Office".
While there are innumerable examples to illus-
trate the trend of Japanese broadcasts, the above
show that, as regards prisoners and internees, Jpan
is endeavoring to prove that the army authorities
are gallan,chivalrous and kind to all enemy internees
and prisoners,
On the otuer nand, they endeavor
to prove that Anglo-american actions are always bru-
tal and inconsiderate in the extreme.
Religious tolerance:
Japan is apparently endeavoring to play up to
the religious susceptibilities of the Western world.
Both Catholic and Protestant activities in occupied
regions have been reported more or less constantly--
the purpose apparently being to prove that "Nippon
stands for religious toleration". Other boradcasts
have said, "Filippino Catholics have dedicated them-
selves to the Japanese cause.
The agreement with
the Vatican is proof that Japan is not anti-religious,
in fact Japan believes that religion must be the basis
of the new civilization and, therefore, respects it."
Occasionally, however, the Japanese make a serious
error: For example, on August 26 a broadcast from
Tokyo said that the pople were assured of complete
freedom of worship, "so long as they supported the
Japanese military administration".
Some broadcasts, however, are very subtle and,
no doubt, accomplish at least part of the purposes
for which they were planned. For example, broadcasts
from Batavia of September 2l and 25, all in English,
were to the following effeot:

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
following effect:
"Nippon's tolerant attitude towards
religion is snown by the fact that a three
day conference of Methodist churches is
to be held at Singapore beginning on Sep-
tember 26. The conference will deal with the
reorganization of the Methodist church and
its work, following on the disruption caused
by the departure from Singapore, before its
fall, of so many missionaries. The confer-
ence will be attended by 52 pastors and an
equal number of laymen representing the ten
Methodist districts of Malaya.
Interviewed
by Domeo, church leaders have praised Nippon's
policy and are cooperating with Nippon author-
ities.
Father (?) of St. John's church said
that not only had Catholic priests been allowed
to conduct services as usual, but they were
also allowed to visit their porishioners. Pas-
tor.......of the Anglican church also praises
Nippon policy of actively encouraging the work
of the churches".
Reverend J. R. ilson
of the Church of ngland and Bishop of Singa-
pore is quoted as follows:
"h great number
of churches have been carrying on public wor-
ship practically without interruption since
the occupation of Malaya. Neither hindrances
nor restrictions were placed in the way of
individual Christians".
In brief, Japan's efiorts to prove that she is
as tolerant of religions as are any of the countries
of the Western world is decidedly dangerous. When
religious people of the Occident believe that Japan
is tolerant of religions they will at the same time
regard Japan as "not so bad after all".
Independence under the "Co-Prosperity Sphere".
Another element of Japanese radio propaganda is
to the effect that all the countries of the Tar East
"could be reckoned or likened to relatives helping
each other for the whole family's good. This relation-
ship is in accordance with ethical principles".
"Hence Japan, while strictly respecting the indepen-
dence of all nations of this part of the world, will
continue as before to promote close co-operation among
them".
Physical welfare of the natives:
Tokyo has broadcast many times to the effect
that hePath conditions in Singapore are perfect,
because of the "superhuman efforts of the local
doctors".
On September 21, however, Singapore
broadoast that the Japanese medical corps would soon
begin research at Singapore into Malaria and other
tropioal diseases.
In Java "the military author-
Ities have established a number of hospitals and
out-door clinics in various parts of the island".

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
of the island".
Batavia announced on September 21 that free
medical service would be started for the natives
by the head of the Keijo University who had been
appointed Chief of the Sanitary Corps of the Jap-
anese Military Administration; und that a sanigtary
college would be established at Batavia.
Athletics among the natives, according to the
Batavia radio, is receiving the special attention
of the Japanese Military Administration. Batavia
said: "A large athletic meeting of three days du-
ration, the like of which was never seen under
Dutch rule, will be held at Medan beginning October
15. The meeting will be sponsored by the Japanese
Military Administration.
There will be field
and track events, bicycle ruces, and athletic con-
tests in which the eleven states of the island will
participate."
Malay festivals, especially the Hari Rajah,
Malay New Year, are receiving special attention from
the Japanese Military Administration, "in accordance
with its policy of respecting the habits and customs
of the inhabitants", according to Batavia radio of
September 26.
"Lieutenant General Imamura has de-
cided to grant speciul gifts to the functionaries
and workers of the military administration and to
workers in industry placed under the supervision of
the administration. Such steps have never been
taken during the long years of Dutch rule." Then,
on October 1l Batavia slso said that "Mohammedan New
Year will be celebrated as the rebirth of Malaya and
special prayers will be offered for the final Nippon
victory in the war".
Conclusions.
Japan is appealing to the estern world by de-
scribing the galantry and chivalry of Japanese au-
thorities and soldiers towards internees and pris-
oners of war. At the same time, she appeals to the
natives by describing Anglo-American "brutalities"
towards the Japanese.
Japan is appealing to church elements everywhere
by reiterating allegations of "Nippon's religious
tolerance".
Japan's mention of the physical welfare of the
natives is also designed to appeal to the Western
World. It will not appeal to the natives, especially
of the Netherlands Indies, who for many generations
have enjoyed the finest of medical services in every
city and village of the country.
Japanese propaganda is dangerous. If it is allowed
to continue too long, it will be still more dangerous.
Respectfully yours,
Walter A. Foote,
WAF/war
American Consul General.
880.08

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
No. 4.
Consul General at Batavia, Java,
Temporarily at Melbourne, Australia,
October 26, 1942.
SUBJECT: Japanese propaganda directed
to Australia
FUREION ACTVITY
STATE
PM 1 37
copy
10 oss
S
5
The Honorable,
UL
CE
The Secretary of Sate,
Vashington.
Sir:
I have the honor to renort that Japanese pro-
paganda, especially that broadcast from Batavia,
Java, to the people of Australia is large in volume,
894.20200/6
is improving in quality, and shows that australian
news is being used with increasing intelligence.
Long commentaries are civen in English from
Batavia on the "Jewish question", "The second front",
and other subjects all of which are designed to in-
terest the Australian public.
Improvements in the
quality of these broadcasts from Butavia are noticeable,
while such is not true in those from Tokyo. For
example, Batavia Radio has dedicated its "Australian
Home News Hour" to the ".omen of ustralia".
The
following is a typical statement to the women of
Australia:
"Women of Australia, we hope you are not
too busy to listen to these broadcasts. Life
must be getting rather complicated for you
over there, what with your Government contin-
ually asking you to fill all kinds of jobs,
from that of uriving a car to operating an
adding machine.
Little time must be left to
you, with all the worries of housekeeping
added, while your government is asking you
FILED
not to buy the things you need, but to invest
what little money you have in war bonds..
In Japan women are not forced to take up men's
j
jobs." (Broadcast of September 9)
On September 15 Batavia said: "Australia
has oranges, apples, butter, lambs, eggs avail-
able for domestic consumption more than ever
before, yet they are being kept in cold stor-
P8/P
age, and Australian children must go without
these body-building foods because their mothers
can not pay 3d. for an apple, 3d. to 6d. for
6
an orange and lid. for a small banana. That
247
is the inflation that every housewife in Aus-
tralia and Americe faaes......The end of this
war is coming very soom. There is an end to
even the ordinary housewife's patience".
Destroyed

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
housewire's putience."
It is clear that Jupanese broaucasts, especially those
fron Batavia, from Which point reception is better
than from Tokyo, tre designed both to frignten and to
appeal to Australiuns to be "sensible".Batavia is
fond of quoting Austreliun tributes to the bravery and
better fighting qualities of the Japunese. Even m-
bassador Grew's statement, "it is a aesperate business
to try to defeat Jupan", wus quoted by Lutuviu on Sep-
tember 12.
Furthermore, a statument by Sir John
Latham, formerly ustralian inister to Tokyo,  which
referred to "Jupan's strength"; unu a correspondent's
report from New Guinea concerning tne good truining and
equipment of the Jupanese for jungle fighting, have been
given the widest publicity by batuvi Radio.
"What about thinkin twice about tae warning that
the Japanese Prime  inister, General Tojo, issued to
you some time ago?" was asked by Batavia on October 1.
Generally speaking Japanese propaganda to induce
defeatism follows four muin lines:
1. The external menace to Australia.
2. australia's isolation.
3. Australia's internal difriculties.
4. Superiority of Japan's way of life.
External menace.
With regard to the "uxternal menace", subtle
references have been made to the "grave plight" of
Australian soldiers in Jew Guinea. Mr. Curtin, Mr.
Forde, Sir Earle Page, and General Sir Thomas Blamey
have all been quoted to impress upon australians the
seriousness of the situation.
Batavia then gives
Australians sinister reminders that the war may be
fought out on Australian soil where "the Allies may
exploit their worn-out tactics". Batavia told aus-
tralia that "Sydney may become another Stalingrad.
Newcastle may fall before the invader like Novorossisk".
This is rather clever, because Batavia evidently
knows that ustralian Labor is watching the fighting
in Russia very closely.
Australia's isolation.
Batavia emphasizes Australia's isolation chiefly
by belittling American aid. Dr. Evatt, Australian
Minister for External Affairs, has been quoted as say-
ing that American help is inadequate. On the other
hand, Batavia admitted that considerable help had
reached Australia when it reminded the Australians
that they faced the heavy burden of feeding the Amer-
ican troops. Batavia added that American aid is paid
for by Australian subservience to the United States.
Australia's internal difficulties.
All the disadvantages of wartime life in Australia
are used in routine propaganda by the Japanese in broad-
casts from Batavia.
Attention is repeatedly drawn to

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
drawn to
the shortage of food, shortage of manpower, the high
cost of living, and the implications of the "Austerity
campaign".
Batavia has gone to great pains to prove
to Australian workers that the burden of war falls on
the common people, rather than on the leaders; and on
the low wage earners, rather than on the company share-
holders.
On September 5, Batavia, in reviewing the
Australian budget, said:
"This is the tremendous price which the
australian people have to ay for the war
which they did not seek and for which they
were not prepared. It is always the common
people who have to pay for the war. Generals
dde in their beds, politicians change their plans,
kings escape over the frontiers. Only the com-
mon people remain. If they are not defeated,
the common people still have to pay the price,
althougn they may take a bitter pride in the
blood they have sacrificed".
Australians did not react to this propaganda,
however, as they Jupunese had thought they would. The
points made in the above quoted paragraph apply too
well to Japan herself. Batavia then suddenly changed
its tune and began an outrignt attempt to frighten
Australia. It said thut Australia was persisting in
turning a deaf ear to the true aims of Nippon ....and
was doomed to suffer the same fate as the Netherlands
Indies. "Her downfall is being accelerated by the
pressure of American and British propaganda..... The
chaotic internal conditions are reflected by the sericus
and open disegreement with the Labor Government and
the open oppositions of sections of the public.....
The ties with England have been weakened by the in-
creasing reliance on American aid.
American aid
is strictly limited to the planes already there, re-
presenting three days' output, and to an army of
7,500 men. Mr. Kawai, probably a formeremrethe
staff of the Japanese Legution in Canberra, is quoted
as saying
"The Australian motto is 'Live without
work'. The current war is a kind of punishment
for the Australians who thought only of pleasure..
.....Although Australia is receiving help from
America under the Lease-Lend arrangement, Aus-
tralians dislike Americans".
On October 2 Batavia said that there were two
Americans divisions in Australia. "American troops
are popular among Australians girls because they are
lavish spenders......there have been many fights be-
tween American and Australian soldiers....In July
over 200 casualties occurred in a clash between Aus-
tralian and American troops."

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
IL
-4-
American troops."
On October 5 Batavia that "Inaicision, Doubt
and Distrust had assailed"Allied leaders". After
saying that Hitler's speech reflected unity of pur-
pose among Axis leaders, Batavia continued as follows:
"When one Allied leader makes a statement,
it is denied or criticized by all the others.
Stalin erpects a second front. England and
America encouraged Russia to go on fighting and
now they have no intention of honoring their
obligations. Canada is appalled at the sacri-
fice of Canadians at Dieppe and is furious be-
cause details were delayed in an attempt to min-
imize the truth. Australia knows now that her
best troops were taken t fight in the iddle
East, when they should have been preparing to
defend their own country aguinst the advance of
Nippon".
Batavia on October 7 referred to General acArthur's
announcement that Japanese forces nad landed in Guadal-
canar and said:
"The Australian public is expressing
great anxiety as to the outcome of the bat-
tle in the Solomons. The Japanese are land-
ing considerable forces in Guadalcanar and
there is no doubt that such forces could not
have landed without a considerable naval
engagement.
The successful landing of the
Japanese forces reveals either that the Allied
strategy is bad or that the Allied fleets are
no longer able to prevent sucn operations".
The above quoted paragraph proves that the Jap-
anese are very well informed and that they have a good
understanding of Australian public opinion. Ques-
tions showing this alleged anxiety to be a fact among
many people are asked every day in the clubs end on
the streets of Melbourne.
On October 10, after a long commentary on the
nows and on Australian internal conditions, the speaker
said, "It is still not too late for Australia to save
herself if she will only realize Nippon's true tonar-
rigumi spirit and see that she and other countries
will only suffer from the imperialism of Britain and
the United States".
Respectfully yours
Walter A. Foote,
American Consul General.
File no. 820.02
WAF/waI

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 5.
MAIL
Consul General at Batavia, Java,
Temporarily at Melbourne, Australia,
October 26, 1942.
C
SUBJECT: Reports on Japanese propaganda.
34
H C
S
S
The Honarable,
A
194
THSecretary of State,
N
RE
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to forward today two reports,
despatches nos. 3 and 4,concerning Japanese propa-
894.20200/7
ganda, especially as it is being directed from Ba-
tavia, Java.
I shall be most grateful if the Departuent will
kindly inform me if such information is of any use,
or if any part of it would have been worth cabling.
A long list of reports, concerning the recon-
struction of Java, Sumatra, and other parts of the
Netherlands Indies is now being prepared. These
are based on broudcasts from Batavia and on conver-
sations with persons who have recently escaped from
Java.
The reports based on the conversations re-
ferred to will cover such subjects as the attitude
of the natives of the Indies towards Japan's efforts
to win them over; the success of the Dutch scortched
earth policy; re-building of the railroads and high-
ways; reconstruction of factories, etc.
In the reports which are to follow, I shall in-
clude personal comments and the comments of others
concerning any Japanese statements which are know to
be untrue, especially where reconstruction efforts
FILED
of the Japanese are concerned.
I shall be most grateful if the Department willl
give me the benefit of its ctiticism or some indi-
cation as to what would be useful in estimating the
situation.
PS
VWalter A. Foote,
American Consul General.
File no. 820.02
tial File
WAF/waf
THS

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
July 86, 1943
My dear Mr. Langer:
I refer to your letter of June 22, 1943 under cover
of whieh you were so good as to forward to Mr. Herbert J.
Cumings a copy of R & A No. 890, "Japanese Infiltratiem
Among the helime Throughout the World".
894.20200/11
The Department has found the report of especial
interest, and in view of the importanes of the probl
disoussed trerein, it would appreciate it if you could
furnish it another copy. Tis copy as well as the one
proviously furn!shed wili, of course, be kept in the
Department's confidential files.
On page 5 of the report it is stated that "The faots
cited have been singled out fram the dotailed and amply
documented regional studies on the subject which will
appear in full in the form of apecial amexes". The
Dopartment wou ld be ratefil if it migt also have copios
of those speoial annexes w on they are available.
P
Sincerely yours,
S
S/TL
Frodoriok B. Lyon
Executive Assistant to
Assistant Secretary Borle
Mr. Will lam L. Len er,
Director, Brer ch of
Researcl. & Anal sis,
of ice of Strateric Ser ices
A rue copy of
A-B/L:EVF:VA

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.89)
(s)
July 18, 1943
894.20200/12
Goar De. Langer:
I have reeesved the cepy of R & A Ne. e90, es-
titled "Jepanese Imriltration Among the Meslins Threegh-
ent the Werld", tranemitted undr oover of your letter
et Juse 24, l943. I have read the dooument with great
intsrost and appreclate your kimdness 1n sending it to
sheer
Sincerely yours,
PS/TL
Paul H. Alling
Chief, Divislon of Near Eastern Affairs
William L. Langer, Ph.p..
Direetor, Branch of Researoh & Analysis.
Office of Strategio Servises,
Washington (25), D. C.
0V7
JL.
NE/LB

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
450
DC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DIVISION
STATE
INESE AFFAIRS
DATE:
May 12, 1944
sumJict: Indictment f
Americang babadcaating for the Japanese.
FW
DIVISION OF
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Edward
Division, Department of Justice.
894.20200/14
Mr. Perkins, CA.
COPIES TO:
May 15, 1944
FWY
1—1408
An officer of CA telephoned Mr. Ennis on May 9
and referred to the report from the Embassy at Chungking
1n which information was given concerning Americang who
have broadcast for the Japanese at Shanghai. Mr. Ennis
1ndicated that the collection of evidence in such cases
was generally undertaken by the F.B.I. (to whom a copy
of Chungking's despatch no. 1446, August 7, 1943 had pre-
viously been sent), but that proseoution of such cases
was a matter for other divisions in Justice. Mr. Ennis
said that he would be glad to have a copy of Chungking's
report for consideration and said that he would later
inform us of the War Division's views on the matter.
AUG 22 1944
Confidential File
SEP 2 6 1944
CA: Perkins:MLS
FILHD

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.88)
CONFIDENTIAL
The Bearetary ef State
presente his complimente
the Benerable the Attermey Gemeral pnd emeleses for the
894.20200/14
af Jeeslee, a eopy ef a dospateh from the Amerleen ls
catstieg
whe Breadeast for the Eaomy".
Eaclosure:
From Eabassy Changking
No. 1448, Amgust 7, 1943.
721
CA:TLPIMHP
SE
FC
Le
arist
PS/HS

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 14, 1943
Reference Chungking's underlying
despatch no. 1446, August 7, 1943, 1n
regard to proposed prosecution of
Amerioan citizens in Shangha1 who broad-
cast for the enemy.
FC has sent a copy of the despatch
to FBI. Mr. Nicholas, PD, states that
FBI has been keeping a file on the men
mentioned and will continue to follow
the cases. Sufficient evidence must of
course be secured to justify indictment.
The possibility was mentioned that
Americans returning on the Gripsholm
might be able to furnish additional
evidence; Mr. Nicholas said that he be-
l1eved that FBI would have this in mind.
VISA DIVISION
1945
FILE
894.20200/14
PEPACTHENT OF STATE
FE:Perkins:MFH

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FOREIGN ACTIVITY CORRELATION
9-13-43
m. Parkina
Mr. richolas of
PD
has taken a copy of
Chunghings no.1446 for
his "broadcastere file." He
states there is mo need to
send this to Justice as
mo mee mames are
FILD
PEDATNENT OF STATE

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, August 7, 1943.
E2
No. 1446
Subjeot: Proposed Prosecution of American Citizons
5.1044.
AIR MAIL
0
BRe
CONFDENTIAL
PA
22en.
LECAL ADER
x
SThe Semretary of State
195
Washington, D. C
SEP 131943
MLNT
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dr. Hollington K. Tong, Vice Minisder of Information,
has brought to our attention a news report that eight
Americans who have broadoast regularly from Germany and
Italy on behalf of the Axis were on July 26 indictod for
treason and has suggested that like action be taken
against Americans similarly engaged in the Far East.
The persons suggested for indictment by Dr. Tong are
George Bruoe, Frank Johnson, Tom Butler and Herbert Moy
who, he states, have been very aotive in broadoasting
for the enemy from Shanghai. A member of the Embassy
staff suggests the additional name of Don Chisholm.
While members of the Embassy have from time to time
received heersay reports in regard to the aotivities
along this line of some of the persons mentioned, we
are not in possession of definitive information in re-
gard to them exoept that Herbert Moy's news broadoasts
from Shanghai have often been heard here. Information
as furnished by Dr. Tong in regard to the persons he
811.20293
named is set forth on the attaohed sheet.
EE
p
FILED
It is the Embassy's opinion that indictment of these
Amerioans who have broadcast in the enemy's interest or
serviee from Shanghai or elsewhere in occupied arees
d1
SERJX01
PHOTOGRAPHIC SECTION
Respectrully yours,
SEP 8 1943
Departmemt of State
Georgd Atoheson, 
American Charge d'Affaires a.1.
DIVISION OF
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGE
03.2.194

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
Enolósure to despateh no. 1446
dated August 7, 1943, from the
Embassy at Chungking.
rank Johnson: Broadcasting the Walla Walla program over
German station XGRS in Shanghai; formerly assistant to
Carrol Aloott working for XMHA; adopted the pseudonym of
Pat Kelxy.
Horbert Moy: American-born Chinese; rumored that he has a
Japanese mother; has been in newspaper work since he returned
to China; formerly broadcasted over Shanghai station XíC,
owned by an overseas firm and later solu to the Shanghai
Evening Post and Meroury; left Fost on account of salary dis-
pute; as commentator for German station XoRs had air duel
with Carrol Alcott who accused him of treason; invited by
Colonel Akiyama, Chief of the Japanese Army Press Bureau in
2
Shanghai through Fritz Kordt, Counsellor of German Embassy
2.
in Shanghai, to join Japanese Service after China'c deolara-
also on the board of the Twentieth Century, a German monthly,
Noo Day Extra, German tabloid published in Shanghai, and
adviser to the German Bress Attache.
Tom Butler: Ex-Marine, former editor of the Shanghai Evening
Post and Mercury; rejected repatriation to eseape oonseription;
has Portuguese wife in Shanghai; made associate editor of the
Shanghai Evening Post and Meroury by Lieutenant Un of the
Japanese Army Press Bureau following the dismissal of George
Bruoe; broadoasted news over XMHC.
Gearmm Bruee: Friend or Lieutenant Umo after Pearl Harbor;
dsed the Japanese the re-epening of the office of the
ntial
may: asted from the Post by his
Àn July 12; his residence in Frenoh eon-
 alibi was that he wanted

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.92)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Security measures to be taken against efforts by Jananese to
obtain information.
894.20200/
5
15
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel.f169.70m
(Despatoh, telegram, instraction, letter, etc.)
Dated.Feb.?...1944
Sweden
To
Confide
894.2020m/
File No.
124.06/408A
0.. T   1180
eo

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.76)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
hilel -1
Celexa
C UjN laye

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
August 30, 1944
It ls belleved that my servant was reported (erági-
894.20200/8-3044
SEP 7- 19
DIVISION OF
him eontinue in my employ in London.
work for amother offioer of the Embassy he would elther
SEP
FILED
WH

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
sould be indnoed to do so.
With regard to Yang's alleged contacts with the
Japanese servant girl in Kabul, it is entirely possible
that he used this contact to tramsmit informatiem to the
has always had very frequeat relations with wemen. Ia
only weman of Yang's class was the Japanese servant girl.
Taken as an isolated fast, I should hardly have beem sur-
prised if he had been found consorting with her.
Another possibly suspicious fact in Iang's case is
that shortly before my departure from Londom Yang asked
me to keep his money in the Embassy safe due to the buss-
bemb attasks. When I consented, he produced the equivalest
of about $1, 200.00. As I am aware of the oconstant petty
trade carried on by all Chinese servants I thought little
of the matter, but toek oeoasion to warn Yang strongly
travelling moross frontiers. (On several oscasions in
the past I have been asked by Chinese servants of the
Eabessy at Moscow to safeguard up to as mueh as $s, 000 in
dspesited and mo withdrawals have been mmés.
Iang has always shown keen interest in the wer situe-
ropes.mle

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
-3
suprisals for his family. He seeme not to like the Mritish
my house because he had contemptwously laughed at their
belief in a possible German viotory.
Tang has never exhibited any real intelligenee ether
than the natural acumen of a Chinese. His English is very
weak and except for myself no one can make themselves
understood to him except on the simplest subjeots. Me ean
read very large English print of the most elemeatary kind.
He has never been known to relay a telephone message
accuratoly.
In relating all the factors pro as well as contra
Yang, as I believe them to be, I am not attempting to dis-
prove the allegations against him. Not only am I appar-
ently unaware of all the facts but also the charge is too
serious for me to take the slightest responsibility in the
matter. I do, however, have a responsibility to Yang to
produce both sides of the pioture to the best of my know-
lodge.
In the event that the authorities believe the charges
sufficiently well founded upon a study of all the imforme-
tien to refuse him permission to come to the United States
or to intern him, I would in no way endeavor to pretemt
his internment either here or in England. On the cöntary
I would welcome such action.
C.w.
Charles w. Thayer

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.94)
894.20200/9-1442
In reply reder to Initinde
and No.
CONFIDENTIAL
NAVY DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON
September 14, 1942.
My dear Mr. Lyon:
I am sending you herewith the propaganda fil
FILHD
member that I sent you two còpies of the developed photographe
several weeks ago.
1
6
tion, I am,
Sincerely youre,
BECLASSFED
E.O. 11652. Sec. 3(E) and 500) 
A.H.MoCollum.
OSD mtes. Muy 3. 1972
Mr. Frederick D. Lyon,
Special Division of the
Department of State,
ASTIVITY
CORRELATION
Washington, D.C.
Feia.
SEP 1 5 1942
Confidential File
00/9-1442
DCR-N Unit
DE
Anal.
Rev.
CONFIDENTIAL
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.73)
LWLATTOR.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.71)
...., TH "STARS AD 
HしLNL UF WAT
ZRLYWASU.S

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.63)
DEFE
1

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
BRID

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.62)
2

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.57)
8

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.65)
SST

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.72)
CT PURSIT OF ALMRIOAS TRUUT

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.65)
Cv

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.77)
ING FEATI QUICA.
BRIDOGK DESTH
1.5.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.79)
EIR MAROH IN DE POGGPINES,
T IRHT WITH GOCOANUT JUIGE.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
KE

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.54)
上

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.55)
N

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.64)
. LA

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.62)
BY BRITI

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.91)
7

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.59)
D

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.64)
LARBOR FROM

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
ar

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.79)
LAD OF BORNEO,WELOOME THE

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.78)
a

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.69)
JARAYESEA
so.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.60)
S

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.76)
AESE TROOR
NODMARD

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.84)
 FEAT: UICK BUILDILG OF HA EWAY
DG DEBTR  BY F..

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.71)
"

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.64)
Y ET 1.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.64)
41

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.56)
1

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
BOAD

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.63)
CANAIB F.NGE

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.53)
J

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.76)
1x
3

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.60)
4

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.70)
N
2

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.64)
1

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.90)
ARKER BFFA

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.54)
I

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.68)
111
/lw

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.68)
7

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.86)
0

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.59)
7

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.94)
7

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.88)
A
1

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.74)
4

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
0

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.70)
TAL
12
ni

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.83)
DINO
TORTE OURR

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.93)
ON DEC.8,1941.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.74)
DEL, TOLAND OP BORNDD

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.54)
3 1
问·

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.87)
JAPANBS ARLY
NOTED FOR I. JUDAE LL-

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.81)
JAPE

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.87)
1111

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.56)
A
31！

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.88)
APANRSE SOLOTRRS CROSSV

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.81)
ARRING
ERDO O

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.77)
19

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.73)
ATE

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.54)
4

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.67)
7.1

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
2

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.53)
R

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.74)
n

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
7

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.57)
3
TR

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.71)
TAP TCOPS LY SU

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.64)
J
PULDLBS 

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.83)
2
 PNNLFORC INO CAPJEULATC

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.79)
ALRICAN AIN

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVIGES
Office of
WASHINGTON, D. C.
FASTERN AFFAIRS
X-2 Branch
01181944
OC161944
DEPUTY DTHECTOR
Department of State
DIVISION OF
4-9035
October 12, 1944
20200/10-12
Memerandum for:
Mr. Jack D. Na1, Dept. of State
Sub ject:
Japanese propaganda
1. The attached booklet is forwarded for your information and
contains the joint declaration and the individual speeches of
the representatives for the Eastern nations made at the "Gpmat
East Asia" meeting held in Tokyo on November 6, 1943 at the
invitati of the Japanese government. This book was published
by the Jajanese Legation, Lisbon for propaganda purposes.
1700
lill
DV. OF
CCT12104
Bernard A. Towell
X-2 Branch
CONFIDENTIAL
0cCT s0194

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
894.20200
/10-1444
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Information on deportation of santiago Sosuke
Sakai and atsu Ishikawa.
894.20200/10-1444
CS/HS
For the original paper from which reference is taken
//1697
See
(Despaloh, telegram, tastraction, letter, elc.)
Uct.14,1944
From/
Peru
Dated
740.00115 PW/10-1444
File No.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.94)
/i/s
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
8924.20202.D0k2. E.M./11-2044
File Designation
i.4-9088
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
Norcm be. 20, 1944
Date
G.55
From
Nexl
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions or records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
CIA/OSS
3/13/78
Authority
Daté
Mhn.
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GSA FORM 7117(2.72)
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.95)
1/i/s
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
894. 202021 LximE. E.M. /11 2044
C
File Designation
No 411
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
Norcmbm 29. 1944
Date
From
Chargking
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
CIA/Oss
3/13/78
Authority
Date
Mnn.
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GSAFORM 7117 (2.72)
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.94)
(/1/s)
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
844 20200 Deme, E M./11-2044
File Designation
No 366
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
Novernbre 129, 19444
Date
From
Moseono
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
CIAloss
3/13/78
Authority
Date
Mked.
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GSA FORM 7117 (2-72)
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.96)
EC/JON
GAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
DCR
tederal Bureau of Inuestigation
RHOBIVAL
7
JA
DIVISION OF
Mashington 25, D. C.
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
NBV 2.94
Date:
November:
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Berle,
Assistant Secretary of State
Resr
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
894.20200/
Subject:
INFORMATION CONCERNING JAPANESE
GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES
The Bureau has received four books in the Japanese language which were
published in Tokyo, Japan, and which may be of value to your office.
The title and general contents of these books are as follows:
1. "Tactics For The Continent" - This book deals with the viewpoint of
the Japanese concerning their war against China and possible war
against Russia. Information is set out concerning the military de-
11-2244
fenses of Vladivostock, Russia.
2.
"Japan's Place In This Great Chaotic World" - This book was written
by Sadaichi Muto, who is said to be a Japanese military commentator.
The book, edited and published in September, 1939, also deals with
the Japanese viewpoint during that period, toward the war against
China and the contemplated wars between other nations. The titles
of the six chapters are as follows:
m
A. "Blockade The British Or Attack The Russians?"
NOV 2 9 1944
B. "Attack The Russians?"
C. "How To Complete The Conflict Against China?"
DR.e it
or "The British Are Our Enemies Or Our Fans?"
D. "Strategic Blow Against The Bowels Of Unhappy Europe"
E. "Japanese Diplomacy Finds Itself In A Place Of Great
Responsibility"
F. "How Should Japan Reorganise Internally?"
Confidential File
3
"Instruction Mamual Of The Ministry Of Japanese Social Assistance"
This book was compiled by Ryuji Numasa, Chief of the Japanese Minis
of Social Assistance, and was published in July, 1938.
"South America" - This book was written by Seiso Mogami, who was
said to be a delegate of the Japanese Government who visited South
America with a Japanese Commission in 1940. This book, which was

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.97)
published in Tokyo, Japan, in September, 1941, deals with the
Japanese viewpoint towards economic and social problems in South
America. A portion of the book sets out information by which the
United States Army and Navy could dispatch troops to the Philip-
pine Islands, Alaska, Porto Rico, Hawaiian Islands, and the Paname
Canal Zone.
It is desired that you advise whether or not you are interested in
examining any of these books, bearing in mind that translations from Japanese
to English have not yet been made.
This information is being furnished to the Foreign Economic Adminis-
tration.
cc: Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
00.8
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Colonel Carter W. Clarke
(2)
