894.42700 Education. Correspondence Schools., Cultural Relations. Exchange Of Professors And Students. Attendance At Schools Of Japan Of Student Of The World. Admission And Visa Of Passports Of Official Students. Permission To Visit Schools (File 1665)
ID: 894.42700-1665   Pages: 12   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.42700-education-correspondence-schools
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 1.00)
In reply refer to
CU

My dear Mrs. Clark:

It is understood that in conversations with officers of the Department there has been developed a project involving a careful compilation and analysis of information concerning the Japanese program of cultural penetration of Thailand, Burma, Indo-China, Malaya, the Philippine Islands, the Netherlands, British and Portuguese East Indies and the Mandated Islands of the Pacific. This study will be based on materials located by yourself and on such documents as the Department is able to make available to you. It will take place during the period ending June 30, 1945 by which time you will furnish the Department with a report in final form, with at least an original and four carbon copies. The entire project will be carried out under the supervision of a designated officer of the Division of Cultural Cooperation, and the report is to be acceptable to the Department.

In return for your services and expenses in connection with the preparation of the above-mentioned report the Department will pay you the sum of $900.00, of which $300.00 will be payable on the certification of the supervising officer that approximately one-third of the report has been completed to his satisfaction, a further $300.00 upon similar completion of approximately two-thirds and the final $300.00 upon completion of the entire report.

In the event that circumstances beyond your control make it necessary for you to terminate this agreement before completion, or in the event that the Department finds it necessary to terminate it before completion, you will be reimbursed for any direct expenses incurred and for services already performed on a pro-rata basis. In the event that circumstances should require a postponement of the completion date, or that a report of greater

or lesser

Mrs. Ruth E. Clark,
2107 North Rolfe Street,
Arlington, Virginia.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-

or lesser scope than is now contemplated is found desirable, the completion date or the amount to be paid for the report, or both, may be changed by mutual agreement between the Department and yourself.

It is understood that all materials loaned to you for the preparation of this report will be returned to the proper owners, and that all other materials assembled, compiled or prepared by you will become the property of the Department of State. It is further understood that you undertake to observe such security precautions with regard to materials entrusted to you as the Department may require, and that you will not reveal to any unauthorized person any restricted, confidential or secret material or information which may come to your attention in connection with the study, under such penalties as are provided in the Espionage and other appropriate Acts.

It is further understood that no member of or Delegate to Congress, or Resident Commissioner, shall be admitted to any share or part of this contract or to any benefit that may arise therefrom, unless it be made with a corporation for its general benefit.

If the above terms are acceptable to you, please so indicate by signing this letter and the three copies thereof which are attached. You may retain the third copy for your own records; the original and two copies should be returned promptly to the Department.

Sincerely yours,

For the Secretary of State:

Assistant Secretary

Enclosures:
Three Copies.

I hereby accept the terms set forth in this letter, and agree to be bound thereby.

(Signature)

(Date)

(Rewritten to include penultimate paragraph. Re-initialing not necessary)

CU:DHS:FST MRP 1/8/45 Le BF JAP JA FE
CR
Jan 19 1945
Jan 22 1945

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
4102

TELEGRAM SENT

Department of State

PREPARING OFFICE WILL TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE MESSAGE:

State OIC Allotment X-4003

Clear

JUL 17 1947

894.42700/7-247

CS/A

894.42700/7-247

Dr. Samuel McRea Cavert

Federal Council of Churches, New York, New York

Reference your telegram July 2 addressed to the Secretary.

As you know whole question of interchange of persons between Japan and other countries is now before Far Eastern Commission for policy decision. Department is deeply aware of importance of reestablishing cultural ties between Japan and other countries earliest possible date; is fully aware of importance of conferences you mention; and is endeavoring in every way possible to expedite FEC decision. Toward that end it is bringing your telegram to attention of Commission at once. Department regards it unfortunate that absence of Japanese delegates at these conferences could in any way be interpreted that governments are impeding efforts of christian forces of world to strengthen international fellowship. However successful conclusion of delicate international negotiations on broader issues involved would appear preclude at present time requesting that any exceptions be made to general rule of not repeat not permitting movement of Japanese nationals prior to determination Allied policy decision.

Frank A. Schuler, Jr.
Associate Chief
Division of Occupied Areas

VADO: FASchuler, Jr./jg 7/11/47

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.89)
SECRET
NAVY DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INCOMING TELEGRAM

21CD JS SER Pd
Wux CD New York NY 208PM July 2 1947

George C Marshall

Secy Of State Washn

Upon authorization of the executive committee of the federal council of churches yesterday I urge that even if final policy cannot be immediately determined it is imperative MacArthur be notified there is no objection to clearance of Japanese pastor Kozaki to attend international missionary council meetings Canada beginning July 5 and Japanese youth delegation to attend world conference christian youth Oslo July 21. Am convinced absence of Japanese delegates will create widespread impression that governments are impeding efforts of christian forces of world to strengthen international fellowship.

Samuel McRea Cavert
350PM

DIVISION OF
SOCIAL ASIAN AFFAIRS
1947
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

DIVISION OF PUBLIC LIAISON
JUL 3 1947
R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

FILED
AUG - 3 1947
894.42700
CS/14-247

SECRET
NOV 1 1947
RECEIVED

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.88)
The Foreign Service Division of North American Affairs
of the United States of America
United States Political Adviser for Japan
Division of Financial Affairs
October 24, 1948
Department of State
No. 388
Tokyo, June 25, 1948
RESTRICTED
(For Department Use Only)
File JWS
JWS
894.42700 S. E
1/
Subject: Financing of Study Abroad from Japanese Military Credits.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
NOV 2 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.42700/6-2548
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
942700/6-2548
with
101949
442700/6-2548
RE
94.51
94.42700 S.E
1/
894.42700/6-2548
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
942700/6-2548
RESTRUCTED

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 368
June 25, 1948.

RESTRICTED
-2-

with which Japan is confronted as an occupied and defeated nation, there appears to be logic in having the Japanese government set aside a certain amount of its foreign credits for education of its youth abroad, unless some more practical method can be found for financing such study. Once such funds are found, careful consideration must be given to the selection of students, so that the greatest good will result in achieving the objectives of the Occupation. It is believed that the government's function should be limited to providing the funds, the selection of students being the responsibility of a committee of representative Japanese leaders chosen on a non-partisan basis.

Respectfully yours,

W. J. Sebald

Enclosure:
Clipping of article entitled
Investment for Leadership
from Nippon Times, June 3, 1948
(five copies).

Original and ozalid to Department.

842
WHLawrence,Jr.:mhp
RESTRICTED

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 588 dated June 25, 1948 from the Office of the Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject, "Financing of Study Abroad from Japanese Dollar Credits".

NIPPON TIMES: June 3, 1948

JOKYO, THURSDAY, JUNE 3, 1948

# Investment For Leadership

The newspapers have recently been conspicuously featuring reports of cases of Japanese students who have been authorized to go abroad to study. Such welcome reports come as a great encouragement to the Japanese people who eagerly await the breaking down of the cultural isolation which has so long kept them from sharing in the intellectual progress of the rest of the world.

But in relation to the tremendous need for the cultural stimulation of Japan, the number of students who have been authorized as yet to go abroad or who enjoy reasonable prospects of receiving such authorization in the near future is but a meager handful. It is only natural, of course, inasmuch as under present circumstances in which Japanese private individuals have no means of making payments abroad, the dispatch of students overseas is entirely contingent upon the generosity of foreign donors in providing scholarships and paying for the fares and expenses of these students.

The question therefore arises as to whether it would not be possible to arrange some official channel through which Japanese sources could pay for the expenses of Japanese students abroad, so that larger numbers could be sent without complete dependence on foreign donations. Of course, with Japan's present adverse trade balance, her deficient supply of foreign exchange can be drawn upon for only the most essential purposes. But is not education and the development of a democratically-enlightened populace an essential purpose?

Trade representatives are being sent to various parts of the world, financed out of Japan's meager dollar account, to promote foreign trade. This is obviously an essential purpose for which dollars can legitimately be spent, particularly as more dollars will eventually flow back in consequence.

But is not the establishment of a progressive and democratic Japan which will turn her back irrevocably on her evil past fully as essential as the promotion of foreign trade?

For what will it avail a nation to create material prosperity if it loses its own soul? And what better way of guarding against such an intolerable contingency is there than by providing the proper kind of education?

In order that large numbers of Japanese students may study in countries where they can receive the right sort of democratic education, it would seem to be eminently warranted for the Government to spare some portion of its dollar credits, precious though they may be, to finance foreign travel and study. It would be in the long run the cheapest form of investment for the creation of a supply of democratic leaders who would guide Japan in the proper path in the years to come. What would be more fitting than for the Government to devote a portion of its dollar income derived from foreign trade to setting up scholarships which will provide for all fares and expenses of study abroad?

To guard against the vagaries of favoritism and personal connections, recipients of these scholarships should be chosen strictly on the basis of merit through open competition. Furthermore, in order that the recipients will be those who can gain the maximum benefit from a limited period of study, the scholarships might be restricted to advanced students who have already shown definite promise in some nationally vital field of study instead of being open to the general undergraduate students. And in order that the benefits of this foreign study may be most widely and quickly disseminated after the students' return, some of these scholarships might be specially reserved for young instructors and assistant professors of the leading universities. But these are details which can be arranged later.

The important thing is to come to a realization that the need to send large numbers of students to study abroad is so vital to the nation as to warrant financing out of the Government's dollar funds. Once this need is fully realized, it should be possible to devise some means by which the necessary funds can be made available.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.92)
DCR
894.42700 SE/3-2248
CS/V
FILED
MAY - 1999
13-2248
594.42700 SE/3-2248
49
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

WAR DEPARTMENT
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
FORM DS-322
7-10-46
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
Charge Department
Charge to
Department of State
2 P.M.
CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROL
4825
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
TOKYO
JUN 21 1948
INFO ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER
220
At meeting of Steering Committee on June 15, 1948
SC-240/13, Interchange of Persons Between Japan and Other
Countries for Cultural Purposes, as modified by US amend-
ments in SC-240/15 was forwarded to Commission by vote of
six in favor to one (USSR) opposed. Australia, China, France
and Philippines abstained. Australian member indicated that
his abstention and future position of his GOVT toward this
paper and C2-293/3, Travel Outside Japan of Commercial Repre-
sentatives was clearly related to action that might be taken
on the following proposed policy decision (SC-309):
QUOTE The Far Eastern Commission decides as a matter of
policy that:
QUOTE (a) Before authorizing any Japanese to travel
abroad for any purpose SCAP should give adequate notice of
his intention, together with full particulars regarding the
individuals concerned and purpose of their travel, to the
missions in Tokyo of countries Members of the FEC.
QUOTE (b)
CONFIDENTIAL
CR CLEARANCE
894.42700 SE/6-2148
894.42700 S.E/6-2149
CS/A
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1948 760469

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
CLASSIFICATION
CONFIDENTIAL

INDICATE
Collect
Charge Department
Charge to

Department of State
Washington
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -

QUOTE (b) SCAP should furnish each month, to the missions in Tokyo of countries Members of the FEC, a list of all Japanese abroad, showing date of departure and reasons for travel.

QUOTE (c) No Japanese should remain abroad more than twelve months without the approval of the FEC. UNQUOTE.

SC-309 was retained on agenda of Steering Committee.

US will oppose this policy as unnecessary and infringing upon SCAP's executive authority. Details of instructions to US Member will follow.

At meeting of FEC on June 16, 1948, no action taken on Interchange paper in view of Chinese and Philippine general reservations.

With reference to FEC 280/6, Access to Japanese Technical and Scientific Information in Japan, US Member stated that he was still awaiting reply from SCAP as to implementation of policy decision so far as interpreters, translators and secretaries were concerned. Australian member urged that action on paper be taken at next meeting.

Reply received subsequently.

MARSHALL
FE
CONFIDENTIAL

NA: ALDunning/ggg
6/18/48

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 750662

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
De/R
894.42700 SE/10-1348
CSR

In reply refer to
NA

October 15, 1948

CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION

With reference to the Chinese proposal to delete
the last three words "under this program" of paragraph 3
of FEC 240/16, Interchange of Persons Between Japan
and Other Countries for Cultural Purposes, the United
States Member is authorized to state that his Government
cannot accept the deletion of any words which would have
the effect of implying that this paragraph operates
beyond the scope of the program described in the first
paragraph and set forth in the title.

Should the Chinese Member press for a vote on his
amendment and if it appears probable that a majority
of the members favor it, the United States Member is
authorized to agree to the deletion of the words provided
the paper is otherwise modified to make it clear
that all the provisions of this paper deal with the
program under consideration. To effect this end the
United States Member should propose that the words "for
such purpose" be inserted before "must" in line one of
paragraph 2; "travel abroad for such purposes" be inserted
before "should" in line three of paragraph 2;
and "such" inserted before "visits" in line one of paragraph 3.
Such modification of the paper is considered
consistent with the restriction included in the second
sentence of the first paragraph.

Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary

CONFIDENTIAL

FE: NA:ALDunning:jh 10/13/48 FE L POS
Clearend will be Stated in plane
AGD

3

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.84)
TMA-

The Visa Division informed me that a telegram went out on July 11th, clearing Kawai - so he should make his ship.

I have passed this information also up to Mar Bishop.

HL
