894.3472 Equipment And Supplies. Included Construction, Purchase And Sale Of Vessels. Repairs To Foreign Naval Vessels., Fuel., Japan, Oil., March 8, 1940 - August 3, 1940 (File 1201)
ID: 894.3472-1201   Pages: 68   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.3472-equipment-and-supplies-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF CONTROLS
MEMORANDUM
Maroh 8, 1940
Division of
AS
A
RA/
894.3472/20
Mr. Kersey Co of the Standard Vaouum Oil Company called
me by telephone from New York this afternoon. He said that
his oompany had been asked to quote on 15,000 barrels of
iso-ootane blending agent to be exported to Japan for use
by the Japanese Navy. He said that this quantity would
produce 30,000 barrels of l00-octane gas. He asked whether
I had any comment to make.
After consulting Mr. Hamilton of FE, I called Mr. Coe
again by telephone and told him that the Department had no
comment to make on the proposed transaction.
Mr. Coe said that, if his company did not quote, some
of its competitors would undoubtedly do so; that under
these ciroumstanoes his company probably would quote, and
that he would inform the Department of the ultimate deoision
F/A
of the company.
XX
1
Joseph C. Green
Co:JCG:HJG

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
81010A
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEWYORK
March 30 1940
STATF
March 27th, 1940.
REOELVED
Your Reference Co
844.3472
GPVESIGN DE
Division of
Mr. Joseph C. Green
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Chief, Division of Controls,
Department of State,
MAR 29 1940
Washington, D.C.
Denartment of Slate
894.3472/21
My dear Mr. Green:
We acknowledge with appreciation your
letter of March 26th, attaching a copy of the press
release of December 20th, 1939, No. 706, in respect to
the delivery to certain countries of plans, plants,
technical information, etc., required for the product-
ion of high octane aviation fuel. We shall appreciate
it if you will be good enough to advise us if and when
there is any modification of the present policy so that
we may be guided accordingly inasmuch as our Company is
actively engaged in marketing petroleum products in Japan.
Yesterday I had the pleasure of a telephone
conversation with Mr. Yost, in which I advised him that we
were authorizing our Yokohama office to quote to the Japan-
ese Navy through Mitsui & Company, on a blending agent, the
delivery of which from this country would be June and/or
July. This is the same prospective business in regard to
which I telephoned you about two weeks ago and the product
1s 15,000 barrels of 42 gallons of hydropolymer, which upon 
blending, will result in approximately 30,000 barrels of 100
FILED
Octane.
10
to follow the wishes of the State Department in respeot to
the sale of certain products into Japan, and consequently,
in our cable to Yokohama, in which we authorized the quotation,
we incorporated the following clause:
"Subjeot to the usual protective olauses and to any govern-
mental regulation, request or other aotion because of which
we may deem it inadvisable to effect delivery in whole or
in part against this tender if acoepted."
Mr. Yost assured us that this would be acoeptable and as we see
1t, it provides for whatever pontingenoy might arise prior to

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Mr. J.C.Green.
March 27/40.
commencement of the delivery date, in case we are awarded
the business.
We shall be pleased to communicate with you at a
later date if our tender is accepted.
Yours very truly,
Nermy 4. 6or
KFC:M
Kersey F. Coe.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.95)
March 90 1940
Xm roply refer to
My dear Mr. Coe:
I moknowledge the receipt of your letter of
894.3472/2
Maroh 27, 1940, regarding the policy of this Government
with respoet to the further delivery to cert in countrles
of plans, plants, menufacturing righte or teohnioal
information required for tre production of high quality
2
aviation gasoline. You also refer to your Company'
negotiations for the anle of F gasoline blending agont
for export to Japan.
It 1s noted that in your letter you state that this
blending agent is hydropolymer. I assume that this
material is the same as the iso-ootane blonding agent
whion you referred to in our telephone oonversation of
Maron 8.
I appreeiate your eoeperation in keeping the Depart-
ment informed of the pregress of your Company's megetia-
tions for the sale of thie blending agent. The Departmemt
will
F/N
Sirk, New York.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.89)
-2
mal eavime your Gompeny 1f there should be ay masss.
siem ef the abeve-mentlened peliey.
I hould  appresiate it 1f your Company coulé
fi is convemient to furnish the Department with such
imfermation as you may have avallable regarding fasll-
itims in the Netherlands East Indies for the production
of regular and aviation gasoline. It has been informally
reported to the Department that a plant for the produesion
of aviation gasoline is being construeted by your Company
Im Sumatra. The confirmation or refutation of this report
together with any other information whioh you may wish to
usmiah the Department will, I am sure, prove most helpful
to a stady that is being made of gasoline produsing
faellities abroad.
Sincerely yours,
Joseph C. Greem
Chief, Division of Gontrele
ean OR
MAR 20 1040F
kb

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
Dril 15 1940
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEWYORK
894.3472
April 9th, 1940.
MR.
Your Reference
Co
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Fe
Mr. Joseph C. Green,
Chief, Division of Controls,
Department of State,
A
Nua
Washington, D.C.
nnm/na0
My dear Mr. Green:
me
894.3472/22
I regret that circumstances beyond my control
have prevented acknowledging before this the receipt of
your letter of March 30th, which I now do with much pleasure.
While we first expected to bid on iso-octane as
a blending agent, it subsequently developed that a hydro-
polymer, mentioned in our letter of March 27th, would be the
only product available for the business in question. You
are probably aware that there are several different types of
blending agents now being manufactured and that they all
accomplish the same result with varying degrees of efficiency.
Since our letter of March 27th, we have been ad-
vised that our quotation on 15,000 barels of 42 American
gallons, has been aocepted. Consequently, we expect to de-
JUN 8-1
liver against this contract unless circumstances arise which
FILED
cause us to feel that it is undesirable to do so.
1940
The Nederlandsche Koloniale Petroleum Maatschappij,
a wholly owned subsidiary Dutch Company of Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company, has a refinery at Palembang, Sumatra, and amongst
other petroleum products it is producing approximately
6,000,000 barrels a year of standard grades of motor car fuel.
In addition, the N.K.P.M. will very shortly produce approxi-
mately 45,000 tons per annum of high octane aviation gasoline.
Against the latter there is a three year contract for a minimum
of 20,000 tons and a maximum of 35,000 tons per'annum with the
British Air Ministry, in respect to which the British Govern-
ment has advised that for the first year of operation, it will
take the maximum quantity of 35,000 tons.
If the State Department feels that we oan be of
further service, we shall be pleased to cooperate to the
fullest ertent.
Sincerely yours,
Keumy F. bor
Kersey 7. Coe.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.93)
April 15 1940
In reply refer to
standard-Vaeuum O1l Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
Sirs:
894.3472/22
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of April 9,
1940, regarding your company's negotiations for the sale
of a gasoline-blending agent for export to Japan.
It is noted that you state that your quotation on
15,000 barrels of hydropolymer has been accepted. It
would be appreciated if you would inform the Depertment
at the time these shipments are made in order that our
statistieal reeords may be kept up to date.
The information whieh you furnish regarding the
faellities of your subsidiary company for produeing rege-
Lar and eviation gasoline in the Netherlands mst Imftes
is areatly appreciated.
1940
Tory truly yours,
For the Secretary of state:
nal.
C~O
dusnn

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
EMASER
CNUMIC AFFNIES
11940
APRT1940HF
DeRL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
(HOC:EG)
B. R. JACKSON
nfidential.
620 Fifth Avenue
New-York, March 28, 1940.
Communicated by Mr. Ashton-Gwatkin.
REOEIVED
10
Division of
EASTERN AFFAIRS
Srr H. O. Chalklek.c...R.E.
-40
894.3
Comtarcial Counserior,
British'Embassy,
Dopartment of 
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir Owen,
4
The sele by Anglo-Iranian to Mitsubishii, Japan
7
of about 120,000 tons of Iranian crude oil to be deliveredN
over a year, beginning last February, has evoked some
2
comment in oil circles here.
3
In the past the Japanese attempted from time
to time to persuade the large international companies to
sell them crude oil. Shell, Standard of New Jersey and
Anglo-Iranian have hitherto always declined to sell crude,
although they have disposed of products in this quarter.
In the present cases the buvers made a direct
approaoh to the Iranian authorities, who made it clear to my
894.3472
Company that they could see no reason for our refusing to
make an offer for the business, having regard to their
desire for an increase in the production of Iranian crude
oil. It will be appreciated that War conditlons have in-
volved a diminution in Iranien production, so that the
attitude of the Tranian Government is quite understandable.
Before we quoted for this business, we formally
advised Shell and Standard of New Jersey of our intentions.
Some of my oil friends have told me that the
matter was mentioned to then in the course of disoussians
with the State Department in Washington, where, apparently,
0

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
there was some speculation as to whether the sale might
not be the opening move in a policy of rapprochement between
H. M. G. and Japan.
I need hardly say that to the best of my
knowledge and belief the sale is entirely devoid of any
political significance and was made at the instance of the
Iranian Government.
I am writing to you on the subject in case you
may think it worth while mentioning the circumstances under
which the transaction was effected, to the State Department,
on some appropriate occasion within the near future.
In view of current oil exports from California
to Japan, the criticism which I understnd has been levelled
in this country at my Company appears illogical.
I and my associates would be particularly grate-
ful for anything you feel disposed to do with the object of
correcting any false reports which nay come to your knowledge
I have been approached by the New York Times on
the subject so there may be some mention of the metter in
the press.
Y urs sincerely,
(Sgd.) B. R. JACKSON.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
MAR 31 1940
S COMMENT
New York Times
Without knowing all details, it
is impossible to determine the rea-
and London Get To-
sons that prompted the conclusion
of the British-Japanese oil deal.
on 1,000,000-Barrel
Despite the lapse of the trade
Delivery From Iran
treaty, commerce between the
United States and Japan is being
carried on normally. California
still is able to supply Japan's oll
POLICY OF U. S. A FACTOR
requirements an'd is better located
geographically for that purpose than
is Iran. Consequently, it is believed
Trade-Treaty Lapse Effect
that tho British transaction with
Japan must have involved a price
Analyzed—Persia, Too, May
concession or political considere-
tions, or both.
Have Swayed Britain
The fact that the transaction was
concluded against the background
of months of British-Japanese dif-
By J. H. CARMICAL
ferences and diplomatic protests
An oll transaction probably hav-
suggests that a rapprochement be-
tween these two powers may be in
ing important political and eco-
the offing. Only last Thursday, the
nomic signifigance recently was
British Ambassador to Tokyo in a
concluded bytween the Japanese
speech told a Japanese audience
and British Governments. Through
that "it is not beyond the powers
the Anglo-Itanian Oll Company, a
of constructive statesmanship to
majority of whose stock is owned
bring the aims of British and Japa-
by the Britiah Government, the sale
nese policy into full harmony.'
of about 1,060,000 warrels of crude
Iranian Pressure Hinted
oll produced Ag Iran has been made
to Japan.
Another version of the deal is that
Already one cargo of about 100,000
it was forced on the British Gov-
barrels: has been shipped in a
ernment by the Iranian Govern-
ment. In this connection, it is
dotif..
tanker chartered from Norwegian
interests from Abadan, a port at
stated that the Japanese Govern-
the head of the Persian Gulf, to
ment approached Iran authorities
for the purchase of oil supplies. As
Tokohama, where it is to be refined
by the Mitsubishi Oil Company.
a result of the European situation,
the demand for oil from Iran had
After processing, it is understood
declined mubstantially and conse
most of the products will be taken
quent!y the Anglo-Iranian Oil Com-
by the Japanose Government.
pany had reduced its output.
Discussions for the purchase of
At present nearly every political
Diesel oll and other products from
entity is interested in obtaining
the Anglo-Irahian Oll Company are
more revenue. In that royalty pay-
said to be under way. In addition,
ments are based on production, the
Prea.
Japanese interests are negotiating
Iranian Government is said to have
for oil supplies from Mexico and
insisted that the British Govern-
Venesuela.
ment make the deal with Japan.
Factors in Japan's Policy
Thus, in order to avold any further
Petholoum
friction in the year East, it is em-
Abrogation of the apanese trade
phasized that there was virtually
treaty mst Jahyary by the United
States Government and the fear of
no other courge left to the British
additional pressure by Washington,
Government than to oanclude the
deal. Only a few years ago the
a resuly of Japen's philitary ao-
Iranian Government canceled the
tiesties in China, are bélleved to be
concession of the Anglo-Iranian Oil
actors in Tokyo's desire to make
Company and the British Govern-
for our supplies outalde
ment suoceeded in getting it re-
reaprange
instated only after agreeing to more
afteat the Pa-
advantageous terms to Iran.
For sevesal months Greet Britain
has been much sonoarned over ship-
ments of oll from the Paeifle Coast

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Potroloum.
Imports of - into Japan and Manchuria during 1957-1939-
Figures regarding - submitted.
894.3472/ 24
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memorandum
(Despatoh, telegram, lastruction, letter, eto.)
From 0∞ Moseley
Dated Apr11 23, 1940
To
File No.
894.24/906

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
OF
'Jume 5, 1940
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPAN
26 BROADWAY
NP
RECEIVED
JUN 61940
May 29th, 1940.
DIVIGION OF
Your Reference Co
Mr. Joseph C. Green,
B
Chief, Division of Controls,
894.3472/2
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Green:
22
As noted in our letter of April 9th,
we sold 15,000 barrels of 42 American gallons, of
a blending agent to Japan. Subsequently, this
quantity was increased to 15,000 drums of 53 Ameri-
can gallons and as requested in your letter of April 15th,
5
we take this means of notifying you that 4,0o0 drums of
the 15,000 were shipped from San Francisco on the Japan-
ese Navy tanker "Kenyo" on May 20th.
As yet we have no advice as to when the balance
of ll,ooo drums will be lifted but as soon as it is, we
shall have pleasure in informing you.
If the State Department feels that we can be
of any further service in this respect, we shall be pleased
if you will notify us.
Very truly yours,
JUN 2  1940
Kerbmy F. 6or
FILED
KFC:M
Kersey F. Coe.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.91)
ply refer to
ane 5, 1940
My deer Mr. Coe:
894.3472
I aeknowledge the receipt of your letter of May 89.
1040, regarding the export of a gasoline blending agent
to Japam by your company.
It 1s noted that the 15,000 barrels of hydropolymer
of 42 Ameriomn gallons eaoh, whioh you informed the
2
5
Department in your letter or April 9 had been sold by
your oompany for export to Japan, has now been inoreased
to 15,000 drms of 53 American gallons eaoh. It 1s further
- moted that 4,000 drums were exported to the ∞untry in
questiom on May 20, and that you will inform the Department
whem the remaining 11,000 drums shall have been exported.
Your kindness in furmishing the Department with this
Laformatiom is greatly appreclated.
sineerely yours,
For the seeretary of state:
2ax
OR
JON
5
1940 PM
Jeseph G. Greem
ryum

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.93)
OVER
Federal Bureau of Jnveatigation
United States Department of Justice
PERSONAL AND
Mashington, D. U.
OLVISION OF
JUNY
Jale
194
PA/H
ω
DEIANIMENI OI
JUN 12 1940
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
MR. BERLE
Assistant Secretary of State
894.3472/26
Department of State
OF
Washington, D. C.
FLLASTERN ALLRS
hed
DearyMr. Berle:
inCo
I am transmitting herewith, as of
gible interest, a copy of a statement
N ofdated June 8, 1940, containing information
with regard to the purchase of aviation
894.347
gasoline by a Japanese company, allgedly
DIVISION 
for use by the Japanese navy.
1:1940
I will be pleased to have con-
ducted such investigation concerning thits
matter as you may desire.
DEPAR
Sincerely yours,
FILED
ON POLTI
DVISER
Mh
Inclosure
DEPARTMENT OF ST
DECLASSIFIED
Juotee Daportment Guidalines, d-27-1954
F/N
By 21G
NARS, Date 5.46198

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
Federal Bureau of tnuestigation
United States Department of Justice
Mashington, D.C.
Juno 8, 1940
MDNCRANDUM
W. E. Logan, tax lamyer, Soarritt Building, Kansas
City, Wiesouri, was contacted recently by one Blodgett of
the Hede Oil Company, Dwight Building, Kansas City, Missouri,
upan which occasion Logan was asked to act in the capacity
of broker for the sale of one million gallons of aviation
gasgline a month, over a twelve-month period, to the
Taiyo Se Kiyu Kaisha Company, Tokyo, a Japanese corporation.
It was indieated that this gasoline is destined for use by
the Japanese navy and, according to available information,
negotiations are being affested for a twelve-month period,
as indicated above, with an option for a two-year renewal.
It is reparted that two representatives of the
above named corporetion arrived in California from Japan
about one month age, at which time they contasted attorney
Milton Cohen, Taft Building, Los Angeles, with regard to
their afforts to purchase gasoline. Cohen arranged for
negotiations between these representatives and the Hess
Oll Cempany, of Kansas City. Blodgett, of the Hess Oil
Cempany, perfested arrangoments whereby Logan would
arrange to purehass the desired gasoline from other oil
companies in the United States. Logan has alreedy oon-
tested representatives of the Gulf Oil Company and the
Phillipe Petroleum Company, being now in a position to
megotiste a final contrast for furnishing the desired
amsunt of gasolime as soon as the two Japanese repre-
sentatives arrive in Kanses City, Missouri, for the pur-
pose of alosing the deal.
eme Yammaguehi and sliji Matousaki. These individuals were,
an Jase 6, 1940, stopping at the william Pemm Hotal in
Pitteburgh, Pesnsylvamie, presumably for the parpose of
conferring with ome Hammerle, heed of the export divimiem
of the Galr Oil Gempemy, although they were saheduled to
meet Legen in Kaness City on the last memtiened date.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Information has been obtained that an individual by
the name of Perry P. Shultz accompanied the two Japanese repre-
sentatives in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on June 6, 1940. In-
formation as to the identity or status of Shults is not pos-
sessed, but hie entry upon the scene has lle,redly ceused
Logan to suspect that the asoline being purchased is
ultimately being destined for Ger:man use. According to
available information, Lo an possesses no additional data
concerning the Taiyo Se Kiyu Kaisha Company, although he has
allegedly indicated that the Japanese government usually
purchases gasoline for its navy through the firm of Mitsui
and Company.
It is reported that when this deal is closed, the
gasoline will be shipped from the ref ineries of the above
mentioned oil companies in the United States to Houston,
Taxas, in tank cars, at which place it will be put in drums, and
sealed, painted, and stenciled for subsequent shipment to
Japan at the rate of twenty thousand drums a month.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
In reply refer to
A-B
June 13, 1940
PERSONAL AND
COMPIDENTIAL
894.3472/26
Dear Mr. Hoover:
I acknowledge with appreciation the receipt
394.3472
1940 transmitting a copy of a statement dated
Jume 8, 1940 containing information with regard to
the purohase of aviation gasoline by a Japanese
company, allegedly for use by the Japanese Navy.
Sincerely yours,
Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Seeretary
The Honcrable
J. Mdgar Hoover,
Direetor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justiee.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.90)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DIVISION OP
DIVISION
THE AMENCAN HEOLUU
RAW
FROM
PLAIN
JUL111940
Tampico
Dated July 1, 1940.
REc'd. 1:22 p.m
Division or
FAR EASTERN AMFAIRS
Divisicnof
SEcretary of State,
FAR EASTERN ARS
1940
Washington.
01010
Department of State
Denc tment of Ste
July 1, 11 a.m.
JapanEsE tanker TOA MARU arrivEd Tuxpan twEnty-ninth
894.3472/27
in ballast and lEft thirtiEth for Shimozu, Japan, via
Panama with Eighty-ninE thousand barrels crudE pEtrolEum.
Embassy advised.
COLLINS
JUL 12 1940
Teletyped to Navy  lo Lnd
FILED
10000445 m 71.4012:
WSB
F/A
DE AT
LIAINICE
1940
1701
4
D

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.92)
HOOVER
fOR
X
Federal Bureau of Daurstigation
Anitrd States DepartmendHarJustire
Mahinoton, .DPARIMENI OF SIh:
OF
ach6-25-toweB
CO
C
PERSONAL AND
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
894.3472/28
My dear Mr. Berle:
Reference is made to my letter dated
June 10, 1940, with which I transmitted a memo-
randum dated June 8, 1940, containing informa-
tion with regard to the purchase of aviation
gasoline by a Japanese company, allegedly for
the use of the Japanese Navy.
I am transmitting herewith a copy of
a memorandum dated June 15, 1940, which contains
complete information developed by this Bureau
to date concerning the same subject matter.
Sincerely yours,
Enclosure
Sm
F/N
DECLA IFILD
Justke Departneut Guidelines, N-27-A984
By RIG
NARS, Date 5.16.1984

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.91)
Jun 15, 1940
MEMORANDUM
Iaformtion was obtained from Mr. W. B. Logan, tax
atterney, Searritt Building, Lansas City, Missouri, to the effeet
that he was reeently engaged by the Hess Oil Company, Kansas City,
Missouri, to purebase one million gallons of aviation gasoline
per menth for the Taiyo Seliyu Kaisha, Limited, of Tokyo, Japan,
on a contract covering a period of one year with the provision
that at the end of the firat twelve monthe the contract may be re-
newed for an additional period of twenty-four monthe. At the time
Mr. Legan was engaged by the Hess Oil Company in this matter, it
was his understanding as well as the underatanding of the Hess
O11 Company that the above saseline was being purohesed by the
Taiye Sekiya Kaiahe, Limited, for the use of the Japanese Navy.
Mr. Legas edvises that he has made arrangements through the
Phillipe Petreloum Company and the Culf Oil Company to purohase
the gaeelime.
It is reperted that Shoji Matsusaki and one Yammaguchi,
first meme unknewn, representatives of the Taiyo Sekiyu Kaisha,
Limited, arrived in Les Angeles, California, from Tokyo, Japaa,
about Apri1 30, 1940, and contacted an atterney by the mame of
Mlltem Cohen with referesse to the purehase of this saseline.
Cobem them eetacted the Hess Oil Company at Kamsas City, Missouri,
which in turn centasted Mr. Logan for the purpese of mmking arrange-
meats with Ameriean cempanies to purebase the gaselime.
On abost Jume 6, 1940, Mr. Logan ebtained infermation
threagh the Hess Cll Cempany at Kamees City, Missouri, to the
effeet that eme Peery P. Sahalts le aseselated in this deal with
Tammageehd and She ji Mateneaki. It is reperted that Sehalts is
peesibly a German ageat and that the German goverament is the
real pureheser of this paselime.
tr. Legan iatleatee that the present plan lo to aseemble
thls gaealime Ia tank eare at Hoston, Tomns, whore it wdl1 be
trenaforred to drone and than plaoed abeard à ahip beand for
theusand drme per moas.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
It is reperted that Perry P. Sehalts has Lived in Japan
fer many yeare and that he reeestly was adaitted to the staff of
the Taiye Sokiya Katake, Limited, mhieh cempany allagedly has a
brassh efflee in Lee Angeles, Galifernia, keowm as the Taiye or
Taije Cempaxy, whieh has apparently been listed in the Les Angeles
telepheme direetery for the past six monthe only. It is also re-
perted that Perry P. Sehalts has & brother, name unknowa, who is
a resident of Les Angeles, California.
Mr. W. E. Logan advises that a cemunication was ad-
dressed to a Mr. Blodgett of the Hess Oil Company conteining
infermation to the effect that Perry P. Sehults passed through
Lansas City, Missouri, via airplame on about June 1, 1940, en
route to Detroit, Mishigen, for the purpese of purchasing a
Chrysler automobile from the Chrysler Motor Company for his
brother in Los Angeles, California. Perry P. Sohults, after
parehasing the automobile, was then to proceed to Pittsburgh,
Pennaylvania, where be was to contast Yampaguohi and Shoji
Mateusakd, as previously arranged, at the William Penn Hotel.
It is balieved that Sehults, Yampaguchi and Mateusaki contacted
Mr. H. R. Hammarle of the Culf Oil Company, Pittsburgh, Pemmaylvania,
daring the past week for the purpose of placing a large order for
lubrieating oil, which is a separate deal frem the one they are
presently negetiating with kr. Logan concerning the purehase of
the avistion gaseline.
It is further reported that $500,000 in cash is on
depesit in the Yokehama Spesie Bank in San Franaisco as cellateral
for the Letter of credit of the Taiyo Sekiyu Kaisbe, Limited, and
that thie ameunt will pey for at least a three monthe' supply of
the geseline to be purehesed under the preposed contrest. Mr.
Legan, whe was amgaged in this matter by the Hess O11 Compasy at
Kanses City, Misseuri, repertedly contacted Major Billy Parker,
Mamager of the Aviation Department, Phillipe Petreleum Company,
Bartleeville, Oklabema, by telephone and correeponded with Mr.
H. R. Hammerle of the Culf Oil Company, completing arraagemente
for the dellvery of the geselime whenever Tammaguahi, Matousakd and
Sabalts arrive in Kansss City to alese the deal.
Investigatien wme oubeequestly cendusted by the Pitte-
bargh affiee af thie Bareau and it wee aseertaimed that Perry P.
Sehalss and Sheji1 Matousakd reglstored at the William Ponn Hetel,
Pistobarah, Pomnay1vania, on Jame 2, 1960, and aboobod out on
Jume 5, 1940. Porry P. Sahalts, upon reglotering at the hotel,

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.88)
-3-
pave hie addrese as 752 Nerth Heliotrepe, Los Aageles, Callforaia.
There was m fermarding adtress for Shoji Mateusaki.
An exemimation of the reserde of the Federal Reserve
Bank of San Praneisse, Califernle, by the San Pransisso affiee
of this Bareeu diselesss a telegraphie transfer of $500,000 on
April 27, 1960, by the Guaranty Trest Company of Wow Yerk through
the Federal Reserve Banks of New Yerk and San Fransisse. This
trensfer wes made to the Bank of California at San Fransiseo,
Califormis, for the ascount of the Yokohame Spesie Bank of San
Fransisee wpon the order of the Yokohems Spesie Bank of Wew Terk.
This transestien has not as yet been identified with the Taiye
Sekiyu Kaiaha, Limited, but full detaile conceraing same will
be ebtaimed at a later date.
Mr. Jamee Franeis Drake, President of the Oulf Oil
Company, and Mr. H. R. Hammerle of the Export Divisien of the
seme eompary, were interviowed by Speeial Agents of the Pitte-
burgh effiee of this Bureeu eeneerning the true identity of
Perry P. Sebalts, and they advised that his business address
is Perry P. Sehults and Company, 13l0 Park Conkral Bailding,
eare of Mark Orimes, Les Angeles, Californie, and that his
Idestify Sheji Mateasakd as being the General Manager of Taiyo
Sekiyu Kaisbe, Limited, ail importers, Kaga Building, Edobashi
Mibenbashi-Ka, Tokye, Japan. Mr. Hammerle advises that the
parpese of the visit of Sehults and Matsusaici was in order to
aliaiaate one Prederiek Edmard Bread as a middloman and to affest
Labréeating ell direet in the future. Mr. Nemmerle further ad-
vieee that arraagemente were made fer the elimination of Bread
as a middlaman het that ne sale conseraing the pasoline wes made
mer hee any tembatáve eale been arraaged for the futare. No
agost haadling Calf 011 predeste adnse 1936 en a eesmdeslen beséa
obtaining coatreste to soll to the Japansse Havy. Mr. Drake
advdees that the last doltvery to tr. Bread for the nee of the
Metted to Mr. doooph C. Groen, Dopartmont of state, Washington,

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
一-
cales simse Jammary 16, 1940, have been made to demestie soneumers
and Pranse, whieh abeerbed the company's tetal anmmal output.
Mr. Hammerle further states that their first inquiry
relative to the purehase of gmsoline and labrieating oil mas made
by an atterney in Kansas City, Missouri, but after ascertaining
that these produets were intended for shipment to Japan, he ad-
vieed the attorney that he was unable to supply the quantity of
gaselime and oil requested. This statement will be confirmed by
a cheek of the Gulf Oil Company's correspondense file at the
invitation of Mr. Drake, who appears mest cooperative.
Mr. Drake and Mr. Hammerle beth state that Tamnaguchi
is unknown to them and also state that Perry P. Schults and Shoji
Matsusakd were uneecompanied while in Pittsbargh, Pennsylvanis.
Aeeerding to Mr. Hammerle, Perry P. Sehults and Shoji Matsasald
are preeeeting to the World's Fair in New York City, New Yerk,
apparently in the new Chryaler autemebdle which Sohults wes
driving while in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Mr. W. E. Logan, the eriginal infermant in thie mtter,
has agreed to ceoperate with thie Bureau to the fullest extent
pessible but requests that his identity be kept strietly confidential.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
reply refer to
June 25, 1940
894.3472/28
PERSOHAL AND
Dear Mr. Hoover:
I wish to thank you for your PERSONAL AND
COMPIDENTIAL lotter of June 15, 1940 tranamitting
a copy of a memorandum dated June 15, 1940 contain-
ing complete information developed by your Bureau
to date ooncerning the purchase of aviation gasoline
by a Japanese company, allegedly for the use of the
Japanese Davy.
Sincerely yours,
Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Seeretary
sorable
Bager Yoover,
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigetien,
Depertn of Justice.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
In reply refer to
A-B
June 25, 1940
894.3472/28
PERSONAL AND
CO FIDEITIAL
Dear Mr. Hoover:
I wish to thank you for your P.SuNAL AND
CONPIDENTIAL letter of June 15, 1940 tranemitting
e copy of a memorandum dated June ls, l540 contaln-
ing complete information developed by your Bureau
to date concerning the purchase of aviation gasoline
by a Japanese company, allegedly for the use of the
Japanese Navy.
Sincerely yours,
Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary
The Honorable
J. Bagar Hoover,
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justice.
some
下
A
the lged 

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.94)
ER
Jederal Bureau of Investigation
ON POLITIC
Anited States Bepartment of Justire
ADYISER
MR.
Mashington. D. U.
2
STATE
DE PARTMENT OF ST
June 21, 1940
JUN 2 4 1940
MR. BERLE
PERSONAL AND OD
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
91940
Department of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
CECIVED
Washington, D. C.
ache/16 27.30
ENKmy
June 28, 1940
opartmet of State
My dear Mr. Berle:
Reference is made to my letters dated June 10
and June 15, 1940, with which I transmitted memoranda dated
894.3472/29
June 8 and June 15, 1940, respectively, concerning the
proposed purchase of aviation gasoline by the Taiyo Sekiyu
Kaisha, Limited, of Tokyo, Japan, allegedly for the use of
the Japanese Navy.
I am transmitting herewith a copy of a memo-
randum dated June 20, 1940, which contains additional
data concerning the same subject matter.
It is respectfully requested that you advise
this Bureau whether Perry P. Schultz, Shoji Matsuzaki,
Yamnaguchi or the Taiyo Sekiyu Kaisha, Limited, are
registered with the Secretary of State as agents of
foreign principals and whether their activities are such
as would make them subject to the requirements of Part 2
of the Act of June 8, 1938.
FLEO
Sincerely yours,
Le. boover
1940
Enclosure
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
F/N
Justice Dipariment Guidolines, d-27-1984
RTG

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
June 20, 1940
MEMORANDUM
Information mas obtained from Mr. W. E. Logan, tax attorney,
Soarritt Building, Kansas City, Missouri, the original informant in
this matter, to the offect that Mr. Blodgett of the Hess Oil Company,
Kansas City, Missouri, received a telephone call on June 17, 1940,
from Mr. J. R. Nebblett, who is apparently associated with Attorney
Milton Cohen of Los Angeles, California, advising him that no general
centract for either lubricating oil or aviation gasoline had been
olosed by Perry P. Schults and Shoji Matsusaki with the Gulf Oil
Company.
Mr. Nebblett also advised Mr. Logan that the officials
of the Gulf Oil Company at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, are selling
Sohults and Matsusaki a "spot contract", consisting of 20,000
drums of aviation gasoline which is to leave the United States by
July 1, 1940. It is believed that this sale mas made by the Gulf
Oll Company to the Taiyo Sekiyu Kaisha, Limited, through Schults
and Matsusaki.
Mr. Logan further advises that to date no further pregress
bas been made with him by Sohults and Matsusaki for the purohese of
one million gallons of aviation gasoline, but that he is expecting
Sehults and Matsusaki to arrive at Kansas City very shortly in
order to complete this transaction. He also states that he is now
of the opinion that these two individuals have not contacted the
Phillips Petroleum Company with reference to their end of the con-
tract, as previously mantioned in the memorandum dated June 15,
1940.
Inquiries were made of the Department of State by the
Washington Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
infermatien mas developed to the effest that a letter dated January 2,
1940, signed by David Preeter, Law Department, CGulf 011 Oempeny,
Pittebersh, Pennay1emia, advised the Department of State that
1,060, 000 gallons of aviatien gaseline was exported to Japan during
the year 1939 and that an additional one million gallons of gasoline
was to be exported shortly after January 2, 1940. It is reperted
that all malee were made for eash and the gasel ine was to be trane-
perted in veesals furnished by Japan.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Information was confidentially obtained by the Los Angeles
offiee of this Bureau from the wilshire Oil Compeny to the effeet
that Perry P. Sohults and Shoji Matsusaki attempted to interest the
Wilshire Oil Company in the manufacture of aviation gasoline for
the Japanese government and offered a contract for S400,000 for
the purpose of establishing a plant in Los Angeles, California,
whish se was to be repaid in gasoline. Officials of the wilshire
Oil Company believe that Schults and Matsusaki will return to the
Oulf Oil Company in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, or to Kansas City,
Missouri, fer the purpose of closing the above mentioned gasoline
oontraot.
In connection with the export contract allegedly entered
into with the Oulf Oil Company, Mr. a. P. Newton, Vice-President
in charge of the Export Div s'on, Gulf Oil Company, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, was interviewed in this regard, but he denied that
the Gulf Oil Company entered into any such contract for the sale
of aviation gasoline for export purposes. Mr. Newton also advised
that the Culf Oil Company has not sold any aviation gasoline for
export purposes for several months and that at the present time
the oompany does not have any open orders. He further advised
that he does not see any possibility of gasoline sold for domestio
use being exported from this country. In the event his company
receives any inquiries concerning aviation gasoline for export
purposes, he advised that he will immediately furnish this informa-
tion to the Pittsburgh office of this Bureau.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.93)
June 28, 1940
In reply pefer to
CONVADENTIAL
The Seeretary of State presents his oompliments to
8
6
the Monerable the Attorney General and acknowledges the
4
receipt of Mr. Hoover's letter of June 21, 1940 addressed
3
47
to Mr. Berle, with which he transmitted a memorandum dated
2
June 20, 1940 conoerning the proposed purohase of av1ation
1
2
gasoline by the Taiyo Sekiyu Kaisha, Limited, of Tokyo,
6
Japan, allogedly for the use of the Japanese Navy.
In reply to Mr. Hoover's inquiry, it may be stated
that neither Perry P. Sehults, Shoj1 Matsusaki, Yamnaguehi
mor the Taiyo Sekiyu Kaisha, Limited, is registered with
the Seeretary of Atate in eonformity with the pretisions
of the Aet ef June 8, 193s, as amonded, requiring the regis-
tratiom of agente of foreigm prineipals. Judging solely
frem the informatien contained in the memorandum referred to
above and that of Jume 8, 1940, 1t weuld appear that the
astivities of the individmals and the cempany referred to
"all within the exseptiens to the hot of Jame 6, loss and,
therefere.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.89)
serefere, weuld mot be ef sueh a sharester as te require
restetration pursuant to the previsions ef this Lst.
eaf OR
JUN 28 1940
A tree copy i
F

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.93)
UFICE OF RIE ARISER ON
INLEAAL O
Jederal Burran of Juvestigation
AJUL 101940
Anited States Department of Justir
ashington, D.L.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Junc 28, 1940
JUN 2 9 1940
PERSONAL AND 
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
B
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
894.3472/3
Reference is made to previous correspondence with
871.3
you concerning the prcposed purchase of aviation gasoline
by the Taiyo Sekiyu Kaisha, Limited, of Tokyo, Japan,
allegedly for the use of the Japanese Navy.
Please be advised that the Kansas City, Missouri,
office of this Bureau is now in receipt of information ob-
tained from Mr. W. E. Logan, tax attorney, Scarritt Building,
Kansas City, Missouri, the original informant in this matter,
0
to the effect that a letter of credit in the amount of $500,000
and in the favor of the Taiyo Sekiyu Kaisha, Limited, was
transferred from the Yokohama Specie Bank, Los Angeles,
California, to the Bank of America, Los Angeles Branch, Los
Angeles, California, on June 21, 1940, at the request of
the Gulf Oil Company.
Mr. Logan also advises that he intends to file a
suit against the Gulf Oil Company within the next few days
in an attempt to recover his broker's commission and that
the letter of credit will be attached by his attorney.
Additional data concerning this matter will be
furnished you subsequently.
Sincerely yours,
Lo.toove
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
F/N
Juatke Departuent Guidelinas, 1-27-19er
1. n
NATt5.1984

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
July 1, 1940
PERSONAL AND
CONFIDENTIAL
Dear Mr. Hoover:
I wish to thank you for your letter of
June 28, 194O markod PERSONAL AND CONPIDENTIAL
giving further information in regard to the
proposed purchase of aviation gasoline allegedly
for the use of the Japanese Navy. Your thought-
fulness in sending this communication by speoial
messenger is approciated.
Sincerely yours,
Adolf A. Berlo, Jr.
Assistant Seoretary
The Honorable
J. Mgar Hoover,
Direstor, Federal Bureas of Investige

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
File Designation
15m 8.14:3472/31
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
73194
Date
From
Bele
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
E
Otherwise Restricted Information
Justice DepactmeutCeudelemin, 1-27.1984
5.161984
Authority
Date
GSA FORM 7117 (2-72)
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
A-B
HOOVER
CTOR
FE
Hederal Burrau of Jnnestigation
Anited States Department of Justice
Washington. D. U.
July 10, 1940
JUL 13 1940
PERSONAL AND
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
894.3472/32
Reference is made to previous correspondence
with you concerning the proposed purchase of aviation
gasoline by the Taiyo Sekiyu Kaisha, Limited, of Tokyo.
Japan, allegedly for the use of the Japanese Navy.
I am now in receipt of information which
indicates that the Japanese Ambassador at Washington,
D. C. is reported to have had a conference with State
Department officials on July 2, 1940, relative to the
shipments of Isso-Octane gasoline to Japan, and that
the State Department has permitted shipments of aviation
gasoline to Japan, as well as permitting companies in
this country to have contracts with Japanese companies.
The Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha, Limited, through
its San Francisco office is endeavoring to secure the
names of California companies which have Isso-Octane
plants, the date of construction of these plants and
BYRIG
their capacity, and is also trying to secure through
trade magazines the location of plants being comploted
and their capacity.
In view of the fact that it has been indicated
the State Department is permitting these shipments, it
NARS, Date 5.16 4984
is requested that you advise me whether or not you desire
further investigation conducted into this matter.
Sincerely yours,
Lo. 24o00v
F/N
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
Im reply refer to
Ju1y 17, 1940
CONFIDENTIAL
The Department of State acknowledges
with thanks a letter from the Federal Bureau
894.3472/32
of Investigation dated
July 10, 1940
regarding Japanese purchases of aviation gasoline.
894.3472/32
A tree copy of
the slgned origgh-
WCB
wome

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
From
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
894.3472/33
To
AUG 3 0 1940
August 29,1940
RECLIVED
CEP12 1940
Honorabbe Adolf A.
Berle, Junior
10611940
ack. 9/7
Department or State
Washington, D.C
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 10 1940
Dear Mr. Berle:
Department of State
For your information, I am transmitting
herewith data which may be of interest to you.
472
Sincerely yours,
Ta. atoover
John Edgar Hoover
Director
Your Reference
F/B
A-B
whment Ganikelines, A-27 49e4
NARS. Dato 5161984

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.95)
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI
EORIGINATED AT
FILE NO. 54-21
ORT MADE AT
PITTSBARGH, PA.
DATE WHEN MADE
8/20/40
/1619/40
PERIOD FOR
REPORT MADE BY
. H. HAIR
JSP
TITLE
TAIYO SEKIYU KAISHA, LTD.;
CHARACTER OF CASE
NEUTRALITY ACT
PERRY P. SCHULTZ;
SHOJI MATSUZAKI; - - - YAMMAGUCHI
SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:
Only additional contact with Gulf Cil Corporation by any of
subjeste was visit on 7/23/40 by SCHi 1T7 who inquired for ship-
rents of aviation gasoline to Japan, but wes not quoted terms
sinee similar in uiry had been recelved by representative of
Mitsubishi, Limited, of Tokio.
- RUC -
REFERENCES:
Report of Special Agent M. . ACERS, Pittsburgh, Pa., 6/13/40.
Report of Special A ent . B. RHOD, Ransas City, ., 7/B/40.
Telegram from Kansas Cit , Lo., B/19/40.
DETAIIS:
At PITTBBUROH, PA.
B. P. NETON, Vice President in charge of Exports and H. R.
HAMWkRLE, Mamager, Foreign Sales Department of the Gulf Cil Corporation, were
interviewed after adviee had been received from NE"TON that he had had è eall
frem PERRY SCHULT? sinee he was last interviewed.
NDT0N stated that on July 22, 1940 he was called on by a
represeatative of WITSUBISHI, LIMITED, of Tokio, Japan, who wished to puremse
a qummtity of eviatiem gasoline for export to Japan and prebably for use y
either the Japemese arpy or navy; that on the following day he reseived a telegn
frem Pany soiultz iadieating he was flying from New York to Pittsburgh and wisb
APPROVED AND
SPECIAL AGENT
DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES
FORWARDED
IN CHARGE
COPIES OF THIS REPORT
3
Duresn
Kammas City
Pittoburgh
U. B. GOERNNNT PRNIN OIC
7-2034

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
Asterview en that moming; that SChULTZ did not show up until after luneh, at
ieh time MR. HAMMERLE was also present.
NEWTON stated that SCHULTZ aaked for quotations on the same proposed
purakese that the MITsUBISHI mam had mentiomed! that he was infermed that Oulf
eould not make any qustatiens to him besawse they had already reseived an inquiry;
that SoHULTZ seemed disappointed at this and mntiened his earlier sall and his
hepe that Gulf would give him some basiness. WEwTON stated that SCHULTZ was turmed
demm primarily besause they did not mant to be in a position of ewing two commis-
siens an the same sale whieh might have been the ease had they quoted him; and
that he was also turned down beeause they did not like him personally and didn't
know anything about him.
MR. NENTON informed that SCHULTZ has not returned or corresponded
with him sinee
REFERRED U ON CC &PLETION TO OFFICE OF ORIGIN
-2-

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.90)
September 12, 1940
The Seeretary ef state presents his compliments to
the Memerable the Attormey General and aeknowledges with
appreeiation the receipt of Mr. Hoover's communieatien
of August 29, 1940, addressed to Mr. Berlo, transmitting
a eepy of the repert of Special Ageat B. E. Hair, dated
Angust 20, 1940 at Pittsburgh, Pomasylvania, in the
matter eatitled "Taiyo Sekiyu Kaiska, Ltd.; Perry P.
Sahults; Shoj1 Matsusaki: - - - Yamnagushi; Noutrality
at".
A true copy of
the
CC
G0:D:KEL 9/7/40
A-B/0
lwome
hHP
SEP 11 1940
oute 2nvelipe
To hu. Fisten

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.95)
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
D.acthint  ae. Din2 16, 1444 1444 (1i959)
File Designation
1 834. 3472/34
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
Date
u3.1940
From
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
Justice Dipa tinentGundeline2 1.27 1984
5-161984
Authority
Date
GSA FORM 7117 (2.72)
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Shell letter and Standard-Vacuum letter oover
facilities for refining aviation gasoline in
Netherlands East Indies; Lt. Hopper stated
belief that,- which disposes of telegram in
regard to operations there of Standard of N.J.
894.3472
5
5
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Memo
See
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, sto.)
Aug. 3 1940
From
State Dept.(Seibert)
Dated
To
856d.6363/775
File No.
bb
3s

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE
ETA: A PERSECUTED GROUP
IN JAPAN
Introduction
Today Japan is emphasizing in her propaganda the
basic unity of Asiatic peoples as opposed to Europeans
in Asia. She is also stressing the idea that all
Asiatics should be friends and should cooperate
freely and sincerely in building up a new order in
Asia. In view of these broad statements of friend-
ship among equals, it is of interest to look at an
example of social persecution of one Asiatic group,
not by Europeans but by Japanese, not in China or
Korea, but in Japan itself.
The group which suffers most from social prej-
udice in Japan today is popularly known as the
Eta. This term is one of derogation, the popular
etymology giving it the significance of defilement or
great uncleanness. There are today perhaps one
and a half million Eta in Japan. This is only 2 or 3
percent of the total population, but any single group
numbering over a million is an important element in
a nation.
I

=== Page 43 === (confidence 1.00)
Origin
The origin of the Eta seems to be that of one or
more slave groups of old Japan, especially some of
the artisan slave groups of the Chuko Period (645-
1186), the members of which were tanners of leather,
butchers, tomb watchers, etc.
After the introduction of Buddhism, any occupa-
tion associated with the killing of animals was re-
garded as unclean and persons associated with these
occupations came to be classed as pariahs. Eventu-
ally, these people were all lumped together under the
generic term Eta.
Another view of the origin of the prejudice against
tanners and butchers goes back to early Shinto
beliefs concerning uncleanness. The three worst
impurities were defilement by blood, by death, and
by mutilation. People connected with killing were
called the defiled people or Kogarabe and as such
were shunned, both physically and socially.
There is a popular explanation of the origin of
the Eta which says they are descendants of Korean
prisoners. This is useful, since it justifies persecu-
tion of these people as being non-Japanese. Justifi-
cation is required since the Eta people have the same
features as other Japanese.
During the Tokugawa Period, Eta people lived in
segregated villages and the mileage of roads running
through them was not counted. Eta were not allowed
to marry other Japanese, and they had few civil
rights. Owing to their ritual uncleanness they
could not participate in worshipping the Gods.
2

=== Page 44 === (confidence 1.00)
Thus they formed a distinct low outcaste group in
the society up until 1871.1
Religion
While the introduction of Buddhism had an
adverse effect on the Eta, two Japanese salvationist
sects, Shin and Nichiren, which grew up in Japan,
had as a tenet that all men could be saved by faith.
Of the two, Shinshu (the Shin sect) is the more
important since most Eta belong to it.
Early Christian missionaries often turned their
attention to the Eta as a submerged group deserving
of compassion, but the number of converts to Chris-
tianity was never very great.
Emancipation
In August, 1871, as a part of the general reform
movement following the overthrow of the Tokugawa
dictatorship in 1868, the Eta were declared in a
proclamation to be legally the equals of other com-
mon people, in fact to be themselves common people
or heimin.
Recent Condition
This proclamation did not do much toward chang-
ing the social status of the Eta, and to this day they
suffer many disadvantages. The people were im-
1More detail on the history of the Eta may be found in S. Ninomiya, An En-
quiry Concerning the Origin, Development and Present Situation of the Eta in
Relation to the History of Social Classes in Japan. Transactions of the Asiatic
Society of Japan, Second Series, Vol. X, December 1933. See also an article
on the Eta in The New York Times by Hugh Byas, January 1, 1928.
3

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
mediately dubbed shin heimin or new common
people, and socially if not legally, the tabu on mar-
riage between Eta and other Japanese remained in
force. There is still a strict limitation of occupa-
tions open to people of Eta origin, and as might be
expected under these circumstances, areas of heavy
Eta population are poverty-stricken and unsanitary.
Butchering and tanning remain declassed occupa-
tions and few but Eta enter them. One other
occupation of many young Eta girls is that of pros-
titution and there are girls who find life in a house of
prostitution preferable to life in an Eta community.
However, today about half the Eta engage in agri-
culture as a means of livelihood.
Number
Today the approximately one and a half million
Eta are scattered in over 6,000 villages. The chief
areas of concentration are in the prefectures of
Hiroshima, Yamaguchi, Okayama, Ehime, Fuku-
oka, Saitama, and Gumma. They are rare in the
north. The headquarters of two societies for the
social advancement of the Eta are in Kyoto and
Osaka. Eta are still segregated in most areas except
in large cities where it is to some extent possible for
them to lose their identity.
Recently the rate of increase has been about
30,000 yearly. In 60 years since 1871, the Eta increased
about 400 percent as against 80 percent for other
Japanese. (These figures may not be entirely ac-
curate, since before 1871 Eta probably were not
counted carefully. In fact, they were often omitted
4

=== Page 46 === (confidence 1.00)
entirely from the census just as the number of miles
through Eta villages was not calculated.)
Equalization Movement
It was about a generation after emancipation
before there was any definite movement on the part
of the Eta themselves to raise their status. The
first organization was in Okayama in 1902, founded
by a group of young men; in 1903 a national organ-
ization developed from this. The movement gained
in strength from the sympathies of the left wing of
Liberal political groups and from the activities of
American missionaries. There were even some nov-
els written at this time to show the inhumanity of
the strong prejudice against Eta people. However,
the Russian War of 1904-5 put a damper on the
movement.
Then in 1922 a new emancipation movement
arose. This was called the Suihei Undo and the
society formed as a result of the movement was the
Suiheisha or water level group. Its purpose was to
raise the Eta to the same social level as other Japanese.
This movement gained impetus from Japan's plea
at Versailles for race equality. The inconsistency of
Japan's advocating race equality while practising
discrimination at home was not missed by Eta
leaders. This second movement was stronger than
the first and in a few years had a large following and
a fairly strong organization. In this second move-
ment there was a strong leftist tendency and often
an identification of the Eta with the proletariat in a
class struggle. For example, the Suiheisha adopted
as its banner the significant device of a crown of
5

=== Page 47 === (confidence 1.00)
thorns on a blood red field with this slogan reminis-
cent of Marx: "Unite, three million brethren of
the six thousand districts, you have nothing to
lose but your bondage."
In a determination to enforce equality of treat-
ment, many incidents occurred which led to the
arrest of Suiheisha members. Although many edu-
cated people sympathized with the movement and
the authorities were officially impartial, many or-
dinary Japanese reacted unfavorably. One extreme
case of this was the Sarada incident of January 1925.
At this time the villagers of Sarada attacked the Eta
and in the ensuing riot 10 houses were demolished,
goods and furniture burned, and several persons
severely injured
By 1928 the Suiheisha claimed a membership of
200,000 but during the same year several Suiheisha
leaders were implicated in a round-up of communists
and the whole movement received a severe set-back.
Presumably, the Manchurian crisis in 1931 and the
Chinese War since 1937 have again put a stop to any
organized attempts of the Eta to better their position.
Leaders.
One of the leaders in the Suihei Undo is Umekichi
Minami, present head of the Nippon Suiheisha with
headquarters in Kyoto. Another organization is
the Zenkoku Suiheisha (Federation of the Suiheisha)
with headquarters in Osaka. Its director is Ji-
ichiro Matsumoto. Matsumoto holds a seat in the
Japanese Diet. Minami and Matsumoto are both
listed with their respective organizations in the Japan
Year Book of 1940-41. Another leader is or was
6

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Osamu Sano but his present whereabouts is unknown
to the writer.
Prejudice
The term Eta itself is an insulting one and in
various districts of Japan there are other words
which if used publicly may lead to a fight—c. g., in
the Osaka region Yotsu. This means four, an insult
since five is regarded in Japan as a perfect number.
Four also has the connotation of four legs, i. e., an
animal. Sometimes four fingers held up serves as a
behind-the-back reference to an Eta.
Besides name-calling such as this, there are many
ways in which the Eta people are the objects of
social discrimination, in education, in marriage, in
the army, in community activities, and in housing.
PERSONALITY TRAITS OF THE
ETA PEOPLE
There are a number of results of the social perse-
cution of the Eta people—
1. Personality difficulties
(a) An Eta is often very touchy, and carries a
chip on his shoulder—always on the lookout for
discrimination.
(b) Because of this, he resents any outsider's
crude attempt to help him since to help indicates an
attitude of condescension which an Eta is quick to
resent.
7

=== Page 49 === (confidence 1.00)
(c) Among poorer Eta farmers heavy drinking,
carelessness in dress, speech, and sanitation, and a
general thriftlessness occur in sharp contrast to the
behavior of a secure non-Eta farmer.
2. Group Traits
As noted before, Eta villages tend to be slums
owing in large part to extreme poverty. This
poverty is caused, of course, by lack of economic
opportunity and by social pressure which makes it
difficult for an Eta to move into a more desirable
environment.
Disease, dirt, and inadequate housing all contrib-
ute to giving an Eta village a poor appearance and a
worse name.
3. Group Reactions
Since there is so much social prejudice against the
group, they have among themselves a certain group
solidarity. This has taken definite shape in the two
emancipation movements since 1871.
Today this group solidarity of one or two million
people is latent, but remains a definite sore spot in
Japanese society.
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-1942
445048
8

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
TRANSLATOR'S NOTE
The following is a translation of on article by
"Nihonjin no Seikakuteki Kekkan to ono Gen-in"
日本人》性格的缺陷》原因
Characteristic Shortcomings of the Japanese and
their Causes. published in Seishin Bunseki
). Psychornalysis,
July, 1940, indexed under Tokio Zeitschrift für
Psychoanalyse.
Little is known of the career of the uthor of this
article, Kenji ÖTsUKI. He was born on Awaji Islend.
1893. gradurted from th Kobe First Midcle School in
1911, and later attended a university in Tokyo.
Following gradurtion, he worked for ten yerrs ns a
translator for the Railwey Ministry, but became
interested in th, study of psychoanalysis, end
eventually became editor of Seishin Bunscki. He is
the euthor of a number of books on nsychoanglysis.
RESTRICTED
Page- 1

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Shortcomings in Japanese Character and Their Causes by Kenji Otsuki.
I.
Racial Character and How It May Be Studied.
Although racial character seems to be something tangible, how can it be
recognized? An individual's character also seems tangible, but it is extremely
difficult to study scientifically, Characterology, the study of character, is
still in a very unsatisfactory state, because in any effort to grasp character
philosophically, the study becomes too abstract to have practical significance, and
when approached scientificelly, the resulting study is a shallow, empiricel inter-
pretation.
What, after all, is individual character?
The Dictionary ef Psychology
by Professor English, of Ohio State University, contains the following definitions:
(1)
Character is a merk by which to distinguish an individual or a group
from others. (Such distinetive marks are not, strictly speaking.
dharacter, but should rather be termed charocteristics. Character
and characteristics, however, are easy to confuse.)
(2)
Character is a collective term for all the psychological nd behavioral
traits of an individual: that is, en integration of cll the psychologi-
cal characteristics which come under the first definition.
(3)
Character is a characteristic or general tendency by which an individual
can react with relative consistency on moral or habitual grounds in over-
coming various obstacles to the manifestation of his individual traits
or behavioral tendency.
In other words, English distinguishes three meanings of character: (1) merk,
(2) integration of marks defined under (1), and (3) behavioral consistency. These
definitions are very clear conceptually, but not too cleer when applied to a
practical situation, because the concept of the mark seems to contain, not only
such externally visible merks as the color of skin end height, but also psychologi-
cal features. If character is to be classified in this way, it seems best to
divide it into (1) physical characteristics, (2) psychological cheracteristics, and
(3) moral characteristics. But then the question arises, how can one distinguish
between psychological and moral characteristics, when morality itself is essential-
ly psychological? This is indeed a pertinent question. We can answer the question
by saying that for the psychological characteristics, we study the individual charao
ter in relation to the ego; for the moral characteristics, the individual character
in relation to the super-ego.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICT ED
Therefore, we prefer to classify the conceptual content of cherecter into
two groups: (1) physical characteristics and (2) laws of psychological behavior.
ccordingly, e charocter study enumerates physical characteristics and uncovers the
laws of psychological behavior. Since mind nd body are not dual in nature in our
thinking, physical characteristics must be ubtimately linked with the laws of
psychological behavior. Hence, modern characterology covers two fields of study;
(1) enumeration of physical charrcteristics and (2) investigation of psychologicnl
laws. The former is represented by Kretchmer's character study and the latter
by psychoannlysis.
II.
Characteristics of the Japanese Character.
Character and its method of invastigstion s discussed sbove apply to the
study of en individual, not races or groups. The study of rces or groups must
differ from this in method. It is relatively ensy to enumerate racirl physical
charecteristics, but extremely difficult to discover lrws of psychological
behavior because of the greater degree of complexity than in the case of an indi-
viduel. The method may be historical or regional, or it may be a study of the con-
ditions of a specific mental life. The historic-l method may also denl with a
specific mentel life.
While there are many methods, we need only to draw conclusions inductively
from the results obtained by various methods and integrate them. However. in
gathering materials inductively, we cannot essert that deduction has been entirely
eliminsted. For example, suppose that we have chosen an extremely scientific
method of determining the Japanese racial ch racter by induction from the material
gathered from actual life rather than from a complex conceptual source, and we
have cited the following objects chsracteristically used by the Japanese. In the
selection itself we have already pre-supposed the Japanese chsracter to some extent.
This is inevitable, for if we ere too scrupulous in methodology, we cannot even
make a start on the study. Japanese character, as arrived at by induction, may
be later validated scientifically by further facts. At: any rate, we have enumerated
objects characteristically and exclusively Japenese, and from these we shall try to ?
abstract the Japanese character. The objects listed below were cit ed by the members
of our association (the Japanese Psychoanalytical Association) at the annual meet-
ing of April (1940), and a selection has been made by the author.
Page - 3

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTR IC TED
(1) The Flag of The Rising Sun. The author does not definitely know when
and by whom this flag was origineted, but the round sun dyed red on a white back-
ground is both si mple and beautiful, and en unsurpassed symbol for "the country
from which the sun rises." Aside from my eveluation or criticism of the flag, the
Japanese all love, respect, and t rust it. Therefore, the Rising Sun may be recogni
ed as a simple symbolizetion of the Japanese character.
round, and souare furoshiki. Almost anything mey be wranned in a large furoshiki,
and when not in use, it can be folded to n small size and carried in one's pocket.
It is convenient, adaptable, simple, and light in weight, and when dyed in various
colors or designs it is decor tive as well. It is extremely handy md easy to
handle because it does not have the rigidity of a leather bae or suitcase. For
protecting or preserving objects. however,  bag or suitc se is fer superior to a
furoshiki, It i convenient to carry books wrapped in a furoshiki, but unlike a
bag or suitcase, the books thus wrepped run the risk of being werped or wrinkled.
2
(3) Tenugui (a cotton hand towel). Tenugui can be used as e towel, handker-
chief, head coverin, or scarf. It. too, is as convenient s the furoshiki. When
used as a towel, however, tenugu1 does not absorb water as efficiently as a towel,
and when used as a handkerchief, it is not so attrective in public. The comparison
between tenugui and a towel shows the same advantages end disadvantages as thet
between a furoshiki and e bag.
▲ comrison between the Kimono and western clothes also shows
the same advantages end disadvantares as that between n furoshiki and a bag. With
only slight alteretions, the kimono can be made to fit any person, stout,or slender,
tall or short. ▲ western suit, on the other hend, must be completely remodeled even
when the wearer himself loses or gains weight. Such remodeling 1s sometimes either
impossible or extremely bothersome. A well fitted western suit, however, gives
the wearer greater pleasure, though the mejority of the Japanese feel too confined
4
in western clothes. The dotere ( a cotton-padded Japanese bethrobe) is a comic
exaggerntion of the adventages and disadtentages of the kimono. It is comfortably
(1) 風呂敷
(2) 手拭
(3) 着物
(4)袍
Page - 4

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
R E S T RI C T E D
loose, but inexcusably slovenly. ▲ picture of a man wearing dotera and exposing his
scrotum grasped in one hand is a characteristic Japenese sight of horrible indolence.
The material for the kimono is flimsy, easily damaged, and easily soiled. ▲ kimono
made of such cloth is gracefully loose-flowing, but hampers the movements of the
body. On the other hand, western clothes fit snugly over the form of the body, and
are obviously designed as garments to work in. They are convenient and pleasurable
to wear, though lacking in gracefulness. Being made of wool, they can withstand rain
or dirt, and ere extremely practical.
(5) Geta5 (Japanese wooden clogs). The sound of geta seems to create a
peculiar impression on westerners, who generelly respond to the sound with
surprise and wonder, expre sive of either contempt or preise. Whatever their
reaction, however, the sound of geta clattering on a paved street, especially
on a busy street or on a station platform, is indeed ungraceful, Yet the sound
6*
of pokkuri
pattering on the ground has a peculisrly refined nd lovely sound
which 1s characteristicelly Japsnese. Pokkuri miht have been suggested
by horse shoes (the ∞ntect surface of pokkuri has a shape similar to that of
horse shoes). Occidental wooden clors cre completely different from geta. Shoes
are intended mainly for outdoor use, but geta represent en ettempt at the extension
of indoor life to the outdoors. The matted geta show this most clearly. The mat-
ting pasted on the geta is nothing more than an extension of the tatami (matting)
laid on the floors indoors.
8
(6) Fundoshi ( a cloth belt tied tightly around the hips and passed between
the legs). The fundoshi is also called an under- belt, s1gnifying that it is a
belt tied directly on the body. It is a device to give us a tightened sensation
and in this reepect is unlike shorts or underdrawers, which are used merely to
conceal the external genitalia. The fundoshi is represented by the Chinese ideo-
(5) 下
(6) 木履
思
(8)禪
(7)
且、
• A kind of geta in which the soles are hollowed out, instead of having inserted
) dancing entertaine.
ere in their teens who will graduate to become geishe
Page - 5

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
graph
which is a genuine Chinese charecter, not a Japanese invention.
衣
It is interesting to note that the ideograph is composed of the radical
(cloth) end the body  (troops), and strongly implies the meaning of prepara-
tion for a fight, as eppears in the expression, "Let's tighten our fundoshi and do
witty article on fundoshi to the Tokyo Nichinichi (one of the most influential
newspapers in Japan). The article contains an interesting comparison between the
a purely Japanese product). The article is quoted below:
" Recently many people have become hokku fans, composing the poetry with a
variety of attitudes. Some are msking hats out of hokku; that is, showing off their
hokku as conspicuously as if they were welking with hokku on their heads in order
to be pointed out on the street as men of refined toste. Others are making a neck-
tie out of hokku; that is, indulging in hokku in order to be fnshionable dandies.
11
Many company and bank clerks belong in this crtegory. Some ere making Hakema
(Japanese men's skirts) out of hokku; that is, composing hokku only for the banquet
12
table (hakema cre used anly on such occasions). Others are making haori
(Jepnese coets worn only on special occasions) with family crests; that is composin,
hokku only for rare ceremonious occesions. There are books of instruction on how
to compose hokku approprirte for felicitation or condolence, sending someone off
or welcoming him back. Some ere meking en undergarment out of hokku; thet is,
composing hokku only when vacctioning at a spa. Others are meking a scerf out of
hokku; that is, keeping hokku quite close to their bodies. Aged hokku fans
13
are particularly guilty of this use. Still others are making yukata (cotton kimono
used as a bathrobe or nightgown) out of hokku. This use may add pleasure to a
family circle. Some are meking a stick out of hokku, taking it along in their
hiking trips.
(9) 原井泉水
發句
(10)
(11) 袴
(12) 羽藏
(13) 浴衣
Page - 6

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
" I am making fundoshi out of hokku, and recommend that other hokku fans
do so. Hokku 1s not an instrument to promote social intercourse, but should
remain one's own private asset. In composing hokku, we need not conuern our-
selves with the changes of the seasons, but should be inspired every day, what-
ever the season. Nor is it necessary to follow the new styles which crop up from
time to time. All one need do is to follow one's own style, but with constant
vigilence lest it become stagnant.
" In meking fundoshi out of hokku, we may adopt either a short-drawers style
of a definite cut or a six foot cloth style which con be tied in any way we
please. The choice between the former, which is stereotyped hokku. and the
latter, which is free hokku, may b e left to one's own discretion. Personally.
in my school days I used the short-drawers style, but since that period I have
been cherishing the six foot cloth style for more then thirty years. Only by
this style do I feel bracingly tightened in spirit. Without such a feeling I can-
not stand hokku. The expression end spirit of hokku re most enjoyable when
my thoughts are thus brecingly tightened. Therefore, the question of whether
westerners can understand hokku or not seems to reside in their ability or in-
ability to sense this tightening sensation".
It was said many years go by Dr. Tsuboi Shogorol4 (a foremost Japanese
anthropologist) that the plece of origin of the encestors of the Jrpanese could
be determined by studying their features, skeleton, language, customs, manners,
and other 1tems. The Japanese fundoshi, however, has rarely been used by any
other races, though a certain tribe in the Malay peninsuln uses a variety of
loin cloth common with fundoshi, pointing, perhaps, to a significant ethnological
fact. When I saw some Kaneka models in the public museum in Honolulu. I was
surprised at the similarity between their loin cloth and the Japanese fundoshi
in shape and in the way it was tied. If the word fundoshi (or fudoshi) was
15
derived from fumitoshi
(thrusting legs through), then the ancient fundoshi
seems to have been in the form of short drawers. However, t here is a theory
that fundoshi was derived from fumodashi (strew rope leggings for a horse).
(24) 坪井正五郎
(15) 踏承通i
(26)小もだi
Page - 7

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Thus the origin of fundoshi cannot be determined by philology alone. The six
foot fundoshi came to Vogue in the Tokugawa period and was linked with the life
of civilians (non-snmurai citizens) who prided themselves on having a fundoshi
spirit; that is, a spirit restrained for unswerving efferts to gain an object-
ive, Thus the fundoshi seems to have become a symbol for the Japanese determin-
ation to attain an objective.
In addition to the objects discussed above, we may cite calligraphic scrolls,
Japanese swors, shoyu
17
(soybean sauce), folding fans, shoji
18
(paper screen
sliding doors), and rice balls, as cheracteristic Japanese objects. Aside from
such concrete objects, we may also cite such characteristicrlly Japanese social
and cultural institutions as the family system, Japenese wrestling, seppuku
(harakiri), the tea ceremony, hokku, kana19 (Japanese syllabary), the family
20
warehouse, the unpeinted shrine building, and torii
(a shrine gate). Some
of these undoubtedly originated sboond, but nfter innort:tion into Japan, have
been throughly Japanized. Henee there can be no objection to citing them as
Japanese institutions. Amon, the environmental factors, one can easily associate
Mt. Fuji, cherry blossoms, and earthquakes with the Jopanese. We cannot overlook
the fact that these environmental factors hve hc a greet influence upon the
Japanese character.
From what we have cited above we can abstrect such marks of Japenese
character as simplicity, artlessness, honesty, buoyoncy, and sensitivity. When
thus interpreted, these marks are meent to indicate the strong points of the
Japanese character. For the weak points the same marks can be interpreted to
mean plainness, lack of refinement, sluggishness, superficiality, flippancy,
end concern with trivialities.
III. Laws Governing the Character Behavior of the Japanese.
The characteristic marks of the Japanese have been elucideted above. What
about the laws of their behavior? The characteristic marks cen be abstracted
as above, from common elements found in various Japenese objects, but this method
障子
(17)
(18)
(19)
假名
(20)
鳥居
Page ~ 8

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
does not work so easily in inducting laws of behavior. To use this method,
we heve to study and analyze the cultural history of Japan,its customs end
manners, and bits of individual behavior of vari ble imoortance, and from such
results, we can then induct laws statistically. If we adopt this procedure. the
study will necesserily swell into a think volume. For en article to be printed
in a journal, a more practical method is to set down conclusions first obtained
more or less intuitively, and then to validate them by actual examples. I shall.
therefore, give below five laws of Japanese behevior odtained intuitively on
the basis of my scientific observetions, and each of these will be explained
or demonstrated. How well I shall succeed in thus elucidating the Japanese
character I cannot tell. However, I emphasize here my determination to maintain
& strictly scientific attitude.
(1)
The Japanese are child-like in behcvior nd their individuality is
not definitely estcblished.
Generally speeking, the Japanese are child-like in behavior and their
individuelity is weak. Therei no need to repent this noint here because
it has been fully discussed in my crticle entitled, "The Wenkness of the
Japanese and the Sin of Their Family System," which appeered in the January
number of this journel this year (1940). However, I mention this wenkness in
the racial character here because of the bureaucracy which has inundated every
nook and corner of the Empire. I shall explain how this weakness originated in
order to rouse the Japanese to an wareness of the necessity for reform tf they
would insure their future welfere.
The Japanese frequently boast of their national structure es being unique
in the world. It is certainly unigue. It is indeed something of which to be
proud. Nowhere else in the world cen we find a stete made up of one race and
ruled under a family system. The family system means that the head of the
family and the first-born son are very much estemmed and revered, not because
of thoir ability, but merely because of their positions within the family.
while other members of the family are relatively ill-treated or forced to
make secrifices in favor of the family head. In this syetem, the significance
of life consists almost entirely in relaying prm cells historically and chron-
Page - 9

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
RE S TR ICTED
ologically, while the development of culture end individual happiness, or any
deep significance of individual existence, becomes only secondary in importance.
Consequently, cultural development and the establishment of individually are
retarded. But in the eyes of foreigners, only a well developed culture and a
firmly established individuality are valued. Therefore, it is not strange that
foreigners show practically no interest in hearing that such and such a state
1s ruled by a femily system or that s uwh  family hes survived for so many
generations.
In a book of Chinese classics we rend of & certain sege king in ancient
times who lived to the ripe old age of 18,000 years. Of course, this 1s
absurd fiction. But supposing that it were a fact, we would not respect him,
but would rether look upon him as a kind of side-show curiosity. The origin
of such a legend cen be psychoanalytically explrined as wishful thinking for
longevity, derived from the instinct of individual and species preservation.
That the encient Chinese dreamed about a mon of such an ege can be psycho-
analytically interpreted to mean that they regarded as an ideal a femily
perpetueted over so long a period as 18,000 yeers. This wish of the ancient
Chinese has been actually fulfilled in part in Japan, where a family of which
the mein line has been perpetuated for more than 2,0o0 years, rules over the
branch lines, cll of which collectively compose the Japanese nation. One
family has developed into a nation. This is a rare occurrence. It is somethin
to be proud of, but this elation should be soberly tempered by other coneidera-
tions. In the eyes of other femilies, it may be something to be envied, but not
necesserily to be respected. Only when such a venerable family has produced
eminent men and women et verious times who have contributed greatly to the
world's culture, will people look up to the family with genuine respect.
Pge - 10

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRIC T ED
The fundamental shortcoming of the family system lies in the fact that
the value of men is assessed in terms of their rank in the femily, and not
in terms of their abilities. In actual prectice, abilities frequently weigh
more than family rank because reality has a fundamental power over instinctive
wishful thinking. If such a power were absent, reality might join with the
force of wishful thinking to produce ither superlative or disastrous results.
If the value of men is to be determined by their rank in a family. each man
will naturally strive to advance his rank closer to the top. It seems to me
that herein lies the psychologicnl origin both of the child-like mentality of
the Japanese and of their bureaucratic govermment, for the hend of a femily or
& clan chieftain is the object of a father complex, and the family members or
the general populace permanently preserve a "family-gang" complex like thet
of children. The burenucracy, bei ng situnted close to the top of the family
state system, is bound tobecome itself the object of & father complex revered
by the people.
Culture is born out of the actual like of people, not out of their rank,
political orgnization, or social system. ▲ humen community needs some or-
ganizetion or system for its msintenance, but it is wholly erroneous to think
that an organization or system per se will produce literature, science, and
art. In Japan, however, it is firmly believed thet such cultural products
will emerge and thrive by themselves, once an organization, system, or rank
divorced from the actual life of the people has been provided for. Consequeptly,
culturel products born of the actual life of the people tend to be slighted
or entirely ignored. This is due to the retardation in the development of
individuality among the Japanese nd the flimsiness of their individuelity
when fully developed. Why is it flimsy? Againsbecause of their child-like
mentality end their over-emphasis of rank, orgenization, and system, coupled
with indifference to real bility or actual accomplishment. What contributions
to culture have been made by government universities end schools since their
organization, as compared with those of private universities and schools? The
Page - 11

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
REST R I C TED
government iustitutions are overrated because of their higher ranking in the
bureaucratic system. Therefore, private institutions are gradually becoming
bureaucratic in order to enjoy the benefits of rank, as government institutions
do. It is small wonder that the purity of learning is being lost in the educa
tional institutions of the land.
This condition prevails not only in scholarly pursuits and ert, but also
in politics. For example, a comparison of the present Fascist movement in Japan
with that in Germany end Italy.reveals a conspicuous difference. In Germany
end Italy, the movement is completely popular, but in Japan it is purely
bureaucratic. The former is like a giant tree deeply rooted in the soil of
the land, but the latter is like a twisted dwarf tree cultivated in a pot.
In Japan, a politicel party which possesees & popular coloring because it needs
popular support seems unable to secure the populer support because of the very
popular coloring itself. To escape from this self-contr-diction, the existing
political parties in Japan seem to have become more and more bureaucratic
in the course of their existence. They should have been out-end-out bureau-
cratic parties from the beginning to fit into Ji panese politics. This state
of affairs. as is widely kmown, has resulted in the misbehavior of the political
parties, such as working for some interests unrelated or even opposed to the
popular will, nd lerding the people to the depths of insecurity in life. Worse
still, the party leaders are unconsciously daring to commit the greet sin of
passing their responsibility for these tragic effects on to the bureaucratic
euthority by humbly maintaining that the perties owe their existence to the good
graces of the highest central power. I am not necessarily blaming particular
civil officials. I am merely attempting to make people realize that out of
such a bureaucracy such defects and hardships will naturally arise. I should
also like to esk of the people end the authorities everywhere in the nation,
how are they εble to tvoid this disaster at all?
Page - 12

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
(2) The Japenese Inferiority Complex and Its Compensatory Superiority
Complex.
The current conception of the inferiority complex is a mentel state in
which the sdult superiority complex hhs not yet taken the place of the childls
superiority complex. If we accept the thests, demonstrated in the preseding
section, thet & child-like mentelity stubbornly remains among the Japanese,
it is netural tht the Japanese should have  strong inferiority complex.
This complex artses from the Jananese way of attaching the highest significance
of life to the highest positions in their socisl system, rather than to the
development of individuality (the real substance of men) within their own
country. Therefore, when a Japanese faces a person with a well-developed,
meaningful individuality, he is inevitably cowed by the other's personality
and reveals his child-like mentality. At one time, I did not wish to think
that the Japnese have this inferiority complex tow rds westerners, revealing
their child-like mentality before them, because such a thought was not a very
happy one. But when I read the pamphlet entitled "Active Spies and Military
Secrets," published by The Society for Publicizing Anti-Expionage Ideas, I
learned thrt the Japanese have many weaknesses in their cherecter of which
foreign spies take full sdvant ge, and thst they cnn herdly keep military
secrets from these snies. I was thus forced to admit the child-like
mentality and inferiority complex of the Jepenese.
As mentioned above, the inferiority complex is a mental state in whi ch
adult self-reliance has not yet been established in plcce of the child's
egotim (narcissism). Actually, however, a nerson with an inferiority complex
is not a child, but an adult, and hence his inferiority complex differs
substantially from that which he had curing his infancy. The inferiority
complex seems encrusted with a c oncrescence of recognized inferiorities in the
present surroundings around the nucleus of infantile inadequacy. I hasten
to add here that the phrase "recognized inferiorities in the present surround-
ings" does not imply that the Japanese are inferior. Please do not misunder-
stand me. But neither do I mean to say that the Japanese are supesior.. The
8a 13

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRIC TED
faot is that the Japanese, like foreigners, have many strong points as well as
many weak points. Take any nation at random and it is not difficult to dis-
cover its strong pointe, just as it is easy to list its weak points. It is
impossible to compare two nations and conclude simply that one is inferior
to the other. Such a hasty conclusion will be made only by a person with
a pathologicel mind. I am afraid that the majority of the Japanese have such
pathological minds, beceuse unfortunately they draw hasty conclusions and
regard themselves as inferior to ather nations, Then, when some incident of
major importance occure, they will, as a reaction, assume an attitude commletely
the reverse of their usual inferiority complex end become elated with a
paranoic superiority complex. Such a child like mentality 1s indeed a matter
for concern.
The best way to overcome this pathological, infantile inferiority complex is
a realistic point of view. One's own weak points must be recognized as such
willingly and truthfully, md strong points should be evaluated as such without
self-elation. The superiority and achievements af other nstions must be im-
partially and generausly conceded, and their sins and defects must be criti-
cized with fearless severity. But because the Japanese have a child-like men-
tality and a strong inferiority complex, their point of view is unrealistic.
When some isolated superior trait possessed by some nation is pointed out to
them, they overrate thet nation's qualities even to the extent of interpreting
its defects as strong points, much like the love-sick girl who sees pockmarks
in her sweetheart's face and calls them dimmles. It is for this reason that
I am concerned about the possibility that the dey might come when the Japanese
will be overzealously pro-German, should the Germens win the present war.
for nothing more then the mere martial prowess that they will have demonstrated.
No nation's cheracter should be appraised on the basis of its superior fighting
ability alone, although such an ability is an asset to the nation. The
Japanese should now be preparing a critical attitude with which to evaluate
Germany&s place in the family of nations. Such a preparation will be useless.
if directed merely by a conscious effort. It should be uncnsciously built
up. lest cmr unconscious urges might some day betrprthhe good intemtieme
distated by our eonseloue effort.
Pas- 14

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Our critical faculty should be freed from pathologicel adjuncts, so that
it may be able to recognize stron as well as weak points both in others and in
ourselves. We shall then not feel inferior to more prominent nations. Freed
from a pethologicel inferiority complex, we can appear before nobles or high
officials, however eugust or influentiel they may be, and do our business on an
equal footing as individuls, without feeling shy or being cowed. But if we
suffer from a pathological inferiority complex, we feel uneasy nd anprehensive
even in the presence of a person inferior to us in social stending or intelligence.
(3) The Japanese are Simple in Mind and Tend to Run to Extremes.
Since the Japanese have a child-like mentality and a strong inferiority
complex, it naturally follows that they are s imple in mind, tend to run to extremes
at times, and are easily victimized by others. This point is worth emphasizing.
Because they possess these charecteristics, it has been noted that the Japanese
are generally extremely nervous nd hypersensitive even to routine occurrences.
When stimulated, they run off like horses hitched to a coach with blinds on their
eyes. They continue to run along a given track by inertia; when stimulated again
they run off in another direction which may be diametrically op 6site to the first
track, as if they hed forgotten what they were going before. There seems to be
no correlation between whst they did before and what they are doing now. For
exempl e:
in recent world movements, it is plainly traceable that the ideas of
Marxism shifted into the ideas of Faecism. The charecteristics of each system
are simply steted by its proponents. In Japen however, when Merxism was in vogue.
every megazine and every c ultural product was painted with the Marxian color, of
course only externelly, but when Fascism raised its heed later, Marxism, so
cherished formerly, was completely disdained by its former proponents. The
dialectic development from the old system to the new mas demonstrated by many.
Yet few Jepanese know today that Fescism in Europe was actually developed from
Marxism, the apparent opposition of the two systems being only skin deep.
herefore, when Qommunism end Fascism joined forces in the Nazi-Soviet pact, the
Japanese were taken completely aback, and, muttering to themselves that strange
thinge indeed happen in this complex world; they simply did not know what to do.
Maeh less are they now aware that Hitler himself may in reality be a practitioner
ofcoi.
7a-15

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
In the oultural history of Japan, such dialectic development as is seen
in the cultural history of the Cccident is almost totally absent. When there is
external stimulation, the Japanese run off straight ahead like horses hitched to
a coach, but they slacken their speed the moment the stimulation ceases, sinking
back into an easy life of sensuous pleasures. For example, during the solation
period of Japan (when the impact of external culture wes almost totally absent).
21
ukiyoe
(Japanese prints) reached a high point of development. This is & splendid
medium for sensuous appeal, but it is not very high up in the scale of art forms.
It belongs to the dross of art. In the light of these considerations, the Japanese
seem not to be a superior race, and this causes me much concern.
(4) The Japanese Have a Firm Aggressive Desire. but Their Intellectual
Sublimation Is Insufficient.
The Japanese are sharp in perception and refined in sensitivity, but an
aggressive desire based on the death instinct is firmly developed in them. That
1s why they are suited to play a destructive role in war. On the other hend, they
seem not to have sufficiently sublimeted such an aggressive desire into the power
of personelity or the energy of intellectual activity. I need not explein to the
reader that the power of personality and the energy of intellectual activity are
a sublimation of an aggressive desire based on the death instinct. ▲ nation of
which there is constently required a realization of its death instinct, or in
which there is perpetually such an eggressive desire, necessarily lacks the power
of personality or intellectual activity.
In my "Analysis of the Modern Japanese Society," I have discussed "Our
National Character", and have cited exemples to show that (1) the super-ego of
the Japanese is nationalistic, but not humanistic: (2) the hate instinct of the
Japanese is too demonstrative, as ebserved by westernere; (3) the praise of death
so common among the Japanese, almost to the point of being their second nature, is
fraught with danger and must be handled with oaution; and (4) even the Japanese
世
Page - 16

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
are not immune to war neurosis. At that time I did not think of the possible
linkage between these characteristics and the Japanese nationalistic femily
system. There is such a linkage, as I later discovered. Of course, I do not .
insist that this linkage alone will explain the national character of the Japanese,
but I believe that this relationship cannot be totally ignored in any attempt to
understand the Japanese. It is indeed honorable to die, if need be, but over
praise of death per se or sacrificing oneself unnecessarily is pathological.
In Japan, such pathological aestheticism is masquerading under a mask of morality.
Would it not be possible for us to accent this fact: that through a translation
from the realn where life is sacrificed willinly to t he realm where life is
worth saving for a cause, the character of a truly great nation is developed for
the first time? Since the ides of "cying one day on a battle field" has been
ingrained in us, we have to recognize that we are reacting on the basis of the
death instinct instead of serving for the cause of the establishment of a Greater
East Asia. Until we have reached the point where we react on the basis of surviv
ing instinct for a great cause and only secondarily with the idea of "fighting it
out one dy on a battle field," we are not yet a great nation.
(5) The Japanese Are Easily Suggestible. Imitative. and Feminine.
I have mentioned above that the Japanese run off ahead on one track when
stimulated by the example of a foreign country, but that they are apt to sink
back into the easy life of sensuous pleesures once such stimulation ceases. This
is due to a lack of intellectual sublimation. This is also why the Japanese are
extremely suggestible, imitative, and feminine in their mental processes. When
Germany produced new weapons in the blitzkrieg attack on Engl and and Francm in
the present war, our bureaucretic authorities were bewildered. They suddenly
became wildly active in exhorting scholars and students in government and private
achools to think up new weapons and plane by which to cope with the new menance.
When I read this news, I was rather concerned that the people might lose confidenct
in the trusted authorities who had been caught so umprepared, and that their
anxiety over the welfare of our country would be deepened. Without the stimulation
22
of Nomonhan". the Japanese samurai would have slighted soience, ignored mechinery.
and advanced to Noscow equipped only with bamboo spears and the Japamese spiret.
(22) Raferrins to the Soviet-Japesese border alaah ia 1939 at Nomeahem,
Kameuria. in whh the dapemeee were severely defeted.
8a - 17

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
RE STRIC TED
This comic opera proposal had at that time actually been made. This shows that
the Japanese have a burning aggressive desire, but are very clumsy in sublimating
that real possession into intelleotual power, being obsessed by an instinctive wish
to evade any sincere effort at sublimation.
Thus the Japanese are easily suggestible, imitative, excitable, and easily
disillusioned; in other words, feminine, This is the basic characteristic of the
Japanese nature. In a sense, they share this characteristic with the Ohinese, as
I pointed out in my article in the fi-ot issue of this journal this yeer (1940).
Generally speaking, however, the Chinese ere far more feminine in mentality than
the Japanese. The Chinese death instinct has been eroticized to a point where it
has become non-intellectual. For compensation, the Chinese seem to have a far more
strongly developed masochistic power (which is psychoan:lytically the sum total
of the urge of the unconscious). This point I developed at length in my article.
IV. Conclusions.
Recently, I hapnened to read a translation of a German book entitled,
"Rediscovery of Japanes Beauty" by Bruno Taut, a modern architect. The writer
praised the simple beauty of Japanese architecture, but it would be a mistake
to think of that praise as anplying generally to the Japanese or their culture.
I felt rather thet that volume was meant to be a sareastic comment on the Japenese
and Japenese culture. Taut spared no words in prai sing the Ise Shrine, the
Iatsura Imperial Summer Palace, and a house for a large tribal femily found in
Shirekawa Village in Hida Province. His commendation of this extremely limited
number of architectural specimens, however, cannot mean anything but condemnation
for the failure to preserve such a brilliant pest tradition in modern Japanese c. 
culture. Throughout the volume, Taut actuelly attacks the imposture found in
modern Japanese architecture end culture. He seems to think that beauty appears
pontaneously in the treatment of one significant principle to the exclusion of
extraneous decorations, and that great art is born by cultivating that principle
with simplicity. I heartily agree with him. However, simplicity should not
mean ruggedness, barbarism, poverty, or second rate production. It should mean
sincerity and purity with no admixture.
18

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
RB S TR I C T ED
Modern culture 1s of necessity complex. It 1s a great mistake to think
that simplicity means the resurrection of primitive simplicity untouched. In this
modern complex world, we can be simple in a modern sense. But in being simple we
must definitely not be single-track-minded or fall easy prey to others. We must
not sink into dilettantism and forget intellectual exaltation. Modern simplicity
should be the simplicity which results from the integration of active intellect
and feeling with the working rules of reclity and pleasure. As long as we live
in this modern complex world, it will not do to forget our duties in the modern
era, yearning sentimentally for the proud simplicity of ancient and medieval
times. I am secretly afraid, however, that the Japanese character seeks to find
an escape mechanism in this direction.
Pa - 19
