894.7971 Other Means Of Communication And Transportation. Carrier Pigeons., Automobile. Bus Line., Japan, Laws And Regulations., October 12, 1940 - January 14, 1941 (File 1241)
ID: 894.7971-1241   Pages: 10   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.7971-other-means-of-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
AMERICAN PRESIDENT LINES
Trans-Pacific Service • Round-World Service
311 CALIFORNIA STREET • SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, U. S. A.
REG FA
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE OCT 14 1940 MR. LONG
RECEIVED DEPARTMENT OF STATE OCT 24 1940
894.7971/1
894.7971/1
F/B
1171
1940
1000
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
The Shoreham Washington, D. C.
October 22, 1940
Honorable Breckinridge Long
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Copy
Copy sent to Kobe &amp; Tokyo
Copy
Dear Mr. Long:
Please note the enclosed letter from one of our Vice Presidents concerning the necessity of our Company for oil and gasoline to operate our automobiles on company business in Japan. Would it be possible for the State Department to aid in licensing our company car in Kobe, Japan, in the manner suggested by Mr. Arthur B. Poole? If so, it would greatly facilitate our operations in Kobe.
Cordially yours,
W. G. McAdoo
Chairman of the Board
wgm-s

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
AMERICAN PRESIDENT LINES
Trans-Pacific Service • Round-World Service
511 CALIFORNIA STREET • SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, U. S. A.

October 7, 1940

SENATOR W. G. MCADOO
WASHINGTON OFFICE

Dear Senator:

Knight Aulsbrook reports to us that foreign companies are no longer permitted to operate automobiles or buy gasoline for them in Japan. He says that in some manner automobiles of American concerns may be brought under the jurisdiction of the American Consulate in Japan and thus remain in operation and obtain necessary fuel. He says that the Singer Sewing Machine has already made such arrangement with the United States Consulate in Kobe, and that other American companies are attempting to make the same arrangement.

Apparently a request for this has to clear through Washington in order to be effective. I am sorry that I cannot be more precise as to the manner of providing such transportation. However, Mr. Gabrielson in Kobe will be seriously hampered in his operations if he should become unable to drive the company car there.

Will you please get in touch with the State Department to see what might be done toward licensing of our company car in Kobe by arrangement with the State Department?

Yours sincerely,

Arthur

ABP:D

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
October 19

Dear Mr. McAdoo:

I have received your letter of October 12, 1940, with which you enclose a letter from one of your vice presidents in regard to the question of the possibility of assistance by the Department in the licensing of an automobile belonging to the Kobe office of the American President Lines so that operation of the car may be facilitated.

I regret that I know of no way in which there might be effected an arrangement such as that referred to in the enclosure to your letter, whereby an automobile belonging to your Kobe office might be brought under the jurisdiction of the American Consulate at Kobe, and I am sure that the report that this has been done in the case of another American company must be based on some misunderstanding. We are, however, forwarding a copy of your letter and enclosure to the Consul at Kobe.

Sincerely yours,

Breckinridge Long
Assistant Secretary

The Honorable
William Gibbs McAdoo,
The Shoreham,
Washington, D. C.

P.S. CC: EES
10-10

F/B

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
October 24, 1940

2061

To the
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.

The Secretary of State encloses for the information of the American Ambassador a copy of a letter of October 12, 1940 with its enclosure from the Honorable William Gibbs McAdoo, together with a copy of the Department's reply thereto of October 19, in regard to the question of the possibility of assistance by the Department in the licensing of an automobile belonging to the Kobe office of the American President Lines.

894.7971

Enclosures:
1. From Mr. McAdoo, October 12, 1940, with enclosure.
2. To Mr. McAdoo, October 19, 1940.

Field distribution: Tokyo, Kobe.

OCT 24 1940

A true copy of the signed original. S

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
October 24, 1940

To the
American Consul,
Kobe, Japan.

The Secretary of State encloses for the information of and comment by the American Consul a copy of a letter of October 12, 1940 with its enclosure from the Honorable William Gibbs McAdoo, together with a copy of the Department's reply thereto of October 19, in regard to the question of the possibility of assistance by the Department in the licensing of an automobile belonging to the Kobe office of the American President Lines.

894.7971

Enclosures:
1. From the Honorable William Gibbs McAdoo, October 12, 1940, with enclosure.
2. To the Honorable William Gibbs McAdoo, October 19, 1940.

Signed distribution: Kobe, Tokyo.

A true copy of the signed original.
JM

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
66
File
JAN 24 1971
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
Department of State
File
JAN 24 1971
894.7071/2
PS/...N

AMERICAN CONSULATE
Kobe, Japan, December 3, 1940.

SUBJECT: Licensing of Automobile Belonging to Kobe Office of the American President Lines.

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON

SIR:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the Department's instruction of October 24, 1940, enclosing a copy of a letter addressed on October 12, 1940 to the Department by the Honorable William Gibbs McAdoo, together with a copy of the Department's reply thereto of October 19, in regard to the question of the possibility of assistance in the licensing of an automobile belonging to the Kobe office of the American President Lines.

The Consulate has consulted Mr. Ernest Matteson, manager of the Kobe office of the American President Lines, by whom the Department's instruction and the correspondence attached thereto has been perused. Mr. Matteson informed the Consulate that confusion had arisen in the minds of those officials of the company in the United States who took up the matter with Mr. McAdoo and that for the time being, while appreciative

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

appreciative of the Consulate's offer to lend its assistance if required, the matter had not yet reached the stage where consular intervention was desirable.

Mr. Matteson went on to explain that officially as manager of the local office of the American President Lines, under the gasoline rationing system which prevails in Japan, he could "officially" obtain only eight gallons per month for the operation of the one automobile which the company operates here.

However, because the Japanese authorities in Tokyo recognized the inadequacy of the amount in the case of such a prominent concern as the American President Lines, the authorities had made provision for Mr. Matteson to obtain an additional 78 gallons per month, especially in view of the fact that the use of such gasoline by the American President Lines here did not involve any foreign exchange, payment for the gasoline being effected directly in the United States by the company to the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company in New York, which instructed its Japan branch to deliver the stipulated quantity to the American President Lines in Kobe. However, for the Standard Vacuum Oil Company to make delivery of the gasoline, the presentation of the officially issued ration tickets by the shipping firm is required each time a quantity of gasoline is delivered.

Up to October 1 the American President Lines had experienced no difficulty in obtaining its gasoline requirements upon presentation of the usual ration tickets, but upon that date the Japanese bureau (in Osaka

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

Osaka) concerned had required the company to present for revalidation its stock of tickets, sufficient to obtain approximately 650 gallons, the balance of the year's total quota of 936 gallons (78 x 12). Revalidation was stated to be required in connection with new gasoline regulations which went into effect on October 1 when the Japanese Government considerably curtailed the supply of gasoline available to the public.

The tickets have not yet been returned by the bureau to the American President Lines, but Mr. Matteson is hopeful that eventually they will be given to him duly revalidated. In the meanwhile Mr. Matteson has a supply of gasoline which fortunately he had accumulated prior to October 1. Should there be a refusal to reissue valid ration tickets the Consulate will make a further report.

That there is some confusion in the minds of those who corresponded with Mr. McAdoo is evident from the letter of October 7 addressed to him by the San Francisco office of the company, wherein reference is made in the second paragraph thereof to "Mr. Gabrielson in Kobe". Mr. Gabrielson is connected with the Yokohama office and possibly he may be having some difficulties in the matter of gasoline supplies. Furthermore, the reference in the first paragraph of the letter of October 7 to the "Singer Sewing Machine (having) already made arrangements with the United States Consulate in Kobe" also indicates that there is some confusion, since the Singer Sewing Machine Company does not maintain an office in Kobe and no question of an automobile owned by that company

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-

company has ever been presented to this Consulate.

In any event, the Department may assure Mr. McAdoo that the Kobe office of the American President Lines has an adequate supply of gasoline for the time being and that while the situation is not altogether satisfactory, the Kobe office prefers to await developments.

Respectfully yours,

Samuel Sokobin
American Consul

879.7
SS/mh

Original and 2 copies to Department.
Copy to Supervisory First Secretary, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
January 14, 1941

In reply refer to
FE 894.7971/2

Dear Mr. McAdoo:

With further reference to your letter of October 12, 1940 in regard to difficulties encountered in obtaining gasoline supplies for an automobile belonging to the Kobe office of the American President Lines, there is enclosed for your information a copy of a communication of December 3, 1940 received from the American Consulate at Kobe in regard to the matter.

Sincerely yours,

Breckinridge Long
Assistant Secretary

Enclosure:
No. 66 from Kobe,
December 3, 1940.

The Honorable
William Gibbs McAdoo,
The Shoreham,
Washington, D. C.

A true copy of the signed original.

FE:FAS:JPS
1-10

JP
JAN 13 1941
