894.912 Public Press., Japan, News-Gathering Agencies., September 5, 1934 - October 28, 1939 (File 1143)
ID: 894.912-1143   Pages: 14   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.912-public-press-japan-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 5, 1934.

No. 954.

Subject: Amalgamation of Japanese News Agencies Pending.

894.912

AM RECD DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 19 1934
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

RECEIVED DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 21 1934
AUG 21 1934
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

894.912/18

COMMISSION OF CURRENT INFORMATION
DEC 1 9 1934
Commission of State

COMMISSION
DEC 1 9 1934
In U S A
N

COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
DEC 1 1 1934
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

FILED
JAN 14 1935

Sir:

I have the honor to report that negotiations are being carried on to consolidate the two important Japanese news agencies, Rengo Tsushin, which has contracts with the American Associated Press, and Nippon Dempo Tsushin (Dentsu), which has contracts with the United Press.

It seems that the idea of consolidation was first suggested by the notorious Mr. Shiratori, Foreign Office spokesman during the recent period of hostilities with China.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

China. Since then the Government has urged the amalgamation of the two concerns, ostensibly in the interests of economy and for the elimination of unnecessary competition. At one time, during the past spring, negotiations were practically completed, but further difficulties seem to have arisen. The present prospect is that the two concerns will be amalgamated toward the end of this year.

It seems certain from the statements by interested persons, that the Government is using pressure on the two concerns to force a consolidation, in the desire to exercise stricter control over incoming and outgoing news. One informant stated that the proposed consolidation is part of the Government's program of preparation for the "crisis of 1935-36" of which so much has been heard. The Government is said to be contriving that during the approaching period of "crisis" only the approved Japanese viewpoint shall be presented both at home and abroad, and that when that time comes, the news services shall be under official control. At present the two news agencies are competitive, and if one fails to supply news of any event, the other achieves a "scoop".

In the event of consolidation, the only remaining overseas news service would be the private agencies of the ASAHI and the NICHI NICHI. These sources of information are under control of the press law and use of the news received could be directed by administrative action.

Consolidation, if accomplished, will probably mean absorption of Dentsu by Rengo. The chief obstacle to consolidation is the question of money. Dentsu demands about two million yen for its properties. The Government has

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

has no funds available for this purpose, and Rengo seems disinclined to pay this sum. As part payment, the President of Dentsu, Mr. Mitsunaga, was recently given a seat in the House of Peers. When consolidation is accomplished, Mr. Iwanaga, President of Rengo, will probably also receive similar honor, in order to save face all around. Another difficulty hindering the consolidation is the insistence of the newspaper members of Rengo that they retain control of the new organization to be formed. At present the directorate of Rengo is composed of representatives of the leading Japanese papers. One of the features of the proposed new organization is a president nominated by the Government. Mr. Debuchi, formerly Ambassador in Washington has been mentioned for this position. This would appear to evidence the Government's desire to control the new organization. However, the powerful newspaper interests are certain to oppose any direct control by the Government.

No information is available as to the disposition of the existing contracts with the United Press and the Associated Press, in the event of consolidation. However, nothing would prevent these organizations from maintaining their own representatives in Japan even if their contracts with the Japanese organizations were cancelled.

Respectfully yours,

Joseph O. Grew.

891
WTT:1

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 18, 1935.
No. 1138.
Subject: Amalgamation of Japanese News Agencies Pending.

894.912

894.912/19

DIVISION OF CURRENT INFORMATION
JUN 5 - 1935
File
Department of State

894.912/19

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 954/18 of September 5, 1934 in regard to the amalgamation of the two Japanese news agencies, and to report that, according to recent information, the plan of amalgamation has been altered to include the Japan Broadcasting Company.

It seems that the principal stumbling block has been finding the money to buy out NIPPON DEMPO. The Japanese press refused to accept a loan or subsidy from the Government.

Without

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-

Without capital, however, it was impossible to obtain control of NIPPON DEPO. The scheme was then evolved of including the Broadcasting Company, which seems to have built up a reserve of several million yen during the past year. The idea is to be that the Broadcasting Company will advance enough money to liquidate both NIPPON DEPO and SHIWAN HONG. A new voluntary news association will then be formed, of which the Broadcasting Company will be a member on the same footing as any newspaper. In addition the Broadcasting Company will be given a mortgage or lien on the plant and good will of the former news agencies (which will form the physical plant of the new agency) until the advances have been liquidated.

The Broadcasting Company has a monopoly of radio broadcasting in Japan, and plans, apparently, to broadcast news received as a subscriber to the news service. It is organized as a non profit making association under the general control of the Minister of Communications.

Respectfully yours,

Joseph C. Grew.

891.
ELN:r

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 27, 1935.

NO. 1603

SUBJECT: ESTABLISHMENT OF A NEW INTERNATIONAL NEWS AGENCY, THE DOMEI TSUSMINSHA (UNITED NEWS AGENCY).

Copy for FE (381)

DIVISION OF CURRENT INFORMATION
JAN 9 1936
2-28

For Dept. of State

|  Grade | For | Inv | No.  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  F | Inv | Inv | 2  |

COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 17 1936
MARKETING RESEARCH
SERVICE

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatches No. 954 of September 5, 1934, No. 955 of September 6, 1934, No. 1138 of January 18, 1935, and to the Monthly Political Report for November, 1935, Section III (f), concerning control of the Japanese press by the Japanese Government and the proposed amalgamation of RENGO, distributing news agency in Japan for the ASSOCIATED PRESS, REUTER's and HAVAS, with

ASSISTANT SECRETARY
OF STATE
JAN 11 1936

FILED
JAN 21 1936
F/FG

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

with NIPPON DEMPO, distributing agency in this country for the United Press.

The Domei Tsushinsha (United News Agency), organized at the instance of the Japanese Government,* held an inaugural meeting on December 17 and decided to begin operations on January 1, 1936. According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of December 18, Mr. Tokichi Tanaka, President of the CHUGAI SHOGYO SHIMPO, was elected President and Chairman of the Board of the new organization, Mr. Eisuke Fukuda, of the MIYAKO, was chosen as Superintendent, and twenty-two directors were elected, representing various vernacular newspapers and the Japan Broadcasting Company. Mr. Tanaka, who had been in charge of preparations for organizing the new service, set forth the aims of the new organization, stating that it would be a free vehicle for newspapers and the radio and that it would not be a mere organ for furthering the interests of publishers in disregard of the interests of public welfare and the state. Behind these explanations, however, lies the desire, long held by the Government**, to control the news published in Japan to such an extent that only the approved Japanese point of view shall be presented.

The Embassy is reliably informed that the establishment of the new organization constitutes, in fact, only a reorganization and strengthening of RENGO under a new name, with the object of forcing NIPPON DEMPO to sell out. Heretofore RENGO has received a Government subsidy of ¥350,000 annually, while NIPPON DEMPO has not been under subsidy.

* See Monthly Report for November, 1935, Section III, (f).
** Embassy's despatch No. 954 of September 5, 1934.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

subsidy. The DOMEI TSUSHINSHA will be financed by the Japan Broadcasting Company, which is to contribute about ¥10,000,000, of which ¥5,000,000 will be for the capitalization of the new service, ¥1,500,000 for paying RENGO's debts, and from ¥2,000,000 to ¥3,000,000 for buying out NIPPON DEMPO. In the opinion of Mr. Fleisher of the JAPAN ADVERTISER, NIPPON DEMPO will probably be forced to sell out to the DOMEI TSUSHINSHA since it will find it impossible to continue to compete against the special cable rates and the special facilities which will be granted to the new agency by the Government.

Mr. Fleisher told a member of the Embassy staff that if NIPPON DEMPO ceased to exist and the new enterprise proved to be a success, it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, for the JAPAN ADVERTISER to obtain accurate and impartial news from abroad. Up to the present, RENGO, with a Government subsidy, had been fairly well controlled by the Government, and consequently the JAPAN ADVERTISER had found it to its advantage to use the services of NIPPON DEMPO which had been free from Government control. In the future the JAPAN ADVERTISER would have to print the news from abroad given out by the DOMEI TSUSHINSHA since the JAPAN ADVERTISER could not afford to buy the services of the United Press or of other similar news agencies.

It is possible that the ASAHI and the NICHI NICHI, which maintain the only remaining overseas news services, will put up a strong opposition to the aim of the Government

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-

ment to place all news services under strict Government control. However, the agencies of the ASAHI and the NICHI NICHI are subject to the provisions of the press law and use of the news received by them could be controlled by the Government.*

According to an article in the SHIMBUN-KO-NIHON of December 19, although Japanese military circles do not oppose the organization of the DOMEI TSUSHINSHA they are dissatisfied with the way in which it has been organized since they consider that it is merely RENGO in revised form and that it has not the character of a really national news agency. The inference here is that the organization will not, in the opinion of the military, be sufficiently under the thumb of the Japanese Government to function as a mouthpiece of nationalist ideals. In any case, the idea behind the newly established agency, namely, the presentation to the Japanese people and to the world of the correct conception of Japan's place in the world, is but another evidence of the present urge in Japan toward a stronger nationalism and toward the weakening of foreign influence here.

It is not possible to foresee the final outcome of the new organization's apparent determination to force NIPPON DEMPO to dissolve. According to the latest information received by the Embassy, the DOMEI TSUSHINSHA issued a sort of ultimatum to NIPPON DEMPO that by December 24 an answer would have to be given as to whether

NIPPON

* Embassy's despatch No. 954 of September 5, 1934.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-

NIPPON DEMPO would sell its properties to the larger agency, with the threat that the ninety newspapers associated with the DOMEI TSUSHINSHA would cease their affiliations with NIPPON DEMPO at the end of the present year unless the answer was favorable. Mr. Fleisher states that, according to a high official in NIPPON DEMPO, the latter's answer to the DOMEI TSUSHINSHA, given on December 24, was that no definite decision would be taken until April of next year.

As far as the Embassy is aware, the Japanese Government has nothing in particular against NIPPON DEMPO except its independence but desires its absorption into the DOMEI TSUSHINSHA in order that there may be a large, single news agency without competitors. The aim of the Government in seeking the dissolution of the independent news agency would appear to be essentially the unification of all news agencies under one head for a more effectual control under Government auspices. The authorities may also be influenced in their attitude by the fact that United Press has a financial interest in NIPPON DEMPO.

Respectfully yours,

Joseph C. Grew.

891
GDA:C

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
894.912/21
MAY 16 1936
MAY 16 1936

THE UNDER SECRETARY
MAY 14 1936
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

DIVISION OF CURRENT
INFORMATION

MAY 1 4 1936
Department of State

No. 1756.

AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, April 1, 1936.

SUBJECT: AMALGAMATION OF THE NEWS AGENCIES,
DOMEI AND NIPPON DEMPO.

894.9 2

Copy to FBI - No. 204
MAY 10 1941
2572C

COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 1603/25 of December 27, 1935, in which it was stated
that NIPPON DEMPO (news agency) would defer until April,
1936, its answer to the demand of DOMEI TSUSHINSHA that
the two agencies be merged.

According to the JAPAN ADVERTISER of today, Mr.
Keikichi Tanomogi, the Minister for Communications, an-
nounced to the Cabinet yesterday that NIPPON DEMPO had
given its assent to amalgamate with DOMEI TSUSHINSHA, the
national news agency which came into being on January
first

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

first of this year. As reported in the despatch under
reference, the purpose of the merger is the unification
of all news agencies under strict Government control,
particularly for the presentation to other countries
of the appropriate patriotic point of view. The Government's
objectives in urging the formation of a single
news agency are clearly set forth in the following
statement, which was made by the Communications Minister
yesterday:

"Because of the current international
situation and the worldwide trend with regard
to news agencies, it has become one of the
most important of Japan's national policies
to establish a strong and united news agency
on which the whole nation may rely and which
the whole world can consider authoritative.
The network of institutions devoted to the
gathering of news has been perfected, and use
is being made of such up-to-date communication
facilities as the short-wave radio. Accuracy
and speed in the gathering and distribution of
news has become more and more important domestically
in order to provide a basis for sound
public opinion and internationally in order to
promote understanding of Japan on the part of
the other Powers.

"In the past, NIPPON DEMPO and RENGO stood
as rivals. The Government, seeing that their
continued separate existence would impair the
sound enforcement of national policies, negotiated
with them to effect a merger into one great
organization on a non-profit-making basis and as
a juridical person working for public welfare. I
am very glad that they have seen their way to
accepting the Government's proposal and that on May
1, or about then, a new great agency will come
forth, standing shoulder to shoulder with the
other great agencies of the world to fulfill the
great mission of executing the national policy
of Japan and working for world peace."

In connection with the dissemination of news under

Government

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

Government control, it is reported that a Cabinet information committee will soon be organized with the Chief Secretary of the Cabinet as its chairman and that its members will include the Vice Ministers for Foreign Affairs, War, Navy, Communications, and Home Affairs.

Respectfully yours,

Joseph C. Grew

891.
GDA:c:g

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS

October 28, 1939.

In the course of a conversation by telephone with the British Ambassador this morning, I called Lord Lothian's attention to the fact that the Domei News Agency appears to be engaged in intensive distribution of what would seem to be fabricated "news". I said that we had had many Domei items from various parts of the world wherein completely unfounded statements are made with regard to policies, etc., of this Government and statements which we know to be false with regard to those of some other governments. I said that we had had a report recently to the effect that the Domei agency in London had sent to its home office a report stating that British policy in the Far East had now become completely changed: that Great Britain was now exerting itself to break down Chinese resistance and to help Japan to impose upon China a Japanese peace. I said that I thought that the Ambassador might like to call this situation and this report to the attention of his Government. The Ambassador said that he had been noting a plethora of Domei items in the American press and that he would be glad to bring to his Government's attention the report of which I had made particular mention.

Stanley K. Hornbeck

PA/H:SKH:ZMK
