894.145 Charities. Philanthropic Organizations., Japan, Institutional Homes., December 20, 1944 (File 1478)
ID: 894.145-1478   Pages: 16   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.145-charities-philanthropic-organizations
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
The Shut-In's Companion
MELVIN E. SCHOONOVER, EDITOR
MONON, INDIANA
December 20, 1944

Mr. Joseph C. Grew
2840 Woodland Drive
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Grew:

Before going into the purpose of our letter, we want to extend congratulations upon your appointment as Under Secretary of State. You most certainly deserve this honor and we are certain that you will serve your country as well and faithfully in the future as you have in the past.

Yours truly is the youthful editor and publisher of The Shut-in's Companion. There are almost as many publications for the handicapped as alphabetical agencies, but my colleagues and I maintain that the Companion is in a class of its own! You may draw your own conclusions after examining the enclosed copy, which is sent with our compliments.

Our research program extends into many fields as we seek ideas for new features and series of articles and special information of use to our subscribers. One of these is education of the handicapped and the attitude of the government toward that problem. Try as we might, we have never been able to discover anything concerning conditions facing the Japanese cripple.

We have wondered if perhaps the Japanese might not follow a policy similar to that of the Germans - complete eradication of an "undesirable element." Or, if this were not the case, that little was done to care for these under-privileged persons.

Since you were stationed in Tokyo for almost a decade, it could be assumed that you are familiar with all phases of Japanese life. If you have any information on the subject in which we are interested, we should very much appreciate having it and should be forever in your debt. Or, failing this, perhaps you can suggest some source from whence the desired material might be obtained.

894.145/12-2044
FIS
194.145/12-2044
JAN 18 1945

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-

Mr. Joseph C. Grew December 20, 1944

Wishing you much success in your new position and much happiness during the holiday season and throughout the coming year, we are

Cordially yours,

THE SALT-JOSE C. LABOR

Melvin E. Schooners
Editor and Publisher.

mes/sbe

Enclosures

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
The Shut-In's
COMPANION
Vol. 2
December 1944
No. 3

# The Christmas Story

And she brought forth her first-born son and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn

And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night

And the angel said unto them, Fear not for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people

For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord

And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying,

Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men

—St. Luke, Chapter 2

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
# THE SHUT-IN'S COMPANION

## A Magazine for the Physically Handicapped and Shut-ins

Published at
**MONON, INDIANA**

Sponsored by
Indiana Society for Crippled Children
621 Lemcke Building
Indianapolis 4, Indiana

## STAFF

|  Founder | Wayne Penn Gardner, 1926-1944  |
| --- | --- |
|  Editor and Publisher | Melvin F. Schoonover  |
|  Associate Editor | Harold C. Besanceney  |
|  Assistant Editor | Bernadine C. Kessler  |
|  Assistant Editor | Marianne Fields  |
|  Contributing Editor | Norma L. Linton  |
|  Literary Editor | Bertha J. Bostick  |
|  Editorial Assistant | Edith I. Browning  |
|  Art Director | Bernard L. Keim  |
|  Assistant Art Director | Mary Carpenter  |
|  Legal Adviser | E. G. Bostick  |

## CONTENTS

|  Open Letter Editorial | Page  |
| --- | --- |
|  Careers for the Handicapped | Melvin E. Schoonover—1  |
|  "Curious Facts | Isabel Currier—7  |
|  Life Is What You Make It | Donald Whitacre—5  |
|  The Perfect Woman | Dorothy S. Tayman—1  |
|  Our Hobbies | Allan Mack—4  |
|  The Staff | Harold C. Besanceney—6  |
|  A Daughter for Christmas | Melvin E. Schoonover—6  |
|  The Woman's Page | Mary Carpenter—3  |
|  Book Review | Bernadine C. Kessler—2  |
|  "My Mouth" | Marianne Fields—2  |
|  Poetry Corner | Melvin F. Schoonover—4  |

**VOL. 2**
**DECEMBER 1944**
**NO. 3**

|  SUBSCRIPTION RATES | ADVERTISING RATES  |
| --- | --- |
|  Shut-Ins. 60¢ Per Year; 75¢ for Two Years | Shut-Ins. 1¢ Per Word  |
|  Others: $1.60 Per Year; $1.75 for Two Years | Others: $24.00 Per Page  |

CIRCULATION APPROXIMATELY 250

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
THE SHUT-IN'S COMPANION
DEDICATED TO THOSE PRESUMED UNFORTUNATE,
BUT WHO ARE IN REALITY, FORTUNATE.—W.P.G.

# Open Letter Editorial - - MELVIN E. SCHOONOVER

Dear Friends:

Once again there is much material to crowd into the twelve pages of the COMPANION, so we shall confine ourselves to a brief message this month.

All of us have been plagued by shortages this Yuletide season. Gifts, wrappings, decorations, greeting cards, and Christmas trees have been extremely hard to get. It would seem that this will be a Christmas devoid of many things usually taken for granted.

There are, however, no shortages of the most important items. We can all thrill anew to the glorious tale about the birth of our Lord. We can take His philosophy and enrichen our lives with it. We can become, in limited measure, good samaritans and bring happiness and comfort to our fellow men. These are the things which really count and the absence of the "trimmings" will not add to or detract from the real significance of this momentous occasion.

We of the COMPANION staff, from the Editor on down, extend to all of you our cordial best wishes for a truly happy and contented Christmas Day.

We are pleased to announce that Mrs. Mell Hurley, of Bloomingdale, Indiana, was awarded first prize in the COMPANION'S clothespin doll contest. Second and third prizes were won by Miss Nancy Gardner, of New Market, Indiana. We wish to congratulate the winners and thank them for their fine entries.

The clothespin doll contest was, to use the vernacular, a complete "flop." Only three eligible entries were received by the judges. All entries became the property of this magazine and will be given to a worthy and needy organization.

# Life Is What You Make It

About the first of October of each year, I start in with my Christmas shopping. And believe-you-me, I am a very busy person up to the last day in the morning, as the old saying goes, "Why does one who knows start to shop so early?" I can hear you say. Well, I have two reasons for doing so. The first is I find so much better gifts than when I wait. Then, too, it is much more economical, and I have to be that way because there are so many to buy for in the family the size of mine. There are Mother, Dad, one brother and wife, one sister and husband, four nieces, three nephews, two great-nieces and their daddy, besides my friends. They have all told me not to get gifts for them, but I haven't the heart to take all and give nothing. Furthermore, if I wait until the first of December, the ol' weather man is liable to tell ol' man winter to come with his ice, snow, and cold, and I'm left holding the bag without any gifts in it!

About the time I started my shopping this year, a woman whom I have known all my life came with her sister to see my father, who is an osteopath and has his office at home. While she was waiting for her sister, she came out into the living room where Mother and I were sitting. In a little while she made inquiry as to what I had been doing that day. I told her I had been Christmas shopping. I regret very much that I'm not able to give you readers a complete description of the expression on her face as she made this statement--it was something between a polite laugh and a sneer--

"Have you started in with that headache? Well, I don't mind telling you that I just simply hate Christmas and don't intend to prepare one bit for it."

When she and her sister had gone and I was in bed, I fell to thinking about why that woman should hate His birthday. I wondered if she remembered the Christmas days of her childhood when the boys and girls of the community in which she lived took up a donation in order that she, her brothers, sisters, and their Mother could enjoy Christmas. They have been very poor and their father had left them. If I were in her place now--she has married well and has no family of her own--I would do all I could to make this Christmas day a Merry Christmas for some poor family, as her play-mates did for her family many years ago. You see, my dear friends, like life, Christmas is what you make it.

WHICH GIFT WAS GOLD

It is not the weight of jewel or plate
Or the rustle of silk or fur,
But the spirit in which the gift is rich
As the gifts of the Wise Men were;
And we are not told whose gift was gold
Or whose was the gift of myrrh.

—E. K. Watson.

Now here comes a big Merry Christmas and a Merry New Year to you all.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
2
THE SHUT-IN'S COMPANION

# The Women's Page
- BERNADINE C. KESSLER

Greetings, Girls and Everyone!

December, the birthmonth of Christ, our Savior! Adults, as well as children, think of this month as the "gift month," either in giving or receiving. These gifts may be inexpensive or expensive—or they may cost nothing at all! We may give gifts that cost not one cent, yet their value in the currency of happiness would outweigh all the gold and silver in the world. Here are a few gifts that we may all give:

Gifts of Kindness. It is so easy to give, so let us all give it often to those who need and deserve it. Many people, even shut-ins, receive this special gift so seldom. It is just as easy to be kind as to be any other way. "God has given us tongues that we may say something pleasant to our fellow-men."—Heinrich Heine.

Gift of a Helping Hand. This should be given to those who need it. Do not wait for a special time or occasion to give it. All shut-ins benefit from this gift any time of the year. Those who give this gift receive untold blessings and happiness. "What do we live for if not to make the world less difficult for each other."—George Eliot.

Gift of Friendship. To derive any benefit from this gift, we ourselves must be good friends. In turn we will have good friends. All shut-ins are in great need of this gift. In many cases their happiness depends on it. No one can expect to enjoy life without friends. "The ornaments of a house are the friends that frequent it.—Ralph Waldo Emerson.

Gift of a Smile. It costs nothing but gives much. It enriches those who receive without making poorer those who give. It takes only a moment, but the memory of it sometimes lasts forever. No one is so rich or mighty that he can get along without it and no one so poor but what he cannot be made rich by it. A smile cannot be bought, borrowed, begged, or stolen, for it is something that is of no value to anyone until it is given away.

## Among the Recent Books
MARIENNE FIELDS
THE GOOD FIGHT
By Raymond Leslie Goldman
Coward-McCann, Inc., New York

THE GOOD FIGHT is the most interesting autobiography we have ever read. Raymond Leslie Goldman's definition of the word "happy" is a true challenge to Webster's dictionary. He tells us how he fought three peoples—shame, envy, and self-pity—and won. Despite all his handicaps, he proves that he is truly a happy man.

At the start you can not guess his age. After reading this you decided he must be very old. Then he surprised you by telling his age and you discover he is still a young man with a small son. If you are a reader of magazines, you may be very much surprised to find that the author is the writer of many stories you have read before, never guessing that he too is a cripple.

THE GOOD FIGHT is more than a philosophy. It is the inspiring story of one man's journey through life in the face of obstacles that would have defeated a weaker spirit. His story is told in a style that is direct and clear. Anyone can understand it and get so much good from it. It is not long, and you will want to read it many times, learning more each time. If you are planning to jump into the river because of misfortune or worry, you would do well to read this story first. Raymond Leslie Goldman says he wants to make you ashamed to be unhappy, and he can.

## SMILE

Smile.
The world is blue enough
Without you feeling blue.

Smile.
There's not half joy enough
Unless you're happy, too.

Smile.
The sun is always shining,
And there's work to do.

Smile.
This world may not be Heaven,
But then it's home to you.
—Unknown.

I hope everyone who reads this article likes my ideas of gifts, for we all have so many gifts to give or share with others. Please remember your friends, especially your shut-in friends, this month with at least one of these gifts. I have given you three famous quotations and one poem to prove my theory. So many times we are too self-centered and live only for ourselves, forgetting our friends. We should all take inventory of ourselves and start the year 1945 by thinking of others, for we cannot expect to be happy if we do not make others happy.

Girls and everyone, I would appreciate hearing from you. Tell me what you would like for me to write about in the New Year. What I want to write about and what you want to read may not coincide. It is up to you to make of this column what you want it to be. Any ideas or suggestions will be more than welcome.

Until next year I leave you with this old but sincere wish:

Wishing all my friends,
Especially my Shut-in Friends,
The Editor,
And the entire staff of this magazine,
A Merry, Merry Christmas, and
A Happy, Prosperous New Year.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
DECEMBER, 1944
3

# A Daughter for Christmas MARY CARPENTER

Edna Bell was tripping down the walk, returning to the Home from an errand for Mrs. Thomas, the superintendent. Edna had been entrusted with the task of buying first aid supplies. You see, Mrs. Thomas thought this gave her “lambs” confidence to face the world when they left the Home.

Edna was a black haired, pixen-faced orphan youngster of twelve years. She was humming “Silent Night” as she skipped along the walk and almost ran into the florist.

“Hello, youngster,” he said. “Are you going to buy your mother a poinsettia this Yuletide?”

Edna smiled. “I may,” she said, as an idea dawned on her. She almost ran the other three blocks to the Home. She met Joey Martin, who was taking the Home’s waste fat to the butcher. “What’s your hurry?” yelled Joey.

“I have an idea,” she returned and hurried on.

“Edna plunked the package down on Mrs. Thomas’ desk. “I have them, Mother Thomas.”

Mrs. Thomas looked up. “They’re just right, Edna. Here’s your share.” And she handed the happy girl a ten-cent piece.

Edna went to her ward. Melissa and Betty were making their beds. Edna began on hers. As she was tucking the sheets in, she said: “Wouldn’t it be nice, girls, to have a mother for Christmas?”

“You know that’s impossible,” said Melissa.

“Oh, I don’t know.”

“Well, what is it?” asked Betty, knowing an idea was coming out of that black curly head.

“Well, why couldn’t we adopt mothers instead of their adopting us? There are lots of old ladies at the Old Ladies’ Home. I’ll bet they’d love to have daughters for Christmas.”

“Oh, that would be elegant. Let’s ask Mother Thomas,” replied Melissa.

So when the beds were made, off they went to the office and the idea was heartily accepted, provided they earned their own money for gifts. They were proud as peacocks and returned to their room, bursting with plans. Melissa said she was going to buy her “mother” a warm shawl, Edna’s choice was a pot of blooming violets from the florist’s shop, and Betty decided on house slippers.

But first they must find their mothers. The next few days the girls were too busy to go to the Old Ladies’ Home, but on Saturday they received permission from Mrs. Thomas to go. When they arrived, they told their mission to the superintendent, Mrs. Avery. She thought a while and told Edna to go to Room 16 on the first floor, Betty to Room 12 on the second, and Melissa to Room 15 on the second floor.

Edna found a little old lady lying in bed. “Hello, how are you?” Edna greeted her.

“Very well, child. Come in. Who are you?”

“I’m Edna Bell from the children’s home. I came to find a mother for Christmas and Mrs. Avery gave me you. I hope you like me. I got the idea last week when the florist asked me if I was going to buy my mother a poinsettia in memory of our Lord’s birthday.”

“What a nice idea! You are a very nice little girl. I’d like to have had you for my real little girl. My name is Mrs. Lydia Stark. You may call me Mother Stark, if you wish. I just have to lie here all the time.”

In Room 12 on the second floor, Betty found a Mrs. Green knitting for the Red Cross. She had been a minister’s wife and now she missed the busy life she had had. They had quite a talk.

The third member of the trio had found Mrs. Gray in Room 25. “Mrs. Gray,” Melissa announced, “I’m going to be your daughter for Christmas.” Mrs. Gray smiled happily.

From then until Christmas everyone was very busy getting acquainted. Edna asked the church school superintendent for an adult paper for her mother and each Sunday afternoon she would read to Mrs. Stark, with help on the big words from the Bible. Mrs. Stark lay there and explained the passages to her newly acquired daughter. Before Christmas she was well enough to go riding in the wheel chair with Edna pushing. The crisp, fresh air was certainly an invigorating treat. One day Edna pushed her by the florist’s shop just as he was placing a pot of blooming violets in the window. He smiled and nodded; then he came out. “Hello, little girl. Is this your mother?”

“Yes, it is, sir! She’s my adopted mother for Christmas. You gave me the idea when you asked me if I was buying my mother a poinsettia. She lives at the home for old ladies and I live at the children’s home,” replied Edna.

“She’s a lovely little girl, too,” announced her adopted mother.

Two weeks before Christmas, Mrs. Stark gave Edna a five dollar bill and told her to buy two holly wreaths and a pretty picture for a friend of hers.

Betty, Melissa, and Edna had earned enough for the gifts they had chosen. They had them tucked away, all except Edna’s gift which she had asked the florist to care for until Christmas eve.

When Christmas came, children from the Home went to the home of the aged to sing carols. But nicest of all was Christmas day when Edna gave Mother Stark her violets and Edna received the lovely picture she had purchased unknowingly for herself.

When it came time for Edna to return to the Home, she called out at the door: “Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.”

---

WANTED: A used typewriter. This need not be a late model or a standard make, but should be in reasonably good condition. Send details to Margaret Friday, Idaville, Indiana.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
4
THE SHUT-IN'S COMPANION
ALLAN MACK

# The Perfect Woman

Although not being a recognized authority on this very delicate subject, I shall try with all justice, modesty, and conviction to impart my conception of something which approaches perfection along the lines of the "fairer sex." Now, I want it to be understood that this opinion is very much biased and certainly does not represent the general view.

A young lady, who is a friend, has a habit of getting me engrossed in some very deep discussion, and one day we took up the matter of womankind. My friend is rather candid in her opinions; as a result, I decided to think the matter over.

Hardly had I had time to digest her views when Eleanor, another of the fairer sex, brought up the matter. I was rather outlandish in my arguments; and at one point, considering the virtues of the "perfect" woman, I said, "I just can't stand silly females."

She retorted, "Well, I hope to goodness that some silly young thing comes along and sweeps you off your feet!"

Well, I hope not! If I were to feel as silly as some individuals look during the process of being "swept off their feet," it would be pretty hard to live with myself.

As yet, however, I haven't described the perfect woman. The best way that I can find to describe her is along the lines of a government report. That is, just list the attributes point by point. Having stuck my neck out this far, I guess a little more won't hurt.

The Perfect Woman.

Point One: The perfect woman is not beautiful. This point is one that I have reached by deductive reasoning. It is said that beautiful women never have brains, and my idea is that the perfect woman has a moderate amount of brains.

Point Two: The perfect woman is rather dignified. I don't mean that she can't enjoy a good time, but I just detest anyone who is silly.

Point Three: An attractiveness deeper than "looks" is necessary for a perfect woman. She must have command of herself at all times; she must have poise, gracefulness, and tact. The last being very rare, indeed, in many women.

Point Four: Intense emotion is three strikes against the perfect woman. She must be rather philosophical and take human beings at their face value. Intense hatreds or infatuations are also out. A genuine enjoyment of people and the interests of others is very important.

Here I have presented some of the qualities which I consider important for the "perfect woman." I know just as well as anyone that "there jest ain't no such critters," and since there is no way to find one such as I have described, I'll just keep on looking, hoping that some day I'll find just a moderately perfect woman.

# My Month

Hello, there!

There is much material to put in the Christmas issue, so I will have space for the highlights for the past month's activities only.

Just a few days after I finished last month's column, Donald W. Trees, of Racine, Wisconsin, dropped in unexpectedly. Don has been doing some fine work soliciting subscriptions and gifts for the COMPANION and he wanted to discuss his future plans with me. Trees is an interesting fellow and more intelligent than he pretends to be. We found ourselves in considerable disagreement as regards to religion, politics, economics, etc., and he eloquently upheld his views. It was a most entertaining and invigorating afternoon!

The same day that Trees was here, Frank Viers and Elizabeth Bauffmann dropped in. I haven't known Elizabeth very long, but Frank and I are old friends. We became acquainted at Riley Hospital in Indianapolis about two years ago and have kept in contact ever since. It's better that space does not permit my recounting some of the adventures we shared at Riley. Those were the days,

Bennett

I am Sunday Mother, Hugh, and I spent the day with Mrs. John family. The Johns' used to live across the area and were frequent callers until they moved away last May. We had a most enjoyable time and an excellent dinner. As usual, Doris Johns kept me on my mental toes trying to out wit her!

After a lengthy absence, my math, tutor, Barbara Ward, resumed her duties during the past month. Also along the academic line, the M.H.S. commercial teacher, Mrs. Shelor, has kindly outlined some typing tests for me. Although I've been pounding a keyboard for several years and get along quite well, there is room for improvement. And improvement is what both of us are striving for.

Like you, I'm already for Mr. Santa Claus. My shopping is all done, my greeting cards have been purchased, and a good behavior has been acquired! Even though, at the time of writing, it is quite early to do so, I want to extend my sincere wish that all of you may have a very happy yuletide season.

---

# AMEN, BROTHER, AMEN!

The visiting minister has just eaten a big chicken dinner and was looking around the farm with his parishioner. After a while they come upon a crowing rooster.

"Why is he crowing," inquired the pastor.

"Reverend," replied the farmer, "wouldn't you crow, too, if your son had gone into the ministry?"

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
DECEMBER, 1944
5

# Curious Facts

"Fantastic—New Limbs Actually Grown"—Yes, many people will say it's fantastic, but new limbs have actually been grown on adult frogs after amputation of the old ones. Dr. S. Meryl Rose, Smith College, recently told the Advancement of Science Association that he had grown entirely new legs on frogs and that new limbs might be grown on humans in the very near future. Here's is the way it's done: The leg or arm is amputated and the stump allowed to lay in a solution of salt (exact proportions not revealed) which prevents closure of the wound. Thus the wound is left open and raw and the old tissue cells converge into embryonic cells which grow rapidly and become new limb tissues. Before the salt solutions were used the old bone and fibrous tissues got all mixed up and the animal could not use the new limb; but now the different tissues form the part they are supposed to and the new leg can be used. In the case of amputation between elbow and wrist new forearms and hands develop with movable wrists and fingers which are almost perfect in size and form.

(Thanx—Paul Stanislo, Dayton, Ohio)

## (QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS)

1. In what country did the 'Goldfish' originate?
2. What famous English statesman was nicknamed 'Dizzy'?
3. Is the barrel the only means of transit ever used to go over Niagara Falls?
4. Is Washington, D. C. the 'capitol' or the 'capital' of the United States?

(Answers on next page)

## "FORT BLUNDER"

The name Fort Blunder was given to Fort Montgomery after the United States government had built it on Canadian soil. The Canadian government gave the land on which it was built to the U. S., with the approval of the British Empire.

## "BOSTON NEARER RIO DE JANEIRO THAN NEW YORK OR NEW ORLEANS"

Yes, that statement is true although it may appear to be out of proportion with your ideas on the subject. Boston is about 31 nautical miles nearer Ri de Janeiro than New York. It is 447 miles nearer than New Orleans.

## "JAPANESE POOR LOSERS"

The Japanese will commit hara-kari whenever he cannot win or when he feels that he has been disgraced in the eyes of his gods. The first recorded instance of a Jap practicing hara-kari is that of Tametomo, brother of Sutoku, an ex-Emperor of the 12th century, after a defeat at which most of his followers were slain. The Japanese consider the number four unlucky. It is considered unlucky because it is the same word as death in their language.

## "CHEW TIME"

Natives of Columbia, South America, tell the time of day by chewing. Coca leaves mixed with limes and cooked in sugar water which is mailed Mambeo will last for four hours. Natives divide their day into three Mambeos.

## (ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS)

1. In China.
2. Benjamin Disraeli.
3. No, a rubber ball has also been used.
4. The capital.

(Copyright 1944, Donald Whitacre)

# Our Hobbies

We believe in writing about seasoned things, and we can think of no better subject this month than flowers. Certainly there is no cheerier thought this time of year than of flowers growing in the yard and birds singing in the hedge. However, the flowers that we have in mind aren't roses, nor are they zinnias. We are thinking of those old, old favorites—house plants.

If you have never been conducted on a free tour of some rural friend's array of "posies"—usually in the best south window—you have missed a lovely Sunday afternoon's fun. We always enjoy visiting elderly friends and relatives if for no other reason than to see their house plants.

Many of us have ferns or snake plants in some insuspicious hall, but it takes a real flower lover to smoke and be patient with gloxinas. However, two ladies of our acquaintance have gloxinas with several dozen

# HAROLD C. BESANCENEY

blossoms at one time. We ourselves know from experience that gloxina culture is not for amateurs.

Two of the old favorites in this section of the country have always been geraniums and kitchen plants; and, sad to say, they are no longer frequently found items on the kitchen window ledge. A window full of plants adds a "homey" touch to any house.

For those of us who enjoy something a little more novel, we have two very interesting suggestions. A neighbor of ours here in the North has a large lemon tree in a tub. In summer the tub is outdoors, and in winter it is brought indoors. The very interesting auxiliary to this fact is that each year she harvests several lemons from her tree—not of ordinary size, but two or three times the size of commercial lemons.

A large gardenia plant is the pride and joy of no other friend and her entire house holds their perfume.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
6

ter the blossoms have faded. Although expensive as cut flowers, gardenias are not too difficult to grow as house-plants.

As a new and refreshing hobby for the shut-in, we suggest that indoor, windowledge gardening would be interesting, fun, and worthwhile. The few moments required each day for the care of the plants will be paid for many times in enjoyment received.

So here is an ideal Christmas gift for your shut-in friends—a gift they will cherish the year around—a house plant or two.

We're still awaiting your letters about "Your Hobbies." Perhaps if you readers aren't interested in this

# The Staff

Edith I. Browning, who usually conducts the biographical column, is now caring for her mother and is unable to make a contribution this month. I decided that this would be a good opportunity to tell you a little about each of the persons who make up the COMPANION'S staff.

Associate Editor Harold C. Besanceney is an eighteen year old victim of infantile paralysis. He has been crippled since he was eleven, but is able to get around by using a cane and a crutch. Harold attended elementary and secondary schools in his home town of Mansfield, Pennsylvania; after a two day vacation from high school last June, he entered a State Teachers' College located nearby. After his graduation in 1947, he plans entering one of the following fields: teaching (social studies, either in high school or college), politics, diplomacy, law, or rehabilitation service work. His hobbies are many and include stamp collecting, gardening, caring for pets, collecting antiques and books, and weaving chair seats. "People," he says, are his most interesting hobby. "I guess I must be an amateur psychologist, for I have always been fascinated by people." Harold and I discuss quite a number of subjects in our letters, but thus far we haven't been able to stir up much controversy. Mr. Besanceney is just too agreeable.

When Edith I. Browning accepted the post of Editorial Assistant, she asked for and received public anonymity. I will say, however, that she is a professional woman whose hobby is reading biographies.

The book reviewer, Marienne Fields, finally admitted to your editor that she is twenty-eight and, as yet, single. Marienne was born crippled. She writes: "I didn't learn to sit up or do anything like other babies . . . Until I was ten years old, my life was just one grand gallop from one doctor to another." Even though she spent a great deal of time in hospitals and had a number of operations, no one was able to find out just exactly what was the matter with her. Just recently she went to Anderson, Indiana, where she took special treatments which made it possible for her to walk alone. Before that she could walk only by being balanced by another person. Despite the fact that she was never able to go to school, Marienne learned to read and write and most of the other things well children do. She admits that she was terribly

THE SHUT-IN'S COMPANION

page—and if you don't write we won't know whether you like it or not—this space should be used for some other purpose. But if you like "Our Hobbies," won't you write today, telling us your ideas about this page, and sending along information about your hobby.

Here is another hobby exchange. One reader of THE SHUT-IN'S COMPANION would like to obtain a tall grandfather's clock. This reader doesn't care whether or not the clock runs, nor for that matter whether all the works are present—just so he gets the case.

Another reader has several books printed before 1850 which are for sale or trade. If you can help either of these readers, just send a card to us.

# MELVIN E. SCHOONOVER

depressed and unhappy until she was eighteen. Then someone got her some "pen pals" and a sister-in-law got her interested in crocheting and knitting. Now she is an active member of several clubs, makes a number of things for sale, and gets much enjoyment out of life. She says she is five feet tall, weighs 130 pounds, and has blue eyes and dark brown hair.

The member of the staff I'm the best acquainted with is Literary Editor Bertha J. Bostick. "Bert," as she's known around Monon, is a distinguished, attractive looking woman who isn't afraid to divulge a woman's most closely guarded secret her age! When I interviewed her one afternoon, she told me in no uncertain terms that she was born on February 18, 1894, and is not in the least ashamed of it. She has been teaching since she was seventeen, mainly in elementary and high schools though partly in college. Bert is a graduate of the University of Illinois and has taken other courses at Indiana University. Until an accident, which she blames on "just plain awkwardness," made a change necessary, she taught physical education. Now she leads a less strenuous and more sedate life as an English teacher. If White County had a WHO'S WHO, Bert could say that she is assistant principal of Monon High School, chairman of the county Infantile Paralysis Association, vice chairman of the county Tuberculosis Association, and township chairman of the Red Cross. She has always been interested in young people and has organized several groups of them. Her hobbies are: her job, reading, and collecting "fancy, odd, unusual, and pretty bottles."

(To be continued)

# STREET SONG

The road foreman knocked at the door of Miss Jones' cottage. "Excuse me, Madam," he said, hesitating. "Was that you singing?"

"Why, yes," Miss Jones replied. "Did you enjoy it?"

"Well, yes, but next time you sing I wish you wouldn't hang on to that top note so long."

"Why," the lady inquired, curiously.

"The men have knocked off work three times already, thinking it was the noon whistle."

=== Page 11 === (confidence 1.00)
DECEMBER, 1944
7

# Careers for the Handicapped
## ISABEL CURRIER

Reprinted from CORONET.

One evening eight years ago, two young men, flat on their broken backs, were wheeled for the first time into the lounge of the Boston Hospital for the Physically Incurable. A girl was already there, bent over the invalid's table across the arms of her chair.

None of the three had met before. And had anyone told them at that moment how the future was to link them together, they might have smiled a little wistfully and thought—That's something which could only happen in imagination. Especially to us who must spend the remainder of our lives as physical incurables.

Jim Linane, still in his twenties, had owned his own electrical contractor business until an automobile crash left him with a fractured pelvis and spine. In the future his back would remain straight only through artificial means.

Five years before this eventful evening, poliomyelitis had completely paralyzed Agnes Fay's lower body. But thanks to teachers who came to the hospital whenever they had a spare evening, the young lady had just won her diploma for evening high school.

The third member of the trio, twenty-one-year-old Fred Finigan, had fallen from a second-story window onto a parked truck. Legs and hips were completely paralyzed. Prior to that accident, Fred, a high school graduate, had been a clerk in a shoe store. His hobbies had been running and boxing in amateur events.

They all thought it a funny coincidence that each alone in affliction for several years, had yearned to play bridge. But when Agnes smiled and said, "Where shall we find a fourth to play with us?" Jim replied, "I don't know. But we seem to have several other things in common to think about. If we lay all our cards on the table, maybe we can find a way to be independent of a fourth of bridge."

"Good idea," Fred spoke up. "Personally, I've been trying to figure out a way for fighting a decision bout with a career. The way I see it, being alive has some purpose besides killing time. No referee would call me out for the count so long as I can lift my head, hands and shoulders."

Fred's stout remarks gave Agnes the courage to lean forward and say timidly that she had thought of being a secretary—a sort of mail-order one—because she loved writing and receiving letters.

Her words seemed to hold the magic key that unlocked all their tongues. Each had thought of some mail-order business. Jim had considered assembling parts of electrical gadgets. And Fred had been mulling over the importance of holiday greetings to folks everywhere, since an incident which had occurred just before Christmas.

Agnes and Jim listened intently as Fred said he'd decided that the incident had stuck in his mind because it was trying to tell him something, and told them about the nameless stranger who had paused at his door and started that train of thought. Fred was lying on his stomach, as he had been for over a year, encased in a plaster cast. He didn't want the man to think he was a mummy, so he raised his head and called, "Finigan present!"

The way Fred put it, the stranger's smile was like a Christmas tree lighting up as he said, "Greetings of the season," and passed on, leaving Fred unaccountably glowing with warmth and hope.

"After that I greeted the holidays with more appreciation," he explained diffidently. "Then it occurred to me that I might help other folks do the same, by mail, as a life work."

In the moment of silence that followed Fred's story, Rehabilitation Associates, Inc., was born. And before the three new friends were wheeled back to their rooms that night, they had decided to go into the greeting-card business.

Fred would be the permanent president. Jim, the businessman, would be treasurer. And Agnes, in fact, became a secretary. The informal articles of incorporation followed just as naturally. Enthusiasm ran through their blood like brush fire. For all three of the associates knew the joy of a "hello" through the mail from a friend.

* * *

To start, their pooled pin money would purchase a small supply of cards to make up those boxes that sell for a dollar. In the beginning they would ask their friends to help them with sales. All the money they made would go right back into the business. After that, they would sink or swim on their own merits. Why, in ten years they might even be self-supporting and able to pay back what they owed to those who had provided for them so far. Finding a fourth at bridge had been completely forgotten.

Friends of the trio became an informal sales department. They were happy to take the boxes of cards to their places of business and sell them.

"Folks are always looking for a chance to help each other," the Associates say, "and that was just the boost we needed. But if we'd continued to rely on it, we'd have weakened ourselves. After the first year, we decided to advertise for salesmen on the usual 50-50 commission basis."

Certainly the answers to that advertisement exceeded anything the Associates had visioned. The afflicted front all walks of life responded, and many were hired. Reorders for cards came in so fast that they had to ask for credit at their supply houses.

In making this request, they revealed their circumstances, and were astounded when the letters of credit came back immediately, together with the information that the greeting-card business in America is almost entirely carried on by the handicapped.

With their credit established, and salesmen in the field, the business soared. It burst right through the

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
5
THE SHUT-IN'S COMPANION

bounds of the hospital lounge, demanding an office and proper equipment to meet their growing needs.

Like ninety-nine out of a hundred handicapped salesmen, Jim and Fred bought wheel chairs with some of the first profits. Through the help of friends, the next step was renting an office. Finally just the right one was found in the loft of a warehouse where automobiles were stored on a street bordering the hospital, and located beside a freight elevator.

The first time I met the Associates, it was quite by accident. Searching the classified telephone directory for a social agency that might provide information on retraining wounded veterans of war, their names looked like the ideal one to contact.

I was a bit puzzled by the location of their address, but I understood the minute I opened the neatly lettered door. Fred was sitting in a wheel chair, whaling away at a standard typewriter as though it were a punching bag. A plain board of stilts, that spanned the chair, served as a desk.

Jim's similar desk in the opposite corner of the main office is slightly inclined so that, lying flat on his back, he can see the balance sheets of the firm's books as they roll from his machine.

Agnes's chair and busy-looking desk stood beside the long-corded phone between the two men.

At my gasp of surprise, they all looked up eagerly with heart-warming smiles that seemed to glow from some inner radiance, and I thought I had never seen three more attractive looking young people.

When I started the reason for my call, they were sorry they couldn't help me. They knew nothing about rehabilitation as a science. Yes, they had thought of changing the firm's name, because it carried an impression of helplessness. But Rehabilitation Associates was the name under which they had incorporated, and the good will carried now was an item to be considered.

They enjoyed my surprise. If I had the time, they would be glad to tell me something about their work. Because even after eight years they hadn't yet recovered from their own surprise.

This is miraculous, I thought as they introduced their employees on duty at the moment—a dozen boys and girls of school age, scurrying in and out of the general office from printing presses and stockroom. An older girl was cooking the Associates' supper in an adjoining kitchen, so they wouldn't have to return to the hospital in the middle of their working day.

Mornings are taken up by medical and general routine of hospital treatment. After 12 o'clock dinner, during the school noon hour, employees come to push the three wheel chairs to the office. From one until four, the Associates line up the day's work that others must do.

When school is out, the first shift comes in. The second one appears after supper and works until nine o'clock, Agnes's regular quitting time. Jim and Fred work until midnight during the rush seasons before the house and Easter, retaining a man to take them to the hospital. All three get around the office easily as themselves in their chairs.

The problem of the numbers of salesmen they employed prompted a request to tell me something about this department. Because of the profound impression one man's success had made on them all, his story was related.

He had come to the Associates as a last hope several years before. Cowed by a combination of depression and arthritis, he edged his painful way into the office, determined to jump from the bridge into the river during his penniless walk home if he failed to get a job with them.

The cheerful greeting of one partner—"Hello, fella! I hope you want a job, because we certainly need you," turned his black mood to a hopeful one. Within a few weeks he was in a position to don a new suit, which renewed his self-respect and steadied the faith a job had given him. It wasn't long after that before he was able to find permanent work in his old trade. Presently, he found a girl who also had faith in him. Arthritis be hanged! Then one day he brought his bride to visit Rehabilitation Associates, and told them about the home they had helped him to realize.

Talking over and pondering the details of this rebuilt life later, Agnes, Jim and Fred came to the conclusion that the new suit had been vitally important in giving this man the boost he needed. Perhaps, they, too, should have some new clothes for a change. Not one of the three had acquired any, save for pajamas and bathrobes, since entering the hospital.

No sooner said than done, they hailed a coal-truck driver making a delivery at the time, and he gladly consented to take them, wheel chairs and all, to a department store.

A startled watchman at the freight entrance phoned the store's office while the trio waited to be taken in. But it was their turn to be surprised when the store's manager greeted them in person, provided them with porters to push their chairs, and a shopper to serve as guide through the forgotten wonders of a modern department store.

That hitherto undreamed of expedition wrought another miracle of realization far beyond their modest purchases. If they could go shopping, why couldn't they do other things well folks did, besides work. The following year they took a real outing. A hired truck took them to a beach for an entire day. The next junket was a trip to the races. And thanks to a friendly ambulance driver, Fred once went to a boxing match.

"Those four excursions haven't been all talked out yet," Jim smiled. "They'll keep us happy until the war ends and the ban on pleasure driving is lifted. Then we plan to visit our friends, just the same as other folks do. Except that we'll take a truck instead of a taxi."

No, I didn't leave that first accidental meeting—which was to prove one of many—with any definite program for wounded veterans. Nor had I been given any rules or theories for rehabilitation on a printed slip. Yet I knew deep within me that I had stumbled on the answer to many of its problems in the lives and work of these three young people.

The ten-year period Rehabilitation Associates set as a mark for the time they might be self-supporting, and able to pay their debts, will be up next year. If war and

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
the present paper shortage do not curtail their output, that dream will be gloriously realized.
The firm's output runs into millions of greeting cards a year. Both salaried and commissioned employees always have trade money. Since the handicapped are given preference as workers, scores of them have also earned the bonus which the Associates themselves have realized from the start—the intangible riches of confidence and true purpose in life.

Copyright, 1944, by Esquire, Inc.,
919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.
(Coronet, July, 1944)

# The Poetry Corner

## CHINS UP.

As along life's path we stumble,
Sad, disheartened, tired, and blue.
Just take heart and do not grumble.
That will never pull you through.

Things go wrong at queerest moments;
All the world seems upside down
Though a cloud has chased your rainbow.
Why the need to wear a frown!

When upon life's brightest moment
Some dear friend has proved untrue.
Let a happy beam of sunshine
Show the best that is in you

Men like Lincoln and Marconi
Have been ridiculed with scorn.
But like them, you can conquer
With the grit and the grip you've worn.
Yours, Happy Kvikk.

## THE GUIDE

Come, let me take your hand
I'll show you the quiet road
Slowly twining through the years
Where the wind and I have strode

You could not hear the stillness
Then how could you hope to hear
The skylark's distant song that falls
So sweetly on my ear

Come, let me take your hand
I'll show you the shady path
Where I have walked these many years
Away from the sun's fierce wrath

You could not hear the shadows
Then how could you hope to hear
The woodland violets that bloom
So tragrantly for me
Mildred Meeker

## PHOTO TINTING

Have your favorite photos tinted. Recreational prices. I specialize in children's pictures.
For full particulars write
MARGARET FRIDAY
Idaville, Indiana

## MAGAZINES

I can yet you "any magazine anywhere at publishers prices or less!"
Inquiries answered promptly and fully without obligation. Renewals a specialty.
MELVIN E. SCHOONOVER
Monon, Indiana

## "THE MAIL ORDER

### SUNSHINE SHUT-IN SHOP"

Order your Christmas gifts now from The Mail Order Sunshine Shut-in Shop, established and maintained by a victim of Infantile Paralysis and Arthritis. Enclose money with each order, and postage is appreciated.

#### HAND PAINTED

|  Cork Buttons | doz. 50c  |
| --- | --- |
|  Party Favors | doz. 50c  |
|  Plaster Plaques | $1.00  |
|  Telephone Pad | 75c  |
|  Letter Holder | 75c  |
|  Cubby Tooth Brush Holder | 35c  |
|  Hot Pad Holder | 35c  |
|  Wooden Candles (12 inches) | 50c  |

#### HAMMERED COPPER

|  Book Ends | $1.00  |
| --- | --- |
|  Hot Pad Holder | 75c  |
|  Pictures | 75c-$1.00  |

* * *

Stuffed Cuddle Toys (doz. elephant, lamb) 75c

Name and Address Stickers—
Book of 200 60c
Two books $1.00

|  Christmas Cards | 21 for $1.00  |
| --- | --- |
|  Everyday Cards | 12 for 50c  |
|  Scriptural Postal Cards | 24 for 25c  |
|  Personal Postal Cards | 50 for 75c  |

MISS LUCILLE VARNs
R R No 6
Wooster, Ohio

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
THE SHUT-IN'S COMPANION
MONON, INDIANA

U. S. POSTAGE
PAID
PERMIT NO. 2
MONON, INDIANA

BE HAPPY WITH A HOBBY

**DON'S CYCLE SHOP - HOBBY CRAFT MART**

"RACINE'S FOREMOST BICYCLE AND HOBBY SUPPLY STORE"

AMERICA'S FINEST *Columbia Bicycles* FIRST SINCE 1877

"Ask Your Grandad — He Knows"

Largest stock model Airplanes, M-4 Tanks, Jeeps,
Quacks, Half-Tracks, Anti-Tank Guns, Trailers.

BICYCLE AND HOBBY SUPPLIES.

DONALD W. TREES, Prop

State and LaSalle
Racine, Wisconsin

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.95)
25
In reply refer to
JA
1945
Fw 894.145/15

Dear Mr. Schoonover:

Mr. Grew has asked me to answer your letter of December 20, 1944 in which you ask for information in regard to Japanese practice in caring for crippled persons.

I can easily understand your difficulty in attempting to obtain information on the care of cripple in Japan as there has been very little material printed in English on the subject. However, I am enclosing a bibliography which will serve as a guide to information which may be of assistance to you in the matter. It is believed that these publications may be secured at the larger libraries.

You are probably aware that in Japan the family is a very closely knit unit of society and that there is a high degree of responsibility of members of a family toward one another. The result is that it is the duty of the family, rather than of the government, to care for cripple. However, in recent years, the Japanese have realized that there is a growing need for both public and private institutions to care for the crippled, and as a result of this trend a few such institutions have been established. These are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Welfare of the Japanese Cabinet.

Thank you for enclosing with your letter a copy of your interesting magazine, The Shut-In's Companion.

Sincerely yours,

G. D.

Iris S. Dickover
Chief
Division of Japanese Affairs

Enclosure:

Enclosure:

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
894.145/425-20

# BIBLIOGRAPHY

Axling, William, *Kagawa*, London, 1932.
*Conference International du Service Social*. Paris, 1928.
*Contemporary Japan*. Tokyo, monthly 1930-1941.
Domei Tsushin Sha. *Wartime Legislation in Japan*. Tokyo, 1941.
Embree, John F. *Says Hura, A Japanese Village*. Chicago, 1939.
Fortune. *“Japan and the Japanese.”* Vol. XXIX, page 4. April, 1944.
Fortune. *“The Japanese Empire.”* Vol. XIV, page 3. September, 1935.
Furuya, Shintaro. *Juveniles at the Crossroad*. Tokyo, 1932.
Hirao, Yagoro. *Social Policy in Japan*. Tokyo, 1937.
International Labor Office. *Industrial and Labor Information*. Geneva, 1922-1940.
International Labor Office. *Legislative Series*. Geneva, 1920-1937.
International Labor Office. *Studies and Reports*. Geneva, 1920-1944.
International Labor Office. *Yearbook*. Geneva, 1935, 1936, 1942.
Japan Economic Federation. *An Inquiry into the National Income of Japan*. October, 1939.
Japan, Home Office, Bureau for Social Work. *An Outline for Social Work in Japan*. Tokyo, 1922.
Japan, Home Office, Bureau of Social Affairs. *Laws Relating to Social Work in Japan*. Tokyo, 1930.
Japan, Home Office, Bureau of Social Affairs. *Social Work in Japan*. Tokyo, 1934.
The Japan Christian Quarterly. Tokyo, 1928-1940.
*Japan Christian Yearbook*. Tokyo, annually 1932-1941.
The Japan Chronicle. Kobe, daily 1930-1941.
*Japan Mission Year Book*. Annually, 1928-1931.
Japan Times and Mail. *Japan in 1938, Japan in 1939, Japan in 1940*.
*Japan Times and Mail. *Japan's Wartime Legislation, 1939*. Tokyo, 1939.
The Japan Year Book. Tokyo, annually 1930-1941.
Kawa, Michi. *Japanese Women Speak*. Boston, 1934.
Miyake, Masataro. *An Outline of the Japanese Judiciary*. Tokyo, 1935.
Moriya, Sakan. *Review of Social Work in Japan in 1925*. Japan Bureau of Social Affairs. Tokyo, 1926.
Nippon Dempo News Agencies. *Japan Illustrated*. Tokyo, 1936.
Tokyo Gazette. Tokyo, monthly 1937-1939.
Tokyo Municipal Office. Tokyo, annually 1936-1940.
Young, A. Morgan. *Imperial Japan*. (W. Morrow and Co.) New York, 1938.

1935
