894.852 Merchant Vessels. Yachts. Immunities Of Government -Controlled., Japan, Sale. Purchase. Charter. Hypothecation. Status Of National-Owned Vessels, Not Documented., November 16, 1948 - May 17, 1949 (File 1724)
ID: 894.852-1724   Pages: 11   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.852-merchant-vessels-yachts-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

T - Mr. Horton
Assistant Secretary -
Transport and Communications

NOV 23 1948

Department of State

November 22, 1948

T - Mr. Horton:

I have read your attached memorandum of conversation which we had with Mr. Frazer Bailey on November 16th, and think it is complete and accurate. I have only the following suggestions to make which are not major ones:

(1) In the second paragraph of your memorandum where you say "Consequently, it is not our policy to remove from Japan more industrial facilities than are necessary for purposes of security", I think it would be more accurate if we said "Consequently, it has been our policy in the development of the reparations program to insist that industrial facilities shall not be removed from Japan to a degree which would prevent the recovery of the Japanese economy to a reasonably self-supporting basis as soon as practicable." I only mention this because, as I said the other day, security precautions in Japan take the form of demilitarization and even under the reparations program which this country would agree to, there would be some removals of industrial equipment which are not directly required for demilitarization purposes.

(2) In the third paragraph of the memorandum, the third sentence of the paragraph, it might be worth while for purposes of completing the record to make an insertion in the early part of the sentence so it would read: "He said that it was his understanding from things he has heard from representatives of other countries on the Far Eastern Commission that the U.S. had taken an adamant position ...".

(3) In the next to the last paragraph of your memorandum, the first sentence, I think it would be worth while to add a clause at the end of the sentence so that the last part of the sentence will read: "... and so far as anyone knew, there was no deadlock over this question, since no specific recommendation has been advanced by our representatives with respect to a desired or intended over-all size of the Japanese merchant fleet."

Charles E. Saltzman

18872

SECRET

Attachments
Draft memorandum of Conversation.
O:CSSaltzman:jhjh

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.91)
29952

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

November 18, 1948

MR. SALTZMAN --

Any comments which you may have on the attached will be appreciated.

G.N.

03995

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
D R A F T
D R A F T
DATE: November 16, 1948

SECRET
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation

SUBJECT: JAPANESE SHIPBUILDING
Meeting held in Assistant Secretary Norton's Office, Department of State, November 16, 1948, at 2:30

PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Frazer Bailey, President, National Federation of American Shipping Under Secretary Draper, Department of the Army
Mr. Pollard, Department of the Army
Assistant Secretary Norton, Department of State
Assistant Secretary Saltzman, Department of State
Mr. Walter Radius, Department of State

COPIES TO:
Mr. Draper Mr. Saltzman
Mr. Pollard Mr. Wilds
Mr. Claxton
Mr. Radius

1-1468

Mr. Bailey had written Mr. Draper with respect to the U.S. policy in the FEC on Japanese merchant shipping and shipbuilding. He had been referred to the State Department as the agency in which activities pertaining to the FEC are coordinated.

Mr. Draper and Mr. Saltzman reviewed our reparations policy toward the occupied countries. They pointed out that the matter currently to be decided by the NSC and the FEC is not the size of the Japanese merchant fleet or the level of shipbuilding activity in Japan, but only the amount of shipbuilding facilities to be removed from Japan as reparations. They emphasized that our policy is to re-establish Japan on a self-supporting basis. Consequently, it is not our policy to remove from Japan more industrial facilities than are necessary for purposes of security. They explained the desirability of prompt implementation of this policy in both Germany and Japan, not only to relieve the heavy burdens upon the U.S. taxpayer but also to forestall a reversion of these countries to totalitarian regimes of one kind or another.

Mr. Bailey said that the shipping industry's concern in this matter is primarily the size of the postwar Japanese merchant fleet. He expressed the opinion that there should be established a definite limitation on the size of the Japanese merchant fleet together with a control over the operations of this fleet in order to prevent a recurrence of Japanese shipping practices which became

-3995-

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET
- 2 -

which became so troublesome prior to the war. He said it was his understanding that the U.S. had taken an adamant position in the FEC to the effect that the Japanese should have a merchant fleet of 4 million tons and that this position had been opposed by other members who held that the fleet should not exceed 2-1/2 million tons. He was under the impression that, as a result of this deadlock, General MacArthur considered himself free to proceed and was planning to build the fleet up to 4 million tons.

Mr. Bailey further stated that he was not particularly concerned with the level of the Japanese shipbuilding industry or with Japanese shipbuilding for export, but he emphasized the dismay of U.S. operators at the prospect of a Japanese merchant fleet of 4 million tons. He said that throughout our shipping industry there is agreement that it is important to restore Japan as soon as possible to a position of self-support, but he felt that the burden of restoring Japan should be spread equitably throughout the U.S. economy. He thought a 4 million ton Japanese fleet would throw an unfair balance of this burden upon our shipping industry, which he also feels is carrying more than its share of the cost of European recovery. He suggested that the size of the Japanese fleet be closely related to Japanese trade, expressed the opinion that a fair basis would be a fleet sufficient to handle all Japanese domestic trade and 50 percent of her foreign trade and said that studies by our industry indicate that such a percentage would mean a fleet of no more than 2.4 million tons. He pointed out that the 50 percent figure is more than reasonable since it is also the target of his organization and of the Maritime Commission as regards U.S. shipping. He contrasted this 50 percent with the present situation in which he claims we are rapidly reverting to the prewar figure of less than 30 percent of U.S. foreign trade carried in U.S. ships.

It was again pointed out to Mr. Bailey that the issue before the NSC and FEC was not one of setting the level of the Japanese fleet and so far as anyone knew there was no deadlock over this question. It was also pointed out that, since there is no active program to promote at our expense the development of the Japanese fleet and since no steel will be exported from this country for that purpose, the U.S. industry can rest assured that, even with a fairly high level of Japanese shipbuilding capacity, the present 1,150,000 ton Japanese merchant fleet could not be built up to any effectively competitive size for a considerable period of time. The present fleet consists primarily of obsolete ships over 25 percent of which are more than 30 years of age and only a small percentage of this fleet is suitable for ocean-going service.

Mr. Bailey was assured that he would be consulted before any decision is reached with respect to the size of the Japanese merchant fleet.

Garrison Norton

T:GNorton:eva

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation

RESTRICTED

DATE: November 16, 1948

SUBJECT: JAPANESE SHIPBUILDING
Meeting held in Assistant Secretary Norton's Office, Department of State, November 16, 1948, at 2:30

PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Frazer Bailey, President, National Federation of American Shipping
Under Secretary Draper, Department of the Army
Mr. Pollard, Department of the Army
Assistant Secretary Saltzman, Department of State
Assistant Secretary Norton, Department of State
Mr. Walter Radius, Department of State

COPIES TO:
Mr. Draper Mr. Saltzman Mr. Radius
Mr. Pollard Mr. Wilds Mr. Saugstad
Mr. Claxton

894.852/11-1648

Mr. Bailey had written Mr. Draper with respect to the U.S. policy in the FEC on Japanese merchant shipping and shipbuilding. He had been referred to the State Department as the agency in which activities pertaining to the FEC are coordinated.

Mr. Draper and Mr. Saltzman reviewed our reparations policy toward the occupied countries. They pointed out that the matter currently to be decided by the NSC and the FEC is not the size of the Japanese merchant fleet or the level of shipbuilding activity in Japan, but only the amount of shipbuilding facilities to be removed from Japan as reparations. They emphasized that our policy is to re-establish Japan on a self-supporting basis. Consequently, it has been our policy in the development of the reparations program to insist that industrial facilities shall not be removed from Japan to a degree which would prevent the recovery of the Japanese economy to a reasonably self-supporting basis as soon as practicable. They explained the desirability of prompt implementation of this policy in both Germany and Japan, not only to relieve the heavy burdens upon the U.S. taxpayer but also to forestall a reversion of these countries to totalitarian regimes of one kind or another.

Mr. Bailey said that the shipping industry's concern in this matter is primarily the size of the postwar Japanese merchant fleet.

He

RESTRICTED

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
- 2 -

RESTRICTED

He expressed the opinion that there should be established a definite limitation on the size of the Japanese merchant fleet together with a control over the operations of this fleet in order to prevent a recurrence of Japanese shipping practices which became so troublesome prior to the war. He said that it was his understanding from things he has heard from representatives of other countries on the Far Eastern Commission that the U.S. had taken an adamant position in the FEC to the effect that the Japanese should have a merchant fleet of 4 million tons and that this position had been opposed by other members who held that the fleet should not exceed 2-1/2 million tons. He was under the impression that, as a result of this deadlock, General MacArthur considered himself free to proceed and was planning to build the fleet up to 4 million tons.

Mr. Bailey further stated that he was not particularly concerned with the level of the Japanese shipbuilding industry or with Japanese shipbuilding for export, but he emphasized the dismay of U.S. operators at the prospect of a Japanese merchant fleet of 4 million tons. He said that throughout our shipping industry there is agreement that it is important to restore Japan as soon as possible to a position of self-support, but he felt that the burden of restoring Japan should be spread equitably throughout the U.S. economy. He thought a 4 million ton Japanese fleet would throw an unfair balance of this burden upon our shipping industry, which he also feels is carrying more than its share of the cost of European recovery. He suggested that the size of the Japanese fleet be closely related to Japanese trade, expressed the opinion that a fair basis would be a fleet sufficient to handle all Japanese domestic trade and 50 percent of her foreign trade and said that studies by our industry indicate that such a percentage would mean a fleet of no more than 2.4 million tons. He pointed out that the 50 percent figure is more than reasonable since it is also the target of his organization and of the Maritime Commission as regards U.S. shipping. He contrasted this 50 percent with the present situation in which he claims we are rapidly reverting to the prewar figure of less than 30 percent of U.S. foreign trade carried in U.S. ships.

It was again pointed out to Mr. Bailey that the issue before the NSC and FEC was not one of setting the level of the Japanese fleet and so far as anyone knew there was no deadlock over this question, since no specific recommendation has been advanced by our representatives with respect to a desired or intended over-all size of the Japanese merchant fleet. It was also pointed out that, since there is no active program to promote at our expense the development of the Japanese

RESTRICTED

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

Japanese fleet and since no steel will be exported from this country for that purpose, the U.S. industry can rest assured that, even with a fairly high level of Japanese shipbuilding capacity, the present 1,150,000 ton Japanese merchant fleet could not be built up to any effectively competitive size for a considerable period of time. The present fleet consists primarily of obsolete ships over 25 percent of which are more than 30 years of age and only a small percentage of this fleet is suitable for ocean-going service.

Mr. Bailey was assured that he would be consulted before any decision is reached with respect to the size of the Japanese merchant fleet.

Garrison Norton

RESTRICTED

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
Ea

May 17, 1949

Memorandum To: Mr. J. E. Saugstad
Dr. L. F. Nickell

From: F. R. Fussell

Subject: TRC Policy on Japanese Shipbuilding and Shipping Operations.

The following elements of the Japanese Merchant Marine Problem present themselves for consideration in connection with the formulation of a position by TRC in connection with the Japanese Merchant Marine and Shipbuilding problems for the period of the OCCupation:

1. Major General Frank R. McCoy, United States representative on the Far Eastern Commission presents a Note on May 12, 1949 to the Far Eastern Commission relating further Japanese Reparations (including those on shipbuilding facilities) which read in part:

"I have already emphasized my Government's support of the principle that Japan's capacity to make war should not be permitted to re-emerge. It is the considered view of the U.S. Government that this objective does not require that Japan's production for peaceful purposes be limited or that limitations be imposed on levels of Japanese productive capacity in industries devoted to peaceful purposes. This belief, coupled with the evidence of Japan's present economic plight and the difficult problems Japan will face in future in attaining levels of industrial production and foreign trade sufficient to support its people even at minimum levels, render it clearly advisable, in my Government's view, that Japan be permitted to develop its peaceful industries without limitation. The problem facing us is not one of limitation of Japan's peaceful industries, but of reviving these industries to provide the people's barest wants."

2. The National Security Council has not ruled that security considerations apply to shipbuilding or shipping in the Japanese Occupation.

April 13, 1949

3. The U.S., U.K., and French Agreement/Concerning Prohibited and Limited Industries in Germany provided:

(a) A priority for the reconstitution of the German coastal fleet;

(b) A restriction on the size and speed of ocean-going ship construction after the coastal fleet has been reconstituted;

(c) Permission for the/acquisition of 100,000 g.r.t. of tankers of limited size and speed, and for up to 300,000 g.r.t. of dry cargo ships of limited size and speed. Arrangements were made to exceed these size and speed limitations in some cases.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-

4. The Army has formally requested the Department's collaboration in a program for Japan which would permitted unrestricted resumption of Japanese shipbuilding and merchant shipping, and would make accessible U.S. port facilities to Japanese vessels and crews.

5. In March, 1948 the Navy Department (Sanacc 236/56) "Approved the deletion in SWNCC 236/43 of the limitations with respect to individual tonnage and speed to be placed on the merchant shipping which Japan shall be allowed to retain. No change is recommended in the limitations to be imposed on the building of new ships or the retention of ship repair facilities." It is understood that an important segment of opinion in the Navy believes that Japan could be permitted an unrestricted merchant marine without security threat, according to an FE report of May 6, 1949.

6. The Maritime Commission has formally advised the Army in writing that it would consider the Japanese shipbuilding and shipping problem to be an area of policy recommendation within the jurisdiction of the Shipping Coordinating Committee.

7. The National Federation of American Shipping, and the C.I.O. have requested the Department in writing to have their views on the subject considered before the U.S. Government takes a final stand on it.

In view of the above factors, the following procedure is suggested:

(a) TRC should obtain from FE the Army's letter to State requesting collaboration on an unrestricted shipping and shipbuilding policy for Japan.

(b) TRC/S should decide whether the request in that letter should be put before the Shipping Coordinating Committee or be cleared in ivinally with all of the U.S. government agencies concerned before State collaborates in any bilateral arrangement with the War Department.

(c) TRC/S should ask the N.F.A.S. and the C.I.O. whether their views in respect of Japanese shipping remain as recorded in their previous communications to the Government agencies concerned.

(d) TRC/S should comment in an advisory capacity (if necessary without the clearance of outside agencies or benefit of discussion with in uistry and labor) on the substance of Mr. Feary's (FE) paper to Mr. Nitze, Mr. Radius, and Mr. Butterworth on May 6, 1949 on "The Reecission or Amendment of FEC Reparations and Level of Industry Papers."

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

With respect to the substance of a new United States Government position on Japanese shipbuilding and merchant marine policy, the following tentative position is submitted for your consideration:

(a) The U.S. Occupation policy with respect to Japanese shipbuilding and shipping should parallel the U.S. Occupation policy with respect to German shipbuilding and shipping unless clearly designated differentials necessitate a difference in policies for the two areas.

(1) Coastal shipping priority. A requirement for the reconstitution of the Japanese coastal and near-seas fleet as a priority before the reconstitution of the overseas fleet does not make as much sense for Japan as it does for Germany. Japan's import needs are raw materials needs shipped from great distances Germany's major problem is a short-range coastal and inland waterways movement of materials.

Recommendation: No priority for Japanese coastal shipping should be required, even though such a priority is required for Germany.

(2) Limitations on Size and Speed: Unless the National Security Council specifically rules otherwise, it seems that the speed and size limitations imposed on the German fleet for the duration of the occupation are reasonable also in the case of Japan's shipbuilding for home use. This presumably would not apply to construction for export.

Recommendation: The maintenance of size and speed limitations for Japan's shipbuilding industry for home account unless the National Security Council and the Far Eastern Commission specifically rule to the contrary. Limitations to be approximately the same as those for Germany.

(3) Immediate acquisition of vessels: The argument for permitting the immediate acquisition of an ocean-going fleet (cary-cargo and tanker) of limited size and speed is even stronger in the case of Japan than in the case of Germany on any count.

Recommendation: That an appropriate size fleet be permitted to be acquired from whatever source possible for immediate use in Japan's rehabilitation. Such fleet to be subject to vessel size and speed limitations comparable to those for Germany.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-

It is recommended that no reference be made to the problem of obtaining such vessels from the United States in lieu of the legislative prohibition against the transfer of government-owned vessels to foreign flag registry. That problem should be dealt with separately on an ad hoc basis as was done in the case of the charter of U.S. vessels for the movement of Italian emigres in the E.C.A. legislation.

(4) Opening of U.S. ports to Japanese ships: Nothing specific was said about this in the case of the German agreement. It is implied in the simple permission to obtain and operate a fleet - always of course within the security limitations of the U.S. government, and within the terms of legislation enacted by the Congress. It should be remembered that the law of 1904 required Army procurement cargoes to be shipped 100 percent in American flag vessels. This same consideration would surely apply to cargo for Japan similarly procured.

Recommendation: No reference should be made to the opening of U.S. ports to Japanese ships at this time. Problem to be dealt with on an ad hoc basis as it arises.

(b) It should be clearly established at the time that the new liberal (though still somewhat restricted) position is advanced for shipbuilding and shipping that such restriction are intended to apply only to the Occupation period and not to the period after the Peace Treaty.

TAC/S: PRT
