894.413 History., Monuments, Statues, And Memorials. Arranged Alphabetically. Japanin Which Erected., September 5, 1930 - November 13, 1930 (File 712)
ID: 894.413-712   Pages: 88   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.413-history-monuments-statues-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
F
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.413/17
894.00.P.R./33
FOR .#245
SEE
FROM
Japan
(Neville) DATEDSept.5.1930.
TO
NAME
1-1137
REGARDING:
the popularity in Japan of the legend of Townsend
Harris and the Japanese maid, Okichi. New shrine
in Tokyo to contain a wooden figure of Fudo-son
to be known henceforth as "Black Ships Okichi
Fudo-son."
mb/

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.88)
MPORT  GONUITND II JARAN
There in  surious per.liel botween August
of last year in Japan and  ust of thio year: in
both montho ho prinoipal subjvots of interest were
aviation and Townsend Harris, Amerien's first m-
precentative to Japam. & year ago the Graf Zeppe-
lin, in its memorable flight uround the world,
stopped an route at Tokyo while at the summ tim
at Tokyo'n lending crumatie theatre a play was
presented buved on the alleged romenee of Townsend
Barris and jin mid-nervant Okiehi.
It was pointet :ut lust year that the love-
story of Townwend Rartls ani this young moiake.
for whieh there is slunior basis in recorded fest,
Ls mehieving a preminent place in Japanese legendary
Lese. Se far as is keown Harras is the only foreigner
whe has beeome a purt of the literature of Japan.
Purther evidermses ef thia developemat rnve again
beem evieent. Tro ef Japan's mewest and mest pepuler
songe are bassd o this steey. These songe are played
a eoemspheme reecrle everyhere, ave md and mang

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.77)
al ensé and bar wstreesss, ase whistled 
studnte. they use the "theme songe" of a metion
pletuse, msen aondeved pegularity tren the aay at
10 ymer pes, Juy le, 19s0, estled
ToJIN ORIGNs, meaning Fereigmer's CGiend, or, mere
enmetly, rommsene Harsis's Oieki. As the film is
silest, the twe nonge are mane on the stage tbefese
the plesure begime, to te folleved by cceasiomal
flushes on the wereen of seleetieme frem the werds
of te nge. as the sengs are of tnterest to
stucente es the curiens, literel translatiome ef
beth are subustted. The " blask shipe" mentiemed
are, ef couree, the ameriean mhipe. It should
alse be remenbered that aecerding te the Legend
kiand entered arrie's expley egainst her will
and oaly ut the bebest of Japoneme affiuials for
the meke of her country.
Senc of Ckiohi.
(Mleck Ship Vereien).
I
Ne reeall to mind the volee of okichs
Bean by mesine the chispine of
plevere on the ceeoteack.
Beemuse of aaeck shipe ia the part of shinode.
In the pors of shtmsda,
A erem as d Le singing ia teese."
1x

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.79)
中
Bleck Shipe of love,
the wifo of a single aiest.
m nti mo    me.
iatins tu ud fro from the coneulate
 lr  lr  u dooured
" a ood 
IXI
Oh, Hain, fall contimmously
The bottem or the aleeve will not bu dried
Beeause of Amerien's coninge
today draws to  alose. Todey drews to a clome.
The mee of Shimodn
Bebald the maves are as blue
As blue (forelgners') eyes.
Ltle o o i.
(Versien of the Crew at Dasm).
Imm's that ükieki who rides in palanquin
A sprine ahower im the port of hinoda.
If she wmepe, the eamellie flomers
Fall(im aympatay to the ground.
xx
mMack mipe in the offins
Qomnet   beee or dst.
if ahe weepe, the thipy all the wore sarmet be seen
Beanuse of teurn.
A r s m wichinm to weep, mnet.
ro

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.84)
一
It might again be meatiomed that the private
l1ves ef presiment persess in thie sountry are
frequently expleited by remsatie writers with
little regard for truth.
Farther evidenee of the establishssnt of
the legand was alse apparamt during angust.
Okieh1's
doity:
Preparations vore maée for the opaning om
September first of a new shrime in the heart
of Tokyo (Hihonbashi ward) to house a woodem
figure of & military deity, Mudo-eon, to o
known henooforth as "laek hips kiekd rudo-eem".
The alloged history of this figure is interestime.
The grent-grandrather of a wan who today has a
restmurant in Mihonbuahi ward, was one of theee
orfielals cont to Shimode to mogotiate s treaty
with Towmeend Harris. This offiolal, by neme
shimekaro Ism, oarried vith him this figure.
hepinp that proyers to it mi ht bring smseees.
It was this man who " persuaded Okieht to eeeri-
fiee moreelf for the make of the  tate" By 
tsrins into a liaisonvith Harris. (Press reperts
tsmeve the feet that these 1s no proef of this
relatienship). lom lems the five of yadesom
to cantans se thee "uster ate preteetion she mighs
condmet hesself in e preer memmse." After the
twenty wme Gonatntns, Ine lars shtmets, taking

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.84)
the figuro with him, and eventually 1t eume inte
the hands of this descendant, the Tokye resteura-
teur. Beeoming aware of the grewing pepularity of
the marrie-Okiehi Logend (und probably with an eye
to his omm publieity), he gnthered together som
friends to rimmee the onshriment of the deity.
The new whrine is auid to be on te aite of the
hemee of "1ll adum, the Englieh nee captain whe
was kopt in Japen during the oarly yoare of the
auventeenth contury by the hop, fokugaw Leyas.
Aocording to xess reperts this seity, Hleck shipe
kiehi Muto-non, 1s very populer 1th eimba, as
 waslog1.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
NE
Alling
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 17, 1933.
Tokyo's despatoh No. 433 of June 17, 1933,
reperts that Ambassador Grew was requested to
centribute an inseription commemorating the
visit of Townsend Harris to a temple in which
he lodged on his historic journey from Shimoda
to Bdo in 1857. The insoription is to be
earved into a commemorative monument to be
oreeted at the temple. Perhaps the FOREIGN
SERVIOB JOURNAL could make some use of this
despatch.
S:CLS

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
F
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Jun
No. 433.
NOTED
SUBJECT:
Inscription written by Ambassador Grew
to Commemorate visit of Townsend Harris
to a temple near Shimoda.
tee
AN RECO
Mur
894.413/18
413
CyinFE
894.
y861
Dfvision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL 15 1933
123
Department of State
JUL 28 1933
FILED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
The Department may be interested in an episode, of
perhaps small importance, in which I was asked, as Ameri-
can Ambassador, to contribute an inscription commemorat-
ing the visit of Townsend Harris to a temple in Izu on his
historic journey from Shimoda to Edo in 1857.
There being no official post houses on the road from
Shimoda until the Tokaido highway was reached, Townsend
Harris

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Harris was lodged at this small village temple on the
first night of the journey. The present abbot of the
temple recently wrote to the Embassy asking that I write
an inscription which would be carved into a commemorative
monument and erected at the temple.
An inscription in Japanese in the sense of the follow-
ing was prepared with the kind aid of Mr. Midori Komatsu,
a prominent Japanese publicist, who arranged for a skilled
caligraphist to do the writing:
"Townsend Harris, the first American Consul
General and later Minister of the United
States to Japan, stopped here on his way
from Shimoda to Edo, November 1857.
Inscribed by order of Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador. May 1933".
1/.
There is hereto appended a translation of a letter of
thanks signed by the abbot and congregation of the temple.
I feel that the marking of this historic spot in this
manner may contribute in some small way to friendship for
America in Japan.
Respectfully yours,
Jo.Jen
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1. Translation of letter of
thanks
841.3
WTT:g

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY.
Kawadzu-mura, Shizuoka
Prefecture.
June 9, 1933.
His Excellency
Mr. Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Your Excellency has done great honor to the un-
dersigned in favoring them with an inscription for a
monument commemorating the visit to this humble temple
by the first American Minister, Mr. Townsend Harris,
on his way to Edo from Shimoda, and by donating a pho-
tograph of Your Excellency in response to the request
of the superior priest of this temple. We, the under-
signed, are greatly impressed by the generosity and
kindness of Your Excellency in doing such favor to us.
The inscription will be made into a tablet or panel and
put up at the front gate of this temple. Your Excellency's
photograph will also be made into a small tablet and be
kept in the alcove of the room where the late Mr. Townsend
Harris passed one night at the time of his visit to this
temple, thereby to perpetuate the memory of the late Ameri-
can envoy and the historic commencement of the friendly
relations between Your Excellency's country and this
country.
We, the undersigned, believe that the kindness of
Your Excellency in having bestowed upon us such great
honor in complying with our humble request is an indica-
tion of Your Excellency's sincere wish for the mainte-
nance and further advancement of the amicable relation-
ship between the United States and Japan, a cause for
which we feel an unbounded happiness and gratitude. We
pledge our utmost respect to the memory of the late Mr.
Townsend Harris and shall do our best to perpetuate his
memory to the end of promotion of a happy relation be-
tween the two countries.
We hereby express our deep-felt gratitude and in-
debtedness to Your Excellency.
Teido Tsuboi, superior priest of Jigan-In
Temple.
Kando Nakane, Representative of the Affi-
liated Temples, Ph. D.
Sekiryo Nimura, Superior of an under-
temple.
Unsho Umbe,
Superior of an under-
temple.
Seiji Yamashiro, head of Kawazu village.
Lemon

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Iemon Inaba, director of Kawazugawa
Water Power Electric
Company.
Gensuke Shioda, Deputy Mayor of Kawazu
village.
Bun-ichi-Itagaki, Principal of Kawasu-
mura Higher and Elementary
School.
Eiji Inaba, physical adviser to same.
Village Physician, Sur-
Hideo Takag1,
geon Sub-lieutenant:
Eizo Enomoto, Postmaster of Kawazumura.
Rokuro Itagaki, Clerk at Kawazu Post
Office.
Takajiro Yamada, Representative of th
supporters of Jigan-In.
Kumataro Shioda,
ditto.
Ichiro Itagaki,
ditto.
Tsurukichi Sakurai,ditto.
Seitaro Tamura,
ditto.
Chosaku Sakurai,
ditto.
Fudataro Inaba,
ditto.
Isamu Inaba,
ditto.
Sentaro Inaba,
ditto.
Zentaro Inaba,
ditto.
Iwakichi Itagaki,
ditto.
Seisuke Itagaki,
ditto.
Eitaro Iwamoto,
ditto.
Sozo Inaba,
ditto.
Iwajiro Inaba,
ditto.
Tomikichi Inaba,
ditto.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 3, 1933.
In its despatoh No. 602, December 7, 1933,
the Embassy at Tokyo reports the conclusion,
on an apparently satisfactory basis, of a
long drawn out dispute between the town
authorities of Shimode and the priest of the
tomple at which Townsend Harris stayed over
certain souvenirs and relios presented by
several Americans.
The two factions have entered into a
contract which provides that the relics
shall be placed in the custody of the priest,
who undertakes to place them in the temple's
memorial hall.
1

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 7, 1933.
No. 602.
SUBJECT:
Presentation of Townsend Harris
Relics to the Ryosen Temple at
Shimoda.
Ail
894.413
División of
FAR EASTEN AFF
894.413/19
n EC
AN 2
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
JAN 4-1921
FILED
Washington.
894.413/12
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's in-
struction No. 414 of July 17, 1928 and to the Embassy's
14
reply thereto, No. 1047/of December 19, 1928, in regard
to chessmen, photographs of documents and portraits of
Towmsend Harris for presentation to the Ryosen temple
at Shimoda.
At the time these relics were received the citizens
of Shimoda were engaged in the construction of a Memorial
Hall to house objects connected with the town history.
The
人

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
The erection of this structure was delayed, and the Embassy
was requested by the Chief Priest of the temple and the Mayor
to retain the relics for the time being. There seems to
have been some friction between the town authorities and
the temple in regard to the ownership and management of
the hall. As the Embassy did not desire to take sides in
this question, the relics were kept in the Embassy until
the Mayor and the Chief Priest indicated agreement and in-
formed the Embassy that they were prepared to receive the
articles.
Last October the Mayor and the Chief Priest requested
that the articles be sent to Shimoda. Accordingly the Em-
bassy sent them to Shimoda and is now in receipt of a letter
1/.
from the Mayor to the effect that they have been placed in
the Memorial Hall in the custody of the Chief Priest of Ryo-
sen temple, to which the Memorial Hall is attached. Among
the articles transmitte to Shimoda are photographs and
other data relating to Commodore Perry and the fleet under
his command which were obtained from the Navy Department
954.H13/3
and transmitted in Instruction No. 244 of August 10, 1927.
2/.
There is also enclosed a letter to Mrs. Helen Harris
.Vreeland transmitting a communication addressed to her by
3/.
the Mayor of Shimoda, and a photograph of the Memorial Hall.
A photograph of this Hall is enclosed in this despatch.
Respectfully yours
3
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
1. Letter from Mayor
of Shimoda.
2. Letter to Mrs. Vreeland.
3. Photograph of Memorial Hall.
841.3
ELN:6

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
Euclosure No
to despatch
10602 of bee7,1933 from tho
Embassy at Tokyo'
COPY.
December 2, 1933.
Mr. Edwin L. Neville,
Counselor of the
United States Embassy.
Sir:
I have the honor to inform you that with regard to
relics of Mr. Harris and Commodore Perry which you have
kindly given to the town of Shimoda I have requested Mr.
Kiichi Shimizu, Chief Priest of the Ryosenji temple, to
keep the relics in custody end later show the same for
public inspection permanently as I wrote you under date
of ctober 26. I now take pleasure to state that on De-
cember 1, 1933, a contract for the presentation of the
relics was signed between Mr. Kiichi Shimizu and myself
as will be seen from papers herewith attached.
I beg you will be so good as to take trouble to
forvard to Mrs. Vreeland my letter attached herewith.
I remain, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Toranosuke Suzuki (Seal)
Mayor of Shimoda,
Kamo gun,
Shizuoka Prefecture.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 1.00)
COPY OF CONTRACT.
December 1, 1933.
Mr. Kiichi Shimizu,
Chief Priest,
Ryosenji Temple,
No. 777, Shimoda.
The relics relating to Townsend Harris and Matthew
Perry having beer granted to the town of Shimoda by the
United States Embassy as is shown in a list of the same
herewith attached, I hereby hand over to you the relics
which I hope you will keep in custody under the follow-
ing conditions:-
(1) That the relics shall he kept in the Busankaku
building and thrown open to the general public for
exhibition.
(2) That the Mayor of Shimoda shall not bear ex-
penses required for the preservation of the relics,
nor shall he receive any proceeds accruing from the
exhibition of the same. However, this clause shall
not apply to cases where special contracts are made
between the Mayor of Shimoda and Chief Priest of the
Ryosenji Temple.
(3) That the Chief Friest of the Ryosenji Temple
shall not remove the relics to any place outside the
Busankaku building without consent of the Mayor of
Shimoda, nor shall he establish the right of mortgage
and other rights on the relics.
(4) That the Chief Priest of the Ryosenji Temple shall
do all in his power for the preservation of the relics
but that he shall not be held responsible when the
relics wil! be either lost or damaged on account of
natural calamities and other force majeure.
(5) That if the relics should be either lost or damaged
through the violation of the third item or through a
serious fault as to preservation, the Chief Priest of
the Ryosenji Temple shall pay proper compensationsto
the Mayor of Shimoda.
(6) That the Mayor of Shimoda, upon consultation with
the Chief Priest of the Ryosenji Temple, may remove the
relics to some other place for the purpose of exhibition
and may also cancel the preservation contract with the
Chief Priest of the Ryosenji Temple.
Toranosuke Suzuki (Seal)
Mayor of Shimoda,
Kamo gun.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 1.00)
COPY OF CONTRACT.
December 2, 1933.
Mr. Toranosuke Suzuki,
Mayor of Shimoda.
I hereby acknowledge the eceipt of the relics
relating to Harris and Perry as shown in a list of
the same herewith attached in accordance with the
provisions of the present contract and I shall keep
the same in custody in the Busankaku building.
Kiichi Shimizu (SEAL)
Chief Priest,
Ryosenji Temple,
No. 777, Shimoda.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
Copy of List of Relics
relating to Townsend Harris
and Commodore Perry granted
by the United States Embassy
to the town of Shimoda.
(Now on show in the Busankaku
building attached to the Ryo-
senji Temple).
1. One set of chessmen (incomplete), owned and used
by Townsend Harris, and contributed by Mrs. Helen
Harris Vreeland of Waterford, Connecticut State, who
is the niece of Townsend Harris.
2.
One set of eight photographs relating to Townsend
Harris, contributed by Professor M.E. Cosenza
of the University of the City of New York, classi-
fied as follows:
1. Provisional appointment of Townsend Harris
as Consul General in Shimoda, Japan.
2. Formal appointment of Townsend Harris as
Consul General.
3. Photograph of the cover of the Third Volume
of the Collection of Travel Records of Town-
send Harris.
4. Photograph of page ?5 of the Third Volume of
the same, containing the following statement:
"I wish to act in such a way as to be mention-
ed honorably in the history of Japan and its
future destiny."
5. Photograph of page 52 of the Fourth Volume of
the same,containing the following statement:
Under date of June 17, 1857.
"Today we signed Treaty."
This Treaty was signed at the Ryosenji Temple.
6. 1 & 2. Photograph of letter of credence from
President Pierce empowering Townsend Harris
with the right of concluding Treaty with the
Emperor of Japan.
7. Towmsend Harris in 1855. The original picture
is an oil painting presented to the Bureau of
Education by Professors of the University of
the City of New York on the eve of departure
of Townsend Harris for Japan as Consul General.
8. Townsend Harris who returned home from Japan,
photographed about 1862.
3.
List of part of descendants of Commodore Matthew C.
Perry.
4.
One set of 13 photographs relating to Commodore Perry's
visit to Japan, contributed from the United States
Navy Department.
1. Flagship " SUSQUEHANNA".
2. American warship " SAN JASINT
3. American warship "MISSISSIPPI".
4. American warship "SARATOGA".
5. Commodore Matthew C. Perry.
6. Landing of Commodore Perry at Kurihama
on

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
on July 14, 1853, to open negotiations with
the Japanese authorities.
7.
Presentation of autograph letter from Presi-
dent on July 14, 1853.
8.
Farewell of Commodore Perry to Japanese Com-
missioner at Shimoda.
9.
Landing of Commodore Perry in Japan.
10.
Interview of Commodore Perry with Japanese
Commissioner at Yokohama on May 18, 1854.
11.
Presentation of a gift at Yokohama.
12. Conference at Hakodate on May 18, 1854.
13. Japanese treaty committee sent to the United
States in l860 for the first time.
This photograph was taken in the Navy Yard in
Washington, D. C.
I hereby assure that these papers are copies of
original list of relics.
Toranosuke Suzuki (Seal)
Mayor,
Shimoda.
December 2, 1933.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
huiosure No to despa ch
5.0 602 of bec.7,1933
from the
.hasy at Tokyo.
COPY.
Embassy of the
United States of America
Tokyo, December 7, 1933.
Mrs. Helen Harris Vreeland,
Box 355, Alexandria,
Virginia.
Dear Mrs. Vreeland:
There is enclosed herewith the original and an
English translation of a letter adoressed to you by
the Mayor of Shimoda in whic he thanks you for the
contribution of the chessmen, relics of the late
Townsend Harris. I am also enclosing a photograph
of the building in which the chessmen are displayed
along with other relics.
This matter has been delayed a long time due to
the desire of the people of Shimoda to build a memorial
hall, and some discussion between the town an Ryosen
temple. The Embassy did not wish to become involved
in a local controversy. Accor ingly it waited until the
hall was completed, an letters from the Mayor and the
Chief Priest indicated agreement between the two. The
Memorial Hall is town pro erty, but is attached to the
temple.
·Sincerely yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
American Ambassador.
Enclosures:
Letter from Mayor.
Photograph of Memorial
Hall.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
TRANSLATION.
December 2, 1933.
Mrs. Helen Harris Vreeland,
Care of United States Embassy,
Tokyo.
My dear Madam:
I have the honor to express to you my sincere thanks
for your kindness in contributing to the town of Shimoda
one set of chessmen, relics of the late Mr. Townsend Harris
who was the first Consul General to Japan. Your contri-
bution is attracting great attention from the public be-
cause it is closely associated with the deceased Consul
General who was a figure generally admired and respected
by the Japanese people.
Please note that your contribution, along with other
relics, is exhibited in the Busankaku building, which is
a structure built recently in commemoration of the opening
of Shimoda to foreign trade, within the precincts of the
Ryosenji temple at Shimoda. This town is widely known as
the site of the conclusion of the first Japan-American Com-
mercial Treaty.  take pleasure in stuting that the Busan-
kaku building abov. mentioned is open for public inspection
permanently.
I avail myseli -f this opportunity to express to you
again my sincere tha..is and respects.
Toranosuke Suzuki (Seal)
Mayor of Shinoda,
Kamo gun,
Shizuoka Prefecture,
Japan.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.89)
Frclosure No
o3to despatch
No 602 of Dte. 7. 1933 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.413/
894.415-Edimon/1
323
.SEE
FOR
FROM
Kobe
Donovan...) DATED May..28,1934
TO
NAME
1-1197
20
REGARDING: the erection of a monument to Thomas Alva Edison in Japan
which was unveiled on May 23,1934.
C
esp

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./80
#917
SEE
FOR
894.413
Japan
Grew
August 4, 1934
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1187
/21
REGARDING:
Monument unveiled in memory of the late
Frederick Starr.
て
las
894.4
3

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
8
According to the WICHI WICHI SHIMBUN of July 2S,
the Japanese newspaper Association decided on July 24 to
invite abeut 40 American newsp&per men to Japan for a frank
round-table conference with Japenese newspaper men and pro-
minemt Japanese, the proposed visit to take pl ce in Beptember.
(1)
A Monunent Unveiled in Mammry of the Late Frederisk
On July 6 a stone momument was unveiled in Tokye
894.413
in memory of the late Dr. Frederick Starr, the American anthro-
pologist who, in the opiuiun of the Tokyo SAHI of July 7,
did "much in promoting the relations between the United States
and Japun". The ceremony was conducted under the suspices of
the Bosatsu-kai, & society interested in the preservation
of shrines and temples in Japan.
(1) The Ameriean-Japsnese Student Conference.
The merican-J&panese Student Conference held in
Tokyo in July is the subject of the Rabassy's despatch No. 914
of August 3, 1934.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.89)
DIVISION OF
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
21 1937
.OF THE
AINAMERICAN AFFAIRS
DETMENT OF STATE
No. 2195
JAN 29 1937.
tils
AMERICAN EMBASSY
NION OF PUREION
ENVIUS ADMINISTRATION
Tokyo, December 19, 1936.
SUBJECT: UNVEILING OF TOWNSEND HARRIS MONMENT
VICTON O1 ATRRENT
AND
CONFERENCES
MIUNMAIUN
JAN 22 1937
JAN 2 2 1937
DEPT
894.413/22
CF STATE
37 A   2 51
of State
OF
STATE
INS
 RDS
DEPARINENT OF STATE
BVISON OF
COMMLNICALENDRCORDS
PN O
6121
JAN 1 6 1937
2111
E
GI
994.413
Note
124.94
FILED
1233801
FAN LASTENN AFFAIRS
AAN 1 8 1937
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Department of State
Washington.
S i r:
At the temple of Zempuku-ji, reputed to be over a
thousand years old, the site of the first American Lega-
tion in Tokyo, there was unveiled today a monument to
Townsend Harris, the first Minister of the United States
to Japan. The monument, which is of black stone inlaid
with

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
with a bronze disk bearing the image of Harris, is
inscribed: On this spot Townsend Harris opened the
first American Legation in Japan, July 7, 1859. Dedi-
cated by the America-Japan Society, December 19, 1936.
It was presented by a group of Japenese headed by
Mr. Takashi Masuda, who had served as an office boy in
our first Legation and who had seen Harris daily during
that period, the ceremony of unveiling being carried
out under the auspices of the Americe-Japan Society.
Mrs. Grew unveiled the monument, speeches were delivered
by Prince Tokugawa, Mr. Masuda and the undersigned, a
Buddhist dedication ritual was held by the priests of
the temple and memorial trees were planted by the three
speakers. The ceremony wes in every way impressive and
an important testimonial to Japanese American friendship.
1/2/3/4
Certain enclosures of possible interest to the
Department are listed below.
Respectfully yours
Joseph C. Grew.
Fnolosures:
1. Text of the Ambassador's address.
2.
Clippings from THE JAPAN TIMES and JAPAN
ADVERTISER of December 20, 1936, containing the
texts of the speeches of Prince Tokugawa and
Mr. Masuda.
3. Four photographs taken at the ceremony, the
subjeot marked on the back of each.
4.
Booklet entitled *An American Shrine in Tokyo.
Memorial Meeting for Townsend Harris held at
Zempuku-ji, Tokyo, 193l.* This booklet com-
memorates a meeting held at the temple on
April

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
April 18, 1931, under the auspices of Phi
Beta Kappa in Japan and contains, apart from
a foreword by Mr. Yasunosuke Fukukita and
Mrs. Zoe Kincaid Penlington, addresses by
Professor Kimura, Mr. Eugene H. Dooman (read
by Mr. Edwin L. Neville), Baron (later Mr.)
Takashi Masude and the then American Ambassador,
Honorable W. Cameron Forbes, as well as certain
historic documents and memorial verses by
Baron Masuda.
841.3
JCG:a

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1, to despatoh
No. 2l95, dated December 19,
1936, from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Text of Address of Ambassador Grew at the
Unveiling of a Memorial Tablet to Townsend Harris
at Zempuku-ji, Azabu, Tokyo, December 19, 1936.
Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen:
Among the Japenese people few virtues stand out more
prominently than loyalty and the observance of tradition.
The memory of ancestors is perennially alive and imperish-
able; the heroes of yesterday and their deeds are kept
vitalized in the thoughts of the race while the glorious
pest is never permitted to fade or become dim in the
driving turmoil of the present. Herein, I think, lies
an important key to the tremendous achievements of Japen
in the modern world: the toroh of present inspiration
is kept perpetually afleme from the fire of the past,
the memories of deeds and of men.
When such loyalty to tredition is given expression,
as it is today, in honoring the memory of a foreign guest
on the soil of Japan, a strenger within her gates, there
is created a wave of international appreciation and good-
will which will extend far beyond the confines of the spot
and country where such commemoration is held. The stranger
and foreign guest, through this most impressive manifesta-
tion of loyalty to his memory, has thus conoretely become
enshrined in the traditions of the nation which once, in
the now historic past, accorded him its hospitality and
respeot.
To

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
To stand here on the site of the first American
Legation in Japan as a successor to my justly famed coun-
tryman and to witness this manifestation of the esteem
in which his memory is held full eighty years after his
arrival at Shimoda is a privilege which fills me with
inexpressible pride, and I well know that this gracious
action of yours will find e ready response of grateful
appreciation among my fellow Amcricans at home, for in
my country, too, loyelty to the memory of those strangers
within our gates who contributed importantly to our own
national development has never been found lacking.
Of Townsend Harris himself, his character and his
work, I need speak but briefly, preferring to leave to
others a theme upon which, in fact, our hosts today have
already so eloquently expressed themselves in the beauti-
ful and impressive memorial which we see before us.
Suffice it for me to say that this occasion emphasizes
no less the virtues of the man himself, his fortitude
and perseverance, his imagination and adaptability, his
ingenuity and breadth of vision, than it exemplifies the
foresight, courage and genius of the great people who so
nobly rose to the call when opportunity knocked at their
door and who went forth to take their place among the
leading nations of the world.
If Townsend Harris did no more than unlook for Japan
a gate leading into the great international marts of trade
and commerce, his work was not in vain. In the brief span
of these eighty years this country, to which he came in
a

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
a spirit of sincerity and helpfulness, has earnestly ap-
plied itself to the task of grafting upon its age-old
culture the learning and the methods of a newer civiliza-
tion. Success has crowned its efforts, and were Harris
now alive, not only would he be amazed at the achievements
of the Japanese nation but he would equally rejoice that
the basio principles embodied in the Treaty which he
negotiated on behalf of his country remain intact today.
How prophetic have proven the words of that first Treaty
of Amity and Commerce betveen Japen and the United States
which states, in Article I: "There shall henceforth be
perpetual peace and friendship between the United States
of America and His Majesty the Ty-Coon of Japan and his
successors." We know, as a matter of historic fact,
that Harris was as much concerned in protecting and ad-
vancing the interests of Japan as he was in advancing
the interests of the United States and that his two
guiding principles were to prevent Japan from facing
demands backed by force and to make trade profitable to
both our countries. Those principles, I think, admirably
reflect a policy which in America is very much alive
today, a policy which holds that universal peace and
mutually profitable trade are the blocks of granite upon
which alone international friendship can effectively be
built. Perhaps Townsend Harris, as Mr. Eugene Dooman
once pointed out in this same spot, was a diplomatist in
advance of his time.
I cannot close without a word of appreciation to
Prince Tokugawa, the Committee and other distinguished
exponente

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
exponents of Japanese-American friendship who so gracious-
ly have gathered here today, and especially to Mr. Masuda
who is perhaps the last surviving link between Townsend
Harris and the present. Mr. Masuda came as a youth to
this thousand-year old temple to learn English, saw
Harris daily and, as he himself has said, he still remem-
bers Harris' distinguished appearance and the fact that
he held him in esteem and admiration. Mr. Masuda has
recorded his impressions of Harris' great ebility, his
tact, patience, common sense and conscientiousness, and
his courage and composure in the face of constant risk
of attack during those troublous times; he has spoken too
of Harris' refusal to withdraw the American Legation from
Yedo and has indicated that his bravery in remaining was
an important if not a determining fector in opening up
Japan's early relations with the outside world on an
equitable basis. For Mr. Masuda's own part in laying the
groundwork of friendship between Japan and America and
for his lifelong service to that high cause, we owe him
a debt of profound appreciation.
In dedicating this Memorial Tablet here today, you
have earned the gratitude of the American people for an
act which demonstrates your generous wish to commemorate
a pioneer in international friendship, and in the name
of the land which sent Townsend Harris as its first offi-
cial representative to Japan, I heartily thank you. May
his work and his example inspire those of us who now and
in future may be responsible for guiding the trends of
international relationships to follow the same enlightened
course of common sense and far-sighted helpfulness which
ne so splendidly exemplified.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 2, to despatch
No.2195 , dated Dec. 19, 1936.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Sunday, Dec. 20, 1936.
Japan Honors U.S. Emwo
TOKUGAWA SPEAKS
Paya,High Tribate To Noted
Diplosmat; Mr, Masuda Re-
calla First Meeting
May thie tablet to Townsend
rle and our perayers before it
United States on this sacred
Chlsl Abbot Chokai Azabu,
priesta in brilliant brocades of
remony, tlus concluded the
Minister to Japan at
mamoto-cho, Azabu, yesterday
Mre. Joseph Clark Grew, wife of the American
shown here unveiling the tablet for Towneend Harris at
with the momentous task of adopting
of a merohant and with
new political order, of readjusting
sourceful common sen
enonomio life, and of accepting new
bases of social relations. External-
ly, the advancing nations of the west
were persistently' knocking at our
doors to main the privileges of
trade and reaidence in our country,
ent at the temple-
which had been closed to them for

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
tacts of the peoples of our two coun-
priaciples embodied in the Treaty
tries, It was for this reason that
which he negotlated on béhalf of hia
he stipulated that the ratifications
of the treaty should be exchanged
country remain intact today Mow
in Washington and paved the way
prophetic have proven the worda of
for the historic mission hended by
that first Treaty of Amity and Com
Shinmi Masaoki, the Lord of Buzen,
merce between Japan and the United
States which states, in Article I:
"There shall henceforth be perpetual
which was sent to Washington in the
peace and friendship between the
year 1860.
United States of America and Hi
"As we here honor the memory of
Majesty the Ty-Coon of Japan and
the great pioneer who served nobly
his successors." We know, as a mat-
and unsparingly to lay firm the
ter of historic fact, that Harris was
foundation of peace and friendship
as much concerned in protecting and
between Jaj"in and America, let us
advancing the interests of Japan as
pledge ourseives anew to the task
he was in advancing the interests.
of bringing together the East' and
of the United States and that his
West to join hands in the common
two guiding principles were to pre,
bond of humanity."
vent Japan from facing demands
Ambassador Grew's address follows
backed by force and to make trade
in part:
profitable to both our countries.
"Your Excellencies and Gentlemen:
Those principles, I think admirably
"Among the Japanese people few
reflect a policy which in America is
virtues stand cut more prominently
very much alive today, a policy
than loyalty and the obseryance of
which holds that universal peace and
tradition. The memory of ancestors
mutually profitable trade are the
is perennially allve and inperishable;
blocks of granite upon which alone
the heroes of yosterday and their
international friendship can effective-
deeds are kept vitalized in the
ly be built. Perhaps Townsend
thoughts of the ràce while the glori-
Harris, as Mr. Eugene Dooman once
cus pas: is never permited to fade
pointed out in this same spot, was
or become dim in the driving turmoil
a diplomatist in advance of his time.
of the persent. Herein, I think, lles
"I cannot close without a word of
an important key to the tremendous
appreciation to Prince Tokugawa,
achievements of Japan in the modern
the Committee and other distinguish-
world: the torch of present inspira-
ed exponents of Japanese-American
tion is kept perpeutally aflame from
friendship who so graciously have
the fire of the: past, the memories
gathered here today, and especially
of deeds and of men.
to Mr. Masuda who is perhaps the
"When such loyalty to tradition
last surviving link between Town-
is given expresesion, as it is today,
send Hairis and the present. Mr.
in honoring the memory of a foreign.
Masuda came as a youth to this
guest on the soll of Japan. a stranger
thousand-year old temple to learn
within her gates, there is crented a
English, saw Harris daily and. as he
wave of international appreciation
himself has said, he still remembers
and goodwill which
will
Hsris' distinguished appearance and
tend far heyend the confines of the
th: fact that he held him in esteem
spot and country where such com-
an. dmiration.
memoration is held. The stranger
"In dedicating this Memorial
and foreign guest, through this most
Tablt here today. you have earned
impressive manifestation of loyalty
the gratltude of the American people
to his memory, has thus coneretely
for an a.t which demonstrates your
become enshrined in the traditions of
generous wish to commemorate a
the nation which onee. in the now
pioneer in international friendship.
historic past. accorded him its hos-
and in the name of the land which
pitality and respect.
sent Townsend Harris as its first
"To stand here on the site of the
official representative to Japan. I
first Amerlean Legation in Japan as
heartily thank you. May his work
and his example inspire those of us
a successor to my justly famed coun-
who now and in fiture may be res-
try-man and to witness this manifes-
ponsible for guiding the trends of
tation of the esteem in which his
international relationshins to foliow
the same enlightened course of com-
memory is held full eighty years
mon sense and far-sighted helpful-
after his arrival at Shimoda is a pri-
ness which he so splendidly ex-
vilege which fills me with inexpres-
emplified."
sible pride. and I well know that this
Mr. Takashi Masuda's speech fol;
gracious action of yours will find a
lows in part:
ready response of grateful apprecia-
"I rejofce to see this monument
unveiled by Mrs. Grew. who is. s
tion among my fellow Americans at
you all know, a descendant of Com-
home. for in my country, too, loyalty
modore Perry. So far as I know, I
to the memory of those strangers
am the only survivor of the group
within our gates who contributed im-
of my conpatriots who used to come
lortantly to our own national deve-
here to work in the days of Harris.
lopment has never been found lack-
Pruyn. Heusken and Portman. I am
ing.
overwhelmed with joy in my declin-
"If Townsend Harris did no more
ing years by this opportunity to take
than unlock for Japan a gate leading
a humhle part in the work of per-
into the great international marts of
petuating the memories of the early
trade and commeree, his work was
Amorica" renresentatives. I shall
not in vain. In the brief span of
never forget this distinguished
these eighty years this country. to
gathering attended by His Excel-
which he came in e spirit of sincerity
lency the American Ambaseador Mr.
and helpfulness. has carnestly ap-
Joseph C. Grew and high Japanese
plied itself to the task of grafting
dignitaries.
upon its age-old culture the learning
"On behalf oř our own little group,
and the methods of a newer civiliza-
I beg to tender our sincere thanks to
tion. Success has crowned its efforts.
His Excellency Prince Tokugawa and
and were Hamrls now alive, not only
the America-Japan Society, of which
would he be anrazed at the achieve-
he is Proiden' fer the splendid ar-
ments of the Japanese nation but he:
rangement made for dedicating the
would equally rejoice that the basic
monument today."

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.2, to despatch
No.2195, dated Dec. 19, 1986
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Sunday, Dec. 20, 1936.
Lack of Marking Regrette
MEMORIAL UNVEILED
which our society stands, namely, 'to
"I have long regretted the falt thnt
promote friendly relations between
nothing had been done in Toltyo to
the peoples of Japan and the United
States.'* • • As we here honor the
TO HARRIS ON SITE
memory of the great pioneer who
first American Minister had
served go nobly and unsparingly to
the Stars and Stripes in 18se.
lay frm the foundation of peace and
to the fact that Townsend Hasr
friendship between Japan and Ame-
OF FIRST LEGATION
rica, let us pledge ourselves anew to
the task of bringing together the East
pukuji may be of greater importance
and the West to join hands in the
than the Gyokusenji in the histry of
common bond of humanity."
American-Japanese diplomacy.
Ambassador Grew paid a tribute to
"The Chief Abbot of this temple and
America-Japan Society Spon-
the Japanose virtues of loyalty and ob-
his son have also long been anxious
servance of tradition and voiced as-
to have something to perpetuate the
sors Ceremony in Compound
surance that the ceremony in honor
memory of Townrend Harris and his
of Harris would find "a ready response
immediate successors. The since de-
of Zempuku Temple
of grateful appreciation among my fel-
sire on the part of the temple authori-
low Americans at home." on behalf of
ties prompted my good frien Mr.
whom he expressed gratitude.
Ginjiro Fujihara and a few othirs to
PRINCE TOKUGAWA SPEAKS
"We know, as a matter of historic
erect a monument on this spot. t was
fact," he said in part. "that Harris was
therefore with genuine pleasure that I
as much concerned in protecting and
co-operated with these friends i this
advancing the interests of Japan as he
project. My Japanese insciiption
Grew Sees in Earliest Minister's
was in advancing the interests of the
meaning 'The Site of the Res dence
Principles a Policy Very Much
United States and that his two guiding
of America's Early Envoys,' which is
principles were to prevent Japan from
engraved on the monument, is a hum.
Alive Today
facing demands backed by force and
ble attempt to pay a personal tribute
to make trade profitable to both our
to the first representative of the Inited
countries. Those principles, I think.
States and his successors, who had
MASUDA GIVES MEMORIES
admirably reflect a policy which in
their residence in this compoun).
America is very much alive today, a
"We must not forget to mentin on
policy which holds that universal peace.
this occasion the generous co-operation
Townsend Harris, the first American
and mutually profitable trade are the
blocks of granite upon which alone
spontaneously extended to us by Mr.
Fumio Asakura, a foremost co item-
Minister to Japan, was remembered
international friendship can effective-
porary sculptor. The bronze figre of
yesterday with the dedication of a
ly be built."
Townsend Harris in relief, whieh is
monument to him at the Zempuku
Masuda Spcaks
set in the slab, is a gift of the art-
Temple, Azabu, where he opened the
Mr. Masuda's address follows:
"When I came to this historic tem-
with the cause of American-Jarhnese
ist, who has long identified h.mself
American Legation in 1858. In a cere-
ple on April 18. 1931. to attend the
friendship. **
mony sponsored by the America-
memorial meeting for Townsend Har-
"I rejoice to see this monumen un-
Japan Society, Mrs. Grew, wife of the
ris held under the auspices of Phi Be-
vei'ed by Mrs. Grew, who is, ayou
American Ambassador, unveiled the
ta Kappa in Japan. I was filled with
all know. a descendant of Comm dore
monument, and Prince Iyesato Toku-
deep emotion at the sight of the build-
Perry. So far as I know, I an the
awa, president of the society. Am-
ings and trees associated with memo-
only survivor of the group of my com-
bassador Grew and Mr. Takashi Ma-
ries of my boyhood days over 70 years
patriots m ho used to come here to work
suda, who saw Harris and played an
ago. In connection with my struggles
in the days of Harris, Pruyn, Jleus-
important part in the group of busi-
to learn English, the stormy days of
ken and Portman.
nemamen who made the monument
the pre-Restoration turmoil came back
Three Wreaths Laid
poestble, gave addresses.
to my mind as if they were a scroll of
The sounding of the temple bel and
"Seventy-seven years ago, Townsend
pictures. Of the many things I still
the arrival of Chief Abbot Chokai Aza-
Harris established upon this spot the
remember vividly, the heroic figure of
bu and a group of assistants ofened
first American Legation in Japan."
Townsend Harris stands out prominent-
the ceremony in a large marquee.
Prince Tokugawa began. "Here, by
!y. I was one of those who were deep-
Buddhist music was played, and then
the side of this gingko tree, he erect-
ly impressed with his fearlessness of
Mrs. Grew unveiled the monumerlt, of
the personal danger to which he was
ed the flag-staff from which the Stars
stone inlaid with a bronze disk betring
and Stripes were flown for the first
constantly exposed owing to the anti-
the image of Harris. Under the disk
time in the city of Yedo. It was in
foreign agitation.
"Being merely a messenger boy for
is an inscription in English, "On this
the sixth year of Ansei and was during
spot Townsend Harris opened the firs
the Shogunate officials attached to the
the stormy days preceding the Meiji
American Legation, I of course did
American Legation in Japan, Ju
to the pest 77 years of our foreign
not come into direct contact with the
1859. Dedicated by the America-J
relations, we can but wonder how
Minister. But I had opportumities
Society, December 19, 1936." Wn
from day to day to observe him at a
from Prince Tokugawa, Ambes
only for Japan and America but for
respectful distance. The distinguished
Grew and Mr. Masuda were plact
he entire world that Townsend Harris
appearance of Townsend Harris hold-
the base.
during. those most criti-
ing his position with characteristic
At the conclusion of the ad
frmness and serenity amid incendi-
dedication ritual was held by
arisms and assassinations inspired a
priests of the temple. Memorizl
boy of 13 with a naive but intense ad-
were planted by Prince Te
miration akin to hero-worship.
Ambassador Grew and Mr.
and the guests then entered th
"When I paid a visit to the Gyolku-
sen Temple in Shimoda several years
building of the tample fort
ago, I was grestly pleased to see the
splendid stone monument erected there
to commemorate the residence of

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.73)
July 7 9
sit then
os an Add
at 
0

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
TMENT OF STATE
N OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 28.
If you are acquainted with
Prof. M. E. Cosenza of the College
of the City of N.Y., you mey wish
to attach your calling card to one
of thase pamphlets, for sending to
him.
Prof. Cosenza is an authority
on Townsend Harris, and he has on
several oocasions been very helpful
in supplying information to the
Embassy in Tokyo.
m
WTT

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
5
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1937 JUL 26 PM 12 08
DIVISION OF
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2488.
COMMUNICATIONS
Tokyo, June 29, 1937.
AND RECORDS
SUBJECT:
THE TOWNSEND HARRIS MEMORIAL.
Pibrany leu slass
3
(1 ith lenc)
AUG 2 4 1937
dile
Division,
FAR LASTERN LAIRS
The Honorable
JUL 27 1937
The Socretary of State,
Department ut State
Washington.
DES
Sir:
FLE-WHB
1/
There are transmitted herewith, for any distribution
that the Department may consider desirable, five pamphlets
describing the memorial to Townsend Harris, first American
ASSITANT SECRETARY
D
Engoy to Japan, and the dedication of the memorial on
 AUG 2 3 1937
A
Deember 19, 1936, on the site of the first American Lega-
DG
OF STATE
Ion in Japan, at the Zenpukuji temple in Tokyo.
Respectfullyyours,
2
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
Five pamphlets, "The Townsend Harris Memorial
Addresses at the Dedication."
841.3
CC:g
FE

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.94)
to despetals
Euclosure No
No2488or J 29,1937
THE
TOWNSEND HARRIS
MEMORIAL
Addresses at the Dedication
ON
THIS SPOT
TOWNSEND HARPS
OPINED
THE URST AMCRIANN
IN JAPAN
JULY 7 1859
DEDICATED BY THE AMCRICA -JA
DCCEMBER 19.1936
THE HARRIS MEMORIAL SHOWING IHE ENGLISH INSCRIPTION

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
Close-up of the bronze plaque on the monument, made
and generously donated by Mr. Fumio Asakura.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
THE
TOWNSEND HARRIS
MEMORIAL
Addresses at the Dedication
The bell-tower (center) whose sunset boom Townsend Harrie used to bear.
Shown partially on the right is the well where wursbippers
wash their bands before entering the main temple.
193 7

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Carvings on the inner gate showing the association
of the Imperial Family with Zempukuji.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.86)
5i
The Townsend Harris Memorial, showing the Japanese inscription.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
FOREWORD
W
HEN the treaties of commerce and amity were concluded
by the Government of the Tokugawa Shogunate with the
United States, Great Britain, France and other powers,
residences for the foreign envoys had to be provided in the city of
Yedo (now Tokyo). Of the several Buddhist temples selected as the
headquarters of these representatives, the one offered the United
States was Zempukuji in Azabu Ward. The official order designating
the temple as the American Legation, one of the many historic docu-
ments preserved in the temple archives, is reproduced in this booklet.
Townsend Harris, the first American Minister in Japan, had been
living for two years in the port of Shimoda as Consul-General, wait-
ing patiently for the permanent establishment of the American Lega-
tion in Tokyo, which had been the seat of the Tokugawa Government
for nearly three centuries. Finally, on July 7, 1859, he was able to
raise the Stars and Stripes in Tokyo for the first time, in the grounds
of the Zempuku Temple.
The temple belongs to the Shinshu sect of Buddhism and has had
a long and distinguished history. It once owned the entire district of
Azabu and has been under Imperial patronage, as is attested by the
crest of sixteen chrysanthemum petals carved on the doors of the inner
gate and on the walls of the main hall of worship. It was reputedly
founded by Kobo-Daishi, and visited in its earliest days by Shinran-
Shonin, who are among the most outstanding figures in the history of
Buddhism in Japan.
Few changes have taken place in Zempukuji itself since Harris' time,
although the once-suburban residential section surrounding it has been
affected by the growth of the business center of Tokyo and now
includes many streets of small shops, here and there a large steel
( iii )

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
and concrete building in western style. But once within the outer
gate of the grounds, the visitor may walk between the same small
temples that housed the interpreters and assistants to Harris, through
the inner gate where his Samurai bodyguard was stationed, and on to
the main building which remains today as it was then. To the left
stands the enormous gingko tree, said by legend to have sprung more
than 700 years ago from the staff of Shinran-Shonin, whose newly-
erected statue it shadows. To the right is a smaller gingko tree mark-
ing the site of the historic flagpole erected in 1859, and the Harris
Monument. Behind them are the residential quarters of the temple.
The buildings occupied by Harris were destroyed by fire in 1863, but
a duplicate structure on the same spot was erected by the Shogunate
Government immediately thereafter.
It was this part of the temple that was thrown open by the Lord
Abbot for the use of the first Phi Beta Kappa meeting in memory of
Townsend Harris, held on April 18, 1931. For those unfamiliar with
the circumstances that led to the erection of the Harris Memorial in
1936, it may be appropriate to mention briefly a few details of the
first meeting.
In keeping with the occasion of honoring the first American
Minister, His Excellency the American Ambassador, Mr. W. Cameron
Forbes, was present and gave a short address. In the absence of the
First Secretary, Mr. Eugene H. Dooman, his paper was read by Mr.
Edwin L. Neville, Counsellor of the Embassy. But the most interest-
ing personality present was Baron Takashi Masuda (who has since re-
tired from the peerage in favor of his son). He is perhaps the only
man in Japan who can recall personal memories of Townsend Harris.
Although at the time of the meeting he was more than eighty years
old, he was active enough in body and mind to be able to give his
reminiscences of the stormy Yedo days in English.
The Lord Abbot of Zempukuji and his son had long been greatly
interested in the historical association of the temple with the United
States, whose first representatives had lived there for ten years while
( iv )

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
awaiting permanent quarters. Their desire to commemorate these as-
sociations found ready response in Mr. Masuda who, in cooperation
with a close friend, Mr. Ginjiro Fujihara, donated the stone memorial
tablet. The bronze plaque bearing Townsend Harris' portrait in bas-
relief, which adds much to the appearance of the monument, was
made and generously given by Mr. Fumio Asakura, a distinguished
sculptor.
The dedication of the monument, which was sponsored by the
America-Japan Society, took place on December 19, 1936. At an im-
pressive ceremony which was opened with the sounding of the temple
bell and with Buddhist music, the monument was unveiled by Mrs.
Grew in the presence of over two hundred people, comprising promi-
nent representatives of the local American community and a number
of high Japanese dignitaries. Those present were highly pleased with
the fact that Mrs. Grew, in addition to being the wife of the American
Ambassador, is a great grand-daughter of Commodore Perry. Mr.
Masuda paid personal tribute to Harris and his immediate successors
by having his autograph in Japanese engraved on the monument. On
the other side is inlaid the bronze image of Harris, below which is an
English inscription reading: "ON THIS SPOT TOWNSEND HARRIS
OPENED THE FIRST AMERICAN LEGATION IN JAPAN, JULY 7, 1859."
The addresses of dedication were given by Prince Tokugawa, Am-
bassador Grew and Mr. Masuda, and memorial trees were also planted
close to the tablet by these speakers. The addresses have been col-
lected for publication in the hope of reaching wider groups than those
who attended the ceremony of the dedication. The compiler will feel
more than compensated if this booklet makes any contribution to-
wards better understanding between the two nations of America and
Japan.
Y. F.
Tokyo, May, 1937
( 。)

=== Page 47 === (confidence 1.00)
The main worship-hall of Zempukuji which remains the
same today as in the time of Townsend Harris.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 1.00)
Mrs. Grew unveiling the monument.
The inner gate of Zempukuji. It was here that the Samurai
body-guard for Townsend Harris was stationed.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
H. E. Prince Iyesato Tokugawa
H. E. Ambassador Grew
Mrs. Joseph C. Grew
Mr. Takashi Masuda and H. E. Ambassador Grew

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
PRINCE TOKUGAWA'S ADDRESS
S
EVENTY seven years ago, Townsend Harris established upon this
spot the first American Legation in Japan. Here, by the side of
this gingko tree, he erected the flag-staff from which the Stars
and Stripes were flown for the first time in the City of Yedo. It was in
the sixth year of Ansei (1859) and was during the stormy days preced-
ing the Meiji Restoration. Our country was then passing through one
of the most critical periods in our history. Internally, our people were
confronted with the momentous task of adopting a new political order,
of readjusting economic life, and of accepting new bases of social rela-
tions. Externally, the advancing nations of the West were persistently
knocking at our doors to gain the privileges of trade and residence in
our country, which had been closed to them for more than two
hundred years. Our leaders and statesmen, who had had no opportu-
nities before of dealing with foreign countries were bewildered and
perplexed to meet the situation created by the pressing demands of
the foreign envoys who were seeking to advance their own interests.
Turning our thoughts to the past seventy seven years of our foreign
relations, we can but wonder how providential and fortunate it was,
not only for Japan and America but for the entire world, that Town-
send Harris was in Japan during those most critical days. To him,
diplomacy was not simply to forward the interests of his own country
but also to serve conscientiously the welfare of the country to which
he was sent. His task of concluding a treaty with Japan was beset
with untold difficulties which it is impossible for us now even to
fathom. It required infinite courage and perseverance, tact and de-
termination. He faced the problems with the practical mind of a
merchant and with ever resourceful common sense. By his nobility
of character and unshakable love of justice and fairness, he won the
( 7)

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
affection and respect of all those who came in contact with him. No
vision of success tempted him to deviate from his path of duty to gain
advantage for his own country but, at the same time, he endeavored
to protect the interests of Japan. In his own journal we read the
following impressive words :—
"I hope I may so conduct myself that I may
have honorable mention in the histories
which will be written on Japan and its
future destiny."
We have gathered here today to honor him and to perpetuate the
memory of the noble services he rendered while residing upon this
now sacred spot. It is most fitting that the officers and members of
the America-Japan Society should join with Mr. Masuda and his friends
in dedicating this monument, because Townsend Harris was one of
the earliest and most outstanding exponents of that great object, for
the furtherance of which our Society stands; namely, "to promote
friendly relations between the people of Japan and of the United
States." Townsend Harris believed, as we now believe, that this great
object can be attained only by nurturing mutual affection and under-
standing through personal contacts of the peoples of our two countries.
It was for this reason that he stipulated that the ratifications of the
treaty should be exchanged in Washington and paved the way for the
historic mission (headed by Shimmi Masaoki, the Lord of Buzen),
which was sent to Washington in the year 1860.
As we here honor the memory of the great pioneer who served so
nobly and unsparingly to lay firm the foundation of peace and friend-
ship between Japan and America, let us pledge ourselves anew to the
task of bringing together the East and West to join hands in the com-
mon bond of humanity.
( 8 )

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
H. E. Prince lyesato Tokugawa speaking in his capacity
of President of the America-Japan Society.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 1.00)
H. E. Ambassador Grew as he delivered his address. The small white
mounds on the table are cakes used in the ceremony of dedication.
Mr. Takashi Masuda delivering his address on behalf of monument committee.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 1.00)
Of Townsend Harris himself, his character and his work, I need
speak but briefly, preferring to leave to others a theme upon which,
in fact, our hosts today have already so eloquently expressed them-
selves in the beautiful and impressive memorial which we see before
us. Suffice it for me to say that this occasion emphasizes no less the
virtues of the man himself, his fortitude and perseverance, his imagina-
tion and adaptability, his ingenuity and breadth of vision, than it ex-
emplifies the foresight, courage and genius of the great people who so
nobly rose to the call when opportunity knocked at their door and
who went forth to take their place among the leading nations of the
world.
If Townsend Harris did no more than unlock for Japan a gate lead-
ing into the great international marts of trade and commerce, his work
was not in vain. In the brief span of these eighty years this country,
to which he came in a spirit of sincerity and helpfulness, has earnest-
ly applied itself to the task of grafting upon its age-old culture the
learning and the methods of a newer civilization. Success has crowned
its efforts, and were Harris now alive, not only would he be amazed
at the achievements of the Japanese nation but he would equally re-
joice that the basic principles embodied in the Treaty which he nego-
tiated on behalf of his country remain intact today. How prophetic
have proven the words of that first Treaty of Amity and Commerce
between Japan and the United States which states, in Article I:
"There shall henceforth be perpetual peace and friendship between
the United States of America and His Majesty the Ty-Coon of Japan
and his successors." We know, as a matter of historic fact, that Har-
ris was as much concerned in protecting and advancing the interests
of Japan as he was in advancing the interests of the United States and
that his two guiding principles were to prevent Japan from facing
demands backed by force and to make trade profitable to both our
countries. Those principles, I think admirably reflect a policy which
in America is very much alive today, a policy which holds that univer-
sal peace and mutually profitable trade are the blocks of granite upon
(10)

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
which alone international friendship can effectively be built. Perhaps
Townsend Harris, as Mr. Eugene Dooman once pointed out in this
same spot, was a diplomatist in advance of his time.
I cannot close without a word of appreciation to Prince Tokugawa,
the Committee and other distinguished exponents of Japanese-Amer-
ican friendship who so graciously have gathered here today, and
especially to Mr. Masuda who is perhaps the last surviving link be-
tween Townsend Harris and the present. Mr. Masuda came as a
youth to this thousand-year old temple to learn English, saw Harris
daily and, as he himself has said, he still remembers Harris' distin-
guished appearance and the fact that he held him in esteem and ad-
miration. Mr. Masuda has recorded his impressions of Harris' great
ability, his tact, patience, common sense and conscientiousness, and
his courage and composure in the face of constant risk of attack dur-
ing those troublous times; he has spoken too of Harris' refusal to
withdraw the American Legation from Yedo and has indicated that
his bravery in remaining was an important if not a determining factor
in opening up Japan's early relations with the outside world on an
equitable basis. For Mr. Masuda's own part in laying the ground-
work of friendship between Japan and America and for his lifelong
service to that high cause, we owe him a debt of profound appreciation.
In dedicating this Memorial Tablet here today, you have earned the
gratitude of the American people for an act which demonstrates your
generous wish to commemorate a pioneer in international friendship,
and in the name of the land which sent Townsend Harris as its first
official representative to Japan, I heartily thank you. May his work
and his example inspire those of us who now and in future may be
responsible for guiding the trends of international relationships to
follow the same enlightened course of common sense and far-sighted
helpfulness which he so splendidly exemplified.
(11)

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
MR. TAKASHI MASUDA'S ADDRESS
W
HEN I came to this historic temple on April 18, 1931, to
attend the memorial meeting for Townsend Harris held
under the auspices of Phi Beta Kappa in Japan, I was filled
with deep emotion at the sight of the buildings and trees associated
with memories of my boyhood days over seventy years ago. In con-
nection with my struggles to learn English, the stormy days of the
pre-Restoration turmoil came back to my mind as if they were a
scroll of pictures. Of the many things I still remember vividly, the
heroic figure of Townsend Harris stands out prominently. I was
one of those who were deeply impressed with his fearlessness of the
personal danger to which he was constantly exposed owing to the
anti-foreign agitation.
Being merely a messenger boy for the Shogunate officials attached
to the American Legation, I of course did not come into direct con-
tact with the Minister. But I had opportunities from day to day to
observe him at a respectful distance. The distinguished appearance
of Townsend Harris holding his position with characteristic firmness
and serenity amid incendiarisms and assassinations inspired a boy of
thirteen with a naive but intense admiration akin to hero-worship.
When I paid a visit to the Gyokusenji Temple in Shimoda several
years ago, I was greatly pleased to see the splendid stone monument
erected there to commemorate the residence of Townsend Harris. I
was also very much interested in the building in which he lived, as
well as in a number of relics shown the visitors.
I have long regretted the fact that nothing had been done in Tokyo
to mark fittingly the spot where the first American Minister had
hoisted the Stars and Stripes in 1859. Owing to the fact that Town-
send Harris and his successors had their headquarters here for more
(12)

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.79)
初平右事克年長作
右く通きせすり
月
Originals of the historic documents relating to the accommodation, which
the temple authorities were ordered to provide for the first American
representative when he took up his residence in Tokyo.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
than ten years, Zempukuji may be of greater importance than Gyoku-
senji in the history of American-Japanese diplomacy.
The Chief Abbot of this temple and his son have also long been
anxious to have something to perpetuate the memory of Townsend
Harris and his immediate successors. The sincere desire on the part
of the temple authorities prompted my good friend Mr. Ginjiro Fuji-
hara and a few others to erect a monument on this spot. It was there-
fore with genuine pleasure that I co-operated with these friends in this
project. My Japanese inscription meaning " The Site of the Residence
of America's Early Envoys," which is engraved on the monument, is
a humble attempt to pay a personal tribute to the first representative
of the United States and his successors, who had their residence in
this compound.
We must not forget to mention on this occasion the generous co-
operation spontaneously extended to us by Mr. Fumio Asakura, a
foremost contemporary sculptor. The bronze figure of Townsend
Harris in relief, which is set in the slab, is a gift of the artist, who has
long identified himself with the cause of American-Japanese friend-
ship. It may interest some of you to know what Mr. Asakura once
confided to me,—that he was struck with profound admiration for
Mr. Cyrus E. Woods, the American Ambassador, because of the gener-
ous steps so promptly taken by him at the time of the disastrous earth-
quake in 1923. When the sculptor presented the Ambassador with a
portrait after his retirement, His Excellency was deeply touched with
the sentiment. The Ambassador's letter, in which his appreciation is
expressed most feelingly, is cherished by the artist as one of his family
treasures.
I rejoice to see this monument unveiled by Mrs. Grew, who is, as
you all know, a descendant of Commodore Perry. So far as I know,
I am the only survivor of the group of my compatriots who used to
come here to work in the days of Harris, Pruyn, Heusken and Port-
man. I am overwhelmed with joy in my declining years by this op-
portunity to take a humble part in the work of perpetuating the
(13)

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
memories of the early American representatives. I shall never forget
this distinguished gathering attended by His Excellency the American
Ambassador Mr. Joseph C. Grew and high Japanese dignitaries.
On behalf of our own little group, I beg to tender our sincere thanks
to His Excellency Prince Tokugawa and the America-Japan Society, of
which he is President, for the splendid arrangement made for dedicat-
ing the monument today.
(14)

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.64)
t
Den:
d pe + h.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.83)
The Ambasra dos oad
Mr. maauda.
3
to despatch
2195219/936

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.86)
Pruce Tokugowa
ppeaking.
3
2195 Dea 19, 1936.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.88)
Ambaessdor xew
Rpeaking
3
2195 Dec. 19. 1 936

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.82)
Mo. bxew unveiliiy
the Tnomoreal Tablet
3
219s Nea 19, 1936

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY
WEST POINT. NEW YORK
RECEIV
AUG 28 1937
August 26, 1937.
DIVISION OF
Al
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
G27 1937
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Hornbeck:
894.413/24
The Acting Superintendent desires me to thank you for the
interesting pamphlet on the Dedication of the Harris Memorial. This
publication has been pleced on the shelves of our Library.
With repeated thanks for your kind thought of the Military
Academy, I am
Yours very truly,
r'onaedboot
DONALD F. BOOTH,
Captain, C. E.,
Asst. Adjutent.
1937
F/JA

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
SUBJECT
Erection of a monument in memory of
Thomas Alva Edison in Japan.
DATE
May 28, 1954
894.413-ED1SON
CASE NUMBER
No.
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with offce stamp or
notations.
1-1985

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.93)
PM RLCD
325
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Kobe, Japan, May 28, 1934.
Division of 
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN 1 6 34
UN 18 1934
Desertment of State
TU
SuBJECT: Monument Ereoted in Memory of Thomas A.
Edisón.
894.413.
THE HONORABLE
18o dis tribution.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
EM
WASHINGTON.
-EDISON/I
SiR:
the honor to report that a monument in
memory of Thomas Alva Edison was unveiled at the
Iwashimizu Shrine, Yawata-cho, Kyoto-fu on May 23rd.
The cost of the monument was borne by members of the
Japan Electrical Association, the Osaka Electrical
Trade Association, the Radio Association of Japan,
the Tokyo Electric Association, and similar bodies.
The site chosen has considerable historical
FILHD
significance. While Edison was engaged in the studies
C
107
which led to the creation of the incandescent lamp he
had great difficulty in finding suitable material for
filament. After much research it was found that
Japanese bamboo best served the purpose. The Japan
Electrical Association, after much research, discovered
that the first bamboo sent to Edison from Japan for
the purpose mentioned came from the vicinity of the
Iwashimizu Shrine so it was decided to place the
monument

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
monument on that site.
The unveiling ceremony was attended by Count
Keigo Kiyoura, President of the Edison Monument
Society, and a number of prominent members of the
•lectrical industry in Japan. ▲ copy of the address
prepared by the American Ambassador at Tokyo, who
was unable to be present in person, is enclosed
herewith, together with photographs of the monument
and pertinent newspaper clippings.
The Association had failed to notify Mr. Charles
Edison or any other members of the Edison family other
than by telegram on the day of the unveiling ceremony.
The Consulate will therefore transmit full particulars
to Mr. Charles Edison.
Respeotfully yours,
Honnl Gonoion
Howard Donovan,
American Consul.
List of enclosures:
No. l. Photograph of monument and shrine.
No. 2. Clipping from Osaka Mainichi,
May 17, 1934.
No. 3. Clipping from Osaka Mainichi,
May 24, 1934.
No. 4. Copy of American Ambassador's address.
841.3
HD/mh
Original to Dopartment.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.86)
Losure No. 1 to despatoh No. 323 of Mr. Howard Donovan,
ricah Consul at Kobe, Japan, dated May 28, 1934, on
the subject: Monument Ereoted in Memory of Thomas A.
Edison.
Thomas Ala Edison Monument,
碑念記ンソチェ
1 - m. )... Kt Prekcture. J.
苑外幅八水清石触大幣官 町幅入下府都京
Iwashimidau - Hachimangú,
富锯八水清石驻大警官
a mt sble unto Sirine at Yawata. Kyoto l'rekct re. Japan.
町幅入下府都家

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
The actual monument, as completed,
is a rectangular concrete piece bear-
MONUMENT TO EDISON—Honoring the Genius of the
ing the bronze image of Edison in
Great American Inventor, This Monument Will Be Dedicated
rellef, based on a large square of
May 23 at Yawata on the Keihan (Kyoto-Osaka) Interurban
white marble. Below the bass-relief
Line Whence Came the Bamboo For the Filament Used
is engraved in English, "To the
in His Invention of the First Incandescent Electric Lamp.
Memory of Thomas Alva Edison."
It is an i
impressive and noble
structure.
There is historical significance be-
hind the choice of Yawata, Kyoto
prefecture, as the site for the
memorial. While Edison was engag-
ed in the creation of the incandescent
electric bulb, he had difficulty in find-
ing suitable material for the filament.
He discovered that carbonized Japan-
ese bamboo was the best, and sent to
Japan for bamboo. l:e thus succeed-
ed in completing his great invention.
Erected by Bamboo Forest
Through a careful historical sur-
vey, the Japan Electric Association
ascertained that the bamboo used by
Edison for the first electric bulb was
produced at Yawata, Kyoto pre-
fecture. In order to commemorate
this interesting historical fact, it has
been decided to place the monument
in this particular locality. The monu-
ment is to be set up by a large bam-
boo forest in Hachiman.
On the day of unveiling, a great
number of notables connected with
the clectric industry will be present.
American Ambassador Joseph Clark
Grew, Count Keigo Kiyoura, and
Baron Yoshiro Sakatani are among
those who will attend.
The promoters are proud of the
fact that theirs is perhaps the first
effort to commemorate the spirit of
the great genius outside his native
land. They are also pleased that
their efforts will serve as a means to
Monument in Honor of Thomas Edison
United States and Japan.
To Be Unveiled on May 23 With Fete
Yawata Chosen as Site, in View of Inventor's
Use of Bamboo Produced There; to Be 1st
Commemoration of Genius Outside U.S.
On May 98, from 11 o'clock in
Japan Invention Association, Hiroshl
the morning, there will take place an
Tanaka, President of Electric Associa?
internationally significant ceremony
tlon, and others jointly started a camt
In Yawata, Kyoto prefecture—the
paign to raise funds for the Edison
unveiling of the monument dedicated
monument.
to the memory of the great Thomas
Nationwide Support Given
Alva Edison.
They received ready support fro
When the great American inventor
the Japan-America Society, the Toky
passed away-on October 18, 1981, at
Electric Enterprisers Association, th
the age of 85, Japanese engaged in
Osaka Electric Trade Association, th
electric enterprises commenced
Myoto Electric Society and a dozer
mevément to sst up a monument to
other allled associations. The project
the memory of the great promoter of
steadily materialized with general
human happlaess and welfare.
support from the whole Japanese na-
Mah libé Sannosuke Inada, Pre-
tion.
ht ef the Radio Association,
The committee offered a prise for
Sasen Yeohire Sakatant President efk the best design for the monument.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
losure No. 3. o despatch No. 323 of Mr. Howard Dondvan
rican Consu1 at Robe, Japan, dated May 28, 1934, on the
aubjeqt; Monument Braoted in Memory of Thomas A, Edigon.
THE OSAKA MAINICHI
May 24, 1934.
Edison Monument
Unveiled at Yawata
Contribution' of Immortal
Inventor to Humanity
Lauded by Admirers
KYOTO, May 23.—In a most im-
pressive ceremony the monument to
the memory of the great American
inventor, the late Thomas Alva
Edison, at Yawati, Kyoto prefecture,
was unveiled Wednesday morning.
When the veil was removed, there
emerged a beautiful memorial, ad-
mirably adapted for the commemora-
tion of a man who has done immortal
service for humanity. A rectangular
monument bearing the relief bust of
Edison, based upon beautiful white
marble foundation of large dimen-
sions reflected the bright sunshine as
it was revealed.
The ceremony was attended by
more than 150 prominent men con-
nected with electric enterprises.
Governor Saito of Kyoto Prefecture
and Mayor Omori of Kyoto City were
also present. Ant assador Joseph
Clark Grew of
United States
could not attend, but he was repres-
ented by Howard Donovan, American
Consul in Kobe.
Count Keigo Kiyoura, chairman of
the committee for founding the Edi-
son Memorial, delivered a speech
praising the late inventor's immortal
contribution to mankind, and review-
ing the benefit Japan has received
from his works.
Consul Donovan, on behalf of the
American Ambassador, rcad an ad-
dress rejoicing over the establishment
of the memorial which serves as the
monument of lasting peace between
the United States and Japan.
The presence at the ceremony
of Yoshio Okabe, head of the
Okabe Iron Works in Kobe, the
only Japanese to receive personal
training from Mr. Edison, was an
impressive feature of the occasion.
The selection of the site at Yawata,
Kyoto, was brought about when a
careful historical survey by the
Japan Electric Association ascertained
that the bamboo used by Edison for
the first electric bulb was produced
at Yawata. It is in order to com-
memorate this interesting historieal
incident that the memorial has been
erected in the place, just beside the
now celebrated b.mboo forest.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
melosure No. 4 to despatoh No. 323 of Mr. Howard Donovan,
American Consul at Kobe, Japan, dated May 28, 1934, on the
subject: Monument Erected in Memory of Thomas A. Edison.
THE AMBASSADOR'S MESSAGE AT THE UNVEILING CEREMONY
OF THE EDISON MONUMENT AT THE IWASHIMIZU HACHIMAN
SHRINE, KYOTO PREFECTURE on May 23, 1934.
Read by Mr. Howard Donovan, American Consul
at Kobe, Japan.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
It is with the keenest regret that I am unable
to be present here today with you on this occasion;
an ocoasion which is important as another milestone
in the life of a great American, Thomas Alva Edison, -
for he surely lives today in the many contributions to
civilization which he left behind him - and in the life
of Japanese-American relations, which, though young as
international relations go, have been outstandingly
fruitful and of lasting benefit to both nations and
indirectly to the whole world. This graceful act of
recognition, this translation into concrete shape of
the sentiments of appreciation and admiration which
the Japanese people hold for the memory of one of my
countrymen, forms yet another stone in the broad, firm
base upon which these relations are being built.
The spirit of progress is perhaps the one most
olosely identified with our two countries; in the world
of modern civilization both our countries are young;
they are virile; they are seekers of truth. Truth is
light; progress cannot be made in darkness. Edison,
the creator of that form of artificial light most
gonerally used today in the civilized world, may well
bo

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
be regarded as the apostle of truth. Your shaft
erected here today is not a tombstone to his memory
but a finger pointing heavenward, to the realm of
light. It is, in a sense, a shrine before whom
those imbued with the spirit of progress will be
content to seek inspiration.
Edison conceived the idea of causing the carbon
filament to glow in a partial vacuum; Japan contributed
that thread, a fibre of bamboo, which produced the
filament and made the incandescent electric lamp a
useful and marketable reality. We gladly acknowledge
the debt; we express our deep sense of appreciation
to the people of Japan for this monument erected and
unveiled here today to the memory of a true exponent
of the spirit of America, a simple American, a man of
the people, a great American - Thomas Edison.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.83)
m.m.
EE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June /8,1 924.
20.m.
SKA
lellofe
You will be inberested
Slauce Itroagh thes deo psteh.
1..le
14
THNDSECRETARY
N2193
DEPARTME

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JULY 10, 1934
RBOEIVED
RTMENT OF STATE
JUL 1? 1934
Japan
is transnitting to mi. Oharlos Edison, son of the late Thomas
ADmstnioon, full particulars of the unveiling of a monunent
CoMumeaoNB the monory of Themas Alva Edison at the Iwashim-
 REoR Yawata-cho, Kyoto-fu, on May 23.
Mr. Donovan has reported to the Department of State that
the site chosen for the monument has ccinidorable historical
significance. While Mr. Edison was engaged in the studies
which led to the creation of the incandescent lamp he:had
great difficulty in finding suitable material for a filament,
and, after much research, found that banboo best served the
purpose. The Japan Electrical Association, after much re-
search, discovered that the first bamboo sent to Edison from
894.413-ED1S0N/2
Japan cane fron the vicinity of the Iwashinizu Shrine, so it
was decided to place the monunent on that site.
The cost of the monument was borne by menbers of the
Japan Elcctrical Association, the Osaka Electrical Trade
Association,, the Radio Association of Japan, the Tokyo
Electric Association, and sinilar bodies.
The unveiling cerenony was attended by Count Keigo Ki-
youra, President of thc Edison Monument Society, and a number
of proninent members of the electrical industry in Japan.
The Anerican Aribassador to Japan, Mr. Joseph C. Grew, was
unable to be present but sent a message which was read at
the unveilin: ceremony by the Anerican Consul, Mr. Donovan.
Mr. Grew's mossage was as follows:
"Ladies and Gentlenen:
"It is with the keenest regret that I an: unable to be
present here today with you on this occcsion; an occasion
which is important as ancther milestono in the life of a
great Anerican, Thomas Alva Edison, - for he surely lives
today in the many contributions to civilization which he left
behind him - and in the life of Japanccc-American relations,
which, though young as international relations go, have been
outstandingly fruitful and of lasting benefit to both nations
F/ESP
and indirectly to the whole world. This graceful act of recog-
nition, this translation into conorete shape of the sentiments
of appreciation and admiration which the Japanese people hold
for the memory of one of my countrymen, forns yet another
stone in the broad, fim base upon which these relations are
being built.
"The spirit of progress is perhaps the one most closely
identified with our two countries; in the world of modern civi-
JUL 1 3 1934
lization both our countries are young; they are virile; they
are seekers of truth. Truth is light; progress cannot be made
in darkness. Edison, the creator of that forn of artificial
light most cenerally used today in the civilized world, may
well be regarded as the apostle of truth. Your shaft erected
here today is not a tombstone to his memory but a finger point-
ing heavenward, to the realm of light. It is, in a sense, a
shrine before whom those imbued with the spirit of progress
will be content to seek inspiration.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
"Edison crnceived the idea of causing the carbon fila-
nont to low in a partial vacuun; Japan contributed that
thread, a fibre of bamboo, which produced the filament and
nade the incandescent clcctric lanp a useful and marketable
reality. e cladly acknowledge the debt; we express our deep
sonse of apprcciation to the people of Japan for this nonunent
erected and unveiled here today to the menory of a true ex-
ponent of the spirit of Anerica, a simple Anerican, a man of
the people, a great American - Thomas Edison."
* * * *

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
Ano'd
FAR EASTERN S
1934 JUL 13 AM 10 17 Ju1y 12, 1934
DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
DIVISION OF
Japan Division,
Washington,
D. C.
Dear Sire:
The New Yerk Times in a Weshington despatch dated
July 10, gives some details,apparently taken from a report to
your department from Howard Donovan, Consul et Kobe, of the
894.413-ED1SON/3
unveiling of a monument to Thomas A. Edison at Kyoto on May 23.
It would be greatly appreciated if a copy of Consul
Donovan' report or a resume thereof could be obtained for
our perusel and consideration.
Very truly yaurs,
INTERNATIONAL EDISON FOUNDATION.
Edisor
by
Mitt ithiungtan
894.413
W.
JUL 17 1934
FTLED
F/ESP

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.90)
July 16 1984.
In reply refer to
FE - 694.413 Eaison
International Edison Foundation,
40 Weat 40th Street.
894.413-ED1SON/4
New York City.
sirs:
In roply to your letter of July 12, 1934, request-
1n& information in regard to the unveiling on May 23,
1954, et Iyoto, Japam, of a monument dedioated to the
momory of Thomas Alva Edison, there is enolosed a copy
of a atatement es given to the presa by the Department,
which contain all of the pertinent pcrtions of a des-
patah from the onsul at Lobe on the subjeot. The Con-
sul states in his dospatah that he will transmit to
Wr. Oharles dison full partioulre in rogari to tho
unveiling.
Very truly yours.
For thu Seoretary of 3tuto:
Kaxwell . Eanilton
letant chief.
Mvia1on o r Bontrr.
ffairu.
Inolosure:
ree tt o? July 10.
PL
VII-1-34

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
SUBJECT
Monument ereoted at Ueno Park, Tokyo,
Japan, in memory of General Grant.
1930 DATE
June 2 to
894.413
CASE NUMBER
No.
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with offce stamp or
metations.
1-1235

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.94)
11
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo,Jume 2, 1930.
No. 152.
Division of
FAB EASTERN APFAIRS
N 20 1930
N 1020
hettes to Col. Grant 
Prinices Cantacugane
new
June 26, 1980.
fie
Ege
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
123N41/153
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my despatch
JUN 2 7 1930
No. 148 of May 29, 1930 in regard to the unveiling
of the monument to the memory of General Grant
at Ueno Park, Tokyo, on May 30, 1930, and to enolose
under separate cover two copies of the programs of
the exeroises on that day, together with a pamphlet
and a number of pioture post cards. Two pioture
post oards show the monument and one of them shows
the two trees planted by the General( on the left)
and Mrs. Grant ( on the right) . The third pioture
18

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
is a photostatio reproduotion of an old print which
shows the appearanoe of the park at the time of the
festival in l879. It is suggested that one of these
enolosures be given to the grandson of General Grant,
Colonel U.S. Grant, United States Army, and the other
to the Prinoess Cantaouzene.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Ebuin It haith
Edwin L. Neville
Chargó d'Affaires ad interim.
Ancoppaniments
As stated.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.87)
June 26. 1080.
894.413
Princese Casteeasene.
1921 Now Hampahire Avemme. Nerthmest.
Waskingten, D. C.
At the reqaest ef Mr. Eéwin L. Neville, Amesiemm
Shargd a'Affaires at Tekye, Japen, there is tremsmitted
herevith es of pessible interest to you & pemphlet en-
titled "The Grent Memament end Trees in Vene Perk" and
2
am emvelege conteining three pieture pestearts prepered
in commestiem with the anveiling of the memmment te the
memesy ef General Grant et Uemo Perk, Tokye, en May 30.
1950. Twe pieture eards shew the menmment end eme of
them showe the twe trees planted by the Gemeral (em the
lefs) end Mrs. Grant (en the right). The third pieture
Ss e photestatie repretactiem of an old print mhich shome
the eppearemee of the park et the time of the festive? iu
2079.
Vary traly ypers.
A true cp
ON
the sigred or
Jun. 25. 1930.
W2llye R. Peet.
Loting , Biviain o o 
mmp

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.86)
June 26, 1050.
Gelomel Ulyeses s. Grems.
894.
2n1t Le Rey Pleee. Berthwest.
Weshingten, D. 0.
sis1
At the regvest of Mr. Bawin L. Beville, Ameriemm
Chasgé a'affaires et Tekye, Japen, there is tremsmitted
hesewith es of pessible interess te you e pemphlet en-
titled "The Grant Memmment end Treee in Uene Pask" end
an envelepe centaining three pieture pestearés prepered
in commeetion with the waveiling of the memmment te the
memery ef Generel Grant et Ueme Pask, Takye. en May so.
1080. Twe pieture carde shew the mommment and eue ef
them shome the twe treee plented by the Generel (em the
left) aad trs. Grent (em the right). The thise pieture
is a photestesie repredustien ef en eld print mmieh shess
the agpeerenee of the park at the time of the festivel in
1079.
Jun. 25. 1980:
Very truly yours.
m
Fer the seesetes es teryo
willye I. Posk
V1/za/s0

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.413
INDEX BUREAL
123 N 41/153
Despa tch # 148
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Neville
) DATED
May 31, 1930
TO
NAME
1-1187
REGARDING:
Copy of address delivered by Charge Neville at
unvelling of monument to the visit of General Grant,
mt, V.8.
on Memorial Day, enclosed.
力
b

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.80)
894.413.Zhant/5
INDEX BUREAU
FILED
JUL 1 0 1930
894.413-Brant/s-
 F413
Lv
UVED
Hillyck .
Yo tery Traly
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
IUN 30 1930
Dopt ofState
lck d
he
Judy
Te Pont
1711 NW Hmh
 u.
Wesfniton 284.
May 
he forot poneh-
 honsths coile be a

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.88)
July 7. 1
Primeess Cantasusene.
8
1711 Mew Hampahire Avenue, N.W..
1
Washington, D. C..
力
Madem:
力
In reply to your letter of June 28, 1930, enelosing
 letter mddressed to Mr. Neville, you are informed that
3
the Department has taken pleasure in forwarding the letter
to Mr. Moville at Tokyo by the official pouch.
Very traly yuura,
For the Seoretary of State:
Willys R. Peok
Aoting Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
FG
FE
MMP
VII-S-90
A true copy of
the sigued orig-
C
Jui. 5.1980.2n

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.93)
AB
FE
LIEUT. COL. U. S. GRANT SRD
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND PARKS
NAVY BUILDING. WASHINGTON. D. C.
Sfy sent ts Jokyo
Division of
November 13, 1930.
413
FAR EABTERN AFFAHNG
T
NOV 10 1950
Index Bureau
V
894.413-GRANT/7
380
NOV 11 930
22
Dopr. of State
Mr. Willys R. Peck,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Peck:
I am very sorry to find that I do
not seem to have acknowledged receipt of your
note of June 26, 1930, transmitting from Mr.
Edwin L. Neville, American Charge d'Affaires
at Tokyo, Japan, a pamphlet and some picture
post cards about the Grant Monument and trees
in Ueno Park.
Those pictures and the descriptive
matter are very much appreciated and an interesting
addition to my collection of family mementoes.
Mith apologies for my delay in replying
and many thanks, which I hope you will extend to
Mr. Nveille,
Very truly Jours,
72193

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.96)
November 22. 1950.
27
To the American Ambassador.
Takye.
894.413-GRANT/8
The Searetary of State refers to despatch No. 152
of Jane 2, 1930, frem the Charg6 a'Affaires at Tokyo and
transmits heremith for the files of the Embassy a
copy ef a letter of November 13, from Lieutenant
Colenel U. S. Grant, Srd, expressing his thanks
fer the pictures and descriptive material in regard
to the unveiling of the monmment to the memory of
Ganeral Grant at Ueno Park.
A true copy of
the signed orig
inal.
894.413-Grant/7
FE: EGO/VGD
FE
11/20/30
Nov. 22 1939
