894.0011 Political Affairs., Chief Executive. Sovereign. Visits., Japan, Family., February 17, 1947 (File 1562)
ID: 894.0011-1562   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.0011-political-affairs-chief-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
PERSONAL AND SECRET

Fw 894.0111/2-1747

Dear Bill:

In your letter of January 28, you asked for my frank comments on the question of educating the Japanese Crown Prince in the United States and England.

I am inclined to believe that it would be an almost impossible adjustment for one who has been brought up in the atmosphere of Japanese court life to be suddenly placed, at an early age and with only a rudimentary knowledge of English, in an alien country and among boarding school boys most of whom would have already been in the same class for several years. Furthermore, events of the war may be still too fresh in the public mind both here and abroad to permit the education of the Prince to proceed in the United States without encountering reactions akin to those aroused by the Gieseking affair, which would do considerable harm to United States-Japanese relations. As you know, the Japanese are hyper-sensitive about such matters. A further two years of schooling in Japan under the very competent instruction of Mrs. Vining, with emphasis on English language and western culture, seems to be indicated. This would bring the Prince to college age.

If it is the desire of the Imperial Family that the Prince obtain his university training in England, it is not believed that we should oppose such a move, but rather that we should, in fact, encourage it. Democracy in England and the United States is of the same general order, and there would appear to be

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

certain advantages to his attending an English rather than an American university. The possibility of embarrassing incidents in the United States arising out of racial discrimination, quite aside from the hangover from wartime animosities mentioned above, would make the Prince's sojourn here a source of constant concern. (In this connection it may be recalled that Yosuke Matsuoka's virulent anti-American feeling has been attributed to indignities to which he was subjected, by virtue of his race, while a student at a west-coast American university.) The education of the Prince in England rather than the United States would, moreover, lend itself less readily to charges of American "colonization" of Japan.

I have gone to some length in giving you my curbstone reaction to this problem in the hope that certain factors will be given full weight in any further consideration of the Crown Prince's education. I have shown this letter to the Secretary who concurs in its substance.

Sincerely yours,
