894.4089 Social Matters., Organizations In Interest Of Better Citizenship. Americanization., Japan, Other Organizations., December 4, 1947 - November 2, 1949 (File 1776)
ID: 894.4089-1776   Pages: 13   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.4089-social-matters-organizations
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAM

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACQUISITION AND DISTRIBUTION
DIVISION
DEC 17 1947
PROCUREMENT CONTROL

SECRET

Secretary of State,
Washington.

AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEC 18 1947
Division of International and
Functional Intelligence

FROM
TOKYO

Dated: December 4, 1947

Rec'd: Dec. 12, 1947
10:14 AM

3
LAF
ACTION OCD
INFO
DC/R
A A
EUR/X
EUR
FE
DC/L
ITP
CIA
FC
OIR

800.4089
MEBI
12/15/47
Com
cigri.
Lar
fr.

A-129, December 4, 1947

Reference this Mission's telegram 282, October 27, and
Airgram A-114, October 28, 1947, on the subject of youth organizations in Japan.

There is quoted herein an extract from this Headquarters'
Daily Intelligence Summary of November 28, 1947, which appeared
under the heading "Communist Front Organizations":

"Japan Democratic Youth League: Formation of the Japan
Democratic Youth League (Nippon Kinshu Seinen Dimei), if
successful, may unite left wing youth groups on a nation-
wide scale which the Party's Young Communist League never
had succeeded in doing. The Communist-dominated Association
to Expedite the Organization of a Unified Youth League (Tan-
Itsu Seinen Dimei-Tai Keasei Sokushin-Ka.) is scheduled to
meet this week in Tokyo to outline organizational plans for
the league, a C-2 source informed CIC. The league reportedly
will have no open relation with the Young Communist League
nor with the Communist Party, a familiar organizational device.

A list of the league promoters furnished to CIC indicates determined Communist penetration of labor union
youth sections. Kumagayu Jiro, central figure in the organizational group, reportedly is popular with labor
unions' youth sections. He is a Communist Party member.
Iwasawa Kohei, Youth Section chief of the Government Railway
Workers' Union (Mokutetsu Rodo Seinen bu); Okiyama
Masahiro, Youth Section chief, Electric Industry Workers'
Union (Densen Rodo Seinen T. isaku-bu); and Nishiwaki
Ryujyu, Youth Section chief, All-Japan Communications
Workers' Union (Zentei Seinen-bu), are all Communist
Party members who are attempting to organize liaison between the proposed Youth League and the union's youth
sections, source says. Representatives of the women's,
newspaper and radio, transport, occupation workers and

PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken

SECRET FILE

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's A-129
December 4, 1947 -2- SECRET

teachers' unions also are listed as promoters of the proposed league. With this powerful Leftist representation, the league's promoters are courting National Federation of Labor (NFL.) youth leaders, and other conservative elements in farmers', students', women's and cultural groups.

Comment: The Youth League appears designed to serve the same purpose for the Communist Party, among youth organizations, that the new Japan Democratic Cultural League (Nippon Hineha-Shugi Bunka Remmei) serves among cultural organizations. The Cultural League's reported aim is to establish a centralized Communist control of all cultural organizations in Japan. A youth organization functioning similarly on a national level would provide an effective school for young Communists.

SEP-1D

300
JLButte

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

United States Political Adviser for Japan

Tokyo, November 2, 1949.

894.4089/11-249

REC'D NOV 11

No. 762

ACTION

RESTRICTED

INFO

FR

DCR

ITP

OFD

POS

OLI

AGRI

COM

C

Subject: Youth Project Clubs in the Agricultural Extension Program of Japan.

The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a memorandum prepared by an officer of this Mission on October 23, 1949, concerning the agricultural extension program in Japan, with particular reference to the rural youth project clubs, generally known as 4-H Clubs, patterned after the organizations of the same name in the United States.

The memorandum describes a typical field trip, in this case to Saitama Prefecture, with meetings with the Prefectural Agricultural Improvement Committee at Urawa, the prefectural capital, and with a committee in the village of Toshira. It follows with some detail talks and discussions by Mr. Garritt E. ROELFORS, Agricultural Extension Consultant, Agriculture Division, Natural Resources Section of General Headquarters, at these two meetings, and his attempts to explain the agricultural extension program in its relation to all aspects of farm life, with emphasis on the home improvement and youth club phases which are lagging behind the rest of the program. The memorandum concludes with a brief description of the background of agricultural extension work in Japan from 1899 to the present, including a short discussion of rural youth project clubs, their shortcomings, and the problems and work facing the specialist who is to be added to the staff of the Agriculture Division to concentrate on this important part of the extension program.

Interest in this phase of the agricultural extension program in Japan, organized under the "Law for Improvement and Promotion of Agriculture" of July 5, 1948, first arose through the visit to this office of Mr. Y. SAKAI, Chief Secretary of the 4-H National Committee of Japan, and was developed further through contact made with the Agriculture Division of the

XR 894.61

RESTRICTED

ACTION COPY

RATUAN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-

Natural Resources Section and the opportunity provided by this section to learn at first hand something of its work in advising and guiding the initial status of the agricultural extension program.

It is believed that the Department may find of interest this account of the problems, work, and aims of the Natural Resources Section during this formative period of the extension program. It is an essentially missionary enterprise in its endeavor to bring democratic concepts on a practical, every-day basis to the life of all elements in the farming communities of Japan. While the technical side of the program finds ready acceptance and understanding by the farmers, its social aspects, centering around the home improvement and youth club features, to a considerable extent run counter to long-established patterns of thought, or at least find little stimulus or reflection in the customs and habits of Japanese rural life. With little tradition of individual enterprise in Japan, the way is hard for those who now, with all enthusiasm and capability, try to stimulate the growth, from the soil itself as it were, of farm youth and farm women's associations. While there is good response and even enthusiasm for the aims and concepts opened up by such clubs, a social order is not easily remade, and there is considerable ground for the feeling that, perhaps along with some other reforms of the Occupation, that will be allowed to lapse if left only to the Japanese. Disquieting trends in the present youth club movement are indications, still vague, of communist infiltration by ex-soldiers repatriated from Manchuria, and of a tendency in these clubs toward the core formality of organization without substance or vitality.

Enclosure: 011

Memorandum, "Youth Project Clubs in the Agricultural Extension Program of Japan.

Parchment Mat to Department.

000/321.4
FHawley: keb

RESTRICTED_

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
DECLASSIFIED
State Dept. letter, 1-11-72
By ASL, NARA, Date 1-11-88
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED

Enclosure to Despatch No. 702 dated November 2, 1949 from the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Youth Project Clubs in the Agricultural Extension Program of Japan".

MEMORANDUM

Tokyo, 26, 1949.

Subject: Youth Project Clubs in the Agricultural Extension Program of Japan.

4-H National Committee of Japan

Following a visit of Mr. M. Sakai, Chief Secretary of the 4-H National Committee of Japan, to this Mission on September 26, 1949, to secure the support of General Headquarters in the Committee's desire to contact 4-H clubs in the United States, a talk was had with Mr. Gerritt T. ROELOTS and Dr. L. A. BROWN of the Agriculture Division, Natural Resources Section, who are directly interested in the 4-H club movement which is the phase of the agricultural extension program. Both Dr. Brown and Mr. Roelofs are of the opinion that Mr. Sakai, and perhaps other members of his National Committee, have little real interest in the youth movement except perhaps to utilize it for their own purposes. It might be noted here that Mr. Sakai has called twice since his visit of September 26, seeking letters of endorsement for his Committee and inquiring as to the possibility of obtaining, through this Mission, funds or gifts for his organization. In turn, the Natural Resources Section has been approached to sponsor a trip to the United States for Mr. Sakai to study the 4-H Club movement there. While this is laudable enough purpose, Mr. Sakai has no background of farm life or farm work, and little connection with the ground roots of the movement in village 4-H clubs, farmed by and far back and girls to discuss and learn new or improved farming methods, improved farm living, and practiced farm projects, selected by themselves, all under the control and endorsement of the agricultural extension program.

Aware of the Japanese leaders, toward formal organization and centralization without sufficient regard for substance and activity, the Agriculture Division of Natural Resources Section, which is hereby interested in the farm youth movement, forms that unless the movement is activated at its base, through the interest of its members and the encouragement of their parents, village agricultural committees and advisers, this promising development will become a dead organization, benefiting possibly no more than a few officials at the top such as Mr. Sakai. There is also a tendency, difficult yet to evaluate or measure for the entry of subversive elements into these youth clubs, notably ex-soldiers repatriated this summer from Manchuria. Unless life is put into these clubs, the opportunity exists for an organizational network ready-made for communist infiltration at the center of Japanese economy—the farm

Field

RESTRICTED

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
November 2, 1949.
RESTRICTED
-2-
Field trip in Saitama Prefecture.

With this background, the writer accompanied Mr. Roelofs, Agricultural Extension Consultant, on a field trip on October 17 in Saitama Prefecture to see at first hand something of the work, problems, and plans of the agricultural extension program.

The first meeting was at Urawa, capital of the Prefecture, with the Prefectural Agricultural Improvement Committee, the Governor, and the prefectural director of the agricultural extension program. Mr. Roelofs had been accompanied from Tokyo by Mr. S. MIYAKE, Director of the agricultural Extension Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and by a Japanese interpreter secretary. The latter took down data on prefectural activities, statistics, etc., while Mr. Roelofs conducted the meeting through an interpreter of the prefectural government.

Discussion was first centered on an organization table for the prefecture's agricultural extension personnel, showing the number of agricultural advisers and home-improvement advisers. The ratio of the latter, with 13 positions, was approximately 1 to every 10 agricultural advisers, while, as pointed out by Mr. Roelofs, it should be about 1 to 5. After the prefectural adviser described budgetary difficulties and particularly the lack of qualified candidates, Mr. Roelofs suggested the possibility of picking intelligent, enthusiastic, young women for on-the-job training under the present 13 home-improvement advisers, to qualify them for future positions. Discussing 4-H club work, Mr. Roelofs said that in his trips to other prefectures he had found too great a preponderance of old people, men and women in their middle thirties, whereas the primary purpose was to interest the boys and girls of the farms. In necessary, he suggested, clubs could be departmentalized to include both groups. The prefectural adviser said that the average age in Saitama was 18. Sitting the road for much club activities for young people, he mentioned the case of one village where the parents were concerned over their children, most of whom for economic reasons could not continue beyond primary school, who were too young for full-time farm work, and were in need of further guidance, education, and an outlet for their interests and energies. Here, he said, the parents, parent-teachers' association, and village agricultural improvement committee had organized a 4-H club for group discussion and activities centered on farm projects. Mr. Roelofs commented on this to say that it provided a stimulating example of the formation of a club from the bottom up, in contrast to too many which had been formed from the top down as mere organizations without substance.

Going

RESTRICTED

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
November 2, 1949.
RESTRICTED

-3-

Going on to address the committee, he emphasized the need for supporting and stimulating the home improvement or home management side of agricultural extension work. Any good agricultural extension program, he emphasized, must recognize that agricultural living is made up of three parts, the land, the household, and the people, the latter meaning the men, the women, and the boys and girls, and that all three parts had to be equally considered for a healthy, happy, farm life. He pointed out that half the population of Japan is composed of women, contributing their full share and more to the economic welfare of the country, particularly in rural areas. They are eager to accept the home improvement program when given any opportunity to do so. As things had stood for so many years, too many of the women of Japan were old and worn out before their time, not only working long hours in the fields, they also have the full burden of bearing and caring for children, and at the same time the job of keeping house, of cooking in ill-lighted, inconvenient kitchens, for the most part on their knees. Mentioning health developments in the last few decades in the United States, Mr. Roelofs said that it would be easy to show concrete results from a home improvement program, which meant healthy, farm living, in future statistics for health, disease incidence, height and weight, and life span, and while all these factors were not dependent on the agricultural extension program alone, it could contribute materially to such results through bringing knowledge and improved ways of living to every farming household. The men must help, he said, in bringing up their wives and children in the New Japan, and they would find ready and enthusiastic response from the women.

It was difficult to assess the effect on the Committee, a hard-bitten group of men in their forties and fifties, of this direct practical and homely talk which probably lost some of its impact through its transmission by an ineffectual interpreter. There were signs, however, of genuine interest and of an effort to understand these new concepts, simple as they are, of democracy as applied to every-day life in the home, particularly the idea, opposed to so many traditional ways of thought, of women's status as a dignified, intelligent human being deserving of consideration and respect, a person who should be allowed to get up from her knees.

The afternoon meeting took place at Toshima, two hours distant by car. Mr. Roelofs had added to the party a new interpreter borrowed from the Civil Affairs Team at Urawa, and was accompanied by the prefectural director of the agricultural extension program and the chairman of the prefectural committee, in addition to the original group.

Agricultural

RESTRICTED

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
November 2, 1949.
RESTRICTED
-4-
Agricultural Meeting at Toshima Village.

At Toshima, the village agricultural improvement committee, representatives of the 4-H Club, and the women's home improvement club were assembled in the village school, a big frame structure divided by a partition into a school room and an assembly hall. The school, which bore the marks of the 1947 flood eight feet above ground level, had been built by the villagers themselves, in token of which there is a sign in English: "With own-made is construction of pleasant village". There were about eighty in all, gravely seated at school desks facing the low speaker's platform, predominantly men of an average age of about 35, although there were also eleven young women in their early twenties.

Mr. Roelofs conducted the meeting informally on a question and answer basis, various members of the group rising in turn to tell of their activities. The village farm adviser described his work in farm problems and in activities such as advising on the use of insecticides, weed killers, fertilizers, and improving the acid soils of the area. A member of the 4-H Club got up to say that their organization had been formed on April 4 of that year, that it was composed of eleven young men between the ages of 16 and 26, studying agricultural problems at monthly meetings under the guidance of the village agricultural adviser. There was a considerable period of hesitation after the women were called upon to talk of the home improvement program but finally one rose to say that there were 150 members in their club, meeting two or three times a month to discuss subjects such as food preparation and ways of making work easier in the home. She said the women would like tables to work at in the kitchen for example instead of kneeling on the floor, with the consequent necessity of constantly getting up and down. They considered Japanese clothing inconvenient for house or farm wear were dissatisfied with the types and styles of Western dress known to them so far, and were planning a bazaar to show clothing designed by themselves. In answer to a question as to whether the women had received cooperation from the men the reply was No.

The chairman of the village committee, a farmer of about 60, followed to express his thanks for the appointment of the farm adviser and the help received from him. Within his memory, he said the village and its fields had been flooded sixty three times by the river, and this constant threat of innundation was one of their main problems.

Mr. Roelofs

RESTRICTED

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.70)
DECLASSIFIED
Executive Order 13526
DA Letter Dated 2 May 1967
NARA 5/13/13

-5-

Mr. Roelofs then took over the meeting and the
short talk along the same general lines of the
improvement conference. A good agricultural extension
was made, and the farm was made, and all
the work was done, and all the work was done
the same, the same, and the same, and the
same, and the same, and the same, and
the same, and the same, and
the same, and the same, and
the same, and the same, and
the same, and the same, and
the same, and the same, and
the same, and the same.

The first meeting of the
the Board of Directors was held
in the office of the Chief of the Board
of Directors, and the Board of Directors
was held in the office of the Chief of
the Board of Directors, and the Board
of Directors
was held in the office of the Chief of
the Board of Directors, and the Board
of
Dryers, and the Board of Directors
was held in the office of
the Board of Directors, and the Board
of
Dryers, and the Board of Directors
was held in the office of
the Board of Directors, and
the Board of Directors
was held in the office of
the Board of Directors,

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
DECLASSIFIED
State Dept. letter, 1-11-72
By ASL, NARA, Date 1-11-88

-6-

which can be met only if they are kept in the
abreast of the best known farming practices. The
agricultural extension program, initiated by legislation
enacted in July 1949, is intended to assist in
this service to the farmers, to replace and improve
former, farmer advisory service which was discontinued
by the war and early Occupation directives.

Planned and systematic distribution of technical
knowledge is not new in this country. In 1899 national
legislation established a government-controlled system
of agricultural associations under which the Government
provided each village with one or more agricultural
technicians who worked with farmers in improving
their methods of producing crops, livestock, and livestock
products. Many of the agricultural cooperatives,
organized throughout rural Japan under a law enacted
in 1900, supported seed farms, and in some places employed
technicians to advise farmers on production
problems. This system of technical guidance and advisory
service to farmers was effective, and contributed
greatly to the record increases in the yields of many
crops in Japan prior to 1940.

During World War II the farmer-managed cooperatives
and agricultural associations were combined in
the Government-controlled All Japan Agricultural
Association, or Hogyokai. The Association was given
control over nearly every phase of agricultural life
by its authority to set crop quotas, compulsory crop
collection, and the rationing of critical materials.
The farmer advisory functions of the agricultural
technicians were sacrificed to their new duties of
control and policing. The Hogyokai, with their
rigid control functions and semi-political nature,
were dissolved by the Occupation in 1947. The present
agricultural extension system, now being developed
under provisions of the Law for Improvement and Promotion
of Agriculture, enacted by the Diet on July 5,
1948, is intended to reestablish an effective farm
advisory service. In contrast to the old system as
administered by the Hogyokai, the new law forbids
agricultural extension workers to assume responsibility
for regulatory or control programs.

**Agricultural extension in the prefectures.**

To assure joint support and cooperative effort,
the law provides that central government funds be made
available only to prefectures which appropriate at
least one yen for agricultural extension for each
2-yen received from the national treasury. Ninety
per cent of the total national extension budget is
divided each year among the prefectures on the basis
of cultivated area and farm population, the remaining
10 per cent being awarded on the basis of unusual
need or exceptional extension performance. This
nation-wide extension system is administered by the
Extension Division of the Agricultural Improvement
Bureau established in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry in August 1948. Locally, the system is engaged
by the agricultural improvement section of each
prefectural government.

UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-7-

Under guidance of the Agricultural Information Bureau and with the advice of the Natural Resources Section of GHQ, SCAP, prefectural governments have made good progress during the relatively short period since the agricultural extension program was begun. By legislation or by regulations, during the past twelve months each prefecture has established an extension system eligible for grants-in-aid from the central government. All but one of the 46 prefectures have established agricultural improvement committees to develop local policy and assistance in research and extension. More than 6,000 farm advisers have been selected from lists of qualified candidates and assigned to duties as extension workers in rural villages. The goal for the complete program is a farm adviser for each of Japan's 10,500 villages. Under the home improvement phase of the extension program, 39 prefectures have from 1 to 13 home advisers engaged in field work. More than 3,300 rural youth project clubs, usually known as a W clubs but with varying, other names, have been organized in farm communities. Training schools on extension methods have been held in many prefectures, and are being planned in others.

During the next few years rapid advances are expected in developing an adequate farm women's advisory service in very prefecture, in expanding the youth movement, in improving the skill of the extension workers in advising farmers, in developing farmers' interest and participation in the programs, and in closely coordinating agricultural research, extension and educational programs throughout Japan.

Rural youth project clubs

Relating this background to the rural youth project clubs, of which there are now over 3,000 throughout Japan, there are numerous short-colings and problems to be overcome if the movement is to become an effective part of the agricultural extension program, and not merely an empty organization which might later be taken over by subversive elements inimical to the purposes for which these clubs are being founded. Not only to prevent a drift back to the tendencies of the doctrinaire youth movements which existed in Japan before and during the War, the Japanese Government agrees that these clubs should be encouraged as an essential part of the extension program, and the Ministries of Agriculture and Forestry and Education, along with the prefectural governments, are cooperating to promote their formation. Apart from their eventual contribution to a healthy, intelligent agricultural life, these clubs can provide a most effective means toward the education of rural youth, of whom, it is estimated, more than half between the ages of 12 and 20 are no longer in school. Moreover, over half of the rural children now in school are not taking courses in agriculture or homemaking. This leaves a fertile field

RESTRICTED

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
DECLASSIFIED
TOP SECRET
-8-

field for the education of the rural youth of Japan in improved farming and homemaking methods, democratic procedures of organization, cooperative nations, and leadership.

While the organization on paper is impressive and heartening, examination of the types, character, and quality of rural youth clubs organized so far shows that little has been achieved in comparison with the movement in the United States, with the allowance for the short period of their existence, differences of environment, opportunity, and living conditions. The encouraging eagerness with which the young people of the farms respond to the movement when they learn of it shows, however, that much can be done.

Up to the present there is little real knowledge in Japan of the fundamental purposes and the effective organization and conduct of rural youth project clubs. Practical leadership is lacking at all levels. Too many clubs are composed exclusively of young men in their twenties and thirties, to the neglect of the teen-agers. Understanding of the purpose of youth clubs, and quality of performance, are very uneven from prefecture to prefecture and from area to area. Besides these short-comings, the Agriculture Division of Natural Resources Section is apprehensive that the rapidly growing tendency toward mere organization may provide an opening for the infiltration of subversive elements unless the movement is vitalized with well-planned, practical projects carried out under the careful guidance of democratic leadership. It is important, therefore, that the youth club movement, now in its formative stage, be developed in the right direction with emphasis on voluntary organization and membership, democratic character and conduct, and with careful consideration given of local needs and situations.

To this end a rural youth club specialist will be added to the staff of the Agriculture Division, Natural Resources Section, to begin work at the end of the year or early in 1950. Its present staff connected with agricultural extension work, now numbering only two American field workers, is manifestly too small, and despite all efforts its work is spread too thin to be effective. Dissolution now going on of the prefectural Civil Affairs Teams, which have actively helped and encouraged the extension program in the prefectures, adds to the present problem. Their reorganization on a regional basis includes plans for civilian personnel in agricultural and agricultural extension work, but coverage cannot be as satisfactory on a regional as on a prefectural basis.

Concentration

RESTRICTED

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
Declassified to Tihy's 1949.
Filed 11.1949.
-9-

Concentration on the youth movement alone may require periodic visits to all prefectures, if any, many villages as possible, and the maintenance of friendly contact with Japanese officials, educating youth club leaders, and all others concerned with important phase of the agricultural extension program. Conferences will be required periodically with prefectural governors, agricultural improvement committees, extension directors, farm and home advisers, as well as meetings with village committees, club leaders, attendance at club meetings, and visits to farms chosen at random to determine the knowledge and attitude of the family toward youth project clubs, how the children feel, and to learn how the movement or projects carried out under the program are benefitting the farming households.

While this survey does little more than touch upon the field of work open to the specialist, it gives some indication of the scope, aims, and possibilities of the part to be played for and by Japanese farm youth in encouraging an intelligent, healthy, democratic, and self-respecting agricultural life.

F. Hawley

000/321.4
FHawley:keb
