894.42 Japan, Education. Correspondence Schools., April 8, 1948 - May 22, 1948 (File 1636)
ID: 894.42-1636   Pages: 502   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.42-japan-education-correspondence-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.88)
OCLE
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIBER
FOR JAPAN
No. 217
Tokyo, April 8, 1948.
VICLASSIPTED
894.42/4-848
Subjest: Pestwar Develepments in Japanese Physical Edaestion.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honer to enelose twe copies
of a special report prepared by the Civil Information and Busatsen
Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Cmmasder for the Allied Pewers,
entitled "Postwar Developments in Ptysical Education", No. AB-305-E-Co4
01E
dated Haroh 15, 1948.
FE
0
人
OCD
Enalosure:
1ay mal toberr
Two copies of "Postwar
DC/R
Developments in Physical
Education".
APR 22 1948
DENGRNENT OF STATE
842
CS/A
JIEdvards:0s
UECLASSIFIED
96
RRANCH
SIVIS
AMA
と
M

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.90)
Enclaoure t Lleapatch o,217
1948 from te affioe oy the Hs. 
blinelopudent
Edufalioni".
GEIIERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COITANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis end Reserrch Division
P O S T V A R
DEVE LOPNENTS
I N
P H Y S I C A L
E D U C ∴ T I O N
Special Report Prepared by
Education Research
AR-305-E-C-4
15 Tarch 1948

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR TEE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Inforration and Educction Section
Anclysis cnd Resenrch Division
SPECIAL REPORT
SERIAL NU BER
AR-305-E-C-4
15 Merch 1948
TITLE
Postwar Developments in Fhysicel Education
Through the First Two Years of the Occupation
SUBJECT
in account of irportant events nd trends in
the field of physical educetion in Jepan dur-
ing the first two yecrs after the terminction
of the war, preceded by a brief intreductory
history.
PREPI.RED BY
Educetion Research
DATES OF STUDY
22 June 1947 to 20 0ctobcr 1947
COHTEMTS
Page
Introduction
111
Chapters
1
Brief History of Physical Educntion in
Japon Frior to the End of the er
1
2
Elirination of Militaristic Practices
7
3
Development of a Hew Physical Education
Prograr
11
4
Conclusion
29
Appendices
A
∴ Description of Budo (vilitary Arts)
31
B
The Organization of the Burcau of Physical
Education, linistry of Education
33
C
4 List of Conferences on Physicel Education
Held Since the Termination of the Wor
35
Sources
42

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
INTRODUCTION
Group ganes and tean sports provide children
with fine opportunities to learn the virtues
of sharing, respect for others, and the rules
of good sportsmanehip under practical and.
trying conditions. If these attitudes can
be ganeralized to apply to other life situa-
tions, they are given a meaning and aubstance
not likely to follow from purely didaotio
methode.
PURPOSE
This report has been prepared to show what the Sureau
of Physical Education in the Japanese Ministry of Education
has done to build a constructive physical educetion program.
formulated along democratic lines, and to eliminate the evils
that had sprung up, during the years prior to 1945, from the
use of physical education to serve the ends of militariam
and ultranationalism.
SOURCES OF DATA
The sections on the history of physical education in
Japan prior to the termination of the war and on physical
education conferences are based largely on material con-
tained in three unpublished reports prepared by Civil In-
formation and Education Section, General eadquarters, Su-
preme Comnander for the Allied Powers. Utilized in the
writing of other sections were the texts of various direc-
tives and instructions issued by the Occupation authorities
and the Ministry of Education, the report of the Iducation
Mission to Japan, the n w handbook on physical education
coupiled by the iinistry of  ducation, press releases,
records and reports in the files of Jivil Information and
1. American Education Mission, R port of the United States
Education Mission to Japan, 30 March 1946, p. 37.
111

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
POSTWAR DÈVELCPMENTS IN PHYSICAL: EDUCATION
Education Section, General Feadquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, and conferences with authorities in
the field.
EVALUATION OF DATA
This. roport covers all major aspocts of the postwar
physical cducation progran in the schools of Japan. It is
bascd almost entircly on official records and documents cited
under "Sources," and the factual data presented may be accept-
ed as accuratc and reliable.
SUMMARY
The physical cducation progran in Japan prior to the
termination of the war had becn used to further militarism
and ultranationalism. As a result of the joint cooperation
of the Bureau of Physical ducation in the Japanese Ministry
of Education, officials of the Gcneral Hesdquartcrs, Supreme
Comnand'r for the Allied Powers, and leading authorities and
oxperts in the field, Japan's physical education program has
been reconstructed to serve as a medium to further democracy
and to provide hcalthful recreation and diversion for school
childrcn. This process has cntailed climinating military
elements from the curriculum, purging militaristic teachers
and officials, working out a niw teaching guide in physical
education, holding confercnces and short courses on physical
education, decentralizing control by the Eureau of Physical
Education in the Ministry of Education, inaugurating a health
and sanitation program, ndeavoring to secure greater alloca-
tion of equipment and facilitics for phyaical education, in-
troducing new games to exploit fully the menger equipment on
hand, and clininating over-cmphasis on competition in sports
organizations and schools by substituting emphasis on group
participation in intramural activitics.
1v.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
Chapter1
RIEF HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATIO" IN JAPAN
PRIOR TO THE END OF THE WAR1
hen the educational s etem first was inaugurated
foliowin. the Meiji Restoration, the course of stucy
outlined for elecentary schools included physical ed-
ucation as a subject of instruction, out in actuality
no time was allotted to it in the curriculum. Hy iene,
however, was taugnt. There was no mention of physical
ecucatlon in tne course of study for middle schools.
Interest in some form of physical education in-
cressed, nowever. In 1875, physical education was
adced to the curriculum of the Tokyo Normal Sohool,
an the Taiso Renshujo (Physical Treining Institute)
was estaolished under the irect control of the Min-
istr. of "ducation in 137s. It had as its purpose the
training of pnysical education instructors and the teach-
d of. various sucjects releted to physical education.
In the revision of the ecucational system which
o curred in 1879, the place of nhysical education in the
schosl curriculun was stil? not clearly estehlished.
1. The facts cited in this section are based upon in-
formation contained in the followin works as
presented in Civil Informetion and Education Sec-
tion, Surreme Commander for the Allied Powers, A
History of Physical Education and Sports in Ja an,
unpublished report, Sr-141-SR-A:
YIYOI.IYA, unemon: Taiiku Zensni (The Whole Histor
of Ph sical Ecuc:tion)
Meiji Iko K oiku Seido Fattatsushi (The History of
the Develorment of the Education System Dince the
Meiji Era), comrilec by the Ministry of aucation
SHINKOJI, Akio: Kindai Fionon Taiitushi (Recent
Histor of Jacanese nysical Saucation)
Keenle. siae am Thomas: istor of Japanese Eduer
tion and the Present Dau  tional Syste

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
2
POSTWAR DEV LOPIEI TS I PHYSICAL EDUCATION
The New Educational Code of 1379 specified that physical ed-
ucation coulc be given as a course of study in elementary
schools "accorcing to local conditions". o specific hours
for instruc ion were mentioned. Hygiene was eliminated from
the curriculum.
The revision in l:30 mafe no changes with respect to
physical erucation, but in l3sl the Ministry of ducation
first s ecifiec a definite amount of time to be allgtte
to .hysical efucation when it issued an instruction?that
Eymnastics should oe iven for twenty minutes every cay in
eleme.itar: schools. The Ministry also made the first mention
of ya.mes, stipulating th't the. should be introduced at the
beci in of the  rimary rades. Physical education was adf-
ed aε a suoject of stucy in seconcary schools, to be given
"et su tesle times".
In this period military dril first mace its appearance
in tne school curriculum, as an optional subject in middle
scho ls. The Ministry of Ecucation in 13s3 and 1so: began
to ...alls surveys of the relative value of kendo, judo,  ani
militar drill for inclusion in the school program. The
only Cecision reeched was that judo was rot originated for
the purposes of physical educatior. and should not be in-
clucef i: the curriculum.
I. a series of orcinances4issue? oy the Ministry in
l3s6, physical education was established as a compulsory
course i. the curricula of elementary schools, middle
scho ls, anf hi her cnc normal schools. Military gymnas-
tics, i.cludin? infentry drill, were prescrioed as part
of the  hysicel training proram for miedle, normel an
hicner schpols, and by this law military training officially
became a  art of tne school physical esucation program.
G. mnastics ame to occupy a more important place in the
physical ecucation pro ram in the revised Elementary Schocl
2. Futatsu (Instruction) o. 12, 4 May 1331.
3. See the escription of budo (military arts),includi.
sen.do, judo, kyudo, and na inata in Apnendix A.
4. Mi. istr, of Ecucation Ordina..ces o. 3, "Subjects and
Teaching Standares for lementary Schools"; o. 9,
"Sucjects and Teaching Standards for ormal Scnools!;
o. 14, "Subjects and Teaching Standards for Midfle
Scnools"; and No. 16, "Suojects and Teaching Stan-
Cards for Higher Schools".

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
BRIEF HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IF JAPAN
Ordinance of 1390. In 189: the Ministry of Educatian issued
a directive placine stress for the first time upon hygiene
and the reneral health of students as aspects of the physi-
cel educstion program. The cress stucents should wear dur-
in exercise was prescriced, and teachers were cirected to
urse stuc'ents to abstain from smoking and to walk rather
than ride to school. The or@inance further stated thst too
much enphesis shoulc not ce placed on acadeaic seholarship,
snc that teachers should provice studets vith as much
ysical activity as rossible. Two ears lster a Council
of Advisers on School Hyciene was established in the Min-
istry, and in l897 provision was made for the appointrent
of regular schpol doctors6
The followlr. ear the kinistry issued an ordinance to
the effect that kendo and judo had certain values in the
trei ing of studentst minds and bodies, 'but that the: were
not ap ropriate for inclusion i. the school curriculum.
However, there was no oojection to their practice as extre
curricular activities.
In 19o0, the Elementary School Ordin nce was revised.
Accordin: to this revision, the oojectives of school physi-
caleducation included the haraonious cevelopment of various
perts of the pocy and the cultivation of the ooservance of
rules on: th  rectice of cooperatior. The curriclium was
divlded into thres parts, "smes, recular syrnastics, and
military gymnastic. Stucents were not required to carr
Weapons curin- military Crill.
In l9os, a motion was yresented in the Diet to make
jt 2 anc kendo a required rart of the curriculum for boys'
I l schoole. It was defeste", but reintroduced three
years later. The decision reached at thst time was that
the matter required more study.
In lso7, a Joint Comnittee for School Physical Ed-
ucation, composed of members from the Arm: anc Education
i istries, was or anize to investigate such matters as
the inc usio. of buso (military arts) in the curriculum
en ohe question of militery trainin. Army members 
fuvpure? emphasizin vilitary trainin in the scnool
e ste in order to co  cnsate for the shortener perio of
co tlsor: military service which was aco ted after the
5. Directive No. 6, "Ite.s of Fote Concernins Physical
Iducation ua riene in lementar, Schools", 29
August 1ss-.
. Imperial Orcinance Yo. 2, 12 January 1897.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
4
POSTWAR DEVELOP TE I FHYSICAL EDUCATION
Russo-J nanese War, while rerresentotives of the Education
Ninistry orposed this plan. The com ittee was unable to
rench an agreement.
Two yeors later a similar comittee was formed, which
reachec the ecision thnt the esser inl part of school
physiccl educetion should consist of ymnastics. Instruction
in military drill, oudo, etc., also misht be given, out only
as su plementary activities. On the oasis of this decision,
the Mihistry issued  cirective to lementary schools, girls'
high schools, miccle schools, and normal schools, entitle
"Te:chin Tetails of Physical Education"? the first guide of
its kinc to te formulated.
With the ceginnine of World Wer I in 1914, emphasis
again was shifted to the military aspects of physical ed-
ucctioa, and after the end of the war in 1918, disarmament
and its attendant features focused attention on the schools
as the Jogicel place to continue military treining. In 1925,
Imperial Ordinance To. 135 was promulgated, assigning Army
officers o.. active duty to schools for the purpose of super-
vising militery treining. Such training was given in all
goverimental or puclic mi le schools, technical schools,
special scnools, normal schools, rnd h: gher schools, and had
a markef influence on the hysical troining program. vith
the removal of military trainin from the jurisdiction of
the physical education instructor ane its ovelopment as an
independent activity, encronchments beren to ce made on the
time  evoted to physical education as such Midcle schools
and normal schools at the "first denartment" level,for ex-
ample, were required to ive up to military training, three
of the five hours per week scheduled for physical education.
Furt..er pretext for encroachment was offered :y an Army Ord-
inance issued in 192s, which rroviced for the inspection of
schools at least once a year. In many cases, the Army offi-
cers assi ned to cirect military training requested additio-
al ti e, taken from other su jects, to prepare for these in-
spections, in orer that the school might make a good showing
and no reflection ce cast upon the officer in charge.
In l93l, puco became a required course of stud in the
physical educatior vo ram for mid le schools and took up
one mour per week of the time ellotted to ph:sical education.
In youtn schools, first establisned in 1925, military drill
was the sole feature of the so-called physical education
pro.ram.
7. Kunrei (Directive) No. 1, 23 January 1913.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
BRIEF HISTORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATIOF IN JAFAN
5
In 1935, the system of certifying graduating stusents
as to their roficiency i. military training was intro-
duced and this gave the assi nec Army officers adaitional
pretext to exert more pressure on Thysical education in-
structors to ar l. military aims an oojectives to the
.sical education program.
In 1937 an extra hour per week of military crill was
a cd to the curriculun for the third year of midfle schools,
with the aim of attemytin" to reproduce in the thire and
foith ears of the schools the Army's three-months basic
treining. Drilis and maneuvers, includine overnight trips,
ca e to encroach more and more unon the time aliotte to
.sical as well as to ge.eral education.
This situation became more crucial in the perio" from
t.e outoreak of the China Incident in 1937 until March 1941,
wiel.  sweerin: revision was made in the elenentary sclool
s stef. Accordin to the Imperial Ordinance issue at that
iic, the o ject of rh sical education was efincd as serv-
I. "to trcin the cody and mind in such a way as to develop
erosity of minc a sturdiness of oody, an to cultivate
the ractical power of self-sacrificin service to the
natlon". It was stipulate furtaor that "students should
 treine to understand that stron- physical and me. tal
o er are the foundntion of national prosperity and es s-
ciall. necussur. for natinal lefense". It was directed
tlat militar. orili ce emphasized in the case of coys i..
the i her de, artment of elemcntary school, to ether with
t.c spirit of oce. lence, respect, anc cooperation. soys in
the rimary and niger dep rtments of elementary schools
vere required to take judo ane kei.do as part of the physi-
cal training curriculum; training in use of the nagitata
(halburd) was spscified for girls. The Ordinance further
stated: "lind and cody should oe disciplined as one, an
t spirit of respectin courtesy and esteeming honor should
b. cultivatcc".
By this or inance, military trainins ecame e part of
she elenentary school curriculum. It slso spread for the
First time to universities, and thus com letely rermeated
the cntire school system.
Commencine in 1942, after the outereak of war, all
activities not directly conected with the war effort vere
cli..isted fro. the ph,sical trainine curriculum. Westera
——————————————————————————————
5. "Tational Zlecentary School Ordinance," Imuerial Ort-
inance o. 148, 1 March 1941.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
6
POSTWAR  EVELOPH NTS IN PH SICAL EDU ATION
sports cisap" eare? completely. Military treining assume?
paramount inportance, and other rhyeical trainins activities
were relegate to the background. Fend-grenades were thrown
in place of shot-pute; students ran in track exercises with
packs strarpec to their backs. Even girls were given mil-
itary trainin: in ad ition to naginata practice.
Various new  pmes were ori inated to focus the stucents'
atte tion on the war. In elemel.tary schools these incluced
suo.. cmes as sunkan usobi (warshir game), hata ubai (fla
enatcling), and kiba sen (cavalr. battle); anc in midcle
sclools, kuro ane no cnlkara (strength of iron), and kachicoki
(sattls-cry) were played. .ormal school students were thor-
oughly indoctrinated to serve as instructors in this type of
pro.ram.
Labor service for students was initiate? by a notifi-
cation9 issued by the Ministry in 1933 under the pretext of
efior in then a means of practical treining in group activ-
ities. This pro ram was transferred to the jurisdiction of
the urcau of Physical Eucstion in 1942, an a Special Labor
Service Section wes esteblished to surervise anc administer
it. Activities consisted of work on school farns, rc:eir of
scho 1 an hospital facilities, repair of roacs, anc con-
stru. tion work on "arks, play-grounds, and air defense in-
stal -tlons. The foliowin: yerr, the Lebor Service Ssction
wes e lecec by a Stu ents' Mobilization Section, and the
osjective of the program ceased to be that of utilizin lapor
as a means of education, but became that of mobilizin: stu-
dets' labor to facilitate the prosecution of the war. In
19. jurisdiction over the program was removed from the Eu-
ret of Physical Education and centered in a Mobilization
Pl:  ing Section in the ministrative Eureau of the Min-
istri.
By 19-, when the wer begen to go adverse'y for Ja an,
sc. pol soys and eirls lar ely har peen motilizec into war
in .stries, anc r. uler e ucation, military or otherwisc,
came  racticall. to a standstill.
9. Hatsu Fu ( otification from the Bureau of General -
ucation) Mo. 85, 9 June 1933.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
Chapter 2
ELIMIFATION OF MILITARISTIC PRACTICES
The Potsdam Declaration,1issued 26 July 1945, contained
the following clauses:
There must be eliminated for all time the
authority an? influence of those who have de-
ceived and mislead the Japanese people.
A new order of peace, security, and justice
will be impossible until irresponsible militariem
is ariven from the world.
The Japanese Government shall remove all ob-
stacles to the revival and strengthening of demo-
cratic tencencies amon: the Japanese people.
The Ministry of Educatlon, anticipating the enforcement
of this policy by the Allicd Powers through the Occupation
Army which landed in Japan after her capitulation on 15
August 1945, immediately issued an order to halt all laoor
service except in agriculture2and shortly thereafter abolish-
ed military training and cismissed Army officers from schoole?
I a press release issued cerly in September, the Min-
istry heraided the restoration of nhyeicrl training and
sports to the school curriculum: "Physical training and
sports wil: be restored in order to foster the spirit of
fair play ant to chacle the students to particirate in the
future in internotional competitions, thereby promotine
friendship and understandin with the world's youth.u
In an order issued a say after this releese appeared,
youth school students curr ntl, nssigned to factories were
1. The Potsdem Declaration vas sipned by representatives
of the United States, the United Kingdom, and China.
2. Notification from Vice-Ministereof Ecucation and Welfare,
16 August 1945.
3. Hatsu Do (Notification fro the Pureau of Student Mobil-
ization) No. 29, 24 Au ust 1945.
4. Ministry of Eucation Press Release, 11 September 1945.
一7 一

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
8
POSTWAR DEVELOFMENTS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION
directed to enroll in the nearest public youth school, and
occupational training and gymnastics were suostituted for
military training.5
These measures were implemented further by a direotive3
issued by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Fowers on 22
October which stated:
Dissemination of militaristic and ultranation-
alistic ideology will be prohibited, an all mili-
tary education and drill will be discontinued.
Teachers and educational officials will be ex-
amined as rapidly as rossible, and all career mili-
tary personnel, persons who have been active expo-
nents of militarism and ultranationalism, and those
actively antagonistic to the policics of the Occura-
tion, will be removed.
Teachers an educational officials who have been
dismissed, suspended, or forced to resign for liberal
or antimilitaristic orinions cr activities, vill be
declared immediately eligible for, and if froy erly
qualified will be given, preference in reaprointment.
The Jaanese Ministry of Education promrtly responded to
this directive by issuing an order entitled Take Handling.of
Postwar Courses in Thysical Education, "? which was the nost
comprehensive since the termination of the war. It trovided, in
the case of elementary schools, that all military games cnd ex-
ercises were to be eliminated. In addition, bude courses (in-
cluding kendo, judo, kyudo, and nuginata) were to be discon-
tinued, and efforts made to reorient buco tenchers for teach-
ing ther subjects, rrovided they were founa to have the neces-
sary aptitude and ability. Games such as basketball, volley-
ball, etc., not actually included i. the curriculum, might be
added if apiropriate. The order further specified that:
Standardized instruction is to be discouraged,
and due consideration siven to the naturol demands
of the pupils; ant emrhesis shell be loced on the
choice of srortins ana competitive subjects. Ef-
forts are to be exerted to foster cheerful and mag-
5. Hatsu Koku (Notification from the ureau of Fational Ea-
ucation) No. 184, 12 Sertember 1945.
6.
SCAPIN 178.
7.
Hatsu Tai (Notification fron the surenu of Thysical Educa-
tion) No. 80, 6 November 1945.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
ELIMINATIOY OF .ILITARISTIC PRACTICES
9
nanimous dispositions, as well as to uplift the
pupils!moral standcrds.
Due consideration shall ce given to the
pupils' individualities, their growth and nu-
trition, as well as to their capacity for ex-
ercisc. Pertinent guidance shall be given to
them in physical training, and exercise and
rest shall be properly balanced.
Discretion is to be used in the selection
of subjects to conform with the condition and
site of the grounds svailable, the season,
weather, and facilities.
Import-nce should be attached to the spon-
toneous nctivity of pupils during instruction.
Especially in the upper course of elementary
scnools is instruction to conform to that of
secondary schools.
Calisthenics, regarcless of the outline set
forth in the curriculum, are to be practiced
chiefl as settinp-up and supplementary exercises
in c: unction with other exerciees.
Proper control of athletic fielfs shall be
effected, including plans for safety.
Efforts are to be exerted for the recon-
struction of war-torn facilities. Initiative
and inventiveness are to be utilized in the use
of nntural environment, outside of school grounds,
for ph,sical training.
Labor service in food production and recon-
struction work is to be arranged so as to en-
hance physical education. Labor ane Ihysical
education are to be coordinated.
In the case of secondary schools, the order provided
that military games anc exercises were to be discontinued.
A list of general re ulations almost icentical with those
just quoted was given, followed by a list of subjects from
which schools might make selections for inclusion in their
curricule: apraratus; runnins, junping, and throwing of
short sticks; wrestling, hanaball, soccer, basketball,
volleyball, swimming, skiing, and exercises to music.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
10
POSTWAR LEVELOPMENTS IN THYSICAL EDUCATION
In addition to thesc subjccts, it was stated that parallel
bars, rings, vaulting-horse, pole vaulting, shot putting, dis-
cus throwing, rugby, baseball, tennis, rowing, and skating
might bc added at the discretion of the school.
The progran stipulated for normal schools, colleges, and
higher schools was almost identical with that for middle schools.
In order to assure nation-wice comprehension of the prin-
ciples set forth in this order, the Ministry callod a con-
ference of prefectural physical training officials and direc-
tors of stuacnt activitics on 6 November 1945, and representa-
tives of ths Bureau of Physical Education within the Ministry
sont rerresentatives to all areas of Jaran to explain the new
:rinciples to ce followed in physical training to physical ed-
ucation looccrs.
As a further ster towar comrlete eradication of mili-
tary influenccs from the Thysical training program, the Min-
istry issucc an orcer on 26 December 1945 directing disposal
of ai quipment uscd in budo and prohibiting the teaching
of u'e on any school rrcmises.8
The net effect of these orders and directives (theo-
retieally) vas to climinate all elements from the physical
trainins prorram which in any way were connected with mili-
tarism or ultranationalism. Actually, while the majority
of scho ls ceorcrated whole-heartedly in carrying out these
instructions, some were slow in complying, a few ignored cer-
tain iortions of them, and in some cascs they were misunder-
stos 9 It has been the task of Occuration officials and in-
spectors sent put by the Ministry of Ecucation and prefectural
officcs to cxercisc survcillance over the screening of teachers
and pver-all comliance with these orders.
Hateu Tai No. 100, 26 December 1945.
9.
This observation is based upon school inspection reports
made by Military Government Eaucation officers.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
Chapter 3
DEVELOPMENT OF A NEW PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
With the elimination of military influences, the Min-
istry of Education was confronted with the task of finding
substitutes for activities of this nature, which, in prao-
tice, constituted about two-thirds of the physical train-
ing program at the time of Japan's surrender. The alterna-
tives suggested in Hatsu Tai No. 30 were of a general ne-
ture, embracing many activities which were unfamiliar to
Japanese physical education teachers. The needs for a well-
planned, comprehensive physical training program worked out
in detail along scientific lincs for all grades and age lev-
els, and.for well-trained teachers, were raramount.
The greatest handicaps in the development of such a
irogram, however, were, first, an almost complete ignorance
or the part of educators of what such a progran consisted
of, specifically; and second, the lack of athletic fecilities
an equipment and the deploraole state of the small amount
of equipment and facilities in existence. Many athletic
fields had been turned into kitchen gardens; many existed
only as parcde or crill grounds and were covered with in-
stallations for military training. The equipment available
was mostly that used in budo or in regular military treining.
The Bur au of Physical Education in the Ministry of
Education, officials of General Headquarters, Surreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers, and leaders in the fiel of
health and physical education worked together jointly to
overcome these obstacles. Their accomplishments in the
major aspects of the program may be summarized as follows:
COFFERENCES
Followine the conference of prefectural physical train-
ing officials on 6 November 1945, mentioned above, a series
of conferences dealing with physical education problems
was held,1 culminating in a conference of prefectural offi-
cials of physical education held in Tokyo 3-5 June 1946
and a conference of physical education leaders of univer-
sities, higher schools, normal schools, and colic es held
in Tokyo 7-s June 194S. These were the first conferences
1. See list in Appendix C.
-11 -

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
12
POSTWAR DEVELOPMENTS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION
of this type to be devotec entirely to the consideretion of
problems concerned with the constructive phase of the new
physical education program.
The proceedings of the conference of prefectural offi-
cials will be traced somewhat in detail, in view of its im-
portance in clarifying principles and courses of action to
be followed in physical education, and in setting the pat-
tern for later conferences. The conference opened with an ad-
dress by the Chief of the Eureau of Physical Education of
the Ministry of Education, in which he emphasized the fact
that the negative phase was over and that attention should
be cevoted to the development of a new type of physical ed-
ucation. This was followed by a speech by the Head of the
Physical Education Section of the Bureau, in which he point-
ed out to the officials that:
The Educatisn Ministry has ceased to be an
organization that dictates and supervises educa-
tion. The old system of sending out directives
and instructions and of ordering the local of-
fices to follow one uniform principle (centrali-
zation) has ceen completely abolished. In the
future, the Education Ministry will suggest a
general standard for your reference, but in re-
gart to practice, you are left free to select
and devise new plans according to your own lo-
cal circumstances and individual school situa-
tion. The Eaucation Ministry will be the rlace
for you to look for advice and suggestions.?
The highlight of the confcrtnce was the submission of a
list of questions drawn up by the Education Minister to the 
prefectural officials. These all concerned concrete methods
for the promotion of democratic physical education. The
questions were:
1. What should be te policy by hic the
new physical education is to ce guided?
2. For the rursuance of such a policy, what
kind of organizations should be established in
the Education Ministry and local governments?
How should they be operated?
3. What methods should be used to acquire
a sufficient number of enthusiastic and well-
trained leaders? What plan should be used to
place them in active work?
2. Civil Information and Education Section, Supreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers, Recent Piysical Educa-
tion Conferences, unpublishod report, SN-115-RM-C, p. 5.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
DEVELOPMENT OF A NEW PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
4. What measures might be adopted in utiliz-
ing different physical education programs for
schools and nonstudent groups?
5. How may such difficulties as the shortage
of equipment, supplies, provisions, etc., be over-
come?
6. What methods for obtaining data on na-
tional health may be used in place of conscrip-
tion exeminations?
7. What recommendations can be made as to
how greater emphesis should be placed on physical
education for women?
Small discussion groups organized according to districts
were formed to take up these questions, and the answers were
pooled in the form of a "Draft of a Report" to be given to
the Education l'inister. The answers included the follow-
ing suggestions:
1. Uniform training should be completely
abolished, and physical training and sports in-
tended to develop personality and inculcate
mutual.respect and self-respect should be sub-
stituted.
2. A national research institute for physi-
cal training shoul be established to carry on
studies in the science and philosophy of physical
education.
3. This institute should be enlarged to
serve as a training center for leaders of physi-
cal education and re-training institutes should
be organized in different districts.
4. Physical education scctions should be
established in every prefectural government in
place of centralized administration.
5.. There should be a union of school physi-
cal education and social physical education, and
healthful amusements and sports for the general
public should be encouraged.
6. Therc should be prompt recovery of old
playgrounds and establishment of new ones; pro-
duction of athletic goods should be encouraged
and proroted; and taxes on athletic goods should
be abolished.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
14
POSTWAR DEVELOPMENT IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION
7. There shoula be morc subsidization and
cncouragement of institutes for training leaders
in women's physical education, and improvements
should be fostered in the home life of women.
8. There should be increased emphasis on
health education in schools, sanitary faoilities
should be improved, and the services of school
doctors should be encouraged and promoted.
9. An independent institution for control-
ling sports should be established to clean up
sports and stress the amateur spirit.
The discussion next in importance at the conference related
to Hatsu Tai No. 8o, "The Handling of Postwar Courses in Physical
Educati:n." The head of the Physical Education Section of the
Miristry of Education reiterated some roints, of guidance concern-
ing orccrly movements, marching, and calisthenice:
1. Commanas which are necessary for order-
ly movements should be permitted, so long as they
are kept to a minimum and given in a pleasant,
nonmilitaristic manrer.
2. Marching in columns should be permitted
in order to m ve stu ents from one place to another.
Marching in formation should not be
engaged in for its own sake.
0.
There should be no counting of cadence
while walking.
C.
High militaristic steps in marching
are prohibited.
3. Calisthenics as physical training activities
are rermitted so long as they are conducted in a non-
militaristic manner. This includcs mass exercises
of the entire school if necessary.
a. Commands such as "line up," "take
positions for physical exercise," etc.,
may be used, but the custotary military
commands should be avoided.
b.
Counting off is pernitted, but should
be used only for orderly movements,
should not be done in a militaristic
manner, and should be kcrt to a minimum.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
DEVELOPMENT OF A NEW PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
c. Facing should be used only for
orderly mevement and not as a
drill in itself.
d.
Giving commands for calisthenics
should be done in a pleesant, non-
militaristic manner.
e.
Counting of cadence for exercise
should be held to a minimum and
should be given in a nonmilitaris-
tic manner. Class counting of
cadence should not be used.
f.
Use of music for exercise should
be encouraged.3
Another discussion receiving emphasis was concerned
with a new guide for teaching school physical education.
Opinions were expressed on the proper procedure to be fol-
lowed in revising the old regulations and on what principles
whould be embodied in the new. Recommendations were made,
among other things, to the effect that:
1. Teaching details should treat general
principles only, and detailed items should be
left for consideration and study by local leaders
to suit local conditions.
2. Compulsory physical education should be
given one hour per day in elementery schools and
from three to five hours per week in middle schools.
However, it should be adapted to local and season-
al conditions.
3. The term "tairen ka" (physical disci-
pline) should be changed to "taiiku ka". (physi-
cal education).
4. Effort should bo made to eliminate
standardized materials, to put more emphasis
on games and sports, and to institute season-
al programs, in order to give various types of
physical training throughout the year.
5. Japanese terminology should not be
neglected, but preference should be given to
internationally used terms.
The conference of physical cducation leaders of univer-
sities, higher schools, normal schools, and colleges was held
for essentially the same purpose as the one just described,
that is, to discuss what steps should bo followed in build-
ing up a constructive physicalcducation program.
——————————-
3. Ibid., pp. 14-15.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
16
POSTWAR DEVELOPIENT IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION
A mejor point discussed portaincd to thc physical educa-
tion scctions of students associations, cspeciclly with ro-
spect to their renagerent. Tho Chicf of thc Burcau of Physi-
cal Education rediated a discussion as to whether students or
teachers should be chairncn of such scctions by suggcsting
that cach school might dccide according to its circumstances.
Another subject of irportancc thrown open for discussion
was the food problen. The concensus of opinion was t'et physi-
ccl cducation could, by cnd largc, bc continucd despitc the
food shortage.
The. lack of physiccl ducation cquipment also brought forth
varying exprcssions of opinion. There vas unanimous cgrcement,
however, thet the shortage of cquipment was the greatest ob-
staclc facing the development of the physical education program.
The high tax on bells and other cquipmcnt and the freczing of
deposits as a result of tc Emorfcncy Economic Meesuro raised
the question as to whother negotietions could not be opened with
the Finance nistry for special rerrission to withdraw currency
from frozen dcposits for the purc! asc of cquipment. In the same
vein were consideration of the possib:lity of recovering cth-
letic cquiprent diverted into the black markct, end consideration
of thc possibility of cstcblishing sirpler rationing chennols.
Statistics on the omount of equipment currcntly bcing produced
were presented.
Thesc conferenccs "ere followed in July 1946 by two others
of importancc: one of district rcpresentatives of physical cdu-
cotion, held 16-17 July at thc Ministry of Education, end the
other of woren leaders of physical cducct on  cld in Tokyo on
23 July.
At the former, thc two principal discussions trcated the
subjccts of the ne details for teac ing physicel cducction in
prirory, secondary, end vouth schools, and the reorganization
of thc Nipron Taiiku Kai (Jepan Amatcur Athlctic Association).
The Burcau of Physical Education arbitrarily divided Japan
into cight districts for the purpose of reprcsentat:on at the
confcrencc, and representetives of cach of t esc districts pre-
sented suggestions regerding the formulction of thc new teaching
detcils. The point at issuc in the reorganization of the Nip-
pon Taiiku Kai was whcther or not sports sections of student
associations should affilicte ith sports ssocictions or org-
anizations outside the school. The decision rcached wes that
sports sections of student associations first should join
schocl sports associations, Which in turn right join outside
sports associations.
The second conferencc, that of woren leadcrs of physical

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
DEVELOPMENT OF A NEV PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
12
education, was the first of the kind ever held in Japan, and
was attended by 48 leading tecchers of girls' high schools.
The subjects of discussion werc as follows:
1.
Democrctization of schcol physicel education.
2.
Forration of a new associnticn of women physi-
cal cducation lcaders.
3.
Training and reoricntation of women physical
education lcaders.
4.
Establishrent of a woren's physical education
research instituto.
5.
Formuletion of -caching dctails for school
physical educrt:on.
6.
Woren physical cducation lcaders and marriage.
7.
School physical educution for girls in America.
8.
School rythms nd drncing for girls in America.
9.
Other matters of ntercst.
Some of the more significant opinions expressed on
various of these topics  crc s follows:
1. A now association of women physical educa
tion leaders should be formed to furnish members
the opportunity to study and improve themselves.
2. Teccher trcining schools in physical ed-
uc:tien for women should be inercased.
3. Details for tcac: ing sci ool physical educa-
tion s' ould shov the funderentel principles in such
a ay t'at everyone con understand them; they should
be forrulated as soon as possible: they should be e-
lastic end adjustable to individual local conditions;
and al hcugh originality end ingenuity ere desirable,
fundarentels should bo r'ven as a foundction.
4. Althorgh the ficld of physicel education
is strenuous and tiring, and as such cannot casily
be corbined with eping a hone end raising a fam-
ily, it is cctuclly rost desirabl for physical
educat on turchers to rarry.
5. The dance is an ideal redium for creative
expr ssion, ond since crcetiveness and originality
inve bn ire ing in Japanese education, they
should be cncourag d as ruch as possiblé.
6. While profossional dencing is  perfected
dance forr rather individualistic in nature, and

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.94)
18
POSTVAR DEVELOPMEIT IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION
intended for audiencc enjcyment, schcol drncing
is not intended to be porfect, nor given before
an rudience, but ongaged in largely as a group
activity for purely rccrcational cnd socirl
valucs.
A complete  ist of cl1 conferences up to Noverber 1947
may b. found in Appendix C.
NE" COURSE CF STUDY IN P YSICAL EDUCATION
Onc of tre rest irportont steps token in reconstructing
the physiccl cdue tion progrer sincc t c capitulrtion of Japan
vas the for ulrtion of c new cutl:ne te b. used by physicel
troining instructors. Initiel wor' on this prt jyct vas begun
dur ng the reriod 20 Suptur ber to 20 October 1946, hen a
conri t e of 55 l rders in he ficlc of hysicnl cducation,
fror all over J  on, subd vided intc 11 orking conmittecs, be-
gon drefti
ov sions in li asp cts of the piysical education
pro r for ll 1. ls of schor1 instruction. Thc work of
these 1l conrittecs wrs combined into one publicrtion, the
Guide to F ysical Educ-tion. uh: ch vas rerdy for publicction
by the linistry of Educrtioi on 1 Arril 1947. In view of the
foct thrt th's aual wes t: be used by ail piysicel cducetion
instructors t ro hout Janan, it will be analyzed sor owhat in
detril.
The intr ductic" to the  crk stotus: "Japan is making a
new stert to rds becering e de ccratic and culturcd country.
In echicv'ng this purrose, it is rost important thet crch in-
dividuel dov lop  soure nd efficicnt body and those social
and reral cherect ristics necessery for good citizonship."4
The cins of physicrl uducation are describ d es follovs:
Physic-l Edrccticn is educotion which ains to-
werd the develop ent of the individual through the
prectice of physicrl rctivitics pnd hygicne. It
rirs et t'r developrent of e herltly cnd efficient
body, eppr ciction of the volu of physica' activ-
ities in life, end o fostering oi an understending
of the r sporsibility of th. : luvidual in community
lifc.5
4. Guide te Physiccl Lducation, cor pilcd by the Ministry of
Education (tronslrt cn), p. 1.
5. Ibid., p.2.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
DEVELOPMENT OF A NEW PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
The manual devotes sections to 1) elementary schools
(grades 1-3), 2) elementary schools (grades 4-6), 3) middle
schools (grades 7-9), 4) higher schools (grades 10-12), and
5) colleges and universities.
Each of these sections contains an outline of hygiene,
a statement of the physical and psychological characteristics
of the age group of the children noraally at this level of
learning and a list of suitable physical activities. The seo-
tion on grades 7-9, where the children are presumed to be in.
the age bracket 13-15, is quoted as an example.
HYGIENE, GRADES 7 TO 9
Classification
Contents (for boys and girls)
Hygiene of clothing, food
Clothing, food, dwelling
and dwelling
Massage
l. assage
Posture
At rest, in motion
Measurements
Height, weigt, bust, body temperature,
pulse, breathing
Prevention of diseases
Tuberculosis, near-sightedness, de-
cayed teeth, parasites, infectious
diseases, immunization
Public Health
Nutrition of the  eople: Hygiene in
cities, or agricultural villages.
Vocational hygiene
Nursing and first aid
Nursing, first Lid, disinfection
(including disinfection)
Mental hygiene
Abnormal character, mental diseases,
etc.
Hygiene programs should include theory and practice.
GENEAL CH RACTERISTICS OF AGLS 13 TO 15
This pericd shows a striking develo ment in height, weight, heart,
lungs, and muscles, althouh there is not yet much endurance.
Girls grow more feminine and unfitted for too strenuous exercises.
Lentally their interest is now frecuently directed inward. Their
egos begin to take form. The group spirit is strong and the desire for
community life is still prominent.
Fhysical education in this  eriod may emphasize group and competi-
tive activities, but care should be taken not to overdo physical activi-
ties. Cirls of this pcriod should not be given exercises which cause
too much fatigue and emotional excitement.
6. Ibid, pp. 16-21

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
PHYSICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL CHARACTLRISTICS OF
AND EXERCISES APPROPRIATE TO BOYS ND GIRLS, AGES 13 TO 15
Characteristics
Fhysical
Psychological
Appropriate Exercises
Boys and Girls
Boys and Girls
Boys and Girls
Increase of height and
Development of perce-
Eercises which will
weight is rapid.
tion almost reaches
develop respiration
Lungs and heart show
its peak.
.and circulation.
prominent development.
Memory is still prani-
Exercises which will
Muscle power grows very
nent.
recuire a medium
rapidly.
Contemplative faculty
amount of endurance.
Accuracy and speed of
grows rapidly.
A wide variety of
physical activities
Likes and dislikes of
exercises.
increases.
food appear.
Grouo activities
Endurance is still weak.
Hero worship is promi-
which are active
nent.
and competitive.
Antagonism against au-
(Exercises for 2 to 3
thority begins to
hours per day;
show.
sleep for 8 to 9
Ego becomes strong.
hours per day.)
Obedience to truth
develops.
Eoys Only
Foys Only
Desire to belong to a
Exercises which will
group is very strong.
develop courage.
Combative, competitive
spirit, and self-
exaggeration are
very rominent.
Adventurous and ambi-
tious tendencies are
strong.
Girls Only
Girls Only
Cirls Only
Girls are inferior in
Competitive tendency
Exercises which will
muscle power and lung
and self-exaggeration
not make them over-
capacity.
are very strong.
tired.
Secondary sex charac-
Desire to belong to a
xercises which will
teristics become
troup and fighting
make them bright
prominent.
spirit are not so
and happy.
Most of them start
strong as in boys.
Exercises which will
menstruation.
Emotion is very strong
not overstimulate
and unsteady.
the emotions.
Tendency to be easily
Exereises which will
depressed is strong.
devalop self-control.
They begin to make very
Exc reises which will
intimate friends.
help growth of
Aesthetic sense begins
aesthetic apprecia-
to Erow.
tion.
20

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES RECQENDED
AS SUITABLE TEACHING MATERIALS FOR GRADES 7 TO 9
Classi-
Contents
fica-
Type
Girls
Boys
tion
Arms and
Bending,
Bending and stretch-
Bending and stretch-
Legs
Stretching
ing of arms and legs
ing of arms and legs
Raising,
Raising and swinging
Raising and swinging
Swinging
of arms and legs
of arms and legs
Circling
Arm circling
Arm circling
lcs
Hopping,
Hopping and jumping
Hopping and jumping
Jumping
Neck
Bending,
Neck bending
Neck bending
Twisting,
Neck twisting
Neck twisting
Circling
Neck circling
Neck circling
yics
Chest
Stretching
Chest stretching
Chest stretching
Back and
Bending
Bending backward and
Bending backward and
Abdomen
forward of body
forward of body
Sides
Bending
Bending right and left
Bending right and left
Trunk
Bending,
Bending and circling
Bending and circling
Circling
of body
of body
Jumping and tumbl-
Vaulting
ing(mats and box)
Forward rolling
ppratus
Hand stend
Tumbling over thc bcx
Hanging and swing-
Kipp
ing with and with-
Knee raising
out turns
Knee circle
(Iron bar)
Knee hang
Running
Various types of
Short distance
r
running
iddle distance
Long distance
Relays, Hurdles
Jumping
Broad jump
Broad jump
High jump
High jump
Rope jumping
Jumping over
Sports
Sumo
Sumo
Baseball type
Foot baseball
One-out ball
Softball
Jofto:ll
Rubber baseball
u aes
Basketball type
Basketball
Basketball
Handball
Handball
Football type
Speedball
Soccer
Touch football
Speedball
Rugby
Tennis type
Volleyball
Volleyball
Tennis
Tennis
21

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
PHYSICAL ACTIVIT1zS FOn G.L.DLS 7 TO 9 (CONTINUD)
Classi
Contents
fica-
Type
Girls
Boys
tion
Swimming
Freast stroke
Breast stroke
Crawl swimming
Crawl swimming
Sing
Back stroke
Dac.. stroke
Submerging
cubmerging
Diving
Standard diving
Standard diving
Backward diving
Backard diving
Safety caution
Safety caution
Safety caution
Lance
Expression
1. Technique for expression
a. Easic pvsicue must be trained
through natural movement.
b. Creative expression should be
encouraged, selecting materials
for students' own environment
and emotional life.
(cortucd)
(1) Enviroiment materials--
sports, machinery, nature.
Dance
(2) motional life--joy, hope,
memory, sorr.
2. Composition
Sports
tudents must be led to cuapose their
own an us, using expressive technicnes.
3. ppreciation of former composition
bility to appreciate nd make use of
suitable points in ti.eir sun original work.
Physical
History of physic:l education
Education
Aims of vhysical education
Theory
uxplanation of v rious , orts
Training in sports
heory
Sportsmanship
Social phynical ducntion
Home prysical educatien
International ganes
use of leisure time
athletic hyriene
Teaching materials in calisthenics should include simple and combined
exercises in accordance with the needs enu e pacities of the people.
Exercises should be selected to stimulate circul-ticn and respiration
and should be conducted in such a way as to inerease eneral organic
efficieney of the body.
In dance programs, folk dances and other suitable types of dances may
be used.
22

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
DEVELOPMENT OF A NEW PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
The "Ceneral Principles of Instruction," which form a
separate section, ere worthy of note. It is stipulated
that programs should be built up around games and sports,
and sportsmanslip should be emphesized. Each individual
should be accorded en opportunity to participate ir ac-
tivities suited to his own n eds and capecities, and in-
dividuel initiative should be encouraged. Furthermore,
in orgenizing games to be played by teams, cheracter st-
tributes necessary for good citizensrip should be empha-
sized. Military orders and commands are to be discouraged.
Many steps to maintain and improve students' health are
listed. Date on the:physical education of each student
are to be maintained to increase the understanding of stu-
drnts and parents with respect to the purposes and achieve-
ments of thc physical education progrem. Movies, confer-
ences, lectures, athletic meets, and radio and press pub-
licity should be utilized to promote public support and un-
derstanding of physical education. In higher schools a cen-
tral guiding body shoulc be established for the administra-
tion of physical education activities. Boys and. girls should
have cqual opportunity to rsc athlctic fscilities. Every ef-
fort should be madc to meintain and increasc athlotic facil-
ities and cquipment. In addition, recrcation facilities out-
side the schocl should be made available to the stucents.
There is ne d for intramural activities, but elementary school
students should not participete in interscrolastic events.
In acdition to this general manual, the Ministry of Ed-
ucation hes preparet eight randhooks on specific features
of the progrem, dealini with the prilosophy of physical ed-
ucation, childrens' games, gymnastics (including apparatus
and celisthenics), swir ing, ball fames, track and field
activities, daneinf, anc hygicne. These volumes, together
with the general nenual, provide for the instructor a
trorough-going guide to all espocts of tre school physical
educetion program.
DECEITRALTZATION
It has been pert of the renerel plen goverring the re-
organization of the Japanese educetional system to eliminete
th possibility of misuse of cducational euthority attendant
upon its concentration in onc central body, and to establish
the Ministry of Educ tion as an afency to be looked to for
guidence in the formul:tion of new cducational policy, with
autonomy being reteincd at the prefecturel and lower levels
where the suggested program couid be adapted to local needs
and conditions. Tt was supgcsted by the United States Ed-

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
24
POSTWAR DEVELOP TENT TI PHYSICAL EDUCATION
ucation Missior to Japan that the powers and duties of the
Ministry embrace the following:
1. Provision of expert consultative services
in the various fields of education; the curriculum,
methods of teeching, materiels of instruction;
school building construction, meintenance end opera-
tion; textbooks, finencial records, accounting end
reporting.
2. Exercisr of veto powers concerning mil-
itaristic or ultranetionalistic activities in the
schools, such powers to be explicitly stated in the
law and limited.
3. Provision of leadcrship in the development
of objctive standards for the certification of tea-
chers.
4. Establishment of objcctive standards for
the scrools.
5. Dirtribution of ducational funds provided
by the netional Government, such distribution to be
on the basis of en objective formule writtan into
law.7
The eir of decentralization in physical cducation hes not
yet bren completoly realized, duc to the need for using control
from the Buroar of Prysical Education in the Ministry to effect
changes and modifications in the interim period while the new
program is bing formulated. Fowever, the basic principle has
been constantly cmphesized in the instructions sent out by the
Burceu, at reorientation courses for physical education tea-
chers and officials, and in the new cuide to Physical Educa-
tion. Th conposition of this guide by committces of physi-
cal education xp rts from al? prefectures, rether tren by
officials within the Burcau, is a pertinent example of the
applicetion of the dccentralization theory. Another exemple
may b seen in the order issued by the Fureau of Physical
Educetion cncouraging the promotion of social physical
training. To accomplish this cnd, it was sugfestcd that the
initiative slould be taken at the local lcvel and
7. Report of the United Statcs Education Mission to Japen,
30 Marcr 1946, pp. 28-29.
8. Hatsu Tai No. 95, 25 August 1946.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
DEVELOPMENT OF A NEW PHYSTCAL EDUCATTON PROCRAL
that the cstablishmont of ethletic clubs in companies, fao-
tories, firms, end government offices, end of municipal ath-
letic essocietions should bc cncoureged. Furthermore, munic-
ipelities were directed to commission their own physicel
training leeders.
A similar line hes been followed in ncouraging eth-
letic and sports orgenizations such gs the Nippon Taiiku Ksi
(Japen Amatcur Athleti: Association)9 to rclex its central
administretive control over local branches.
SFORT TRATNING COIRSES
As a meens of orienting trachers to the manifold aspcts
of the new educationel progrem, short courses have been hc1d
at verious intorvels since the beginning of the Occupation.
Treir purpose has been to direct the thinking of teachers
and prysical education lccders alonp democratic lines, to
inform them of changes in the objectives, curriculum, and ac-
tivities in physical cducation, and to impress upon them the
need for persons in their responsible positions to develop
initiative and genuine lcedership and enthusiasm in the
ficld of physicel cducation. Tresc courscs scrved & veluchle
purpose in bridginp the gap hetwen the time when the new
physical education prorren wes in the plannin- stege and the
appearence of the Guide to Physical ciction, which con-
teined in printed form many of the surfestions and precepts
stressed in the treining courses. They fun ther sorved the
purpose of giving valuable instruction and training to tea-
chers with no background or formal preper:tion and instruc-
tion in the physical educr tion field.  The courses have been
sponsored by verious groups, including the Ministry of Ed-
ucetion, prefectural and mc tropolitan cducational orgeniza-
tions, individual schocls, etc. The programs consisted of
such courses as the Annual Ministry of Education Short
Treining Courso for Women hysical Training Teachers rold
at the Sugadaira Physical Training Tnstitute, Nagano Prc-
fecture, 5-9 August 1946, which was attcnded by £0 young
teachers from girls' hig schocls es remotely sepereted es
Kyushu and Hokkeido. This course was followcd by ε similer
course held 10-14 August in the samc year for nale teechers,
largely those who hed receivec licenses through Government
examinations without greduating from regular physical cd-
ucstion institutions. Other prorrams of this tyne have in-
cluded e four-day training course for 320 mele and fomale
instructors from three prefectures hel at Tokyo Physicel
9. This is the commonly accapted translation, although the
word "emateur" does not ectvelly apncer in the Jape-
nese title.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
26
POSTWAR DEVELOPMENT IN PHYSTCAL EDICATTON
Educetion Collegc from 20-24 December 1946; a course spon-
sored by the Sugedaira Physicel Education nstitute attended
by 150 men teacters from 12 prefecturcs from 30 Januery to
3 February 1947; and e series of reorientation covrscs for
kindergarten, primary, end seccndery school teechers during
the su mer vecation of 1947.
EQUIPMENT FOR PHYSICAL TRAIIP AND SPOTTS
The shortage of equipment and facilit es has been one
of the major obstacles to the development of a we l-rounded
physical training program. The problem is complicated not
only by the eteriorated state of the smell amount of equip-
ment available, but also by the scarcity of raw materials and
the lack of industrial equipment to turn them into finished
products for replacement purposes. The cirest needs are for
rucoer, leather, and textile goods.
Several stens have been taken to cope with this sit-
uation. A conference among officials of General Headquarters,
Supreme Co..mander for the Allied Powers, of the Bureau of
Physical Ed cation in the Ministry of Education, of the Minis-
tries of Co.merce and Industry and of Forestry end Agriculture,
and of the Hides and Leather Control Union was hel on 12 Sep-
tember 1946 to discuss mettere pertaining to ethletic cquip-
ment for Japan for the followine 15 months of 124 and 1947.
At this conference, ficures givinr the cxact necis with re-
spect to the various types of athletic equipmcnt were pre-
sented, and questions concernin. priority for the importation
of scarce commodities, allocation of meterials o: hand in Japan,
and laoor and production capacity were discussed. Some sampics
of the type rna a..ount of equipment r p rted to se needed fol-
low:
Type of Equipment
Required
Type of Equ pment Required
Baseballs
3,774,000
Teinis balls
E,430,000
Eats
260,000
Tennis rackets
228,000
Gloves and mits
400,000
Tennis nets
50,000
Softballs
700,020
Bothina suits
2,096,000
Volleyballs
244,000
Horizontal :ars
100,000
Dodgeballs
220,000
Mots
100,000
Jasketballs
160,000
Gymnastic suits
1,000,000
Spiked track snoes
200,000
Skiis (pairs)
300,000
Hurdles
108,000
skippin ropes
1,000,200

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
DEVELOPHENT OF A NEW PHYSICAL ELUC TLON PROGRAM
In order to secure the maximum utilization of the
equipment on hand, new types of games have been introduoed
involving participation by the greatest number with a
modicum of equipment. ost notable among these is the game
"one-out ball," involvins elements of both basevall and ball
tag, introduced by Occupation officials. Another game in-
troduced with a similar objective is "goal-hi," which is a
type of oasketball reguiring only one basket. Several
teacher training courses in both of these games have been
conducted.
HEALTH FROGRAM
A program desinec to improve ssnitary conditions in
schools an? to reise the general health standarc of students
hes been undertaken by the Pureau of Physical Education. Its
most notable feature is the inauguration of a school lunch
program designed to supplement the meager ciet thet most
school chilcren throughout Japan are receiving at present.
This program has the support of several Japanese Govern-
mental a encies, Occupation afencies, enc LARA (Licensed
Agencies for Relief in Asia). Supplies are obtained from
the latter or anization, U. S. Army surplus stocks of canned
goods, Jaranese surplus military rations, school Eardens,
and other sources. Participatin: in the progren, which
consists in servin a cot dish on the average of twice a
week to each chilf who coes nat return hons for lunch, are
3,455 schoo1s in 195 cities with en attencance of 3,232,887
chilaren.
Ooservation of National Health and Hygiene Week in all
primary and aidcle schools throu hout Ja an was inaugurated
by the Eureau of Physlcal Educ: tion 1-20 February 1947, and
a school clean-up cempain was sponsored durine ma. l947.
In a dition to activities of this nature, a schecule of
regular physical examin tions an of imaunize tions and in-
oculstions is ocserved . most schools.
OVER-ALL SPORTS PROGRAM
The emphasis in the new physical treinins course is
laic upon active stucent particiration in sports and games
rather than on formal calisthenics. Intramurl matches have
been encouraged insteed of prefecturel or nationn. competitic
amons schools, and an attempt hes bach made to sutstitute
seasonal syorts programs rrovidine maximun participation
for the traditional encouragement of specialization in one

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
28
POSTWAR DEVELOPMENT IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION
sport and concentration by national sports associations on the
production of champions.
Western sports (baseball, football, volleyoall, tennis, etc.)
have become popular egain in the schools and pla: a prominent
part in physical training activities. There have been repeated
requests oy stucents for restorstion of certain elements of budo
to the school curriculum, especially at the university level, but
no action hes been taten on tris matter. Budo is not banned for
the general public, and continues to be practiced outside the
schnol εystem. The general opinion of students as foun? py in-
quiry, favors group sports, hovever, and predominently those of
Western orisin.
In the "eneral MacArthur Cup Competition neld in Osaka 29-31
August 1947 in tennis, soccer, and ping-pong, encourg sment was
iven to the principle of open competition as against the prac-
tice of many sports associations of limiting competition to men-
bers only. In ail, 30o participants received me als bearing
General MacArthur's picture.
Liaison is maintaine? oy the occupation of icials with the
followin major sports or eniza ions in order to uide their
development along Pemocratic lines: the Tippon Taiike Kai (Japan
Amateur Athletic Association), with 25 affilintes oranch organ-
izations throughout Japan; the Nipron Kosei Kyokai (Japar ec-
reatlon Associstion), which supervises the or snizntion of local
recreation units; the Taiiku Shisetsu Kelkaku Kyoi Kai (Recrea-
tion Areas Plannin: Co. ittee), with 50 memoers from the Welfare
Ministry, Ministr. of Home Affairs, Foreign Office, and Japan
Athletic Association, whicn advises on recreation arcas in city
planning; the Zenkoku Taiiku Joshi hidosha emmei (Mstion-wide
Women's Physical Dircctors Federation), organized to study prob-
lems coinected with women's physical education and to promote
the interests of instructors in this field; the Tok: o Uado Yogu
Dohyo Kumiai (Tokyo Sports upply Business League), comprising
manufacturers of sports equipment i. the Tok o Ar a an devoted
to the stuay of vario:s aspectc of the production of t  & equip-
ment; the Kanto merika Shukya Rem...ei (Kanto Anerican Football
League), organized to promota footeall ane composet mainly of
graduetes of American universities; the Nippon Kyuco Remmei
(Japan Archery League), oreanized for the purpost o? romoting
archery; the Tokyo Kvudo Remmei (Tokyo Archery Lea ue), similar
in purpose to the pi ecedins oreanization and composce of well-
to-do business men; the Fippon Orimpiku Iinkai (Japan Ol mpic
Committee), now concerned with Janan's admittance nto the 1952
Olympic games; and the Tokyo Kinro Taiiku Re..mei (Tok:o Laborers'
Physical Training Pociety), orranized to provide phyeical recrea-
tion for workers in l50 af iliated factories.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
Chapter 4
CONCLUSION
Major accomplishments in the reconstruction of the
physical education program alons democratic lines since the
termination of the war may be summarized as follows:
1. Elements of a militaristic or ultranetionalistic
nature have been eliminated from the curriculum.
2. Teachers and physicel education leaders have been
screened, and former advocates of militarism or ultranational-
ism'purged.
3. A new Euice for physical education teaccers, out-
linins in detail  ccmocratic physical ecucation program, has
been compiled and distributed, supplemented by hancbooks on
specific features of the progran.
4. Many conferences on physical education have been con-
Cucted throughout Japan in accordance with democratic procedure:
at wnich various features of the new program have been dis-
cussed and explained.
5. A series of short courses for teachers and physical
elucat on officials has been orga.izet to orient them in all
features of the new ph sical education course.
3. Steps have been taken to decentralize the control
of the Bureau of Physicrl Edccation of the Ministry of Ed-
ucation and to set it up as an advisory body, granting au-
tonomy anc initiative at the local level.
7. A heelth pro pom has been put into operation, in-
cluding a school lunch program, an immunization and inocu-
lation program, cna a drive to iaprove sanitar: conditions.
8. Steps have bean taken to secure a sreatur allocation
of Japanese rubber, leather, and textile goods for the manu-
facture of athletic equipment, and to lay the groundwork for
the importation into Janen of raw materials needed for this
manufacture.
-29-

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
30
POSTWAR LEVELOPLENT IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION
9. New  ames desi nec to afford the largest possible par-
ticipation with a small amount of equipment have been devised.
10. An attempt has been made to guide sports organizations
to concentrete on group particioetion, rather than specialization
and the treinin of chamnions, and to encourage the principle
of open coccetition.
11. An intramural sports program has been introduced into
schools as a substitute for prefectural and national competition.
The problems which have been solved only partially, or
1
which vill require attention in the future, are the following:
1. There is still a sreat need for more equipment and
octter facilitics.
2. Althouen a begin in: has been made in raising sanitary
standards, a srent ceal more still remains to be done.
3. The pre r . of health examinations and immunizations
is nandicapred by a lack of nedical supplies and of school doc-
tors and nurses.
4. more ettention necds to be paid to the teacner-training
program in physical elucation, especially with respect to im-
provin: the course of study in normal schools.
5. Conti ued emphasis must ce laic on trends already in-
suaurated nd en furth r uicence and surveillance of the general
roram.
The future pl ns of the fur au of Physicel E ucation in-
clude the compilation durin 1943 of courses of stud: for all
levels of the sonool system, based upon the 6-3-3 plan. This
will asslst material y in suppleme tins the prese  Guide to
Physical Educatiol..
1. Based u on rians bein formulat a by the Supreme Commander
of the Allicd Tovers, Civil Informetion and Ilucstion
Sectior..

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix A
A DESCRIPTION OF BUDO(MILIT.RY ARTS) ELIMINTED
FROM THE SCHOOL PHYSICAL EDUC..TION PROGRAM
Judo
The principle of judo lies in utilizing the strength of one's
opponent by turning it against him. This usually is accomplished in
one of several ways: by tripping him and hurling him to the ground,
using his own momentun; by kicking him in a vulnerable spot; by pushing
him off bilance; or by holding hin down on the ground through appli-
cation of pressure to various parts of the body. The science of judo
includes methods of throttling an opponent and of disjointing his bones.
The pr ctice of the art requires a great deal of alacrity, grace, and
mental alertness. Contestants wear jackets and trousers made of cotton
and no shoes. Fach is accorded a rank according to his proficiency.1
Kendo
"In fencing bouts each contestant wears a face-guard, a plastron to,
cover the trunk, and gauntlets to protect the arms and hands. Swords
made of four benboo strips four feot four inches long, of which the
leather-covered handles are one foot three inches long, are used in-
stead of real swerds, and are held by both hands, five inches apart.
In making a slash, one aims at the face (front or side), the trunk, or
the arms; in making ? thrust, at the throat of one's opponent. Vhen
either contestant is hit in any one of these places, he is considered
beaten. A match consists of three contests, the winner of two of them
being the victor. Mere skill in hitting an antagonist is not prized
so much as are exhibitions of coolness, presence of mind, nd the few
openings offered--which are characteristic of the attack and defense
of en ccemplished funcer."2
Kyudo
This art is similar to archery as it is known to the West. The
principle involved is the hitting of a target squarely from a correct
posture,and for this purpose a bow generally made of bamboo, 7.20 meters
1. Based upon the account in Degaris, Frederic: We Japanese, Vol. I,p.87
2. Ibid., p. 85.
31

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
32
POST WAR DEVELOPIENTS IN PHYSICAL EDUC.TION
in length, is employed. arrows also are made of bamboo, usually 90
centimeters long, with three feathers at the end. The arrow is
affixed to the bow string at a point some 80 centineters below the
center of the bow. There are three standard lengths for ranges. The
scoring method employed is to grant a point for cach t rget hit. The
assumption of a graceful posture when shooting is stressed. Rank is
accorded by proficiency.3
Naginata
The "naginata" or "halberd" is made of weod and consists of a handle
like a quarter staff, topped by a lightly curved blade about 30 centimeters
in length. The entire instrument in an upright position st nds about 15
centimeters higher than the average woman or girl vho uses it. It is
gripped by both hands, and, in a preliminary stance, is held either above
the head, at elbow level, or at the feet. The movement consists of up-
ward and downward swinging metions; slashes, aimed either at the head,
arms, trunk, or legs; and thrusts. Face guards and other protective armor
ordinarily are not worn. Naginata exorcises usually are performed by
a group, with concentr tion upon the acguisition of good form in the
art of manipulating th- instrument. Two girls sometinmes face each other
and perform alternate att cking and defensive movuments, but matches, as
such, seldom are held.4
3. Based upon an account in the files of the Education Office, Education
Division, Civil Inform tion and Education Suction, SCAP.
4. Based upon an account given in an interview with YAlinDi, Mitsu, Secre-
 tary, Physical Education Section, Bureau of Physical Educaticn, Jinis-
try ef Education.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix B
THE ORGANIZATION OF THE BUREAU OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, 1947
The Bureau is divided into four sections: the Physical Educaticn
Section, Athletics and Sports Promotion Section, School Hygiene Section,
and Student Welfare Section, whose functions are as follows:
PHYSICAL EDUC.TION SCTION
(1) Sponsorship of meetings, short courses, matches, and other
physical training activities
(2)
Liaison with physical education organizations, prefectural
governments, and schools
(3) Investigation and research in school physical education
(4) Performance of administrative functions for the Bureau as a whole
ATHLITICS AND SPORTS PROMOTION SECTION
(1) Investigation and research in nonschool physical education
(2)
Reorientation of budo teachers and the collection and preser-
vation of data concerning budo
(3) Investigation and research on physical training facilities
(4)
Liaison with the Ministry of Conmerce and Industry concerning
allocation of material for production of physical training
and sports equipment
(5)
Distribution of equipment to physical education organizations
and prefectural governments
(6)
Liaison with the Nippon Taiiku Kai (Japan Amateur Athletic
Association)
SCHOOL HYGIENE SCTION
(1) Investigation and recommendations concerning school lunches
and nutrition
33

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
34
POST WAR DEVELOPMENTS IN PHYSIC.L EDUCATION
(2)
Studies of students' health
(3)
Investigation and recommendations concerning the hygienic condition
of school equipment and facilities
(4)
Establishment of special classes for physically iandicapped children
(5)
Investigation and recommendations concerning the school dental
hygiene program
(6)
Surveys of teachers' health conditions and encouragement of the
establishment of sanitariums for teachers
(7) Liaison with schocl nurse training institutions
STUDENT TELFARE SECTION
(1) Studies on problems concerning students' welfare
(2) Investigation and collection of data on living conditions of students
(3) Sponsorship of conferences on problems related to students' welfare
(4) Supervision and leadership of students' welfare organizations
(5)
Encouragement of the estaclishment of school farms
(6) Encouragement of the establishment of students' dormitories

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix C
A LIST OF CONFERENCES ON PHYSICAL EDUCATION HELD
SINCE THE TERMINATION OF THE WAR
Pre-
Conferences
Place
Date
sent
Round-Table Conference Concerning
Ministry of
29 Sep
30
the Promotion of Students' Physi-
Education
1945
cal Education and Athletic Sports
Conference of Local Government Sec-
Tokyo Women's
6 Ncv
60
retaries in Charge of Physical Edu-
Higher lormal
1945
cation
School
Conference of Student Deans of All
Tokyo
9 Nov
200
Japanese Universities, lligher Schools,
1945
and Colleges in Their Districts Con-
cerning Physical Education (for Kanto
and Shin-etsu district schools)
Conference of Student Deans of All
Kanazawa
12 Nov
60
Japanese Universities, Higher Schools,
1945
and Colleges in Their Districts Con-
cerning Physical Education (for
Tokai and Hokuriku district schools)
Conference of Student Deans of All
Fukushima
15 Nov
40
Japanese Universities, Higher Schools,
1945
and Colleges in Their Districts Con-
cerning Physical Education (for
Tohoku and Fokkaido district schools)
Conference of Student Deans of All
Kyoto
16 Nov
120
Japanese Universities, Higher Schools,
1945
and Colleges in Their Districts Con-
cerning Physical Education (for Kinki,
Chugoku and Shikoku district schools)
Conference of Student Deans of ill
Saga
21 Nov
40
Jananese Universities, Higher Schools,
1945
and Colleges in Their Districts Con-
cerningPhysical Education (for Kyushu
district schools)
35

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
36
LIST OF CONFERENCES ON PHYSIC.L EDUC..TION
Pre-
Conferences
Place
Date
sent
Conference of Principals of Physical
Tokyo
7 Dce
10
Education Teachers Training Schools
1945
Concerning Physical Education
Conference Concerning Athletic
Tokyo
23 Feb
30
Equipment
1946
Conference of Baseball Department
inistr" of
-15 Apr
20
Directors of Universities in Tokyo
Education
1946
Round-Table Conference Concerning
Kyoto Imperial
18 pr
200
School Physical Education and the
University
1946
Organization of the Physical Educa-
tion League of Students' .ssociations
According to the Type of School
Conference of Baseball Department
Kyoto Imperial
21 apr
20
Directors of Universities in the
University
1946
Kansai Districts
Round-Table Conference Concerning the
Kishi's Cym-
13 May
30
Organization of the University Stu-
nasium, rokyo
1946
dents' Associations Physical Educa-
tion League in Tokyo
Round-Table Conference oncerning the
Bshi's Ga
14 y
20
Organization of the Physical Educa-
na siur, Tolyo
1946
tion League of Women's Collego Stu-
dents' Associations
Round-Table Conference Concernine the
TokyoImperial
16 May
30
Organization of the Physical Education
University
1946
League f Tokyo-ku District Higher
School and College Students' Associa-
tions
Second Conference on Students' Base-
Kishi's Gym-
17 May
30
ball
nasium,Tokyo
1346
Round-Table Conference Concerning the
Kyoto Imperial 20 May
30
Organization of the Physical Educ tion
University
1946
League of the Kansai District Higher
Schools and Colleges
Round-Table Conference Conccrning the
Kyoto Imperial 22 ay
30
Organization of the Physical Educ tion
University
1946
League of the Kyushu District Higher
School and College Students' Associa-
tions.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
37
Appendix
Pre-
Conferences
Place
Date
sent
Conference on the Organization of
Tokye
28 May
30
Tokyo Covornment offaofals Phyaicht-
1946
Educiation Lenguo
Conference of Local Government Sec-
Tokyo Women's
3-5 Jun
60
retaries in Charge of Physical Edu-
Higher Normal
1946
cation
School
Conference Concerning University,
Tokyo Women's
7-8 Jun
Higher School, and College Physi-
Higher Normal
1946
cal Education
School
Conference of Personnel in Charge
Tokyo
17 Jun
12
of Physical Education in War-Damaged
1946
Cities and Towns
Conference of Personnel in C.arge
Ogaki City,
23 Jun
16
of Physical Education in War-Damaged
ifu Prefecture 1946
Cities and Towns
Conference of Personnel in Charge
Kyoto
28 Jun
17
of Phvsical Education in War-Damaged
1946
Cities and Towns
Conference of Personnel in Charge .
Ikeda-machi,
2 Jul
10
of Physical Fducation in War-Damaged
Tokushima
1946
Cities and Towns
Prefecture
Conference of Personnel in Charge
Konko-machi,
6 Jul
13
of Physical Education in War-Damaged
Okayama
1946
Cities and Towns
Prefecture
Conference of Personnel in Charge
Hinaku-machi,
11 Jul
12
of Physical Education in War-Damaged
Kumamoto
1946
Cities an. Towns
Prefecture
Conference of Local Government
Ministry of
16-17 Jul 15
Secretaries in Charge of Physical
Education
1946
Educ:tion Representing Their Districts
Conference Concerning Students'
inistry of
9-10 Jul
na
Aid in Increasing Production
Education
1946
Round-Table Conference of Leaders
Tokyo Metro-
23 Jul
50
of Women's Physical Educ tion
politan 6th
1946
Girls High
School
na Not avoilable

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
38
LIST OF CONFCR NC S ON PHYSIC.L EDUC.TION
Pre-
Conferences
Place
Date
sent
Round-Table Cunference Concerning
Kishi's Cym-
14 Aug
30
the Establishnent of an Organiza-
nasiun, Tokyo
1946
tion for Conferences to Discuss
Students' Baseball (for Kanto
District)
Round-Table Conference Concerning
Nishinomiya
16 ug
30
the Establishment of an Organization
Base-ball
1946
forConferences to Discuss Students'
ground, Hyogo
Baseball (for Kansai District)
Frefecture
Round-Tabl: Conference concerning the
Orito arls'
26 Aug
60
Establishment of an Organization For
High School,... .1946
Conferences to Di scuss Students'
Izu, Shizuoka
Baseball (for all Japan)
Prefecture
Conference of School Fhysical Educa-
Ministry of
20 Sep
60
tion Re search Conmittee
Education 'and u 29 Oct
Tokyo Women's
1946
Normal School
Conference Concerning School
Vinistry of
Uygiene Work
Education
26-27 Sep
61
1946
Confcrence Concerning Judo and Kendo
liinistry of
19 Nov
23
Education
1946
Conference Concerning School Lunches
Ministry of
3-4 Dec
53
Education
1946
Conference Concerning the Use of
inistry of
18 Dec
15
Newspapers as Rel: ted to th: Promo-
Sducation
1946
tion of Socil .hysical Education
Conference of Chiefs of Welfare
inistry of
22-23 Jan
na
Sections of Government and Public
Education
1947
Universities, Higher Schools, Col-
loges, and Teacher Training Schools
(for Kanto Districts)
Conference of Chiefs of Welfare Sec-
Kyoto Imperial
27-28 Jan
na
tions of Government ind Public Uni-
University
1947
versitics, Higher Schools, Colleges,
and Toacher Training Schools
(for Kinki Districts)

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
appendix
C
39
Pre-
Conferences
Place
Date
sent
Conference of Chiefs of Welfare Ses-
Yanaguchi Col-
3-4 Feb
na
tions of Government and Public Uni-
legc of Econo-
1947
versities, Higher Schools, Colleges,
mics, Yamaguchi
and Teacher Training Schools
Prefecture
(for Chugoku and Shikoku düstricts)
Conference of Chiefs of Welfare Sac-
Kumamoto
12-13 Feb
na
tions of Government and Public Uni-
University
1947
versities, Higher Schools, Colleges,
of Medicine
and Teacher Training Schools
(for Kyushu)
Conference of Chiefs of Welfare Sec-
Morioka
27-28 Feb
na
tions of Government and Public Uni-
College of
1947
versities,Higher Schools, Colleges,
Agriculture
and Teacher Training Schools
(for Hokkido and Tohoku districts)
Conference Concerning the Use of
Ministryof
14 Feb
na
Radio for the Promotion of Social
Education
1947
Physical Education
Conference Concorning the Matter of
Tokyo Mctro-
15-16 Feb
24
Teachers' Sanitariums
politan Hygiene 1947
Education Rc-
search Insti-
tute, Ito-
machi, Shizuoka
Prefeeture
Conference of Local Government
Ministry of
25-28 Feb
60
Secretaries in Charge of Physical
Educ tion
1947
Education
First Conference Concerning the
Ministry of
24ar
na
Industrilization of Faney Works
Education
1947
Manufacture
Conference Concerning the Use of
Ministry of
6 Mar
12
Moving Pictures for the Promotion
Education
1947
of Social Physical Educat on
'reliminary Conference on the Facili-
Ministry ci
7 ar
15
tation of Recreation
Education
1947

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
40
LIST OF CONFERENCES ON PHYSICAL EDUCATION
Pre-
Conferences
Place
Date
sent
Preliminary Conference on the Facili-
Ministry of
20 Mar
18
tation of Recreation
Education
1947
Round-Table Conference for Research
Yawata City,
14-15 uar
40
on Physical Education in Working
1947
Establishments
Round-Table Conference for Research
Nagasaki City, 17-18 Mar
38
on Physical Education in Working
Nagasaki Pre- 1947
Establishments
fecture
Round-Table Conference for Research
Mihara City,
21-22 Mar
30
on Physical Education in Working
Hiroshima
1947
Establishments
Prefecture
Round-Table Corference for Research
Osaka
24-25 Mar
40
on Physical Education in Working
1947
Establishments
Round-Table Conference for Research
Kanazawa
27-28 Mar
70
on Physical Education in Working
Ishikawa Pre- 1947
Establishments
fecture
Second Conference Concerning the
Ministry of
24 Apr
na
Industrialization of Fany Works
Education
1947
Manufacture
Conference on Recreution for All
Tokyo Women's
8-10 May
70
Japan
Higher Normal
1947
School
Third ConferenceConcerning the
Ministry of
24 May
na
Industrialization of Fancy Works
Education
1947
Manufacture
Conference Concerning School Hygiene
Ministry of
28-29 May
87
Education
1947
Round-Table Conference Concerning
Ministry of
29 May
20
Students' Boxing
Education
1947
Round-Table Conference Concerning
inistry of
3 Jun
15
Participation in the Clympic Games
Education
1947

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix
C
Pre-
Conferences
Place
Date
sent
Round-Table Conference Concerning
Bnistry of
23 Jun
12
the Second Students' Boxing
Education
1947
Fourth Conference Concerning the
Ministry of
-30 Jun
na
Industrialization of Fancy orks
Education
1947
Manufacture
Conference of Local Secretaries in : . Ministry of
7-8 Jul
46
Charge of Physical duc:tion for
Education
1947
All Japan
Fifth Conference Concerning the
Ministry of
2. hug
na
Industrialization of Fancy Works
Education
1947
Manufacture
Conference Concerning chool
Ministry of
25-26 Aug
46
Lunches
Education
1947
Sixth Conference Concerning the
Ministry of
30 Aug
12
Industrialization of Fancy Works
Education
1947
Manufacture
Cunference Concerning Students' Aid
Ministry of
18 Se
60
Education
1947
Conference Concerning Students' Aid
Sendai
22 Sep
50
Conference Concerming Student's Aid
Spporo
25. scp
50
Conference Concerning Students' Aid
Nagoya
30 Sep
na
Seventh Conference Concerning the
Ministry of
30 Sep
12
Industrialization of Fancy "orks
Education
1947
Manufacture

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
SOURCES
Bibliography
Civil Information and Education Section, Supreme Commander for Allied
Powers, A History of Fhysical Education and Sports in Japan, Un-
published re ort, SN-121-RM-C, 29 July 1946, 35 pp.
Civil Information and Educ tion Section, Supreme Commander for Allied
Powers, Physical Education Jonferences Held During the Month of
July, unpublishod report, srt- 141-aR-A, 30 August 1946, 13 pp.
Civil Information and Education Section, Supreme Commander for:Allied
Powers, Recent Physical Education Conferences, unpublished
report, SN-115-RM-C, 26 June 1946, 24 pp.
De Garis, Frederic, We Japanese, Volume I, Yamagata Fress, Yokohama,
1934, pp. 85-87.
Guide to Physical Education, compiled by the Ministry of Edueation,
1 April 1947, 37 pp.
Instructions Issued by Bureaus in the Ministry of Education:
"National Elementary School Ordinance," Imuerial Ordinance No. 348,
1 March 1941.
"The Handling of Various Directives Concerning Student ilitary
Drill, Wartine Physical Education, School Anti-Air Raid
Measures, etc.," Bureau of Student Mobilization: Hatsu Do No.
20, 24 August 1945.
"Concerning School Educntion in the New Situation," Bureau of
Physical Education: Hatsu Koku No. 184, 12 September 1945.
"The Handling of Postwar Courses in Physical Education," Bureau
of Physical Education: Hatsu Tai No. 80, 6 November 1945.
"Concerning the Effective Discharge of Business Concerning the
School Phvsical Training Course," Bureau of Physical Education:
Hatsu Tai No. 100, 26 December 1945.
"Concerning Practice of Social Physical Training," Bureau of
Physical Education: Hatsu Tai No. 95, 25 August 1946.
Notification from the Vicoinister of Educntion and Welfare,
Concerning Denobilization," 16 August 1945.
42

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
SOURCES
"Potsdam Declaration," signed by representatives of the United Stetes,
the United Kingdom, and China, Potsdam, Germany, 26 July 1945.
Press Release Issued by the sinistry of Education, 11 September 1945.
Records and reports in the files of the Physical Education Office
Education Division, Civil Information and Education Section,
Supreme Commander for Allied Fowers,
Report of th  United States Education Mission to Japan, submitted
to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, Tokyo, 30 arch
1946, 69 pp.
Supreme Commander for Allied Powers, Directive No. 178, "Administration
of the Educational System of Japan," issued to the Imperial
Japanese Government through the Central Liaison Office, 22 Ostober
1945.
Conferences
Norviel, John W., ajor, Fhysical Educution Officer, Education
Division, Civil Information and Educetion Section, Supreme
Commander for Allied Pewers, 29 Sertonber 1947.
YAMADA, Mitsu, Secret ry, Physical Education Suction, Bureau of
Physical Educ tion, Ministry of Educ tion, 10 October 1947.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Fil
No.255
Tokyo, May 1, 1948.
NCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: Transmittal of Report - Foreign Students in Japan 1896-1947.
R
4201005.E
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to tranamit herewith
two copies of a special report issued on April 20, 1948 by the Analysis
and Research Division of the Civil Information and Education Section of
this Headquarters, entitled Foreign Students in Japan - 1896-1947.
This report is a useful compilation of valuable information on the
subject, and is divided into chapters as follows:
O1E
The Chinese
The Colonials
The International Students Institute
FE
Students During the War and Postwar Periods
0
Chinese students constituted a decided majority in the community of
students from abroad. Colonial students polled next largest. Students
DCR
from Southeast Asia are included in the chapter under the International
Students Institute, founded in 1935, the principle aim of which was to
attract students from that area. The number of students from Western
countries was small, except for some 3000 persons of Japanese race born
abroad.
CS/A
STATE
31
ANCH
Enclosure:
Two copips of Foreign Students
C
OEPEN
Japan896-1947, dated Apr11
1948
FAC
MAY 19 1948
FILHD
Origina and ozalid to Department
842
JDEdwards:cs
UNC

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
Enddoeure to hleapatele no.20
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information end Educetion Srction
Analysis and Rrscarch Division
F O R E I G N
S T U D E N T S I N
JAPAN
1896-1947
Spccial R-port Prcpared by
Education Rescarch Branch
Rcscerch Unit
AR-3C7-E-E-2
20 April 1948

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADCUARTERS
SUPREIE CCITIANDER FOR THE ALLIED PO ERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
SPECIAL REPORT
SERIAL LUBER
AR-307-E-E-2
20 April 1948
TITLE
Foreign Students in Japan, 1896-1947
PREPARED BY
Education Research Branch, Research Unit
DATES OF STUDY
11 Septerber to 12 Tovember, 1947
CONTENTS
Page
Intrcduction
iii
Chapter
1
The Chinese
1
2
The Colonials
7
3
The International Students Institute
10
4
Students During the Yar ond Postwar Periods
16
Appendix
A
Tebles
21
B
Constitution of the Internationel Students
31
Institute
C
Crdinance of 1901 Coverning Adnission of
36
Foreign Students into Japanese Schools
Bibliography
38
Confererces
41
List of Tables in Appendix A
42

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
INTRODUCTION
PURPCSE
This report is designed to present in concise form a
historical summary of the education of foreign students in
Japan since 1&g6, with a description of their status, the
agencies encouraging their study in Japan, and the policies
underlying the Government progrem in reletion to the educetion
of foreign students, so thet interested egencies mey under-
stand the place that the non-Japanese student has occupied
in the Japanese educational system.
SCOFE
Embrecing the period between l896 and 1947, this report
purports to record the s=lient festures of the history of
foreien students in Jepen according to their nationel group-
ings. Space elso is devoted, necessarily, to a consideration
of the International Students Institute, the agency most
seriously anc most exclusively interested in foreign students
in Jepan.
A study of foreign students in Japan directs one's at-
tention almost exclusively to the Chinese, whc constituted
the deciced mejority in the community of students from pbroad.
In addition to the chapter on Chinese students, a sec-
tion has been devoted to a discussion of students from Jepan's
former colonies of Yoree and Formosa. From a legal point of
view, the coloniels were Japanese nationals, but their cul-
tural and racial differences made them foreigners. The sep-
aretion of Korea and Formosa from Jepan efter the war left
the erstwhile colonials in the status of foreigners.
The reletively small number of students from Southeast
Asia made consideration according to national groups im-
practical. They ere discussed in the chapter on the Inter-
netional Students Institute, the agency which sought pertic-
ularly to attract Southeast Asia students.
Exclusive of Nisei, the number of students from Western
countries was so small that an extended study of this group
iii

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
FORFIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
appeared to be unprofitable. The visei who pursued their
studies in Japan numbered 3,Oco, according to en estimate
besed on recollection by a Foreign Vinistry officiel. The
lack of edequate records in the Linistry of Foreign Affeirs
end in the Ministry of Education made it impossible to in-
clude ? discussion of Nisei students in this report.*
No distinction was made by Japanese officiels between
undergreduate nd greduete students holding fellowships with
reseerch foundptions. The mejority of the Caucesien students
belonged to the latter class, while those from East Asia
(Chinese, Annemese, etc.) were generally undergraduetes.
SOURCES OF TATA
Except for the prospectuses and magazine erticles of
the International Students Inetitute, there is very little
published material on foreign students. Informetion for this
record was gethered largely through conferences end through
replies to questionn=ires submitted to verious student groups
and officiels of the Ministries of Foreign Affeirs end of
Educetion.
EVALUATION OF PATA
The lack of contemporary written matter concerning the
early years of the influx of foreipn students into Japen
made it necessary to rely on the memories nd impressions of
officials in the Ministries of Educetion nd Foreign Affairs
and of former students who were still eccessible. Since
1935, however, the Internetionel Students Tnstitute, through
its prospectuses and occasionel megazine articles, hps made
it possible to follow the history of foreign students with
greater detail and eccuracy. Tata secured from these sources
are approximetions. This fact becomes evident from en exem-
inetion of the statisticel data, which are marked by egre-
gious inconsistencies. Lata supplied by the various student
groups ere of interest insofer as they illustrate their et-
titudes toward their hosts and as they reflect student life
during and ofter the wer.
Conference: FUKUOKA, Akira, counsellor, Treaty Section,
Ministry of Foreign Affeirs, 10 January 1948.
iv

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
INTRODUCTION
SUMARY
The influx of foreign students into Japan dates from
Jepan's victory over Chin? and the subsequent annexation of
Formose in 1895, and from the victory over Russia in 1905.
The Japanese and Chinese governments mede limited arrange-
ments in 19c8 to expand facilities for Chinese students,
The student populetion decreased at the time of World Wer
I, and egain with the Menchurien Incident of 1931, but the
subsequent establishment of the puppet Manchukuo Government
renewed the inflow of Chinese. The expending influence of
Japen in North Chins efter 1937, with the concomitent grent-
ing of scholarships, increased the number of visiting stu-
dents from North and Central China. In 1935 the Japanese
Government sponsored the International Students Institute
to encourge the immigration of students from sections of
:sia other then Chine. This institute guided the smell
number of students from Southeast Asia who were invited to
study in Japan after the Japanese Army had established con-
trol over their homelands.
Turing the war, all foreign students were subjected to
rigid police supervision. Korerns nd Formosans complained
of discrimination. After the surrender of Jepen, most of
the Southeast Asia students went home, and Japan's project
of extencing its cultural influence virtually wes reduced
to nothing.
At the end of 1947, a handful of Siamese and Indone-
sians and & few hundred Chinese, Formosan, and Foreen stu-
dents continued their studies in the fece of greet economic
difficulties, perhaps motiveted by a desire to complete
their school work, end possibly influenced by disturbed
conditions at home to live in  politically stable Japen.
Notwithstanding the unfavorable economic conditions, some
Japanese have expressed hopes that their universities egain
will receive foreign students in the near future.*
"Preparing for Foreign Students," Editorial, Nippon
Times, 22 Cctober 1947.
V

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter 1
TLE CHINESE
The appearance of foreign students in Japan in appre-
ciable numbers seems to have been concomitant with Japan's
emergence as a modern power. The successful war with China
in 1894-95 not only establishet Japen's militery position;
it jolted the Orient into an awareness of the necessity for
acquiring Occicental techniques.1 China, the defested na-
tion, manifested the greatest interest. In 1896, the Chi-
nese Covernment dispatched a group of students to pursue
modern studies in Japen.2
The most marked increase in the number of foreign
students--&lmost exclusively Chinese--followed the Japenese
victory over Russie in 1905. Indeed, the number of Chinese
students in Japen in 19c6 has been estimated veriously at
10,0003 to 20,000.4
There were a number of other factors which contributed
to making Japan the favored seat for Western learning. The
relative similarity between the cultures of China and Jepan
served to make edjustment eesier for the Chinese in Jepen
than in Europe or in Americs. Geographic propinquity end a
favorable exchange rate combined to meke Japen economically
attractive to students. The common use of Chinese ideo-
graphs helped to bridge the language gap.5
The Jepenese Government seemingly enticipated the con-
tinued influx of foreign students. As early as 1900, en
1. FUOTo, Yesutaka, Chief, Education Section, Centrel
Liison Office, Foreign Ministry, Personal Opinions
About Foreign Students, 29 September 1947.
2.
Ibid.
3.
Tbid.
4.
MIYAZAKI, Shinro, Director of the Internetional Students
Institute, "Report," 13 September 1946.
5.
MUKAI, Eiichi, Assistant Director, Depsrtment of School
Affoirs, Keio University, "Reply to a Questionnsire on
Foreien Students," 25 September 1947.
-1-

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
2
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
ord:ce was issued to regulate the metriculation of foreign-
ers
schools under the direct control of the Ministry of Ed-
HEA
uca
In l90l the ordinance wes slightly revised. It stip-
FO
ula
that foreigners desirous of study in Japan would be re-
qui
en
to have recommendetions from the "Foreign Office, Jepa-
Rc
nes
ssions ebroad, or foreign missions in this country."6
1 l908, the governments of Japan end China entered into
en
eement to facilitate thc ecjustment of Chinese students
to
anese university life. Study facilities were "reserved
for
Inese in es many as five Japanese higher educetionel in-
sti
ions enjoying the highcst reputation of the dey."7 The
nam
of the schools were indicative of the ecademic interests
amo
the Chinese. They were the First Higher School, Kurameye
Indp Friel College, Chibe Medical College, Yemeguchi Commercial
Col
ot all Chinese students were Government-sponsored or
96-
Gov
ment-supported. Many of them came at their own expense.
The
ck of edequate facilitis for the grcat numbers of stu-
der
who came efter the Russo-Jepanese War militeted against
the
echieving the optimum in their studies. "Nost of them
sta
in Tokyo and entered those cheap, private universities
in
da end its vicinity."9 The Japanese authorities did not
acc
lodate them in appropriate quarters such as wcre common
to
Government-maintsined universities, "or...cxtend any as-
si
ice beyond the berest minimum."10 As a consequence, many
Ch:
e were obliged to live in the less reputable boaraing
ho
i, which constituted en environment not conducive to study.1l
On
jurce goes so far as to sav that "most of the students
ra:
I ettended clesses or lrctures but idled about the board-
in
uses."12
in the schools controlled by the Ministry of Fducetion,
st
its fered better. For example, the First Wigher School,
wh
had received Chinese students as carly es 1899, mede
sp
al arrangements for students from abroad after the Japa-
6.
Regulstions Concerning the Speciel Admission of Foreign
Students to Schools Under the Tirect Control of the Min-
istry of Education," Ministry of Education Ordinence No.
por 15, 11 November 1901. Sre Appendix C.
7. Ro UMoTo, Yesutaka, op. cit.
8.cerbid.
9.
bid.
1C
bid.
1r
IYAZAKI, Shinro, oF. cit.
Also FUMOTo, Yasutaka, op. cit.
12
UMOTO, Yasutaks, op. cit.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.96)
THE CHINESE
3
nese-Chines- student agrcement of loc?. A one-year prepera-
tory course was crganiz d for the purposc.of cducating Chi-
nose students in fundamentels before they cmberked on the
reguler curriculum. In the succeeding 25 years, nearly l,c00
Chinese students were gredueted from this preparetory course.
The school extended the preperatory course to thre: years in
1932, becaus? thr records of students sometimes reveeled that
the lineuistic difficulty cruld not be surmounted in one yeer's
study. Students of the First ighor School lived in corm-
itories with their Japanesc classmatcs end specialized in
the scirnces and literature. Craduates of this school gn-
rolly srcured admission to th most outstanding educetionel
institution, the Tokyo Imperial University.13
But the circumstances surrounding the life of the Chi-
nisc, in thc main, rcfl-cted unfavorebly uoon them. Thr in-
difference and even contempt of the Jepancse for the Chinese
brrd ill will between thc two.14 A number of Japanese, who
fearcd the "inimicel effect upon the future rclations be-
twren thes tro countrics which bad treatment eccorded to
Chincs would inevitably invite, tricd hord to give students
good accommodations and adcquate guidance in their studics
or in their daily life."15 This attitude was wcll excm-
plified when thc Chinesc Republican Revolution occurred in
i9ll. The resultant disruption of communication lrft meny
Chineso studonts finencialiy stranded. Japancse business-
men thercupon reised a spccial fund to rclieve thcir dis-
tress. The surplus remaining after this cmcrgcncy hed pass-
cd wes used in 1918 to organizc the Nikka Kyokai (Japen-
China Association) with th- aim of xpanding study fecili-
tics end promctine the mclfarc of Chinos: students. (The
Nikks Kyokai function-d until 1045).16
The rapid influx of Chinesc after thc Russo-Japenese
Wer reeched its prak in l908. In the following yeer the
student population sherply decrrascd to 5,ooo. "The dc-
crrase...may be attributed pertly to the worsenrd ciplomatic
r letions (botwoon Chine and Japon) and partly to the greduel
development of cducetion in Chins."17 A slight downwerd
13.
FUOTO, Yesutaka, op. cit.
14.
IYAZAKI, Shinro, p. cif. Also FU OTO, Yasutake, or. cit.
15.
Thid.
1
MIYAZAKI, Shinro, on. cit.
17.
Ib1d.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
4
FOREICN STUTENTS IN JAPAN
trend continued.
Thc Chincsc Rcvolution of 19ll and its eftermeth did not
affect matorially the numbcr of incoming students.
Jepan submitted thr famous Twenty-One Dcmands to China in
1915. The rescntm-nt thus incurrrd among the Chinosc end the
cnlergcd opportunity for study in Wcstern countrics combined to
reduce th forrien student population.18 Noverthclcss, it wes
estimatrd that somr 2,0oc students wrre attending Jepanest
schools ennually until the Manchurian Incidont in 1931.19 The
esteblishment of thc puppct state of Manchukuo, however, egain
increased the numbor of Chincsr.
In 1935, nearly 5,000 foreigners werc nrolled. Onc yeer
lator, the numbrr approached 7,ooo?0 Presumably, Manchurie
scnt a greater number of young mon to Japan then previously.
Evon Mongoli= which had hitherto becn quitr remote, political-
ly speaking, began to send studonts when the Japenesc Army im-
pingcd on its border.21 Manchurian and Mongolien students as-
sert thet shortly after thc occupation of the Menchu-Mongol arca
thr Jepan se euthorities initiatcd "all sorts of propegenda"22
to ncouragc thom to study in Japan. "The mejority of them came
at the invitation of thc Japanes authoritirs."23
Officially invited students "were granted fixed monthly
allowanccs by the puppct Manchukuan end Hongolien Governmcnts.
The Japanesc Govcrnment paid nothing. A foundetion celled the
Ikuci Kai (Educetional Institutr) grantcd scholarships to stu-
dents other then thosc above mentionrd.24 After 1942, Menchu-
rian and Mongolien students ceme at the behest of thc newly
organized Grcatrr East Asia Ministry, which concern:d itself
with promoting Japanesc intrcsts on th: continent. Ostensibly,
this Ministry providcd money for th- students, but in actuelity,
if th: opinions of Manchurien and Mongolian students ere to be
accepted, thr pupprt governmints wrre prrssrd by the Jepenese
to defrey the costs of the scholarships.25
18.
FUMOTO, Yasutaka, op. cit.
19.
Ibid.
20.
The Forcign Affairs Association of Jepen, The Jepen Year
Book, 1940-41, p. 675.
21.
"Rrply to a Qucstionnaire Submitted to Hongolian and Mrn-
churien Students," 2 0ctober 1947.
22.
Ibid.
23.
Ibid.
24.
Ibid.
25.
Ibid.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
THE CHINESE
Thc puppt Manchukuen Govcrnment also contributed money
for thc maintenance of student hostols in Japen. In 1935;
when thc foreign cnrollment rose, the Japenese Army and the
Kwantung Army Corps sponsored the esteblishment of the Men-
shukoku Byujitsu Cakusci Hodo Kyodei (Menchurian Students
Scholestic Cuidancc and Assistance Association). This corpo-
ration was to providc and opcrete hostels for Manchurians.
The Yanchukuen Governmrnt contributcd ¥200,O00 and granted
en edditional yrarly suhsidy of ¥20,O00.. Thc Association
was plac d under tho supcrvision of tho For ign Office, the
Ministry of Education, and the Wer Ministry.26 A dormitory,
thc Koraku Ryo, bailt by popular subscription, was destroyed
during thc war. In 1945, thc Association was dissolved by
order of the Forcign Officc.27
The upward ris- in thr Forrien stud nt population after
the stablishmcnt of Manchukuo was haltcd ebruptly by the
"China Incident" of 1937, which culminated in thc cxtended
Chinesc-Jepancsc er. Thus, in 1937, there were 8,026 foreign-
ers stugying in Jepan: in 1938, however, thc number fell to
5,716.2e Thc war sparked by th: Chinese Incident did not stop
Chin-sc students from coming. The Japencsc Army cxtendrc its
swey in Chine end studonts from the conqucred netions resumed
their studics in Japan as soon as "Sino-Japanese rclations
wrrc st=bilizid. The Chinrs: Government slrcted students
more carcfully, but the number of students was smellcr then
before."29 The Japancsc-sponsored government of Weng Ching
Wei in Contral China ond the provinciel governments under
its control sont students to Japan vcry yeer.30
The Japenesr Government grentcd forcign students scholar-
ships which coverrd travel, tuition, and living expensrs.
The Foreign Ministry offerod scholarships to Chincsc university
graduates who sought to pursuc snccializcd studics in Jepen.
Scholarships also were offercd to Chinese undcrgraduates.
"Some 250 stud nts were selectcd cvery year."31 The Forcign
26.
TYAZAI, Shinro, op. cit.
27.
Ibid.
28.
The Foreien iffeirs Association of Japan, on. cit.
29.
Forcien Ministry, "Rcply to a Jucstionneirc on Forcign
Stucrnts," 26 Srptembrr 1947.
30.
YOSHIHARA, Kuichi, Chairman, Yurin Ga'tkai, "Reply to a
Qucstionnairc," 20 Cctoter 1947. Also Yasutaka FUOT0,
op. cit
31. MAEkAWb, Goichi, Chiof of Srction, C ncral Affeirs, Con-
trol Burceu, Forcigr Ministry, "Reply to e ucstion-
naire on For:ign Students," 16 Octorer 1947.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
6
FOREIGN STITENTS IN JAPAN
Ministry elso distributed scholerships to forcign students
through e number of cultural societies.32 The majority of
Chinese students, however, "were those who were sent by the
Chinese Covernment offices"33 from the territories under Jepe-
nese jurisdiction.
Thus, while the Chinese Covernment fought the inveders
students from the Japanese puppet-government regions cnjoyed
scholarships in Jpen.
With the military reverses consequent to Japen's involve-
ment in the Pacific wer, the situetion of these studcnts grew
desrerate. This phase of lifc for students in Japan, for both
Chinesc end studnts of thc forfign countrics, wiil be discussed
in ? 1atrr chaptor (Chapter 4).
32. Ibid. See Tablc 11 for list of student culturel esso-
ciations.
33. Ibid. Also sce Table 9.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
Chapter 2
THE COLONIALS
In addition to the Chinese students, a number of colo-
nials came to study in Japan. In 1895 Japan established her
dominion over Formosa and in 19l0 Korea was annexed. Al-
though these new colonial students were subjects of the Japa-
nese Empire, "for sore time after the annexation they were
treated as foreigners because of their differences in lan-
guage, manners, and customs."34 Because of these cultural
and linguistic differences, "many Yorean and Formosan stu-
dents could not enter the schools to which they applied."35
Formosan stucents have charged thet the higher schools
in Formosa accepted only a fraction of the colonial appli-
cants: accommodations in the schools were reserved largely
for the Japanese settlers even in recent years.36 As a
matter of fact, Formosans came to study in Japan because the
higher schools in Formosa were so narrowly restricted.37
Formosans were not subject to compulsory military training,
but permission to study in Japan could be secured by volun-
teering to serve in the Japanese Army.38
Similarly, rorean students point out thet discrimina-
tion wss practiced against them when they tried to enter cer-
tain Japanese schools.39 Koreans, unlike Formosans, were sub-
ject to compulsory military training.40 The general attitude
toward military training was expressed by the Formosan stu-
dents who characterized it as "unploasant and barbarous."41
34. Foreign Ministry, "Reply to e Cuestionnaire on Foreign
Students," 26 September 1947.
35.
Ibid.
36.
"Reply to a Cuestionnaire Submitted to Formosan Students,"
29 September 1947.
37.
Ibid.
3ε.
Ibid.
39.
"Reply to a uestionnaire Fubmitted to Koreanstudents,"
8October 1947.
40.
MAE'AWA, Goichi, op. cit.
41.
"Reply to a CuestJonnaire ubmitted to Formosan Students,"
26 September 1947.
-7-

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
8
FOREIGN STUDEINTS IN JAPAN
It is of interest to note that Manchurian students were
obliged to take military training because the "anchurien Gov-
ernment requested the Japanese Government to do it for them."42
Manchurian Students did not regard militery training with more
favor than did the Koreans or Forr osens.43
With the progress of the war, the condition of the colo-
nial students detericrated. Korean students affirr thet the
Jepanese gave them "forcible enccuragerent to join pro-Japanese
organizations."44 They further assert that the Japanese in-
stituted a "compulsory system of student 'volunteer' soldiers
and a compulsory labor-drafting system during the war."45
Japanese counter these charges with the staterent that the
Koreans never were forced to join an organization.46 The com-
pulsory labor syster was intrcduced vhen vilitary necessity cor-
pelled it. The Koreans were not exempted fror duty, because
they vere Japanese subjects.47
Korecn students have protested against the wortire cc-
tivities of the Chosan Shogaku Kei (Korean Scholarship Scciety)
in urging Korerns to perticipote rore fully in the wer effort.48
The Society wes "under the control of Japanese officers,"49
and the few Korean officers, "selected fror arong the most pro-
Japanese,"50 "could exercise little influence."51 Consequently,
the Society served Japanese purposes almost exclusively. "The
Japanese," st: ted one Foreign Ministry officicl, "vere too eager
to attain their object, and not only failed to obtain syrpathy
fron young Korean intellectuals, but incurred their antipathy."52
ith respect to the rel tions between the Japanese end
their coloniai students, c Sirresc student cbserved: "During
the war...the Jepenese tried to sey tirt these students vere of
42. NAEKA A, Ccichi, on. cit.
43. "Reply to a Cvestionnaire Subritted to 'ongolian cnd Man-
churian Students," 2 Cctober 1947.
44. "Renly to a Cuestionnaire Subritted to Korean Students,"
8 0ctober 1947.
45.
Ibid.
46.
TAEKA A, Goichi, on. cit.
47.
Ibid.
48.
"Reply to & uestionnaire Subritted to Korcon Students,"
8Cctober 1947.
49.
Conference: HAM, Ieryong end KIr, I sehi, Corrittee rerbers
of the Korern Student Lecgue, 22 Septerber 1047.
50.
Ibid.
51.
Ibid.
52.
YAEKA A, Goichi, op. cit.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
THE COLONIALS
9
Japanese nationality. They were mobilized to become sol-
diers and to work in factories, but in fact they were treat-
ed worse than Japanese.53
The collapse of the Japanese Empire afforded the colo-
nial students the opportunity to declare themselves citizens
of their native lands.
53. "Reply to a Cuestionnaire Submitted to Siamose Students,!!
70ctober 1947.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter 3
THE INTERNATIONAL STIDENTS INSTITUTE
Contemporaneous with the expansion of Japanese power in
North China was the heightening of interest on the part of
the Japanese Government in students from other Asiatic coun-
tries. In 1935, under the auspices of the Foreign Ministry,
the Kokusai Gakuyu Kai (International Students Institute) was
founded to encoursge foreign students from ahroad.54 The pros-
pectus issued by the Institute shortly after its organization
stressed the necessity for broadening the educational facilities
in Japan so that students from countries other than Chine and
Manchukuo would have inducements to come to Japan.55 In other
words, tre prospectus implied the need of reaching students in
those countries of Asia with whom Japan had hed no military
contact. The Internetional Stucents Tnstitute pledged itself
to provide foreign students, especially those from Fastern
countries, with accommodations, advice, and instruction in the
Japanese Ianguage.56
The constitution of tre Tnstitute designated a president,
a boprd of directors, and a counsellor as the chief governing
agencies. The couneellor was to be a member of the Cultural
Work Bureau of the Foreign Ministry.57 The Institute was to
be financed by Governnent subsidies.
revenues derived from
properties, and populer donations.58
One of the problems which confronted foreign students in
Japan was finding adequate querters. The Institute undertook
to elleviate this difficulty by establishing the International
Students House (Kokusai-Gakuyu-Kaikan) with dormitory, class-
room, library, end recrestional facilities. The House was
staffed with a faculty to give instruction in the Japanese
language and culture.59
54. International Students Institute, "Prospectus and Scheme,"
p. 9, 1936.
55.
Ibid., p.2.
56.
Tbid., p.3.
57.
Ibid., p.5.
58.
Ibid.
59.
International Students Institute, Prospectus, p. 7, l941.
-10-

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS INSTITUT
The Institute extended its activities to include
granting scholarships, subsidizing study trips for foredgn-
ers, and sending Japanese students abrosd in accordance with
were concluded with Polish and Italian educational sooieties
in 193e, with Germany in 1937, and with Hungary in 1940.01
The Institute did not limit its activities to Tokyo
exclusively. It arranged to have private homes and boarding
houses converted into dormitories in different cities. With
the exception of the Tamagawa Gaku Ryo (Tamagawa Dormitory)
and the Koraku Ryo (Koraku Dormitory), which was destroyed
during an air raid, trese dormitories were "generally poor
in equipment and installations."62 In 1940, a dormitory for
women with a capacity for 15 was established in Tokyo.
By 194l, the students who had received assistance from
the Institute numbered 280 and represented 22 countries,
(excluding China and puppet Manchukuo).63 Of these, 20 stu-
The renewal of hostilities with China after the 193?
Incident and the outbreak of World "ar JI in Europe were re-
flected in a broadening of the objectives of the Internation-
al program of Japan.
"After ths outbreak of the Chinese
Incident and Worid War IT," wrote the director of the In-
stitute, "the international situtation underwent a consider-
able change, and any of the hitherto oppressed peoples be-
gan to srow signs of standing on their own feet. Such a
state of affairs urged this association to consider it our
duty anc responsibility to invite intelligent young students
from those nstions of Fest Asie, ecucate them perfectly in
a complete understanding of the Japanese spirit, supply
those countries permanently with a fixed number of capable
and faithful leaders who could cooperate with us in the glo-
60. Ibid., pp.4-5.
61. "A Short History of the International Students Institute,"
Kokusai Galuyu Kai Kaiho (International Students In-
stitute Bulletin), Tokyo, November 1942, p.46.
62.
MIYAZAKI, Shinro, "Report," 16 July 1946. See Table 17
for dormitory list.
63.
Internetional Students Institi te, Prospectus, p.2, 1941.
64.
MIYAZAK', Shinro, "Statement on Foreign Students," 7 Aug-
ust 1946.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
12
FOREICN STUTENTS IN JAPAN
rious task of cstablishing the. East. Asie. Coprosperity Sphere
end devote thomsolves to the dovelopment of verious races."65
The Institute progrem enviseged in 1940 was thet of bring-
ing promising Asiatic students with "e yiew to providing de-
pendablc leedership for those netions."66 Cencidates for study
in Japen werc to he comperativoly young so thet they "may easily
mester the Japanese lenguege and conform to moral discipline."67
The progrem embraccd "both prcperatory oducation and higher lib-
crel educetion, togcther vith fecilities for gredustion from the
highest cducstional institutions in this country. Educetion of
trose applicants is trus concucted for a longor porigg on a more
The
plen fas to rc cerried out "continuorsly until sn ennual supply
of & fixed number of grsdustes"69 wes secured. This progrem
wes to start with Sian and French Indo-Chine and wes to be ex-
tonced to other East Asietic netions such s the Notherlands
Indies, the Philippines, Burme, and Indis.
78
The significence of this progrem is suggcsted  y elmost
concurrent politicel cvents. A treety of friendsrip between
Jepan cnd £iam was signed in June 1940, end in Scptember of
the same yeer a defcatcd Frence yielded to Japan thc privilege
of using French Inço-China as e base of operations against
Kuominteng China.71 In July 194l Frengh Indo-Chine was com-
pletely occupied by the Jepanese Army.72
With a bridgehead
in Southeest Asiε, the Jepanose were in a favoreblc position
to look toward thc Philippines end tho Notherlands East Indies.
In December 1941 Japanose troops landed in Siem.73 A fow
weeks ltter tho Siemeso inistry of "ducation formuleted a stu-
cent exchange egreement with the Intornstionel Students Insti-
tute, which stipulated that the cxchenged students would be
university graduatos assigncd to & threr-yeer course of study.
65. YATABE, Yasukichi, "Student Activities in Siem and French
Indo-Crina," vokusci Gakuyu Ka1 Ksiho, November 1942,
p.140.
66.
Ibid., p.141.
67.
Ibid., p.142.
68.
Tbid., p.143.
69.
Thia.
70.
Ib1d.
71.
Cu1rley, Harold S., Far Lastern War, 1937-1941, pp. 184-5.
72.
Tbid., p.191.
73.
1bid.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
THE INTERNATIONAL STUDFNTS INSTITUTE
13
Both parties agreed tg provide facilities and money for
their.student guests.74 The French Indo-Chinese Goverp-
ment: was drawn into a similer agreement in June 1942.75
Apparently the Japanese Government had anticipeted the
growth of the foreign student populetion before its Army
made inroads in Southeest Asie. In 1938, before the Euro-
-pean War began, the International Students Institute re-
ceived an annual subsidy of ¥50,000 from the Government.
In 1939, the sum was raised to ¥204,317. After the ex-
chenge &greements with Fiam and French Indo-Chine hed been
made in 1942, the subsidy rose to ¥271,500. In addition
to increasing the monetery grents, the Government indicated
its interest in the functions of the Institute by placing
it under the authority of the Greeter East Asia Ministry
in 1942.76
During the period of expansion in Southeest Asia, diplo-
metic relations between Americarend the British Empire on
the one hend and Japan on the other hed grown critical.
North end South American students es well es Filipino,
Burmese, and Indien were edvised by the Japanese Government
to return to thcir homes. Most of them did. Approximetely
200 from Southeast Asie chose to continue their studies in
fece of the threet of wer. The mejority were Siamese. There
were e few from India, Burme, end Afghenisten, end one from
the Philippines. In this number must be reckoned seven ex-
chenge students from Italy, Germeny, end Hungery.77
After wer with the United States hed begun, Jepanese
arms enjoyed a number of successes and the Army and Navy ex-
ercised control over cxtensive arees of inveded·territory.
In accordance with the plen to esteblish a culturel bridge-
head, the Japenese armed forces in erees such as Burme, the
Philippines, Java, Sumetra, the Maley Peninsule, Borneo, the
Celebes, and Cerem, "took thc trouble of selecting end in-
74. "Agreement for the Exchenge of Students Between Jepan
and Siam," Kokusai Gakuya Kai Kaiho, November 1942,
p. 145.
75. "Agreement for the Exchenge of Students Between Jepen
and French Indo-Chine," Kokusei Gekuyu Kei Keiho, Nov-
ember 1942, p. 155.
76.
MIYAZAKI, Shinro, "Report," 16 July 1946.
77.
WATANABE, Tomo, "Students from Southeest Asie in War-
time," International Student Institute Magazine, 20
Scptember 1943, pp.3-5.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
14
FOREIGN STUTENTS JN JAPAN
viting (students)'in collaboration with the 'autonomous govern-
ment' of the native people."78 The Intefnational Student In-
stitute wes cherged with the task of providing the necessary
facilities for the students thus selected.79
Students who came during the wer, according to a report
prepared by Indonesian students, were promised wide facili-
ties .for study, but "actuelly. the number and kinds of schools
and the locations were fixed"80 and the students were obliged
to take what was offered. "The study was rather disappointing.
The students could not get practical krowledge in the lebor-
atories or fectories beceuse they were not ellowed to enter
those buildings."&1 Furthermore, study was impeded seriously
by the effort required to mester Chinese cheracters and the
Japanese lenguage.82
Mindful of the languege difficulty, the Internetionel Stu-
dents Institute arranped to give instruction in Jepenese to pre-
pere thr newly arrived students for entrance into the higher
schools. The lenfuage school wes instituted in early 1943 with
30 students. By the summer of 1943, however, the charecter of
the school wes changed vith the errivel of 120 students from
Jepanese-held territory who were invited by the Japanese Army
and Navy. The civilien heed of the school wes succeeded by a
former Army officer who sought to introduce militery discipline.
He assigned the students among dormitories according to their
nationelities.83 Relations among the various groups were cor-
dial; relationg between the administration end the students
were streined.4
In 1944, another group of &0 students arrived exclusively
from zones under the control of the Japanese Army. None came
in 1945 end the school was closed in November of thet yeer.85
78. MAEKAVA, Goichi, "Report on Wertime Students," 23 October
1947.
79.
Ibid.
80.
"Reply to a Cuestionnaire Submitted to Indonesian Students,"
24 Octoher 1947.
ε1.
Ibid.
ε2.
Tbid.
83.
YUGETA, Masumi, former lenguege instructor, Internationel
Stucents Institute, "Reply to & Cuestionneire," 11 Octo-
ber 1947.
84.
Ibid.
85.
Tbid.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS INSTITUTE
The end of the war imposed an additionel burden on the
Institute. In the beginning of 1946, the dissolution of
agencies which took care of Chinese and Menchurian students
made it nccessery for the Foreign Ministry to place them
under the care of the Institute. There mere 472 Chimase and
88 Manchurians in this group. In August 1947, the Japanome
Government orgenized the Yurin Gakka1 (Neighborhood Student
Association) to teke charge of these students, thus reliev-
ing the Institute of the adoitionsl responsibility.86
The exodus of forcign students came on the heels of the
surrender. The Institutc had nothing to do with student re-
patriation. At the time of embarketion the "Institute ad-
varced cn allowance of vlooo per person to gover neceseary
expenses reletive to their returning home."87
Not all etu-
dents deperted, however, end in the fell of 1947 the Insti-
tute fornd itself still engeged in providing eid for thoee
who desired to complete trcir studies.
86. MIYAZAKI, Shinro, "Reply to & Cuestionneire," 2'October
1947.
87. HIYAZAKI, Shinro, "Report," 7 August 1946.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter 4
STUDENTS DURING THE WAR AND POSTWAR PERIODS
The advent of the Pacific Wer occasioned the rigid enforge-
The Tokkotai (Thought Control Police) and the Kempeitei (Mili-
tary Police) grew more vigilant. The tightened food and cloth-
ing rations addec to the inconveniences of the foreign students.
The Filipinos evinced the most pronounced dissatisfaction "be-
cause they were more advenced than students from Southeast
Asia."89 The military discipline in the dormitories, which
included reveille and teps, increesed the irritation engendered
by constant police surveillance.90
The facts thet the Japanese assigned these students to
the schools in which they were to study, and at times even de-
cided which course a student was to follow, contributed further
to discontent.
The Internetional Students Tnstitute exerted itself to
prevent difficulties between students and the police. "But
the students often violeted the rules and went out into the
country without permission."91 This resulted in arrests and
beatings at the hands of the police.92
Students from China and the colonies fared no-better.
Lodgings were searched, papers, books, and mail examined. "A
single book in possession or even a single line in a letter
constituted sufficient reason to be put in jail."93 One stu-
88. MAEKAWA, Goichi, Chief of Section of General Affairs, Con-
trol Bureau, Foreign Ministry, "Reply to e Questionnaire
on Foreign Students," 16 October 1947.
89.
Ibid.
90.
Conference: KADANO, Hiroko, former metron of Hongo Ryo
Dormitory, 29 October 1947.
91. YUGETA, Masumi, former language instructor, International
Students Institute, "Reply to a Cuestionnaire," 11 Octo-
ber 1947.
92.
Ibid.
93.
"Feply to a Cuestionnaire Submitted to Chinese Students,"
27 September 1947.
-16-

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
STUDENTS DURING THE WAR AND POSTWAR PERIOD
12
dent wrote that he got "police authorization merely to walk
the streets."94 Gatherings of any kind required police ap-
proval and beatings were administered on slight pretexts.95
Students occasionally were deteined by the police for exam-
ination.96 Koreans complsined that their quarters were
searched once or twice a week and that they "were detained
without any explanation."97
The behavior of the Japanese people toward the students
appeers to have been correct and free from the hostility
which cheracterized the attitude of the police. The attitude
of the Japanese students to their foreign classmetes wes re-
gerded as friendly on the whole, although there were many
who were indifferent.98 A Chinese woman student evalueted
the relations between the students end their hosts in this
manner: "Generelly speaking, before the wer we were de-
spised; durine the wer, oppressed; and after the wer, treat-
ed in an ordinary way."99
Concurrent with the constriction of the extrecurriculer
life of the stucents was the distortion of educetion itself
to conform with the policies of the Jepenese Government.
English "was benned from the curriculum. Fven reeding an
English book was forbidden."lo0 History end the relsted
social studies were presented so es to justify the Japanese
militery program in Asia. Japanese history, eccording to
some students, "was largcly mythology designed to strengthen
pro-Japanese propaganda by representing the Japanese es a
chosen people, and therefore historicelly destined to leader-
94. "Reply to e Questionnaire Submitted to Mongolien and
Manchurian Students," 2 October 1947.
95. "Reply to a Cuestionnairc Submitted to Formosan Students,"
29 Scptember 1947.
96. "Reply to e Questionnaire Submitted to Chinese Women
Students," 6 0ctober 1947
97. "Reply to a Questionnairc Fubmitted to Korean Students,"
ε October 1947.
98. "Reply to & Cucstionnaire Submitted to Formosan Stu-
dents," 29 September 1947.
99. "Reply to a Cuestionnaire. Submitted to Chinese "omen
Students," 6 Octorer 1947.
100. "Reply to è Qucstionnaire Submitted to Indonesian &tu-
dents," 24 0ctober 1947.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
18
FOREIGN STUTENTS JN JAPAN
ship in Asie."101
The unique position of the Emperor was
emphesized, and the doctrine of Hakko-Ichiu (The Whole World
Under One Roof) wes expounded in conjunction with thc.ad-
vocacy of the need to establish & Greeter East Asia Co-pros-
perity Sphere under Japenese leadership.102 "According to my
experience," steted one student, "the,gontent of Jepenese his-
Studies hed to be suspended temporarily. "Towerd the end
of the Pecific War foreign students were moved from lerper
cities which were exposed to air raide to sefe pleces which not
only were suited to study hut wcre more like their netive lands
in climate."104 "Japanese students were told to stey behind
in bomb-thrcetened cities and work in fectories or to join the
Army or Navy."105 Despite the growing crisis in Japan, "more
food and clothes were rationcd to (tre students) beceuse trey
werc forcieners."106
During the mont! fol'owing the end of the war in August
1945, neerly all the Burmese end Melayen students effected their
repetrietion. Nearly ell Filipino, Siamese, French Indo-Chi-
nese, and Indonesian students followed shortly.107 Chinese and
Formosan students however, showed little inclinetion to return
to their homes.108 The unsettled conditions in Centrel China
presumably similer reesons, Koreans heve not indiceted interest
in returning to their homeland.
The continued presence of foreign students in e defeated
Japen created ε number of difficulties. The unbelanced situe-
tion in Chine mede it difficult for students to receive aid from
home. The Koreans found thomselves in a similer situation. The
difficultic's of the stucents were aggrevated by the fell in the
velue of thc yen. Conscquently, the monthly scholarships vary-
10l. "Reply to a Questionncire Submitted to Mongolien and Men-
churian Stuccnts," 2 October 1947. Also replies to
Formosen, Inconesien, Korean end Siamese Cuestionneires.
102.
Ibid. Also replies to Formosan and Korean Cuestionnaires.
103.
Ihid.
104.
Foreign Ministry, "Reply to a Cuestionneire on Foreign
Students," 26 September 1947.
105.
FuMCTo, Yasutake, Ecucetion Section, Centrel Lieison Of-
fice, Forcign Ministry, "Personel Opinions About Foreign
Students," 27 September 1947.
106.
Foreign Ministry, op. cit.
107.
MTYAZAKI, Shinro, "Report," 7 August 1946. Sec Appendix
for number of students in Japen.
108.
Ibid.
109.
"Reply to ε Curstionnaire Submitted to Mongolian end Man-
churien Students," 2 October 1947.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
STUDE ITS DURING THE AR AND POSTWAR PERIOD
19
ing from ¥7o to ¥120 were inadequete to provide necessities.
As previously stated, the International Students Insti-
tute hed assumed the responsibility for Chinese students af-
ter the dissolution of the lanchurian Students Scholastic
Guidance and Assistance Association and cf. the Japan-China
Association. In response to pressure from Chinese students,
the Foreign Ministry reised the allowance to ¥5o0 without
consulting thc Institute. The conscquence wes that the In-
stitute found itself burdened with an unexpected finsnciel
load. To meet this obligation, the Institute was forced to
spend the assets it received from the dissolved student aid
sccieties es well as its own funds. By August 1946, the In-
stitute wes reduced to the stete where it could not meet ex-
penses for that month.llo The Japenese Government ceme to
the cid of the Institute by supplementing the subsidies for
1946.1ll The organization of the Yurin Gakkai (Neighbor-
hocd Student Association) in August 1947 relieved the In-
stitute from its cbligations to the Chinese. The Yurin
Gakkai assumed charge of all Chinese dormitories end effairs
related to Chinese students. The Institute resumed its
original tcsk of concerning itself with the welfere of the
few rergining Southeast Asia students.
Koreen students since have complcined thet their "e-
conemic plight is growing even worse."1l2 "The Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry is supplying food to 1,588 stu-
dents at higher schools."113 Since the status of Korean
students has not been clerified, the Jepanese Government
has extended no other help than that indicated cbove.114
"We ere eking out our meager living," wrote the Korean stu-
dents, "by engaging ourselves in labor, business, end cther
fields."1l5
Formosans were in en equally anomalcus position. Al-
though they now beceme Chinese citizens, they received no help
from the Chinese Government. At the suggestion of Occupetion
110.
ITYAZAKI, Shinro, "Report," 7 ugust 1946.
111.
MIYIZAKI, Shinro, "Reply to ε Cuestionnaire," 2 Ccto-
ber 1947.
112.
"Reply to & Cuestionnaire Submitted to Korean Students,"
80ctober 1947.
113. Conference: NAM, Ieryong, end KIM, Usehi, Committee
"embers of the Koreen Student Leegue, 22 £eptember
1947.
114. Conference: AEKA"A, Goichi, Chief of Section, General
Affairs, Centrol Fureau, Foreign Ministry, 6 Novem-
ber 1947.
115.
"Reply to a Questionnaire Subrittcd to Korean Students,"
8cctober 1947.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
20
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
officials, the Welfere Ministry "defreyed essential expenses
for Formosan students until June 1947."116 After that date
no money was disbursed. "Contrary to expectetion, few students
left...for home."117
The hendful of Axis students who studied in Jepen met with
adversity before Jepan's defeat. The overthrow of the Mussolini
Cebinet brought forth a decleration of loyelty to the Italien
Crown from the three Itelion students. Since Jepen continued
to recognize Mussolini's insurgent government, these three were
interned when Germany yielded. The Europeans since have been
repatrieted.118
116. Conference: TAKATOI, Osamu, Secretery, Generel Affeirs
Section, School Educetion Burceu, Ministry of Education,
19 September 1947.
117. Ibid.
118. Conference: MIYAZAKI, Shinro, 2 Octoher 1947.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix A
TABLES
Table 1.
FOREIGN STUDENTS RESIDENT IN JAPAN
1900-1947
Number of
Number of
Year
Year
students*
students*
1900
166
1924
1,677
1901
480
1925
1,380
1902
445
1926
1,391
1903
430
1927
1,797
1904
664
1928
2,310
1905
2,536
1929
2,303
1906
7,211
1930
3,338
1907
5,347
1931
2,019
1908
5,392
1932
1,535
1909
3,635
1933
1,857
1910
3,243
1934
3,187
1911
3,141
1935
4,993
1912
3,987
1936
6,216
1913
3,278
1937
4,415
1914
4,353
1938
2,937
1915
3,499
1939
2,236
1916
3,586
1940
2,537
1917
4,501
1941
2,222
1918
4,383
1942
2,664
1919
4,075
1943
na
1920
3,295
1944
na
1921
3,070
1945
na
1922
2,546
1946
2,200
1923
1,843
1947
2,933
na - Not available.
* Number of students includes foreign stu-
dents in universities, higher schools, col-
leges, and miscellaneous schools from 1900 to
1937.' From 1938 on, foreign students in mis-
cellaneous schools are not included. Data for
1939 and 1941 include only Chinese and lfanchu-
rian students. Date for 1946 and 1947 include
Chinese, Manchurian, Formosan, and Korean stu-
dents.
Source: Ministry
of Education
study com-
pleted 20 June 1947.
21

=== Page 76 === (confidence 1.00)
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
22
Table 2. CHINESE STUDENT POPULATION IN JAPAN
1901-1941
Number of
Number of
Year
Year
Students
Students
1901
300
1910
2,000
1902
400-1,200
1915
5,000-6,000
1904
1,300
1919
2,500-3,000
1905
8,000
1941
2,000
1906
10,000-20,000
Source: Ministry of Education, School Fduca-
tion Bureau. Submitted by Osamu TAYATOI, Sec-
retary, General Affairs Section, 7 November 1947.
Besed on Chinese sources.
Table 3.
FOEIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
1932-1938
Year
Number of
Year
Number of
Students
Students
1932
2,761
1936
6,942
1933
2,232
1937
ε,026
1934
2,765
1938
5,716
1935
4,681
Source:
The Japan Yeer Book, 1940-41, p. 675.
Table 4.
FOREIGN STUTENTS VFO CAME TO JAPAN
DURING THE PACIFIC WAR
Number of
Number of
Nationality
Nationality
Students
Students
Burmese
47
Borneans
9
Filipinos
51
Ceramese
3
Javanese
44
Siamese
12
Sumatrans
16
French Indo-
7
Malayans
12
Chinese
Celebes
11
Total
212
Islanders
Source: Foreign Ministry Control Bureeu. Sub-
mitted by Goichi MAEKAWA, Chief of Generel Af-
fairs Section, 23 October 1947, in Report on
Wartime Students. NOTE: Masumi YUGETA, teacher
In the Internetional Stucents Institute, stated
there were at least 20 Siamese, and that three
Frenchmen'came with the seven Indo-China
stu-
dents. (Conference: 23 October 1947)

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
APPENDIX A
23
Table 5.
WESTERN STULENTS IN JAPAN
January 1946
Number of
Nationality
Students
Italian
2
Gorman
2
Source:
International Students
Institute.
Submitted
by
Shinro
MIYAZAKI, Director, 7 August 1947.
Table 6. FOREIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
July 1946
Number of
Country
Students
Mongolia
40
Manchurie
81
China
329
Indoncsie
88
Annem
13
Siam
6
Total
557
Source:
Internaticnal Students
Institute.
Submittec by
Shinro
MIYAZAKI, Dircctor, 7 August 1947.
T=b1C 7. FOREIGN STULENT FOPUL/TION IN JAPAN
6utumn 1946
Accordine to
According to
Country
Education
Foreign
Ministry
Ministry
China
330
330
Yanchukuo
80
84
Mongclia
42
42
Southr-st isia
100
Netherlonds Enst Indies
85
French Indo-China
15
Siam
1C
Total
562
556
Source: Conferenccs: Y-sutaka FuMoTo, Chief, Edu-
cation Soction, C'ntrel
Livison Officc, Foreign
Ministry, 26 March 1046;
Nookozu OKUDA, Investige-
tor, Foreign Ministry, 27 March 1946.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 1.00)
24
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
Table 8. FOREIGN AND KOREAN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
Autumn 1947
Nationality
Number of students
Indonesian
40
Annamese
13
Siamese
6
Total
59
Chinese
428
Formosan
724
Total
1,152
Total Foreign*
1,211
Korean
1,565
Total Foreign and Korean
2,776
* The Ministry of Education total for 1947
is 2,933 as shown in Table 1.
Source: Data on foreign students submitted
by Foreign Ministry, 26 September 1947. Data
on Korean students submitted by Goichi MAEKAWA,
Chief, General Affairs Section, Control Bureau,
Foreign Ministry, 6 November 1947.
Table 9. CHINESE ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS
WHICH SENT STUDENTS TO JAPAN
Amoy City Office
Mongolia
Canton City Office
Nanking Education Office
Hankow City Office
Shanang Island Office
Hopei Province
Shanghai City Office
Hupeh Province
Shansi Province
Kiangsi Province
Shantung Province
Kiangsu Province
Tientsin City Office
Manchukuo
Tsingtao City Office
Education Bureau of the Topei
Administrative Committee
Source: Foreign Ministry, Control Bureau. Sub-
mitted by Goichi MAEKAVA, Chief, General Affairs
Section, 16 October 1947.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX A
25
Table 1O. ACCEPTANCE OF FOR OSAN AND JAPANESE STUDENTS
IN FORMOSAN SCHOOLS
(Year not Given)
Number of
Number of
Percent
School
applicents
entrants
accepted
Taichu Normal School
Formosans
400
10
2.5
Japanese
80
30
37.5
Takao "iddle School
Formosens
500
50
10.0
Japanese
200
150
75.0
Source: "Reply to a Cuestionneire to Formosan Students,"
29 September 1947.
Table 11. CULTURAL ORGANIZATIONS FOR FOREIGN STUDENTS
IN PREAR JAPAN
Culturel
Year
Students
Present
organization
Founded
Aided
Status
Nichi-In Kyokai
1903
Indian
Inactive*
(Japan-India Society)
Shamu Kyokai
1927
Siamese
Inactive
(Siamese Society)
Nichi-I Punka Kyokai
1931
Promoted
Inactive
(Japan-Italy Society
exchenge
for Culture)
students
Zenrin Kyokai
1934
Mongolian
Language
(Good Neighbor Society)
school
Firipin Kyckai
1935
Filipino
Social
(Philippines Society)
society
Biruma Kyokai
1937
Burmese
Inactive
Burmese Society
Presumably dissolved at the outbreak of the wer.
Source: International Students Institute. Submitted by
Hitoshi KA AZA A, Secretary, 23 October 1947.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
26
APPENDIX
A
Table 12.
STUDENTS ASSISTED
BY T E INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS INSTITUTE
Up to December 1945
Number of
Country
students assisted
Men
Women
Totel
Siam
208
38
246
India
46
46
Cermany
21
2
23
Indonesia
121
121
Afghenistan
6
6
Burma
64
64
Indo-China
18
2
20
Italy
8
1
9*
Philippine Islands
73
73
Japan
2
8
28
Fungary
1
1
England
1
1
France
5
5
Polend
2
2
Russia
1
1
China (Hainan)
356
356
Nexico
Brazil
Colombia
1
1
Argentina
3
3
Iraq
1
1
Peru
3
1
4
Polivia
2
2
一
Uruguey
1
1
Belgium
1
1
一
USA (non-Nisei)
7
4
11
USA (Nisei)
7
2
Total
T34
57
601
According to the Itslien Mission,
four Itelien students remained in Japan
throughout the war. (9 January 1048)
Source: International Students Insti-
tute.
Submitted
by Shinro
MIYAZAII,
Firector, 26 June 1046.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIXA
22
Table 13. :ESTERN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
Autumn 1941
Type of students
Total number
Country
Invited
Scholar-
Exchange
of
ship
students
Mexico
2
2
Uruguey
1.
1
Germany
一
1
2
3
Afghanistan
6
6
Argentina
1
1
Peru
J
1
2
United States
2
2
Source: International Students Institute.
Submitted
by Shinro TYAZAKI, Director, 7 August 1946.
Table 14. GOVERINTENTAL SUBSIDIES
FOR THE IITERNATICHAL STUDENTS INSTITUTE
Year
Subsidy
Year
Subsidy
1935
47,000
1942
至
271,500
1936
53,240
1943
569,760
1937
50,000
1944
1,258,010
1938
50,000
1945
1,126,510
1939
204,317
1946
600,000
1940
225,000
1947
1,250,000
1941
250,000
Total
¥5,955,337
Source: International Students Institute. Sub-
mitted by
Shinro MIYAZAKI, Director, 2 October
1947.
Note: In the "Report" subnitted by MIYAZAKI
on 7 August 1946, the 1946 subsidy was stated
to be ¥663,255. In MIYAZAKI's "Report" of 16
July 1946, the subsidies were stated as follows:
1941
至
250,000
1944
¥1,243,010
1942
250,000
1945
1,126,510
1943
350,000
Faokozu OKlDA, Investigator, Foreign Linistry,
gave the subsidies as follows:
(Conference, 27
"arch 1946)
1944
¥1,000,000
1945
¥1,000,000

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
28
APPENDIX A
Table 15. PUBLICATIONS OF THE
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS INSTITUTE
Title
Date published
Kokusai Gakuyu Kai Kaiho
20 Apr 1938
(Bulletin of the International
15 Nov 1939
Students Institute)
20 Dec 1940
15 Aug 1941
30 Nov 1942
Kokusei Ga'uyu Yai Shi
25 Aug 1939
(The International Students
20 Sep 1943
Institute Magazine)
Keki Nihon Bunka Koza Koen Shu
30 Jun 1939
(Collection of Summer Lectures on
30 Mar 1940
Japanese Culture)
Prospectus snd Scheme
1936
Prospectus
1941
Japanese Language Readers (textbooks)
not given
Five Hundred Chinese Characters end
Phrases Made With Them (textbook)
not given
Source: International Students Institute.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
Table 16. STUDENTS ASSISTED BY THE
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS INSTITUTE
Autumn 1947
Location and
Number of
institution attended
students
Tokyo
Fine Arts School
223224413214
First High School
Keio Gizyuku University
Peers' School
School of I'usic
Sophia University
Tokyo Imperial University
Tokyo Normal Higher School
Tokyo Technical University
University of Literature and Science
Taseda First High School
'aseda University
Kyoto
Kyoto Imperial University
18
Sapporo
Hokkaido Imperial Univers ty
1
Yokohama
St. Joseph College
1
YokohamaTechnical High School
1
Total
51
Source: Internetional Students Institute, Sub-
mitted
by Shinro MIYAZAKI, Director, 2 Cctober
1947.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
30
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
Table 17. DORLITORIES UNDER THE JURISDICTION
OF TJIE INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS INSTITUTE
Name
Students
Netive
Location
of
accomo-
region of
dornitory
dated
students
Tokyo, Tokyo
Seike Ryo
na
China
Colgo, Tokyo
Lashivagi-Ryo
22
S.Pacific
Tokyo, To'vo
Handa-Ryo
25
Chine
Tokyo, Tolve
Taragava-Ryo
70
China
Tokvo, 
Tokyo
Kojiachi-Gakuryo
22
China
Too, Toc
unkoshe
15
China
T,
Norsku-Ryo
20
Chine
Kemakure, eagsa
Korekura-Ryo
23
S.Pacific
Tsururaki, Kenegawa
Tsurureki-Ryo
10
S.Pacific
Inase, Chibe
Inage-Ryo
14
Chine
Kyoto, Kyoto
Mvoto-Rve
19
S.Facific
yoto, Eyoto
Kolavs-Ryc
100
China
Yyeto, Yyoto
Yoshida-Ryo
na
na
Eyoto, Kyoto
Ittokv-Rvo
20
China
obe, yoso
To-Ryo
China
Yameguchi, Yerecuchi
Yamaguchi-Gakuryo
1008
China
Cottori, Tottori
Tottori-Gakuryo
China
Kenezawa, Ishi ews
Manazaua-Gelcuryo
5
China
Sendai, Miyagi
'akae-Ryo
21
China
Sendai, Miyasi
Shigatu-Ryo
11
China
! orioke, I'ate
okogeku-Ryo
15
China
Akita, Akita
Lkite, Ryo
5
China
Sapporo, Hcd aido
Sapporo-Ryo
10
China
Tctal
4.63
na - Wot available.
Source:
International Etudents institute.
Submitted by
Shinro YIYAZAki, Director, 26 June 1946.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix B
CONETITUTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS INSTITUTE
(Kokusai Gąkuyu Kai Kifu Koi)
(Revised August, 1942)
Source: International Students Institute Bulletin,
o. 5, 1942)
Chapter I. Neme and Office
Article 1.
The neme of this orgenization shall be the Internation-
al Students Institute.
Article 2.
The Institute shall have its office at No. 1985,
2-chome, Kami-leguro, Meguro Ku, Tokyo.
Article 3.
The Institute shall establish branches, if necessary.
Chapter II. Object and Activities
Article 4.
The object of the Institute shall be to exchange cul-
ture. with other nations, to offer proper guidance and
assistance to foreign students studying in Japen, and
to promote international friendship.
Article 5.
In order to achieve the objects stated in the preced-
ing Article, the Institute shall engage in the fol-
lowing ectivities:
a. The exchange, invitation, and the sending
abroed of students; the granting of sub-
sidies or loans to students.
b. The invitation of foreign students for e
tour of inspection in Japan and the send-
ing of Japanese students abroad for that
purpose.
31

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
32
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
c. Giving assistance and advice relevant to ma-
triculation end other matters concerning
school snd study.
d. The establishment and management of the Inter-
netional Students House.
e. The menagement of the Japenese Lenguege School
of the International Students House.
f. Lecture meetings, educational visits and trips,
and other projects intended to enlighten
foreign students.
g. Other activities approved by the directorate.
Chapter III. Officers
Article 6.
The Institute shall have one president, not more than
two vice-presidents, from 10 to 25 directors (includ-
ing one chief director, one managing director, end one
standing director), and not more then three inspectors.
Article 7.
The president and vice-presidents shall be elected by
the directorate.
Article 8.
The directors and inspectors shall be appointed by the
president.
The chief director, nanaging director and standing di-
rector shall be appointed by the president with the
confirmation of the directorate.
Article 9.
The president shall supervise the Institute.
The vice-president shall assist the president and
shall act for him in case he is deteined from his duty
by accident.
Article 10.
The directors shall organize the directorate and deal
with the affairs of the Institute.
No resolution shall be passed by the directorate un-
less more than the half of the directors approve it.
'hen the pros and cons are equally divided, the
decision shell be mede by the chairman.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 1.00)
AppendixB
33
hen a direotor cannot attend the directors' meeting,
he is allowed to ask another director in a written
form to use the vote for him.
Article ll.
The chief director shall represent the Institute.
The chief director shall convene the directorate and
shall act as the chairman of it.
When the chief director is detained from his duty by
accident, the managing director or standing director
shall act for him.
Article.12.
The managing director and standing director shall help
the chief director conduct the regular business of the
Institute.
Article 13.
Inspectors shall inspect the activities, finance and
assets of the Institute.
When the inspectors think it necessery, they shall
demand e meeting of the directorate.
Article 14.
The officers shall hold their office for two years and
shall be eligible for re-election.
An alternate officer shall hold his office for the re-
maining term of appointment of his predecessors.
Officers shall remain in their office after the ex-
piration of the term of appointment, and conduct the
business of the Institute until their successors ere
installed.
Chapter IV. Advisers and Counsellors
Article 15.
The Institute shall have several advisers.
Advisers shall be appointed by the president.
Article 16.
The Institute shall have several counsellors.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
34
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
Counsellors shall be appointed by the president.
The counsellors shall answer questions submitted by
the directorate conccrning the affeirs of the Institute,
and give their points of view.
Chepter V. Assets end Accounts
Article 17.
The assets of the Institute consist of the following:
e. Assets enumereted in the list attached.
b. Subsidies and bounties given by the Govern-
ment.
C.
Contributions.
d.
Income from the assets.
e.
Miscellaneous incomes.
Article 18.
The permanent property of the Institute consists of
the following:
a. ¥10,000 of the assets mentioned in (a) of the
preceding article.
b. The moneys or articles contributed to the
Institute and designated as permanent prop-
erty of the Institute.
c. The moneys or articles that the directorate
decided to include with the permanent prop-
erty.
Article 19.
The permanent property of the Institute may not be
disposed of. However, when it is necessary to do so
in order to attain the object of the Institute, it may
be disposed of with the approval of the directorate
and the Government office in charge.
Deteiled regulations concerning the management of the
permanent property of the Institute shall be decided
upon by the directorate.
Article 20.
The expenses of the Institute shall be defrayed by the
following:
Subsidies and bounties from the Government.
b. Income from the permanent property.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix B
c. Income obtained from the activities of the
Institute.
d. Balance brought over from the last year.
e.
Contributions.
Miscellaneous income.
Article 21.
The fiscal year of the Institute shall begin on 1 April
and end on 31 March of the following year.
Article 22.
The budget of the Institute shall be approved by the
directorete before the commencement of the new fiscel
year, and the settled accounts should be submitted to
the directorete for approval not later than two
months after the end of the fiscal year.
Article 23.
"hen necessary, the Institute shall esteblish a spe-
cisl outley or running account with the approvel of
the directorate.
Chapter VI. Supplementary Law
Article 24.
Regulations concerning the enforcement of this Con-
stitution shall be made by the dircctorate.
Article 25.
No revision shall be made in this Constitution without
the conscnt of two-thirds of the directors, cnd the
approval of the Government office concerned.
(Article 26 listed the staff members of the Institute et
the time of its foundation.)

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
Appendix C
ORDINANCE OF 19O1 GOVERNING
ADLISSION OF FOREIGN STUDEITS IWTO JAPANESE SCHOOLE
 ombusho Ordinance No. 15, 11 November 1901, supersedes
I 'ombusho Ordinance No. 11, l900, and is still operative.
The provisions of the ordinence governing the admission
of foreign students into Jananese schools are es follows:
Reguletions Governing the Admission of
Foreigners into Schools Under the Direct
Control of the "instry of Education
Article 1.
A foreigner who desires to take one or more courses at
a school under the direct control of the Hinistry of
Educetion, without being subject to the regulations of
the school, mey be admitted only through an introduc-
tion from the Foreign Office, Japanese missions abroad,
or foreign missions in this country.
Article 2.
A foreigner who vants to take a course in accordence
with the ebove article shall apply to the president
of an Imperial University or to ? principal of 
school, vith the above-rentioned introduction.
Article ?.
The president of an Imperial University or the prin-
cipel of e school ray edmit such an applicant only
when the epplicant is recognized as qualifying in
scholarship; but  hen tre school facilities are lim-
ited, such & recuest may be refused.
Article 4.
A foreigner who is sdmitted in eccordance  ith this
ordinance end desires to set & certificate of study
shall be given one after he passes en exarinetion.
Article 5.
No examination fee, entrance fee, or school fee mey be
required fror such's student.
36

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
Appendix_C
32
Article 6.
A president of an Imperial University or e principel
of e school mey prescribe detailed regulations in ac-
cordence with this crdinance, when the sanction of
the inister of Educetion is obtained.
Additional Regulations
Article 7.
A foreign student who is elreedy at school at present
and not under the control of ordinery school regule-
tions shall be regarded as having been sdritted in ac-
cordance with this ordinence.
Article 8.
On and after the day when this ordinance is promul-
gated, IMinistry of Education Ordinance No. 11, 1900,
"Regulation Concerning Foreign Students Requested by
Foreign Countries," shell be abolished.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
BIBLIOGRAPHY
"Agreement for the Exchange of Students Between Japan and
Siam," Kokusai Gakuyu Kai Kaiho (International Students
Institute Bulletin), Tokyo, November 1942, p. 145.
"Agreement for the Exchange of Students Between Japan and
French Indo-Chine," Kokusai Gakuvu Kai Kaiho (Inter-
national Students Institute Bulletin), Tokyo, Novem-
ber 1942, p. 155.
FUIOTO, Yasutake, Chief, Education Section, Central Liaison
Office, Foreign inistry, "Personal Opinions About
Foreign Students," 27 September 1947. (l'enuscript)
Foreign Ministry, "Reply to a Cuestionnaire on Foreign Stu-
dents," 26 Sentember 1947. (Manuscrint)
International Students Institute, Prospoctus, Tokyo, 1941.
International Students Institute, Prospectus end Scheme,
Tokyo, 1936.
Japan Year Bock, 1940-41, The Foreign Affairs Asscciation,
Tokyo, 1941.
"List of Members of the International Students Institute,"
International Students Institute Megazine, Tolyo, 20
September 1943, p. 115
MAEKA A, Goichi, Chief of Section, General Affairs, Control
Bureeu, Foreign Hinistry, "Reply to e Questionnaire on
Foreign Students," 16 October 1947. (rnuscript)
MAEKAiA, Goichi, Chief of Section, General Affairs, Control
Bureau, Foreign inistry, "Report on "artime Students,"
23 Cctober 1947. (Uenuscript)
Ministry of Education, "The Jumber of Foreign Students Resi-
dent in Japen from 1900 to 1947," 20 June 1947.
(anuscript)
IYAZ KI, Shinro, Director, International Students Institute,
"Report," 16 July 1945. (Manuscript)
38

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
BIBLIOGRAPHY
39
ITYAZAYI, Shinro, "Report," 7 August 1946. (Manuscript)
MIYAZAKI, Shinro, "Report," 13 September 1946. (Manuscript)
IIYAZAKI, Shinro, "Reply to a Questionnaire," 2 October 1947.
(Manuscript)
MIYAZAKI, Shinro, "Statement on Foreign Students," 7 August
1946.(Ianuscript)
MUKAI, Eichi, Assistant Director, Department of School
Affairs, Keio University, "Reply to a Questionnaire on
Foreign' tudents," 25 September 1947. (Hanuscript)
Quigley, Herold S., Fer Ecstern "er, 1937-1941, Boston,
1942, pp. 184-5.
"Regulations Concerning the Special Admission of Foreign
Students to Schools Under the Direct Control of the
Ministry of Education," Ministry cf Education
Ordinance o. 15, 11 November 1901.
"Reply to a Cuestionnaire Submitted to Chinese Students,"
27 September 1947. (Hanuscript)
"Reply to a Cuestionnrire Subritted to Chinese Tomen Stu-
dents," 6 October 1947. (Manuscript)
"Reply to ? Cuestionnaire Submitted to Forrosan &tudents,"
29 September 1947. (Manuscript)
"Reply to & Cuestionnsire Subuitted to Indonesian Stu-
dents," 24 Octcber 1947. (Manuscript)
"Reply to a Cuestionnsire Submitted to Korean Students,"
8 October 1947. (ilanuscript)
"Reply to a uestionnsire Subnitted to Mongolian and Man-
churien Students," 2 Cctober 1947. (Menuscript)
"Reply to a Guestionnaire Submitted to Siemese Students,"
7 October 1947. ("enuscrint)
"Short History of the International Students Institute,"
Kokusai Gakuyu Kai Kaiho (International Students
Institute Bulletin), Tokyo, November 1942.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
40
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
TAKATOI, Osamu, Secretary, Generel Affairs Section, School
Education Bureau, Ministry of Education, "Chinese Stu-
dents in Japan, 190l-194l. Based on Chinese Sources,"
7 November 1947.(Manuscript)
"ATANABE, Tomo, "Students from Southeast Asia in "artime,"
International Students Institute Magazine, 20 Septem-
ber 1943.
YATABE, Yasukichi, "Student Activities in Sian and French
Indo-China," Kokusai Gakuvu Kai Kaiho (International
Students Institute Bulletin), Tokyo, November 1942.
YOSHIHARA, Kuichi, Chairman, Yurin Gakkei, "Reply to a
Questicnnaire," 20 Cctober 1947. (Manuscript)
YUGETA, Masuni, Former Language Instructor, International
Students Institute, "Reply to c Juestionnaire,"
11 Cctober 1947. (Manuscript)

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFERENCES
FUiOTO, Yasutaka, Chief of Education Section, Centrel
Liaison Office, Foreign Ministry, 26 Merch 1946.
KADONo, Hiroko, Former Netron, Hongo Ryo Dormitory, 29
October 1947.
KANAZA"A, Hitoshi, Sccretary, International Students Insti-
tute, 23 0ctober 1947.
KIM, Usehi, Comnittec member, Korean Student League, 22
Septerber 1947.
MAEK A, Goichi, Chief of Section, General Affeirs, Control
Bureau, Foreign inistry, 6 November 1947.
MIYAZAKI, Shinro, Director, International Students Insti-
tuté, 2 0ctober 1947.
NAM, Ieryong, Committee member, Korean Student League, 22
Septerber 1947.
OKUDA, Neokozu, Investigator, Foreign Ministry, 27 March
1946.
TAKATCI, Osaru, Sccretary, General Affairs Section, Echool
Educction Bureau, !inistry of Eiucation, 19 September
1947.
YUGETA, Masumi, Former Language Instructor, International
students Institute, 23 October 1947.
41

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
è
42
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN JAPAN
LIST OF TABLES IN APPENDIX A
TABLE
PAGE
1
Foreign Students Resident in Japan, 1900-1947
21
2
Chinese Student Population in Japan, 1901-1941
22
3
Foreign Students in Japan, 1932-1938
22
4
Foreign Students Who Crme to Japan During
22
the Pacific Mar
5
Western Students in Japan, January 1946
23
6
Foreign Students in Japan, July 1946
23
7
Foreign Student Population in Japan,
23
Autumn 1946
8
Foreign and Korean Students in Japen,
24
Autumn 1947
9
Chinese Administrative Units hich Sent
24
Students to Japan
10
Lcceptance of Forrosan and Japanese Students
25
in Formosan Schools
11
Cultural Organizetions for Foreign Students
25
in Prewar Japan
12
Etudents Assisted by the International
26
Students Institute up to December 1945
13
Westorn Students in Jepan, Autun 1941
27
14
Governnental Subsidics for the Internctional
27
Students Institute
15
Publications of the International Students
28
Institute
16
Students Assisted by the International
29
Students Institute, Autumn 1947
17
Dermitories Under the Jurisdiction of the
30
International Students Institute

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION C
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
atl-le
10
CONFIDENTIAL
MAY 1 0 1948
Action: FE
Info:
P
SAM
Rec'd Mey 8, 1948
OCD
BEA
2:23 p.m.
CIA
FC
FROM:
Scoul
RPS
DCR
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
331, Ney 8
tate
FROM CG USAFIK TO STATE DEPARTMENT INFO JOINT CHIEFS OF
STAFF, C1NCFE CUTE 2POL 623.
Reférence Seoul POLAD 3a9, Nay 7.
894.42/
rinted press report of Tokyo to effect that Japanese
Ministsr of Educetson io statement to Korea educators
in Jepan caid that, 1? they comply with school regulations,
obtsin cherters from epanese authorities, Koreens can run
their own schools. He also seid that although Japanese
must be ueed in some cnves, Koreen language end history
5-848
could be taught during raseareh hours. He concluded by
seying Japenose Governrcnt has no intention closing all
95
Korean scheols in Jepn
JACOBS
EPL:CTW
MAY 13 1948
FILED
王
CONFIDENTIAL
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.88)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
MUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
INCOMING TELEORTNBASTASIAN AFFAIRS
FE
Notel.file
ls
MAY10948
t
120
CA
DEPARTMENT STATE
280
rH
it
9
tate
894.42/5-1048
MAY 25 1948
FILED
H
ANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.92)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political
DC/
for Japan
Tokyo, May 11, 1948
OIC ED S IVN
No. 274
(A00)
MAY 20 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
DEMARTMENT OF STATE
a
Affiliations.
1148
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enelose two
copies of a special report prepared by the Civil Information and
Education Section, Analysis and Research Division, General Head-
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, entitled,
O1E-ene
"Japanese Educational Institutions with Religious Afriliations"
FE
No. AR-299-E-A-25 dated February 20, 1948. No additional copies
0
are available.
OCD.
DCR
3
1943 MAT 19 AM 10
DEPARTMEUTOF STATE
CS/V
p
2 copiss of "Japanese
RECEIVED
E
Educatronal Institutions
18
18
with Roligious Afriliations".
1
842
894.42
JDEdwards: emn
MAY 21 1948
FILHD
UNCLASSIFIED
Ju

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.91)
GNERL ITDUARTRS
CUPREE COLTNDER FOR THD LLLD PO RS
Civil Inforr tion and ducation Section
Anvh vis end Rescarch Division
JAPANRSE
EDUCATIONL
INSTITUTIONS
∵I T H
RELIGIOUS
∴FFILITIONS
A Special Roport Prepared by
Education Rescarch
AR-299-E-A-25
20 Fobruary 1948

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.96)
GENERAI HEDQUART RS
SUPREE COMLDER POR THE LLIED POLERS
Civil Information and ducation Section
mal sis end Research Division
SPICI'L RPORT
SRIL UBER
AR-299---25
20 February 1948
TITLE
Japanese Ducational Institutions rit: Rcli ious ffiliations
SUBJECT
Anclysis and quantitative evaluction of  ligious cducational institutions in Japon
PREP.RD BY
Education Research
DATES OF STUDY
21 cy 1947 - 20 August 1947
COMTEHRS
1
Introduction
Tablc 1.
Roster of Xucational Institutions ffiliatad vith Religious Organiz tions
4
Tablc 2.
Summary of kducational Institutions Affilinted ith Religious Organizations, by Religion,
58
Sect, and School Level
Table 3.
Summary of Kucational Institutions iffiliated vith Religious Organizations, by Religion
68
and School Level
Tablc 4.
Number of Educational Institutions Affiliated vith Religious Organizations, by Geographic
70
Location and Datc of Foundation
Table 5.
Summary of Number of Educational Institutions ffiliated with Religious Organizations, by
74
Geographic Location and Date of Foundation
75
Alphabetical Indcx of Educational Institutions Affiliated vith Religious Organizations
87
Sources
88
Index of Religious Organizations

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
INTRODUCTION
PURPOSE
stant licison with the Mombusho, religious bodies, and indivi-
dual institutions, checking the facts presented.
This report has been propared in order to make available
reliable statistical date concerning Japencse educational in-
In the co pilation of the roster, lists compilod by tho
stitutions with religious affiliations. Inforrntion regarding
Hombusho and religious bodies' were used to obtain the names of
the location, date of foundation, nurber of students, number of
schocls in this catepory, and these nanes were checked cgainst
teachers, and religious affiliction is presented for 407 oduca-
those appe ring in the statistical ruports of cll schools, by.
tional institutions ranging frem kindergartens to miversitics.
prefecture,2 compiled in Jnuary 1947, W..nce nost of the data
Data regarding nunber of students and teachers ar. for the fall
were obtined. Thesc reports list inforrtion as of 30 Novem-
torm of the 1947-48 school year.
ber 1946. In some c ses the statistice1 reports contained an-
trics for schools which wore not included in the previous lists
and in others, schools mentioned in the carlier lists did not
SOURCE
appear in the statistical roports. In the latter instance, tho
current status of ti schools was checked with the lombusho bo-
This report is based upon panphlets issucd by the Japaneso
fore they were included in this survey.
Ministry of Education (Lonbusho); statisticel copil tions made
by religious bodies; statisticcl reports on ll Japnese cduce-
There is a gnera1 lack of infornntion conccrning Buddhist
tional institutions, by prefecture, prepared by the Elucation
and Shinto clementary schools nd kindergartens end Christian
Rosearch Unit, CID, SC..P; and telegrons and letters fron adnin-
clenentery schools in the aforementioned lists, end thereforo
istrative officials of individual institutions, in response to
their treatnent in this survey can bo considered in no wiso
requests for information.
complctc. This dearth may be attributed to the fact that tho
original corpilers of the lists and surveys which woro usod as
sourcc nnterial did not consider institutions of this typo of
EV. LUATION OF DAT.
sufficient iaportance to warrant their inclusion. Howevor, the
fow conccrning which infornetion was availablo havo beon listod
∴pproxinately 80 pcrcent of Japanese cducational institu-
in this roster.
tions with roligious affiliations, cxccpting clenentary schools
and kindergartens, have been includod in this report. A higher
porcentago could not be achioved becausc of a lack of compro-
1. Soc Bibliography.
honsivo sourcc naterial. The infonmation listed is considcred
2. Statistical Reports of all Schools Subrittod by Prefoctural
accurato and roliable. A Japanese roscarcher has been in con-
Officcs to the Statistics Soction, Honbusho, Jan. 1947.
1

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.94)
2
JANED EDUG TUGL TOUTOND TUH AIGICUP PELI TIRNS
EXPLANITCRY NOTES
rolled is for the fall of 1947, but the actual dates for which
these figures were roported varied fror. institution to institu-
For the purposes of this survey, "oduc tional institutions
tion. The number of te chers includes only persons actually
with religious affiliations" has been interprete: to include:
engaged in teaching duties. However, in some cnses, teachers
1) schools controlled by religious or anizations; 2) schools
amployed on a full time basis curin the dey are also employed
financed by religious organizations; ) scheols which train stu-
as part time teachors at ni it.
dents to become religious leaders; 4) sehsols viti. a r ligious
seminary attached; 5) schools mose curricul: devote special
The breakdom fer Protestant schools by sect is compli-
attention to religious subjeet matter. It sih mld b. noted that
cated by the fact that ll Protestant churehes, with the cxcep-
having "religious cifiliations" does not meen tirt en inetitu-
tions of the Episcopal Church, the Seventh Day Adventist Church,
• tion confines its enrollment to mombore of y rolicien, er d,
nd the New Testement Chure of Jesus Christ, were united into
or seet-indeed, only a very srv pereentage of the students
t.e Churc.. ef Christ in  . (Hippon Kirisuto Kyoden) in Juno
of Christian schools are C..ristione.
1941. (The Oscke diocese of the Episcopal Church and a number
o intiviausl chureles i the Curch of Christ in Japen in
In orgenising Tablo 1,. seihoels ve beon reuped undor the
1942. est of te. rejoined t miscopel Ci rch et the end of
three main heedings of higher institut uns, secendor institu-
the war.) Subseguert to the surrend er of Japan in 1945, the
tions, and  mentary institutions. Higher institutions are
lva o r , sovurel sall branches of the Holiness Church,
subdivided into universities and colleges. Sccendarr institu-
nd a fow churches of the Baptist and Prusbyterian faiths with-
tions are subdivided into boys' : idle scheole, irls' hih
drew fren the Chureh of Christ in Japen en became independent
schools, vocational schools, and miscellneous selools. The
dencminations. Othervise the Church of Christ in Japan rannins
category, "miscellancous schccls," copriscs tnose institutions
intact. Conscquently, the breakdovm by sect in the case of
which do not fall into any of the ordinary cntegoriis of schocle
churches other than those specified above indicates nerely the
in the Japanese educational syste. In sone cases schecls iv-
traditional affiliation and not thc actual present affiliation,
ing cducation alnost identical to that offered in cirls' high
which is the Church of Christ in Japan. Two schools werc cs-
schools, boys' middle scheols, stc., are classified as riscel-
tablished during the war and have been listed directly under
lancous schools for failure to mect certain standards prescrib-
the Church of Cirist in Japen as the affilinted Church.
ed by the Ministry of Education. Elementary institutions are
subdivided into clementary schoels and lkindergertens. is noted
In translating the institutional names in whish the Japa-
under "Evaluation of Data," the data for clenentery institutions
nese wor kuin ppears there is an apparent redundancy; for
does not represent nearly as complcte a coverage of schools as
exemple, Kanto Institute omen's College, Kanto Institute Mid-
does the data for higher and secondary institutions.
dle Scilool, Xanto Instituto nglish School. This arises from
the fact that the word galuin has consistently been translated
in this report as "institute" (jogakuin as "women's instituto"),
The date of foundation, as used in thise tablos, indicctus
since it cormonly designated a group of affiliated institutions.
the dato of the founding of the institution under its present
There are cases, hoever, in vhich the word akuin is usod as
titlo, and may be considerably later than the date of original
the name of a single institution, in vhich case it also might
ostablishnent of the institution. The number of students on-

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.96)
JAPANESE EDUC.:TIONAL INSTITUTIONS WITH RELIGIOUS AFFILI.TIONS
be translated correctly as "scninary" or "acadery."
Yanaguchi, and the municipalitics of Kyoto and Osaka. Contral
Honshu conprises the Chubu and Kanto Districts, including tho
In the tablcs listing institutions by goographical loca-
provinces of Aichi, Chiba, Fukui, Gifu, Gunma, Ibaragi, Ishi-
tion, Honshu, for purposes of convenicncc, arbitrerily has bcen
kewa, Kenagevm, Nagano, Niigata, Saitona, Shizuoka, Tochigi,
divided into threc arcas. Southern Honshu conprises the Kinki
Toyamm, Yenanashi, and Tokyo Hotropolis. Northern Honshu con-
and Chugoku Districts, including thc provinces of Hiroshina;
prises the Tohoku District, including the provinces of Akita,
Hyogo, Yic, Nara, Okayena, Shiga, Shinane, Tottori, Wakayenn,
Aonori, Fukushine, Ivate, Miyagi, end Yanagata.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
.4
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AFFILIATED  ITH RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
Date of
Students
Teachers
Baptist Institutions
Address
Present
Male
Female
Total.
Foun-
iale
Female Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Time Time
Time Time
HIGHER INSTITUTIONS
Collepes
Kanto Gakuin Joshi Semmon Gakko
Minami-ku, Yokohama-shi,
Apr 1946
0
127
127
12
3
4
16
3
(Kanto Institute Women's College)
g-ken
Seinan Gakuin Semmon Gakko (South-
Mishijin-machi, Fulkuoka-
Apr 1921
622
0
212
2
26
0
1
2
27
western Institute College)
shi, Ftruols-ken
Seinan Jogakuin Serron Gakio (South-
Itabitsu, Kokura-sai,
Mar 1946
128
128
7
6
0
13
4
wester: Institute ..omen's College)
Fuluoka-ken
SECONDARY DISTITUTIONS
Boys' Middle Schools
Kanto Gakuin Chugakubu (Middle
Futsuura-macii, Isogo-ku
Jan 1922
1116
0 1116
29
0
0
0
29
0
School Division of Kanto District
Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa-
Institute)
ken
Seinan Gakuin Chugakko (Southwestern
Nishishimachi, Fuluoka-
Feb 1916
1115
0 1115
29
5
0
0
29
5
Institute liddle School)
shi, Fukuoka-ken
Girls' High Schools
Hinomoto Koto Jogakko (Rising Sun
Shimotera-machi, Himeji-
Feb 1893
620
7
2
10
0
17
2
Girlst High School)
shi, Hyogo-ken
Seinan Jogakuin Koto Jogalko (South-
Itabitsu, Kolura-shi,
Mar 1922
0 676
676
12
2
16
0
28
2
western liomen's Institute Girls'
Fukuoka-ken
High School)

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS FFILIATID WITH RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
5.
Date of
Students
Teachers
Baptist Institutions (con.)
Address
Present
Male
Femalo
Total
Foun-
Male Female Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Timo
Time Time
Time Time
Girls' High Schools (con.)
Shokei Koto Jogakko (Shokei* Girls'
Nakajina-cho, Sendai-shi
Nov 1899
0 935 935
21
25
0
High School)
Miyagi-ken
Vocational Schools
Seinan Gakuin Shogyo Gakko (South-
Nishijin-machi, Fukuoka-
Apr 1938
296
0 296
0
western Institute Conmercial
shi, Fuluoka-ken
School)
Miscellancous Schools
Fuluoka ioiku Senko Gakko (Fuluoka
Torikai-machi, Fuluoka-
pr 1940
7 1 9 7
Post Graduates' Training School
shi, Fuluoka-ken
for Kindergarten Teachers)
Kanto Gakuin igo Galko (Kanto
iharudai, inami-ku
∴pr 1924
270 150 420
0
Institute English School)
Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa-
kon
ELEEITARY INSTITUTIONS
Kindergartens
Fukuoka Hoilu Senko Gakko Daiichi
Jigyohigashi-machi,
Nov 1913
26
50
2 1
Fuzoku aizuru (See below)a
Fuluoka-shi, Fukuoka-
ken
Fukuoka Hoiku Senko Gakko Daini
Torikai-machi, Fukuoka-
liay 1940
28
32
60
0
0
Fuzoku Samidori Yochien (see
shi, Fukuoka-ken
below)b
*
The asterisk indicates that the Japanese term is not translated because a literal translation results in either a loss of sig-
nificance or in an awkward or involved phrase.
a Maizuru First Kindergarten attached to Fuluoka Special Mursery Training School.
b Samidori Second Kindergarten attached to Fuluoka Special Nursery Training School.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
6.
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIONAL EISTTTUTIONS AFFILLATED WITH RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
Date of
Students
Tcachers
Catholic Institutions
Address
Present
ale
Female
Total
Four:-
Male Female Total
Full Fart
Full Part
Full Part
dition
Time Time
Time Time
Tine Time
HIGHER INSTITUTIONS
Universities
Chiba Kogyo Daigaku (Chiba Technical
Kinitsu-machi, Kimitsu-
Fy 1942
191
191
29
14 29
University)
gun, Chiba-ken
Jochi Daigaku (Sophia University)
Kioicho, Kojimachi-ku,
Lay 1928
304
い
304
2
13
0
0
25
Tolgyo-to
Colleges
Jochi Daigaku Semmoibu (College
Midcho, Kojimacii-lu,
Jan 1931
315
0 315
10
16
0
10
16
attached to Sophia University)
Tolgo-to
Jochi Daigalu Yoka (Proparatory
Kioicho, Kojimacii-
Yay 1928
204
0
204
16
Course of Sophia University)
lu, Tokyo-to
Seishin Joshi Gakuin Semmon Gakko
Shirokane-sankocho,
May 1915
0
257
257
13
22
38
0
(Sacred Heart Women's Institute
Shiba-ku, Tokyo-to
College)
Seishin Joshi Gakuin Senmon Gakko
Ryogen-mure, uo-un,
Jul 1946
0
90
90
3
5
10
5
(Sacred Heart Women's Institute
Hyogo-ken
College)
Seishin Joshi Semmon Gakko (Pure
Kamiifuku, Okayama-shi,
Apr 1944
0
387
387
10
17
13
2
23
Heart Girls' College)
Okayama-kon
Shirayuri Joshi Semmon Gakko (White
Kudan 2-chome, Koji-
Mar 1946
0
59
59
2
8
0
1
2
9
Lily Women's College)
machi-ku, Tokyo-to

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE I.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AFFILIATED ITH RELIGICUS CRG NIZATIONS
7.
Date of
Stuients
Teachers
Cat):lic Institutions (con.)
∴ddress
Present
alc
Femelc
Total
Foun-
Male Female Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Time Time
Time Time
SECONDARY INSTITUTICNO
Boys' Middle Schools
Gyosei Chugakko (iorning Star
Fujimi-cho, Koji-machi-
pr 1891
750
0
750
28
0
0
0
28
0
Middle School)
ku, Toigo-to
Hiuga Chugakko (Hiuga Middle
Yamato-ci.o, liyazaki-shi,
pr 1946
67
0
67
6
0
0
0
6
0
School)
Miyascki-ten
Kaisci Chugakko (Star of the Sea
Higashiyomate-machi,Naga-
lar 1911
1124
0
1124
31
0
0
0
31
0
Middle School)
saki-shi, Fagasald-ken
Kosei Chugakko (Shining Star
Kitajayoio, Sapporo-shi,
Apr 1946
384
0
884
25
6
0
0
25
6
iddle School)
Nanzan Chugakko (Southern
Gokenya-cho, Showa-ku,
Jan 1784
774
0
774
22
2
0
0
22
2
Mountain Middle School)
Nagoya-shi, ichi-ken
Rokko Chugakko (Rokko Middle
Shimohara, Moda-ka,
Apr 1938
448
0
448
19
C
0
0
19
0
School)
Kobe-shi, Hyogo-ken
Taisci Chugakko (Western Liddlo
Sansodori, Fukuoka-shi,
Fub 1946
227
0
227
12
0
0
0
12
0
School)
Fukuoke-ken
Toryo Chugakko (Eastcrn Mausolcum
Higashiyamate-machi,
Har 1940
596
0
596
15
0
0
0
15
0
Middle School)
Nagasaki-shi,
lagasaki-ken
Girls' High Schools
Akenoboshi Koto Jogakko (Morning Star
Tsukurimichi, ∴omori-
∴pr 1944
0 717
717
10
10
17 16.
Girlst High School)
shi, omori-ken

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
δ.
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OP EDUCATIORAL HHSTITUTIONS AFFILI TED ITH RELIGIOUS ORG NIZITIONS
Date of
Students
Toachers
Catholic Institutions (con.)
Address
Present
Yle
Female
Tot-l
Foun-
Lale Fumale fotel
Fullart
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Time Time
Time Time
(Catholic Girls' High Schools,
continuod)
Fuji Koto Jogalko (Wicteric Girls!
Kitajurokuje, Sapporo-
Dec 1924
C
1021 1021
5
2
22
1
27
High School)
shi, Hokkeido
Fuji Koto Jogalko (I ericss Girls'
Higashiwekomtsu-cho,
Mar 1912
0
695
695
6
1
24
0
20
1
High School)
Shizuoka-shi,
Shizuoke-ken
Futaba Koto Jogalko (Budding
Rokuban-cho, Kojinchi,
or 1909
C
451
0
0
16
0
16
0
Loaves Girls' High School)
Tokyo-to
Futaba Koto Jogakko (Eudding
Goshoteni, Fuiuoka-shi,
Lar 1946
0
137
137
2
2
12
0
14
Leaves Girls' High School)
Fukuoka-ken
Gyosci Koto Jogakko (orning
Miyazu-machi, Yosa-gun,
ipr 1946
0
188
188
1
3
8
0
9
3
Star Girlst High School)
Kyoto-fu
Shizuoka Jonai Koto Jogakko
Mizuocii-cho, Shizuoka-shi, pr 1924
0
224
224
3
0
4
2
7
2
(Shizuoka Jonai* Girls' High
Shizuoka-kon
School)
Junshin Koto Jogakko (Gentlo
Uematsu, Cmura-shi,
Unstated
0
395
395
4
0
12
0
16
0
Heart Girls' High School)
Nagasaki-ken
Kaisei Koto Jogakko (Star of
Shimoyamate-dori, Iluta-
Mar 1946
0
486
486
8
1
10
0
18
1
the Sea Girls' High School)
ku, Kobe-shi, yogo-ken
Kambayashi Koto Jogakko
Kembayashi-machi, Kumamoto May 1900
0456
456
4
1
5
3
(Kambayashi Girls' High School)
shi, Kumamoto-ken
Koen Koto Jogakko (Koen* Girls!
Koenji, Suginami-ku,
Fcb 1931
0
336
336
6
0
12
0
18
0
High School)
Tokyo-to

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE L.
ROSTER OF EDUCATION.L INSTITUTIONS AFFILI.TED TITH RELIGIOUS CRGANIZATIONS
9..
Date of
Students
Teachers
Catholic Institutions (con.)
address
Present
Male
Female
Total
Foun-
Male Female Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Time Time
Time Time
(Catholic Girls' High Schools,
continucd)
Koran Koto Jogalcko (Fragrant Orchid
Yamato-cho, Naka-ku,
Jan 1933
0
441
3
2
17
2
20
4
Girlst High School)
Yokohama-shi,
Kanagawa-ken
Nissoi Koto Jogakko (Sun and Stars
Kamingu, Haizuru-shi,
pr 1946
0
123
123
2
2
5
0
7
2
Girlst High School)
Kyoto-fu
Seibo Jogakuin Koto Jogalko (Our
Neyagawe-cho, Kita-
Mar 1925
0
777
777
5
2
19
1
243
Lady's Women's Institute Girls'
kawachi-gun,
High School)
seka-fu
Seibi Koto Jogakto (Perfect Beaut
Naga-cho, Yatsushiro,
Apr 1926
0
594
594
6
0
11
0
17
0
Girlst High School)
Kunamoto-ken
Scishin Joshigakuin (The Sacred
Shiroganesanko-cho,
Fcb 1910
0
273
273
6
0
18
0
24
0
Heart Girlst Schocl)
Shiba-lu, Tokyo-to
Koto
Seisnin Jogakko (Pure Heart Girls'
Kamiifuku, Okayana-shi,
har 1904
0
959
959
14
2
16
0
30
2
High School)
Okayoma-ken
Seishin Joshigakuin Koto Jogakko
Ryogen-mura, iuko-gun,
Mar 1924
0
241.241
2
2
8
1
10
3
(The Sacred Heart Girls' High
Hyogo-ken
School)
Seirei Koto Jogakko (Holy Ghost
Kemenocho, Akita-shi,
Mar 1909
0
766
766
6
0
22
0
28
0
Girlst High School)
Akita-ken
Sendai Koto Jogakko (Sendai Girls'
Kinoshita, Sendai-shi,
Apr 1908
0
794
794
8
0
15
0
23
0
High School)
Miyagi-ken

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
10.
TABLE 1.
ROSTR CF EDUGATICNAL ENTITUTICS AFFLLAT D "ITH RELIGICUD RGIFTITICNS
Date of
Students
Teachers
Catholic Institutions (con.)
Address
Present
Male
Female
Total
Foun-
Malc Ferale Total
Full Port
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Timc Time
Time Time
(Catholic Girls' High Schools, continued)
Shinai Koto Jogakko (Faith and
Furuichi, Joto-ku, Osaka- pr 1908
847
847
9
25
0
Charity Girls' High School)
shi, Osaka-fu
Shirayuri Koto Jogakko (hite
Moto-machi, Hokodate-shi, Feb 1920
734
734
9
4
23
5
Lily Girlst High Sc pol)
Hokkaido
Shirayuri Koto Jogakko (hito Lily
Kudan, Kojimachi-ku,
Her 1910
0 546
546
2
0
11
13
0
Girlst High School)
Tokyo-to
Shonan Shirayuri Koto Jogakko
Katase-machi, Katose-
Jan 1938
0 603
603
3
0
14
0
17
0
(Shonan White Lily Girlst High
gun, Konagawa-.cen
School)
Tohoku Koto Jogakko (Tohoku Girls'
likagenonsotokoji,
Sep 1892
741
7
14
21
0
High School)
Horioka-shi, Iwto-
ken
Vocational Schools
Fuluoka Joshi Shogyo Gakko (Furucka
Goshotani, Fukuoka-shi,
Feb 1933
451
5:2
14
0
19
2
Girls' Commercial School)
Fukuoka-ken
Gyosei Joshi Shogyo Gakko (Morning
Miyazu-cho, Yoso-gun,
Apr 1944
0 166
166
1
3
Star Girls' Commercial School)
Kyoto-fu
Matsuyama Joshi Shogyo Gakko
Kubo-cho, liatsuyamn-shi,
Apr 1925
0 662
662
5
0
8
0
13
0
(lintsuyam Girls' Conmercial
Ehime-lion
School)
liiscolleneous Schools
Ariake Shogyo Jogakko (Dawn Girls'
Kuranage, Omuta-shi,
Feb 1939
182
182
5
0
3
0
8
0
Commercial School)
Fukuoka-ken

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
T.BLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATION.L INSTITUTIONS AFFILI TED LITH RELIGIOUS ORG. JIIZATIONS
11
D-te of
Students
Tenchers
Cat olic Institutions (con.)
Address
Present
le
Femalc
Total
Foun-
Male Famale Tot-l
Full Put
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Time Tine
Time Time
(Catholic Misccllncous Schools, continucd)
Josei Koto Jogakko
Minamiyrotrachi,
Cct 1906
0
285
255
3
2
9
0
12
2
(Ever Fure Girls' High School)
Negasaki-shi,
Negaorki-en
Joshi Tayo Gigei Gakko (Girls!
Kowara-machi, kakyo-
Fcb 1940
0
51
51
1
0
1
6
2
6
Western-Japanese rt School)
ku, Kyoto-shi,
Kyoto-fu
Kokyo Shin Gakko (Catholie i l
Shakujiiseki-nachi,
P:b 1910
13
0
13
0
0
0
4
0
of Theology)
Itabashi-ku, Tokyo-to
Hisono Jogakuin (Garden of Paradise
Fujisawr, Fujise-shi,
.pr 1946
0
72
12
3
1
11
0
14
1
Girls' School)
Nagasaki Kokyo Shin Gakko (i
inmiyorte-.cni,
Nov 1899
46
46
10
0
0
0
10
0
Catholic School of Theology)
Nagasaki-shi
Eagaseki-ken
Sci Maria Jogakko (Holy Mary Girls'
Shinoyounte-dori,
Dec 1899
0
90
90
0
0
7
0
7
0
School)
Ikuta-ku, Kobe-shi,
Hogo-ken
Sento Jozefusu Karcji (St, Joseph's
Younte-cho, Naka-ku
1902
225
110
335
16
0
0
0
16
0
Collego)
Yokchana-shi,
Kanagawa-ken
ELELENTARY INSTITUTIONS
Elementary Schools
Futaba Daiichi Shoto Gakko (Budding
Rokubancho, Kojinacni-
liar 1910
0
207
207
1
0
8
0
9
0
Leaves First Elcmentary School)
ku, Tokyo-to
Futaba Daini Shoto Gakko (Budding
Tanngawa, Sctagaya-ku,
Apr 1941
0
241
241
1
0
11
0
12
0
Leaves c nd 1 a c. 1)
Tokyo-to

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.96)
12.
TABLE 1.
ROSTER CF DUCATIONL LISTITUTIONS AFFILLITED ITH RELIGIOUS ORG.HIZATIONS
Date of
Students
Teachers
Catholic Institutions (con.)
nddress
Present
Male
Femalc
Totnl
Fou:-
Hale Female Tet-l
Ful Part
Full Pt
Fuil Port
dation
Tine Tie
Time Thme
Time Time
(Catholic Elenentary Schools, continted)
Gyosei Shoto Gakko (Horning Star
Fujimicho, Koji-machi-
Aug 1890
375
0 375
17
0
1
0
18
0
Elcnentary Schoel)
lu, Tokye-to
Koran Koto Jogakko Shotoka
Yarnte-cho, lHaka-ku,
ar 1914
0
190
190
0
3
(Elomentary Division of Fragrant
Yokehema-shi,
Orchids Girls' High School)
Kanagawn-ken
Seibo Jogakuin Sho Gakko (EMementary
Neyagawn-cho, Kita-
Oct 1931
0
290
290
0
0
8
1
8
1
School attached to Holy Mother
kewachi-gun,
Women's Institute)
Oscka-fu
Seishin Joshigakuin Shoto Grkko
Ryo  n-mmre, uio-gun,
Aug 1923
0
262
262
1
0
(Sacred Heart Women's Institute
ogo-kon
Elcmentary School)
Shirayuri Gakuen# Shotoka (hite
Kudan 2-chome, Koji-
pr 1910
0
184
184
0
9
Lily Institute Elementary School)
machi-ku, Tokyo-to
Shonan Shirayuri Koto Jogakko
Katase-machi,
∴pr 1936
0
614 614
0
0
19
0
Fuzoku Shotoka (Elementary Divi-
Kannkura-gun,
sion of the Shonan White Lily
Kanagawn-ken
Girlst High School)
Kindorgartons
Aiji Yochien (Aiji*Kindergarten)
Oda-machi, Tajini-shi
Sep 192..
90
100
190
1
0
4
5 0
Gifu-ker
Chiisaki Hana Yochien (The Little
Denechofu, Omori-ku,
Miar 1946
37
34
71
0
3
0
4 0
Flower Kindergarten)
Tokyo-to
# The term gakuen is roughly analogous to gakuin. Sec explanatory notes.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
T.BLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATION.L INSTITUTIONS AFFILLIT D WITH RELIGIOUS ORG NIZATIONS
13.
Date of
Students
Teachers
Catholic Institutions (con.)
Adaress
Present
Malc
Femalc
Total
Foun-
Molc Fenale Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Fart
dation
Time Tine
Tinc Time
Time Time
(Catholic kindergartons, continued)
Futaba Daiichi Shoto Gakko Fuzoku
Rokubancho, Kojinachi-lu, Mar 1909
8
31
39
1
0
4
0
5
0
Yochicn (Kindorgarten attached to
Tokyo-to
Budding Leaves First Elen. School)
Hitoyoshi Yochien (Hitoyoshi
Tera-nachi, Hitoyoshi-
Jun. 1915
83
109
192
0
0
6
0
6
0 
Kindergarten)
shi, Kunanx to-ken
Imcruda Yochien (Inelda Kindergarten)
Shio-cho, Hachinoc-shi,
Feb 1927
17
28
45
0
3
4
0
∴onori-ken
Kaisei Yochien (Star of the Sea
Komikonya-n-chi, Oita-
∴or 1876
35
30
65
1
0
2
0
3
0
Kindergarten)
shi, Cita-ken
Kori Yochien (Fragrant Village
Meyagawa-che, Kita-
Jan 1932
75
88
163
0
0
5
0
5
0
Kindergarten)
i-, Osaka-fu
Hariya En (ary Kindergarten)
Baba-cho, Tsuruoka-shi,
Oct 1926
51
48
99
1
0
3
0
4
0
Yamagata-ken
Hariya En (Hary Kindergarten)
Yokote-machi, Hirakm-gun,
Hay 1930
105
111
216
1
0
5
0
6
0
kita-ken
lidori Hoikuen (Green Nursery)
Tokiwa-cho, Urawa-shi,
ipr 1944
36
52
88
1
C
3
0
4.0
Saitana-ken
Nadeshiko Yochien (Pinks Kinder-
Hikagenonsotokoji,
Jul 1930
61
73
134
0
0
5
0
5
0
gartcn)
LMorioka-shi, Iwate-ken
Sanbongi Yochion (Sambongi
Sambongi-machi, Kanikita-
Har 1939
54
63
117
1
0
3
0
4
0
Kindergartcn)
gun, ∴omori-ken

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
14.
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF DUC..TIONAL INSTITUTIONS FFILL.TED ITH RELIGIOUS CRG NIZITIONS
Date of
Students
Teac:ers
Catholic Institutions (con.)
iddress
Present
Male
Fenalc
Total
Foun-
Hale Ferale Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tine Time
Time Timc
Time Tic
(Catholic Kindergortens, con.)
Scibo Yochien (Holy Mary
Higashi-ku, Nogoya-shi,
Unstated
57
36
93
1
0
3
0
4
0
Kindergarten)
Aiohi-ken
Seion Maria In (Holy Garden
Higashikurayas i-machi,
∴pr 1933
106
126
232
0
0
7
0
7
0
Haria Kindorgarten)
Yonago-shi, Tottori-
ken
Soishi Yochicn (Holy Angels
Hodono, Akito-shi, Mkita-
Apr 1905
73
75
148
1
0
5
Kindergarten)
ken
ScishinYochicn (Sacred Heart
Hiyoshi-machi, Kurume-
Mar 1930
65
78
143
0
0
6
0
6
0
Kindergarten)
chi, Fukuoka-ken
Sei Yozefu Yochien (St. Joseph's
Hyakkoka-rochi, Hirosaki-
∴pr 1934
40
46
86
1
O
2
0
3
0
Kindergarten)
shi, .on.ori-ken
Shinai Yochien (Hope and Charity
Furuichi, Joto-ku, Osaka-
Oct 1944
50
60
110
0
0
3
0
3
0
Kindergarten)
shi, Osake-fu
Shirayuri Koto Jogakko Fuzoku Yochien
Kudan 2-ch me, Kojimachi- pr 1907
9
24
33
3
0
2
0
6
0
(Kindergarten attached to White
ku, Tokyo-to
Lily Girlst High School)
Shonan Shirayuri Koto Jogakko
Kataso-nachi, Kerakura-
, Sup 1936
32
105
137
0
0
5
0
5
0
Fuzoku Yochicn (Scc below)a
gun, Kanagawa-ken
Tenshien (Garden of Angels)
Tobata, Tobata-shi,
Scp 1933
105
95
200
1
0
4
0
5
Fukuoke-ken
Tenshu Kokyo Odawara Kyokai Fuzoku
iratama-cho, Odawara-
Nov 1931
66
46
112
1
0
5
0
6
0
Aratama Yochion (See below)b
shi, Knagawa-ken
a Kindorgarten attached to Shonan Shiayuri Girlst High School.
b Aratama Kindergarten attached to the Roman Catholic Church in Odawara

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.95)
T..BLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIOMAL LHSTITUTIONS AFFILIITD ITH RLIGIOUS ORGMIZATIONS
15.
Date of
Students
Teachers
Christian Church Institutions
Address
Pr sont
Female
Total
Foun-
Yale Femal. Total
Full Fort
Full Port
Full Part
Cation
Time Time
Time Tine
Tine Time
SDCOND:RY LISTITUTIONS
Boys' Middle Schools
Scigaluin Chugalko
Mekazoto-nchi,
Unstated
350
0 850
24
0
0
0.
(Holy Institute Tiddle Schoel)
Tekinegown-iu,
1 ieyo-to
Miscellancous Schools
Joshi Scigakuin
Nakazato-clo,
Feb 1905
726 726
12
0.
12
0
24
0
(Girls' Holy Institute)
Tekinogave-ku,
Tolyo-to
Church of Christ in Japan Insti-
tuvions (Hippon Kirisuto Kyodan)
HIGHER INSTITUTIONS
Collecs
Nippon Kirisutolgyo Joshi Shingalau
Denenchofu;
Yar 1943
0
31
31
2
12
2
0
4 12
Senmon Gakko (Japan Christian
Onori-ku,
Girls' Theological College)
Tolg-oto
Nippon Kirisuto Shingaku Sennion
Sa inoniya,
∴pr 1943
72
7
79
11
15
0
0
11 15
Gakko (Japan Christian Collego
Makano-ku,
of Theology)
Tolgyo-to

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
16.
THELE 1.
ROSTR OF DUCATICNIL INSTITUTIONS AFFILL.TD  ITH RELIGIOUS ORG NIZITIONS
Date of
Students
Tonchers
Congregational Institutions
Address
Present
Lale
Femelc
Total
Foun-
ale Ferrlo Totel
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
inc Time
Time Time
Tine Time
HIGHER DNSTITUTIONS
Universitios
. Doshisha Digrku (Doshisha*
Imadegawadori, Hemi-igro-
pr 1920
2179
41
1220
58
32
0
1
58
33
University)
lu, Kyoto-chi, Kyoto-fu
Colleges
Baika Joshi Senmon Gakko (Plum
Hinanitodoroki, Toyonake-
ar 1922
C
357
357
23
0
14
0
37
0
Blossom onen's Colloge)
shi, Oscka-fu
Dochishe. Digaku Yoka (Freparotory
Imadegaundori, Komikyo-
pr 1920
536
0
536
17
0
12
0
29
0
Course of Doshisha* Universit)
ka, o, t
fu
Doshishe Ke i i uo. akko
Ivelure-mure, Ctagi-gun,
pr 1922
0
0
890
1.2
0
0
0
42
0
(Doshisha* Colloge of Econorics)
Kyoto-fu
Doshisha Joshi So. mon Gakko
Indegevedori, Kemikyo-
:ar 1912
0
807
07
29
0
21
0
50
0
(Doshisha* Wonen's Colloge)
Lyoto-shi, Ryoto-fu
Doshisha Gaiji Scnmon Gakko
Shinkitakoji-ciho,
or 1944
663
0
663
23
16
0
1
23
17
(Doshisha* Collego of Forcign
Kanilgyo-ku, Kyoto-shi,
Language)
Kyoto-fu
Kobe Jogakuin Sa non Galko (Kobo
Okadayena, lishinoniya-
Oct 1875
0
079
879
15
23
13
3
28
26
Wonen's Institute Colloge)
shi, Hyogo-kon
Shoci Hoiku Sunko Gakko (Shoci*
Nakayanntedori; Dute-
Oot 1089
0
62
62
10
0
5
3
15
3
Post-Graduatc Nursery Nurses'
ku, Kobo-shi, Hyogo-
Training School)
kon

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.96)
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIOL.L INSTITUTIONS AFFILLITD II IELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
17.
Date of
Students
Toachers
Congregational Institutions (con.)
Adaress
Prusent
Lnle
Famale
Total
Foun-
Tale Fenale Totel
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Tine Tine ine Tino
SECONDARY INSTITUTIONS
Boys' Middle Schcols
Lntsuynne Jonan Chugakko
Fagaki-machi, latsuyana-
Jen 1891
324
0 324
6
1
13
1
(Hatsuyamm Jonan* Middle Scheol)
shi, Bhinc-ken
Girlst High Schools
Baika Koto Jogalko (Plun Blossom
Hinamitodoreki, Toyona-
Jon 1913
0
1067.1067
5
2
20
1
25
3
Girist High School)
ka-shi, Ceake-fu
Doshisha Koto Jogrkko (Doshisha
Inadegawa, Fmikyo-ku,
Apr 1877
1146 1.146
12
0
21
0
33
0
Girlst High School)
Eyoto-si, oto-
Kobe Jogaluin Koto Jogakubu
Okadayama, Nishino-
Dec 1926
0
730
730
13
0
12
0
25
0
(Kobe 'omen's Institute Girls'
miym-shi, Hrogo-ken
High School Division)
Kyoni Jogakko (Sisterly Love
Imagani-cho, lacbashi-
Feb 1888
0
460
460
10
0
15
0
25
0
Girlst High School)
shi, Gurra-ken
Shinonomo Koto Jogakko (Dawm
Okaido, latsuyma-shi,
Sep 1886
0
755
755
9
0
10
0
19
0
Girlst High School)
Ehinc-ken
Shoci Koto Jogalko (Shoci* Girls
Shirogane, Shiba-lnu,
pr 1920
0 .644 644
6
0
17
0
23
0
High School)
Tokyo-to
Hiscellencous Schools
Seiwa Jogakko (Holy Peace Girls'
Sakaide-cho, Sakaide-
Tey 1946
0
19
19
5
0
0
5
0
School)
shi, Kagawe-ken

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
18.
TABIE 1.
ROSTER CF DUCATICHAL EISTITUTIONS AFFILIATED MITH RELIGIOUS ORGAN IZITICHS
Date of
Students
Teachers
Congrogational Institutions (ccn.)
Address
Present
lale
Female
Totel
Foun-
Male Fomale Total
Full Part
Full Fart
Full Fart
Cation
Time Time
Time Time
Time Time
ELMENTARY DISTITUTIONS
Kindergartens
Hokko Yochien (erthern Light
Odori, Capporo-shi,
Fer 1920
69 56 219
1
0
4
0
5
0
Kindergarten)
olkaido
Nozomi Yochien (Hope
Rokuju, Asakawa-shi,
ay 1930
37
23
65
C
1
3
C
3
1
Kindergarten)
Hokkaido
Episcopalian Institutions
HIGHER INSTITUTION
Universities
Riklyo Daigaku (St. Taul's
Ikobukuro, 3-cheme,
May 1922
962
0
962
University)
Toshima-ku, Toyo-to
Colleges
Rilkyo Daigaku Yoka (Treparatory
Ixebuluro, 3-chome,
May 1922
970
0
970
24 14
0
0
Course of St. Paul's University)
Toshima-lu, Tokyc-to
Seikokai Shingakuin (Episcopalian
Ikebukuro, 3-chome,
Apr 1945
6
3
9
7
1
0
0
7
College of Theology)
Toshima-ku, Tolyo-to

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF A T  
T REL G IS
19.
Date of
Students
Teachers
Episcopalion Institutions (con.)
..cdress
Present
i.alc
Female
Total
Foun-
Fale F.male Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Time Tine
Time Tine
Colleges (con.)
Seirakm Joshi Senmon Gakko (St.
isi.iro- c, bu- v 1927
0
153
153
9 25
8
8
17
33
Luke's  omen's Cullege)
hu, Tokro-to
SECCIDARY DISTITUTIONS
Boys' Tiddle Schcols
Lomoern Chugakto (Poach
Hipponbashi, D. iwmeku,
∴pr 1902
972
1)
972
22
5
C
22
5
Mountain LHddle Schcol)
Oscie-shi, Croke-fu
Rildyo Chugalko (St. Paul's  iddle
Irotuluro, Tes irm-in,
Feb 1900
1121
0 2.121
25
0
0-0
25
0
School)
Girls! Hich Schcc
Koren Koto Jogalko (Fregrant
Tongawnekuzewe-machi,
Sep 1946
0
398
398
14
0
11
0
15
0
Orchid Girlet Hish Sch ol)
Setegay -lu, Telayo-te
Rikigro Koto Jogekito (St. Paul!s
Kugay, suginami-la,
pr 1903
0
778
778
24
0
12
0
36
0
Girlst High Schcel)
Scisen Koto Jogalko (Holy Fountain
Katsuyonn-cori, Dauno-
Oct 1890
0
793
793
10
0
15
0
25
0
Girlst High School)
iu, Osaim-fu
Shoin :cto Jogakko (rine Tree
otani-cho, Mada-ku,
pr 1915
0
712
712
10
0
9
0
19
0
Shade Cirlst High School)
Kobe-shi, Hyogo-ken
Miscellncous Schools
Hakuai Konin Gakko (Philanthropic
Motoimazato, Higashiyodo-
Apr 1900
57
42
99
1
2
3
0
4
2
Citizen's School)
gava-'u, Osaka-shi,
Oscka-fu

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.90)
20.
TBL 1.
ROSTER OF DUG TIONLL LISTITUTIONS AFFILL TED ITE LLIGIOUS ORG HI: .TIONS
Dat of
Students
Teachers
"piscopalian Institutions (con.)
iddress
Present
1
Forrle
Tot-l
F un-
Tale Fuale Tetel
Full Part Full Part Full Port
dation
Tin Time Ti Tine Tie Tine
Viscellneous Sc' ols (con.)
Heian Gakuin (e Se 1)
Shirodachiuri, Yvilge-
Anr 1995
0 159 159
0
1.0
0
la,e-,  -
PMIT RY DNSTITUTIONS
Kindergartens
Fulkatsu Yochien (Resurrection
uresskin, F,
Feb 1974
66 63 12)
5 0
indergarten)
yoto-shi, ut-fu
Futaba Yochien (Budding Leav.s
, obi irs, 1911
79 79 15
5 0
Kindergarten)
rokkeid
Futaba Yochion (Budling Leaves
Koji.ji-d.ri, i-si, : 1930
18 53 11
3 0
Kindergarten)
iyaci-ken
Gejo Yochien (Gej. . indergarten)
rchi, Sh  -
13
41 47 
0 1
lu, oto-si, Kyote-fu
linchinche Gikuen Hoiltubu (Nursery
Jurokka-nnchi, Hachine- Jun 1924
58
Division f Hachinche Inctitute)
shi, ori-ken
Heian Yochien (Peace Mindergarten)
uro-nchi, Ke ikac-ku,
pr 1915
60
5 0
Eyots-shi, oto-fu
Nishizu Yochien (Nishizu Minder-
Obarra-cho, Onu-gun,
∴pr 1913
35
garten)
Fukui-ken
Hachinche Yochien (Hachinohe
Bancho, Hachinche-shi,
Fub 1927
17
28
45
Kindergarten)
otori-ken

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.94)
T.RIE 1.
POST OF  STIT T  IT LS OGAAS
21.
Date of
Students
Teachers
Episcopalian Institutions (con.)
Address
rosent
ale
Female
Total
Foun-
Ialc Female Total
Full Part
Full Fart
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Time Time
Time Time
Kinder artens (con.)
Seiai Yochien (Holy Charity
Okitena-cho, Fulushima-
Apr 1919
40
80
1
0
2
0
3.0
Kindergarten)
shi, Fulushinn-ken
Seisen'ichi Yochien (Hely Trinity
Juralaniwa, Nekakgyo-ku,
Jan 1932
34
23
57
1
0
2
0
3
0
Kindergarten)
Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-f:
Sendai Seikokai Yochien (Sondai
Lototaji-cho, Son.ai-shi, or 1371
2
a
a
2
a
3
a
a
2
Episcopalian Kindergarten)
Piyagi-ken
Shinjo Yoji Hoilusho (Shinjo
Shinjo-unchi,
uct 1905
149
1::0
0
2
0
2
0
Children's Nursery)
Yomngata-ken
Shiogana Seiko Yochien (Shiogana
Mii-machi, Shiogann-shi,
Apr 1914
31
60
91
1
0
3
0
4
0
Episcopalian Kindergerten)
Liyagi-ken
Yamagata Seikokai Yoji (Yemagata
Kasuni-cho, Yamgata-shi,
Apr 1941
31
21
52
1
0
3
0
4
0
Episcopalian Children's ielfare
Yamngata-ken
Group)
Evangelical Lutheren Institutions
SECOID RY DNSTITUTIONS
Boys' liddle Schools
Kyushu Chugakko (Kyushu Hiddle
Co-machi, Kumamoto-shi,
Jan 1910
1208
0 1208
34
5
0
0
School)
Kumamoto-ken
a School temporarily suspended due to fact that school building was burned out.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
22.
TABLE 1.
ROSTR OF EDUCAFIOHAL ESPTTUTIONS AFFILIATED WITH RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
Date of
Students
Teachers
Evangelical Lutheran Institutions
Address
Tresent
lale
Female
Total
(con.)
Foun-
Yale Female Total
Full art
Full Part
Full Fart
dation
Time Time
Time Time
Time Time
Girlst High Schcols
Kyushu Jogaluin hoto Jogakko
Shimizu-machi, Kumamoto-
Feb 1926
0 768 763
0
17
0
25
0
(Kyushu Tomon's Institute Girls'
shi, Kumanoto-ken
High School)
ELEENTARY LISTITUTICNC
Kindergartons
Lidori Yochien (Green Kindergarten)
Shin'yashiki-machi,
Jan 1929
15
12
27
1)
2
0
2
0
Kumamoto-shi,
Kunamoto-ken
Freo lcthodist Institutions
SECONDARY INSTITUTIONS
Boys! Middle Schools
Nagoya Chugakko (Nagoya Middle
Chokyuji-cho, Higashi-lu,
Sep 1906
1175
0 1175
31
0
0
31
School)
lagoya-shi, Aichi-ken
Girlst High Schools
Seibi Gakuen Koto Jogakubu (Perfect
akita-machi, Minami-ku,
Oct 1899
0 639 639
1
15
0
23
1
Beauty Gakuen Girls' High School
Yokohama-shi,
Division)
Kanagawa-ken

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
T.BLE tc
ROSTER OF DUCATIOHLL ENETITUTIONS AFFILIITED ITH RELIGIOUS ORG.IZATIONS
23.
Datc of
Students
Toachers
Freo Hothodist Institutions (con.)
iddress
Prosent
Inle
Fenalo
Total
Foun-
Tale Ferrle Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tine Tie
Time Tino
Tine Tire
ELEENTARY HNSTITUTIONS
Kindergartens
Keisen Yochien (Spring of : crey
Chigashki-machi, Hosn-
Unstated
34
75
1
0
4
0
5
Kindergarten)
gun, Kenagow
Lutheron Institutions
ELEENTARY HSTITUTIONG
Kindergartons
Kuwenizu Yochien (Kuwenizu
Kuwturizu-nachi, Ku.noto-
Oct 1929
14
145
89
1
0
3
0
4
0
Kindergarten)
chi, luwmoto-ken
Hebac Yochion (Budding Kindorgarten)
inamijunije, Sepporo-
Jon 1937
77
1
0
4
0
5
0
shá, Holkk ido
othodist Institutions
HIGHER INSTITUTIONS
Universitics
Kansci Gakuin Daigaku (Kansci
Kanno, Nishinoniya-shi,
lar 1932
661
26
687
21
26
0
0
21
26
Institute University)
Hyogo-kon

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.93)
24.
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIONAL E STITUTIC. FFT L.T D ITH RALIGICU ORG NIT TIONS
Date of
Students
Teachers
Lethodist Institutions (con.)
ddress
Present
clc
Fanle
Total
Fown-
Tale Feale Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tix Time Tie Tine
Tine Timo
Colloges
Loyana Galuin Joshi Scruon Goldko
Midorigackerncti,
Nov 1378
0
417 417
19
0
55
0
(loyam Institute Girls' Colloge)
Chibuya-im, tolg o-o
Aoyarn Gakuin Semon Galdle (oyon
Miderigeok achi,
Sep 1032
1.07
0 127
21
49
0
21
49
Institute Colloge)
Shibuye-m, Tokyo-
Hiroshime Gakuin Sammon Galdte
Uckitencki, iroski
Feb 1932
0
359 359
21
0
14
0
35
0
(Hiroshimm Institute College)
shi, lircshiken
Kensei Gakuin Deigaku Yoke
n, s i,
 ar 12
42
0
462
11
24
0
1
11
25
(Preparatory Course of Kens
Hyoro-ken
Institute Univereity)
Kensci Galuin Semmon Gakko
Reme,  nonieki,
r1944
1405
0 1.65
20
52
2
20
55
(Kansci Institute College)
yo kn
Kassui Joshi Senmon Gakko ( ater
Licashiyrnte-machi,
pr 1922
0
373
373
20
14
14
1
of Life Girls' College)
Rocascki-shi,
Bog.ooki-kon
SECOID.MY INSTITUTIOND
Boys' Middle Schools
Aoyann Gakuin Chugaku Bu (Aoyena
idorigaoko-machi,
Sep 1682
362
0
062
30
0
30
0
Instituto iddlo School Division)
ohibuya-ku, Tolgyo-to
Aoyenn Geluin Daini Chugalu Bu
idorigaoko-machi,
Jen 1943
260
260
43
0
0
0
48
0
(Aoyana Institute Sccond iddle
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo-to
School Division)

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.96)
T.BLE 1.
ROSTER CF DUCATION L EISTITUTICES AFFILLITED ITH RELICIOUS CRGLIZ.TIONS
25.
Date of
Students
Teachers
Hothodist Institutions (con.)
Address
Present
Lale
Fornle
Tot:1
Foun-
Hele Fommle Tot 1
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tine Tine
Tine Tine
Tino Tine
Secondary Institutions (con.)
Chinzei Galuin Chugaldio (Chinzei
Eisho-nachi, Icchya-shi, Cct 1080
533
0633
24
0
0
0
24
0
Institute : iddle School)
Begaseki-ken
Eansei Geluin Chugaltubu (Kansci
Uegahara, ichinoriya-shi, Dep 1 9
350
0 658
22
0
1
22
5.
Institute iddle School
ok
Division)
Girls! High Schools
Royom Gekuin Koto Jogakubu (Moy
idorigaok -machi,
eb 1874
0
905
905
13
0
16
0
29
0
Institute Girls' Hig. 3c. ool
Chibuye-lu, Tolgyo-
Division)
to
Eiwa Koto Jogakko (Eiwa* Girls'
Fujikawa-nachi, Hofu-
ay 1889
0
520
520
5
0
13
0
18
0
High School)
shi, Yemnaohi-ken
Hiroshima Jogakuin Koto Jogakko
Keninagarekewe-nachi,
pr 1887
0
649
649
10
0
11
0
21
0
(Hiroshime Wonen's Institut
Hiroshima-shi,
Girlst High School)
Hiroshina-ken
Iai Koto Jogaltko (Eternel Love
Suginani-nachi, Hekodate-
Feb 1882
0
661
651
3
2
18
3
21
5
Girlst High School)
machi, Hokkaido
Kassui Koto Jogekko (Vater of
Higashiyarvito-nachi,
Dcc 1370
C
783
783
20
0
29
Life Girlst High School)
Nagasaki-shi,
Nagasaki-ken
Kudarntsu Koto Jogakko (Lower
Mitsuoson, Kunge-gun,
Thr 1916
0
642
642
18
0
11
0
29
0
Pino Girlst High School)
Yanaguchi-ken
Kudanatsu Koto Jogakko Hikaru Bunko.
∴sac, Hikeri-shi,
Mer 1946
0
67
67
4
0
3
0
(Lower Pine Girlst High School
Yanaguchi-ken
Hikaru* Branch School)

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.94)
26.
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF DUCITIONL EISTITUTIONS AFFILIITD ITH RTLIGIOUS CRGHIZ TIONS
Date of
Studerts
Tenchers
Nethodist Institutions (con.)
iddrees
Present
:elc
Fe:rle
Total
Foun-
Tale Ferrle Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Port
dation
Tine Time
Time Tine
Time Time
Girlst Migh Cchools (con.)
Sciryo Koto Jogokto (Caln useleu
Nichikusebuiaure-.achi,
Hov 1807
0
502
502
10
C
13
3
Girlst High Sch.ool)
Shizuoka-si,
Shizuoka-ken
Toyociwa Koto Jogkko (Toyocima"
lijashitoriisnk .-cho,
or 1944
0
576
576
7
18
0
25
0
Girlst High School)
zabu-ku, Tolgo-to
iscclleneous Schools
Too Gijulu (Center of the East
Shinoshivog .e-cho,
or 1941
24.2
0 942
17
0
10
0
27
0
Privato School)
Hirosaki-c..i,
onori-ken
Toyociwa Yochien Shihika
raesti.erieeeko,
or 1943
63
9
17
0
(Toyociwm* Kindergarten Horral
Azabu-iu, Tokyo-
Sc..ool)
MLE MITARY ENSTITUTICNS
Kindergertons
Miko Yochien (Light of Leve
Kasioyui-c. c, Tclayann-
pr 1925
37
23
70
1
0
3
0
4
0
Kindergarten)
hi, Yana uchi-ken
iko Yochion (Light of Love
Hatsuba-dori, Toyoncke-
.pr 1914
11
66
107
1
0
4
0
5
0
Kindergarten)
shi, Usako-fu
Aiko Yochien (Light of Love
Okeya-nachi, Hirosaki-shi, ar 190s
24
42
66
1
0
3
0
4
0
Kindorgarten)
Aomori-kon
Asahi Yochicn (Rising Sun
Ono-nachi, Fukui-ken
ar 1919
48
57
105
1
0
2
0
3
0
Kindergarten)

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.97)
T.BLE 1.
ROSTER  GATL 
 TD   R NS
27.
Datc of
Students
Teachers
Hethodist Institutions (con.)
Address
Present
ale
Fenale
Total
Foun-
Tale Female Tot-l
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tine Tino
Tine Tine
Tine Tin
Kindergertons (con.)
Keiai Yochien (Merey and Charity
Majiy-cho, Kgoshin-shi,  1917
9
13
22
0
0
2
0
Kindergarten)
egossikn
Kokucho Yochien (Kokucho
Koku-cho, Send i-shi,
Oct 1927
22
32
54
1
0
2
0
3
0
Kindergarten)
iyasi-
Koyo Yochien (Koyo Kindergarten)
Ohara-cho, shiya-shi,
ug 1922
1.1
1.0
9
1
0
3
0
0
Hyogo-kon
Hatoba Yochien (intoba hinder arten)
Matoba-cho, iroshin-shi, Mov 1910
39
27
76
1
0
4
0
5
0
Hiroshie-ken
Iatsushiro Yochion (Iatsushiro
atsushiro-che, Hemanntsu- u 1926
1.7
53
100
1
0
3
0
4
0
Kindergarten)
shi, Shicuokm-ken
Nadoshiko Yochien (Pinks
Lige-nnchi, Inasa- un,
pr 1928
14
16
30
1
0
2
0
3
0
Kindergarten)
Shizueka-ken
Gyokuci Yochicn (Gyokuci*
Oe-nachi, Kuvmoto-shi,
Jn 1924
51
33
24
0
0
4
0
4
0
Kindergarten)
Kunsnoto-ken
Sciai Yochion (Holy Charity
Fukurokoji-machi;
Jun 1917
37
34
71
1
0
3
0
4
0
Kindergarten)
Yatsushiro-shi,
Kunanoto-ken
Tanabu Yochien (Tanabu
Tanabu-machi, Shino-
1925
14
20
34
1
0
1
0
2
0
Kindergarten)
kita-gun, ..omori-ken
Toyociwe Yochien (Toyoeiwa*
Toriizaka-nachi, Asabu-
Nov 1884
0
35
35
0
0
2
0
2
0
Kindorgarten)
ku, Tokyo-to

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.94)
20.
TMBLE 1.
ROSTER CF DUCATOL S ALD T. R LE  G .S
Date of
Studa.ts
Teachurs
Hethodist Institutions (con.)
Address
Present
10
Furnle
Tot-l
Poun-
Tale Furle Tot 1
Full Part
Full Port
Full Part
dation
Time Tine
Tine Time
Tine Tine
Sindergartans (con.)
Tsuruge Yochien (Tsuruge
Kitatsunai, Truruga-shi,
pr 1918
23
20
56
1
3
0
Kindergarten)
Puati-kon
.Unoki Yochien (Unoki hindurgrten)
Chofu, Crori-lu,
ov 1935
58
52
110
1
0
4
5
Tok o-to
Wakaba Yochien (Young Leaves
Kitekevera-cho, Hiro-
2990
35
52
37
1
0
3
Kindergarten)
scidi-shi, -omori-ken
Yanci Yochien (Yenai indergerton)
Yi, ,
Oct 1926
C3
76 144
5
Youn uchd-ken
Presbytorion Institutions
HIGHER RISTITUTIONS
Colleges
Kinjo Joshi Sarnon Galcko (Goldan
Shireke be-ehe, Wignski-
Yor 1927
0 960 960
36
Castle Momon's Colloge)
iu, Magoya-shi, lichi-
ken
Mciji Gakuin Sornon Galdto (Hciji
Shirokene, Shibe-iu,
Hov 1903
2116
02146
161
0
0
0 161
0
Institute Colloge)
Tolgroto
liyagi Galuin Joshi Senmon Gakko
Higashisamban-cho,
Sep 1836
414 414
22
0
13
0
35
0
(iyagi Institutc onen's College)
Sendai-shi, -iyngi-
ken
Tohoku Gakuin Sermon Gakko (Tohoku
:inanirokkon-cho,
ar 1946
575
10
585
29
0
0
0
29
Institute College)
Sendai-shi,
Piyagi-ken

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIONL IDIISTITUTIONS .FFILIAT D ITH R.LIGIOUS ORG NIZATIONS
29
Datc of
Students
Toachors
Presbytcrian Institutions (con.)
Address
Fresent
inle
Fennle
Total
Foun-
Hale Fennle Total
Full Part
Full Port
Full Part
dation
Tine Tine
Tine Tine, Tine Tino
SECONDIRY DISTITUTIONS
Boys' Middle Schools
Heiji Gakuin Chugakubu (Hcii
Shirokane,
Jun 1890
1181
0 1181
32
0
0
0
32
0
Institute liddlo School
Shiba-ku,
Division)
Tolgo-to
yojo Gakuen Chugalko (Star of
Titaka-rachi, Kitagann-
∴pr 1928
293
0
293
15
0
0
0
15
0
Venus Institutc ?iddlo School)
gun, Tokgyo-to
Tozan Chugalko (East Hountain
Bikandotcranouchi-nachi,
Fcb 1912
926
0
926
30
5
5
0
35
5
iddle School)
akgo-lu, Kyoto-shi,
Kyoto-fu
Girls' High Schools
Baiko Jogakuin (Plun Light
:nruyena-cho, Shinonoscki- Feb 1914
798
798
3
1
12
3
20
4
Girls High School)
shi, Yanaguchi-ken
Hokusci Koto Jogakko (Northern
linanigojo, Sapporo-shi,
Jan 1888
0
889
889
14
0
18
0
32
0
Star Girls' High School)
Holdkaido
Joshi Gakuin (Girls' Institutc)
Iogi, Suginmi-ku,
Oct 1896
0
349
349
0
2
9
7
9
9
Tolgyo-to
Kasei Gakuin Koto Jogakko (Hone
Funabashi-cho, Setageya- pr 1881
0 196
196
7
0
10
0
17
0
Econonics Institute Girls'
ku, Tokyo-to
High School)
Kinjo Joshi Semnon Gakko Fuzoku
Shirakabe-cho, Higashi-ku,
Sep 1889
0 1293
1293
4
0
8
2
12
2
Koto Jogakubu (see below)
Nagoya-shi, ichi-ken
Apr 1943a
195
2
0
1
0
3
0
a Girls' High School Division of Golden Castlo onen's College. The second row of figures is for the night school, which is con-
sidercd a separate institution (Kinjo Joshi Senmon Gakko Fuzoku Yakan Koto Jogakubu).

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.94)
30
T..BLE 1..
ROSTER OF EDUCATIONLAL LHSTITUTIONS AFFILLAT D ITE LLIGIOUS CRGLIZ. TIONS
Date of
Sturients
Tenchers
Presbytcrian Institutions (con.)
iddress
Precent
:nle
Fanrle
Total
Foun-
Tale Fe.vle Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tine Time
Time Tino
Tine Tine
Kyoritsu Jogelkko (Cooperative
Yernte-cho, Noke-iu,
u 1371
342
312
l4
0
16
0
20
0
:Girls' School)
Yokoharn-shi,
Kenagown-ken
Läyagi Gakuin Koto Jegaldko
liges.iseuban-cic,
Sep 106
1) 1153 1153
12
0
20
0
32
.0
(Miyagi Girls' Hich Scl ol)
Sendai-shi, Miyogi-ken
Oc Koto Jogakko (Large River
Trukao-nure, lHotain- un,
1887
0 596
596
12
0
10
0
22
0
Girls' High School)
Eu nete-kon
Osaka Jogakuin Koto Jogalko
Hiuemon-cho, Hir shi-lu,
Jan 1.84
0645
6.45
7
0
1';
0
21
0
(Osake Monen's Institutc
Osaka-sii, Osaia-fu
Girls' High Schoel)
Yemate Jogaluin (Yannte crante
to-cbi, ek,
Sup 1928
601
101
13
0
17
0
30
0
Institute)
Yekohorr -ski,
Kenegowa-ken
Vocational Schools
Orio Joshi Che yo Gakko (Urio
Orio-nnchi, Yahata-shi,
tb 1945
0 350
350
7
6
2
13
2
Girls' Cort orcial School)
Fuluoke-ken
iscellncous Schools
Hokuriku Jogakko (Hokurilu Girls'
Memikakinokibatake,
Her 1685
0
840
340
13
2
12
1
25
3
School)
Kenazowa-shi,
Ishikaun-ken
Sciwa Jogakko (Pure Poaoe Girls'
Shinyashiki, Kochi-shi,
pr 1936
0
25
25
1
5
2
4
3
9
School)
Hochi-ken
Sciyu Jogakko (Friend Girls'
Mita, Shiba-ku,
Oct 1887
0
260
260
6
0
8
0
14
0
School)
Tokyo-to

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
TABLE 1.
ROST R OF DUC. TIONLL INSTITUTICHO AFFILL TED ITH ROLIGIOUS ORG HIZ.TIONS
31
Date of
Students
Toachers
Prosbyterian Institutions (con.)
ddress
Present
Lelc
Fonale
Total
Foun-
Valc Ferale Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tine Tine
Timo Tine
Tine Tine
LIENTARY INSTITUTIONS
Kindergertens
kite Yochien ((kita Kindergarten)
Kenne-cke, kite-shi,
y 1906
148
49
97
2
0
4
0
6
0
ita-kon
Chitose Yochien (Iternal
uike-nech, 
pr 1915
山
45
90
0
1
5
0
5
arten)
shi, You t-
Mako Yechien (Gy M ergarten,
sng-., -
pr 19.6
45
53
103
1
0
4
0.
5
0
shi, -kita-ken
Futaba Hoikuen (Budding Leaves
Lm-nnchi, Sakata-shi,
pr 1933
25
35
60
1
0
3
0
4
0
Hursery)
Yengate-kon
Midori Yochicn (Green Kindergarten)
Higashinakacori, Miigate-
 1941
18
35
53
0
1
2.
0
2
1
shi, Hiigata-ken
Shonai Kyokai Fuzoku Yochion
Baba-cho, Tsuruoka-shi,
pr 1940
21
20
49
1
0
2
0
3
0
(Kindergarten attached to
Yeurgata-ken
Shonai Church)
Soen Yochien (Mulborry Garien
Kitasi.ichijo, Sapporo-
Yar 1935
57
64
121
1
0
0
5
0
Kindorgarten)
shi, Holkaido
Tokiwn Yochien (Evergreen Kinder-
Iv.buchi-cho, Ujiyanada-
Oct 1921
39
48
87
1
0
garten)
shi, Mic-ken
Uzunasa Yochion (Uzunasa
Uzunase, Ulgyo-lu,
Dcc 1929
23
37
60
1
0
2
0.3
0
Kindergarten)
Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
32
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF DUCITIOILL. INSTITUTIONS AFFILIITD  ITH RLIGIOUS CRC Z TIONS
Datc of
Stucnts
Tenchers
United Brethren Institutions
Adcress
resent
Mle
Fenal
Total
Foun-
Ale Fenrle Total
Full Port
Full Part
Full Port
cation
Tine Time
Tire Tine
Time Tine
ELTENTIRY EISTITUTIONS
Kindergortons
Kyoto Dobo Yochion (yoto
Kewabeta-moru, Soiyx-lau,
Cup 192
39
37
76
1
0
2
0
3
0
Brotherly Kindergarten)
Kyoto-shi, yoto-fu
Oto Yochien (Oto Mindery rten)
Tenalke, Selgyo-lu, yoto-
r1935
35
37
75
1
0
2
0
3
0
shi, cto-fu
Universalist Institutions
MNITARY NSTITUTIONS
Kindorgartens
Dojin Yochien (Universal Eenevelence
Fu-she, i-hi-.  1927
26
33
59
2
2
0
4
0
Kindergarten)
u, Tego-to
Unaffiliated Institutions
HIGHER INSTITUTIONS
Colleges
Tokyo Joshi Daigaku (Tokyo
Iogi-machi, 3-chone,
er 1918
0 1042 1042
45
5
6
20
51
Tomen's College)
Suginari-lu, Telgo-to

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.96)
T..BLE 1.
ROSTER OF DUC..TIOLIL IISTITUTIONS .FFILL.TID ITH R LIGIOUS ORGANIZITIONS
33
Datc of
Students
Teachers
Unaffiliatod Institutions (con.)
Address
Present
lialo
Fenalc
Total
Foun-
Hale Farnle Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Tine
Tine Tino
Tine Tino
SCOND:RY INSTITUTIONS
Boys' iddlo Schools
Konin Gakuen Chugalku (Citisene'
Yoso-rnchi, Tsului-u,
Har 1946
62
62
3
3
5
Institutc liddlo Scheol)
Kenamwn-ken
Girls' Hirh Schools
Keisci Koto Jogalko (Ster of Murey
Mishiogi-mchi, Osaka-
Cop 1923
133
133
4
Girls' Migh School)
chi, usaka-fu
isccllencous Schools
Heive Jogalko (Pence Girls' School)
Chicascki-cho, Koza-cun,
pr 1946
0
59
29
1
3
6
Kana awa-ken
Konin Gakuen Joshi Nokko (Citizens'
Obara-nachi, Trului-Cun,
∴pr 1944
137
3
3
7
0
10
3
Institutc Girls' gricultural
Kanagawa-ken
School)
Seisho Nogakko (Bible and Agri-
Wakanatsu-cho, Chiba-shi,
,pr 1946
93
82
180
15
0
5
0
20
0
cultural School)
Chiba-ken
ELEENTARY INSTITUTIONS
Elcnentary Schools
Hakujujikai Rinkan Gakko (Whitc
Chigasaki-nachi, Koza-
∴ug 1917
41
48
89
3
0
0
10
0
Cross Open-∴ir School)
gun, Kanagawa-ken

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.91)
34
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATOAL TTTUTHFS AFELLTD MITH PELIGOS ORGATT TS
Date of
Students
Tenchers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Prosent
inle
Femalc
Totel
Ji Sect
Foun-
Lale Fennle Tetal
Full Pert
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time Tine Time
Time Time
SECONDARY DISTITUTIONS
Boys' Liddle Schcola
Fujisnwm Chugaildko (Tujisamm Piccle
Mishitori, Fujion-ski,
Thy 1915
1261
1261
1
School)
Vocational Schools
Fujisowa Kyo Gldre (F
Michitord, Fujicee-sk,
For 2915
510
51C
17
0
0
Industrial School)
Benage-ken
Fujisanm Shogyo Ga o (Fujisewe
Pehitc i, epiem e, r 91
1.99
0
499
1.8
1
0
19
0
Com:ercial School)
Sogami Joshi Shogyo Galdko (Segoni
Mishitord, Fujieo-ohi,
r 1926
513
518
7
11
Girls' Commercial School)
Len
Misccllancous Schools
Jishu Shugakurin (Ji Sect School)
: ichitomi, Fujisawn-chi,
1903
17
17
0
Senagaun-ken
Jodc Scct
HIGHER INSTITUTIONS
Colleges
Bulkyo Senmon Grlko (Buddhist
Kita-hananobo-cho,
Lny 1912
360
0 360
19
7
19
7
College)
Lurasakino, Kenilyo-
a konth not stated.
ku, Kyoto-shi

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.94)
T.BLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDGAL  D    G
22
D:t of
tudents
Teachers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Present
Femmle
Totcl
Jodo Sect (cen.)
Fo-
ale Female Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
det en
Time Time
Time Time
Time Time
Colloges (con.)
Scizan Senmon Galdto (Western
Otciuni-mure, ttckani-
ar 1920
55
0 95
Lountain College)
, -fu
Shukutolu Joshi Hogei Somon Crlko
Kokurada, Yone-mchi,
4pr 1946
0
12
12
0
16
0
(Hodesty Girls' Agricultural
Site-n
College)
SECONDARY ENSTITUTIONS
Bous' Middle Schools
Chinzei Chugalako (Chinzei Maddle
emochi, umoto-shi,
4pr 1905
1102
1102
32
2
0
32
2
School)
humanoto-ken
Seiho Chugakko (Sacred Pock Middle
Mikando, Sakyo-ku,
Oct 1/1.3
438
438
20
0
0
20
School)
Kyoto-shi
Shiba Chugalako ( a icdl. School)
Shiba-koon, chiba-k,
Har 1906
91.5
0945
26
0
26
0
Tolgyo-to
T kayasu Chugakko (Takayasu Middle
Cokeyasu-mure, Boke-
Lor 1942
648
0 640
21.
5
0
21
5
School)
keimchi-gun, Osaka-fu
Tokai Chugakke (Eastern Sen iddle
Eurmmichi-cho, Hignshi-
Sep 1909
1556
0 1556
46
0
46
School)
lu, goya-shi, Michi-
ken
Tokai Chugaku Dai-nibu (The Sccond
Kurcmomichi-cho, Hignshi-
ar 1935
291
0 291
14
0
Department Attached to tho Enstern
ku, Nagoya-shi, ichi-
Sca iddle School)
ken

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
36
TBLE 1.
ROSTR OF DAT T A D   NS
Deto of
Students
Tcnchero
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Present
cle
Fcmr.lc
Total
Jodo Sect (con.)
Foun-
alc Female Total
Full Port Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time. Time Time
Time Time
Boys' Liddlc Schools (con.)
Tozan Chugaldke (stern I cuntain
Teranouchi-cho, Eikando,
Feb 1912
926
925
30
5
5
0
35
5
iddle School)
Selkyo-ku, Kyoto-shi,
Lyoto-fu
Uyenomiya Chugalcko (Upper Palace
Kuyohori-cho, Tomoji-ku,
1or 1912
393
0
693
22
3
0
0
22
.3
Middlo Schl)
Osaka-fu
Girls' High Schools
Kacho Koto Jogakdio (Tio er-top
Hayashishite-cho, igashi- Sep 19m
0 1193 1198
22
6
11
1
337
Girlst High School)
yeme-ku, yoto-chi,
kyoto-in
Kasci Gakuen Koto Jogakke (Hone
Ckazaki, Saiyo-ku,
iur 1924
0 378
378
12
3
16
2
28
5
Economics Institutc Girls' High
Kyoto-shi
School)
Nishiyama Koto Jogakko (Western
kukomachi, Otokuni-gun,
Fcb 1927
0 606
606
15
0
10
0
25
0
Lountain Girls' High School)
Kyoto-fu
Chukutoku Koto Jogakko (Hodesty
Nishi-sugamo, Toshira-
Sep 1892
0 1067 1087
27
0
10
0
37
0
Girls' High School)
lu, Tolyo-to
Shutoku Koto Jogalko (Shutou*
Lnsago-cho, Wakeyoma-shi, Har 1923
852
852
11
7.
18
0
Girls' High School)
Wakeyama-ken
Vocational Schools
Kacho Joshi Shogyo Gelko (Floer-
Hayashishitacho, Higashi- Yey 1944
0
50
50
0
5
1
1
8
top Girls' Commercial School)
yema-ku, Kyoto-shi,
Kyoto-fu

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.94)
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUC. PHL EHETITUTIORS FILL TED WITH RELTOTS CRG NLLTIO
37
Date of
Students
Teachers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Present
2lc
Fernlo
Total
Jodo Sect (con.)
Foun-
Hale Female Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Time Tino Tiro Time.
Misccllancous Schools
Kondoru Yosai Jogaidto (Ccnder Girls'
Hachene, Temoji-ku,
Mor 1946
0 488
480
l.
2
11
2
15
School of Mesterm Heudle Mort)
Csaka-shi, Osske-fu
Mishu Gridte (Nuns' Schcel)
Hayashishito-cho, lig shi- Yy 12
0
50
50
3
0
12
6.
yann-ku, kyoto-shi,
Kyoto-fu
Seizan-ha Niso Galico (Seizan-Sect
Otolani-ure, Ctoluni-gun, Aus 1944
0
4
4
14
0
0
0
l_
0
hunst School)
yoto-fu
ELE ENTARY INSTITUTIONS
Kindergartons
Kavmshino Yochien (Do:mstrean
Ne,  -shi,
Oct 1932
68
103
176
0
4
2
Kindergarten)
Yomnguchi-.on
Kegon Sect
SECOND..RY INSTITUTIONS
Boys' Liddle Schools
Kinsho Chugakko (Golden Bell Licdle
Zoshi-cho, Mara-shi,
∴pr 1943
180
11
0
3
14 0
School)
Kare-ken

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.94)
36
TABLE 1.
ROSTR CF DUCATIONIL LISTITUTIONS AFILL TED ITH RELIGIOUS CRGMIE TIONS
Date of
Students
Teachers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Presunt
Mi.lc
Fornle
Totel
Foun-
Male Fernle Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
Nichiren Sect
dation
Tine Tine
Time Tine
Time. Tine
HIGHER INSTITUTIONS
Universitics
Rissho Daigaku (Rissho* U..iverrity)
Higashi-Oscki, Shinagaa- 4pr 1904
1.
0 126
17
lu, Tolyo-to
Colloges
Minobusan Sommon Geldko (Hinobusan
Linoburachi, Tirpito
or 1941
91
0
92.
15
0
15
5
Colloge)
gun, Yeuanasti
Rissho Daigaku Sermon Bu (Co) 
Higeshi-Osaki, Shinacawe- -pr 19:4
6.5
686
26
26
0
0
26
26
Courso of Rissho* University)
iu, Tolgo-to
Rissho Daigaku Yoke (Preparatory
Higashi-Oseki, Sninagave- 4pr 1904
167
0 167
15
6
0
0
15
Course of Rissho* University)
iu, Tokyc-to
SECONDARY INSTITUTIONS
Boys! Liddle Schools
Rissho Chugakko (Rissho* Middle
Higashi-Osaki, Shinagewe-
Jun 1904
368
26
0
0
0
26
0
School)
lu, Tolgo-to
Sozen Chugalkko (Sozan Liddlo
Minobu-mnchi, Linenikonn-
Fcb 1940
124
17
14
2 316
School)
gun, Yeranashi-kon
Girlst High Schools
Keijo Koto Jogakko (Clcar Purity
Tennoji-mnchi, Abeno-ku,
Feb 1921
0 830 830
5
Girlst High School)
Osaka-shi, Osekc-fu

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.96)
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIONAL LISTITUTIONS AFFILL TED ITH RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
39
Datc of
Students
Teachors
Buddhist Instituticns
Address
Presont
Felc
Fonale
Total
Nichiren Soct (con.)
Foun-
Kale Fanle Total
Full Part
Full Part Full Part
dation
Tine Tine
Tine Tine Tine Time.
Girlst High Schools (con.)
Meitoku Koto Jogaltto (Cloar Virtuc
Inokundori, Shimokyo-lu,
Tor 1924
0 541 541
13
0
3
0
21
0.
Girls' High School)
Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Rissho Galuen Ishika:mdai Koto
Yukigeye, Crori-lu,
ay 1946
420
420
13
0
14
0
27
0
Jogalko (Rissho* Institute Ishi-
Tokgo-to
kawadai Girls' High Sehool)
Rissho Galkuen Koto Jogeidto (Rissho
Nishinala o-mnchi, Ebare-
pr 1932
0 C72
372
23
0
14
0
37
0
Instituto Girls' High School)
iu, Tolgro-to
Rissho Koto Jogalauin (Rissho* Girls'
Forinouchi, Suginani-ku,
Dec 1926
0 S67 367
11;
9
0
23
0
High School)
Toleo-to
Vocational Schools
citoku Saiho Jogaldio (Clcor Virtuc
Laolumn-dori, Chinolgo-
Ler 1921
122
112
3
0
Girlst Sewing School)
ku, Kyoto-chi, yoto-
fu
Rissho Koto Gigei Joga'ko (Rissho
Horinouchi, Sugincui-lu,
Dec 1926
0
220
28
10
0
13
0
23
0
Higher Girlst Arts School)
Tolyo-to
Rissho Shogyo Galko (Rissho* Con-
Higashi-Osaki, Shinagewn-
Unstated
65
0
65
14
0
0
0
14
0
norcial School)
lu, Tokyo-to
Lisccllancous Schools
Fuji Galdto (Fuji School)
Ueno-mura, Fuji-gun,
Jan 1900
39
1
40
10
6
0
Shizuoka-ken
Ikogani Shu Galurin (Ikegani
Ikegani, Onori-ku,
Oct 1941
12
0
12
4
0
0
Sect School)
Tolyo-to

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
40
TBLE 1.
ROSTER CF DUC  L DSTITUTTONS AFFILL TTD ITH R JGIOUS ORG TOS
Dato of
Students
Teachers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Present
Tnle
Fomale
Total
Nichiren Sect (con.)
Foun-
Lele Fernlc Total
Full Port
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Time Timo
Time Time
Miscollanecus Schools (con.)
Kozan Shu Gelaurin (Bright-mountain
Inolume, Shimolgo-lau,
Lar 1922
12
0
12
6
0
0
0
6
0
Seet Schcol)
yoto-shi, Kyotc-fu
Nishu Shugalurin (Huns' School)
Intsugasali, Selye-im,
Jun 2929
0
9
9
4
0
1
0
5
0
Eyoto-sid, yote-
ELE.ENT.ERY INSTITUTIONS
Kint prtee
Ofuna Yochien (Ofuna kindergotn)
Cme- nchi, Kommkure-
Sop 1931
50
3
0
4
0
Rinzai Sect
HIGHER DISTITUTIONS
Colloges
Rinzai Gakuin Sermon Galdko (Rinzai
Hannzonoki, Uigo-ku,
Sep 1911
166
0 168
18
0
0
18
0
Institute College)
Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
SECOND:RY INSTITUTIONS
Boys' Middle Schools
Kamakura Chugakko (Kamakura Liddlo
Ofuna-machi, Kemakure-
Sep 1921
1345
0 1345
00.344
School)
gun, Kanagava-kon

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.96)
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIOMAL INSTI UTIOLS AFFILL TED ITH RELIGIOUS OAGILITIONS
41
Date of
Students
Toachers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Prosent
Vale
Fomale
Total
Rinzai Scct (con.)
Fowr-
Nalo Femnle Total
Full Part
Full Part Full Part
cation
Time Time Time Time Tima Tima.
Boys' Fiddle Schools (con.)
Rinzai Galuin Chugalu Bu (Liddle
Hanazonokitsujicho, Ulyo-
Fob 1934
254
0 254
10
6
0
0
10
6
School Division of Rinzai Institute) ku, Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Liscellancous Schools
Kenninji Senmon Dojo (Kennin Temple
Yemato-oji Higashiyean-
Jul 1944
9
09
0
0. 0
3
0
Special Serinary)
lu, Kyoto-shi, Kycto-u
Zonmon Galuin (Zen Cect School)
Shokoluji, Kerilgyo-'a,
Jun 1933
34
34
11
0
0
0
11
0
Eyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Shin Sect
HIGHER INSTITUTIONS
Universitics
Otani Daigaiau (Great Valley Uni-
Kamisocho, Kayane, Kami-
Tay 1922
369
0 369
19
17
0
19
17
vorsity)
iyo-ku, Kyoto-shi,
Kyoto-fu
Ryukoku Daigclu (Dragon Valley
Inokunckado, Shichijo,
11922
618
8
626
49
9
0
0
49
9
University)
Chinokgyo-lu, Kyoto-shi
Colloges
Chiyoda Joshi Sarnon Gakko (Chiyoda*
Tanashi-machi, Kitatann- Feb 1927
0 484 434
15 29 11 8. 26 37
Girls' Colloge)
gun, Tokyo-to

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
.42
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIONIL INSTITUTIONS AFFILL.TED WITH RELIGIOUS ORG NIZITIONS
Datc of
Studonts
Toachers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Fresent
lale
Femle
Total
Shin Scct (con.)
Foun-
Tale Fernle Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tine Tino
Tine Tino
Tino Tino
Colleges (con.)
Koka Joshi Sennon Gakko (Eright
Katsura-cho, Saiin, Ulgyo-
Mar 1946
0 227 227
10 16
13 17
Flower Girls' Collcgc)
ku, Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Kyoto Joshi Sermon Gakko ( to
Kitahiyoshi-cho, Irvku-
r 1920
969
969
55
0
16
71
Girlst Collcgc)
nano, Higashiyama-ku,
Kyoto-shi
Otani Daigaku Semmion Bu (Colleg
E icocho, Koyama, Kani-
Fir 1924
132
6
3
0
Coursc of Great Valley University)
kyo-ku, Kyoto-shi,
Kyoto-fu
Otani Daigaku Yoka (Preparatory
Kamisocho, Koyama, Kami-
ay 1922
286
12
12
Coursc of Great Valley University)
kgo-ku, Kyoto-shi,
Koto-fu
Otani Joahi Sernon Gakko (Great
Kyoritsudori, Abeno-ku,
Apr 1930
512
512
8
1
Valloy Girls' Collego)
Csaka-shi, Csaka-fu
Ryukoku Daigaku Sermon Bu (Collcge
Inokunakado, Shichijo,
Liay 1922
558
34
20
0
0
34
20
Courso of Dragon Vallcy Uni-
Shimokyo-ku, Kyoto-shi
versity)
Ryukoku Daigaku Yoka (Preparatory
Inokumakado, Shichijo,
May 1922
362
0 362
30
20
0
0
30
20
Courso of Dragon Valloy Uni-
Shinolyo-ku, Kyoto-shi
versity)
Shinshu Scrmon Gakko (Shin Scct
Takikava-cho, Showa-ku,
Jun 1921
156
0 156
14
Collegc)
Nagoya-shi, Aichi-ken
Soai Joshi Sormon Gakko (Lutual
Kadona-nachi, Kita-
4pr 1928
0 311 311
16 15
16 15
Lovo Girls' Colloge)
kawachi-gun, Osaka-fu
Takada Sonnon Gakko (High Ricc
Ishindencho, Kawago-gun,
Apr 1904
69
0
69
20
1
0
0
201
Field Collogc)
liio-ken

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 1.
ROSTER CF EDUC. TIONAL ENSTITUTIONS A FILLATED WITH RELIGIOUS ORGANIZITIONS
43
Date of
Students
Teachers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Present
Male
Fomale
Total
Shin Scct (con.)
Foun-
Hiale Fenale Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Pert
dation
Time Timo
Time Time Timo Timo.
SECOND.RY NSTITUTIONS
Boys' Middle Schools
Heian Chugakko (Peace Middle
Cmiyadori, Shinokyo-ku,
Dec 1910
1149
0 1149
37
0
0
0
37
0
School)
Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Hokuroku Chugakko (Hokuroku
Shimo-cho, tatsunoto,
∴pr 1910
905
0
905
28
0
1
0
29
0
Fiddle School)
Fulcui-shi, Fului-ken
Otani Chugakko (Great Valley
Inalunnno, Higashiyama-
Feb 1923
620
0
620
16
5
0
0
16
5
iddlo School)
lu, Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-
fu
Owari Chugakko (Ovari iddla
Tainda-cho, Mizuho-lu,
-pr 1908
1175
0 1175
31
0
0
0
31
0
School)
legoye-shi, Aichi-ken
Ryukoku Chugakko (Dragon Valley
Lizuo-machi, sage-shi,
Apr 1902
1340
0 1340
38
0
0
0
38
0
iddle School)
Saga-ken
toku Chugakko (Sotoku* Middle
Kusunoki-cho, Hir 
pr 1913
612
612
14
4
0
0
14
4
School)
shi, Hiroshinn-ken
Takada Chugakko (High Rice Field
Isshindencho, Kavago-
Sep 1902
699
699
25
2
0
0
25
2
Middle School)
gun, Mic-kon
Girls' High Schools
Aki Koto Jogakko (Aki Girls' High
Hijiyamahoncho, Hiro-
Mar 1925
0 263 263
9
4
0
0
9.4
School)
shima-shi, Hiroshina-
ken
Chikushi Koto Jogakko (Chikushi
Kegohondori, Fukuoka-shi,
Apr 1907
.0 1146 1146
16
1. 13
0
Girlst High School)
Fukuoka-ken

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
44
TABLE 1.
ROSTER CF EDUCATIONAL ENSTITUTIONS AFFILIATED WITH RELIGICUS CRGANIZATIONS
Datc of
Students
Toachers
Buddhist Institutions
Addross
Present
Male
Fenale
Total
Shin Sect (con.)
Foun-
Inle Female Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tine Tine
Time Time
Time Tine
Girls' High Schools (con.)
Chiyoda Koto Jogakke (Chiyoda
Yoban-cho, Kojinchi-ku,
Thr 1910
499
10
0
14
0
24
0
Girlst High Schcol)
Tolyo-to
Futaba Koto Jogakko (Budding Leeves
Surinoc-cho, Ctaru-shi,
For 1927
0
847
847
9
C
10
0
19
0
Girlst High School)
aido
Futoku Koto Jogaldko (onnly Virtue
Kunno achi, Aki-gun,
Jan 1926
0
279
279
6
3
5
3
11
6
Girls' High School)
liiroshiuc-ken
Hakodato Otani Koto Jogakko
Chiyogadai-cho, Heolate-
Jan 1923
C
699
999
24
0
14
0
28
0
(Hakodate Great Valley Girls'
shi, Holkaido
High School)
Higashi Otani Koto Jogalkko (Eastern
Kyoritsudori, Abeno-iu,
Mar 1936
0 1028
1028
8
0
20
2
28
2
Great Valley Girls' High School)
Osaka-shi, Osalm-ku
Hinodo Koto Jogalko (Sunrisc Girls'
Shinoneguro, aguro-ku,
Jin 1913
638
638
6
0
10
0
16
0
High School)
Tolyo-to
Hokkai Koto Jogakko (Northern Sea
Kita-jurokujo, Sapporo-
Apr 1905
890
890
5
4
14
2
19
6
Girlst High School)
shi, Hokkaido
Inazawa Koto Jogakko (Inazawa*
Inazava-cho, Nakajina-
ier 1927
0
907
907
19
0
17
0
36.
0
Girls' High School)
gm, Aichi-ken
Koiai Koto Jogakko (Koiai* Girls'
Shioya, 'arugane-shi,
Apr 1913
0 586
586
13
0
8
0
21
0
High School)
Kagawe-kon
Koka Koto Jogakko (Bright Flower
Nakadainarucho, Saiin,
Sop 1939
0 1160 1160
14
1
17
2
31
3
Girlst High School)
Ulgyo-ku, Kyoto-shi,
Kyoto-fu

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.96)
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATICHAL DISTITUTIONS ALTED H RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
4.5
Datc of
Students
Teachers
Buddhist Instituticns
Address
Prcsent
Male
Fannle
Total
Shin Sect (con.)
Foun-
Iale Female Tetal
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tine Time
Tine Tine
Time Ting
Girls' High Schools (con.)
Kyoto Koto Jogakko (Kyoto Girls'
Inngunano Higashiyamn-ku,
4pr 1911
0 1199 1199
15
5
21
8
36 14.
High School)
Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Obihiro Otani Koto Jogalito (Obihiro
Mishi-shijo, Obihiro-shi,
Mar 1923
0 761
761
10
4
3
14
Great Valley Girls' Hig
I)
Hokkaido
Oka Koto Jogakko (Cherry Blosson
Inssava-cho, Nakmjim-
r1927
907
19
0
17
0
36
0
Girls' High School)
fun, wichi-ken
Otani Koto Jogekko (Great Valley
Eyoritoudori, Abeno-ku,
pr 1924
0 1104 1204
J.0
0
17
1
27
1
ir_st High School)
Csaka-shi, (sem-)
Otani Koto Jogaldko (Great Valloy
c/o Pujikoshi Seiko,
pr 1925
0 805
305
3
3
10
3
23
6
Girls' High School)
Ishikane, Toyana-shi,
Teyn-kon
Scitoku Koto Jogakko (Scitolu*
Fultiai-cho, Fukiai-lu,
Cct 1921
430
8
1
5
1
Girlst High School)
Kobc-shi, Hyogo-ken
Senjo Koto Jogalto (Fan Castlo
Nakadono-machi, Nakatsu-
ar 1923
0 1087 1087
24
0
11
0
35
0
Girls' High School)
shi, Oita-ken
Soai Koto Jogakko (!utual Love
Itoyanchi, Higashi-lu,
Jun 188
0. 670 670
17
0
12
C
29
Girls' High School)
Osaka-shi, Osaka-fu
Toka Koto Jogakko (Wisteria Flover
Nishi-cho, Kanazawm-shi,
pr 1927
619
8
0
11
0
19
0
Girls' High School)
Ishikave-ken
Vocational Schools
Chuo Shogyo Gakkc (Central Cormorcial
Echizon-bori, Kyobashi-ku, Unstated
909
909
34
0
0
0
34
School)
Tolyo-to

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
46
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATICNAL DISTITUTIONS AFFILLITED WITH RELIGIOUS ORGANIZITIONS
Date of
Students
Teachers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Present
inlo
Ferale
Total
Shin Sect (con.)
Foun-
Yale Fanale Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Time Time
Tine Tino
Tine Tine
Vocational Schools (con.)
Kyoto Joshi Shogyo Galko (yoto
Inagunnno, Higeshiyan-
Her 1944
305
5 1
6
11
20
Girls' Cormercial Schcol)
ku, Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Obihiro Otani Koto Kasci Jogakko
Mishi-shijo, Cbihiro-shi,
pr 1932
0
212
212
7
0
4
0
11
0
(Obihiro Great Vallcy Girls'
Hokkaido
Higher Houschold Economics School)
Otani Koto Jitsugyo Gekke (Great
Sunchodori, Shinolgo-lu,
Mar 1942
0 652
652
3
3
12
1
20
4
Valley Higher Vocational School)
Ayoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Senjo Koto Kasci Jogaiko (Fan Castle
Mekadono-machi, Heimesu-
Jul 1931
0 309
309
15
0
9
0
24
0
Girlst Higher Houscvifory School)
shi, Cita-ken
Liscellaneous Schools
Kyushu Buldayo Sonshu Gakko (Kushu
Fichi nchi, Murwse-shi,
Ty 1946
33
2
5
0
9
0
Buddhist Training School)
Fuuoka-ken
Musashino Joshi Gakuin (Ilusashino
ashinden, Hoyunchi,
or 1927
531
531
0
11
0
18
0
Girls' School)
Kitatana-gu, Tolyo-to
Otani Hobo Yoseijo (Grent Vallcy
Suncho, Shimolyo-ku,
er 1945
0
23
23
7
Nursory-School Teachers' Training
Kyoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Institute)
Shinsinu Gaiauryo (Shin Sect Dormitory
Minani-kannoncho, Hiro-
Nov 1930
15
0
15
3
0
0
0
3
0
School)
shimm-shi, Hiroshina-
ken
Sotoku Senshu Galuin (Sotoku*
c/o Kusunokicho, Hiro-
Apr 1913
37
0
37
0
0
0
0
Training School)
shima-shi, Hiroshinn-
ken

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
47
TAPLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATICIL LSTITUTTOS AFFILLATED TTH RELIGIOUS CRGANIZATIONS
Datc of
Students
Teachors
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Foun-
Present
Thle Fumle Total
Full Part
Full Fart
Fennle
Full Part
Total
Shin Scet (con.)
dation
Tine Time
Time Tino
Time Time,
ELEEITARY DISTITUTIONS
Kindergertons
Kabe Yochien (Kabe Hindergarten)
Kabo-cho, Ase-gun, Hire-
Scp 1936
55
65
120
1
0
3
0
0
shimmeken
Kuchien Yochien (Kuchien Kinder-
Euchian-cho, Abuto-gum,
Jun 1934
60
51
111
1
0
4
0
5
0
garten)
Hokkeido
inyo Yochien ( vorwmity Minder
linemidemb.re-cho, Tire-
pr
27
30
57
1
0
3
0
4
garten)
shiv-shi, iroshi
Obihiro Yochien (Obihiro Kinder-
Higashi-nijo, Cbihire-
kon
Jun 1070
5
70
165
0
0
6
0
5
0
garten)
shi, Hokkaido
Ono Yochien (Ono Kindergarten)
Ono-nachi, Ono-gun,
..ug 1919
2.07
127
234
1
0
4
0
5
0
Fului-ken
Seikei Yochien (Path-Forming
Takada-rnchi, Higashi-
Scp 1909
56
55
111
2
0
4
0
6
0
Kindorgarten)
kunisaki-gun, Oita-ken
Sciko Hoikuen (Sacrcd Light
Furuichi-cho, sa-gun,
pr 1931
45
44
£9
1
0
2
0
3
0
Nursery School)
Hiroshima-ken
Shotoku Yochion (Sacred Virtue
Cnon-cho, Gifu-shi,
Sep 1930
20
20
40
0
0
2
Kindorgarten)
Gifu-ken
Showa Kawanabo Yochion (Clear
Kawanabe-cho, Kavanabo-
pr 1923
26
28
54
2
0
2
0
0
Peace Kawanabc Kindergarten)
gun, Kagoshima-kon
Takada Yochien (High Rice Ficld
Isshinden-cho, Kawage-
Dec 1928
50
56
106
0
0
4
0
4
0
Kindorgarton)
gun, Hio-ken

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.95)
48
TABLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATONAL HESTITUTIOND FFILLATED ITH RELIGIOUS ORG NIZATIC
Date of
Stugents
Teachers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Present
lc
Fomrle
Total
Shin Sect (con.)
Foun-
Tele Fomale Total
Full Fart
Full Part
Full-Fart
dtion
Time Tine
Time Tine
Time Time
Kindergartens (con.)
Takakura Yocihion (Teimkura Kinder-
Tekekure, himolgo-ku,
For 1931
40
68 116
1
0
4
0
5
0
garten)
Ryoto-shi, Kyoto-fu
Tojo Hoiluen (Tojo Hursery)
Tojo-mm chi, Hiba-gun,
.pr 1923
43
55
103
1
0
4
0
5
Miroshinn-ken
Tsurusald Yochien (Tsuruscki
Tsurusaki-mm.chi, Cita-
pr 1924
72
C2
0
0
3
0
3
Kindergarten)
gun, Cita-ken
Yasu Hoikuen (Ysu Hursery Sehoel)
Yasu-ure, ise-gun,
Dop 1946
40
40
80
1
3
0
4
0
Hireshin-ken
Shingen Seet
HIGHER INSTITUTIONS
Universitics
Koyasan Daigaku (Koya Heuntain
Roac o. ,
Apr 1926
137
9 145
10 11
18 11
University)
Vekayene-ken
Colloges
Koyasan Daigaku Yoke (Preparatory
Royacho, Ho-gun,
Apr 1926
217
0
217
9
7
Courso of Koya Hountain Uni-
Wakayan-ken
vorsity)
Kyoto Sormon Geldko (Kyoto College)
Toji-cho; Kujo, Shino-
Jul 1902
133
0 183
12
0
10
kyo-ku. Kyoto-shi,
Kyoto-fu

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
TASLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATIL, STITUTORS AFF LATED TH ROUS ORGAATIONS
49
Date of
Students
Teachers
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Present
Jale
Fanlo
Total
Shingon Sect (con.)
Foun-
Tale Fenale Totel
Fuüll Fart
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tine Tine
Tine Tire Tine Ting.
SECONDARY LHOTITUTIONS
Boys' :iddle Sch.cols
Dusen Chugakito (Busan Seet iddle
Sekmshito-cho, Otou e,
Hov 1903
969
30
0
0
0
30
0
School)
Hoishikeum-ku, Toiyo-to
Chizan Chugakto ( iscon cuntcin
aishalujii, Itabasbi-
Fob 1926
650
0
650
28
0
0
0
28
0
iddle chool)
ku, Tolyo-to
Koyasu Chugakko (Child Pence : idcle
twe, ese-un,
pr 1941
554
554
7
0
0
0
17
0
School)
Lhine-ken
Narita Chugalko (Narita I iddle
Roucho, Ito-gun,
Jul 1907
209
0
239
18
3
0
0
18
3
School)
keyn-ke
Merita Chugalcio (Harita iddle
arite-nchi, Labo-gun,
Oct 1898
519
0
519
16
0
0
0
16
0
School)
Chiba-ken
Toji Chugakko (Eastern Tomple
Eujo, Shimolgo-ku,
ug 1902
500
0
500
12
3
0
0
12
8
iddle School)
Kyoto-shi, Ayoto-fu
Toyokane Chugakko (Toyokavwa Iiddle
Toyokawn-che, Toyokave-
Apr 1943
606
606
24
0
0
0
24
0
School)
shi, wichi-ken
Girls' High Schools
Meirin Koto Jogakko (Mcirin* Girls'
Ooka-machi, Yokohana-shi, Hay 1927
707
707
12
1
9
0
21
1
High School)
Kenagewe-ken
Nakano Koto Jogalko (Nalano Girls'
Miyamao-cho, Nakano-ku,
Jan 1928
434
1434
12
0
4
0
16
0
High School)
Tolyo-tc

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.95)
50
TABLE 1.
ROSTER CF EDUC.IAL LISTITUTIONS AFFILL.MD MITH RLLIGICUS CRG.MHIZ.TICE
Date of
Students
Teachers
Buddhist Instituti ns
ddress
Present
inle
Famle
Total
Shingon Sect (con.)
Fun-
Halc Fenalo Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
Tinme Tine
Tine Time Tine Timo
Girls' High Schools (con.)
Narita Koto Jogakko (Nrita Girls'
Tonnchi, Marita-machi,
Fob 191
0 349 349
10
3
High School)
Lmbe-gun, Chiba-lten
. Senshin Koto Jogalcko (Senshin*
sorpachi-cho, Iicda-shi,
Nov 1920
0 1119 1119
19
35
1
Girlst High School)
Csaka-fu
liiscellancous Schools
Daigosan Denpo Galuin (Daigosan
Deigo-garan-cho, Fushimi-
1932
114
17
7 0
School for Transnitting Ro-
, Kyoto-sii, yoto-fu
ligious Lew)
Joyo Seiho Jogakko (J yo* Cis'
Yemcati-cho, Shiru-un,
Fob 1935
)
228
226
5
0
8
3
School of iecdlcwork)
Tolgyo Sonshu Galuin (Tekg) Training
Sakmchita-chu, Utsuke,
Unstated
98
0
93
11
0
0
11
0
chool)
Koishikawa-ku, Tolgo-to
ELE ENTARY ENSTITUTIONS
Kindergartens
Kanno Yochien (Kanno* Kindergarten)
Liyanao-cho, Makano-lu,
Unstated
68
53
121
1
0
2
0
3
Tokyo-to

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
TABIE 1.
ROSTER F DUCA S A
 GUD R TICHS
51
Datc of
Students
Teachors
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Present
icle
Famalc
Total
Soto Sect
Foun-
le Fenale Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tino Tine
Tine Tino
Tio Tio
HIGHER INSTITUTIONS
Universities
Konazawa Daigaku (Konnzavm Uni-
Fukazewn, Setegerr-lu,
Oct 1302
313
0
313
20
11
C
0
20
11
versity)
Tolyo-to
Colloges
Konazawe Daigaku Sernon Bu (Konazan
Fuknzava, Setagaya-lu,
2
1901
721
1
722
0
0
18
University Collego Division)
Kemazave Dai clu Yoka (Preparatory
Fukazawe, Sctegaya-im,
lov 1899
340
3
343
14
21
1
0
5 1
Course of Konazawn University)
Tolyo-to
SECONDARY INSTITUTIONS
Bovs' Middle Schools
Aichi Chugakko (Aichi Liddle
Kusunoto-cho, Chiguse-
Feb 1925
1350
0 1358
43
0
1
0
44
0
School)
ku, Nagoya-shi, kichi-
kon
Sondan Chugakko (Bead Tree
Aranki, Sendai-shi,
Apr 1905
440
0
440
14
6
0
0
24
6
Middlo School)
Viyagi-ken
Setagaya Chugalu (Sctagaya
Mishuku-cho, Setagaye-ku,
Oct 1940
862
0
862
30
0
0
0
30
0
Middle School)
Tolyo-to
Tatara Chugakko (Tatara iddle
Terayama-cho, Bofu-shi,
Apr 1895
620
0
620
23
3
0
0
23
3
School)
Yennguchi-ken
a Month not stated.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.84)
52
TLE . RSTER OF DCOL STTER L TD   OS  
Datc of
Suuds
Buddhist Institutions
Address
Proont-
Forrle
Tot-l
SotdrGcet (con.)
F
10 Fule Total
Full re Ful Frt Fu Part
dn.
Girls' Hin Schcels
Iwase Koto Jogakke (Ivns Girle'
sudersend, ste
12
High Scheel)
m, Fobae-to
Hommsown Roto Yegokee (s
Toumurki cho,
or 1923
0 35 6
21 0
Girls' High Scheel)
Sutw, e
Toururi Noto Yeko (T 
s,  h,
Pob 1935
25
7 0
22
Girls' Hih Schcul.
Fourw, o
shi,
Ushicone oto oke (
Pstotsub ck, nim,
b1
453 
1 0
Girls' F School
Tolgo-to
Vocational Schools
Lasei Colten Joshi Shogro Crlako
00-,to14
5 12 5 6 10 18
(Hone coner ics Institute Garle'
ari, voto-
Conr.orcial Schoel)
Tsuruni Joshi Jitsugro Go'tko
ag ,cu
cv
913 213
5
(Esururi Giris' Vec tional
school)
Liscollancous chocla
Jancho Gelurin (Thrie Pines
c/o Soji Pumple, Esurw i, mor 1950
2:5
0 2145
10 0 0 0
10 0
School)
Tsurt i-hu, Yokohrn-shi,
Kenegw-ken
Soto Shu Daishi Ni Galurin (The
Yos..ide- chi, lageno-shi, pr 1900
46 0
10 4
Fourth Soto Soct School for
 no-ken
Nuns)

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.90)
T.E 1.
ROST F DUO 
53
Date of
Stuients
Buddhist Institutions
Address
resent
1
Fomale
Total
Tendai Sect
Foun-
Le Femmle Total
Full Port
Full Part
Full Part
re Tine
Tine Tine
Time Tine
SECOND RY STITUTION
Boys' Liddle Schcels
Hieizan Chugalcko (n
Snkoto ure, sui -eud,
u 225
27
02
15 0 0
iddle sen
g-en
Rorngone Chug kko (kor agore
h-h,
Dee 1985
650
50
23
0
Middle School)
Rengo-iau, Tolgo-t.
Gorls' igh Schools
Tenmoji Koto Jogokke (Tennoji
Roto nchi, uoji-i,
1920
0 1032 1022
9  14 1 23 7
Girls' High school)
Us ke-shi, Gs-
Unaffiliat d
Universities
Thisho Daigaku (Grent Righteousness
Mishisugano, Toshirn-la,
pr 1926
355
1 356
0
University)
Tolyo-to
Toyo Daigaku (University of
Heram chi, Yoishikawn-lu,
ar 1923
231
5 239
0 27 26
Oriental Studies)
Tokyo-to

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.90)
54
TILE I.
ROSTER OF IDUC. TIOML INSTITUTIO S AFFILL TED T LIGIOUS CRGIIZ. TIONS
Data of
Stucents
Teachers
Buddhist Institutions
adress
Present
21
Faale
Total
Unaffiliated (con.)
Foun-
Mle Furle Total
Full Fart
Full Part
Full Part
detion
Te T
Tine Tine
Tine Tine
Colleres
Taisho Daigalau Sermon Eu (Collore
Michisugaro, Toskri,
Sup 1925
56
367
16
1.
0
1.6
Course of Grent Rightcousnace
Tolgoto
University
Taisho Daigaku Yoka (Preparatory
Michisuge , Foshneia,
A r 1926
3.9
0 20
0
9
Course of Grent Ri hteousness
go-to
University)
SECODRY NS
Girls' High schools
Fukai Jinai Noto Jogakko (F.i
nod-e, i-, pr 
7
0
1
0
21
"enev l mce Girls' High School
Friati-on
Tolgo Seikei Loto Jogdko (Too
Lejiro-ciho, usiim-i,
J n 5917
0
10
0
Path-Forring Girls' High Schcol)
Tolgyo-to
Toyo Koto Jogelko (Oriental Girls'
Mubor..chi, Otctkm,
Apr 1905
0 347 347
0
22
0
ligh School)
weishik m-kau, tokgu-to
ELLIENT RY ENSTITUTIONS
Kindergertons
Hakuho Aijien (hito Phoenix
Yarunouchi, Ueno-shi,
ug 1918
96
94 190
5 0
Children's School)
Lie-ken
Soitolukai Rumbinien (Sacred Virtue
Tera-mnchi, kita-shi,
Tay 1937
162
174
336
0
Socicty's Lurbini Gerden)
kita-ken

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.88)
55
TFLE 1.
ROST R OF DC L DISTTUONS.FL D IT  LGS RG  TICS
Dot: of
turents
Teachors
ddr .cs
Procont
1
Frrle
Total
Bucdhist Institutions
oun-
hle Fle Yo1
Full Fort
Full art
FullPort
Unaffilirted (con.)
ction
ine Tine
Tine Time
Tine Time
Kindermtung (con.)
s ci, Cafu-,
1020
60 70 130
1
4
0
Sokdi Tochien (Scki in rartun)
Gifu-ken
Shinto Institutions
Kontlo Buet
SECOND.RY ENOTITUTIONS
Rops' Piddle Schcpls
Konto Chugalako ( onke iddle
cke, schi-,
pr 109
914
91
27
0
27
0
tchool)
Tenri Sect
MEH R DNSTITOTIONS
Cclleges
Tenri Gogrilm Sarmon Gelko (Tenri
Tembaichi-machi, mbe
D.c 1927
1059
0 1059
0
40 27
Colloge of Torcign Lenguages)
un, Mar-ken

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.92)
56
T.PLE 1.
ROSTER OF EDUCATION INSTITOTIONS AFFILL TD ITH PLIGICUS ORG T TIONS
Dot of
Students
Tenchers
Shinto Institutions
∴ddress
Present
ele
Feirle
Total
Tenri ..ot (con.)
Foun-
Yele Fernle Totel
Full Port
Full Part
Full Part
dation
Tig Tihe
Tie Tie
Time Time
Colleres (con.)
Tenri Joshi Gogalau Jerrien Geidko
Tombaichi-racni, Ye abo-
r 1940
0 156
156
16
17
3
1
21
18
(Tenri onen's College of
gun, Ferceen
Foreign Lenguages)
SECOND RY TIT
poye' icdle bchools
Tenri Cug kiko (Tenri iddle
beichiuch, 
Jan 1908
1311
0 1311
1.5
0
0
45
0
School)
un, Fareeken
Girls' Migh pchool
Tonri Koto Joeckko Dei Ichi u
bichi-mch, mabe-
Jui 1922
0 818
518
17
4
18
1
35
5
(Tenri Girls' High ochoel First
gun, Fereen
Departrent)
Tenri Koto Jogekko De: i Bu
Tee baichi- chi, Y -
Jul 2922
0 152
152
5
2
3
1
C
3
(Tenri Girls' High School
gun,  r -ken
Sccond Departnent)
iscellonecus Schools
Tenri Hobo Moscijo (Tenri Kinder-
Tembaichi- chi, Yaabe-
..pr 1946
0
17
17
18
8
4
3
22
11
garten Nurse Treining Jchool)
gun, Fare-ken
Tenri Kyo Ko (Tenri Tenching
Tanbaichi-rnchi, Yarabo-
Cep 1099
790 1154 1952
43
0
5
0
48
0
School)
cun, Tara-ken

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.92)
TABLE 1.
RO    
H LIGIOUS ORE TIONS
57.
ato of
Students
Ceachers
Shinto Institutions
Address
Prouunt
clo
Fenle
Total
Tenri Sect (con.)
Potn-
ale Fe cle Total
Full Part
Full Part
Full Part.
Tie Tine
Time Tine
Tine Tine
Kindergartons
Tenri Yochion (Teari Minder-
 .
1225
17
1
0
0
garten)
un, Mareeken
Uneffiliated
Universitics
Rokugakuin Daigaku (choo) of
am i- mchi, hiuy-ku, a 19
:71
5 277 4 12
0
0
24
National Studies Univ rsity)
Tok o-to
Collcses
Kokugakuin Daigaku Yoka (Prepara-
alm i- achi, Shibuya-ku, unst tad
24
2 236
18
3
tory Course of School of Mational
Tokyo-to
Studics University)
Shitoku Sonnon Galko (Ut ost Virtue
Setagre, Setag a-ku,
Apr 1929
279
0
279
20
7
C
0
20
7
College)
Tokyo-to
SECCND.RY INSTITUTICHS
Yiscellancous Schools
Kyoto Kokugakuin (yoto Institute
Hiyoshi-cho, Imarurano,
Fer 1914
41
13
0 .0
13
0
for National Learning)
Higashiyama-ku, Kyoto-
shi, Myoto-fu
a l'onth not stated.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.94)
58
TABLE 2.
By Keli ion, Seet d School Fev
Mt ber
Sturents
To chra
Christion Institutions
of
Fenm le
Totr.l
by Geet end School Level
Inoti-
Favle
Tot-1
Full
Frt
Full
:rt
Full
Port
tutiona
Tinc
Tine
Time. Tine.
Tine. Tine.
CHRISTH SS
PAPTIST HHSTIUT
Higher Institutions
Colleges
3
SL2
255
:2
33
10
1
31
34
Secondary Institutions
Boys'  iddle Schools
2
2,231
3,:31
5
0
C
55
5
Girls' Hi,h Schocls
3
2,231
231
140
51
C
21
14
Vocational Schools
1
2
J
26
5
C
5
6
Miscellencous Schools
211
12
46
2
15.
1
16
Total Secondary
2,757
2,427
5,
105
30
56
1
163
31
Elementary Institutions
Kindergertens
2
54
56
110
0
0
5
2
5
2
Total B.PTIOT
13
2,663
2,738
6,401
126
63
73
4
199
67
CATHOLIC STITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
Universitics
2
1.95
0
495
3
42
0
0
39
42
Colleges
6
519
793
1,312
24
75
20
3
112
7
Total Hi her
1,014
793
1,007
92
117
56
3
151
120
Secondary Institutions
Boys' icdle Schools
14,670
C
4,970
158
8
0
0
150
8
Girls' High Schools
25
0
13,515
13,51.5
120
30
325
21
453
51
Vocational Schools
3
0
1,279
1,279
11
5
20
0
39
5
iscellancous Schools
204
79
1,074
12
3
21
6
73
9
Total Secondary
4
5,154
15,514
20,76
339
4
334
27
723
73
Mementary Institutions
ementory Schools
375
1,980
2;363
20
1
68
12
68
13
Kindergartens
22
1:255
1;458
2713
16
3
90
0
106
3
Total EMementary
30
1,630
3.446
5.076
36
4
158
12
194
16
Total CATHCLIC
82
7,798
19,853
27,651
468
167
600
42
1,068
209

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.95)
TABLE 2.
59.
By li ion, ct  cho1 Lovel
bor
Stu ento
Cachers
Christin Institutions
of
1c
Fom le
Total
by Gect nd School Level
Inoti-
].
Fonvle
Tot:1
Full
rt
"ull
Prt
Full
Port
tutiona
TIN
Tie
Time
Timc
Tine
CHRISTLH CHURGH TTO
Secondary Schoels
Boys'  iddle Schools
1
5
0
50
1)
0
21
0
iscelleneous Sciscols
7
12
0
24
C
T: 1   
2
50
726
1,57
3s
1
0
46
0
Hi, her Institutions
Colle es
2
72
36
110
13
27
2
0
15
27
ONG GAT  TITUTN
Hi her Institutions
Universities
1
1,179
41
1,220
50
32
C
1
50
33
Colle es
7
2.089
2,105
4.194
152
32
55
7
224
1.5
Total Hi her
8
3,230
2,115
5,14
217
71
65
282
79
Secondary Institutions
Boys' iddle Schcols
1.
324
324
5
1
7
0
13
1
Girls' Mih Schools
6
0
4,002
4,02
55
2
95
1
150
3
: isccllancous Schools
1
19
19
5
0
0
0
5
0
Total Secondery
8
324
4,321
5,145
3
102
1
168
4
Elementary Institutions
Kinder rtens
2
100
84
184
1
1
7
8
1
Total CHGRGTIOL
18
3,692
7,051
10,743
284
75
174
9
458
84
E ISCOP. LI DISTITUTTONS
Higher Institutions
Universities
1
962
0
962
9
35
0
0
9
35
Colloges
3
976
156
1.132
40
40
8
8
48
48
Total Higher
4
1,938
156
2,094
49
75
8
8
57
83

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.92)
60
TABLE 2.
SUY OF CATL S L T    S
By Neligion, ect and Sehool Level
Murber
Stuients
Tonchors
Christion Institutions
of
Foxle
Total
by Sect and School Level
Insti-
Tale
Fonale
Totel
Full
Part
Full
Fort
Full
Part
tutions
Tima
Time
TiC
Tu:
Tie
EISCOPALIAN DTS (con.)
Secondary Institutions
Boys' Middle Schcols
2
2,093
0
2,093
147
5
0
U
47
5
Girls' Hir Schools
1.
0
2,41
2,661
1
0
47
0
95
0
Miscellancous Scloule
2
52
201
258
12
2
22
0
出
Total Secondary
5
2,150
2,602
5,032
114
7
72
J
187
cmentary Institutions
Kindergartens
11
536
1.102
32
1.6
Totel EPISCO
25
4,524
3,401
6,228
171
6
11
29
94
EV NGELICAL LUTHUTUIL DOTTS
Secondary Institutions
Boys'  iddle Schools
1
1,2
1,200
34
0
34
5
Girls' High Schools
1
0
768
768
6
0
17
0
25
C
Total Secondary
2
7
1,975
1:2
5
17
ô
59
5
lementary Institutions
Kindergertens
1
15
12
27
0
0
2
2
U
Totel VAG.LUTH 
3
1,223
780
2,003
42
5
19
0
红
5
FREE :THODIST DISTITUTICHO
Sccondary Institutions
Boys' Liddle Schools
1
1,175
0
1,175
31
0
0
C
31
0
Girls' High Schools
1
0
639
632
C
25
0
23
1
Total Sccondary
2
1,175
639
1,014
39
1
15
0
54
1
Elonentary Institutions
Kindergartons
1
34
42
75
1
0
4
0
5
0
Total FTHODIST
3
1,209
600
1,009
40
1
19
0
59
1

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.95)
T B 2.
     L   
 ORG
61
Dy lirion, suct n. School Level
u br
Stu nts
Tenchers
Total
Christi:n Institutions
of
FennIe
by Sect avy school Laval
Insti-
10
F.male
Tot-1
Full
Fort
Full
Port
Full
Prrt
tutions
Tir:
Tim
Time
Tine
Tic
Tinc
Humentary Irctitutions
Kincergertons
2
121
122
213
2
0
7
0
9
0
IETHODIST INSTITUTICHS.
Higher Institutions
Universities
1
161
26
687
21
26
0
0
21
26
Colleres
3,094
1,149
213
129
140
47
4
17
Total Hicher
7
3,755
1,175
4,930
150
166
47
4
197
170
Sccondary Institutions
Boys' idc'le Schools
l4
2,613
2,613
124
4
0
1
124
5
Girls' Hih Schools
9
J
5,305
5,305
72
9
120
3
192
12
iscclleneous Schools
(21
912
63
1,005
26
C
10
0
44
0
Total Secondary
15
3,555
5,360
0,523
222
13
130
4
360
17
lonentary Institutions
Kindergartens
10
613
727
1,340
12
0
51
0
66
0
Total " THODIST
40
7,923
7,270
15,193
307
179
235
C
623
167
PR SBYTRLTI DISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
Collces
4
2,721
1,384
4,105
239
3
22
6
261
9
Socondary Institutions
Poys'  iddle Schools
3
2,400
2,1:00
77
5
5
0
82
5
Girls' Hich Schools
11
0
7,057
7,057
83
3
1.35
12
218
15
Vocational Schools
1
9
350
35
7
C
6
2
13
2
Piscellancous Seicols
3
U
1,125
1,125
20
7
22
5
42
12
Total Sccondry
18
2,400
8,532
10,932
187
15
168
19
355
34
"lamentary Institutions
Kindergartens
9
320
420
720
8
2
30
0
38
2
Total PR SBYT RI N
31
5,441
10,316
15,757
434
20
220
25
654
45

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.94)
62
TEL 2.
Byli ion, Sect end chool Level
Huober
Students
Teachors
Christion Institutions
of
-1
Fuvle
Tot-1
by Sect nd Scllool Level
Insti-
1
Frle
Totel
Full
rt
Full
Part
Full
Port
Tic
Tiu
Tie
Tinc
tutions
Tim
UNITLD BRETHREH MHSTITUTIC:S
Ecnentary Institutions
Kindergartens
2
77
74
151
2
4
6
UIIV.RS:LIST RNSTITUTIO'S
Elanentary Institutions
Kindergartens
1
26
33
59
2
0
2
J
4
0
ULFFILLITD L:STITUTICHS
Higher Institutions
Colleges
1
1,042
1,042
15
145
5
6
20
51
Seconder Institutions
Boys' iccle Schools
1
62
C
62
3
l;
1
3
5
Girls' High Schools
1
133
133
0
3
4
4
9
Hiscellaneous Schools
3
98
205
4.6
12
10
C
37
6
Total Secondary
5
150
141.1
301
22
13
22
7
1.4
20
lanentary Institutions
:lonentary Schools
1
4
10
39
3
0
7
0
10
0
Total UNAFFILIT D
i一
201
1,531
1,732
11)
5
34
13
74
71
Total CHRISTI N
232
36,920
514,016
91,736
2,047
681
1,520
109
3,567
790

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.96)
T..BL 2.
SU.RY OF DUC TIONL DISTITUPICNS EFILL.TD
  S
63.
By teli ion, Sect and School Level
Mu ber
Students
Tenchers
Buddhist Institutions
of
clc
Fenrle
Total
by Sect nd School Level
Insti-
Tale
Femele
Total
Full
Port
Full
Part
Full
Part
tutions
Ti
Tine
Tine
Tinc
Tine
Timo
BUDDHIST EISTITUTIONS
JI INSTTUTIONS
Secondary Lnstitutions
Boys' Ticcle Scheols
1
1,261
1,21
1.1
2
147
VecationalSchools
3
1,27
518
1,565
12
1:
5
47
Miscellancous Schools
1
17
C
17
-4
C
0
4
C
Total JI
5
2,325
518
2,43
7
6
5
0
92
JODO ESTITUTIC'S
higher Institutions
Collees
3
1.56
12
450
23
27
0
3
23
30
Socondary Institutions
Roys' Yicdle Schools
6,799
0
6,799
211
15
5
0
216
15
Cirls' High Schools
5
0
4,621
4,621
07
9
54
3
141
12
Vocational Schools
1
0
50
50
C
5
1
3
1
:isccllancous Schools
3
512
542
12
19
2
31
10
Total Secondary
17
3,799
5,213
12,012
310
37
79
8
389
45
lamentary Institutions
Kindergertens
1
60
108
176
0
2
4
C
4
2
Total JODO
21
7,323
5,333
12,656
338
65
33
11
421
77
KGON INSTITUTIONS
Sccondary Institutions
Boys' iddle Schools
1
180
0
180
11
0
3
0
14
0
NICHIREN INSTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
'Universitics
1
126
0
126
17
9
0
0
17
9
Collegcs
3
943
1
944
56
38
0
0
56
38
Total Higher
4
1,069
1
1,070
73
47
0
0
73
47

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
64
T.BL 2.
SULY OF DUCATIONLL DISTITUTICNS FFILI.T D TH IGIUS CG TIOH
By Relicion, Soct nd School Level
Huniber
Students
Teachers
Buddhist Institutions
of
Forrle
Total
by Sect and School Level
Insti-
Hele
Farle
Tot-l
Full
Part
Full
Part
Full
Fort
tutions
Tia
Time
Ta
Time
Tie
NICHIRN INSTITUTICNS (con.)
Secondary Institutions
Boys' Tiddle Schoels
2
1,012
1,12
43
1
2
57
Girlst Hirh Sc:cols
5
3,530
6
59
1
127
7
Vocational Schicels
3
1.5
34
45
27
37
U
1.1
iscellancous Schools
4
63
1
72
21
1
1
25
6
Total Secondary
14
1,120
3,0
5,2
172
16
91
3
53
19
Elementery Institutions
Kindergartens
1
66
110
1
3
4
0
Total H
19
2,259
3,949
6,208
36
63
94
3
33
66
RDIZII DISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
Collees
1
1's
162
18
0
0
10
J
Sccondary Institutions
Doys' iddle Schools
2
1,599
0
1,599
L4
10
O
41:
10
:iscolleneous uchools
2
43
0
43
11.
C
J
14
J
Total Secondery
1.542
1,642
58
10
C
C
50
10
Total RDZ:I
5
1,610
1,810
76
10
C
C
76
10
SHIN DNSTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
Universities
2
957
3
995
60
26
0
0
68
26
Collogcs
11
1.563
2,503
4,066
217
130
30
10
255
140
Total Hicher
13
2,550
2,511
5,061
205
156
36
10
323
166
Sccondary Institutions
Boys' Middle Schools
7
6,500
0
6,500
189
11
1
0
190
11
Girls' Hich Schools
21
0
16,874
16,874
253
27
250
25
503
52
Vocational Schools
5
909
1,470
2,367
69
17
31
7
100
24
liscollancous Schools
5
35
556
641
20
16
14
7
34
23
Total Sccondary
38
7,494
16,908
26,402
531
71
296
39
327
110

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.92)
65
TABLL 2.
SY F   .D    
By cli ion, icct n: Scicel Level
Muiber
Students
Tecchers
Buddhist Institutions
of
1c
Fe::le
Total
by Sect und Scheel Level
Lnsti-
1
Fle
Total
Full
Fart
Full
Port
Full
Part
Tine
Tin
Tine
Tire
Tine
Tine
tutions
SHI LSTITUTIONG (con.)
"Merientary Institutions
Kin crgurtens
11
749
12
4
60
Total SUN
65
10,793
22,21
33,03
S28
227
3.2
49
1,210
276
SHENG TTC
Hi her Institutions
Universities
7
137
C.
146
10
11
J
18
11
Colleges
2
40
400
21
7
10
31
7
Total Higher
3
537
9
517
39
10
0
49
18
Sccondary Institutions
Boys' Middle Schools
7
4,7
C
4,087
145
11
0
1:5
11
Girlst High Schools
()
2,69
2,6.9
49
14
33
1
C2
5
Tiscellencous Sch ols
3
112
231
343
21
3
5
26
3
Total econdary
114
4,199
2,04
7,039
215
1
30
1
253
19
Merentery Institutions
Kindergartens
1
6
121
1
2
C
3
0
Total SINIGON
10
1,04
2,902
7,7.6
255
35
5
1
305
37
SOTO INSTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
Universities
Collogos
Totel Hi her
1
2
3
1,061
1,374
313
3
4
4
1,065
1,370
313
22
20
42
11
55
00
C
1
1
0
0
C
20
43
23
66
11
55
Secondary Institutions
Doys' icdle Schools
Girls' High Schcols
Vocational Sci.cols
l4
2
4
3,200
0
2,931
1,309
3,2
2,931
1,309
110
53
10
11;
9
16
42
1
0
0
111
95
26
22
9
iscellneous Schaols
Total Sccondary
12
2
3,425
145
4,278
3℃
7,703
103
167
14
27
4
55
6
8
0
252
20
35

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.91)
66
T.
TOVD
Py Meli ion, Sect ne Schcol Level
Mrber
orts
chrs
Buddhist Institutions
of
lc
Fenle
Total
by Sect and Sclhool Level
Insti-
Ferle
Tet-l
ull
rt
ull
ort
Full
crt
tutions
1
ino
Tine
1
Tile
Tine
SOTO STITUTIOS (con.)
Totel SOTO
15
4,799
4,22
9,.01
229
93
295
1.1
THNDAI STONS
Secundary Institutions
Boys' : icdle Schools
2
929
929
39
う
39
Girls' Hi h Schcols
1
L032
1.32
9
11
1
23
Totel TND.I
3
929
1,032
1,9.1
40
6
14
1
62
7
UIEAFFILLIT D DISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
Universities
2
5:9
595
70
30
1)
7
3
Collogos
2
75
1
07
23
13
22
13.
Total Higher
4
1,404
7
1,171
93
51
0
93
51
Socondary Institutions
Girls' High Schools
3
J
71
071
18
C
25
1.3
0
Hamentary Institutions
kindergertens
..3
318
22
1.55
1
)
.2.7
10
Total UN FFILIAT D
10
1.782
1,216
2,998
112
51
142
154
51
Total BUDDH ST
162
37,004
1.1,442
78,446
2,220
55
739
73
2,959
631

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
67
T:BL: 2.
SULTY OF DUGATIOLL DESTITUTTONS FFILET.D  LGIOUS ORGAHIZITIONS
By Religion, Soct ne Ochvol Level
Muiber
Stucents
Teachers
Shinto Institutions
of
le
Furle
Total
by Sect and School Level
Insti-
:10
Fonale
Total
Full
Part
Full
Part
Full
Part
tutions
Tima. Tinc.
Tino.
Tine
Tine
Tine.
SHEITO DISTITUTIONS
KONKO HISTITUTIONS
Secondary Institutions
Boys' Tidcle Schools
1
921:
911
27
1)
.0
27
0
TEMRI DNSTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
Colloges
2
1,959
156
1,215
50
44
3
1
51
45
Cecondary Institutions
Poys' iccle Schools
1
7,311
1,311
45
0
1.5
0
Cirls' Hich Schools
2
0
970
970
22
21
2
43
3
:iscellencous Scheols
2
79
1,171
1,969
61
9
3
70
11
Total Gecondary
5
2,19
2,111
4,25
128
14
30
5
158
1.9
Menentery Institutions
Kindergartens
1
56
55
111
1
3
3
0
0
Total T IRI
C
3,224
2,352
5,576
187
58
36
6
223
64
UNAFFILLITD DISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
Universitics
1
271
277
24
12
)
0
24
12
Colleges
2
513
2
515
30
10
0
C
38
10
Total Higher
3
704
C
792
32
22
0
0
62
22
Socondary Institutions
Hisccllancous Schools
1
4
0
2
13
0
0
0
13
Total UNAFFILIATD
4
625
8
833
75
22
0
0
75
22
Total SHINTO
13
4,963
2,360
7,323
289
30
36
6
325
86

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.96)
63
TASLE 3.
 F   
ITHU G  TOS
By Heligion and School Level
Number
Stucents
Tenchers
Religion and
of
Krle
Fenr.le
Total
School Level
Insti-
elc
Fennle
Total
Full
Part
Full
Fort
Full
art
tutions
Time
Tine
Time
Tine
Tinc
Tinc
CHRISTIAN INSTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
Universitics
5
3,297
67
3,364
127
135
1
127
136
Colloges
.32
1233
6.922
17.25
67
42
217
.35
7
432
Totel Higher
37
13,5
590
20,569
797
537
217
36
1,01
573
Socondary Institutions
Boys' icdlc Schools
24
17,826
C
17,026
562
37
12
2
571
39
Girls' Hi'h Schcels
61
37,161
37,161
1.12
52
8.9
43
1,251
95
Vocational Schools
5
296
1,629
1,925
23
11
3!
2
57
13
iscellancous chools
22
2651
3.12
5.79
1.5
33
133
12
273
45
Total Secondary
112
19,773
42,216
61,991
1,172
133
980
59
2,150
192
Iementary Institutions
Manentary Schoels
9
1.1
2,036
2,452
23
1
75
12
98
13
Kindergartons
74
3.151
2.573
6.724
55
10
212
2
295
12
Total Mlartentary
03
3,57
5,609
9,176
7
11
315
14
393
25
Total CHRISTIAN
232
36,92
54,016
91,736
2,047
661
1,520
1.09
3,507
790
BUDDHIST INSTITUTIONG
Higher Institutions
Universitics
7
2,152
23
2;175
193
95
0
0
193
95
Colloges
24
5.455
2:521
7,987
385
270
49
13
434
203
Total Higher
31
7,518
2,544
10,162
578
365
49
13
627
37
Secondary Institutions
Boys' icdle Schools
34
25,647
0
25,647
333
62
24
2
857
64
Girls' High Schools
43
32,468
32,468
537
52
477
31
1,014
83
Vocctional Schools
14
2,021
3,695
5,716
146
40
70
13
210
50
Liscellrneous Schools
20
465
1,377
1,042
109
37
45
9
154
46
Total Sccondary
111
28,133
37,540
65,673
1,627
191
616
60
2,243
251
anentary Institutions
Eomentery Schools
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Kindorgartens
20
1,253
1.,35
2,611
15
2
74
0
89
i
2
Total Elenentary
20
1,253
1,358
2,611
15
2
74
0
89
2
Totel BUDDHIST
162
37,004
41,442
78,446
2,220
558
739
73
2,959
631

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.90)
TS.
59
Reli ien and Sclhoul Level
Husber
Stu ents
cechers
Ferle
Total
Relicion and
f
Schoal Level
Inoti-
Ferle
T tel
Full
Part
Full
Part
Fll
Part
i
Tie
Tinc
Ti
Tre
S TO 
Firher Tnctitutione
Universitics
1
271
277
21
12
21;
12
Colle os
1.
1512
7,12
22
51
1
99
55
Tet   or
5
1,10
12
1
123
7
 n
Dt  
2
2,225
2,225
72
72
0
Girle' Ri h Selooks
2
97
97:
2?
21
2
13
Vocntional och ols
0
0
i
j
iccellancous schosls
3
2171
2.2
71
0
3
3
11
Potel Sucendery
3,
2,11
5,255
1
24
35
5
19
3.9
Aaaontery Instibutio
Ele cnta wckeole
0
2
10
Kindergrrtone
1
55
111
1.
3
C
4
0
Tot.I erentem
1
55
111
1
3
0
4
Total SHI "To
13
2,360
7,323
209
8.J
3
325
36
.IL RELIGIOUS HHSTE UT OPS
Higher Institutions
Universitios
13
5,72
96
5,016
344
242
3.
344
243
Colleges
10
12221
2.62
26,922
1,151
726
269
49.
1.420
770
Total Hipher
73
23,011
9,697
32,73
1,495
966
269
5
1,754
1,016
Secondery Institubions
Vocational Schocis
Deys' Iitaile oche le
Girls' Hi h Schools
16
19
45,698
2,317
70,599
5,324
J
45,698
70,599
7,541
1,457
1,001
171
110
99
51
1,307
104
36
76
20
1
2,30
1,503
275
103
136
71
Miscellancous Schoels
Total Socondary
230
1.5
50,970
3955
5.976
81,699
132,669
6.931
2,967
320
330
73
1,534
167
124
2
4,501
515
152
102
Elenentary Institutions
Elamentary Schools
9
416
2,036
2,452
23
1
75
12
98
13
Kindorgartons
Total Ammentary
104
95
4,576
4460
1906
7,022
11,090
92146
94
71
13
12
317
392
14
2
435
35
27
11
Totol AL. S TaTONS
1.7
76.7
96.618
177.505
4,556
1,319
2,295
100
6,051
1,507

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.91)
70
PLD 4.
Dy Goo Paphie Location end Date of Foundation
Total
Ceccrephic Loc tion
Date of Foundation
Relicion,
Sect
in ti-
Hokkaido
Honshu
Kyushu
Shikeku
1070-
1901- 1925- Sep 45
INot
and Schoo1 Level
tutions
orth
Central
S uth
222.
A 
Given
CHRISTE  ETEVOIS
Hicher nstitutions
1
0
2
1
2
0
Secondary Institutions
5
1
2
1
4
J
Momntery nctitutiono
2
、
1.
7
Total
13
7
1
LC 
Higher Enstitutions
2
1
5
2
Socondary Institutions
44
4
17
17
22
-1
16
33
C
1
Morentory
3
2
2
1.
1
1
Total
52
C
11
1
1
1
25
55
ii
2
CHRISTIF CHU CH DISTITUTIOFS
Secondary Inctitutions
2
2
1
1
RGH OF ST  
Higher Institutions
2
C
2
0
0
2
0
CONCR EITTOF L INSTITUTICES
Higher Institutions
5
C
C
C
2
5
1
Secondary Institutions
心
2
3
0
3
4
2
1
1
Elenentary Institutions
2
2
C
0
0
]
1
0
Total
18
2
2
11
3
2
C
3
1
0
PISCOP. LLN INSTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
1.
0
1)
4
0
0
0
C
2
1
1
0
Socondary Institutions
C
0
3
5
0
4
3
0
1
0
Manentary Institutions
11
1
C
1
1
C
2
7
5
0
C
Total
26
1
C
9
0
0
6
12
3
2
Secondary Institutions
2
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
1
0
0
Elcmentary Institutions
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
ü
Total
3
J
0
0
3
C
0
1
2
ö
0

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.94)
71.
TADIE 4.
Dy Geo repthic Location an? Date of Founsntion
Date of Foundation
Total
Geoorrphic Location
Religion, Sect
Insti-
Holdmido
Hons.u
Kyushu
Shikoku
1870-
1901- 1925-
Sop145
Not
on? Sclcol Level
tutions
Horth
Contral
South
1900
1924 845
uc47
Given
CHRISTLII LSTITUTIONS (con.)
FI LTEN DIST HSTTONS
Secondary Institutions
2
2
0
1
1
MNesentery Institutions
1
7
0
1
Total
3
C
J
1
1
1
 NS
Menentary Institutions
2
1
1
C
2
THCDIST DISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
7
2
1
0
2
1
4
0
Secondary Institutions
15
1
7
4
0
9
1
14
1
Mlementary Institutions
10
心
5
0
2
C
7
1
0
Total
40
1
5
15
13
0
13
11
15
1
0
PR SDYT RIN DISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
4
2
2
1
1
1
1
0
Secondary Institutions
10
1
1
10
3
2
1
11
2
5
C
C
Elenentary Institutions
9
1
5
1.
2
0
2
0
3
6
C
0
Total
31
2
13
5
2
1
12
7
12
1
0
UNITED BRETHRE DSTITUTIONS
Elonentary Institutions
2
2
C
1
1
0
0
UNIVIRSALIST DISTITUTIONS
Mlementary Institutions
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
C
0
1
0
0
ULAFFILIL TD MSTITUTIO'S
Higher Institutions
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
Secondary Institutions
5
0
0
4
1
0
0
0
1
1
3
0
Iancntary Institutions
Total
7
1
0
0
0
6
0
1
0
0
C
0
0
3
1
0
1
3
0
C
0
Total CHRISTI
232
10
33
36
6
36
48
75
84
21

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.94)
72
T.DLE 4.
  OF D T STS  T     C  TS
By Geo raphic Locction nd Date of Pound tion
Total
Geographic Location
Date of Foundntion
Religion, Sect
Insti-
Hokkmido
Honshu
Kyushu
Chikoku
1070
1901- 1925
Sep'45
ot
and School Level
tutions
North
Central
South
191924. 5 47
Given
BUDDHIST DISTITUTIONS
JI DISTITUTIONS
Secondary Institutions
5
15
2
3
0
JODO ENSTITUTIONS
Highor Institutions
3
1
2
2
1
C
Secondary Institutions
17
4
12
1
1
9
つ
1
lonentary Institutions
1
1
1
C
Total
21
5
15
1
1
11
C
7
2
K.GON INSTITUTION'S
Secondary
1
J
C
1
C
1
NICH DSTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
4
C
3
1
Secondary Institutions
14
9
5
1
5
1
1
ementery Institutions
1
1
0
C
C
1
C
C
Total
19
14
5
1
19
7
1
1
RDIZI DISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
1
1
0
0
1
0
Secondary Institutions
3
0
1
3
b
Total
5
1
4
0
0
2
3
C
C
SHIN INSTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
13
0
U
2
11
0
0
9
3
1
C
Secondary Institutions
30
5
10
17
5
1
1
19
16
1
1
Elenentary Institutions
14
2
2
7
3
0
1
C
1
0
Total
65
7
0
14
35
1
2
32
27
3
1
SHDNGON DISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
3
0
0
0
3
0
0
C
1
2
0
0
Secondary Institutions
14
0
C
C
5
0
1
1
5
7
0
1
Elemantary Institutions
1
0
1
C
0
C
0
0
C
0
Total
18
0
9
S
0
1
1
3
9
C
2

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.94)
T.BID 4.
73
By Geo raphic Locotion nd Date of Foundation
Total
Georraphic Location
Dete of Foundction
Religion, Sect
Insti-
Holdmido
Honshu
Kyushu
Shikoku
1670-
19.01-
1925-
Sop' 45
Not
and School Level
tutions
Forth
Central
Couth
190
1924
45
ug'47 Given
BUDDRIST TITUTIOS (con.)
SOTO LDESTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
3
C
39
2212
2
1
C
0
a.
Secondary Institutions
12
1
21
2
7
1
0
Total
15
0
1
12
C
4
3
7
1
0
TED.I DISTITUTICHS
Secondary
3
C
1
2
1
2
0
0
UNAFFILL.TD DISTITUTIOPS
Higher Institutions
4
14
C
0
4
0
Secondary Institutions
3
3
C
1
2
0
0
0
Menentary Institutions
3
1
1
1
2
0
1
2
0
3
Total
19
0
1
C
1
0
1
3
6
0
Total BUDDHIST
73
2
元
69
72
SHINTO DISTITUTIONS
KONKO DISTITUTIONS
Secondary
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
TMRI ENSTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
2
j
0
2
0
0
2
0
Socendary Institutions
5
0
5
0
0
1
3
0
1
0
Menontary Institutions
1
2
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
Total
C
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
3
1
0
UNLFFDIT'D LISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
3
0
0
3
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
Secondary Institutions
1
0
0
C
1
C
0
0
1
0
0
0
Total
4
0
0
3
1
0
0
0
2
1
0
二
Total SHIITO
13
0
0
3
10
0
0
2
5
Total ALL RLIGIONS
407
17
35
160
143
45
7
60
149
160
29

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.96)
74
TABLE 5.
SUTIRY OF IU BR OF EDUC.TIOUL DISTITUTIONS AFFILLITD .H RLIGIOUS CRG.J IZATIONS
By Geo ra hic Location nd Date of Foundation
Total
Georranhic Location
Date of Foundation
Religion and
Insti-
Holdkaido
Honshu
Kyushu
Shikoku
1570-
1901- 1925- Sr5
Not
School Level
tutions
North
Central
South
1900
1924 40245 4
Given
CHRISTLI ISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
37
0
2
15
14
3
0
:5
12
14
6
0
Socondery Institutions
112
5
7
45
20
22
5
37
32
27
14
2
Monentary Institutions
33
5
24
25
10
11
0
6
31
43
Total CHRISTIN
232
10
33
88
60
35
5
48
75
C4
21
4
JUDDHIST DNSTITUTIONS
Hiher Institutions
31
0
0
14
17
0
0
2
17
10
2
0
Sccondary Institutions
111
5
1
50
47
6
2
7
47
50
4
3
Elanentary Institutions
20
2
1
5
2
3
0
1
5
12
1
1
Total BUDDHIST
152
7
2
69
73
9
2
10
69
72
7
4
SHINTO DISTITUTIONS
Higher Institutions
5
0
0
3
2
3
0
ü
1
3
1
SocondaryInstitutions
7
0
C
C
7
C
C
2
4
0
1
0
enontary Institutions
1
C
0
1
C
0
1
0
0
Total SHDTO
13
0
C
3
10
0
0
2
5
4
1
1
ALL RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS
Higher.Institutions
73
0
2
35
33
3
0
7
30
27
8
1
Secondery Institutions
230
10
C
95
62
20
7
45
3
77
19
5
onontary Institutions
104
7
25
3
20
14
0
36
56
2
Total AL RLIGIONS
1407
17
35
160
143
45
7
60
149
160
29
9
plcto ficuros for all Japanose cducational Institutions with reli ious ffilictions. As cxplainoc. in tho Introcuction, this roport
contains inforrntion on approxinctcly 80 pcrcont of crucational institutions vith r ligious affiliations, oxcopting alonontary
schools and kindorgartons, of which, for ronsons cited, c consicerably srller percente e is includod.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.95)
ALPHABETICAL DDIX OF DUC TIOLAL INSTITUTIONS AFFLI TD
ITH ROLIGIOUS ORGEIIZITIONS
Institution
Tipe Rel
Scct
Pare
Institution
Type Rcl
Soct
Pare
Aichi Chugakko (Michi Viddle School)
BS
E
Soto
51
Aoyane Geluin Joshi Samon Gakko
iji Yochien (Miji* Kindergarten)
Kin
C
Catholic
12
(Aoyema Institute Girls' Collere)
Col C Hcthodist 24
oyana Geluin Koto Jogakubu (Moyane
Aiko Yochien (Light of Love Minder-
carten), Kaniojuni-cho
Kin C Yethodist
25
Institute Girls' High School
Division)
GHS C Hothodist 25.
Aiko Yochien (Light of Love Kinder-
parten), latsuba-dori
Kin C Hothorist
2
Aoyann Galuin Sen on Galko (Aoyana
Institute Coll: c)
Col C ..ethodist 24
iko Yochien (Light of Love Kinder-
garten), Okeya-nachi
Kin C Nethorist
26
Ariake Sho yo Joraliko (Darm Girls'
Con crcial Scheel)
His
C Catholic
10
kenoboshi Koto Joralko (Tornin Ster
Girls' Hich School)
GHS
Catholic
7
schi ochion (ising Sun Lindergarten)
in C cthocist
26
ki Koto Jogakko (ki Girls' Hi h
School)
GHS
E
Shin
43
Daike Joshi beanon Gelko (lun Blosson
kita Yochien ( kita Kindcrgarten)
Kin
C
resbt.
31
Homen's College)
Col C Congreg.
16
Brika Yoto Jogakko ( lun Blosson
Loyana Gakuin Chugaku Bu (..oyara Insti-
tutc Hicdle School Division)
B'S C cthodist
Girlst High Schcol)
GHS C Conr
17
Aoyama Gakuin Daini Churaku Bu (:oyana
Baiko Jogakuin (lua Lirht Girls'
High school)
GHS
C resbyt.
29
Institute Second  i'dle Schcol
Division)
BS C cthodist 24
Bukkyo Samon Cakko (Buddhist Collcge)
Col B Jodo
34
Busan Churakko (Eusan Scct : idcle School)BS B Shingon
49
This Japanese torn is not a proper noun, but it has not been
translated because it loscs its significancc in a translation.
Chiba Koyo Drigaku (Chiba Technical
NOTD: The following abbreviations are used in this index to
Uni C Catholic 6
University)
desinate the type of institution and the reli ion.
Chiisaki Hana Yochicn (The Little:
Typc of Institution:
Kin C Catholic 12
Col
Collore
Voc
Vocstional School
Flower Kindergerten)
Uni
University
is
isccllancous School
Chilushi Koto Jogakko (Chikushi Girls'
GHS B Shin
43
BUS
Boys' Tiddle School
1c
entery School
High School)
GHS
Girls' Hih School
Kin
Kinder arton
Chinzei Chugakko (Chinzei : iccle School) Biis B Jodo
35
Religion:
Chinzci Gakuin Chualko (Chinzci Insti-
E'S C Hothodist 25
B Buddhist
Christian
S
Shinto
tute iddle School)
Con res.  Con rerntional
Presbyt.  Presbyterian
75

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
76
ALPHABETICAL ED X OF FDUC TIONAL INSTITUTIONS FFILLATED ITH IULIGIOUS ORGANIZ TIONS
Institutions
Type Rel
Sect
Pace
Institutions
Type Rel. Sect
Pago
Chitose Yochien (Eternal Kindergarten)
Kin C Presbyt.
31
Hich School)
CHS C Catholic
Chiyoda Joshi Semmon Galiko (Chiyoda*
Fuji Koto Jogakko ( isteric Girls'
Girls' College)
Col B Shin
1.1
High School)
GHS C Catholic
Chiyoda Koto Jogalko (Chiyoda* Girls'
Fujisavm Chugakko (Fujisavm icdle
High School)
GIS B Shin
44
School)
BiS B Ji
34
Chizan Chugaldko ( isdom I ounte in
Fujisowa Horyo Gakko (Fujisava. Lndus-
Hiddle School)
BIS D Shingon
49
trial chool)
Voc B Ji
34
Chuo Shogvo Calko (Central Commercial
Fujisave Shogyo Gakko (Fujisawa Conmer-
School)
Voc E Shin
145
cial School)
Voc B Ji
34
Fukkatsu Yochien (D.surrection Kinder-
Daigosan Denpo Geluin (Daigosan School
garten)
Xin C Episcop.
20
for Transmittin (cligious Lw)
His B Shingon
50
Fukui Jinai oto Jogakko (Fului Benevo-
Dojin Yochien (Universal Benevolence
lence Girls' High School)
GH3 D Unaffil.
Kindergarten)
Kin C Universa. 32
Fukuoka Doiltu Sanko Gikko (Fukuoka. Fost
Doshishe Daigaku (Doshisha* University) Uni C Congre.
16
Graduatoo' Training School for
Doshisha Daigaku Yoka (Preparatory
Kindergarten Teachers)
Lis C Baptist
5
Course of Doshisha* University)
Col C Congreg.
16
Fukuoka Hoiku Serko Gakko Daiichi Fuzoku
Doshisha Gaiji Sammon Galko (Doshisha*
Maizuru (nizuru First Kindergarten
Collego of Foreign Language)
Col C Congreg.
16
attached to Fuluoke Special Iursery
Doshisha Joshi Semmon Galko (Doshisha*
Training School)
Kin C Baptist
5
Homen's College)
Col C Congreg.
16
Fukuoka Hoiku Zenko Gakko Daini Fuzoku
Doshisha Keizai Semmon Gakko (Doshisha*
Samidori Yochion (Samidori Socond
Colloge of Economics)
Col C Congreg.
16
Kindergarten attached to Fukuoka
Doshisha Koto Jogakko (Doshisha* Cirls'
Special Nursery Training School)
Kin C Baptist
5
High School)
GHS C Conreg.
17
Fukuoka Joshi Shogyo Gakko (Fukuoka
Voc C Catholic
10
Girls' Conmercial School)
Eiko Yochion (Glory Kindergarten)
Kin C Fresbyt. 31
Futaba Daiichi Shoto Gakko (Ducding
Elc C Catholic
11
Eiwa Koto Jogakko (Eiwa* Girls' High
Loaves First Elenentary School)
School)
GHS C Methodist 25
Futaba Daiichi Shoto Gakko Fuzoku
Yochien (Kindergarten attached to
Fuji Gakko (Fuji School)
His B Nichiren 39
Budding Leaves First Elementary School)Kin C Catholic 13
Fuji Koto Jogakko (Peerless Girls'
Futaba Daini Shoto Gakko (Budding
Ele C Catholié 11
Leaves Second Ementer: School)
* This Japanese torm is not a proner noun, but it has not been
Futaba Hoikuen (Budding Leaves llursory) Kin C Presbyt. 31
translated because it losos its significancc in a translation.
Unaffil. - Unaffiliated.
Episcop. - Episcopalian
Universa. - Universalist.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.91)
LPHETICL  D OF DUC. TIOL TUTIONG AFFLL T D IT LGUS OG Z TI
77.
Institution
Tupe l
Sect
Institution
The Rel Scet
Poco
Futaba Koto Jogaldko (Du dino Leaves
Helkuho Mijion (hite hocnix Children's
Girls' Hi h School),tokuban-cho
CHS C Cath lic
Sch ol)
Kin D Unaffil.
54
Futabe Keto Jyeldko (Buddine Leaves
Halaujujikai tinken Gekke ( hite Cross
Girls' Hih Schc l), Goshotani
GHe C Catha lic
Open-..ir Sch. 1)
lu
C
Unoffil.
33
Futabe Koto Jeyrldo (Buc in Leaves
Hein O cke (nce le cchl)
B
Shin
143
Girls' High Schy 1). Suninoo cho
Chin
1.2
Heian Chuin (nce chr 1)
:is
C
iscon.
20
Futabe Yochion (Du Ying Leaves
Hein Yochien ( cace Yin er rten)
Kin
C
biscep.
2
Kinder arten), Higashiyojo
in C iscep.
20
Heiva Jorkke ( cace Girls' Schus1)
:is
C
Canffil.
33
Futabe Yochien Bu Yin Leves
Ficizan G. ke (icizn icele
Kindor arten), Kojinji-dori
"in C biscon.
20
chool
Be B Fondni
53
Futaku oto Jo iko ( nly Virtue
Higashi Otani oto Jo kko (stern
Girls' Hirh School)
Gus  shin
Great Velley Cirlst i chcel)
Ghe b Shin
44
Pinode oto Jokke (ounrise Girls'
Gojo Yochien (Cojo Minder  rten)
Kin C
pisc.
20
i chcol
Cie E shin
44
Gyoluci Yochion (Gyokuei* Kinder erten)
Fin C thocist
27
Linenoto oto Jo kko (isin un
Gyosci Chu aldko ( orniny Ster idcle
Cirle' High bchool.
Glle C tist
4
School)
B's C Catholic
7
Hiroshtima Colain mon Clko
Cyosci Joshi Shogyo Gakko ( orning
(iroshi Institute oll,
Col C Lothodist 24
Star Girls' Corrurcial scheel)
Vac C Crtholic
10
Hiroshina Jo luin Loto Jo alkko (Hiro
Gyosei Koto Jogakko ( crnin Star
shina Institute Girls' Hi h School,
Gii ethocist
25
Girls' High School)
Cis C Catholic
C
Hitoyoshi Yochien (Hitoyoshi Minder-
Gyosei Shoto Gakko (ornin Stor
arten
Hin C Catholic
13
Mementary School)
lc C C.tholic
12
Hiure Chm ckko (Hiuge idcle senool)
M3 C Catholic
7
Hokkei Koto Jogelcko (Horthern Son
Hachinche Gakuen Hoilubu (surser.
Cirls' Hi h schcol)
Gio  whin
44
Division of Hachinoho Irstitute)
Kin C  iscop.
20
Holko Yochien (Northern Light
Hachinohe Yochien (Hachinohc Kindcr-
Kinder arten)
Kin C Congret.
10
garton)
Kin C piscop.
20
Hokuriku Joyakko (Heluriku Girls'
Hakodato Otani Koto Jogalko (Hakodate
School)
His C resbyt.
30
Groat Valley Girls' Hi h Scheel)
GHS
B Shin
44
Holurcku Ch clo (Hokuroku iddle
Hakuai Konin Geldko (Philanthropic
School)
B 3 B Shin
43
Citizon's Schocl)
Yis C piscon. 19.
Holusei Koto Jogakko (Northern Star
GHS C resbyt. 29
* This Japrneso turm is net c proper noun, but it has not been
Girls' High school)
translated beccuse it loses its si mificance in a translation.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.95)
78
ALPHABETICAL INDEX OF EDUCATIOIAL DISTITUTIONS AFFILIAT IT LIGIOUS ORGHILIITIONS
Institutions
Tpe Rol
Sect
Pare
Institutions
Tyme Rel
Sect
Tago
Lai Koto Jogalko (Eternal Love Girls'
Girls' High School)
GHS B Jodo
36
High School
CHS C Nothodist 25
Kaisei Chu altko (Star of the Sea
Ikegami Shu Gakurin (Ike ani Sect
Middle School)
Bis C Catholic
7
School)
His
B
lichiren
39
Kaisei Koto Jogakko (Star of tho Son
Imeruda Yochion (Imelda Kindergarten)
Lin
C
Catholic
13
Girls' Hirh Schcol)
CIS C
Catholic
C
Inazawa Koto Jogakko (Inazawa* Girls'
Kaisei Yochion (Star of the ea
High School)
GHD
B
Shin
44
Kinder nrten)
Kin C Catholic
13
Iwasa Koto Jogakko (Iwasa Girls'
Kanalaura Chugeiiko (Kemakura icdle
High School)
GHS
B Soto
52
School)
B3 B Rinzai
40
Manbayashi KMoto Jorakko (Kembayashi
Jishu Shu Galurin (Ji Sect School)
Yis
B
Ji
34
Girls' High School)
GHS
C
Catholic
C
'Jochi Daigaku (Sophia University)
Uni
C
Catholic
Kanno Yochien (Kenno" Yin'ergnrten)
Kin
Shingon
50
Jochi Deigalu Sarmonbu (College
Kansei Cakuin Ciu alubu (Kansei Insti-
attached to Sophia Univcrsity)
Catholic
6
tute Iiddle uchool Division)
B.S C Hethodist
25
Jochi Daigalu Yoka (Preparatory
Lansei Galavin Daigaku (Kansci Institute
Courso of Sophia University)
Catholic
6
University)
Uni C icthodist 23
Josei Koto Jogalko (Ever Iure Girls'
Kensei Cakuin Leigalu Yoka (Treparatory
High School)
Mio
C
Catholic
31
Coursc of Kansci Institute University) Col C Mcthodist 24
Joshi Galuin (Joshi Institute)
GHS
C
Tresbt.
29
Kensei Gakuin Sermon Galko (Kansei
Joshi Seigakuin (Girls' lioly Institutc)
lis
C
Car. Ch.
15
Institute Collee)
Col C Hethodist 24
Joshi Wayo Gigei Galdko (Girls' estern-
Kento Gakuin Chugakubu (Middle School
Japaneso Art School)
Mis C Catholic
11
Livision of Kento District Institute) HS C Baptist
4
Joyo Saiho Jogakko (Joyo* Girls'
Kanto Gakuin Eigo Gakko (Kanto Instituto
School of Needlework)
Shingon
50
English School)
is C Baptist
5
Junshin Koto Jogakko (Gentle Heart
Kanto Gakuin Joshi Senamon Gakko (Kanto
Girls' High School)
Catholic
C
Institute onen's Collec)
Col C Baptist
4
Kasci Gakuen Joshi Sho yo Galko (Hone
Econonics Institute Girls' Commercial
Kabe Yochien (Kabe Kindergarten)
Kin B Shin
47
School)
Voc B Soto
52
Kacho Joshi Shogyo Gakko (Flower-top
Kasci Gakuen Koto Joakko (Hone Econonics
Girls' Conmercial School)
Voc B Jodo
36
Institute Girls' High School)
GHS B Jodo
36
Kacho Koto Jogakko (Flower-top
Kasei Galuin Koto Jogakko (Home Econonics
* This Japaneso term is not a proner noun, but it has not been
Institute Girls' High School)
CHS C Presbyt.
29
translated because it losos its sinificance in a translation.
Kassui Joshi Sammon Gakko ( nter of
Chr. Ch. - Christian Church

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.89)
ALH BETIC:L EDX OF DUCATIOILL DSTIFUTICNS FFILI TED ITH RLIGIOUS ORGNIZ TIONS
Institution
Te italctPe
Institution
Life Girls' Cle.e
Col C Hethodist 24
Hoen Hoto Jo altke (Hcen* Girls' Hi h
Kassui Koto Jogakko ( ster cf Life
Sc.1001)
Girls' High School)
GHS C ethodist 25
Koka Joshi Samon Selko (Eri ht Flover
Kamshino Yochien (Donstrear: Xin:cr-
Girls' Colle e)
Col B Shim
garton)
Kin B Jodo
37
Ycka Koto Jo riko (Bri ht Flover Girls'
Keiai Koto Jo ckko (Kciai* Girls'
: School)
GH3 B Sh
High School)
CH5 B Shin
4
clucho Yochian (okucho in ergarton)
in C ath
Xelai Yochion (orey an: Charity
Toku pluin Tai aku (School of Fational
Kinderrarten)
in C tho ist 27
Stuclics University)
Uni  Umail
Keisei Koto Jogakko (Star of orey
Voku tkuin i plu Toke ( reparatory
Girls' Hich chool)
G3 C nffil. 33
Course of chccl of ational Studios
Keisen Tochien (S rin of  crey
Universit:)
Col 3 Dmntril
Xindergarten)
Kin C Fr. eth. 23
"olgo Snin Geltko (C-tholic School of
Kenninji Samon Dojo (Kennin Templo
Theoloy
Spocial Seninary)
is B inzai 41
Tompgone Cimgckko (Xae one ile
Ktajo Joshi Sormon Gakko (Goldon
School)
ES B 
Castle acan's Collec)
Col C .resbt. 20
"omazowc rigcku ("onazawe University)
Xiajo Joshi Sanon Gakko Fuzoiu Koto
Koazawe Daigtku Scnon Du (loesa
Jogalmbu (Girls' Hi h School Divi-
University Colle c ~ivision)
don of Golcen Ccstlo o's Collo e) GHS C .resb t. 29
"onazown Dai cla Yoke (Traparatory
Kiajo Joshi Sernon Gekko Fuzaku Yakan
Course of Konazaun University)
Cal
Keto Jogalabu (Girls' Nirht Hit School
∴onnzewe Koto Jojakko (Kaasana Girls'
Hi_h School)
Gis C Prosbyt. 29
Ronin Grkuon Ci ciau (Citisans' institate
 Chageldo (Goldon Bell :iddlo
:iddle School)
B3 3 Kegon
37
Korin Gakuon Joshi Ho akio (Citisons'
main Koto Jogakubu (Kobe
Instituto Girls'  ricultural Sohoal)
Iastitate Girls' Hich School
Kandoru Yosai Jogaldo (Condor Qiris'
GHS C Con reg. 17
Sshocl of ..cstern leodle onk)
St Gaidco. (Kobe
Konko Chagaido (Konko dadle Sabeell)
Col C Con rez. 16
Koran Kotc Jogakgno (Fregrant
hait it bes not been
e in & tramlation.

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.90)
AIPH FETIC L EDEX OF DUC TIOF:L DISTITUTIONS AFFELLITD TTH LIGIOUS OGJI TIONS
Tpe hol Sect
Institution
Koto Jogaidoo Shotokce (Monentar
oto Joshi Sho o Geldko (oto Girls
In of Fregrent Crchids Girls'
Comercial cncol)
Toc B Shin
45
Sehool)
He C Catholic 12
goto Kolagaluin (goto Institute for
sehien (Fregrant Villaro
letional Larming)
is & Unaffil.
ergarten)
Kin C Catholic 13
yoto Yoto Jo kko (oto Girls' High
Mmsido (Shinin Ster iccle
~chool)
GHS B hin
33
H C C-tholic
Kyoto ermon Grkko (yoto Colle e)
Col B Shingon
Delgrla (oye  ountain
ushu Dukigo unsim Gekko (gushu
4ty)
Uni B Shingon
43
Bulchist reinin chool)
:is B Shin
46
Daigaku Yoka (.rer:tory
Kushu Chu kko (ushu ile chool)
B3 C v. Luth.
21
 of Koya : ountcin Univorsity)
Col B Shingon
40
yushu Jogaktin Yoto Jo akko (yushu
C aldo (Child co icdle
onwn's Institute Girls' Hi h School) Gi C v. Luth. 22
S 3 hingon
49
hien (Koyo Xindorgartan)
Kin C :cthoist 27
Teriye In (r Kincergerten)
Galarin (Briht-nountain
riyt  (ay Kinergerton)
Kin C Catholie 13
abool)
Mis 3 Nichiron
40
atobe Yochion (atobe Kindergarton)
Kin C ipthodist 27
Yochien (Kuchian Kindor:zrtan)
Kin B Shin
47
:stsushiro Tochien (ctsushiro Kincor
Koto Jogakdko (Lover ine
rten)
Kin C iethodist 27
Righ Sattool)
GHS C :sthodist 25
atsuyene Jonan Chu akko (Tatsuyane
Koto Jogakso Hilcaru Bunko
Jonan* icdle Sct.ool)
ES C Congre. 17
me Gtris' Hirh School
I'ntsuyanr Joshi Sho yo Gakko ( atsuyama
ranch Sshool)
GHS C  cthodist 25
Girls' Conmorcial School)
Voc C Cathalie
de (eisu Kindorgarton) Kin C Lutheran 23
ebao Tochion (Bucding Xin:orgarten)
Xin C Lutheren
(Sstorly Lovo Girls'
Hoiji Geluin C.ugakubu (oiji Institute
GHS C Con17
:iddlc School Division)
 C Treebye
(Cooperative Girls'
Leiji Gakuin Sormon Galdo (Heiji Insti-
GHS C Presbyt. 30
tute College)
Cal C
(Eyoto Brotherly
Laijo Koto Jogakdo (Clear Turity Girls'
Kin C U. Breth. 32
High School)
Gado (Ivoto
Lairin Koto Jogakdo (Lairin* Girls'
High Scheol)

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
PHIETICAL L.DE OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AFFILL.TD T  LIGIOUS ORG NIATIONS
81
Institutions
Tync Rel.
Scct
Pace
Institutions
Type Rel Sect
Page
Mcitoku Saiho Jogalko (Clcar Virtuc
Semon Gakko (Japun Caristian Girls'
Girls' Soving School)
Voc
B
Nichiron
39
Theolo ical Colle.c)
Col C C. of C. 15.
Midori Hoikuen (Green Mursery)
Kin
C
Catholic
13
Mippon Kirisuto Shingalm Scmon Gklio
Midori Yochien (Green Kindergarten)
Kin
C
Ev. Luth.
22
(Unpen Christian College f Theolocy) Col C C. of C.
15
Midori Yochion (Green Kindergarten)
Kin
C
Presbt.
31
Hishiyem Koto Jogaldke (ostem Yountain
Hinyo Yochien (Profundity Kindergarten) Kin
B
Shin
47
Girls' Hi h Schcol)
GHS
B
Jodo
35
linobusan Sermon Gakko(linobuoan Colloge)Col
B
Nichiren
3℃
Mishizu I chien (ilishizu Kindergerten)
Kin
C
piscop.
20
isono Jogaluin (Garden of Paradise
Nishu Cakko (Nuns' School)
is
D
Jodo
37
Girls' School)
Catholic
11
Mishu Shu,mkurin (Nuns' Schoul)
is
B
Nichiron
40
iyagi Gakuin Joshi Senmon Gakko ( iyagi
Nissei Koto Jogakko (Sun nd Stars
Institute onen's College)
Col C Fresbyt.
20
Girls' High Scheel)
GHO
C
Catholic
9
:iyagi Gakuin Koto Jogakko (iyagi
Nozeni Yochion (Hope Minlergerten)
Kin
Congreg.
10
Girls' High School)
GHS C Presbyt.
30
: omoyana Chugakko (lcach cuntain
Obihiro Otani ! oto Jogalko (Obihiro
:tddle School)
B.3 C piscop.
19
Great V-lley Girls' High School)
GIS B Shin
45
Tusashino Joshi Gakuin ( usashino
Obihiro Otni Koto Yasci Jogakko
Girls' School)
is
46
(Obihiro Crcat Vallcy Girls' lHigher
yojo Galuen Ciugakko (Star of Venus
Houschold cononics chool)
Voc
B
Shin
46
Institutc :iddlo School)
BS C Fresbyt.
29
Obihiro Yochion (Obihiro Kindergarten)
Kin
B
Shin
47
Oc Koto Jogakko (Large River Girls'
Nadeshiko Yochicn (Finks Kindergarten)
Kin
C
Catholic
13
High School)
GHS
C
Presbyt.
30
Nadeshiko Yochien (Tinks Kindergarten)
Kin
C
Methodist
27
Ofuna Yochien (Ofuna Kindurgarten)
Kin
B
Nichiron
40
Nagasaki Kokyo Shin Gekko (Nagasaki
Oka Koto Jogakko (Cherry Llossom Girls'
Catholic School of Theology)
:is
C
Catholic
11
High. School)
GIS
B
Shin
45
Nagoya Chugakko (Nagoya iddlc School)
E.S
C
Fr. Yeth.
22
Ono Yochien (Ono Kindergarten)
Kin B Shin
47
Nakano Koto Jogakko (Nakano Girls'
Orio Joshi Shogyo Gakko (Orio Girls'
High School)
GHS
B
Shingon
49
Cormercial School)
Voc C Presbyt.
30
Nanzan Chugakko (Southern Mountain
Osaka Jogakuin Koto Jogakko (Osaka
iddlo School)
B.S
C
Catholic
7
"omen's Institutc Girls' High School)
GHS C Prosbyt.
30
Narita Chugakko (Narita Middle School)
B.S
B
Shingon
49
Otani Chugakko (Groat Valley !icdle
Narita Chugakko (Narita iddlc School)
BS
B
Shingon
49
School)
HS B Shin
43
Otani Daigaku (Great Valley Univorsity)
Uni B Shin
41
Narita Koto Jogakko (Narita Girls'
High School)
GHS
B
Shingon
50
Otani Daignku Scmmon Bu (Collere Course
Nippon Kirisutokyo Joshi Shingaku
C of C. - Church of Christ in Japan.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.97)
02
ALIHABEPICAL IDEX OF EDUCITIONAL INSTITUTIONS FFILLTD IT.. R LIGIOUS ORGNIZITIONS.
Institutions
Type Rel
Sect
Fage
Institutions
Type B01
Soct
Pare
of Great Valley University)
Shin
42
Rissho Daigaku Yoka (Preparatory Course
Otani Daigaku Yoka (Preparatory Course
of Niusho University)
Col B Nichiren
38
of Greet Valley University)
Col
B
Shin
42
Rissho Gakuen Tshilmvdui Koto Jogakko
Otani Hobo Yoseijo (Great Valley
(Rissho* Institute Ichikevadai Girls:
Nursery-School Teachers, Training
High School)
GHS .B Nichiren
39
Institute)
Mis B Shin
46
Rissho Galuen Koto Jogakko (Rissho"
Otani Joshi Semmon Galko (Great Valley
Institute Girls, High Sclool)
GHS B Nichiren
35
Girls, College)
Col B Shin
42
Rischo Koto Gigei Jogakko (Kischo
Otani Koto Jitsugyo Gakito (Great
Higher Girls, rts School)
Voc B Nichiren
39
Valley Higher Vocational School)
Voc B Shin
46
Rissho Koto Jogakuin (hic ho* Giris:
Otani Koto Jogukko (Great Valley Girls:
High School)
CHS B Fichiren
39
High School)
GHS B Shin
45
Rissho Shogyo Gakito (Rissho* Cemmercial
Otani Koto Jogakko (Great Valley Girls:
School)
Voc
D Nichiren
39
High School)
GHS
B
Shin
45
Roliko Chu altto (Roliho Piddle chool)
BI S
C.Catholic
7
Oto Yochien (Oto Kindergarten)
Kin
C
U. Breth.
32
Ryukolu Chugakko (Dr gon. Valley Piddle
Owari Chugakko (Owari Middle Schcol)
BNS
B
Shin
43
school)
 B Shin
43
Ryukoku Drigulau (Drugon Valley
Rildkyo Chugakko (St.Paul's Yiddle
University.
Uni
B Shin
42
School)
BS
C
piscop.
19
Ryukolu Daigalu semmon u (College
Rildyo Daigaku (St.Paul's University)
Uni
C
Episcop.
18
Cource of Dragon Valley Univereity)
co1
B Shin
42
Rikkyo Daigaku Yoka (Preparatory Course
Ryukohu Digaku Yoka (rreperatery Course
of St. Paulis University)
Co1
C iscop.
18
of Dragon Valley University)
Co1
B Shin
42
Rikkyo Koto Jogalko (St. Paul's Girls!
High School)
GHS
C piscop.
19
Sagami Joshi Shogyo Galko (Sagami Girls:
Rinzai Gakuin Chugaku Bu (Middle School
Commercial School)
Voc B Ji
34
Division of Rinzai Institute)
BS
Rinzai
41
Sambongi Yochien (Sumbongi Kindergerten) Kin
C Catholic
13
Rinzai Gakuin Semmon Gaiiko (Rinzai
Snsho Galaurin (Three Pines School)
Mis
B Soto
52
Institute College)
Co1
B
Rinzai
40
Sei Meria Jogukko (Holy Mary Girls,
Rissho Chagakto. (Risoho.Lidale.School)
BMS
B
Nichiren
38
School)
Mis C C.tholic
11
Rissho Daigaku (Rissho• University)
Uni
B
Nichiren
38
Sei Yozefu Yochien (St. Joseph's Kinder-
Kin C Catholic
14.
Risaho Daigaku Semmon Bu (College Course
grten)
of Rissho* University)
Col
B
Nichiren
38
Seiai Yochien (Holy Charity Kinder-
gerten)
Kin
C Episcop.
21
This Japamese term is not a proper noun, but it has not been
Seiai Yochien (Holy Charity Kindergarten)Kin C Methodist 27
translated because it loses its significance in a translation.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.94)
33
Inctitution:
Type Rel
Sect
rage
Institutions
Type Re1
Sect
Fuge
Seibi Galuen Koto Jo  lubu (rerfect
Seiruka Joshi semnon G. kiko (St. Lukes
Col C piccop. 19
Becuty Girls, High Schoel Divi ion)
GiS C Tr. Meth. 22
omen's College)
Seibi Roto Joe.to (Ferfect Be uty Girls!
Suiryo Koto Joate (C lm
nigh chool)
Gris C Catholic
usoleum viris, i h school)
Cs C Methodist 26
Seibo Jogaluin Koto Jogkko (Our Ladys
Seic.m ichi Yoclien (Holy rinity
Nomen's institute Girls, High School)
GHS
C C.tholic
9
inderg-rten,
Kin C Episcop.. 2
seibo Jo in shog o (isment ry
Seisen oto Jo, to (Hely Fountain
Scool att ched to Holy other Wonen
Girle, Migh school)
GHS C piscop. 19
Inctitute)
C. t.olic
12
ishi Tochien (Holy mgels Minder-
Seibo lochien (Holy Ptry Minderearten)
in C
Cutholic
14
curten)
Kin
nC Cutholic
14
Seien Maria n (Holy Garden Lri
Seishin Jochig luin (The Sucred Heart
Kinderg-rten)
in C Catholic
14
Girls, Scheol)
GHS
C
Catholic
9
Seigaluin Culo (Holy In titute
Seichin Joshi luin oto Jog kto (The
i dle school)
H C Chr. Ch.
1
Sccred He rt Girls, High School)
GHS
C.tholic
9
seiho Chug kko (sacred feck Picdle
Seichin Jochig kuin Senmon Gakko (Sucred
School)
E.o B Jodo
35
He.rt Nomen's Institute College)
Catholic
6
Seikei Yochien (P th-Forming Kinder-
Seishin Jochigluin Semmon Gkko (..cred
crten)
Hin  Shin
47
He rt women's In titute Collee)
Col C Catholic
6
Seiko Hoikuen (Sacred Light Nursery
Seichin Joshic kuin Shoto G kko (S.cred
Scncol)
Hn B Shin
47
He rt Womenis In titute lcmentery
Seikok.i Shing kuin (piscop lin
school)
Ele C C.thol:ic
12
College of Theology)
col C piscop.
18
Seishin Jochi Semmon Golko (Pure Heurt
Se inan Gakuin Chugakko (Southmestern
Girls, Collece)
Col C Cutholic
6
Inatitute Piddle School)
RS C Buptict
4
Seishin Hoto Jogckko (Pure Herrt Girls:
Seinan Gakuin Semmon G. kio (Southwestern
High chool)
GHS C C.tholic
9
Institute College)
Col C E.ptist
4
Seishin Yochien (Sacred Herrt Kinder-
Seinan Galuin Shogyo Gukko (Southesterr.
6.rten)
Xin C Cathol.ic
14
Institute Commercial School)
Voc C Baptist
5
Seicho Nogaliko (Bible nd gricultural
Seinan Jogakuin Koto Jogultto (South-
Scho∞1)
Mis C Unaffi 1.
33
wectern omen's Institute Girls:
Seitoku Loto Jog kko (Seitoku* Girls
High school)
GHS C Baptict
4
High School)
GHS B Shin
45
Seinan Jogalain Semmon Gakko (Southwestern
Seitokukai Rumbinien (S.cred Virtue
Institute Tomen's College)
Col C Baptist
4
Society's Lumbini Garden)
Kin B Uncffi.1. 54
Seirei Zoto Joga ko (Holy Ghost Girls:
This Jap nese term is not a proper noun, but it hos not been
High School)
GHS C Catholic
9
translated becaue it loses its significance in a tramslation.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.95)
84
      S      
Institutions
Tme Rel
Suct
Institutions
Tupe hel
1age
Seive Jogakko (Holy cace Cirls' Scheel) is
C
Congreg.
17
Shinshu Senmon Galtko (unin euct Collece) Col B Shin
42
Seive Jogckko (Ture cace Girls' School) is
C
Presbt.
30
Shiogma Sciko Yochien (Chiogena pisco-
Seiyu Jogakko (Friend Girls' School)
is
C
Fresbayt.
30
palien Kindere rten)
Kin 3 Phiscop.
21
Scizan Semon Gakko (Mestern Mountain
Shireyuri Goluen Chetoke (ite ily
Collegc)
Col
B Jo'o
35
Institute lerentr c el.
Io C Cat..olic
12
Scizan-ha Niso Gakko (Seizan-Sect
Chirayuri Joshi Seurion Caidko ( hite Lily
. Muns' School)
lis
D
Jodo
37
onen's Colle c)
C.1 C Cat olic
6
Scki Yochicn (Seki Kindergarten)
Kin
Ur ffil.
55
Stirsyuri Koto Jogako ( hite ily
Sendai Koto Jogalko (Sendai Girls'
Girls' High Gcllcol)
Chs C Catholic
10
High School)
GHO
C
Catholic
9
Shireyuri Koto Jogakko ( Kite Lily
Sendai Scikokai Yochien (Sendai pisco-
Cirls' Hig schcol)
CHS C Catholic
10
palian Kindorgerten)
Kin
C
piscep.
21
Shireyuri Koto Jogakko Fuzoku Yochion
Sondan Chugakko (Bead Trec Liddle School)E
i3
Soto
51
(Hindergarten attachee to hite Baly
Senjo Koto Jogakko (Fan Castlo Cirls'
Girls' lHigi: Scl.sol)
Kin C Catholic
14
High School)
GHS B Shin
45
Shitoku Se mon Gakko (Utrost Virtue
Senjo Koto Kasei Jogakko (Fan Castle
Coll.c)
Col  Unaffil.
57
Girls' Higher Houscwifery School)
Vec B Shin
1.6
Shizuoka Jonai Koto Joglko (Shizuoke
Sonshin Koto Jo akko (Senshin* Girls'
Jonai* High School)
CHS
C Catholic
C
High School)
GHS
Shingon
50
Shoci Hoilu Senko Gatko (Shosi Fost-
Sento Jozefusu Karcji (St.Joscph's
Graduate Mursery Hurses' Treining
College)
lHis
C
Catholic
11
School)
Col C Congreg.
16
Setagaya Chugaku(Setagaye Middle School) BS
B
Soto
51
Shoei Kete Jogakko (Shoci* Girls' High
Shiba Chugakko (Shibe Middle Schocl)
B:S
D
Jodo
35
School)
GHS C Cn
17
Shinai Koto Jogakko (Faith and Charity
Shoin Koto Jogakko (Fine Tree Shade
Girlst High School)
GHS
C
Catholic
10
Girls' Hi h School)
Episcop.
19
Shinai Yochion (Hope and Charity Kinder-
Shokei Koto Jornkko (Shokei* Girls'
garten)
Kin
Catholic
14
High School)
CHS C Baptist
5
Shinjo Yoji Hoikusho (Shinjo C. ilcren's
Shonai Kyokai Fuzoku Yochien (Kinder-
Nurscry)
Kin C Episcop.
21
garten attached to Shonai Church)
Kin C Fresbyt.
31
Shinonome Koto Jogakko (Dawn Girls'
Shonan Shirayuri Koto Jogakko (Shonan
High School)
GHS C Congreg.
17
hite Lily Girls' High School)
CHS C Catholic
10
Shinshu Gakuryo (Shin Sect Dormitory
Shonan Shirayuri Koto Jogakko Fuzoku
School)
Fis
3
Shin
46
Chotoka (Elenentary Division of Shonan
'hite Lily Girls' High School)
Ie C Catholic
12
This Japanose term is not a proper noun, but it has not been
Shonan Shirayuri Koto Jogakko Fuzoku
translatod bocausc it loscs its significence in a translation.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.95)
HLBETIC  DN OF EDUCATION NSTITUTIONS FFILI.TED IIT PELIGIGUS ORG.ITIONS
05
Institutions
Type Rel
Sect
Page
Institutions
Type Rel
Sect
Page
Yochien (Winderg rten attt ched to
T.isho D igaku Yok (Prep r tory Course
Shonan Shirayuri Girls, High School)
in
C.tholic
14
of Great Righteousress University)
Col B Unaffil.
54.
Shotolau Yochien (S cred Virtue inder-
Takada Chug ldko (High Rice Field I iddle
garten)
iin
B
Shin
47
schocl)
BS B Shin
43
Showe Hawan be Yochien (Cleir Peace
T. kad. Semmon Gakko (Hmgh Rice Sield
-Kemapabe Mindergurten)
Kin
B
Shin
47
Collece)
Col -B Shin
42
Shukutoku Joshi Nogei Summon Galho
Tkd Yochien (Hich Ricc Field linder-
(Modeuty Giris,riculturl
ε.rtcr)
Län
B
Shin
47
College)
Coi B Jodo
3
Tk kur. Yochien (Tinkura indergtrten) n
B
Shin
48
Shukutolu Koto Jogukko (Fodesty Girls
T. kayasu Chugakio (Takayasu Niddle
nigh scool)
GHo  Jodo
36
School)
EMS
B
Jaio
35
Shutolu Hoto Jo.kko (Shutolu* Girls
Tnabu Yochien (Taribu Känderg rten)
Kin
C
Methodist
27
High School)
GHS
B
Jodo
36
T.tere Chugakko (Tat re Yiddle School)
B3
B
So to
51
Soai Joshi Semmor. G kip (Mutual love
Tennoji bto Jog kko (Tennoji Girls
Girls, Colle e)
Co1
Shin
42
High Scheol)
GnS
B
Tendai
53
Soai Koto Jogakko (Nutucl Love Girls
Tenri Chugakko (Terri Middle Schoel)
BS
S Tenri
56
High School)
GHS
B
Shin
45
Terri Gogtku Semmon Gakko (Tenri College
Soen Yochien (Mulborry Garden Linder-
of For ign Largucges)
Col S Tenri
55
grten)
Kin
C Fresbyt.
31
Terri Hobo Yoscijo (Tenri Vindergarton
Soto Shu Daishi Ni Gnlaurin (The Fourth
: urse Training School)
Mis S. Tenri
56
Soto Sect School for Nuns)
Mis
B
Seto
52
Tonri Joshi Gogaku Semmor Galko (Tenri
Sotoky Chugckko (Sotolu*Niddle School)
BNS
B
Shin
43
Women is College of For ign Langucges)
Col
S Tenri
56
Sotoiu Senshu Gakuin (Sotolu Training
Torri Koto Jogaldto Di Ichi Bu (Tenri
School)
Yis
B
Shin
46
Girls, High School First Depertment)
GHS
S Tenri
56
Sozen Chug kko (Soz n Middle School)
BN3
B
Lichiren
38
Tenri Koto Jog lo Dai Ni Bu (Tenri
Girls, High School Sccord Depcrtment)
GHS
S Tenri
56
Taisei Chugakko (Western Middle School)
BNS
Ctholic
7
Tenri Kyo o (Tenri Tot.ching chool)
Mis S Tenri
56
Taisho Digaku (Great Righteousness
Tenri Yochien (Tenri Lündergarten)
Kin S Tenri
57
University)
Uni B Unaffil.
53
Tenshien (Gerden of gels)
Kin C Catholic
14
Taisho Daigaku mmon Bu (College
Tenshu Kokyo Odawara Kyokai Fuzoku
Course of Great Righteousness ni-
ratama Yochien (ratama Kindergarten
versity)
Col B Unaffil. 54
ttached to the Roman Catholic Church
This Japa nese term is not c proper noun, but it hos not been
in Od.ware)
Kn C Catholic 14
translated beccuse it loses its significunce in a translation.
Tohoku Gakuin Sermon Gakko (Tohoku Insti-

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.92)
86
AL A AL  F ALL STTOS D  GOS I S
Institutions
Tme Ro1
Suct
Instiluvions
Tme el buet
Pete
tuto College)
Col C resbt.
20
Togocium Yochien Shihanke (Teyosivm
Tohcku Koto Jogalko (Toholu Cirls'
Kindermrten Mommal Schcol)
is C thodist 2
ligh School)
CHS
C tholic
10
Toyokewn Chmgakko (Te okawe iele
Toji Chugakko (Tastern Touple iccl.
chol)
WS B Shingon
49
School)
ES
Shingon
49
Tosan Ciu cltko ( st ountain iccle
Tojo Hoikuen (Tojo ursery)
Kin B Whin
140
scheel)
T C
n slyt.
29
Conan Cbu plako (et rn ountain
Toke Koto Jegakko ( isteria Flower
Girls' High School)
CHs  Chi
1.5
cuc1)
Jolo
36
Touru a Yochien (Tsuruga Kindergerten)
Xin
thodist
20
Tokai Churckko (Tastern Gea iddle
School)
BE B Jodo
35
Tourmi Joshi Jitsugo Celke (Tsurud
Girls' Vocational clool)
oc
Suto
52
Tokai Chugalau Dai-ni-bu (The Sccond
Tsurumi Koto Jognkko (Tsurmi Girls'
Department attached to the Anstern
Sen iddle School)
S
35
Higi uch el)
Soto
52
Tokiwe Yochien (Evergreen Kinder rten)
hin
resit.
31
Tsuruscki Yochien (Tsurusaki Kinder-
( rten)
Shin
40
Tolyo Joshi Daigaku (Tolgyo omun's
Collec)
Col C Unaffil.
32
Unoki Yochien (Unoki Kindergarten)
Kin
C
thodist
20
Tokyo Seikei Koto Jogalko (Tokyo Tath-
Forming Girls' High School)
CHD
D Unaffil.
54
Ushigone Koto Jorriko (Ushigome Girls'
High Scheel)
GHS
B
Soto
52
Tokyo Senshu Geluin (Tolyo Training
School)
is
B Shingen
50
Uyenondya Churckko (Upper,nlace
iddle cheol)
B3
B
Jodo
36
Too Gijuku(Center of the Last Frivate
Uzwasa Yochicn (Usunasa rindergarten)
Kin
ircsbyt.
31
School)
is
C Hethodist
26
Toryo Chugakko (astern Hauseloun
Wakaba Yochien (Young Leaves Kinder-
iddlo School)
Catholic
7
garten)
Kin.C Methodist 2G
Toyo Daigaku (University of Criental
Studics)
Uni
B Unaffil.
53
Yammgata Seitokai Yoji (Yonn ata Spisco-
Toyo Koto Jogalko (Oriental Girls'
pelian Children's clfere Group)
Kin C Lpiscop.
21
High School)
GHS
B Unaffil.
54
Yonate Jogakuin (Yannto onen's Insti-
Toyociva Koto Jogakko (Toyoeiwa* Girls'
tutc)
GHS C Presbyt.
30
High School)
GHS C Mothodist
26
Yanai Yochien (Yanai Kindergarten)
Kin C
Jothodist
28
Toyociwa Yochien (Toyociwa* Kindergarten)Kin C Hothodist 27
Yasu Hoikoun (Yasu Nursery School)
Kin B Shin
48
* This Japanose torm is not a proper noun, but it has not been
translated beccuse it loses its sinificance in a translation.
Zenmon Cakuin (Zen Sect School)
is B Rinzai
41

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.96)
SOURCES
I.DOCULENTS
Kyoha Shuhe Kyodon Botsu no Todofuken Jinia Jiin Kyolmi Su, Sensai Jinia Jiin, Kyokei Su Orobi Shinsoku, Kyoshi Soryo Su, Uiiro
Sukeisha Kyodan Shinto Su no Tokei (Statistics on the Nu ber of Shrines Terples, end Churches, the Muiber of Jar-danaged
Shrines, Temples, and Churches, the Humbor of Shinto Priests, Fuddhist Priests, end Christian inisters, and the Hunber of
Proteges end orshippers of Tutelary Deities an of  enbers of Religious Lodies by Denonination, Sect and Religious Body
in the Various "To, " "Do," and "Ken"). This pamphIet was sent in by the Tensiu Kolgyo Renmei (League of Dioceses of the
Ronan Catholic Church) to the Shunke (Religious Affairs Section) of the  cribusho as a stetistical report as of 10 Septenber
1946。
Kirisutokyo Shuri Shogeldko Yeibo (Directory of Christian elicipus cho ls); no indication os to origin or date: included in a
binder with the previous reference.
Shukvo Dantai Ji Karkei Au Shecakko Shirabe (& Surver of Sehc ols Comected with telirious Bodics) published by the Shuruka
(Section of Rcligious iffairs), onbusho, October 1943. Contains lists of Shinto, Budchist, and Christian schools of
sccondary level and above as of 1943.
Bukkyo Kankeisha Keici ni Yoru Chuto Teido Iio no Shogaldko Chirabe ( Survey of Schools of Secondary Level nd bove Operated
by Budchist Rencics), coripiled by OSimA, Une, clcrk, Chosa Ka (Investigation Section), Chosa Kyoku (Investigation Dureau),
Hombusho, vith the assistance of Y  Oro, Kosho, :rofessor, Chiyoda "omen's Collcge, Tokyo, 1946.
Shulkyo Jiu Shokuinroku ( List of Personnel Connected vith Religious Aff irs), published by the  yogaku Kyoku (Indoctrination
Bureau), ombusho, 1 Jenuar 1944. Contains lists of schools attached to  hinto, Eudchist, and Christian Sects.
Statistical teports of ll Schools by Prefectures Subitted by Prefectural Offices to the Tokeika (Statistics Scction), onbusho,
compiled January 1947.
Telegrans reccived fron individual schools and prefectural offices to which inquirics wero made.
Letters reccived fron schools and prefecturel oifices to thich inquiries were inde.
II. CONFERICES
HIROYASU, Takao and TiKEISHI, Kobi, Secretarics, Religious Affairs Scction, inistry of Elucation. Subject: Source naterials
relative to cducational institutions of a reli ious nature. Roon 213, : inistry of Education, 21 May 1947.
TOJI, Tonikazu, Secrctary, Secondary School Eucation Section, School Education Bureau, Ministry of Education. Sane subjoct.
Roon 316, Linistry of Education, 21 May 1947.
Various officiels of the School Affeirs Section, Hokkaido Prefectural Officc, Sapporo, 5 July 1947.
Phone calls to individual schools and prefectural offices..
87

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.96)
EDEX CF RLIGICUS ORG I TIONS
Christin, 4–33, 56–62, 68, 70-71, 74
Budchist, 34–55, 63266, 63, 72–73, 74
Eaptist, 4-5, 58, 70
Ji, 34, 63, 72
Catholic, 6-14, 58, 70
Joco, 34-37, 63, 72
Christian Church, 15, 59, 70
Kegon, 37, 63, 72
Church of Christ, 2, 15, 59, 70
Nichiren, 38-40, 63-64, 72
Congregational, 16-16, 59, 70
Rinzai, 40-41, 64, 72
Episcopalien, 18-21, 59-60, 70
Shin, 41-48, 61:-65, 72
Evangelical Lutheran, 21-22, 60, 70
Shingon, 40-50, 65, 72
Free lethodist, 22-23, 60, 71
Soto, 51-52, 65-66, 73
Tendri, 53, 66, 73
Lutheran, 23, 61, 71.
Unaffilicted, 53-55, 66, 73
Hothodist, 23-28, 61, 71
Presbyterian, 28-31, 61, 71
Shinto, 55–57, 67, 69, 73, 74
United Brethren, 32, 62, 71
Konko, 55, 67, 73
Universalist, 32, 62, 71
Tenri, 55–57, 67, 73
Unaffilinted, 57, 67, 73
Unaffiliated, 32-33, 62, 71
All religions, summarics, 69, 73, 74
88

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Zi6
United States Political Adviser
DC/R
for Japan
Tokyo, May 11, 1948
OIC OCCUPIED AREAS DIVISION
(ADO)
No. 276
MAY 2 0 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT: Roster and Statistics of Japanese Educational Institutions,
April and November 1946.
894.42/5-1148
2
01E
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to this
Mission's despasch No. 202 of Maroh 29, 1948 transmitting two
copies each of Parts 2, 3, 5, and 4l of a special report of the
FE
Civil Iafermatiem and Education Section, General Headquarters,
0
OCD
Supreme Commemder for the Allied Powers, entitled "Roster and
Statissies of Japanese Educational Institutions, April and Novem-
Fre
ber 1946".
There are now enclosed two copies each of Parts 25, 6, and
IDCIR
28, of the above-mentioned report, covering respectively, the
prefectures of Miyazaki, Fukui and Nara. Future additions to
this report will be forwarded to the Department as they become
available.
Emcl.
Enclosures (6)
Two copies each of
Roster and Statistics of Japa-
nese Educational Institutions,
April and November 1946, Parts
25, 6 and 28, covering respect-
ively, Prefectures of Miyazaki,
1948 MAY 18 PM 4 03
Fukui and Nara.
工
Original and ozalid to tho Department
3
C
842
894.42/5-114
JDEdwards: n
18
E
FILED
MAY
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADGUARTERS
SUPREME COLMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Anelysis and Research Division
ROSTER AND STATISTICS
C F
JAPANESE
EDUCATIOFAL INSTITUTIONS
April and November 10u6
Part 2
MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
A Special Report in 47 Farts Prepared by
Education Research
AR-302-E-A-26-25
9 April 1948

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED FOWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
SPECIAL REPORT
SERIAL NUMBER
AR-302-E-A-26-25
9 April 1948
TITLE
Roster of Japanese Educational Institutions and Statistical Tables - Part 25. Miyazaki
Prefecture
SUBJECT
Roster of Jaranese educational institutions by prefecture, level, type and control jurisdiction
showing date of foundation, enrcllment, and number of teachers, with sumary statistical tables.
PREPARED BY
Education Research
DATES OF STUDY 10 June 1947 to 12 February 1048
CON TE N T S
Page
Introduction
i
vii
Summary of the Educational Institutions in Miyazaki Prefecture
Part One
Summary Tables of Japanese Educational Institutions Showing Number and Percent of Students,
Teachers, and Schools
viii
Table 1 - Nunber of Educational Institutions by Level and Tyre
Table 2 - Percent of Educational Institutions by Level and Type
ix
Te le 3 - Number of Educational Institutions by Control and Level
x
Table 4 - Percent of Educational Institutions by Control and Level
xi
Table 5 - Number of Educational Institutions by Level and Control
xii
Table 6 - Percent of Educational Institutions by Level and Control
xiii

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
Part Two
Summary Tables of Japanese Educational Institutions Showing Number of Students, Teachers, and Schools
by Jurisdiction
Table 7 - Schools under the Jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education by Level and Type
xiv
Table 8 - Schools under Prefecturel Jurisdiction by Level and Type
xv
Table 9 - Schools under Municipal Jurisdiction by Level and Type
xvi
Table 10--Schools under Village or Town Juriédiction by Level and Type
xvii
Table ll- Schools under Private Jurisdiction by Level and Type
xviii
Table 12- Schools under Jurisdiction of Ministries Other than the Ministry of Education
xix
by Level and Type
Part Three Roster of Japanese Educational Institutions by Control Jurisdiction According to Level and Type
Schools under Ministry of Education
1
Village Schools (contirued)
Higher Education
1
Secondary Education (continued)
Colleges
1
Youth Schools
23
Normal Schools
2
ElementaryEducation
35
Elementary Schools
35
Prefectural Schools
4
Higher Education
4
Private Schools
64
Colleges
4
Secondary Education
64
Secondary Education
5
Vocational Schools
64
Vocational Schools
5
Middle Schocls
65
Middle Schools
9
Youth Schools
66
Girls' High Schools
11
Elementary Education
67
Special Schools
13
Kindergartens
67
Special Schools
68
Municipal Schools
15
Secondary Education
15
Schools under Ministries Other then Ministry
72
Vocational Schools
15
of Education
Youth Schools
16
Secondery Education
72
Elementary Education
17
Youth Schools under Ministries
72
Elementary Schools
17
of Communication and Transportation
Special Schools under Ministry of Welfare
73
Village Schocls
22
Secondary Education
22
Girle' High Schools
22
Hap of Kyushu
75

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
INTRODUCTION
PURPOSE
There are two sunmary statistical sections. Fart Ono pro-
sents in six tables sumary zuncrical and.percent distribution
This study was made to fill a critical need in the field
data arran ed as follows: lovel by types, control by level, and
of Japanese education. The statistical procedures and products
level by control. Part Two consists of six tablos which surma-
of record-keeping in Japan have been entirely inadequate. The
rize data by control jurisdiction accordin to level and typo.
Ministry of Education meintains no records of schools not under
its direct control, with the result that for infornation con-
The "Roster of Japanese Educational Institutions" consti-
cerning nearly all schools of the clanontary and secondary lev-
tutes Part Thrcc of this report. It is prinarily a list of all
els, and many institutiens of the higher educational level, one
institutions vhich are a part of the re ular Japaneso educa-
must depend upon the prefecture. Even at that source there are
tional systen, w th sinificent data for cach. The project is,
no complcto records. In alnost any arce of education, one must
in reality, an act of pionccring. In the course of its dovel-
collect data fron the original sources. Che sorious gep in the
opment, scattered and, in lar c degree, hitherto unclassified
records has been the lack of a list of all educational institu-
facts have been assenbled and nade availablo in an casily re-
tions in Japan. It is this mnjor veid which this study is in-
forable form. For the first tine in the history of Japanoso
tended to fill.
cducation, there is a composito list of all of tho nore than
40,000 cducational institutions in Japan, a list which records
for cach its nane, date of foundation, address,1 enrollnent by
SCOPE
sex and by totals? end the teachin force by sax, by full-timo
The results of this study were originally sut up as two
projects, a "Roster of Japanese Educational Institutions" in 46
1. The addresses of separate institutions supplied in this ro-
prefectural reports, end "Statistical Tables for Japancse du-
port will be more intelligiblc if the recder remeibors that
cational Institutions" in 46 prefectural reports, with a sumna-
"cho" means "street," "mura" means "village" or "hanlet," "ma-
rizing report for the wholo of Japan: A littic trial usc of
chi," means "town" or "snll city," "gun" means "county"or"dis-
the first finished reports indicated, however, that the two
trict," and "ken" means "prefecture."
series would be more effective if combined. For that reason,
2. The enrollment figures are not those of actual attandance
tho two reports for cach prefecture have been consolidated into
cn 30 April and 30 Novamber 1946 rospectivoly, but thoso of on-
onc report.
rollment on the school records on those datcs.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.96)
or pert-tinc classification,3 and by totals.
ated. Sone of the croup nanes mi ht be almost meaningless with-
out cxplanation. They cre not unifonly definod in sono cascs
The roster is arrenged accorcin: to prefecture, control
even by the Japanese.
jurisdietion,end school lovel. Therc are totals for every sub-
heading, and subheading and grand tetels for every rain head-
There aro three contrel juriscictions in the Japenese edu-
ing and for overy prefecture. Grand totals have been vorked
cational syston: (1) national, whic!: includes botl: "Governnent"
out on two bases of organization, that of contrel jurisdiction
or Linistry of ducation control, and that of other ninistrics
and that of school lovel.
which conduct spccialined cducetional institutions: (2) "public
control," or that exercised by eny level of governacnt below
The two dates chosen as focal peints in the collcctien of
the centrel national level, such as that by the prefecture
data, 30 April 1946 end 30 Nover ber 1946, were selected t the
(ken), netropolis (to), city (shi), tom (mchi), or village
request of Education Division, Civil Inforration nd Education
(ure); and (3) "private control." Schools of the three cduca-
Section, for purposos of cp risen regardin lev lonents in
tion'l levels fall within these three centrel jurisdictions.
the cducational pro rom.
The inistry of uc-tion has exercised extensive powers
Since this series of reports is based upon data collocted
in educational matters et all levels n? over schools under all
before chan es in the orgenization of the cducational systen
juriscictions except those un er other ministries. fhrou h the
were effected, the categories use' are thosc into which schools
use of stindardized tuxts and curricula, and throu n cir-ctives
fell before the 6-3-3-4 systen was inauuratcd in Japan,4 and
of rrny sorts for over purpose, it has cxerted tremencous con-
the terms amployed are. transl tions f the Jopenose nonencla-
trol over even thosc schools supposedly under other urisdic-
turc. The teminology usud to in'ic te the brond levels of ed-
tions. in unusual fact concornin. this spect of Japencse cdu-
ucation are those currently used in the United States: clanen-
cation is that control cous not inclule financial support or
tery, including kinderearten, prinary, nd r.uer rades; sec-
appointing power for prefecturcl end locel sehocls. oney for
ondary, including high schools and preparatery nehools; nd
the mrintenence of schools is appropriated by the national Gov-
highor, including schools of junior collegc, college, nd uni-
crnnent, end for all practical officts much of the control cx-
versity level.
creised over school natters is in the han': of the :inistrics
Within cach of these broad levels, however, terminolo y is
not so siplc or so clcar. The vrious types of schools in Ja-
4. s rapidly cs possible the shinsci chu ckko (lover socond-
pan are nuierous, over-lapping, and confusing to the uniniti-
dary school) nd shinsei koto kko (upper socondiry sdhool)
systen is being established, but practical difficulties havo
made it inpossiblo to cffect a conpleto chan c-ovor. Tho stand-
3. Statistics for both full-tinc and part-tire teachers are
ardization of institutions on  the higher education lovel as
givon. Where there are both types in a school, the sccond fig-
four-year de ree ranting institutions is also in progross, but
uro in the colunn, following the cash, represents the nwiber of
the pace of this dovelopuent, likaise, is linited by practical
part-time toachers.
difficultics.
ii

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.95)
of Finance and of Hone Affeirs, who obtain their pover through
i.e: prefectural, municipal, toum, or village govornnonts. In
control of the national buiget and of Civil Service eppoint-
Japen in 1946, public control covered a much wider rango of
ment respectively. Tithin the limitations irposed by the povers
scheol levels thon cic the : inistry of -Jucation control. On
of these two rinistries, the Ministry of Elucation has cnjoyed
the hi her education level wero universities, collogos, hiher
a high deree ef centralized contrel. Its cirect control, how-
schools, norral schools, ant a few spccial schools, all of tho
types un'er the "Cirect contrel" of the inistry of ucation,
over, is applicd only to a linited group of institutions.
with the exccption of Imperinl universities. In addition, pub-
In 1946 the finistry of ucation excrciced corplete or
licly cuntrolled institutions incluced also schools of the soc-
"dircet" control over only certain schcols,mninly on the higher
on ary n clamentar levels. Jitsuyo celdko (vocational
oducation level. These included the suven Teikoku drisaku (In-
scl cols) were nunerous end vried. Chuo nkko (middle schools)
periel universities), mich enjoyed generally aecepted prestige
were schools of high school level est blished for boys. Koto
as superior institutions for cavanced lo ming, n the i aku
jo eldko (girls' high schools) wore established fur girls as
(ondinary universities), which wae not granted such high favors
substitutes for miccle schools. Scinen akko (youth schools)
cither in personnel or equipuent, end consecuently vere not ac-
were institutions cstcblishod to take care of the further edu-
conled cemparable csteon. Those tun types of mivursities vere
cation of stu unts who hnd finished clumentary training, but who
were un ble to atton' re ular schools of the secondary lovel.
analogous rourhly to beth sunior coll., es  wiv rsitius in
uften th were ni ht schools. Sho kko (clomontary schools
the United States. Other types of scihcols unr the copleto
after 1941 cnlla kokunin kko, or national schools) and
control of the : onbusho were semon  kko (colle es., hich
yechion (kinier  rtens) require no special aplanation.
usuelly did not ant degrees, nd, in any ys, corres ended
to junior colloges, and koto alko (hi her ncheols), which were
Frivate control meat substantielly what the turm means in
oven nore unclassifiable, bein  kind of cross betweon pre-
tho tates, control cxercised by en individual or  roup of in-
paratory schools end junior colle us. lse unser .inistry of
Elucation jurisdiction vere koto shihen lko (hi her nennl
divicuals indepundently of covernment on any level, with sup-
port co in. from nongovern.entel ccurces. uno chief differanco,
schools), or a level similar to that of sem sakko, but vith
:nore specialized purposes, bein: established expressly fer the
however, butween both public and privato schools in Japan and
purposo of training teachers, end shihan akko (nornl schools),
public and private scheols in the States, was that in Japan tho
at first censidered of secendery level, but in 1935 plice, on
central Govem ental a aney for eduection (tho inistry of du-
the higher cducation lovel. The course of study for shihan
cation) exurted :mch : ore pover over the :unagement of schools
cakko was three years in length, whereas that for the higher
than does the Federal Gevernnunt in the United States, & powar
nomul schocls wms four years. Sone speciel schcols, such as
which was Cuscribed as "incircet control." Tho scope of juris-
no sckko (schools for the blind), roe akko (sciools for the
diction for privately controlled institutions was idontical
doaf and denf utes), and yoa yakko (schools for the blind and
with that of public jurisdiction, including institutions on all
mte), were under Ministr of Fucation jurisdiction.
lovels ane of all typos cxceot Teikoku caigaku (Iiperial Uni-
versities). The chart on pages iv to vi indicatos by lovol the
Fublic control covered all institutions conducted and ree
typo of schools under each of the threo control jurisdictions
in 1946.
ulatod. by goveruiental units lower then the national level,
iii

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.93)
JAPANESE EDUCATIORAL INSTITUTIONS BY CONTROL JURISDICTION, LEVIL, ND TIPE
in 1946
I.
NATIONAL CONTROL
1.
Imperial Universitics (Tcikoku Daigaku)
2.
Universities (Daigaku)
3。
Colleges (Savion Gakko)
4.
Higher Schools (Koto Gakke)
5.
Higher Nomal Sclicole (Kote Shihan Ghidto)
a. Liddle Sensels .ttached (Chu Gakko)
b. Menentary Schools Ittached (Sho Gelko)
Higher Education
6. Hi her Nomal Selcols for Monen (Joshi Koto Shihen Galiko)
Girls' High Schools Attacihcd (Koto Jo Ge'cko)
A. Ministry of Educction
b. Mesentary Scicels Attached (Sho Calkke)
(Governuent
c. Kin ergartens Attached (Yochicn)
Institutions)
7. Homal Schools (Shihan Gekko)
Yaeventary Schcols Attached (Sho Gaiko)
b. Yinderwartens Attached (Yochion)
c. Youth chools ttached (Seinen Gelko)
1.
Gchools for the Blind (Ho Gakko)
B. Special Schools
2:
Schools for the Deaf ane De-f- ute (lon Gkcko)
3.
Schools for the Plind n? Deaf-Tute (Hoc Gakko)
1: Colleges (Suamon Gekke)
A. Higher Education
12. Other types
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo G kko)
a. gricultural Schoels (e Galdko)
B. Secondary Eucation
b. other types
B. Othor Ministries
2. Youth Schools (S..incn Gakko)
3. Other types
(1. Youth Schcols (Suinen Gelko)
C. Special Schools
12. Other types
{1. Zlenentery Scheols (Sho Gekko)
D. Denentary Education
(Peers' School only)
iv

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.93)
II. PUBLIC CONTROL
1.
Universities (Daigaku)
Higher Eucction.
2.
Colleges (Samon Geltko)
3.
Hicher Schools (Koto Galcko)
1.
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
 gricultural Scheols (Ho Cakko)
B. Sccenry Eucation
b. Other types
2. iddle Schcols (Chu Grkko)
A. Prefectural Cove rnnents
Girls' Hict Scllools (Keto Jo Cakko)
1.
Schools for the Plind (To Cakko)
2.
Scheols for the Duaf md Deaf-lute (lot. Gelako)
C. Special Schools
3.
Schoels for the Blin: mi Doof- ute (or Goldke)
4.
other typos
Mementar chools
1.
Elchentary cchcols (Sho Galko)
(Hetropoliten Gov-
2.
Kinderrtens (Yechien)
orment ly)
(1. Universitics (Dai niu)
Higuer Elucation
2. Colleges (Samion Galko)
(1. Vocational Schools (Jitsuyo Galko)
2.
Micdle Schcols (Chu Galdto)
B. Secondary Education
3。
Girls' Hi) Schools (Koto Jo Galko)
4.
Youth Sclhools (Seinen Gekko)
B. Lunicipel Covernments
1.
Mamentary Scheels (She Gakko)
C. ementary Education
2.
Kindergartens (Yochien)
[1. Verious types
D. Special Schools
1.
Yecational Schools (Jitsuyo Gakko)
2:
iilc Scheols (Chu Gakko)
Secondary Elucation
3:
Girls' Hig: Schools (Koto Jo Grilko)
4.
Youth Schocls (Seinen Grkko)
1:
amentary Schools (Sho Gkko)
C. Village or Towm
Governnents
B. Mementary Xucation
2.
Findergartens (Yochien)
(1. Various types
C. Special Schools
v

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.92)
III. PRIVATS CONTROL
1.
Universities (Diigcku)
Higher Eucntion
2.
Colleges (Semmon Grkko)
3.
Higher Scheols (Keto Galko)
1。
Vocational Schools (Jitsugo Gaitko)
2.
Makle Schools (Chu Galdte)
B. Secondary Eucation
3。
Girlst Hi  Juhools (Keto Jo Geidko)
A. Frivate Control
L.
Youth Schools (Seinen Geliko)
1.
LHementery Schgols (She Galtko)
C. Hamentary Mucation
2.
Kimlergertens (Yochien)
1. Selsols for the Blind (Ib Calke)
2. Selvels Sor the beaf end Denf-Hute (ton Gukko)
D. Special Scheols
Schsols fer the Elind ene Derf-ute (ee Gelke)
4. Other types
SOURCE OF DATA
 ON F 
The linistry of Ecucation, in serving as the cata-collcet-
Tarouchout the prepar tion of this report, workers in klu-
ing agent, has played en invaluable part in this work. In the
cation tosearch voro in constent touch with : inistry of duca-
sumer of 1946 'inistry of Educction officirls end Civil Infor-
tion officicls te check the rateri-ls as they wcre reccived
nation and Eiucation Soction resenrchors evelved fon: which
fron the individucl schocls. Ti ures were carefully checkod
sorved as the basis for securin the desired information.
an scrutinized. .s discrepancics or anbiguities in data wero
Through the 'inistry of Xucation, prefectural cduc-tion divi-
iscovurd the were rectified end clarified insofer as check-
sions, end local cducation offici-is,the data were graduelly
ing made correction possible. hile a high degreo of accuracy
secured from the individual schools. Not cnouch cen be seid in
ims thus achieved, the nterials are still subject to the lin-
praise of the pationce and cnthusiren of the inistry in their
itations inherent in Japancse statistics and in the roporting
cooperation vith Civil Inforution and ucrtion Section to
fron individuel scnools.
make this an accurate and offective study.
vi

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
SUMMARY OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS IN MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
1046
Number of Institutions
Level and Type
Control
Sex
of Institution
Ministry
Prefec-
Muni-
Village
Male
Female
Coed.
Total
Educat.
Other
tural
cipal
or Town
Private
Higher Institutions..
35
Colleges
1
0
1
0
C
0
2
C
0
2
Normal Schools
21
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
210
2
Total Higher
3
0
1
0
0
0
2
0
4
Secondary Institutions
Vocational Schcols
0
0
15
1
0
2
8
3
7
18
Boys' Middle Schools
0
0
7
0
0
1
8
0
0
8
Girls' High Schools
0
0
9
0
2
0
0
11
0
11
Youth Schools
0
4
0
6
88
215
5
1
100
Total Secondary
0
4
31
7
90
21
15
101
137
Elementary Institutions
Elementary Schools
1*
0
0
35
231
0
0
0
267
267
Kindergartens
0
0
0
0
C
5
0
0
5
Total Elementary
1
0
0
35
231
5
0
0
272
272
Special Institutions
Blind and Deaf Mutes
0
0
2
0
0
1
0
0
3
Miscellaneous Schools
0
0
1
0
0
12
2
8
13
Juvenile Correction
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
Total Special
0
1
3
10
0
13
3
8
17
Total Institutions
4
5
35
42
321
23
26
23
381
430
Attached to Normal Schoo1
vii

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
ZAKI TREFECTURE
Teble 1 - Nurber of Educational Institutions by Level and Tyne
ENRCLIMENT
TEACHERS
X
Number of
30 Anr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
Institutions
er Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
Coed.
T
1leges
1036
1036
1025
1025
68
68
24
84
2
2
rmal Schools
587
280
867
752
299
1051
55-1
6
62
62-1
8
71
2
2
Totàl
1623
230
1903
1777
299
2076
123-1
6
130
146-1
8
155
2
2
4
ndary Education
cational Schools
7911
2879
10790
7677
2773
10450
402
34
436
410
41
451
8
3
7
18
adle Schools
7314
7314
7305
7305
202
4
206
224
4
228
8
8
irls' High Schools
9862
9862
9858
9058
198
110
308
200
106
306
11
11
outh 3chools
22353
15908
38351
21301
15484
36785
610-26 303-23
962
658-29 320-24 1031
5
1
94
100
Total
37578
28739
66317
36283
28115
64398
1412-26 451-23 1912
1492-29 471-24 2016
21
15
101
197
mentary Fducation
lementary School attached.
313
206
609
313
296
609
25
3
28
25
3
28
1
1
o Normal Schools
Dementary Schools
87923
85440 173363
87456
462 172316
2214-6
2091
4311
2340-3
1982
4325
266
266
indergartens
69
44
113
190
180
370
1
5
6
4
11
15
5
5
Total
88305
85780 174085
87959
85338 173297
2240-6
2099
4345
2369-3
1996
4368
272
272
ecial Schools
Schoolsfor Blind & Deef-Mute
100
67
167
102
71
173
13
14
27
14
14
28
83
3
Viscellaneous Schools
419
1572
1991
521
1614
2135
57
38
95
74
38
112
2
8
3
12
Juvenile Correction Schools
26
26
23
23
2
2
2
2
1
Total
5451
1639
2184
646
1685
2331
72
52
124
90
52
142
3
8
6
17
Grand Total
128.051
244.489
115.437
3.847-33
6,511
2,527-24
23
430
116.438
126,665
242,102
2,608-23
4.097-33
6681
26
381
Theae figures are not those for actuel attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the schocl records as of these dates.
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this repart. Where there are two numbers entered in the same colum.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicetes the number of part-time teachers.
- VIII -

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
MIYAZAKI PREFEOTURE
Table 2. Percent of Educational Institutions by Level and Type
ENROLLMENT #
TRACHERS
x
No. of
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
Higher Education
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
Co-ad.
Colleges
62
53
57
49
55
52
57
54
100
Normal Schools
38
100
47.
43
100
51
45-100
100
48
43-100
100
46
100
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100.
100-100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot.
1.3
0.2
0.8
1.4
0.3
0.8
3-3
0.2
2
3.5-9
0.3
2
lo01
0.5
Secondary Education
Vocational Schools
22
10
16
22
11
16
28
7
22
27
9
22
38
20
7
Middle Schools
19
11
20
11
14
1
11
15
1
11
38
Girls' High Schools
35
15
36
16
14
24
17
14
22
16
24
73
8
Youth Schools
59
55
58
58
53
57
44-100
68-100
50
44-100
68-100
51
7
93
Total
100
300
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot.
29.3
24.7
27.1
28.6
24.3
26.6
37-79
17.3-100
294
36.4-88
19.7-100
30
84
26.5
Klemantary Education
Ktem. Schls. Attached
to Normal Schools
0.4
0.3
0.1
0.3
0.3
0.4
1
0.1
0.6
1
0.2
0.6
0.4
Elementary Schools
99.5
99.2
99.8
99.5
99.5
99.4
98.95-100 99.7
99.3
98.8-100 99.3
99.1
97.6
Kindergartens
0.1
0.5
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.05
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.5
0.3
2
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot.
69
73-7
71.2
69.5
74
71.6
58-18
80.5
66.8
58-9
79
6
7
Special Schools
Schls. for Blind &
Deaf-Mute
18
4
7
16
4
7
18
27
22
15
27
20
578
Miscellaneous Schools
77
96
92
81
96
91
79
73
77
83
73
79
Juv. Corr. Schools
5
1
3
2
3
1
2
1
100
100
15
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot.
0.4
1.4
0.9
0.5
104
2
1.8
2.1
2
oll
95
Grand Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
# See footnote Table 1.
x
See footnote Table 1.
- Ix-

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
AZAKI PREFECTURE
Table 3 - Number of Educational Institutions by Control and Level
X
ENROLRENT
TEACHERS
Number of
30 Apr. 1946
30 Nov. 1946
30 Apr. 1946
30 Nov. 1946
Institutions
nistry of Education
M
F
T
M
F
E
M
F
m
M
F
m
M
F
Coed.
Higher Education
1254
280
1534
1421
299
1720
941
6
101
111-1
8
120
1
2
3
lementary Education
313
296
609
313
296
609
25
3
28
25
3
28
1
1
rotel
1567
576
2143
1734
595
2329
119-1
9
129
136-1
11
148
1
3
4
efectural Schools
Higher Educetion
369
369
356
356
29
.29
35
35
1
1
Secondery Education
14815
10912
25727
14586
10893
25479
732
124
856
765
126
892
14
10
7
31
Special Schools
106
107
213
107
109
216
14
13
27
15
11
26
3
3
motel
15890
11019
26309
15049
11002
26051
775
137
912
816
137
953
15
10
10
35
nicipal Schools
Secondery Education.
1952
1601
3553
1725
.1538
3263
58
29-1
88
69-1
30-1
101
1
6
7
Rementary Education
16131
15627
31758
16834
16064
32898
395-3
414
812
435-2
396
833
35
35
motal
18083
17228
35311
18559
17602
36161
453-3
443-1
900
5043
426-1
934
1
41
42
llage or Town Schools
Secondary Education
19030.
15479
34509
18225
14953
33178
544-26
289-22
881
584-28
305-29
946
3
87
90
Elementary Education
71792
69813 141605
70622
68798 139420
1819-3
1677
3499 1905-1
1586
3492
231
231
Total
90822
85292 176114
88847
83751 172598
2363-29
1966-22
4380 2489-291891-2924438
3
318
321
1yate Schools
Secondary ducation
483
747
1230
449
731
1180
山
9
53
40
30
50
3
1
1
5
Elementery Education
69
山
113
190
180
370
1
5
6
4
11
15
5
5
Special Schools
413
1532
1945
516
1576
2092
56
39
95
73
41
114
2
.8.
3
13
Total
965
2323
2388
1155
2487
3642
101
53
154
117
62
179
5
9
9
23
hools Under Other Ministries
Secondary Education
1298
1298
1298
1298
34
34
33
33
4
4
Special Schools
26
26
23
23
2
2
2
2
1
rotal
1324
1324
1321
1321
36
36
35
35
5
5
motal
128.051
244.489
115,437
3.847-33
6,511
2,527-24
26
381
116,438
126,665
242,102
2,608-23
4,097-33
6,681
23
430
These figures are not those for actuel attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
The mumber of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two mumbers entered in the same columm.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
- x -

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
Table 4. Percent of Ecucational Institutions by Control and Level
ENROLLMENT
#
SEPCHERS
Number of
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
一
Ministry of Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
Co-ed
Higher Education
80
48.6
71.6
82
50
73.9
79-100
67
78
81.6
72.7
81
100
67
Blementary Education
20
51.4
28.4
18
50
26.1
21
33
22
18.4
27.3
19
33
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot.
1.2
0.5
0.9
1.4
0.5
111
3-3
0.3-0
211
3.3-3
0.4-0
2.2
4
09
Prefectural Schools
Higher Education
2.4
1.4
2.3
1.4
3.7
3.2
4
3.7
6.7
Secondary Education
9?
99.1
97.8
97
99
97.8
94.5
90
93.8
94
92
93.6
93.3
100
70
Spesial
0.6
0.9
0.8
0.7
1
0.8
1.8
10
3.0
2
8
2.7
30
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot.
2.5
10.7
12
9.5
10.8
20-0
5.3-0
当
19.9-0
5.4-0
14.3
58
43.5
2.2
Municipal Schools
Secondary Education
10.8
9.3
10
9.7
8.7
9
12.8-0
6.5-100
9.8
13.4-33
7-100
11
100
14.6
Elementary Education
89.2
90.7
90
90.3
91.3
91
87.2-100
93.5-0
90.2
86.6-67
93-0
89
85-4
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot.
14.8
14.4
14.6
15.3
15
12-9
17-4
12.4-9
16.8-4
100
Village or Town Schools
Secondary Education
20
18
19.5
20.5
17.8
19
23-90
15-100
20
23.5-96.5 16-100
21
100
273
Elementary Education
80
82
80.5
79.5
82.2
81
77-10
85-0.
80
76.5-3.5
84-0
79
72.7
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
Peroent of Gr. Tot.
71
73.2
72
70
72.6
71.2
61-88
75.4-96
67
60.7-88
75-96
66.3
13
89.9
Private Schools
Secondary Education
50
32
37.4
39
29.4
32.4
43.6
17
34.4
34.2
16.1
28
60
11
11
(.)
Elementary Education
7
2
3.4
16.4
7.3
10.4
55.4
964
3.9
3.4
17.8
8.4
56
Special Schools
43
66
592
44.6
63.3
57.2
1
73.6
61.7
62.4
66.1
63.6
40
89
33
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Cr.Tot.
0.8
二
1
2.1
1.5
3-0
2-0
204
2.8-0
2.1-0
2.7
19
39.1
Sghls. under Other Min.
Secondary Education
98
98
98.2
98.2
94.4
94.4
94.3
94.3
80
Special Schools
2
2
1.8
1.8
5.6
5.6
5.7
5.7
20
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
200
Percent of Gr. Tot.
0.6
1
0.5
1-0
0.6
0.9-0
0.5
19
Grand Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
200
200
See footnote Tablo 3.
I See footnote Table 3.
-x-

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
YAZAKI PREFÉCTURE
Table 5 - Number of Educational Institutions by Level and Control
ENROLLMENT #
TEACHERS
x
Institutions
30 pr. 1946
30 Nov. 1946
30 r. 1946
30 Nov. 1946
igher Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
Co-ed.
Total
1623
280
1903
1777
299
2076
123-1
6
130
146-1
8
155
2
2kv
Ministry of Education
1254
280
1534
1421
299
1720
94-1
6
101
m-I
8
120
I
Prefectural
.369
369
356
356
29
29
35
35
1
condary Education
15
101
Total
37578
28739
66317
36283
28115
64398
1412-26
451-23
1912
1492-29 471-24
2016
21
Prefectural
14815
10912
25727
14586
10393
25479
732
124
856
766
126
892
4
Ia
Municipal
1952
1601
3553
1725
1538
3263
58
29-1
88
69-1
30-1
101
1
Village or Town
19030
15479
34509
18225
14953
33178
544-26 289-22
881
584-28 305-23
940
3
87
Private
483
747
1230
449
731
1180
44
9
53
40
10
50
3
1
1
Schools Under Other Ministries
1298
1298
1298
1298
34
34
33
33
4
lementary Education
Total
88305
85780
174085
87959
85338
173297
2240-6
2099
4345
2369-3
1996
4368
272
Ministry of Education
313
296
609
313
296
609
25
3
28
25
3
28
Municipal
16131
15627
31758
16834
36064
32898
395-3
424
812
435-2
396
833
35
Village or Town
71792
69813
141605
70622
68798
139420
1819-3
1677
3499
1905-1
1586
3492
231
Private
69
44
113
190
180
370
1
5
6
4
11
15
5
eciel Schools
Total
545
1639
2184
646
1685
2331
72
52
124
90
52
142
3
Prefectural
106
107
213
107
109
216
14
13
27
巧
π
26
Private
413
1532
1945
516
1576
2092
56
39
95
73
41
114
2
8
Schools Under Other Ministries
26
26
23
23
2
2
2
2
Total
128.051
244,489
115,437
3847-33
6:511
2,527-24
23
116.438
126.665
242,102
2.608-23
-33
6,681
26
38/
4097
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for erollment on the school recordsas of these
I The mumber of both full and part-time teachers isindicated in this report. Where there are two mumbers entered in the same
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
- XII-

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
Table 6. fercert of Educational Institutions by Level end Control
ENROLLMENT
#
TEACHERS
Number of
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 April 1946
30 Novomber 1946
Institutions
一
Higher Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
Co-ed. T
Totel
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Ministry of Education
75
100
79
82
100
85
75-100
100
77
79-100
100
71
50
100
Prefectural
25
21
18
15
25
23
21
29
50
25
1
Secondary Education
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Prefectural
37
39
39
41
39
39
52
27
45
52
27
44
67
72
7
29
Municipal
7
7
6
6
7
5
4
729
4
4-4
6-4
5
7
6
5
Village or Town
52
52
53
50
53
53
39-100
64-91
46
39-96
65-96
46
14
86
65
Private
1
2
1
1
1
1
3
2
3
3
2
3
15
7
1
4
Schls. under Other Min. 3
1
2
2
2
1
2
2
18
3
Elementary Education
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
10C
100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Min. of Education
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
1
0.1
0.6
1.2
0.2
0.6
0.4
0.4
Municipal
18
18
18
18
17
18.9
18-50
20
18.3
18.1
19.3
19
12.6
12.6
Village or Town
81.5
81.2
81.5
81.5
82.5
80.3
80.5-50
79
81
80.4-67
80
80
85
85
Private
0.1
0.5
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.5
0.5
0.9
0.1
0.3-33
0.5
0.4.
2
2
Special Schools
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100.
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
300
Prefectural
19
7
9
15
6
9
19
25
22
16
21
18
49
Private
76
93
89
79
94
89
77
75
77
81
79
81
100
100
43
77
Schls. under Other Min. 5
2
6
2
4
1
3
1
14
6
Grand Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
# See footnote Table 5. X See footnote Table 5.
- XIII -

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
Table 7 - Schools Under the Jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education
#
x
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 April 1046
30 Noverber 1046
30pril 1946
30 November 1946
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
Higher Education (Foto Kyoiku)
Colleges (Semmor Gekko)
Agriculturel and Forestry Colleges
667.
667
669
669
39
39
49
49
(No Rin Semmon Gakko)
Normel Schools (Shihan.Gakko)
Coeducational ormel Schools
587
280
867
752
29
1,051
55-1
6
62
62-1
8
71
(Dan jo Kyogeku Shihan Gakko)
Totel - Higher Education
1,254
280
1.534
1.421
200
1.720
94-1
6
101
111-1
8
120
Elementary Education (Shoto Fyoiku)
ementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
313
296
600
313
206
609
25
3
28
25
3
28
Attached to Normal Schools
Totel - Elementery Educetion
313
296
600
213
296
600
25
3
28
25
3
28
Totel -Mnistry of Education
1,567
576
2,143
1,734
595
2,329
119-1
2
129
136-1
148
These figures are not those for actuel attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
X The number of both full end part-time teechers is indiceted in this report. Where there are tro numbers entered in the same colurm,
sepereted by e hyphen, the second figure irdéetes tre number of pert-time teachers.
- XIV -

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
MIYAZAKI FREFECTURE
Table 8 - Schools Under Prefecturel Jurisdittion by Level ano Type
EROLIMET #
TEACHERS
30 April 1946
30 iNovember 1946
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
Higher Educaticn (Koto Kyoiku)
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
Colleges (Semmon Gakko)
Industrial Colleges for Males
369
360
356
356
29
29
35
(Danshi Kogyo Semmon Cakko)
Total - Higher Education
369
360
356
356
29
29
35
Secondary Education (Chutó Kyoiku)
Vocaticnel Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
Commercial Schools (Shogyo Gakko)
Commerciel Schools for Males
1,153
1,153
1,141
1,141
60
60
59
59
(Danshi Shogyo Gakko)
Commercial Schools for Females
588
588
572
572
11
7
18
13
9
22
(Joshi Shogyo Gakko)
Total - Commercial Schools
1,153
588
1.741
1,141
572
1.713
71
7
78
72
9
Industrial Schools (Kogyo Gakko)
Industriel Schools for Males
2.097
2.097
1,998
1,998
97
97
100
100
(Danshi Kogyo Gakko)
Agricultural Schools (No Gakko)
(Coeducational Agril. Schools
4,226
1,061
5,287
4.128
1,022
5.150
180
17
197
182
20
(Dan jo Kyogaku No Gakko)
Fisheries. Schools (Suisen Gakko)
87
81
81
6
6
7
Total - Vocational Schools
7.563
1.649
9,212
7,348
1.594
8,942
354
24
378
361
29
Middle Schools (Chu Gakko)
7,252
7,252
7,238
7.238
198
198
222
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko)
0,263
9,263
9,290
9,299
180
100
280
183
97
Total - Secondery Education
14,815
10,012
25,727
14,586
10.893
25.479
732
124
856
766
126
Special Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
Schools for Blind and Deaf Mute
66
51
117
67
53
120
10
10
20
11
10
(Moa Gakko)
Nursery Schools (Hoikuen)
40
56
96
40
56
96
4
3
7.
4.
Totel - Speciel Schools
106
107
213
107
109
216
14
13
27
15
Total-Frefecturel Schools
15,290
11:019
26,309
15,049
11,002
26.051
775.
137
912
816
137
# These figures are not those for actuel ettendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these detes
I The number of both full and part-tire teachers is indiceted in this repart. There there are two numbers entered in the seme coly
separeted by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the nurber of part-time teachers.
- XV -

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.97)
MTYAZAKI PREFECTURE
Teble 9 - Schools Under Municipal Jurisdiction by Level end Type
X
ENRCLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 hpril 1046
30 November 1046
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
Secondary Educetion (Chuto Kyciku)
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Vocationel Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
Cormercial Schools (Shogyo Gakko)
Commercial Schools for Ferales
.500
500
459
459
11
5
16
14
6
20
(Joshi Shogyo Gakko)
Totel - Vocational Schools
500
500
459
455
11
5
16
14
6
20
Youth Schools (Seinen Gekko)
Coeducetionel Youth Schools
1,952
1,101
3.053
1,725
1,079
2,804
47
24-1
72
55-1
24-1
81
(Dan jo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko)
Total - Secondary Education
1,952
1,601
3.553
1.725
1.538
3.263
58
29-1
88
69-1
30-1
101
Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
Elementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
16,131
15,627
31.758
16,834
16.064
32,898
395-3
414
812
435-2396
833
Total - Elementary Education
16,131
15,627
31,758
16,834
16,064
32,898
395-3
414
812
435-2
396
833
Total - Municipal Schools
18,083
17,228
95,311
18,559
17.602
36,161
453-3
443-1
900
504-3
426-1
934
# These figures are not those for ectuel attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
I The number of both full and part-time teachers is indiceted in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same column.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicetes the number of part-time teachers.
- XVI -

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.96)
MIYAZAKI FREFECTURE
Totel 10 - Schocls Under Village or Ton Jurisdiction by Level and Type
ENROLIMENT
#
TEACHERS X
30 April 1946 mjl 7C
30 November 1946
30 pril 1946
30 November 19h6
Secondary Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko)
59
59
29
59
18
10
28
17
9
Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
Youth Schools for Girls
65
65
65
65
1
1
2
2
(Joshi Seinen Gakko)
Coeducationel Youth Schools
19.030
14,815
33.815
18,225
14.329
32,554
525-26
278-22
851
565-28 295-23 913
(Den jo Fyogaku Seinen Gakko)
Totel - Youth Schools
19.030
14,880
33,910
18,225
14,304
32.619
526-26
279-22
853
567-28 296-23
Total - Secondary Education
19,030
15.479
34,509
19,225
14.93 33.
544-26
289-22
881
584-28
305-29915
Elementery Education (Shoto Kyciku)
Elementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
71.792
69,813 141,605
70,622
68,798 139.420
1,819-3
1.677:3.499 1.905-1 1.586
Total - Elementary Education
71,702
69,813
141,605
70,622
68,798
139.420
1,810-3
1,677 3,499
1.905-1 1.5863
Totalt-)Village or Town
00,822
85.292 176.114
88,847 83.71 172.
2.363-29
1,966-22
2.489-29 1.891-29
4.380
-“
# These figures are not those for actuel attendance or these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates
I The number of both full and pert-time teechers is indicated in this report. Where there ere two numbers entered in the same oolu
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicetes the nurber of part-time teachers.
- XVII-

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
AZAKI PREFECTURE
Table 1l - Schools Under Privete Jurisdiction by Level end Type
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 A0r11 1946
30 November 1946
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
Secondery Education (Chuto Vyoiku)
M
F
m
M
F
M
F
T
M
F
ational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
Industrial Schools (Kogyo Gakko)
Industrial Schools for Males
348
348
329
329
22
22
20
20
(Danshi Kogyo Gakko)
Commercial Schools (Shogyo Gakko)
Commercial Schools for Females
730
730
720
720
15
5
20
15
6
21
(Joshi Shogyo Gakko)
sal - Vocational Schools
348
730
1,078
329
720
1,049
37
5
42
35
6
41
dle Schools (Chu Gakko)
62
62
67
67
4
4
2
4
ath Schools (Seinen Gakko)
fouth Schools for Males
49
49
32
32
2
2
2
2
(Danshi Seinen Gakko)
Coeducational Youth Schools
24
17
41
21
11
32
1
1
1
1
(Danjo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko)
tal - Youth Schools
73
17
90
53
11
64
3
3
3
Total - Secondery Education
483
747
1,230
449
731
1,180
4
9
53
40
10
Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
dergartens (Yochien)
69
44
113
190
180
370
1
5
6
4
11
15
Spacial Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
cellaneous Schools (Kakushu Gakko)
Miscellaneous Schools for Males
228
228
336
336
6
6
10
10
(Danshi Kakushu Gakko)
Kiscellaneous Schools for. Females
1.374
1,374
1,420
1,420
38
29
67
49
30
79
(Joshi Kakushu Gakko)
Coeducational Miscellaneous Schools
151
142
293
145
138
283
9
6
15
11
7
18
(Danjo Fyogaku Kakushu Gakkò)
al - Miscellaneous Schools
379
1,516
1,895
481
1,558
2,039
53
35
88
70
37
107
ools for Blind and Deef Mute
16
50
35
18
53
3
4
3
a Gakko)
Totel'+ Speciel Schools
413
1,532
1.945
516
1,576
2.092
56
39
95
73
41
114
al - Privete Schools
965
2,323
3.288
1,155
2.487
3,642
101
53
154
117
62
179
These figures ere not those for ectuel ettendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
- XVIII -

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
MTYAZAKI FREFECTURE
Totel 12 - Schools Under Ministries Other Than Ministry of Education
ENROLLNENT
#
TELCHERS
30 4oril 1946
30 November 19L6
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
Secondary Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
(Chuto Fyoiku)
Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
Youth Schools for Meles
1,298
1,298
1,298
1.298
34
34
33
33
(Danshi Seinen Gakko)
Total - Secondary Educetion
1,200
1,298
1,298
1,298
34
34
33
33
Snecial Schools (Tokushu Cakko)
Juvenile Correction Schools
26
26
23
23
2
2
2
2
(Shonen Kyogoin)
Total - Special Schools
26
26
23
23
2
2
2
2
1,324
1,324
1,321
1,321
36
36
35
35
Total - Other Ministries
#These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrcllment on the school records as of these dates.
- XIX -

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER CF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INCTITUTICNS
MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
MIYAZAKI
I. MINISTRY CF EDUCATICN SCHCCLS
A. Higher Education (Koto Kyoiku)
3. Colleges (Semmon Gakko)
e) Colleges fcr Males (Danshi Semmon Gakkc) under the Centrol of Ministry of Education, Miyazeki Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. Miyazaki Norin Semmen
Funatsuka-cho,
Sept. 1924
667
667 669
669
39
39
49
49
Gakko (Miyazaki
Miyazaki City,
Agricultural and
Miyazaki Fref.
Forestry College)
Tota]
667
667 669
669
39
39
49
49
These figures ere not those for ectuel attendence on these detes, but those for cnrollment on the school records as of these detes.
x The number of both full and pert-time tenchers is indiceted in this report. There there ere tro numbers entered in the seme colum. seper
by e hyphen, the ecord figure irdicetes the number of pert-time teachers.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.94)
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
I. MINISTRY CF EDUC.TIOI. SCHCCLS
L. Higher Educeticn (Kctc Kyoiku)
7. Nermel Schcols (Shihen Gakkc)
o) Co?educational Ncrmel Schools (Den jc Kyopaku Shihen Cakko) under the Control of Ministry cf Education. Miyesaki Pref.
NAM
DDRESS
D.TE
ENROLIMI NT
TE..CHERS
FOUNDED
30 :pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 .pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
T
MI
yaseki Jeipen
Kirishima-cho,
pril 1944
126 72 198
127 68 195
10-1 2
13
15-1 3
hihan Gakko
Miyazaki City.
(syesaki Youth School
Miyazaki Pref.
hers' Norel School)
Ayazaki Shihan Gakko
Nishi-Maruyame-cho, Feb. 1885
461 208 669 625 231 856
45 4 49 47 5
(Miyazaki Norzal School)
Miyezaki City,
Miyazaki Pref.
587 280 867 752 299 1051
55-1 6 62
62-18
rot number in each columr indicates the number of full time teachere; the second number indicates half-time teachers.
omal. Poth sexes attend the same school, but do not attend the same classes.
girem ere not those fer actuel attcndence on these detes, but those for enrollmert on thc school records es of theme drtee

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.90)
ETASIKI- PREFECTORE
ROSTER OF JAPANES-DUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
I. MINISTRY CF EDC. TIC: SCHCC1S
. Higher Iducation (Koto Kyoilou)
7.Formal Schocl (Shinan Gakko)
. Blemontary Schoel (Sho Gakko) attached to Miyazaki Normal choel undr tne Control of Ministry of Education, Miyazaki Prefecture.
N.JME
.DDRESS
D:TI
LNACLIMIT
TL.CHI RG
FOUNDID
20 pr. 
30 Nov. 46
30 .pr. 46
30 ov. 46
X
T
1
F
T
L
F
T
u
F
1. Miyazaki Shihan Gakko
Mishi-Maruyamacho,
Fet. 1885
215 296 609
315 296 600
28
25 3
Fusolsu Sho Gakko
liyazaki City
(Elementary School
Miyazaci Pref.
attached to Miyazaki
Norml School)
Total
1326603132660
25 3
These figures cre not those for ectuel ettendance on these drtcs, but those for enrollment or the school records es of these 

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.93)
OTTER CF JL-LVEE EDUCATICV..I TICTITUTIONS
AREFEOTURE
II. PRIALCTURI SCHCCI
. Higher Iducetier (Kote Kyciku)
2. Collegcs (Semmon Gakko)
c).Celleger Ser Mmles (Lanshi Sermen Gekke) under the Cont ml of I refecturel Gove rniert, Miyezoki I reic cture
N
DDRLSG
D..71
INRC1L_IT
T1.CH RS
FOITDID
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
N
F
T
F
T
F
T
Miyezaki Kenritsu
Nishi-Maruyame-cho,
1eb.,1944
360
260
356
356
2
2
35
Kogyo Semmon Gakko
Miyazaki City,
(áyezški Prefecture)
Miyazaki Pref.
Industrial College)
369
369
356
29
29 35
Total
These figures cre not thos for rctur1 rttendrncc or thesc drtes, but those for enroliment on the school rrcords rs of these ddtes

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTICNS
MTYAZAKI
II. PREFECTURAL SCHOOLS
B. Seccndary Education (Chuto Kyciku)
1. Vocaticnal Schools (Jitsugyo Gekko)
a. Ccmmercial Schools (Shogyo Gakko)
1) Commercial Schcols for Males (Danshi Shogyo Gakkc) under the Control of Prefecturel Government, Miyazaki Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLILMENT#
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
T
1. Myakonojo Shogyo Gekko (Mi- Nekahara-cho, Miyakonojo June 1o04
248
248
251
251
17
17
18
18
yakonojo Commercial Schcol) City, Miyazaki Pref.
2. Miyazaki Shogyo Gakkc (Mi-
Temman-chc, Miyazeki
April 1919
170
170
172
172
17
17
13
13
yazaki Commercial School)
City, Miyazaki Pref.
3. Nobeoka Kogyo Gakko (Nobe-
Okatomi, Nobecka City.
April 1944
735
735
718
718
26
26
28
28
oka Industrial School)
Miyazaki Pref.
Total
1,153
1,153 1,141
1,141
60
60
59
59
1. Vccaticnal Schcols (Jitsugyc Gakko)
a. Commercial Schcols (Shcgyc Cekko)
2) Commercial Schcols for Females (Joshi Shogyc Gakkc) under the Control of Prefectural Government, Miyazaki Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 ▲pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
1. Miyazaki Joshi Shogyo
Wachigawara-cho, Miya-
March 1044
588
588
572
572
11
7
18
13
.9
22
Gakko (Miyazaki Girls'
zaki. City Miyazaki Pref.
Commercial School)
Total
588 588
572 572
11
13
9
# These figures are not those for actual attendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
-5-

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIQNAL LINSTITUTIONS
MIYAZAKI
II. PREFECTURAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocationel Schools (Jitsugyo Gekko)
b. Industrial Schcols (Kogyo Gekko)
1) Industrial Schools fcr Males (Danshi Kogyc Gakko) under the Control of Prefectural Government, Miyazaki Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLIMENT#
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. Miyakonojo Kogyo Gakko
Iscichi-cho, Miyakoncjo
Merch 1944
724
724
727
727
32
32
35
35
(Miyakonojo Industrial
City, Miyazaki Pref.
School)
2. Miyazaki Kogyo Gakko
Temman-cho, Miyazaki
May 1923
1,249
1,249 1,151
1,151
51
51
51
(Miyazaki Industrial
City, Miyazaki Pref.
School)
3. Nobeoka Shogyo Gakko
Ckatomi, Nobeoka City,
▲pril 1021
124
124
120
120
14
14 14
14
(ivobeoka Commercial Schl.) Miyazaki Pref.
Total
2,097
2,097 1,998
1,998
7
97
100
100
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records es of these dates.
-6-

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
MTYAZAKI FREFECTURE
RCSTER CF JAPANESE EDUGATIONAL ENSTITUTIONS
II. PREFLCTUI SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocationel Schopls (Jitsugyo Gekko)
c. Agricultural Schools (No Gakko)
3) Co-educetional Lgricultural Schoels
(Danjo Kyogaku No Gakko) under the Control of Prefectural Government, Miyazaki Pref.
NME
EDRESS
D..TE
TLACHEFS
FOUTDED
30 :pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
1. Honjo No Gakko
Honjo-cho, Higashi-
Narch 1913
430
97 527
411
96
507
23
2
25
20
2
22
(Honjo gricultural
Norokato-gun,
School)
Miyazaki Pref.
2. Miyakonojo No Gakko
Kawahigashi-che,
Jan., 1916
808
128 936
32
3
35
33
3
36
(Miyakonojo Agricultural
Miyakonojo City,
School)
Miyazeki Fref.
3. Miyazaki No Gakko
Tsunehise, Miyozcki
Feb., 1900
821
87 908
810
81 891
37
32
2
34
(Mayazaki gricultural
City, Miyezaki Fref.
School)
4. Cbi No Gakko (Cbi
gata-mura, Mirami- C et., 1887
482
120
602
475
118 593
19
2
21
19
2
21
¿griculturcl Schcol)
Naka-gun, Miyazaki Tref.
5. Takachiho No Gako
Takechiho-cho, Nishi- July 1917
484
238 722
460
226 686
28
26
4
30
(Takochiho gricultur-1
Usui-gun, Miyazaki
School)
Fref.
6. Takanabe No Gacko
Takanabe-cho, Koto-
May 1903
652 167 819
650 165 815
28
2
30. 31
3
(Takanabe griculturalSch. gun, Miyazaxi Pref.
# Theer figures ere hot those for fctu-1 atterdorce or these d tes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these detes.
 Co-educational. Eoys and girls attend the same school, but dc nt attend the same cla ses.
-7-

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.95)
N..
ED10
D..TE
INREILANT
T C.I.
:ounded
34 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30. pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
T
T
1.
F
T
7. Tomitaka No Gatke
Tomishime-cht,
Narch 1916
542
222
764
514
28
722
18
3
21
21
4
25
(Tomitako ericultural
Higashi-Usui-gun,
School)
Liyezaki lref.
Tetal
2226 1561 5287 L128 1622 5150
180 17
17
12
20
202
II. PREFECTUR.L SCFOOLS
P. Secondery Educeticn (Chutc Kyciku)
1. Vcceticnel Schcols (Jitsuyc Cakkc)
d. Fisheries Schools (Suisen Cakko) under the Control of Prefecturel Goverrment, Miyezaki Prefecture
#
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ERCLIMENT
TEACHERS
FCU.DED
30r.46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. Aburetsu Suisan Gakkc
Aburetsu-chc, Minami-
Merch 1045
87
37
ε1
81
6
6
7
7
(Aburatsu Fisheries
Neke-gun, Miyezaki Pref.
School)
Total
87
87
81
81
6
6
7
7
# These figures are not those for ectual attendence on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
-a-

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.97)
MTYAZAFI PREFECTURE
RCTER CF JNS EDUCATIOAI INITUTIC
II. PRIFICTUR.1 SCHCC13
E. Secondary Iducation (Chuto Kyoiku)
2. Middle Schools (Chu Gekko) under the Cortrol of Prefectural Cfiice, Miyazeki Irefecture
NAL
DATE
ENROLIMINT
T1.CH R
FOUTDLD
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. Kobayashi Chu Gakko
Kobayeshi-cho,
May 1921
1008
1008
995
995
28
28
33
33
(Kobayeshi Middle
Nishimoroketa-gun,
School)
Miyazaki I'ref.
2.
Miyakonojo Chu Gakko
Nakahara-cho,
Mey 1080
139
1309
1384
1384
39
39
42
42
(Miyekonojo Middle
Miyakeneje City,
School)
Miyazaki Pref.
3.
Miyazaki Chu Gekko
Jingu-cho
Jen. 1889
1400
1400
1406
1406
30
30
34
34
(Miyezeki Middle School)
Miyazaki City,
Miyazeki Fref.
4.
Nobeoka Chu Gakko
Furishiro, Notcoka
Mey 1889
1200
1200
1210
1210
30
30
33
39
(Nobeoke Middle Gchool)
City, Miyazeki Pref.
5.
Obi Chu Gakko
gate-mure,
Feb., 1921
969
969
974
974
25
25. 30
30
(Cbi Middle Scneol)
Minami-Nake-tun,
Niyazeki-Pref.
6.
Takenabe  Gakko
Takanabe-cho,
Feb., 1923
634
634
637
637
26
26
27
(Takanabe Midle School)
Koyu-gun, Miyazeki
Pref.
Thesc figures cre not thosc for cturl tterd-ncc or these artcs, but those for enrollment on the school focords os of these ante

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.94)
N.ME
DDRES
DATE
INXILLINT
T:CHI RS
FCUNDED
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
N
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
me Chu Gakko
ume Miadle School)
Tsume-cho,
Koyu-eun,
March 1923
642
642
632
632
20
20
23
23
Miyezaki Pref.
a1
7552
7252
7238
7238
198
19
222
222
-10-

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.96)
PIYAZINI REFECTURE
ROTER CF JI. AVESE EDUCATIOVAI INTITUTICVS
II. PRIF. CTURA1 SCHCC1
F. Se condery Iducation (Chuto Ky: iku)
3. Girls' High Schools (oto Je Gakke)under the Control of Trefecturel Gevernment, Miyazeki Irefecture
DITE
INRCIL.INT
71..CHL RS
NiM
1D
FCINDID
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 16
30.pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
1. Daiichi Miyezaki
Temmon-cho,
Dec. 1895
1185 1185
1727 1227
21
11
32
21
13
34
Koto Jo Gakko (The First
Miyezeki City,
Miyezaki Cirls' High Scheol)Miyezaki iref.
2. Daini Miyazaki Koto
Temman-cho,
Nay 1918
636 635
643 643
12
10
22
14
9
23
Jo Gakko (The Second
Miyazaki City,
Miyazeki Girls' High
Miy-zeki .ref.
School)
3. Fukushime Koto
Fukushim-cho,
Nerch 1923
611
611
602 602
14
10
24
14
8. 22
- Jo Gakko (Fukushime
Minami-Nakegun,
Girls' mi n School)
Miyazaki Pref.
4. Kobayashi Moto Jo Gekko
Kobayashi-cho,
.pril 1924
1132 1132
1116 111614
11
25
14
11
25
(Kobayeshi Girls' High
Nishi-mrokate-gun,
Schoo1)
Miyazaki fref.
5. Miyekonojo Koto Jo Gekko
Himegi-cho,
April 1913
1717 1717
1729 1729
35
18
53
51
(Miyakonojo Girls' High
Niyekonojo City,
School)
Miyezaki Iref.
-11-

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.95)
D..TL
LNRCLIMNT
TI..CHRO
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
N.
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Nobecks Koto Jo
(ketovi, A beoka City, July 1936
1643 1643
1649
1649
30
16
46
3114
45
Gakko (Nobeote Girls'
Miyezaki rref.
High Scheol)
Cbi Koto Jo Gacko
Obi-cho, Minami-
June 1916
800
800
788
788
16
7
23
16
8
24
(Obi Girls' High Scheol)
Nekegun, Miyezeki :ref.
Tekonabe Roto Jo Goo
Takenabe-che. Koyu-gur, Arch 1012
776 776
782
782
23
8
31
21
10
31
(Tekanabe Girle' High
Miyazaki iref.
Schrol)
Taure Koto J Gekke
Tsum-chc, Koyu-gun,
arch 1925
763 763
763 763
15
24
16
5
25
(Tsume Girls' Higa choel)
Miyazcki iref.
Total
9263 9263
562 9225
180
100
280
183
97 280
-12-

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.95)
MTYAZAKI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
II. IIICTUR 1 CHC15
C. Special Schools(Tolushu Ga'iko)
1. Schools for the Blind and Deef-Mute (Mo-a-Gakke), urder the Cortral of Trefecturel Governmert, Miyazaki Prefecture.
NNI
: LRSS
D..TE
LT
IL.CHIR
FOTDED
30 pr. 16
20 Nov. 46
30 .pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
1. Liyazaki Kenritsu
Suehiro-cho,
July 110
35
13
48
35
13
48
6
2
8
6
2
o Ge kko (Miyazaci
Miyazeki City,
Trefectural Plind
Miyazaki :ref.
School)
2. Miyazaki-Kenritsu
Miyameru-chc
Sept., 1927
31
72
4
8
12
8
19
Po Gacko (Máyazaki
Miyakenoje
refectural Deaf
City, Miyazeki iref.
School)
Total
67 53
120
10
10
20
1.1
10
*These figures rre not those for ecturl tterdence on thesc drtes, but those for enrollment on the school records os of these dntem
* Co-educational
-13-

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.90)
ROSTIR CF JAALLI IECATKI I ITTIAS
XI HREPEOTURE)
MIYAZAAI
II. : IHUI SCHC
C. Special Schrcls (Tokushu Gakko)
4. urgery Schopl (Hoikuen) under the Control of Frefectural Governzent, Niyezeki Frefecture
NADI
ADDT'S
DATI
F DID
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
20 pr. 46
30 Nov.
P
7
F
T
F
T
N
m Koto Jo Gakko
Fukushima-cho.
Fet given
96
7
4
Hoiku Jo
Minami-Nake-gun,
ry attached to
Miyazaki Fref.
im Prefectural
High School)
40 56 96
6 40 56 96 4 3 7.
figares ere not those for ceturl etterdrnce or these drtes, but those for enrollmert or the school rccords rs of these drte
-14-

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.88)
ROSTER OF JIP.NESE IDUCATIONIL INSTITUTIONS
MTYLZAXI
III. MFICIPLL SCHOOLS
B. Secongery Educatigp (Chuto Fyoiku)
1. Vosettonal Sohools (Jitsugyo Gekto)
a. Commeroial Sohools (Sbogyo Gakko)
2) Qetal Shl for Talee (Jo Sao Gako) under the Control of Mpicipal orice, 
D&TE
EDROLLVENT
FOUNDED
30 4pr.46
30 Fov. 46
304.
M
Isaiehi-cho.
pril 1944
500 500
459 459
Myakonoje City.
Myasaki Pref.
500 500
459 459 11 5
four metumt ettentesee oo these detes, but those for enrallaest

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.89)
AOTER OF I P.ESE LLUC. TICM1 PTITMICN
Y..
III. MTICIF..L -CH(1S
P. Secondery Education (Chito Ayoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gekko)
) Godeeticpal Youth Sohools (Den jo Kyogaku Seinen Gekko) under tie Control of Municipel Office, Myesald Prefe
..LDRESS
D.TE
INAILINT
TOER
FCUNDLD
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ..pr. 46
F
T
F
T
Tsunehiza, kiyazaki
July 104
143 114 257
247
6
10:
Sehoo1)
City, iyazaki Pref.
Deiman Gako
Kawahigasbi,
July 1926
778 446 1224
64.1 405 1046
17 4-1 22 
 sehcol)
Miyakonojo City,
Miyazaki Pref.
Hera-machi,
pril 
413 1°2 595
430 233 563
14 7
21
2001)
iyezesi vity,
Miyezaki Pref.
Gekdoo
(kat:m. Nobeo City pril 14
250 114 364
97 322
Jc1)
:tyazaki Pref.
Inebasaki, Nobeoka
July 1935
132
76 208
12
7: 211
2
City. Liyazaki Fref.
Dumhiteu Totoro,
Dec., 1018
236 169 405
159 146 305
Fobesica City,
Mpasski Fret.
1,952
3.053
1,079
1,201

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.84)
ROTR OF JLLIELE EDUGTIOLL TIOTITUTICIS
III. MUICIPAL SCHOLS
C. Demantery ducation (Shsto ryoiru)
2. amatary Sahga (Sho Galtro) under the Contpol of unicipel Office, Wiyezari Prefacture
Dang
EROLTT
ODED
30 4p5. 46
30 Nov. 46
304.46
F
F
Okatomi, "ohaora
orch 1934
437 295 732
426 278 704
?3
City, wiyozati pref.
"sunehiss, Viyaza'-i
Fov., 1866
6ε6 745 1431 706 752 105E
16 19
pobool)
City, "ly»zcti Pref.
Yoshiure-cho,
Noy 1696
50E 462 990
474 452 926
9 13
ol)
vlyozeri City,
viyozs-! Pref.
viyata-cho,
yov., 1E7?
756 8> 1560 849 87 1736
21
Myesot City
Miyaseki Pref.
Pabrchiho-dari.
Jen., 1920
705 704 1417 77 762 1535
y iw.
"yaskl pred.
orah 1915 726 753 1469.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.90)
ADDRESS
DAFE
CROLLET
OUDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Fov. 46
30 Apr. 46
M
F
T
4
7
T
H
Jingu-cho, Miyazoki
Noy 1929
446 山43 889
502 490 1000
23
City, viyozaki
Mayasnt1
Prer:
shool)
yasoki Sho Grkio
Yodognwa-cho,
Feb...1.9
734 659 1393
786 552 1330
15 21 36
19
Miyesaki lamantery
Wiyazabi City,
viyazski Pref.
Gabyo
Parujo-cho, "iyszrki
4pril 1c10
133 119 250 133 1>0 ?53
5 3
ε
5
emanter7 School)
City, Miyozeli Fref.
Sho Gotro
Idekitedomen,
April 1938
375 331 706
390 347 737
9 11
20
Mementary School)
Hobeoka City,
Wiyozoki Pref.
Sbo Oakko
Ichimanjo-cho,
Ang.. 1919
427 415 842
451 421 872
11 10
21
Mementory School) "iyakonojo City,
Miyazoki Dref.
"or-ito, Fobeokn City, Nov., 1003
166 15 351
163 194 357
3 5
6
asory School)
Wiyazati Pref.
Gajitcho,
sept., 174
28C 237 517
281 244 525
19
prySchool)viyaronojo City.
viyazabi Pref.
Gojitcho, yetonojo Peb., 1674
537 545 1082
635 617 1252
19 11
Sshool) City, Wivasaki Pref.
trapferring froz another acheol

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.91)
NAVE
ADDRES
DATE
DRCIDT
TACHIRS
FOUIDED
20 Fpr. 45
20 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
7
M
F
N
F
T
M
F
T
15. Ireyoshi Sho Garko
Kavahigeshi,
Oct.. 1976
900 830 1730
936 960 1706
21 16
37
(Iwayoshi Elementary
Schcol)
16. Keminagee Sho G=kko
Feringgee-ch.
pril 1972
216 180 404 4 100 414
.5 13
(Keminageo Elerertory
Miyokonojo City.
Sch. c]
Liyez ki fref.
17. Kavrshime Sho Ce'ko
Kaveshire. 'cbeoke
Cct.. 197
197 177 354 11 172 53
(Kavashime Ilemer t:ry
City. liyezeki Fref.
Schcol)
1º. Kudcmi Sho Cakko
Cu jibun. . iy zi
ec., 15F
207 100 406 215 200 115
(Kuaomi ilemertery
Gity. Niyezi ref.
School)
10.Kuroire Shc Gekko
Lori, Mebeoke City.
2ay 198
106 02 100 102 0 102
(Kurcive Ilemertary
livezeki -ref.
chcol)
20. Leido Sho (akko
Fimeri-cho. liyekcrcjo pril 1972
506 501 1197 160 621 1201
28
(meido Ilemertery Schocl) City. Livezeki cref.
21. Feisui Sho Garko
Taire, Tcbeoke ity. April lc
123 126 240 125 127 247
(eisui Ilementery Scrcol) :iyez vi ref.
22. Nina to Sho Cerko
Iereshire. 'obeoks City.
120 122 242 123 125 246
(lineto Elerentay chcol) iyazeki -ref.
ril 187
23. Ainemi Sho Cakko
Fimegi-cho, liyakenojo Narch 1031
600 620 1239 626 677 1903
17 11
28
(Minemi lementer: Schcol) city. li eze'i -ref.
-19-

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.94)
D:TI
N'ALE
ADDRICS
FROINPT
TEACHERO
FOUDED
20 Apr. 16
30 ov. 46
0 Apr. 46
30 7ov. 46
!"
F
T
F
F
T
M
F
T
F
F
T
24. Minami Sho Cakko
Tsuredomi, 'cbeoke
Jen.1022
113
400
921
431
112
944
6
14
20
7
13
20
(Minami Elemertery School) City, Niyezeki Fref.
A
25. Lochio Sho Gakko
Yokcichi. Miyakcrcjo
l'ov.. 1976
320
300
320 316 545
11
6
17
11
6
17
(Mochic Elemertery School) City, Miyeze'i rref.
26. iyakonojo Sho Gakko
Himegi-cho Niyekorojo
Farch 103]
383 370 753
16
11
27
19
26
(Miyskenojo Ilementery
City, Miyezeki Pref.
School)
27. Niyezeki Sho Grkko
hare-m chi. Niyezeki
April 1023
548 485 103 547 516 1063
21-2 16
40 25-2 15
42
(Fiyazski Flementery School) City, Miyezeki Fref.
29. Nobeokr Sho (εko
Ckatori, Icbeoke City. lot given.
173 17 216
212
102 404
3
5
(Nobeoke Elemertery Schcol)Miyazeki Pref.
20. Cketomi Sho Cakko
Okatomi. Nobeoke City, rch 10
021 14 1935
1027 007 2034
12
23
30
(Ovetomi lerentery chocl)Niyezaki Fref.
30. Okimizu Sho Gekko
Tekegi. Miykenoje
April 1001
735
63 1309 741 671 1412
21
14
35
23
12
35
(Orimizu Elemertary
City, Miy=zaki -ref.
School)
31. Omiy= Sho Cakko
Shimokitaka te-cho,
Sept.. 192
542 526 1068
570 546 1116
12
18
20
20
(Omiya Elementrry School)
Miyazeki City,
Miyezski fref.
"Decrease in enrollment due to some studerts transferrirg to erother school.
-20 -

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.94)
FLIE
ADDRESS
DATE
DRCLINET
TACHIRS
FOURNDID
30 pr. L6
30 1ov. 46
30 Apr. 46
20 Nov: 46
N
了
T
I'
F
T
I
F
T
N
F
T
32. Tomi Sho Gakko
Inabazeki Nobeoks
Ferch 101
765 675 1440
75
661
1306
12
21
23
14
10
33
(Tomi Elementery School)
ity, Viyazaki fref.
3?. Totoro Sho Gelko
Fushitsu, Nobeoka City.
ov., 197
723 764 1497
777
760
1492
15
15
30
17
15
32
(Totoro Ilementery School)Miyezeki Fref.
34. Tsunedomi Sho Gerko
Tsunedomi, lobeck
Vay 1900
615 616 1231
12
22
34
14
20
34
(Tsunedomi Ilementery
City, Fiyezaki Pref.
School)
5. Urada Shr Gakko
Oketomi, Nobeckr City,
Cct., 1~85
25
2
50
23
27
50
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Urade Elementery
Miyazaki Fref.
School)
Totel
16,131
131,758
15,064
395-3
812
396
15,627
16,894
32,808
414
435-2
833
• The figures for this institutier include these fer one brench scheel under the saue edgiristretion.
-21-

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.93)
RCTIR CF JIPANTE EDUCATICYI P'STITUTTCNS
MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
IMYAG/YI
IV. VIIL CE CR TOVN SCHCCLS
. econdery Eucetion (Chu to Kyoiru)
3. Girls' High Schools (Kote Je Cakko) under the Cortrol of Villege or Torn Office. Miyr zeki -refecture.
*
N.L.E
/DDRLCD
L..TT
PRCITNT
TE/CHERS
FOU'DID
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 16
3.16
30 cv. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
1. Take jo Kc to Jo Gerko
Teke jo-cho. Kite-
pril 2
400
L00
376 376
12
4
16
11
15
(Take jo Girls' High Schecl)
Foroke te-gun
liyazaki Fref.
2. Takaoka Koto Jo Gavo
Tekack--cho, Higashi- June 1020
100 100
193
193
12
5
11
(Takeoke Girls' High School)
Iarokete-gun.
Miyrzeki rref.
motal
599
599
559 559
18
10
28
17
0
26
* These figures cre not those for nctucl atterdance on these drtes, but those for errollmert or the schocl records es of these dates.
-22-

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.91)
ROLTER OF JAPAEST EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS.
MIYAZAFI PREFECTURE
ITYAZII
IV. VIILACE CR TC N SCECCIS
A. Secondery Educeticn (Chutc Kyciku)
4. Ycuth Schocls (Seinen Gakkc)
b) Youth Schools for Girls (Joshi Seinen Gakko) under the Control of Villege or Ton Cffice, Miyazaki frefecture
NAME
ADIRESS
DATY
FROIDPOT
TLACHIRS
FOUNDD
20A2r. 46-
30 ov. 16
30 Apr. 46
30 NOT: 46
M
F T
F
T
1. Kamureno Joshi Seinen Gakko
Tanc-mure, Miyezeki- March 1o23
65 65
65 65
(Kamurano Girls' Youth School) gun, Niyazeki Pref.
Total
65 65
65 65
These figures ere not those for ectual attendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school recards es of these dates.
-23-

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.95)
ROSTER CF J. PTESE EDUCATICN I'STITUTJC'S
MILAZAKI PREFECTURE
MTY. Z.FJ
IV. VJIL GF CR TCI SCHOOLS
A. Secondery Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
c) Co-educctional Youth Schools (Danjo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko) under the Control of Village or Town Office, Miyazaki Prefecture
NME
∴DDRECS
D..TE
ERCIIMENT
TI. CHIRS
FOUND D
30.pr.46
30 1ov. 46
30:pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
1. buratsu Seinen Gakko
burs tsu-cho,
pril 1023
100151
222
158
7
5
12
7
5
12
(-burstsu Youth School)
Minami-Nake-gun,
Miyazeki Pref.
2. gate Seinen Gakko
-gete-mura, Minami-
pril 1019
210
166 76
220 166 396
13
5
19
13
5
19
(gate Youth School)
Nake-gun.
Miyazeki Fref.
3.oshime Seinen Gakko
oshime-mure,
Larch 104.
175 157 342
164 127 201
3
3
6
3
7
(oshime Yauth Schcol)
Miyazeki-gun.
Miyezeki fref.
4. -ya Seinen .Gekko
yecho, Higashi-Morokste- May 1o06
210
172
301
220 174 304
7
2
3
12
(-ye Youth. School)
gun, Mivezeri Pref.
Defichiudo. Seinen Gelko
Udo-mure. Miremi-rake- Mey 1023
47
52
c9
49
55
103
山
2
6
(The First Udo Youth
gun, Niyrzaki fref.
School)
These figures ere not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these datea
-24-

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
NAVE
ADDRLSS
LATI
INROLIMINT
TEACHERS
FCI DID
30 Apr. 16
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
!!
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
6. Daini Udo Seinen Gako
Udo-mur, Minand-
Mny 1923
37
41
78
42
46
88
4
2
6
4
(The Secord Udo Youth Jcheel) Nako-un,
Miy-zaki Pref.
7. Fukushime Seinen G-icko
Fukushir-cho, Pino-i-
198
127
325
224
161
385
4
2
6
6
3
9
(Fukushim Youth chool)
Tak -pun,
Gept., 1919
iyozaki Pref.
8. Hirose Seinen Goto
Hirese-rur,
Jan., 1919
231
157
38
110
159
269
5
4
9
6
5
11
(Hirose Youth 3cheol)
iyz-ki-gun,
Miyezaki Pref.
9. Honjo Seinen Ck
Honjo-cho. Higshi- pril 1918
343
200
543
197
151
348
7
4
11
8
4
12
(Honjo Youth School)
Forok to-gun,
Miyazaki Pref
10. Honjo Seinen Gakko
Honjo-rur, Min-i-Fk--gun,
202
163
365
175
154
329
6
2
8
7
2
(Honjo Youth School)
iyezaki Pref.
Nov., 1916
11. Hosod- Seinen Grcko
Hosodn-cho,
pril 1923
160
116
276
160
113
273
11
3
14
10
3
13
(Hosoda Youth School)
winoxi-Noko-eun.
Miyaz-ki Pref.
12. Ichiki Seiren Gattto(Ichiki
Ichiki-ur,
July 1918
130
81
211
136
83
219
4
2
6
2
Youth Schoel)
Minci-noko-eun.
Miyazaki Fref
13. Iin' Jeinen G- ko
Iinc-cho, Nishi-
cct., 1906
484
474
958
486
401
887
6
5
11
8
(Iine Youth Scheel)
Norok-to-gun,
Miyazaki Fref.
Students who did net -ttend sche:1 regularl mere dropped fro. the enrollrent.
- 25-

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.93)
N..止
D.TI
Poll.1M
T1.CH R
HOUTLLD
30 rr. 1.6
30.ov. 46
30
pr. 46
30 NOT. 46
ià
T
1.
j.
T
T
14. Ikime einen Gcsc
Ikine-mure, Miyaz ki-
Morch 1907
201
17
371
185
222
4.7
6
10
6
4
10
(Ikine Youth Schrel)
gun, Miy-zki Iref.
15. Iwnigavn Seinen G. cke
Iwoigore-uro, Nishi-
July 1933
14
151
294
144
147
21
6
3
9
6
3
(Iweigarn Youth Scheel)
Usu'ti-gun, Miy-z-ki
Pref.
16. Ireato beiren Grtke
Iroto-mur, Lishi-
y 1906
195
180
381
223
21L
437
6-2
2-1
11
4-2
1-1
8
(Iarto Youth Sch:ol)
"su di-gun, Piyaz ki
Fref.
17. Iwawaki stinen Gakke
Iaraki-ur.
pril 122
153
125
27
150
12
273
5
2
7
5
2
7
(Iwaraki Youth Scheel)
Higashi-"suki-gun,
Miy yti Pref.
18. Kedogoze beinen Gokke
Hoog-chc, Hiroshi
cct., 118
16
234
55
315
246
561
4
4
8
5
9
(Kedogawe Youta encel)
Usuki-gun, Tiyaz-i
Pref.
19. kuto einen Gcko
kuto-son,
Lby 1923
316 159 475
304
168
472
5
13
8
5
13
(Sokuto. Youth che1)
Mishi- oroketo-gun,
iyzki Prf.
20. ihokitinen G
ih-kito-sur.
pril 1922
173
189 362
153
118
301
6-2 3-2 13
8-2
4-2
16
(Kamiho ito Youth chool)
Royu-gun, riyazki
Pref.
21. Kerino Seinen Gakko
aminc-cur, Nishi-
Nay 1906
98 145
243
96
128
224
4
2
6
5
3
8
(Kamine Youth chool)
Usuki-gun, Miy-zaki
Fref.
22. Koweninnmi Nogei Seinen
Kaworinami-rure,
pril 1910
210
131 341
194
10-1 4
15
10-1 4
15
Gakko (Koarinai
K~yu-gun,
*The figures for this institution include those for tmo branch schools under the same
gricultum1 Technelogic-1
Niyazaki Pref.
Youth School)
dsinistrtion.
-26

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.93)
N
.DD1.33
D.71
INR 11 INT
TI. CH S
FOUTDID
30 pr. £6
3) Nov. 46
30 r. 46
30 Nev. 16
à
F
7
T
F
F
T
F
T
23. Kibana Seinen Gacke
itana-mure,
June 1906
163
11€
273
169
103
272
4
3
7
5
3
8
(Xibana Youth Jchrel)
viyazaki-un,
iyezaki ref.
24. Kijo einen Gacko
ij: -ura, oyu-eun,
Cct., 1℃1
110
146 256
120
126
21.6
6-2 3-1 12
7-2 3-1 13
(ijo Youth ~chcol)
iyazaki ref.
25. Kitagawe Jeinen Gakko
itagara-mura, Higashi- ray 1 23
193
158
351
11
158
34.9
5-5 2-3 15
5-4 2-4 15
(.itegana Youta Schor1)
Usu i-cun,
iyazaki fref.
26. Miteg Jeiner Gak.o
Kitago-mre, Minati-
pril 123
30L
252 556 28
255 543
6
3
9
6
4
10
(Kiteso Youta Scneel)
Naka-eun,
Miyazaki Fref.
27. Kitego eiren Gakko
Kitare-aure, Higashi
Jan., 1
112
150
22
17 155
281
5
4
10
4-2 3-1
10
(Mitege Youth Lcheel)
Usuki-gun,
Niyazeki Fref.
28. Kitaketa Jeiren Ga ko
Mita ate- "ra, igashi
(ct., 1016
300
281
581
25º
252 521
4
2
6
6
3
9.
(Kitakote Youth chool)
Usuki-gun,
iyez-ki Pref.
20. Kita tata eiren Galk
itakata-mure,
Dec., 1010
1.?
252
200
155
355
5
3
ε
5
3
8
(Aitaketa outh chool)
inasi-Nake-gun,
Fiyazaki Fref.
30. itaura einer Gao
Kitaura-rur, digashi-
June 120
177 234
1:11
112 165 207
2-2
7
2-2
3
7
(Kitaure Youta choel)
Usuki-u
iyezaki Fref
 The figures for this institution include those fer ore br nch school under the sare administration.
 The figures for this institution irclude those fcr four brench schcol urder the sore administretier.
-27-

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.91)
Nn
DDR
DaTI
5E.CR0
x
HOUNDLD
30 pr. 16
30 Fov. 16
30 pr. 16
30 Nov. 46
1
1
T
i
2
T
F
T
M
F
T
31. Kiwaki einen Gakke
ki aki-mra, Higasni-
Nov., 1918
153
101
254
116
176
5
3
8
5
3
8
(.iwa..i Yeuth choel)
Lorokata-gun.
Nijaza i iref.
32. niystake Seinen Gakke
y; texe-sure,
pril 192
292 298 470
10
10
(Kiyotake Youta schoel)
Miyazaki-gun,
iyezaki Iret.
33. Kobayeshi Jeinen Gakko
Koteyeshi-mecni,
Ferch 1912
1151 167 1621 1111 123 1554
12-7 5-10 34
16-7 5-7 35
(Kobeyashi Youth .chool)
Fishi-loroketa-sun,
Miyezaki Pref.
34. Kuracka Seiren Gatke
Kuraoka-ure, igashi- June 135
118
102
120
222
2
5
2
7
(reoke Youth Jehr:1)
Porokate-gun, .i eseti
Fref.
35. Huraote Seinen Ces
Kuracka-mure, Yishi-
1006
100
105
2
5
4
2
6
(Kurecke Youtn cheel)
"suki-gun,
iyeze ti Fref.
36. weseki inen Seke
hesaci-sure. Misni-
pril 1016
215 264 579 526 223 579
4
10
6
10
(sesaki Youth Scasel)
rorokat-sur,  l azed
Tref.
7. Mireta einn Gako
simete- ure, ite-
 1008
110
11.5
575
239 139 478
12
?
15
11
14
(Mimata Youth chool)
merokata-eur,
Mi azeki ref.
38. Mimizu Jeinen Gakko
Mimizu-cnc, Koyu-gun, pril 1918
83
69 152
86
69 155
3
2
5
6
2
8
(Mimizu Youtn chool)
Miyezeki Pref.
• Decrease in enrollrent due te students leeving scnool to work.
 The figures for this institution include those fer one brench school under the seme administration.
x The first number in each colurm indicetes the number cf full tire teschers; the seccnd number irdicstes helf-time terchers.
-28-

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.96)
NANE
DDRESS
D. TI
ENF1L.IT
TL.CHERS
FOUNDID
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
Cpr. 46
30 lov. 46
P
T
M
F
T
b
F
99. Minamikata Deinen Geke
Minamikata-mure, Usuki-gun
239
162
401
205
247
452
4
3
7
5
4
(Minamikate Youth School) Miyazeki Pref.
pril 1998
40. Minamiurs einen Gekko
Minamiura-mure, Higashi-
172
138
310
156
139
295
5
2
7
5
3
(Minamiure Youth School)
Usuki-gun,
pril 1935
Miyazai ref.
41. Mino Lcrin einen Gak
ino-mra, noyu-
.pril 1921
225
149
371
215
144
359
7
4
11
7
(sino agricultural and
gun, Miyazaki
Porestry Ycuth -chocl)
Pref.
42. Morotsuke Seinen Gakke
aorotsuks-mura,
4pril 1923
153
13
346
158
213
371
3
2
5
3
2
(worotsuke Youth Schor1)
hiehi-Ueuxi-gun,
Miyazaki Fref.
43. Mukese Jeiner Gakko
Kukasa-mure, Higeshi-
June 1935
107
c6
203
86
73
159
4
2
6
2
(Sulkese Youth School)
Morokata-gun,
Miyazeki Pref.
44. Nake Seinen Gekko
Neke-mure, Miyezeki-gun, March 1919
168
116
284
164
110
274.
5
5
10
5
5
(Nake Youth School)
Miyezeki Fref.
45. Nakego Seinen Gakko
Nakengo-son, Kita-
pril 1935
357
689
366
400
766
8
4
12
10
5
(Fakango Youth cheol)
Noroketa-gun,
Miyezoki Pref.
46. Naneori Geiren Gekko
Nansori-mure,
pril 110
151
155 306
150
159
39
7
3 10
9
(Namcri Youth cheol)
Nishi-Usuki-gun.
Miyazeki Prei.
47. Nengo Seinen Ga.dko
Nengo-cho, Linemi-ake- Cept., 1922
332 -14E
480
311
139 453
6
(Nengo Youth School)
gun, iyazaki Pref.
The figures ftr this instituticn include these for one brench schools under the same edministration.
The figures for this institution include those for tvo branch schocls under the same administration.
-29-

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.92)
NME
DIHE9S
DT
HR01LNT
IOUNLED
E0 ∴pr. 46
30 Fov. 46
r pr. 1.6
30 Nov. 46
T
F
T
j
F
T
M
F
48. Nengo Beinen Gacto
Fango-son, Higeshi-
pril 1995
17
152
25
11.]
15]
302
5
3
8
5
3
8
(Nango Youth School)
'euki-gun, Miazaki
Pref.
49. Nishidechi Deinen Gemo ishidacli-scn, ita- pril 15
235
252487
5
(1)
8
5.
3
C
(Nishidachi Youth caos) Mroket-gun,
iyaza i rei.
50. Nisni-ere veinen Gakke
Fishi-sere-muce.
July 1929
175
171
126
207
6
2
8
6
2
8
(Nishi-Mere Youth -choel) Koyu-eun.
Miyazexi Pref.
51. Nitta Leiien Cako
Nita-, -un,
pril 1911
117
133
250
J01
131
232
5
2
7
7
3
10
(Nitta Youth -cheel)
Miyez:ki Pre1.
52. Nejiri Jeinen Gasko
cjiri-cor
pril 1928
388 316 734
386
330
716
8-1
13
8-1
13
(Nejiri Youth -chool)
Nishi-marok-ta-eun,
Niyazeki rf.
53. Cbi Seinen Galtke
Cbi-cho, Minemi-rakegun,
128
123
251
117
102
21
9
Li-1 11
4-114
(Cbi Youth chool)
Niyazeti Prei.
June 1906
54. Cteuke Jeinen Getso
Ctsuke-mura, Minemi-Nek-gun,
200
244
414
208
256
454
4
4
8
5
(Ctau'a Youth Jcherl)
Miyazski ref.
Jure 1918
55. Cyae Leinen Gekk
Higeshi-era-cure,
June 1935
58
73
131
51
64
115
4
2
6
4
2
(Cyee Youth Icheel)
Koyu-fur, Fivezeki
Pref.
The figures for this institutior include those for ore brench school under the saeme edministretion.
30-

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.93)
N N
DRE.
D.J1
IN C1LEINT
T.. CHER
FUNLTE
C
pr. 16
30 NoT. 46
30
pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
N
F
T
iv.
F
7
F
T
56. Sadchare einen Gakke
Gadchere-chc, Niyazaki-gun
104
61
165
57
43
100
5
3
8
4
2
6
(Sadohare Youth -chos1)
Miyezeki Prei.
cot., 1918
57. Saigo Seinen Gakke
Jaigo-son, Higashi-
-pril 1923
230
295
525
182
243
425
7-1 3-1 12
(Saito Youth chool)
Usuki-eun,
Niyazaki Pref.
58. aketani Jeinen Gek
Lakatani-mura,
bay 1921
149
8
247
346
89
25
5
2
8
5
2
(Jakateni Youth Schoel)
Vinasi-Lake-eun,
Miyeze i Fref.
59. Sangasuo Seinen Sacto
engesno-mre, Mieli-
Jure 1026
186
11.7
333
13
11.7
330
5
3
8
5
3
8
(Sange sho Youth Seaoel)
Lsui-gur, Riyazaki
Tref.
60. Ganzei Deinen Galkke
anz-i-mura, oyu-un
Dec., 1'06
205
121
23
200
121
321
6
1
J.C
5
4
10
(Serzai Youth School)
Xiyazaki Pref.
61. Shiibe Seinen Gakko
Shiiba-mura, Fishi-"suki-
208
257
465
12
2
L2
4
1
5
4
3
(Shiibe Youth chrol)
gun Miyezaki Fref.
July 1935
62. Jhiromi Jeinen Gakke
Higashi-rera-mura,
June 1931
75
6L:
139
69
52
122
3
2
5
4
2
(hiromi Youth Scheol)
Koyu-gun.
Miyezoki Fref.
63. Shivachi Seinen Gacke
ni echi-mure.
u€., 1006
02
108
310
255 123
378
8
2
10
9
(Shi"echi Youth -chool)
Kita-Norokete-gur,
Miyazexi Frei.
64. honei einen Gacke
honei-cac, Mita-
Dec., 1906
323
199
522
355 196
551
10
2
12
11
(Chonai Youth ~chool)
Lerokate-gur,
Miyazaki Prei.
• Decrease in enrollment due to graduetion.
-31-

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.94)
30 pr. 16
30 Nov. 16
30 pr. 46
30 Nov 1.6
2.
7
F
T
M
F
T
16
F
T
65. Suki Seinen Gacko
Juki-muia, Nisni-
Dec., 1957
111
140
284
136
1£2
258
4-2
2-1
9
5-2 2-1
10
(Suki Youth ~chool)
roketa-gun,
Hiyazaki Fref.
66. Sumiyoshi einen Ga ko Sumiyoshi-ure,
"pril 1995
212 144 336
4
8
(umiyoshi Yeuth -chcol) Miyezesi-gun,
iyezeki Fref.
67. Tabaru iner Gak
Teberu-ure, Pi hi- april 1917
130 10 269
21.3
5
3
8
5
3
8
(Tabary Youth caol)
Usuki-eun,
iyave ti Pref.
68. Takachiho beinen Gokke
Tekachiho-cno, Lishi- -ept., 1906
217
240
457
208 252 470
8
2
12
3.
12
(Takecniho Youth chcol) "suki-gur,
iyezaki ref.
69. Tekeharu beinen Gakko
Tekharu-che,
«pril 1 16
242
252 495
235 302 637
5
8
4
10. 14
(Takeharu Youth ~caool)
Fishi-rorokata-gun,
Miyazaki Fref.
70. Takajo ~eine Gakk:
Takejo-cho, Kita-
arc.. 12
437 316 753
187 297 771
11
5
16
11
16
(Takajo Youth casol)
soroketa-gun,
Miyazeki Fref.
71. Tekanabe ~eiten Gake
Takanete-cno, Koyu-gur, Jan., 11
73
153
73
67 140.
13
12
(Takanabe cuth Sencol)
Miyazaki Pref.
#
72. Takeoks ~einén Gekke
Taksoke-cno, Higasni-
Lec., 1918
279
241
210
451
12
7
19
11
7
18
(Takoka Youth ~cheel)
Norr kata-gur,
iyazaki Fref.
• The figures for tais institution include taose fer one branch schoel un er the same administration.
 Increase due to demobilized scldiers ertering scheel.
# The figures fer this institution include those for tvo brench schcol under the seme edministration.
-32-

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.91)
N.IE
DDRE
D. TE
DROII T
TE CHERS
FOIDED
30-pr. 46
30 ov. 46
30 --pr. 46
20 1ov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
F
T
M
F
T
73. Trkazrki Seinen Gakko
Trkrzcki-cho
Lov., 1930
682
206
107
620
315
065
4
12
6
14
(Trkrz-ki Youth Schcol)
Kit--Morok-tr-gun,
l'iyrzcki rref.
74. Tene Seinen Grkko
Tano-murs, Miyezeki-
pril 16
724
17℃
413
19
131 220
6
2
0
6
3
9
(Tenc Youth School)
gun, Mivazaki Fref.
75. Togo Seiner Garke #
Togo-sor, Higrshi-
pril 1920
282
220
613
205
374 621
13-1 10-1 25
14-2 「-3
27
(Togo Youth chool)
Usuki-gun. Miyaz-ki
Prcf.
76. Togo Seinen Grkko
Topo-rur, Minari-
pril 19
117
112
93 195
7
C
7
?
9
(Tcgo Youth Schcol)
lake-run, Iivozrki
Pref.
77. Toi Seinen Cerko
Toi-muro, Fire-i-1cke- pril 1025
31.]
06 272
8
5
2
7
(Toi Youth school)
pun, Yiy zrki fr f.
7P. Tomishim riner Carko
Tomishim -cho.
Jen., 1006
75
279
54
205 662
11
6-1
5-1 17
(Torishims Youth Schcol)
Pigr shi-Usuki-mun.
Niyezsvi Pref.
79. Tonds Seiren Cakko
Tordr-rure, Yoyu-gur.  0
15
50
158
18 206
5
3
5
3
(Tends Youth School)
Niyazeki Pref.
sn. Tonokori Seiren Grkko
Tonokori. Foyu-ur.
Set., 101
f
316 155
129 23
7
11 4
4
(Terokori Youth School)
Miyezrki Fref.
81. Tsume Seinen Ce'o
Tsurs-mchi, Foyu-gun, Dec., 101
17
100
278 160
100 260
6
4
10
(Tsume Youth School)
Miyrzoki Pref.
P2. Tsuro Seinen Gekko
Tsurc•cho. Foyu-gun. pril 1025
153
51
204 153
2 35
5
3
11
(Tsurc Youth Schoel)
Viyrzki Pref.
# The figires for this institutiom include those for tc brerch schccl urder the seme administretion.
* The figures for this irstitution include those fer ore br-nch schcol under tre srme edministretion.
- 33 -

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.93)
F.NE
. DDRE
D TT
EROLLFT
TE CHERO
FOURDED
20
pr. 16
3C lov. 46
3c . pr. 4
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
P3. Uryuno Seincn Grkko
Uryurc-mur.
pril 1012
127
71
100
120
75
213
5
2
7
5
2
7
(Uryuno Youth School)
Miy zki-run,
Miyozeki Fref.
94. Yemede Seinen Gr-ko
Y-mrd -mura. Wits-
Gept.. 106
450 167 617 456 171 627
6
2
9
3
12
(Yomar Youth Gchocl)
Morokrtr-gur.
liyrzeki rref.
85. Yrmrrokuchi Seinen Gerko Yemnokuchi-sor.
(Yamnckuchi Youth School) Kitr-loroketr-gun.
Miyezki Pref.
pril 1039
743
160 112
li
1
5
7
3
10
86. Ystsushiro einen Grkke
Ytsushiro-mure.
Nov., 101
257 273 530
187 250 1.46
7
3
10
7
3
10
(Yetsushiro Youth Schcol)
Fignshi-Morokots-gur.
Miyezaki ref.
97. Yohers Seinen Gr'-kc
Yohoro-murc, Ninemi-
Jure 122
95
52 197
2
2
5
4
2
6
(Yohere Youth Schocl)
Neke-pun,
Miyezski Pref.
Tctr1
15.030
19,225
525-26
951
911
14,915
14.32
.278-22
565-28
33.845
32.554
295-23
-34-

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.92)
ROSTR CF J PANE3E IUC: TION P'STITUTICNS
MIYAZAKI FREFECTURE
YTY.ZT
IV. VILL. CI CR TC N SCHCOIS
P. Elementery Educeticn (Shetc Kycilu)
1. Elementary Schcols (She Gakke) under the Contrcl of Villege or Torn Cffice. Miyazaki Frefecture
N.ML
DIRISS
DATE
EROLLIENT
TEACHERS
FUDED
30 .pr. 146
30 Nev. 46
30pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F.
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. buratsu (o
ureteu-cto Linami. Nov., 1975
50 P00
174
P67 860
1727
10
10
38
21
10
40
(bure tsu  Yementerr
Nake-sun, Miyazaki
School
Pref.
2. gata Srr Co
rete-mure. inemi
2r12 1500 762 650 1112 780 654
14:34
10.. 0
2F
1
(gete Llementery Soroc))
Feke-gur. Niyezki Fref.
. cshime. She Calko
oshime-mure,
July 1874
234
250
603 353 374
727
11
18
11
7
(oshime Elementery
li ezoki-cun,
School).
Miyezri Pref.
4. reteni Shc Carko
Norotsuke-son,
Sept.. 1900 107 7 10L
101
187
1
1.
4
3
(rateni. 1emertery chocl) Nishi-Usuki-ur.
Miyezaki rref.
5. drieke Sho Cavve
Fukushime-cho. Tinemi- June 1973
308
350 65
310 361 .690
6
14
6
9.
14
(riake Eiemer tery School)
Nake-gun, liyezeki
Pref.
6. rimizu Sho Gave
Take jo-me chi,
Cct., 175
402 427 010. 491 422
03
12
8
20
14
22
(rimizu, Elementery chcol) Kite-Morokata-
gun, liyazeke
Pref.
* These figures ere not those for actuel etterdence on these detes, but those for enrollmert or the schcol records es of these dates
-35-

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
NAME
∴DDRESS
D TF
FROILMTNT
TE.CHERS
FOUNDD
30 1.pr. 46
30 Nor. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nor. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
7. Lye Sho Gekko
Aye-cho, Higrshi-
Mey 1fε
770
720
1490
742
671
1413
17
14
31
18
13
31
(Lyr Elenertery
Horoks ta-gun, Miyozoki
School)
Pref.
ε. Deiich Hon jo Sho Gckko
Hon jo-cho, Higshi-
Feb., 1974
747 770 1527 743
779 1522
17
15
32
20
13
33
(Daiich Honjo Elemertary
Morokate-gun.
School)
Miyazoki Pref.
9. Deiichi Kitge Sho
Kitayo-son, Minami-
4pril 1008
318
296
614
308
292
600
7
15
9
6
15
Gekko (Daiichi Kitege
Noke-gun
Elementery School)
Miyazeki Pref.
10. Deiichi Sho Gekko
Kiteketr-mure,
Ferch 1904
372 953
725 381 341
722
9
i0
19
10
9
19
(Daiichi Elementory
Miremi-Nake-Fun.
School)
Miyezaki Pref.
11 Deiichi Udo Sho Gekko
Udo-sor. Minami-
Jure 176
95
100
105
96
197
5
1
6
5
1
(Daiichi Udo Elementery
Neke-gun.
School)
Miyezrki Fref.
12.Deini Hon jo Sho Gekko
Hon jo-cho, Higashi-
June 1012
331
313
644 328 316
644
10
6
16
10
6
16
(Deini Honjo Elementery
Morokota-eun.
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
13.Deiri Kitego Sho Gekko
Kitego-son, Minemi-
4pril 1001
268
247
515
250
242
492
6
5
11
6
6
12
(Deini Kitego Elementery Naka-gun,
School)
Miyezaki Pref.
14.Deini Kitekate Sho Gekko Kitakets-mure.
Oct., 1874
116
128
244
120
128
248
3
3
4
7
(Daini Kitakats
Minemi-Neke-gun,
Elementery School)
Miyazeki Pref.
* The figures for this irstituticn ircludc those for ore brerch school under the seme administretior.
-36-

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.96)
N.ME
DDRESS
DATE
ENROLINFT
TE.CHERS
FOUNDID
30 4pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
I
F
T
M
F
T
15. Deini Kiteurr Sho Gekko
Fitaure-son, Higrshi- Ihrch 192o
132 113
245
131
111
242
4
5
9
9
5
8
(Deini Kiteure Elerntary
Usaki-gun, Niyazcki
School)
Pref.
16. Dairi Obi Sho Gakko
Obi-chc, Miniri Nokn- Oct., 1000
117 126
243
120
126
216
6
2
6
2
8
(Daini Obi Elemertory
gun, Miy zcki Pref.
School)
17. Deini Udo Sho Gakko
Udo-son, Mircmi Neke- July 1016
108 124
232
109
120
237
4
3
7
4
3
7
(Daini Udo Elementory
Fun. Miyrzeki Pref.
School)
18. Daisan Kitago Sho
Hokugo-sor, Nironi-
Jrn., 1974
156 143
209
157
142
299
5
3
ε
5
3
8
Gekko (Deisen Fitrgo
Nekr-gur.
Elemertrry School)
Miyezaki fref.
19. Daisen Kitekete Sho Gekko Kiteketr-rure, inrmi-4pril 1873
7h
152
2
2
4
2
2
4.
(Deisen Kiteketr Elementery Neke-cur, Miyezrki
School)
Pref.
20. Daiser Udo Sho Gakko
Udo-son, Minami-Tske- June 1876
93
73
166
93
70 163
3
2
5
3
2
5
(Deiser Udo Elemcrtery
gun. Miyozeki Prcf.
School)
21. Deishi Kitego Sho Gekko Kitego-sor, Minmi-
4pril 1875
104 114
218
116
221
3
3
6
3
3
6
(Deishi Kitego Elemertrry Nake-gun, Miy znki
School)
Prcf.
22. Ehira Sho Gekko
Tekrzrki-cho. Kite-
Lug.. 173
416 376
792
406 357 763
0
11
20
10
9
19
(Ehire Elemertery
Noroketo-gun.
School)
Miyrzeki Pref.
* The figures for this instituticn irclude those for one brench school under the mare rdministretion.
-37-

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.90)
N..ME
DDRISS
D.TU
FROLNTT
TE CHIRO
FCUNDID
36. pr. 46
30 Frv. L6
30 4pr. 1.6
3r Ncv. 46
i
F
T
I'
F
T
À
F
T
F
T
23. Fudoji Sho Cekko
Tomishim-chc. Hirashi- July 1946
157 160 317
3
8
(Trsoji Elemen tary
Usuki-pun,
Ccrcc))
Miyazeki rref.
24. Fudenc Shc Ce
Shiibe-mure, Tishi- Nov., 1971
4 1.7 95 10 45 04
3
?
3
(Fuaoro Lleventery
Usuki-gun,
School)
Miyezeki Fref.
25. Fuemizu to Garo
Takazeki-chc, Kite-
Nerch 1873
67  153 65 9 15
6
(Fuemizy lerertary
Mercke to-gur.
crocl)
Niyazaki Fref.
£
26. Fukuse Shc Cekko
Tcgc-scr. Figashi-
-pril 12
11:7 155 202 125 112 267
9
11
6
2
8
(Juuse lemen tary School)Usuki-gur. Miyezeki
Pref.
27. Fukushime She Cetho
Fukushime-chc, Nineri- -pril 
721 65 1370 731 65° 190
15 17 32
(Tu'ushine Elemantery
Neke-gun.
School)
Liyezaki Fref.
28. Futimete Shc Cakl-
Nekenfc-scn, Kits-
Kry 110
107 72 7℃ 151
4
(Futerr fe Elemertary
Morcketo-pun.
Sctocl)
Miyezeki Pref.
29. Gckeshc Shc Cao
Taberu-mur-, ishi-
Jer.. 1975
67 52 110 70 52 122
4
(Govesrc Elene-tery
Usuki-gun,
chool)
Miyezeki ref.
30. Henemi Shc Govo
Tokackc-chc. Eigeshi- pril 1873
67 74 141 63 71 134
5
(Lenemi Ilemertery
Mercke ta-gun.
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
# Decreese due to evecueted studerts returning tc Ckineve.
-.38-

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.88)
F.
DDRE
TE CHIRS
FOURDD
30 ipr.16
30.46
30.pr.16
30 Nev. 46
F
1.
T
F
T
M
F
T
el. bichiye Sre Gekke
T-isrirr-chr. Hiprcti- July 106
8
0
17
/Hictiye klemeary
Ucuri-run.
Schaol)
Kiyezcki Fref.
32. Ligechikete Sh Get
beyashi- chi, Tishi- pril 187
472 39L 56 455 382 F27
10
12
22
(Gipestskete Peeatery
Ferck to-pur,
Sctcol)
Piyazeki Frof.
33. Hireive  
Ieri-ar. ligeshi- Jn., 190!
271 205 56 60 797 555
10
18
(Fireive ls e tay
Usuki-pur,
Sctool)
liyezoki Fref.
34. hire here Sre C
Takehrru-chc, 'ishi-
1871
296 21 11° 127 715 142
(Hiro Fore leventary
Ferck-te-run.
Schoel)
iyezki ref.
35. hircse Sh. Grv
Hirasc-mure, Piyezoki-
pril 1977
34 825 1450
5210 160
2110
34
(Ficese Jement ry
sun, iyzcki Fref.
School)
26. Hcfurigers She CeYo
Fitegerr-ser, Fipeshi- -pril 1977
77
22 2051
1
2
2
3
(Hefuripe e. tery
Usuki-pun, liyrzaki
School)
.rf.
37. hkue e Co
*。
Eckupc-ser, Lipechi-
Merch 1007
1.57 4.22
410 416 26
11
20
10
o
19
(hckuge Jemertery Sater)) Usuki-pur.
Kiyezaki ref.
3P. Hen jo Sro Gelk
Ecnc-muro. 1nrmi-Noke- Ner.. 1902 565 55l 1110 574 552 1126
1113
23
(Henjc lementery School) pun, iyezki rrcf.
The figures for this irstituticr include thrse fer cre brench schicl under the same edministretion.
The figures fcr this instituticn include these for trc brench schecls under the seme edriristreticn.
# Decreese due, te evecusted, studerts rrturnirg to their hemes in Ol-ine.
-39-

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.97)
30 ∴pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ∴pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
39. Hoshiyem Sho Gakko
Ireigewe-mure, lishi-
July 164
64
72
136
70
74
144
2
2
4
2
2
4
(Hoshiyame Ilementary
Usuki-gun,
Schocl)
Miyezeki Pref.
40. Hosoda Sho Gekko
Hosode-cho. Miremi-
Feb., 191
319
351
322
351
673
11
6
17
13
6
19
(Hosode Elemertery
Noke-Eun.
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
41. Hosono Sho Grkko
Kobayrshi-mchi,
uf ., 1974
472
424
993
454
416
8
10
18
9
10
19
(Hosono Elementery
Nishi-Morokate-gun,
School)
Miyezcki Pref.
42. Hososhime Sho Gekko
Tomishime-cho.
Merch 1887
486
464
950
504470
983
10
14
24
13
12
25
(hososhims Ilemertery
Higeshi Usuki-gun.
Schcol)
Miyrzeki Pref.
43. Ichiki Sho Gekko
Ichiki-mure, Miremi-
1891
317
263
615
321
310
631
12
3
20
11
8
19
(Ichiki Elemertery
Neke-gun.
Schcol)
Miyezoki Pref.
14. Iino Sho Gakko *
Iirc-chc, Nishi-
My106
1322 1199 2521 1317 1212 2529
35
27
62
30
28
58
(Iiro Elemertery
Morokata-gun,
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
45. Ikime Sho Gakko
Ikime-mure, Miyazaki-
Merch 1999
719
716 1435
696
609 1395
18
15
33
21
14
35
(Ikime Llementery
gun, Myrzoki Pref.
School)
46. Ishigewachi Sho Gekko *Ki jo-murr, Koyu-gun,
Feb., 1874
143
101
24
109 250
4
5
9
6
4
10
(Ishigewachi Elementary Niyezaki Pref.
School)
47. Ishiyama Sho Gekko
Take jo-mechi Kite-
4pril 1925
235
222
457
235
222 457
6
3
9
6
3
9
(Ishiyame Elemertery
Moroketr-gun,
School)
Miyazeki Pref.
* The figures for this institutior include those for cre brerch school under the seme edministration.
-.40-

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.97)
NAME
..DDRESS
D.TE
DRCLINTNT
TE CHERS
FCUDD
20 pr.
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
48. Itaya Sho Gakko
Nishi-Mcra-mure,
Sept., 1881
€4
68
132
62
68
130
3
3
6
3
3
C
(Itaya Elementary School)
Koyu-gun,
Miyazaki Pref.
49. Iwaidani Sho Gekko
Higashi-Mere-mura,
April 1879
50
51
101
50
51
101
2
2
4
2
2
4
(Iwaideni Elementery School) Koyu-(n.
50. Iwaigewa Sho Gakko
Ivaigara-mure
arch 1975
201
204
585
267 272
539
6
14
20
5
13
18
(Ivaigava Elementary
Nishi-Usuki-gun.
School)
Liyezaki Pref.
51. Ivate Sho Gakko
Ivate-mura, Nishi-
July 1874
400 521 1010
464 489
953
10
11
21
9
10
19
(Iwate Elementary
Usuki-gun.
School)
Miyezaki Pref.
52. Irayegahira Sho Gakko
Kitakate-son
∴pril 1011
25
26
51
31
29
50
1
1
2
2
1
3
(Iwayagahira Elementery
Higeshi-Usuki-gun.
Schocl)
Miyazeki Pref.
53. Jo Sho Gakko
Kitakate-son,
April 1906
214
12
406
207
194
401
2
6
8
5
4
9
(Jo Elementary School)
Higashi-Usuki-gun,
Miyezeki Pref.
54. Kadogare Sho Gakko
Kedorawa-cho, Higashi- Nov., 1001
799 751 1550
798 751 1549
15
21
36
16
21
37
(Kadogeva Elementary
Usuki-gun,
School)
Miyazaki Fref.
* Decrease due to cvecueted studerts returnirg to their remes.
-41-

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.92)
N.YE
DDRES
L T
ERCINDT
TE.CHRS
POTED
30 pr.
30 Nev.16
20-pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
P
T
M
F
T
55. Kegemizu Shc Gekko
Yibant-mura, Miyezcki- Yy 1902
101
105
206
2
7
5
3
3
6
(Kegamizu Llementery Schcol) fun, liyezaki fref.
56. Ke jiyeme Sho Gakko
l'imete-mure, Vite
Cet.. 1973
153 151 304
153 158
211
4
7
5
3
8
(Ke jiyeme Flemertery
Foroke to-gun.
Schoul)
limacki Pref.
57. Kekuto Sho Celko
hkuto-son, lishi- -pril 10
037 063 1000
C12 026 1948
10
i1
30
32
(Fekuto Elerentery School)
Fooketr-cun.
iyazeri Fref.
58. Kerigumi Sho Criko
Sangasho-rure, Lishi- pril 1000
77 77 154
75 76 151
4
2
2
4
(Kamipumi El-mertary Schcol) Usuki-un,
Miyezeli -ref.
50. Kemihokite Sho Carko*
Kamihokito-muro,
pril 199
800 744 1544
786 747 1533
21
i
20
21
17
38
(Kemihorita Elementery
Yoyu-fur,
School)
l'iyezaki Pref.
60. Kemiminmikete Sho Garko A
Mineriktr-for.
Dec., 1875
494 501 05 460 251 1
C
14
23
P
13
21
(Kemiminemikete Elementery
Hig'shi-Jirasti-
Schcol)
Fun. Miv zeki ref.
61. Kemino Sho Gekko
Kemino-nrr, ishi- erch 1975
5F7 500 1057 165 487
10
15
75
13
21
(Keminc Elementrry Scheol)
Usuki-gun,
Miyezaki Fref.
62. Keminyute Sho Cakko
I'yutr-rur. Foyu-
.pril 1042
257 227 484
265
405
6
10
7
3
10
(Keminyute Ilementary
un, Fiyazeki
School)
rref.
• The figures for this irstitution include those for t o branch schcols urder the srme administretion.
# The figures for this irstitutior include those for one brerch schocl under the same edmiristration.
## Decrease due to evacueted students returning to their homes.
-42-

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.86)
20 ¿pr.
20 11.44
30r. 46- 30Cv.46
F
T
F
T
F
T
. F
T
63. Kemiseksteri cC
Ssketori-rurr,
v., 1001
178 150 228 171 152 -26
2
o
0
(Tamie keteni lleretary
Fireri-Fek-our.
School)
Liya zari rref.
64. Kerishishigrrs Sro Cvro Yite-Yete-ecr. Lirrsli- pril loll
(Yemishihirrra Jerc-tery Usuki-mur, iyzki
Sch(c]).
rrf.
65. Keniye Sho Cavva 1 jiri-rure, Lichi- Cet.. 197
20 222 777 271 323601
8 17 10 7 17
(r-iya lerer tary chacl) I rakete-run.
iyszaki ref.
66. Fammere She (
Fermre-rure, Yyu-
-pril 170
11 17.0 10 22 1 2L2 24
(Kemmere Lemertery
cur. Fiyezski Aref.
Schcol)
67. Terurer Sho Gekko
Ter -rure, Pivozrki-
ril oh
06 05 101 87 0 10 1 5 5 1 6
(Kamurore Lleertary
pur, Liyezeti ref.
Schocl)
6P. Kenrsubi Sro Gakke
Shiibr-r r. Fichi-
Sct., 174
157 105185710521213
(Karcsubi le ertary
Usuki-mur.
School)
liyczaki Fref.
6c. Yescri Sho Gakko
Fukustir-ch.
 pril 176
17 58 105 47 57 104
(Frsar i  lerevtery
Mireri-Foko-cun.
Scheol)
l'iyezaki fref.
70. Ketegemi Sho Gakke
Fenec-ch. Tireri-Nrke-gur.
462 170 941 1.66 1.00 055 11 12 23 11 12 20
(Fategami Elerertery
Piyszeki fref.
pril 101
Schcol)
71. Keterc Sho Grvrc
Ctsuko-rure, Ninomi- Terer 101i6 40 46 05 45 L6 05 .1 1 2 2.1 3
(Katano lenerter
leke-gur.
School)
iyezaki Fref.
* The figures fir tris instituticn include th se fir re brerch scheel urder the sere sdriristretion.
-43-

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.97)
30 4pr. 46
30 ov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
N
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Ketsuoka Sho Gekko
Mimate--mure, Kite-
Oct., 189
272
361
633
246
489
5
6
12
8
5
13
(Katsuoke Elementery
Morokat-gun.
School)
Miyezaki Pref.
Kawachi Sho Gekko
Kadogra-cho,
Cct., 1890
160 152 312
149
148
297
6
5
11
13
(Kawechi Elementery School)
Higeshi-Usuki-gun.
Miyazeki Pref.
. Kawaminemi Sho Gekko
Kawaminami-mur?.
April 1895
1013
923 1936
1005 934
1029
22
24
46
20
21
41
(Kawaminemi Elementary
Koyu-gun,
School)
Miyezeki Fref.
Kirana Sho Gerko
Kibana-mure, Miyazaki-
(Kibena Elementery School)
Eun, Miyazaki Pref.
Feb., 1903
505 448 953
11
11
22
13
10
23
. Ki jino Sho Gekko
Nango-son, Higashi-
(Ki jino Elementery School)
Usuki-gun,
Nov., 1875
148
134
282
113
108
221
4
5
9
5
9
l'iyazaki Pref.
Ki jo Sho Gakko #
Kijo-murε, Koyu-un, Nov., 1o01
584 556 1140
586 562 1148
19
11
30
18
11
29
(Kijo Elemertary School)
Miyazaki ref.
Kitagewe Sho Gekke
Kitagawa-mura, Higeshi-
(Kitagava Elementary
Usuki-gun,
Oct., 1897
400 453
862
106 443
849
20
12
10
22
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
Kitaketa Sho Gakko
Kitekate-son,
March 1874
603 524 1127
551
489
1040
12
14
26
(Kitakate Elerentary.
Higeshi-Usuki-gun.
Schcel)
Miyezaki Pref.
pecrease due to evacuated students returning to their homes.
he figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administretion.
-44-

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.89)
N..L
DDRL
D. T.
EIRCTIT
TLCHERS
FOUNDID
30 pr.16
20.16
30r. 46
30v.46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
F
T
Fo. Kitaure Shc C.ykc
Yiteura-rr, Ficachi- ril lc
54L 520 1073
522 515 1047
14
11
25
16
25
(Kitrur: Elevert ry
Usuki-mur,
Schccl)
Viyezeki fref.
91. Kiveki Shc Cac
Fi-ekj-murt, Hirrhi- :ey 1003
280 791
201 -66 757
10
10
20
11
20
(Fiweki levert ry
Prckate-pur.
School)
Miyezeki rref.
82. Kiy teke C
Fiy teke-rure, Piy ze ki-
539 557 1092 531 553 1084
14 13 27 15 13
2f
(Kivotake le-entery
Fir, liyzki ircf. Frh., 1907
Sel.el)
P3. Kbre  
Seigr-r, Fipe-ti-
uf. 19h
7 77 174
02
73 166
1
4
(Ketae le ctary
Usuki-fur.
Schocl)
liyazeri ref.
P4. Ybaru ro Gerk
Ivsiptre-rur, Tishi- pril 197
47 70 146 77 77 140
2
2
4
(Kobrru Jenortory Schcol) Usuki-rur,
iye zki rrf.
95. F beyeshi Shc Garko
Febeyoshi-re hi.
Cat., 1°72
11:67 1:15 2 142 120 2951
2
21 33
64
(Hobeyashi Flerert ry
"ishi- roketo-
School)
sun, liyezeki Prof.
P6. Kur ke-rchi Sro Ce
Yepedr -mure, ito-
Feret 1036
214 172 386
204 171 375
45
(Konckrrreri Jeertory
Perokste-mun.
School)
iyozcki ref.
87. Kesriibr She Catke
Figechi-Mero-ruro,
pril 17
52 53 106
2
2
L
h
(Foshiiba Ile tery
y-gur. Jiyezki
School)
Pref.
 The figures fer this institutier include thise f'r tre branch sch cls urder the seme rdministretion.
-45-

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.93)
NANE
DDRFSS
DATE
EROILET
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 4.pr. 16
30 1ov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
P8. Koshinco Sho Gekko
li-hi-'era-mur , Yeyu-
Merch 1970
107
102
2
63 145
4
4
9
5
4
9
(Koshinco Elementery
pun. liyezeki Pref.
School)
P9. Rosbiomote Shc Calkc
Tofc-son. Figeshi-
Oct., 1
77 160
1
72
162
6
3
2
y
(Foshiomote Elementary
Usuki-gun, Miyezaki ret.
School)
on. Kozaki Sho Cako
Shiibe-mura. lishi-Usuki-Cct.. 174
72 63 135. 72 62 135
(Kozeki Elementary School) fur, NMiyez ki -ref.
o1. Kumenoe Shc Geko
Minamiura-son. Ligrshi. Jan.. 175
7 02 170
70177
2
2
5
3
2
5
(Kumeroc Elemertery Schcol) "suki-ur,
iyeza'i iref.
2. Kuracka Sro Ca-kc
Fureoke-mure, Figeshi. Nov., 17
205 337 627 204 324
61
514
(Yureoke Elementery
Moroketa-gun.
School)
Niyezeki Pref.
93. Kurecke Sho Cerko *
Kureo's-mura, lishi-
Nev., 185
253 277 530 230 261
401
5
13
8
(Yureoke Elementery
Usuki-rur.
School)
Miyezaki ref.
94. Kurisu Sho Gat'ro
Nojiri-mure, lishi-
Mrch 197
405 357 757
c0o 340 73
10
10
20
8
10
1
(Kurisu Flement=ry
Forokats-un.
School)
liyezaki Fref.
5. Furogi Sho Ga ko
Kitago-sor. Higeshi-
Jen., 1
77
0 157
83. 161
1
3
4
(Kurogi Elementary
Usuki-gun.
School)
Niyezaki fref.
The figures for this institutior include those for tro brarch schoolgunder the seme administration.
 Decrease due to evacuated students returring to their hores.
-46-

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.89)
NANE
DDRESS
D. TT
DROLINFT
TE.CHIRS
JOODD
CAr.L6
20)v.46
40.pr. 46
94 04.46
F
T
1
F
T
N
F
T
M
F
T
c6. Kurosake Sho Cekko
Fiyotake-mure.
ret 100
215 201
L16
215
415
6
5
11
7
4
11
(Kurosake Ilemertery
Tiyazaki-run.
School)
Viyezeki Pref.
7. "usagare Sro Cakc
Ye'orove-cho. Firashi- pril 100?
245
703
C
11
10
12
22
(Yus geva lerer tery
"suri-fun,
Schocl)
livezcki fref.
Cf. Kurenouchi Sr Cekc
Jengesto-muro. ishi- Jure 1075
64 74 1
63 71 104
5
(Fuvenouchi Elementery
Usu'i-gun.
School)
ljazsti .ref.
cc. Maruro Cho Gsto
Shichiva-mur, Yit-
ril o
322
7
12
13
(Peruno Ilementery Schcol) I erckrtr-ur.
liyazrki iref.
100. Yesaki Sho Cetkc 
Yaseti-mure, Tichi-
Tet., 1900
1105 54100
30
(Nasaki lerentery
orckete-run,
Schocl)
"iyezeki .ref.
101. Netsube Sho Gekko
Vitereva-son. Firechi. July 1]
52 71 172
2
3
3
5
(latsube Ilemertery
Usuki-fun.
School)
iyezeki -ref.
107. Hetsunoki Sho Catko
Iveigeva-mure, Tishi- erch 1014
5L 64 12 64 64 128
2
2
5
(iatsunoti Ileertery
Usuki-fun,
Cchool)
Fiyezeki fref.
* The figures for this institutior inclue these for ore brench school under the sere edministretion.
-47-

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.87)
F.IL
DD
D.T
CHNT
TT CFPS
FQDD
30 ..pr. 
30 Nov. 16
うpr.46
30 1ov. 16
F
T
A
F
T
T.
T
N
F
T
103. N-touo Sho Cryko
Chiit-cen. Tichi-
ov., 1974
194 170 254 196 160 16
6
6
12
5
6
11
(Ptruo Ilementrry
Usuki-cun.
School)
Fiyczri rref.
101. Mihre 'ho Grkko
Fitrk-tr-sor, Figosti -pril 1s
115 121 226 111 111 275
7
2
10
6
0
(Tihre Llement ry Ccleul) Usuri-rur.
liyrzrki ref.
105. Mikrao ho Gr'ko
Fergo-con. Fife bi-
uf.. 1972
245
225 10 152
12
7
5
12
(Ni'rdo lemertory
Uouki-ur.
Schocl)
liyezky .ref.
106. Mimrto Sho Grkko
Krbeyor, Wit-
0v.1700?27 110.7 171505
70
1c
2℃
77
1
(Mimr to lement ry
! orok-t-fur,
School)
Fiyrzcki -ref.
107. Nim teu Sho Grkko
Fobryachi-m chi, i hi-
424
106 402 809
0
17
11
7
18
(Mimetsu Elementrry
Forck tr-pun
Poy 1873
Schuol)
Piyezon rof.
108. Mimichi Sho Grkro
Kiteketr-con. Firos.
201 77 560
283: 700 573
9
12
20
P
12
20
(Himichi "lemert-ry
Usu i-fur.
Cv 1002
Schocl)
liyez i ref
loc. Timitsu Sho Grkko
Fimit u-me chi. Foyu-
pril 1°71
37 100 707 05 300 77
17
21
!2
10
72
(Mimiteu Flemert-ry
Fun. Niyez-ti -ref.
School)
10. lirc She Crtko
inc-rurr, Poyu-gun.
pril
61525113500 516 110℃
16 13
70
16
13
20
Niyrzcki rref.
* The figures for tris report includr those fer tro br'rch schools under the seme sdministrr tior.
-48-

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.93)
NIVE
TDRES
D. TT
ERCILNET
TL.CHERS
FOUDID
on ∴pr.
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
p
F
T
M
F
T
V
F
T
111. Miremikatr Sho Gskko
Minsmikete-son.
pril 107
536
586 1122
515
5F2 1007
7
1c
26
19
27
(Vinemikets Elementery
Higrshi-Usuki-gun,
School)
Viyazski Pref.
112. Mitete Sho Galke
Iveto-mrr, Nishi-
pril 1021
112
100
220
105
111
216
?
6
14
.4
5
(Mitete Ilementery Schcol) Usuki-un,
Miys zeki -ref.
113. Miyamizu Sho Gakko
Nrneori-murs, lishi-
up.. 1907
350 369 72
332 345 677
7
12
19
7
12
19
(Miyemizu Elementrry
Usuki-gun.
School)
Miyrzrki kref.
114. Miyrmurc Shc Gelko
Nim-te-mur-. Fite-
Ney 1975
165 155
320
166 155
321
5
7
5
(Miyemurs Elemertery
Norokstr-gun.
School)
liyrzeli iref.
115. Mizushidani Sho Grkko
l'engo-son, Hipeshi-
pril 180]
12
107
210
126
215
4
7
5
3
8
(Mizushideri Elemertery
Usuki-sun.
School)
Miyozaki Fref.
116. Mukeer Sho Grkko
Mukese-murs, Higcshi-
Oct., 1972
367 327 604
10
18
10
(Mukesc Elemertary School)  orokete-gun.
Miyszeki ref.
117. Nukoysmrkitr Sho Gekko
Trkrchiro-cho, Nishi-
Dec., 100
124
148
272
114 135
249
3
3
(Mukoyemkits Elementrry
Usuki-Fun,
School)
Miyezeki -ref.
11e. Mukoyammincmi Sho Gekko Tekechiho-cro, Tishi-
Sept., 190%
9
98 1F7 85 91 176
3
2
5
3
(Mukoyemminemi Flementery Usuki-gun, Miyzeki
School)
Pref.
* The figures for this institution include those for ore brench school under the seme caministretion.
-49-

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.95)
N..ME
DDRESS
DATE
DRCIDNNT
TE CHERS
FCUNTLD
30 pr. 46
0 Ncv. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
N
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
119. Muresho Sho Gekko *
Nishi-Mcre-mure,
Nerch 1976
220
720
449
223
220
443
7
10
17
8
9
17
(Murasho Elerertary
Koy gun, Miyezeki
School)
Pref.
120. Nagekutsu Sho C-kko
Kobeyashi-mechi, Nishi- Merch 184
271 267 538
261 262 523
7
6
13
(Nagakutsu Elerentery
Morckata-gun,
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
121. Nagete Sho Gekko
Mirote-mure, Lite-
Noy 175
4
7
(Negrtr Elerertory
Fore'y to-gun,
Schocl)
Miyezaki Pref.
122. Nokoguri Sho Grkkc
Iv to-murr, Nishi-
April 1003
52 121
65 50 115
2
2
4
2
2
4
(Nrkreumi Elerentery
Usuki-run
School)
Miyezaki Pref.
123. Nekp Sho Grl-kc
Nek-rure, Miy-zYi r, July 1004
404 45 62 3 435 823
10
18
10
18
(Neks Elercrtery
Miyrzeki Pref.
School)
124. Nokogirishime Sho
Yemde-rur. ite-
ret 1034
292 267 519
281 280 561
7
ε
6
14
Gakko (Nokagirishims
Mercke to-gun.
Elementary Schccl)
liyezeki Fref.
125. Nakenomete Sho Gokko
Higeshi-Mere-rurc.
∴pril 1976
60
66 126
50 59 11F
2
3
2.3
5
(Nekenomete Elerentry
Koyu-gun,
Sohcol)
Miyazaki Pref.
126. Nakao Sho Gckko*
Higeshi-Merc-mure,
Not given
48
49
97
51 50 101
2
2
4
2
2
(Nekao Elementery School)Koyu-gun,
Miyazcki Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for ore branch schcol under the same cdministretion.
-50-

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.94)
N. ME
..DDRISS
D.TE
PRCIINT
TF..CHERS
FUND-D
30 pr. 44
30 lov. L6
30pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
N
F
T
M
F
T
127. l'ske to Sho Crrko
Chiiba-son, Fishi-
ov., 1974
4
52
102
40
53
102
3
2
5
3
1
4
(Neks to Elemertrry School)
Usuri-ur,
Niyezrki fref.
12. Neretsuyem Cho Gphro
"orotsuks-son,
Jrr., 1976
150 149 307
155
141
26
3
5
8
4
6
10
(Nenetsuyeme Elementery
Lishi-Usuki-gur.
School)
l'iyozoki ref.
129. Nengo Sho Ge'-ke *
Tengo-cho, linemi-
4pril 1904
647 685 1332
679 1921
12
17
29
15
15
30
(Fengo Elemertrry School)
Noke-pur.
Myrzski Fref.
130. Nescki Sho Garko
Suki-mur-, Nishi-
Jen., 192
47
40
1
1
2
1
1
2
(l'eseki Elementery School)
Forokrtr.
Viyazski Pref.
131. NFtsuo Sho Gakko
Nishidrke-son, Kite- l'ey 173
169
354
172
159 330
5
4
9
5
4
9
(Neteuo Llementory School)
Morcks tr-gun.
Miyrzeki rref.
132. Nawaze Sho Gerko
Tckzrki-cho, Fits-
Cct., 1873
245
254
400
242 251 493
9
5
13
7
5
12
(Nevaze Elementery School)
Noroke te-gun,
Miyezeki Pref.
133. Nishideke Sho Cekko
l'ishidake-sor,
pri 1973
351
372 673
321 309 630
9
10
1e
10
10
20
(Nishidake Eleme-tory
Vitr-Voroksts-gun,
School)
Niyrzaki Pref.
134. Nishi-Fobeyeshi Sho Grko
Tobryeshi-m chi, lishi-
640 644 1293
633 631 1264
16
16
32
16
14
90
(Nishi-Kobsysshi Elementery
Vorokete-Eur.
Nerch 1P74
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
 The figures for this institution include those for one brench schrol under the ssme edrinistretion.
-51-

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.94)
N.VE
DDRE
D TI
DROIDT
TE.CHERS
FONDD
30 --pr. 46
30 lov. 46
30 ∴pr. L6
30 Nov. 46
N
F
T
N
F
T
N
F
T
M
F
T
135. Nojiri Sho Gekko
Nojiri-mure, lishi-
Vey 1972
460 507 076
440
10
13
23
10
11
21
(l'ojiri Elementrry School)
Noroks tr-gun.
Niyrzrki -ref.
136. Nyute Sho Gekke
"yutr-rurs, oyu-gun, Fer., 1
374
292
757
37
390
760
9
16
9
8
17
(Nyuts Llemert-ry School)
Fiyezeki Fref.
137. Obi Sho Gakko
Cbi-cho, linsmi-
Cct., 173
24
948 1772
222
866 1798
19
17
36
23
16
39
(Cbi Ilementery School)
Faks-run. Miyezr'i
Pref.
13P. Odotsu Sho Gr'-ko
Hosoda-cho. Mirami-
Fey 10]
254 376
730
8
17
9
8
17
(Odotsu Elementery chcol)
Fek--run, Mayrzeki
Fref.
130. Ogere Sho Criko
Lisri-Nerc-muro.
Fcb.. 187
47
37
94
47
20
86
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Ogewr Elementery School) Koyu-gun. iy-zr'i
fref.
140. Okerechi Sho Grkko
Shiibe-ron. lichi-
y 1974
67 65 122
66
64
120
2
2
4
2
2
4
(Okswachi Elementery Sctool) Usuki-gun,
Miyezs'i Fref.
141. Okobirs She Cr'ke
Iino-cho, Nishi-
July 1874
142 154 206
141
14
20
4
3
7
7
(Ckobire Flemertery School)
Torokete-fun,
Niyszoki Fref.
142. Okubo Sho Grrko
Yohere-mure, Nin mi- -pril 1905
121
124 245
123
127 250
5
2
7
6
2
9
(Orubo Elementery School)
Nekr-pun,
Niyzeri Fref.
143. Okubo Sho Gekko
Kitotoke-murr. liyrzeki
724 200 424
225
202
127
6
3
9
2
10
(Okubo Elemertrry School)
-ur. Miyrzcki ref. pril 197
-52-

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADIRESS
D.TI
DROIDDT
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
144. Shibo Sho Gakko
Kawaminami-mure,
Oct., 1873
142
150
292
155
158
313
5
4
9
5
4
9
(Okubo Elementery School)
Koyu-gun.
Miyazaki Pref.
145. Omukai Sho Gakko
Shiibe-mura, Nishi-
4pril 1875
106
98
204
101
98
199
2
3
5
2
4
6
(Grukei Elementary Schccl) Usuki-gun,
l'iyezaki Pref.
146. Ono Sho Gekko
Toi-mure, inemi-
Mey 1908
34
32
66
34
32
66
1
1
2
1
1
2.
(Ono Elemertery School)
Nake-gun,
Miyazaki Pref.
147. Cshikata Shc lakko
Tekechiho-cho, Tishi-
July 1874
273
299 572
262
287 549
3
15
18
3
17
(Oshiketa Ilementary
Usuki-gun,
School)
liyezaki Pref.
148. Csuge Sho Gekko
Nanaori-mura, Nishi-
ug., 1876
87
57 144
84
55
139
3
5
2
3
5
(Osuge Elementary School)
Usuki-gun,
 iyazaki Pref.
149. Ctobo Sho Gekko
Shonai-cho, Kita-
Nov., 1873
233
228 461
226 238 464
7
11
8
3
11
(Otobo Elementary School)
Morokete-Eun,
Miyezaki Pref.
150. Otsuke Sho Gakko
Otsuke-mure, Linemi-
Feb., 1007
633 590 1223
637 590 1227
15
20
35
13
18
31
(Otsuke Llementery
Neke-run,
School)
Miyazaki Pref.
151. Oyadori Sho Gakko
Otsuke-mure, Minemi-
March 1946
53
45
98
53
47
100
1
1
2
2
3
(Oyedori Elementary
Nake-gun, Miyazaki
School)
Pref.
-53-

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.94)
30 pr. 16
30 Ncv. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F.T
152. Oyne Shc Gekkc
Higeshi-mera-mure.
Dec., 175
55
3c
04
3
3
2
5
4
5
(OyFe Elerertrry Schccl) Fcyu-eur.
Miynzeki -ref.
153. Oyae Sho Srkk
Shiibr-scr, Nishi-
Oct., 1891
38
35
-30
1.3
2
1
3
(Oyre Elerentery Schcol)
Usuki-fur.
Miy-zski Pref.
154. Sobukec Shc Gakko
Srnzri-ccr. Xeyu-pur.
Jon176
10
1f
16
34
2
1
9
2
1
3
(Scbukeps Elerertery.
Miyrzrki Pref.
School)
155. Srdoherr Sho Grkkc
Sodchor-chc,
NoT., 125#
630 50 1210
607 59 1226 14 12
26
17
1]
23
(Scdchrre Elerent-ry
Miyazrki-gun.
Schccl)
Măyrzrki ref.
156. Sriwcki Sho Gakko
Ivrveki-scr, Higrshi-
Feb., 1970
142
133 275
141
131 272
5. 5
10
5
5
10
(Srirrki Llerentory
[suki-fur,
Schocl)
Miy zoki Pref.
157. Sekrmcto Sho Gokkc
Srigo-scn, Higrshi-
Sept., 197
51
51
3889
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Sakercto Elerentery
Usuki-run.
Schccl)
Miynzki Fref.
158. Sckercto Sho Grkko
Srrgnshc-rurr.
Nereh 1591
141
122 263 130 128 267
6
0
6
3
9
(Srkemetc Ilerentery
N'ishi-Usu'i-gun,
Schcc1)
Fiyazaki Pref.
159. Sekrtoni Sho Grkkc
S-krtrri-rurn,
Nov., 107
308
323 631 306 321 627 12
11 .3. 14
(Srks trri Elementery
Nirsmi-Nekr-fun,
Schcol)
Miyrzrri -ref.
# This schecl res estrblished rs r prirrte schccl in 1'25 snd becare r public schccl in 1'72.
*The figures for this institution include those fcr one brench school under the sere edministration.
-54-

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.95)
30 4pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 ∴pr.16
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
I.
F
T
160. Sengrsho Sho Grrko Sorarsho-rur, ishi-
Cet., 1875
258 267 525 255 256 511
7
11
12
(Sengasho Elementery
Usui-un,
School)
Miyezki Pref.
161. Seno Sho Cekko
Tek-h-ru-cho, Nishi-
Feb., 1974
231 231 462 231 235 466
11
Forokto-run.
Miyr zaki -ref.
162. Sonzsi Sho Gakke
Srrzri-muro, Feyu-gun, Sept., 1997 751 625 1376 712 610 1322
(Senzei Elerentry
liy zeki ref.
School)
163. Sprukewe Sho Grkko
Trkrok -cho, Figashi-
Cet., 1878
120 105 275 120 105 225
8
(Serukere Elemertory
Morokote-gur,
School)
Viyozaki ref.
164. Seguchi Sto kko
Kitegara-son,
Oct., 1976
112 113 226
8
(Seguchi Elerentery
Higeshi-Kitsuki-gun,
School)
Miyazeki Pref.
165. Shichina Sho Grkko
Tano-mure, Liyazeki-
Oct., 18
160 171 331 160 171 331
7
(Shichino Elementery
Fur, Miyezcki Pref.
Sčhool)
16C. Shiibe Cho. Gekko
Shiibe--on, Nishi-
Jen., 1974
180 190 370 270 10 358
(Shiite Elementery
Usuki-gun,
School)
Miyezaki Pref.
167. Shike She Gskko
Take jo-machi, Kita-
ov.1873 144 131 275 146 136 282
8
(Shike Elerertrry School) Morok-te-Eun.
Miyczoki Pref.
168. Shimmechi Sho Garko
Nensori-mure, Nishi-
4pril 1875
202 202 404 192 194 386
8
13
(Shimmechi Elemer tery
Usuki-gun,
School)
Miyrzeki Pref.
-55-

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.97)
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 hpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
N
F
T
M
F
T
169. Shimnoure Sho Gakko
Minomi-Ure-son. Higashi-
224
204
42
224
204
42F
4
5
9
4
5
9
(Shimenoure Elementery
Usuki-gun,
Mey. 174
School)
Miyazeki Pref.
170. Shimoeke Sho Gekko
Kitrgrpo-sor. Higeshi- Nov., 1910
131
122 256
122
11h
236
6
10
5
9
(Shimoeke Elementery
Usuki-cur.
School)
Miyesaki rref.
171. Shiomi Sho Gekko
Tomishimm-cho,
Verch 1880
203 257 540
24 245 479#
10
9
10
9
17
(Shiomi Elementery
Higashi-Usuki-gun.
School)
Miyezoki Fref
172. Shirokemi Sho Gakko
Higeshi-Mcre-nura.
Fet., 176
307
11
20L
6
L
10
9
(Shirokami Elemertery
Kcyu-mun.
School)
Miyezaki Pref.
173. Shishigewe Sho Gekko
Nanccri-mure, Yishi-
April 1919
20
23
25
4
2
2
2
4
(Shishigave Elementery
Usuki-gun,
School)
Miyezeki Fref.
174. Shishigere Sho Garko
Kiteketa-mure, Higeshi- Cct., 1993
33
33
66
23
33
66
1
1
2
1
1
(Shishigewe Elementary
Usuki-gun,
School)
Piyezaki Pref.
175. Shivachi Sho Gekko
Shivrchi-mure,
4pril 1901
655 662 1320
654 665 1319
11
16
31
(Shiwechi Elementery
Kitemoroke te-
School)
gun, Miyezeki fref.
176. Shonai Sho Gekko;
Shonei-cho, Vite-
July 172
97 924 1911
992 24 1-16
21
20
41
22
21
43
(Shonei Elementery
Moroke ta-gun,
School)
Miyazaki Pref.
# Decreese due to evacusted students returring to Okin.
* The figures for this institution include those for ore brerch school under the seme edministration.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.96)
30 hpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 hpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
177. Suki Sho Grkko #
Suki-mure, Nishi-
4pril 1941
243
233
476
236
228
46L
4
12
7
4
11
(Suki Elementery
Norokete-Eun.
School)
Miyezaki Pref.
178. Sumiyoshi Sho Gekko
Sumiyoshi-mure,
My 1891
647 651 1298
64F
649 1297
17
12
29
10
28
(Sumiyoshi Elementery
Miyezaki-gun.
School)
Niyezaki iref.
179. Sunue Sho Gekko
Minemiura-sor.
Nov., 1911
33
33
66
27
32
69
1
1
2
1
1
2
(Sunue Elementery
Higeshi-Usuki-gun,
School)
Miyezski Pref.
180. Taberu Sho Gakko
Taberu-murc, Nishi-
hpril 1009
362
362
698##
11
ε
19
9
8
17
(Teberu Elementery
Usuki-gun.
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
181. Tege Sho Gakko
Kevamiromi-mura,
April 1872
153
140
202
166
154
320
3
L
7
3
4
7
(Taga Elemertery
Koyu-gun.
School)
Miyazeki Pref.
182. Teno Sho Gakko
Teno-mura. Miyezaki-
April 1985
£60
87 1756
00 856 1746
18
13
31
19
14
33
(Tero Elementery
çun, Niyezaki Pref.
School)
183. Tekechiho Sho Gekko
Takecriho-cho,
Dec., 173
601:
627 1231
582 613 1195
13
16
29
13
14
27
(Takechiho Elementary
Nishi-Usuki-gun.
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
184. Takeheru Sho Gakko
Takeheru-cho,
Dec., 1872
906
856 1662
755
835 1590
18
14
32
17
13
30
(Takchoru Elementary
Nishi-Moroke ta-gun,
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
185. Taks jo Sho Gakko
Teke jo-me chi. Kite-
Jar., 187L
749 674 1423
750
682 1432
1ε
15
33
18
15
33
(Teke jo Elementery
Morokate-gun,
School)
Niyezcri Pref.
# The figures for this institution include those fcr tro branch schools under the seme edministretion.
## Decreese due to evecueted studerts returnirg to their homes.
-57-

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.96)
30 4pr.16
30 ov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
186. Takenabe Sho Gekko
Tekenebe-cho,
4pril 1904
920
974 1894
936 98 1934
20
24
44
24
21
45
(Tckenebe Flemertory
Koyu-gun,
chool)
Miyezcki Pref.
187. Takackr Sho Gekko
Trkeoke-cho,
Oct., 1873
645 636 1281
620 613 1233
16
19
29
17
(Tekaoke Elementery
Higeshi-Moroketa-gun,
School)
Miyezcki rref.
188. Taks suno Sho Gakko
Nere ori-mure.
Feb., 1880
112
110
222
215
3
5
8
3
5
8
(Takesuno Elemertery
Nishi-Usuki-gun,
School)
Miyez-ki Pref.
189. Tekezeki Sho Cakko
Tekezcki-cho,
Feb., 1874
709 683 1392
699 679 136
18
11
29
22
9
91
(Takezaki Elementery
Kits-Moroketo-gun,
School)
Miyszaki Pref.
190. Takezeki Sho Gekko
Tekezki-m chi,
Sept., 172
312
201
603
230
260
557
5
8
13
8
(Takazeki Elemertary
Kite-Moroke te-cun.
School).
Miyezeki Pref.
191. Tashiro Sho Gakko
Spigo-son, Fifeshi-
Sept., 1?74
41h
380
767
14
11
25
13
9
22
(Teshiro Elementery
Usuki-gun,
School).
Niyezaki Pref.
192. Tateire Sho Gakko
Morotsuke-son, Nishi
Mbrch 1909
56 59 115
55
58 113
2
1
3.
2
2
4
(Teteire Elemertary
Usuki-gun,
3chool)
Miyezaki Pref.
193. Ten jin. Sho Gekko
Yamenokuchi-murc,
ipril 1925
97
11?
215
97
110
207
£
5
9
(Ten jin Elementery
Kita-Moroketa-gun,
School)
Miyezeki ref.
194. Teraseko Sho Gekko
Tago-son, Higashi-
June 1892
73
73
146
75
73
148
3:
2
5.
3.
9
6
(Teresako Elementery
Usuki-gun,
School)
Miyezeki Pref.
Deoseese dre to eveeuatsd students returnine to their.homes in Okinara, - 58

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.97)
NAVE
ADDRECS
DATE
ENROLIMENT#
TEACHERSX
FOUJDED
30 Anr. 46
30 Vov. 46
30 A~r. 46
30 Vov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
195. Togawa Shc Gakko
Vangc-son, Higashi-
Merch 1875
142
156
298
242
161
363
7
4
11
6
4
(Togawa Elementary
Usuki-gun, Miyezéki
School)
rref.
196. Togo Sho Gekko (Togo
Togo-son, Higeshi-
Sent. 1917
433
406
839
403
394
797*
13
6
19
14
Elementery Schocl)
Usuki-gun, Miyezaki
rref.
197. Togo Sho Gekko (Togo
Togo-son, Ninemi-Veka- hug. 1891
425
454
879
438
461
909
10
8
18
11
7
18
Elementery School)
gun, Miyagi rref.
198.Toi Shc Gakko (Tci
Tei-mura, Minemi-Veka- Yev. 1895
280
265
545
287
275
562
8
8
16
9
8
17
Elemen tary Schocl)
gun, Miyezáki Tef.
199. Tomitaka Sho Gakkc
Tomishima-cho,
June 1901
1007
1133
2230
1.93
502
905**
34
28
62
15
19
28
(Tomiteke Elementery
Higashi-Usuki-gu.
School)
Miyezeki ref.
200/ Torda Sho Gekko
Torde-mure, Koyu-
Anril 1901
628
611 1239
648
631 1279
18
14
32
17
14
91
(Tonda Elementary
gun, Miyazaki ref.
School)
201. Tonokori Shc Gekko
Tibijiru-mura,
Aug. 1872
591
584 1175
582
579 1161
11
12
23
23
(Tonokori Elementary
Koyu-gun, Miyazaki
School)
rref.
202. Toridacho Sho Gakko
Suki-mura, Vishi-
cct. 1890
3
84
177
92
78
170
3
2
5
3
3
(Toridacho Elementary
Morokata-gun;
School)
Miyazaki rref.
203. Toriyama Sho Gakko
Kawaminami-mura,
b~ril 1872 152 153
305
163 159 322
5
3
8
6
3
(Toriyeme Elementery
Koyu-gun, Miyezaki
School)
rref.
* Decreese due to evacueted studen ts returning to Okinawa.
* Decrease due to students trensferring to three other schocls thet vere established in the towm.
-59-

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.92)
30 Apr. 46 -
30ov. 46
30 4.pr. 46
F
T
FFT
T
N
5 6 11
223 199 422
234 201 495
April 1876
Togo-son, Hipeshi-
 Sho Gekko
Usuki-gun,
Shoya Elementary
Miyezeki Pref.
2 1 3
38 35 73
43 38
May 1974
Shiiba-son, Nishi-
agpo Sho Gakko
Kitsuki-gun.
geo Elementary
Miyazeki Pref.
26 23 49 25 22 7
1059 996 2045 1024 997 2021
June 1890
Taune-cho. Koyu-gun,
Sho Gakko
Miyezahi Prea.
Eleventary
Méhool)
o. 1972 1130 1077 2207 600 649 1339 27 25 52 16 16.
Tsuno-cho, Koyu-gun,
Taano Sho Gakko
6 9
(Beino Elementary
146 153 299
School)
Oct., 1946
mo Higeshi Sbo Gakko Tsuno-cho. Koyu-gun,
Ataamo Eigeshi Elementary Miyazabi Pref.
Scbool)
72 48 120 473 459 932*
Touno-cho. Foyu-gun. hpril 1886
Tmeno Minand Sho Gakko
Miyazaki ref.
mo Minemi Blementery
6 7 19
245 237 482 249 241 490
Mey 1901
Lochime-mure.
ad Sho Gekko
Miyazaki-gun.
twnd Elerentary
5 2 7
Miyeseki Pref.
112 102 214 108 100 20F
Takaoke-cho, Higashi- Cot., 1f7
o Gekto
Moroketo-gam.
Mtereptary
Myesald Pref.
jestitation isalade those for tvo branch schools uader the same adsiaistretios.
trenadering to another mahoel.
e frt the Toamo Elamentery sabool in Ceteber 2946.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
212. Uchiyeme Sho Gekko
Suki-mura, Nishi-
Feb., 1874
59
42
101
40
96
1
2
1
1
(Uchiyame Elementary
Moroketa-gun,
School)
Miyazaki Fref.
213. Umekita Sho Gakko
Nakango-son, Kita-
May 1873
579 552 1131
573 547 1120.
11-3 17 31
12-1 16
(Umekita Elementary
Morokata-gun,
School)
Miyazaki Fref.
214. Uranomyo Sho Gakko
Takaoka-cho, Higashi-
Not given
220 163 383
216 156 372
5
3
8
6
2
(Uranomyo Elementary
Morokata-gun.
School)
Miyezaki rref.
215. Urashiri Sho Gakko
Minamiura-son,
June 1878
.90
87 177
94
80 174
3
5
8
3
(Urashiri Elementery
Higashi-Usuki-gun.
School)
Miyazeki Pref.
216. Uryuno.Sho Gakko
Uryuno-mura,
July 185
319 359 678
309 349 658
10。9
19
12
6
(Uryuno Elementary
Miyazaki-gun,
School)
Miyazaki Pref.
217. Ushiro Kawauchi Sho
Takaheru-cho, Nishi-
Feb., 1874
221
209 430
219 207 426
9
Gakko
Moroketa-(un,
(Ushiro Kawauchi
Miyazaki Fref.
Elementary School)
218. Uwae Sho Gakko
Iino-cho, Nishi-
March 1874
360 397 757 358 399 757
13
7
(Uwae Elementary School)
Morokata-gun,
Miyazaki Pref.
219. Uwae Sho Gakko
Takansbe-cho, Koyu-
March 1904
601-584 1185 589 473 1062
14
15
29
1414
(Uwae Elementary School)
gun, Miyazaki Pref.
220. Yae Sho Gakko
Higashi-Mera-mura,
Oct.1870. 24 26
25
26
51
1
2
3
(Yae Elementary School)
Koyu-gun,
Miyazaki Pref.
x The first number in each columm indicates the number of full time teachers; the secor, number indi cates half-time teschers.
The figures for this institution include those for tro branch schools under the same administration.
 Decrease due to evecuated children returnire to their homes op Ckinare
-61.-

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
221, Yemeda Sho Gakko
Yemeda-mura, Kite-
March 1873
642 619 1261
640 617 1257
23
12
35
20
11
31
(Yamada Elementery
Morokata-gun,
School)
Miyazaki Pref.
222. Yamano Kuchi Sho Gakko Yamenokuchi-mura,
Jan., 1874
616 571 1187
616 -572 1188
(Yameno Kuchi Elementary Kita-Morokata-gun.
School)
Miy zaki Pref.
223. Yamese Sho Gakko
Saigo-son, Higashi-
Merch 1938
112
94
206
111
91
202
5
3
8
8
(Yamase Elementery
Usuki-gun,
School)
Miyazaki Pref.
224. Yameura Sho Gakko
Iweto-murc, Nishi-
Nov., 1879
115 100 215
102
84
186
4
8
3
7
(Vamure Elementery
Usuki-gun,
Szhool)
Miyezaki Pref.
225. Yeshiro Sho Gekko
Morotsuke-son,
Oct., 1874
306 296 602
302 280 582
10
9
19
9
(Yashiro Elementery
Nishi-Usuki-gun.
School)
Miynzaki Pref.
226. Yasuhise Sho Gakko
Nekengo-son, Kite-
Oct., 1873
478 421 899 462 402 864
10
8
18
-19
8
21
(Yesuhise Elementrry
Morokete-gun,
School)
Miyozaki Pref.
227. Yetsushiro.Sho Gakko Yetsushiro-son,
Not given
635 662 127
601 660 1261
16
11
27
19
8
27
(Yatsushiro Llementery Higashi-Morokata-
School)
gun, Miyazaki Pref.
228. Yokono Sho Gakko
Nishi-Mera-mure,
April 1879
28
42
70
29
41
70
2
2
3
(Yokono Elementery
Foyu-gur, Miyazaki
School).
Pref.
229. Yohore Sho Gakko
Ychera-mure, Minami-
Feb., 1904
176 181,357
184° 186
370
6
.3
9
6
(Yehere Elementary
Neka-gun, Miyazaki
School)
Pref.
he figures for inatituticn include thcse fcr cne branch school under the seme;cdministretion.
nted.~hidento-returninrto-their.hcmes.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.96)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ERCILNET
TEACHERS
FOUDD
30 Apr. 46
30 Nev. 16
30 Apr. 46
30 Ncv. 46
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
E-100
230. Ycshimctc She Gekkc
Nishideke-scn,
April 1873
210
213
42?
207
104
401
5
3
8
5
3
(Ycshimcto Elementary
Kite-Ncrckste-gun,
School)
Miyczeki Pref.
231. Zeikcji Sho Gekkt
Tomishing-chc,
July 1946
151 162
313
5
3
8
(Zaikcji Elementory
higeshi-Usuki-gun.
Schoc1)
Miyazaki Pref.
Totel
71,702
141.605
68.798
1,810-3 3,499
1.586
69,813
70,62?
130,420
1,677
1,005-1
3.492
-63-

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
TYAZAKI REFECTURE
ROSTER CF JAANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
V. RIVATE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schcols (Jitsugyo Gakko)
a. Commercial Schocls (Shogyc Gekko)
2) Cormercial Schools for Females (Joshi Shogyc Cakko), Miyazaki Frefecture
VAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ERCLINENT
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 Aor.46
30 Nov. 46
30 ▲nr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. Miyazaki Joshi Jissen
Miyata-cho, Miyazaki
pril 1039
730
730
720
720
15
5
20
15
6
21
Shogyo Gakko (Viyazaki
City, Miyazaki Fref.
Girls' Jissen Commercial
School)
Total
730
720
720
15
5
20
15
V. RIVITE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
b. Industrial Schools (Kogyo Gakko)
1) Industrial Schcols for Males (Denshi Kogyo Gakko), Miyazcki Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLLMENT #
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. Hyuga Fogyo Gakko (Hyu-
Tsunehisa, Miyazaki
Feb. 1944
348
348
329
329
22
22
20
20
ga Industrial School)
City, Miyazaki Pref.
Total
348
348
329
329
22
22
20
20
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the sehool records as of these dates.
-64-

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.96)
ROSTER CF J.B.NESE EDUC.ATI CIAL INSTITUTIONS
MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
MIYLZAKI
V. PRIVATE SCHOOIS
B. Secondery Educetion(Chutc Kyciku)
2. Middle Schccls (Chu Cakkc). Miyazeki Prefecture
TL.CHERS
ADDRESS
LATE
ENROLLMENT
NAME
4pril 1946
FOUNDED
30 4pr. 46
M
62
F
T
62
30 Nv. 46
67
M
F
T
67
30 pr. 46
4
F
4
T
8
30 Ncv. 46
M
2
4
F
T
6
Yame tc-chc, Miyazeki
1. Hyuga Chu Gakkc
(Hyuga Middle Schccl)
City, Mayezaki Pref.
6
62
62
67
67
8
2
Tctel
* These figures ere not those for ctuel rttendrnce on these drtes, but those for errollment on the school records es of these drtes.
65-

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
MIYAZAKI FREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIOS
MIYAZAKI
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
P. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
a) Youth Schools for Males (Denshi Seinen Gakko), Miyazaki Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENR OLIMENT
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. Kyushuzosen Tonoura Sei-
Nango-cho, Minami-eka-
March 1943
2.9
49
32
32
2
2
2
2
nen Gakko (Ryushuzosen
gun, Miyazaki Pref.
Tonoura Youth School)
Total
49
32
32
2
2
2
2
V. FRIVITE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gekko)
c) Co-educational Youth Schools (Danjo Kyogeku Seinen Gakko), Miyazaki Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLIMENT #
TEACHERS
FCUNDED
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 lvov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. Aya Eirinsho Seinen
Suki-mura, Nishi-
Nov. 1940
24
17
41
21
11
32
1
1
1
1
Cakko (Aya Forestry
Morokata-gun,
(ffice Youth School)
Miyazaki Pref.
Total
24
17
41
21
11
32
1
1
1
1
# These figures er not those for actuel attendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
-66-

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.89)
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION3
V. PRIVATE SCHOCIS
C. Elementery Fducatin (Sh tc Fy ibu)
?. Kirdergartens (Yochien) Miyazaki Prefecture
AME
¿DDRESS
D&TE
EROLIMNT
FOUIDED
20 pr. 46
30 Nr. 46
30 6pr. k6
!!
T
F
F
T
ki Ycehien (sehi
katcmi. rbeoke City
July 1946
27 36 63
astergerten)
Miyezeki Pref.
hebanc Yochien
Funegure, Nrbe ke City, Oct., 1946
72
sbcnc Kindergarten)
Miyezaki Pref.
no Yrokien
H. sxda-cb-. Mnomi-
Sept., 1946
71 66 137
threen Kindergerten)
Naka-gun,
Miyazeki Pref.
cmenc Ie
bi-ch. Minami-Naka-
4pril 1946
rno-Xo)
gum, Miyemeki Pref.
Hosku j
Pukushim-chc. Minemi-
Sept., 1928
54 38 92 45 92 77
3
Sareery)
Fakegun, Miyaseki Pref.
69 44 113 190 1P0 375
mot those for astual ettendance on these deter, but thosc for anrollmest on
67-

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
ATYAZAKI PREFECTURE
MIYAZAKI
V. PRIVITE SCHOOLS
D. Speciel Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
3. Schools far the Blind and Deefrlaute (Moe Gakko). Mi yasakd Prefecture
NiME
ADDRESS
DATE
EROLLMENT
TE.CHERS
FCUNDED
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
T
M
Nopeoke
Moro Oskko
Oketomi. Nobeoka.Ci.ty, July 1928
34
16
50
35
18
53
7
3
(Nobeoka
Blind and Deaf
Miyezali Pref.
School)
Total
53
3
4
7
These figures cre not those for ectuel attendence on these dstes, but those for errollment on the school records rs of these dates.
Co-educational
-68-

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
MTYAZAKI FREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
MTYAZARI
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
D. Special Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
4. Miscellaneous Schools (Kakushu Gakko)
a) Miscellanecus Schools for Males (Danshi Kakushu Gakko), Miyazaki Prefecture
N&ME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLIMENT #
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
1. Miyakonojo Jitsugyo Gekko Maeda-cho, Miyakonojo
Sept. 1926
228
228
223
223
6
6
6
(Miyekonojo Vocational
City, Miyazaki Pref.
School)
2. Miyazaki Koto Hoshu Gekko c/c Daiichi Miyazaki
Aug.1946
113
113
(Miyazaki Higher Conti-
Elementary School,
nuation School)
Miyata-cho, Miyazaki
City, Miyazaki Pref.
Total
228
228
336
336
6
610
# These figures are not those for actual attendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of the
-69-

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
MTYAZANI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
MIYAZAKI
V. FRIVATE SCHOOLS
D. Special Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
4. Miscellaneous Schools (Kakushu Gakko)
b) Miscellaneous Schools for Females (Joshi Kakushu Gakko), Miyazaki Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLIMENT #
TEACHERS
FCUNDED
30 ▲pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ▲pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Asoka Wayosai Jo Gakko
Mutamachi, Miyakonojo
pril 1935
300 300
293 293
5
7
12
4
7
11
(Asoka Girls' Earopean & City, Miyazaki Pref.
Japanese Sewing School)
Miyakonojo Takarabe
Kaimoto-cho, Miyakonojo
June 1937
155 155
151 151
3
3
3
3
SaishoJo Cakko (Miyako-
City, Miyazaki Pref.
nojo Takarabe Girls'
Sewing and Commercial
School)
B. Miyakonojo Yutoku Shosai Rurahara-cho, Miyakonojo Jan. 1925
215 215
219 219
3
10
13
10
19
Gakko (Miyakonojo Yutoku City, Miyazaki Pref.
Comnercial and Sewing
School)
Miyazaki Samba Kangafu
Asahi-dori, Miyazaki
Apri 1921
53 53
50 50
8
8
8
8
Gakko (Miyazaki Midwife
City, Miyazaki Pref.
Kurse School)
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
-70-

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
30 hpr. 46
30 Ncv. 46
30 Apr. 46.  30 Nov
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
5.
Ncbecka Joshi Shoke
Senckuchi, Nobecka
4pril
354 354
351
351
7
6
19
7
5
Gekkc (Ncbeoka Girls'
City, Miyezaki
Commercial School)
Fref..
6. Nobecke Semba Kangefu
Ckatcmi, Ncbecka City, Feb., 1944
5
5
5
5
8
8
8
Gakkc (Nobecke Midwife
Miyezaki Pref.
and Nurse Schircl)
7. Nobecka Seishu Jo. Gekk
HigashicTekehe ta:
Feb., 1937
292
292
288
288
7
3
10
7
(Nebecke Seishu Girls'
Nobecka City,
Schccl)
Niyazeki Pref.
8. Tomitaka Bunke Jo Gel-kc
Tcmishime-chc,
July 1046
63
63
(Tomiteke Girls' Cultural
Higeshi-Usuki-gun,
Sohcel)
Miyezaki Pref.
Totel
1.374 1.374
1,420 1.420
38
29
67
4990
V. RIVATE SCHCOLS
D. Special Sohools (Tokushu Gakko)
4. Miscellaneous Schools (Kakushu Gakke)
c) Co-educatienal Miscellanecus Schools (Danjo Kyogaku Kakushu Gakko), Miyazaki Prefecture
1.6ME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLIMENT#
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 4pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
90
M
F
T
M
T
M
F
T
1. Miyazaki Koto Keiri
Sotozono-cho, Miyazeki April 1922
130
17 147
12715 112
5
2
Gakko (Miyazaki High
City, Miyazaki Pref.
Acccunts School)
2. Obi Shoka Gakko (Obi
Obi-cho,. Minami-Naka-
4pril 1938
21
125
146
18
223 141
8
Commarcial Schoel)
gun, Miyazaki Pref.
Total
151 142
293
145
138 283
6

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
MIYAZAKI PREFECTURE
ROSTER CF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
VI. SCHOOIS UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF MINISTERIES OTHER THN THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
B. Secondery Educetion (Chuto Kyciku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
é) Youth Schools for Males (Denshi Seinen Gakko) under the Control of Ministries of Corrunications and Transportation, Myazaki Pref.
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
FOUNDFD
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Miyakonojo Tetsudo Seinen
Miyakonojo-shi,
April 1946
1,174
1,174 1,174
1.174
8
8
8
8
Gakko (Miyakonojo Railway
Miyazaki Prefecture
Youth School)
Miyazaki Teishin Seinen
c/o Miyazaki Post
Aug.. 1941
62
62
62 12
12
12
12
Kunrenjo (Miyazaki
Office, Miyazaki City,
Communication Youth School) Miyezeki Fref.
Hyuga Fukushima Teishin
c/o Fukushima Post-
Oct., 1943
18
18
18
7
7
7
Seinen Kunren jo
Office, Miyezaki Fref.
(Hyaga Fukushime Communication
Youth School)
Nobecka Teishin Seinen
c/o Nobecka Post-
ug.,1942
4
44 44
44 7
7
6
6
Kunren jo (Commanication
Office, Nobeoka City,
Youth School)
Miyazaki Pref.
Totel.
1,298
1,298 1,298
1,298 34
33
Theme fisures are not those for ectuel attendence on these det:, but those for enrollment on the school rccords es of theme dates
-72-

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
MIYAZARI PREFECTORE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
VI. SCHOOIS UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF MINISTERIES OTHER THAN THE MINIBIRY CF EDUCLTION
C. Special Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
1. Juvenile Correction Schccls (Shonen Kyogoin) under the Control of the Ministry of Welfare, Miyazaki Prer
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENRCILMENT
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
1. Shinshu Gakko
Ichimenki-mechi,
Merch 1000
26
26
23
23
2
2
2
(Shinshu School)
Miyakonojo-shi,
Miyazaki Prefecture
Total
26
26
23
23
2
2
2
* These figures are not those for ectuel ettendarce on these detes, but those for enrollment or the school records as of these aates
-73-

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.94)
MAP OF KYUSHU
Yata
robrta
éoure
Legend
Fukuoka
Nakatsu
Population of Over 100,000
SAGA
OITA
Prefectural Canital
Saga
Kurume
Beppu
FUKUO
Oita
Omuta
NAGASAKI
temung
Kumamoto
Isabaya
田
Nagasaki
田
E1
N
KUMAO
4
N
4
Miyazaki
MIYAZAKI
Kagoshima
KAGOSHIMA
-75-

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.94)
GENERAL HEADOUARTERS
SUPHEME COMMANDER FOR HE ALLIED PO ERS
Civil Information and Education Scction
Anelysis and Reserrch Division
RO S T E P AN D S TA T I S T I C S
O F
JAPANESE EDUCATIOFAL IFSTITUTIONS
April end Novomber 1916
Part 6
FUKUIPREFECTURE
A Special Report in 47 Parts Prepared by
Education Brench, Research Unit
AR-302-E-A-26-6
23 Apri1 1946

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
SPECIAL REPORT
SERIAL NUMBER AR-302-E-A-26-6
23 April 1948
TITS
Roster of Japanese Educational Institutions and Statistical Tables - Part 6, Fukui Prefecture
SUBJECT
Roster of Japanese educational institutions by prefecture, level, type and control jurisdiction
showing date of foundation, enrollment, and number of teachers, with summary statistieal tables.
PREPARED BY
Education Research
DATES OF STUDY 10 May 1947 to 22 January 1948
CONTENTS
Page
1
Introduction
vii
Summary of the Educational Institutions in Fukui Prefecture
Part One
Summary Tables of Japanese Educational Institutions Showing Number and Percent of Students,
Teachers, and Schools
vi1i
Table 1 - Number of Educational Institutions by Level and Type
Table 2 - Percent of Educationel Institutions by Level and Type
Table 3 - Number of Educational Institutions by Control and Level
Table 4 - Percent of Educational Institutions by Control and Level
Table 5 - Number of Educational Institutions by Level and Control
Table 6 - Percent of Educational Institutions by Level and Control

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
Part Two
Summary Tables of Japanese Educational Institutions Showing 'umber of Students and Teech-rs by Jurisdiction
Table 7 - Schools under the Jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education by Level and Type
xiv
Table 8 - Schools under Prefectural Jurisdiction by Level and Tyoe
xv
Table  - Schocls under Municipal Jurisdiction by Level and Type
xvi
Table 10 - Schools under Village or Town Jurisdiction by Level and Tyoe
xvii
Teble 1l - Schools undcr Private Jurisdiction by L'vel and Type
xviii
Table 12 - Schools under Jurisdiction of Ministrics Other than the Ministry of Tducation
xix
by Level and Type
Part Three Roster of Japancse Educational Institutions by Control Jurisdiction According to Level and Type
Schools undir 'inistry of Education
1
Villegr Schools (continued)
Higher Education
1
Secondary Education (continued)
Colleges
1
Youth Schools
16
Hormal Schools
1
Elementary Education
27
Elementary Education
2
Elementary Schools
27
Elementary Schools
2
Kindergartens
51
Kindergartens
2
Privatc Schools
Prefectural Schools
Secondary Education
Secondary Education
Middle Schools
Vocational Schools
Girls' High Schools
Middle Schools
Youth Schools
Girls' High School
7
Elementary Education
Special Schools
8
Kindergartens
50
Sp cial Schools
EO
Municipal Schools
9
Secondary Education
C
Schools under Ministries Other than Ministry
.0
61
Vocational Schools
of Education
Girls' High Schools
10
Secondary Educetion
61
Youth Schools
11
Vocational Schools under Home Ministry
61
Elementary Education
13
Youth Schools under Miristries of
62
Elementary Schools
13
Communication and Transnortation
63
Special Schools under Ministry of Welfare
Village or Town Schools
15
Secondary Education
15
64
Girls' High Schools
15
Map of Central Honshu

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.92)
ENTRODUCTION
There ure two surary statistical sections. Fert One pro-
PURPOSE
sents in cix tables surary mworicel nd p reort distribution
data arren ed as cellows: luvel by tepes, contrel  level, and
This study was mode to fill  critical nocd in he fi le
level by contrel. Part Tuo consists of six tables wiich summa-
of Japanese clucation. The statistical prucclures me prefucts
rize data  control Juriscictien cccerdin to level and type.
of recor-keopiny in Japen have beun entirely inadeguate. The
Finistay of Education pcinteins n recerls of seheols not under
The "Roster of Japnese Educational Institutions" consti-
its direst control, with the vesult thkt fer infercvtion con-
tutee Part Threo ef thic report. It is primarily a list of all
cerning nearly all schcels of t clunentary ond secumdary love
institutions wich re  prt of tie re ular Jupenese educa-
elsy and mny inctitutiens of se sigher cluccticnel level, one
tional systen, y th si nificant data for cach. The preject is,
must depend uoon the refecture. Even at thet source there ere
in renlity, a et of pioncering. In the course of its devel-
no couplete records. In elrost en aren ef eluc tion, ene mct
oprrent, scattere and, in lar o do ree, hitherto unclassified
collect date from the cvipinal sourecs. ne sovious eep in the
facts have been asseubled and nade av ilable in an casily re-
records has been the lack of a list of all educavionrl institu-
ferable ftrm. For the first tie in the history of Japanese
tions in Japan. It is this majer vid vhict this study is in-
lucntion, ther is a coposite list of all or the nore then
tended to fill.
4, cducational institutions in Japan, e list which records
for neh its mame, cate of foudation, eldress,1 enrollaent by
SOCPD
sex and by totals? and the tenchin force by sex, by full-timo
The results of this study were ori in lly sut up ts twe
1. The miresses of suparate institutions supplied in this ro-
projects, a "Roster of Japonese Etucational Instituvions" in 46
port will be nere intelligible if the render remcabers that
prefecturel reports, end "Statisticel Tables for Jepancse Pdu-
"cho" merns "strcet," "mura" means "village" or "hanlet," "na-
cational Institutions" in 46 pr fectural raports, witi. a summa-
chi," neans "towm" or "snll city," "pun" means "county"or"dis-
rizin report for the wholo of Japan: A littlc trial use of
trict," and "ken" meons "prefecture."
the first finished reports inlic ted, het ver, tint the two
2. The enrollment figures are not those of actual attandance
series would be more effective if combined. For that reason,
cn 30 4pril and 30 Hovember 1946 respectively, but thoso of on-
the two reports for cach prefecture have been consolidated into
rollaent or the schcol records on those datcs.
one report.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.95)
or part-tine classification,3 and by totals.
sted. Some of the group nmes mi ht be al.ost meningloss vith-
out cexplanation. They are not unifonily definod in scne cases
The roster is arrenged accordin: to prefecture, control
even by the Japanese.
jurisdietion,end school level. Thore are tetals for every sub-
heading, and subhecding end grand totals for every main head-
There are three centrel jurislictions in the Japanese edu-
ing and for overy prefecture. Grend totals have been werked
cational syston: (1) national, whic. inelules both "Government"
out on two bases of oranization, that of cantrol jurisdiction
or linistry of ducation control, and thnt of other inistrics
and that of sctool level.
wrich conduct speciali.led vucationl institutions: (2) "public
control," or that exercised o eny level of  overnment below
The two dates chosen as focel peints in the collcction of
the centrel national level, such as tat ty the prefecture
data, 30 April 1946 cnd 39 Moverber 1946, were selecto at the
(ken), netropclis (te), city (shi), tom (mchi), or village
request of Education Divicion, Civil Inioration end Dducation
(ure); and (3) private contrel." Schools of the three cduca-
Section, for purposes of cap rison regarsiny loy lep mts in
tion l levele fall within these three contrel gurisdictions.
the cducational pro rm.
The Ministiy of uc tion has cxercised exvensive powers
Since this series of ruports is based upon cata collocted
in cducationel : tturs at 1l levels r' over scheels under all
before changes in the orymization of th cducational system
juriscictions ene pt these under ther ministries. fhrough the
were effected, the cate orics usec are those inte which scheols
use of standardizcd t xts and curricula, end threu h cirectives
full before the 6-3-3-4 system uns inaururated in Japan,4 and
of rany sorts for evor yupese, it has exorted trenencous con-
the terms employed are transl tions of the Ja enese nenencla-
trol over even thes. selcols supposesly uncer cther urisdic-
ture. The teminology usud to in'ic te the brond levels of ed-
tions. n unusual ract concurnin this  spect of Japncse cdu-
ucation are those currently used in the Unite States: clunen-
cation is thnt contrel dous not inclule finncial sunport or
tery, including kindurgarten, prirary, ne r.uor rades, scc-
appointir powur for prefecturcl and local sehocls. eney for
ondary, including hi h schoclo and preparatery ochopls; nd
the mcinten nee of schools is cppropriated by the netiona1 Gov-
higher, including schocls of junier collere, collo,  uni-
crnment, ent for all practical offects much of the control cx-
versity level.
creisel over school iritters is in the h nds of the inistrics
Within cach of these brond levels, hovever, terminoloy is
not so simple or so cloar. The viricus types of schools in Ja-
4. s rapidly is possible the shinsei chu rckko (lover second-
pan aro nunerous, over-lapping, and confusing to the uniniti-
dary school) nd sninsei koto rlkko (upper sccondiry sdhool)
system is beiny established, but practicel lifficulties have
rnde it ipossible to effect a conplete chan e-over. The stand-
3. Statistics for bcth full-tine and part-tine teachers are
ardization of institutions on the higher clucation levol as
given. Where there are both types in a school, the sccond fig-
four-year de ree ranting institutions is also in progross, but
uro in the colunn, following the dash, represents the nwiber of
the pace of this developaent, likuise, is linited by practical
part-timo teachers.
difficultics.
ii

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.93)
i.: prerectural, sunicipal, tom, or village governaents. In
of Finance and cF Hone Affairs, who obtain their poser throuch
Japan in 1946, public control covered a much wider rango of
control of the national budget ent of Civil Service ppoint-
schaol levels thin ic the : inistry of -ducntion control. On
ment respoctively. ithin the liritations iroosed by the powers
of these two rinistrics, the Miristry of Elucation has cnjoyed
the li her cducation luvel were umiversities, colleges, hi hor
a high de ree ef cuntralize: contrel. Its cirect contrel, how-
schools, norral schools, end a few specirl schools, all of tho
types under the "ciruct contrel" of the ihistry of lucction,
over, is opplicd only to a lirited group cf institutions.
vit the excoption of Lmperial universities. In adition, pub-
In 1946 the Ministry of Yucation excrcised conplete or
licl centrolled institutions inclu'ed alse schools of the soc-
"dircet" control over only cortain scheols,mninly on the hi her
on r  cleuntar lovels. itsuyo ekko (vocational
oducation level. These ineluded the suven Teieku dcicaku (Tnt
scheols) were muerous end vried. Chuo rnkko (micdle schools)
peri-l universitiesl, which cnjeye: ceneraly aecepted prostige
were schocls of high school level est blished for boys. Koto
jo yelko (girlst hi schuols) were established for girls as
es superior institutions for savuccd le mina, a the i clu
(ordinary universitics), which wre not rante' such high favors
substitutes for i(le schhools. Scinen akko (outh schools)
were institutions cst- lished to toke care of the further edu-
oither in personnel or equipuent, en? consequuntly were not ac-
corted corparable csteen. these tm types of mivercitics were
cation of stu nts wi me finiched clumentary training. but who
were un hle to stten re ular scihvols of the secendary lovel.
analogous rou hly to both senicr c ll, es  miv rsitius in
uften th were mi ht schools. Sho okko (clomontary schools
the United States. Other types of sen ols un r the coapleto
fter 1941 c llud kckuin Jko, or national schools) and
control of the onbushe were sermen  kko (call us., hich
yochien (kiser rtens) require no special mplanation.
usuclly did not ant degrues, nd, in m ys, corres pended
to junior colleoges, and koto lko (hi her chools), wich were
Private contrel ment substantielly what the tuma means in
oven more unclassifiable, bein  kind of cross between re-
the States, control cxercisel by en individual or  roup of in-
paretory schools nd junior celle es. lsc uver  inistry of
dividuals independently of overnment on ny level, with sup-
Mucation jurisdiction vere koto chihen lko (hi her nemal
port co in frno vental ccurces. no chi f differanco,
scheels), or a level sis iler to that of suiu wkke, but ith
however, between both public an private schoels in Japan and
:oro speciclized purposes, tein established ex ressly for the
purpose of training terchors, and shihan ildte (nernl schools),
public and private schcols in the States, was that in Japan the
at first censidered of secundamy level, but i. 1935 plac on
central Gov ra ental arency for euestion (the rinistry of du-
the higher education level. The ccurse of study for shihen
cation) exerted uch ore pover over the :onege sont of schools
cakko was three years in length, whereas that fer the higher
than dees the Feleral Goverient in the United Statos, a powor
norul schocls wms four years. Sone special selculs, such as
which was coscribed as "incircet control." The scope of juris-
diction for privately contrellod institutions was idantical
no sekko (schools for the blind), roa akko (schosls for the
with that of public jurisdiction, including institutions on all
doaf and denf utes), and yoa zakko (schools for the blind and
levels ant of all types except Teikolu daigaku (Iuperial Uni-
mte), wore under  inistr of mhucation jurisdiction.
versities). The chart on pages iv to vi indicatos by lovel tho
Fublic control covered all institutions conducted and ree
typo of schools under cach of the thrco control jurisdictions
in 1946.
ulatod by goverunental units lomer then the national level,
iii

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.93)
JAPANESE EDUCATIORAL INSTITUTIONS BY CONTROL JURISDICTION, LEVIL, AND TYPE
in 1946
I.
NATIONAL CONTROL
1.
Imperial Universities (Teikoku Daigaku)
2.
Universities (Daigalu)
3.
Celleges (Seven Geldke)
Higher Scheols (Koto Gakke)
5.
Mi her Femnl Schcole (te Shihan Galdto)
a. Lidcle Schcels .ttached (Chu Gakko)
b. Mlehentary Schcols Attached (Sho Gelko)
Higher Education
6. Hi her Nomal Sehools for Mouen (Joshi Koto Shihen Ghkko)
. Girls' High Sci.ools Attacihed (Koto Jo Gecko)
A. Ministry of Educction
b. MMeontary Sctcels Attoehed (Sho Galkke)
(Government
c. Kin crgartens Attached (Yechien)
Institutions)
7. Mormel Schools (Shihen Golke)
 acentary Schcols attached (Sho Geako)
b. indormartens Attached (Yochien)
c. Youth chools ttachel (Seinen Grldko)
1.
Schools for the Blind (Ho Gakko)
B. Special Schools
2:
Schools for the Deaf end De f- ute (Hon Gakko)
13.
Schools for the Plind en! Deaf-Yute (Hoc Gokke)
1:
Colleges (Sumon Gakko)
Higher Education
12.
Other types
1.
Vocational Schocls (Jitsugyo G-kko)
a. gricultural Schools (ie Galdto)
B. Secondary ucation
b. other types
B. Cthor Ministries
2. Youth Schools (S.incn Gakke)
3. Other types
(1. Youth Schoels (Suinen Galko)
C. Special Schools
2. Other types
{1. cnentery Scheols (Sho Gelko)
D. cnentary Education
(Peers' School only)
iv

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.93)
Universities (Daigaku)
II. PUBLIC CONTROL
Higher Rucction
2.
Colleges (Samon Galko)
3.
Hicher Schools (Koto Gaike)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gnkko)
 gricultural Schcols (No Cakko)
B. Secon r uc tion
b. Other types
2. iddle chools (Chu Crkko)
 Prefectural Governnents
3.
Girls' lHish Schools (Koto Jo Cakko)
1.
Schools for the Blind (To Cakko)
2.
Scheols for the Deaf nd Deaf- ute (to. Geilko)
C. Special Schivels
Schools for the Elin ni Deof- ute (o Grkko)
4. other typos
D. Mementam chools
1.
Elementary chcols (Sho Geldko)
2. Kincer rtens (Yechion)
(Hetropoliten Gov-
orn nt enly)
1. Universities (Dai, au)
Higuer Pucation
2. Colle es (Scion Galko)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsuyo Gelko)
2.
Midele Scheols (Chu Galdto)
B. Secondar Education
3.
Girls' Hi  Schools (Koto Je Gakko)
l4.
Youth Schools (Seinen Gekko)
B. Vunicipal Governments
1.
Manentary Scheols (She Gakko)
C. eentary Education
(2. Kindergartens (Yochion)
[1. Verious types
D. Special Schools
1.
Vocational Schocls (Jitsugyo Gakko)
2:
irle Schcols (Chu Gakko)
Secondery ucation
3.
Girls' Hich Schools (Koto Jo Gakko)
4.
Youth Schools (Seinen Gnkko)
1:
auentary Schools (Sho Grkko)
C. Village or Town
B. Munentary Xucation
2.
Kin'ergartens (Yochien)
Governnents
(1. Various types
C. Special Schools
V

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.89)
III. PRIVATS CONTROL
1.
Universities (D.i, ku)
Higher EQuertion
2. Collegos (Semon (rikko)
3.her Seheols (Keto Galdto)
1. Vocrtional Schools (Jitsupyo Gainke)
2. Pavle Schcols (Gru Galdre)
B. Sucendary Eaucation
3。
Ciris' Hi h unools (Kote J, Geidko)
A. Private Contrel
Youth Setesls (Seinen Gelake)
Henentey Sckcols (She )
C. Danuntary ucation
Kimter eruns (Yechion)
1。
Sel ls for te Blm (Io take)
2.
Sef cls r uhe Deaf ond Denf- ute (hee Gukke)
D. Special Schcele
3.
Se sels for bhe Blive eve Derf- ute ( ee Cellk.)
4.
Other typus
SURCE OF DATA
 OF F 
The Pinistry of Education, in serving as the date-colicet-
Lamou hout the prepar tion of this repert, worors in klu-
ing agent, has played n inveluable part in this vork. In the
catn Hosearch vere in constant touch wain  inistry of duca-
sumer of 1946 Yinistry of Education offici ls na Civil Infor-
tien officirls te check the paterials oa they were ccived
nation and Wlucation Section resorrehers evelved  fon which
fron the individual secocle. i ures were carefully checked
sorved as the besis for securin: the esirt infermation.
 scrutinizch. .a discrepencics or ambiguitics in date were
Through the 'inistry of Huention, prefectur l chuc tion divi-
'isccured tihe were reetified end clerified insofer as check-
sions, end Loccl cducation offici-is, the data were gradually
in made correction posuible. hile a ligh dopree of accurncy
secured frem the individul scheels. lot cnough cm be suid in
ias thms achieved, the mnt riale are still subject to the lim-
praise of the petionce and cnthusiasm of te inistry in their
itations itherent in Japanese statistice ne in the roporting
cooporation vith Civil Infomution and Muc: tion Section to
from indivi ual scncols.
make this in accurate and effective study.
vi

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.95)
SUMMARY OF EDUCAFICTAL IFSTIEUTICYS IF FUTTT PREFT CTURE
1946
"umber of Institutions
Lev 1 and Type
Control
of Institutions
inistry
Pref( c-
Muni-
Villace
Yale
Fimale
Cood.
Total
Educet.
other
tural
cinal
or Town
Private
Higher Institutions
Collexs
1
C
C
0
C
1
C
C
1
Formal Schools
2)
C
C
C
0
C
C.
C
2
2
Cotal Hisher
3
0
C
0
C
C
1
0
2
3
Secondary Institutions
Vocetional Schcols
C
1
1
C
C
15.
0
5
10
Boys' Middlc Schools
C
C
C
0
C
2
8
C
0
8
Girls' High Schools
0
C
8
1
3
2
0
14
0
14
Youth Schools
0
C
21
07
18
8
12
103
123
Cotel S.condary
C
5
22
1.0
100
22
21
26
18
155
Elementary Institutions
Elementary Schools
1
C
C
20
231
C
1
2
240
252
Kindergartens
1
*
0
0
C
10
8
C
0
28
28
Total Elementary
2
C
0
20
250
8
1
2
277
280
Special Institutions
Blind and Deaf Mutes
0
C
2
0
C
0
0
0
2
2
Miscellaneous Schools
0
0
C
C
0
u
C
4
0
4
Juvenile Correction
0
1
0
0
0
C.
0
0
1
1
Total Special
C
1
2
C
C
4
0
4
3
二
二
Total Institutions
5
6
24
26
350
34
=23
32
390
445
*
Attached to Normal School
vi1

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
Tablc 1. Number of Educational Institutions by Level and Type
ENROLIMENT
TELCHERS
X
Number of
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
Higher Educetion
M
T
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
Co-od. T
Colleges
754
754
1028
1028
45-1
46
49-10
59
1
1
Normal Schools
682
307
989
695
304
999
63-2
7
72
68-3
7-2
80
2
2
Total
1436
307
1743
1723
304
2027
108-3
7
118
117-13
7-2
139
1
2
3
Secondery Education
Vocational Schools
4646
493
5139
4531
464
4995
189-12
12-1
214
187-13
13-1
214
5
5
10
Middle Schools
7684
7684
7437
7437
206-27
1
234
207-24
1
232
8
8
Girls' High Schools
9491
9491
9301
9301
153-6
140-3
302
164-7
142-3
316
14
14
Youth Schools
13678
11082
24760
14564
11782
26346
431-218
226-21
896
468-234
236-31
969
8
12
103
123
Total
26008
21066
47074
26532
21547
48079
979-263
379-25
1646
1026-278
392-35
1731
21
26
108
155
Elementary Education
Elen. Schls. Att.
to Normel Schools
858
846
1704
858
846
1704
12
12
12
12
1
1
Elementery Schools
58549
56695
115244
58922
58714
117636
1719-4
1617
3340
1736-3
1559
3298
2
248
251
Kinder. itteched to
Normel Schools
80
60
140
80
60
140
1
3
4
1
3
4
1
1
Kindergartens
1867
1862
3729
1784
1800
3584
7-17
79-1
104
7-17
76-1
101
27
27
Totel
62354
59463
120817
61644
61420
123064
1739-21
1699-1
3460
1756-20
1638-1
3415I
2
277
280
Special Schools
Schls. for B. & D.
76
47
123
76
42
118
10-1
6
17
10-1
6
17
2
2
Misc. Schools
531
531
516
516
3-5
19-10
37
3-6
19-10
38
4
4
Juv. Corr. Schools
33
5
38
34
5
39
4
4
4
4
1
1
Total
109
583
692
110
563
673
17-6
25-10
58
17-7
25-10
59
41
3
7
Grand Total
88907
81419
170326
90009
83834
173843
2843-293
2110-36
5282
2916-318
2062-48
5344 23 32
390
445
# These figures cre act thcse fer fctuel etten'nce  these ietes, tut these fer ercliment m the sohoct recoras es of these dates.
X The number cf both full en' nart-time tegchers is indicete? in this re-ort. There there sre two numbers entere? in the seme cclum.
separated by a hynhen, the secon? figure indicetes the number of nart-time teachers.
viii

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
Table 2. Percent of Educational Institutions by Level and Type
TROLLIENT #
TEACHERS
Number of
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
Higher Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
N F Co-ed
T
Colleges
52
43
59
51
42-33
38
42-77
42
100
33
Normal Schools
48
100
57
41
100
49
58-67
100
62
58-23
100-100
58
100
67
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. in Higher Education
1.9
0.3
1.0
1.9
0.3
1.1
4.0-1.0
0.3
2.0
4.4-4.0
0.3-4.0
2.6
4.0
0.6
0.7
Secondary ducation
Vocational Schocls
18
3
11
17
2
13
20-4
3.2-
13
18-
5
3-
12
24
4
6
Mddle Schools
29
16
28
15
21-10
.3-
15
20-
8
.3-
14
38
5
Girls' High Sohools
45
21
43
18
15-2
37.5-12
18
163
36.7-8
18
54
9
Youth Schools
53
52
52
55
55
54
44-84
59 - 84
54
46-84
60-89
56
38
46
96
80
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100 100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. in Secondary d.
29
26
27.6
20
26
27.5
33-89
17-69
31
35-88
19-73
32
92
81
27.4
95
Elementary Education
Elementary Schools Attached to
Normal Schools
1.5
1.5
1.3
1.4
1.4
1.4
.7-
.3
.8-
.3
1
Mementary Schools
95.5
95.5
95.4
95.6
95.6
95.5
98-20
95-
96.6
98.7-15
95-
96.6 100 100
89
89
Kindergartens Atteched to
Normal Schools
.5
.5
.1
.5
.5
.5
.06-
1
.1
.1
1
.1
1
Kindergartens
2.5
2.5.
3.2
2.5
2.5
2.6
1.24-80
4.-100
3
.4-85
4-100
3
9
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100 100
100
100
Fercent of Gr. Tot. in Elementary Ed.
60
73
71
68
73
70
62-7
80.7-3
66
60-6
79.5-2
64
46
71
6
Special Schools
Schools for Blind & Deaf Mutes
60
8
17
69
7
17
59-1724-20
59-14
24
29
67
Miscellaneous Schools
91
76
92
76
18- 83 76-100
64
17-86
76-100
64
100
Juvenile Correction School
31
1
7
31
1
7
23
8
24
7
33
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100 10100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Total in Speciel Schools
.1
.7
.4
.1
.7
.4
1-3
2-28
.6-2
1.2-21
1.4
13
Grand Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100 100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100100
..
# See fcotnote Table 1.
X See fectnote Table 1.
ix

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
PUKUI PREFECTURE
Table 3. Number of Educational Institutions by Control and Level
#
x
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 4pril 1946
November 1946
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
Ministry of Education
I
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
Co-ed. T
Highor Education
1436
307
1743
1723
304
2027
108-3
7
118
117-13
7-2
139
1
2
3
Elementary Ed. (Lttached to Normal Schl.s)938
906
1844
938
906
1844
13
3
16
13
3
16
2
2
Total
2374
1213
3587
2661
1210
3871
121-3
10
134
130-13
10-2
155
1
4
5
Prefectural Schools
Secondary Educetion
10135 7067
17202
9842
6937
16979
424-20
91-1
536
431-19
96-1
547
9
9
22
Special Schools
47
123
76
42
118
10-1
6
17
10-1
6
17
2
2
Total
10211 7114
17325
9918
6979
16897
434-21
97-1
553
441-20
102-1
564
9
8
7
24
Municipal Schools
Secondary Education
1579
1063
2642
1558
1049
2607
74-13
19-4
110
71-10
18-4
103
2.
1
6
Elementary Education
5970
5799
11769
6602
6394
12996
143-2
155
300
147-1
167
315
20
20
Total
7549
6862
14411
8160
7443
15603
217-15
174-4
410
218-11
185-4
418
2
3
21
26
Village or Town Schools
Secondary Education
10943 9546 20489 11781 10196 21977 360-146
218-9
733
387-165
226-20
798
2
4
94
100
Elementary Education
53723 52024 105747 53465 53449 106914 1576-19
1512-1
3108
1589-19
1440-1
3049
2
247 250
Total
64666 61570 126236 65246 63645 128891 1936-165
1730-10 3841
1976-184
1666-21
38473
6
341 350
Private Schools
Secondary Education
1880
3313
5193
1879
3295
5174
85-84
51-11
231
102-84
52-10
248
5
11
6
22
Elemontary Education
723
734
1457
639
671
1310
7.
29
36
7
28
35
8
8
Spesial Schools
531
531
516
516
3-5
19-10
37
3-6
19-10
38
4
rotal
2603
4578
7181
2518
4482
7000
95-89
99-21
304
112-90
99-20
14
ohools under Other Ministries
Secondary Education
1471 77
1548
1472 70
1542
36
36
35
35
3
Special Schools
33
5
38
34
5
39
4
4
4
4
Total
1504.82
1586
1506 75
1581
40
40
39
39
and Total,
88907 81419 170326 90009 83834 173843 2843-293 2110-36 5282
2916-318
2062-485342932
Bee footnote Table 1.
X See footnote. Table 1.
X

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
Table 4. Percent of Educational Institutions by Control and Level
ENROLIMENT
TEICHERS
x
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
Minlstry of Education
M
F
T
IA
F
T
M
F
M
F
T
I.I
F
Co-ed.T
Higher Education
60
25.3
48.6
64.8
25
52.3 90-100
70
88
90-100
70-100
90
100
50
60
Elem. Ed.(Atttha to Nor.Schla. 40
74.7
51.4
35.2
75
47.7
10-0
30
12
10-0
30-0
10
50
40
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Totel
2.6
1.5
2.1
3
1.4
2.2
4-1
0.5
2
4.5-4
0.5-4.1
3
4
1
Prefectural Schocls
99.3
99.3
99.3
99.2
99.4
99.3 97.7-95
93.8-100
97
97.7-95
94-100
97
100
100
71.4
92
Secordery Education
Snecial Schools
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.7
2.3-5
6.2-0
3
2.3-5
6-0
3
28.6
8
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
percent of Gr. Totel
11.5
8.8
10.2
11
8.3
9.7
15-7
4.6-3
10
15-6.3
5-2
10.6
39.1
25
2
54
Muntdinal Schools
Secondery Education
?1
15
18
19
14
17
35-87
10-100
27
32.5-91
9.7-100
25
100
100
5
23
Elementary Education
79
85
82
81
86
83
65-13
90-0
73
67.5-9
90.3-0
75
95
77
Totel
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Totel
3.5
8.4
8.5
091
8.9
7.5-5
8.2-11
∞11
7.5-3.4
9-8.3
7.7
8.7
911
5.3
5.8
Village or Ton Schools
Secondery Education
17
15.5
16
18
16
17
19-88.5
12-90
19
20-90
14-95
80
67
67
27
29
Elementary Education
33
84.5
84
82
84
83
81-11.5
88-10
81
80-10
86-5
20
33
33
73
71
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Totel
72.7
75.6
74.1
72.5
76
74.2
69-56
82-28
73.2
68-58
80.8-44
72
13
19
8704
78.6
Private Schools
72
73
73
75
74
74
89.5-95
51-52
76
91-93
53-50
77
100
73
43
65
Secondary Education
28
16
20
25
15
19
7.5-0
29-0
12
6-0
28-0
11
23
Elementary Education
Snecial Schools
11
7
11
7
3-5
20-48
12
3-7
19-50
12
27
57
12
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of-Gr. Total
2
5.6
22
800
5.3
生一
3-31
4.7-58
6
4-28.3
407-41.6
6
21.8
47
3.6
7.7
二
Schools under Other Ministries
98
94
97.6
98
93
97.6 90
90
90
90
100
67
83
Secondery Education
Special Schools
2
6
24
2
7
2.4
10
10
10
10
33
17
Totel
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. in Schls.
under Other Ministries
1.7
0.1
0.2
1.7
0.1
0.9
1.5
0.8
111
0.7
13
0.7
Grend Totel
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
# See footnote Table 1.
I See
footnote Table 1.
- XI

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
Table 5. Number of Educetional Institutions by Level and Contrrl
ENROLLMENT
开
TECHERS
X
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
Higher Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
Co-cd. T
Total
1436
307
1743
1723
304
2027
108-3
7
118
117-13
7-2
139
1
2
3
Ministry of Education
1436
307
1743
1723
304
2027
108-3
7
118
117-13
7-2
139
1
2
3
Secondary Education
Total
26008
21066
47074
26532
21547
48079
979-263 379-25
1646
1026-278
392-35
1731
21
26
108
155
Prefectural
10135
7067
17202
9842
6937
16779
424-20
91-1
536
431-19
96-1
547
9
8
5
22
Lunicipal
1579
1063
2642
1558
1049
2607
74-13
19-4
110
71-10
18-4
103
2
3
1
6
Village or Town
10943
9546
20489
11781
10196
21977
360-146 218-9
733
387-165
226-20
798
2
4
94
100
Private Schools
1880
3313
5193
1879
3295
5174
85-84
51-11
231
102-84
52-10
248
5
11
6
22
Schools under Other Ministries
1471
77
1548
1472
70
1542
36
36
35
35
3
2
5
Elomentary Educetion
Total
61354 59463
120817
61644
61420
123064 1739-21 1699-1
3460
1756-20
1638-1
3415
1
2
277
280
Ministry of Education
(ttached to Normal Schools)
938
906
1844
938
906
1844
13
3
16
13
3
16
2
2
Municipal
5970
5799
11769
6602
6394
12996
143-2
155
300
147-1
167
315
20
20
Village or Town
53723
52024
105747
53465
53449
106914
1576-19 1512-1
3108
1589-19
1440-1
3049
1
2
247
250
Private
723
734
1457
639
671
1310
7
29
36
7
28
35
8
8
Special Schools
Totel
109
583
692
110
563
673
17-6
25-10
58
17-7
25-10
59
4
3
7
Prefectural
76
47
123
76
42
118
10-1
6
17
10-1
6
17
2
2
Privatc
531
531
516
516
3-5
19-10
37
3-6
19-10
38
4
4
Schools under Other Ministries
33
5
38
34
5
39
4
4
4
4
1
1
Grand Total
88907
81419
170326
90009
83834
173843
2843-293
5282
2916-318
2062-48
534
23
32
390
445
2110-36
Those figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same column,
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
x11

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
Table 6. Percent of Educational Institutions by Level and Control
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
X
30 April 1946 -30 Novenbcr 1946 30 April 1946
30 November 1946
Instituticns
LE
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
Co-ed. T
Higher Education
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Ministry of Education
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Socondary Education
Totel
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100 100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Prefectural
39
34
36
37
34
35
45-7
24-4
33
43-7
24-3
31
43
31
5
14
Municipal
5
6
6
6
5
6
7-5
5-16
6
7-4
5-11
6
9
11
1
4
Village or Town
43
44
43
44
46
47
36-55
57-36
46
37-59
57-56
47
9
15
87
64
Private
8
15
11
8
14
10
8-33
14-44
13
10-30
14-30
14
25
43
6
14
Schls under Other Min. 5
1
4
5
1
2
4
一
2
3
一
2
24
一
1
4
Elenentery Education
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Ministry of Education
2
1
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
一
1
1
Municipal
9
11
9
9
10
10
8-9
8
8
8-5
10
9
一
一
8
8
Village or Torn
88
87
88
88
87
88
90-91
89-100
89
90-95
87-100
89
100
100
89
89
Private
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
2
1
2
1
一
一
2
2
Special Schools
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
Prefectural
69
9
17
69
7
17
59-16
24
29
59-14
24
28
一
67
28
Privete
90
78
92
77
18-84
76-100
64
18-86
76-100
64
100
一
57
Schls under Other Min.
31
1
5
31
1
6
23
一
7
23
一
8
一
33
15
Grand Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
# Sce footnote Teble 5.
x
See footnote Teble 5.
xiii

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
FUKUI FREFECTURE
Table 7. Schools Under the Jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education
x
EROLIMENT
TELCHERS
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
Higher Education (Koto Kyoiku)
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Colleges (Semmon Gakko)
Colleges for Males
754
754
1,028
1,028
45-1
46
49-10
59
(Danshi Semmon Gakko)
Normal Schools (Shihan Gakko)
Co-educational Normal Schools
682
307
89
605
304
999
63-2
7
72
68-3
7-2
80
(Danjo Kyogaku Shihan Gakko)
Total - Higher Education
1.436
307
1.743
1,723
304
2,027
108-3
7
118
117-13
7-2
139
Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
Elementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
858
846
1,704
856
346
1.704
12
12
12
12
attached to Normal Schools
Kindergartens (Yochien) attached to
00
60
140
80
60
140
1
3
4
1
3
4
Normal Schools
Total - Elementary Education
028
006
1,844
938
206
1,844
13
3
16
13
3
16
Total - Ministry of Educetion
2,374
1,213
3,587
2,661
1,210
3,871
121-3
10
134
130-13
10-2
155
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
X The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are tro numbers entered in the same columm,
seperated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
xiv

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
FUKUI FREFECTURE
Table 8 - Schools under Prefecturel Jurisdiction by Level end Type
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 April 1946
30 ioverber 1946
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
Secondery Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
N
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Vocational 3chools (Jitsugyo Cakko)
Commercial Schools (Shogyo Gekko)
Commercial Schools for Males
632
632
607
607
23
23
24
24
(Danshi Shogyo Gakko)
Industrial Schools (Fogyo Gakko)
Industrial Schools for Males
754
754
743
743
27-8
35
27-8
35
(Danshi Kogyo Gakko)
Agricultural Schools (No Gakko)
1,860
493
2,353
1,823
464
2,287
77-3
12-1
93
77-4
13-1
95
Coeducational Agrioultural Schools
(Den jo Kyogaku No Gakko)
Fisheries Schools (Suisan Cakko)
361
361
357
357
21
21
21
21
Total - Vocationel Schools
3,607
493
4,100
3,530
464
3,994
118-11
12-1
172
149-12
13-1
175
Middle Schools (Chu Gakko)
6,528
6,528
6,312
6.312
174-9
183
175-7
182
Girls' High Schools (Kcto Jo Gekko)
6,574
6,574
6,473
6.473
102
79
181
107
83
190
Total - Secondary Education
10,135
7,067
17,202
0,842
6,937
16,779
424-20
91-1
536
431-19
96-1
547
Special Schcol (Tokushu Gekko)
Schools for the Blind and Deef Mute
76
47
123
76
42
118
10-1
6
17
10-1
6
17
(Noa Gakko)
Total - Prefectural Schools
10,211
7.124
17,325
9.918
6.979
16,897
434-21
97-1
553
441-20
102-1
564
# These figures ere not those for ectual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
X The number of both full end pert-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there ere two numbers entered in the same colum.
seperated by a hyphen, the second figure indicetes the number of pert-time teachers.
xv

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
FURUI FREFECTURE
Table  - Schools Under Municipal Jurisdiction by Level and Type
X
ENRCLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
Commercial Schools (Shogyo Gakko)
Commercial Schools for Males
1,000
1,000
62
062
35-1
36
32-1
33
(Danshi Shogyo Gakko)
Total - Vocational Schools
1,000
1,000
962
962
35-1
36
32-1
33
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko)
635
635
620
629
12
7
19
12
8
20
Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
Youth Schools for Males
183
183
193
193
19
19
19
19
(Danshi Seinen Gakko)
Girls' Youth Schools
78
78
61
61
0-2
6-1
9
0-2
4-1
7
(Joshi Seinen Gakko)
Co-educational Youth Schools
396
350
746
403
359
762
8-10
6-3
27
8-7
6-3
24
(Danjo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko)
Total - Youth Schools
579
428
1,007
506
420
1,016
27-12
12-4
55
27-9
10-4
50
Total - Secondary Education
1,579
1,063
2,642
1,558
1,049
2,607
74-13
19-4
110
71-10
18-4
103
Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
Elementary Schools (Sho Cakko)
5.070
5.709
11,769
6,602
6,394
12,996
143-2
155
300
147-1
167
315
Totel - Elementary Educetion
5,970
5,709
11,760
6,602
6,394
12,096
143-2
155
300
147-1
167
315
Total - Municipel Schools
7,549
6.862
14,411
8,160
7.443
15.603
217-15
174-4
410
218-11
185-4
418
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records es of these detes.
X The number of both full and part-tme teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are tvo numbers entered in the same coIumm.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the rumber of part-time teechers.
xvi

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUI FREFECTURE
Table 10 - Schools Under Village or Town Jurisdiction by Level and Type
ENRCLIMENT #
TELCHERS
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko)
1,211
1,211
1.173
1,173
19-4
25
48
22-5
24
51
Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
Youth Schools for Males
374
374
62
62
15
15
6
6
(Danshi Seinen Gekko)
Youth Schools for Females
257
257
172
172
4
9
13
3
7
10
(Joshi Seinen Gakko)
Coeducetional Youth Schools
10,569
8,078
18,647
11,719
8,851
20,570
322-142
18L-9
657
356-160
195-20
731
(Dan jo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko)
Total - Youth Schools
10,043
8.335
19,278
11,781
9.023
20,804
341-142
193-9
685
365-160
202-20
747
Total - Secondery Education
10,043
9,546
20,489
11,781
10,196
21,977
360-146
218-9
733
387-165
226-20
798
Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
Elementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
Elementery Schools for Males
1,469
1,469
1,450
1,450
15
16
31
16
15
31
(Danshi Sho Gakko)
Elementary Schools for Femeles
2,681
2,681
2,705
2,705
26
35
61
28
33
61
(Joshi Sho Gakko)
Coeducational Elementery Schools
51,110
48,215
99.325
50.870
40.615
100,485
1535-2
1,411
2,948
1,545-2
1.344
2,891
(Dan jo Kyogaku Sho Gakko)
Totel - Elementery Schools
52,579
50.896
103.475
52,320
52,320
104.640
1,576-2
1.462
3,040
1,589-2
1.392
2.983
Kindergerten (Yochien)
1,144
1,128
2,272
1,145
1,129
2,274
0-17
50-1
68
0-17
48-1
66
Total - Elementary Education
53,723
52,024
105,747
53.465
53,449
106,914
1,576-19
1,512-1
3.108
1.589-19 1,440-1
3.049
Total - Village or Town Schools
64.666
61.570
126.236
65,246
63.645
128,891
1.936-165
1.730-10
3,841
1.976-184 1,666-21 3.847
# These figures are not those for actual attendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
X The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same columm.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
xvii

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
Table ll. Schools under Private Jurisdiction by Level and Type
ENROLIMENT
开
TEACHERS
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
M
F
T
II
F
T
2
F
T
M
F
T
8
Secondary Education
(Chuto Kyoiku)
Middle Schools (Chu Gakko)
1156
1156
1125
1125
32-18
1
51
32-17
1
50
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko)
1071
1071
1026
1026
20-2
29-3
54
23-2
27-3
55
Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
Youth Schools for Males
(Danshi Seinen Gakko)
139
139
124
124
1-19
1-1
22
2-19
1
22
Girls' Youth Schools (Joshi Seinen Gakko)
1007
1007
900
900
22-22
14-1
59
21-22
16-1
60
Coeducational Youth Schools
(Dan jo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko)
585
1235
1820
630
1369
1999
10-23
6-6
45
24-24
7-6
61
Total - Youth Schools
724
2242
2966
754
2269
3023
33-64
21-8
126
47-65
24-7
143
Total - Secondary Education
1880
3313
5193
1879
3295
5174
85-84
51-11
231
102-84
52-10
248
Elamentary Education
(Shoto Kyoiku)
Kindergartens(Yochien)
723
734
1457
639
671
1310
7
29
36
7
28
35
Total - Elementary Education
723
734
1457
639
671
1310
7
29
36
7
28
35
Special Schools (Tokushu Gacko)
Miscellane ous Schools (Kakushu Gakko)
Miscellaneous Schools for Females
(Joshi Kakushu Gakko)
531
531
516
516
3-5
19-10
37
3-6
19-10
38
Total - Special Schools
531
531
516
516
3-5
19-10
37
3-6
19-10
38.
Total - Private Schools
2603
4572
7181
2518
4482
7000
95-89
99-21
304
112-90
99-20
321
# See footnote Table 7.
x
See footnote Table 7.
xviii

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
Table 12. Schools under Ministries Cther than Ministry of Education
ENROLLMENT
#
TEACHERS
x
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
Secondary Education
(Chuto Kyoiku)
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
Training Institutes (Yoseijo)
Training Institutes for Wales
(Danshi Yoseijo)
39
39
39
39
6
66
6
Total - Vocational Schools
39
39
39
39
6
61
Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
Youth Schools for Males
(Danshi Seinen Gakko)
1373
1373
1378
1378
10
10
11
Co-educational Youth Schools
(Dan jo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko)
59
77
136
55
70
125
20
20
18
Total - Youth Schools
1432
77
1509
1433
70
1503
30
30
29
Total - Secondary Education
11.71
77
1548
1472
70
1542
36
36
35
Special Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
Juvenile Correction Schools
(Shonen Kyogoin)
33
5
38
34
5
39
4
4
4
Total - Special Schools
33
5
38
34
5
39
4
4
4
Total - Schools under Other Ministries
1504
82
1586
1506
75
1581
40
40
39
# See footnote Table 7. X See footnote Table 7.
xix

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.91)
Elementary Education (Shoto Kyolku)
aohaala (Sho Gakko)
858
846
1,704
856
343
1,704
4
1
3
4

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
L.MINSRRKOF EDUCATION SCHOOLS
. Higher Education (Koto Kyoiku)
3. Colleges (Semmon Gakko)
a) Colleges for Males (Danahi Semmon Gakko) under the Control of Ministry of Education, Fukui Prefecture
NIME
4DDRESS
DITE FOUIED
ENROLLENT #
TECHERS
x
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
T
1 Fukui Kogyo Semmon Gacko Nishi--ujishima-ure,
Dec. 1923
754
754
1,023
1,023
145-1
46
49-10
59
(Fukui College of
Yoshida-gun,
Technology)
Fului Prefecture
Totel
754
754
1,028
1,028 45-1
46
49-10
59
I. LI.ISTRY OF EDUC.TION SCHOOLS
4. Higher Educetion (Koto Kyoiku)
7. Normal Schools (Shihan Gakko)
c) Co-cducationcl Normel Sohools (Dan jo Kyogaku Shihen Gakko) under the Control of Ministry of Educetion, Fukui Prefecture
X
NALE
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
EMROLLENT
TELCHERS
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
2
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 Fukui Seinen hihan Ga dso Shinbo-cho. Fukui City, June 1938
102
56
158
99 56
155
92
13
9-3 2-2: 16
(Normal School for Train- Fukui Prefecture
ing Youth School Teachers)
2 Fukui Shihan Gakko
Funatsu-mure, Imedate- pril 1943
580 251
831
54 5
59
59.5
(Fukui Normal School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
Total
682 307 989 695 304 999
#：
Theso figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for cnrollmcnt on tho school rocords as of theso atos
X
The first number in each column indicates the number of full time teachers; the second number indicates half-time twachers.
-I-

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JLPANESE EDUCATIONLL INSTITUTIONS
I. MINISTRY OF EDUCATION SCHOOLS
. Higher Education (Koto Kyoiku)
7. Nornal Schools (Shihen Gakko)
a. Elementary Schools (Sho Gakcso) Attached to Fukui Normal School, under the Control of Ministry of Education, fukui Prefecture
NAME
LDDRESS
DT FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT #
TELCHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
L.i
F
T
F
T
F
T
unui Shihan Fuzoku Sho
Funetsu-mure, Imadete-
April 1943
858 846
1704
858 846
1704
12
12
12
12
1 Fului Shihan Fuzoku
gun, Fukui Prefecture
Sho Gakko (Elementery
Totel
853 846 1704 858 846 1704 12
12
12
12
I. LINISTRY OF LDUCITION SCHOOLS
. Higher Education (Koto Kyoiku)
7. Normal Schools (Shihan Gakko)
b. Kindergartens (Yochien) Lttached to Fucui Normal School, under the Control of Ministry of Education, Fukui Prefecture
NE
¿DDRESS
DIT FOUNDED
EROLIENT 
TELCHERS
30p.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
II
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Fukui Shihan Fuzoku
Funatsu-mura, Imc daté-
pril 1943
80
60
140
80
60
140
1
3
4
Yochien (Kindergarten
gun, Fukui Prefecture
ttached to Fukui
Normal School)
1
Total
80 60 140 80 60 140 1 34
Those figures.are not those for actual.attendance.on these dateg. but those. for. enrollment on. the school records as of the

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.98)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
II. PREFECTURAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
e. Carmercial Schools (Shogyo Gakko)
1) Commercial Schools for the Males (Danshi Shogyo Gakko) under the Control of Prefectural Government, Fukui Pref.
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENRCLIMENT #
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
1. Tsuruga Shogyo Gakko
Matsushime, Tsuruga
May 1906
632
632
607
607
23
23
24
(Tsuruga Cormercial
City, Fukui Pref.
School)
Total
632
632 607
607
23
23
24
JI. PREFECTURLL SCHOOIS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocationel Schools (Jitsugyo Gekko)
b. Industrial Schools (Kogyo Cakko)
1) Industriel Schools for Meles (Danshi Kogyo Gakko) under the Control of Prefectural Government, Fukui Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLIMENT #
TEACHERS X
FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
MF
T
1. Kogyo Gakko (Industrial
Matumoto-Naka-cho,
April 1915
754
743
743
27-8
35
27-8
School)
Fukui City, Fukui Pref.
Total
754
743
27-8
35
27-8
 These figures are not those for actuel attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school recards as of these d
I The number of both full and part-time teachers is indfoeted in this report. Where there are two mumbers entered in the same
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-3-

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIGNS
II. PREFECTURAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakke)
c. Agricultural ahols (No Gakk)
3) Co-educational Agricultural Schools (Dan jo Kyogaku No Gakko) under the Contrel of Prefectural Government, Fukui Prefecture
NAME
DDESS
DTE FOUNDED
DROLLENT
TEACHERS
30 Lr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30r.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 Fukui Norin Gakko
Shinbo-machi, Fukui
April 1395
489
85
574
481
81
562
18
2
20
21
2
23
(Fukui gricultural and
City, fului Prefecture
Forestry School)
2
Imedate No Galcko (Imada-
Shin-Yokoe-mura, Imeda- pril 1915
327 86
413
317 33
400
13
2
15
12
2
14
te gricultural School)
te-gun, ui Pref.
3 Cno Norin Gakko (Ono
Shimo-Shc-mura, Ono-
March 1944
311
405
304 92
396
11-3 1
15
11-4 2
17
gricultural and
gun, Fukui Pref.
forestry School)
4 Onyu Norin Gekko (Cnyu
Cnyu-mure, Onyu-cun,
Feb. 1920
392
93
485
339 87 476
16
2
18
16
2
18
Agricultural and
Fukui Prefecture
Forestry School)
5 Sasai No Gatco (Sasai
Higashi-jyugo-mura,
Dec. 1917
341 135 476
332
19 5-1 25
17 5-1 23
gricultural School)
ukui Prefecture
Total
1,860
1.823 464 2,287 77-3 12-1 93
77-4 13-1 95
493 2,353
# These figures are not those for actual attcndance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
X The first number in cach column indicates the number of full time tcachers; the sccond number indicates half-time teachers.
-4-

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
FURUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATICNAL INSTITUTIONS
II. PREFECTURAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondery Education (Chutc Kyoiku)
1. Vocationel Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
d. Fisheries Schools (Suisen Cakko) under the Control of Prefecturel Government, Fukui Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLIMENT#
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 ∆2r. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
1. Cbama Suisan Gakko (Obema
Imatomi-mura, Onyu-gun, April 1899
361
961
357
357
21
21
21
21
Fisheries School)
Fukui Pref.
Total
361
361
357
357
21
21
21
21
# These fgures are not those for ectual attendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these date.
-5-

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INST ITUTIONS
II. PRLLCTURL SCHOOLS
B. Secindery Educction (Chuto Kyoiku)
2. Middle Schools (Chu Gakko) under the Control of Prefecturel Governaent, Fukui Prefecture
NLE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNLD
EROLLET"
TCHERS
30or.46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
N
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
Fukui Chu Gakko
Kishi-Fujishima-mura,
0ct. 1681
1.694
1,694 1,652
1,652
40
40
40
40
(Fuui Middle School)
Yoshide-gun. Fukui
rrefecture
2:
Mi'suni Chu Gekko
Mikuni-cho, Fukui Pref.
Dec. 1,21
910
910
849
849
26
26
26
26
(likuni iddle School)
3
Übame Chu Gekko
Ob-cho, -gu,
ipril 1897
999
899
871
871
25-2
27
26-2
28
(obane ddle Sclool)
Fuqui prefecture
4
Ono Chu Gaicko
Ono-cho, Ono-gun,
pril 1901
942
942
906
906
30-5
35
27-4
31
(Ono Middle School)
Fukui Prefecture
5
Takefu Chu Gaicko
Tekefu-mechi, Nen jo-sun, Merch 1898
1,391
1.391 1,366
1,306 33-2
35
32-1
33
(Takefu Middle School)
Fukui Prefecture
6
Tsuruge Chu Galdio
¿weno-mura, Tsuruge City, Jen. 1940
692
692
668
663
20
20
24
24
(Tsuruge Mddle Shool)
rusui refecture
Total
6,528
6,528 6,312
6,312 174-9
183
175-7
182
Those figuros are not those for ectual attendance on these datcs, but thoso for cnrollment on the school records as of. those detes.
The first number in ecch columm indicates the number of full timo tecchers; tho second number indicates half-time teachers.
-6-

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCITIQNIL INT ITUTIONS
II. PREFLCTUAL SCHOCLS
B. Sccondry Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
3. Girls' Hich Schools (Koto Jo Gakso) under the Control of refectural Government, "ukui refecture
NME
.DDRCSS
D.TI FOUNDED
ENROLLET
in
TCHIRS
302.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
K
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
1 Fukui Koto Jo Gakko
Hiyuki-himo-cho, Fukui pril 1892
1,459 1,459
1.455 1,455
20
14
34
21
15
36
(Fukui Girls' High Schl.) City, Fuui Pref.
2 Mkuni Koto Jo Gecso (i- Mikuni-mechi, Se ci-
..pril 1926
761 761
754 754
10
11
21
23
kuni Girls' igh School) gun, Fusui Pref.
3 Niu Koto Jo Gakko
sahi-cho, hiu-gun.
pril 1941
458
458
434
434
3
9 . 17
7
9
16
(Niu Girls' High Schoel)
Fukui Pref.
4 Obac Koto Jo Gasko
Obemc-cho, Onyu-gun,
pril 1>23
831 831
816
816
12
9
2113
2
(Obame Girls' High School)fukui Pref.
5 Ono Koto Jo Gato
Oo-.i, Ono-gun,
pril 1911
300
800
779
779
10
11
21
(Ono Girls' High School)
Fusui Prefecture
657 657
649 649
16
7
23
15
10
6 Sabae Soto Jo Gaicto (Sa-
Functsu-mure, Iandete-
ril 1928
bee Girls' High School)
sun, Fuqui Pref.
7 Takefu Koto Jo Gekko
Takefu-cho, Nen jo-
Merch 1920
364 864
850 850
10
24
(Tekefu Girls' High Schl.)gun, Fukui Pref.
Thoso figuros aro not thoso for actual attendancc on thoso dates, but thoso for cnrollment on tho school rocords as of thoso dato
-7-

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.97)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TECHERS
30 6pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
1
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
2
F
T
8 Tsuruge Koto Jo Gacco
Izumi, Tsuruga City,
May 1919
744
744
736
736
12
8
20
13
9
22
(Tsuruge Girls' High
Fusui Prefecture
School)
Total
6,574
6,473
102
79
181
10783
190
6,574
6,473
II. PREFECTURAI SCHCOIS
C. Snecial Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
3. Schools for the Blind and Deaf-Mute (Moa Gakko), under the Control cf prefectural Governmert, Fukui trefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT#
TEACHERS
30 Ar. 46
30 Nov.46
30 A-r. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
:F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. Mo Gakko
Vishi-Fujishime-mura,
Anril 1925
33
23
56
33
19
52
6
1
7
6
1
7
(Blind School)
Yoshida-gun, Fukui rref.
2. Roa Gakko
Vishi-Fujishima-mura,
Anril 1925
43
24
67
43
23
66
4-1 5
10
10
(Deaf & Deaf-Mute
. Yoshida-gur, Fukui pref.
School)
Total
76
47 123
76
42
118
10-1
17
10-1
6
17
# These figures are not those for actuel ette dence on these dates, tut those for enrollment o the school records as of these dates.
x The first number in each colum indicates the number of full time teachers; the secod number i-dicates helf-time teechers.
-8-

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.95)
ROSTE OF J.ESE EDUC.SIUNL.L INSTITUTIONS
FUKUI P REFECTURE
FUKUI
III. MUNICIP.L SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Pducation (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocetioncl Schcols (Jitsugyo Gakko)
a. Commercial Sohoole (Shogyo Cakko)
1) Cammercial Sohools for Males (Danshi Shogyo Gaicko) under the Control of Municipal Office, Fukui Prefccture
X
NME
.DDRESS
L.TE FOUNDED
DROLLENT
TELCHERS
30 ipr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30.pr.46
30 Nov. 46
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 Fukui Shogyo Galito (Fu- Mineto-Shin-iacni, Fukui April 1908
1,000
1,002
s2
-1
30
32-1
33
kui Commercial Schl.)
City, Fukui Prefecture
Total
1,000
1,000 962
902
35-1
36
32-1
33
Theso fi ures are nct those for actual attendence on theso aates, but those for enrollmont on the school records as of these detes.
The first number in eacn column indicates the nunser of full time teachers; the second nunber indicates half-tive teecaers.
-9-

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.96)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIOAL INST ITUTIONS
III. MUNICIPΔL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
3. Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gacko) under the Control of Villtge or Town Office, Fukui Prefecture
NE
.DDRESS
DaTE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TECHERS
30pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
f
T
F
T
15
F
T
1 Fusui-Shiritsu Koto Jo
Shimo-Kitano-cho.
Merch 1926
635
635
629
629
12
19
12
8
20
Gekko (Fukui-Shiritsu
Fukui City,
Girls' High School)
Fukui Prefecture
€35 635
62962912 7 19 12
8
20
Totel
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but thoee for enrollment on the school records as of the those dates.
-10-

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
FUKUI PREFECTURC
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCLTIONAL INST ITUTIONS
III. MUNICIPLL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
a) Youth Schcols for Mles (Dansai Seinen Gakko)
under the Control of Municipal Government, Fukui Prefecture
NE
DDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT #
TECHERS
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
M
1 Fukui Seinen Gakko
Nishi-Fujishine-cho. Yo-
March 1943
183
183
193
193
19
19
14-2
(Fukui Youth School)
shida-gun, Fukui Pref.
Total
183
193
19
19
19
These figures aro not those for actuel attendancc on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these date
The first number in cech column indicates tho number of full time toachors; the cocond number indicates half-timo toaohers.
-11-

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.96)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATICNAL INSTITUTIONS
III. MUNICIPL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gekko)
b. Girls' Youth Schools (Joshi Seinen Gakko) under thc Control of Municipel Office, Bukui Prefecture
NE
ADDRISS
DT FOURLLD
EROLLET"
TELC.ERS
30...r.46
30 Nov. 46
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
:J
F
T
T
1 Enzan Joshi Seinen Gakko Kita-Yoi-machi, Fukui
ril 1935
39
39
27
27
0-1 4-1
0-1 . 2-1
4
(Enzan Girls' Youth Schl.)City, Fuxui Pref.
2 Higashi-go Joshi Seinen .izukoshi-cho, Fukui
pril 1541
39
39
34
34
0-1
2
3
0-1 2
3
Gekko (Higasi-go
City, "ului Pref.
0
Girls' Youth School)
Totel
78 78
61
61
0-2 6-1 9
0-2 4-1 7
c) Co-educational Youth Schools (Danjo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko) under the Control
of iniciphl
Office, Fukui frefecture
NAVE
LDDRESS
DLTE FOUNDED
ENRULLLENT
TE&CHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov 46
F
T
M
F
T
M
T
1 Tsuruga Seinen Gakko
Yuki, Tsuruga City,
March 1935
396 350 746
403 359
762
8-10 6-3 27
8-7 6-3 24
(Tsuruga Youth School) Fukui Pref.
Total
396 350 746 403 359 762
8-10 6-3 27 8-7 63 24
# These figures are not those for actual attendence on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
x
The first number in each column indicates the number of full time teachers; the second number indicates half-time teachers.
-12-

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JLPANESE EBUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
III. LNIC SCHOOLS
C. Elementery Education (Snoto Kyoiku)
1. Elementary Schools (Sho Gakko) under the Control of unicipal Government, Fukui Prefecture
NLME
.DDRESS
D.TL FOUNDED
ENROLLENT #
TE.CHERS
30 -pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
I
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
IS
F
1 Lsahi Sho Gekko
Teyose-kami-cho, ukui
July 1887
356
358
714
472
458
930
6
8
14
8
10
(isahi Elementary Schl.) City, Fukui Pref.
2 Enzan Sho Gekko (Enzan
Kita-Yotsui-machi, Fukui June 1908
175 162
337
162
162
324
7
9
13
7
6
Elementary School)
City, Fukui Pref.
338 335
723
453
445
898
12
10
22
1212
Haruyame Sho Gakko (Haru- Nishi-Fujishima-mure, pril 1887
yame Elementery School) Yoshide-gun, Fuicui Pref.
4 Higashi-igo Sho Gakko
Likoshi-machi, Fukui
1877
111
110
221
88
91
179
4
7
3
(Higashi-igo Elementary City, Fukui Pref.
School)
5
Hinode Sho Gakko (Hino-
Yotsui-Honcho, Fukui
Larch 1928
276 261 537
310 292 602
6
7
13
7
8
de Elementary School)
City, fukui Pref.
6
Hoei Sho Gakko (Hoei
Nishi-Fujishima-mura,
pril 1892
122
114 236
156 164 320
3
4
7
3
Elumentary School)
Yoshida-gun, Fukui Pref.
1
7 Jogu Sho Gakko
Jogu, Tsuruga City,
Nov. 1873
46
51
97
46
51
97
1
3
3
(Jogu Elementary School) Fukui Prefecture
8 Keimo Sho Gakko (Keimo
Kaihat su-mechi, Fukui
Sept. 1875
152 168 320
141 155
4
7
3
Elementary School).
City, Fukui Pref.
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school recorde se or t
-13

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
DDRESS
D FOUNDED
ENROLLMANT
TECHERS x
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30.46
30 Nov. 46
II
F
T
II
F
T
F
T.
F
9 Kida Sho Gakko
Kida-machi, Fukui City, pril 1902
391
355
746
393
383
776
11
10
21
18
(Kida Elementery School) Fukui Prefecture
10 Kutsumi Sho Gakko (Kutsu- Kutsumi, Tsuruge City, Nov. 1873
65
60
125. 65
60
125
1
2
3
2.
3
mi Eementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
11 Matsubara Sho Gakko (Ma- Matsushima, Tsuruge
tsubara Elementary Schl.) City, Fukui Pref.
.pril 1893
318 359 677
266 291 557
10
10.20
9
9
18
12 Matsumoto Sho Gakko (a- Machiya-cho, Fukui
pril 1946
337 338 675
405 394 .799
8
10
18
11
18
tsumoto Elementery Schl.)City. Fukui Pref.
13 Mneto Sho Gakko (line- Higashi-keri-cho, Fului March 1946
343
321 664
458
408
866
8-1 7
16
9.
9
18
to Elementary School)
City, Fukui Pref.
14 Minori Sho Gakko (Mino-
Yamaoku-cho, Fukui City,
1873
790
739
1529
790 732 1522 15-1 16
32
13-1 15
29
ri Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
15 Tachiya Sho Gakko (Ta-
Yashiro-mura, Lsuwe-
Merch 1946
245
230475
294
280
574
7
8
15
78
15
chiya Elementary Schl.)
gun, Fukui Pref.
16 Tsuruga-Kita Sho Gakiko
Tsunai, Tsuruga City,
Merch 1913
300
285
585
311 272. 583
7
6
13
8
6
14
(Tsuruga-Kita
Fukui Prefecture
Elementary School)
17 Tsuruga-linami Sho Gakko Tsunei-ku, Tsuruga
pril 1901
578 572 1150 622 583 1205 13
1326
14 15
29
(Tsuruga-Minami
City, Fukui Pref.
Elementary School)
18 Tsuruga-Nishi Sho Gekko Yuki, Tsuruga City,
Merch 1915
532 587 1119 529 593
112212152711
15 26
(Tsuruga-Nishi
Fukui Prefecture
Elementary School)
The first number in each column indicates the number of full time teachers; the second number indicates helf-time teachers.
The figures for this institution include those for four branch schools under the same administretion.
-14-

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.98)
NE
DDRESS
L.TE FOUNDED
ETROLLLET #
TECHERS X
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Lr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
19
Wada Sho Gakko
Yanagi-machi. Futui
Lug. 1894
215
199
414
231
216
447
7
7
14
7
8
15
(Weda Eiementery School) City, Fukui Pref.
20
Zyunkoku Sho Gaidko
Mayakata-cho, Fukui
ril 1873
230
195
425
410
364
774
3
5
8
8
9
17
(Zyunkoku Elementary
City. Fukui Pref.
School)
Totel
5,970
11,769. 6,602
12.996 143-2
300
315
5,799
6,394
.155
147-1
167
IV. VILLAGE CR TOVI SCHOCLS
A. Seccndary Education (Chuto Kyoika)
3. Girls' High Schools (Kcto Jo Gakko) under the Cortrol of Village or Tow office, Fukui prefecture
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
:T
1. Katsuyema-Choritsu Koto
Ketsuyane-cho, Onc-gur, Jot iven
121
121
116
116
1-4
5
10
2-5
5
12
Jo Gakko (Fatsuyema-
Fukui refecture
choritsu Girls' High
School)
2.
Maruoka Koto Jo Gekko
Naruoka-machi, Sakai-gun, Anril 1924
589
576
576
10
2
18
11
8
19
(Maruoke Girls' High
Fukui prefecture
Schocl)
3.
Takefu-Choritsu Kcto Jo
Famiyema-mure, Ven jo-cun, Anril 1943
501
501
481
481
8
12
20
9
11
20
Gakko (Takefu-Choritsu
Fukui prefecture
Girls' High School)
Totel
1,211
1.173
19-4
48
22-5
51
1,211
1.173
25
24
# These figures are not those for actuel attendance on these detes, but those for eirollmert on the school records as of these dates.
X The first number in eech cclum i-dicates the number of full time teachers; the secord numter indicates half-time. teachers.
-15-

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.96)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JINESE EDUCTICNL INSTITUTIONS
IV. VILL.GL CR TOWN SCHOULS
. Secondcry Education (Chuto yoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Scinen Gakko)
a) Youth Schpuls for cles (Danshi Scinen Gekko) under the Control of Village or Town Officc, Fukui Prefocture
N.E
..DDRLSS
D.T. FOUNDED
ENRCLL ENT
TELCHEFS
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30..pr.46
30 Nov. 46
H
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
1 Chubu Scincn Gckko
iwttibo-m chi, Imadate- Nov. 1944
374
374 Closcd in Junc 1946
1
15
(Chubu Youth School)
cun, Fukui ref.
2
Makyo Scinen Galko
watubo-machi, Luedate- Oct. 1946
62
62
6
6
(xkyo Youth School)
eun, Fukui Pref.
Total
374
374
62
62
15
15
6
6
一
b) Youth Schools for Fumsles (Josni Seinen Gakko) uneer the Control of Village or Town Office, Fukui Prefecture
NE
DDUSS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLLENT
T.LCHERS
30 ipr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
2
F
T
F
T
K
F
T
1 Kakyo Senshu Jo Gakko (a- vatebe-mechi, Iaadate- Nov. 1943
57
257
172
172
4
9
13
3
7
10
kyo Special Sch. for Girls) gun, Fukui Prf.
Total
7 257
257
172
172
4
9
13
3
7
10
# These figures cre not those for actuel attendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
16-a
-16-

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.93)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
IV. VILLGE On TON SCHOOLS
.. Deconacry Educction (Cauto oiiu)
4. Youth Schools (Suinen Gakco)
c) Co-educational Youth Schools (Den jo Kvogeku Seinen Gakko) under the Control of Village or Town Office, Fukui Prefecture
NE
..DDAESS
DT FOURDED
PROLLENT
it
TE.CHERS
x
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
302r.46
30 Nov. 46
1 4 jimeno Seinen Gc tto
ji  re. Ladete-
Scot. 1946
F
T
M
F
T
177
F
T
3
.2
F
T
3
(ijimno Youth Schoul)
qun. Fukui pref.
2 rechi Seinen Gekko
rachi-murc, Tsu urt -gun, 0ct. 1946
53 114 177
1-6 1-5 13
(rechi Youth Scnool)
rukui r fucture
3 ishimi Suinen Geso
snimi-murt, Cho-gun,
Junc 1935
5 30 65
32
57
0-2
2
(ishimi Youth School)
Fukui rerecture
4 sozu Seinen Gecko
sozu-murc, sune-tun,
June 1935
120
69 44 113 2-3 1
6
(sozu Youth School)
rukui Prefecture
5 .weno Seinen Gelko
iwa no-son, Tsuru c- un.
Oct. 1936
192 319 511
98
137 2356-3 3
(weno Youth School)
rucui rufecture
6 Awero Seinen Gekto
ware- cni, S ti-
Sept. 1944
233 142 375
235
146 381 8-3 6
8-3 617
(¿vera Youta Sclool)
cun, Fuui rei.
The figures for this institution include those for two brench scnocls under the sane εdministration.
Decrease in enrollinent due'to a reorgenization of the school:
These figures are not those for ectual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
x
The first number in each column indicates the number of full time teachers; the second number indicates the half-time teachers.
-17-

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
TE4CHERS X
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30p.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
7
Chubu Seinen Gao
Metsuoke-cno, Yoshida-
Sept. 1944
210
190
400
222
212
434
7
6
13
5
9
(Caubu Youth School)
un, Fukui Pref.
Daigobu Seinen Gakro
Shirayema-mura, Niu-
July 1926
158
140
298
168
105
273
6
3
9
4
3
7
(Daigobu Youth Schl.)
eun, fukui Pref.
9
Dai-Ichibu Seine.. Gacko
schi-cno, Niu-un,
Sept. 1544
618
208
326
614
336
950
10-7 3
20
10-7 4
21
(Dai-Ichibu Youth Schl.) Fuicui Pref.
10
Deinibu Seinen Gakko
Shizu-nure, Niu-gun,
Cct. 1944
83
95
178
175
129
304
4-4
2
10
6-4 2
12
(Deini Youth School)
Fukui Pref.
11
Deinichi Seinen Gakko
Phiketani-son, Ono-gun,
us.1944
376
150
526
266
127
393
8-4
16
8-4
16
(Dainichi Youth Schl.)
Fukui Prefecture
12
Däisanbu Seinen Ga.cko
Keshino-mura, Niu-gun,
ug.1944
262
195
457
263
191
454
13
6-4
14
(Deisanbu Youth Schl.)
Fukui Pref.
13
Daishibu Seinen Galcko
Ote-son,Niu-gun,
Feb. 1945
157
116
273
157
116
273
3-3
2
10
5-32
10
(aishibu Youth Schl.)
Fukui prefecture
Deito Seinen Gakko
Tomida-son, Ono-gun,
July 1944
144
94
238
6-2
1
9
(Daito Youth School)
rukui Prefecture
25
Fukume Seinen Gaicko
Fukune-mure, Imedate-
Oct. 1946
73
41
114
2
1
3
(Fukuma Youth School)
gun, fukui Pref.
x
The first number in eeca coluan indicstes the numbe: of full time teachers; the second nuaber indicetes hel-time teachers.
4
This school was closed.
18-

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.97)
NJE
ADDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TECHERS
30 .pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Lpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
. 近
F
16.
Goka-Nogyo Seinen Geldko Goke-son, Ono-un,
4pril 1927
55
38
93
45
25
70
1-6
1
8
1-3
(Goke-Noeyo Youth Schl.) Fukui  refecture
17
Habare Seinen Gacko
To o-son, Tsuruga-gun,
Oct. 1946
20
24
44
0-3
0-1
(Habara Youth Scnool)
Fuxui Prefecture
18
Hanyu Seinen Gekio
Hanyu-son, Cno-tun,
July 1920
76
58
134
87
61
148
3-2
1-1
3-2
1
6
(Hanyu Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
19
Hruebu Seinen Gacto
Herue-cno, Sekai-εun,
sept. 1945
277
212
439
26
207 476
8
5
13
8
4
12
(Heruebu Youth Scal.)
fukui Pre'ecture
20
Higeshi-Ura Seinen (c sko Hi eshi-Ura-mure, Tsuru ε- July 1944
59
53
112
54
54
103
6
2
8
3
2
5
(Higashi-Ura Youth Sehl.) cun, Fukui Prefecture
21
Hino Seinen Gekiso
Minami-Hino-mure, an jo-
July 1944
214
188
402
220
133
403
6-4
14
15
(Hino Youth School)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
22
Hokubu Seinen Gakko
Kita-Neke yama-mura, Ima-
Dec. 1944
168
105
273
197 134 331
8
4
12
10
4
14
(Hoisubu Youta School)
date-gun, Fukui Pref.
23. Hongo Seinen Geldko
Hongo-son, Oi-gun,
Oct. 1946
64
32
116
6-1
2
9
(Hon o Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
24 Ichi jodani Seinen Gekso
Ichi jodeni-mura, suke-
Mey 1946
49
3ó
85
1-2
1-1
5
(Ichi jodeni Youth Schl.) gun, Fukui refecture
25
Ima jo Seinen Gaicko
Ima jo-mure, Nen jo-gun,
sept. 1,44
155
126
281. .284. 271 555
5-6 6
18
5-5
6
(Ima jo Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
26.
Imetomi Seinen Gakko
Imetomi-mura, Onyu-gun,
Oct. 1946
32
22
54
2
(Imatoni Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
x
The first number in eech column indicates the number of full time teachers; the second number indicetes half-time teachers.
-19-

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.97)
X
T.CHERS
BROLLET
30 Nov. 46
D.TL FOUNDED
30r.46
NIE
DDRE
May 1935
30 ..pr. 46
50
F
42
T
92
30 Nov. 46
47
r
44
T
91
1-3
1
F
T
5
1-2 1
F
T
4
Isni doshiro-son, Ono-
27 Ishido-hiro Scinen
un, uui rfecture
Gakko (Ishido-Shiro
Youth School)
284
205
489
234
205
489
6-4 5
15
8-4 4
16
.1944
Ono-c.no, Ono-un,
28
Joto Seinen Gekko
(Joto Youth School)
Fukui refecture
2
19
45
34
27
61
1-1
3
1-1
3
xy 1910
Kt do-son, i-cun,
29 Kado Seinen Geicko
Fu.xui refecture
(Kado Youth School)
July 1922
71
55
126
34
101
2-2
1-1
2-2
1
5
K.i-.jimi-murt, ono-
30 Kami-.jimi Seinen Gakko
(Ktmi-jimi Youth Scnl.)
un, Fukui Pref.
1944
99
85
184
123
82
205
5-2
2
9
5-2
2
9
Kcni-ncnc-son, Ono-
31 Kami-nama Seinen Geldro
(K.i-ntn Youth Schl.)
un, Fukui Pref.
105
70
175
1-2
July 1946
32 kmi-iion jyu Seinon Gatiko Kami-on jyu-murc, .suke-
(icki-ilon jyu Youth Schl.) un, Fukui Prefecture
159
106
265
160
100
266
3-4
9
4-2
2
8
Ht rch 1929
Kc nisho-mure, Ono-un,
33
Kami sho Seinen Gakko
(Ktmisho Youth School)
Fukui Prefucture
46
39
85
42
35
77
1-2
4
1-2
1
4
Kcni-Usaka-mure, .sukt-. iky 1935
34 Kami-Usakc Scinen Gaicko
(Ktuni-Usaka Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
387
8
7
15
8
6
14
188
197
385
ug.1944
Kenc zu-machi, Sekai-
35
Kanazubu Seinen Gekko
gun, Fukui Pref.
(Kc nazubu Youth Sc hool)
21
42
63
oct. 1946
Togo-mura, Tsurugc-sun,
36. Kenshin Seinen Gakto
Fukui Prefecture
(Kanshin Youta School)
Tho first number in oach coluan indicates thc number of full time tegchers; the second number indicetes h: lf-time teachers.
-20 -

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.98)
3
NE
DDRESS
D.TL FOUNDED
ENROLLENT
TE.CHERS
30pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 4
F
T
F
T
F
T
37
Katami Seinen Gekko
Uchitomi-murc, Onyu-gun, Oct. 1946
17
11
28
2
0-1
(Katami Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
38
Katsuyamn Seinen Gckko
Ketsuyamc-cho, Ono-un,
Sept. 1944
274
151
425
337
131
468
8-5
5
18
7-5.5
(Katsuyama Youth Schl.)
Fukui Prefecture
39
Kawai Seinen Gekko
Kawci-son, Yoshida-
Junc 1946
74
63
137
1-2
1-1
(Kewai Youth School)
gun, Fukui ref.
40
Kewanishibu Seinen Gakko
Uzura-mura, Sckei-gun,
Sept. 1944
217
197
414
206
185
391
11
7
18
17
6
(Kawanishibu Youth Schl.)
Fukui Prefecture
41
Kitadani Seinen Gckko
Kitadeni-son, Ono-gun,
May 1935
90
33
123
91
33
124
1-2
1
4
1-2
1
(Kitcdani Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
42
Kita-Hino Seinen Gekko
Kitc-Hino-murc, Imcdcto- Oct. 1946
56
36
92
(Kite-Hino Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
43 Kita-Shin jo Seinen Gakko
Kitc-hin jo-murc, Imadate- 0ct. 1946
59
37
96
1-11
(Kite-Shinjo Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
44. Kono Seinen Gakko
Kono-murc, Nen jo-gun,
pril 1935 214 . 196
410
214
196
410
4-3
.8
7-11
(Kono Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
45 Koshi-Kyoritsu Seinen
Oxabo-mura, Yoshida-gun, ug. 1944
168
124
292
185
123
308
5-1
2
8
6-2
2
Gakko (Koshi-Kyoritsu
Pukui Prefecture
Youth School)
46
Kunitaka Scinen Galko
Kunitckc-murc, Imcdate-
Oct. 1946
65
62
127
3
(Kunitaka Youth Schuol)
gun, Fukui Prefucture
The first nwmber in occh column indicctes the number of full time tecchers; the second number indicetes half-time tecoher
-21.-

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.96)
NE
ADDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TE.CHERS
X
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
IM
F
T
F
T
M
T
Kunitomi Scinon Gakko
Kunitomi-murc, Onyu-gun,
Oct. 1946
16
50
66
1-1 1
3
(Kunitami Youth Schl.)
Fukui Prefecture
Kuzuryu Seinen Gakko
Lorita-mechi, Yoshide-
Nov. 1944
279 255 534
8-4 3
15
(Kuzuryu Youth School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
49
yaruokubu Seinen Gakko
Naruokc-cho, Sckai-gun,
ug. 1944
467 316
783
12
10
22
157
22
(Maruokabu Youth Sehool) ukui Prefecture
50
Wikota-Tobu Suinen Gakko Mimi-mura, Miketa-gun,
Sept. 1944
188
234
422
163
377
9-2
5
16
8-2
(Miketa-Tobu Youth Schl.)Fukui Prefecture
Mkunibu Soinon Galdko
Mikuni-machi, Sckei-
July 1944
597
361
220
581
8-1 8
17
8-4 8
20
(Mkanibu Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukui Prof.
52
Mnami-Nakayanc Soinen
inemi-Nakoyamc-mura,
Oct. 1946
84
75
159
Galdso (Llincni-Nakcyame
Imedat -gun, Fukui
Youth School)
Prefecture
59
Mitato Seinon Gakko
Togo-son, isuka-gun,
pril 1944
260
201 461
中心
5
4
9
(Mtate Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
54. Moridn Scinon Gakko
Morida-cho, Yoshida-gun, Junc 1946.
205 65
270
7
(Mórida Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
Nake-Fujishima Soinen
Nake-Fu jishima-mure,
pril 1946
98
109
207
1-2 1-1 5
Gekko (Naka-Fujishima
Yoshida-gun,
Youth School)
Fukui Profecture
Nikago Seinen Gakko
Nakego-mura, Tsuruga-
Oct. 1946
32
65
97
1-1.1
(Nakago Youth School)
gun. Fukui Pref..
The firat number in occh column indicctes tho numbor of full time teachers; the sccond number indicetes helf-timo to
The peheol was abolished on 24 Junc 1946.
Tho school wus abolishod tho first of uhy 1946,
-22-

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.97)
x
NIME
ADDRESS
DIT FOUNDED.
ENROLIMENT
TLCILRS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
is
F
T
M
F
57
Nenbu Seinen Gecso
Kunitakc-murt, Imc dctc- ..ug. 1944
190
119
309
10
4
14
(Ncnbu Youth School)
gun, Fukui ref.
58
Netenosho Scinen G cko
Nakencta-murc, Onyu-gun, -uc. 1944
251
187
438
232
164
396
9-5
19
9-5 4-1
19
(Nctanosho Youth Scnl.)
Fukui Prefecture
59
Nishi-Fujishinc Scinen
Nishi-Fujishim-murc,
June 1946
102
79
181
1-3. 1-1 6
Gecko (Ni shi-Fu ji shimn
Yoshida-gun,
Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
60
Nishite Seincn Gakko
Nishita-mure, ikate-
oct. 1946
106
60
166
2-2
1-1
(Nishita Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukui .refecture
61
Nishi tani Seinen Gekko
Nishitani-aurc, Ono-
pril 1935
143
116
259
135
111
246
2-3
1
6
2-2
1
5
(Nishitani Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukui ref.
62
Obama Suinun Gokko
-cho, Onyu-gun,
Not Given
132
114
296
154
99
253
5
3
8
5
3
8
(Obe.nc .Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
63
Okamoto Seinen Gakko
Oscmot o-murc, Imadcte-
oct. 1946
121
77
198
6-1
1
8
(Okemoto Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukui Pref.
64
Onyu Soinen Gakko
Onyu-murc, Cnyu-gun,
Oct. 1946
68
70
138
3-1 1
5
(Cnyu Youth School)
ukui Pref.
65
Oshime Scinen Gakko
cshimc-son, Oi-gun,
Oct. 1946
34
22
56
1-1
2
(Oshimo Youth School)
Fukui Prufocture
66
Otomi Seinen Gakko
Uchiura-son, Oi-gun,
Nov. 1946
15
23
38
1
(Otomi Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
The first number in ecch column indicctes the number of full time tecchers; the sucond number indicctes alf-time tucohers.
4
Thc sohool wcs abolishod.
-23-

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
N
DDRLSS
D.T.. FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TL.CHERS
x
30 i.pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30r.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
25
F
T
ii
F
T
67
Oyame Seinen Gakko
Oyanc-mure, Ono-gun,
iky 1940
48
28
76
45
14
59
2-2
1
5
1-2
4
(Oyame Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
68
Roimei-No-Gakko Seinen
Miyake-muro, Onyu-gun,
pril 1943. 186
283
469
183
284
467
11-6 6
23
8-7 6
21
Gekko (Reimei-No-Gakko
fukui Prefecture
Youth School)
69
Roku jo Seinon Gokio
Rokujo-mura, suka-gun, pril 1940
58
32
90
57
32
89
2-2
1-1
6
2-2. 1-1
6
(Roku jo Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
70
Saburi Seincn Gekko
St buri-mura, Oi-cun,
1cy 1910
227
95
74
169
10-4 4
18
2-1
4
(Soburi Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
71
Sekedani Scinen Gekko
Sckcdani-son, Ono-gun,
Junt 1946
39
85
124
1-4 1
6
(Sckedani Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
72
Seibu Scinen Gakko
Functsu-mure, Incdctc-
Supt. 1943
254
203
457
247
186
433
6
5
11
10
5
15
(Scibu Youth School)
gun, Fukui .refecturc
73
Seikyo Soinen Gekko
Scikyo-son, Oi-gun,
Nov. 1946
33
33.
66
1-1
2-1
5
(Scikyo Youth School)
Fukui Prefucture
74
Shihinosho Seinen Gakko
Shimo-Shihi-murc, Yoshi- July 1944
229
166
395
295
180
475
7-1 4
12
9-1
(Shininosho Youth Schl.)
da-gun, Fukui Pref.
75
Shikc-Ure Seinen Gekko
Shikc-Urc-cho, Nyu-gun, ug. 1944
256
209 465
266
233
499
6-2
2
10
7-2
12
(Shike-Ura Youth Schl.)
Fukui Prefecturo
76
Shimo-jini Scinon Gekco Shimo-jimi-mure, Ono-
Not Given
42
28
70
36
28
64
2-2
1-1
6
1
3
(Shimo- jimi Youth Schl.) gun, ukui Prof.
77
Shimo-incmc Suinen Gakko Shimo-name-son, Ono-
Ly 1935
31
48
79
29
49
78
2-2
1-2 1
(Shimo-neme Youth Schl.) gun, Fukui Prefecture
The first number in ccch column indicctcs the number of full time teechers; the socond number indicates half-time teachors.
Decrease due to e reorganization of the school.
-24-

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.97)
N.IE
. DDRESS
D FOUNDLD
ENROLIMENT
T.CHLRS
x
30 ..r. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 or. 46
30 Nov. 46
is
F
T
F
T
11
F
T
山
F
T
78 Shimo-Ikedc Scinen Gekko Shimo-Ikeda-mure, Imado-
Juno 1935
54
45
99
57
41
98
3
1
4
3
1
(Shimo-Ikedc Youth Schl.)te-un, Fukui Pref.
79
Saimo-Mon jyu Sinen Cckko Shimo-Mon jyu-son, .su-
Junc 1946
39
42
81
3
2
5
(Shimo-Mon jyu Youth Schl.) ke-gun, Fukui Pref.
80
Shimo-Usckt Sinen Gokko Shimo-Usckc-murc, .su-
My 1935
98
49
147
101
49
150
1-4
1
6
1-4
1
(~himo-Usckc Youth Schl.) ke-gun, Fukui Pref.
81
Shiroscki Suinen Cekko
Shiroscki-murc, Nyu-cun, ug. 1944
192
133
325
192
132
324
5-2
3
10
6-2
2
10
(Shirosaki Youth Schl.)
Futui Prefecture
82
Tcceresu Seinen Gakko
Uchitoni-murc, Onyu-
1905
43
22
65
43
22
65
1-1
2
1-1
2
(Tegeresu Youth School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
89
Tekcheme Scinen Gacko
Tekcc-cho, Oi-cum,
ik.y 1935
95
48
143
97
36
133
3-1
2
6
3-1
2
(Takehame Youth Schl.)
Fukui Prefecture
84
Takeu Scinon Gekko
Omushi-murt, Nyu-gun,
scpt. 1944
348
305
653
323
337
660
8-2
6
16
9-1 7
17
(Takou Youth School)
Fukui Frefecture
85
Tobe Suinen Gacko
Tobe-murc, Onyu-gun,
Fub. 1941
45
52
97
43
49
92
1-2
1
4
1-2
1
4
(Tobc Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
86
Togo Scinon Gakko
Kcni-Ikuda-murc, Lacdcte- Mcy 1935
161
162
323
188
77
265
6
3
9
7
3
10
(Togo Youth School)
¿un, Pukui Pref.
87
Togo Scinen Gekko
Togo-son, suka-gun,
1946
120
84
204
3
2
(Togo Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
88
Tomide Suinen Gccko
Tomide-son, Ono-¿un,
Junc 1946
138
75
213
4-1
2
(Tomido Youth School)
Fukui Prefucture
x
The first number in ecch column indicatos the number of full time teachers; the sccond number indicetes half-time teachers.
-25-

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.97)
X
N
DDRLSS
D FOUNDLD
NROLLLINT
TCHERS
30 ipr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
in
F
T
F
T
F
T
89
Tomure Scinen Geicko
Tomure, Makata-gun,
Junc 1946
69
18
87
2-2 1-1
6
(Tomurc Youth School)
Pukui Prefecture
90
Uchitoni Soinon Gckko
Uchitomi-son, Onyu-gun, July 1926
23
42
65
25
43
68
0-1 .0-1 2
0-2
(Uchitomi Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
91.
Uchiure Scinen Grkko
Uchiurc-son, Oi-gun,
Nov. 1946
47 30
77
1-1
3
1-1 1 . 3
(Uchiurc Youth School)
Fukui Prefucture
2
Hodo Seinon Gckko
Wcdc-son, Oi-gun,
Nov. 1946
41
37
78
1-1 13
(!icdo Youth School)
Fukui Prefucturt
93
Yeshiro Scinon Gakko
Yashiro-mure, ¿suke-
itrch 1942
101
102
203
103
102
205
5-2
1-2
10
5-2 4
11
(Ycshiro Youth School)
gun, Fuui Pruf.
94
Yamurc Scinen Gokko
Yemurc, Mikttc-gun,
my 1935
307
200
507
113
96
209
11-8 3-1
6-2
2
10
(Yamurc Youth School)
Fukui Prefecture
Total
10,569
11.719
322-142
356-260
8.078
8,851
184-9
195-20
18,647
20,570
657
731
The first number in ccch column indicates the number of full time tucchers; the second number indicetes half-time tcachers.
-26-

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
FURUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTICNS
IV. VIILAGE CR TORN SCHOOLS
B. Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elementery Schools (Sho Gakko)
a) Elementary Schools for Males (Danshi Sho Gakko) under the Control of Village or Town Office, Fukui Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
EROLIMENT#
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1. Yushu Danshi Sho Cakko
Ono-cho, Ono-gun,
Sept. 1005
1.469
1,469 1,450
1,450
15
16
31
15
91
(Yushu Boys' Elementary
Fukui Pref.
School)
Total
1,469
1,469 1.450
1,450
15
16
16.
15
31
IV. VILLAGE CR TOWN SCHOOLS
B. Elenentary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elementery Schools (Sho Gakko)
b) Elementary Schools for Females (Joshi Sho Gakko) under the Control of Village or Town Office, Pukui Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
EROLIMENT #
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
T
M
F
M
P.
T
F
1. Seiki Jyoshi Sho Gakko
Katsuyame-cho, Ono-gun, May 1878
1,263 1,283
1.303 1,303
12
18
30
1416
30
(Seiki Girls' Elementary
Fukui Pref.
School)
2. Yushu Jyoshi Sho Gakko
Ono-cho. Ono-gun,
Sept. 1905
1,398 1,398
1,402 1,402
14 17. 31 14
(Yushu Girls' Elementary
Fukui Pref.
School)
Totel
2,681 2,681
2,705 2.705
26 35 61 2899
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school recards as of these date.
-27-

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER OF JI INESE EDUC TIONIL INSTITUTIONS
FUKUI PREFECTURE
IV. VILLG OR TOWN SC.DOLS
P. Elcrentary Educetion (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elenentery Schools (Sho Gakko)
c) Co-educeticnc1 Elermentary Schools (Denjo Kyoreku Sho Gakko) under the Control of Village or Town Office, Fukui Pref.
TL.CHLRS
NI
DDRESS
D.TL FOUND.D
30..pr. 46
INROLLEENT 
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
pril 1891
M
277
F
269
546
T
254
F
252
506
T
N
8
F
7
T
15
M
8
F
7
T
15
1 go Sho Gekko (o
o-murc, Nyu-gun,
Elomen tery School)*
Fukui Prefecture
hare-mc chi, Sukai-gun,
Fub. 1873
433.457
945
475
457
932
11
13
24
11
12
23
2 Lhero Sho Gakko (hara
Llomentery School)
Fukui Prefucture
472 360 832
467 362 829
8
11
19
9
9
18
Junc 1901
3 jimano Sho Gukko (ji--jimano-mure, Ik date-
mano Llomontcry School) * gun, Fukui Profucture
75
67
142
71
65
136
3
2
5
2
2
4
4 kasaki Sho Gakko (-
Higashiura-murc, Tsurugc- June 1873
saki Elomentary School)
gun, Fukui Profecturc
1878
72
58
130
75
57
132
4
3
7
5
2
7
5 kifu Sho Geicko
Nishiteni-son, Ono-
(kifu Llumontcry School) gun, Fukui ref.
6 matsu Sho Gakko (ma-
natsu-son, Nyu-gun,
March 1910
328
336
664
319 324
643
9
7
16
11
5
16
tsu Llomentery School)
Fukui Prefucture
7 rato Sho Gakko
rato-son, Ono-gun,
Jen. 1910
275
272 547
276 274 550
9
8
17
8
9
17
(rato Elementary School) Fukui Prufucture
Jan. 1893
454 415 869
437 408 845
11
13
24
8 sahi Sho Gakko
Lsahi-machi, Nyu-gun,
(sehi Elemontary School) Fukui Prefecture
These figuros are not those for actual attendance on thesc datus, but thoso for onrollmont on thc school records as of these at
The figure for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
NAME
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDLD
LNROLIMNT
TL.CHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
9
sahi Sho Gekko (sahi
Shimo-nama-son, ono-
pril 1874
114
103
217
110
100
210
6
2
8
6
3
9
Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
10
shimi Sho Gakko (shi-
shimi-son, Ono-gun,
1873
85
67
152
81
66
147
2
6
mi Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
11 so Sho Gakko
Higashiura-mura, Tsuruga- Dec. 1899
47
98
145
51
44
95.
2
1
3
2
1
3
(so Elementery School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
12
sotsu Sho Gakko (sotsu sotsu-mura, suka-gun, iay 1872
402
416
818
375
370
745
10
9
19
10
8
18
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
13
wano Sho Gakko (wano
wano-mura, Tsuruga-
Dec. 1888
317 304
621
369
359
728
11
8
19
9
8
17
Elementary School)
gun, Fukui  ref.
14
Chimi Sho Gakko (Chimi
Chimi-mura, Onyu-gun,
July 1901
135
155
290
136
151
287
5
4
9
3
Elementary School)
Fukui Pr fecture
15
Daian ji Sho Gakko (Dai-
Daian ji-mura, Sakai-
ug.1875
274
231
505
259
219
478
7
7
14
9
5
1h
anji Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
16
Daiichi Sho Gakko (Dai-
Hosorogi-mura, Sakai-
July 1873
171
166
337
172
166
338
7
3
10
7
3
10
ichi Elementery School)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
17
Deiichi Sho Gakko (Dai-
inama-son, ono-gun,
1873
94
83
177
93
80
173
5
9
6
10
ichi Elementary School)
Fulkui Prefecture
18
Daini Sho Gekko (Daini
Elementery School)
Hosorogi-mura, Sakai-gun,
4pril 1373
90
70
160
89
70
159
5
3
8
8
Fukui Prefecture
19 Daini Sho Gacko (Daini
Kami-nama-son,
1878
39
96
135
126
94
220
7
4
11
Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
-29-

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
30 r. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
20 Daisan Sho Gakko (Dai
Hosorogi-mare, Sakai- pril 1883
79
73
152
79
73
152
4
3
7
4
3
san Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Pref..
21、 Deai Sho Gakko
Chimi-mura, Onyu-gun,
March 1872
17
8
25
16
8
24
1
1
2
2
(Deai Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
31
22 Denga Sho Gakko
Denga-mura, Nyu-gun,
March 1912
193
207 400
173
208
381
6
5
11
11
(Denga Elementary School) Fukui Prefecture
23 Fukume Sho Ga.sko (Fuku-
Fukuma-mure, Imadate-
Nov. 1911
295
279 574
294 273 567. 9
14
23
11
20
ma Elementary School)*
gun, Fukui Prefecturo
24 Goryo Sho Galdko (Go-
Goryogashima-mura, Yo-
1873
132
129 261
131 125
256
5
5
10
4
4
8
ryo Elementary School)
shida-gun, Fukui Pref.
25 Habara Sho Gaikko (Ha-
Togo-son, Tsuruga-gun, pril 1926
102
104
206
100
99
199
3
7
8
bara Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
26
Hagino Sho Galko (Hagi-
Hagino-mura, Nyu-gun, Dec. 1902
112
128
240
112 125
237
5
3
8
7
no Elementary School)** Futui Prefecture
27 Hamasaka Sho Gakko (Hama- Kitagata-mura, Sakai-
Dec. 1887
36
33
69
33
36
69
2
1
3
saka Elementary School) gun, Fukui Prefecture
Hamashigo Sho Gakko (Ha- Hamashigp-mura, Sakei- July 1372
260
258
241
499
9
7
16
15
mashigo Elementary Schl.) gun, Fukui Pref,
Hanyu Sho Gaicko (Hanyu
Nanyu-son, Sakei-gun, Nov. 1909
257 258 515
255 258 513
9
6
15
8
Elsmentary School)
Fukui Prefecture
30
Harue-Higashi Sho Gakko Harue-cho, Sakai-
Dec. 1873
349 324 673
350 325 675
12
8
20
11
(Harue-Higashi Elementary gun, Fukui Pref.
School)
The figures for this institution include those for two brench schools underth same administretion.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
-30-

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
TL.CHERS
NE
DDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
30 pr. 46
ENROLLMIENT
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
326
M
303
F
629
T
331
309
F
T
640
1.1
8
F
7
T
15
8
7
F
15
T
31
Harue-Minami Sho Gakko
Harue-machi, Sakci-gun, March 1922
(Harue-Minemi Elementery
Fuxui refucture
School)
32
Harue-Nishi Sho Gakko
Harue-machi, Sakai-gun, pril 1373
300
260
560
293
240
533
7
7
14
8
6
14
(Harue-Nishi Elementary
Fukui Prefecture
School)
33
Heisen ji Sho Gokko (Hei-
Heisen ji-son, Ono-gun,
ny 1926
222
211
433
222
216
438
5
6
11
6
6
12
sen ji Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
34
Hibiki Sho Gakko (Hibiki
Uchiura-son, Oi-gun,
pril 1893
26
19
45
26
19
45
1
1
2
2
1
3
Elementery School)
Pukui Prefecture
35
Higeshi-rachi Sho Gakko
Arachi-son, Tsuruge-
Merch 1873
79
83
162
63
72
140
5
2
7
4
2
6
(Higashi-irachi
gun, Fukui Pref.
Elementary School)
191
390
201
174
375
6
5
11
8
11
36
Higashiura Sho Gekko (Hi- Higeshiura-mura, Tsuruge- pril 1887 199
gashiure Elementary Schl.)gun, Fukui Prefecture
37
Higashizyugo Sho Gakko
Higeshi-zyugo-mura,
Dec. 1873
381
413
794
381
403
789
10
9
19
12
7
19
(Higashizyugo Elementary
Sckai-gun, Fukui Pref.
School)
38
Hokyoji Sho Gakko (Hokyo-
Kamisho-son, Ono-tun,
Nov. 1874
17
15
32
16
16
32
1
1
2
1
1
2
ji Elementery School)
Fukui Prefecture
39
Hongo Sho Ga cko (Hongo
Hongo-son, Oi-gun,
Dec. 1873
283
268
551
282
264
546
9
7
16
8
8
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
40
Hon jo Sho Gakko (Hon jo
Hon jo-mura, Sakai-gun,
Jcn. 1873
229
202
431
222
202
424
8
6
14
7
Elementery School)
Fului Prefecture
-31-

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TELCHERS
30p.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
1
F
T
Hyogo Sho Gakko (HyogoHyogo-mura,Sakai-gun,
Sept. 1873
322
4
5
9
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
42 Ichi jyodeni Sho Gakko
Ichi jyodani-mura, suka- ug, 1906
161 135
149 120 269. 6
4:.10
6
4
10
(Ichi jyodani
gun, Fukui Prefecture
Elementary School)
43 Iimura Sho Gakko (Ii-
Iimura, Sakai-gun,
pril 1873
491
257 237
494
10. 5 . 15.
5
12
mura Elementary School)
Fuui Prefecture
Ima jo Sho Gakko (Ima jo
Ima jo-mura, Nangyo-
June 1892
246 218
464
251 220
471..7
8
15.
7
14
Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
45
Imatomi Sho Gakko (Ima- Imetomi-mura, Onyu-
pril 1909
222 196 418 227 196 423
5
6
11.
5
6
11
tomi Elementary School) gun. Fukui Prefecturo
Inuikawa Sho Gakko (Inu- Inuikawa-son, Ono-gun,
ug. 1870
153 150 303 151 147 298
11.
5
9
ikawa Elementary School) Fukui Prefecture
47 Ishidoshiro Sho Gakko
Ishidoshiro-son,ono-
Sept. 1874
108 113 221
117 106 223
9
2
i1
8
3
11
(Ishidoshiro
gun, Fukui Pref.
Elementary School)
48 Ito Sho Gakko *
Ito-mura, Nyu-gun,
pril 1875
280 250 530 271 242 513
6
14
7
15
(Ito Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
Itsuhata Sho Gakko (I-
Hi ashiura-mura, Tsu-
iug. 1874
2
3
2
3
ssuhota Elementary Schl.)ruga-gun, Fukui Prof.
Jyohoji Sho Gakko (Jyo- Jyohoji-mura, Yoshi-
-1889
134 167 301 126 160
286
3
9
kaojt Elemantary School) da-gun, Pukui Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administretion.
-32-

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.98)
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
II
F
T
近
F
T
M
F
T
F
51 Kado Sho Gakko *
Kado-son, Oi-gun,
Isay 1874
158
173
331
158
171
3.29
4
6
10
4
6
(Kado Elementary School) Fukui Prefecture
52 Kado Sho Gakko (Kdo
Kado-mura, Sakai-gun,
Feb. 1873
225
185
410
220
185
405
5
10
7
3
10
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
53 Kadohara Sho Gakko (Ka- Goka-son, Ono-gun,
Doc. 1928
29
45
74
29
45
74
3
3
6
5
9
dohara Elementary Schl.) Fukui Prefecture
54 Kami- jimi Sho Gakko
Kemi-jini-son, ono-
1874
163 167 330
163 165 328
6
6
12
6
5
11
(Kami-jimi Elementary
gun, Fukui Prefecture
School)
'55 Kemigo Sho Gakko (Kami- Hongo-mura, Sakai-
1875
107 121
228
102
118
220
6
3
9
6
3
go Elcwentary School)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
56 Kami-Ikeda Sho Gakko o*
Kami-Ikeda-mura, Imadate- Dec. 1910
714 586 1300 691 575 1266
22
21
43
22
21
(Kami-Ikeda Elementary
gun, Fukui Prefecture
School)
57 Kami-lüsaki Sho Gakko
Shikaura-cho, Nyu-gun,
1872
118
112
230
103
104 207
3
2
5
3
3
(Kami-Lisaki Elementery
Fukui Prefecturo
School)
58 Kaui-Lionzyu Sho Gakko
Kami-llonzyu-mura, .suka-
Not Given
284 247 531
269 231 500
8
15
(Xami-Lonzyu Elomentary
gun, Fukui Prefecture
3chool)
59 Kaminaka Sho Gakko (Kani- Higashi-Fujishima-mura,
arch 1888
270 259 529
497
8
8
16
8
8
naka Elomontery School) Yoshida-gun, Fukui Pref.
60
Kamineguro Sho Gakko (Ka- Onyu-mura, Onyu-gun,
iug.1874
8
13
21
6
14.20
2
mineguro Elomontary Schl.)Fukui Prefccturo
The figures for this institution include those for one branch sohool under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include thoso for nine branch schools under the same administration.
-33-

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
T
61 Kahiru Sho Gakiko (Kehi-
Kehiru-mura, Nen jyo-
June 1874
84
61
145
79
63
142
7
3
3
6
ru Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
62 Kamishihi Sho Gakko (Ka- Kami-hihi-mura, Yoshi- pril 1907
412 389
801
405
383
793
9
10
19
10
20
mishihi Elementary Schl.)da-gun, Fukui Prefecture
63 Kami sho Sho Gakko (Ka-
Kanisho-son, Ono-gun,
ril 1908
602 563 1165 594 564 1158 17-1 12
30
16-1.11
28
misho Elenentery Schl.)
Fukui Prefecture
64 Kemi-Usake-Lura Sho
Koni!Uscka-mure, suka- July 1911
181 175 356 171 162 333 63
9
6
3
9
Gakko (Kani-Usakc-lura
gun, Fukui Prefecture
Elementary School)
65
Kamiyann-mura Higashi- Kaniyanx-mure, Han jyo-
Hcy 1873
153 133 291
151 133
284
6
5.11
5
11
Sho Gakko (Kamiyamc-mura-gun, Fukui Prefecture
Higashi Elementary Schl.)
66
Kamiyema-Llura-Nishi Sho Kaniyamc-mura, Nan jyo-
March 1873
143 162 305
147 159 306
5
9
Gokko (Kamiyama-!ura-
gun, Fukui Prefecture
Nishi Elementary School)
67
Kanazu Sho Gakko (Kena-
Kanazu-machi, Sakai-gun, June 1873
405 347 752
400 373
11
11
22
20
zu Elenentary School)
Fukui Prefecture
68
Kanshin Sho Gokko (Kan-
Togo-mura. Tsuruga-gun, Nov. 1873
162 137 299
154 135 289
10.
7
11
shin Elementery School)* Fukui Prefecture
Katakami Sho Gakko (Kata-
Katakemi-mura, Inadate-
pril 1901
159
152 311
158 151 309.
5
5
10
5
5
10
kemi Elementery School)
gun, Fului Prefecture
to Katsumi Sho Gakko (Katsu- Uchitomi-mura, Onyu-
oct. 1874
52
48 100 52. 48 100
3
2
5
3
2
i Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the seme administration.
-34

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
11
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
71
Kewede Sho Gakko (Kawa-
Kawada-mure, Imadete-
rch 1922
491
455
946
490
470
960
11
15
26
11
de Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
72
Kewai Sho Gakko (Kawai
Kawei-mura, Yoshide-
pril 1912
306
259
565
270
232
502
10
9
19
10
9.
19
Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
73
Kengaku Sho Gakko (Ken-
Kengaku-mura, Sakai-
March 1909
107
128
235
108
128
236
4
4
8
4
4
8
gaku Elomentary Schl.)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
74
Kite Sho Gakko (Kite
Kibe-mure, Sakai-gun,
1873
98
90
188
94
90
184
3
4
7
4
3
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
75
Kitadani Sho Gakko (Ki- Kitadeni-son, Ono-
pril 1921
183
199
382
183
199
382
7
15
8
7
15
tedoni Elementory Schl.) gun, Fukui Prefecture
76
Kitagata Sho Gekko (Ki- Kitagata-mura, Sakai-
1873
245
228
473
240
221
461
6
7
13
6
13
tagata Elementary Schl.) gun, Fukui Pref.
77 Kita-o Sho Gakko (Kita- Kitago-son, Ono-gun.
May 1908
306
329
635
301
328
629
8
11
19
7
11
18
go Elementery School)
Fukui Pref.
78
Kite-Hino Sho Gakko (Ki- Kite-Hino-mura, Imada- June 191l
252
245
497
252
246
498
7
7
14
6
13
ta-Hino Elementary Schl.) te-gun, Fukui Prcf.
79
Kita-Nakayame Sho Gakko
Kita-Nakayame-mura, Ima-pril 1910
342
274
616
334
270
604
.8
10
18
8
17
(Kita-Nakeyame Elemen-
dete-gun, Fukui  ref.
tary School)
80
Kita-Saigo Sho Gakko (Ki-
Kita-Saigo-son, ika- July 1924
224
205
429
224
200
424
7
4
11
ta-Saigo lementary Schl.)
ta-gun, Fukui Pref.
81
Kitashin jo Sho Gakko (Ki- Kitashin jo-mura, Ima-
oct. 1914
232
220
452
228
218
446
8
7
15
tashinjo Elementery Schl.) date-gun, Fukui Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one brench school under the seme edministration.
-35

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
NITE
DDRES
DATE FOUNIED
30 pr. 46
ENROLLMENT
30 Nov. 46
305.46
TELCHERS
30 Nov. 46
i5
F
T
F
T
山
F
T
M
F
T
iarch 1898
198
150
348
189 147
336
4
5
9
4
5.9
82 Kitc-Somayama Sho Gakko Kita-Somayama-mure,
(Kita-Someyame
Nen jyo-gun,
Elementery School)
Fukui Prefecture
83 Kokka Sho Gakiso (Kokko
Minami-Hino-mure,
oct. 1872
194 195 389
205 194 399
4
8
4
8
Eleventary School)
Nen jyo-gun,
Fukui Prefecture
84 Hono Sho Gekko
Kono-mura, Ncnjyo-gun, Merch 1914
201
157
358
187 150 337
6
5
11
7
4
11
(Kono Elementcry Schoo1)Fukui Prefecture
85 Kono Sho Gakko (Kono
Uchiure-son, Oi-gun,
Mcrch 1872
28
22
50
28
23
51
2
1
3
2
1
3
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
6
15
8
6
14
266
86 Koshino Sho Gakko (Ko- Koshino-son, Nyu-gun, March 1901
shino Elenentery Schl.) Fukui Prefecture
May 1900
307 291 598
602
11
10
21
10
10
20
87: Kuchinatc Sho Gekko (Ku- Kuchineta-mura, Onyu-
chinata Elemontary Schl.)gun, Fukui Prefectrure
6
6
12
6
6
12
May 1899
157 153 310
88 Kumagawa Sho Gakko (Ku- Kumageve-son, Onyu-
magawo Elenentery Schl.)• gun, Fukui Pref.
89 Kumasaka Sho Gakko (Ku-
Tsubac-mura, sakai-
ug. 1878
110
107 217
112
107 219
6
3
9
5
3
8
mesake Elomentery Schl.)
gun, Fukui Prof.
90 Kunimi Sho Gckko (Kuni-
Kunimi-mura, Nyu-gun,
1873
110 336 446
289 315 604
10
6
16
16
mi Elementary Sehl.)*
Fukui Prefecture
388 319 707 392 318 710
8
11
19
19
91 Kunitako Sho Gakko (Kuni- Kunitaka-mure. Incdate- my 1901
take Elementery School) gun, Fukui Prefe ture
Tho figures for this institution include thosefor one branch school under the seme administretion.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administretion.
-36-

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.97)
NE
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr. 46
30 NOV. 46
F
T
F
T
F
P
4.
92 Kunitoni Sho Gakko(Ku- Kunitoni-mura, Onyu-
b. 1927
235
178
413
236
181
417
4
5
9
5
nitomi Elementary Schl.) gun, Fukui Pref.
93
Kuroko Sho Gekko (Kuro- wano-mura, Tsuruga-
y 1890
332
171 155 326
59
4
5
ko Elemontary Sc hool)
gun, Fukui Pref.
94 Kwakyo Sho Gakko (Kva-
wetabe-cho, Imadete-
Oct. 1872
279 297 576
275
296 571
16
8
8
kyo Elaentary School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
95
Meteunage Sho Gakko (Me- Matsuncge-mure, Onyu- Mey 1904
125 131 256
6
5
11
6
5
tsunaga Elomentary Schl.)* gun, Fukui Pref.
96 Matsuoke Sho Gakko (a- Matsudka-cho, Yoshida- July 1872
468 466
934
450
435
885
16
12
28
15
13
tsuoke Elementery Schl.) gun, Fukui Pref.
97 Marudko Sho Gekko (Maru- Marucka-nachi, Sakai-
Sept. 1873
511 463 974
510
459 969
12
14 26
1313
oka Elenontary School) gun, Fukui Pref.
98
Wiketa ho Gakko (ike-
Likata-son, Nyu-gun,
pril 1887
214 176 390
200 165 365
6
12
6
to Elamontory School)
Fukui Prefecture
99 Mikunimcchi-Kita Sho
Mikuni-nachi, Sakai-
Sept. 1873
330 330
660
330 327 657
10 7 17
Gakko (Mikunimachi-Kita
gun, Fukui Prefecture
Elemontcry School)
l00 Mákunimachi-lneni Sho
Mikuni-naohi, Sakai-
July 1872
463 464 927 460 460 920 14 11
159
Gekko (Mikuninachi-li-
gun, Fukui Pref.
nami Elementary School)
101 Mimi Sho Gakko (Mimi
Mimi-mura, Nikate-gun, pril 1897
361 377 738.
345 368 713
10:9
19
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecturo
The figures for this institution include those for one branch schgol under the same adninistretion.
-37-

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.97)
NAE
DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TECHERS
30.46
30 Nov. 46
30pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
II
F
T
M
F
T
IJ
F
T
ii
F
T
102 Mimimura-Minani Sho
Mimi-mura, Mikata-
Lcy 1872
52
63
115
51
62
113
3
2
5
2
2
4
Gakko (inimra-Minami gun, Fukui Pref.
Elamentary School)
103
Himimra-Nishi Sho Gakko lini-mura, Miketa-
icy 1892
63
65
128
62
64
126
2
2
4
2
2
4
(imimrc-Nishi
gun, Fukui Pref.
Elewentary School)
104 Minami Sho Gakko (Lina- übe-mure, Sakabe-
Supt. 1873
.175 179
354
172 179
351
6
7
13
5
6
11
mi Elementery School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
105
Mincmi-Nekayann Sho
Minai-Nakey-mure, pril 1910
248246
247
486
8
6
14
7
5
12
Gakko (Minami-Nakayan Imddate-gun, Fukui
Elonontary School)
Prefecture
106
Minami-Saigo Sho Gakko
Minami-Seigo-mure,
Lpril 1924 - 258
263
521
255
262
517
10
8
18
9.
7
16
(Lfinami-Saigo
Likote-gun,
Elementery School)
Fukui Prefecture
107  yakawa Sho Gakko (Mi- Miyakawa-murc, Onyu-
cct. 1901
123
121
244
120
121
241
6
4
10
6
10
yakawa Elementary Schl.)gun, Fukui Pref.
108
Lüyake Sho Gckko (fiya- Onyu-mure, Onyu-gun,
pril 1911
146 145 291 146 143 289 5
10
5
4
9
ko Elementery School) Fukui Profecture
109
Myazeki Sho Gakko (Mi- Miyazcki-son, Nyu-gun, July 1910
420 369
412
366
778
10
9
19.
10-
8
18
yazaki Eleentary Schl.)* Fukui Prefecture
110
itsuxtsu Sho Gakko
Scikyo-son, Oi-gun,
Dec. 1874
87
63
150
87
63
150
3
2
5
3
2
5
(itswietsu
Fukui Prefecture
Elementary School)
The figures for this institution include thos for two branch schools under the sane edministrction.
-38-

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.98)
NME
DDRESS
ATE FOUNDED
EROILLENT
TE.CHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
K
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
111
Morida- chi-Deini Sho Morida-machi, Yoshide- March 1939
197
153
350
186
147
333
5
4
9
5
4
9
Gakko (Morida-Mchi-
gun, Fusui Pref.
Deini Elementery Schl.)
112
Morime Sho Gakko (Mo-
Tomita-son, Ono-gun,
Sept. 1873
49
56
105
55
104
2
1
3
3
1
rime Ele.montary Schl.)
Fukui Prefecture
113
Morite-Cho-Daiichi Sho
Morita-Cho, Yoshide-
Sent. 187
487 469 956 477
448
925
12
13
25
11
13
24
Geikko (Morita-Cho-Di-
gun, Fukui Pref.
ichi Elementery School)
1873
246
238
484
246
244
490
7
7
14
114 iuraoka Sho Gekko (:u- ureoka-son, Ono-
reoka Elementary School)gun, Fukui Prefecture
115 Nagaheshi Sho Geicko (Ne- Tekesu-mure, Sakti-
1901
75
72
147
75
70
145
4
4
8
3
4
7
gahashi Elelentery Schl.)gun, Fukui Pref.
116 Naimatsu Sho Gekko (Na- Kitagete-ure, Sakai- pril 1376
73
70
148
78
70
148
2
5
3
2
5
imatsu Elementery Schl.) gun, rukui ref.
117 Nake-rachi Sho Gekso
rachi-mure,Tsuruge- Oct. 1901
34
24
5δ
35
24
59
2
2
4
3
1
(Nake-irachi Elementary
gun, rukui ref.
School)
359
667
338
279 617
7
9
16
7
9
16
118
Nakefujishine Sno Gekto
Nakafu jishi. .e-mure, Yo- July 1875
(Nakefujishime
shida-gun, Fukui Pref.
Elepentery School)
119 Nakegewa Sho Gaikko (ia- Nakagawa-mura, Imedete- Oct. 1901
284
295
579
284
295
579
6
11
17
6
10
kagawa Elenentary Schl.) gun, uui Pref.
120
Nekegawa Sho Gakco (Na- Tsuboe-nure, Sekei-
Juno 1874
392
184
197 381
7
6
13
7
kegawa Elementery Schl.) gun, Fukui Prefecture
-39-

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
NAT
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TELCHERS
30 Fr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
f
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
121 Nakago Sho Gakko (Ne- Nakago-nura, Tsuruga- Lu. 1873
195
199
394
202
204
406
7
5
12
7
4
11
kago Llementary School) gun, Fukui Pref.
122
Naka jina Sho Gakko (Ne- Nishitomi-son, Ono-
March 1917
135
126
261
122
123
245
6
4
10
6
4
10
ke jima Elenentary Schl.) gun, Fukui Pref.
123
Nakaneta Sno Gekko (Ne- Nakenata-zura, Onyu- pril 1904
207
133
395
206
135
391
8
5
13
8
5
13
kenate Elenentery Schl.)• gun, Fukui Pref.
124
Naruka Sho Gakio (Ne-
Neruke-mure, Sakai-
Sept. 1892
199
426
193
222
415
7
5
12
7
5
12
ruke Elementary School)
gun, Fuiui .ref.
125
Natsune Sho Gekko (re-
Netsune-mura, Sakai-
1873
261
242
503
267
248
515
9
5
14
8
5
13
tsume Elementary Schl.)
gun, Fuilui Pref.
126
Nishi Sho Geicko (Nishi
Kibe-mure, Sakci-gun, pril 1892
83
105
188
115
94
209
4
3
7
4
3
7
Elenentary School)
Fukui Prefecture
127 Nishi-rechi Sho Gakiko
rachi-son, Tsuruga- March 1873
159
156
315
151
140
291
6
5
11
5
5
10
(Nishi-.rachi Elemen-
eun, Fukui Pref.
tary School) *
128
Nishi-fu jishima Sho Gakko Nishi-ru jishina-
Nov. 1909
324
326
650
286
285
571
7
10
17
7
9
16
(Nishifu ji shima
mure, Yoshide-
Elenentery School)*
gun, Fukui Pref.
129
Nishita Sho Gecko (Hi-
Nishite-mura, ikets- Dec. 1877
286
308
594
271
304
575
13
12
25
13
10
23
shita Elementary Scal.)
gun, Fukui Pref.
130
Ni shizu Sho Galtto (Ni shi-
Obena-cho, Onyu-gun, Oct. 1872
360
340
700
355
336
691
10
8
18
9
9
18
zu Elementery School)
Fukui Pref.
114
127
241
113
126
239
6
5
11
6
5
11
131
Nogi Sho Gakko (Nogi
Nogi-nura, Onyu-gun, arcn 1901
Elementary School)
Fukui Pref.
The figuresfor this institution include those for one branch school under tne same edministration.
-10ー

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.98)
NAE
DDRES
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TECHERS
30 r.46
30 Nov. 46
30 r. 46
30 Nov. 46
132 Namuki Sho Gakko (No-
muki Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
Nomuki-son, Ono-gun,
ipril 1886
M
182
F
154
336
T
X
184
157
F
341
T
bi
6
F
4
T
10
5
F
4
T
9
133 None Sho Gakko (None
None-nura, Salai-gun,
pril 1375
320
273
593
320
273
593
10
10
20
9
9
18
Elementary School)
Fuqui refecture
134
Notaoi Sho Gacso (Nota-
Okuneta-zura, Onyu-gun,
1:74.40
41
81
42
44
86
2
3
5
2
3
5
oi Elementary School)
Fitui Prefecture
135
Nuke Sho Gakko (Muke
Kono-nurε, Nen jyo-gun,
Oct. 1903
87
103
190
83
105
193
5
3
8
7
3
10
Elementary Scnool)*
Fukui Prefecture
136
Obama Sho Gakko (0
Obana-cho, Onyu-gun,
.pril 1908
696
723
1419
688
698
1386
12
16
28
13
15
28
bana Elementary Schl.)
Fuiqui Profecture
137
Oishi Sho Gakko (Oishi
Qishi-mure, Sekai-gun.
Feb. 1902
277
260
537
275
258
533
10
7
17
9
7
16
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
138 acebo Sho Geicko (Oka-
Ckebo-nure, Yoshida-
Merch 1918
293
262
555
269
233
502
8
7
15
7
7
bo Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Fref.
139
Cke.noto Sho Gekko (ate- Ocenoto-nmura, Inedate-
Feb. 1919
396
376
772
379
382
761
9
13
22
9
11
20
moto Elementary Schl.)* gun, Fukui Pref.
140
Okunate Sho Gaicko (0 Ckunate-mure, Onyu-
Sept. 1905
129
120
249
111
107
218
3
5
8
3
5
8
kunata Elenentary Schl.) gun, Fukui Pref.
141
Omushi Sho Gakko (Ouu-
Omushi-mura, Nyu-gun,
Feb. 1916
268
251
519
265
248
513
8
9
17
8
9
17
shi Elementery School)
Fukui Prefecture
142
Ono Sho Gakko (Ono
Shino-inamo-son, Ono-
parch 1940
119
113
232
125
115
240.7
3
10
6
Elementery School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same sdministration.
-41-

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.98)
NIE
∴DDRESS
D.TE FOUN DED
ENROLLENT
TL.CHERS
30r.46
30 Nov. 46
30r.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
143
Onyu Sho Gekko (Onyu
Onyu-mura, Onyu-gun,
March 1905
277
242
519
274
242
316
8
7
15
8
7
15
Elementery School)
Furui Prefecture
144
Oshiho Sho Gacto (Oshi-
Oshiho-son, Nan jyo-gun, March 1918
311
331
64
305
324
629
11
12
23
11
11
22
no Elenentery School)
Fukui Pref.
145
Oshima Sho Geicio (Oshi-
Oshime-mura, Oi-gun,
-pril 1911
73
89
162
73
89
162
4
1
5
4
1
5
me Elementary Sc.ool)
Fukui Pref.
146
Oshime Sho Ge kko (Oshi-
Oshime-mure, Cekci-
pril 1921
439
381
820
437
381
818
11
9
20
10
8
18
 Elenentary School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
Sept. 1873
141
127
268
143
127
270
6
-4
10
7
3
10
147
Osowe Sho Gclico (Osona
Osova-son, Ono-gun,
Elementery School)
Fukui Pref.
148 Ote Sho Gacko (Ota
Oto-mure, Myu-gun,
Tov. 1873
365
434
799
361
426
787
10
9
18
9
8
17
Elementary School)•
Fukui refecture
49
Otomi Sho Gekko (Oto-
Uchiura-son, Oi-gun,
ug.1874
40
31
71
41
31
72
3
1
4
3
1
4
mi Elementery School)
Fukui Pref.
150
Owade Sho Gekso (Oweda
Hi ashi-Fu ji shinx-
Merch 1873
84
85
169
83
77
160
3
4
7
3
4
7
Elementary School)
mura, Yoshida-gun.
Fukui Pref.
151 Oyane Sno Gekko (Oya-
0yε.-son, Cno-gun,
y 1924
190
160
350
189
163
352
5
6
11
5
6
11
ma Elenentery School)
Fukui Prefecture
152
Ozeki Sho Gakko (Oze-
Ozeli-mure-Higashi,
sept. 1873
164
201
365
164 200
364
7
5
12
8
3
11
ki Elementary School)
Sakei-gun, Fukui Pref.
153
Roka jyo Sho Gakko (Ro-
Rokujy -mure, .suka-
Dec. 1393
282
261
543
258
241
499
8
7
15
7
7
14
kujyo Elementery Schl.) gun, Fukui Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same adainistretion.
-42-

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
NIME
DDRESS
DATÉ FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TECHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
154 Saburi Sho Gakko (Sa-
buri Elenentary Schl.)
Saburi-son, Oi-gun,
ukui Prefecture
pril 1873
206
238
F
T
444
206
239
F
T
445
II
9
F
6
T
15
10
5
155 Sakedani Sho Gakko (Se- Sakadani-son, Ono-gun, Oct. 1872
392
738
393
343
736
13
11
24
10
11
kadani Elementery Schl.) Fusui Prefecture
156
Saikaguchi Sho Gekko
Sakeguchi-mure, Nanjyo- pril 1914
101
97
198
99
97
196
8
4
(Sskeguchi Elementary
gun, Fukui Prefecture
School)
157 Sekai Sho Gekico (Sakei
Sekei-mura, Non jyo-
1893
145
282
139
132 271
5
4
9
6
3
Elementery School)
gun, Fului Prefecture
1.58 Saisei-Mura-Higashi Sho
Sekei-Mura, Nanjyo-gun, pril 1891
72
81
153
71
80
151、6
1
7
6
1
Ga'sko (Sekai-Mure-Higa-
Fukui Prefocture
shi Elementary School)*
159
Sakamoto Sho Gakko (Sa- Okunate-mure, Onyu-gun, y 1874
41
42
83
41
42
83
2
2
4
2
3
kamoto Elementery Schl.) Fukui Prefecture
160. Sako Sho Gakcko (Seko
Seku-rura, -suka-gun,
May 1910
331 322
653
304 305 609
7
10
17
7
9
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
161 Sakurabashi Sho Gakko
Kono-mure, Nenjyo-gun, Sept. 1907
81
73
154
80
75
155
6
4
10
6
(Sekurebeshi Elementery
Fukui Prefecture
School) •
162
Sendo Sho Gekko (Sando
Sendo-son,Mmikatc-gun,
pril 1892
357
350
707
368 347
715
9
12
21
9
Elementery School)•
Fukui Prefecture
L63 Seiki-Danshi Sho Geikko
Ketsuyenε-cho. Ono
y 1878
2438 72
1510
1428 86
1514
18
193718
(Seiki-Danshi Elensntery gun, Fukui Prefecture.
Sohool)
The figures for this institution include those for two brench schools under the seme edainistr tiom.
49

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDHESS
DATE
ENROLIMENT
TECHERS
FOUNDED
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 hov. 46
164 Seikyo Sho Geicko (Sei-
kyo Elementery Schl.)**
Fukui iref.
Seikyo-son, Oi-gun,
pril 1908
172
M
186
F
358
T
170
M
186
F
356
T
M
6
12
T
6
M
6
12
T
265
Sekiin Sho Gasco (Seki-
Funatsu-nura, Imedate- Nov. 1872
781 781 1562 768 763 1536 25
in Elementery School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
12
37
24
36
166
Shibu Sho Gekso (Saibu
Shibu-mure, yu-gun,
pril 1887
305
287 592
289 280 569
9
9
18
7
10
17
Elementary School)e**
Fuxui Pref.
167
Shihidoni Sho Gekko (Shi- Shinidani-mure, Yo-
FeD. 1895
172 166 338
158 146 304
4,
9
5
9
hidani Lle.mentery Scnl.) shida-gun, Fukui Pref.
168 Shikadani Sho Gekko Shi- Shikadani-son, Ono-
Sept. 1873
332
626
7
9
16
8
9
17
kedani Elementery Schl.) gun, fusui Pref.
615
612
1227 580 569
1149
10
26
18
8.
26
169 Shikaure Sho Gecko (Shika- Shikaure-cno, Nyu-gun, June 1892
ura Elementary Scal.)  Fukai refecture
170 Shinoini Sho Gao
Shimo-jimi-son, ono
1902
107
95
202
111
89
200
3
3
3
6
(Snimo-Ijimi Elementery
gun, Fukui ref.
School)
1875
97
101 198
97
96
193
6
2
8
6
2
8
171
Shimogo Sho Gakko (Shimo-
Hongo-re, Ski-
go Elementery School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
155
145
300
8
12
8
12
154
172
Shimo-Ikede ho Ga'cko (ni- Chimo-Iseda-nure, Ima- July 1908
no-Ikeda Flenentary Schl.) date-gun, Fukui Pref.
Only fenale students attend tais school.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administretion.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administretion.

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
NII
ADDRESC
D.TE FOUNIED
ROLLLNT
TECHERS
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
173
(Shimo-Misaki Elementary
Shimo-Llisaki Sho Gakko
School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
Shimo-Ilisaki-Mura, Nyu-
1873
80
F
95
T
175
80
F
90
T
170
3
F
1
T
4
3
F
2
174
Shimo-Monzyu Sho Gakko
(~hino-Monzyu Elemen-
Shimo-Monzyu-mura, -
suke-gun, Fukui Pre.
ug.1873
261
231
492
242
230
472
7
9
16
6
9
15
tary School)
175
Shimone ori Sho Gakko
(Shimonegori Elemen-
Fukui Prefecture
Onyu-mura, onyu- un,
.ug. 1874
20
13
38
18
16
34
1
1
2
1
1
2
tary School)
176
Shimosaka-son Sho Gecko
Shimosake-mura, suxa- A ril 1912
280
2.0
520
27
223
480
7
8
15
7
6
13
(Shinosaka-son Elemen-
gun, Fukui Pref.
tary School)
177
Shimoshihi Sho Gakko
himoshihi-mure, Yo-
4pril 1871
335
309 644
317 297 614
10
9
19
9
8
17
(Shimoshihi Elementery
shida-gun, Fukui Pref.
School)
178
Shimosho Sho Gecko (Shi- himosho-son, Cno-
Jan. 1509
586
557
1143
578 564 1142
12
21
33
12
22
34
mosho Elementery School) gun, Fukui Pref.
179
Shimo-üchinami Sho Gakko Goka-son, Ono-gun,
April 1903
30
31
61
30
33
63
4
2
6
4
(Saimo-Uchinami Elenen- Fukui Pref.
tary Scnool)
180
Shimoyane Sno Gakko (Shi- Shimo-hnama-son, Ono-
1336
16
15
31
17
15
32
1
1
2
1
2
moyama Elementery Schl.) gun, Fukui Pref.
181
Shinbo Sho Gakko (Shin-
Shib-mura, Saxai-
Feb. 1873
116
115
231
131 127
258
15
3
18
6
bo Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
-45-

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.98)
TEACHERS
x
NAME
1.DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
30 pr.46
ENROLLMENT
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
II
F
T
M
F
T
182
Shingo Sho Gakko (Shin-
Hon jo-mura, Sakai-
pril 1887
126
107
233
120
107
227
3
4
7
4
3
7
go Elenentery School)
gun, Fuxui Pref.
519
498
1017 516
498
1014
14
15
29
13
14
27
183
Shinmei Sho Gekko (Shin- Shinnei-mura, Imadate- July 1902
mei Elementery School)
eun, Fukui Pref.
298
291 589
300
287 587
11
17
ó
11
17
184
Shinyokoe Sho Gakko
Jhinyokoe-mura, Imada- Merch 1925
(Shinyokoe Elementery
te-gun, Fukui Pref.
School)
185
Shirayana Sho Gakko
Shireyana-aura, Nyu-
June 1910
350 344 694
337 335
672
10
9
19
11
8
19
(Shireyeme Elementery
gun, Fukui Pref.
School)*
Oct. 1927
198
194 194 388
6-1
13
7-1 5
13
186
Shirosaki-Kite Sho Gakko Shiroseki-mura, Nyu-
(Shirosaki-Kita
gun, Fusui Pref.
Elementery School)
244
261 505
242 254 496
7
16
8
6
14
187
Shirosaki-Minani Sho
Shiroseki-son, Nyu-gun, March 1905
Gekko (Shiroseki-lina.
Fukui Prefecture
ni Elementary School)
147 279 426
5
5
10
5
5
10
188
Somayema Sno Geldko (So- Minami-Somaya.- mura, Mercn 1915
mayana Elementery Cchi.) Nan jyo-eun, Fukui Pref.
83
72
155
81
74
155
4
4
8
4
4
8
Nishitani-son, Ono-gun, M:ch 1880
189
Suhare Sho Gakko (Suha-
ra Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
326 304 630
329
299
628
8
10
18
9
8
17
Tachimachi-mura. Nyu- Lpril 1887
190
Tachimc chi Sho Gakko
(Tachimachi Elemontary
gun, Fukui Pref.
School)
97
84
181
95
85
180
4
2
6
4
2
191
Tagaresu Sho Gaicko (Taga- Uchitami-mura, Onyu- Dec. 1893
rasu Klomontary School) gun. Fukui Pref.
The first nuiber in each column indicates the number of full time teschers; the second number indicates half-time teachers.
The figuro for this institution include those for two branch schoals under the same administrstion.
-46-

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
NALE
4DDRESS
DLTE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TELCHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 £pr. 46
30 Nov
M
F
T
K
F
T
M
F
T
M
192
Takaboko Sho Gacso (Taka- Takaboko-mura, Sakai-
Oct. 1926
510
510
1020
508
504
1012
14
16
30
13
boko Elementary School) gun, Fukui Pref.
1876
193
Takahama Sho Gacko (Take- Takaha.na-cho, Oi-gun,
446
468
914
448
462
910
10
10
20
12
11
hams. Elenentary School) Fukui Prefecture
194
Takasu Sno Gekko (Tekesu
Tskasu-mure, Sakai-
April 1909
255
240
495
250
234
484
11
6
17
12
3
Elenentary School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
195
Takasujo Sho Gacko (Take- Takesu-mura, Sεkεi-
1909
26
24
50
27
24
51
1
2
3
1
1
Bu jo Ele. entary School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
196
Takeda Sno Gekco (Te.cede
Tekecc-mure, Sekei-
ey 1873
138
133
271
135
130
265
5
3
8
7
2
Elenentery Scnool)
gun, susui ref.
197. Takefu Sho Galcko (Tarefu
Takefu-mecni, Nangyo-
4pril 1872
775
790
1565
734
803 1587
15
38
19
21
Elementery School)
gun, Fukui ref.
198
Takefu-achi-Minami Sho
Ta.refu-mechi, Nan jyo-
4pril 1900
818
433
1251
798
13
17
30
12
19
Gakko (Takefu-Machi-Li-
gun, Fukui Pref.
nami Elementary School)
199
Takefu-lachi-Nishi Sho
Tu-mei, Nan jyo-
pril 191l 457
701
1158
460
693
1153
10
17
27
10
17
Gakko (Tasefu-Mechi-Ni-
gun, Fukui Pref.
shi Elentary Scool)
pril 1376
164
355
519
181
164 345
4
7
11
5
200. Tekura Sho Gaidko (Teku-
Telura-mure, Nen jyo-
re Elementary School)
gun, Fusui Pref.
Jen. 1899
205225
430
194
224
418
5
5
10
5
5
201
Tohe Sho Galkko (Toba
Tobe-muro, Onyu-gun,
Elementary School) *
Fukui Prefecture
Moy 1946
353
279 632
202 . Togo Sho Gakko (Togo
Togo-mure, suka-gun,
Elementery School)
Fukui Prefecture
The figures for this institution include thosc for one branch sahool under thc same administration.
-47.-

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
NE
ADDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TECHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
M
F
T
203
Tokiwa Sho Gakko (Toki-
Tokiwa-mura, Nyu-gun,
March 1923
77
65
142
71
61
132
4
1
5
4
2
6
we Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
204
Tomita Sho Gakko (Tomi-
Tomita-son, ono-gun,
pril 1908
334
317
651
333
314
647
9
9
18
8
9
17
te Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
205
Tomura Sho Gakko (Tomura Toura, Mikate-gun,
Dec. 1378
276
285
561
281
293
574
7
8
15
7
10
17
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
206
Uchinami Sno Gakso (U-
Goke-son, Ono-gun,
June 1900
48
56
104
49
56.
105
5
2
7
4
3
7
chinami Elementary Schl.)Fukui frefecture
207
Uchitomi Sho Gakio (U-
Jcnitomi-son, onyu-gun,
1873
67
75
142
65
73
138
2
3
5
3
2
5
chitomi Elementery Schl.)Fukui Prefecture
208
Uchiura Sho Gakiko (Uchi- Uchiura-son, Oi-gun,
Sept. 1901
63
77
140
63
77
140
5
1
6
3
1
4
ura Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
209
Unpin Sho Gakko (Unpin
Obama-cho, Onyu-gun,
pril 1909
224
233
457
223
242
470
6
5
11
6
5
11
Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
210
Uryu Sho Gakko (Uryu
Uryu-mura, onyu-gun,
Sept. 1904
197
135
382
203
189
392
4
5
9
4
5
9
Elementary School)
Fuqui Prefecture
211
Uzura Sho Gakko (Uzura
Uzura-mura, Sakai-
pril 1873
320
337
657
320
334
654
9
8
17
10
8
18
Elementary School)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
212
Wada Sho Gakko (Wada
Wada-son, Oi-gun,
March 1873
208
199 407
198
188
386
5
6
11
5
6
11
Elementery School)
Fukui Prefecture
219:
Wakaogo Sho Gakko (Waka- Kami sho-son, Ono-gun,
March 1875
34
39
73
35
38
73
2
1
3
2
1
3
ogo Elementary School) Fukui Prefecture
-48-

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.98)
N.LE
DDRESS
D.T FOUN DED
ENROLULNT
TCHERS
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 .pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
214
Warabio Sho Gakko (.ia-
Tomita-son, Ono-gun,
May 1894
82
82
164
81
81
162
3
4
7
4
4
8
rabio Elementary Schl.)
Fukui Prefecture
215
Yamure Sho Gekcto (Yamu-
Yamura, ilikate-gun,
.-ug. 1893
317298
615
312
309
621
7
9
16
16
ra Elementary School)
Fukui Prefecture
216
Yamura-Kita Sho Gakko
Yamura, Mike t-gun,
Nov. 1873
74
89
163
76
93
169
2
2
4
2
2
(Yamura-Kita Elementary
Fukui Prefecture
School)
217
Yemura-inani Sho Gakko
Yemure-Minani, iketa-
arch 1374
105
100
205
111
100
211
3
4
7
3
4
7
(Yeura-Minani Llemen-
gun, Fukui Prefecture
tery School)
218
Yamura-Nishi Sho Gecko
Yanura, ikcta-gun,
July 1892
43
44
87
42
47
89
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Yanura-Nishi Llementery
Fukui Prefecture
School)
21
Yashiro Sno Gakko (Ya-
Ucnitomi-murε, Onyu-
Sept. 1903
17
10
27
17
10
27
1
1
2
1
1
2
shiro Elenentery School)
eun, Fukui Pref.
220
Yeshiro-Mure-Kite Sho
Yeshiro-mure, ..suka-
..pril 1887
18
168
336
162
174 336
6
5
11
7
4
11
Gaikko (Yasniro-mure-
eun, Fukui Pref.
Kite Llementary School)
221
Yesniro-ura-ilinami Sho
Yeshiro-mura, .suka-
May 1903
239
253
492
221
233
454
7
6
15
7
5
12
Gakko (Yashiro-Mura-Mi-
gun, Fukui Pref.
nami Elementary School)*
222
Yoknsure Sho Gaicko (Yoko- Nomuki-son, Ono-gun,
Not Given
19
11
30
19
11
30
1
1
2
1
1
2
kura Elementary School)
Fucui Pref.
229
Yoshikawa Sho Gekko (Yo- Yoshikawa-mure, Nyu-
March 1907
296
258
554
294
250
544
6
9
15
7
8
shikewa Elementery Schl.) gun, fukui Tefecture
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administretion.
-49-

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
FOUNDED
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ▲pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
224. Yoshino Sho Gakko
Yoshino-rura, Nyu-gun,
Mey 1006
237
214
451
231
209
440
6
7
13
7
6
13
(Yoshino Elementary
Fukui Pref.
School)
225. Yoshino Sho Gakkc (Yo- Yoshino-mura, Yoshide-
Nov. 1908
154
143
297
150
140
290
4
4
8
5
4
9
shino Elementery Schocl) gun, Fukui Pref.
226. Yoshizeki Sho Gakko (Yo- Yoshizaki-mura, Sekei-
Jen. 1873
59
52
111
61
52
113
2
1
3
4
1
5
shizaki Elementary
gun, Fukui Pref.
School)
227. Yunoo Sho Gakko (Yunoo
Yunoo-mura, Nanjyo-gun,
Aug. 1ε73
166
120
2ε6
167
124
291
5
4
9
5
4
9
Elemen tary School)
Fukui Pref.
228. Yuteka Sho Gakko (Yuteke
e Yutake-son, Nyu-gun.
April 1909
239
226
465
238
219
457
6
7
13
7
6
13
Elementary 3chcol)
Fukui Pref.
Total
53,110
50,870
1.535-2
1,545-2
48,215
49,615
1,411
1,344
99.325
100,485
2,948
2,891
-50-

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
PUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
IV. VILL CE OR TO... SCHOOLS
B. Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
2. Kinder ertens (Yochien) under the Control of Villeee or Town Office, rukui rrefecture
N
ADDRISS
DTL FOUNDED
ÉROLL INT
TEACHERS
x
30r.46
30 Nov. 46
30.-pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 ware Yocnien (wara
were- i, Sε.i-
Mey 1926
61
35
146
60
37
147
0-1
2
3
0-1
2
3
Kindergarten)
zun, Fukui ref.
2
Deiichi Hoiku jo (First
Obama-cho, Onyu-gun,
ril 1934
79
79
153
83
31
164
5
0-1 4
5
Nursery)
rukui Prefecture
3 Hi ashi Yochien
Kami yamε-mura, Nan jyo-
pril 1926
17
25
42
16
24
40
0-1
1
2
2
(Higeshi Kindergerten)
gun, Fuxui Pref.
4 Kakyo Yochien (Kakyo
watabe-cho, Imadate-
Not Given
41
37
78
41
39
80
0-1
2
3
0-1
2
3
Kindergerten)
gun, Fuiui Pref.
5 Kamiyama-Nishi Yochien
Kani yema-mura, Nen jyo-
pril 1925
17
15
32
15
15
30
0-1
2
2
(Kaziyama-Nishi
gun, Fukui Pref.
Kinder arten)
6 Kanazu Yochien
Kanazu-nachi, Sakai-
pril 1927
62
51
113
64
55
119
0-1 3
4
(Kenezu Kindergarten)
gun, Fukui Pref.
. Kamada Yochien
Kaveda-mura. Imadate-
--pril 1945
44
61
105
49
63
112
0-1
2
3
0-1 2
(Kawadakindergarten)
gun, Fukui Prefecture
8 Maruoka-Midori Yochien
Marucka-machi, Secci-
Ley 1924
123
108
231
126
111
237
0-1
5
6
0-1 5
6
(Maruoke-Mi dori
gun, Fukui Pref.
Kindergarten)
-51-

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
DDRESS
DE FOUNLED
ENROLLIENT
TE CHLS X
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
站
F
T
F
T
F
T
9 Motsuoks Yochien (a-
Hatsuoke-cho,Yoshida-
.pril 1925
32
84
1.66
78
85
163
0-1
4
5
0-1
3
4
tsuoke Kindergarten)
gun, Fukui Fref.
10
Nakagawa Yochien (Nake-
Makegawe-nure. Imedete- Not Given
47
50
97
50
52
102
0-1
2
3
0-1. 2
3
gewe Kindergarten)
gun, Fukui Pref.
11
None Yochien
None-mura, Sokai-gun,
June 1944
39
29
68
40
28
68
0-1
1-1
3
0-1
1-1
3
(None Kindergerten)
Fuqui Prefecture
12
Okemoto Yochien
Okenoto-mure, Imadete-
Not Given
80
82
162
31
80
161
0-1
2
3
0-1
2
3
(Okemoto Kinderearten)
Eun, Fukui Fref.
13
Sabee Yochien
Sabee-cho, Imedst.-gun,
Not Given
70
63
138
72
67
139
0-1
6
0-1
4
(Sabac inderearten)
Fukui r fectur
14
Seiki Yochien
Ketsuyane-mecai, Ono-gun, October 1921 105
106
211
101
103
204
5
5
5
5
(Seiki Kindergarten)
Fukui Prefecture
15
Shimo-Monzyu Yochien
Shimo-iHonzyu-mura,
ipril 1924
33
33
66
30
32
62
0-1
1
2
0-1
1
2
(Shimo-ionzyu
suka-gun, Fucui Pref.
Kindergarten)
16
Shimo-Saiai Yochien
Shimoshini-mura,
ipril 1946
57
33
90
56
32
88
0-1
2
3
0-1 2
3
(Shimo-Shini
Yoshide-gun,
Kindergerten)
Fukui Prefeature
17
Shinmei Yochien
Shinei-nure, Inedete-
Not Given
51
47
98
51
47
98
3
3
3
3
(Shinmei Kindergarten)
gun, Fukui Pref.
18
Tachimechi Hoikuen
Tachimchi-mura, Nyu-
May 1933
50
54
104
48
50
98
0-1
2
0-1
2
3
(Techimechi Nursery)
gun, Fusui Pref.
x
The first number in each column indicetes the number of full tine teechers; the second number indicetes he lf-time teachers.
-52-

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.92)
NE
DDRECS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ipr. 46
30 Nor.
F
T
F
T
F
T
19 Takaboko Yochien
Tastboko-mura, Sekei- pril 1943
86
81
167
84
78
162
0-1 4
5
0-1
(Takeboko Kindergerten) gun, Fukui Pref.
Total
1,144
1,145
0-17 50-1 630-17.48
1,128
1,129
2,272
2,274
d•
T
S
11
11
02
T
19 C-1
19 €-11
 first number in cch column indictes the number r fuif tie teseaore; the scend nuber indicates hel
BOVE
-53-

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.96)
FUKUI PHEFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCITIONIL INSTITUTIONS
V. PRIVTE SCHCOS
B. Secondery Educetion (Cauto Kyoiu)
2. iddle Schools (Chu Gakko), Fukui refecture
x
NE
2DDRESS
H.TL FOUNDED
ENROLENT 
TE.CHERS
30246
30 Ncv. 46
30 -pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
ii
F
T
F
T
三
F
T
1 suha Chu Gakic (..suha
Yemenosu-cho, Fukui
pril 1942
228
228
220
220
5-17
22
5-16
21
ddle School)
City, Funui Pref.
2
Hokuriku Chu Gecko (Ho-
atsu.oto-Saime-cno,
pril 1910
928
923
905
90527-1 1
29
27-1 1
29
kuriku Liddle School)
Fukui City, Fukui Pref.
Total
1,156
1,156 1,125
1,125 32-181
51
32-171
50
3. Girls' Hign Schools (Koto Jo Gakko), Fukui Prefecture
NAME
4DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROILMENT
开
TELCHERS
x
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
M
F·T
M
1 Jinai Koto Jo Cakko (Ji- Hoei-Kani-cho, Fukui
4pril 1898
423 428
423
423
5-1 13-3 22
6-1 11-3 21
nai Girls' High School) City, Fukui Pref.
2 Seika Koto Jo Gakko (Sei- Katsuyame-cho, Ono-
pril 1943
543: 643
603 303
15-1 16 32
17-11634
ka Girls' High School)
gun, Fucui Pref.
Total
1071 1071
1026 1026
20-2.29-3 54
23-2 27-3 55
These figuros are not those icr actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
The first number in eech cclumn indicates the num er of full time teachers- thesecond number indicates helf-time teechers.
-54-

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
a) Youth Schools for Males (Danshi Seinen Gakko), Fukui Prefecture
NME
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TEACHERS
x
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
1 Fukutetsu Seinen Gakko (Fu- Takefu-machi, Nen jyo- July 1939
119
119
101
101
0-15 1-1
17
1-15 1
17
kui Railway Youth School)
gun, Fukui Pref.
2
Keifuku Dentetsu Seinen
Hinode-Shino-cho, Fukui March 1943
*
Gakko (Keifuku Electric
City, Fukui Pref.
Railway Youth School)
3
Komatsu Seisakujo Tsuruge Izumi, Tsuruge City,
Nov. 1943
20
20
23
23
1-4
1-4
5
Kogyo Seinen Gakko (Tsuruga Fukui Pref.
Industrial Youth School of
Komatsu Factory)
Total
139
139
124
124
1-19 1-1 22
2-19 1
22
#
These figures are not those for actuel attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
x
The first number in each column indicates the number of full time teachers; the second number indicates half-time teachers.
School has been closed since July 1945.
-55-

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.96)
FUKJI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
V. PRIV.TE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gaicko )
b) Girls' Youth Schools (Joshi Seinen Gekko), rukui Frefecture
X
NAE
..DDRESS
DA FOUNDED
EROLLET
TECHLRS
30 ipr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
X
F
T
1E
E
T
1 Hinode Joshi Seinen Gakko watabe-cho, Imedete- Sept. 1935
159
159
142
142
6
2
8
6
a
8
(Hinode Girls' Youth Schl.)gun, Fukui Prefecture
2 Keitei Joshi Seinen Gakko Ketsuyann-cho, Ono-
June 1940
127 127
106 106
0-9 3
12
0-9 3.
12
(Srothers Girls' Youth
gun, Fukui Pref.
School)
3 Matsubun Joshi Seinen Gaicko Katsuyana-cno, Cno- Dèc. 1936
271 271
227 227 1-11 2
1-11 3 15
(etsubun Girls' Youth
gun, Fukui Pref.
School)
4 Sabae Henshi Joshi Seinen
Functsu-murc, Imadete- 0ct. 1939
109 109
7676
Ge :ko (Sabae Twisted
gun, Fukui Pref.
Thread Girls' Youth Schl.)
5 Sanshi Joshi Seinen Gakko
Ota-son, Nyu-gun,
March 1941
62
62
7676
(Girls' Silk-Yarning Youth
Fukui Prefecture
School)
6 Shoshibu Joshi Seinen Gakko
(Paper Manufecturing Youth
gun, Fukui Pref.
Okanoto-mura, Imadate- May 1944
47 47
47 47
2-2 0-1 5
1-2 d1
School for Girls)
#
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these datesee fo re
x
The first number in cacu coluan indicates the number of full time teachers; the second number indicates helf-time teachers.
-56-

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.96)
NE
LDDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TECHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ior. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
Yamagishi Joshi Seinen
Katsuyena-cho, ono-
July 1943
73
73
73
73
2
1
3
2
Gakko (Yamagishi Girls'
gun, Fukui Prefecture
Youth School)
8
Yemamoto Hifuku Joshi
Nonc-mure, Sakai-gun,
Ju1y 1944
92
92
87
87
6
7
6
1
Seinen Gakko (Yamamoto
Fukui Prefecture
Sewing Youth School for
9 Yamasen Naikagawa Joshi
Nakagawa-nura, Imadate- pril 1942
66
66
1
1
2
1
1
Seinen Gakko (Yamasen
gun, Fukui Prefecture
Nakagawa Girls' Youth
Total
1,007
900 900
22-22 14-1 59
21-22 16-1
1,007
8-03-
a-d-
-57-

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCITIONAL INST ITUTIONS
V. PRIVITE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Educatin (Chu: o Kyciku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Galke)
c) Co-educational Youth Schools (Dan io Kyoiku Seinen Gakko), Fukui Prefecture
x
NiME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1 mako Kikuni Seincn Gakko Miluni-machi, Sakai-
May 1946
73
11
84
13
14
(mako Kikuni Youth Sch.)
gun, Fukui Pref.
2
Daiwa--Bosuki Fukui Seinun
Yasncku-cho, Fukui
pril 1933
473 518
30
436
466
7
3-2
7
Gakko (Fukui Daiwa
City, Fukui Pref.
Spinning Ycuth School)
3
Obama Shibeure Seinen Gak- (bu-co. nyu-gun,
March 1944
64
144 208
69
145 214
2-4 0-4 10
2-4 0-4 10
k (Chama Slilaura Youth
Fukui Fref.
School)
4 Sakai Suinen Gakko
Hnandcho, uxui
March 1937
62
187 249
63
221
284
2-2 1
5
2-2 1
5
(Sakai Youth School)
City, Fukui Pref.
5
Toyo Boseki Tsuruga Seinen Tsunai. Tsuruga City,
Oct. 1935
324
385
709
2.55
501
756
2.7
2-2
13
3-8 2-2 15
Gakko (Tsuruga Oriental
Fukui Pref.
Spinning Youth School)
6
Toyo Denki Fukui Seinen
¿schi-cho, Nyu-sun,
pril 1944
1.95
10
1-8 1
10
Gakko (Fukui Oriental
Fukui Pref.
Total
585 1235 1820 630 1369 1999
10-23 6-6
45
24-24 7-6 61
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
I The first number in each columm indicates the number of full time teachers; the second number indicates half-time teachers.
-58-

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.96)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JPLNESE EDUCITIGUL INST ITUTIONS
V. PRIVI.TE SCHOOLS
C. Elementery Educction (hoto Kyoiku)
b. Kindergertens (Yochien). Fukui Prefecture
NIE
DDRESS
DTL FOUNDED
RCLLET"
TLCRS
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 or.46
30 Nov. 45
2
F
T
1三
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
1 schi Yochion
Onc-nachi, Ono-gun,
Merch 191,
50
60
110
48
57
105
1
3
4
1
2
3
(¿schi Kindergerten)
rukui Prefecture
Jyosei Yochien
Tekefu-machi, Nangyo-
May 1916
252
232
484
241
206
447
1
8
9
1
8
9.
(Jyosei Kindergarten)
gun, ruqui Pref.
3 Mikuni Yochion
Likuni-mci, Sakai-
June 1923
70
63
133
45
59
102
1
3
4
1
4
5
(Mükuni Kindergerten)
gun, Futui Pref.
4 Nishizu Yochien
Oba-cho, Onyu-gn,
pril 1918
15
19
34
14
21
35
1
1
2
1
2
3
(Nishizu Kindergerten)
Fului Profecture
5
Ono Yochien
Ono-nechi, Ono-eun,
1919
11
137
252
107
127
234
1
5
6
1
4
5
(Cno Kindergerten)
Fukui Prefucture
Shirakiku Yochien
Ono-ur cai, Ono-gun,
April 1933
104
107
211
89
106
195
4
4
4
(Phirakilku Kindergarten)
Fukui Prefecture
7 Tsukinowa Yochien
ikuni-me chi, Sakei-
June 1924
87
36
173
63
67
136
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Tsukinowt Mindrgerten)
eun, Fusui Pref.
8 Tsuruga Yochien
Kite-T sunai, Tsuruga-
pril 1918
30
30
60
28
28
56
1
3
4
1
2
3
(Tsuruga Kindergarten)
City, Fukui Pref.
Totel
723
734 1,457 639 671 1.310 7
36
7
28
#
These figures are not those fer actual atteudance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
--59-

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.94)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JIPLNLSE EDUCATION.L INSTTTUTIONS
.  
D. Socciol Sohools (Tokushu Gakko)
4. Miscollaneous Schools (Kakushu Cakko)
) Misccllcnccus Schools for Fonc lcs (Joshi Kakushu Gekko). Fukui Prufucture
NAE
ADDRESO
D.T. FOUNLD
MROLLT
TE.CR
307.46
30 Nov. 46
30.or.46
30 Nov. 46
T
M
7
T
T
:
F
T
1 Jinai-Saiho Senshu Jo
Hoei-Kami-cho, Fukui-
ril 1932
74
74
73
73
U-4 3-7
0-5 3-6 14
Gellko (i jin Sccisl
. i 
Sewing School for Girls)
2 ito-Seino Gekko (to
Hatsuoke-cno, Tosida-
Oct. 1931
70
70
60
60
3-1 4
4-1 5
Sewing School)
Cun, rukui Prefecture
3 Mizunoto Jo Gekko (izu-
ono-mceai, ho-gun,
Harch 1905
97
97
97
97
noto Cirls' School)
Fului Prefecture
4 Seika-Saiho Gakko (Seika
Fi shi-u jishime-mura,
Seot. 1930
290
290
286
286
3-1 8-2 14
3-1 7-3 14
Sewing School)
Yechide-un,
Fukui Prefecture
Totel
531 531
516 516
3-5 19-10 37
3-6 19-10 38
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these d tes; but those for enrollment on the school records es of these dates.
The first number in eech column inaicates the number of full tine teechers; the second number indicates nalf-time teschers.
-60-

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.95)
FUKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONL INSTITUTIONS
VI. SCHOOLS UN DER TE JURISDICTION OF MINISTRIS OTHER THN TE MNISIRY OF EDUCATION
B. Secondcry Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
a) Training Institutes (Yoseijo)
1) Training Institutes for Males (Danshi Yosei io) under the Control of the Home Ministry, Fukui Prefecture
NE
ADD.ESS
DT FOUNDED
ENROLLIET"
TE.CHERS
30.r.46
30 ov. 46
30 ..pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
II
Ff
T
f
T
M
F
1 Fukui Ken Keisatsu Renshu- Ikuhisa-cho, Fukui
Not Given
39
39
39
39
6
6
6
jo (Fukui Prefecturel
City, Fukui Pref.
Police Training School)
Totel
39
39
39
39
6
6
6
6
 These figures are not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of those date
-61-

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
FOKUI PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JIPANESE EDUCATION/L INSTITUTIONS
VI. SCHOOLS UNDER MINISTRIES OTHER THAN THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
2. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
a) Youth Schools for Malos (Danshi Seinen Gakko) under the Control of Ministries of Communicetions end Transportation, Fukui Prefacturo
NAME
LDDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M、F
T
T
F
T
L
F
T
Takefu Toishin Seinen
c/o Takefu P.0. Nen jo-
July 1944
45
45. 50
50
6
6
7
7
Kunrenjo (Takefu Cammuni-
gun, Fukui Pref.
cation Youth School)
2
Tsuruge Tetsudo Seinen
Tsuruga City. Fukui
pril 1946.
1328
1328 1328
1328 4
4
Gakko (Tsuruga Reilway
Pref.
Youth School)
Total
1373
1373 1378
1378 10
10
11
11
o) Co-educational Youth Schools (Dan io Ivogaku Scinen Gekko) under the Control of Ministry of Cammunication, Fukui Prefocture
NAME
ADDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
#
TELCHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1 Fukui Teishin Seinen
c/o Fukui P.0. Fukui
iug.1943
31
61
92
33
57
90
9
9
8
8
Kunren jo (Fukui Cammuni-
City, Fukui Pref.
cation Youth School)
Tauruge Teishin Seinen
c/o Tsuruga P.0. Seimei, ig. 1943
28
16
44
22
13
35
11
11
10
10
Kunrenjo (Tsuruga Communi- Tsuruga City, Fukui
cation Youth School)
Pref.
Total
59 77 136 55
125
20
20
18
18
Those figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
-62-

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUI PREFEC1 JRE
ROSTER OF JPANESE EDUCLTIONIL INSTITUTIONS
VI. SCHOOLS UNELR T.E JURISDICTICN OF MIAISTRILS OTHLR THN THE LINISTRY CF EDUCATION
C.Specicl Schools (Tokushu Gckcko)
1. Juvenile Correction Schools (Shonen Kyo oin) under the Control of Ministry of elfure, Fukui Prefucture
NE
ADDRESS
D.T. FOUNLD
ERCILLENT "
TEICHERS
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
1 Kanahashi Gakcko
scfutus-mure, shiha- Nov. 1908
33
5
38
39
4
4
4
4
(Kanahashi School)•
gun, Fukui Pref.
Total
38
34 5
39
4
4
4
4
GRIND TOTAL
82.907
90,009
2,843-293
2,916-318
31,419
83,834
2,110-36
2,062-48
170,326
173.843
5,282
5.344
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these datcs, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
Co-educational.
-63-

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.95)
MAP OF CENTRAL HONSHU
N
HYOGO
Kanazawa
Takaoka
Fukuchiyama
Frkui
ISHIKAWA
Himeji
Toyama
FUKUI
KYOTO
TOYAMA
Akashi
Ashiya
Fishinomiya
Amarasaki
Kyoto
SHIGA
Kove
画
由
Hikonet
GIFU
⊕
田
tsu
画
Gifu
OSAKA
⊕
Wakayama
Nara
Nagoya
Yokkaichi
WAKAYAMA
NARA
Okazaki
MIE
AICHI
OSAKA
Matsuzaka
Toyokawa
Toyohashi
Ikeda4
4 Toyonaka
SHIZUOKA
+Suita
Legena
Osaka
+ Takatsuki
Hamanatsu
Sakai
田
Population of Over 100,C00
Shizuoka
田
Shimizu
Fuse
OSAKA
Prefectural Capital
+
Institutions of Higher Learning
10
20
30
202030
Miles
-64-

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
01E7
United States political Adviser
Fi6 Duf
for Japan
Tokyo, May 22, 1948
eytohom-moontor
No. 296
quis(Aas)
UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: Roster and Statistics of Japanese Educational
Institutions, April and November 1946.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to
this Mission's despatch No. 276 of May 11, 1948 transmitting
two copies each of Parts 25, 6 and 28, covering respectively
the prefectures of Miyazaki, Fukui and Nara, of & special
report of the Civil Information and Education Section, Gemeral
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, entitled
"Roster and Statistics of Japanese Educational Institutions,
April and November 1946".
There are now enclosed two copies each of Parts 8 and
894.42/5-2248
FE
37 of the above-mantioned report, covering respectively the
prefectures of Fukushima and Shizuoka. Future additions to
this report will be forwarded to the Department as they become
available.
Dc1R
Enclosures (4)
Two copies each of
Roster and Statistics of Japa-
DIC OCCUPIED AREAS DIVISION
nese Educational Institutions,
(AD0)
April and November 1946, Parts
8 and 37, covering respectively
21948
Prefectures of Fukushima and
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
Shizuoka.
Original and ozalid to the Department
842
JDkdwards: emn
JUN 7- 1948
FILHD
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMLA DER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
Analysis and Research Division
RO S T E R A TD S T A T I S T I C S
C. F
JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
April and November 1046
Fart 8
FUKUSHIMA PREFECTURE
A Special Report in 47 Parts Frenared by
Education Research
7 May 1948
AR-302-E-A-26-8

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.95)
GEIERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMANDER FOR THE ALLIED FORCES
Civil Information and Educetion Section
Anelysis end Research Division
SPECIAL REPORT
7 May 1948
SERIAL NUBER
AR-302-E-A-26-8
TITLE
Roster of Japanese Educetionel Institutions and Stotistical Tables - Part 3. Fukushima Prefecture
SUBJECT
Roster of Japenese educationel institutions by prefecture, level, type, end control jurisdiction.
showing dete of foundetion, enrollment, nd number of terchers, with summery stetisticel tebles.
PREPARED BY
Educstion Reseprch
DATES OF STUDY
July 1g47 to March 1948
Page
CONTENTS
1
Introduction
vi1
Sumnary of the Educational Institutions in Fukushima Prefecture
Part One Summery Tables of Japanese Educationel Institutions Showing Mumber and Percent of Students. Tenchers,
and Schools
viii.
Teble 1 - Number of Educ-tionel Institutions by Level nd Type
ix
Table 2 - Percent of Educational Institutions by Level : nd Type
x
Teble 3 - Number of Educ-tionel Institutions by Control nd Level
xi
Table 4 - Percent of Educetional Institutions by Control nd Level
元11
Table 5 - Number of Educational Institutions by Leveland Control
xiii
Table 6 - Percent of Educ tionel Institutions by Level ond Control

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.97)
Part Two
Summary Tebles of Japenese Educational Institutions Showing Mumber of Students, Terchers, end Schools
by Jurisdiction
Page
Table 7 - Schccls under the Jurisdiction of the 'inistry of Educ tion by Lev:1 nd Type
xiv
Table 8 - Schools under Frefectural Jurisdiction by Level and Tpe
x
Table 9- Schools under "unicipal Jurisdiction by Level end Type
xvi
Teble l0 - Schools under Vill-ge or Towm Jurisdiction by Level nd Type
xvii
Table ll - Schools under Private Jurisdiction by Level end Type
rviii.
Table 12 - Schools under Jurisdiction of Ministries ther then the inistry of Educntion
rir
by Level nd Type
Part Tnree Roster of Jap-nese Educ-tional Institutions by Control Jurisdiction According to Level nd Type:
Showing Number of Students, Te-chers, nd Schools
Villore or Towm Schools
Scnools under Jurisdiction of Vinistry of Educ-tion
Secondory Educotion
Higner Educetion
Voc-tion-l Schools
19
Colleges
1
Girls' vigh Schools
21
Normal Schools
1
Youth Schools
23
Elementery Education
Element-ry Educ-tion
Elementery Schocls stt:ched to Torm:1 Schools
2
Elementory Schools
52
Prefectural Schools
Findergartins
88
Privete Schocls
Higher Educotion
Second-ry Educetion
Colleges
3
Vocational Schools
80
Secondary Education
"iddle Schools
gō
Youth Schools
90
Voc-tional Schools
Elementary Education
Middle Schools
8
Elementary Schools
05
Cirls'High Schools
0
Kindergartens
97
Special Schools
Special Schools
"iscellaneous Schools
98
Schools for the Blind nd Deof-'ute
10
Schools under vinistries Other than the
Municioal Schools
"inistry of Education
Secondery Education
Secondary Education
Vocational Schools
11
Vocationel Schools
100
Girls' High Schools
12
vouth Schools
101
Youth Schools
12
Special Schools
Elementery Educetion
Elementery Schools
14
Schools for Juvenile Correction
102
Yindergartens
17
Speciel Schools
Schools for the Blind nd Derf-Mute
18
Mmp of Northern Honshu
103

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.88)
ENTRODUCTTON
PURPCGE
Tiere ure two sapary statistical sectiens. rest One pro
sents in cin tables swrary swwric.l nd p re nt distribution
This stuky ws mde to flm craticel noe in e fi ld
data arren us ao  llovs: lvel by topec, contrel  level, and
of depenese etuestion. The statistienl precetures ss pre ucts
level ly contrel. Part lvo cunsists of six tables vaich suma-
of recery-keepinyy in Japen have ben entirely inadesuate. The
rice deta  contrel uriscictien cecerin to level and type.
Kinistay f Eaucation arintoins n recerils cf sckoels not wrder
its direet contrel, with the rosult tce fer inferrtion con-
The "toster of dap ese sducational Institutions" consti-
cermning nearly all schcels ef  clonentary od cecendery lov-
tates ort Siree ef shis pepert. t is prirarily a list of all
ele, and ay inetitutias ef se oper eecticanl level, ene
institutions wmic are  prt of ti.e re ular Jopanese educa-
must depend woon the cofecture. Even at taet source t ure cre
tional systen, v th sippificant eate for cach. The preject is,
as conplete records. In alrost a eren ef ue tien, ene mst
in pality,  et of pdonuering. In the course of its devel-
collect data fron the cei inal sources. tme serious ep in the
opont, seattere and, in lar e do ree, hitherto unclassified
recoris hes been the lach of a list ef all cducationel inctitu-
facts have been assenbled and nade avoileble in an casily re-
ti ms in Japan. It is this umer veia mhier tis stury is in-
fermble fem. Fer the firet tie in the history of Japanese
tended to fill.
wucntion, there is  coposite list of all or the nore than
A,  cducational institutions in Japan, e list mhich records
Por neh its wae, cht, ef fomaatien, dressy enrellmont by
SOCPD
sex a by totals? and the teachin ferce by sex, by full-time
She resulte of thic study were ori in lly sut u ns twe
projects, a "Roster of npxnose Miucational Institurions" in 46
1. The crererses of suparate institutions supplied in this re-
prefocturel reports, end "Statisticel Tebles Por Japanese Pdu-
port will be more intelligible if the render remctabers that
cational Institutions" in 46 pr fectural reports, witi. a summa-
"chle" mens "street," "mura" means "village" or "hanlet," "ma—
rizin report for the wholc of Janan: A little trial use of
chi," means "towm" or "sinll city," "pun" merns "county"or"dis-
the first finished reports in icnted, hetuver, that the two
trict," and "ken" meons "prefecture."
series would be more offective if combined. For that reason,
2. The enrollment figures are not those of actual attendance
the two reports for cach prefecture have been consolidated into
en 30 pril end 3 Hovember 1946 respectively, but those of cn-
one report.
rollnent on the schcol records on those dates.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.94)
or part-tine classification,3 and by totals.
ated. Sone of the roup nnes mi ht be al.est monningless with-
out cxplanation. They cre not unifonly definod in sono cases
The roster is arrenged eccorline to prefecture, control
even by the Japenose.
jurisdietion,end school lovel. There ere totals for every sub-
heading, and subhending and grand totals for every nein head-
There are three contrel juristictions in the Japanese edu-
ing and for every prefecture. Greand totels have been verked
cational syston: (1) national, whic. ineluies beth "Government"
out on two bases of oranisation, that of cantrol juristiction
or Linistry of ducction contrel, and that of ctiur ministrics
and th:t of sc:ool level.
wnich conduct spccialiac ucationel institutiens, (2) "public
control," or that exercised  ny level of overnaent below
The two dates chosen as focal peints in the cellcetion of
the centrel national level, such as tiat ty the prefecture
deta, 30 April 1946 nd 3 Hove ber 1946, were seleeta' et the
(ken), netronclis (to), city (shi), towm (mchi), or villace
request of Education Division, Civil Inforation and Eiucation
(ure); aund (3) privete contrel." Schools of the three cduce-
Section, for purposes of co p ricon regarliny oy pmte in
tional levele fall within these tince contrel jurisdictions.
the cducational pro rm.
The inistiy of uc tien has uxercise nensive powers
Since this series of reports is based upon ota collocted
in cducationel matt ps et all Iuvels an' over schoele under all
before chan es in the crymization of th cducatiounl ysten
juristictions exe pe thcce uster ther ministries. Phrough the
were effected, the cate orics use' are those inte which scheols
use of standardized t.xts and curricule, and throu h cir ctives
ful1 before the 6-3-3-4 system was inaupurated in Japan,4 and
of rany sorts for evor pupose, it has uxerted tromentous con-
the torms enployed ere transl tions of the J enese nenencla-
trol over even these selheols supposcely un er cther urisdic-
ture. The teminology used to in'ic te the bront levels of ed-
tions. in unusurl tact concernin this  spuct of Japxnese udu-
ucation are those currently use? in the Unite States: clunon-
cation is thnt control cous not inclule financial support or
tery, including kinter arten, prirary, nd r aor radee, scc-
appointin power for prefecturel end local schocls. :oney for
ondary, including hi h schoolo and preperat ry ochocls; nd
the mrinten nee of schools is appropristed by the national Gov-
higher, including schocls of junier collcce, collee, n uni-
ornment, end for ell practicel offects much of the control cx-
versity level.
creise over scheol irtters is in the h nds of the inistries
Within cach of those brond levels, houever, teminolo y is
not sc si ple or so clear. The vericus types of scheols in Ja-
4. As rapialy as possible the shinsei chu rekko (lover second-
pan are nunerous, over-lapping, and confusing to the uniniti-
dery school) nd shinsei koto rkko (upper sccondary sdhool)
system is being established, but practicel difficulties have
rade it ipossiblc to cfrect a conplete chan c-over. The stand-
3. Statistics for both full-tine and part-tine teachers are
ardization of institutions on the higher education level as
given. Where there are both types in a school, the second fig-
four-year de ree ranting institutions is also in progross, but
ure in the colunn, following the dash, represents the nuiber of
the pace of this dovelopuent, Likuise, is linited by practical
part-timo teachers.
cifficultics.
ii

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.73)
Lour prtcturel, usicy l, t, ervlle eevern aents. In
of Pim.ce cs ef Bome affeire, we cain ta   r troh 
contrel of the n tin i tet  of c oce point-
Sepon in 2946, public cntrol cow.ved  ruch viver mange of
se.     e cte of wectin crel. n
nent rospeet a. ahn te ratatione   
 a cucsties lc vore wiversioies, cellups, di or
of thece tro ririctrice, e ictey f Etecticn bos coud
a fg dc e f cor  co. ts e  , 
onoels, wor 1 ce cele, o - for opeclel cetsle, cll f the
iet c  f te  astr o ecion,
over, ir  oy  a l op  ione.
v t exeption or  puriel upiversitiue. tn a sision, pub
in e the nestry o tncatien exercices casplete r
e  streliee iretivetiene incie e les cc ceels ef tie sec-
   vl. ye leke (vocstienal
   s    ( )
perIF1 P C), E  是 FEEE 
w sels of     t  r . ote
 e (fris'  s ole) wr cctacpis fr piris s
(er  ). e.     
s f i . ols.  o (uth sohls)
wore seefer e t o er or te tr 
etuer ir porsonmsl or coep eut,  coney a ry ror t cc-
coe copreble csteam. oee to ter iv wit e
         or   
weiue o ly to  lr a o   a ir
   s t.
     ) 
S (  ) FOF I .
v e unele sfle,     w 
tho state, corel orei  iniviur  roup of ine
 l     
a   ot eLt s
ot co i  il ccurcec. e cui fci ferenco,
oe),  e1  e  t  . bu 
  e pbie  peiv te sehwe ls in sepen end
pore pecialiaed puoposce, in cnteblrchca uu rrosiy f r oo
proote poavate so is   utes, oo tt in apan the
et sinet cosfond of cow fevee, at  2005 ce on
contl r  otel wre cor  ectien (the r iistry of .xu
the hi er clue tin level e e urae f utey dor shilm
c tioc) uerted ue. ore oser or te ero unt of sc 1s
too uo ti F l t r t is the Unite St tos, a powor
make was three yoare iu lenth, w. rees t at ar te 'e
nemml schocls wae four yorrc. Se oprci l co ls, ouch as
ie s ose. et as "ir ire et couerol." Fe scope of juris-
Sicti  fer  rivatl conrlle instiontions ns ionticrl
e (seols for  ),  (o lo fr h
wu et of p vic juris icticn, irerving inctitutiens on ell
1mls a cf al ti ce cxes t Tuikoku cuigcku (Iupuriel Uni-
versities). The chart n peces iv to vi indicctes by level the
Fublic contrel covuree all i.stitutiers cer luctel ani ree
type of schcols unier ench of the threo control jurisdictions
1 194é.
ulated by govermmntel wits lomer ten the ational Level,
iii

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.93)
JAPHNSE EDUCATIONIL ENSTITUTIOS BY CONTROL JURISDICTION, LEVIL, ND TYPE
in 1946
I.
NATIONAL CONTROL
1.
Laperial Universities (Teilhoku Daig ku)
2.
Universities (Daigeku)
3。
Colloges (Semon Galke)
Hither Scheols (Koto G-kko)
5。
Higher Homrl Scicols (Koto Shihan Galke)
a. Liddle Schecls ttached (Chu Gakko)
b. Mlementary Schools Ittached (Sho Gelke)
. Higher Education
6. Hi her Nomel Sel.ools for Monen (Joshi Koto Shihen Geldko)
a. Girls' Hirh Senools Attached (Koto Jo Gacko)
A. linistry of Education
b. Meentary Schcols Attached (Sho Gallko)
(Government
c. Kin ergartens ttached (Yochien)
Institutions)
7. Fomrl Schools (Shihan Goltko)
Plccentar Schools Attoched (Sho Geliko)
b. inder rtens Attached (Yoch:
c. Youth chools ttached (Seinen telko)
1.
Gchools for the Blind (o Gokko)
B. Spucial Schools
2.
Schools for the Derf and De f- ute (Hon Gakko)
13.
Schools for the Plind n' Deaf-Tute (os Galcko)
f1. Colleges (Suamon Galko)
. Hirher Kucation
12. Other types
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo G kko)
a. gricultural Schools (ic Galdko)
B. Secondary Mucation
b. ther types
2. Youth Schools (S.incn Gakko)
B. Other Ministries
3. Other types
(1. Youth Schools (Scinen Geldko)
C. Special Schools
2. Other types
{1. anentary Scheols (Sho Gekko)
D. Dementary Education
(Peers' School only)
iv

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.93)
1. Universitius (Deisaku)
II. PUBLIC COMTROL
Higher ucction
2.
Colloges (Samon Galko)
3.
Hicher Schools (Koto Gaike)
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
gricultural Schcols (o C-kko)
B. Sucon r Kuc tion
b. Other types
2.
iddle chools (Chu C-lko)
Prefectural Covernnents
3.
Girls' Hirh Schools (Koto Jo Cakko)
1.
Schools for the Blind (To Cakko)
2.
Schools for the Deaf md Derf-Yute (tor. Goidko)
C. Special Schioels
3.
Schools f.r the Blin: mi Du-f- ute (io Grkko)
4. ther types
D. Meenter chools
1.
EMementar ucheols (oho Gldko)
(etropoliten Gov-
2. Kinder rtens (Yechion)
ornent enly)
(1. Universities (Dai iu)
Higher Pucation
2. Colle es (Son Galko)
1.
Vocational Schools (Jitsuyo Galko)
2.
Mildle Scheols (Chu Gakko)
B. Seconcar Education
3.
Girls' Hi . Schools (Koto Jo Galko)
4.
Youth Schools (Seinen Gekko)
B. Hunicipal Governments
1.
Mamentary Scheols (She Galko)
C. centary Education
(2. Kindergertens (Yochion)
[1. Verious types
D. Special Schools
1.
Vocctional Schoels (Jitsugyo Gakko)
2:
icle Schcols (Chu Gakko)
Secondary ucation
3:
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Grkko)
4.
Youth Schools (Seinen Grkko)
1:
Honentary Schools (Sho Grkko)
C. Village or Town
B. Aumentary Xucation
2.
Vin'ergartens (Yochien)
Governnents
(1. Various types
C. Special Schools
v

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.90)
III. PRIVATS CONTROL
1.
Universities (D..ic:ku)
Higher Euertion
2. Collegos (Semon Griko)
3. Micher scheols (Kcto Galdke)
Vocntional Schools (Jitsurye Geitke)
2.
Tale Scheols (Ghu Gallce)
B. Secondary Elucation
3.
Cirls' Hi h Jonools (Kote , Gekko)
A. Frivate Control
Youth Scthoels (Seinen Gelko)
11.
Mementery Cohols (She )
C. Hauntary Mucation
Kintergeroons (Yochion)
1.
Selsols fer the Blind (Io fake)
2.
Saeis r the Pef one Deof-ute (hee Gukko)
D. Special Schesle
3.
Sehnels for the Bliee  Derf-ute ( Calke)
4.
Other tyyes
SCURCE OF D
The Pinistry of Educatien, in serving as the date-colicct-
Tmou hout the prepor tion of this repert, workors in du-
ing agent, has played en invaluable part in this work. In the
catin Hesearch vere in constant touch vnth  inistry of duca-
surner of 1946 Yinistiy of iue tion officirls n' Civil Infor-
tien officiels te check the paterials ce they were ruccived
nation and Wucation Soction reserrehors ovelved  for: which
fron the individual schocls. igures were carefully checke?
sorved as the basis for securin: the desired inforation.
nnt scrutinizcd. .a ciscrepencics or anbiguitics in date vero
Through the 'inistry of ducation, prefectur l cducction divi-
'isccrured the were reetifi end clarified insof'r as check-
sions, end loccl cducation offici-ls,tae cata were greduelly
in made correction possible. hile a high degree of accurncy
secured frem the indivicual schools. lot cnouph cn be said in
ias tims nchievee, the at riale are still subject to the lim-
praise of the patience cnd cnthusinsm of the Tinistry in their
itations inheront in Jap nese statistics and in the roporting
cooperation with Civil Inforution and uc: tion Soction to
from indivi ual scncels.
nake this in accurate and effective study.
vi

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.98)
SUMARY CF EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS IN FUY USHIMA PREFECTURE
1046
Number of Institutions
Level and Type
Control
Sex
of Institutions
Ministry
Prefec-
Muni-
Village
Male
Female
Coed.
Total
Educat.
Other
tural
cipal
or Town
Private
Higher Institutions
Colleges
1
0
1
C
0
0
1
1
0
2
Normal Schools
2
0
0
0
C
0
1
0
1
2
Total Higher
I3
0
1
0
0
0
2
1
1
4
Secondary Institutions
Vocetional Schools
0
3
20
4
7
1
25
4
6
35
Boys' Middle Schools
0
C
11
C
0
1
12
0
0
12
Girls' High Schools
0
0
11
2
21
0
0
34
0
Youth Schools
0
5
0
12
377
37
20
10
401
Total Secondary
0
8
42
18
105
39
57
48
407
512
Elementary Institutions
Elementary Schools
2
*
0
0
24
483
2
1
2
508
511
Kindergartens
0
0
10
4
6
6108
0
01
16
16
Total Elementary
12
0
C
28
489
1
2
524
527
Special Institutions
Schools for the Blind
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
0
3
3
Blind and Deaf Mutes
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
Miscellancous Schools
0
C
0
C
0
9、
1
8
0
9
Juvenile Correction
0
1
0
0
0
10
0
0
1
1
Total Special
0
1
1
3
0
9
1
8
5
14
115
119
40
804
56
1
59
937
1057
Total Institutions
Attached to Normal Schools
vii

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKISHIM. PR FLCTURE
Table 1. Number of Educational Institutions by Level and Type
ENROLIMIENT #
TECHERS
X
Number of
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
Higher Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
CO-ed. T
Colleges
713
256
969
720
291
1011
46-8
5
59
45-13
6
64
1
1
2
Normal Schools
760
204
964
1050
352
1402
50-11
二
61
56-8
二
64
1
二
1
2
Total
1473
460
1933
1770
643
2413
96-19
5
120
101-21
6
128
2
1
1
4
Secondary Education
Vocational Schools
12569
2850
15419
11995
2806
14801
587-87
54-8
736
603-84
53-9
749
25
4
6
35
Middle Schools
13478
13478
13192
13192
347-10
357
367-9
376
12
一
12
Girls' High Schools
20930
20930
20797
20797
338-78
269-23
708
347-80
267-24
718
一
34
34
Youth Schools
50492
37976
88468
50591
37442
88033
753-1714
479-557
3503
766-1749
540-576
3631
20
10
401
431
Total
76539
61756
138295
75778
61045
136823
2025-1889 802-588
5304
2083-1922 860-609
5474
57
48
407
512
Elementary Education
Elem. Schls ttached
to Normal Schools
644
613
1257
630
623
1253
24
11
35
24
8
32
一
2
2
Elementary Schools
186533 181061 367594 185103 180066 365169
4013-207
3993-171 8384
4070-206
3961-173 8410
1
2
506
509
Kindergartens
836
1019
1855
797
946
1743
6-8
42
56
6-8
42
56
二二
12
16
16
Total
183013 182693 370706 186530 131635 368165
4043-215
4046-171 8475
4100-214
4011-173
8498
524
527
Special Schools
Schools for the
Blind & Deaf-Mute
124
46
170
127
52
179
15-6
2-2
25
14-8
4-2
28
一
4
4
discellaneous Schls. 390
2236
2626
370
2886
3256
66-27
43-8
144
68-29
61-12
170
1
8
一
9
Juvenile Correction
Schools
26
7
33
26
7
33
2
2
2
2
二
1
1
Total
540
2289
2829
523
2945
3468
83-33
45-10
171
84-37
65-14
200
1
8
5
14
Grand Total
266565 247198 513763
264601 246268 510869 6247-2156 4898-769 14070 6368-2194 4942-796 14300 61 59
937
1057
#
These figures are not those for actusl attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the sohool records as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same colum.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of pert-time teachers.
viii

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.98)
FUKUSHIMA PREFECTURE
Table 2. Percent of Educetinal Institutions by Ievel and Tyne
NRODITENT
TE..CHERS Y.
Vumber of
30 Anril 1946
30 Vovember 1946 30 Anril 1946
30 Jovember 1946
Institutions
F
F
T
F
T
F
F
T
F
T
N
F Co-ed.T
Higher Education
Colleges
50
50
50
41
45
42
47.8-42.1 100
49.2
L4.6-62.0
100
.50
50
100
50
Vormal Schools
50
50
50
60
55
58
52.2-57.
50.8
55.4-38
50
50
100
50
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100 -100
100
100
100 -100
100
100
100
100
100 100
Percent of Gr. Total
.5
.1
.3
.6
.2
.4
1.57-0.96
0.1-0
0.81.58-0.96
0.1-0
0.89
3.28
1.69
0.1 0.4
Secondery Education
Vocationsl Schools
17
5
11
16
5
11
29.0-4.6
6.7-1.4 13.9
20.0-4.3P
6.0-1.48 13.6
43.9
.34 1.47 6.82
Middle Schools
18
10
18
10
17.1-0.5
6.7
17.5-0.27
6.9
21.1
2.34
Girls' High Schools
34
15
34
15
16.7-4.1
33.6-3.0 13.4
16.6-4.15
31.0-3.92 13.1
70.86
.6.64
Youth Schools
65
61
64
66
61
64
37.2-00.8
50.7-947 66.1
36.0-01.0
63.0-94.6 66.4
35.0
20.8 08.53 84.2
Totel
100
100
100
100
100
100
100 -100
100- 100 100
100 -100
100 -100 100
100
100 100 100
Percent of Gr. Totel
27.5
24.0
26.70
28.2
24.8
27
32.4-87.7
16.8-76.5 37.9 32.9-97.5
18.4-76.5 39.21 93.44 91.32 43.5 48.42
Llementary Educetion
Elemen tery Schl. Attached
to Vormel School
.3
3.3
.3
.3
3 0.59-0
0.27-0
0.43 89.6
0.2-0
0.37
0.38 0.38
Elementary Schcols
99.3
99.3 9.3
99.3
.3
99.3 c0.4-06.3
8.60-100 0.91.27-06.33.7-100
98.97 100 100
96.32 96.42
Kindergerters
.4
.4
.4
.4
4 0.01-3.7
1.04-0
0.66 0.15 - 3.7 1.1-0
0.66
3.3 3.2
Totel
100
100
100
100
100
100 100 -100
100-
100 100
100 - 100
100 - 100 100
100 100 100 100
Percent of Gr. Total
71.8
74
72.5
71
74
72.64.7-9.0
82.2-22.2 60.1 64.3-0.76
80.2-21.74 59.5
1.64 3.49 55.87 49.83.
Special Schocls
Schl. for Blind & Deaf-
Mute
23
2
6
24
2
5
18.1-18.4
4.5-20
14.6 16.5-21.6
6.25-14.3 14.0
80
28
Miscellaneous Schools
72
97.8
92
71
97.8
94
79.5-81.6
95.5-80
84.2 P1.0-78.4
03.75-85.7 85.0 100
100
64
Juvenile Correction School5
.2
5
.2
1
2.4-0
1.2 2.5
1.0
20
8
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100 -100
100 -100
100
100 -100
100 -100
100
100
100
100 100
Percent of Gr. Total
.2
1
.5
.2
1
.6
1.33.1.54
0.90-1.3
1.2 1.32-1.68
1.3-1.76
1.40
1.64 236 0.58 1.35
Crand Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100 -100
100 -100
100
100 -100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
ir See footrote Table 1.
X See footrote Table 1.
ix

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUSHDMA
PREFECTURE
Table 3. Number of Educational Institutions by Control and Level
ENROLIMENT #
TEACHERS X
Number of
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
Ministry of Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
Co-ed. T
Higher Education
1473
204
1677
1770
352
2122
73-16
89
79-15
94
2
1
3
Elem. Education
644
613
1257
630
623
1253
24
11
35
24
8
32
2
2
Total
2117
817
2934
2400
975
3375
97-16
11
124
103-15
8
126
一
2
3
5
Prefectural Schools
Higher Education
256
256
291
291
23-3
5
31
22-6
6
34
1
1
Sec. Education
22174
9982
32156
21394
9972
31366
892-97
123-8
1120
943-95
126-9
1173
29
11
2
42
Special Schools.
7
67
60
8
68
8
1
9
8
3
11
1
1
Totel
22234
10245
32479
21454
10271
31725
923-100
129-8
1160
973-101
135-9
1218
29
12
3
44
Municipal Schools
Secondary Education
2040
3346
5386
1894
3297
5191
101-57
55-10
223
104-40
72-11
227
5
7
18
Elementary Education
15496
14943 30439
15908
15247
31155
281-6
358-1
646
287-6
368-1
662
1
1
26
28
Special Schools
64
39
103
67
44
111
7-6
1-2
16
6-8
1-2
17
1
3
3
Total
17600
18328
835928
17869
18588
36457
38.9-69
414-13
885
397-54
441-14
906
6
17
36
49
Village or Town Schools
Secondary Education
45614
44264 89878
45893
43873
89766
855-1597
592-550
3594
877-1618
648-570 3713
3
23
379
405
Elementary Education
171496
166712 338208
169655
165395
335050
3732-208
3659-170 7769
3779-207
3615-172 7773
489
489
Total
217110
210976 428086
215548
209268
424816
4587-1805
4251-720 11363
4656-1825
4263-742 11486
3
23
868
894
Private Schools
Secondary Education
3197
4104
7301
3075
3844
6919
114-119
30-19
282
100-132
31-18
281
12
8
19
39
BlemèntaryEducation
377
425
802
337
370
707
6-1
18
25
10-1
20
31
1
7
8
Special Schools
390
2236
2626
370
2886
3256
66-27
43-8
14
68-29
61-12
170
1
8
9
Total
3964
6765
10729
3782
7100
10882
186-147
91-27
451
178-162
112-30
482
13
17
26
56
Schls under Other Min.
Secondary Education
3514
3514
3522
3522
62-15
77
58-15
73
8
8
Special Schools
26
7
33
26
7
33
2
2
2
2
1
Total
3540
7
3547
3548
7
3555
64-15
79
60-15
75
100
1
9
Grand Total
266565 247138 513703 264601 246209 510810
6246-2152 4896-768 14062
6367-2172 4959-795 14293 61 59
937
1057
# See footnote Table 1.
X See footnote Table 1.
x

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.98)
FUKUSHLMA PREFECPURE
Table 4. Percent of Educational Institutions by Control and Level
ENROLLAMT
TEACHERS
X
Number of
30 april 1946
November 1946
30. pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
inistry of Education
F
I1
F
3
F
T
F
T
F
Coed. T
Higher Education
69.8
25.0
57.1
73.8
36.1 62.9 75.2-100
76.8
76.8-100
74.7
100
一
33.3
60
Elem. Education
30.2
75.0
42.9
26.2
63.9
37.224.8
100
23.2
23.2-0
100
25.3
66.7
40
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
109-100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. 0.792 0.3
0.57
0.9.1.7
0.66 1.55-0.75
0.22
C.88
1.6-0.68
0.15
0.88
3.18
0.32
0.4
Prefectural Schools
Higher Educatix
2.49
0.79
2.83 0.91.2.53-3
3.83
2.67
2.31-5
4.4
2.82
8.35
2.48
Sec. Education
99.8
97.1
99.2
99.7
97.1 98.9 96.6-97
95.4-100
96:6
96.87-95
93.4-100
96.27 100
91.65 66.7
95.04
Special Schools
0.2
0.11
0.01
0.3
0.07 0.19 0.87-0
0.77-0
C.73
0.82
2.2-0
0.91
33.3.
2.48
Totel
100
100
100
100
100
100 100-100
100-100
10C
100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. 8.37
4.15
6.32
8.1·4.1
6.2 14.8-4.65
2.64-1
3.2
15.5-4.65
2.71-1.16
8.54
46.0 21.0
C.32
4.16
Municipel Schools
Sec. Education
11.58.18.29 15.02 10.63 17.77 14.2 26.2-82.6
13.3-77
25.2
26.2-74.1
16.4-78.5
25.1
87.5 80
19.4
36.8
Elen. Education
88:06 81.5
84.7
89.-
82.0
85.5 71.8-8.7
86.4-17.7
73.1
72.3-11.1
83.4-7.2
73.0
12.5 20
72.2
57.1
Special Schools
0.36
0.21
C.28
C.37
C.23
0.3. 2.0-8.7
0.3-15.3
1.7
1.5-14.8
C.2-14.3
1.9
8.4
6.1
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
10C-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Total
6.67
7.43
6.98
6.8
7.6
7.12 6.23-3.2
8.48-2
6.33
6.22-2.45
8.9-1.78
6.33
12.8 8.7
3.84
4.64
Village or Town Schools
Sec. Educatior.
21.0
21.0
20.95 21.3
21.5
21.1 18.6-88.5
13.7-76.5
31.6
18.8-88.7
15.2-76.8
32.3
100
100
43.6
45.2
Elem. Education
79.0
79.0
79.05
78.7
75.5
78.9 31.4-11.5
86.1-23.5
68.4
81.2-11.3
84.8-23.2
67.7
56.4
54.8.
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100 10C-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
200
100
Percent cf Gr. Tot. 81.3
85.4
83.3
81.4
84
83.2 73.5-84.0
86.8-9h
80.8
73.0-84.1
86.0-73.3
80.4
4.7240.4
92.74
84.7
Private Schools
Sec. Education
80.6
60.71 68.12 81.3
54.1
63.6 61.3-81
33-70.4
62.5
56.2-81.5
27.6-60
58.3
92.3 47.05 73.1
69.7
Elem. Education
9.55
6.29
7.48
ε.9
5.2
6.5 3.2-0.68
19.8-0
5.5
5.6-0.6
17.9-0
6.4
5.9
26.9
14.3
Special Schools
9.85
33
24.4
9.8
40.7
29.9 35.5-18.32
47.2-29.6
32
38.2-17.9
54.5-40
35.3
7.1
47.05
16
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100 100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot.
2.49
2.72
2.14
1.44
2.6
2.13 2.9-6.8
1.86-3
3.22
2.8-7.44
2.25-3.76
3.32
20.6 29.9
2.78
5.3
Schls under Other iiin.
See. Education
99.26
99.0799.25
99.07 96.8-100
97.47
96.67-100
97.33 100
88.9.
Special Schools
C.74
0.93
C.75
0.93
3.2-0
2.53
3.33-0
2.67
100
11.1
Total
100
100
100
100
100-100
100
100-100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. 1.39
0.69
1.36
0.69
1.02-0.7
0.58
0.9-0.68
0.53
12.7
0.8
Grand Total
100
10C
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
 See footnote Table 1.
s
See footnote Table 1.
xi

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.97)
Trou hout te prepar ion 
Enictary of duca-
FUKUSHIA PREFFCTURE
Table 5. Tumber of Fducetional I-stitutions by Ievel end Tyne
ENROLIMENT
#
TFACHFS
Vumber of
30 Anril 1946
20 ovember 194
30 Anril 1946
30 November 1946
Jrstitutions
Higher Education
N
F
T
M
F
T
MT.
F.
T
F
T
!'
F
Co-ed. T
Min. of Education
1473
204
1677
1770
352
2122
73-16
99
70-15
94
2
1
3
Pref. Schools
256
256
201
291
23-3
5
31
22-6
6
34
1
1
Total
1473
460
1033
1770
643
2413
c6-19
5
120
101-21
6
128
2
1
1
4
Secondary Education
Pref. Schools
22174
82
32156
21394
972
31366
902-97
123-8
1120
042-95
126-0
1173
29 11 2
42
Mun. Schools
2040
3406
5446
1894
3356
5250
102-61
57-11
231
105.-62
55-12
234
67
18
Vill. or Town Schls.45614
44264
89878
45893
13873
85766.
855-1507
592-550
3504
977-1618
649-570
3713
23 379
405
Private Schools
3197
4104
7301
3075
3844
6019
114-119
30-19
282
100-132
31-18
281
12 8 19
39
Schools Under Other
Ministries
3514
3514
3522
3522
62-15
77
58-15
73
8
8
Total
76530
61756
138295
75778
61045
136923 2025-1889 802-588
5304
2083-1922 860-600
5474
57 48 407
512
Elemen tary Education
Min. of Education  644
613
1257
620
622
1253
24
11
35
24
8
32
2
2
Iun. Schools
15496
14043
30439
15908
15247
31155
281-6
358-1
646
297-6
368-1
662
26
28
Vill..or Towm.Schls:171496
166712
238208
169655
165395
325050 3732-208
3650-170 7769
3770-207
3615-172 7773
4P℃
489
Private Schocls
377
425
202
237
370
707
6-1
18
25
10-1
20
31
1
7
8
Total
188013
182603
370706
186530
181635
368165 4043-215
4046-171 8475
4100-214
4011-173 8408
1
2
524
527
S-ecial Schools
Pref. Schools
60
7
67
60
8
68
8
1
9
8
3
11
1
1
Mun. Schools
64
39
103
67
44
111
7-6
1-2
16
6-8
1-2
17
3
3
Private Schools
390
2236
2626
370
2886
3256
66-27
43-8
144
68-29
61-12
170
e
9
Schools Under Other
"inistries
26
7
33
26
7
33
2
2
2
2
1
1
Total
540
2289
2820
523
2945
3468
83-33
45-10
171
84-37
65-14
200
18
5
14
Grand Total
266565
247108
513763
264601
246268
510869 6247-2156 4998-769 14070 6368-2104 4942-796 14300 61 59 937 1057
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollmert on the school records as of these dates,
I The number of both full end nart-time teschers is indiceted in this re-ort. Where there are two numbers entered in the same colum.
senarated by e hynhen, the second figure indicates the umber of part-time teachers.
xii

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUSHIL. PREFECTURE
Table 6. Pereent of Educetional Institutions by Level and Type
ENRCLIMENT
TELCHERS X
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
Institutions
Higher Education
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
F
Co-ed. T
Min. of Education
100
44
87
100
55
87
76-84
74.2
79-71
74
100
100
75
Pref. Schools
56
13
45
13
24-16
100
25.8
21-29
100
26
100
25
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. 0.6
0.2
0.4
0.8
0.2
0.5
1.5-0.9
0.1
0.8
1.6-0.9
0.1
0.9
3.1
1.8
0.1
0.3
Secondary Education
Prefectural Schls.
26
16
23
28.2
16.3
22.8
44-5.3
15.4-1.4
21.1
45-5
14.7-1.5
21.4
49.1
24
0.5
8.2
Municipal Schools
3
5
5
2.5
5.5
3.7
5-3.3
7.1-1.9
4.3
5-3.2
6.4-2
4.3
12
8.7
1.7
3.5
Vill. or Town Schls.
62
72
63
60.6
71.9
65.5
42.5-84.5
73.8-93.5
67.8
42-84.2
75.3-93.5
67.8
5
50
93.1
79.1
Private Schools
4
7
6
4.1
6.3
5.5
5.5-6.1
3.7-3.2
5.3
5-6.8
3.6-3
5.2
20.3
17.3
4.7
7.6
Schls. under Othern.5
3
4.6
2.5
3-0.8
1.5
3-0.8
1.3
13.6
1.6
二
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. 28.7
25
27
28.5
24.8
26.7
32.2-87.6
16.4-76.5 37.6
32.7-88
17.5-76.4 38.2
93.7
80.7
43.5
48.4
Elementary Education
Min. of Education
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.6-0
0.3
0.4
0.6-0
0.2-0
0.4
0.4
0.4
Municipal Schools
8.3
8.2
8.2
8.5
8.4
8.5
7-2.8
8.9-0.6
7.7
7-2.8
9.2-0.6
7.7
100
50
5
5.3
Vill. or Town Schls.
91.2
91.3
91.3
91.0
91.1
91
92.2-96.7
90.4-99.4
91.6
92.1-96.7
90.1-99.4
91.5
一
93.3
92.8
Private Schools
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2-0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3-0.5
0.5
0.4
50
1.3
1.5
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. 70.5
73.9
72.1
70.5
73.8
72.1
65-10
82.6-22.2
60.4
64.4-9.8
81.1-21.8
59.5
1.6
3.5
55.9
50
Special Schools
Prefecturel Schools
11
0.3
2.4
11.5
0.3
1.9
9.7-0
2.2
5.3
9.5
4.6
5.5
一
一
20
7.1
Municipal Schools
12
1.7
3.6
12.8
1.5
3.2
8.4-18.2
95.6-20
9.4
7.1-21.6
1.5-14.3
8.5
60
21.4
Private Schools
72
97.7
92.9
70.7
98
93.9
79.5-81.8
2.2-80
84.2
81.0-78.4
93.9-85.7 85
100
100
6404
Schls under Other Min.5
0.3
1.1
5
0.2
1
2.4
1.1
2.4
1
20
2.1
Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
Percent of Gr. Tot. 0.2
0.9
0.5
0.2
1.2
0.7
1.3-1.5
0.9-1.3
1.2
1.3-1.3
1.3-1.8
1.4
1.6
14
0.5
1.9
Grand Total
100
100
100
100
100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100-100
100-100
100
100
100
100
100
# See footnote Table 1.
x
See footnote Table 1.
xiii

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUGHIMA PREFECTURE
Table 7. Schools under the Jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education
ENROLLMENT
#
TEACHERS X
30 April 1946
30 Nove.aber 1946
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
Higher Education (Koto Kyoiku)
Colleges (Semmon Gakko)
Colleges for Males
(Danshi Semmon Gakko)
713
713
720
720
23-5
28
23-7
30
Normal Schools (Shihan Gakko)
Normal Schools for Males
(Danshi Shihan Gacko)
77
77
116
116
8-5
13
11-3
14
Co-educetional Normal Schools
(Dan jo Kyogaku Sainan Gakko)
683
204
887
934
352
1286
42-6
48
45-5
50
Total- Normal Schools
760
204
964
1050
352
1402
50-11
61
56-8
64
Total - Higher Educetion
1473
204
1677
1770
352
2122
73-16
89
79-15
94
Blemontary Education (Snoto Kyciku)
Elementary Schools Attached to
Normal. Schools (Shogakko)
644
613
1257
630
623
1253
24
11
35
24
8
32
Total - Ministry of Education 21l7
817
2934
2400
975
3375
97-16
11
124
103-15
8
126
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollnent on the school records as of these detes.
I The number of oth full and part-time teachers is indicated in this re ort. Where there are two numbers entered in the same columm.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
xiv

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUSHIMA PREFECTURE
Table 8. Schools under Prefectural Jurisdiction by Level and Type
ENROLILENT
TEACHERS
x
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
30 April 1946
30 November 1946
Higher Education (Koto Kyoiku)
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Colleges (Semmon Gakko)
Colleges for Females
(Joshi Semmon Gakko)
256
256
291
291
23-3
5
31
22-6
6
ま国
Total - Higher Education
256
256
291
291
23-3
5
3I
22-6
6
Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
Commercial Schools (Shogyo Gaicko)
Comm. Schls for Males
(Danshi Shogyo Gakko)
1810
1810
1762
1762
59-5
0-1
65
63-5
0-1
69
Industrial Schools (Kogyo Gakko)
Industrial Schools for lales
(Danshi Kogyo Gakko)
3787
3787
3381
3381
203-26
1
230
200-26
1
227
gricultural Schools (No Gakko)
Agricultural Schools for Males
(Danshi No Gakko)
2410
2410
2388
2388
82-5
87
89-6
95
Co-ed. Agricultural Schools
(Dan jo Kyogaku No Gakko)
907
298
1205
885
294
1179
50-7
8
65
54-4
7:1.
66
Total - Lg. Schools
3317
298
3615
3273
294
3567
132-12
8
152
143-10
7-1
161
Fisheries Schools ( Suisan Gakko)
192
192
188
188
10-4
14
10-3
13
Special Kinds of Vocetional Schls.
for Males (Danshi Tokushu Jitsugyo
Gakko)
543
543
522
522
22-1
23
23-1
2h
Total - Vocational Schools
9649
298
9947
9126
294
9420
426-48
9-1
484
439-45
8-2
494
Middle Schools (Chu Gakko)
12525
12525
12268
12268
322-10
332
345-9
354
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko)
9684
9684
9678
9678
144-99
114-7
304
159-41
118-7
925
Total - Secondary Educetion
22174
9982
32156
21394
9972
31366
892-97
123-8
1120
943-95
126-9
1173
Special Sohools (Tokushu Gakko)
Schools for Blind & Deaf-Mute
(Moe Gakko)
60
7
67
60
8
68
8
1
9
8
3
11
Total - Special Schools
60
7
67
60
8
68
8
1
9
8
3
Grand Total
22234 10245
32479
21454 10271 31725
923-100 129-8
1160
973-101 135-9 1218
# See footnote Table 7.
X See footnote Table 7.
xv

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
FOKUSHI PREFECTURE
Teble 9. Schools under Municipal Jurisdiction by Level end Type
ENROLLMENT #
TELCHERS X
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Vocationel Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
Cammercial Schools (Shogyo Gckko)
Camercial Schools for Femelcs
(Joshi Shogyo Gakko)
929
929
921
921
20-12
19-2
53
21-10
19-2
52
Special Kinds of Vocctionel Schools
(Tokushu Jitsugyo Gakko)
Spc. Kinds of Voc. Schls for Miales
(Danshi Tokushu Jitsugyo Gakko)
776
776
756
756
29-2
31
28-2
30
Totel - Vocationel Schools
776
929
1705
756
921
1677
49-14
19-2
84
49-12
19-2
82
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko)
1861
1861
1811
1811
28
25
53
29
23
52
Youth Schools (Soinen Gacko)
Youth Schools for Males
(Danshi Scinen Gekko)
294
294
288
288
6-19
25
6-18
24
Youth Schools for Females
(Joshi Seinen Gakko)
60
60
59
59
1-4
2-1
8
1-4
1-1
7
Co-educationel Youth Schools
(Dan jo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko)
970
556
1526
850
565
14.15
18-24
11-8
61
20-28
12-9
69
Total - Youth Schools
1264
616
1880
1138
624
1762
25-47
13-9
94
27-50
13-10
100
Total - Secondary Educetion
2040
3406
5446
1894
3356
5250
102-61
57-11
231
105-62
55-12
234
Elementary Educetion (Shoto Kyoiku)
Elementery Schocls (Sho Gakko)
Elm. Schls for Males (Danshi Sho Gakko)
1705
1705
1793
1793
21
16
37
21
16
37
Elm. Schls for Females(Joshi Sho Gakko)
1666
1666
1749
1749
17
18
35
16
18
34
Co-educetional Elementar- Schools
(Dan jo Kyogaku Sho Gakko)
13630
13089
26719
13915
13276
27191
243-2
315-1
561
250-2
325-1
578
Total - Elementary Schools
15335
14755
30090
15708
15025
30733
281-2
349-1
633
287-2
359-1
649
Kindergartens (Yochien)
161
188
349
200
222
422
0-4
9
13
0-4
9
19
Total. - Elementary Education
15496
14943
30439
15908
15247
31155
281-6
358-1
646
287-6
368--1
662
Special Schools (Takushu Gekko)
Sohools for the Blind (Mo Gakko)
64
39
103
67
44
111
7-6
1-2
16
6-8
1-2
17
Total - Municipal Schools
17600
18388
35988
17869
18647
36516
390-73
416-14
893
398-76
424-15
913
# See footnote Table 7.
I See footnote Table 7.
xvi

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUSHIMA PREFECTURE
Table 10. Schools under Village or Town Jurisdiction by Level and Type
ENROLLMENT #
TEACHERS
x
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
Secandary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gacko)
Cammercial Schls. (Shogyo Gakko)
Commercial Schools for Males
(Danshi Shogyo Gacko)
127
127
123
123
7
7
7
7
Agricultural Schools (No Gakko)
gricultural Schls for Males
(Danshi No Gakko)
308
308
305
305
9
9
14
14
Co-ed. gricultural Schools
910
833
1793
895
866
1761
48-9
15-5
77
48-12
17-5
82
Total- Agriculturel Schools
1218
883
2101
1200
866
2066
57-9
15-5
86
62-12
17-5
96
Special Kinds of Vocationel Schls.
(Takushu Jitsugyo Gakko)
Speo. Kinds of Voc. Schls for
Males (Danshi Tokushu Jitaugyo
Gaicko)
552
557
544
54
23-1
24
22
22
Total - Vocational Schools
1902
883
2785
1867
866
2733
87-10
15-5
117
91-12
17-5
125
Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Cakko)
9385
9385
9308
9308
166-89
130-16
351
159-39
126-17
341
Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
Youth Schls. for Females
(Joshi Seinen Gakko)
24
244 244
1-1
1-1
4
2-4.
6-3
15
Co-educational Youth Schools
(Dan jo Kyogaku Seinen Gacko)
43712 33972 77684
44026
33455 77481
601-1547
446-528
3122
625-1563 499-545 3232
Total - Youth Schools
43712 33996 77708
44026
33699 77725
602-1548
447-529
3126
627-1567.505-548. 3247
Total - Secondary Education
45614 44264 89878
45893
43873 89766
855-1597
592-550
3594
877-1618 648-570 3723
Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
Co-educational Ricmentary Schools
(Dan jo Kyogaku Sho Gakko)
171178 166283.337461 169375 165002 334377 3731-205
3643-170 7749 3778-204. 3599-172 7753
Kindergartens (Yochien)
318
429747
280
393
673
1-3
16
20
1-3
16
20
Total - Elementary Education
171496 166712 338208 169655 165395 335050 3732-208
3659-170 7769 3779-207 3615-172 7773
Total - Village or Town Schools
217110 210976 428086 215548 209268 424816 4587-1805 4251-720 11363 4656-1825
11486
4263-742
# See footnote Table 7.
X See footnotc Table 7.
xvi1

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUSHIMA PREFECTURE
Talbe 1l. Schools under Private Jurisdiction by Level and Type
ENROLLLENT #
TELCHERS X
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
30 pril 1946
30 November 1946
Secandary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Galko)
Commercial Schools (Shogyo Gakko)
Commercial Schools for Girls
(Joshi Shogyo Gekko)
740
740
725
725
11
11
22
10
9
19
Middle Schools (Chu Gacko)
953
953
924
924
25
25
22
22
Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
Youth Schools for Males
(Danshi Seinen Gakko)
682
682
768
768
21-28
49
21-32
53
Youth Schools for Females
(Joshi Seinen Gelcko)
1108
1108
1030
1030
8-28
6-8
50
5-28
4-8
45
Co-educational Youth Schools
(Dan jo Kyogaku Seinen Gakcko)
1562
2256
3818
1389
2089
3472
49-63
13-11
136
42-72
18-10
112
Total - Youth Schools
2244
3364
5608
2151
3119
5270
78-119
19-19
235
68-132
22-18
240
Total - Secondary Education
3197
4104
7301
3075
3844
6919
114-119
30-19
282
100-132
31-18
281
Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
Blementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
Elementary Schools for Girls
(Joshi Sho Gekko)
16
16
4
2
6
Co-educational Elementary Schls.
(Dan jo Kyogaku Sho Gakko)
20
23
43
20
23
43
1
1
2
1
1
2
Total - Elementery Schools
20
23
43
20
39
59
1
1
2
5
3
8
Kindergartens (Yochien)
357
402
759
317
331
648
5-1
17
23
5-1
17
23
Total - Elomentary Education
377
425
802
337
370
707
6-1
18
25
10-1
20
31
Special Schools (Tokushu Gak-o)
Misc. Schls. (Kakushu Gaicko)
Miscellaneous Schools for Males
(Danshi Kakushu Gakko)
390
390
370
370
12
12
14
14
Miscellaneous Schls. for Females
(Joshi Kakushu Gakko)
2236
2236
2886
2886
54-27
43-8
132
54-29
61-12
156
Total - Miscellaneous Schools
390
2236
2626
370
2886
9256
66-27
43-8
144
68-29
61~12
170
Total - Private Schools
3964
6765 10729
3782 7100
10882
186-147
91-27
451
178-162
112-30
432
# See footnote Table 7.
X See footnote Table 7.
xvi11

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
FUKUSHM PREFECTURE
Table 12. Schools under Ministries Other than the Ministry of Education
ENROLLMENT
#
TE CHERS X
30 4pril 1946
30 Novembe. 1946
30 4pril 1946
30 November 1946
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gacko)
Training Institutes for Males
(Danshi Yosei jo)
242
242
246
246
14-15
29
14-15
29
Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
Youth Schools for Kales
(Danshi Seinen Gakko)
3272
3272
3276
3276
48
48
44
Total - Secondery Education
3514
3514
3522
3522
62-15
77
58-15
73
Special Schools (Tokushu Gekko)
Juvenile Correction Schools
(Shonen Kyogoin)
26
7
33
26
7
33
2
2.
2
2
Total - Speciel Schools
26
7
33
26
7
33
2
2
2
2
Total - Schools under Othor
Ministries
3540 7
3547
3548
7
3555
64-15
79
60-15
75
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these detes.
X The number of both full and part-tine teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same columm,
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
xix

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JLPANESE EDUCTIONL INSTITUTIONE
FUKUSHIMA PREFECTURE
I. MINISTRY OF·EDUC.TION SCHOCLS
.. Hgher Education (Koto Kyoiku)
3. Colleges (Semmon Gakko)
a) Colleges for Males (Dcnshi Semmon Gakko) under the Control of Ministry of Education, Fukushima Prefecture
x
NAME
ADDRESS
DLTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
MF
T
M
F
T
F
T
1 Fukushime Keizai Semmon Shimizumure, Shinobu-
4pril 1922
713
713.
720
720
23-5
28
23-7
90
Gakko (Fukushima Colloge gun, Fukushime Pref.
of Econamics)
Totel
713
713 720
720
23-5
28
23-7
30
I. MINISTRY OF EDUCLTION SCHOOLS
. Higher Education (Koto Kyoiku)
7. Normal Schools (Shihan Gakko)
a) Normal Schaols for Males (Danshi Shihan Gakko)
under the Control of Ministry of Education, Fukushima Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
KNROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
MF
T
1 Fukushima Seinen Shihan
Iriecho, Fukuchima
April 1944
77
77
116
116
8-5
13
11-3
14
Gakko (Fukushima Normal
City. Fukushima Pref.
School for Youth School
Teachers).
Total
77
77116
23 -11-3
14
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
X  The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. There there are two numbers entered in the same colum,
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-1-

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.96)
FUKUSHE PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCITIONAL INSTITUTIONS
I. MINISTRY F EDUGATION SCHOOLS
. Higher Educetion (Koto Kyoiku)
7. Normal Schools (Shinan Gakko)
c) Ca educational Normal Schocls (Dan io yogaku Shiben Gakko) under the Control of Ministry of Education, Fukushima Prefecture
NE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT #
TECHERS
x
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 40r. 46
30 Nov. 46
H
F
T
F
T
II
F
T
F
T
1 Fukushime Shihan Gakko
Hameda-cho, Fukushima
Lpril 1943
683 204 887
934
352
1286
42-6
48
45-5
50
(Fukushima Normal Schl.) City, Fukushina Pref.
Total
683 204 887
934
352
1286
42-6
48
45-5
50
I. MINISTRY OF EDUCLTION SCHOOLS
. Higher Education (Koto Kyoiku)
7. Normal Schools (Shihan Gakko)
a. Elomentary Schools (Sho Gakko) Attached to Normal School under the Control of Linistry of Education, Fukushime Prefecturo
NALE
ADDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLILENT
TE:CHERS
30 Lpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 40r. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
1 mnahibu Fuzoku Sho
Hameda-cho, Fucushimm
4pril 1943
373 306. 679
365 312 677
18
17
Gakko (Elonentary Schl. City, Fukushina Pref.
Atteched to Men's Divi-
sion of Fukushima
Normal School)
271 307 573 265 311 576 11 6 17 11 415
2
Joshibu Fuzoku Sho Gakko Funabe-cho, Fukushipa
pril 1943
(Elementary School t- City, Fukushima Pref.
tached to liomen's Divi-
sion of Fukushima
Nomal School)
Total
644 613 1257 630 623 1253 24 211 35 24 8. 32
#
These figures are not those for actuel attendance on thuso detes, but those for enrollnent on the school records as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. where there are two numbers entered in the same columm.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
Both sexes attend the sane school, but do not attend the same classes.
-2-

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JI ANESE EDUCITIONAL INSTITUTIONS
FUKUSHIMA PREFECTURE
II. PREFECTURIL SCHOOLS
4. Higher Education (Koto Kyóiku)
3. Colleges (Sammon Gakko)
b) Colleges for Females (Joshi Semmon Galkko) under the Control of Prefectural Government, Fukushime Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TELCHERS
x
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
T
M F
T
1 Fukushima Joshi Igaku Sen- Shimizu-mure, Shinobu- Jen. 1944
256
256
291
291
23-3 5
31
22-6 6
34
mon Galdko (Fukushima Wo-
çun, Fukushima prof.
men's Medical Colloge)
Total
256 256
291 291
23-3 5 31
22-6 6
34
II. PREFECTURL SCHOOLS
B. Secondery Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocetional Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
a. Commercial Schools (Shogyo Gakko)
1) Camercial Schools for Males (Danshi Shogyo Gakko) under the Control of Prefuctuel Governnent, Fukushima Profecture
x
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 r. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
Li
F
T
M
T
1 Fukushina Shogyo Gekko
Kasumi-cho, Fukushina
4pril 1897 705
705
680
680
15
15
18
18
(Fukushina Comercial Schl)City, Fukushima Pref.
2 Soma Shogyo Gakko (Sona
Harano-nachi, Some-
March 1939 508
508
498
496
20
20
20
20
Commurcial School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
Teira Shogyo Gakko (Taira
Saitsuchikoji, Taira
May 1920
220
220 218
218
15-5- 0-1- 21
12-5 0-1
Camercial School)
City, Fukushime Pref.
4
akamatsu Shogyo Gakko (Ta-Sakae-machi, Maianatsu
May 1912
377
377
366
366
9
9
19
19
kamatsu Commercial Schl.) City, Fukushima Pref.
Total
1810
1810 1762
1762 59-5 0-1 65 63-5 0-1 69
#
Theso figuros are not those for actual attend nce on theso dates, but thuse for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indiccted in this report. where there are two numbers ontered in tho sars
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-tine teachers.
-3-

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER OF JA NESÉ EDUCATIOÑL INSTITUTIONS
FUKUSHIM PREFECTURE
II. PREFECTURLL SCHOOLS
B. Secondery Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
b. Industrial Schools (Kogyo Gakko)
1) Industrial Schools for Males (Danshi Kogyo Gakko) under the Control of profoctural Governnent, Fukushina Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
开
TEACHERS
x
30.46
30 Nov. 46
30 p.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 zu Deini Kogyo Gakko
Sakae-machi, Wckanatsu
Feb. 1943
346
346
320
320
9-16
25
9-16
25
(izu SecandIndustrial
City, Fukushima Pref.
School)
2 zu Kogyo Gakko (izu
Sekae-machi, Wakamatsu
April 1904
1268
1268
1248
1248
52-5
57
55-5
60
Industrial School)
City, Fukushima Pref.
Fulkushime Kogyo Gakko (Tu Kasumi-cho, Fukushina
4pril 1944
141
141  136
136
13-2
15
11-2
13
kushima Industrial Sohl.) City, Fukushime Pref.
4 Kawane ta Kogyo Cakko (Ka- Kawameta-mechi, Date-
March 1908
290
290
282
282
14-1
15
15-1
16
manato Industrial Sabl.) gun, Fukushima Prof.
5 Taira Daini Kogyo Galdko
Umenoto, Taira City,
March 1942
496
496
484
484
47
47
46
46
(Taire Second Tochnical
Fukushina Prof.
School)
Taira Kogyo Galdko (Taira Umomoto, Taira City,
April 1940
977
977
964
964
50
50
47
47
Industriel School)
Fukushima Pref.
7
akamatsu Kogyo Gakko (Sakae-machi, Wakamatsu
4pril 1944
269
269
267
267
18-2 1
21
17-2 1
20
kamatsu Industrial Schl.) City, Fukushima Pref.
Totel
3787
3787 3381
3381 203-26 1
200-26 1
227
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. "here there are two numbers entered in the sano columm,
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teauhers.
-4-

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JAPINESE EDUCATIONLL INSTITUTIONS
JUKUSHILM PREFECTURE
II. PREFECTURIL SCHCOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
c. gricultural Schools (No Gakko)
1) Agricultural Schools for Males (Danshi No Gckko) under the Control of Profectural Goverpnent, Fukushime Prefecture
NAME
▲DDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TRACHERS
x
.304pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
1 izu Norin Gekko (izu g- Bange-nachi, Kavenuna- April 1921
512
512
505
505
21-3
24
22-4
26
ricultural & Forostry Schl.)gun, Fuksushima Iref.
2 Higashi Shirakawa No Gakko Tanakura-machi, Higashi- pril 1908
450
450
449
449
17
17
17
17
(Higashi Shirekewa Lgri-
shirakesa-gun, Fukushima
cultural School)
Prof.
3 Iwaki No Gakko (Iwaki
Rokkermon, Tai ra City, April 1944
308
308
302
302
13-2
15
16-2
18
Agricultural Schocl)
Rukushima Prof.
4 Iwase No Gakko (Iwase
Sukagawa-machi, Iweso- pril 1913
478
478
475
475
14
14
14
14
Agricultural School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Sona Nosan Gekko (Soma
Hare-machi, Some-gun,
4pril 1907
662
662
657
657
17
17
20
20
Agriculturel and Sericul-
Fukuahima Pref.
tural School)
Totel
2410
2410
2388
2388 82-5
87
89-6
95
#
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but thoso for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-tine toachers is indicated in this roport. whore there are two numbers entered in the sane columm,
semrated by a hyphen, thé second figuro indicates the number of pert-time teacher.
- 5:-

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.96)
ROSTER OF JESE EDUCITIONL DINSTITUTIONS
FUKUSHIML PREFECTURE
II. PREFECTURIL SCHOOLS
B. Secondèry Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocationel Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
c. gricultural Schools (No Gakko)
3) Co-educational gricultural Schools (Denio Xyogchu No Gakko) under the Control of Prefectural Government, Fukushina Prefecturo
NALE
LDDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT #
TE..CHERS
x
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 . 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
II
F
T
近
F
T
F
T
1 Fukushina No Gakko (Fuku- Wetarimura, Shinobu-
pril 1896
648 94
742
632 92
724
34-6 4
44
35-3 4
42
shime gricultural Schl.)• gun, Fukushine Pref.
2 Ta jima Norin Gakko (Ta jina Ta jina-machi, Minami- April 1943
259 204 463
253 202
455 16-1 4
21
19-1 3-1 24
gricultural & Forestry
izu-gun, Fukushina Pref.
School) *
Total
907 298 1205 885 294
1179 50-7 8 65
54-4 7-1 66
II. PREFECTURAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schocls (Jitsugyo Gakko)
d. Fisheries Schools (Suisan Gekko) for Males undor the Control of prefectural Governnent, Fukushina Prefeoture
#
x
NALE
ADDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TE4CHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
T
T
1 Onahama uisan Gakko (Ona- Onahaa-ncchi,Iwaki-
Merch 1943
192
192
188
188
10-4
14
10-3
13
hame Fisheries School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Total
192
192
188
188
10-4
19
#
These figuros are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollnent on the school records as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-tine toachers is indicated in this report. "here there are two numbers entered in the same colurm.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teechers.
Both sexos attend the samo school, but do not ettend the seme classes.
08
This institution ia considerod as one school and has only one principàl, however, separate buildings for males and females exist.
-6-

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.96)
ROSTER OF JNESE EDUCTICLL INSTITUTIONS
FUKSHIL. PREFECTURE
II. PREFECTURAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gekko)
e. Special Kinds of Vocctional Schools (Tokushu Jitsugyo Gakko)
1) Special Kinds of Vocational Schools for Males (Denshi Tokushu Jitsugyo Gakko) undor the Control of Prefectural Govornment, Fukushima Pref.
NE
4DDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLDLENT"
TECHERS
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30p.46
30 Nov 46
F
T
三
F
T
T
MF
T
1 Sukagava Shoko Gakko (Su- Sukagcra-nachi, Ivase- pril 1946
543
543
522
522
22-1
23
23-1
24
kagawe Comercial and
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Industrial School)
Total
543
543 522
522
22-1
23
23-1
24
# Theso figures are not those for actuel attendance on theso detes, but those for enrollnent on the school records as of these datas
X The number of both full and part-tine teachers is indicated in this report. where there are two numbers entered in the same colum
seperated by a hyphen, the second figuro indicates the number of part-timo tocchers.
-7-

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUSHTML PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
II. PREFECTURL SCHOOLS
B. Secondery Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
2. Liddle Schools (Chu Gakko) undor tho Control of Prcfoctural Gotornnent, Fukushine Prefecture
DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLENT
it
TEACHERS
X
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
iI
F
T
X
F
T
F
T
1 dachi Chu Gakko
Nihonmatsu-nachi, dachi- 4pril 1923
869
869
847
847
26
26
24
24
(dachi iddle School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
2 izu Chu Gakko
Monden-ura, Ki taaizu-
Feb. 1890
1698
1698
1674
1674
38-1
39
43-1
44
(zu ddle School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
3 saka Chu Gakko
Minani-nachi, Koriyan
July 1884
1613
1613
1604
1604
38
38
41
41
(sake Middle School)
City, Fukushinn Pref.
Fukushina Chu Gakko (Fu-
Moriai-nachi, Fukushine
pril 1898
1241
1241
1193
1193
35
35
36
36
kushir Middle School)
City, Fukushima Pref.
5
Futaba Chu Galko (Futc-
Niyam-mchi. Futaba-
Mereh 1923
742
742
728
728
23-1
24
25-2
27
ba ddle School)
gun, Fucushina Pref.
6
Hobare Chu Galdko
Hobara-nachi, mte-gun,
March 1922
850
850
832
832
25
25
25
25
(Hobara iddle School)
Fukushina Pref.
Iwaki Chu Cakko
Takatsuld, Taira City,
4pril 1896
1750
1750
1759
1759
40
40
43
43
(Iweki dddle School)
Fukushine Pref.
8
Ki takata Chu Gakko
Kitakata-nachi, Yann-
Feb. 1818
761
761
736
736
23-5
28
23-5
28
(Kitakata Middle School)
gun, Fulkushinn Pref.
9
Shirakana Chu Gakko
Shirakem-nachi, Nishichi- March 1922
1015
1015
996
999
23-1
24
30
30
(Shirakawc Middle School)
rakata-gun, Fukushina pref.
10
Sana Chu Gakko
Nakanurc-nachi, Sonn-
pril 1898
1088
1088
1076
1076
26
26
29
29
(San Mäddle School)
gun, Fukushinn Pref.
11
Tamure Chu Gakko
Miharu-nachi, Tamura-gun, Feb. 1923
898
898
847
847
25-2
27
26-1
27
(Tamura Middle School)
Fukushina Pref.
Total
12525
12525 12268
12268 322-10 332
345-9
354
#
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollnont on the school records as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-tine teachers is indicated in this report.
hore there are two numbers entered in the same colum,
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the nunber of part-time teuchers.
-8-

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.98)
L.
FUKUSHEL. PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF PLNESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
II. PREFECTURAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
3. Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko) under the Control of Prefectural Government, Fukushima Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOU DED
ENROLLLET
it
TELCHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
1 ¿dachi Koto Jo Gakko (-
Nihonmatsu-machi. da- ril 1946
562
562
559
559
9-1
18
11-1 9
21
dachi Girls' High Schl.)
chi-gun, Fukushima Pref.
2
izu Koto Jo Gakko (izu
Sakae-cho, Wakanatsu
May 1909
1245
1245
1235
22-1 10
33
23-1 10
34
Girls' High Schol)
City, Fukushima Pref.
3
Asaka Koto Jo Gakko (se-
Cho ja-machi, Koriyana
pril 1912
1207
1207
1204 1204
15-1 16
32
17-1 16
34
ka Girlst High School)
City, Fukushima Pref.
4
Fukushima Daini Koto Jo
Funaba-cho, Fukushima
4oril 1941
490
490
488
488
8-28 15-4 55
7-29 17-4 57
Gakko (Fukushina Second
City, Fukushima Pref.
Girls' High School)
5
Fukushima Koto Jo Gacko
Miyashita-cho, Fukushi- Lpril 1903
1204
1204
1209 1209
12
17
29
16
18
34
(Fukushima Girls' High Schl.) ma City, Fukushima Pref.
6
Iwaki Koto Jo Galko (Ivaki Sakura-machi, Taira City. April 1912
1434
1434
2441 1441
21-1 14-1 37
25-1 13-1 40
Girls' High School)
Fukushima Pref.
7 Kitakata Koto Jo Gakto (Ki- Kitakate-machi, Yama-
pril 1928
771
771
775
775
11
8
19
12-1 9
22
takata Girls' High Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Koriyama Daini Koto Jo
Kanedo,Koriyama,
March 1946
225
225
222
222
6-4
2-1
13
7-4 2-1 14
Galdko (Koriyama Second
Fukushima Pref.
Girls' High School)
Koriyam Koto Jo Gakko (Ko- Yamane-cho, Koriyana
April 1942
729
729
724 724
12-1 8
21
13-1 7
21
riyama Girls' High School) City, Fukushima Pref.
10
Shirakawa Koto Jo Galdko(Shi-Shirekawa-machi,Nishishi- Jan. 1923
784
784
786 786
12-2 6-1
12-2 7-1 22
rakawa Girls' High School) rakawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
#
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same column.
separated by a hyphen, the sccond figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-9-

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TECHERS
30 .46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M.
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
11 Soma Koto Jo Gakko (Soma Nakamura-machi, Soma-
pril 1922
1033
1033
1035 1035
16
10
26
16
10
26
Girls' High School)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
Total
9684 9684
9678 9678 144-39
304
159-41
325
114-7
118-7
II. PREFECTURL SCHOOLS
C. Special Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
3. Schools for the Blind and Deaf-Mute (Moa Gakko) under the Control of Prefectural Government, Fucushima Prefecture
NALE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 Lpr. 46
30 NOT. 46
30 p.46
30 Nov. 46
I
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T.
1 Fukushima Moe Galko (Fuku- Chugen-cho, Fukushina
Feb. 1898
60
7
67
60
8
68
8
1
9
8
3
11
shima School for the Blind City, Fukushima Pref.
and Deaf-lute)
Total
8
68
8
1
9
8
3
11
-10-

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.96)
FUKUSHIE PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONLL INSTITUTIONS
III. MUNICIPLL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocctional Schools.(Jitsugyo Gakko)
a. 'Cammercial Schools (Shogyo Gakko)
2) Canmercicl Schools for Females (Joshi Shogyo Gakko) under the Control of unicipal office, Fukushima Prefecture
x
NLE
4DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLENT
it
TECHERS
30 pr. 46
30 N07. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
T
1 Fukushina Joshi Shogyo
Sugitsunc-cho, Fultushina
Fob.1944
385
385
383 383
8-2 5-2 17
9-2 5-2 18
Gakko (Fukushima Girls'
City, Fukushima Pref.
Commercial School)
2
Shirakawa Joshi Shogyo
Shirakawa-nachi, Nishishi- pril 1944
155 155
152 152
12
Gakso (Shirakema Girls'
rakewa-gun, Fukushina
Commercial School)
Pref.
3
Taira Joshi Shogyo Gakko Saizuchikoji, Taira City, pril 1944
389 389
386 386
5-9 9
(Taira Girls' Comor-
Fukushima Prcf.
cial School).
Total
929 929
921 921
20-12 19-2 53
21-10 19-2 52
III. MUNICIPAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
e. Special Kinds of Vocctional Schools (Tokushu Jitsugyo Gakko)
1) Special Kinds of Vocational Schools for Males (Denshi Tokushu Jitsugyo Gekko) under thc Control of Municipel Offico, Pukushimo Prcfocturo
NE
ADDRESS
DLTE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
#
TCHERS
x
30 . 46
30 Nov. 45
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
:
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
1 Koriyama Shoko Galdko (Ko- Saikonyashiki, Koriyama 4pril 1946
776
776
756
756
29-2
31
28-2
30
riyama Commercial & Indus- City, Fukishina Pref.
trial School)
Total
776
776 756
756 29-2
30
#
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of theso dates
x
The number of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the sömc adlud.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicctes the number of part-time teachers.
-11-

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.96)
ROSTER CF JPANESE EDUCTICNL INST ITUTIONS
FUKUSHI PREFECTURE
III. MUNICIPAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
3. Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko ) under the Control of Municipal Office. Fukushine Prefecture
N4LE
LDDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLENT
TE.CHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
f
T
15
F
T
M
F
T
1 Taira Koto Jo Galdko (Tai- getsuchi, Taire City, pril 1942
722
722
718
718
12
11
23
13
10
23
ra Girlst High School)
Fukushina Pref.
2
Vakanctsu Koto Jo Gakko
Sakae-machi, Wakanetsu March 1940
1139 1139
1093 1093
16
14
30
1613
29
(Wakanatsu Girls' High
City, Fukushima Pref.
School)
Total
1861 1861
1811 1811
28
25
53
29
23
52
. UNICI SCHOOLS
B. Scccndcry Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Scinen Gekko)
a) Youth Schools for Hales (Danshi Scincn Galko) under thc ControI of unicipal Office. Fukushim Prefecturo
NALE
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLIIENT #
TEACHERS
30p.46
30 Nov. 46
30 ipr. 46
30 Nov. 46
K
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
E
F
T
1 Gyonin Seinon Gakko
Gyonin-machi, Wakamtsu April 1934
86
86
79
79
1-5
6
1-5
6
(Gyonin Youth School)
City, Fukushima Pref.
2 Johaku Soinon Galdko
Omachi, Wakamatsu City, April 1934
58
58
58
58
2-4
5
1-4
5
(Johoku Youth School)
Fukushimn prof.
3
Josei Soinen Gakko
Kawara-machi, Makanatsu pril 1935
85
85
87
87
1-4
5
23
4
(Josoi Youth School)
City. Fukushina Prof.
4
Wakanatsu Seinen Gakko
Sakcc-nachi, Vakanatsu
pril 1935
65
65
64
64
3-6
9
3-6
9
(akamtsu Youth School)
City, Fukushima Pref.
Totd1
294
294
288
288
6-19
25
6-18
24
#
Those figuros aro not those for actual attendance on thuso dates, but those for enrollment on the school rocords as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and part-time teachers is. indicetcd in this report. Whore thore arc two numbors entered in the same columm.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the numbèr of part-time tcachers.
-12-

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUSHIL PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JLTPLNESE EDUCITI CL.L INSTITUT INS
III. MUNICLIL SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
b) Youth Schools for Fomales (Joshi Scinen Galcco) under tho Control of unicipal.officc, Fukushime Prefecture
NAE
ADDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ERCLIENT 
TECHERS
x
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30p.46
30 Nov. 46.
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 Kinkyo Joshi Seinen Gekko Sakao-mnchi, vakanctsu March 1943
60
60
59
59
1-4
2-1
8
1-4 1-1
(Kinkyo Girls' Youth Schl.)City, Futushimm Pref.
Total
60
60
59
59
1-4
2-1
8
1-4 1-1 7
III. LUNICLAL SCHOOLS
B. Secondery Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Scinen Gekko)
c) Co-cducctioncl Youth Schocls (Dan jo Kyogaku Seinen Gakko) under the Centrgl cf Municipcl Office, Fukushima Prefecture
NE
ADDRESS
D.TE FOUND D
ENROLLENT
TECHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 2or. 46
30 Nov. 46
1.2
T
H
F
T
F
T
F
T.
1 Fukushina Scinon Geldio
Ton jin-cho, Fukushinc
April 1944
258
60
318
258
48
336
11-4 1
16
11-7 1-1
20
(Fukushima Youth School)
City, Fukushim Pref.
2
Haga Konin Galko (Haga
Henshirouchi, Koriyuma
pril 1946
95
49
144
64
47
111
0-3
1-2
6
0-3
1-2
6
Civics School)
City, Fukushimn Prof.
Kmisoi Komin Gakko (Kai- Minani-nachi, Koriyama
pril 1946
68
55
123
68
55
123
0-3
1-2
6
0-3
L2
6
sci Civics School)
City, Fukushima Pref.
4 Koharada Konin Gakko (Ko- Nishitato, Koriyana
pril 1946
56
59
115
66
62
128
0-3
02
5
0312
6
haráda Civics School)
City, Fukushima Prof.
5
Koriyana Chubu Scinon
Dance, Koriyama City,
April 1944
366
226
592
270
247
517
4-3
3-2
12
5-2 3
10
Galiko (Koriyama Chubu
Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
#
Theso figuros cre not those for actual attendance on these datos, but thoso for curollront on the school rocords as of thoso dates.
x
The number of both full and part-time tcachers is indicated in this report. Whore tioro arc two numbers cnterod in the sane colum
separatod by a hyphen, the socond figuro indicates the number of part-tine teachors.
-13-

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.96)
NALE
ADDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLILENT
TE.CHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 ipr. 46
30 Nov. 46
11
F
T
X
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
6 Taira Nogoi Sonshu Gakko Shinohirakubo, Taira
Larch 1946
52
56
108
52
56
108
1-5 3
9
1-5 3
9
(Taira gricultural Toch- City, Fukushimn Pref.
nology School)
7 Taira Shoko Gigoi Gekko
gctsuchi, Taira City. Junc 1926
126
72
50
122
7
3-5 2-2 12
(Taira Comercial, Indus- Fukushina Pref.
trial and Tochnicel Craft
School)
Total
970 556 1526 850 565 1415 18-24 11-8 61
20-28 12-9 69
III. MUNICLIL SCHOOLS
C. Elementary Educction (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elemontary Schools (Sho Gekko)
a) Elomontery Schools for alos (Danshi Sho Gakkounder tho Control of Iunicipal Offico, Fukushina Pref.
NALE
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLILENT #
TCHERS
30 Lpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30p.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
22
F
T
21
F
T
1 Kaku jo Sho Gakko (Kaku-
Sakmo-nacii, iakanatsu
pril 1940
1705
1705 .1793
1793
21
16
37
21
16
37
jo Elaontary School)
City, Fukushina Prof.
Total
1705
1705
1793
1793
21
16
37
21
16
37
III. LIUNICLIL SCHOOLS
C. Elementery Educction (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elementery Schools (Sho Gakko)
b) Elemontery Schools for Females (Joshi Sho Gakko) under the Control of unicipal Offico, Fukushia Pref.
NAME
¿DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ERCLLIENT
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 Kinkyo Sho Gakko (Kin-
Sakac-nachi, Valanatsu
pril 1940
1666 1666
1749 1749
18
35
16
18
94
kyo Elanontary School)
City, Fukushinn Prof.
Total
1666 1666
1749 1749 17 18 35
18
34
Thoso figures are not thoso for cctual attendanoo on theso detos, but thoso for onrollnent on the school rocords as of these dates.
Tho number of both full and part-timo teachors is indicated in this report. where thore are two numbers entored in tho sane columm,
soparated by a hyphon, the second figure indicetes tho number of part-tine teachors
-14-

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.95)
FUKUSHEL. PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAYIESE EDUCITIGL INST (TUTCNS
III. MUNICL.L SCHOOLS
C. Elementary Educaticn (Shoto Kyciku)
1. Elementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
c) Co-educationel Elementery Schocls (Dan jo veccku Shc Gekko) undor the Contrel of Tunicipel Office, Fukushima Frefecturo
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLILENT "
TEACHERS X
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
三
T
i1
F
T
MFP
1 kagi Sho Gakko (agi
agi-cho, Koriy
pril 1932
613
632
1295
631 674
1305
14
16
30
14-16-30
Elementary School)
City, Fukushima Pref.
2 Fukushina Digo Sho Gaiko Sei cicio, Fukushina
Fob. 1920
500
534
1034
508
541
1049
11
13
24
11
13
24
(Fukushime Fifth Elenentery City, Fukushima Pref.
Sciool)
3
Fukushina Deiichi Sho Galiso Suginoni-cho. Fukushime Feb. 1863
437 476
913
456 503 959
13
11
24
13
11
24
(Fukushina First Elenentery City, Fukushine Pref.
School)
4 Fukushina Daini Sho Galito Hemada-cho, Fukushina
ri1 1897 697 685 1382 715 694 1409 11 15
26
11. 25
26
(Fukushima Socond Elenon- City, Fukushim Pref.
tary School)
5 Fukushina Deisan Sho Gelito Matsunari-cho, Fukushina June 1883
370 329 699
419 366 785.
a-1 i1
20
7-1 11
19
(Fukushinn Third Elcnen- City, Fukushina Pref.
tary School)
6
Fukushina Daishi Sho Gakko Ton jin-cho, Fulkushina
pril 1910 754 757 1511
826
799..1625
18
18
36
19
20
39
(Fukushine Fourth Elonen- City, Fukushina Pref.
tery School)
7
Fuicushine Deiroku Sho
Makanwminani-nachi,
Dri1 1934 519 469 988 511 471 982
10
19
Galdko (Fukushine Sixth
Fukushine City,
Elecentary School)
Fukushinm Prof.
Gyonin Sho Galko (Gyonin
Gyonin-nachi, Wakanetsu
July 1873 776 713 1489
765 711 1476 12
17
29
12
17
29
Elamentary School)
City, "ukushima Prof.
9 Hago Sho Gakko (Hage
Henshirouchi, Koriyama
Oct. 1927
286 251 537 .299
252 551 7
7 . 14-7
24
Elenentary School)
City, Fukushim Pref.
X The number of both full and pcrt-time teachers is indicated in this report. whore there cre two numbers entered in the seno colum.
separated by & hyphon, tho second figure indicates the nunber of pert-tine tocchors.
-15--

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.99)
NAME
DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
ii
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
.10
Hozan Sho Gakko (Hozan
Kanedo, Koriyain City,
pril 1900
525
1061
1586
532
1070
1602
13
19
32
12
21
33
Elenontery School)
Fukushinc Pref.
11
Johoku Sho Gakko (Johoku
Omachi, Wekanatsu City, pril-1906
859
903
1762
980
887
1867
10
24
34
12
23
35
Elenentery School)
Fukushinn Pref.
12
Josai Sho Gakko (Josai
Knhare-nachi, akenatsu 4pril 1905
872
820
1692
854
805
1659
12
18
30
13
18
31
Elenontary School)
City, Fukushina Pref.
13
Keisei Sho Gakko (Kaisci
Minami-mmchi, Koriyan
May 1875
354
340
694
358
347
705
7
6
I9
7
7
14
Elenentary School)
City. Fukushina Pref.
14
Kinto Sho Galdko (Kinto
Donac, Koriyann City,
pril 1873
639
692
1331
665
721
1386
11
14
25
11
17
28
Elenen tary School)
Fukushima Prof.
15
Koharada Sho Gakko (Ko-
Nichidate, Koriyann
Jan. 1875
360
331
691
326
344
670
6
7
13
7
7
14
harcda Elenontary Schl.)
City, Fukushim Pref.
16
Monanidai Sho Gekko (Mono- Yonozawayana, Koriyana
4pril 1929
1063 375
1438
1057 37.7
1434
15
10
25
17
10
27
midai Elenentery Schi.) City, Fukushinc Pref.
.17
Nisshin Sho Gekko (Nisshin Sakce-ncchi, Makanatsu
pril 1937
431
360
791
394
341
735
12
9
21
11
9
20
Elenentery School)
City, Fukushina Pref.
18
Tachibana Sho Gekko (Ta-
Tsutsumishita-nachi, Ko- April 1920
1084
1044
2128
1124
1067
2191
15
23
38
16
24
40
chibana Elonontary Schl.) riyana City, Fukushina Pref.
19
Taira Dciichi Sho Gakko
Agetsuchi, Taira City.
March 1873
938
821
1759
925
809
1734
14
24
38
15
24
39
(Teira First Elonentary
Fukushinn Pref.
School)
20
Taira Daini Sho Gekko (Ta- Unegaka-cho, Taira
pril 1912
502
436
938
506
441
947
9
17
26
9
17
26
ira Socond Elanontary Schl) City. Fukushime Pref.
21
Teira Daisan Sho Gakko (Ta-Shonai-machi, Taira
pril 1930
730
713
1443
751
753
1504
10
16
26
10
19
29
ira Third Elaxentary Schl.)City. Fukushina Pref.
22
Taira Daishi Sho Gakko(Te- Hirakubo, Taira City,
Sept. 1878
321
297
618
313
303
616
7-1
10-1
7-1
91
18
ira Fouth Elomentary Schl.)Fukushina Pref.
250-2 325-1 578
13630 13089 26719 13915 13276 27191 243-2 315-1 561
Totel
-16-

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.96)
FUKUSHIM& PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPLNESE EDUCITIONL INST ITUTIONS
III. MUNICIPIL SCHOOLS
C. Elenentary Education (Shogo Kyoiku)
2. Kindergartens (Yochien) under the Control of Municipal office, Fukushina Pref.
NE
△DDRSS
DLTE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
开
TE.CHERS
30 upr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30p.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
X
F
T
1 Fukushinn Daigo Yochion Soinei-cho, Fucushina
Nov. 1885
87
42
49
91
0-1 2
3
3
(Fukushimn Fifth Kinder City, Fukushina Pref.
garten)
Fukushime Deiichi Sho
Sugitsumo-cho, rukushiux Nov. 1885
52 58
110
3
3
Gekko Fuzoku Yochien
City, Fukushiin Pref.
(Kidurgarten tteched to
Fukushia First leen-
tary Schpol)
3
Fukushima Deini Sho
Hanada-cho, Fukushi.
Nov. 1943
69 70 139
0-1 3
01 3
Galko Fuzaku Yochion
City. Fukushina Pref.
(Rindorgarton Attached
to Fukushina Sccond
Elanentary School)
Fukushina Drishi Yochicn Ten jin-cho, Fukushina
Nov. 1885
82
0-1 2
3
0-1 2
3
(Fukushix Fourth
City. Fukushimx Pref.
Kindergarten)
Totcl
161 188 349
200
0-4 9
13
0-4 9
13
Thoso figures aro not thoso for actucl attendanco on theso detcs, but those for enrollnent on the school records as of those dates.
the nuiber of both full and part-tine teachers is indicated in this report. whore there are two numbers cntored in the sam colurm.
separatod by e hyphen, tho socond figure indicates the numberof pert-tine tecchers.
-17-

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JIPANESE EDUCITIONAL INSTITUTIONS
FUKUSHIM PREFECTURE
FUKUSHEL.
III. LUNICIPL SCHOOLS
D. Special Schools (Tokushu Gckko)
1. Schools for the Blind (Mo Gakko) under the Control of Municipal office, Fukushine Prefecture
N
DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TECHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
II
F
T
F
T
1 zu ilo Gakko (zu
Gyonin-nacli, akanatsu pril 1934
19
7
26
20
8
28
0-4 0-2
6
0-5 0-2
7
School for tho Blind)
City, Fukushina Pref.
2 Koriyana Kumo Galdso (Ko- Donne, Koriyumn City,
Iprch 1908
23
20
43
24
2044
4-1 1
6
3-2 1
6
riyan Training School
Fulkushin Pref.
for the Blind)
3
Teira Ho Gekko (Taira
Tamachi, Taira City,
pril 1944
22
12
34
39
3-1
4
3-1
4
School for the Blind)
Fukushime Pref.
Total
64
39
103 67
7-6 1-2 16 6-8 1-2 17
These figures aro not thoso for actuel attendence on these dates, but those for onrollnent on tho school records as of these detes.
The number of both full and part-tino tcachers is indiceted in this report. Where thoro are two numbers entered in the sano colum,
separated by a hyphen, the second figuro indicctcs the nunber of part-tino teachors.
-18-

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.96)
ROSTER OF JPNESE EDUCITIOL INSTITUTIONS
FUKUSHILA PREFECTURE
IV. VILLGE CR TCN SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
a. Commercicl Schools (Shogyo Cakko)
1) Canmerciel Schools for Meles (Penshi Shogye Gekko) under the Control of Villege or Town office, Fukushin fref.
NIE
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
it
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Lpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
L
F
T
M
F
T
11
F
T
N
F
T
1 Shirakawc. Shogyo Gakko
Shirakamm-nachi, Nishi Larch 1927
127
127
123
123
7
7
7
7
(Shirakame Carmercial
shirakave-gun. Fukushime
School)
Pref.
Total
127
127 .123
1237
7
7
7
IV. VILLAGE OR TOWN SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyolku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
c. gricultural Schools (No Gekko)
1) Agricultural Schools for Males (Danshi No Gekko) under thc Control of Village or Torn Office. Fukushina Pref.
NALE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TECHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 .46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
1 Shirakawa No Gakko (Shi- Shirakawa-nachi, Nishi- pril 1944
308
308
305
305
9
9
24
14
rakawa Agriculturel School) shirakava-gun.
Fukushinn Prof.
Total
308
308
305
305
9
9
14
14
#
Theso figures are not thosc for actual attendenco on thcse dctus, but those for enrolluent on tho school records as of those dates.
x
The number of both full and part-tine teachers is indicated in this report. where thore are two numbers ontered in the sare colum,
separated by e hyphon, the second figuro indicates tho nunber of part-tinc teachers.
-19-

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.97)
FUITSHE PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JL NESE LDUCITICNAL INSTITUTIONS
IV. VILL GE OR TOWN SCHOOLS
. Secandary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyc Gakkc)
c. gricultural Schcols (No Gekko)
3) Co-educational igricultural Schools (Den jo Kyogaku No Gakko) under the Control of Villege or Towm Officc, Fukushine Prefecture
NLE
DDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TELCHERS
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
三
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 Odake No Gakko (Odaka
Odalx-xchi, Sa.n-gun,
Fcb. 1941
315
219
534
19
61
26
17 6-1
24
gricultural School)
Pukushina lref.
2 Onuna No Galdko (Onua
Tatcda-machi, onun-gun, pril 1944
221
118
339
220
114
334
9-1 3
13
11-33
17
gricultural School)•
Fukushine Prof.
3 Shineha No Gakko (Shincha
Nagatsuka-mra, Futaba- pril 1946
56
387 443
57
3-8 3-4 18
4-8 4-4 20
gricultural School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
4 Tamra No San Gekko (Tamura Ononi-rachi, Tarura-gun, Fub. 1942
318
159 477
17 3
20
16-1 4 .21
gricultural mnd Sericul- Bukushia iref.
tural School) *
Total
910 883 1793 895 866 1761 48-9 15-5 77 48-12 17-5 82
IV. VILLGE OR TON SCHOOLS
4. Secondary Educction (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocationcl Schools (Jitsugyo Gakko)
e. Special Kinds cf Jocaticaal Schcols (Takushu Jitsugyo Gakko)
1) Spociel Finds of Vocational Schools for Lialcs (Donshi Tckushu Jitsugyo Gakko) under the Control of Villcgo or Tom Schools. Pukushima Pref.
NALDE
ADDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TEACHERS
3046
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
正
F
T
T
F
T
1 Kitakata Sho-ko Gakko (Ki- Kitakate-nachi, Yana-
ipril 1946
557
557
544
544
23-1
24
22
22
taketa Comercial and In- gun. Fukushina Pref.
dustrial School)
Total
557
557 544
544 23-1
24
22
22
These figures are not thoso for cctual attondance on these detes, but thoso for cnrollnent on the school rocords as of these dates.
The number of both full and part-time teachors is indicated in this roport. where there are two numbors entered in the sare colurm,
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicetos thc number of part-tive toachers.
Both sexes attond the sano school, but do not ettend the sano classos.
-20-

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JAPANESE LDUCITIONLL INST ITUTIONS
FUKUSHIM PREFECTURE
IV. VILLGE OR TOWN SCHOOLS
. Socondery Educction (Chuto Iyoiku)
3. Girls' High Schools (Koto Jo Gakko) under the Control of Villege or Tom Office, Fukushina Prefecture
x
NACE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TEACHERS
30 4or. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
II
F
T
F
T
1 Bange Koto Jo Gakko (Ban- Bengu-nachi, Kavanuma-
April 1943
574
574
566
566
8-5 7
20
94
19
ge Girls' High School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
2 Haranachi Koto Jo Gakko
Hara-nechi, Sona-
March 1926
596 596
606
606
11-1 9-1
22
11-1 8-1
21
(Haranachi Girls' High
gun, Fukushina Pref.
School)
3
Hobara Koto Jo Galdko (Ho- Hobara-machi, Date-
March 1926
367 367
357 357
7-1 5
13
7-1 5
13
bara Girlst High School) gun. Fukushina Pref.
4 Inatashiro Koto Jo Gakko
Inawashiro-nachi,
2my 1940
121 121
116
116
1-2
2-1
1-3
2-2
8
(Inawashiro Girlst High
Yanx-gun, Fukushina Pref.
School)
Ishikama Koto Jo Gakko
Ishikawa-nechi, Ishika- arch 1923
328 328
334 334
4-5 4
13
4-5 3
12
(Ishikawa Girls' High
we-gun. Fukushine Pref.
School)
6 Izaka Koto Jo Gakko (Iza- Izaka-machi, Shinobu-
March 1940
224 224
5-2 5-1 13
6-1 3-1 11
ka Girlst High School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
7 Kananata Koto Jo Gakko
Kawaneta-nachi, Deto-
March 1922
371 371
373
373
3-4 5
12
5-3 5
13
(Kamanate Girls' High
gun, Fukushim Pref.
School)
8 Koori Koto Jo Gakko (Koo-
Rummori-nachi, Laya-
4pril 1940
235 235
239
239
3-5 2-4 14
3-5.2-4 14
ri Girls' High School)
gun, Fukushimm Pref.
9 MMharu Koto Jo Galdko (li-
Libaru-nachi, Tanura-
April 1920
653 653
633 633
11-1 7
19
11-1 7
19
haru Girlst High School)
gun, Fukushine Prof.
a
#
Those figures are not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for onrollent on the school records as of these dates.
x
The numbor of both full and part-tine teachers is indiccted in this report. here there are two numbers entored in the sane colum.
soparated bye hyphon, the second figure indicates the nunber of part-tine teachers.
-21-

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENRCILLENT
TELCHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
E
F
T
10 Motaniya Koto Jo Gakko
Motoniya-nachi dachi- pril 1915
350
350
341 341
5-5 5
15
6-5 6
17
(iotoniya Girls' High Schl.)gun, Fukushina Pref.
11
Nakamura Koto Jo Gakko (Na- Nakanura-nachi, Sona- pril 1946
484
484
486
486
92
7-3
21
918-3
21
kamra Girls' High Schl.) gun, Fukushine Pref.
12
Nanie Koto Jo Gakko (Na- Nanie-nachi, Futaba-gun, pril 1927
720
720
733
733
12
6
18
12
6
18
nie Girls' High School) Fukushina Iref.
13
Onehana Koto Jo Gakko (o- onahanc-machi, Iwaki-
pril 1940
619
619
614
614
13
9-1
23
13
8-2 23
nabana Girls' High Schl.) gun, Fukushimn Pref.
14
Senoue Koto Jo Goc ko (Se- Senoue-chi, Shinobu-
pril 1941
84
84
80
80
15
2-2
10
15
219
noue Girls' High Schl.) gun, Fukushinn Pref.
15
Shirakawa Jissen Koto Jo
Shirakewa-machi,Nishishi- Merch 1946
125
125
125
125
04
0-3
7
0-4
0-37
Gakko (Shirckera Girls'
rakeva-gun, Fukushina
Practical High School)
Prof.
16
Sukagawa Koto Jogekko (Su- Suagava-nachi, Fukushina Hay 1919
834
834
811
811
17
12
29
15
11.26
kagava Girls' High Schl.) Pref.
17
Tanakura Koto Jo Gakko(Ta-Tenakura-nachi, Higashi- pril 1924
671
671
651
651
12
10
22
12
1022
nakure Girls' High Schi.) shirakawa-gun, Fukushina Pref.
18. Uoda Koto Jo Gakko (Ueda Uede-nachi, Ivaki-gun,
Lpril 1942
456
456
459
459
5
7
12
5
7
12
Girls' High School)
Fukushina Pref.
19 Yana Koto Jo Gakko (Yana Iitakata-nachi, Ye n-gun, 4pril 1942
471
471
7
24
9
8
17
Girlst High School)
Fulkushinn Pref.
20
Yanagan Koto Jo Gdkko (a- Yanagama-machi, Dato-gun, Lhy 1919
436
436
441.441
9
5
14
9
5
14
nagawe- Girls! High-School) Fuiushina Pref.
21. Yamota Koto. Jo Gakko(Yu- Yunoto-nachi, Ivaki-gun, Lprch 1942
666
666
660
660
13
14
27
11
14
25
noto Girls' High Schi.) Fukushinn Pref.
Tctal
9385 9385
9308 9308 166-39
351
159-39
341
130-16
126-17
-22-

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.95)
ROSTER OF JESE EDUCITIONL ISTITUTINS
FUKUSHI  PREFECTURE
IV. VILLGE QR TOIN SCHOOLS
L. Secondcry Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schocls (Seinen Gckko)
b) Yeuth Scheols for Fmalca (Joshi Soinen Gekko) under thoc Control of Village or Ton Office, Fukushinn Prefocturo
NIE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TEACHERS
30 pr.46
30 NoV. 46
30 4pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
T
1 Shinoha Kasoi Jo Galdko
Negatsura-nure, Futaba- Nov. 1946
224
224
1-3 5-2 11
(Shinoha Girls' Danestic gun, Futushine Pref.
Scionco School)
2 Yenokemra Suinon Gakko Yancokaura, Higasiii-
pr.1929
24 24
20
20
1-1 1-1' 4
1-1.1-1 4
(Yannokarura Youth Schl.) shirckauc-cun. ukushine
Fref.
Total
24 24
244 244
1-1 1-1 4
2-4 6-3.. 15
#
Thoso figures are not thoso for actuel attondance on these dates, but those for euroll ent on the school records as of these dates.
x
Tho nuaber of both full and part-tine teachors is indicated in this report. where thore are two numbers entered in the sao colum,
separatod by a hyphon, the secand figure indicates tno number of part-tine teachers.
-2.3-

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUSHLM& PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCITIONL INSTITUTIONS
IV. VILL&GE OR TOWN SCHOOLS
. Secondery Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Shoto Kyoiku)
c) Co-educational Youth Schools (Dan jo vogaky Soinen Gakke)
under the Control of Village or Torn office, Fukushine Prefecture
NIE
DDRESS
DATE FOUN DED
ENROLLLENT
TELCHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
1
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
1 ikawaura Scinen Gdkko
ikema-mura, Yern-gun, Dec. 1917
62
69
131
55
69
124
1-5 0-1
7
1-5 2-1
9
(ikawarura Youth Schl.)
Fukushim Pref.
2 kaimura Daiichi Seinen
ki-ra, Iwaki-gun, June 1935
88
25
113
88
27
115
1-3
01
5
1-5 1-2
Gakko (kainurc First
Fukushinn Pref.
Youth School)
knimure Daini Seinen Gakko Akai-nure, Ivcki-
July 1935
54
48
102
57
38
95
1-4 1
6
1-4 1
6
(kainura Sccond Youth Schl)gun, Fukushina Pref.
nsewanura Soinen Gelcko kasava-re, on-
July 1935
92
82
174
90
83
173
1-4
1-1
7
1-4
2-1
8
(ikasavaruro Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
5
atsurura Seinen Gekko
ketsu-mure, sake
pril 1923
79
52
131
79
56
135
2-3
1-1
7
2-4
1-1
(katsurura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
6
kogashine Seinen Gakko
Marunori-nura, sake-
oct. 1906
82
56
138
79
56
135
2-3
1-1
1-4 0~2 7
(kogashine Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
7 cruneura Seinon Gakko marune-ura, Shinobu- pril 1935
98
66
164
96
62
158
1-5
1-5
11
(narunenura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
8
okinura Seinen Gakko
okinure, Date-gun,
Sept. 1913
94
70
164
97
69
166
1-4
1-3
1-4
8
(4okimura Youth School)
Fukushin Pref.
9 ota-rura Soinen Gakiko
ota-rura, 4dachi-
April 1935
41
50
91
41
50
91
4
4
(Lotarure Youth School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
10. Lraimure Seinen Gakko
rai-nura, Shinobu-
Jn. 1908
105
60
165
106
54
160
1-5
1-4
1-6 1-4 12
(raiure Youth School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
11
irai.
irai-nura, dachi-
July 1926
46
48
94
46
48
94
1-2
1-2 1-1
5
(Eraimura Youth School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
These figures are not those for actual attendanco on those detes, but those for enrollrent on the school rocords as of these dates.
The number of both full and part-time tcachers is indicated in this report. Whero there are two nunbers onterod in the sae colum.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the nunber of pert-tine tecchers.
-24-

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.97)
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30.46
30 Nov. 46
T
F
T
1i
F
T
T
12
raimmra Seinen Gakko
Arainure, Kitaaizu-
July 1935
162
134
296
160
132
292
1-7
1-2
11
1-7 1-2
11
(rainure Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushin Pref.
13
rakainura Scinen Gakko
rckei-mura, Mina icizu- April 1915
160
115
275
160
115
275
2-7
1-3
13
(Arakainure Youth Schl.)
gun, Futushimm Arof.
14
salidermre Soinen Gekko
sahida-mura, Mimmilizu- Jan. 1915
122
136
258
118
138
256
1-7
1-3
12
1-7
1-3
12
(sahidarmre Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
15
sahirmurc Scincn Gekko
Ashi-mura, Minamiaizu-
Dec. 1905
147
139
286
152
139
291
3-4
1-1
9
3-4
11
9
(4sahimura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
16 Asahimura Seinen Gakko
isahi-mure, Onuma-
July 1935
95
71
166
88
67
155.
1-4
1-28
1-4 1-2
8
(asahimure Youth School)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
17
Lsakawamachi Seinen Gakko
Asakava-machi. Ishikave-
July 1940
161
145
306
158
140
298
0-3
1-2
5
1-3 1-2
(sakawamachi Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
18
shizavamura Seinen Gakko shizamamura, Tamura-gun, April 1946
117
126
243
98 123
221
1-4
1-2
8
1-4 1-2
8
(Lshizaramura Youth Schl.) Fukushime Pref.
19
Atamimachi Seinen Galko
temi-machi, Adachi-gun, Dec. 1916
103
116
219
96
116
212
1-6
1-2
10
1-6
1-1
9
(tamimachi Youth School)
Futushime Pref.
20
tsushiomure Seinen Galko
tsushiomura, Yame-gun, July 1935
59
79
138
48
79
127
2-3
1-2
7
13 1-2
(tsushiomura Youth Schl.)
Fukushima Pref.
21
Lmanomura Seinen Gckiko
Lvano-mure,Date-gun,
Jen. 1905
143
92
235
121
87
208
1-4
2-3
9
1-4 1-3 9
(wanomura Youth Schoo!)
Fukushina Pref.
22
zumamura Seinen Galdko
zumc-mure, Yamc-gun,
pril 1915
209
198
407
207
196
403
1-5
1-3
10
1-7 0-3: 11
(zumemurc Youth School)
Fukushima Pref.
Bandai Soinon Galko - Scc
29
T2
23
Bangenachi Seinen Gakko
Bange-machi. Kavanuma-
July 1935
187
31
218
13234. 166
2-4 . 1-1
8
26 1-2
10
(Bengenachi Youth School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
24 Banyo Jitsugyo Gakko
Yumoto-machi, Iwaki-gun, Jan. 1944
274
136
410
257
98
355
5
3
8
6
9
(Banyo Vocationcl Sohool)
Fukushima Pref.
25 Bobatamura Seinen Goldko
Bobate-mura, Ishikarm-
pril 1935
93
50
143
92
37
129
0-4 1-3 8
04
(Bobatamura Youth School)
gun, Fukushinc Pref.
26
Chikatsumura Seinen Gakko
Chikatsu-mura, Higashishi- July 1935
157
88
245
159
89
248
3-4
1-19
3411
(Chikctsunura Youth Schl.) rakawa-gun, Fukushina. Pref.
-25-

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
∆pra46
30 Apr. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
27
Chisatomura Seinen Gakko Chisato-mura, Yana-
July 1935
110
53
163
99
50
149
1-4
1-1
7
1-4 1-1
7
(Chisatomura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
28
Dakeshitamura Seinen Cakko Dakeshita-mura, dachi-
Juy 1935
210
176
386
213
176
389
26
1-4
12
1-6
1-4
12
(Dakeshitamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
29
Bandaimura Seinen Gakko Bandai-mura, Yana-gun,
July 1935
122
132
254
121
117
238
2-4
1-3
9
2-4
1-3
9
(Bandairura Youth School) Fukushima Pref.
30
Danzakimura Seinen Gaidko Danzeki-nura, Date-gun,
July 1935
133
92
225
135
90
225
0-6
1-1
8
1-6
2-1
10
(Danzakinura Youth Schl.)
Fukushinc Pref.
31
Datamnchi Seinen Galdso
Dato-nachi. Date-gun,
Dec. 1902
41
18
59
48
19
67
2-5
1-1
9
2-5
1-1
9
(Datenachi Youth School)
Fukushina Pref
32
Do jimarure Seinen Galdko
Do jina-mura, Yano- gun,
Feb. 1935
162
129
291
161
129
290
15
1-3
10
1-5
1-4
11
(Do jinamura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
33
Do jinamuro Seinen Gckko
Do jinanura, Kawanuna-
April 1935
111
87
198
109
90
199
1-4
2-3
10
2-4
2-3
10
(Do jinarura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
34
Doneki Soinen Gakko
4schi-mure, Adachi-gun,
Juno 1926
103
81
184
114
72
186
2-4
1-1
7
1-4
1-1
7
(Daneki Youth School)
Fukushina Pref.
35
Eiwa Seinen Gakko
Koya-mr:. Kitaaizu-gun.
Jan. 1902
154
120
274
136
120
256
1-6
1-5
13
1-6
1-5
13
(Eima Youth School)
Fukushina Pref.
36
Enochi Soinen Galdro
Oshiose-nura, Ishikama-
July 1935
60
53
113
60
33
93
1-3
1-1
6
1-3
0-1
5
(mochi Youth School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
37
Fujikawenurc Soinen Gakko Fu jikawa-nure, Onunc-
July 1935
101
74
175
98
55
153
1-6
1-3
11
1-6
1-3
11
(Fujikawenura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
38
Fujitancchi Scinen Galdko Fujitancchi, Dato-gun,
Nov. 1908
160
80
240
161
80
241
3-5
1~2
11
3-5
1-2
11
(Fujitanachi Youth Schl.)
Fukushin Pref.
39
Fukudarura Soinen Gekko
Fukuda-mura, Dcto-gun,
Dec. 1916
118
111
229
116
110
226
05
1-3
9
1-5
1-3
10
(pukudarura Youth Schl.)
Bukushina Pref.
40
Fukudarura Soinan Gakko
Fukude-nure, Sana-gun.
July 1935
70
48
118
64
47
111
1-4
1~2
8
1-4
1-2
8
(Fukudarura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
4
Fukurarurc Soinen Gakko
Fukura-rura, saka-gun,
Doc. 1899
117
93
210
118
89
207
1-4
1-1
7
1-4
117
(ukurarura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Prof.
-26-

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.96)
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
42
Fuküuranure Scinon Gakko Fukuurc-rura, Soma-gun, July 1935
86
52
138
81
48
129
4-4
1-2
11
4-4
1-2
11
(Fukuurarurc Youth Schl.). Fukushinc Pref.
43
Fukuyanmachi Soinen Gekko Futuyemn-nachi, sake- July 1935
139
154
293
136
154
290
2-1
1-2
6
2-4
3-2
11
(Fukuyanmachi Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
44
Fulkuzawe Scinen Geldo
Taite-mure, Dato- gun, pril 1935
90
55
145
90
55
145
0-5
0-2
7
0-4
1-2
7
("ukuzaw. Youth School)
Fukushine Pref.
45
Funchikinachi Scinen
Funchiki-nachi, Teura-
July 1925
161
127
288
166 .128
294
1~-6
1
8
1-6
1
8
Gokko (Funchikinachi
gun, Fukushina Prof.
Youth School)
46Futaba Scinen Gaidko
ono- urc, Futcbe-gun,
Dec. 1943
164
324
498
158
319
477
4-2
3
9
5-2 4
11
(utabe Youth School)
Fukushina Proi.
47
Fusiguraura Soinen Gekdko Jushiguro-mrc, D.to-
Jul: 1935
146
77
-223
146
77
223
1-6
1-3
11
2-6 2-3
13
(Fushiguranura YouthSchl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
48
Gokerura Soinon Gakko
Gokaura, Nishishiraka-
IKrch 1935
80
56
136.
87
55
142
1-3
1-1
6
1-3. 1-1
6
(Gokarura Youth School)
wa-gm. Fukushimn Prof.
49
Hanade ura Scinen Gekko
Har de-mre, Ivese-
Lerch 1905
93
101
194
93
101
194
5-1
2-2. 10
4-1
2-2
9
(Hanadaura Youth Schl.)
gun. Fukushirn prof.
50
Handamura Scinon Gakko
Handa-rmure, D.to-gun,
pril 1925
151
101.252
151
101
252
1-5
1-4
11
2-5
(Hendarura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
51
Harenachi Soinen Gakko
Hara-nc chi, Saa-gun,
pril 1935
202
48
250
197
48
245
4-3
2
9
5-2
2-1 10
(Haranachi Youth Schl.)
Futushina Pref.
52
Harinichirura Scinon Geho Harimichi-urc, dachi- Jan. 1906
109
82. 191
129.82
21i
03
1-1
0-3
(Harinichirum Youth Schl.) gun, Fuicushinn Prof.
53
Haruyan Soinon Geliko
Monju-nira. Tamurc-gun,
July 1935
47
71
118
42
70
112
1-3
21
6
1-3 21 6
(Haruyann Youth School)
Fukushina Prof.
54
Hashirozawarura Scinon
Hashirazana-zura, Data- July 1926
118
115
233
118
115
233
1-4
1-3. 9
1-4 1-3 9
Galdko (Hashirezavaura
gun, Fukushina pref.
Youth Sl)
55
Hibarcmara Seinon Gakko
Hibera-mura, Yan-gun,
Sc pt. 1918
103
79
182107
88
195
1-2
1-2
6
1-4 23
(Hibararmra Youth School) Fukushinn Pref.
27-

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.97)
NE
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLAENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
II
F
T
F
T
56 Higashi-Onatarura Scinon
Higashionata-mura, Onuma- July 1935
72
59
131
70
65
135
1-4
0-1
6
1-4 1-1
7
Gakko (Higashi-Oataura
gun, Fukushine Pref.
Youth School)
57
Higashiyarmura Soinon
Higashiyannaura, Ki to-
pril 1935
50
61
111
50
61
111
1-7 1-1
10
1-7
1-1
10
Gakko (Higashiyemaure
aizu-gun, Fukushina
Youth School)
Pref.
58
Higcshiyunomura Scinen
Higashiyunaure, Dato-
Jen. 1903
38
21
59
35
21
56
0-4 1-1 6
Gckko (Hága shi yunornre
gun, Fukushinn Pref.
Youth School)
59
Hinoonatamura Soinen Galdko Hinocnte-mra, Lüinami- March 1916
54
35
89
54
31
85
1-1
(Hinoenntemura Youth Schl.)aizu-gun, Fukushina Pref.
60
Hraishi Seinen Gakko
Ishii-rure, Adachi-
Feb. 1907
136
87
223
121
87
208
1-3
1
5
1-3
5
(Hiraishi Youth School)
gun. Fukushine Pref.
61
Hirancura Scinen Gakko
Hirano-mura, Shinobu-
Doc. 1923
151
78
229
159
75
234
1-7
1-4
13
1-6
1-4
12
(Hiranaura Youth Schl.)
gun. Fukushina Pref.
62
Hironanachi Scinen Geldko
Hirono-nachi, Futabe-
pr. 1935
104
63
167
90
62
152
1-3
1-1
6
1-3
1-1
(Hironancchi Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushirn Pref.
63
Hiroscrura Scinon Gakko
Hirosó-mure, Kawanunc-
July 1935
144
121
265
133
121
254
3-8
3-2
16
3-8
2~2
(Hirosenura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
64
Hirotomura Scinon Gakko
Hiroto-mura, Ivasc-gun,
July 1935
164
138
302
160
136
296
1-3
5
8
(Hirotaura Youth School)
Fukushina pref.
65
Hi sanohananachi Scinon
Hisanohern-nachi, Futaba-
DoC. 1910
146
124
270
146
103
249
1-4
2
7
1-4
7
Gakko (Hi scnohannnachi
gun, Fulushina Pref.
Youth School)
66
Hisawarura Scinen Galko
Hisava-murc, Hinamiaizu-
my 1923
115
129
244
244
1-5
1-1
8
3-4
1-1
9
(Hisavmmura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushin Pref.
67
Hiwadanachi Soinon Gakko
Hivada-ncchi, saka-gun,
April 1935
198
125
323
194
122
316
4-3
2
9
4-3
2
9
(Hiwadanechi Youth Schl.) Fukushinn Pref.
68
Hobararura Sainon Gakko
Hobara-nachi, Dato-gun,
4pril 1935
139
48
187
126
40
166
1-4
1-2
8
1-41-2 8
(Hobararura Youth Schl.)
Fukushinn Pref.
-28-

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.96)
NLE
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLLIENT
TEACHERS
30 Lor. 46.
30 Nov. 46
30r. 46
.30 Nov. 46
F
T
L
F
T
F
T
II
F
T
69 Hokotsuldi Soinen Gakko
Hokotsuki-ura, Ivaso-
July 1937
123
97
220
125
99
224
0-4
1-2
7
0-4
2-2.
8
(Hokotsuki Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Prof.
70
Hokushin Scinen Gekko
Sonouc-nnchi, Shinobu-
Lpril 1944
186
151
337
183
151
334
6-7
3-3
19
67
3-319
(Hokushin Youth School)
gun. Fultushinc Iref.
71
Hongonnchi Seinon Gakko
Hango  chi, Onun-
July 1935
96
30
126
96
30
126
2-8
1-2
13
27 22
10
(Honganachi Youth School)
gun. Fukushine Pref.
72
Honguriachi Soinon Getko
Hangu-machi, dachi-gun, pril 1911
110
97
207
112
103
215
1-5
1-2
9
1-5
1-2
9
(Honguncchi Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Prof.
73
Hozuniura Scinon Gekko
Hoztli- mrc, 4saka-
Jan. 1916
91
68
159
87
72
159
2-3
1-1
7
2-3
2-1
8
(Hozunimura Youth Schl.)
gun. Fukushimm Pref.
74
Ichinokiure Soinon Gckko Ichincki-murc, Yon-
pril 1913
47
35. 82
47
35
82
26
3-3
11
25
1-29
(Ichndkinura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushimn Pref.
75
Igawarura Seinen Gakko
Igaic-murc, Linanicizu-
Dcc. 1914
111
101
212
111
101
212
1-4
1
6
2-4 1=2
8
(Igawarura Youth Schl.)
gun. Fukushim Pref.
76
Ihokurura Soinen Geldko
Ihoku-mra, linamiaizu-
Not Giver
160
128.288
157
125. 282
0-8
104 13: 08:
1-4
13
(Ihokururc Youth School)
gun. Fukushimm Pref.
77
Ikkirmura Scinen Gakko
Ikki-rura, Kitcaizu-
July 1935
69
75
144
74
76
150
4-3
0-3
10
3-4
2-3
11
(Ikkirura Youth School)
gun, Fukushin Prof.
78
Inemura Soinon Go ldko
Inc ura, Mincmiaizu-
pril 1912
121
104
225
121
104
225
1-2
1-2
6
1-3
1-2.7
(Inamre Youth School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
79
Inate Suinon Gakko
Incta-iura, Ivaso-gun,
Jan. 1907
110
111
221
117
111
228
1-3
1-1
6
2-4
1-1 7
(Incte Youth School)
Fukushinn Pref.
80
Inawashiranechi Scinon
Inavnshiro-nachi, Yan-
Dcc. 1928
92
40
132
91
40
131
2-5
1-2
10
2-5
12
10.
Galko (Incwashiromnchi
cun. Fukushim Pref.
Youth School)
81
Inanchi Seinon Gakiko
Ino-ncchi, Dato-gun,
Jan. 1906
47
50
97
32
24
56
24
1-2
8
2-4
7
(Inomachi Youth School)
Fukushim Prof.
82
Inarure Soinon Galcko
Inaure, Iald-gun,
July 1935
49
86
135
49
86
135
15
2
8
2-51
8
(Inoura Youth School)
Fucushine Prof.
-29-

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.98)
NLE
DDRESS
DATE. FOUN DED
ENROLLMENT
TELCHERS
30 p. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30.Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
83 Iritonaura Soinon Gekko Iritono-mura, Iwaki-
pril 1905
178
131
309
151
70
221
8
1-4
2
7
(Iritonaura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushime Pref.
84
Isazawarura Scinon Galdko
Isazewa ure, Data-gun, June 1906
101
83
184
100
83
183
1-4
0-1
6
1-4
1-1
(Is czazrura Youth Schl.)
Fukushinn Pref.
85
Ishidomura Scinen Gakko
Ishido-urc, Dato-gun, April 1902 104
105
209
104
105
209
0-6
2-3
11
0-6
23
11
(Ishidomra Youth School) Fukushina Pref.
86
Ishiganimura Norin Senshu Ishigei-murc, Sonc-
pril 1943 172
68
240
180
113
293
10-3 4
17
103 4
17
Galko (Ishiganimura gri- gun, Fukushina Prof.
cultural and Forestry Schl.)
87
Ishikewanechi Scinen Gakko Ishikava-nachi, Ishi April 1926 136
82
218
136
82
218
1-3
1
5
5
(Ishikavennchi Youth Schl.) kame-gun, Fukushimn Pref.
68 Ishinori Scinon Gakko
Mon ju-mure, Ta ura-
4pril 1935 54
72
126
49
67
116
0-4
1-2
7
0-4
0-2
6
(Ishinori Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Prof.
89 Ishiimura Soinen Gakko
Ishimura, Higeshishi-
April 1935
93
66
159
93
88
181
1-5
1-2
9
2-5
1-2
9
(Ishiimura Youth School)
rakava-gun, Fukushina prof.
90
Isoborura Soinon Gakko
Isobe-ura, Soma-gun, pril 1907 89
77
166
90
70
160
1-2
1
4
13
1-1
6
(Isoborura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Prof.
91
Isaura Soinen Gakko
Iso-ure, Sane-gun,
July 1935
230
125
355
233
126
359
1-10
2-2
15
10
2-2
14
(Isorura Youth School)
Fukushina Pref.
92
Itoyaura Soinon Galdso
Itoyo-nura, Sa-cun.
July 1935
120
57
177
142
85
227
1-6
2~1
9
1-5
1-1
8
(Itoyaura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Fref.
93
Itoyorura Scinon Galkko
Itoyo-rure, Tanura-
Nov. 1919
161
141
302
161
141
302
1-5
1-1
8
15 1-1
(Itoyaura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushine Irof.
94
Iwaerura Soinon Gakko
Iwao-rura, Tarura-gun, 2mrch 1943 131
163
294
130
160
290
4-6
3
13
4-6 3.
(Iwaenura Youth Schl.)
Fukushine Pref.
95
Ivanerura Soinen Gekko
Ivano-rura, dachi-
D:c. 1906
112
83
195
117
87
204
1-3
1
5
0-3 1-1 5
(Iwanorura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fakushina Pref.
96 Imatsukimura Sainon Gakko Iwatsuki-mura, Yana-
pril 1944 161
126
287
164
113 277
4-4
12
11
3-4 3-212
(Iwats ukimura Youth Sohl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
-30-

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.98)
NOE
ADDPESS
DITE FOUN DED
30 pr. 46
ENROLLIET
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46.
TRC.ERS
30 Nov. 46
2
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
97
Izakamachi Seinen Gakko Izaka-machi, Shinobu-
July 1935
119
30
149.
119
30
149
1-5
1-2
0-5.1-2
8
(Izakamachi Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pre.
98
Izakamura Seinen Gekko
Izaka-mura, Date-gun,
Dec. 1882
85
40
125
84
40
124
0-3
1-1
5
0-3
11
(Izakamura Youth Schl.)
Fukushima Pref.
99
Izumimura Seinen Gakko
Izuni-mura, Ivaki-gun,
July 1935
99
73
172
95
77
172
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Izumimura Youth Schl.)
Fukushima Pref.
100
Izumimura Seinen Gakko
Izuni-mura, Ishikava-
1935
164
142
306
140
139
279
2-8
1-1
12
2-8
1-3
14
(Izwnimura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
101
Joto Jitsugyo Gakio
Ene-nachi, Iveki-gun,
April 1944
347
124
471
400
114
514
3
7
6
4
10
(Joto Vocational Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
102
Kebeyamura Seinen Gakko Kabeya-mura, Iwaki-gun, pril 1905
25
70
95
25
70
95
1-3
2-1
7
1-3
2-1
7
(Kebeyamure Youth School)Fukushime Pref.
144
78
222
14
78
222
5
2
7
5
2
7
103
Kadonomura Seinen Gakko Kadono-mura, Iwaki-gun, Not Given
(Kadonamura Youth Schl.) Fukushima Pref.
104
Kagamiishimura Seinen
Kagamiishi-mura,
July 1941
222
160
382
222
158
380
2-6
2-2
12
2-6
2-2
12
Gakko (Kaganiishimura
Ivase-sun,
Youth School)
Fukushima Pref.
105
Kekedamachi Seinen Gakko Kakeda-nechi, Date-gun, May 1935
118
52
170
112
41
153
1-4
2-6
(Kekedamachi Youth Schl.)Fukushima Pref.
106
Kamae Seinen Gaidko
Kamae-mura, Iwaki-gun,
Jen. 1911
33
29
62
31
27
58
1-1
1
3
1-1
(Kamae Youth School)
Fulkushima pref.
107. Kamakoura Seinen Gek ko
Kanako-mura Nishi shira-
Dec. 1905
99
98
197
99
98
197
104.1-2
8.
1-4 1-1 7
(Kanakomura Youth Schl.)
kava-gun,
108
Kamihobaramura Seinen
Kamihobara-mure, Date-
June 1905
135
89
46
135
1-4 1-2
8
1-4
Gakko (Kamihobaramura
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
109
Kamiizushima Seinen Gakko Marumori-mura, saka-
oct. 1906
63
51
114
62
51
113
1-3
1-2
7
0-4 1-2
7
(Kamiizushima Youth Schl.) gun, Fuikushima Pref.
110
Kamikawasakimura Seinen Kamikawasaki-mura, da- April 1935
189
131
320
187
124
311
1-5
1-2.9
9
Gakko (Kamikawasekimira chi-gun, Fukushima pref.
Youth School)
-31-

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.98)
NAE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TECHERS
30 r.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
121
Kaninanorara Soinon
Kaninano-nura, Sona-
June 1935
164 77
241
165
74
239
2-2
2-1
7
3-2
2-1
8
Gakko (Esninanamura
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
112
Kamiokamura Seinen Gakko Kanioka-mura, Futaba-
pril 1923
82
80
162
77
70
147
1-3
1-1
6
1-3
1-1
6
(Keniokaaura Youth Sci1.)gun, Fukushina Pref.
113
Kaniota Seinen Gakko
Ota-nure, Adachi-gun,
Oct. 1906
130
90
220
125
84
209
0-2
0-1
3
1-2
1-2
6
(Keniota Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
114
Kanisanmiyanura Seinen
Kanisanniya-nura, Yame- July 1935
56
51
107
58
63
121
1-3
1-3
8
1-3
2-3
9
Gakko (Keni sanmi yanura
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
115
Kanabusarura Seinon Gakko Kanabusa-mura, Soma-
July 1935
93
68
161
91
68
159
1-6
1
a
1-6
1
8
Kmabusamra Youth Schi.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
116
Kanegenimure Sinen Gakko Kanagani-mure, Kawanu- July 1935
106
5.4
160
112
52
164
15
1-4
11
1-4
1-4
10
(Kanagaminura Youth Schl)ma-gun, Fukushina Pref.
117
Kanayagawamura Seinen
Kanayagawa-nura, Shinobu- Jen. 1908
121
103
224
128
106
234
1-5
1-2
9
1-4
1-2
8
Gekko (Kanayagawamura
gun, Fukushina Prof.
Youth School)
118
Kaneyana Soinen Gakko
Kaneyena-nura, Nishishi-Feb. 1907
89
64
153
143
122
265
1-4
5
2-5
1-1
9
(Kaneyama Youth Schl.)
rakawa-gun, Fukushine Pref.
119
Kanamura Seinen Gakko
Kano-mura, Yama-gun,
pril 1935
137
122
259
153
133
286
0-7
1-3
11
1-7
1-3
12
(Kanonura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Prof.
120
Karinamura Seinon Gakko
Karino-mura, Futaba-
May 1935
67
57
124
59
47
106
0-3
1-1
5
0-3
1-1
5
(Karinamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
121
Kashimamachi Seinen Gako Kashina-machi, Sona-gun, pril 1923
72
46
118
67
41
108
0-6
1-2
9
0-6
1-2
9
(Kashimanachi Youth Schl.) Fukushina Pref.
122
Kashinamura Seinen Gakko Kashima-mura, Iwaki-
pril 1924
50
54
104
49
49
98
1-4
6
2-3
1
5
(Kashinanura Youth Schl.)gun, Fukushina Pref.
123
Katahiramura Soinen Gak- Katahira-mure, sake-
Nov. 1906
149
117
266
149
117
266
2-5 1-3
11
2-5 1-3
11
ko (Katahirarura Youth
gun, Fukushima Pref.
22.1
school)
-32-

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.97)
NAME
DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 . 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
iM
F
T
F
T
124 Katsuraonura Seinen
Katsurao-mura, Futaba- April 1910
94
90
184
87
88
175
0-3
1
4
0-3
4
Gakko (Katsuraomura
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
125
Kawaberura Seinen Gakko
Kawabemura, Iwaki-gun, June 1935
95
2Q
115
95
19
114
7
1
8
7
1
8
(Kawabenura Youth Schl ) Fukushina Pref.
126
Kavaguchinura Seinen Cakko Kawaguchi-mura, Onuna- ug. 1943
127
86
213
113
84
202
4-6
2
12
4-6
12
(KameguhimuraYouth Schl.) gua, fukushina Pref.
127
Kawahigashimura Seinen
Fawahigashi-nura, Ishi-July 1935
65
62
127
62
61
123
25
1-2
9
1-5
2-1
Gakko (Kawahigashinura
kawa-gun. Fukushina.
Youth School)
Pref.
128
Kawanatanachi Scinen
Kawanata-machi, Dete- Dec. 1917
158
151
309
136
151
287
1-5
0-3
9
2-4 1-3
10
Gakko (Kavmane tamachi
gun. Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
129
Kaweminamirura Seinen
Kawaninani-mura, Kita- pril 1935
150
103
253
150
103
253
1-5
1-2
9
2-6 1-2 10
Gakko (Kawaninani
eizu-gun, Fukushina
Youth School)
Prof.
130
Kawenishinura Scinen
Kawanishi-mure, Kava- July 1935
98
71
169
99
68
167
1-5
1-1
8
1-5
1-1.8
Gakko (Kavanishi.nura
nu.a-gun, Fukushine
Youth School)
Pref.
131
Kawasekimura Seinen Gakko Kawasaki-mure, Nishi- May 1905
80
77
157
78
70
148 .2~3. 1
5
1-3 1
5
(Kavasakinura Youth Schl.)shirakava-gun.
Fukushina Fref.
132 Kawauchiura Seinen Gekko Kawauchi-nure, Futaba- Merch 1946
221
175
396
211
191
402
2-6
2-1
11
3-5 2-1 11
(Kawauchimura Youth Schi )gun, Fukushina Pref.
133
Keitokumure Seinon Galko Keitoku-mura, Yama-
Mey 1912
103 64 . 167
104
64
168
1-5
1-2
9
1-5 2-2 10
(Keitokumura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
134- Kidomura Seinen Gakko
Kido-nura, Futaba-
July 1935
131
57
188
130
59
189
2-4
7
2041
(Kidoure Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
135
Kikutamura Seinon Gakko
Kikuta-mura, Lsaka-
Jen, 1908
159
111
270
150
111
261
1-5
1-4
11
2-4 2=4
(Kikutamum Youth Sch.)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
-33-

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.98)
NALE
ABDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
136
Kitakatenachi Seinen
Kitaka te-machi, Yane-
July 1926
132
94
226
132
94
226
2-6
1-4
13
1-6
1-4
12
Gakko (Kitaketanchi
gun, Fukushinn Pref.
Youth School)
137
Kitayananure Seinen Gakko Kitayana-rura, Yana-
Jan. 1910
53
37
90
52
37
89
1-3
1-2
7
1-3
0-2
6
(Kitayananura Youth Schl.) gun, "ukushina Pref.
138
Kiyoheshinura Seinon
Kiyohashi-mura, Futaba-
July 1935
31
25
56
30
23
53
0-2
1-1
4
0-4
1-1
6
Galkko (Kiyohashimura
gun. Fukushine Pref.
Youth School)
139
Kogard Seinen Gakko
Tonita-mura, Date-gun,
July 1935
40
27
67
41
27
63
0-3
1-1
5
0-3
1-1
(Kogani Youth School)
Fukushina Pref.
140
Kohatarure Seinen Gakko
Kohata-rura, Adachi-
4pril 1944
123
144
272
140
131
271
2-5
2-2
11
1-5
2-2
10
(Kohatarura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fuaushix Pref.
141
Komaganinemura Scinen
Konagunino-mura, Sana-
4pril 1916
124
37
161
122
35
157
1-3
1-1
6
23
1~1
6
Gakko (Konaganinenura
gun, Fukushiin Pref.
Youth School )
142
Konagatanura Soinon Gakko Konagata-mura, Yana-
Nov. 1920
110
93
203
134
102
236
1-4
1-2
8
1-4
2-2
9
(Konagetamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushim Pref.
143
Korinachi Seinen Gakko Kori-nachi, Date-gun,
July 1935
111
53
164
112
54
166
1-4
2-1
8
1-4
2-1
8
(Korinechi Youth Schl.) Fukushia Pref.
144
Kosakamura Scinen Galcko Kosaka-nura, Date-gwn,
June 1935
87
38
125
86
45
131
1-4
1-2
8
1-3
1-2
7
(Kosakamure Youth Schl ) Fukushina Pref.
145
Kosekimmra Seinen Galko Koseki-ura, Nishishira- 4pril 1935
144
102
246. 141
102
243
1-4
1-1
7
1-4
1-1
(Kosekinura Youth Schl.) kave-gun, Fukushima Pref.
146
Kotagawanura Seinen Gakko Kotegawa-nura, Nishishi- Jen. 1907
70
55
125
74
61
135
1-3
1-2
7
1-3
1-2 7
(Kotagavaura Youth Schl.) rekawa-gun, Fukushine Pref.
147 Kotsunaginura Seinen
Kotsunagi-nura, Dato
July 1935
123
79
202
85
55
140
0-4
1-2
7
0-3
1-2
6
Gakko (Kotsunagiura
gun. Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
148 Kozashimure Seinon Gakko Kozashi-mura, Kitaaizu-
Dec. 1909
83
93
176
83
88
171
1-7 1-4
13
1-7 1-4 13
(Kozashinura Youth Schl.)gun, Fukushina Pref.
-34-

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.98)
NALE
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TE.CHERS
30 .46
30 Nov. 46
30 r. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
149
Kozumura Seinen Gakko
Kozu-mura, ¿saka-
pril 1935
89
102
191
85
101
186
1-5
1-3
10
1-5
1-3
10
(Kozurura Youth Schi.)
gun, Futushina Pref.
150
Kunaguramura Seinen Gakko Kunagura-mura, Yana-
July 1935
151
78
229
148
80
228
0-5
1-2
8
0-5
2-3
10
(Kumaguramure Youth Schi.) gun, rukushine Pref
151
Kusanonure Seinen Gakko
Kusano-mure, Ivaki-
Nov. 1905
86
111
197
86
109
195
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Kusenomura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
152
Kyowa Seinen Gaidko
Linato-mura, Kitaaizu-
pril 1935
125
136
261
129
137
266
1
1
2
1
3
4
(Kyowa Youth School)
gun, Fukushia Pref.
153
Makinotonura Seinen Galko Makinoto- ura, Iwase-
July 1935
167
97
264
167
97
264
1-3
2-4
0-2
7
(Lakinotonure Youth Scihi.)gun, Fukushima Pref.
154
Manonura Seinen Gaidco
Mano-mura. Sama-gun,
July 1935
94
60
154
32
68
150
6
3
9
5
3
8.
(Menomura Youth Schl.)
Fukushine Pref.
155
Metsukawenachi Seinen
Matsukawe-mechi, Shino-
July 1935
61
54
115
57
49
106
1-5
0-2
8
1-5
1-2
Gac ko (Matsukawanachi
bu-gun, Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
156
Matsuyamamura Seinen Gekko Matsuyama-mura, Yama-
Feb. 1912
85
43
128
33
43
126
1-6
1-2
10
16
1-2
10
(Matayamemura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
157
Meijimure Seinen Galko
Mei ji-mura, Date-gun,
pril 1933
71
46
117
70
45
115
1-2
1-2
6
1-2
1-2
6
(Mei jimura Youth Schl.)
Fukushima Pref.
158
Meiwamura Seinen Gakko
Meiwa-mura, Minamiaizu- Dec. 1906
98
118
216
89
114
203
2-3
2-1
8
2-3
1
6
(Meiwemura Youth School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
159
Mitsuharamura Seinen Gakko Mitsuhara-mura, hinobu- Jan. 1893
103
84
187
82
60
142
1-4
2-3
9
1-3
1-3
8
(Mitsuharemura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
160
Mitsuhomura Seinen Gakko Mitsuho-mura, Shinobu-
April 1925
133
92
225
132
92
224
2-4
1-2
9
2-4
1-2
9
(Mitsuhomura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
161
Miharumachi Seinen Gakko Miharu-machi, Tamura
April 1946
129
89
218
121
83
204
1-4
1-2
8
2-4
1-2
9
(Wiharumachi Youth Schl ) gun, Fucushima Pref.
162
ikamimura Se inen Gakko
Mikami-mura, Nishishira- July 1935
129
107
236
137
102
239
1-7
1-1
10
1-7 1-1
10
(Mikamimura Youth Schl.)
kawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
-35-

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
IM
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
-163
Minamitosawa Seinen Galdko Tosawa-mura, Adachi-
July 1935
88
56
144
98
53
151
2-3
1-1
7
1-2
1-1
5
(Minami tosawa Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
164
Minatomura Seinen Gakko
Minato-mura, Kitaaizu-
July 1935
42
42
84
42
42
84
2-2
1
5
2-3
2
7
(Minatomura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
165
Misakamura Seinen Gakko
Misaka-mura, Iwaki-
April 1944
113
107
220
113
111
224
3
3
6
5
4
9
(Misakamura Youth Schl)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
166
Mitatemura Seinen Gakko
Mitate-mura, Tamura-
April 1935
174
151
325
170
153
323
1-5
1-2
9
15
1-2
9
(Mitatemura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
167
Miwamura Seinen Gakko
Liwa-mura, Asaka-gun,
July 1935
107
100
207
104
95
199
2-5
1-2
10
2-5
1-2
10
(Miwamura Youth School)
Fukushima Pref.
168
Miyagimura Seinen Gakko
Liyagi-mura, Tamura-
July 1935
104
116
220
105
116
221
0-4
1-0
5
0-4
1.
5
(Miyagimure Youth Schl.)
cun, Fukushima Pref.
169
Myakojimura Seinen Gakko Miyakoji-mura, Tamura-
April 1945
151
164
315
148
155
303
2-5
1
8
2-5
1
8
(Miyakojimura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
170
Miyamamura Seinen Gakko
Miyama-mura, Tamura-
April 1935
92
96
188
93
96
189
1-3
1
5
1-3
1
5
(Miyamamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
263
165 428
253
159
412
1-9
10
1-9
2
12
171
Miyamotomura Seinen Gakko Miyamoto-mura, Higashi- Dec. 1922
(Miyamotomura Youth Schl.) shirakawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
172
Miyashitamura Seinen Gakko Miyashita-mura, Onuma- July 1935
153
85
238
148
83
231
3-6
1-3 13
3-6
1-3
13
(Miyasitatamma Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
173
Wiyoda Seinen Gakko
Moriyama-machi, Tamura- July 1935
. 43
55
98
37
51
88
2-2.1-27
2-3
1-3
9
(Miyoda Youth School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
174 Miyomure Seinen Gakko
Miyo- mura, 4saka-gun,
April 1923. 62
47
109
62
45
107.
0-3
204
6
(iyomura Youth School)
Fukushima Pref.
175
Mondenmura Seinen Gakko
Monden-mura. Kitaaizu-
July 1935
128
170
298
133
169
302
3-6
2-3
13
3-6 1-2
12
(Wondenmura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
-176 Moniwamura Seinen Gakko
Moniwa-mura, Date-gun, Dec. 1917
159
119
278
162
119
281
0-6
1-29
0-5
12
8
(Monimamura Youth Schl.)
Fukushima Pref.
177 Morienomura Seinen Gakko Morieno-mura, Date-
July 1926
155
93
248
146
91
237
1-4
1-2
8
2-4 2-2 9
(Morienamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
-36-

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TEACHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
178 Moriyama Seinen Gakko
Moriyama-machi, Tanura-
July 1926
143
119
267
146
118
264
3-5
1-3
12
3-6
1-1
11
(Moriyama Youth Schl.)
¿un, Fukushima Pref.
179 Muraokamura Seinen Gakko Muracka-mura, Kwaanuna-
Dec. 1908
75
112
187
70
116
186
1-7
12
11
3-6
1-2
12
(Muraokamura-Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushime Pref.
180 Lutsuaimure Seinen Gakko utsuai-mure, Date-
Merch 1905
94
58
152
86
58
1442-3
1-2
8
1-3
1-2
7
(Mutsuaimura Youth Schl.) gun, Fuisushima Pref.
181
Nagamorimachi Seinen Gak- Nagamori-machi, Asaka- 4pril 1936
125
98
223
118
84
202
3-4
1-2
10
2-5
1-2
10
ko (Nagamorimachi
gun. Fukushima Fref.
Youth School)
182
Naganomura Seinen Gakko Nagano-mura, Onuma-
Jul 1935
111
101
212
103
99
207
1-7 1-1
10
2-7 1-1
11
(Naganonura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
183
Naganuma Seinen Gakko
Naganuna-nachi,Iwase-
March 1908
198
109
307
198
109
307
3-6
1-2
12
3-6
1-2
12
(Naganuma Youth School)
gun, ukushima Pref.
184
Nagesemure Seinen Gakko
Nagase-mure, Y-
4pril 1935
92
56
148
84
57
141
2-5
L-210
2-5
1-2
10
(Nagasemura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
185
Nagata Seinen Gakko
Yomogita-mura, Ichikawa- 4pril 1946
37
36
73
37
35
72
0-3
0-1
4
0-3
0-1
4
(Nagate Youth School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
186
Nagatomura Seinen Gakko
Nagato-mura, Iweki-gun, Jan. 1944
154
127
281
157
130
287
4-5
5
14
4-5
5
14
(Negatomura Youth Schl.) Fukushima Pref.
187
Nakahatamura Seinen Gakko Nakahata-mura, Nishishi- July 1935
147
108
255
144
106
250
2-3 .1-2
8
2-3
1-2
8
(Nakahatamura Youth Sch1.) rakewa- gun, Fukushima Pref.
188
Nakamuramachi Seinen
Nakamura-machi, Soma-
Juy 1935
123
41
164
120
38
158
9-1
1-1
12
9-1
1-1
12
Gakko (Nakamuramachi
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
189
Nakamuremachi Tobu Sei- Nakamura-machi, Soma-
July 1926
200
121
321
239
99
338
1-7
1-1
10
1-7
1
9
nen Gakko (Nakamuremachi gun, Fukushima Pref.
Tobu Youth Sohool)
190
Nakanomura Seinen Gakko Nakano-mura, Shinobu-
Dec. 1915
70
36
106
70
36
106
0-5
1-2
8
1-5
10
(Nakanomura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima pref.
191 Nakanomura Seinen Gakko Nakano-mura, saka-gun,
pril 1935 57
70
127
49
61
110
0-4
1-1
(Nakanomura Youth Schl.) Fukushima Pref.
-37-

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
NLLE
DDRESS
DTE FOUNDED..
ENROLLMENT
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
192 Nakasatomura Seinen Gakko Nakasato-mura, Tomura- pril 1946
97
137
234
91
137
228
2-4
1-1
7
1-4 1-1
7
(Nakasatomura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
193 Nakatanimura Seinen Gakko Nakatani-mura, Ishika- June 1935
66
39
105
66
39
105
1-4
1-1
7
1-4
(Nakatanimura Youth Schl.) wa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
194
Nakatanimura Daini Seinen Nakatani-mura, Ishika- Feb. 1905
71
50
121
71
46
117
1-4
1
6
0-4
Gakko (Nakatanimura
wa-gun, Fukushime Pref.
Secand Youth School)
195
Nakatsumemura Seinen
Nakatsuma-mura, Tamura- pril 1942 76
95
171
78
95
173
Gakko (Nakatsumamura
gun, Fukushima pref.
Youth School)
196
Nakosomachi Jitsugyo
Nakoso-machi, Iwaki-
July 1915
108
60
168
108
60
168
3
3
6
3
3
6
Gakko (Nakosomachi
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Practical School)
197
Nametsumura Seinen Gakko
Nametsu-mura, Nishishi- July 1935
100
66
166
100
66
166
2-6
1-2
11
2-6
1-2
11
(Nametsumura Youth Sch1.) ralkawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
198
Namiemachi Norin Senshu
Namie-machi, futaba-
Feb. 1911
127
39
166
166
37
203
4-4
9
4-4 1
9
Gakko (Namiemachi gri-
gun, Fukushime Pref.
cultural and Forestry
Schol)
199
Nanagomura Seinen Gakko
Nanago-mura, Tamura-
pril 1945
256
230
486
256
229
485
2-7 3-1
12
1-7 3-1
12
(Nanagomura Youth Schl.) gun, Fusushima Pref.
200
Naraharamachi Seinen Gekko Narahara-machi, Minami- pril 191l 163
151
314
163
151
314
1-6
1-2
10
1-6
12
10
(Naraharamachi Youth Schl.) aizu-gun, Fukushima Pref.
201
Natsuimura Seinen Gakko Natsui-mura; Ivaki-
Feb. 1910
88
69
157
89
71
160
1-3
2
6
0-3 2
5
(Natsuimura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
202
Natsuimura Daiichi Seinen Natsui-mura, Tamura-
July 1935
55
41
96
55
40
95
0-4
5
0-4 1
5
Gakko (Natsuimura First
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
203
Natsuimura Daini Seinen
Natsui-mure, Tamra-
July 1926
44
40
84
44
40
84
1-2
1
4
0-2 1
Gakko (Natsuimura Second
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
-38-

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.98)
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 r. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
T
F
T
204 Nidonomrn. Seinen Gakko Nidono-mura, dachi-
July 1935
226
177
403
234
181
415
1-8
0-2
11
2-7 0-1
10
(Nidonomura Youth School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
205
Nihonmatsumachi Seinen
Nihonmatsu-machi, dachi- pril 1888 59
54
113
59
54.
113
5-4 2-1
12
6-5
2-1
14
Gakko (Nihonmatsumachi
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
206
Nippashimura Seinen Gakko Nippashi-mure, Kawanuma- March 1943 144
149
293
137
150
287
3-4 4
11
(Nippashimure Youth Schl.) gun, Futushima Pref.
207
Nishibukuromura Seinen
Nishibuuro-mura, Iwase- July 1935 125
105
230
125
105
230
1-5
1-4
11
1-5
Gakko (Nishibukuromure
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
208
Nishigomura Seinen Gakko Nishigo-mura, Nishishira- July 1935 276
106
382
267
105
372
2-3
0-3
8
1-3
10
(Nishigomura Youth Schl.) kawe-gun, Fukushima Pref.
209 Nishikatamure Seinen Gakko Nishiketa-mra, Onuna-
July 1935 67
64
131
63
63
126
1-5
1-1
S
1-4
1
6
(Nishikatenura Youth Schl.) gun, fukushina Pref.
210
Nishikimachi Seinen Gakko Nishiki-machi, Iwaki-gun, Dec. 1926 137
31
168
137
31
168
1
1
2
1
1
2
(Nishikimachi Youth Schl.) Fukushina Pref.
211
Nishiyamamura Seinen
Nishiyerm-mura, Onuna-
July 1935 156
169 325
154
160
314
1-10
2-1
14
1-10 2-1
14
Galdto (Nishiyaremura
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
212
Nita Seinen Gakko
Nita-mura, Iwase-gun,
March 1944 171
315
171 144
315
4-6
2-1
13
5-6
2-1 14
(Nita Youth School)
Fukushina Prof.
213
Nitamura Seinen Gakko
Nita-mure, dachi-gun,
Jan. 1910 36
40
76
36
35
71
0-2
1
3
0-2
1-1 4
(Nita-mure Youth School)
Fukushime Pref.
214
Nitsurumura Seinen Gakko
Nitsuru-murc, Onuma-
July 1935 197
122
319
197. 123
320
2-7
2-3
14
1-7
2-3
13
(Nitsurwmura Youth Schl.) cun, Fukushime Pref.
215 Nittakimura Seinen Galeto
Nittaki-mura, Sona-gun,
pril 1935 78
36
114
75
34
109
1-4
1-1
2-4 1-1 7
(Nittakimure Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
216 Niwasakamura Seinen Gakko Niwasain-mure, Shinobu-
Feb. 1909 55
65
120
50
60
110
1-5
1-2
(Niwasakamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
217 Niwakamura Seinon Galko Nivatsuka-ura, Shinibu- Jan. 1906 88
70
158
89
62
151
a3
1-3
7
0-3 1-3 7
(Niwatsukamura Youth Schl.) gun, "ukushima Pref.
-39-.

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLENT
TRCHERS
30 Lpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
7
F
7
F
T
M
F
T
218 Nodamra.Seinen Gakko
Noda-mura, Shinobu-
July 1935
140
133
273
130
126
256
2-7
1-6
16
2-7
1-6
16
(Nodemura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
219
Nogisawamura Seinen Gakko Nogisara-mure, Ishika- pril 1937
69
53
122
80
54
134
1-3
1-1
6
2-3
1-1
7
(Nogisawamura Youth Schi.) va-gun, Fukushina Pref.
220
Nozawanachi Jitsugyo
Nozawa-machi, Kanua-
JEn. 1908
108
119
227
108
119
227
2-6
2-1
11
1-6
2-1
10
Seinen Gekko (Nozawanachi gun, Fukushima Pref.
Vocctionel Youth School)
221
Numasawannra Scinen
Numcsava-mure, Onuna-
pril 1940
86
102
188
83
102
185
5-7 3
15
14
Gakko (Nuna sawanure
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
222
Obanamachi Seinen Gacko
Obama-machi, dachi-
Nov. 1904
224
174
393
247
179
426
1-6
2-2
11
1-5
1-2
9
(Obemenachi : Youth Schl.) gun, Fulushime Pref.
223
Oborimura Scinen Gakko
Obori-mure, Futaba-
Dec. 1910
48
46
94
43
41
84
13
1
5
1-3
1
5
(Oborimure Youth Schl.)
gun, futushimm Pref.
224
Odakanachi Seinen Gekio
Odaka-machi, Sone-gun,
July 1935
104
68
172
104
67
171
0-5
1-1
7
1-5
1-2
9
(Odakemachi Youth Schl.)
Fukushime Prof.
225
Odeterura Scinen Gakko
Cdate-rure, Soma-gun,
Dec. 1914
121
147
268
120
136
256
1
3
4
1
3
4
(Odatemura Youth Schl.)
Fukushima Pref.
226
Odenure Seinen Gakko
Ode-mura, Detc-gun;
April 1943
124
87
211
117
90
207
2-4
0-2
8
2-4
1-2
9
(Odemura Youth School)
Fukushima Prof.
227
Cedemura Soinen Gakko
Ocda-mure, Date-gun,
pril 1935
117
81
198
117
67
184
1-4
0-2
7
1-4
1-2
8
(Oodanura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
228
Ogavamura Seinen Gakko
Ogawa-mure, Iwaki-gun,
June 1935
131
63
194
125
62
187
4
1
5
4
1
5
(Ogawarure Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
229
Ogisavanure Soinen Gakko Ogisawa-nura, Tamura-
pril 1935
69
71
140
64
71
135
1-3
4
1-3
11
(Ogisewamura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
230
Ogoemachi Seinen Galdko
Ogoo-machi, Temura-gun, pril 1944
162
176
338
157
174
331
1-8
2
11
1-8.
11
(Ogoemechi Youth Schl.)
Fukushine Pref.
231
Oguni Jitsugyo Geldso
Oguni-mura, Date-gun,
Sept. 1944
176
179
355
172
160
332
5-2
2
9
8
(Oguni Vocational Schl.) Fukushima Pref.
-40-

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.97)
NME
ΔDDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
EROLLLET
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
7
T
F
T
12
F
T
232
Cikawarura Seinen Gekko Oikava-mura, Karanuna-
July 1935
72
72
144
60.54
114
2-5
2-2
11
2-5
1-2
10
(Oikawaruro Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushinn Pref.
233
Ojinamre Scinen Gakko
Ojima-mura, Dete-,
Nov. 1909
97
61
153
97
61
158
1-4
1-1
7
1-4
1-1
7
(Ojimenura Youth Schl.). Fukushir Pref.
234
Okayamamura Scinen Galdko Ckayar -mura, Shinobu-
Nov. 1916
110
79
189
110
.79
189
1-6
1-3
11
1-6
1-3
11
(Okayamanura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
235
Okawarura Seinen Galdko
Okevu-nura, Minamiaizu- pril 1912
40
32
72
39
32
71
0-2
1-1
4
0-2
1
(Okevarura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
236
Gkeurt Seinen Gakko
Keane-nure, Ivaki-
Jen. 1911
73
67
140
73
67
140
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Okeuri Youth Schl.)
un. Fukushima Pref.
237
Okidomura Seinen Gakko
Oicido-mura, Date -gun,
Jan. 1905
101
94
195
93
79
177
1-4
1-2
8
1-5
1-3
10
(Okidaura Youth Scal.)
Fukushima Pref.
238
Okine jiiamura Seinen
Okina jine-nura, Yan-
pril 1935
3
55
156
99
59
158
as
1-2
8
0-5
1-2
8
Gakko (Okina jinamura
u, ulkushine Pref.
Youth School)
239
Okubomure Seinen Gakto
Okubo-mura, Date-gun,
Nov. 1917
78
76
154
76
76
152
1-4
0-2
7
1-4
12
8
(Okubaura Youth Schi.)
Fukushin Pref.
240
Cdugawerura Seinen Gakko Ckugann- mura, Yana-
Feb. 1921
140
185
325
241
185
326
4-8
2-2
16
4-7
6-1
18
(Okugawaure Youth Schl.) gun.Fulushina Pref.
241
Okunamura Seinen Gakko
Okuna-mura, Tarira-
March 1943
148
143
291
149
155
304
5-5
1-1
12
5-5
2-1
13
(Okunarura Youth Schl.)
gun. Fukushime Prof.
242
Omatamure Seinen Gakko
Omate-mura, Onuna-
y 1935
116
131
247
129
113
247
1-3
1-2
7
1-3
2-2
8
(Onctemura Youth Schl.)
cun, Fukushina Pref.
243
Omikamura Seinen Gakko
Gnika-mura, Sona-gun,
Feb. 1907
69
60
129
71
58
129
1-5
1-1
3
1-5
1-1
8
(Omika:ure Youth Schl.)
Fukushine Pref.
244
Omiyemure Seinen Gakko
Giye-mura, Minaniaizu- Dec. 1915
156
109
265
156
109
265
1-4
1-1
7
2-4
1-1 7
(Omiyamura Youth Schl.)
gun, fukushina Pref.
25 Omoritamura Seinen Galdko onorita-mura, Ishikawa- July 1944
104
118
222
102
113
215
5-3
2~2
12
43
3-1
11
(Omoritamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
-41-

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.98)
NALE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
EROLIENT
TEACHERS
30.46
30 Nov. 46
30 . 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
246
Onahana Jitsugyo Gek ko
Onahana-nachi, Iwaki-
May 1907
578
206
784
568
83
651
12
3
15
8
3
11
(nahana Vocctional Schl )gun, Fukushina Pref.
247
Onodamura Seinen Gakko
Onoda-mure, Nishishira- Feb. 1906
100
60
160
100
60
160
1-3
1-1
6
1-3
1-1
6
(Onodarmura Youth Schl.)
kawa-gun, Fulkushina Pref.
248
Onanotonura Soinen Gakko
Ononoto-nura, Kavanuna- Dec. 1896
106
98
204
103
95
198
2-6
1-2
11
2-6
1-2
11
(monotomura Youth Schl.)
gun, fukushina Pref.
249
Onamure Seinon Gakko
ono-mira, Iwaki-gun,
Sept. 1946
99
112
211
3-2
2
7
(Onamure Youth Schl.)
Fukushine Pref.
250
Onaura Nogyo Sonshu
Ono-nura, Sona-gun,
July 1935
126
76
202
155
81
236
2-5
1
8
2-4
1
7
Gakko (Onamura gricultu-
Fukushine Pref.
ral School)
251
Ononinachi Soinen Galkko
Ononi-nachi, Tanura-
July 1926
114
56
170
108
52
160
0-6
1-1
8
1-6
1-1
9
(moninachi Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
252
Onuma Seinen Gakko
Takeda-machi, Onuna-
July 1935
102
121
223
98
117
215
3-3
1
7
3-3
1
7
(Onuma Youth School)
gun, Fukushina pref.
253
Omunanura Scinon Gekko
Onuma-mura, Nishishira- July 1926
111
112
223
111
95
206
2-4
1-1
7
1-3
1-2
7
(Onwnamura Youth Schl.)
kava-gun, Fukusninn Pref.
254
Oshiou Soinen Galdro
Oshioc-nura, Ishikava-
Dec. 1920
76
82
158
78
80
158
2-3
1-1
7
2-3
1-1
7
(Oshi∞ Youth School)
Gun, Fukushina Pref.
255
Oshi amura Scinon Gakko
Oshio-mura, Yen-gun,
Jan. 1910
96
52
148
95
50
245
2-3
1-1
7
2-3
1-17
(Oshiomra Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
256
Otairanura Seinen Galdko
Otaira-mura, dachi-gun, Oct. 1925
145
106
251
142
105
247
0-5 :1-2
8
1-4
1-2
8
(Otairamure Youth Schl.)
Fukushimn Pref.
257
Otairamura Scinen Gakko
Otaira-mura, Ishikava-
July 1935
192
163
355
197
165
362
2-6
0-1
9
4-4
0-2
10
(Otairanura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
258
Otamura Seinon Galdeo
Otarmra, Datc-gun,
April 1909
132
79
211
132
79
211
1-5
1-3
10
2-4
1-3
9
(Otamura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
259
Otamura Seinen Gakko
Ota-nura, Soma-gun,
Juno 1935
89
48
137
79
38
117
1-6
1-1
9
1-6
11-9
(Otarura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
-42-

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENRCLIMET
TEACHERS
30 Apr. 46 
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
260
Otomure Seinen Galdko
Oto-mura, Kitaaizu-
July 1935
159
159
318
141
142
283
1-4
1-3
9
1-41-39
(otomura Youth School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
261
Otsukinachi Seinen Gakko Otsuki-machi, Asala-
Feb. 1917
140
125
265
137
121
258
1~6
2-2
11
2-7 2-3
(Otsukimachi Youth Schl )gun, Fukushina Pref.
262
Otsunagimura Seinen
Otsunagi-rura, Date-
July 1935
41
24
65
47
23
70
0-2
2
0-2
2
Gakko (otsunagimura
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
263
Ouramura Komin Gakko
Oura-mura, Iwaki-cun,
sept. 1946
159
133
292
2
2-2
6
(Ouramura Civics School) Fukushima Pref.
264
Qyamemura Seinen Gakko
Oyana-mmra, Adachi-
Nov. 1908
144
110
254
137
110
247
1-4
1-2
8
1-4
1-2
(Yamamura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
265
Ozasomura Seinen Gakko
zaso-mura, Shinobu-
July 1935
152
118
270
177
94
271
1-5
1-3
10
14
12
8
(Ozasomura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushima pref.
266
Ozato Seinen Gekko
aya-nura, Iwase-gun,
July 1935
89
47
136
89
52
141
1-3.1
5
1-4
5
(zato Youth School)
Fuicushima Pref.
267
Ryozenmure Seinen Galko
Ryozen-mure, Date-gun, April 1944
238
154
392
238
154
392
5-6
2
13
5-6 3
14
(Ryozenmura Youth Schl.) Fukushima Pref.
268
Sakuramura Seinen Gakko Sakura-mura, Shinobu-
April 1910
197
130
327
201
134
335
2-4
1-2
9
3-6 0-2
11
(Sakuramura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
269
Samegawamura Seinen Gakko Samegawa- mura, Higashi- 4pril 1943
222
243
365
216
138
354
.67 1
14
7-7 2
16
(Sanegawanura Youth Schl ) shirakawa-gun, "ukushina Pref.
270 Sasahara Seinen Gakko
Sasahara-mura, Higashishi- April 1936 141
116
257
150
134
284
0-5
1-3
9
1-6
(Sasahara Youth Schl.)
rakawa-gun, Fusushina Pref.
271
Sasayamura Seinen Gako
Sasaya-mura, Shinobu-gun, July 1935
111
90
201
116
91
207
2-4
1-5
12
2-41-5
(Sasayamura Youth Schl.) Fukushima Pref.
272 Sawaisia inen Gakko Sawaishimura, Tarmra-
April 1935
92
100
192
90
98
188
2-3
1-1
7
2-3 1-1
(Sawaishimra Youth Schl. Jg, Fukushima Pref.
273 Sawatamura Seinen Gakko Sawata-mura, Ishikawa-
April 1911
110
113
223
107
113
220
1-5
1-2
1-522
(Sawatamura Youth Schl.)gun, Fukushima Pref.
-43-

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.98)
30 Lpr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
274 Sawatarimura Seinen
Sawatari-mura, Iwali-
July 1935
53
40
93
53
42
95
0-3 0-1
04 116
Gakko (Sawatarimura
gun. Fukushime Pref.
Youth School)
275
Sagawamura Seinen Gakko Sagavc-mura, Tamura-
June 1910 106
117 223
111
220
3-3 1-1
3-3 1-1 8
(Sagawamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushine Pref.
276
Sekihiramura Seinen
Sekihira-mura, Nishishira- 4pril 1935 91
73
164
91
73
164
1-4 1-2
1-4 1-2 8
Gakko (Sekihiraura
kawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
277
Sekinotomura Seinen Gak- Sekinoto-mura, Dete-
July 1935 147 80
227
152 81 .233
1-3 0-4 8
1-4 1-3 9
ko (Sekinotomura Youth gun, whushine Pref.
School)
278
Sekishibaare Seinen
Sekishiba-mura, Yara-
Jen. 1920 125 100 225
130 114 244
0-5 1-1 7
1-5 2-1 9
Gakko (Sekishibamura
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
279
Shibukamarura Seinen
Shibukawa-mura, Ldachi-
July 1935 137
82
219
137 85
222
2-3 0-1 6
1-3 1-1 6
Gakko (Shibukavenura
gun, Fukushime Pref.
Youth School)
280 Shimizumura Seinen Gakko Shinizu-mura, Shinobu-.
y 1935
75
81
156
78.81
159
1-5 1-3 10
1-5 1-3 10
(Shimizumura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
281 Shimokawasakimura Seinen Shinokawasald-mura,
March 1935 141
95
236
132
98
230
1-3
0-1 5
1-2 1-1 5
Gakko (Shinokawasakimura Adachi-gun, Fukushina
Youth School)
Pref.
282
Shimokoya Seinen Gakko
Oya-nura, Ivasa-gun,
July 1935
70
75
145
70
75
145
7
4
3
7
(Shimokoya Youth Schl.)
Fukushine Pref.
283
Shimoota Seinen Gakko
Ota-mura, Adachi-gun,
ay 1935
96
115
211
92
115 207
1-3 1-1
6
1-3 1-1 6
(Shimoota Youth Schl.)
Fucushima Pref.
284
Shinchimura Seinen Gakko Shinchi-mura, Soma-
March 1946 163 110
273
157
105
262
3-2 3-1 9
5-2 3-1 11
(Shinchimura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
285
Shineha Jitsugyo Gakko Nagatsuka-mura, Futaba-
March 1944 177 41
318
182
182
6-5 5-2 18
5-3
(Shineha Vocational Schl.)gun. Fukushima Pref.
286 Shingamura Seinen Gakko Shingo-mura, Yana-gun,
July 1935
88
58
146
88
55
143
1-6 1-1 9
0-72-110
(hingoure Youth Schl.) Fukushime Pref.
-4-

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLLET
TEACHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 or. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
1三
F
T
F
T
287
Shinogorura Seinen Gekko Shinogo-mure, Kamanuna- July 1935
112
97
209
109
95
204
1-5
1-4
11
1-5
11
(Shinogonura Youth Schl.)
cun, Fucushime Pref.
288
Shinobu Seinen Galko
Suginame-mure, Shinobu- Nov. 1943
416
242
657.
418
229
647
9-7
9
25
5-7
8
20
(Shinobu Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
289
Shinobuura Seinon Gelko
Shinobu-mura, Nishishira- Lpril 1935 142
65
207
240
64
204
1-4
0-3
8
1-3
0-3
7
(Shinobuure Youth Schl.) kawa-gun, Fukushina Pref.
290
Shi okawanachi Seinen Gakko Shiokawa-nachi, Yana-
July 1935
22
.17
39
35
28
63
2-3
1-1
7
2-3
(Shiokewanachi Youth Sch1.) gun, Fukushira Pref.
291
Shiozawamura Seinen Galdko Shiozawe-rura, Adachi-
Jan. 1912 102
83
185.
102
83
185
1-4
01
6.
1-3
1-1.6
(Shiozawaura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fulushine Pref.
292
Shirae Seinen Gcldko
Shirco-mura, Ivesa-gun, 4oril 1935 96
91
187
96
91
187
1-4
1-1
7
1-4
1-17
(Shirce Youth School)
Fukushina Pref.
293
Shiraiwamure Seinen Gakko Shiraie-ura, Adachi-
pril 1907 255
176
401
232
174
456
1-4
1-3
9
3-4
2-3. 12
(Shiraiwamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushime Pref.
294
Shirakata Seinen Gakko
Shirakata-mura, Ivase-
July 1935 150
130
280
153
136
289
2-5
1-1
9
1-5
1-1 8.
(hirakate Youth School)
cun, Fukushima Prof.
295
Shirakawanechi Seinen
Shirakawa-mechi. Nishishi- pril 1935 10
35
45
30
20
50
0-7
1
8
0-7
1
8
Gakko (Shirakawa nchi
rakewa-gun, Fuicushina Pref.
Youth School)
296
Shiranemura Seinen Gakko Shirane-rura, Date-
July 1935 117 .80
197
116
74
190
1-3
1-3
8
1-4 1-4. 10
(Shiranenura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushimm Pref.
297
Shirasakamura Seinen Galdko Shiresake-mura, Nishishi-Jan. 1907 45
51
96
41
51
92
2-2
1
5
15
118
(Shirasakeura Youth Schl.) rakawa-gun, Fukushine Pref.
298
Shojaura Seinen Gakko
Sho jo-mure, Kavanuna-
July 1935 67
50
117
66
52
118
1-5
1-2
9
0-5
1-2
8
(Shojomura Youth Schl.)
cun, Fulushina Pref.
299
Showamure Seinen Gekko
Showe-mure, Onuna-gun,
Feb. 1944 256
177
433
250
176
426
4-9
3-2
18
3-9
2~2
16
(Showanuc Youth School)
Fukushime Pref.
300
Sugamamura Seinen Galko
Sugana-mura, Ishikaa-
sept. 1905 127
88
215
127
88
215
2-5
0-1
8
2-5
0-1
8
(Sugamamure Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushinm Pref.
-45-

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.99)
NLE
¿DDRESS
DÉTE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TE-CHERS
30 r.46
30 Nov. 46
30p. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
301 Sugitanura Seinen Gakko Sugita-mra, dachi-
July 1935
138
122
260
136
122
258
5-1
1-2
9
1-5
1-2
9
(Sugitamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
302
Sukegawamachi Seinen Gakko Sukagawa-nachi, Iwesa- July 1935
148
103
251
137
95
232
3
1
4
3
1
4
(Skegawanechi Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
303
Suzuishi Seinen Galko
Ishii-nura, dachi-gun, July 1935
80
65
145
68
57
125
1-2
1
4
1-2
1
4
(Suzuishi Youth School)
Fukushinx pref.
304
Tahitormra Se inen Gakko Tahito-mura, Iwali-
March 1919
138
96
234
83
54
137
1
1
2
1
1
(Tahitonura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
305
Ta jinanachi Soinen Gakko Ta jina-mchi, Minaniai- 4pril 1911
174
156
230
174
156
330
1-13
1-2
17
0-15 1-2
18
(Te jimanachi Youth Schl.) zu-gun, Fukushina Pref.
306
Takagimura Seinen Gakko Takagi-nure, Higashishi- April 1944
133
127
260
116
146
262
3-4
2-1
10
4-4
1-1
10
(Takagimure Youth Schl.) rakava-gun, Fukushine Pref.
307
Takahiraura Seinen
Takahira-mura, Sona-
Oct. 1907
93
55
148
86
49
135
2-3
1
6
2-4
1-1
8
Gakko (Takahiraura
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
308
Takakuwnura Seinen Gacko
Takeku-mura, Ivaki-
July 1935
75
75
150
74
71
145
1-42
7
1-4
2
7
(Takakumura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
309
Takanomura Seinen Gatko
Takano-mure, Higashishi- July 1935
108
71
179
108
70
178
1-2
1
4
0-5
1-1
(Takanaura Youth Schl.)
rakava-gun, Fukushina Pref.
310
Takanomura Seinen Gakko
Takeno-mura, Taura-
pril 1929
7
99
175
74
97
171
1-3
1
5
1-3
1
5
(Takanorura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushinc Pref.
311
Takanukinura Seinan
Takanuki-mura, Higashi-
July 1935
95
69
164
90
65
155
3-5
12
11
3-5
1-2
11
Gakko (Takanukinura
shirakawa-gun,
Youth School)
Fukushine Pref.
312
Takasenura Scinen Gakko
Takase-mura, Tanura-
Feb. 1904.
63
71
134
65
71
136
1-4
9
1-4 1=4
10
(Takasenura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushinn Pref.
313
Takaterarura Seinen
Nakakado-rure, Kavanun
July 1935
77
69
146
77
71
148
6
1-4 1
6
Gakko (Takateraura
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
314
Takinenachi Seinen Galko Takine-nachi, Tarura-
June 1944
136 156
292
134
158
292
2-7 1
10
1-71
(Takinenaohi Youth Schl.)gun, "ukushina Pref.
-46-

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
315
Tamanoirura Seinen Gakko Tananoi-mure, dachi-
pril 1935
241
188
429
241
188
429
1-5
1-2
9
3-5
1-2
11
(Temanoinura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
316
Tama jimra Seinen Gakko Tama ji-mura, Onuma-
April 1935
122
93
220
122
97
219
1-5
1-1
8
1-5
1
7
(Tena jimure Youth Schl.) gun, "ucushina Pref
317
Tanokami Seinen Gakko
Futase-mura, Tamura-
Dec. 1906
54
68
122
53
65
123
2-4
1-1
8
2-4
1-1 8
(Tanokami Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
318
Tanakurenachi Seinen
Tanakure-machi, Hicashi- April 1919
79
57
136
79
56
135
1-6
1-1
9
1-6
1-1
Galdko (Tenakuranachi
shirekawa-gun,
Youth School)
Fukushine Pref.
319
Kananetanure Seinen Gakko Kana ete.ura, Tamura-
pril 1946
150
154
304
150
151
301
1-3
1-2
7
2-3
1-2
8
(Kananetanure Youth Schl ) gun, Fukushine Pref.
3.20
Taseve Seinen Gakcko
Lsahi-mura, dachi-
June 1926
80
60
140
75
53
128
0-4
1-2
7
1-3
1-2
7
(Tasama Youth School)
gun, Fukushimm Pref.
321
Tatanarura Seinen Geldto
Tatano-iure, seka-
Dec. 1905
126
112
238
123
112
235
1-5
1-5
12
1-5
2-5
13
(Tatanomura Youth Schl.) Eun, Fukushima Pref.
322
Pateivenura Seinen Gakko Teteine-mure, Minaniai-
pril 1935
170
131
301
170
131
301
2-6
1-1
10
2-6
1
9
(Tateiwamra Youth Schl )zu-gun, Fukushina Pref.
323
Tatsukoyene Seinen Gakko Tatsukoyana-mura, Date- pril 1935
82
90
172
82
90
172
1-4
5
1-4
1-2
8
(Tatsukoyana Youth Schl.) sun, Fukushina Pref.
324 Tatsutanure Seinen Gekko Tatsuta-iure, Futcba-
July 1946
94
92
136
1-4
2
7
(Tetsutamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushine Pruf.
325
Tochiyane Seinen Gekko
Futase-mura, Temura-
4pril 1935
84
91
175
83
91
174
2-3
1-1
7
2-3
(Tochiyana Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushime Prei.
326
Tokive Seinen Gakko
Tokiva-nechi, Tanura-
pril 1944
274
420
694
255
429
684
7-8
3-2
20
6-8
(Tokiwa Youth School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
327
Tomidanura Seinen Galkko
Tomida-mura, Minariaizu- pril 1911
143
98
241
141
85
226
1-7
1-1
10
1-7. 21
10
(Tomidamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
328
Tominarimura Seinen Gakko Taninari-mura, Date-
y 1921
134
60
194
130
59
189
1-2
0-1
4
1-2 1-1 5
(Toninarimura Youth Schl.)gun, Fukushire Pref.
329
Tominoura Seinen Gakko Tomino-rure, Date-gun,
Déc. 1906
109
59
168
122
57
179
2-4
1-2
1-2
(Toninonura Youth Schl.) Fukushina Pref.
-47-

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
NALE
ADDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
X
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
330 Tomiokamachi Seinen Gakko Tomioka-machi, Futaba- Dec. 1910
62
37
99
74
49
123
3-5
1
9
1-5 1
7
(Tomiokamachi Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
331
Tomitamura Seinen Gekko Tomita-mura, Saka-gun, Jan. 1908
108
85
193
108
86
194
1-4
1-2
8
1-4
1-2
8
(Tomitamura Youth Schl.) Fukushima Pref.
332 Torikawamura Seinen Gakko Torikawa- mura, Shinobu- July 1935
123
67
190
123
67
190
1-5
4
10
2-5
1-4 12
(Torikawamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushime Pref.
333
Tosawamure Seinen Gakko Tosawa-mura, Adachi-gun, July 1935
115
84
199
113
84
197
1-3
1-1
6
1-3
1-1
6
(Tosa:amura Youth School) Fukushima Pref.
334 Toyokawamura Seinen Gakko Toyokawa-mura, Yama-
Dec. 1912
55
53
108
84
53
137
1-5
1-1
8
(Toyokawamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
335 Toyosatomura Seinen Gakko Toyosato-mura, Higashi- Aril 1944
128
120
248
123
120
243
3-4
1-2
10
(Toyosatomure Youth Schl.) shirakave-gun, Fukushima Pref.
336
Toyotamura Seinen Gakko Toyota-mura, Asaka-
Jan. 1918
82
89
171
85
89
174
2-7 1-4 14
(Toyotamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
337 Tsuchiyamura Seinen Gakko Tsuchiya-mura, Shinobu- April 1935
33
14
47
34
18
52
12
1-2 1-1 5
(Tsuchiyamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
338
Tsukidatemachi Seinen
Tsukidate-machi, Date- April 1935
235
83
318
230
81
311
1-4
2-4 2-1 7
Gakko (Tsukidatemachi
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
339
Tsukigatamura Seinen
Tsukigata-mura, Asala- April 1908
103
84
187
101
78
179
0-4 1-1 6
0-6 1-1 8
Gakko (Tsukigatamura
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
340
Tsukiwamura Seinen Gekko Tsukiwa-mura, Yama-
April 1907 97
68
165
97
68
165
1-7 1
9
1-7 2-1 11
(Tsukiwamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
341 Teunetoyomura Seinen Gakko Tsunetoyo-mura, Higashi- March 1935 94
122
216
88
121
209
1-5 1-3
10
1-5 1-3
10
(Tsunetoyomura Youth Schl.) shirakawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
342 Tsurusawa Seinen Gakko
Tomita-mure, Date-gun, April 1915
61
42
103
58
41
99
1-4
8
1-4 1-2
(Tsurusama Youth Schl.)
Fukushima pref.
Tsushimamura Seinen Galdko Tsushima-mura, Futaba- Dec. 1909
73
92
165
69
79
148
1-4
6
1=416
(Tsushimamura Youth Schl.)gun, Fukushima Pref.
-48-

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.99)
30 40r. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
11
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
344
Ubadomura Seinen Galko
Ubado-mura, Yama-gun,
July 1935
87
82
169
86
83
169
1-4
1-2
8
1-4
2-2
9
(Ubadomura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
345
Uchigonachi Seinen Galko Uchigo-machi, Ivaki-
April 1945
196
179
375
196
210
406
4-2
4-1
11
4-2
6-1
13
(Uchigonachi Youth Schl.)gun, Fukushime pref.
346
Uedamachi Seinen Galko
Ueda-machi, Iwali-gun,
Jan. 1915
120
48
168
117
43
165
1-3
2-1
7
1-3
21
7
(Uedanachi Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
347
Utsuaine Seinen Gakko
Yatagava-nure, Tenura-
Dec. 1906
38
63
101
37
52
89
1-2
1-1
5
1-2
2
5
(Utsumine Youth Schl.)
un. Fukushima Pref.
348
Utsushinura Seinen Galko Utsushi-mura, Tanura-
April 1935
205
167
372
205
164
369
4.6
1
11
4-6
1
11
(Utsushimura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
349
Wakaniyamura Seinen Gakko Wakai ya-mura, Kawanu-
July 1935
113
103
221
113
101
219
1-5
1-1
8
1-4
1-1
7
(Wakamiyamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
350
Wakisavamura Seinen Gakko Wakiseva-mura, 4dachi-
Nov. 1943
267
191
453
270
186
456
4-3
7
4-3
2
9
(Wakisawamura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushia Pref.
351
Watanaberura Seinen Gakko Watanabe-mura, Iwaki-
March 1916
63
32
95
60
34
94
2-4
1-1
8
1-4
1-1
7
(Watanabanura Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
352
Yabukinachi Seinen Gakko
Yabuki-mmchi, Nishishi- Feb. 1905
91
88
179
91
88
179
2-6
1-1
10
2-6
1-1
10
(Yabukinachi Youth Schl.)
rakawa-gun, Fukushina Pref.
353
Yahatamra Seinen Gakko
Yaheta-mura, Soma-gun,
Jan. 1906
75
88
163
68
83
151
1
1
2
1
1
2
(Yahatamura Youth Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
354
Yanadamura Seinen Gakko
Yanada-mura, Iwaki-
Dec. 1918
124
52
176
141
45
186
6
1
7
5
6
(Yanadamura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fullushima Pref.
355
Yamafunyunura Seinen
Yammrunyu-mura, Date-
Aoril 1926
102
96
198
104
95
199
0-4
1-3
8
0-5 1-3 9
Gakko (Yanafunyunura
fun, Fulushim Pref.
Youth School)
356
Yemahashimura Seinen Gakko
Yamahashi-mura, Ishika- Dec. 1943
108
109
217
111
110
221
1-4
1-4 2
7
(Yamahashimura Youth Sch.)
we-gun, Fukushina Pref.
357
Yamekamimura Seinen Gakko Tanono-mura, Soma-gun, May 1907
28
23
51
29.
23
52
01
1
0-1
1
(Yanekamimura Youth Schl.)Fukushine Pref.
358
Yanakiyamura Seinen Gakko Yanakiyanura, Adachi-
Larch 1905
109
100
209
111
105
216
1-5
1-1
8
25
11
(Yamakiyamura Youth Schl.)gun, Fukushina Pref.
-49-

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 p. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 40r. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
359
Yamashiraishi Seinen
Yenashiraishi-mura,
Feb. 1910
45
55
100
44
53
97
2-3 1-3
9
1-4 0-2
7
Gakko (Yamashiraishi
Shirakave-gun,
Youth School)
Fukushina Pref.
360
Yanasatoura Seinen
Yamasato-mura, Yana-
July 1935
84
74
158
86
75
161
3-2 3-1 9
2-2 4-1 9
Gakko (Yanasatomura
gun, Fukushime Pref.
Youth School)
361
Yamatomura Seinen Geldco Yameto-nura, Yana-
4pril 1944
135
125
260
121
115
236
1-6
10
4-4 3
11
(Yamatormra Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
362
Yanagawamachi Seinen
yanagawa-nachi, Date-
July 1935
151
38
189
146
31
177
1-6
0-3
10
1-6 03 10
Gakko (Yanagawamachi
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Youth School)
363
Yanaitsumechi Seinen
Yancitsu-machi, Kewanu- July 1935
174
168
342
172
168
340
2
1
3
2
1
3
Gaicko (Yanaitsumachi
ma-gun, Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
364
Yasawamura Seinen Gelko
Yasava-mura, Sona
July 1935
84
63
147
77
55
132
1-4 1-2
(Yasavamura Youth Schl.)
gun, Fusushina Pref.
365
Yashirogawarura Seinen
Yashiro-gava-mura,
Dec. 1908
84
69
153
93
69
162
1-4
1-4 L-1 7
Gakko (Yashirogawamura
Higeshishirakewa-gun,
Youth School)
Fukushima Pref.
366
Yashiroura Seinen Gakko Yashiro-rura, Nishishi- July 1935
90
90
180
90
90
180
2-5
1-2
10
2-5 1-2
10
(Yashiroura Ycuth Schl )rakawe-gun, Fukushima Pref.
367
Yawatamura Soinen Gakko Yavata-mura, Kawenura- July 1935
75
61
136
77
60
137
2-6
1-2
11
2-6 2-2 12
(Yawetanu Youth Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
368
Yokotarura Seinen Gekko Yokota-mura, Onuma-gun, July 1935
139
117
256
134
107
241
1-6
1-3
11
1-6 1-3 11
(Yokotamura Youth Schl.) Fukushima Pref.
369
Yomogi ta Se inen Gakiko
Yonogi ta-nura, Ishikama- April 1935
116
143
259
116
143
259
2-5
0-2
2-5 1-2
10.
(Yomogita Youth Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
370
Yoshikogawarura Seinen
Yoshikogava-mure, Nishi- April 1939
91
69
160
89
66
155
1-4 1-1
1-4 1-1 7
Galdko (Yoshikogavamura
shirakawa-gun,
Youth School)
Fukushima Pref.
-50-

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.97)
NE
DDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLL.ENT
TEΔCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
II
F
T
正
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
371 Yoshinamura Seinen Gakko Yoshinn-nura, Iwaki-
pril 1944
150
60
210
161.87...248
2-22
6
.2-4 2-1 9
(Yoshimanura Youth Sdh 1.) gun, Fukushina Iref.
372
Yotsukura Jitsugyo Gakko Yotsukura-machi, Ivaki- Sept. 1946
307
35
342
6-1
9
(Yotsukura Vocational
gun, Fukushima Pref.
School)
373
Yuirura Seinen Gakka
Yui-mura, dachi-gun,
June 1935
114
88
202
108
63
171
1-6
1-2 10
1-6
1-2. 10
(Yuinure Youth School)
Fukushine Pref.
374
Yunotanura Seinen Gakto Yunoto-nura, Iasa-
March 1910
118
95
213
118
95
213
1-4
1-4 1-1 7
(Yumotaura Youth Schl.)gun, Fukushim Pref.
375
Yuncnachi Seinen Galdto
Yuno-nachi, Datc-gun,
4ril 1935
173
69
242
169
64
233
1-5
1-2
1-5 1-2. 9
(Yunonachi Youth Schl.) Fukushina Pref.
Totel
43712 33972 77684 .44026 33455 77481 601-1547
625-1563
446-528
499-545
3122
3232
-51-

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUSHIMA PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JANESE EDUCATIONL INSTITUTIONS
IV. VILLGE OR TONN SCHOOLS
B. Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
c) Co-educational Elementary Schools (Denio Kyogeku Sho Gekko) under the Control of Village or Town office, Fukushime Profecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TR&CHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
T
F
T
F
T
1 Aikawa Sho Gakko (ikana
Likawa-mura, Yana-
April 1873
174 177 351
173 175
348
8-1 3
12
8-1 3
12
Elementary School)•
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Akaimura Deiichi Sho
Akaimura, Iaki-gun,
March 1909
558 517 1075 538 511 1049
10
11
21
10
11
21
Gakko (keimura First
Fukushima Pref.
Elementary School)
kainura Daini Sho Gakko
Akai-mure, Iwaki-
April 1891
421 421 842 413 416 829 8-1 9
18
8-1 9
18
(Akainure Secand Elenon-
gun, Fukushine Pref.
tary School)
4 kasawamura Sho Gakko (ka- kasava-nura, Omura-
May 1899
292 296 588
289 291 580 5-1 7-1 14
6-1 6-1 14
sawanura Elamentary Schl.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
5 katsunura Sho Gakko(ka- katsumura, Asaka-
My 1876
197 188
385
193 191 384
7 3-1 11
6-1 3-1 11
tsumura Elenentary Schl.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
6 ko jina Sho Gakko (ko-
Marunoi-mura, Asaka-
ug. 1875
267 270 537
255
269 524
7-1 5-1 14
7-1 4 12
jina Elementery School) gun, Fukushina Pref.
7
Anarumenura Sho Gekko (ma- arune-ura, Shino-
y 1890
418
408
826
816
8-1
10-1 20
8-1 10-1 20
rumenura Elenentary Schl.)** bu-gun, Fukushina Pref.
8 Aokinura Sho Gakko (Moki- Aoki-mura, Date-gun,
Oct. 1874
230
210
440
241 205 446
4-1 4-1 10
5-1 4-1 11
mura Elementery School)
Fukushina Pref.
9 . otarura Sho Gekiso (ota-
4ota-mura, 4dacni-gun, April 1933
132 151 283
129 159
288
3
6
rura Elenentary School)
Fukushina Pref.
10 raimura Sho Gakko (rai- Lrai-mura, Shinobu-gun, Jan. 1875
290 279 569 294 273 567 5-1 61 13 6-1 61 14
mura Elementary Schl.)
Fukushina Pref.
# These figures are not thoso for actual attendance on these 'dctes, but those for enrollnent on the school records as of theso dates.
I The number of both full and pert-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same colurm,
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the nunber of part-time teachers
 Tho figures for this institution includo those for three branch schools under the sane adninistration.
-52-
 The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same adninistration.

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.96)
30 p. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
H
F
T
IH
T
T
ny 1904
156 157 313
156 160 316
5-1 3
9
4149
11 rainura Sho Gekko (rai- Arai-mura, Ldachi-
mura Elenentary School) gun, Fukushina Prof.
April 1902
495 508 1003 485 498 983
12-1 10-1 24
11-1 11-1 24
12 raitatenouchi Sho Gakko Arai-rura, Kitaaizu-
(Lraitatenouchi Eloren- gun, Fukushina Pref.
tary School)
420 454 874 428 442 870
12 7-1 20
12
8-1 21
13 Drakaimura Sho Gakiko (ra- 4rakai-mura, Minai-ai- Doc. 1916
kainura Elanentary Schl.)• zu-gun, Fukushinn Pref.
pril 1945
493
473 966
502 477 979
12-1 12-1 26
16-1. 11-1 29
14 sahi demura Sho Gakko (i- Asehida-ura, Minani-
sahidarura Elementary
aizu-gun, Fukushina
School) **
Pref.
317 302 619 318 293 611 13-1 5-1 20
13-1 5-1 20
15 sahiura Sho Gakko (sa- Lsahi-mura, Onune-gun, pril 1890
mura Elommntery Schl.)* Fukushima Pref.
327 305 532 326 304 630 9-1 5-1 16
8-1 4
13
16
sahiura Sho Gakko (se- sehi-mura, Linamiaizu- July 1873
himurc Elenontery Schl )*** gun, Fukushina 1rof.
802 746 1543 774 732 1506 14 16 30
17 Asakawanachi Sho Galtko Asakava-nachi, Ishikava- June 1873
(sekawenachi Elonentary gun, Fusushix Pref.
School) ****
7-1 7 15.
18
Lshizawarura Sho Geldro
Ashizava-mira, Tanura-
April 1924
313 303 616 311 296 607 6-1 8
(Lshizavanure Elenen-
gun. Fukushina iref.
tary School)
4oril 1873
822 822 1644 814 814 1628 17 19-1 37
16
19
Ataminachi Sho Gakko (i- tani-nachi, dachi-
tapinachi Elarentary
gun. Fukushina Pref.
School)
5-1 6-1 13
20
Atsushiorura Sho Gakko tsushio-ura, Yana-
June 1873
260 269 529 265 263 528 5-1 5-1 12
(tsushiomura Elanontary gun, Fukushine Pref.
School)
21
4wanonura Sho Gakko (Ave- Awano-nure, Date-gun,
Doc. 1872 361 303 664 348 305 653
91 7-1 18.7-1 7-1 16
nomura Elenentary School) Fukushine Pref.
Tho figures for this institution include those for three branch schools under the seme adninistration.
The figures for this institution include those for fivo branch schools under the sane adninistration.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the sano administretion.
 The figures for this institution includc those for tro branch schools under the same adninistration.
-53-

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNIED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
22 Azumamura Sho Gakko (A- Azuma-mura, Yama-
June 1873
F
T
M
F
T
N
F
T
T
zumamura Elementary
gun, Fukushima pref.
537 555
1092
518 540
1058
8
16
24
11 14 25
School) 
Bangemachi Sho Gakko Bange-machi, Kawanuma- April 1873
757 721 1478 750 710 1460 15-2 14 31
13-1 1428
(Bangemachi Elementary gun, Fukushima Pref.
School)
24 Bantaimura Daiichi Sho Bantai-mura, Yama-
April 1916
549 497 1046 554 508 1062 14-1 7-1 23
13-1 7-1 22
Gakko (Bantaimura First gun, Fukushime Pref.
Elementary School)
25
Bantaimura Daini Sho
Bantai-mura, Yama-gun, Oct. 1892
155 135 290 155 133 288 6
6
2
8
Gakko (Bantaimura Second Fukushima Pref.
Elementary School)
26
Bobatamura Sho Gakko(Bo- Bobata-mura, Iahikawa- April 1873
272 277 549 267 279 546 6 5-1 12 6
5-1 12
batamura Elementary Schl )gun; Fukushima Pref.
27
Chikatsumura Sho Gakko Chikatsu-mura, Higashi- April 1941
598 573 1171 590 571 1161 7-1 13-1 22 7-2 13-1 23
(Chikatsumura Elemen- shirakawa-gun,
tary School)
Fukushima Pref.
28 Chisatomura Sho Gakko Chi sato-mura, Yana-
4pril 1928
312 312 624 308 303 611 6 7 13 6 7 13
(Chisatomure Elementary gun, Fukushima Pref.
School)
29 Dakeshitamura Sho Gakko Dekeshita-mura, Adachi- April 1930
723 657 1380 725 655 1380 13 19 32
(Dakeshitamura Elenen- gun, Fuksushina Pref.
tary School) ***
30
Danzakimura Sho Gakko Danzaki-mura, Date-
Oct. 1872
378 358 736 375 356 731 9-1 18-1 29
9-1 10-1 21
(Danzekimura Elementary gun, Fukushima Pref.
School)
31 Datemachi Sho Gakko (Da- Date-machi, Date-gun, Sept. 1872
372 355 727 359 353 712 5-1 12-3 21
5-1 12-3 21
temachi Klementary Schl.)Fukushima Pref.
32 Do jimamura Sho Galdko
Dojima-mure, Yana-
May 1873
429 418 847 424 413 837 9-1 7-1 18
9-1 8-1 19
(Dojimamura Elementary gun, Fukushima Pref.
School) *
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the seme administration.
 The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TEACHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
M
33 Do jimamura Sho Gakko (Do- Do jima-mura, Kamanume-
Sept. 1896
447
424
871
445 427
872
5
12
17
5
1217
jimamura Elementary Schl )gun, Fukushima Pref.
34
Domeki Sho Gakko (Domeki sahi-mura, dechi-gun, 4pril 1936
184
224
408
181
219
400
5
4-1
10
5
41 10
Elementery School)
Fukushime Pref.
35
Ebine Sho Gakko (Ebine
Máyagi-mura, Tamura-
pril 1940
161
244
141
5
4
5
3
8
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
36 Egawamura Sho Gakko (Ega- Egawa-mure, inamiaizu- pril 1914
362
359
721
368
358 726 13-2 10-2 .27
11-2 10-3 26
wamure Elementary Schl.)• gun, Fukushima Pref.
37
Eiva Sho Gakko (Eiwa
Koya-mura, Kitaaizu-
4pril 1900
416
455
871
418
446
864 7-1 11-1 20
7-1 10-1 19
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
38
Emochi Sho Gakito (Emochi
Oshioe-mura, Ishikave-
Dec. 1874
193
189
382
192 185
377
4-1
4-1
10
5-1
10
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
39
Enamachi Deiichi Sho
Ena-machi, Iweki-gun,
July 1873
409
437
846
363
465
828
9
7
16
9
18
.Gakko (Enamachi First
Fukushima pref.
Elementery School)
40
Enamachi Daini Sho Gakko Ena-machi, Iwaki-gun,
pril 1941
204
440
216
243
5
10
5
10
(Enemachi Second
Fukushima Pref.
Elementary School)
41 Fu jikawamura Sho Gekko
Fu jikava-mura, onuma-
March 1873
260
273 . 533
262
272 534 8-1 5-1 15
81 5-1 15
(Fujikawamura Elementary
gun, Fukushima Pref.
School)
42 Fujikura Sho Gekko (Fuji- Iwasaki-mura, Ivaki-
May 1873
139
121 260 5.
3
8
5
2
7
kura Elementary School) gun, Fukushima Pref.
43 Fujitamachi Sho Gakko(Fu- Fujita-machi, Dete-
Dec. 1873
523
487
1010
499
473
972
11-1 11-1 24 .10-3 12-1 26
jitamachi Elementary Schl.)gun, Fukushima Pref.
44 Fukudamura Sho Galkko (Fu- Fukuda-mure, Date-gun,
4pril 1908
281 .315
596
280
312
592
8
5-1:14
8
6-115
kudamura Elementary Schl.)Fukushima Pref.
45
Fukudamura Sho Gakko (Fu- Fukuda-mura, Soma-gun,
1878
296 265 561
303
269 572. 8-1 41 14
kudamura Elementary Schl.)Fukushima Pref.
The figuros for this institution include those for six branch schools under the same administration.
-55-

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
T
F
T
46 Fukuramura Sho Gakko (Fuv. Fukura-mira, Asaka-
June 1872
345
399
744
326
401
727
9-1
7-1
18
11-1 6-1
19
kuramura Elementary Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
47
Fukuzawa Sho Gakko (Fu-
Tomita-mura, Date-
ug1875
136
103
239
166.
132
298
4
3
7
5
3
8
kuzawa Elementary Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
48
Funehiki Sho Galko (Fune-
Funehiki-machi, Tamura- April 1939
631
551
1182
626
552
1178
15
15
30
15
16
31
hiki Klementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
49
Furumichi Sho Gakko (Fu-
Miyakoji-mura, Tamura- April 1920
250
236
486
247. 234
481
4
5
9
4
4
8
rumichi Elementary Schl.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
50
Furuura Sho Gakko (Furu-
Furuura-mura, Soma-
March 1928
511
519
1030
513
518
1031
11
10
21
11
10
21
ura Elementery Schl.)
gun,Fukushima Pref.
51
Fushiguro Sho Gakko (Fu-
Fushigura-mura, Dete-
Dec. 1873
283
256
539
281
249
530
7-1
7-1
16
7-1
7-1
16
shiguro Elementary Schl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
52
Godo Sho Gakko (Godo
Nagato-mura, Iwaki-gun,
1875
72
78
150
70
79
149
2
1
3
2
2
4
Elementery School)
Fukushima Pref.
53
Goka Sho Gesko (Goka
Goka-mura, Nishishira- March 1895
374
349
723
376
348
724
8-1
10-1 20
8-1
9-1 19
Elementary School)
kawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
54
Habuto Sho Gakko (Habuto
Nishigo-mura, Nishishi- Dec. 1875
133
136
269
121
128
249
4
5
9
4
5
9
Elementary School)•
rakawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
55
Hakozaki Sho Gakko (Hako
Fushiguro-mura, Date-
Sept. 1904
96
107
203
92
100
192
4
2
6
4
2
6
zaki Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
56
Hamada Sho Gakko (Hamada
Hamada-mura, Iwase-
Nov. 1874
185
199
384
192
200
392
5-1
41
11
4-1
4-1
10
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
57
Handa Sho Gakko (Handa
Hande-mura, Date-gun,
Dec. 1878
444
478
922
442
474
916
7
10
17
6
10
16
Elementary School)
Fukushima Pref.
58
Hara Sho Gakko (Hara
Hara-machi, Soma-gun,
April 1899
1496
1436 2932
1535 1450 2985
18
26
44
21
2950
Elementary School)•
Fukushima Pref.
Haruyama Sho Gdkko (Haru-
Mon ju-mura, T amura-
4pril 1890
91
107 198
91
103·194
5
7
5
27
yama Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
60
Hashirazawa Sho Gakko (Ha- Hashirazawa-mura, Date- Sept. 1923
256
254
510
248
248 496
41 5-1
11
4-1 5:1
shirazawa Elementary Schl.)gun, Fukushima Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
-56-

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TECHERS
30 . 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
f
T
F
T
M
F
T
M
T
61 Habara Sho Gakso (Hiba-
Hibara-mura, Yame-gun, Sept. 1918
154
165
319
154
162
316
7-1
13
8-1 4-1 14
ra Elementary School)*
Fukushima pref.
62
Higashiometa Sho Gakko
Higashiomata-mura, onuma- Sept. 1873
116
150
266
114
144
2585-1
2-1
9
5-1
(Higashiomata Elemen-
gun, Fukushina Pref.
tary School)
63
Higashitate Sho Gakko (Hi- Toyoseto-mura, Higeshi- Mhrch 1873
414
308
722
394
309
703 . .9
10
7
17
gashitate Elementary Sch.) shirakawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
64
Hagashiyana Sho Gakko (Hi- Hi gashiyama-mura, Kita- pril 1928
276
236
512
270
233
503
8-1. 4-1 14
9-1 6-1 17
gashiyama Elementary Schl.)aizu-gun, Fukushima Pref.
65
Higashiyuno Sho Gekko (Hi- Higashiyuno-mura, Date- Oct. 1875
106
112
218
10ó
107
213
4
3-1. 8
4.3-1
8
gashiyuno Elementary Schl.)gun, Fukushina Pref.
66
Hinoemeta Sho Gakko (Hino- Hinoemata-mura, Minami- My 1873
73
67
140
71
67
138
3-1
3-1
8
4-1 4-1
10
emata Elementary School)** aizu-gun, Fukushima Pref.
67
Hiraishi Sho Gekko (Hira-
Ishii-mura, dachi-gun, Jan. 1874
350
347
697 343
339
682
6
8
14
6-1
ishi Elementary School)
Fukushima Pref.
68
Háreno Sho Cekko (Hirano
Hirano-mura, Shinobu-
Oct. 1873
425
417
842
399
410
809
8-1
8-1
18.
7-1 9-1
18
Elementary Schocl)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
69
Hireta Daiichi Sho Gakko
Hirata-mura, Shinobu-
March 1901
271
294
565
272
296 568
5
7
12
5
7
12
(Hirata First Elementary
gun, Fukushima Pref.
School)
70
Hirata Deini Sho Gakko (Hi- Hirata-mura, Shinobu-
pril 1901
71
75
146
6974
143
2
2
4
2
2
4
rata Second Elenentery Sch.)gun, Fukushima Pref.
71
Hirono Sho Gakko (Hirono
Hirono-machi, Futaba-
Dec. 1900
521
604
1125
524
609
1133
8-1
15
24
8-1
17
26
Elemontary School)**
gun, Fukushima Pref.
72
Hirose Sho Gekko (Hirose
Takine-nachi, Tamura-
Oct. 1873
138
126
264
133
122
255
5
2
7
5
2
7
Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushima Pruf.
73
Hirose Sho Gakko (Hirose
Hirose-mura, Kawanuma-
May 1873
465
.459
404
863
10-2 92
23
10-2 9-2
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for four branch schools under the same administretion.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
电串电
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administration.
-57-

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.99)
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
II
F
T
M
F
T
74
Hiroto Sho Gakko (Hiroto Hiroto-mra, Iwase-
Oct. 1922
297
373
670
395.371
766
10-1
8
19
11-1 8
20
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
75
Hisanohama Sho Gakko (Hi- Hisanoham-cho, Futaba- 4pril 1896
803
823
1626
801
818
1619
14
18
32
14
17
31
sanohama Elementary Sch.)* gun, Fukushima Pref.
76
H scwa Sho Gakko (Hisawa Hisawa-mura, Minaniaizu- Nov. 1912
407
389
796
409
393
802
13-1 8
22
12-1 8
21
Elementary School)*
gun, Fukushim pref.
77
Hiwata Sho Gakko (Hivata
Hiwata-machi, Asaka-
Dc. 1873
603
562
1165
599
560
1159
9
13
22
7
14
21
Elomentary School)
gun, Fukushima Prof.
78
Hobara Sho Gakko (Hobara
Hobare-machi, Date-
Dec. 1873
711
716
1427
710
714
1424
12-1 18-1 32
12-1 19-1 33
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
79
Hokozuki Sho Gok ko (Hoko-
Hokczuki-mura, Iwase-
Jan. 1893
198
234
432
204
219
423
6
3
9
6
3
9
zuki Elementary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
80
Hongo Sho Gakko (Hongo
Hongo-machi, Onuna-
May 1873
384
357
741
381
358
739
11-1 5-1
18
10-1 6-1
18
Elomentáry Sohool)
gun, Fulushina Pref.
81
Honna Sho Gakko (Honna
Honna-mura, Onuna-gun,
4pril 1873
85
82
167
83
77
160
4
1
5
4
1
5
Elemontary School)
Fukushima Pref.
82
Horikoshi Sho Gakko (Hori- Nanago-mura, Tamura-
pril 1938
247
248
495
244
236
480
4-1
5
10
4-1
5
10
koshi Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
83
Hozuni Sho Gakko (Hozumi
Hozumi-nura, 4saka-
pril 1893
305
301
606
303
296
599
7
7
24
8
7
15
Elonontary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
84
Ichinoki Sho Gakko (Ichi- Ichinoki-mura, Yam-
Jan. 1893
116
155
271
116
155.
271
4
3
7
5
4
9
noki Elenentary Sch.) •
gun, Fukushina Pref.
85
Ihoku Sho Gakko (Ihoku
Ihoku-mure, Minaniaizu- My 1873 391
390
781
387
304
691. 18
8
26
17
8
25
Elemontary School)***
gun, Fukushina Pref.
86
Iino Sho Gakko (Iino
Iino-nachi, Date-gun,
Nov. 1873
329
317
646
319
308
627
7-1
6-1
15
8-1
16
Elemontary School)
Fukushima Pref.
87
Iino Sho Gakko (Iino
Iino-mura, Iwaki-gun,
Nov. 1922
388
327 715
382
321
703
10
12
22
10
12
22
Elomontary School)
Fukushina pref.
Tho figuros for this institution include those for two branch schools under the sene adninistration.
The figuros for this institution include those for three branch schools under the same administration.
The figures for this institution inolude those for four branch schools under the same administration.
-58-

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.98)
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
88 Iitoyo Sho Cakko (Iitoyo Iitcyo-nura, Tauure-
pril 1930
530
499
1029
527
508
1035
12. 9.
21
14
8
22
Elementary School)•
gun, Fukushine Pref.
89 Iitoyo Sho Galkko (Iitoyo
Iitoyo-mure, Sone-gun, Sopt. 1874
464
431
895
467
435
902
7
12
19
7-1 11-1 20
Elenentary School)
Fukushina Pref.
90
Ikki Sho Gakko (Ikki
Ikki-nura, Kitcaizu-
pril 1926
421
414. 335  423
406
829
11-1 11
23
10-2 11
23
Eementary School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
91
Incizuni Sho Gakko (Inai-
Funchiki-nachi, Temura- Dec. 1876
137
140
277
139
139
278
4
4
8
4
4
8
zumi Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
92
Inade miichi Sho Gacko
Inada-rmura, Iwase-
April 1887
269
262 531
269
261
6
11
5
6-1
12
(Inada First Elementary
gun, Fukushina Pref.
School)
93
Inada Dmini Sho Gakko (I- Inada-mura, Incse-gun, Dec. 1902
122
124
246
162
161
323
3
2
5
3
3
6
neda Second Elenentery Sch.)Fukushima Pref.
94
Ina Sho Gakko (Ina
Ina-mura, Minaniaizu-
J:ly 1873
244
248
492
246
240
486
8-1
4-1
14
7-1 5-1 14
Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
95
Inewashiro Sho Gakko (Ina- Inawashiro-machi, Yane- Oct. 1893
658
654
1312
646
635
1281 7-5
12-2 26
7-5 10-2 24
washiro Elamontery Sch.)• gun, Fukushim Pref.
96
Iritatsuki Sho Gakko (Iri- Iwatsuki-mure, Yana-
Feb. 1878
102
85
187
100
84
3
7
4
4
3
tatsuki Elenentary Sch.)
gun, Fukushime Prof.
97
Iritono Sho Gakko (Irito-
Iritono-mura, Ivaki-gun, July 1873
493
524
1017
502
522
1024 8-1 11
20
8-1
12
21
no Elcmontary School)
Fukushina pref.
98
Isazava Sho Gekko (Iaa-
Isazawa-mure. ate-
oct. 1873
226191 417
225
190 415 7-1 3
11
6-1 3-1 11
zawa Elenentery School)
gun, -usushina Pref.
99
Ishida Sho Gakko (Ishida
Ishida-mure, Date-
Feb. 1874
288
292 580
301. 290 591
6
7-1 14
6
7-114
Elenentary School)***
gun, Fuushina Pref.
100
Ishigani Daiichi Sho Gakko Ishigemi-mure, Sona-
oct. 1873
454 443
897
469
442
911
10
7
17
9
716
(Ishigani First Elenentary gun, Fukushine Pref.
School)
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the sane adrinistration.
The figures for this institution include those for three branch schools under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the sane adainistration.
-59-

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
I5
F
T
101
Ishigami Daini Sho Gakko Ishigami-mura, Soma-
April 1899
456
408
864
476
417
893
9
8
17
9
8
17
(Ishigami Second Elemen- gun, Fukushima Pref.
tary School)•
102
Ishii Sho Gakko (Ishii
Ishii-mura, Higashishira- Oct. 1874
388
401
789
386
396
782
9-1
9-1
20
8-1
91
19
Elementary Schl.)*
kawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
103
Ishikawa Sho Gakko (Ishi- Ishikawa-machi, Ishikawa- May 1873
849
731
1580
835
721
1556
12
14-1 27
13
14-1 28
kawa Elementary Schl )*
gun, Fukushima Fref.
104
Ishimori Sho Gakko (I-
Mon ju-mura, Tanura-gun,
April 1901 188
178
366
187
175
362
6
4-1
11
5
5
10
shinori Elementary Sch.)
Fukushine pref.
105
Isobe Sho Gakko (Isobe
Isobe-mura, Soma-gun,
Feb. 1396
289
270
559
298
274
572
3-1
3-1
13
3-1
6-1
11
Elementary School)
Fukushina Pref.
106
Iso Sho Gakko (Iso
Iso-mura,Sona-gun,
Dec. 1873
258
223
481
255
218
473
7
6
13
7
6
13
Elementary School)*
Fukushine Pref.
107
Iwaeseibu Sho Gakko (Iwa- Iwae-mura, Tamura-gun,
40ril 1917 100
86
186
102
88
190
3
2
5
3
2
5
eseibu Elementary Schl.) Fukushina pref.
108
Iwaizawa Sho Gakko (Iwai- Miyako ji-mura, Tcmura
4pril 1935 198
205
403
195
203
398
5
4
9
5
4
9
zama Elonentary School)
gun, Fukushinn Pref.
109
Iwane Sho Gakko (Ivane
Iwane-mura, Ldechi-gun,
Jen. 1874
276
310
586
271
301
572
8
3
11
10
3
13
Elenentary School)
Fukushima Pref.
110
Iwasaki Sho Gckko (Iwa-
Ivasaki-mura, Ivaki-
ug. 1873
336
309
645
321
278
599
6
8
14
7
8
15
saki Elenontary School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
111
Ivatsuki Sho Gakko (Iva-
Iwatsuki-mura, Yann-
May 1873
330
353
.683
321
336
657
8-1
8
17
8-1
8
17
tsuki Elementary Sohl.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
112
Izaka Sho Gakko (Izcka
Izaka-nachi, Shinobu-
sept. 1873
774
627
1401
656
613
1269
13
13
26
16
12
28
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
113
Izaka Sho Gakko (Izaka
Izaka-mura, Date-gun,
Oot. 1873
182
170
352
180
164
344
5
4-1
10
5
51
Elemontary School)
Fukushina Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
The figuros for this institution includo those for five branch schools under the seme adninistration.
-60-

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.98)
30 .46
30 Nov. 46
30.46
30 Nov. 46
II
F
T
L
F
T
15
F
T
E
F
T
114 Izunida Sho Gakko (Izuni- Torida-nura, Minanici- Oct. 1877
105
106
211
107
109
216
4.
2
6
4
4
8
da Elenontary School)
aizu-gun, Fukushine Pref.
115
Izuni Sho Gasko (Izuni-
Izuni-murc, Iwaki-
oct. 1873
424
575
999
636
583
1219
9
14
23
8
14
22
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
116
Joban Sho Gakko (Joban
Yunoto-nachi, Iwaki-
Apri1 1923. 952
930
1882
987
981
1968
17
20
37
17
20
37.
Elenentery School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
117
Kabeya Sho Gakko (Kabo-
Kebeya-mura, Iwaki-gun, ug. 1873
364
396
760
364
396
760
9-1
9-1
20
91
9-1
20
ye Elonontery School)
Fukushinn pref.
118
Kaganiishi Daiichi Sho
Kaganiishi-nura, Iwase- Jcn. 1895
604
560
1164
614
573
1187
12
8
20
12
9
21.
Gakko (Kage dishi First
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Elonontery School)
119
Kagaiishi mini Sho
Kegamiishi-mura, Iwase-
Juy 1875
138
121259
143
124
267
3
7
3
3
6
Gakko (Kagaiishi Second
gun, Fukushiria pref.
Elonontary School)
120
Kakeda Sho Gakko (Kadeda
Kake da-achi, Dato-gun,
Feb. 1882
391
413
804
374
412
786
8-1
10-1 20
10-1 8-1
20
Elmentary School)
Fukushina pref.
121
Kanada Sho Gakko (Kana-
Takenuki-mura, Higashi- Not Givon
99
124
223
99
124
223
5
3
8
5
3
8
da Elenentery School)
shirakera-gun, Fukushine Prof.
122
Kanako Sho Gakko (Kanako
Ka.ako-nura, Nishishira- Lay 1874
562
528
1090
553
529
1082
10-1 11-1 23
11-1 11-1 24
Elenentary School)
kaia-gun, Fukushim Pref.
123
Kanata Sho Gakko (Kanata
Kanata-mura, Shinobu-
Nov. 1873
246
251
497
245
251
496
5
6
11
5
6
11
Elonontary School)
gun, Fukushinmpref.
124 Kanata Daini Sho Gakkc
Kana ta-mure, Shinobu-
ug. 1901
61
58
119
59
57
116
3
1
4
3
1
4
(Kanata Sec and Elamen-
gun, Fukushina Frof.
tary Scho∞l)
125
Kanihobara Sho Gakko (Ka- Kamihobare-rura, Dato-
n.1875
251
249
500
241
250
491
6-1 5-1 13
6-1 5-1 13
nihobara Elonentery Schl.)gun, Fukushina Pref.
126
Kaniizushina Sho Gakko(Ka- Masunori-mura, Lsaka-
Sept. 1875 205
181
386
207
172
379
7
6
13
6
5
11
niizushina Elenentery Sch.)gun, Fukushinn Pref.
127 Kanikawasaki Sho Gakko(Ka- Kanikaasaki-mura, dachi- oct. 1874 424
437
861
429
434
863
6-1 11-1 19
6-1 11-1
mikavesddi Elomontary Sch.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
-61-

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.98)
30 . 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
128
Kaminano Sho Gakko (Ka-
Kani ano-mura, Sona-
4pril 1887
626
576
1202
616
577
1193
11
12
23
13
13
26
minano Elenentary Sch.)•
gun, Fukushina pref.
129
Kaninisaka Sho Gakko (Ka- Misaka-mura, Iweki-
y 1373
88
95
183
90
97
187
4
2
6
4
2
.6
minisaka Elenentery Sch.) gun, Fukushim Pref.
130
Kaniogoe Sho Gak ko (Ka-
Ogoo-nechi, Taruge-
June 1901
398
348
746
393
348
741
7
10
17
7
11
18
niogoe Elemontary Sch.)
gun, Fukushina Prer.
131
Kanioguni Sho Gakko (Ka-
Oguni-mura, Date-gun,
Dec. 1873
145
141
286
143
142
285
3.
5
8
3
5
8
mioguni Elenentary Sch.)
Fukushina Pref
132
Kanioke Sho Gakko (Kani-
Kanioka-nure, Futaba-
Junc 1879
539
508
1047
543
521
1064
7-1
12
20
8-1
10
19
oka Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
133
Kaniota Sho Gakko (Kani-
Ota-nura, Adachi-gun,
Dcc. 1873
300
315
615
294
311
605
5
5
10
6-1
7-1
15
ota Elemontary School)**
Fukushim pref.
134
Kani san Sho Gakko (Kani-
Kanisan-mura, Yana-gun, Dec. 1913
269
272
541
275
278
553
6
7
13
5
7
12
san Blonontary School)
Fulkushina Prof.
L
135
Kanitono Sho Gakko (Ka-
Kanitono-mure, Ivaki-
Not Given
610
608
1218
612
611
1223
12
12
24
12
12
24
nitono Elenantary Sch.)
gun, Fukushim Prof.
136
Kanagani Sho Gakko (Kana-
Kanagemi-nura, Kavanura- April 1873
331
307
638
334
302
636
9-1
11-1 22
6-1
11-1 19
gani Blenentary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
137
Kenano Sho Gakko (Kanane
Kanano-mure, Tamure-
pril 1940
379
347
726
370
344
714
11-1
22
12-1 9
22
Elomentary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
138
Kanapusa Sho Gakko (Ka-
Kanepusa-mura, Sona-
pril 1905
566
544
1110
565
543
1108
11
7
18
12
8
20
napsa Elonontery Sch.)**
gun, Fukushina Proef.
139
Kanayegana Sho Gakko (Ka-
Kanaycgava-nure, Snino
1873
400
392
792
397
398
795
8-1
8-1
18
8-1
a1
18
nayagava Elarentary Sch.)** bu-gun, Fukushina Prof.
140
Kaneyana Sho Gekko (Kene- Kaneyana-ure, Nishisii- June 1874
271
232
503
269
232
501
6-1
7-1 7-1 16
yann Elementary School)
rakawe-gun, Fukushine Pref.
141
Kano Sho Gakko (Kano
Kano-nura, Yana-gun,
May 1873
461
420
881
450
403
853
11
16-1 28
11
13-3 27
Rlementary School)***
Fukushina pref.
Tho figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the sare administration.
申申
The figuros for this institution include those for onc branch school under the seme adninistration.
串串串
The figures for this institution include those for four branch schools under the sane adninistration.
-62-

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.97)
II
F
T
II
F
T
I
F
T
2
F
T
142 Kerino Sho Gakko (Keri-.. Karino-nura, Futaba
June 1373.
414
390
804
418
396
814
8
8
16
10
7
17
no Elenontary School)
gun, Fukushix Pref.
143
Kashinn Sho Gakko (Ka-
Knshin-nachi, Sone-
Dec. 1879
463
447
910
462
450
912
9
9
18
11
7
18
shina Elanentary Sch.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
144
Kashine Sho Gakko (Ka-
Keshima-mura, Iwaki-
June 1873
216
204
420
213
206
419
6
5
11
5
4.
9
shina Elenontary School) gun, Fukushine Pref.
145
Ketahira Sho Gakko (Ka- Katahira-mura, saka- Jn. 1874
458
457
915
445
451
896
10-2 9-1
22
10
10
20
tahira Elenentery Sch.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
246
Katakado Sho Gakko (Ke- Ketakado-mura, Kavenume- 4pril 1888
247
230
477
231
223 454 6-1 4
11
6-1
4
11
takado Blenontary Sch.)• gun, Fukushine ref.
147
Katakai Sho Galiko (Ka-
Tomid-ura, inemiai- u. 1880
121
115 236
115
113
228
5
7.
5
2
7
takai Elaontary Sch.)
zu-gun, Fukushima Pref.
148
Katsurao Sho Gakko (ke- Katsurao-nure, Futcbe- pril 1890
255
215
.470
263
225
488
8.
4
12
8
12
tsurao Elanentary Sch.)• gun, Fukushim Pref.
149
Kmwabo Sho Gakko (Kawa- Izumi-nura, Ishikewm-
4pril 1889
110
227.
118
110
228
3
2
5
3
3.
bo Elonontery School)
gun, Fukushix Pref.
150
Kawabo Sho Gakko (Ke ma-
Kavabe-nure, Iwali-
July 1873
587 552
1139
575544 1119
10
9
19
9.
13
22
bo Elonontary School)
gun, Fukushinn Pref.
151
Kavahigashi Sho Gakko(Ke- Kawahigashi-mura, Ishi- Feb. 1874
417
374. 791
407 360 767
125
17
15
16
whigashi Elenontary Sch. kawa-gun, Fukushina Pref.
152
Kwckuchi Sho Gakko (Kawe- Kawakuchi-mura, Cnuna- 4pril 1873
155
155
310
151
152
303
7-1 4
12
7-1 3
11
kuchi Elenentary School) gun, Fukushina Prof.
153
Kavanae Sho Gakko (Kawe- Kawanae-mure, Iwaki-
y1891
146
149
295
144
146
290
3-1 4-1. 9
5-1 4
10
nae Elonontery School) gun, Fukushina Prof.
154
Kawanata Sho Gakko (Ka- Ke wanata-nachi, Date-
oct. 1873
844
795
1639
824
7941618
14-1 19
13-1 39 33
wannta Elenontary Sch.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
155 Kawaneni Sho Gakko (Ka- Kawanani-mura, Kitaaizu- pril 1901
519
559 .1078. 516 548
1064
15-1 11-1 28
14-1 11-1 27
wanani Elenentary Schl.) gun, Fukushim Pref.
156 Kawanishi Sho Gakko (Ka- Kawnishi-ura, Kawanuna-pril 1890
233
209
442
231 .202
433
8-1
4-1
14
wenishi Blenantary Sc.)• gun, Fukishinm' Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the sare administration.

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.98)
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
N
F
157 Kawmsaki Sho Gakko (Ka- Kanasaki-mure, Nishishi- oct. 1889
385
412
797
380
415
795
8-1
9-1 19
8-19-1 19
wasaki Klenentary Sch.) rakave-gun, Fukushina Pref.
158
Kavauchi Sho Gakko (Ka- Kawauchi-mura, Futaba-
July 1918
537
498
1035
540
512
1052
11
13
24
9.
12
22
wauchi Klenentary Sch.)• gun, Fucushina Pref.
159
Keitoku Sho Gakko (Kei- Koitoku-mura, Yana-
Ma y 1873
303
311
614
310
304
614
6-1
5-1 8-1 15
toku Blonentary Sch.)**
gun, Fukushinm pref.
160
Kido Sho Gakko (Kido
Kido-nura, Futaba-
March 1897
512
420
932
496
417
913
11
11-1 23
11
10-1 22
Elenentary School)**
gun, Fukushina Pref.
161
Kikuta Sho Gakko (Kiku-
Kikuta-nura, Asaka-
Junc 1874
521
475
996
513
476
989
7-1
12-1 21
7-1
12
20
ta Elemontary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
162
Kinosaki Sho Gakko(Kino- Hokozuki-nura, Iase-
Sept. 1892
198
211
409
194
208
402
6
5
11
6
4
16
saki Elenentary Sohool) gun, Fukushina Pref.
163
Kitakata Sho Gakko (Ci-
Kitakata-nachi, Yana-
Jan. 1886
1445 2443
2888
1417 1398 2815
22
31
53
2231
59
takata Elenentary Sch.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
164 Kitayanagata Sho Galdko Yanakashi-nura, Ishika- April 1882
43
28
71
41
29
70
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Kitayanagate Elenentary va-gun, Fukushina Pref.
School)
165
Kitayana Sho Gakko (Ki-
Ki ta yana-mura, Yara-
ug.1875
182
176
358
350
6-1 5-1 13
6-1 5
12
tayana Elenentary Sch.)
gun, Fukushine prof.
166
Kiyohaahi Sho Gakko (Ki-
Ki yohashi-mura, Futaba- pril 1819
243
235
478
252
249
501
7
5
12
6
6
12
yohashi Elonantery Sch.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
167 Kogani Sho Gakko (Koga-
Tanita-mura, Dato-gun, oct. 1875
75
89
164
75
87
162
2
2
4
3
2
5
ni Elenentary School)
Fukushina Pref.
168
Kohata Sho Gakko (Kohata
Kohato-nura, dachi-
Feb. 1874
218
181
399
210
179
389
6
2
8
8
:2
10
Elenentary School)**
gun, Fukushina Prof.
169
Kohata Sho Gakko (Kohata
Kohata-mura, Yana-gun, Dec. 1886
178
223
401
182
202
384
5
6
11
5
6
i1
Elenentery School)
Fukushina Pref.
170
Koizuni Sho Gakko (Koi-
Koizuni-mure, Tarura- pril 1944
98
97
195
97
91
188
3
2
zuni Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for fivo branch schools under the sane edministration.
The figuros for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
Tho figures for this institution includo those for two branch schools undor the same administration.

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
NLB
ADDRESS
DaTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
f
T
F
T
IM
F
T
171 Koken Sho Gakko (Koken
Fukuyama-machi, Asaka-
April 1914
828
838
1666
817
843
1660
11-1 18-2 32
14-1 18-2 35
Elementary School)•
gun. Fukushima Pref.
172 Komagamine Sho Galkiso (Ko- Komagamine-mura, Soma-
June 1872
326
392
718
334 393
727
6
15
7
9
16
magamine Elementary Sch.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
173
Komagata Sho Gakko (Ko- Konagata-mura, Yama-
Dec. 1884
405
403
808
397
402
799
14-1 10-1 26
10-1 10-1 22
magata Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
174 Kori Sho Gakko (Kori
Kori-machi Date-gun,
Sept: 1873
467
356
823
469
358
827
7-3
9
19
7-3
10
20
Elementary School)
Fukushima pref.
175
Kosaka Sho Gakko (Kosaka Kosaka-mura, Date-gun,
April 1875
258
262
520
257
258
515
3-2
5-1
11
3-2
4-1
10
Elementary School)
Fukushime Pref.
176
Koseki Daiichi Sho Gekko Koseki-mura, Nishishi-
Mmy 1874
337
352
689
334
346
680
10-1 7-1
19
11-1 5-1 18
(Koseki First Elementery rakawa-gun, Fukushima
School)
Pref.
177
Koseki Daini Sho Gakko
Koseki-mura, Nishi-shi- June 1901
168
170 338
165 171 336
3
7
4
3
7
(Koseki Becond Elementa- rakawa-gun, Fukushima
ry School)
Pref.
178 Kotahira Sho Gakko (Ko- Kotahira-mura, Ishikawa- April 1897 516 527
1043
514 527
1041 10-1 9
20
10-1 8
19
tahira Elementary Sch.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
179
Kotsunagi Sho Gakko (Ko- Kotsunagi-mura, Date-
July 1875
105
104
209
130
134
264
2
4
6
5
2
.7
tsunagi Elementary Sch.) gun, Fukushima pref.
180
Kozashi Sho Gakko (Koza- Kozashi-mura, Kitaaizu-
March 1887
383
388
771
377
384
761
9-1
11
21
9-1
12
22
shi Elementary School)* gun, Fukushima Pref.
181
Kozu Sho Gakko (Kozu
Kozu-mura, Asaka-gun,
June 1874
241
222
463
240
219 459
5-1 5-1
12
5-1
51
12
Elementary School)•
Fukushina Pref.
182
Kubota Sho Gakko (Kubota Nishiyame-mura, Onuma-
1918
99
85
184
96
84
180
4
3
7
-3
Elementary School)•
gun, Fukushima Pref.
183
Kuimaru Sho Gakko (Kui-
Showa-mura, Onuna-gun,
Dec. 1908
85
98
183
85
94
179
4
3
7
4
3
maru Elementary Sch.)•
Fukushima Pref.
The figures for this institution include those far one branch school under the sane administration.
-65.-

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
区
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
T
184 Kumagura Sho Gakko (Kuma- Nishigo-mura, Nishishi- Jan. 1880
375
348
723
388
380
768
20
11-2 10
23
gura Elementary Sch.)•
rakava-gun, Fukushima Pref.
185
Kumagura Sho Gakko (Kumo- Kumagura-mura, Yana-
March 1901
417
435
852
416
426
842
10-1 9-1 21
9
9-1
19
gura Elementary Sch.)** gun, Fukushima Pref.
186
Kumano Sho Gakko (Kumano Kumano-machi, Futaba-
March 1873
412
386
798
422
372
794
11
9
20
8
10
18
Elementary School)e*
gun, Fukushima Pref.
187
Kunugiyama Sho Gakko (Ku- Nenago-mura, Tamura-
April 1914
121
113
234
119
114
233
5
4
9
6
3
9
nugiyama Elementary Sch.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
188
Kusano Sho Gakko (Kusa- Kusano-mura, Iwaki-
1873
532
557
1089
537
591
1128
10
13
23
11
12
23
no Elementary School)**
gun, Fukushime Pref.
189
Kyowa Sho Gakko (Kyowa
Minato-mura, Kitaaizu-
4pril 1909
417
371
788
407 370
777
10
11
21
9
10
19
Elementary School)***
gun, Fukushima Pref.
190
Maedagawa Sho Gakko (Ma- Hanada-mura, Iwase-gun, Oct. 1874
128
112
240
124
112
236
4
3
7
2
2
4
edagawa Elenentary Sch.) Fukushima Pref.
191
Magino Sho Gakko (
Nanago-mura, Tamura-
July 1901
308
294
602
309
294
603
10
6
16
9
6
15
gino Elementary Sch.) gun, Fukushina pref.
192
Makimoto Sho Gakko (Ma- kimoto -mure, Iwase-
oct. 1892
379
382
761
370
374
744
7
8
15
7-1
kimoto Elementery Sch.** gun, Fukushimepref.
193
Mano Sho Gakko (Kano
Mano-mura, Soma-gun,
pril 1905
352
369
721
354
370
724
9
9
18
9
8
17
Elementary School)**
Fukushima pref.
194
Matsukawa Sho Gakko (a- Matsukawa-machi, Shinobu- May 1873
490
454
944
461
447
908
12-1 5
18
12-1 5-1 19
tsukawa Elementary Sch.) gun, Fukushime pref.
195
tsuyana Sho Gakko(Ma- etsuyama-mura, Yama-
pril 1890
309
272
581
296
261
557
1 8-1
19
1 91
20
tsuyama Elementary Sch.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
196
Mei ji Sho Gakko (Mei ji
Mei ji-mura, Date-gun,
pril 1933
171
161
332
169
161
330
5
4
9
5
4
9
Elementary School)
Fukushima Pref.
197
Meiwa Sho Gakko (Meiva
Meiwa-mura, Minamiaia- July 1873
273
256
529
263
247 510
7
8
15
8
9
17
Elementary School)***
gun, Fukushima Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for four branch schools under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the seme administration.
-66-

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.98)
NME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ÉROLLENT
TE&CHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
H
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
198
Miheru Sho Gakko (iheru
Miharu-ma chi, Tenura-
Dec. 1921
1010
931
1941
992
926
1918
16
21
37
15
23
38
Elamentary School)
gun, Fukushime pref.
199
Likami Sho Galko (Mákami
Likami-mura, Nishishi- pril 1907
357
399
756
354
399
753
14-1 4-1.
20
14-1 4-1 20
Elomentery School)
rakava-gun, Fukushima Pref.
200
Mámaya Sho Galko (inaya
Uchigo-mechi, Iwaki-
July 1873
220
208
428
218
204
422
5
4
9
4
4
8
Rlementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
201
inamitosava Sho Gakko(Mi- Tosava-mure, dachi-
April 1926
216
152
368
214
146
360
4-1
5-1
11
4-1 5-1
11
namitosawa Elenontary Soh.)sun, Fukushimm Pref.
202
Minamd yamageta Sho Caldko
Yemahashi-nura, Ishikeva- Feb. 1874
182
175
357
184
174
358
6
6
3
9
(Minamiyanagata Elemen-
gun, Fukushime Pref.
tary School)
203 Hara Sho Gacko (Hara
Minato-mura, Kitaaizu-
Junc 1873
90
72
162
87
68
155
3-1
1-1
6
4-1
1-2
8
Elenentery School)
gun, Futushima Pref.
204 Mänove Daiichi Sho Gakko
Minova-mura, Iwaki-
pril 1903
70
71
141
67
71
138
2
2
4
2
2
4
(Minova First Elenentery
gun, Fukushima Pref.
School)
205
Minowa Daini Sho Galko(ni- inowa-mura, Ivakdi-
4pril 1901
55
50
105
58
53
111
2
2
4
2
2
4
nowa Second Elementcry Sch.)gun, Fukusnina Pref.
206
I tato Sho Galdko (ita-
in tete-iura, Tamura-
Feb. 1902
675
649
1324
662
645
1307
15-1 12-1 29
15-1 10-1 27
te Elenentery School)•
gun, Fukushime Pref.
207
Mitsuhara Sho Gakko (i-
Ntsuhera-mura, Shino-
June 1873
262
203
465
258
200
458
7-1 3-1
12
5-2
3-1
11
tsuhara Elanentary Sch.)
bu-gun, Fukushima Pref.
208
tsuho Sho Gakko (i-
Mitsuho-mura. Shinobu-
Dec. 1873
317
326
643
313
329
642
6-1
8-1
16
8
8-1
17
tsuho Elamentary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
209
Hiwa Sho Galkto (Miwa
Miwe-mura, Aseka-gun,
Merch 1927
372
338
710
364
325
689
8-2
8-1
19
8.2
8-1
19
Elementary School)**
Fukushime Pref.
210
Miye Sho Gakko (ya
Uchigo-machi, Iwaki-
Oct. 1910
638
594
1232
621
591
1212
10
17
27
12
16
28
Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushima pref.
The figures for this institution include thoso for two branch schools under the seme administration.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the sene administration.
-67-

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.98)
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
II
F
T
4
F
T
211  yana Sho Galko (IHiyama Miyama-nure, Tamura-
4pril 1939
244
235
479
242
228
470
6
3-1
10
5
4-1
10
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
212
Miyamoto Sho Galdko (Md- Miyanoto-murc, Higashi- April 1888
721
651
1372
704
663
1367
19-1 10
30
19-1 12
32
yamoto Elenentary Sch.)* shirakawa-gun, Fukushina Pref.
213
Myashita Sho Gakiko (i- Miyashita-mura, Onuna ug. 1876
409
414
823
415
391
806
15
8
23
14
9
23
yashita Elementary Sch.)gun, Fukushine Pref.
214
Miyoda Sho Gakko (Máyo- Moriyama-nachi, Tamura- March 1935
212
239
451
205
229
434
3-1
61
11
3-1
61
11
da Elementary School)
gun, Futushime Pref.
215
Miyo ShoGakiso (ldiyo
Miyo-mura, Asaka-gun,
June 1874
165
147
312
156
140
296
4
2-1
7
5
4-1
10
Elementary Sohool)
Fukushina Pref.
216
Mizunuma Sho Galdko (i-
Nunazawe-mura, onuna-
Nov. 1873
94
94
188
93
92
185
1
7
4
1
5.
zunuma Elementary Sch.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
217
Monden Sho Gakko (Monden Mondem-rura, Kiteaizu
July 1893
645
657
1302
647
652
1299. 9-1
29
12-1 16
29
Elenentary Sch.)e**
gun, Fukushix Pref.
218
Moniva Sho Gakiko (Moniwa Noniwa-murE, Date-gun,
Jan. 1877
324
279
603
267 577
9
9
18
11
7
18
Elementary School) ** Fukushina Pref.
219
Marieno Sho Gakko (Mori- Morieno-mura, Dete-gun, May 1909
290
283
573
289
236 525
4-2 6-3 15
4-2 6-3 25
eno Elenentary Sohool) Fukushime Pref.
220
Noriyama Sho Gakko (Mori- Moriyama-machi, Tamura- March 1873
528
1081
12-2 15-1 30
12-2 14-1 29
yama Elementary Sch.)*** gun, Fukushima Pref.
221
Motoniya Sho Gakko (Mo- Motomiya-achi, dachi- Sept. 1873
1022 879
1901
1022 381
1903
13
20
33
14
20
34
tomiya Elementary Sch.) gun, Fukushina Pref.
222
Mureoke ShoGakko (Mua- Muracka-mura, Kaanuna- June 1873
326 318
644
325
316
641
10-1 7
18
13-2 11-1 27
oka Elementary School)** gun. Fukushime Pref.
223 Mutsuai Sho Gakko (Mu-
Mutsuai-mure, Datc-
Jan. 1893
245 254
499
246
5-1 5-1
12
5-1
5-1 12
tsuai Klementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushima prof.
224 Nagai Sho Gakko (Nagai
Nagato-mura, Ivaki-
June 1874
191 168 359
187 168 355
7
2
9
8
2
10
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushim Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for five branch schools under the same adrinistration.
The figures for this institution include those for four branch sohools under the same administretion.
The figures for this institution inalude those for one branch school under the same administration.
-68-
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administration.

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.98)
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 p. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
1
F
T
F
T
F
T
225
Nagaino Sho Galko (Nega- Negeino-nura, Onuna-
pril 1873
328
350
678
322.336
658
11-1 6-1
19
11-1 6-1
19
ino Elementary School)
gun, Fukushimm Pref.
226
Nagakura Sho Gakko (Na-
Iwasaki-mra, Iwald-
July 1907
398
392
790
419
411
830
6
9
15
6
9
15
gakura Elemontery Sch.)
gun, Fukushi.n Pref.
227
Naganori Sho Gakko (Na-
Naganori-nachi, Asaka-
4pril 1892
500
496
996
494
504
998
11-1 8-1
21
10-1 9-1
21
gamori Elenentary Sch.)
gun, Pukushim Pref.
228
Nagano Sho Gakko (Na-
To jinc→nachi, Minamiaizu- June 1873
87
106
193
87
107
194
2
2
4
2
2
4
gano Elenentary Sch.)
gun. Fukushima Pref.
229
Naganuma Sho Gekcko (Na-
Ne ganuna-nachi, Iwase-
Dec. 1873
555
548
1103
554
543
1097
10-1 9-1
21
9-1
12-1 23
ganuna Elementary Sch.)
gun. Fukushinn Prof.
230
Nagase Sho Gkko (Naga-
Nacasc-mura, Yuma-gun,
March 1927
385
394
779
391
391
782
9-1
9-1
20
9-1
91
20
se Elenentery School)
Fukushina Pref.
231
Nagata Sho Geldko (Naga-
Te jinm-machi, Minamiaizu- March 1876
79
73
152
79
74
153
2
2
4
2
2
4
ta Elomentary School)
gun, Fukushinn Pref.
232
Nagata Sho Gakko (Naga-
Yonogita-mura, Ishikawa- March 1873
177
165
342
181
163
344
6
4
10
6
4
10
ta Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushim Pref.
233
Nagatsuka Sho Gaidko (Na- Nagatsuka-mura, Futaba- April 1905
327
332
659
323
331
654
8
.9
17
19
7
16
gatsuka Elenentary Sch.) gun, Fukushine Pref.
234
Nakagawa Sho Gakko (Na- Nunazava-mura, Onuna-
oct. 1875
92
73
165
97
76
173
5
1
6
4
1
5
kagava Elenantary Sch.)
gun, Fulkuahina Pref.
235
Nakahata Sho Gakko (Na-
Nakahata-mura, Nishishi- Nov. 1913
324
358
682
313
342
654
12-1 6
19
11-1 5
17
kabeta Elementary Sch.) rakewa-gun, Fukushim Pref.
236
Nakanisaka Sho Gakko(Nc- Misaka-ura, Iwaki-
Doc. 1880
95
80
175
91
78
169
2
2
4
3
2
5
kanisaka Elanentary Sch. )gun, Fukushina Pref.
237
Nakerura Sho Gakko (Na- Nakanura-mechi, Saa-
y 1912
1188
1129 2317
1203 1146 2349
16-1 27-1 45
18-1 26-1 46
kamura Elanontary Sch.) gun, Fukushinma pref.
238
Nakamure Tobu Sho Galcko Nakamura-nachi, Sona-
pril 1889
670
576
1246
677
597 1274
7
14
21
8
12
20
(Nakamura Tobu Elanenta- gun, Fukushima Pref.
ry School)
239
Nakano Sho Galdko (Naka-
Naiano-mure, Asaka-
4pril 1899
176 186
362
172
182
354
6
no Elementary School)
gun, Fukushime pref.
-69-

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.98)
NAE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
30 pr. 46
ENROLIMENT
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
TEACHERS
30 Nov: 46
240 Nakano Sho Gakko (Nake- 
Nakeno-mura, Shinobu-
Feb. 1875
M
B
T
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
no Elenentary School)*
gun, Fukushima Prof.
210
201
411
210
201
411
6
6-1
13
6
7-1
34
241
Nakasato Sho Gakko (Na- Nakasato-mura, Termura-
April 1927
369
367
736
364
360
724
9
7
16
10
7
17
kesato Elamentary Sch.)• gun, Fulaushie Pref.
242
Nakatani Daiichi (Naka-
Nakatani-murc, Ishikewa- May 1874
181
167
348
174
158
332
7
3
10
7
3
10
tani First Elenentary
gun, Fukushina Pref.
School)
243
Naketani Daini Sho Gakko Naketani-mura, Isnikeva- April 1914
286
273 559
281
277 558
9-1 4-1 15
9-1 3-1 14
(Nakatani Second
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Elenentary School)
244
Nakayana Sho Cakko (Na- Utsushi-murc, Tarura-
March 1946
150 137 287
148 137 285
8
3
11
7
2
9
kayane Klamentary Sch.) gun, Fukushine pref.
245
Nakaso Daiichi Sho Gakko Nakaso-nachi, Iveki-
June 1873
1097 1039 2136
1099 1001 2100
14
24
38
14
24
38
(Nakoso First Elementary gun, Fukushim Pref.
School)
246
Nakoso Dini Sho Galdko
Nakoso-nachi, Ivaki-
June 1873
266
249 515
267 251 518
6
7
13
(Nakoso Second Rlaentary gun, Fukushina Pref.
School)
247
Nanekawa Sho Galcko (Nane- Nita-mura, Ivase-
rch 1875
74
30
154
73
79
152
2
24
2
2
4
kawa Elementary School) gun, Fukushina Pref.
248
Nametsu Sho Gakko (Name- Nametsu-murc, Nishishira- Sept. 1874
348
315
663
351
320
671
8-1 7-1 17
8-1
tsu Elenentary School)
kewa-gun, Fukushina Pref.
249
Nanie Sho Gakko (Nanie
Nanic-machi, Futaba-
June 1873
770
740
1510
757
739
1496
16
12
28
16
12
28
Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushim Prof.
250
Narahara Sho Gakko (No- Narabara-ncchi, Minaniai- 4pril 1910
517 513
1030
520
1037
16
13
29
15
14
29
rahara Elementary Sch.)o*zu-gun, Fukushina Pref.
251
Natsui Sho Galdko (Netsui Natsui-mre, Ivaki-
Jan. 1890
315
290
605
321
298
619
8
7
15
8
6
14
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
252
Nataul Daiichi Sho Gakko
Natsui-murc,Tarura-
April 1928
254
262 516
256
252 508
6
7
(Natsui First Elemen-
gun, Fukushinn Prof.
tary School)***
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include thoso for six branch schools under the same administration.
-70-
The figures for this institution include thosc for one branch school under the sane adainistration.

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.98)
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
1I
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
253 Natsui Daini Sho Gakko
Natsui-mura, Temura-
pril 1927
190 194
384
185
200
385
6
5
11
6
(Natsui Second Elcmen-
gun, Fukusl:ina Pref.
tary School)
254 Nakatsuna. Sho Gakko (Nc- Nakatsuna-rura, Tenu- Apr. 1934
287 324 611
273 314 587
6
5
11
6
5
11
katsuma Monontary Sch.)* ra-gun, Fukushina Pref.
255 Negiya Sho Gokko (Negi- Iwme-mura, Tanura-
pril 1942
216
195
411
211 198 409
5
9
5
ye Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
256 Nida Sho Gakko-(Nida
Nida-mra, Iwase-gun,
Oct. 1392
403
357 760
405 360 765
12-1 6
19
12-1 4
17
Elenentary School)
Fukushin Pref.
257 Nidono Daiich Sho Galdko Nidono-mure, Adachi-
April 1908
323
272 595
325
268
593
9
6
15
8
6
14
(Nidono First Elementary gun, Fukushima pref.
School)•
258 Nidono Daini Sho Gakko Nidono-mure, Adachi-
Dec. 1874
198 211 409
192 201 393
6
10
5
5
10
(Nidono Second Elementary gun, Fukushima Pref.
School) *
259 Nihonmatsu Sho Gak ko(Ni- Nihonmatsu-machi, A- April 1887
1189 1052 2241 1170 1038 2208
21
21
42
22
21
43
nonmatsu Elenentary Sch.) dachi-gun, Fukushima Pref.
260
Niitsuru Daiichi Sho
Niitsuru-mura, Onuma-
May 1872
263. 266. 529
14
7
Gakko (Niitsuru First
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Elementary School)*
261
Nippashi Daiichi Sho
Nippashi-mura, Kawanuma- April 1916
480 447 927
489 453 942
10-1 12
23
8
12-1 21
Gakko (Nippashi First
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Elementary School)
262
Nippashi Daini Sao Gakko Nipp shi-mura, Kawanuma- April 1921
215 199 414
212 203. 415 5-1 5-1 12
(Nippashi Second Elemen- gun, Fukushima Pref.
tary School) *
263 Nishibukuro Sho Gakko(Ni- Nishibukuro-mure, Iwa- Nov. 1892
396 397. 793
397 395 792
10-1 17
101-17
shibukuro Elementary Sch-)se-gun, Fukushima Pref.
264 Nishikata Sho Gakko (Ni- Nishikata-mura, Onuma- May 1873
253 234 487
249 239 488 10-1 4-1 16
913
shikata Elementary Sch.)** gun, Fukushima Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch sohool under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the seme administration.
-71-

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
N
F
T
F
T
265
Nishiki Sho Gak ko (Nishi- Nishiki-machi, Iwaki-
June 1873
767
754
1521
774
750
1524
9
22
31
11
20
31
k. Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
266
Nishimuki Sho Gakko (Ni-
Tokiwa-ma chi, Tanura-
April 1941
239
193
432
237
192
429
5
4
9
5
4
9
shimuki Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushima pref.
267
Nishino Sho Gdk ko (Ni-
Samekawa~mura, Higashi- June 1873
136
154
290
134
155
289
5
3
8
5
2
7
shino Elementary Sch.)
shirakawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
268 Nishiyama Sho Gakko (Ni-
Samekawe-mura, Higashi- March 1881
130
135
265
127
137
264
6
2
8
6
2
8
shiyama Elementary Sch.)
shirakawa-gun, Fukushime Pref.
269 Nita Sho Gakko (Nita
Nita-mura, dachi-gun,
Feb. 1874
117
257
112
138
250
3
2
5
3
2
5
Elementary School)
Fukushima Pref.
270
Nitsuru Daini Sho Gakko
Nitsuru-mura, Onuma-
Larch 1873
386
391
777
370
401
771
8-1
11-1 21
8-1
11-1 21
(Nitsuru Second Elemen-
gun, Fukushima Pref.
tary School) *
371
Nittaki Sho Gakko (Nitta- Nittaki-mura, Soma-
April 1917 274
282
556
272 287 559
6
6
12
7
12
ki Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
272 Niwasaka Sho Gacko (Ni-
Nivasaka mura, Shinobu- Oct. 1873
406
355
359
775
9-1
20
10-1 8-1
20
wasaka Elementary Sch.)*
gun, Fukushima Pref.
273
Niwatsuka Sho Gakko (Ni-
Nivatsuka-mura, Shinobu- Oct. 1892
230
210
440
229
218
447
5
5-1 11
5
11
watsuka Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushim pref.
274
Nogi sawa Sho Gak ko (No-
Nogisava-mura, Ishikawa- April 1937
279
273
552
282
272
554
9-1 4-1 15
7-1 4-1
13
gisawa Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
275
Nojiri Sho Gakko (No jiri
Shotaomira, Onuma-
Ma y 1874
102
82
184
100
82
182
5
1
6
4
4
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
276
Mota Sho Gakko (Nota
Nota-mura, Shinobu-
Dec. 1873
651
600
1251
658 603
1261
10-1 13-2 26
11-1 13-1 26
Klementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
77
Nozewa Sho Gakko (Nozawa
Nozawe-machi, Kawanuma- June 1873
539
501 1040
536
497
1033
14-1 10
25
13
10
23
Elementary Sch ool)e*
gun, Fukushima Pref.
278
Nukazawa Sho Gakko (Nuka- Wagiaara-mura, dachi-
Nov. 1873
263
237 500
261
232
493
5
6
11
13
zawe Elementary School) gun, Fukushime Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same adminis tration 
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the same administrat on.
-72-

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.98)
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
近
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
279
Numa jiri Sho Gakko (Nu- Azuin-mura, Yama-gun, May 1941
113
117
230
111
113
224
8
.3
11
7
3
10
ma jiri Elementary Sch.)* Fukushime Pref:
280
Numazawa Sho Gacko (Nu-
Numazava-mura, Onuma-
Dec. 1874
70
76
146
70
76
146
4
1
5
4
1
5
mazawe Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
281
Oashi Sho Gakko (Oashi
Shova-mure, Onuna-
Jan. 1893
103
87
190
100
84
184
4
2
6
5
1
6
Elementary School)•
gun, Fukushima Pref.
282
Obama Sho Gakko (Obama
Obama-machi, Adachi-
Sept. 1873
829
779
1608
824
769
1593
15
16
31
13
16
29
Elementary School)*
gun, Fukushima Pref.
283
Obari Sho Gek ko (Obari
Obori-mura, Futaba-
April 1873
438
444
882
433. 439
872
9
12
21
11
10
21
Elementary School)•
gun, Fukushima Pref.
284
Odaka Sho Gdkko (Odaka
Odaka-ma chi, Sana-
Oct. 1873
881
1002
1883
844
898
1742
19
15
34
18
14
32
Elemontery School)•
gun, Fukushimm Pref.
285
Odakura Sho Gekko (Oda-
Nishigo-muru, Nishishi- Dec. 1875
368
347
715
384
371
755
11
10
21
10
10
20
kure Eementery School)
rekave-gun, Fukushima pref.
286
Odate Sho kko (Odato
Odato-mura, Soma-gun,
Doc. 1873
455
487
942
468
479
947
13
10
23
13
9
22
Elementary School)*
Fukushima Pref.
287
Oeda Sho Gdk ko (Oeda
Oeda-mure, Dato-gun,
Sept. 1873
209
226
435
214
225
439
4-1
5
10
4-1
4-1
10
Elemontary School)
Fukushime Pref.
288
Ogawa ho. Ges ko (Ogara
Shimoogawa-mura, Iwaki- Nov. 1909
492
502
994
495
505
1000
9
14
23
10
12
23
El ementary School)**
gun, Fukushima Pref.
289
Ogasa Sho Gakko (Ogata
Ogave-mura, yame-gun,
4pril 1893
94
79
173
92
81
173
3
3
6
3
7
Elemontary School)
Fukushime Pref.
290
Ogisawa Sho Gákko (Ogi-
Ogisava-mura, Temura-
April 1940
198
211
409
197
205
402
4-1
6
11
42 5
10
sawn Elemontary School)
gun, Fukushime Prof.
291
Oikawa Sho Gakko (Oikawa dikewa-mure, Kavanunn-
My 1873
289
286
575.
284
283
567
10-1 7 18
10-17
18.
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
6-1 5-1. 19
292
Ojima Sho Gakko (O fima
Ojina-mura, Dato-gun,
oct. 1873
192
231
423
190
225
415
Elomontary Sdh ool)*
Fukushima Prof.
The figures for this institution includo thoso for one brench school under the seme administration.
80
Tho figuros for this institution include those for three branch schools undor tho :ame administration.
00*
The figuros for this institution include thomo for four branch schools under the seme administrati on.
-73-

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
I.I
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
293
Okawa Sho Gdk ko (Okawa Okawa-mura, Minamiaizu-
Oct. 1895
75
88
163
74
89
163
2
4
6
4
4
8
Elementary School)•
gum. Fukushima Pref.
294
Okayama Sho Gekko (
Oka yane-mura, Shinobu-
Nov. 1873
535
465
1000
519
465
984
7
13
20
7
13
20
kayana Elemantary Sch.) gun, Fukushima Pref.
295
Okouri Sho Gdk ko (Oke-
Kewamo-mura, Ivaki-
Fob. 1874
207
208
415
208
205
413
7
4
11
8
3
21
uri Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
296
dkido Sho Gakko (0-
Okide mura, mate-gun,
March 1873
235
218
453
233
224
457
4-1
4-1
10
6-1 5-1 13
kido Elemontary Sch.)
Fukushim Pref.
297
Okina jima Sho Gakko (0 Okina jina-mura, Yana-
y 1873
320
310
630
361
346
707
8
8-1
17
9
61 16
kina jina Elonentary Sch.)gun, Fukushima Pref
298
Okubo Sho Gakko (Okubo Okubo-mura, Datc-gun.
oct. 1875
221
217
438
212
210
422
6-1
2
9
5-1 3
9
Elementary School)
Fukushima pref.
299 . Okubo Sho Gakko (Okubo Mi yeko ji-mura, Tarura-
April 1873
52
50
102
52
51
103
3
1
4
3
1
4
Elementery School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
300
Okukawe Sho Gakko (Oku- Okukava-mura, Yana-gun,
arch 1873
466
521
987
459
528
7
25
17
7
24
kawa Elcnentery Sch.)** Fukushime Pref.
301
Omate Sho Gekko (Omata
Omata-mura, Onuma-gun,
4pril 1873
298
247
545
292
253
545
9-1
8-1
19
8-1
2-1
12
Elementary School)**
Fukushine Pref.
302
Omika Sho Gakko (Omi-
Omika-mura, Soma- gun,
4pril 1905
477
452
929
479
438
917
8
10
18
9
10
19
ka Elemontary School)*
Fukushine Pref.
303
Omiya Sho Gakko (Omiya
Omiya-mura, Minamiaizu-
Juno 1873
353
365
718
334
363
697
6-3
18
12-1 7
20
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
304
Omari Sho Gakko (Omori
Onori-mura, Shinobu-
Doc. 1873
355
315
670
342
306
648
8
7-1
16
8
7-1 16
Elemontary School)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
305
Omorita Daiichi Sho Galdeo Omorita-mura, Ishikam- April 1901
314
257 571
313
259 572
8
6
14
7
714
(Omorita First Elemen-
gun, Fukushima Pref.
tary Soh∞l)
306
Omorita Daini Sho Gakko Omorita-mure, Ishika wa-
April 1889
111
201
89
110 199
3
2.
5
3
2
5
(Omorita Second Elenen- gun, Fukushina Pref.
tary School)
The figures for this institution include those for ono branch school under tho same administration.
The figures for this institution inalude those for fi ve branch schools under the samo adidnistration.
-74-
The figures for this institution include those for three branch schools under the same administration.

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.97)
NLME
4DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
15
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
307 onahanà Diichi Sho
nahama-ma ohi, Iwald-
June 1873
1112 1080
2192
1001 1206 2207
15
23
38
13
28
41
Gakko (Onahama Firot
gun, Fukushinn pref.
Plapntary School)
308
Onahama Daini Sho Galdso
Onaha m-nachi, Iwaki-
pril 1940
506 504
544
522 1066
11
17
6
10
16
(Onahama Second Elemen-
gun. Fukushine Pref.
tary School)
309
Onahana Daisan Sho
onahana-nachi, Indk i-
ug. 1873
223 216
439
222
216
438
9
6.
3
9
Gakko (Onchana Third
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Elenentery School)
310
Onami Sho Gekko (nami
Oguni-nura, Date-gun,
oct. 1873
164 175
339
162173
335
6
6
12
11
Elementary School)*
Fukushina Pref.
311
Oniuda Sho Gakko (Oniuda
Okuma-mure, Tanure-
Merch 1921
186
188
374
182
181
363
7
5
12
7
5
12
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
312
Onoda Sho Gakko (Onoda
moda-mure, Nishishira- ug. 1874
385
386
771
384
8-1
7-1
17
8-1 7-1.17
Elementary School)•
kawa-gun, Fukushine Pref.
313
Onomoto Sho Gakko (Ono-
Onomoto-mura, Kawanuna-
Nov. 1878
573
586
1159
518 555
1073
20
8
28
19
8
27
moto Elementary Sch.)**
gun, Fukushima Pref.
314
Ono Sho Gakko (Ono
ono-mure, Futaba-gun,
Jan. 1904
355
345
700
360 344 704
7.
9
16
7
9
16
Elementary School)
Fuisushima Pref.
315
Ono Sho Gakko (Ono
Ono-nura,Sona-gun,
Oct. 1873
540
465
1005
545
467 1012
11-1 8-1
21
10-1 8-1
20
Klementary School)
Fukushima Pref.
916
Ono Daiichi Sho Gakko
ono-mure, Iwaki-gun,
July 1882
365
356
362 341
9
7
16
9
7
16
(Ono First Blementary Sch.)Fukushime Pref.
317 cno . Daini Sho Gakko (0- ono-mure,Iweki-gun,
Feb. 1373
135
146
281
133 143 276.
3.
3.
6
3
3
6
no Second Elementary Sch.)Fukushina Pref.
318 nonti Sho Galiko (ona)
monii-machi, Tanura-
oct. 1873
859
804
1663 856 804 1660 26
14
30
.18
nti Elementary School)*
gun, Fukushine Pref.
284 261 545
6-1
10-1 18
5-1 9-1 26
319
Onuna Sho Gakko (Onura
Onume-rmra, Nishishiraka- Lpril 1887 291 277 568
Elementary School)
wa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same adrinistration.
The figures for this institution include those for seven branch schools under the same adninistretion.
-75-

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TECHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
T
M
F
T
320 Oshio Sho Gakko (Oshio
Yokota-nura, onuma-
July 1874
87
31
168
91
84
175
3
1
4
3
1
4
Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
321
Cshioe Sho Gekko (Oshioo
Oshioe-mura, Ishikava-
Dec. 1874
295
313
608
289
309
598
5-2
7-1
15
7-2 6-1
16
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
322
Oshio Sho Gakko (Oshio
Oshio-mura. Ya.-gun,
ril 1891
160
170
330
156
163
319
5
4
9
5
4
9
Elementary School)
Fukushima Pref.
323
ote Sho Gakko (Ota
Okuna-mure, Tanura-
oril 1894
58
76
134
55
70
125
1
2
3
1
2
3
Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
324
Otagava Sho Gakko (Ota-
Otagawe-mura, Nishishi- Oct. 1889
283
265
548
281
258
539
5-1
6-1
13
5-1
6-1
13
gave Eleentary School)
rakava-gun, Fukushine Pref.
325
Otaira Sho Cakko (Otai-
otairamura, 4dachi-gun,ug. 1873
456
459
915
442
451
893
6
10
26
7
9
16
re Elenentary School)
Fukushine Pref.
326
Oteka Sho Galdro (Otale
Izumi-mure, Ishikaia-
4pril 1373
409
429
838
402
406
808
10
7
17
11
7
18
Elemen tary School) *
gun, Fukushina Pref.
327
Otaraure Sho Gakso (ota-
Ota-mura, Date-gun,
4pril 1908
418
355
773
413
350
763
8-1
11-1
21
8-1 11-1 21
mura Elamontary Soh.)
Fukushima Pref.
328
Otaura Sho Gakko (Otc-
Ota-rura, Sana-gua,
April 1905
413
376
789
413
376
789
9
8
17
7
8
15
mura Elenentary Sch.)
Fukushime Pref.
329
Ote Sho Gekko (Ote
Oto-mure, Date-gun,
Merch 1939
207
204
411
201
200
401
5
4
9
5-1 5
11
Elementary School)
Fulktushima Pref.
330
Oto Sho Gakko (Oto
Oto-nure, Ki taaizu-
March 1919
416
396
812
404
360
764
12
9
21
11
9
20
Elementary School)*
gun, Fukushima pref.
331
Otsuki Sho Gakko (otsuki
otsuki-nachi, seke-
Sept. 1874
641
610
1251
622
600
1222
102
12-1 25
10-2 11-1 24
Elamentary School)•
gun, Fukushina Pref.
332
Otsunagi Sho Gekko (otsu- Otsunagi-mura, Dete-
Jan. 1879
89
83
172
87
82
169
2
2
4
2
2
4
nagi Elementary School)
gun, Fucushime Pref.
333
Oure Sho Gakko (Oura
Oura-mura, Iwaki-bun, July 1873
529
506
1035
523
504
1027
12
8-2
22
10
8-2
20
Elemantary School)
Fukushina Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for four branch schools under the same administration.
-76-

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.98)
30 4or. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 r.46
30 Nov. 46
I4
F
T
F
T
LI
F
T
M
F
T
334
Oya Sho Gak ko (Oye
oya-mura, Ivese-gun,
pril 1883
283
271
554
276
267
543
8
4
12
8
5
13
Elementary School)
Fukushima Pref.
335
Oame Sho Gacko (Oyana
oyx-mura, dacii-
pril 1908
403
398
801
404
387
791
5
12
17
5
12
17
Klementary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
336
Ozaso Sho Galdko (Ozaso
ozeso-mura, Shinobu-
Nov. 1873
343
370
713
332
359
691
9
7
16
8
6
14
Elenentery School)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
337
zato Sho Galdio (Ozato
Ozato-nura, Ivase
Feb. 1875
169
176
345
161
175
336
6
3
9
6
2
8
Elenentery School)
gun, Fulushime Pref.
338
Ryozen miichi Sho Gakko
Ryozen-nura, Date-
Dec. 1873
316
273
589
312
273
585
6
8
14
6
9
15
(Ryczen First Eleientary
gun. Fukushina Fref.
School)
339
Ryozen Deini Sho Gakko
Ryozen-mura, Dte-gun, . 1877
102
94
196
101
93
194
2
2
4
2
2
4
(Ryozen Second Elemen-
Fukushina pref.
tary School)
340
Ryozen Deisan Sho Gakko
Ryozen-mura, Date-
Dec. 1873
135
120
255
135
120
255
2
3
5
4
2
6
(Ryozen Third Elementary
gun. Fukushima Pref.
School)
341
Saiso Sho Gakko (Saiso
i saka-nura, Ivek i-
Ma y 1873
51
51
102
51
51
102
2
2
4
2
2
4
Eementary School)
gun. Fulsushine Pref.
342
Sakure Sho Gakko (Salaure
Sakura-nura, Shinobu-
July 1902
465
391
356
479
389
868
10-1 8
19
10
7
17
Elanentery School)•
gun, Fulkushima Pref.
343
Samekara Sho Galdko (Sane-
Samckara-mure, Higashi- Feb. 1879
411
354
765
407
356 .763
11
7
18
8
8
16
kava Elenentery Sch.)**
shirakava-Gun, Fukushina Pref.
344
Sanchane Sho Galko (San-
Ckuna-nure, Tanura-
Dec. 1928
160
143
303
157
138
295
4
3
7
4
chone Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
345
Sasahara Sino Gekko (Sasa-
Sasahara-mura, Higashi- arch 1873
552
552
1104
553
549
1102
12
14
26
1214 26
hare Elenentary Sch.)*
shirakawa-gun, Fukushina Pref.
346 Basaya Sho Gakko (Sasaya
Sasaya-mura, Shinobu-
Dec. 1873
288
296
584
284
293
577
5-1
6-1
13
6-1.71 15
Klemontery School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one brench school under the same edministration.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the sare administration.
The figures for this institution include those for six branch schools under the same administration.
-77-

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.98)
304pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
N
F
T
1
F
T
2
f
T
F
T
347
Sawaishi Sho Gakiko (Sawa- Sawaishi-nura, Tanura- March 1938
252
260
512
254
253
507
6-1
12
6-1
12
ishi Elementary School)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
348
Sawata Sho Gakko (Sava-
Sawata-nura, Ishikava- July 1873
383
365
748
370
353
723
9-1
8
18
8-1
8
17
to Elanentary School)
gun, Fusushina Tref.
349
Sawatari Sho Gakko (Sa- Sametari-mura, Iveki-
Jen. 1874
195
219
424
193
222
415
7
3
10
7
4
11
vatari Elenentary Sch.)• gun, Fukushina Pref.
350
Segava Sho Gakko (Sega- Segava-mura, Tarmre-
July 1904
394
331
775
387
371
758
10
11-2
23
11
11-2 24
va Elenentary School) gun, Fukushima Pref.
351
Seishido Sho Gakko (Sei- Naganune-mechi, Imase- pril 1901
17
25
42
17
25
42
1
1
2
1
1
2
shido Eiementary School) (un, Fukushina Pref.
352
Sekinire Sho Gakko (Se- Sekihira-mura, Nishishi- arch 1925
315
330
645
311
320
631
5-1
8-1
15
5
8-1
14
kihira Elenentery Sch.) rakawa-gun, Fukushimx. Pref.
353
Sekinoto Sho Gakko (Se- Yamano-rure, Taura-
April 1933
273
225
498
269
225
494
6
6
12
6
5
11
kimoto Ele entery Soh.)•gun, Fukushima Prf.
354
Sekinoto Sho Caldso (Se- Sekimoto-mura, De to-
April 1941
376
325
701
371
318
689
6
11
17
6
10
16
kinoto Elenentary Sch.) gun, Fukuslina Prof.
355
Sekishiba Sho Gakko (So- Sekishibe-ure, Yn-
4pril 1890
346
350
696
342
353
695
6
10
16
6
10
16
kishibe Elunentary Sch.) gun, Fuicishima ref.
356
Senoue Sho Gakko (Seno Senoue-mecii, Shinobu-
May 1873
264
293
562
262
286
548
8-1
6
15
91
5
15
ue Elementery School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
357
Shibukava Sho Gaicko (Shi-Shi bukawa-mura, dachi-
1873
368
328
696
369
324
693
8
10
13
8
10
18
bukama Blenentary Sch.) gun, Fulkushina ref.
358
Shinizu Sho Galko (Shi-
Shinizu-mure, Shinobu- Nov. 1889
560
495
1055
568
496
1064
8-1
8-1
13-1 23
mizu Elementary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
359
Shinokawazaki Sho Gakko
Shimokcwazaki-nure,
Oct. 1874
422
385
807
411
384
795
6-1 11
18
7-1
11
19
(Shimokawazaki Blemen-
Adachi-gun,
tary School)
Fulkushint Pref.
360
Shimomi saka Sho Gakko
Msaka-mura, Ivaki-
y 1873
85
109
194
89
110
199
3
2
5
3
5
(Shimomisake Elenentary
gun, Fukushima Pref.
School)
The figures for this institution include taosc for one brench school under the sane administration.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the sae adwinistration.
-78-

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.98)
NILE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 .46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
361 Shinonaketsukea Sho
Showa-nura, onux-gun, mmy 1874
128
130
258
122
131
253
11
1-2
14
11
1-1
13
Gakko (Shimonaketsukava
Fukushina Pref.
Elenentery School)
362
Shinoogoe Sho Gakito (Shi- Ogoe-machi, Ta ura-
pril 1941
275
255
530
270
255
525
5
5
10
5
5
10
moog∞ Elemontery Sch.) gun. Fukushimn Pref.
135
108
243
129
105
234
2
3
5
3
3
6
363
Shinooguni Sho Gakko (Shi-Oguni-mure, Date-gun, ug. 1873
nooguni Blaientary Sch.) Fukushin Fref.
364
Shinoota Sho Galko (Shi-
Ota- mure, dchi-gun, ril 1893
299
279
578
295
277
572
5-1
5-1 6-1
13
noota Elenentery School)
Fukushina Pref.
365
Shinosekilamauchi Sho
Toyosato-ura, Hicashi- Sept. 1876
250
232
482
249212
461
7
3
10
6
3
9
Goldko (Shinosekikawauchi
shiralawa-gun,
Elamentery School)•
Fullushime Pref.
366
Shinoteto Sho Galko (Shi- Ote-nure, Dete-gum,
Sept. 1873
59
50
109
59
50
109
3
1
2
1
3
nototo Elanentary School) Fukushin Pref.
367
Shinchi Sho Gako (Shin-
Shinchi-mue, Sona-
Fob. 1872
481
533
1014
482
531
1013
4
13
17
5
12
17
chi Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushine Fref.
368
Shindo Sho Gakko (Shindo
Shindo-mura, Adechi-
Oct. 1873
299
273
572
267
266
533
5
6
11
6
7
13
Elementery School)-
gun. Fukushima Pref.
369
Shingo Sho Gakko (Shingo
Shingo-mura, Kawenuna- May 1873
345
279
624
339
282
621
a
8
7
15
370
Shingo Sho Gakko (Shinto
Elementary School)*
Shingo-nura, Yana-gun, June 1873
gun. Fukushina Prof.
226
201
427
220
208
428
8
4-1
13
9
3-1 13
Elexentery School)*
Fukushim Pref.
371
Shinobu Sho Gakko (Shino- Shinobu-mura, Nishishis Mare: 1873
333
322
655
328
316
644
6-1
7
14
5-1
bu Elanentary School)  rakama-gun, Fukushime Pref.
372
Shinzan Sho Geliko (Shin- Shinzan-nnchi, Futaba- Mey 1886
431
444
875
442
456
898
9
8
17
9
zan Elumentcry School) gun, Fukushime Pref.
373
Shidkawa Sho Gakko (Shi- Shiolkama-nachi, Yma- ay 1873
240
260
500
242
261 503
8-1 6-1 16
okava Elamentary School) gun, Fukushina Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for tio branch schools under the same adninistration.
The figures for this institution include those for ne branch school under the sare adninistration,
-79-

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.97)
F
T
T
M
F
T
1i
F
T
374
Shiozava Sho Gakko (Shi- Shiozcia-mure, idacihi-
,1830
257
251
438
253
229
482
6-1
4
11
5-1
4
10
ozawa Elenentary School) gun, Fulaushime Pief.
375
Shirao Sho Galdto (Shi-
Shiree-mure, Iwase-
pril 1917
331
312
643
322
310
632
5
5
10
4
5
9
rae Elenentary School)
gun, Fulcushime pref.
376
Shiraiva Sho Galiko (Shi- Ivase-mure, Ta ura-gun, ug. 1914
200
195
395
194.
206
400
6
4
10
5
4
9
raiva Elenentery School) Putushime Pref.
377
Shireiwa Sho Gakko (Shi- Shiraive-mura, ¿dacli-
. 1875
692
677
1369
710
673
1363
7
19
26
7
19
26
reiwm Elenentery Sch.)* gun, Fukushine ITef.
378
Shirekate Sho Cckko (Shi- Shirakata-mure, Iiase-
4pril 1892
503
508
1011
501
508
1009
12-1
3-1
22
13-1 8-1
23
rakata Elenentery Sch.) gun, Fukushime rei
379
Shirekewa Dai ichi Sho
Shirakawa-macii, Nishi-
July 1836
357
504
1761
833
337
1725
17
18-1 36
17
18-1 36
Gekko (Shirakama Dai-
shiraikewa-gun, Fukushin
ichi Blementary School)
Pref.
360
Shirekave Daini Sho
Shirakewa-mnchi, Mishi- Jure 1903
730
760
1540
776
755
1531
14
15
29
12
16
28
Gecko (Shireleve Second
shirakara-gun,
Elementcry School)
Fukushima ref.
331
Shirakawe Daisan Sho
Shirakaa-ncii,
Jan. 1912
352
880
1732
643
867
1710
16
18
34
17
34
Gakko (Shirakawa Third
Nishishirekesa-gun,
Elemontary School)
Fukushinn Pref.
382
Shirane Sho Galkko (Shi-
Shirane-murc, Date-gun, Doc. 1374
218
231
449
214
231
445
5-1 4-1 11
5-1 4-1
11
rane Elenentery School)
Futushine prof.
333
Shirasalm Sho Galdso (Shi- Shirasaka-ura, Mishishi- Jen. 1375
216
242
458
221
249
470
5-1
4-1
11
5
4-1
10
rasake Elenentery Sch.)
rakave-gun, Fucushime ef
384
Sho jo Sho Gakcko (Sho jo
Sho jo-nurc, Kavenumo-
Mey 1873
233
259
492
235
263
493
7-1
6-1
15
6
5-1
12
Elenentary School)
sun, Fulkushimn Pref.
385
Sugana Sho Gakko (Sugana
Sugan-nure, Ishikevn-
Merch 1873
305
398
783
363
399
782
10-2 9
21
11-2 9
22
Elenontary School)***
gun, Fukushinn rei.
366
Sugaya Sho Gakko (Su-
Takino-machi, Tenure-
April 1938
150
140
290
150
140
290
5
2
7
4
3
7
gaye Elementary School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
Figures for this institution include those for three branch schools under the sane adrinistration.
* The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the sane adinistration.
 The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the sene administration.
-80 -

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.97)
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T.
F
T
F
T
1
F
T
387 Suginane Sho Geliko (Su- Sugina le-mure, Shinobu-
Nov. 1873
501
471
972
492
460
952
8
13
21
8
11
19
ginono Elenentery Sch.)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
388
Sugite Sho Gekto (Su-
Sugita-mure, dachi-
y 1397
407
426
833
304426
730
12
3
20
12
8
20
gita Elementery Sch.)•
cun, Fukushime Pref.
339
Sukageve Daiichi Sho
Sukegawc-nechi, Iwase-
pril 1372
1383 1343 2731
1372 1320 2692
20
23
48
21
27
48
Gakko (Sukagava First
gun, ukushim Pref.
Elemntary School)
390
Sukageia Daini Sho
Sukegava mecin, Iase
4pril 1907
688
1424
734
681
1415
10
17
27
10
17 27
Gakko (ukegana Second
cun, Fukushi n ref.
Elementery School)
391
Sunagchara Sho Gekko(Su-  Nisliyana-mura, Onuna- ay 1873
314
292
606
313
285
598
11-1 8
20
10-1 8
19
nagohare Rlaxntary Sch gun, Fukushine Pref.
392
Suzuishi Sho Gakko (Su-
Ishii-mura, dachi-
Oct. 1873
135
152
287
132
154
286
3
4
7
3
4
7
zuishi Elenentary Sch.)
cun, Fukushine Pref.
393
Taguchi Sho Gakko (Ta-
Takenuki-mura, Higashi-
Not Given
270
278
548
257
272
529
5
5
10
5
5
10
guchi Elemontary Sch.)
shireiawa-gun, Fuikushina pref.
394
Tahito Sho Gakko (Tahi-
Tehito-mura, Ivald-
March 1883
771
749
1520
473
713
1456
10
18
28
14
18
32
to Blerentary School)** gun, Fukushim Pref.
395
Ta jina Sho Gakko (Ta jina Ta jina-nachi, Linaniai-
June 1873
734
705
1439
683
1369 13-1 14-1 29
14
14
28
Elemontary School)****
zu-gun, Fukushinn Pref.
396
Takado Sho Gekko (Takada Takeda-nacihi, Onuna-
pril 1873
696
708
1404
654
675
1329
18
16
8
24
Elenm tary School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
397
Takegi Sho Gakko (Talagi Takagi-murc, Higashishi- Oct. 1873
553
467
1020
547
448
995
12
10
22
.12
10
22
Elenentary School)**
rakawa-gun, Fukushina Pref.
398
Takahira Sho Gakso (Ta-
Takahirc-mure, Sone-
Feb. 1874
356
387
743
351
373
724
7-1
7-1
16
9-1
18
kahira Elaentery Sch.)
gun, Fukushima ref.
399
Takald S1o Gakko (Taka-
Wakisava-nura, dechi-
. 1903
93
116
209
94
115
209
2
3
5
2
4
6
ki Rlane. tary School )
gun. Fukushine iref.
●
The figures for this institution include those for one brench school under the sap adinis tration.
电电
The figures for this institution include thse for four branch schocls under the same adinistretion.
 The figures for this institution include those for six brench schools under the sane adainistration.
-81-
 The figures for this institution include those for three branch schools under the same administration.

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.98)
NAME
DDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLENT
TGHERS
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
2
F
T
I
F
T
400
Takaki Sho Gakko (Tacalci
Kaneyana-mura, Nishish i- Oct. 1892
177
159
336
177
161
338
4
3
7
4
3
7
Elementary School)
rakawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
401
Takaku Sho Gac ko (Taka-
Tekaku-mura, Iwaki-
June 1873
341
338
679
365
343
708
6-1
6-1
24
6-1
7-1
15
ku Elementary School)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
402
Takakure Sho Gakko (Ta-
Hiwada-machi, Asaka-
1894
151
137
288
147
140
287
4
4
8
4
5
9
kakura Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
403
Takakura Sho Gak ko (Ta-
Miyagi-mra, Tamra-
Oct. 1873
242
261
503
236
254
490
7
4
11
7
4
11
kakura Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushima pref.
404
Takano Sho Gak ko (Teka-
Takano-mura, Tanura-
pril 1940
223
229
457
233
230
463
6
5
11
7
4
11
no Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
405
Takano Sho Gakko (Takano
Takano-mura. Hicashisii- April 1889
288
297
535
283
292
575
11
5
16
10
6
16
El ementary School)•
rakava-gun, Fukushima Pref.
406
Takasaka Sho Gakko (Taka- Uchigo-machi, Iwalci-
April 1905
955
966
1921
970
941
1911
13
28
41
14
27
41
sake Elementary School)
gun, Fuisushima Pref.
407
Takase Sho Gakko (Takase
Telase-mura, Tamura-
March 1876
398
381
779
397
382
779
9
9
18
7
9
16
Elementary School)
gun. Fukushinm Pref.
408
Takine Sho Gakko (Takine
Takine-machi, Tanura-
April 1912
387
370
757
385
369
754
8-1
9
18
8-1
9
18
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushime pref.
409
Tam i Sho Galiko (Tama ji
Tama ji-mure, onune-
June 1925
299
305
604
292
299
591
10
6
16
9
5
14
Elementery School) *
gun, Fukushima Pref.
410
Tamana shi Sho Gakko (Ta-
Kawakuchi-mura, Onuma-
pril 1873
86
94
180
86
95
181
5
1
6
5
1
6
manashi Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fuisushima Pref.
421
Tamanoi Sho Gakko (Tama-
Tamanoi-mura, Adachi-
June 1896
603
592
1195
579
569
1148
12
10
22
13
10
23
noi Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Fref.
412
Tamakani Sho Galiko (Tamo-
Futase-mure, Tamure-
Dec. 1873
177
179
356
179
181
360
6
2
8
5
4
9
kami Elementary School)
gun, Fulushime pref.
423
Tanakura Sho Gakko (Tana- Tanakura-machi, Higashi- Dec. 1872
721
661
1382
717
660
1377
11-1 15-1 28
10-1 16-1 28
kura Elementary School) shirakawa-gun,Fukushima Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for three branch schools under the me administration.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same administration.
-82-

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.98)
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30. 46
30 Nov. 46
in
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
414
Tatano Sho Gakko(Tatano
Tatano-nure, saka-
Dec. 1873
470
418
888
482
417
899
9-1
8-1
19
10-1 9-1
21
Elementery Sdh ool)
gun, Fukushinc Pref.
415
Tateiwa Sho Gakko (Tate- Tateiwe-mura, Minaniai- pril 194)
348
317
665
334.
328
662
14
5
19
14
5
19
iwe Elementary School)* zu-cun. Fukushinx Pref.
416
Tatsugoyann Sho Gak∞ (Ta-
Tatsukoyama-mure, Dcte-ug. 1874
247
244
491
244
243
487
7-1
2
10
7-1
2
10
tsugoyema lemntary Sch.)
gun, Fusushime Pref.
417
Tatsute Sho Gdcko (Tatsu- Tctsutc-mure, Futaba-
July 1873
584
588
1172
583
576
1159
11-1
24
11-1
24
tcElementary School)
gun, Fukushinn pref.
418
Tazawa Sho Gakko (Tazawa
Asahi-mure, dachi-
Oct. 1873
207
180
387
202
174
376
5
4
9
5
4
9
Elemontery School)
gun, Fukushinm Pref.
419
Tochiyamakami Sho Gakko
Futase-mura, Temra-
Not Given
262
257
519
265
258
523
5-1 5-1
12
4-1
4-1
10
(Tochiyamakeni Elemen-
gun, Fukushime Prof.
tary School)
420
Tokiwa Sho Gakko (Tokiwa
Tokiwe-me chi, Temura-
Oct. 1873
459
430
889
454
432
886
9
9
18
10
9
19
Elementery School)
gun, Futushine ref.
421
Taninari Sho Gakko (Tai-
Tominari-mure, Dete-
Dec. 1873
249
224
473
249
223
472
4-1
4
9
4-1
5
10
nari Elementary School)
gun, Fukushimm Pref.
422
Tomino Sho Gakko (Tomino
Tomino-mura, Dete-
Dec. 1875
281
251
532
277
249
526
7
4
11
6
4
10
Elementery School)
gun. Fukushime Prof.
423
Tomioka Sho Galáso (Tomio-
Tomioka-nachi, Futaba-
July 1873
568
625
1193
571
619
1190
14
9
23
17
9
26
ka Elementery School)
gun, Fultushime Pref.
424
Tomita Sho Galiso (Tomito
Toni tc-mura, isaka-
June 1875
402
379
781
401
379
780
7-1
11
19
7
11
18
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushime pref.
425
Torikama Sho Gekko (To-
Torikewa-mura, Shinobu- oct. 1892
280
274
554
272
267
539
5
7
12
61
6-1 14
rikawa Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fucushime Pref.
426
Tosnwa Sho Gakko (Tosa-
Tosava-mura, dachi-
Sopt. 1909
209
203
412
201
206
407
4-1 4-1
10
5-1
4-1 11
wa Elementery School)
gun, Fukushimc Pref.
427
Toyókawa Sho Gakko (Toyo- Toyokewa-mura, Yama-
oct. 1881
329
341
670
330
338
38
10-1 91
21
10-1 8-1 20
kawe Elemontary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Tho figures for this institution include those for five brench schools under the same administration.
00
The figures for this institution include those for throo brunch schools under the same administration.
-83-

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
T
1I
2
T
F
T
F
T
428
Toyane Sho Galiko (Toyo-
Toyonn-nechi, Iwaki-
March 1873
432
430
862
427
424
851
8
9
17
10
8
18
m Elenentery School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
429
Toyota Sho Gakko (Toyo-
Toyota-mure, Asaka-
Nov. 1880
368
335
703
365
322
687
10
7-1
18
10-1 7-1
19
ta Elementary School)
gun, Furushima Pref.
430
Tsuchiyu Sho Gakko (Tsu- Tsuchiyu-mura, Shinobu- pril 1873
82
92
174
80
89
169
3-1
2-1
7
3-1
2-1
7
chiyu Elementary School) gun, Fukushine Pref.
431
Tsukideto Sho Gakko(Tsu- Tsukidete-machi, Dc to- April 1900
496
516
1012
486
509
995
10-1 9-1
21
11-1 7-1
20
Kidato Elementery School) gun, Fukushima Pref.
432
Tsukigata Sho Gakko (Tsu- Tsukigata-nura, seka- pril 1908
301
331
632
239
323
612
7
5
12
8
6-1
15
Kigeto Elenontcry Sch.)• gun, Fukushina Pref.
433
Tsukiia Sho Gekko (Tsu- Tsukiwa-mure, Yana-
April 1885
320
323
643
317
321
638
6-1
7
14
6-1
7
14
Hm Eleon tery Sch.)
gun, Fukushim Prof.
434
Tsunetoyo Sho Gakko (Tsu-Tsunetoyo-murc, Higashi- Sept. 1872
606
593
1199
609
585
1194
11-2
11
24
11-2
11
24
netoyo Elenentary Sch.)•shirckae-gun, Fukushima Pref.
435
Tsurusawe Sho Gekko (Tsu- Tomite-mur, Dte-Eun, Jon. 1874
246
223
469
213
197
410
5-1
6
12
5-1
11-2 19
rusawe Elenentary School) Fukushime Pref.
436
Tsushime Sho Gekko (Tsu- Tsushina-mura, Futaba- pril 1398
289
291
580
293
305
593
5
6
11
5
6
11
shima Elemen tary Sch.)*
gun, Fukushina Pref.
437
Ubado Sho Gakko (Ubado
Ubado-mura, Yann-gun,
April 1924
255
222
477
254
225
479
61
3-1
11
5-1
3-1
10
Elementery 3chool)
Fukushina Pref.
438
Uchikava Sho Gakko (Uchi- Taka ji-mure, Higashi- Nov. 1876
107
90
197
110
86
198
2
2
4
.2
4
kawe Elementary School)
shirakeve-gun, Fukushima Pref.
439
Uchikohate Sho Gekko (U- Kohc ta-mura, dachi-
Dec. 1873
216
216
432
208
216
424
5
4-1
10
6~-1
4-2
13
chikohata Elementary Sch.)gun, Fukushima Pref.
440
Uchimachi Sho Gakko (Uchi-Uchigo-machi, Iwaki-
July 1373
995
929
1924
917
964
1881
8
26
34
11
24
35
machi Elenentary Sch.)*
gun, Fukushima Pref.
441
Ueda Sho Gakiso (Uede
Ueda-machi, Iweki-gun, pril 1887
891
784
1675
782
735
1517
11
18
29
12
17
29
Klementary School)
Fukushima Pref.
442
Ukedo Sho Gakko (Ukedo
Uke do-mura, Futaba-
April 1887
332
291
623
334
296
630
9
7
16
6
14
Elementary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for one branch school under the same adrinistration.
电
The figures for this institution include those for three branch schools under the same administretion.
-84-

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.98)
NE
DDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
EROLIMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
11
F
T
II
F
T
443
Utsunine Sho Gakko (Utsu- Yatagawa-rure, Taura-
Oct. 1873
212
191
403
208
193
401
6-1
4-1
12
5-1 4-1
11
mnine Elementery School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
444
Utsushi Sho Gakko (Utsh-
Utsushi-nure, Termm-
.1873
367
370
737
373
376
747
11
7
18
15
5
20
shi Elementery School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
445
Wada Sho Gekko (Wada
Wagiscwc-mure, dachi- Dec. 1873
372
34€
718
364
330
694
6
10
16
7
10
17
Elenentary School)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
446
Wakemiya Sho Gakiso (Waka-
Wakaniya-mura, Kawanune- pril 1924
483.
435
918
474
428
902
8-1
8
17
9-1
7
17
miya Rlementery School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
447
Watado Sho Gakko (Watado
Nagato-mure, Iwaki-
pril 1905
88
110
198
85
112
197
3
3
.6
3
3
6
Elementery School)
gun, Fukushine Pref.
448
Watanebe Sho Gakso (Wate-
We tenebe-mure, Iaki-
pril 1874
236
232
468
230
240
470
9-1
5-1
16
8-1
5-1
15
nabe Elementury Sch.)*
gun, Fukushina Pref.
449
Wetercse Sho Gakko (Weta- Sanekae-mura, Higcshi- Sept. 1879
173
192
365
182
178
360
5
3
8
7
2
9
raso Elenentery School)•
shirekawe-gun, Fukushim Pre?.
450
Watari Dciichi Sho Galdko
Weteri-murc, Shinobu-
Dec. 1873
377
373
750
373
360
733
6
12
18
6
12
18
(Wetari First Elementary
gun, Fukushimn Pref.
Scho∞l) •
451
Watari Daini Sho Gakko
Wetari-nurc, Shinobu-
March 1875
53
49
102
53
49
102
1
3
4
1
3
4
(Wateri Second Elcnentary gun, Fukushine Pref.
School)
452
Yabuldi Sho Gakko (Yebuki
Yebuld-nachi, Nishishi- June 1873
669
616
1285
672
623
1295
12-1 12-1 26
11-1 13-1 26
Elenentery School)
rakama-gun, Fuisushinx Pref.
453
Yahata Sho Gakko (Yahete
Yahata-mura, Som-gun, July 1389
375
351
726
373
351
7248
7
15
9
6
15
Elementery School)
Fukushina Pref.
454
Yanada Sho Gakko (Yamade
Yanr de-nurt, Ivaki-
Licy 1874
543
529
1072
552
540
1092
8
10
18
10
10
20
Elonentary School)•
gun, Fukushina Pruf.
455
Yancfunyu Sho Gakko (Yac- Yanfunyu-murc, Dete-
Jan. 1875
232
217
449
226
201
427
8
41
13
9
3-1
13
funyu Elementery School) gun, Fukushinn Pref.
456
Yanngata Sho Gakko (Yone- Yemchashi-nura, Ishikawo- July 1878
128
133
261
126
132
258
4
3
7
3
gata Elerentary School)
gun, Fukushinn Prof.
Tho figuros for this institution include those for one branch school undor the saue adinistration.
-85-

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 A2r. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
457
Yamagata Sho Gakiso (Ya-
Tsukiwa-mura, Yama-
Aug. 1923
103
106
209
105
106
211
3
2
5
3
2
5
magata Elementary Sch.)
gun, Futushina Pref.
458
Yamakemi Sho Gakko (Ya-
Yamakami-mura, Sona-
Oct. 1873
257
227
484
253
230
483
4
9
13
5
8
13
makani Elementary Sch.)*
gun, Fukushine Pref.
459
Yanakiya Sho Gacko (Ya-
Yamakiya-rura, Adachi-
April 1375
243
209
457
251
204
455
3
2
10
3
3
11
makdiyaRlemantery Sch 
gun, Fukushima Pref.
460
Yamane Sho Gaicko (Yama-
Yamene-mura, Tamura-
March 1933
100
95
195
100
97
197
3
1
4
4
1
5
ne Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
461
Yamaoka Sho Gakko (Yama-
Yemacka-mure, Higashiaii- Nov. 1873
64
44
1C3
62
43
105
3
1
4
3
2
5
oke Elemen tery School)
rakawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
462
Yamasato Sho Gakko (Ya-
Yamasato-mura, Yene-gun, March 1912
227
243
470
215
236
451
5
7
12
5
7
12
masato Elementary Sch.)*
Fukushima Pref.
463
Yamashireishi Sho Galdko
Yamashireishi-mure, Ishi- July 1876
169
167
336
165
163
328
5-1
5-1
12
5
4
9
(Yamashiraishi Elemen-
kewa-gun,Fulsushina Pref.
tary School)
464
Yamatoda Sho Galko (Yame- Ishido-mura, Date-gun, Jan. 1874
105
116
221
103
114
217
3
2-1
6
3
toda Elementary School) Fukushima Pref.
465
Yamato Sho Gakko (Yamato Yamato-mura, Yane-gun,
April 1873
290
238
528
274
255
529
7-1 5
13
7-1
6
14
Elementary School)
Fukushima Pref.
466
Yanagama Sho Gakko (Yana- Yanagewe-machi, Date-
June 1873
788
687
1475
769
684
1453
24
10-1 14
25
gawa Elementary School)
un, Fulcushina Pref.
467
Yenaizu Sho Gakko (Yanai- Yanaizu-machi, Kawanuna- March 1873
533
579
1112
530
553
1083
15-1 12
28
16-1 12
29
zu Elementary Schoo.)***
gun, Futushim Pref.
468
Yasawa Sho Gakko (Yesawo
Yasawa-mure, Soma-gun, April 1911
371
322
693
365
320
685
10-1 10-1 22
9-1 91
20
Elementery School)**
Fukushima Pref.
469
Yashiro Sho Gakko (Yashi- yashiro-murc, Nishishi- June 1884
226
254
480
222
252
474
6-1 6-1
14
7-1 5-1 14
ro Elementary School) rekawa-gun, Fukushima Pref.
470
Yashirogawa Sho Gakko(Ya-Yashirogawa-mure, Higashi- June 1873 341
306
647
338
309
647
8
5
13
8
5
13
shirogawa Blenentary Sch) ahirakawa-gun, Fukushine Pref.
The figures for this institution include those for two branch schools under the sane administration.
8*
The figures for this institution include those for one branch sohool under the same administration.
The figures for this institution include those for six branch schools under the sane administretion.
-86-

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.99)
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
T
X
F
T
471 Yawata Sho Gakko (Yav-
Yavata-mura, Kavanuma-
March 1873
333
314
647
330
305
635
92
7
18
92 7
18
ta Elenentary School)*
gun, Fukushima Pref.
472
Yokota Sho Gakiso (Yoko-
Yokota-mra, Onuma-
June 1873
215
197
412
222
185
407
10-1 4-1
16
11-1 4-1
17
ta Elementary School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
473
Yomogita Sho Galko (Yo-
Yomogita-mura, Ishikawa- Sept. 1874
390
346
736
389
336
725
6
8
14
6
8
14
mogita Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
474
Yone Sho Galdso (Yone
Nishigo-mura, Nishishira- Dec: 1875
157
135
292
156
137
293
4
3
7
4
3
7
Klementary School)
kawa-gun, Fukushinm Pref.
475
Yoshiita Sho Gakko (Yo-
Yoshiita-mura, Shinobu- 4pril 1892
342
332
674
347
327
674
9
8
17
8
9
17
shiita Elementary Sch.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
476
Yoshikogawa Sho Gdk ko(Yo- Yoshikogava-mura, Nishi- Lug. 1874
276
269
545
278
267
545
8-1
4-1
14
8-1
4-1
14
shikogawa Elementery Sch.) shirakeve-gun, Fukushina Pref.
477
Yoshima Daiichi Sho Galko Yoshine-mura, Ivaki-
ug. 1873
1475 1494 2969
1450 1473 2923
19
38
57
19
37
56
(Yoshinm First Elementa- gun, Fukushim Fref.
ry School)
478
Yoshime Daini Sho Galkko
Yoshima-mure, Iwaki-
4ug. 1873
138
138
276
138
138 276
5
3
8
5
3
8
(Yoshima Secand Elemen- gun, Fukushime Pref.
tary School)
479
Yotsukura Sho Gakko (Yo- Yotsukura-macini, Ivaki- July 1873
813
816
1629
812
831
1643
14
20
34
13
20
33
tsukura Elementery Sch.)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
480
Yui Sho Gaisito (Yui
Yui-mura, dachi-gun,
pril 1873
460
501
961
449
491
940
7
11
13
8
12
20
Elamentery School)
Fulkushinn Prof.
481
Yumoto Sho Gakko (Yumo-
Yumoto-nachi, Iwald-
pril 1907
953
996
1949
933
993
1926
11
24
35
13
21
34
to Elementary School)
gun, Fukushime Pref.
482
Yomoto Sho Gakko (Yumo)
Yumoto-mura, Ivase-gun, March 1902
190
187
377
190
187
377
6
3
9
6
3
9
to Elanentary School)e*
Fukushima Pref.
483
Yunamachi Sho Gakko (Yu- Yuno-machi, Date-gun,
pril 1874
517 506
1023
521 508
1029
14-1 10-1 26
13-1 11-1 26
nomachi Elementary Sch.) Fukushime Pref.
Total
171178
337461 169375
334377 3731-205
7749
3778-204 7753
166283
165002
3643-170
3599-172
●
The figures for this institution include thoso for one branch school undor tho samo administration.
The figures for this institution includo those for two branch schools undor the sam administration.
-87-

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.98)
ROSTER OF JAPNESE EDUCTIONAL LNSTITUTIONS
FUKUSHIM& PREFECTURE
FUKUSHIM
IV. VILLAGE CR TOWN SCHOCLS
B. Elanentery Educati on (Shoto Kyoiku)
2. Kindergartens (Yochion) under theControl of Villago or Town officc, Eukushin prefocturo
NAME
ADDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TE CHERS
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30.46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
22
F
T
F
T
1 Bangemachi Yochien (Ban-
Bange-ne chi, Kuwenuma-
July 1902
73
93
166
61
78
139
0-1
3
4
4
gemachi Kindergarten)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
2
Hobaramachi Yochien (Ho-
Hobara-mechi, Date-gun, March 1944
49
66
115
49
63
112
0-1
4
4
baramachi Kindergarten)
Fukushime Pref.
3
Inawashiro Yochien (Ine-
Inawashiro-machi, Yem- Sept. 1926
22
14
36
22
14
36
1
1
2
1
1
2
washiro Kindergarten)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
4
Kitakata Yochion (Kita-
Kitakata-ne chi, Yama-
Lus. 1906
87
135
222
78
137
215
5
5
5
5
kata Kindergarten)
gun, Fusushime Pref.
5
Kooricho Yochien (Kooricho Kooricho, Dete-gun,
May 1907
44
49
93
31
43
74
0-1
2
3
0-1
2
3
Kindergarten)
Fukushima Pref.
6
Yumoto Tochion (Yumoto
Yumoto-machi, Iwaki-
1913
43
72
115
39
58
97
2
2
2
2
Kindergerten)
gun,Fukushime Pref.
Totel
318 429 747
280
393
673
1-3 16
20
1-3
16
20
#
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
x
The number of both full and pert-time teachers is indiccted in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same calumm.
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-88-

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JAPANLSE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
FUKUSHIMA PREF CTURE
FUKUSHLM
V. PRIVATL SCHOOLS
B. Sccondary Education (Chuto Kyciku)
1. Vocctional Schocls (Jitsugyo Gakko)
b) Carmercial Schools for Pemales (Joshi Shogyo Gakko ), Fukushirm Prefccturo
NALL
△DDRRSS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TLCHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30p. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
H
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
1 Wakamatsu Joshi Shogyo
Koka-machi, Wakamatsu
Feb. 1944
740
740
725
725
11
11
22
10
9
19
Gakko (Wakanatsu Girls'
City, Fukushine Pref.
Commercial School)
Total
740 740
725
725
11
11
22
10
9
19
V. PRIVTE SCHOOLS
B. Secondery Educati on (Chuto Kyoiku)
2. Middle Schools (Chu Gekko), Fukushime Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT #
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
1 Ishikawa Chu Gakko
Ishikawa-machi, Ishikewe- pril 1907 953
953
924
924
25
25
22
22
(Ishikawa Middle School)
gun, Fukushima Pref.
Total
953
953
924
924
25
·25
22
22
These figures are not those for actuel attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
-89-

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUSHIML PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JLPANESE EDUC TICNAL INSTITUTIONS
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
a) Youth Schools for Males (Denshi Seinen Gakko), Fukushima Prefecture
NAME
△DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLIMENT
TECHERS
x
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
M
F
T
F
T
M
F
T
1. Dainihon Tako Kogyo Seinen Nakoso-machi, Iaki-
April 1941
157
157
157
157
7
7
7
7
Galdro (Japan Tako Coal Min- gun, Fulkushime Yref.
ing Industry Youth Sch.)
2
Furukawa Yoshima Tanko
Yoshina-nura, Iwaki-
1940
192
192
192
192
4-11
15
4-11
15
Seinen Gakko (Furitawa Yo- gun, Fukushina Pref.
shina Coalmining Youth Sch.)
3
Hodogaya Kagaku Koriyama Ya jin, Koriyema City,
May 1941
59
59
59
2
2
2
2
Seinen Galdko (Hodogeya Che- Fukushima Pref.
nistry Koriyam Youth Sch.)
4 Kyosan Kogyo Seinen Gakko Nikawaninani-cho, Fuku Nov. 1944
40
40
49
49
0-5
5
0-5
5
(Kyosan Industry Youth Sch.) shime City, Fukushine Pref.
5
Maruni Bi jutsu Kogei Seinen Ikki-mura, Kitaaizu-
July 1946
46
46
4-4
8
Galdto (aruni Fine Lrts
gun, Fukushinm Pref.
Technical Youth School)
6
Mitsubiahi Seiko Hirota Sei- Nippashi-ura, Kawenu- Nov. 1943
45
45 54
54
0-2
2
0-2
2
nen Gakko (Mitsubishi Steel me-gun, Fukushima Pref.
Hirota Youth School)
7
Nippon Suiso Kogyo Onahama
Onahama-machi, Iweki- 4pril 1939
55
2
2
1
1
Seinen Gakko (Japan Hydro-
gun, Fukushime Pref.
genous Industry Onahana
Youth School)
8 Numa jiri Kozan Seinen Gakko Azuna-mura, Yama-
Dec. 1939
45
45 4
41
0-4
0-4
4
(Numajiri Mining Youth Sch.)gun, Fukushima Pref.
# These figures are not those for actual attendence on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
I The number of both full and pert-time teachers is indicated in this repart. Where there are two numbers entered in the same columm
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
-90-

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.96)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
Ii
F
T
N
F
T
M
F
T
mahananachi Kaiyo Scinen
Onahaea-nachi, Ivaki-
June 1941
43
43
43
43
2
2
2
2
Gakko (onahamachiOcoan
gun. Fukushine pref.
Youth Sohool)
10 Showa Donko Hirota Soinen Nippashi-nure, Kawanuna- pril 1946
49
49
72
72
1-6
7
1-6
7
Gakro (Shova Blectric
gun, Fukushimn Prof.
Industry Hirotc Youth Sch.)
11 Tohoku Shinko Aluminiun
Myata, Koriyamm City, April 1940
7
7
3
3
Koriyam Kogyo Soinen
Fukushima pref.
Gakko (Pranoting Tohoku
Alluminium Koriyan In-
dustrial Youth School)*
Total
632
682
768
768
21-28
49
21-32
53
This school was closed in September 1946.
-91-

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.97)
FUKUSHE PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JIPINESE EDUCITICNL INSTITUTIONS
V. PRIVITE SCHOCLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
b) Youth Schools for Females (Joshi Seinen Gakko), Fukushima Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TEACHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
T
1 Fukushina Hanazono Jo
Hanazono-cho, Fukushina April 1941
60
60
1-11 1-4
1-11 1-4 17
Gakko (Fukushime Hanezono City, Fukushimm Pref.
Girls' Sehool)
2
Gunze Kori Joshi Seinen
Kori-nachi, Dete-gun,
March 1937
598 593
532 532 1-2 4 7
1-2 3
6
Gekko (Gunze Kori Girls!
Fulkushina Fruf.
Youth School)
3 Kaitatsu Seishi Nihonnatsu Nihonmatsu-nechi, Lda- Dec. 1945
80
80
97
97
1-2 0-1 4
1-2 0-1 4
Joshi Seinen Gakko (Kaita- chi-gun, Fukushima Pref.
tsu Silk Reeling Nihonmatsu
Girls' Youth School)
4
tsubishi Denki Koriyame Sakaihashi-machi, Kori- pril 1944
48 48
Seinen Gelko (Mitsubishi yana City, Fukushine Pref.
Electrio Koriyana Youth Sch.)
5 Nippon Sanshi Kitakata
Ki takata-nachi, Yana-
Dec. 1944
129 129
107 107 1-4 0-1 6
1-4 0-1 6
Joshi Seinen Gakko (Japn gun, Fulcushima Pref.
Silk Thread Kitakate
Girlst Youth School)
6 Shooi Fukushina Joshi Sei- Ota-machi, Fukushina
Feb. 1940
67 67
125 125 1-4 01 61
1-4 0-1. 6
nen Gakko (Shoei Fukushine City, Fukushim Pref.
Girls' Youth School)
7 Toa Miyo Date Joshi Seinen Yuno-nachi, Dato-
March 1937
121 12
109 109 0-5 0-1 6 0-5 0-1 6
Gakdko (Toa Nutrition Date gun, Fukushina Pref.
Girls' Youth School)
Total
1108 1108
1030 1030 8-28 6-8 50 5-28 4-8 45
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for enrollrent on the school rocords as of these dates.
The nuber of both full and part-tine teachers is indicated in this report. Wherc thoro are two numbers ontered in the sane columm.
separated by a hyphen, the seond figure indicates the number of part-time teachers.
In Jume 1946 this school nas closed.
-92-

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.96)
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
FUKUSHELI PREFECTURE
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
B. Secondary Education (Chuto Kyoiku)
4. Youth Schools (Seinen Gekko)
c) Co-cducetione1 Youth Schoclo: (Dan io yocaku Seincn Gecto). Fuisushina srefecture
x
JAE
DDRESS
DATE FOUNLED
BNROLLMENT
TELCHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
Ff
T
T
F
T
1 Chuo izu Bunle Galuin
Bengo-machi, Kawanuna- pril 1946
30
147
177
27
168
195
11-10 2-2
25
12-11 3
26
(Central izu Culture
cun, Fukushine Pref.
Sohool)
Fuji Kogyo Iwaki Seinen
Saizuchikoji, Taira-
oril 1945
25
22
14 36
2
.1
3
Gakko (Fuji Industry Iwali City. Futushima Pref.
Youth School)
3
Fucushina Nitto Scinen
Suginame-mura, Shinobu- Jan. 1935
214 267 481
90 172 262
1-5 .02 8
1-5 0-2 8
Gakko(Fukushine Nitto
gun, Fukushine Pref.
Youth School)
4
Joban Uchigo Seinen Galdko Uchigo-mnchi, Iwaki-
pril 1942
267 65
254
319
3
(Joban Uchigo Youth Sch.)
gun, Fukushimn Pref.
5
Joben Yumoto Seinen Gakto
Yunoto-machi, Iweki-
Junc 1940
333
72
405
329
70
399
2-9 0-1 12
2-9 0-1 12
(Joban Yumoto Youth Sch.)
gun, Fukushinn Pref.
Ketakura Koriyana Seinen
Tancka Koriyanr City,
pril 1937
14
405 419
14
355
369
1-7 1
2-7 3
12
Gakko (Kataktura Koriyana
Fukushime pref.
Youth School)
Kavanata Seiki Seinen Gakko Kevenata-aci, Deto- May 1944
34 56 90
1-1 1-1 47-1 2-1 1-1 4
(Kavaneta Precision Tools
gun, Fukushina Pref.
Youth School)
8
Koriyana Nitto Deiichi
Heyana-nachi, Koriyana July 1935
56 385 441 55 332 387 2-4 1 7
2-4 17
Seinen Gakko (Koriyame
City, Fukushine Pref.
Nitto First Youth Sch.)
寻
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollment on the school records as of theso dates.
x
The nuber of both full and part-tix teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two numbers entered in the same colum.
searated by a hyphen, the socond figure indicates the number of pert-time teachers.
-93-

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.96)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLENT
TEACHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
ii
F
T
F
T
Koriyane Nitto Daini Soi- Toyota-nachi, Koriyane
July 1935
46
539
635
59
625
684
1-1 0-3
1-1 03
5
nen Galdko (Kori yama Nitto City, Fukushi a Pref.
Socond Youth School)
10
Kureha Kegaku Kogyo Nishi- Nishildi-nachi, Iwcki-
April 1939
188
99
8
7
8
ki Seinon Galdko (Kureha
gun, Fucushimm Prof.
Chenical Industry Nishiki
1.
Youth School)
11
M.tsukenn Shibaura Scinon
Matsukeue-machi, Shino- :ay 1946
93
42
140
1-8
10
Gelko (Metsukova Shibaura
Gu-gun, Fukushix Prui.
Youth School)
12
Motaniya Sci salku jo Seinon
Motoiy-chi, d chi- e 1940
47
54
40
47 4
4
4
Gekko (Motaniya M. Co.
cun. Fukushie Pref.
Youth School)
13
Nihon Soda Kabushildi Kai- Bandai-ura, Ye-
Sopt. 1936
65
65
65
25
90
0-7 1
8
0-7 1-2 10
sha Aizu Kojo Seinen Gekto gun, Fukushi.a Fref.
(Japan Soda Co. Ltd. izu
Plant Youth School)
14
Nihon Tsuun Koriyern Sei- Naka-machi, Koriyama
4pril 1943
16-. 12
28
6
6
non Gekko (Jepen Forierding City, Futushix ITef.
Koriyenn Youth School)
15
Nitto Boscki Fukuyuna Sei- Fultuyar-macho, Asaka- April 1937
130 70
250
45
20
65
1-5 1-1 3
nen Gacko (Nitto Spinning gun, Fukushimm Pref.
Fulkuyane Youth School)
16
Tckahatc Kozen Jitsurm
Miwa-mura, Asaie-gun,
Sept. 1939
12
6
18
16
21
3
Geldso (Takcheto Mining
Fulkushim Pref.
Practical School)
17
Takatana Kozan Seinen
tami-nachi, Adachi-
July 1935
7
0-6 2
8
Gakko (Take tana Nining
gun, Futushima Pruf.
Youth School)
The school was closed after pril 1946.
-94-

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.96)
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TEACHERS
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 Apr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
II
F
T
18 Tohoku Kogyo Seinen Gakko Takaishi, Koriyena
ug. 1941
6
4
10
5
4
9
2
1
3
2
3
(Tohoku Industry Youth
City, Fukushinn Pref.
School)
19
Tohoku Senkyo Fukushina
Soneda-rechi, Fulcushi- Nov. 1944
55 19 74 46 19 65
0-9
9
0-8
8
Seinen Gakko (Tohdtu
ne City, Fukushima Pref.
Dock Fukushina Youth
Totel
1562 2256 3818 1383 2089 3472 49-63 13-11 136 42-72 18-10 142
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
B. Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elementary Schools (Sho Gakko)
b) Elementary Schools for Females (Joshi Sho Gakko), Fukushime Prefecture
NAME
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLILENT #
TECHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
3
X
F
T
M
F
T
M
F
1 Salairano Soibogakuin Shoto- mmnnaono-cho, Fukushi- Sept. 1946
16
16
4
2
ka (Elenentary School t-
 City, Fukushin
tachod to Holy Liother of
Prof.
Cherry School)
Total
16 16
4
2
6
# These figures are not those for actual attendance on these detes, but those for enrollment on the school records as of these dates.
-95-

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF J NSE EDUCATIOL INSTITUTI ON
FUKUSHIL PREFECTURE
V. PRIVTE SCHOOLS
C. Elementary Education (Shoto Kyoiku)
1. Elementary Schools (Sho. Gakko)
c) Co-educational Elementary Schools (Dan jo Kyogaku Sho Gakko), Fukushima Prefecture
NME
4DDRESS
DITE FOUNDED
ENROLLLENT
TECHERS
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
11
F
T
1三
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 Takahate Gaicuen (Takahata
Miva-mure, Asaka-gun,
Sept. 1939
20
23
43
20
23
43
1
1
2
1
1
2
School)
Fukushina Pref.
Total
43
20
23
43
1
1
2
1
1
2
# These figures are not those for actuel attendence on these dates, but those for cnrollmont on the school rocords as of those datos.
-96-

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JNESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
FUKUSHE PREFECTURE
FUKUSHD
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
C. Elonentary Educeti on (Shoto Kyoiku)
2. Kindergartens (Yochien), Fukushina Prcfecture
NALE
ADDRESS
D.TE FOUNDED
ENROLI ENT #
TEACHERS
x
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
N
F
T
1 Fukushina Soidi Yochion
Okitana-cho, Fukushi-
pril 1919
27
40
67
40
40
80
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Fukushina Holy, Love Kinder- ne City, Fukushina
garton)
Pref.
2 Narnre Yochion
Nakanura-na chi, Sana-
pril 1930
59.56
115
40
45
85
1
3
4
1
3
4
(Nakamra Kindergarten)
gun, Fukushina Pref.
3
odakanachi Hoikuen
Odaka-nachi, San-
pril 1942
78
125
22
34
56
0-1
2
3
0-1
2
3
(odakencchi Nursery)
gun, Fulushina Pref.
Shirakama Yochien
Shirakava-nachi, Nishi- Feb. 1922
126
276
123
260
1
5
6
1
5
6
(Shirakame Kindergarten)
shirakawa-gun,
Fukushin Prof.
5 Showa Yochion
Shinanachi, Fukushina pril 1929
26
27 53
25 27 .52
1
2
3
1
2
3
(Shoma Kindargarten)
City, Fukushina ref.
6 Sukcgamm Yaohion (Sukagave
Sukegc.we-nachi, Inaso- may 1916
1
3
4
1
3
4
Kindergarton)
gun, Fukushinn Iref.
Total
357 402 759
317 331 648
5-1 17
5-1 17 23
#
These figures cre not those for actual attendence on these dates, but those for enrollaent on the school records as of these dates.
x
The nunber of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two nuibers entered in the sare columm.
separated by a hyphen, the se∞nd figure indicates the number of part-tine teachers.
-97-

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.95)
ROSTER OF JNESE EDUGITIGEL INSTITUTI GS
FUKUSHLLL PREFECTURE
V. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
D. Special Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
4. Miscellaneous Schools (Kakushu Gakko)
a) Miscellaneous Schools for Males (Danshi Kakushu Gakko). Fukushima Prefocturo
NAME
4DDRESS
DaTE FOUNDED
ENROLLET
TEACHERS
X
30 pr. 46
30 Nev. 46
30 4m. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
1
F
T
1 Fukushine Denki Kogyo
Oyann-cho, Fukushing
ipril 1942
390
390
370
370
12
12
14
14
Galdko (Futushinn Electric
City, Putushir Fref.
Industrial School)
Total
390
390
370
370
12
12 14
14
#
Those figures are not thoso for actual attondanco on those detes, but those for enrolluent on the school records as of theso detes.
The number of both full and mrt-tix teachors is indicated in this report. Where thore are two numbers antered in the sane colunn,
separated by a hyphen, the second figure indicates the numbor of part-tire teachers,
98-

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.96)
FUKUSHIM PREFECTURE
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
V. PRIVLTE SCHOOLS
D. Special Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
4. Miscellaneous Sehoola (Kakushu Cakko)
b) Miscellanoous Sohools for Femeles (Joehi Kekuahu Gakko), Eukushima Profecture
NAME
4DDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
ENROLLIENT
TELCHERS
x
30 4pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30.46
30 Nov. 46
15
F
T
15
F
T
II
F
T
E
F
T
1 Asaka Knsei Jo Gakko (sa- Saikonyashiki, Koriyame Juno 1946
59
59
2
4
6
ke Girlst Donestic Sciencc City, Fukushima Pref.
School)
2 saka Koto Yosci Gakuin
Shinizudai, Koriyana
Junc 1946
432 432
2
8
10
(saka Drossnaking Sch.)
City, Fukushim Pref.
Fukushim Koto: Yosai Ge-
Sakao-nachi, Fukushina Feb. 1946
1298 1298
1467 1467 1-1 29-1 32
2-3 35-5 45
kuin (Fukushina Drass-
City. Fukushina Pref.
making School) •(Tho figures for this institution inolude thoso for three branch schools under the same adninistration.)
4
Fukushina Sanba Kangafu Mntsukicho, Fukushine
prch 1913
158 158
153 153
0-22 0-4 26.
0-22 0-4 26
Gakko (Fukushina Murse and City, Fukushina Pref.
Midwifo School)
5
Fukushina Soikoi Jo Gakko Miya-nachi, Fukushina
June 1913
659 659
658 658
12
11
(Fukushina Soikci Girlst City, Fukushina Pref.
School)
6 Ivaki Sab a Kangofu Gakko Saizuchikoji. Taira
pril 1901
45 45
39 39
6-2 2-2 12
5-2 2-2 11
(Iwaki Nurso and Midvifo City, Fukushina Pref.
School)
7 KoriyanaSanba Kangofu Gakko Inari-nachi, Koriyana pril 1912
22
22
22
22
18-2 1-1 22
18-2 1-1 22
(Kariyana Midvifo and Nurso City, Fukushina Iref.
School)
Wakanatsu Sanba Kangafu Gak. Sakao-nachi, Wakema- April 1932
54 54
56 56 17
17 14
14
ko (Wakanatsu Nursc and
tsu City, Fukushima
Mdwife School)
Prof.
Total
2236 2236
2886 2886 54-27 43-8 132 54-29 61-12 156
These figures are not those for actual attendance on these dates, but those for enrollnent on the school records as of these dates.
The nuabor of both full and part-time teachers is indicated in this report. Where there are two nuribers entered in the same colum.
separated by a hyphen, tho socond figure indicates the nuiber of part-time teachers.
- 99-

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.96)
ROSTER OF JPNESE EDUCITI OLL INSTITUIIONS
FUKUSHL PREFECTURE
FUKISHL
VI. SCHOOLS UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF LINISTRIES OTHER THN THE LINISTRY OF EDUCTION
B. Secondary Educetion (Chuto Kyoiku)
1. Vocational Schools (Jitsugyo Gako)
a. Training Institutos for Males (Danshi Yoseijo) under the Control of ginistries of Homc, Welfare, and Transportation, Fukushima Prof.
NE
ADDRESS
DaTE FOUNDED
ENROLLET
it
TCHERS
x
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30pr.46
30 Nov. 46
F
T
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 Fukushinakon Keisatsu Ren- Wetari-mra, Shinobu-
Not Given
66
66
66
66
7-6
13
7-6
13
shu jo (Fukushina Prifectu gun, Fukushina Pref.
ral Polico Training Sch.)
2
Fukushina Takusetsu Danshi
c/o Fukushina Normal
Not Given
8
8
8
8
0-9
9
0-9
9
Sho Galko Shotoka Kundo
Sch., Fukushime City
Yoscijo (Specially Estab-
Fukushina Pref.
lishod Malo Elonontary Sch.
Lowor Course Toachers!
Training Instituto)
3
Koriyana Totsudo Kyoku Ko c/o Koriyan Enginc-
4pril 1944
168
168
172
172 7
7
7
?
kibu Ginosha Yosei jo (Ko- cring Dopt., Koriyana
riyam Engineors' Training City, Fukushine Pref.
Institute of the Railroad
Buroau Enginecring Dept.)
Total
242
242
246 14-15
29
14-15
29
These figures are not those for actual attondance on those dates, but those for enrollont on the schocl rocords as of thesc datos.
The nuaber of both full and part-tine teachers is indicated in this report. Where thore arc two nuabers anterod in the sap columm.
separated by a hyphen, tho second figure indicates the number of part-tinc tcachcrs.
-100-

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.97)
ROSTER OF JAPANESE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTICIS
FUKUSHIM& PREFECTURE
FUKJSHILL
VI. SCHOOLS UNDER THE JURISDICTI ON OF LINISTRIES OTHER THLN THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
B: Sccondary Education (Ghuto Kyoiku)
2. Youth Schools (Seinen Gakko)
a) Youth Sohools for Malea (Danahi Seinen Gakko) under the Control of Ministries of Communication and Transportation, Fukushim Profecture
NAE
ADDRESS
DTE FOUNDED
ENROLLMENT
TLCHERS
30 4pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
F
T
F
T
F
T
II
F
T
1 Fukushina Teishin Scinen
c/o Fukushima Post
June 1942
57
57
54
54
10
10
6
6
Kunren jo (Fukushina
office, Fukushinn City.
Carmnication Youth Sch.)
Fukushim Prof.
2
Koriyana Kokibu Tetsudo
c/o Koriyana Engineering pril 1946
730
730
730
730
6
6
6
6
Seinen Galko (Koriyama
Dept. Keriyana City,
Engincering Dept. Railvay
Fukushin Pref.
Youth School)
3
Koriyane Teishin Seinon
c/o Koriyam Post office, June 1942
44 46
46
8
8
8
Kunren jo (Kori yene Con-
Koriyan City,Fukushina
muniation Youth Sch.)
rref.
Koriyane Tetsudo Seinon
Koriyare City. Fukushina pril 1946
2415
2415 2415
2415
12
12
12
12
Gakko (Koriyana Railway
Pref.
Youth School)
5
Taire Toishin Seinon Kun- c/o Taire Post Officc, Sept. 194l
26
26
31
31
12
12
ronjo (Taira Comunication Taira City, Fukushim Pref.
Youth School)
Total
3272
3272 3276
3276
48
44
44
# These figuros are not those for actual attendane on these datos, but those for enrollnent on the school records as of these date.
-101-

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.95)
ROSTER OF JAPANSE RIUCTICL INSTITUTIGNS
FUKUSHD PREFECTURE
FUKUSHI
VI. SCHOOLS UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF LINISTADLS OTHER THAN THE LINISTRY OF EDUC TION
C. Speciel Schools (Tokushu Gakko)
i. Juvenile Correction Schools (Shonen Kyogoin)
c) Co-educational Juvonilo Correction Sohools (Den jo Kyogeku Shonon Kyogoin) under the Control of Ministry of Welferc, Fukushima Profccture
NDE
ADDRESS
DATE FOUNDED
INROLLENT #
TEACHERS
30 pr.46
30 Nov. 46
30 pr. 46
30 Nov. 46
M
f
T
E
F
T
F
T
F
T
1 Kuntoen (Kunto School)•. Nakarura-nchi, Sana-
Merch 1909. 26 7
33
26
7
33
2
2
2
2
gun, Fukushim pref.
T Total
33
26
7
33
2
2
2
2
Inoso figures are not tioso for cctual attendence on those dates, but thoso for enrollnent on the school records as of these datos.
-102-

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.90)
MAP OF NORTHERN HONSHU
Legend
N
Population of Over 100,000
Takata
Prefcctural Capital
Keshiwasaki
十
Institutions of Higher Learning
NIIGATA
+Narpoka
Fconjo
画
Niigata
Shibate
+Tourucke
kita
tHirosald
∴KITH
onori
AOMOR
FUKUSHIHA
+Yonozava
YAHAGATA
 Yanagate
Fukusjira
Loriaa
EIYGI
Sendai
IMATE
-103-

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.87)
DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS CHARGED
OFFICE AND PERSON
DATE OF CHARGE AND
(Subject, fle number or title, type of document, and date,
TO WHOM CHARGED
BY WHOM CHARGED
security classification, number of items, etc.)
892.61317/6-3045
10.12/36
Aid-memgire s Buthl Es.
Fine
i
§17-73
10 15.73
it
6-17-7y
4-649
(ao)
1/1876
5.945
clicnv in
lub
1/22/77
Andilcon
lab
894, 42(45-18) Mmori
14/78
DS-1033 (8-2-54)
USE OTHER SIDE--CANCEL CHARGE OUT WHEN FILES RETURNED
16—70009-1 GPO

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.91)
OUT
DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS CHARGED
DATE OF GHARAGRAND
OFFICE AND PERSON
(Subject, file number or title, type of document, and date,
TO WHOM CHARGED
security classiication, number of items, etc.)
Yredenn
1116
2-446
-Cad
P4S
4<200
11-23-73
lab
8-447
Fotash
1-29-74
lat
3505
Jolier
3-5-79
644
Kogima
8/21/75
lal
Unterbuger
10/1/76
7-1147
DS-1033 (8-2-54)
USE OTHER SIDE-CANCEL CHARGE OUT WHEN FILES RETURNED
1070099-1 OPO

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.90)
JMA
I doubt if you
would be a better
man for having read
this high-flown
STatenis of SCAP
in the 3nd Anneversang
OI V-J day.
I wn T - ta lod!
me.
