894.5032 Economic Matters., Capital., Japan, Cooperative Systems. Rural Credits., December 9, 1947 (File 1606)
ID: 894.5032-1606   Pages: 15   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5032-economic-matters-capital-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DYR
DEC 16 1947

In reply refer to
NA

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION

In accordance with a memorandum dated December 9, 1947, from the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee, there is enclosed a statement of United States policy for the Democratization of Japanese Farmers' Unions and Cooperatives, comprising the Conclusions of SANACC 356/1 which was approved by the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee on December 9, 1947.

The United States Member, Far Eastern Commission, is requested to submit this statement of United States policy to the Far Eastern Commission with a view to obtaining from the Far Eastern Commission a policy decision on the subject.

Frank G. Wisner
Frank G. Wisner
Deputy to the Assistant Secretary
for Occupied Areas

Enclosure:
Statement of U.S. policy.

SECRET

NA: ALDunning/pm
12/12/47

A true copy of the signed original
CR/2K

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
STATEMENT OF UNITED STATES POLICY FOR DEMOCRATIZATION OF JAPANESE FARMERS' UNIONS AND COOPERATIVES

In consonance with the principles and guarantees of rights embodied in the Japanese Constitution, the following is concluded respecting Japanese farmers and farm laborers:

a. Japanese farmers should be encouraged by SCAP and the Japanese Government to form themselves into farmers' unions and cooperatives. Farmers' unions and their members should have the same rights, privileges and protection as specified for Japanese trade unions in FEC 045/5. Farmers' cooperatives and their members should be assured of the civil liberties guaranteed in Chapter III of the Japanese Constitution, including access to radio broadcasting facilities on a non-discriminatory basis.

b. Any Japanese subject should have freedom of choice in joining or abstaining from membership in a farmers' cooperative, when his occupation is in any way related to agriculture.

c. No member should hold office in a cooperative if (1) he is in a competing business, or (2) he is subject to the purge directive of January 4, 1946, or subject to subsequent purge directives by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.

d. If the ownership of stock is required for membership in a cooperative, the cost of a share should be as low as is consistent with fostering financial strength and maximum membership.

e. Farmers' cooperatives (whether engaged in marketing or purchasing activities) should be allowed to choose any form of organization consistent with internationally recognized cooperative principles, including (1) open membership and ownership irrespective of race, sex, nationality, politics or religion; (2) control based on one vote for one member; (3) limited return on capital and return of gains to members through patronage refunds; (4) regular provision of funds for promotional and educational work; (5) cash trading; (6) regular provision for building up of substantial reserves.

f. Cooperatives

SECRET

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET
- 2 -

f. Cooperatives should be allowed to associate themselves in regional or national bodies, with representation in such bodies in proportion to the membership of the individual cooperatives.

g. The internal organization and the operations of a farmers' cooperative should be free from governmental interference at all times, except that during a national emergency farmers' cooperatives may be required by law to comply with special government measures to the same extent as any other Japanese national or organization under Japanese Government jurisdiction.

h. Farmers' cooperatives should be free from legal restrictions which prevent their engaging in any economic activity related to their own agricultural pursuits and for the benefit of members.

i. In cases of alleged violation by cooperatives of law, articles of incorporation or by-laws, remedial action should be taken through the courts of law and not through government decree.

j. Insofar as it is practicable, the Japanese Government should make available to farmers' cooperatives and individual farmers on a comparable basis (1) technical advisory and other services and (2) credits, when such cannot be obtained from private sources in amounts and at interest rates which are reasonable.

k. Farmers' cooperatives should be encouraged and assisted by the Japanese Government in providing education for their members, particularly in cooperative practices and agricultural techniques.

l. Farmers' cooperatives should be encouraged to participate in voluntary measures to promote the objectives of the occupation and to assist the achievement of national self support.

m. Any existing laws or parts thereof which are contrary to the provisions stated above should be abrogated, and any organization established thereunder abolished.

SECRET

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
Date 76
Ddr

STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE
Washington, D.C.

SANA-5849
9 December 1947

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
Subject: SANACC 356/1

Forwarded herewith for appropriate action by the Department of State are copies of SANACC 356/1 as approved by the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee on 9 December 1947.

The attention of the Department of State is invited to paragraph 5 a of the enclosure.

The Joint Chiefs of Staff have been requested to forward the Conclusions thereof to SCAP for his information.

It is requested that information copies of any implementing action taken in this matter be furnished the Secretariat, SANACC.

For the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee:

Charles E. Saltzman
CHARLES E. SALTZMAN
Chairman

Enclosures:
Copy Nos. 54, 55.
SANACC 356/1

FILED
JAN 2 1948

SECRET

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
COPY NO. 54
9 December 1947

STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMITTEE

DECISION AMENDING SANACC 356/1

POLICY FOR DEMOCRATIZATION OF JAPANESE FARMERS' UNIONS AND COOPERATIVES

Note by the Secretaries

1. By informal action on 9 December 1947 the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee approved SANACC 356/1 as amended by SANACC 356/2.

2. Holders are requested to substitute the attached revised pages 32, 33, 34 and 35 and destroy the superseded pages by burning.

V. L. LOWRANCE
V. F. FIELD
J. P. GARDINER
Secretariat

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET COPY NO. 54
SANACC 356/1
29 October 1947
Pages 31 - 39, incl.

State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee

Policy for Democratization of Japanese Farmers' Unions and Cooperatives
Reference: SWNCC 356

Note by the Secretaries

The attached memorandum by the State Member and its enclosure are circulated for consideration by the Committee as a matter of Priority.

H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
Secretariat

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET

MEMORANDUM BY THE STATE MEMBER, SANACC

SWNCC 356, "REFORM OF JAPANESE AGRICULTURE"

It is most desirable that SCAP be provided with FEC guidance in his efforts to bring about the democratization of farmers' organizations in Japan. This is especially true now when legislation on this subject is being introduced in the Japanese Diet.

A statement of policy on this subject has been contained in SWNCC 356, "REFORM OF JAPANESE AGRICULTURE". That paper deals essentially with the economic aspects of land reform. Now that it has been returned to SFE for shortening, it is believed desirable to remove from it the sections on reform of farmers' organizations in order that SANACC may consider them separately with a view toward reaching a very early agreement on a paper which may be presented to the United States Member of the Far Eastern Commission for consideration by the FEC.

The attached paper sets out those portions of SWNCC 356 dealing with reform of farmers' organizations. It is introduced for early consideration by SANACC.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET

ENCLOSURE

POLICY FOR DEMOCRARIZATION OF JAPANESE FARMERS' UNIONS AND COOPERATIVES

THE PROBLEM

1. What should occupation policy be with respect to Japanese farmers' unions and cooperatives?

FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM

2. See Appendix "A".

DISCUSSION

3. See Appendix "B".

CONCLUSIONS

4. In consonance with the principles and guarantees of rights embodied in the Japanese Constitution, the following is concluded respecting Japanese farmers and farm laborers:

a. Japanese farmers should be encouraged by SCAP and the Japanese Government to form themselves into farmers' unions and cooperatives. Farmers' unions and their members should have the same rights, privileges and protection as specified for Japanese trade unions in FEC 048/5. Farmers' cooperatives and their members should be assured of the civil liberties guaranteed in Chapter III of the Japanese Constitution, including access to radio broadcasting facilities on a non-discriminatory basis.

b. Any Japanese subject should have freedom of choice in joining or abstaining from membership in a farmers' cooperative, when his occupation is in any way related to agriculture.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET

c. No member should hold office in a cooperative if (1) he is in a competing business, or (2) he is subject to the purge directive of January 4, 1946, or subject to subsequent purge directives by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.

d. If the ownership of stock is required for membership in a cooperative, the cost of a share should be as low as is consistent with fostering financial strength and maximum membership.

e. Farmers' cooperatives (whether engaged in marketing or purchasing activities) should be allowed to choose any form of organization consistent with internationally recognized cooperative principles, including (1) open membership and ownership irrespective of race, sex, nationality, politics or religion; (2) control based on one vote for one member; (3) limited return on capital and return of gains to members through patronage refunds; (4) regular provision of funds for promotional and educational work; (5) cash trading; (6) regular provision for building up of substantial reserves.

f. Cooperatives should be allowed to associate themselves in regional or national bodies, with representation in such bodies in proportion to the membership of the individual cooperatives.

g. The internal organization and the operations of a farmers' cooperative should be free from governmental interference at all times, except that during a national emergency farmers' cooperatives may be required by law to comply with special government measures to the same extent as any other Japanese national or organization under Japanese Government

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET

h. Farmers' cooperatives should be free from legal restrictions which prevent their engaging in any economic activity related to their own agricultural pursuits and for the benefit of members.

i. In cases of alleged violation by cooperatives of law, articles of incorporation or by-laws, remedial action should be taken through the courts of law and not through government decree.

j. Insofar as it is practicable, the Japanese Government should make available to farmers' cooperatives and individual farmers on a comparable basis (1) technical advisory and other services and (2) credits, when such cannot be obtained from private sources in amounts and at interest rates which are reasonable.

k. Farmers' cooperatives should be encouraged and assisted by the Japanese Government in providing education for their members, particularly in cooperative practices and agricultural techniques.

l. Farmers' cooperatives should be encouraged to participate in voluntary measures to promote the objectives of the occupation and to assist the achievement of national self support.

m. Any existing laws or parts thereof which are contrary to the provisions stated above should be abrogated, and any organization established thereunder abolished.

SANACC 356/1
- 34 -
Enclosure
(Revised 9 December 1947)

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET

RECOMMENDATIONS

5. It is recommended that after approval by SANACC:

a. The Conclusions be forwarded by the Department of State to the U.S. representative on the Far Eastern Commission for his guidance in obtaining approval of a statement of policy on this question.

b. The Joint Chiefs of Staff be requested to forward the Conclusions to SCAP for his information.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET

APPENDIX "A"

FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM

1. The Potsdam Declaration of 26 July 1945 states:
"The Japanese Government shall remove all obstacles to the
revival and strengthening of democratic tendencies among the
Japanese people. Freedom of speech, of religion and of thought,
as well as respect for the fundamental human rights shall be
established".

2. The "United States Initial Post-Surrender Policy for
Japan", (SWNCC 180/4/A), made public by the President on September
22, 1945, states in part: "The Japanese people shall be
encouraged to develop a desire for individual liberties and
respect for fundamental human rights, particularly the freedoms
of religion, assembly, speech and press. They shall be
encouraged to form democratic and representative organizations".

3. The "Basic Directive for Post-Surrender Military Government
in Japan Proper", (SWNCC 82/7), states in part: "It is the
intent of the United States Government to encourage and show
favor to . . . the development of organizations in labor,
industry, and agriculture organized on a democratic basis".

4. The SCAP directive of December 5, 1945, specifically
ordered the Japanese Government to submit to SCAP by March 15,
1946, a program of rural reform which would include, in part,
plans for a program to foster and encourage an agricultural
cooperative movement free of domination by non-agrarian interest
and dedicated to the economic and cultural advancement of the
Japanese farmer.

5. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry submitted to
SCAP on March 18, 1946, an agrarian reform program which called
for, among other things, the reform and reorganization of the
Agricultural Associations. This program was not satisfactory to
SCAP and required further amendment.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET

6. The "Basic Post-Surrender Policy for Japan", adopted by the Far Eastern Commission on June 19, 1947, and transmitted to SCAP on June 26, 1947, states in part: "Organizations of labor in industry and agriculture, organized on a democratic basis, shall be encouraged. Other organizations in industry and agriculture, organized on a democratic basis, shall be encouraged if they will contribute to furthering the democratization of Japan or other objectives of the occupation."

=== Page 14 === (confidence 1.00)
SECRET

APPENDIX "B"

DISCUSSION

1. In the prewar period in Japan, there were, in general, three types of farmers' organizations: agricultural associations controlled by the government; cooperatives operating independently but with official sanction and support; and tenant farmers' unions, generally looked down upon by the government as being inspired by leftist sources.

2. Agricultural associations were not only controlled by the government, membership in them being compulsory, but they were also the most important means by which the rural economy of Japan was geared to the war machine. Cooperative societies, consisting of many different types, had a voluntary membership, but they were, to all intents and purposes, dominated by the interests of the landlords and the financiers. Farmers' unions, mainly tenant organizations agitating for tenants' rights, had not only economic and social but also political aspects inasmuch as they were suppressed by the government in 1940 for fostering "dangerous thoughts".

3. By legislation passed in 1943 and 1944, cooperative societies were combined with agricultural associations, and farmers' unions having ceased to exist as legal in 1940, the resulting Agricultural Cooperative Association then was made to extend to practically every phase of the farmers' economic, political, social and cultural life. Almost all agricultural group activity, through the medium of the Agricultural Cooperative Association, was brought under the centralized control of the Japanese Government with the ultimate goal of harnessing Japan's farm population to its military juggernaut. Because of the disruption and disorganization of Japanese economy following the surrender, the Association was retained as the medium of centralized control over agriculture.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET

4. In view of this history of suppression of some forms of
farmers' organizations and government domination of others, it
becomes clear that steps must be taken at the earliest possible
date to encourage the growth of truly democratic farmers'
organizations of every useful type, freed from the domination of
the government and calculated to serve the legitimate interests
of the farmers. This is basically sanctioned in the Potsdam
Declaration, which, among other things, states that the Japanese
shall be encouraged to form democratic organizations.

5. As long as the Agricultural Cooperative Association
continues to be the agency of the Japanese Government for main-
tenance of centralized control over the collection and
distribution of farm products, its development as a truly
democratic and representative cooperative organization run by
farmers to serve their own legitimate interests will be difficult,
if not impossible. In short, the situation that Japanese rural
economy finds itself in following the surrender emphasizes the
necessity for active encouragement by SCAP of all forms of
democratic farmers' organizations in order to eliminate the
regimentation which has been the traditional lot of the Japanese
farmer. It is understood, of course, that such encouragement must
be based on the assurance to farmers that, on the economic level,
necessary land reforms, without which the democratic development
of farmers' organizations would be impossible, will be brought
about by the Japanese Government at the behest of the occupation
authorities.
