894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., March 16, 1932 - November 7th, 1939 (File 1146)
ID: 894.00-1146   Pages: 197   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-18
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.87)
ISSUED BY OFFICE OF NAVAL NTELLIGENCE, NAVY DEPARTMENT
.1-21.
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT BLANK
qatakly dimemlnating information from attachés. These copies will ba distributed by O. N. I. as per feotnote or elewhere, aee
From
Date
ng. 20
Serial No.
178
(Commance new serles
Japeneso Hsvy Depertment ent
pch faanery frst.)
Source of information
Jupen
Savy - mhipe
Subject
(Nation reperted on,
(Inder title as per index sheet.)
(Bubsitia.)
Reference
space. Mention lea ling geographioal, pes enal, oi political names, and the gist of the report.)
38
I Repiti
894.00
Old Destroyer Hstauharu munk by irplane Beths.
Tho old destroyer etmuharn was munk by airpleme
bombe in the open see ofi Toryo Smy, August 18, 1920. The
destroyer wae towed during the axeroises by the ermiser Bakm.
lanes fron the Akagi. Hoaho, Notore and Oppama
IOP
Air station partloipated in the bombing. Boabs were firet
dropped from en altitude varying between 1000 end 8000 meters.
It wes neceesory for the pl:meo to fiy at e lower altitude
before the ver el wee finall unk.
94.
The combiled floct wne nsr eabled to witaoes the
bombing. The ioister ot tae mov. ond mwny high rankding maval
officers etiendeo.
oter The deut oyer  teomnu wnn runk by gunrire ad bombe
in aiohm el  urt b. l927. selvoged end repelred

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
NAVY DEPARTMENT
STATE
OFFIOE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENOE
In reply refer to No.
WASHINGTON
132
Divislon of
FAR EASTERN/AFEAIRS
AMAR 11932
F/DEW
March 16, 1932.
Confidentia
DepafState
SEL.E..
MAR·17 1932
Memorandum for:
894.00-0.1
The following confidential dispatch was received from the
894.00-N.1.REPORTS/3
Naval Attache, Tokyo, this morning:
Following adjournment of the present special session of the
Japanese Diet, a new national government cabinet, headed by Baron
Hiranuma, who is a member of the Privy Council, will probably re-
suit. In the replacement of the present Minister of War, there is
not expected to be any loss of prestige.
FLED

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
ILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
WAR DEPART ENT
may12/32
Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of War
Assistant Secretary of Wer (Air)
G-1
G-3
G-4
Wer Plans Division
Statistics Brench
Division of
Adjutant General's Dep!
FAR EASTERH AFFAIRS
Arry Industrial Collega
Army War College
MAY 12 1932
Air Corps (Liaison Officer)
Cavalry
Depertment of State
Chenical Warfare Service
Coast Artillery Corps
Corps of Engineers
Command & General Staff School
Field Artillery
Finance
Infantry
Inspector General's Dept.
Insular Affeirs
Judge Advocate General's Dent:
Militia Bureau
Office of Naval Intelligence
Ordnance Dept.
Quersermaster General's Dept.
Signal Corps
Sur eon General's Office
State Dept.:
Eastern Europe
Western Durope
Near East
Latin America
Far East
Mexi~an Affairs
Comue rce Dento:
Foreign & Domestic Comerce
Aeronautics
For your information and file
Note and return
Note and send to
894.00-N,I.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.94)
NAVY DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
WASHINGTON. D. C.
May 11, 1932
, 193
MEMoRAnDUM FOR Military Intelligonce Division
Major Crane
Please forward the attached report to Far
Eastern Division, State Department, when you
have finished with it.
Division oi
FAR EASTER AFFAIHS
1..7
MAY1932
Departmen' at S.a
4
4-3774

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
FSIAIE
BVED
Dinsionf
Repert no. 8
23 1932
FAR ETERLAKEAIRE
DIVISION OF
Apr11 22, 1952
JAPAN
Depertment of State
Cemments on the Political Situation.
A special session of the Diet is to meet 26 May and last
794.00-N.I
for two weeks. The principal measures to be introduced are the
supplementary budget for the current fiscal year, a tariff revision
bill, a bill revising the regulations governing the Bank of Japas.
This last bill is intended to provide for measures of inflating the
curreney by inoreasing the authorized peper that may be issued by the
new Manchurian state and the Shanghai affair will undoubtedly be
new state the apparent disagreement between the Foreign Minister and
the War Winieter as to immediate recognition will undoubtedly be
exploited to the full. It is probable that a strong effort will be
made by the opposition to force the govermment to state its
Manchurian policy clearly.
89
The attempt of the Soiyukei covermment to oust Count
Y. Uchide, President of the S.M.R. by dismissing the Vice President
r T. guchi brought it into direct opposition to the Army, supportedo
J. Yamamoto, a Seiyukai man, Former Executive Director of Mitsui and
upplication of the spoils system in politics since the uppointment of.
the non-party Uchide for a term of five years by the Hemaguchi
Z
Cabinet was intended to remove this very important post from the
political plum tree.
Count Uchida who had occupied the post on ocondition that
Eguchi was to remain with him, at once submitted his resignation.
RE
The Army voiced its determined opposition to any chunge in the post
On 9 April Count Uchida, in reply to a despatah from Overseas
Minister Hata asking him to reconsider his resignetion, stated that (S
he was determined to retire. Indigmation against the Seiyukei
government rose high in the Army and both the Winister of War and theu
Minister of the Navy brought determimed pressure to bear on the
Premier to maintain Uchida at his post. Premier Inukei finelly save
way end in no perfunctory terms requested the Count to contimue his
duties, which he has oonsented to do. The affair has turned out a
definite viotory for the military and illustrates the contmiling voiee
they have in the government.
The Rise of the ationelists. In the last report was
outlined the various political societies and groupings which together
constitute a Nationalist or Right reserve from mhich a Fascist
movement may be expeeted to draw its reoruits. The word "Fascist" as
 Japanese doctrine cannot be exactly defined as yet as it has not yes
takem upon itselr a definite charaoter in this country, but at presem
it is a convanient term to apply to the militant element of the
23 1932

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
8
The Social Democrats have split into their Right amd Left
elements, the Right faction being expeoted to mergs itselr with e
part of the Japen Mass party made up of farmers and artisans to ferm
e Faseist organization. There is consideruble speculation as to
whether former Home Minister dachi who with some dozen other
prominent members of the Minseito resigned from that party when the
Seiyukai came into power will take over the leadership of the new
greap, joining it with a party of Fascist prineiples now being
formed by his follower S. Nakeno, Parliamentary Viee Mimister ef
Commminications in the last Cabinet. Should Adachi throw in his lot
with the new movament it should have considerable politieal sig
niridanoe as this very able politieian likes to be on the wimming
side. one of the main tenets of Nakeno's platform is relief for the
farmers whose total debts eccording to the industrial bank reech
the extraord1nary total of 700,000,000.
Activities of White Russians. General Semenoff the white
Russian leader errived in Kobe from Dairen on 17 April and stopped
at the Koshien Hotel for several days. Shortly after his arrival
General Araki, Minister of War and ür. Tokonami, Minister of
Railways also errived at the hotel for a several days visit. tr.
Sasemorf, General Semenoff's private secretary has been very active
of late and has been seen frequently during the past few weeks et
Atami and elsewhere in compeny with minor Japanese government
officials.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Nevember 17, 1932.
LD1：
ONI's report from Tokyo No. 153
of October 12, 1932, encloses three
translations of war articles.
The first is a translation of
General Araki's pamphlet already sent
in by the Embassy.
The second is an article by the
Editor of the JAPAN-HAWAII TIMES with
regard to the importance with which
the United States regards the Hawaiian
Islands in time of war with Japan and
the fear which the United States has
of the assistance that would be
rendered to Japan by the Japanese of
Hawaii in the event of war. The
article is not important and need not
be read.
The third is the summary of an
article entitled "The Results of the
Next War in the Pacific", by a Japa-
nese Lieutenant Commander. The writer
concludes that if the United States-
with the cooperation of one-tenth 
the British fleet should fight Japa
a victory for Japan would be very ∞
doubtful. The article stresses the
necessity of keeping Russia friendl
to Japan in case of a world coalitio
against

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2-
against Japan. The article concludes
with the statement that the "forces
of the military and of diplomacy (in
Japan) must be made to work more in
harmony and Japan must not blind her-
self with any false values of her
military prowess." The article is
not sufficiently interesting to be
read.
2
LES:EJL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.88)
PAHI
RROBIVED
21932
 DIVILION GF
000018,1938.
JAPAN.
400 - Propat
FAR EASTEN ASFAIR
NOV 11 932
Trenslations of Wer Artiolese
Because of numerous diperepano les noted in the
publiahod tranalation or General Araki's pamphlet iasued lakt Ju
081
a pomplete tranelation from the original work hes been made by the
mabassy tranalators with a view to obteining an acourats tesm
the War Minister's polioy, While the Huglish tranalation mhial
eppeared in the Japan Advortiser last July follows the gemmwal
trend of the originel text, 1t was found to be abbreviated and
or less toned down in places obvicusly for conmumption abrged.
embassy translation herewith emmlosed, although replete with
ssholarly musing on the gloriousness or the netional spirtt, et
gives a splended idea of the "beck to Asia" movement reoently
promilgated by various leaders here. It is interesting te mote
that e spesoh made by Mr. Kaku Mori, one of the whips of the
Seiyukai, on the floor of the Lower House last August, touohed
.00-1
upon the idea brought out in General Araki's pamphlet.
The War Minieter's pamphlet sells for twe sen & copy.
N
within three months of its appearanee, it reeched its sigthioth
edition. Thousande of copies were made avelleble to studaats
throughout the Empire.
There ere also enelosed summaries of two more "war
articles"; one by Mr. Asaumi, the editor or the Nippon Jiji
9
published in Honolulu, ond the other by ieutenent Commender

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.91)
1

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.76)
peetal mssiems.
The iden ef "the emeenesr ef the universe" is not resogaisable ta the merld es tedey.
O ti  ly be ided by this.
S. The Amakeming of the Japenese Peeple.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.81)
eny that met cnly Chime, bes nearly all the countries efthe mrld aseme aa attatade
matertal was Lassrted caleulated to poisse the miads or beye ane girle agninst Sagan
The question them arises as te hew seh a situation was brought abouts The amsmer is
themselvee frem trivial eelrisk idess.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.75)
In vien at the faet that Japen's centinantel polieies are atmed a the develepment ef
4. The Prepegnaiemnef the Japanese Spirit.
thet lestysuea.
thme eese, the mesien ef the Tagenese peogle e a atien boee

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.80)
The trouble is thet Chine doms mot understand Japan's true intemtiem mer ean fathem
matiem, theroby degreding iteelf.
To regnrd Japen an an aggreseer or mi litaristie natien ia either a eese ef mesntre-
pretatien er ef meperficiel ebservet n. Japen is simply makias desperete etterts
the scsured estebliskmsnt of permaßent pesse, and hes no ether fatemntion watssevee.
To put it in terme of Baddhist philesopky, Japen mes fereed te wieid the wend ef demne
smbegmting" in eecortanee with the principles of "chastensns cme evil element fer
the parpem  cavins many good elements." la other mrde, It mas a ease es using as
fos e right yurpese.
9. The Iapertanee of the Manehn-ktongoliam Preblem.
It is useless at the present time to diesuss mew the iaportemse of the Maneke magelim
problam, for ever siace the euthreak of the ManehurianIneidest it has beam meck dis-
enased in many quarters. There oan be ne deubt, tharafore, that ite impartanse la the-
reughly tnhued in the miade of the peeple. Howover, the point en whiak I ospestal ly ds
As mest er the peeple is the mr ld sey, thie territery hes beenthe stegs at te great
The meesen I attech meah arent sapertense to the Memoke kengel san peoklan La thet 1s

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.81)
Det thst to the present state of the Pasr mat? that 1e the eanditien af the weslar Bess
mot thelr endition require that Japum areuse hersel?
sourd fer the sake of pesee and fustiee. It is e necessary instremsnt for the realiss tem
ofrn1dal1im.
rimally, then recerdiss the seered ne ture of our missiém tomard preserving pesse in the
Par Bast, we eaanot belp but be interested in the fe et that Vladivesteak, in Ressie,
meene "Oecupation of the Far Mast."
8. The Problem ef the Kerems.
The essuranse of peese tn the Far Nast is Japen's ationel poliey, fer the earrying at
sanesee es pesse and tranquility is the Far mst ls an ebjeet ef toremest sapertanse.
Thesete alee liee the metive fer the aaeemetsen of Chesen (Keren), he 1t Le a matter

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.77)
emmres. That is, the problem of the Kereans in Mameharis.
A perteet unien of Japan and Koren is the comeroteme an whieh reste the foandntiene ef
pease in the Yer Tast, The Geverament and the people oughe serionaly to refloct en this
aneod to nothsns
In this way the quentian at reilmaya and mining ooneessions, and the sequiastion as ves-
ing these ceesnde righte and Lnterests that Japen's latentiens called ter sespiesens
an mothinglse.
What aiadlarly arrests our attention in the welfare of the Kereans resdaine tn mstera
Miberia; their mmber resehes to severel hendred thousend, and their let is eveaverse
The traditional prisciples end sent imeats of the Tapesese people cannet al lew tham te
9. The Japenese es Apostles ef Pesse.
Tagen has been a eontry of ame siase ansient times. Hovever, at the eme time it was
To regend Tepen es a eoantegesd militerim er eecresstan la a anperttatal vies, and La noté

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.75)
I hove paot potated ant the natlene1 vigve mhiah hasteon arontag mradnalty thoonth the
thoeugheus the werla.
No poootatam nood bo telt ao to the Lack of poner or otrangth, or of matertal (oooensed)
Rogtkeenl! Thetemes be the leade orer the Tar mest, as heverer treatentng the ateme
by cmterteining shallew sentiments end cssterie idees.
Lathe tebekiage of the Chinese alassies, it ls peixted out thet legalty algnifies net
et the méases is easbedted in the arest prineiples of the establiakmeat of Tagen.
es the three Seered Tressres, let us preesed to the attainmset of eur sral ideels.
Babehals The futore et Japen Lathe shom tre io ae brigh es the men.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.75)
Prelae e tes' a  he 
Prematina La Bamel1 fer Rer Amiast Tan
 Sheiak A, Mier er(The Ja
1il.
Times,
The Satan et the Ameri ann press, William . Hearst, publiaked an diterial a e
The editerial is direeted at Cempress and peints cut the failesing betes
(2) 40% of the pepalatiem of Hamai1 is Japanese, which peroentage represents a
prependerense of any eme mationality resddiag thare.
Conkressionel Bill for Militery Mmtntatrationor Mamil.
The editerial had a very strong reection throughout the eountry, and as the 18th
of May the follewing bill was intradused in the House by Pred Brittem, Cheissan of
the House Navel Affaire Cemmittee:
(1) As at present, the Govermor ef Hami1 and his depaties, should be mder the
Losel legialatare) and in time a mer diotaterial pomeze ahoula be siven hin.
he. kritten geve as his reesems ter intretee tag the bill the fest thet ta the
hmit'e Yllen Partle

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.74)
he et tast mite's at ppel a nt eive  apeel an the
Dhe Mheate asfair and the Rar Pepartante
The adveseey of military edministretien in lame i1 ts eme that almaye arises then
helien Yellew Peril).
Whan the Hakendesn Investigetien Comaittee (or the Measle eese) eame to the In
not be lagel to the Uaited atates in time of wer, steted that it wes essential that
the islands be yst wader a military regtme.
Distery Remests Iteelf.
When the Uaited States se dartly abearbed the Hameilan Ialands they were leoking
fermse to the present day and ceasidering the ialands' strategie velus in the light
of nditiems that were to (and have now) eme.
In le0e whem the bil1 to anner the 1alands was pessed in the Uaited states Cen-
Bress the Jagenese Goverament ladeed a strene pretest, whioh reseived met the aligt-
ary "Teey Zamm ii frem Japen."
De aley meree es l.
seen after the Werld Ner, Walter Piteas, Pretosser et Cohamble steted: "me are
to fighe Tagen" and aated that Faail mee Amariaa's Nellgelanl. (Fene felloue a dé-
The Tarmese Prerntersmee (e7 Perelasian))
.
e to  e to  e os e  

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.74)
smmry ef m Artiele mtitiad:
The Reslte of the Net  the Peile."
11
Ir Llant, Comir Tote Iabimar
1. Cmses d Ntives.
With the fortheeming meot ing of the Lasmaly of the Leagee of Retiene, Tegen
Is enterias a Garydazk and eritieel peried. o eanot overleok the taet thst overy
the witilate fate af Japan.
The Aoeambly wil1 take up the Lat te roport and dependtae ween sts trentmant of
Amother preblem will be the question of withdramal of our treep frem meekarte.
The lenge hes repestedly demended that Japen earry out the Leage's reashatien
reselution te carried out.
Maseharie is entrusting Japen with the mintemance of e der within her (Masekse
rien) boundaries. Far frem withdrewing her treope Japen mst reinferee them.
rren if these twe problams (i.e., League ve. Meaeharia, and mthdmamel as taeepe)
are selved, othere reain. If ehine sende en rsy inte tanaharie toe evertheee the
e. ese, too, there lies a deger  .
The liability of the repetitien et the Lsteraal diasensien engia esed by Chins,
anoh ae she rovelt of Ganerel Ne astdste, and holde seve denger tor wes.
At the present thne Tapea fiade hareelt la e posdtsan moh pind lae to thet af
A mar Gartving trem the ahene Geeee and motswe woald fhand Togn pt thed Gastane

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.76)
threstened tren both ashos, the Dasted Suate osd atteek Tagn tren the ae vie
wald remis nontrel and mighs even csoperete with Jagen.
with Rusata partieipet tng mtth in the bledtade these could haslly be obtaingkh.
The wee will be a leng dram out affair and Jepen mst plam its eseestiam
acccrdtagly.
Ia batt lothipe asd destroyere Japen has amething lase than sevam-tanthe ef thae
pessessed by the Uaited States; in othere, Tapen has a little over seven-tanthe.
Uaited states.
By loss both Japan and the Uaited States will build to the limit af the Lenden
Treety.
In the evant et war, if ms land dispatehed eme-tenth et her fleet ts thopeeiste
to joia the Uaited Statee Pleet, the ratio of streagth betean Japan's PLeet and te
mbined frees wwuld be about 5 ar 6 to 10.
Fer verious ressens the Uaitedstates-mglame fesee weald prepebly eperate es
of Pegaa.
Tagan ould ope with the Uaited oretee Ploe alane, bt the oselitsan proahn
wmien wms ctp11shed.
essistemee to the U.s.Pneet.
Asr ettesha will ptay a haportent rele tn the ar. whschover othe Nasate Jotes
In  the eitten as the ased htee nd  th te, Taga me
中

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.79)
Jegen zesle mere sineh m erakeers. In the Uaitad stetee-Rritiak contgnsien
there would be at lonst ls at thene. An tans these Jagen ooald yut anly elcht 2agose
temmere and fear vaoo temneme er the Kage olass. The enly alterantive meuld le te
take the Tattle eraiser Kenge amay frem the min bay, thereby Greetly haadlseggtss
that foree, and put her with the ligter aruiseres. The dileme of the Japenese Pese
l1es in the abeve sitation.
A pestien et the Tageanese peeple dariagly belteve thet Jagan ean righe the thele
werkd. tt as is ahemm in this artiele, the taited stetes mith anly the aligks ase
frem mgland, woald be an ceeny so fonnidable that e vietery fee Tapen weuld be weny
doaberals se the resalt of e world eselitien agetast Japen is very obviees.
Ia the ree ent dealing mith Chine, the military hee been over-aghesised md
diplemey megleeted - otherwise Japemweuld not findherself in her present csnéstisn.
The farees of the mi litary and of diplomay mast be made to wark mese in hammeny ané
Japan mast met blind hereelf with eny falae velses of ber milatary premess.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
November 11, 1932.
14
CNI's report from Tokyo of
October 22, 1952, reports the return
to power - to a certain degree - of
the more conservative element in
Japan, iving the same reasons for
this belief as the mbassy has done.
The Japanese army's prestige
has been severely wounded by its
lack oi activity in Lianchuria
against the bandits in snite of its
promise of a wholesale drive and
cleanin out of bandits in September.
accordin to some reports the
army has increasea its force in
Manchuria to seventy-five or eighty
thousand troops. The army has been
attemptin to distract the attention
of the people from its lack of suc-
cess in Manchuria. For example, the
press said, followin a robbery of a
bank in u suburb of Tokyo, that the
United States was in part tu blame
because its policy oi interference
had aroused the Japanese to a nervous
tension and because American films of
underworld life suggested the idea of
robbery.
Communism

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
一2-
Communism is no more widespread
than it was a year ago.
The Russian Ambassador is
actively engaged in promoting a
non-aggression pact. General Araki
is reported to have stated that the
arny cuuld not afford to tie its
hands at present, citing the situa-
tion at Manchouli as evidence.
I：JL

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
ONI
REOETVED
NOV1 1932
FAR EASTERN
NOV 9-
DIVISIONOF
The following was received from the Naval Attache, Tokyo,
dated 22 00tober 1932:
"The local vernecular press after blaspheming the Lytton
Report in general and vilifying the members in partiouler, even
accusing them of being the dupes of anti-Japanese Walter Young
and on the pay-roll of Chiang Kai-shek, and expressing their
F/G
indifference to world opinion and the League of Mations, have mow
taken on a more conservative and concialiatory ettitude, express-
ing a desire to remain as members of the League and to prove the
justification of their eots on general large principles rather
than on small partioularities.
"This may be oredited to the return to power, to a degree,
of the more conservative element whioh showed its hand at the
primary stages of the Manchurian inoident, but whioh has since
been relegated to a far back seat by the dominant Army cirole and
the jingo element. This conservative influence may also be seen
in the open opposition to General Araki by the Pinance Minister
894.00-0N1
Chosen, to head this party and replace Premier Saito in order to
oheok General Araki.
OBF.
"That there is any feot atteched to this rumor is remote,
in spite of the faot that a representative group of Minseito-
1tes recently visited Korea in an attempt to persuede General
Uqaki
re to return to Japan and enter politios, and the feet that
Ugaki ia coming to Japan during the coming month ostensibly
for the purpome of attending the Arry grand maneuvers. It does
indicate, however, that conditions are such that an element dares
to oppose General Araklia situation that would have been contrary
to all belier in the past. This temerity is evidenced in the fest
that the Jiji Shimpo, one of the most reliable newspapers, published
this rumor, stating that Ugaki was being brought beek to ourb
Araki's motivities, to improve the relations with foreign countries
and save the country from bankruptoy. The paper, however. wes
partioular to state that it was only a rumor and was to be takes
for what it was worth. Ugaki and Araki are dire enemies. It wes
the latter who as leeder of the so-called Youns Army-group displeeed
Ugaki as Chier of Staff and hed him sent to Chosen due to his so
termed weak polioy and his catering to political influence. The
Army's prestige has been severely wounded, if not erippled, dae to
1ts leck or eotivity in Manohuria againet the bamdits. Oeneral
Araki predioted a wholesale drive and cleamins out of bandite in
September after the keoling hed been harvested. No such produetion
hes been reelised and October is well along. Also the Keoling wes
not cut in Beptember eecording to oustom. Some of the 30,000.000
Mumchukmo subjects have egain expressed self-determinetien is
preferring to out this maime in Ootober whem the cold weather will
NOV 81 1082
handicap Army estivities. As a matter of fest if vertaia reporte
V

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
can be given credence, the Army has inoreased its fighting force
in Manohuria to some where around seventy-five or eighty thousand,
about two-fifths of their standing Army, and have made no appreciable
headway gainst the bandits. Returning reports from Manchuria give
us to believe that the Japanese hold no part of the country outside
or the railroed zone, and even that is not too effeetive. Some mix
weeks ago the Army sent two divisions into Jehol statedly for the
rescue of one Ishimoto, but for the past two months some two
hundred Japanese have been held by the bandits at Manchuli without
an attempt at rescue. There are physical reasons for not edvaneing
but the fact remains that the country at large knowe the Army
hasn't done anything.
"The Army has been forced to raise a smoke soreen to get
themselves out of the spotlight and an old style western bank
hold-up in Omori, a suburb of Tokyo, has been seized on for this
purpose.
"The robbery was committed by three bandits armed with
revolvers and departed in taxi caba with some thirty thousand Yen.
The press was active and the activities of the gendarmerie was
reported in detail with the reported result that a widespreed commnis-
tic move was unearthed and that the money was needed for their projeets,
one of which was the importation of arms and ammunition. After many
raids the net result was a cache of 41 pistols and 8,000 rounds of
ammunition - scarcely enough. Incidentally the United States came in
for our part in the robbery. It was reported (press) that it wes our
policy of interfering which had aroused the people to a nervous tension
and our showing of moving piotures of the under-world life that sug-
gested the idea. This apparent unnecessary detail is given to show how
far they have gone to make a smoke-screen for the Army and have grabbed
at a straw. Communimm is no more widespread here than it was a year
ago and the police tab is so close here that one could soaroely think
Red without being apprehended. The Communistic party published a
pamphlet denying the charges and the pamphlets were gathered up by
the police and kept from the public.
"The Army and those in on the know appreciate their diffioult,
if not impossible, undertakings in Manchuria and are talking for
some way out of it. It is anyone's guess and conjectures are mumerous,
but all seem to concentrate on two projedts. One a trade with Chiang
Kai-shek and for Japanese assistance against the commnistic move in
China; the latter is to abandon the boyeott and withdrew assistance from
the Manchurian bandits. The other is for Japan as an invisible agent
to create an independent government in some of the North Chine provinees
and to ally this with Manchuria. This would tend to destroy aid to the
bandits in Manchuria as well as alleviate the Manohurian question in
the League of Nations. Something has to be done to save Army prestige and
to this end the dominant Argy element will be as prone to foree war with
some other country as they were to move on Mukden in 'sl to avoid any eut
by the Government and reduction of armements at Geneva. Since China
does not offer sufficient bait and holds certain internatiomel dieed-
vantages the next best move is against Russia.
"The Russian Ambessador here is actively engaged in attempting to
have the Japanese accept the non-aggression pect and in an interview with
General Araki the latter is reported to have stated the Aray coald mot af
ford to tie its hands at present and eited the situatien at Manehuli as
evidemse."

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 7, 1933.
EHD
PH
The Bi-Weexly intelligence Junmary of
Lectnber 16, 1932, from the Naval attuché at
Tokyo reports:
There is little indication that the
Seiyukai will carry its opposition to the
Cabinet to the point of bringing about the fall
of the Cabinet without assurunce of the sup-
port of the militury, which is very doubtful.
Most of the members of the House of Peers
view as admirable Japun's policy as expressed
0
at Geneva and regard the araft budget as
0
unavoidable (page 1).
Cabinet agreement on a practical plan
of read justment v.hich will be effective and
which will reconcile an increase in taxation
with the needs of big business appears to be
impossible. A cut in the military expenditure
is the only answer, und the question is how
long Japan will continue to write blank
checks for her army and navy (page 2).
The Minister of Justice is threatening
resignation because a Tokyo Judge has been
accused of communistio tendensies (page 2).

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
4
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
Activity in reactionary circles has re-
cently inoreased. At one meeting the question
of allowing Mr. Yukio Ozaki to land in Japan
was discussed (page 2). (A letter which Mr.
Doomun has recently received from London
states that Mrs. Ozaki is lying in London
critically ill of Jancer and that her husband,
who was very al.xious to return to Japan to
attenu the opening of the Diet, is remaining
with his wife until her expected aeath takes
places in the very near fu ure).
Haku Mori recently died. Many political
ouservers regret this because he was the man
most uble to uring harmony vetween the military
and polilicai partles (page 2).
Durin a six day periju tne raulo statlon
at Nagoya hanuleu uver 5,Joo messages of more
than 122,000 words from Geneva, mostly press
messages, a record equulled only auring the
London Conference (puge 2).
The office of the Resident Navu.
(Japanese) Officer (a Rear ndmiral) in
"Manchoukuo" was recently removed from Mukden
to Hsinking. (page 3).
The press reports that more than 30,000
anti-" anchoukuo" troops swore allegiance to
the ew State in the past month. Although the

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
permanence of tnis alieglance is very doubt-
ful, the "banait" units are finaing it aifficult
to liv. in their mountain retreats in the
v._nter (page 3).
The Japanese press rejoices that "at
last the realists in the State Department
have the controliing influence ana that the
American public is coming to realize how
illusory American Far Jastern poliey has been
in the past". A statement of the American
Tecretary of the Navy that the U. . Navy
is inferior to some types of sliips to the
Japunest T'avy wus featured in the Jupanese
press. In a recent speech Jount Kabayama
stated that he had not yet been approuched
officlully with regaru to his possible visit
to the United 3tates (page 4).
The ar bepurtment plans to witharaw
military instructors from Catholie Midule
Schools as a result of the refusul of stuuents
of Catholie Cchools in Tokyo to bo. before
the Yasuxuni ihrine (paze 4).
with rega d to tne Jupanese naval redue-
tion plan, the attitude of the man in the
streets is that it is america which is prevent-
ing Japan from attaining complete security
in naval armaments. Tne Jupanese are worried
over alleged anerican aid to Chinese aviation

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
in regard to which there ure greatly
exaggerated reports. Vocul opposition to
military expenuitures is still slight. How-
ever, on December 9 a well-known writer
stated in the Toxyo YOMIUni SHILBUN
that he thought the military are perhaps
choosing the exuct nethod ror arousing
opposition na hatred on the part of the
people (jase 5).
A Foreign Curreney Rond Appraisal
Commission hus been forned but it is finding
aiffisulty in determinin& the methoas of
procedure. Foreign obligations of the elec-
tric companies are worrying the companies,
the banks ana the Government (page 5).
nolesale prices of 5o commouities
advar.ced 21.5 per cent since June, 1132
(page 6).
Petty crimes anu robberies are greutly
noreasing (page ).
250 alleged communists were arrested in
Tokyo in December 4 and 15 branoh headquarters
of radical organizations were raided by police.
The Department of Communications has appointed
 special officials to watch the thoughts of
its 210,000 employees (page 6).
2
LES:CLS

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.90)
JAN111030
DIVIJION OF
994.00N1R/eto
amts have been trying to win ever no.
finding it a most dirfioul: task.
At the present time there is little indieatiom that the
Soiyukal will carry its oppositson to the point of brimging
about the fall of the Cabinet without havins the assurance o
the military that they will suppart a Seiykai Cabimet. The
military, on the other hand, is set against giving tee much
pomer back into, ths hands of the politincl parties, eapooially
in tihe questions of foreign affaiva, mllitary affaire and :
rinance. It is vory doubtral whether they would wupport a
Seiyukai Cabinet.
The Minseito will probably sapport the Govermmont,
al though aron Waketeuki has voiced his aisapproval or the
issuing of bonds in the amoumts proposed by the Sabinet. The
attitude of the Mineeito is that too mueh controvarsial dis-
cussion at the preaent time will have a bad effeet on the inter-
national situation.
be oppoeed to the covornasnt
to te woen whether the party will
mkn  
51
nd join forces in opposing

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.86)
mtabie dirriomltrA ut
hia colleasuss are tryins to dimaade hís
Thare bae beem as increasing amount or metiviky in
brought ferth coaciderable oritieimm from reactiemary quertors.
The death of Mr. Kaku Mori reesntly has remoyed ome or
the politieians who was most eapable of trying to brins harmomy
between the military and the political partios. Ar. Meri had
taken on himself the role of liamon ofrieer between these two
elemonts of presont day Jepanese politics and appears to have
been reasonably suecossful in that, though he mas sonnected with
the Seiyukai party, he was in the confidence or the Army to a
much greater degree then almost any other politician. Many
politieal obeervere who hold that the future governments or Japan
regret Wori's death in that there is no one at preseat capeble of
taking his place.
B. Foreigm. 1 Loague
The mmount of intorest that is being taken in the pro-
ceedings at Ceneve are indicated by the fact that during a six day
period the radio station at Nugoya handled over 5.Ooo mossagou of
more than l22,0oo words from Gonova. These ossages were largely
press messages and constitute s record equelled only by thas period
when the London Conference was taking place.
ontroverey
roains ce beFore
oe
pprotat of hnvkn
per tlelte In
the me ster

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.91)
betantiate.
forees in other parts of Manchuria are extonding
If press reports ean be helieved more then 50,000
troops have sworn allegienee to tho maw state in
are mo doubt finding it dirrioult to live in their mountain
retreats in the winter time.
On the aight of 8 Deeember è miner olash tock place mear
Shanhaikwan. There are two versions of the affair = beth frem
roliable souress. The first is to the effeet that the action
on the part of the Japanese was plenned before hand, mad that
it was planned in order to put a stop to the importatiom by the
volunteer forces of emmmition asd supplies from south of the
Great Wall. The other is to the effeot that the slmsh wme
purely looal and that the Japenese commanders have stated that
no more major operetions are planeed for tais winter. The area
is now roported as being quiet.
It is reported that the Japanese Foreign Office is draft-
ing a treaty whieh will be suhmitted so the government of
Manohulkuo in the near future. This tresty will be a treaty of
Commeres and Navigation and will involve the abolition of extra-
on the leasing of lend by Jupemees, eto.
Also there are Fors
rew state.
Soviet-nusoia.
The ratifiontion or a non-aggression paet with the
LUT
Soviets has apparently been given up for the prenent.
Conaral Koiso in referring to this question in a pPess interview
jus? before he re turned to pis pons in menonexuo msa seu sat suvs
6 peet between Japan and the Soviet Gevormmant wes not neeesvary
in the opinion or the Army Goneral Start. He continned that

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.90)
atie ralatiens
tofferemost.
.
Amsrisan Par Bastorn policy has beom In the past.
all of the Japanose papers carried thie part or the repey
large type.
It has been stated in the prees that Count Kabayame
will again visit the the Uaited states is order to preseat
Japan's case to the American governmont cnd people. In a reéent
speesh, however, Count Kabayama stated that ho had not yst bosn
officially approached on the mubjeet.
II. Militarr-Naval.
On the firet of Deaamber the anmual changes in the
military naval commends and ohenges in naval organisaties ware
made publio. These chenges have beon covered in detail in
ssparate reports.
The War Depertment has annoumeed that the sesend
Division, which is now in Manohuria, will be relieved early
next year by the Sixth (Kumemoto) Division. It is also meported
that on 15 December a number or Army planes (exaet mumber
unkmoan) will leave Techikawn for Manchuria. Lieut.-General
Koiso stated in the course of a press interview that no inorease
in the number of Japanese troops in Manchuris was neceesary at
the present time.
As a romult of the students of the Catholie Schools
refusing to bow before the Yasukuni Shrine, the War Depertment
plans to withdraw the military instrustors from the Cethelio
Middle Schools (Kaisai, Jochi, oto.). This will work a hardship
oredit for military training in sokool ane will be compelled to
spend the full tims with the colore.
The loss of the destroyer Bawerabi durime the period
under review is roported on soparately. the report of she inpeste
igatins conmittee has not yet besn sutenittad and the dragging
n heen   

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.89)
air faree, Greatly esnggerated stories of ths mumber
planes and instructors at the aviation sohool at Hang
geined conaiderable cirealation in Japan.
In time of war the Japanose Navy is making & study of the
extent to whien women are amployed, at prowont, is not kmown
sxnetly.
As a result of the sinhing of the destroyer Sawarabi,
it is ramored that the Japanose Navy Department intande to
not taken place as yet, and informal inquiries have prednced no
dofinite answers.
There is still little voeml opposition to the large
iteme of the budget for military-naval expenditures. Hewever,
Mr. Shineaku Hirata, a well-known writer on maval mabjeots. had
a very eritieal artiole in the Yomiuri Shimbun on 9 December.
He romarks on the calm aooeptenee of the people of the huge
oxponditure and says thet it is now nesessary for the militery
to justify this, and that he for one is not sure but what the
military, instead of gaining the conridence and support or me
people, are not ohoosing the exeot mathed of arousing
opposition and katred.
As montioned undor the political seotion of thim
summary, the Cabinet 1s consdioring what steps should be taken
to improve Jupan's financinl and economie position. The Finance
Ministor is optimistic as rogards the future, basing this optim-
imm on hopes that the military axpenditures, farm relief
expensss, etc. will deorease in the next few years end that with
the ene of the present world-wide depreesion, the revenues va il
inereame. This optimims on the part of the Finenee Minister is
not shared by all of his colleaguee in the Cabinet, and the
bankare are doubtsul about the wi sdom ot relugng lhens to the
amount of wo00,000,000 in the next fow months.
he cecrea chat are belns disced are 
foreod purobt ce os Torel n ourreney conds ard debentree ouned
Sn Jasde Brute con trol of exohang. tarirf reform, natonel
aation of Japrnese cleefrie powar ccmpanioe, ate A Porelen
Carrumoy Bond Anprelernl cGcntccloo nae bean roraode bet 1t 1a
torgfoon shat 10

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.95)
year. of the 56 commoditiee listed only four deolimed (tem, og
went up 7 sen e gallon.
The Dopartment of Comsumioations reporte a deeline in
the postal savings of about wl05,000,000 sinoe the first of
August. The volume of surplus in privato banks has inereased and
a mew high reeord was said to be on hand on 15 December.
In addition to the mergera of the large steel companies
and the peper companies (see roport /l7e), the large shipping
interests represonted by the Nippon Yusen Kaiaha, the Osaka Shosen
Kaisha, and the Kinkai Yusen Kaiaha, owming 279 vossels, are now
diseussing plans for e combination whioh will contrel the greater
part of the merohant fleet of Japan. It is understood that these
disoussions are still in the proliminary stage, but they indioate
the lines along which these large and powerful groups are moving.
Another move in this direotion is the formation of a department
stere guild involving 65 of the large department stores thronghout
the empire.
In some respects business is improving. Meny firms
engaged in the spinning, woaving, rayon, iron, steel, copper,
fertilizer and oll industries, which compete with imports, are
reported to be planning to raime their dividends. The steel
industry is one of those whieh is enjoying the greatest prosperity
at present, due to heavy ordere from the War Department. Small
shopkeepers are making every effort to overcome their losses for
the year up to the presont, and are holding one sale after
another. Perhaps the present period or comparative proeperity
is mot going to last, but those that cam are making the most of it.
IV.S00IAL
Fetty orimes and robberies are greatly on the inareass.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.92)
inerease the mumber or
only Só pupils in a clads, and inolnde a revision and
of the text books.
The Home Offioe hes just enmouneed that there 
510,901 unemployed on 1 July 1932. Those stat1atios do mot 
the extent of unemploymont howovor, beoanse any man wto has w
for a week in the year is conaidered as being smployed.
at presont w7.000,d00 boing devoted to the relief of the
and the Departaeat or Agrioulture and Forostry has aaked fox
sosiel wolfare. These bills are called Shop Bills (to better
the conditions of several million chop omployses). mill for
prevention of oreelty to children, wage proteetion bill amd labor
dispute mediation biil.
According to statistics published recently the net gein
in population for the year 1931 was 861,00, whieh was some
S2,Doo less than the gain or the previous year. Both the War
Depertment and the Department or Overseas Affeirs have appointed
ofriciels to promote closer cooporation botween Japan and
Manohukuo in regard to the mostlement of Japanese in Manehukuo.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 20, 1933.
20：
ONI's report from the naval
office at San Fransisco gives a
description by the Purser of the
5. S. PRESIDENT LINCOLN of air
raid practice at Kobe, Japan.
The Purser considers the exoited
attitude of the people during the
practice us representative of the
popular sentiment for war pervading
the country.
1E3:C13

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
FeomNI
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
VAN 10 1933
205-85
Service
907-100
Depertmest of Stasbe
Japan
Jan. 1933
Mr. Kingabury f the purser's offio. .S. PREsIDmT
LINcoIN, states that n the oocusion of the simulated night
air raid on KOBE, Js' N, the people were instruoted how to
use cloth for the purpose or darkening their houses, ete.,
The employees of the puulie utilities o mpanies, w.leh are
ove nment owned, went fr m house to house, distributing the
894.00
cloth for use in cov ring windows, .emonstrating its use,
and showing the people how to turm out the light o: the out-
side of their l uses such es ate li ts, eto., hen the hour
for t.e raid oame, people were in the streets i. great numbers
to witness it. Üne house that came under the obse vati n of
Mr. Kingsbury id not turn o:f the gate light at the time
sp oified. All the others were turned off at this time. A
very lar e mob g thered i front of the house in front of
hiah the light he not been turned off, an: made quite &
demonatration, carrying on with it untii the o:cupants of
the house turned off the light.
REPORTS/
One plane of the many participating n the raid was
pioked up by * semrohlight about fifteen inutes after the
raid started. Three soarchlights put their beams on this
plane. When it was pioked up, the people in the strcets
np lauded and cheered loudly. The plane, however, managed
to get away fro.. al three oi th light in a very few min-
utes.
6
This at:itude on the p rt of the publie of Japan is
considered repre entative f the popular sentiment of pre-
paredness : or War perveding the country.
D.N.1.
894.
Reprto
JAN30
1933

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 17, 1933.
114
MA:
The Bi-Weekly Intelligence Summary of
the Naval Attaché at Tokyo, January 27, 1933:
The Diet openeu with unusual tranquility
(p. 1).
"The Manchurian affair has cost the
Japanese Government ¥573,000,000 to date -
almost ¥40,000,000 per month, and there is
no immediate prospect of it decreasing". (p.3).
The feeling of the people in Manchuria
toward the Japanese has undergone no change.
Even among the "Manchukuo" officials now in
Japan, those that are on really friendly terms
with the Jupanese are very few in number, and
these men are of Manchu and not Chinese
extraction. (p. 4).
Four Russian whalers put into the
Bonins on January 3. According to the metro-
politan police, these ships were sent to
make inquiries into the Japanese naval situa-
tion and four of the orew were on a speoial
mission to start radical propaganda in Japan.
The crews are being hela while an investiga-
tion is being conducted in Tokyo and it is
reported that the ships may be confisoated (p.4)

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
The military authorities plan to assist
in the fight against the spread of radical
ideas by forming National Defense Societies
in the big cities to cultivate national spirit,
etc. Branches have been formed already in
more than ten prefectures (p. 6).
The olu Japanese sword is to take the
place of the modern saber in the Japanese
Army. The Japanese say the two-handed sword
is a more efficient weapon and it is the one
with which all Japanese youths are traineu.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.90)
Divition of
ENT OF STA
FAR EASTER AFFÁS
FEB·94-1933
So far the stormy neasian of the Dist
zailed to materiallme. Both Honses Mot fow
poliey of the nation. The Seiyukal, whiah an m
yery hostile to, the Govermment, kas thus far 
arative polley sontaiadd mothing now or ster
speech shovs thet Japan intends to pursus an
foreoful forcign poliey.
This unusuaily tranquil oponing of che piey mmivge
the fore the question of a ohange of Government arter te
lntention of resigning, but Seiyukai cirales appear to be vary
confident and optimistic. On January loth, a few days bafens th
Wakatsnki. There has been much speculation as to what sook plese
agreement was reached to transfer the politteal power to the
S
Seiyukai es soon as the Budget has been pasged and the present
and that the return to the party syetem of government will take
plece in the no distant future, but in the final analyois it does
not seem that this change would be of muon commequenee. For soms
time to come any go vernment that is to last must have the support
of the military, and if Dr. Suzuki is asked to head the Cabinet is
means that his differenoes with the Wer Office have been patohed up
and that he has agreed to listen to their dictates. so fer the
Army has maintained a non-oommittal attituds, whieh has not tendod
to clear the unoertain atmosphere in whioh the Diet is working.
As long as the Army continues in its position of prodomimant
influence a return to party sovernment, unless accompenied by a
return to a normal financial progrem and a change in foreign poliey.
will be of little importance.
Phe debates on the oudget in the Lower House are not
likely to be nything more than academie disoussions of what the
future finant nl progr m of the government should be. No doubt
warned by both the Winselto and the
cone to duoe expendituree
13.128111
10

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
The prees new roperte tt the the
opereting sehadule of the Japanes
more then ten prefestures and similar cnes are 
of orgenizations.
The old Japansse sword is to take täe pleme of the
the ome with which all Japonose youths are trained.
III. ECONOMIC
Japan's visible trede showed an unfavorable balenes of
W31,565,000 for the second ten days of January, with imports
reashing 71,401,000 and exports 39,856,000. One of the main
causes is the unfavorable situation in the raw silk trade, combined
with heavy imports in raw cotton, wool, ete. This is the bueioat
import seeson ror Japan, end since the Yen has been steeey at about
.21 the export outlook 1s not too bad. There has been praotleally
no change in the value of the Yen in the last two months, though
rumors of inflation in the United States sent it above $.2l redemtly.
The Government soheme for the control of foreign exohange has had a
steedying effeet, for the present at least.
The national debt of the country inoreased oyer
500,000,000 in the last year and now amounts to W6,550,000,000.
Two large bond 1ssues - one of 200,O00,000 by the Bank of Japan.
and one for l35,000,000 by the Depos1ts Bureau of the Ministry or
Finance have been sold recently. The Finance Minister says that all
future loan issues are to be shouldered by the Bank of Japan, but
that later some of the issues may be offered to the publie. Theme
are rumors that therc will be changes in the persannel of the Bank
of Japan and other semi-government banks in the hear futurs. This
is being watohed with interesi beouase the futurs financial policy
of the country depenis on the management or theas banks. Reparts
indieate that there are now only 538 banks in Japan ns compared
with 1,283 banks in l927. The average capitelization of the
remsining banks has almost doubled however, whioh indigates the
elimination of e large number of small aad unsound banks.
tn the middle of
Inoreaned produotion Sa
January a rise of l.4s was reported.
reported in Japan's eisht leading industrial, artioleo - rew silk.
copper, bleaching porder and

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.83)
249
themtrea mt te
  et servios statis.
oll imports for lose (exslusive of tmat fer use of the
Ary amé Mavy) are plaoed at
Reavy end erade
Gasclime
01. 379,000 gals.
Unáted Stnves
585,617,000
Rusaia
67,599,000"
IV. SOCZAL
The military court marsial whioh has beon traping the
officere invol ved in the Mey l5 csee hao sompletee the emaminations
echeduled for l8 optomber. There ls a natzon wiep movoment demant-
ing lenienoy for the offisore involved in the aftair - and it hes
gained such force thet the Home Offieo fears that it may assume
serious proportions unless lenieney is petually showm. Memy
Japenose - inoluding sovormment offioials or high rank - belseve that
the suneral re ults of the May 15 affaire have been benericiel to the
nation. The triel of the civilians involved in the came is being
held up beeause the aocueed do not like the judge.
The Soclety for the Promotion of Peaee of the Yar Rest
attemptod to heäd e meoting in Mihkye park reoently - probably in
sympathy wits tho World anti-War conferenoe to be hela in Dhanghei
oarly in Doptember. The meeting. however, wes broken up by wowe
young mesber or she avionel spirit reservation ssoolatlon who
were latar a rested d held by the poliee.
MLeur Lavor treubles have been reposted at the Qeaks Drem
Lok. Ok  he Mltublei arorere Sorke. Nagga.
apperently lavol ve the leorar lng or orkmen as a reswi of e
deapaet lon orr  partm nt orders. alees the sar boom eomtimes
as a result of wore seuree, lator disputem of this neture will
tdto1no

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.91)
an the fommetion of a Soviet-Japanesopanahnke
protested againss the Syolets publishing the dotasis of
vermations and maked the Soviet Ambasnader to obtain an
ation. Ascording to Rongo the spokemtan of the
aaid that hls sovormment was not bound by any obllgatiem
make public the progress of the nogotistions.
The Sovists have protested against recent statements by the
commniquee which it issuos from time to time, and in fmst in th
facs of the Soylet protest issued a second statament giving
additional detalla of elieged communist motivities in China in
gonoral, end Shenghai in partioular.
The Metropolitan police are disoussing what peesures should
be taken to deel with the four Russian whalers that put ints
Futami, in the Bonins on 3 January. The crews of the vessels
stated that they needed water, but deteutives from the foreign
section of the Metropolitan Police have reported that they Bave
discovered thet the ships were sent to make inquiries into the
Japenege "naval situetion" and that four of the crew were on 
speciel mission to stert radieel propagoada in Japen. The srees
are still being held while the inveatigation is being conduetod
in Tokyo and it is reported that the ships may be confiscated.
5.Voited
8tat08.
merltan aid in supplying war supplies end instruotion to
China contimues to be reported in spite of he statement of the
Embassy that soch reports are not founded on fast. The Foreign
n h i l
the Chinese sviatore in Canton.
When this stetement was

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.92)
sami-ofrieial statomeats br 
dirferente
arieeme mm heve been in bestseee in ratn
aye snformed the Naval Atteshe that im apite or the
IX. HAVAL-MILITARY
The question of whether Japan has tonstrusted naval bases i
the mandate 1slands was brought up in the Manuntes Comlssión of
the League - which brought forth an emphetie donial from the
Japaneme Governmsnt. The Japamese admat that they have mads
extensive improvements to the harbors of Palau and Scipan. but
maintain that this is solely for the purpose of hanaling the muger
which is grown in the islands. Several new vessels are to be buile
to hendle this sugar trade which is inersesing.
In the present session of the Dies the question of the
"Imperial Commands was again brought up (see this ofrics repors
No. 115, 902-100 of June 16, 1930). thie time the queetiam was
asked as to who made up the military-neval seotions of the budget
the Finsmee Ministry or the War Office. The War Minister replied
that it was done by both depertments of the goverrment in consul-
tation, whieh is of course partially true. What he negleeted to
Finenee Department, were backed by threats whioh were strony
to prevail to a large extent (see report No. 179 of 2 Dec. 19sm)
gave details of the second navel replenishment progrem. These
dated 2 November 1952.
The destroyer Hatmuharu (1400 tons) 1s to bo launohed at
Sasebo in Bebruary and the keel of another Laid at Kawaseki, Kobe.
Renge reports that Kawamaki is to build tmpee viver gunboats for
Manchukuo - the construction work to, begin very shortly.
Public contributions to puronase anti-aireraft guns for
desires to contribute a plane to the Navy. The Commandant at
Kure has stated thet while the Saeki Air base is not to bs rushed

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.92)
haye Safarmed the Maval Atteshe that im apite of the a
ipame10s1
strems as ever. The Japenese are euspiolons er evesy mov
IX.HAVAL-MTLITARY
The question of whether Japan has construsted neval bases
the mandate 1slande was brought up in the Maniates Commlssión of
the League - which brought forth an emphatie donial from the
Japanese Government. The Japamese admat that they mave meds
extemsive improvements to the harbors of Palau and Seipan. but
maintain that this is solely for the purpose of hanaling the muger
which is grown in the islands. Several new vessels are to be bwilt
to hendle this sugar trade whioh is inersesing.
In the present session of the Dies the question of the
"Imperial Commands was again brought up (see this ofrice repors
No. 115, 902-100 of June 16, 1930). thie time the queetimm was
asked as to who made up the military-naval seosions of the bodgat
the Finsmee Ministry or the War Office. The War Mimister replied
that it was done by both depertments of the goverement in consul-
tation, whieh is of course partially true. Whet he negleeted to
Finenee Department, were backed by threats which were stronkn
to prevail to a large extent (see report No. 179 of 2 Dec. 19ss)
gave details of the second naval replenishment program. These
details are the same as were reported tn this office report We.les
dated & November 1952.
The destroyer Hatsuhara (140o tons) 1s to be launohed at
Sasebo in Bebruary and the keel of another Laid at Kawaseki, Kobe.
Manchukuo - the construction work to,begin very shortly.
Public contributions to puronase anti-aireraft guns for
Negasaki and Ckinawa prereotures are vsins ads.
desires to contribute a plane to the Navy. The Commandant at
Kure has stated thet while the Saeki Air base is not to ba ruahed
to completion, it will be ready for use very shortly.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.94)
thag is that it exte
destroyed reeords, offise fixtures, ete., amd lnjased
elerks. The dimpate over wages is of Long stending =
to compremise having been unsuessssful. the Japan
sst san any too eager to extond prateothon to the prepart
company, though sinoe the offioial protest of our Ambemsnded
appeer to be more vigilant. They report that they broke up
Amerioan Consulete in Yokohama shortly efter the attask on the
company officss - probably wtth the idea of showing how wall
Aserioans and American property was being guarded.
The polies also report that they proyemted an attempt
to attack the Diet on the opening day. This attampt was supposed
to be planned by members of the communist perty - those that are
left after the wholesale arrests of Ootober. Thet there are still
a few whom the police suspeot is indioated by the arrests that are
made daily.
Consus figures just publiahed show that the populatiog
of the mp1re was 90, 396,045 in 1950. Japan proper has 64,480,09
Chosen 21,058,305, Taiwan 4,592,537 and Karafuto 295,198. Forty-
five percent of the people are employed classified as follows:
14,156,030
Agriculture
568,040
Marime produots
336,180
Mining
4,465,110
Commeree
5,200,560
Industry
1,108,560
Communieations
806,000
Domo stie
2,592,070
Miseelleneous

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.84)
29
 sas et servios statims.
oil fmporte for lose (exelusive of tmet fer wse or the
Ay and mavy) are plased att
Reavy and crade
Gasclime
01..0001s.
United Staies
55,817000
Rusaia
67,099.000
129,000
XV. SOCIAL
The military court martiai whioh has beon tuapins the
scheduled for l8 soptomber. There ie a natzon wies movomsnt desané-
ing lenienoy for the offisore involved in the affair - and it hes
gained sucn force thet the Home Offieo feare that it mmy aasume
serious proportions unless lenieney is petually showm. Mamy
Japenose - inoluding govormment offioials of high rank - belseve that
the Sunaral re ults of the May l5 affairs have been benerieiel te the
nation. The trial of the civilians involved in uhe case is being
helà up beeause the aocueed do not like the judge.
The Soclety for the Promotion of Peaee of the Yar Best
attemptod to head e meoting in mihiye park recently - probably in
sympathy with the World unti-War conference to be hela in Shanghei
Garly in Deptember. The meeting. however, was broken up by wowe
young mesber or she asionel spirit Preservation ssoolatlon who
were latar a rested d held by the poliee.
Eeor Lavor troubles have been reposted at Whe Qmakos Dren
apperently lavol ve the lsokar lng of worhnen as a reswi of e
dopletlen or r D partm rt orders. alees the war boom eoatimea
as è result or more seures, lator di eputee of this neture will
tdto1noo

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SH4
February 14, 1933.
2HD：
MET:
The Naval Attaché at Tokyo reports
(Bi-Weekly Intelligence Summary of January 14,
1933) few significant facts not already known
to the Division. However, the last paragraph
on page 4 and the first paragraph on page 5
might be read, the first dealing with military
expenditure and the second with reform of a
phase of military training.
aval maneuvers will take place during
20 days in August with the Bonin Islands as
a center, all vessels of the Japanese Fleet
taking part with the exception of those on
duty in China (p. 6).
Apparent prosperity continues but to a
little less degree, and it is difficult to
see how Japan can escape a reaction to the
present boom (p. 6).
Communist plots of fairly large propor-
tions were reported from Taiwan and Chosen,
both having taken place some time ago.
60 Formosans are being held for trial and 271
Koreans. (p. 7).
It is tentatively planned to send 25,000
emigrants to Brazil this year (p. 7).
S:IS

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.91)
Division of
FAR EASTERM AFFAIRS
FEB15-1933
riment of Shite
summary.
RROBTVEO
MAR 1 1933
DIVISION OF
The domestic paripel atuatión contines to be aleudes
with am atmosphere of unserthinty. The position of the gevormmant
is unstable - as indicated by its lask of sonfidenoe in matters ef
metional moment, and its refusal to state clearly whether so of
the important bills which are under consideration will really be
8
Introdaood in the Diet, and if so, the exect form that thoy will
94.00-N
take. This unoertainty is causing the two major parties to hope
that the end of the present Cabinet may come in the no distant
future - but then the uestion of the nature of the next Cabinot
arises and this is indeed a perplexing uestion.
It is fairly eviuent hat any serious oppositlon to the
government, which ay be ruised in the Diet, will be solely for the
purpose of emberrassing nd obstruetin the overnment in an effort
to gain power.
1
,ruprening it
does both th
06
ao ld receive the support
fied with n
aL1on
selfish reacons, if no ouners, wil undoubtedly cause both
major parties to bo prudent in how far their opposition will go.
Most observers agreo that the sesulon may be stormy, and that
verbal attacks on the goverament wili prouuoly be frequent and
bitter, but it is talt th  it way he confidently anticipated that
 serlous motlon of voncfide
not be introduced. The
greatest threat is from th seiyuk.
ut Dr. uzuki is still
persona non grata with the War Ministry, and he must know that
military support will be l okin or any cacinet that he might
attept to form.
The budget and the exohange control law are the two most
important measures whion will be considered. No one is really
satisfied with the budget, but if it is not passed, what thent
The state will spend double its levonue next year, but every thing
that can be taxed already pays, so under the oiroumstanoes the
huge loan issues are unavoideble. Other meesures are the Eleetoral
Referm Bill, RIee Law Revialon Bill, Pension Revimion Bill, Bilk
Contrel Bill, Tariff Revision Bill, etc., but the detaila or these
bills are umknowm at present so comment is useless. Party limes
do not appear te be clear out on these measures, though minor
points may cause trouble for the gevernment. on one queatien - the
Govermmont's Railway Polley - the Seiyuka1 appears to be in violent
oppesition. This party has long made politieel eapitel sut of the.
tà be buils, and the intentien of the sovermmeat to disgontimu
amstrusvion wonk en these lines is causing great alarm in Seir

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.92)
a2rolx contimusa
ontind
Ia Is Tolt that Amiral Ckade' s resigmation was caused by reamen
test the peint of whether any ofriser whe has passed the retiring
age limit can motually fill the post of Winister of the Nevy.
Porgisn
Aocording to the Japeneme press the govermment will in the
future attach more importance to direct negotiations with the indi-
vidual powers rather then attempting to work through the Leagee of
Nations. The objeet in view is to legalize the recognition of
Manohukuo, the validation of the Manchukuo-Japanese protoeol and the
commendement of direot Sino-Japene se hegetiatlons. The reports
continue that Japan is determined to insist on these three points
and that any formula worked out by the League which is not in confor-
mity with them will be resisted even if Japan is compelled te leave.
the League. A short while ago Dr. Tadeo Yamakawa, a member of the
House of Peers, in an article in the Japen Times stated that the
general feeling in Japan favored withdrawing from the League. This
statement is   ther surprising beceuse it was not felt that the
sentiment in favow of leaving the League wes  widespread. Dr.
Yamakawe, howe var. inateeted that he wes not in favop of eny sueh
mova sinee h onsi dored that Jupan's o ctis coul best be
reached
h aottn to be a memher
The
10get.
wde" to
Lished polley und thet tuere was no room tor lurcher modirieatlon of
that polioy. It would seem that Japan is not open to sugeestions
that would lead to a compromise. The Jupanese continue to make light
of the League - but in reality fear very much fhet the League will
make up its mind before long and express its views - and no one
doubts that they are unrevoranle to Janan.
Ruseia
It is reported that there hes been a change in the opinion
of the War und Borein Orfices in regard to the matter of the non-
aggression pact with kussie. General Araki recen tly expressed
himself as not being altogether opposed to the conolusion ef the
proposed pact, but it appears that he desiros that the pact mim mt
the settlement of all outstnading problems between the two, countries
instead of merely providing for mutuel non-aggression. The Jiji
says that both the Japanese Foreign Offioe and the Soviet Foreign
Offiee will publish the correspondence that has been exchanged
between the two governments regarding the paot in order to eer
up various misunderstandings that have arisn in foreign countries.
That Russia is still continuing her polioy of non-opposition to the
Japanese is borne out by the faot that she made no opposition to the
use of the Chinese Easterm Railway in the recont drive which earried
the Japanese forees as far east as Pograniehnaya.
The present Soviet Ambassader, who has been in Japen sines
l928, will soon be ropleced by the Minister to Austrim, Mr. Turonet.
The prebent Ambassador will prebehly leave for Moscew in February.
Among other thinge he was abls te settle the queatien of
atke riateries to we partiel aatisteotien or beth partiep.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
aperated with the leth diviméon in the advanee an Manshe
Foreign Service Squndren), Tokime (sont frem Basebe ee s Jas
Dow attached to End Foreign Serviee Bquadron and twe dastroper
This latest outbreak of hostilities has pmumed raper
cussions, not only in China and Japan, but also in most of the
eapitals of the world. The ofrisial Japaness vermion of the beginn-
1ng of the affeir is that Chimese soldiers threw a bomb mne fired
rifle shots at the Japanese gendarmerle post at Shanbaikwen, and that
the ofricer sent to negotiate a mettlement of this affair wes fired
on and killed by Chinese soldiera. As a result thers was me sourae
of action open except to attaok and drive out the Chimsse forees.
Generer Araki hes informed the Cabinet that he sill believes thas
there will be no serious devolopment in the situation in Jehel and
North China.
Quite naturally the whele of the blame fer the affair is
laid on the Chinese. Tho Japanese pross in recent weeks has bean
even more bitter in 1ts attacks on the Toung Marshal than ususl, and
many reports of his supposed activities in Jehel have been publiaked.
The remumption or hostilities was thus not wholly urexpeoted. The
Jepanese have maintainod all along that Jehol was a part of
Manohukuo and that any attempte on the part of the Chinese to disturt
the peaee of the area would be met with foree. They mow insist that
the Shankaikwan affair must be treated as a local ineident - that ls
that it has no bearing on the larger questions of Sino-Japanese
rslutions.
Tho uestion in the minde of all obeervsre in ths Far East
1s whether the Jupane se will extend their operations south of she
Great Wall as a pssult of what they cell agereesi ve aete by the
Chinece. It would seem that they do mot intend to make any such
move at prasent  espeslally sinee their foreee in the Chinchow
Tientein area are at present mueb too small to sarry on any such
exteneive operetion. ahothar uestion whioh hes arieen is what will
be the attitude o the pewere if the Japanese Foreee in North China

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.88)
 se of the winter monthe whe thess
 good stead.
The Japensse War Miniatry, whiah has
griee. in determining matters ef foreign 
mr Mass watil this party, which instills bittsr mmmity
apan, 1s dene amay vi th".
A movenent to promote Sino-Japanese rappreachmemt ss
sared by the Japanese Foreign, Office, War Ofriee and iuriwential
private organizations, is to be umder the auspices of the Qmmat
Amta Associatien, and it is planned to held a eanfsrtzse tn zakys
mext fall to discuss the isiatie Monroe Destrine. It is hopel thas
the Chimese will mend delegates to cnd identify themselves with this
asscciation since it is in accord with the Greater Aeie prineiple of
the late Dr. sun Yat-sen. If possible, rogular meetings ef t
aéditéen to Chinese, other oriental natims may ba aakod to mund
delegations.
Daited States.
Reports frem Nanking to the Japanese pepers say that
Ameries has been pulling wires to make the Chinese Nationaliut
Government aapt strong attitude toward Japan sinee the resumptiem
of Sino-Ruesfan diplomatio relations. It is said that this resumptiom
of relations was a result of the advise or the Ameriean Minister to
China. Americe is motivated by a desire to redress the failure of
the "Stimeon" diplomecy on the Manchurien preblem. In addition,
American asslstance is to be given the Chinese in the form of loame
aacording to ons Japenese paper $20, 000, 000 has already been loened
to the Chinese Government. Ameriea's Far Eastern Polioy has thus
developed into s grsut internetional plot, according to the Japanese
press.
I.
Naval-Nilitary.
The Wer Departmeant has published a statement in which it
attampte to justiry ths lorge military items or the budget. A large
pert of the sa litlonal rundn will be ased an inereasing the awmber
ot Japenese troope in nohuris and in provtding sham with inereaped
eir, motor, neevy mrvillecy
Phe onthorities say
that thsaho
bosth
to full reace

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.92)
Ca, oantinned
The Jepanese War Ministry reperte that theme is
ferees whieh were et lerge in the Three Eantern Previness lmet
drive on the anti-an chukuo ferees holding the castern geotios af
Whe Chiness Eastern Railway wae begun. This drive conslnued olmar
to the Ruesian berder and the town of Pogranichinaya was esoupied
on 8 January. Another detachment or Japanese treeps eperating in
the northeastern part of Manohukue oocupisd Hulin about the seme
time. In both cases the volunteers fled aoross the Soviet border
and wero interned. rhe remnants of Ceneral Su Ping-wen's foroos
are reported to be moving south into Jehol provinee so joim the
Chinese forces in that area. However, there are enough reports of
bandit attacks in various portions of Menehukuo to indicate thet the
country 1s by no means completely cleared. The Japanese forses ar
making good use of the winter months when their superier equipment
stands them in od tead.
China
The Jepanese War Ministry. waioh has been assisting the
Foreign Office in detemainin matters of foreimn poliey in the past
year, mede a statement on the reportea cnt i-Jepanese resolutions of
"ric" suye tit ls most
the  ucminba.
mintang and ite
imperati ve a
poscs in the
a on gero
ns
A movement to promote  ino-Jupanese rapproachment ie
reported by the Tokyo ksahi.
This movement, which is being spon-
sored by the Japanese Forei n, Office, War Offiee and influential
private organizations, is to be under the auspices of the Great
Asia Associavion. und i ie planned to hold a conferenee in Tokyo
next fall to disouss the Aslatie Monroe Dootrine. It ie hoped that
the chinese will send delsgates to und identify vhemselves with this
association since it is in accord with the Greater Asia prineiple of
the late Dr. Sun Yet-sen. If possible, regular meetings of the
associetion will bo hold at intcrvals of two or three years - and in
additien to Chinese, other oriental nations may be aaked to sond
dolegations.
United States.
Reports from Manking to the Japanese papers say that
Amerioa has been pulling wires to make the Chinese Nationelist
Government sgapti strong attitude toward Japan sinee the resumptiom
of Sino-Ruesian diplomatio relations. It is said that this resumption
of relations was a result of the advise of the Ameriean Minister to
China. Ameriea is motivated by a desire te redress the failure of
the "Stimeon" diplomecy on the Manohurien problem. In edditiom,
American assistanee is to be given the Chinese in the form of leame
mecording to one Japanese paper $20,000,000 has already been 1cened
to the Chinese Government. Ameriea's Far Eastern Polioy has thus
developed inte a great intermational plot, according to the Japeneee
The War Department has publimbed a atatement in
pee to justiry the large military iteme of the bud
a additdonel fuads will be sed in s
cope in Mamchuria and in providtm
are alrendy thore will he imeres

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.89)
amimations will be seleeted.
The annual militery review of the Guards nd Pirat Mavé
amé shieskiu pasnnd in roview.
The War Grfiee has accepted the landing field which was
domated by the city er Veda in Kagano Profesture. Thin is the firut
isstanse of this kind or denation. the present field covers on
teaks, ete.) valued at $76,000. The War Orrics is reported as
intending to enlarge the field and previde it with better equipment.
Another spy seare regarding the activities of foolgmers in
reporting om munition plants took plass resontly. According te the
Osaka Jiji a spy net hes been thrown over the entire ocuntry. The
foreigmers are taking advantage of their commereial relations with
munition cempanies to mearoh out the Eupire's secrets.
The seareh fer the hulk of the Sawarabi will be abamdoned
shertly although ships ef the 13th destroyer division, the Isuzu and
the Asehi are still in the area. Ascording to the preas the
unsuocessful soareh hes cest the government more than 500, 000. The
ofricial report of the commission is to be made publle shortiy, bat
it is un dsrstooi that they have decided that the Samarabi opened
some of her seams in the sterm and took se muoh water aboard that
sho sank.
The destroyer Vsugumo wes reported aground in Hiroabima Eay
on 1l January. Ouly slight demage wes reported and the ship
preceeded to Kure under her wwm power.
Thie offiee hes requested the Navy Depertment to Furnish
e sopy of the operatimg sohedule of the Fleet for the current yeer.
so far no answer has bsen rece ived and in the absenee of officlal
information the press reports will bo mummrized. The Second leet
ls reported to be ausembling at Saekl on ls Januory and deperting
on  na o r.
Fry   r 
to Join the Firet Fleet end from the date until le My the fleete
periodso
taiine

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.90)
lvereare to be Lae d
The ayperent prespertty, which wmas espesaally
 Jamwary indicate that they are up S. swes I
elassed as Levossities. Employment is mapersed te
balanes of v10, 926, 000. This was largely de to heavy ettem
trade which wms wé, 000, 000 more than that ef ths oorresponétas
period or last year.
According to the Finanee Minister, the economie outlgok is
bright. He says that the flouriahing export treds will centimwe, but
is difrionlt to see how Japan san sscape a peastion to the present
boom. The reaotion will probably begin with a restrietien or imports.
caused by the low valus of the Ysn, expeeially of the government
controls exchenge and foreign trade in an effort te stabilise the Ton
at its present value. Japanese stoeke of raw materials whiob mhe has
been using and exporting are almost exhausted. These materials wore
bought before the Yen reaoned its present low value, but whem the
time comes to replenish these stocks, Japanese importors wtll find
themeelves in a diffieult positien. The rise in the cest of raw
materinls will cause even further rises in priee levels, which wust
be sccompenied to some extent b increassd wagee. Japanese expertera
will then find that they must inerease their prices with the romult
that the export trade will prebebly fall off considerably.
The Finanee Ministry authoritiee are putting the final
touches on the new tarifr end the Exohange Contrel Bill. The new
tariff bill is reported not to contain any drastie changes. The
present l00% luxury teriff and the exieting 55% additionel duty in
addition to mespecirio tariff will be rgtained.
The Exchange Control
Pill is similer to the old Prevemtioh ot Capi tal Bill, but sives the
opAhat he
inunee Miletry un re trist exohange vrmio
oan ntenk tresics.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
IV.200IAL
During the period under review oommmiet plose of tmirk
large proportions were reported from Taiwan and Chemen.
not recent outbreake, however. In the Taiwam arfair, the
ts reported to have been started by Formosan studemts mem
efriees throughout the lsland. More than sixty persenm have
arrosted and are being held for trial by the Japaneee autmoritiem
The mumber of Koreans held is two hundred seventy one  and theas
persons have been formally charged with seditien, murder and arson
In the Second Distriet Court, for aets committed in Koree and
Manchuria in the spring and summer of this year. All of these
Koreans are members of communistie organizations and their
activities ineluded burning sohools and houses and killing members
of organizations opposed to them.
Poliee raids on left radieals so far this yeer have
already resulted in forty or more arrests. Aosording to reports
fifteen leaders were arrested during the new year's holidays. and
the plans for this year's ectivities were discovered, As a result
of this raid further raids are expeoted in the Hokkaido and Aomori
distriets. Among those arrested recently are ineluded a daughter
of a member of the House of Peers and a daughter of a well known
university professor. The poliee appear to be sueeesarul in
orushing radical plots and movements, but there is a strong under-
ourrent of unrest and it may extend mueh deeper than surface
indioations show.
According to tentative plans being made by the gevernment,
25, 000 emaigrants are to be sont to Bramil this year. A nationwide
campaign to solicit emigrants is to bo made. Eaeh emigrant will be
allowed Ten 50. in addition to other allowanees for preparation
expenses.
Wages are increasing alightly, but are mot keeping
Bill to 1mprove the wor
The government's shepe

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
NI
s
5
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Deoember 27, 1932.
EHD:
MH:
The Bi-weekly Intelligenoe Summary of
December 2, 1932, from the Naval Attaohe at
Tokyo oomments:
1. Domestio Politioal Situation. A
considerable ohange has taken place in the
attitude of the Japanese publio toward the
political parties, most people now being ready
to admit that the two major parties still play
an important part in the politioal life of the
nation, although there is no evidence showing
a deorease in the military influence. The
present Cabinet is becoming inoreasingly un-
popular with both major political parties and
with the public. It is difficult to see what
advantage would be gained by a Cabinet change
as long as the army predominates. The
military is not entirely unreasonable, inasmuch
as the original demands of the War Ministry
of Yen 828,000,000 were reduced to Yen
447,000,000, and the Navy demands for
560,000,000 were reduced to 372,000,000.
2. Foreign. The more liberal Japanese
now deplore some of the actions of the Army
and some of the metnoas that have been used,
but they do not feel that there is anything to
be criticised about the Japanese policy as a
whole with regard to the Manchuria dispute.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
V1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 27, 1932.
EHD:
MH:
The Bi-weekly Intelligence Summary of
December 2, 1932, from the Naval Attache at
Tokyo comments:
1. Domestic Politioal Situation. A
considerable change has taken place in the
attitude of the Japanese public toward the
political parties, most people now being ready
to admit that the two major parties still play
an important part in the politioal life of the
nation, although there is no evidence showing
a decrease in the military influence. The
present Cabinet is becoming increasingly un-
popular with both major political parties and
with the public. It is difficult to see what
advantage would be gained by a Cabinet change
as long as the army predominates. The
military is not entirely unreasonable, inasmuch
as the original demands of the War Ministry
of Yen 828,000,000 were reduced to Yen
447,000,000, and the Navy aemands for
560,000,000 were reduced to 372,000,000.
2. Foreign. The more liberal Japanese
now deplore some of the actions of the Army
and some of the metnoas that have been used,
but they do not feel that there is anything to
be oriticised about the Japanese policy as a
whole with regard to the Manchuria dispute.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Delegations of "Manchoukuo" officials
continue to visit Japan.
3. Military--Naval. The Military-
Naval services are becoming increasingly
popular wi th the young men of Japan,
candidates for the two schools showing a
marked increase this year. Plans are being
made for the military education of 3500 girl
students at the Girls' Higher Schools in
Japan. It is reported that 150 more oadets
than usual will be admittea to the military
aoademy.
4. The formation of a steel combination,
semi-governmental in nature, is being dis-
cussed. Also a merger of large paper compunies
is being considered.
5. 3ocial. During the fortnight under
review, there have been several fairly large
strikes. "A peasant uprising of a communistic
nature and led by students took place in
Tottori Prefecture (on the coast of the Japan
Sea), in October, but due to a polioe ban the
news was not published until about six weeks
after the incident. Attaoks were made on the
houses of some of the landlords and on the
police stations."

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
Whereas formerly beggars on the streets
of Tokyo were an unusual sight,t
theyanow
a common one.
There was a newspaper report that, fol-
lowing Baron Goh's public statement to the
effect that the large military items of the
draft budget were regrettable but inevitable,
General Araki warned him that there is at
present a movement on foot in Japan to alter
the capitalist system. It is believed, how-
ever, thut this statement was misquoted and
that the General did not actually say this.
This report is the first to be written
by the new Assistant Naval Attaché, Lieutenant
Sinith-Hutton, anu is a very good piece of work.
LES:CIS

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.93)
nt of atteatim due to the
Diet.
A stderable abmge hs taes plase in
pady to admit that the two major perties still play
ls mo svidenee to tend to show that the tnrluense
military has in any way decreased.
As uswal the air is full of rumore regarding pmiltisel a
changss and intrigues. Ths resignatien ef the Railway mimins
the Mamister of Daperial Household Department, the Miain
712
Okada is reperted te be firm in his intantion to remign upom
Railways was averted when his trivial differenee with the Hem
Mimister was settled to his satisfaction.
The present Cabinet is becoming inoreasingly unpopular
with both ar the major political parties and with the paeple.
Both Dr. Sutaki of the Selyukai and Baram Wakatsuki or the
Minseito have aritioiced the finanoial peliey and the domestis
relief poliey of the Cabinet in recent syeeches.It is apparent
that the Seiyakai, which has a large mejerity in the Lower
Houes, is only waiting for a favorable opportunity to sever
connectiens with the Cabinet. The questions of the budget,
farm relief and debt readjustment may be used as an exouss for
an open break. Certain seotions of the Army mupported by the
Minister of War are very luke-warm in their attitude toward
the Cabinet also. They would prefer a Cabinet led by mome man
of the type of Baron Hiranuma.
General Ugaki has returned to his post in Chosen. As
already reported there is cons derable talk of having him asaame
the leadership of the Minseito party. There has been the
suggestion that if the Seiyukai withdraws its support from the
Cabinet in the coming session of the Diet, tho Cabinet should
resigu and bo reappointed as a Minseito Cabinet hsaded by
Ceneral Ugaki and omitting the Seiyukei members. It is een-
sidered thet thie is a very remote possibility, however, beseeme
of the weak condition of the Minseito and the unpopularlity
of Gonural Ugeki wi tn a large end inrluential seetion of the
Army. Also it io difficult to see what advantage would be
Army continues in its positton of predominant inlluenee. Aside
from quemtions of personel jeulousy the troubles of the presbnt

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
195ß-Ss, the budget as appreved by the Cabinet, alleted
W447,888,000 to the Ammy and w372,506,000. to the Mavy. Alee.
the Finenee Minister was able to prevail in his dssire to
supply the defisis by issuing bonds rather than by inereasing
taxos. It might be pointed out with justice howaver, that the
expenditure of P820,494,000, wh1eh 1s 35 percent of the entire
budget, is exoessive, especially during this tims of depresmion.
The budget as approved by the Cabinet is covered in detail in 
separate report.
B. Forein
The meetings of the Couneil of the League or Nations have
been followed very olosely by the entire nation snd have aroused
widespread interest throughout the country. The press has
covered the proceedings in detail, extras have been issued every
day, and sometimes several times a day, and radio broadeasts from
Geneve and the local stations have been featured. Mass meetings
of reactionary socimties have been held in the larger eities,
resolutions approving the Japanese stand at Geneva have been
passed and telegrams of eneouragement have been sent to the
Japanese delegation.
Japan's observations on the Lytton Roport contain little
new material, but do show the attitude of the Japanese Govermment
has not changed in regard to the controversy with China,
Manchukuo and the League. It is felt that the Japanese attitude,
as expressed in the observations as well as Japan's action in
Manohoukuo, has the full support of the whole nation. The more
liberal Japanese may deplore some of the actions of the Army and
some of the methods that have been used, but they do not feel
that there is anything to be criticised about the Japanese poliey
as a mole.
while there is some evidence to show thet conditions in
Manchoukup are improving, the situation has not ohanged
Japanese forcea and their Mane
The traine, with the exeeption of the main lines or the South

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.92)
There dses mas
tmclude:-
(1)
Rejeetion of Presidems Noever's prepésel.
A plan for a conferanse Lmmediatoly, and nét in lese.
Abelition of aireraft carriers and airoraft sarrying
eruisers.
(6) Reduotion of sep1tal ahipe to 25, 000 tons and the d
of major calibre guma te ia inohes.
(7) An inereased ratie as regards Grsat Britain and the
United States baded en "respeetive needs".
The Military-Naval services ero beceming inozeasingly
popular with the young men of Japan, at least the mumber of
candidates of the Military and Haval Colleges have skown s
marked insrease this year. There were 5, Sse candidates fer the
150 vacancien at the Naval College, 1,170 sandidates for the 1s
vamanoies at the Paymastor's Colloge. This is due in all
prebability to the combined influesse of the depreseien and
and the recent activity of the Japanese naval forces in
Manohoukuo and at Shanghai.
The following minor ohangen in the Fleet Organizstion
have been noticed:
Commander submarine division ehifted pennant from I-6b to
I-67.
Comxander deutroyer divisien 5 shifted penmant from
Ikazuohi to Knazwma.
Communder destroyer division 8 shifted pennant from
Tugiri to Amagiri.
The Prench aloop Algol is in Japen et the preoont
tims and will remain until the lath of December, visiting
Nagaeski, Beppu, Miyejima, Takamatsu and Kobe.
milltary education of 35, 0oo gir studemts of the Girls Highar
Sohools io Japan.
Ths sohool authorities are roported as having

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
larger than uoual, coming at this time will not tond to
strengthen the finanoial position of the country. Drastie
financiel reform of some nature must follow this abnormal expend-
iture, and the government authorities are at present considering
what steps should be taken.
The Yen, whieh has been slightly above .20, has now
apparently, begun another drop - the latest quotations being bel
20. In an effort to stabilize the exchange the government has
issued regulations requiring banks to report to the Ministry of
Finance through the Benk of Japan all exchange transactions on
the day after the transactions are negotiated. This will tend
to ourtail speculation in the Yen and allow the government to
supervise to some extent the exchange transaetions.
Commodity prives have risen - the price or rice being
about 15 percent higher than it was a short time ago. Other
commodities suoh as olothing have risen about 20 pereent in priee.
The formation of a steel combination, semi-governmental
in nature is being disoussed again. The plan is to form a corp-
oration capital1zed at W200,000,000 using the Yawata Iron Works
as a center and including Kamanishi, Rinsei, and Kyuahu Inon
Works. Another morger which includes the large paper companies
Oji, Fuji, Karafuto is reported.
The first ten days of November showed an export exeess
of 5,480,000, the trade in silk end silk textiles and in cotton
textiles having shown an improvement. Reports from Shanghai show
that there has been a deorease in the effeotiveness of the
boyeott, and that the Japanese mills there are now working at
95 percent capacity.
The Nippon Yusen Kaisha reports a net profit of
$267,000 for the six months term just ended.
IV. So0ial
During the period under review there have beems
strikes of fairly large proportions. The seamen of the
Steamship Company were sucoessful in gotting their demanda for
increased salaries, imppoved food and bonuses after a strike
Machine Company workers continues and the students
Univarsity Law end Commeros Departments (av00 a

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.84)
Chmmoer of Gommares. rn
military i
remerked that
mmt an foet in Japan to alter the empitalist mys
It is belioved, however, that this speedn wad aneorreetl
veparted, and that the Goneral did not metually say what
he is roported to have said.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 7, 1933.
10:
The attaohed report of
February 3, 1933, from the Naval
Attacné at Tokyo reports the
interpellations and answers in
the Japanese Diet with regard to
who are responsible for the
determination of the military
strength of Japan. This informa-
tion has already been received in
FE.
：013

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVBION O
Division oN
100 - Politioal For
buary 3. 1 3-1933
101 Datiesal Govera
200- Doordination of
Dofense
Orficial Interpretation of the Procedure in Deciding the
Military Strength.
On January 23, 1933, the Government was interpellated in
the Lower House by S. Uchide (Seiyukaf) concerning ."On the besi
of which artioles of the Constitution and in whose responsibility
the navel strength was set down in the draft proposal for. the
limitation of naval armament"? "Do Ministers Nagai and Yamambto
still uphold the point of view held by the late Premier Hamaguchi
concerning the procedure of deciding the Army and Navy strength"?
Premier Saito answered:- "The Naval General Starf, the
higheat advisory organ to the Throne in naval matters, formilated
8
the plan as to the strength, and upon approval of the Government,
instructions were given to the delegates regarding their respon-
sibility."
War Minister araki replied as followa:- "The determin-
ation of the military strength is an Imperial prerogative. Since
this strength forms an indispensable element in the national defense
and military strategy, the plan is formulated by either the Chief
of the Army or Navy General Staff, who are the Emperor's Chiefs ef
REPORTS/13
Staff in the Military Command, and the final decision of the plan
is given by the Emperor, through the advisory organs."
Mr. Uchida said that there appeared to be a discrepancy
in the opinions of the Premier and the War Linister conceraing the
interpretation of the term "Supreme Comaand." The Premier referred
the matter to the virector of the Legislative Hureau for an
officiul interprotation.
The intorpretation of the term "Supreme Command" by the
Director of the Legislative Bureau, as announced in the press, is
as follows:-
TEXT
"Inasmuch as the queetion of military strength concerns
MAR
itself with Articles XI and XII of the Constitution, and as the
FILED
Government is called upon to perform its duty of giving counsel
81933
to the Throne, and of meintaining perfect coordination with the
organs of military cormand, the (overnment has strictly adhered
to the principle in its action. It is needless to add that the
Covernment will assume responsibility in this affair so far as
it concerns polities."
INPERPRETATION
"The question of decidine the mi litary strenrth should
be cens iered from the standpoint of national defense and
strategy, liplomacy, p lie finance, end internal politics.
kccordingly, its  cisio: is peluted to the military command and
admtnistration, sd o responstbiilty of tivinge counsel to the
Throne shoild be ahared  the organs of mi itary command and
auministration within the  beres of their respeetive duties.
in order to reac a unicied  mcbusien from the standpoint or
he natios as a whots,
 er for, perfect ccordinetion between
returelly Prom thie.
that the
dorivud Pree. ho sdministrave
suic

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
tation as to the precsdure of detormining the
angeh asdording to practical requiremonte, an
valleation ahonld be made. It is bellewed
preasns Cavines is mot called upon to osplsin es to
shother or not it nelds u diffsrent point of vies 
that steted by the late Mr. Hamaguchi at the Soth
of thoDiet."
The Army and Navy Ministors, at the extra seasion of the
Qmbimet Council held on Jan. 25, 1933, reserved the right.to make
futurs ppmmente upon the question. Later, after the military
authorities (Army and Navy) had made careful studies of the dratt,
they came to the conclusion that the interpretation of the
Legislative Bureau is acceptable as a whole since it is quite
difforent from the statements made by the late Premier Hamaguohi
at the Diet after the London Conaference, i.e. that "The amount
of military strength is determined by the Government, taking
into consideratien the opinion of the Army and Navy authorities.
The ilitary authorities hope, however, that the word
"government" in the reply might be replaced by some other
expression in order to avoid ambiguity. In case the Government
objects to the change, they hope the following additional inter-
protation might be added:-
"In determining the military strength the plans
ahould be drawn up by either the Chief of the Army or
Nevy General Staff, as thoy are the advisory organs to the
Throne, who make the decision, being counselled by the
Army and Navy Ministers. In giving a formal expression
to the decision thus reached, the Ministers, as the
representatives of the Army and Navy, should negotiate
with the Government."

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Maroh 23, 1933.
The Bi-Weekly Intelligenoe Summary of
February 24, 1933, from the Naval Attache at
Tokyo:
Puge 2. The Jupanese people are tremen-
dously excIted over the issue between Japan
and the Ieague and their exoitement is tinged
with no little apprehension and anxiety.
Fears that a war, or at the very least that
economic sanctions will be the result of
Japan's withdrawal, are expressed on all sides.
With few exceptions the Jupanese are prepared
to support the army and the navy to the
fullest extent, even though this may involve
the nation in a war wi th the whole world.
Both the War and Foreign Ofrices have been
deluged with telegrams and letters from organ-
izations all over the country demanaing that
Jupan Jarry out her policies and withdraw
from the League if necessary. The Navy
Minister addressed a message to all ships and
stations to the effest that he expeoted all
hands to be ready for any emergency.
Page 3. With regard to the retaining of
the Soouting Fleet of the United States in
the Pacifis, most Japanese with whom the sub-
ject has been discussed say frankly that they
8941N1

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
do not like it and can see no reason for it.
age 4. The Foreign Office Spokesman
informed news men that as yet no denial of
his statement thut regular Amerioan naval
personnel were acting as instructors in
Chinese aviation schools had been made. It
is reported th t the 3ritish Ambassador to
washington is to make several far reeching
overtures to the United States, one of which
is that Great Britain is expeoted to offer to
place the Singapore naval base at the dis-
posal of the United States Navy in return
for favorable debt terms.
There are reforts that the Foreign
Minister is considering appointing Latsuoka
to relieve Debuchi.
Japan has discovered a new "life line"
in the Landated Islands.
Interest in the Army, as well as
contributions to it, are on the increase.
Japan is beginning to feel the effects
of her dumping activities. Retail prices
continue to decline.
age 6. A law recognizing  merriages
between Formosans and Japanese is to become
effective on April 1, 19 33.
1:CLS

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.86)
AR171933
MAY 1933
DIVINION OF
As was prediesed the budget pavend the Lemey
without amendmont and is now boing consldened by
Peore. Thue the busicoss or the proaent session is almoat
fintahed. for although individnel mombers of the Upper Houde
bave expressed dieapproml of she lusuins or detlolt covezime
bonds in largo wmounts, end huve mttuoked the kuge militery
iteme or the ud got, the opposition dooo not appear to to mue
stronger than in the ower house. The addislonal sugeeatiome
whioh the Lower ouee added to the budgot bill will probabay
be approved by the lvers and the till pasaed in e vory sholt
less as they ar without binding foroe.
No othor bille of Laportaneo have heen pessed.
According to a reliable souroe meny of the membere of the Dlet
heve epent  cir tiee playins chees, rather than attemains
REPORTS/1
sessions.
he luction law roviion hes been submitted to the
riy uci
o
redit ill. teel Works
no in ilwy epltal snore
5100
theeo bills wall be
passsd in some form 
che prseent sossion.
inister of the Laperial Housohold,
hao finally
mas beon succeeded by r. Laruhel
681
was civil ovornor of choeen nder dmiral Celto. and hee
filled other important posts, nmong thom Vioe Minister or Home
Affairs. His appointment hos been halled with satiareotion by
members of all or the polltieal parties and the House of Peers.
peoulution is still rife as to whether the cebinet
will reelgn at the and of the sesmion of the Diet and if it
does who will be called on to organime the mext cabinet. It ts
taken for grented thet the Finance Minister will rusism vary
imation of the Cabinot is rumored - it being reperted thas Barom
this is a posaibility but a ramate one, due to lutermal Cabine
dissensions waich mould be sure to arise. It the mite Cnbime
the way to a return to a party calinet, that ls a sei
cabineo. Howerer, outaide the Seiyukal, the mantime

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.87)
b adepted, Japan's witharawal bocomes morely a questien os
tims. The J panese people are tremendously exoited orer te
lasus - and their excitement is timged with no little apprey
hesslem and anxiety, Feurs that a war, or at the very laast
are exprossed on all sides. Mith fes oxouptione, the Japanens
are propared to support the rmy and the Navy to the fullost
exteat, even though thls may involve the matlon im a was with
the whole world. Both the War end foreign Offiees heve been
deluged with solegrems end lettors from orgenleations all wver
the country, demandin? that Japan carry out har polinios and
witharaw from the League if necensory. viscuietlng manlfestoes
have been ciroulsted wwong militury offieers throughout the
country calling thelr sttostt on
ho faet that sarsala parsons
ln algs poaitione do not scem to  upporting the tovermunnt as
ahie ummd etetaons wd toat ho esp ted all nds to be roady
or any eeer uney shat al ho ar leo
 any ra to the erfeet of
felt that whatover may be he outcoms, it will fine the Japeneso
preparod - et least for ivaediute dsvelopoonts.
è. ch1na
Preparations in connection with the 'pumisivo expeditiun"
to Jehol Provinee sere reported to be completed on about
mbruary zoth. According to roports recelved is Tokyo, the
Chinese havo decided to offer all possible resistanee to the
Japomese in this aree, and are preparing to moet any Jupanemo
aggressive action in other parts of Chine.
The meetings which are reported to rave takon plase
betweon I. riyoshi nnd Marahell Tuan are viewed as being of
great importenee, inee it is mesumed in Japun that these are a
prelude to direct cimo-Japsneso nogotiatione. it pny rate, the
beliof is prevalent in Japan that the Young Marshal must soon
relinqutas his power in North China, and thet Marshal Tuan, who
will probably coss into power, has already reached an uadarstasi-
ing with Japan.
ascording to the preen, the chineme nave decided to reaml
the chinees únlster im Toyo in the svent of an attuek oa Johel
The himese are alno meported as Iatasdins te Anereass the p
s la  lo Peape than the bayess on dame 

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.85)
Saldle Lformaton the Japmacee me usi
ro said to mumbor about so,bod.
way that thore is no guestion but what the Japanene hevo mads pre
prugroes in the pesiriontiun and stabilization of the country.
Conditions in the dountry, even taking into consideretion Se speemt
anti-bandis expeditions along the Chinese Eaatorn Railway, mmd In tho
arom around ntung, are said to be groatly improyed. oat of em
the deerease, end plene for industrial and agrioultural dovelepem
aro progresuing rapidly.
4. Ru2si0
Te paneo have agin inrormed Soviet Ruseia thas h
time is not opportune for the conclusion of a non-agcresalom pmes
between the two countries. They re rat that Rus ia appears to hove
sreatly mlsunde to he ree  aticns of he Japamese Govermmess.
whioh tno tsr
intoncee to cre ate the impression that they
sion troaty
liahod during hie five year stay in Japan. The press mas aimost
unanimous in praising him and in expressing regrete et his departure.
According to reports that are current in Tokye, a sime
Spviet defensive aad offenaive allianéo le beins dleoussed. The
dlsousslons are sain ts have aturted in Parie , but both tho chimeeo
and the Russians state har he reports of the se negotiations e
wi shout foundation.
The soviet wh Luro that outered the Bonin Ialends so t
water have doparted for Vlacivostok, after the fines amoumtins to
4500. ware pa1d.
5. United Statee.
Tho Yeolalon of our avy Demrtmont to keop the Sooutins
yless in the Pacifie for another year reesived wide prese comment
to be either "mngry er alarmed" but most Japanese witm 
Operntions that is mes an cednomy moasure is not asoegs
ab beins the real ono.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.86)
It ie reported that the Rristah mmbamaades
of waish ls thet Groat ritain in expoeted to affer 
Simgapore maval bass at the limpomal of the Uaited statee Mnvys
in returm for favorable tormn in the debt fuading questidt.
Ascording to reports, the Voreigm Minieter is sonsidmrans
of appointiss . Yosuke M tauoka as abaseador to Wamhington am
the ralief of r. Debuabi.
II. MAVALMILITARX.
There has been a pross ban on naval and pilltary mowe.
especially on news regardins Japanese troop movements ané opematiams
in Manchukue. It is reportod thnt this ban will be lirted
rebruary sath, ws news of whet is happoning rosohes the outaids
world fron biased Chinese sources.
nster 
the =panese Navy
wae  i hod maor the politloal seetion
of this raport. ft is
o loured hat this wae done for the
vy int  populer ye e well ss for the
the floetse
It is reported that the inspeotions of the maval estate
lishments by the inspector, Admiral raniguchi, appointed by the
Emperor this year will be made on outlying stations, imoluding
Chinkai, Bako and ort Arthur. The Chief of the Wuvel General
taff is to inepeet the northern sistriote in Weron - the annoumoed
purpoae seins to loon into the recruitin: situmtlon in those arems.
Inrormation in regard to the Wavy waten was disclesed in
the Budget Committeo hoarings and the announoemonts of the Navy
Minister on the subjeot of the Japanese Mandated Ialands will be
mado the mubjeete of separets reporte. Japan hee diseovered a tew
"life line"
Jnterest
 in che Amy, an wall as contribatione to it are
on the imerease. The Tokyo es co. workers have juat contributed
funde for a patriot plane, the workers of the Omskn Areemal dommted
Grané Eave Maneuvure iu Angunt.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.87)
Tawnts Steol e
ary meer futuro.
V. S0CIAL
Two bille whioh the govermmant propoasd to
of employees of whops. the othor was to restriet the 
rate on loans. Those bills are to be withdrawm besau ef
objectione of organizations representing the employers and the
money londers. The government, homevor, is sonaidering atepe to
be taken to relievo omall marehants and induetrialists whome dabls
are a sorious factor in the procont finaneial orisis. These debts
like the debte of the farmere are a great souree of worry to the
eutherities, but so far the loan sohemes have been & eemplete
failure.
According to reports there are now about 9O, Go0 umoeoupied
heuses in the city of Tokyo. The reasons advanced for thie are
that the business dopresalon has sent great numoers of people beek
to the rural distriete, and that the rontals of the house are too
high - at any rate the eoonomio sonditions or the capital was be
judged to some extent by this lerge number of wacent houses.
In adéition to arrasting communist puspects, the police
of Tokyo arrested over l300 young man and women who were found
loitering around burs, safes, and other resorts. These persons
woro detained and examined by the yolico and moat of the released
after severe qusstioning. It is reported thet similar vaids are
to be hold at fairly fre uont intervale in the future. The letest
urrots1nolude
 sohool teeohers in the Nagano dietrtee fow try
ing to inoulcnte anti-war and unti-iuparlalistie ideae in the
he inlt of Justlae stated tn the Dlet thet thee we
more than 50,O00 Ju punose tonfined in the prtuone of the Smptre.
The 
an lhorwese of about vg000 in the la't fok yeare.
I thas tao moat stril ing feeto in regnra so oriminals mere the
nded

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 16, 1933.
The Bi-Weekly Intelligence Summary of
May 25, 1933, from the Naval Attaohé at
Tokyo, does not sontain very muoh new material.
The Department of Eduoation will launch
a nation-wide campaign in the near future to
give the people a better understanding of the
present emergency situation (p. 2).
Japan's excess of imports from January 1
to May 10 was 212 million yen, 20 million
yen less than for the corresponding period of
the preceding year. The decrease in commodity
prioes is less pronounoed, although the average
wholesale price index still shows a deoline
(p. 4). The wage index of Tokyo for April
showed a drop of .8% from Maroh, though it
is 1.9% higher than for April last year (p. 6).
Japanese press reports state that the
Government is considering a plan to establish
control of the export trade. Details have
not yet been made public (p. 5).

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.86)
MR171933
MAYD 1933
DIVINON OF
witeout amendmant and is mow being conolsesed
Peore. Thue the busircess or the peweant seadton
bavs expressed dieapproml of the susuins of dstlelt esvesims
bénds in lergo amounts, and have attaoked the hugs milisery
iteme of the budgot, the opposition doos not appear to e med
be approved by the Peers and the bill paased in e wary 
less as they ar without binding foroe.
No other bille of taportanse have been paeped.
tccording to e rollnble souroe meny of the members of the diet
have spent cir si pluying chess, rather than attemaing
EPORT
sessions. he l etion Law reviton hes been sutmitted to the
rivy ounsil o consi der ti n: the rariff Revislos sill. Rio
control Bov slon ill. crioulmural reuit Hill, steel Works
meltion ill.out not ian ilway epltal Inore
ill neh aler bille ar ll bins conidred by 
S
 th soe of th oer
House. here is overy in icetion that theve bills will be
peased in some form fut she prwsent possion.
hao rinally
has beon succoeded by . Farubel
Dase, form ly ldont of the soard of Auiits. . Tu
B
s Civil ovornor of chosen under cmiral Saito. mad has
filled other importaat posts, among thom Vioe Minlater of Home
Affairs. His appointment hos been hailed with matimrmetiom by
momhers of all or the polltieal parties and the House of Peers.
Speoulution is still rife as to whother the cabines
will reslgn at the and of the semmion of the Diet aad af it
isatien of the Cabinet is remoned - it belng reperted qhms hes

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.86)
tims. the Japamese poople are tremendoumly sxoised erer te
sre expresbed on all sides. xith few exoaptina. the dap
exteat, even though thls mey invelve the matlon im a wat" with
deluged with volegrame and leatore from orgenimations all wer
the country, domandint that Japan carry out ar puliolos and
withdraw from tho League if necenmnry. Disquietins manlrestoss
have been ciroulated wwong military officors tarougheut uss
country callimg their ettontton to he fuet that certein parsome
in dlgh poaitione do not soem to b upporting the goverumnt as
they should. The y sinister in a masa addressed to all
ships und ststions wiir that he exp oted all raeds to be ready
Cor eny mer noy that mi ht ariee. t any rate the erfeet of
Jepen's mitidrawal is beins carufully conoidered, usd ls is
feßt that whasever may be ths outouss, it will find the Japaneme
preparod - et loast for imodiate developments.
e. 
Preparations in connsotion with the "pumisivo expeditions
to Julhel rovinco wero reportod to is soapleted on about
Tabruary 20th. Aocording to roporte recelved ln Tokye, the
Chinese havo decided to offer all possible resietanee to the
Jupamese in this ares, and are preparing to meet any Japanetn
agsressive action in other parts of Chinm.
The mestings whiah are reported to haye takon plase
betweon r. riyoshi nnd Marekall Tuen mre viewed as beins of
great importanes, ince it is anmumed in Japan that sheno are a
prolnde to diroct cine-dapamese negotiationa. t páy rata, the
belief as revalent in Japan that tme Youna Marahal mnat moon
ing wth Japan.
ssconding to the preen, the thipame hate duoided to res

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.82)
Neutral obearvere whe have reesatly roturted 
way that there is no queation but what the Jayanose hevo mde 
Trade le reported ns brimi, bandit raids aad oráme ing
the deereame, and pleme for industrial and agrioultumal dove
are progressing rapialy.
4.91
The panes have agin infomed Soriet Ruseie ts e
time is not opportune for the conclusion of a mon-aggresslom pms
betuoon the two countries. They re rat thes Rus ia appeare to have
greatly misundorstood the reel intsnticns of the Japemese Govermmemt,
whiah at no time has over intended to create the impressicm that ehey
will lieregard  ppiri? f a don-a resslon treaty.
1205
    r  d 
pocuslon for a unerel review of tre good work that he had acoomp
lished during his five year stay in Japan. The press mms asmmst
unanimous in praiaing him and in expressing regrets et his deperture.
sccording to reports that are ourrent in Tokye, a sime
Spviet derensive and orransive allienee is being diseuseed. The
dlscumsions are maid to heve atarted in Paris , but both the chiaseo
and the Russians state that the reports of the ao negotlations a
without foundation.
The soviet whelere thet eutered the Bonin Ialands to mat
water have departed for Vladivostok, after the fines amemtims to
4000. mare pa14.
B. Unied sea.
he deaxeion or our Havy Dopartwwnt so koop the Seentang
tháe editerinl is being forwerdee te the Deg
e
th

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.85)
limhments by the Anapeotar, Adsiral tanigushi, appointed
Stafr is to inepeat tho marthorn distrists in Harch  the an
purpese being to look inte she rearuiting situmtion in these as
made the wanjeeta of seperate reporte. Japan hee disecvored a maw
"life line"
Interest
in the my, an woll as contribasions to s 
on the inerease. The Tokyo Ges Co. workors have juat contributel
funde for a patriot plane, the workers of the Oaske Areepal domated
one days pay to the national defenss tund, and several Anaiviawale
have reseatly sivon large suns - onw gift of glo0,000. end ene of
V4o,000 beins reported In the lest fow days. Ovar 1l,000 requests
by tho Far Dopertment. Onder the supervision of the Army, leo0
stedonts toox part in a sham be tle at Yoyogl parade ground in
Tokyo. Other such exercises are planned.
ans for the aorial
defonee exeroise at Tokyo are colng ahoud. he lavy is to asalet
in tho manouver and it ls planned to hold it hmmodietaly aftex the
Grond Havel Maneuere it Au use.
IIY. 
Tee nove disoueslons eaused
cherp deeline in all of
the major soocks in toxye,  obe snd lmaks stoek exohengee. The
oaly ex ceptions were the mualtion faetery
chares whisk held steaay.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.88)
IV.BOCIAL
Te bills which the gorer
objectione of organizatione representins the emp
monsy Lemders. The government, homever, is somale
are a sorious factor in the prosent finaneial primis.
like the debte of the farmere are a great souree of morry te
authorities, but so far the loan sobemes have been a smmpld
failure.
heusee in the city of Tokyo. The reasons advancse for thle as
high - at any rate the coonomio condisions of the cmpital am 
judged to some extent by this lerge number of wmoent hmused.
In agaision to arresting commnist puspects, the police
ef Tokyo arreated over l300 young men end women who were foudd
loitering around bars, safes, and other resorts. Thege persoms
wure detained and examined by the polico and moat ef the-released
after severe questioning. It is roported that similar vatds are
to be hold at fairly fre uont intervale in ths futare. ghe latest
arrsuts inolude t sohool toschers in the Nagano distriee for try
ing to ineulceto umti-war and anti-imparlalistie ideas in the
mines of their studonts.
he Minlst r of Justles stated in the Dlet thet there wers
more than 50,O00 Jupunsse confined in the prisone of the Impise.
The Viaister
s i4 that the moat striking feete in reghre so oriminals were the
ammll member of women prisonere and the greet ineroase is
hae landed Bufalye

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.79)
pelivioime were orrested.
A leaw peeogmtmins the marringes betwos
Japagese ls to become effoetivo an i angil l953.
mewasei prospeosive marrieges to tak plaes an that d
aoported es Saving boan arrenged.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 16, 1933.
The Bi-Weekly Intelligenoe Summary of
May 25, 1933, from the Naval Attaohé at
Tokyo, does not sontain very muoh new material.
The Department of Eduoation will launch
a nation-wide campaign in the near future to
give the people a better understanding of the
present emergency situation (p. 2).
Japan's excess of imports from January 1
to May 10 was 212 million yen, 20 million
yen less than for the corresponaing period of
the preceding year. The deorease in commodity
prices is less pronounoed, although the average
wholesale price index still shows a deoline
(p. 4). The wage index of Tokyo for April
showed a drop of .8% from Maroh, though it
is 1.9% higher than for April last year (p. 6).
Japanese press reports state that the
Government is considering a plan to establish
control of the export trade. Details have
not yet been made public (p. 5).

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
1003
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 14, 1933.
MMH:
The bi-weekly intelligenoe summary
of May 11, 1933, from the Naval Attaché
at Tokyo contains several statements of
interest.
The probability of the Saito
Cabinet continuing in power is increas-
ing. The Genro, the Privy Council and
the army do not want a change of govern-
ment at present and the nation and the
press are indifferent (page 1).
The War Minister claims that the
national emergency has just begun,
which is obviously an attempt to keep
the Japanese nation at a high pitoh of
exoitement (page 1).
The Japan League of Nations Assooi-
ation has changed its name to the Japan
International Association. Patriotic
meetings to celebrate leaving the
League were held on the Emperor's
birthday (page 2).
The estimated revenue for the
"Manchukuo" budget for the year 1933-
1934 is 122,000,000 yen whi1e the
estimated expenditures submitted by
the Ministers are almost 300,000,000
yen (page 3).
It

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
It is reported that Russia's
Far Eastern merchant marine is to be
increased by 17 vessols (100,000
tons), purchased from Germany, and
the Japanese fear that Russia intends
to use her own merohant marine fleet
to monopolize the lumber trade from
the Maritime provinces and part of
the Kamchatka fishing industry (page 4).
There has been no let-up of
public contributions to the military
services or to the defense organiza-
tions. The units of the fleet are
being placed in first-class condition
as rapidly as possible. The press
states that the navy will again
institute guard ship patrols of the
Mandate Islands for the protection
of Japan's trade and commerce in the
Islands (page 6).
"The Japanese resent the efforts
on the part of the American Government
to increase the value of the yen
because of its adverse effect on
their textile export trade." (page 8)
Twenty foreign vessels (158,000
tons) have been imported for scrapping
since January 1, 1933, a greater
amount than for the entire year of
1932.(page 9)
Although

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
Although foreigners are olosely
watohed and supervised there is very
little evidenoe of anti-foreign
feeling in Japan, with the exoeption
of articles in jingoistic newspapers.
(pag 10)
AS:EJL

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.87)
Dividion ct
ON1
FAR EASTERR S
1933
REOEIVED
JUN 17 1933
DIVINION OF
BioWeckly Latellsemse sumary.
Y. POLXTICAL
ing abaus the coming politi cal ohanges". Homases, i is
0
present time and the nation and the press are indifferent. The
shangs, and they do not want It so come unless it is to mean
etill have  long wy te e before thoy regain the estle
lout u year ago.
X
i ls ie no to e gd hi mi
out rusignine r che pulichine of the inveetigation find
ngs in the ay lsth offair (eoe the alal section or this
rport). If ho co not i, d cun cup the other Soii
mmbere in line, the poli cical simtion, ss well as the finmne
nis Cabinot will rummin even if ur. Takehachi resims. Im this
he will have the support of the Army for the time belag. Evem
one, are convinoed that it is mmeeh better than a party cabimet
ould be. In a reoent rather bitter statament on dommstie eat
1tions, they may that the politioel perties are as bed as ever -
xcupt r. Admohi's Yokumiu Domel.
In psmeral the politicul situation is iapreved, ere the
FILED
in a better positiom to eope wdth the international siematie
whioh im stsil fairly complieated.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.89)
the remults of non-recognition. The Japanese mewopegers mey
appears that thay thint that this is just amother stey im the
estresiam or Japan and Manchukuo.
Ita name to the Japan Intarmatiomal Aseosiation. The purpess
of the kssociation will be to cooperate with the woveramsat to
promote world peace - but it will widen its field of oneeever
instead of morely conoerning itself with matters relatins to
the Leaguo of Nations as it has done in the past.
Patriotio meetings to celobrate leaving ths League
wuro held in connection with the celebration of the Emperer'e
birthday. any prominent mllitary and neval rigures as well
as prominens reaetionary leeders wer the uomoters of thes
109t1258.
he situation in North chine whiah had remained
prectically unchanged (i.e. in a state of turmoll and uneasineem)
sinos the Jupanese occupied the Great Wall and the aree to the
immediato southward, has again changed ror the worse. The
Japanese say thet in view of the repeated Chineme attacks on
their pumitions along the wall, these foroes must be dealt with
once and for all. Hsports indicated serlous fighting at
Nanitemmen and pointe along the Luan River as sarky as 20 April.
chimese could be permuaded to respest a rmutral mane. Now.
id

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.87)
8。
dovalopment. It is most diffioult in Japen to leams mhat the
trme state or affairs an Mas chukuo ls. the Japaneese wvea mos.
reperts san be bolieved these figures are conservative, ané
find shemselvee busy again in keeping dowm these rorees.
and protoctine the largo touns should be much casier this year
than it was last yoar. ailway patrols, looal constabularles
and polioo wit now arms and euipmont. and aided by patel
planes are  i or anized to assist the troope in malataiming
order. he ne etioe ves y the bandite (working it is
meld on or er trom siping) ere to murder Japanese and
lanohuk  toms not rrisoned by Jupenese troope.
 ay oins ahd rupidly wità m s
for the grloul vural d industrial development or the new
state. A 25 year plem to ru1se 25, 000. 000 sheep  80 ear
plan to oultivate 750, 000 aares of cotton land, mimiler plame
for rice land oxpansion and others are being disouseed. These
company, a Joint J panese-Mnchukus undertaking eapitalimee at
20,000.c00. o natural resouroes of the new stat ar being
studied - l50 army surveyors are to be cent to mske a ecmpre-
hensive study of the country at onoe. In this dommestien
there are rumors in Tekyo, that the new oil polioy ar the
government (sce the cconomio soction or this report) reeently
outlined, was duo to, the disoovery of oil in fairly larse
ambit1ous 1s to sond 1,00s,000 farmers in the next few yeare.
to bave it.
Japas mapaaly.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.87)
c.
N
and inexousable errer" on the part of the edssers of the
magsine.
4. groat tratain
Breat Imitain and indie have been the targote of very
bitter attaeks in the Jupenemo prees im reeent wecke ame Takye
was flooded with anti-british handbills early this wonth. The
oocaslon wes, of course. the abrogetion of the Indo-Jepemese
commereial convention. The ritish have proposed a jolmt trade
parley to settle the ucstion, and it appeare that the Japanese
are willins to take pert (see the eeonomic meotion of this
ruport).
1Uss1a
The i atton i or an churie s received  tremon
dous amo unt or attention in he ust wonth. Ae dispute botweon
nchukuo mnd he oviets ov he rol in stook is till
unse tled, ne the nou  suthi cis heve suspend rerrie
voth a nohuli and ogruchnoy.ohuuo coes not reeg
that the C..l. is a oviet coneerm, but at the mame time it ts
expected that lefinite discussions in rugard to the purebase or
the reilread by either Jupan or Manohukuo will begin shortly.
The c.. has not been of any reat val  to the Sovlete
economically, and since wsl vie ruilroud has loet muah of ite
military and politial value. tte price muggested by the
Fronch say that the ilroad cannot be bougat or mald mathout
the ir consont. saverul notes of a yory eosd tone hav beem
exchanged between us in und kenohukuo and Japan on the warions
quostions, arising out of the operation of the railreed and te
reported crossing of tho border by Japemeee treope. Jupem
only as a metter of courtesy, sinoe the railroad and the bereer
incidents question are local arfairs and she has no satemsios
pot oxpect the affair to bo very "sompùsbated".

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.90)
ourreney raties, reciproeal tariff agreementa, sn
tariffe. sts. The Japanese Covornmont mas msoaptad the wew
right to teke effostual meesures of reprieal egainat aay power
which may adept stupe in contravention of the agroemsat. 1s
almo olaime the exolusion of the import duty on Mamekaries
As regards the yon-dollar rate the Japaness desire megossaten
to be atarted on the basis of the rate axisting at the sime the
parley opens.
The Japenose Navy's atti tude towerd the queatien
of disarmoment has been made the pubject of a special rupert.
Japanoso naval of icere ere quite frank in saying that the
St-3 ratio wil) mot be oceptable after l936. They say that
tho mited  tntes does not intond to maintain hor Navy at the
London reety standard becuuse she doos not need e large Navy.
Japen, on the other and, neede a avy and intends to maintain
one. ireedy Jes mwes writers are vieualizing a "navel rece"
aftor l936 uniess the cnited taten and reat lritain are
preparod for a large inorease in Japan's raties The mews er
naval appropristions is most welcome to the Japenems. It makes
them all the more certain that they can maintain their fleet at
practioal pari ty with ours.
the extension of the boundary of Manehukue westwerd
7. i4ong0l1a.
Into Chahar is a possibility which the Japenese are not over-
Looking. Reports from Jehol and Peiping indicate that Japanese
against the chinese and the sovietised wongol tribes to the
north and west. The Silingol Mongels are Feperted to have
Japaness.
8.
The riret sinteter frem Wruguey te Japas, he is
.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.89)
.MA
Lostans up or pblse centri bettens to
influantial citizons abeard.
A atudy of the budget combimed with informatien mem
various other mourees indicates that the units of the flees
and atations have doubled the teoti cal and training exorotes
periods.
Tme reopenine or the rort thur Naval mse has beon
roportec.  nev poper Aispatoh from n pai suys that e largs
wirelo st tio ls bein uilt, uh  the old Ruo lan forte are
beins rocon itioned. thet  new wir fleld ie being lald out, and
extonsive unti- i roraft defen.s sattoriea are beimg construeted.
The Naval Attache has recei ved penaission to inmpeet the etation
in the near future, and an endouvor will be made to veriry thome
reports.
There hevo been several fatal air acaidents recently.
heavy bomber enroutse with four other planes from Kyusau
to yormoss creshed near the akishime Sslands, ene man being
(Imu roninoula) and a naval plane from Tateyamm araaked near thet
air field, both pilots boing killed, 4 plane from the Kammigawre
station lost a wing during a stunt flight an 87 april, but the
pilot made a safs deseent by parahute.
It 1s understood that the Kinne powder plant near
Osaks ls to bs doubled in sise making it the largsst in the country.
This plant is loca ted at akino-mura, Kitm-kameshi gan, Geaks
Prefeeture.
The blue jackets be ing tried at the Kure and Fakaguien
stations for cammmistis aotivitiee have bean semte
3 to 6 yoars impriaomment. Five were tried at Kure and tares at
Tokosaka.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.88)
h
The Eaperer recently inspeeted the sds amé
Páret Divia ono of the Ammy at Yoyogi parade sroand and am the
by planes fron Tachikawa, Akenogakara, shimoshizu amd Testkpegawe
IXI. BOONOMIC.
.
Japan's import uxeess for the first ten daya im my
amounted to w5, 207, 000, with imports et w0e,823,000 and axporte
as w5s, 716, 000. yor tho first four months of this year the impoert
excess 1s 194, 635,000, but both the 1mport and axpert trade
Items raw cotton, wool, iron, oll, mohinery and lunber inareases
were noted.
Unusual business l ity for, the last six montha of
1932 were  tod in  reoent ourvey by the itoui Gomm1 Kalaba.
This survoy hows het the taxtile, roy n, cemont paper, chemieal.
iran and stool, copper,  uninery, old minins, and shipping
industries made rorits une improveu tneir standinge conaiderably.
fublio utilities, railweys, ahipbuilding, oil and coal compamies
however, were exouptioas - ell or them showing losees.
2oth wholesule and retall pricos continue to show
amall deolines from the previous month, ut are still frem
10%-20% higher than at this time last year. In contrest to this
the wage index of ls leadin cities of the mpire how gains
(.2%).
in wall informed tuarters it is cslleved that there
will be no great change in foreign trade for a few moatas. The
inarsase does not begin antil otober no shange in that senmsstion
is axpented in the immediate future. s has been menttamed
represemtatives have been held cne it has been desided
matonel mealt o Jaa ma ina

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.91)
plaas to imereame the re vonsue must be drawn up at oase, waleds
the sovernment is to become bankrupt.
The yen-dollar exchange has been close to 24 cente ower
sinee the "lafletion" bills have been before Congress, tme
Japemesu resent the efferts on the pert of our goverament te
insrease the valne of the yen beceuse   wdverse atfees 
their textile export trade. The exahange control lmw waich was
passed in the last Diet mas proulgated on 30 April and plaesd
into effoot.
B. Indestrial.
Steady progrese is reported in the projected merger of the
Uragm and Yokohamm Shipbuiluin: companies. These twe companies
are the largest in the eastern part or the mpire. If the plans
materialize the Yokohama Dooxyurd will specialize in ship repairs
and the Uraga Dooryard in ahip conetruction.
teel extenaton sohoes heve lreudy been rported. The
atoal trade is still very uctive. The Yawuta worke, nobe Steel
works, Aeano Kokure works, Adzuma Steel works, Nakayamm worke and
others are all enlarging their plants to take care or the inoreased
demand for sheet piling, tin plates, wire, bleek sheets, pipes and
high tension steel. Much or this domand is for war supplies, but
buildung steel and steel for ordinary uses is also in demand.
Heports fron the United states may that junk iron is being imported
at the rate of l000 tons e month.
coal sto ks on hand are declining. At the end of Marah
there were only 1,l68. 000 tons whioh 1s a decreass or 198, 000 toms
from the previowm momth. A gain in domestie cenmumptian of l4s
has been mmde in the firet quarter or this year.
A mew automobile ocmpany with a cupaaity of l20 cars the
first year and meaemsms S00 cars the third year is to be started
in Nagoya by the Li Cloek .
0.1

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.92)
Nanohukuo flag.
new vesoel will bo 2so. par ton.
The railway commeetng Tunhue and Xaimed (cheeen)
important road will not begin until August of this yukr.
opened next year. These are:- (a) yukuoke-Taiwan lime) (b)
be ineluded in e 10 year oxpansion program:- (a)
Niigata line: (b) Omaka-Tottori-lmtoue line: (e)
Sapporo-Kuahiro-Nemrc line; (h) Sapporo-Saghalien Xime.
D. 011
Tentative plens for state control or a state llemee
systom to control the oll industry and to slimimate all foreiem
companies from the Japansse market are beins considered. The
control or state monopoly system would place all oil produeed er
imported in the hands of a single govermem ergas. Is is
be used as a threat by the Japemese delogation at the economle
conferonces. THs second plan, celled the license system, would
place high dutiee on refined oil, but low duties on arude oil
importetions, and in order to assure eupplies of oil from other
countries beside the mited States and Groat hritain, the
purchase of oil from other ountries will be encouraged. The
Japanese are dotermined to inerease the mumber of lodal eil
refineries. A s has been montioned there are feirly well founded
rumors that cmsiierable cil has been discovered in the vioinity
of larbin.
In a rucent roport this ofrioe stated that a largo
rerinery was to be srooted at Eulutee. It is now learned that
the rofinery is to bo ereeted at Yingkow (New Cheng).
The North eghslien Oil Company's firet importatlone
of gasoline from the Ruseian Cauessue is to reash Yokoheme this
thia first shtmment smounts to Gooo tone. It hes beon
tons frem the uoslan Che (Seghallen) oil tield hes pontrmoted

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.92)
mmists ené mesbers of violons reactiesary orgamiams
proposed mmasures to bo tak en to control thought is a more strtet
laspoetion of postal and telegraph matters entering and leaving tse
corentry.
May first passed off very quietly in all of the largs eities
of the Eapire. Several hundred arrests were made in Pokyo, Kobe and
Osakm, but thanks to striot police supervimdon the day was muck less
uneentrui than was expeoted.
Imoreased vigilance to protect foreigmors reaident in Japan
as woll as inoreased oore to see that they do not omgage in astivitiss
detrimental to the interosts of the Empire was deanded by the thier
of the Home Office. Actually, whilo foreimors aro alosmly watabed
and supervised, there is very little evidenee of anti-foreign feeline
in Japen - if wo disoount articles whioh appoar frem time to time in
the more jingoistie newopapers.
Sinee the beginning or the year slmost fifty permome heve
committed suioide at Cshime by jumping into ihare volcano. The
police heve finally adopted the method of arresting all of the
visitors to the ielsnd who appear to have that suicide look. At ene
time more then ninety pereons were detained.
College graduates this year have had e much less diffieult
tims in finding positions this yoar than woual. Howover. in spime
of this it is said that fow greduates were setually eble to get
pocisions in Menohukuo. uring the coming sunwer looo ctudents will
bo civon an opportunity to visit Manohucuo. More than two thirds of
the cost of these trips wil bo defrayod by the M.R., the Army amd
tho Manehukuo overament.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.75)
●
.200X
As has beon roportud the plane for fam pellef are being
Qrame ay by the Department af Arioulture. Mare then
Yioo, coo, 0ćo will be spont during the current rissal year ss the
form of spocial low intemomt loans. mim is in mdiislon w 
ardinery loans which will amount to about f30,coa 000 ans the rmà
fer the edjustment of old loans wkich will amouat  s2.ond.Ond.
The depodét reau will thes lesa approximately m00,Osd,000
the mgrioultural comnunities this year.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 19, 1933.
MH:
The Bi-Weekly Intelligence Summary
of June 18, 1933, of the Naval Attaché at
Tokyo contains little material that has
not already been received in FE.
"General Ugaki, the Governor General
of Chosen, has come to Tokyo and gone again
without being able to patch up his quarrel
with the Minister of War and the younger
offioers of the Army. It is said that these
young officers have vowed that they will kill
the General rather than have him become
Premier" (p. 1).
With regard to the next naval conferenoe,
it is stated that the Japanese naval staff
is taking the attitude that the next confer-
ence will be in the nature of a crisis and
that Japan must prepare for it now. "From
statements made by senior officers, Japan
will either get parity with Great Britain
and the United States or will withdraw from
the conference and shape her naval policy
as she thinks best" (p. 3).
:CLS

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.89)
ONI
JUL 17 1933
21 1933
20 193
DIV1SUAOF
rolatiems with the Vabinet. It appeared tar a time that the
be called an to form a Cabinet at ncs. Uufortunately fer the
er without its mupport. The Minister of mr tock occamion to
the seiyukai had better keop quiet for the present.
It is said that somo of the foreos which are moving to
1
bring, about a ahunge in the Cabinet are tho representatives ef the
musk easter to come to some sort of an agreement with a now
Japaneee sorerneent then with the prezont che oven thongh the
fundamental polley or the new gavorument weve to remain unahempal.
they sould oome to tarms without loss of fass.
Gemaral Ugaki, the Covermor Joneral of Chosen, has some
to Tokyo and gone again without bains able to patek up bis qwarra
the Gonerel rather then have him become Promier.
Now that thero is mome memblange of atability ame the
2

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.85)
to show that ths relatione betweem the two comtries are impre
atthe.
The authori sies of the new state have leumohed e large
ceale anti-bmdit drive in en ofrort to eliminate wome of the
bandits before the kaoling growe tall enough to afford them pro
teetice. n recent weeks the bandits have shown cunsiderable
aotivity in wreoking srains, attasking outposts and kidmappimg
Jasaneme and Manchukuo ol tizene. The umroliability of the
assigmea to patrel anty, have taken plaos recently.
The North Maneburian Railway (0..R.) is still bloateed
the railrond as demanded by the umnakukues authorities. te me
gotlatloms for the sale of the railmay will bogin in Tokye on
25J.
4.01.
án regard to the purohase of the Porth lanchurie nailwoys 
since Soviet Russde once resouneed all olnims to the railu

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.80)
enee being held in ndaz, kat is eeraiing mar meel
the paliales hicn mhe is adveatinge
and t stabilisation er her eurremay at about 
confereneo ot hopefal of grset remults.
(B) Imametrial.
Statisties of the steal iadustries and mashime
wprk) w 21, 210,000 00mped to a ,370.000 l00s 1t
have all inoroased their dividond. Tme prejected merger or s
of this year. It may be helped by the reaetionary mlump or sboel
priees which has set in resently.
IV. 3001AL
Kawakanme
027
University was siven Daporiel venetion nd phrrsed inte erreel.
The finnl esult or this ceso mhlch threatened to do smay with the
Law Depertent or the universi ty snd which caused stelent piots not
Gnly in yoto, but Tokyo and Sendal is mot yet sottled.
At the end of February there moure ass.Goe wmeupleyed
Ptlst red t Japan. but due to the regletratiom syatom in ues. tre
wuaber ie probebly corsieereuly sreuter. The sovermemee mem
declded to on courags the extenslen of the caeual labers muttel ald
erem  tn ar et to Foeyo. Ceeke ee obe so Laelme oyoto.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.77)
27.
In crder to, asaist in betterims the coma
assisted by tho prefecturel muthoritius pian to eteea
mgesent plan to apyroximntely sooo villagas shset
to produotion, eales and debt adjustsens.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 25, 1933.
1933
IES+
ETW:
JEJ
0RD
An undated report from O.N.I. is a trans-
lation of an editorial in the GAIKO JIHO
(Diplomatio Review, Tokyo), June 15.
The editorial interprets the Sino-Japanese
military armistice, the offer of Russia to sell
the C.E.R., and the economic development of
"Manchukuo", as evidences of increased Japanese
prestige in Eastern Asia. The euitorial states
that Japan, strengthened by hundreds of millions
of reservists (also of the yellow race), is well
prepareu for its struggle against the oppression
of an Anglo-American bloc.
ca13
CAB:CLS

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.93)
ONI
Divisionot
EAB EASTERN AFFAIRS
JJL221933
JARALTO POR BATYRM
"ADG LO-AMBRIDAN BEDS"
AUG 8 1933
DIVIMION OB
Eeasews, writes a predietiom of politieel sevalcsa
NB
esalltion of colored peeples sgeinst Westerm elvllims
tiem. eapecially the English spmaking world.
Translati n of the editorial follows.
B.C.Remerth.
MISSION OPGAIVO JIBO"
(Emorgenoy and World Battle Pormatiom Agaimmt Jayan)
There is a tendency to abuse the term emergeney. m bear
ing it one feels like saying, "what! Againt" But ths real
emergenoy is just beginning. Hitherte we have seen only the
liftins of the ourtain.
REPORTS/18
This emergenoy is of course a world phenomenon. The dowa-
fall of Bngland, the failure of Ameriem, the universal unrest
of Europe all are manifostations ef emergeney. but we must not
forget the fect that meanwhile Japan, in reslating worle
oppreesion, in protecting the security of the natiomal founde-
tion and opening the way for nationel development is faee to
fece with axtraordinary peril sad diffioulty. Espeoially in
the head-on collimiom with the eoonomio ommp of the British
Empire the fireworks have begun and the ineviteble battle has
opened. But still more, because of the difference of view
with Americe on international peace and the real nature of the
egullibrium of mankind, we ars exposed to the danger of the
combined oppressicn of en Anglo-Ameriean bloo. hether the
nature of those oupressions and dangere sconer or later will
lerd directly to armed oosroion can not be foretold. but whon
we cbserve the extremely acute development of economlo natiom
aliem snd the recent eituation in which the world's grestest
FILED
econemic bloce are mekinp Jepan's soonomio bettle formation the
object of their oneet, who can evoid coneern for the futuret
Therefors the feot thet Japs n'e emergeney will be from nots
on ls olear to everyone. But does this mean that the futurector
Iopan is full of anxiety nd gloom vith no bright side visible?
By no maene. Rather are the unessinese about Japan and the
pr-ssure npen her the n turel reaction to the rushing advance
of Japan and the Je: nese rece. These very fscte guarantee
pan's expansion. hey conetitute a just international en-
dorsoment of the forwr rd maren of the Jop neee rece.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.95)
and a wmioa of the Rhits rese. while we heve the blghest
spiritwal eivilisatiem in the world and hamdreds of milliems
of peeple ef our owm ooler as remerves.
And while their moientifie civilisation has boen digasted by
Japem and frequently axeelled, how muoh do they knew of Bast
Asian oivilisation? How muoh of its ssmence heve they grasped?
Way, while carried sway with their vain 1deas of "The Celestiml
Empire", they are uneble even to determine the emmsee of their
own downfall and failure; on the contrary they are trylng to
stop the development amd permsation of a new fores artifioimlly.
thus exposing the condition of cnaseless anxioty and agomy inte
which they have fallen. That is to say. the outeome of the wet
is alreedy settled. Jepan is confident of viotory and fmces the
battle-field.
Furthermore, what makes the future bright for Japan is the
new situation of East Asis. hat is the signifiosnee of the
so-called truce agreement in Morth China? Hovever the Chinese
le dere may explain it, is not thet truce agreement in fmot e
cepitulation to Japen and Henchukuo? The so-called Chinese
policy consiete of two grent elemente, a long period of resiat-
ance to apan end recovery of the lost territory. But in this
truce agreament the reoovery of lost territory is abandoned and
the lonp nerlod of reelstance to Japen hod to be bronght to 
olose. And since the Man ing govornment voluntarily accepted it,
the logioal interpretation of this fact is that China harmelf
has eancelled her appeal to the Lesgue of Hations and has in-
directly recognised the existenoe of Manchukuo. Por the treee
agreement by direct nagotiation between Japen end Chima was a
formal ebendonment of the intornationel settlement of the Japam-
Chine dispute for whioh China had appealed to the Leegue: mnd
the promime of the Chinese foroes nol to advance muet bave had
as its premise the consolousness of having recognised the
existonoe of Menchukuo.
Purthermore. I think that thie agreement Itself, inmmmuch as
it matisfies the Chinene leadere and seeme to be approved by the
people in general, is ample proof that China's Japenese boyeott
and her polloy of resisting Jepan were in reality not the will
of the Chinese people but extremely unnatural,artificial phonom-
ene. Henoe I em fully c nvinoed that Japan-Chinm relatioms in
future will return to legality and that not only is there no
impomsibility of realising e common recial harmomy hut that the
people of our neturally sagaoious neighbor state will volumtarily
discern the world situatiom, and,together with Japam, be the de-
fender of the East, bear her part in the promulgatiom of the
spirit of that civilisation, and desh forward in the digoharge of
that duty.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.94)
Railway, still more important conmideratiomm are the liguides
tion of the policies inherited from the old Imperial regime.
the sstablishment of good relations with Jepon and Mamahakue
and oonoentrating her remaining etrength more sffectively in
other directione. The clerr judgment of Russia's statemmen in
regard to the world sltuation is truly worthy of edmiratiom.
The preaent North Mrnohurie Reilway is in no semse so valuable
to Jepen end Menchukuo es formerly and of couree w dave so
intention whetever of seizing it, but Russis's abandemment of
her Per Esst ambitions - her adoption of a poliey of peaoe - eas
not be said to hava no relation to Japan'e world position.
Therefore Japan. underetanding the eapiratione of Russis end the
Russian people, will in future give her effective aid in her ex-
pension. Por the progress of  ucple, as a grest tiental peeple
standing apart from oslarn civllization. is a metter of great
concern to Japan.
Thus o ir  neee  mpire i t le ha vy preesure of world omer
eney.  the he hand rs e theelen situatl on steedily
growing better.  sp ite  her sepur tlon from the tengue of
Natione. nd In epite o! the preneure of the Anglo-Amerioan bloe.
unalarmed she is strengtaninr her  ul power. Fspecially the
baeinese of es abllshing en iuoepenonut Manchakuo le going for-
erc with extreordinery smoothnees. Spitituelly and materielly
she is already essentially a second clegs/power. mot only se.
but Jepan. loyal to ber declaration, does not regerd Menchukao
as ocoupied territory i: any sense. As the result of support
and aid siven in eetablishing and ceveloping a perfoutly inde-
pandent sraat stste he (Japen) not only has gsined the sincere
conficence of ?.O.Coc Yanchuriane but elso has promoted self-
consciousness in hundreds of millions of colored peoples to whom
Japan has become an object of admirati on and reverence. That is
to say. thoee colored peoples, ss e reenlt of thelr anderetanding
of Japan's sineerity, her laok of predatory ambitiome, her whole-
heerted aid in the indepencence and development of a fellow
colored people, all hsve oome to long for the aohievoment of
their own national hopes meinly throngh the baoking and help of
Japan, ss in the case of Manchnkuo.
Of couree the time has not yet come for the adoption of con-
crete measures concerning this, but I am convinced without doubt
that the expectationsand desiree and relience of these golored
peoples upon Japan will be advantageous to Japan's future battle
formation in the world and at the same time will be a sare
pleage end opportunity for them to open up their own destiny.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.91)
And eur "GáIxó JImo", conmidering thia mituatiom, mlmays etes
ing the somestle sne foreign situati on minutely, will meek
more mnd more to contribute to the study of eurrent affmize.
Thie is our spesial pledge to our readers on this Imth ammiver
sary ef the death of the firet publisher of this Megasine,
Dr.àxigm.
(Translator's note. Dr.Ariga was a preat Japagese
soholar and publicist and this number of @mlko Jino
is e special memorial oumber in the 18th annivereary
of his death - Tr.)

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENTOF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EATERN AFFAIRS
August 25, 1933.
RON:
The Bi-weekly Intelligence report
dated July 27, 1933, of the Naval Attachd
at Takya contains little information of
any importance which has not already come
to the kmowledge of the Division. There
are certain seotions, however. whioh will
repay reading in full because of the
succinct manner in which the subjeot is
discussed. Attention is particularly
drawn to the section on domestic political
affairs, outlining the military and naval
estimates for the following fiscal year
and indicating the probability that the
extra funds needed for these purposes will
partly be met by inoreased taxation -- a
policy which has hitherto been strenuously
opposed by the experienced Minister of
Finance, Mr. Takahashi. The section on
relations with Great Britian (page 3)
touches briefly on the forthcoming trade
conference at Simla, and states that the
Japanese are urging the British Govern-
ment to confer powers upon the Indian
delegates to conclude a trade treaty.
for the reason that the Indian Govern-
ment does not itself possess suoh powers.
2This
G
FILED
311933

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
This statement is not entirely correct.
The purpose of the Simla Conference is
to permit a discussion of British,
Indian, and Japanese trade competition
by representatives of the interested
industries under the guidance of official
representatives of the three countries.
It was never agreed that the Simla Con-
ference should conclude a new treaty;
but rather that it should lead to an
understanding between the interested
parties which would facilitate and
make possible a readjustment of their
treaty relations in respect of commerce.
The section on relations with the
United States is devoted principally to
the naval ratio question. It contains
no new information but expresses the
opinion that the Japanese Government
will not, after the expiration of the
present naval treaties, accept the ex-
isting naval ratio unless "the financial
condition of the country is such that
Japan must bow to superior building
power backed up by ships actually built".
The Naval Attache has in this relation
expressed an opinion which others equally
acquainted with the Japanese people would
hesitate to venture. In the existing
ciroumstances, it is my opinion that
the

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3-
the Japanese would be prepared to
face unrestricted naval competition
rather than agree to continue with
the sixty percent ratio in all
categories of vessels, and that they
would be prepared to face the con-
sequences of trying to meet increased
American and British naval programs.
This is, however, entirely a question
of opinion.
Among the items of interest
in the economic section, attention
is drawn to the report that a oneulate
is to be established to coordinate
the communications of the country; the
oil question is also up for discussion,
the ar Office asking Yen 5,000,000.
in the next budget "to carry out its
fuel policy", which presumably means
the development of prspective oil
fields in Manchuria.
Fe:EHD:AEM

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.90)
Divi
DEP
Leavins the Army antkerities as rirmly intrenabed as svers
lateat evidence or this is the very woll foundsd romork that
of the Minseito) hae decided to scoept in the no distant futmr
the imvitation or the Pramier to beccmo a Cabinet Ministmr wis
partfolio. Whether this will meet with the approval of mll 
conmiderable posaibility that the plan will materialise. his
will meen that the politisal perties have docided that for the
present they cannot hope to oppose the military and must be contanD
0
to support the Governmant as s menns of oreating a favorable
politionl mituatior ma populer uppert in the ruture.
Z
It is tos carly
wh ther the budgat which ie being
aapaled by the vo tou
ill et with the approvel of
iminary estimates being drewn up
(whicb o por
be
ourly 1. August) the Army
REPOR1S/19.
vill k for b0.
vy 4530,000.000 wh1ch 10
Lmost tne ntire c
year the combined prelimluary ser ios es imates reached
1,400,000,000 wh1ch wore f1nally s0sled down to 820,000.900 and
it seems yery probablo that this year something similar will take
place. In an effort to keop the nation stirred up to e piteh of
excitement whereby it will be willing to make any meorirlcs that
may be necccsary, the mussien, chinese end Amorioan bogey are
drewn out whenever it so ms axpediont, and the people are kept m
The Mimanee dnister und the other africlals of his department mre
reported as being of the opinion that the present intermational and
internal situetion will allow many redaotions as campared with the
current budget, and are preparing counter Mational Defemse plams.
whioh will be better suited to the finaneial strength of the mation.
Ine questione of increaced taxation, including the best means end
methode, fill large weotlons of ths press. It seomm cortein thmt
scme increases ere ineviteble, in spite of the opposition of the
political leaders who fear that if they advesate higher tares taesr
shomld be attached to the netional" situation"
othee tm prepere for the coming naval sonfereaee ia is

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.89)
leages wmas formed at Goneva soms years ago - and that the Japanene
Govermmmt is sorlously considering joining in view of the "aeusemoes
of the thought problem in this country. The various trials s Amy,
Navy and civillans in connection with the recont plets and the
murders of last year 1s dhecussed under the social seetion of this
repert.
B. FORICH
Sectlons of the Topaneme military are reported as urging
the Nar and Porei n or lces to take more positive tepe to conolule
n offensive and er ive  nee wi th china,  to strive to
convin thehinse
she ru ity rph ing my more
conridenee in the 
e we poo
ionnotion
the Foreim
ne se amba ssadore
in the Uni tod
any to remind
ls raieins abroad ure upt so se misuved for military purposes end
thue tené to disturb the peace of the Far East. In case Chime does
make use of theme loans to oppose Japan and Mamohukue. Japan is
determined to deal with her as she hes done in kmchurle and at
Shanghai - and will be foroed to consider that the countries which
give aid to Chine are pervly r sponsible ror a remuronee of sime
Japenose trouble. News of Loans ar ged by r. T.v. Soong in
Ameráce and England und of arms puroheses in France, Germany and
Italy are diaguieting to the J unese though the Foreim Ofriee is
oredited with the statemens h arships are not in the s
category.
Reporte in Japan indicate that Japanese influence in North
hina emounts to virtual control or at least a very strong sphere
or influencs. dominated by the Japenese Embeeay et Heinking emé we

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.89)
 l term.
smsure tee ceoperation of Britich and Belgian interests 
tnvalme a joimt lmen by the throe coumtries and joint mamage
when the railrond is completed.
Instruetions heve been sent to the Japanese Consul Gemprml in
Nenkins to do hie best to prevent ths uoptlon of the proposnd inrom
in the tarier by the Legislattve Yuan. The hope of success is
consldered mmall, however, beouuse of the unflagsing offerte of the
Fuemintang to rosist Jupun and to stir up the people to the Jayamams
whort or the oveorthrow of the Kuomintng party will put an offeotual
end so the anti-Jopenese movoment.
2. Great ritain
Prelfminary conversets ne hey elready been beem in caloutte
between the Japanese Consul eneral nd representa ives or the Indien
oront wil
 trlia hao
preeat ive can hope tor
misunderstandings that exist.
lsse have endeavored to t
the British government to confer powors to make a treaty on the Iedias
Delegates and to have London aotion on the treaty confined to the
validation of any agreement reaohed at the conference. The Britim
sovernment, however, has not yot si niried its willingnees to this
proposal, and in taot in the fae of the openins or the conferenee
formally notified the panese ov runomt of the abrogation of tho
Trede Treaty or l9ll affocting special territories in Afrioa.
Japan'a delogates are reportod to have completed all the necessary
preparations for tho two onfor nees   held at simla and at
London.
Ia view of the failure of the World Koonowlo Conferenee Japm
1s determimed to do everything poe ible to meet the new situstiem
involving sharp competition for the worla's morkets emong the pomers.
whiek attompt to check the importatlon of Japamese goods unless
bilateral agreements based on the reciproeal tariff principle can
be coneluded.
3. 正
The Japanese Navy Departmont is reported as viswing with
évar mime mmall imlands west of Palewan in Seath Ckime Seae The
Japenese say that they also have clmims te shese islants in shat

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.90)
mentioned in provioms reports from thie office. Japemeee fimm
firms are making fairly large investments in Manehukuo, bnt herve bes
it will be imppeeible for them to realize onowgh prorit to warreat tme
Inveetins of large sums of monoy. It 1e n ted that the Japemeee pesple
are not hesit ting to subscribo to the new Manohurie Telegraph ema
Telephone Coapany - the subscription exoeeding the number of zhares
available by many times. This company is guarantesing six pereomt
aividends. The South nchuria Railway also plans to offer I.moe.
shares of stoek for public sut soription in August - in commeetiem wr
the capital increase to Boo,00o,O0o. The outh anohuria Reilwy
officiale are confident that they can maintain an vight peroent
dividend for the next ten years at least.
he Japonese 
 sime that thore ere now aboue
60.000 bena1te 10
 ored with over 200,000 last sumer.
0111
o1 0v0r 20n
endeavoring to place into effect a "national wafety plan" whereby
eack diatriet and village is to be responsible for the maintenanoe or
law and order in its own eree. Trains on the .M.R. lines are to have
armored motor cars proosed them in order to provide againet sudden
attaeke he treine
Ihe Aanchukuo war orioe has completed plans to reorganizo
the ray to 1l06, 264 oflioers and man, to divido the eontry inte
25 army distriots and to train orficors at the central willtary Sompol.
wakden. Other sehools to ive three months traiming to officers are
to be established. It is estimated that the present strength of the
Japaneso forees inoluded 1n the Kwantung Army aro approximately 50,00o
men. The l4th division is based on Taitsihar, the loth on Harbin, the
Sth on Jehol, the sth on chinchow. the lath grigade on suieamng, the
oavalry division on Changteh and the sth Brigade south or the Great
Wall. The Kwantung Army is to be reorganized in the mear future
according to the War offiee.
Various frontier inoidents have been reperted. Soviet frantiem
guards are said to have antorod Manchukuo and pi undered villages, and
Manehukmo stsamers have been fired on and seimed by Soviet guards. The
C.E.R. is still blooked at Pogranitahnoya.
Over lo0e Japonese stmdents sailed fer Dairen on is July for

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.91)
dividend fes the maxt tem years at least.
60,000 bandits in Manahukuo as dapared with over 00
prevince and along the Chonen border. Reparta receivet in Japan
sonsernins bandst activities are of a very fraamentary mature bus
Law and order in its own aree. Trains on the S.M.R. lines are to haws
armored moter cars proosed them in order to provide against suddén
attacks on the traine.
The Manchukuo War Offioe has cospleted plans to reorganise
the immy to l08, 264 officers and man, to divide the sountry iate
3s army districts and to train orficers at the Central Milltary Setsol.
Mukden. Other sehools to give three months traiming to officore are
to be established. It is estimated that the present strength of to
Japaneso forces inoluded in the Xwantung Army are approximately 50,000
men. The l4th division is based on Tsitsihar. the loth on Harbin, the
8th on Jehol, the Sth on Chinchow, the l4th Brigade on Suienung, the
oavalry division on Changteh and the 4th Brigade south of the Greet
Wall. The Kwantung Army is to be reorganized in the near future
according to the War Office.
Verious frontier inoidents have been reported. Soviet frontier
guards are said to have entered Manehukuo and plundered villages, and
Manehukuo stoumers have beon fired on and seized by Soviet guards. The
C.M.R. is still blocked at Porramitchnoya.
Over looo Japanese students suiled for Dairen on 1s July for
a tour of snehukuo. This le in line with tho national polioy of
pins up intoreet in the new stete and tryins to enoourage the
better types ot Japansse to cast their lots there. The "srmed
farmora" for which meny plune are made are vory expeneive to send.
the or srry Topneme Parmasre do not eoom emslous to go
vhe ffaos thet te Drars Clston

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.88)
belteves that nothing will be gained by haste or lmpatimmes and has
urged the delegates to both coumtries to taks frequont trips for
reareation. The Vioe Minister of Foreign Afraire or Manahukwe.
Mr: thashi. has stated thet in case the offer of wso,00o. 000 is not
accepted and that if the conferenoe ande in failure, Manchukuo will
proceed to take over the rallway by foroe.
The Japenese es imate thnt the Soviet military foreme
along the Soviet-llanohukuo vorder number about 150,C00 mm. inaluding
8 1nfantry divisions, 3 cavalry divisions, 250 servieemble airplanes
and tanks and amaored cars of unknowm strongth. Reports indioate
that the Russiane continue to fortiry the Left bank or the Amm River
with worke of romt-nervonent ns ture.
sheriee tucl ass which have taken place in
lsfuorily with th
ex0cp10
ovies have apolgized and
agredt
von klllod by paying
swo viet rilng boets
fine by th
ip the osohira ru
case vigorously.
A vlep neso comerolnl treaty is being disouoeed
and it is said thit  or the clauses will be that the two countries
wil purohaee the   ouns ot ode Tom caeh other. she Japaae
hould in fron  nt ince in l9s they purahased
S2, 40o, 0oo worth or  ro ula whereas Russia purchased only
4,400,o00 worth of   nose oods. It would appear. howevor. that
this is oly valk sine
1 s wou d probably never agres to
any sueh proposel s shis.
6. United Statos
Interest in  lations vith the United stetes has centered
around the e mente o . oy Howard, the promiment Amerioan
newspeper publisher who ru turned to the United Statee frem the Far
Bast reeontly. ir. Loward's stutements that Americu should refrain
from interfering with Japanome plans in Manchwrie are hailed with
satisfaction as are the vurious muggestions that Jarem be allowed 
immigration quota. The suggeutions that the Uaited States reeggmise
Soviet Russin for a better balanoing or the Far Besterm ei maties
and that the United States build up to the limits met by the Lomdon
Maval Confurence are received much more voldly.
As has been reported the Japanese peopie Lock os smerteen

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.91)
the reat dirter
In mrks of a semi-permanent nature.
The various fisherics insidents wich hate tek
eption of the Kotokira Marn sese. The Seviets mave mp
fames by the captains. The Japammse are taking ap the Kotohire Mara
case vigorously.
A Soviet-Japamese commercial treaty ls being dimousesd-
and it is said that one or the alauses will be as the twe cowatries
will purehase the s me mount of goode from cach omer. The Japamems
should gain from any such agroement since in l9se tmey purchased
52.400,000 worth of goods from Russia whereas Russia purchased oaly
14,400,000 worth of Japonese goods. It would appear. however, that
this is ouly talk since the ussians would probably never agree to
any sueh proposel as this.
mited States
Interest in  lations with the United Statee has centered
aroumd the statements of r. Roy Howard, the promineat American
newspaper publisher who ro turmed to the United states frem the Far
East reeently. r. Howard's statements that America should refrain
from interfering with Japanese plans in Manchurie are hailed with
setisfaction as ar the vurious suggestions that Japen be allowed es
immigration uote. he suggestions that the United States recognise
Soviet Ruesia for a better balancing of the Far Eastem sitmation
and that the United  tates build up to the limits set by the London
Maval conference aro reseived much more ooldly.
As lns been roported the Juapunene people leok on Amerlean
navel coastruction as a direes threat to Jupan and as the firet step
towerd en armamont reoe. Reoent nevepaper artidles siving the
various views of intluontiel Jepanese pepers are being forwarded to
the Offiee of Havel Intelligenee. The aseuaption is al ways usde thet
the Japamene Nevy is nnintained only for self derense and that our
progrem is e tefiaite orfonsive threat to Jupan, in that we will be
betrer able to challenge Japan'
thedafonder of the

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.94)
to keup the anti-feroim feeling stirred up.
The influential Tokyo Asahi carries a story today ( m n.)
maich mays that the United States has arranged to build a maval and
air bese at Amoy, China in return for two submarinesy six alrplanesy
fifteen antirairorart guns pnd a large euyply of amemitien. the
aeoording to the Asahi.
XI. NAVA-MILITARX
The sixe of naval-military itome of the budget have been
diseussed under the domestie section of this report, as has the
Japaneee attitude toward the United States building progrem.
The interest of the ent ire country is centered on the Gremd
Naval Manouvere and the Air Defense Maneuvers whioh are to take plese
in August. Since the beginning of the mokth the defense societies of
the various distrists have been holding organizing mestings and drills,
oembined with light regulation drills, and it appears that tas Bome
Minlstry in coninetion with the War Ofrics wants to begin a new series
of such drills In the Osaka-Koba-Negoya and northern Kyuahu areast
Decidedly such affairs are becoming popular. The "air defense areas"
are to ba divided into districts, each of whioh will have designated
refuges, modical stations end provision depots, storehouses, oil tanks
ete. wiil be built underground, builcings will bo modelled so mat
out so as to prevent fires from spreading. This, however, mast be for
the purpose of rostering a martial spirit rather than saving lives ox
Proparty auring alr raide. The Army authorities ere much alarmed by
thas results or the vartous stu les that they have made ir conneott on

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.89)
Mtns  ain  i Ja
gume, searehlights ete.
IIZ. BCONOMDO
For the first six months of l9ss imports cmounted to wijole,Sae,ood
and exports to w8a9, 78d, 00o indiaating an advarse trade balanee of
¥186, S44,000. In eomparison with last year exports ahowed en
Ancreese of 50.9% and importe a4.5% and the adverse balande às
X80,000, 000 less than 1t was last year. The largest imareawes in
exports consisted of gotton tissues, raw silk and flour, while the
largest inareases in imports ware ahown in raw cotton. iren amd
wool. The favorable trado balance continues invo July - the first
20 days showing an exoess of exports amounting to 9, 02s,000.
However, the cotton yarn export trade and the raw silk ekpart trede
were very sleek and heavy imports of rew cotton contimme.
In an effort to inerease the export trade the De partmont of
Commeroe intends to establish trade headquarters in Hsinking. Bombay,
Constantinople, Buenos Aires, London and New York in the near futare.
It is hoped that the commereial intelligenee furnished by these
offices will faoilitate the work of the Japanese exporters
The June index number of wholesale prices showed an Spereemt
drop in June. but a rise of about .8 peroent up to 2o July. Mriees
en 80 wholesale art1cles ere 48% hi her than 1a December 195t
according to the Miteubiahi Economie Researen Institute  mrlese mow
heing higher than at any time slnoe the replacemont of the gold
abargo
Retail pricey are likewise higher, but do not reack the
2810
the Dec. 1929 prioem.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.89)
Japamese camualties inee September lel are sme k
bitten are still in the hospitals. It has been rovealed taat  the
average l300 woldiers and 400 mailors are given medical discharaes
waah year for tuberoulosis. considering the care with which the
physical examinations sor the candidntes are wondueted thie aypeare
to be a surprisingly large number.
is conducting studiee to reorganise the Army. The studies indlude
Modificallons or garrison towms in Japan proper.
Reduotion or home divisions.
Permanent inoreeses in Kwantung Army.
Permanent increases of railway guards.
Inereeses tn tot-l strungth of Army.
Ieap mn     lt  
1y
2.00
searchlights ete.
III. CONOMIC
A.Coméree
Japan's foreign trade for June showed a favorable balamoe of
25,805,000 w1th 1mports at 186,997,000 ad ex p0rts at 2182,800.000.
for the firat six monthe of 1933 1mports wmouated to W1,016,528,000
and exports to 3z9,78e,00o indicating an adverse trade balanee of
166,54e,000. In eomparison with last year exports showed an
Anoruese of 50.9% and imports 34.5% and the adverse balance os
X80,000, 000 Less than 1t was lest year. The lergest imareases in
exports consisted of gotton tismmes, raw silk and flour, while the
largest inareases in imports ware shown in raw cotton. iren end
wool. The faveruble trade balance continues invo July - tme first
£0 daya showing an exoess of exports amounting to 9, Gas,00o.
However, the sotton yarn export trade and the raw silk axpart trade
were very slack and heavy importa or rew cotton continms.
It an effort to inurease the export trade the De pmrtons of
It is moped that the commerolal intolligeneo rurnished by these
ofriess will faallitate the wurk of the Japanese exparteres

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.86)
Ehe Jepan Iron Manufacturiny Co. (a tramelatim of 
steneee which heve Irredy been reported. he sood conditlons 
Jupan's steel inauacry continue, end asregate Imports for the Aset
six months ef 193 amoteu to 149, 4b8 tona.
Increaaed industrial produetion ure noted in almoet all of
Jepam's industries. Notes showing the latest available figtres will
be made the subject of  seperate report.
C. shipping - commmications
A treneportatlon vounoil is to be estalliahed to sontral all of
the country's railw ys,  nale, roads etc. if plene laid before t
Minister or comaunications re dopted. hlle doubts are erpreeed
arfrice favers
1
ort alwy
Iroudy oxist, so e third
omn1with
Several new steamahip lines have been started. i.e. Dairem
Niigata line by the D..K., bimonthly: Dairen-Yokohame line by D.K.X..
bimonthly The ..K. has reop ned its Shanghai-Taingtao line ror e
sumeer months, on the other hand it is reported thet both the Prtne
Lino (2r1tish) nd 1i ne
(i hve decied t dis
their oriental rus untirely.
A 2o yuar agreement in rogurd to the port of Ramhin and the
operation of the North Chosen rullvoys is reported to have been mils
betwean the S.. and the Governmelit Goneral of Chosen. The S.M.R.
will pay w39,000, 000 annually, will operate the railways wad part
end keep beth in repeir. Any improvements or extonslons, however,
mast be made by the Government General.
A conferenoe of ropresentatives of the Fucirio and Atlantie
Freight Conferenoos and the outsider companies mot in Kobe on V
ceapamies (mmido Kaiun) out the freicht rate to one halgs ead sms
imoreased its business tremendously at the expence ef the othse
ecmpanies.
be pemsíble te tolephone between Tokyo aad Haimking Àn 

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.85)
rable attei in o conny
stenees whioh heve Irredy been reported. he sood conditlons 
Jupan's steel inauatry continue, and aisregate Imports for the Aeet
six months of 1933 amounteu to 149, 4b8 tona.
Increaaed industrial produetton are noted in almost all f
Jepam's indastries. Notes showing the lutest available figtres will
be made the subject of a seperate report.
C. Shipping - commications
A treneportatlon counoil is to be estalliahed to contral all of
the country's railwaye, nale, roads ete. if plane laid befoe t
Minister or comaunications re dopted. hll doubts are expreed
ar ffice favors
10
oraly
ne1n
1udy oxis, o e third
on1nte 1 with
18:08
Several new steamahip lines have been started. i.e. Dairem
Niigata line by the D..K., bimonthly; Dairen-Yokohame line by D.K.X..
bimonthly The ..K. has reoponed its Shanghai-Taingtao line for he
sumeer months, on the other hand it Ls reported that both the Prime
Line (ritish) d lie e (i hve deuided te dist
their oriental rws entirely.
A so yuar agreement in rugurd to the port of Ramhin and the
operation or the North Choson ruilvays is reported to have been mils
betwmen the S.sR. and the Governmelit Goneral or Chosen. The S.M.R.
will pay w39,000, 000 annually, will operate the reilways wad part
end keep beth in repeir. Any improvements or extonsions, sowever,
mmst be made by the Government General.
A conferenoe of ropresentatives of the Pucirio and Atlantie
Freight Conforenoos and the outsider companies mot in Kobe en 
cuapanies (maido Kaiun) out the freicht rate to one half, mnd sas
inoreased its business tremendously at the uxpenee ef the otaer
ecmpanios.
be poesible te telopone Detween Tokyo nad Hsimking in 

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.88)
lco
the Hakome pase and save about 8 minutes on the Tockaide mmlm lime
betwoen Tokyo and Kobe.
D. 011
The question of a concrete positive oil policy ie again beins
disouseed. Orricials of ar, Navy, Commerce, Overseas and Fimamee
Departmente heve hold frequent meotings in the past week im mm egrert
to work out some plan. Jupan's derisienoy is oil is one ef 
probleme whicn gives the Japanese government the greatest worry ead
it appears to be one which will he most difrioult to solve. The tar
off1ce 1s reported to be e ine for w5, c00,000 in the maxt tudgt t
carry out its fuel policy.
toviet o2l will sin oie in in ust
firet shipments eing l1,oo ton
h ts so ceported to 
buyin oviet ol nd asoll 
tus ofth
gasoline sartel  nized
o.d the Sosony
 Learnd the 
oll will probably
mark the beginntng ofr oen omge lon  phe apen mert.
IV. OCIAL
On the night of 10 July the Jipanese police prevented anothow
wholesalc assassinetion plot - if reports cn e belioved. This ti
the plotters (over l o have been  eat d) belong to the pai wthon
Seisanto a powertul re ctionary soci ty with violent aperialietie
primoiples. Certain members or this purty were disoovered to be is
peesesslon or considerable umbors of weapons and plans to uee tm
to kill the Bremier, the lome inister, the Lord Keeper of the Privy
Beal, the President or the  ciyukai and inselto parties and the
Ninister of War. The re sons etated for wan ting to carry out them
killinge are the corruption and weakaess of the present leaderee. t
appeare that General Araki was inol uded on the liet becawme he hes
and the mearah for arms and further evidenee still continues, Thm
out that the present corrupt stete of politles mes to bl ror
afratr.
A plot of some of the followers of the Nichiren seet ef

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
inerease has been approximately 900,000.
The Department of Commaree and Indps
for oarthequaks insuranee as e social measur
maxiwm polioy of v3,0co are the only points reported settled.
Private companies would handle the insuramce, but these companles
would re-insure with the government. At present there is no
reasonable earthquake insurance available

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 9, 1933.
ROM
5DJ
80
Bi-weekly report No. 124, dated
August 17, from the Naval Attaché
at Tokyo, need not be read in full,
as 1t contains a great deal of
material which has already come to
the attention of the Division. At-
tention is drawn, however, to the
paragraph on Japanese trade with
Manchuria for the first six months
of the present year (page 3) which
has shown an increase of 125% over
the corresponding period last year.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
There is also a brief reference
to the condition of Japanese foreign
trade on page 6.
The report that the British
Government intends to restrict the
carrying trade between units of the
British empire to British vessels
is causing much alarm in Japan, where
it is stated that such a measure
will affect 90% of the Japanese
shipping companies and will cause
the laying up of many vessels. It
is true that British steamship
companies are agitating for some
method of protection againet the
competition of foreign vessels on

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
empire trade routes, but the British
Government has thus far been reluctart
to adopt any restrictive measure.
812
FE:EHD:ABW

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.89)
ON
SEP8-1933
933
8
8
00/N.1.REPORTS/20
by 1956
(d) conereto plans for povermment enterprioee to aid
994.00N1
Conureto plans to aid mational financ.
A positivo diplorstie polioy.
Positive lwns to doal with thought prollams.
Posi ivo plans to enroree ar iotal disolplime and to
She exi sain politi dal otraeture.
witn . umuki to no otinte ror the mupport or the gesyumi with
stand to loge waat little publse oanfidon
Japanese - eapesially sincs the ay 15 trial he

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.90)
SEP8-1933
WENT OF
933
89
8
00/N.I.REPOR
by 1956.
(a) conareto plans for povernment unterpriame to aid
994.00N1
incuatry
Concrete plams to aid mational financ.
A positivo diplorwtie polioy.
Positive plais to doal with thought prohlems.
Posi ivo plans to enroree ar iaial disoipline and to
xointain
She exiain politidal etraomure.
witn . umuki to mo otinte ror the mupport or the gesyumt wisn
20
Japanese - espesially sinco the ay 1s trial be

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.81)
aritieiem of the government and the naval authorities es
phase of the plots, is olearly air otod tamard prevonsims the
Japanese natios from ovar nocopting any tranty mnlah does net give
Japan preoticel prity wiun tho mited tates end Great Britaie.
Acoerdine to one of the defondants he  arlean vabesmadey in Japem.
n Cay nd harlio Ghapain wore el
mesked to bo aasessinnti
te amml Gemeral  tarf has been most uneatimrectery.
Zhe Japenese Mar Orr1 ce 1asued a atatuest on è Ampas thas

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.75)
phase of the plots, ls olearly airectod tamord prevensims the
Japan precticel prity witn the mited tutes and Great Pritaine
scoerding to ne ofr the dofondants the mrlean abesadey in Jap.
exynd hrlie chaplin were el
mesed to be asassint
8. 

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.77)
& prebeet to Franes, basins thoir claim on the fact tat a Japamsso
£irm - the Rama Phosphate Mining Co. - conduoted a busimees emees
At any rate noither the Forel: frice nor the Navy Department
sontemplate any  rash no ion  sucn as ths penling of men-er-mar
eo tiorin theeo
4.1
The three Joneee ov oent dolegutee and tmhe rive cotee
epinners represent ivee o she Lndopew so trede comrerenee wic
Is to opem at Siale for Al September are sailind trom Xobe on

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.82)
in rexyo. the Mamchukuo nuthordtios are plannins to make the faalss
rallmy
8
Rovi mion or frei t and paseenger ratess
Varieue changes in the directors of the departmoats 
aive mre ecatrol to anahuicue Aireeters.
fter : very brief illneee Field warahal mato, Ambesnader
to ndhuruo und Coa under of the Kountung garrimon dind in Hainking
on 27 July. His rumeral, which wes held In Tokyo about a mak later
was a most impreosive nd eleborate one. here are some muasrs in
Tokoyo to the offoet that larshal nuto was killed, but it le believed
that they are ontirely without foundetion. General  iahikeri.
uprem military Counolllor. has boon uppoinsod to msccoed Marahal
mute as mbo ssauer to udu so, oader of the weetune amay and
Gevermer of he Lwansng Leuwed territory. The new ambassades hes
stated that he intende to contimue the polieies of the late rielé
Harchal Wuto, for the presont at least.
.i1
oviot-Hanchunuo onforenee for the sle of the chinese
Eastorn Rallway is now considering the westion of the exohang rate
of "gold" rables and yen. of coures, if the valus of tee sold ruble

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.85)
to be held on 2o Augast in Toye Bay.
The publicity that the Lendom saval tacaty ss recsiving
ing agreemnt wmiah meneces Japen's seeurity".
affaira. Nert mammer the Oaska-Kyoto-Kobe,Hiumji-Ghik
The memi-annwal chmges end promotione in the amay ware
included the promotion of 17 njor Gonarals to Liout. Ganomal mné
So Drigadier Generale to Mejor Cenerals. Two Dmperiel Erineeo mare
premoted to Lieut, Goperal and given cosmand or divisions.
The Wer Winister hes somplained to the Kinister of
Reueation that he fears thet any stulonts both in govarnmeat and
private wniveraities ere hostile to mllitery training. He has
sugeeeted thas military truining should be mede compalsory. In this
connsstion tas dispute between the War Ofrice and Cethelie schools.
Jeehi anà Gyosei, romeinn wnsetlwa and as yot no,officere have bss
detelled to these sohools os militery inetruetors

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.79)
Promotéen of new mariey echege reglstn t
The natone)l wealt or Japam Ls esttmated et md la
B. Démrial
inte guikáe, mlon in addition to govormmnt supervisien sad
rece ive povornwent subsidies, which though aall are ar aoms
importanes.
Ihe low interest tendenoy and the boom or the war materiel
industry hns coueed many manutacturing soncerns so imereame their
capital in recant months. The clectrio, eaumisel and mashimery
oompenies have been particularly active, and maay sew cempanles
mostly conneeted with wer industries have been formad. Nay estabe
lishasnts with a oapitalization of al80,207,000 have been formed
sinee the beginming or this year.
It hes beon notad that the avy has wontreeted with she Yawatm
tros
orks te pay she rollowing pricos ror steel during lass
teel for oonetruotion os vosselet
mild steel plates (ordinary)
4139. por ton
(Hvy)
189
soilsy piato
forilnary)
150
170
(an)
mild steel
125
110

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.84)
Lecerding to limss the sabaieies mll bes
Africa
chiea Coast
Nort Chooom
0.
The 10, 9os toms of Soviet gaselime mhich has beem
priee to be asked for this gamoline has not boen ams
forming the syndinate rooontly reduesd the prioe of gasoline to
46 sen per gallon (formerly sò n) booause of the impertation of
the price cutting toctios or the Nnteukate-Soviet eil firm is not
knosm at precent.
Acoording to s rocomt roport from Harbin, the E.M.R. is imvestiget-
ing a promising ciold very near Harbin - shere suurfaee oil hes been

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.91)
and debters heve boon formed.
The graduates of shs higher eduoational institutions have
alnee it has been found that most or tho arreste for daager
thoughte take place among the whemployed graduates of unviersitiss
end highsr aahools.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 21, 1933.
ERD
RO
JEJ
SKH
Bi-weekly report dated September 1,
1933, from the Naval Attache at Tokyo
contains the following information which
is new to the Division:
Page 1 - five major policies suggest-
ed by the President of the Seyukai and
transmitted to the Government. Of these
the one which is of interest at the moment
is the establishment of a Japanese-
Manchurian economic bloc. It will be
remembered from previous reports that
there has been considerable opposition
in Japan on the part of certain interests
against the "economic bloc" idea; and it
may be supposed that the support of the
largest political party in the Diet to
this idea should give it some impetus.
The subsequent discussion on this page
concerning the suggestion of a coalition
Government is not very clear to me, but
the Naval Attache would seem to be of the
opinion that if the two principal parties
can cooperate it may be possible for them
to avoid a military dictatorship. He
states

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
states nevertheless that thus far the
presidents of the two parties have been un-
willing to join the cabinet.
Attention is drawn to the third para-
graph of page 2 which refers to rumors
that Count Uchida, as well as Count Makino,
would resign. The former is said to have
commented recently on the seriousness of
the cost of the army and navy. This is
the first intimation that the Divieton hes
received that there was any suggestion that
Count Uchida would resign.
Section 4, pag 3, states that the
boycott of Indian gotton by Japanese
spinners has not really been carried out.
This is in conflict with recent reports
from India. The/sections on Manchukuo
and Soviet Russia (pages 3 and 4) should
be read in full.
The section on relations with the
United States, page 5, is not of any
particular inportance, but should be
glanced over.
The espionage epidemte still exists
(page 6).
With
sent fro

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
With relation to a recent despatch
from Tokyo describing the marketing of
Soviet oil in Japan, attention is drawn
to the statement on page 8 that the
Japanese Government does not intend to
intervene in the matter.
人
FE:EHD:ABW

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT DETACH-The  loa
(N.N.I
ROUTING SLIP
June,
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
Bs Tapan- Bi Wickly
NAVY DEPARTMENT
Dulilligruce Sulunary
Reference
Date.
File No.
FRom DirectoR OF NAvAL INtelLigence
Room
No.
To
Secretary of the Navy.
2046
Assistant Secretary of the Navy
2034
Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Air)
2032
Asst. Secretary of Navy (Navy Yard Div.)
2033
Chief, Naval Operations.
2054
Assistant Chief, Naval Operations.
2056
Central Division
2058
Communications
2621
Fleet Training
3651
Inspections.
3621
Material
2610
Naval Districts
2613
Ships'Movements
2601
War Plans
2064
General Board
2748
Budget Officer.
2705
Inventions
2616
Aeronautics
2744
C. & R.
2003
Engineering
2202
Hydrographic
1027
J. A. G.
2524
Marine Corps.
3313
M. & S.
1018
Navigation
3050
Ordnance
3117
S. & A.
1001
Y. & D.
2026
ShippingBoard
2915
Aeronautical Research Board
3638
CHK AON RQUIRED
Information and return O. N. I. Room.
Retain or destroy
Note, initial and pass to next.
For comment and return.
Necessary action or reply
Cognisance activity checked.
Information on which to base reply.
for in frmation of
Remarks:
Stati Dept

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.91)
ONI
SEP 204
BEOETVED
SEP 27 1933
N
0BF
(a) zstahaiatat a a deriaite fee p
revenwes can be inereases.
It will  netieed that these "polieien" are ed e
reseive Seiyakai support. the attitudes of the Miaseito and the
Keknwain Domei have so far been agaimet the inolusson of both 
Selyukal, whereas under a real coslition the influenes af the
Seiyukai would be predominant since it is the much lerger party.
Both parties are, however, willing to support the Saito Goverament
with sortain reservations on internal problems.
There is considerable spoculation among observers as to
the reasons behind the desire to form a "nationel government" at
this time. Ome reacon may be that the Cabinet desires to insure
itselr and the huge budget against etteok in the eoming msssion
or the Diet. Another reason may be thet the politicians have
decided that unless the political parties oan bury their difrer-
ences, the Armyand the public will demend some sort of diotator-
ship, and that by cooperation and the formation of a "natiomal"
polioy the possibility of e diotatorahip can be evoided. still
SEP
another reason may be thot the liberal parliamentsrian elements
(inelwding Saionji and Makino end baoked by the iudustrialists
FILED
and bankers) have decided that it may be poesible to return to
purely party govornment in the near future, and that if the
Soiyukni adopts a polioy which will rocomend itsolf to the
1E1D0X
thet the milisery
on the covernment end the nation.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.88)
attmsks in the prass reoontly. Almo the Foroign Mint
might be salled e "dangerous thought".
The Foreign Office has since the witharayml frem the
al diplomatie orficers will be ettached to Japamese embassies mst
Legations in Franee, Great Britain, Gormany, Belgium and Switmerland
with instruotions to xeep a close watch on the policles or theme
countries in the Lmagus and to mmintain as alope a liasem as
posaible with the League and Geneva. Japan, it is hopad, oan thus
take e more cotive part in world affairs and improve her reletioms
with the Europeen countrieo which cre slosely related to the Leagws.
China
The Jopaneso Foreign ofrice states that while the
statemants and sctione of Chinese leaders carnot be depended on.
the roporte of the Luahen conforenee leed them to believe tha: a
osrtein degreo of cooperation end mutual understanding between
Japan mnd China can bè realizod in the near future. Me. Muang Pu.
chairmen of the Tor th chims tlitical ead justment Commission. who
is being openly supported by Japen, hes stated that the northern
leademe heve convisoed the an ins Coveroment that anti-Jepanese
Yokohama on s
tor an nerve wit gme
1.1.20

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.89)
oxtent that no territorial changes en take place im ata
sonsulting her and without her oonsent.
Japenese dalogation is net optimistis thas the rokl
can be obtained is questionable. The latest move in the trade mar
has been the threat by the Japanese to boyoott Australien weal and
obtain it from Seuth merica, but most of the vigorous talk in
favor of this is attributed to Foroign Offios ofrieials.
Lord Marley, former Under-Seeretary of tate fer War. eme
of the delegates to the Intornational Conference Agaimst War to be
held at Shanghal was deported from Jepan on the grounds that his
premenee in Japon would no much harm to tho country. It is
believed that tso or three yeare ago the Japaneso Govemmment would
have hositated to take such a step for fear or critieism at mome
and abreed
contimm. The ccabined milit ry snd navel roroes are reperted o
have clearee the Suneari aree from Herbn to the covies beroer and
she campal a tn Chtonteo de popor tee so oo prve s ro
traine on all tines except the main outh Manchurlan Rallmay ro

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.90)
has net besn dosided.
A report from Vladivestek rogarding sogäitions in Sibepía
has been forwarded to the ofriee of Navel Dntelligonse. Appareatly
the food shortage is most aoute, oausing arimos and marfaring amang
the people in the aree. Peesibly there is some truth in the
contention of the Manohukuo government that border ralds to ebtain
food ere frequent.
Reports of Soviet preparetions for mar contimms. the
Soviet Comismar for the Army and Navy is said to be in Harborovak
conducting inspoetione of frontier defenses amt mameuvers.
Vladivestek is roported to have been made improgaible against
atteek, the lolden Horn Bey naval bame has been repaired and large
prodict that both Rusaie and Japan will be ready In less,
ana
the stoms will break then.
The Japaness super patriot Rikiichire Emure who conducted
a series of raids on the Siberien coast about tan yoars ago sailed
from Nomuro with abous l0o fallowers, end, it is allegod, witn the
intention of ropeatins his former oxploits.
1111
reteliation for the killing of the Jnpenese fishermen in Kemehethm
and the seiaure of Japanose fishing boata.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.89)
Japma to remain a passi spectator".
eruizing off Dairen cnused considerable exeitememt im that plase
sinister motive - inyastigation of strategie sones - was giwm as
the purpase behind the visit.
II. MAVAL-NIL ITARY.
The Grand Manouvers were brought to a close an
25 Angust by the Imperiel Review held in Tokye Bay. One hundree
sixty one mom of war, ropresenting about so% of the strength of
the Japenese Fleot and one hundred sixty maval civoraft took pars
in the review. The goneral appearance of the fleet mas exoellemt
and the ships taking part were handled in a most meamanlike manner.
Soparato reports on the maue uvers and review will be made.
The Fourth Fleet has been diebanded but the First and
Becond Fleets will romsin intaet cruising in Japenese waters until
November.
Reports have beon curront fer sometime that Brasil would
place orders for 30 warships in Japanose
yards. These reporte have
been denied by the Braxilian government,
hst it appears that
various cowmeroial firms hove beon asked to submit satimabes. How
there sre reports to the effeot that the Greek, Bolivimn, Mexlean
and Peruvisn governments have sont inguiries to Jepen regerding
warship construction and sosts. The negotlations. howmver, have
not pro ressed beyond the in puiry stage.
5 P2
roes Law and the Publications Law
    h y

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.89)
street in disregerd of a trafrie sigeals
The domand for sirplanes has apparemtly fellen eff.
allowances. The worikmen are objecting to this treatment and are
appealing to the prefectural authorities to mapeors then. The
been wurking overtime thess last rirteen moathe.
The apy manin still contimues. The most resemt are
(a); the Fronal Military Attachd who is alleged to have taken
photographs of Toba harbor in Ise Bay: (b) an mpergomn language
situmtion" along ths soast of Izu, (o) an Amerioan who bribed a
Japanese doctor to allow him to use his homs to peotograph factories
in Kobe by means if infra-red long istanco photograpkys (a) an
Ameriean dootor in Tokyo who uses the large tower or the now
American hospital to spy on tho aoti vi ties of mearby faetories and
shipyards.
IXI.ECONOMIC.
The personnel of the rade commission, presided over by
the foreign Minieter which is to estanlish a foreigu trade polioy.
will be wettled abortly and the commission will hold its firet
meeting early in September. Jupen is to make speeial efforte to
build up her south American and Afriean trade.
Two trado aissions
are to loave Japan in  sptamber - one of seven members is to oo to
south and Central Maorioa ane the other of atx mambere to Afriea.
These missions will be gone el ht or wine monthe aad will bold
aaple falrs and dessoostations of apameee
produota ir the
ootrs alon ey

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.89)
inoreaeed coste of fertilimsrs and frelght rates.
Real sstate prices are about lo% higker them thmy
were e year ago due to talk of inflation and rosulting syooulatiom
B. mdustrial.
The avorage index of induatrial predmction fer my
was 14l.85 and for June 129.8 on a basis or lo0 ror produotion
during the year los7. On this basis the figures for the
prineipal industriee were as fo lowar
118.9
119.9
180
coston yurn
cloth
122.4
190.8
118.1
59.1
102.7
78.8
Raw silk
Bilk textiles
108.7
160.
148.7
85.7
caal
111.4
copper
118.8
Paper
124.8
150.9
Coment
mleaching powder
172.8
1848
108.6
208.1
209.5
187.5
Caustio soda
8tee1
180.1
195.1
182.3
Pág iron
148.0
156.0 106.0
Produetion curtailmonts now enforesd in Jepan are
(in puroent) :-
spinning
27.6
10.9
40.8
Coal
Bloaehing powdar - 45.
Coment
Caleium éyanide 40.
Paper
secording te figares of te Depertment of Commeree,

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OFSTATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SKH:
January 20, 1934.
2：
The apanese Army and Mavy
statements referred to in the
attached report from the Yavul
Attache at .okyo, december 27,1933,
were quoted at len th in a recent
despatch fron te Embassy.
This is an interesting report
and s ould be read in full, as it
supports t e view of t'e mbassy
that differerces of opinion
between the civil and military
alements are occurrin and that
the civil element is beinning to
air its grievances.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.92)
RECEIVED
N251934
UAN 20 1994
Depertment of Btake
The statements were in the form of talkes hy "apeted
prees representatives.
894.
00
theugh those whe were killed in the wars sn the past weres
REPORTS/22
to bring about reduction or the strongth of national defmass, ms
through attempts to sprend defeatimm through the machimatiems as
the third Internationale and the other in the form of agitatiem to
separate the civilian population and the military. While the
the latter because the campaign is being conduoted seoretly. The
statement continued that problems in the agrioultural situstion
are woven with the uestion of assuring means of national defenee
and that the militory nuthorities are keoping the agrioultural
problems in mind.
Tho statement by the Havy Dopartment agrees with the War
Department and stresses the neceasity of overlooking nothing to
insure national unity. The Navy Dopartmont appealed to the nation
to join in tiding over the prepent national crisis.
The two statomts heve called forth considarable oritioiam
from the press end membere of the leading politioal perties. ur.
Cenji Matsuda, chier sooretary of tho Minseito, replied with the
remerk that frecdom of speeah is iven the Japanese psople umder
the Constitution and that the Jupanese po ple are at liberty to
make utterances within a scope permitted by law. If. he seld. the
Army and Navy cuthorities know who is reaponsible for tho spreeding
of such thought tho individuals should be brought to task.
Befere a seclal ggumlttou of he House of reere on
December 20 th Ceneral/khehea, tnietor or tr, wao asked why the
War and Navy orricen say fit to publiah their respective statennt
The Conoral ropiied:-
in sho For of rears.
between the
had to rir
out"。

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.90)
pubuso.
wish to ovade the responaibility of a decision.
Due to the grotring opposition of the Cabimet to the amy
dememes it is pessible that the Army will for ce the issues inte
the Diet, that the Diet will be dissalvad and the Arny and Havy
issees presented to the people through a general election. to
meet the threat of the military there heve recently been severel
promising gestures tomard uniting the two strong political
parties which would have the support of the Salto cabinet.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.96)
Liautemast General ( Retired ) Gerth van Wiir m
impmwialism and a united Asiatio Irent. He Is'
spmmander-in-chief of the Betherlands Bast Indies
When one conaiders present day problems in the Pesifis
one's thoughts fly in the firat place to Japan, because Japan is
the real creator of these problems. The aggressive action of 
pan in the case of Manohukuo cannot be conmidered as other the
the prelude to the realisation of a carefully worked out plan
whioh the final ebjegtive is the japanisation of Australia and
New Zealand. For the attainment of this objeotive three things
are necessary. In the first plase, Japan must assure the protegtm
ien of her rear against Russia; in the second plaoe she must
establish on a solid basis a community of interest, both economio
and military, with China; and lastly, the position of the Western
Powers in the Far East, and in partioular that of Great Britain
and of France, must be destroyed, if not by Japan, at least with
her assistance. The first of these conditions is actually in the
course of realisation. The near future will tell us to what extent
Russia is able to hinder Japan in the execution of her projeots.
As for the second, i.e. close community of interests in China, the
fact that Japan has not hesitated to wrest Manohukuo from China im
order te place it under her own influence, demonstrates to us that
not only does Japan fell herself strong empugh to flout, net emly
Amerioa, but the whole of the West, bat above all that the hoatil.
ity which she las enoountered from Shima 1s the rosult of faoters
whioh Japan, as opposed to the Western Powers, knows how to estim
ate at their proper valwe. The oriental montality still preserves
for the inhabitant of the west muoh of its impenstrability.
It seoms then that it would be in the highest degree
imprudent to base one's ideas on certain superfioial consider
ations, and to allow one's selr to be lulled by the thought that
it is only in the distant future that the possibility may arise or
common astion by Japan an @ and Chins in the Par Fast against the
Western Powers. It is already several years sinos Australis
etrated the true inwardness of Japanese ambitiems: Acoprdingly,
Australia has exeroised energatie pressure am Great Britain a
establish at Singapore a powerful maval bass. a mesure whidk
ssond the sigmificaace of Simgapors, and im this 
worth drawing attention to the interest whiek she has taken

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.96)
21
Jan.16.198
Japamese suppert is likely in the event er raka
matienal movements which aim at independgmees Mas da
France and Australia regard such an eventuality? 
of this from the measures whioh they have taken, beth
and naval, in the far east, amd in Australia.
For the expansion of Japan towardp the seuth, th
Phillppine Islands are a factor of great impertanee, mnd the
uncertain attitude of Amerios, as to the pelitical status of
these islands, cannot but constitute an element of doubt im
the collaboration of that country vith the other Western
Powers against the danger of Japanose ambitions.
The importance of the Pacific problems for Holland
is as great as for France and Great Britain. but it is obvious
that she cannot dispose of similar forces, and for this reason
it is the more necessary for her to study to conserve the meant
at her disposal, which her present polioy does not do. It seems
that we do not yet suffioiently realise the truth that the
position of Holland in the Far East is based first and foremost
on her power to dominate completely the internal situation
throughout the whole extent of the Indiar Archipelago. This
misunderstanding of the situation is the reason why we do not
attribute to the army in the Dutch East Indies ( a professional
army ) the impo tance wniin it n reality possesses. In the firs
place, we do not seem to unde atand tiat tuis army is the prin-
cipal means of controlii te international situation, and, in
this connect on, it is nece sury to consider, not only the re-
ostablishment of authority if it should be lost, but also the
maintenance of authority n . really secure besis. In the so-
cond place, we iorget ti't from the economio and social point
of view there is no sense in demanding each year tens of mill-
ions of florins from the Treasury in order to maintain an army
to which we are n t willing to confide any useful task for the
preservation of authority, because the duties which are con-
fided to the army it present in this respect are only oonsid-
ered as a temporary concession to tne present financial crisis.
People even go so far that tiey prefer to diminish the impert-
ance of this arny rutner tuan to abandon a point of view which
rests in reality on a failure to understand not only the polit-
Ical situation and the financial interests of the country, but
also the psychology of a professional army. It is logical that
the Duton element snould constitute the spinal column of the
Indian army, nd in view of the possibilities of the future,
this element can never be too strongly represented in the army,
but the financial capacity of the Dutch East Indies. as well as
otner consideratinns of a practical nature, compel us te exere
cise severe restraint in this direetion. The obligation to
compulsory service, which is impesed on Netherlanders residing
in the Indies, acquires for this reason a very great impert-
ance. This obligation is necessary in the first place to defend
the Dutch authority against attacks by the native population.
If one kept this fact continually in mind, and almo took inte
account the small number of consoripts available in comparision
with the task which they nave to carry out, one would not fall
into the arror of surrendering every year to the mavy one half
of the contingent, since the navy exists ezelusively for erterm-
al defemee, and by its nature camnot have an impertamt role ts
play in the preservation of order in the ceuntry. the problem of
wystem should be abandened wherekx a part at t
mal and a very large part at that, is remruite
popalatiem. A selutien ef the problem whfoh fe net bayon

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.97)
Jan.16,194
fimamciml capasity can only be attained if commemiy
im Holland can be held to carry out their sarviee lm
East Indies. Continuing further the same line sf fmbwas
might perhaps be poasible, as was the sase 30 years me.
a means to supply the fuli requirements in peraonnel of
units of the Indian army which are entirely made up of Dutel
It is time that we should realise that the politieal
situation of the Dutch Kast Indies is olosely bowns up with
these of the colonial possessions of the British and the Fromak
and that the British and the French cause in that part of the
world is equally the Dutch cause, and vice versa. and that we
shall stand or fall together. liolland has responsihilities to
this common cause. She must be in a position to take without de
lay the measures necessary to prevent the oil ports Balikpe
and Tarakan from being seized by surprise, keeping in view the
possibility that this surprise might be effeoted before the gon-
oral situation was such as to cause protective minefields to be
put into position. With regard then to the present day problems I
in the Pacifio, an independent attitude by the Netherlands is
praisoworthy, but neutrality in the event of conflict would
prove that we misunderstood ur real position in the Far Bast, and
would constitute a denial of our true situation and duty in the
Dutch East Indies.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.93)
Divisten of
FAR EASTE AFFRS
RECEIVED
FEB 17 1934
Iement of 
DIVISION OF
N.A. Tokyo
Date Jan
Serial 9 M1l No. 908-14
00-CNI
F/ESP
An Interview with Vice Admiral Suyetyusu, I.J.N., Commander in
Chief, Combinod Pleet.
Statement by Admiral Suyetsugu as gi vek out by Captain Iwamars,
senior mide to the Minister of the Navy.
In the interview or mine which was published in the "Gendai"
I pet forth my personel view with regard to the general situation pre-
miling today. Sinee tho artiole was not written by myeelf but by the
interviemer on his own responsibility, as is mentioned at the close of the
894.00 N.1.REPORTS/24
artiele, I can notof oourse say that everything in it is an exact and faithful
reproduetion of what I maid. It may not only be that the phraseology
employed was too strong. but that certain points of what I said was mis-
interpreted, thus giving rise to possible misunderstanding.
It will be noted that Vice Admiral Suyetsugu neither affirms nor
denies the statements of this interview, but the Naval Attache is of the
opinion that Vice Admiral Suyeteugu gave the interview as publizhed.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.93)
SA
Cavisico ot
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB 27 1934
Denertment of Srate

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.83)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ibruary 19 1934
STF.
trom Thn.
greiw.
1/
Also read idniisal suetousu.
articlefor the lishh thatit
trous on the mentalily i7
Japanle rival ifficer

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.91)
Amirel m Ae mettre
REOEIVED
FEB26 1934
DIVISION OF
not earry on his duties as Supreme War Coumeillor.
Lstually the reason for his retirement is that he
894.00
bms beem critieimed by the Gemeral Staff faotion lend by
Admiral Kanj1 Kato snd Vice Admiral Sugetsugu and by the
thefef
Z
as the influence and authority of the jingoistie fire eater
General Staff group grows.
It would appear that the no-oulled Havy Dapartmemt
REPORTS/25
faction whish formerly existed has almost completely dimappeared.
This group was supposed to have consisted of those ofrioars whe
were of memowhat libarel views - largely beoause they were the
omes that had to deal with the Diet. They are said te have
realized the financial diffioulties of he country and to have
been ready to coupromise not only at home but in fareign
negotiations. If mich a group existed, it is for all practical
purposes non-existant at the precent time.
21
854.
MAR 1-1934
FELED

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.83)
of the meaier Japasese efricezs in iarlnensial pesisiens as the prssont
at mome ruture tim, but if he does it will be for atate and pelttéal
reeeens.
This Bmorganey Period.
There is no doubt in axy one's mind that this in an amangeney metiod.
However, it is only natural, because various men view he presemt sitmattem
from various dirrerent angles. Business men, mlitery mn, diylomats
peried is over. We mst view the present iaternatienal sitwstion in its tm
Japam  the Powers
e in . he Le of e   e  y

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.87)
want to Gemeva and explained the si tuation in detail. e sauearaped te
  ealy at that tim that the all coustries understoed fest.
The amall countries have mot changed their asti-Japede
Énrlmemme er the tts Povers as a meess of guarentesins their enm
might imitate Japan in resorting to mmasures of self-dsfemse.
Both the bis and small Powers understand the justiee of Japam's
eese, and yet they eannot suppert us. This peculiar sitmatiem is
respomsible for Japen's withdrawel from the League of Nations.
Japan's Resolve.
It is a grest mdetake to say that the presest mitmation
is eaused by poor diplommey or by the lack of the spirit of ee-
ma. But at theme timewet unratnd thee is
sesidentals have for the steady rime or the Japanese race in the worle's
aftaizs. Jepen is the only colored rase whieh has been expanding
peivilage os the wite rases. Occidoatal countriss so not soom to
Japen ms to seure pesse 1n the rient d by t

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.89)
Now Japan and Greet Britain monpete tn the
mrise a situatiom similer to that whieh prevalled in Chine betwemn
Geeat Britain and Germany before the World War, and whiwk brought
with is much a merious economic clash that it led to  war? There
are pessibilities of an cconomic as sell as a political clesh
between Japam and the United States.
Will the Uaited States Pight Japan?
When the Manckurian incident led to the Shengkai fightans.
war wes really threatened. Mr. Stimeon, the American Searetary 
State, aroueed univereity presidents, busimess lemdere, religioum
an patriotie organisations to anti-dmpanese setion, with the
pmsalt that an economio blockade against Japan was progessd.
Mavy weuld be able to complotely defest the Japammse avy. No
Saeretary et state. Ne war reaulted but it is apperene thpre mee
a real danger.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.92)
1  vewy important peint which I support whole heartedly.
Then what should be done. This is a hard questiem to
amswer. he five ministers' sonference found iteelr in eesglete
mmasures they did mot agree. It is my opinion, however, that if
the whele Japasese matien realises the erisis that Japen àe fesing
teday, amakee to the inadequaey or diplematio setiem to dfspese ar
the present diffioulties, and decides om how to solve the matiemal
erisis with umited astion, means to selve the situation will be
foumd. Some Japanese who are alarmed over Japan's natienel defemme,
poiat to the possibility of Japan beins subjested to air ettacks.
and to the alleged inferiority of the Japamese Mavy as compered
with that of the United Btates. No fears are necessary regaraing
the atrength of our Navy. There is nothing to fear if w are
determined to fight to the last man.
Japan's geographical position is most favorable for
defense. No country im the world has mubmarines superior to that
of Japan. Japan also has a splendid air foroe. If Japan uses her
seegraphical advantage with her submarines and air force, she is
beeure, even if she does not possess a Davypequal to that of other
eduntrias. I want the Japamese mmtion to realime this.
sourtries mhoutd be given foruee mafficlent for atteek while Japen
sheald be content with a foree mufficient cmly for defenre.
Ammement rights should be equal for all nations. This, hewever,
dees met mean that all countries should pessess equal strength.
re déseuss these mattere in too meah detail is impossible besause
e dafesse scorete, but we caanot be coatent with six as compared
t the ten of other countries. I want to emphesime, however, that
the Japamese should not be unduly anxieus beeause Japan has a Navy
maller then that of other countries.
There is no Danger of being starved inte Babedesien
In time of w, w will mos he able to ay  trade

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.93)
pe te at, hgei and Haw and eeng u ai
And then the Lindberghs came, wastdne a week or more an the
Marilas maying that the weather was too bed to fly. at ware
thay doing? It mey be a groundless muspleion, but I eam't halp
But think that thay were conducting a survey (seouting asped-
Itsem) of that regios. And now the Uaited States is cosdueting
a cmgrehaasive survey of the Aleutian Islands using shipe and airplemes
mat is the meanin of this?
And now the United States has restored relattens with
Rassia. While the primeipal reasom may be commaraial eres, we
eammet help but think that one of the reasons involwes a sakeme
to marround Japan for military reesons. As proof of this, I may
point out that Russia is consentratims large foress of spoeps
and mirplanes in the Far East. In case of a war Japas may bo
attashed on all three sices by air fleets. Thay will eome from
the direstiom of Formosa, from the north, and from Soviet.
Territory. Japan may also expect that an enemy fleet coadng
from the Pacific whiah may bring with at a superior air fores.
A frontal clash between two great fleets would resuls
in serious damage to both sides. And it is likely that the
United States would use every available means to surround Japen.
We must prepare for it, and in fact we are alroady preparing for
18.
What else are the great Occidental Pomrs doing to
wing pressure on Japan? They are putting up higher tariff walls
to bar Japanese goods. This amounts to an indirect economie
bloekade. If all join in the campaign to bar Japaneme goods,
Japan will be isolated. We cannot but consider that such a scheme
1s under way, and it will probably be completed in 19:6 whon the
Powers are soheduled to meet to discuss naval mattera. It will
coincide with the time when Janan aetually withdraws from the
League or Nations and there is a possibility or the South Sea
mandate issue coming to the fore. Japen ceclares she will not
return the islands even at the cost of war and if the League
Powers attempt to take them from Japan a clash will 1nevitably
ooour.
There is also a poasibility or the Powers starting a
campaign to drive Japan out of Manohuria as they force her out
of Shangtung at the time r the nshigton conference. The
United States lhas not changod its timson doctrine despite the
change of administration. And since she refuses to reccgnize
Manohukuo, se naturally expect that she and the other Powere
will take the coming opportunity to settlo the Manchurian tangle
to their advantage. We do not believe that diplomatie nagoti-
atione will settle the iseuee. We must make up our minds to bs
prepared for the woret. If the people in genoral underetend
this situation and resolve to carve out the destiny of Jspan
 nee not Pear nythi

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.91)
you kaow Eagand and the Undted States have 15 battlaskipe, Jogen
aime, ad in addition the maximm tonnage and armaente of veseele
are fixed by troaty. However, tie United States has mas built up
to the treaty lindts and that is easy to underetand, She feels
peeure, simee by treaty she is allowod a larger mavy than we are.
It is quite natural that a country with an inferior ratio mhould
build its navy up to treaty limits, for 1t io the coumtry with an
inferior ratio whioh feels most insecure. If there were mo maval
peet at all. the Umited Stetes migtt bave firtees 35.000 ton
vessels. Japem, im sueh sase, would not build such espemsive
reesels, bus would probably construct fast 20,c00 ton cruisers and
provide them with airplunes. Another measure would be to construet
10,000 ton eruisers and augment their power and effieleney with
submarines und airplanes.
Thus seen, 1t becoaves doubtful whether the naval treaty
operates to our dvantage or disadventage. ithout a past thore
will be me restrictione. It la said that the conclusion of a navel
past 1nsures peace. But I do nct sutsoribe to that view. If e
country is foreed to aocopt a treaty whiah it does mot like, the
people become dismatisfied with it. A mutually satisfastory naval
treaty has ever been concluded anywhere in the vorld. So a maval
treaty does not bring peace with it, mor does any maval peet tend
to reduce the financial burdens of the peoples concermed.
I am in favor or taking an incependent course rather them
indtetimg other eountries in the questiou of armamests. Ne heve a
pecial geographio position and our natiomal peeds are different
from those of other countries. e are separated frem the Umited
States by a wide ocean and in case of a war with her  would be eper-
ating on interior lines while she would hare to operate at great
distasees on exterior lines. We wouh have the same advantegesus
position a Germany had in the last war - axeept that  woald met
be starved into submiesien as Germany was.
Japan is so plaeed goographieally that she eam defend
herself egaimet the combined fleete of the whole world. of weurse
Ameriee hes Cusm and the Philiypines, but they ameuat to mothins.
We heve mot meed to fear an sttack frem her - or frem Megland dteer
for that matter. of sourse it would bo diffioult far Jesam to tale
the effemsive and wage a wax at a distance - but in the matter of
cerease we are impregmable.
seranjea arter twalve years. But if thay mare hept im repeir thay
ont,  are copelled to care then is m build othere - elearly

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.91)
.
willáng to cooperate well and gooù - but if they miataim their
sscumed sapariority, there will be trouble. Neal werld peess
will be attained ouly whem the white reees acknowledge that me
are equals, human beings and mons of the gode.
mare will be fought with mrchant ships. If moderm weapons are limited
priadtive spears and other weapos.s will be used - but wars will be fought.
Histery proves this and a study of primitive peoples prove it.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.91)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
R
1934
DEPAN
Attention is called to page 1,
third paragraph, first sentence;
and page 3, concluding paragraph,
last sentence, of the item, from
the Naval Attaché at Tokyo, here
attached.
くH
SKH
FE:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.83)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 19,1934.
STF
SE
1
I ruygish thach this ryat frow
the N. HA. at tokys he read In full.
 is. for the mosh part of a.
Speculatre ialus buhlit is well-
bulaueed
202

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.90)
xtil
ONI
FAR EAREN AFF
894.00-0N1
FEB 199934
JAPN.
Deperteent et State
Jammary . 1054.
aZAri
Japanese and Engl iak nawapapers in Juxpan as wll
/ESP
Japamese magamincs have carried many artiales in the pass men
menths dealing with the me-ealled orisis of lsss-se end witm the
pessibilities of war between Japen and Soviet Russie and betweem
Japan and the United States. The nuaber and inflammatary nature
of these articles are causing muah conourn to the Japamese Govert-
mont because of the poasibility that a real crisis will be preelpi-
tated by tham. it is roparted thut the War. Nevy and Home Mimiotere
intond to taks stops to stop the publ ioat ion of as many of thee as
894.00
possible. mile originally intended to bring the neeas of the Army
and Mavy before the people in ordor to insure the peasage ot this
year's umusually large military hadget they have now gone s far
that most Japunese believe that the probability or war exists sma
the country mst unite for defemm. The desire to inorease cireu-
lation and sales is responsible for many of these artiales. The
authors have in mumy instanoes used the numes or leading military
authori ties without cuthorization. he continusd publication of
suah articles es have eppeared hore, in the United  tates, Franee
and Soviet ussln only tends to inoreaee the anxiety and fear of
the Jop nose veople. whe nave ror the peat two years been kopt in
a etate of uxeitoent by the liry.
o rur  pelatione
iatos 
concormed, tre  avel
of a crisis unless a surious inoident were to be preoipitated by
S
some irresponsible patriot. It is desired, however, again to point
out to the Depurtment the apparunt unnnaimity emong Japanese naval
29
officere on the uestion of oquality among powers in naval con-
struction, or in other words, the ri it to build what they feel is
necesaary fa ade uate defunse and for  maintaining peace in the
weatorm lecffio". That tho Havy is in faver of doing awmy with
naval ratios, partioularly an inforior ratio for Japan, is plainly
manifest by the recent wholesule shelving and retirement of high
ranking ofricers who had anything to do with the wwiting of
nahington and London Treaties. The Navy is still confident that
with the added resources fer rew materials recently made availeble
in Menchukuo and the possibility of more to come, that momey and
materials will be available to build amy and all ships they deaire,
Perhaps beck of this is the fear that in the no listant future the
sale of cheap Japanese goods will be prohibited in foreig coumtrien
which will necessitate foreeful measures to insure the marists et
the entire Asimtie continent to their ever insremsing industries.
MAR 15 1934
For this, free huilding rignts far a Navy and a moderm and
efricient Army ere nesessery.
y
Kohs

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.91)
sevérely in the present secsiem of the Ddet.
The Navel Attache oansiders the situation betwesem Bgvies
Russie and Japan as containing many elements of danger maisk a
into a oriais umless effective diplomatie meamres wmre takas to
pravent it. Hero again spesoizes and despatebes of an infiemmatory
have to be adjusted. Japan, evor afraid of cammmim, wonld lite
to push Russie back to Iake mikal to keop that unheal thy fnfluanee
out of Japan and China. At the seme time Jepan would like to
ramove the monece of vladivostok to her eomamioation limes aavess
the Japen See. ils in northern Saghalien, fisheries, the Chimsse
matern  ilway, wnd the assistence she would have to give
Mamohukuo in proteuting a long border line are important factore,
now unfavorable to Jupun. ussla has ropeatedly stated that she
ls ready to meut usd re lst  my meatmrd or northward movemont by
Japan. ihe questione of internal diseensiom in suasia end or
oarrying on a prolonged war would soam very meriens te am sutside
obmerver. With the preseat unsettled state of arfeirm it may be a
question an both sides of not waiting too long to atrike.
To increase the apprehenmton of obeervera are rumors, e
good many subatantlated, of urgent preparations by both countries.
The Naval Attache has heard from a relialle souroe that Husste
now has sone 400 airplanes in the vicinity of Vladivestek divided
aqually iato bombers, fighters and observation planes. Mamy mare,
the informant says, are available in western Rusais and um be in
are being built in Vladivestok, having boen traneperted in jarts
via the trane-Siberian railway. It is claimwd that witmin two or
three years Hassim sould produce about two kundred submarimes.
as about 8o,00.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.74)
bvfatd
the tno
fth
peableea.
to dstie the dutetenaing dirrere
pewpawy though mothing conerete has been dons mnd 
a recsimd wit akeptielam in many quarters.
me unlege poms untomurd incident cooure bofore then thee
Ablaobé belloves they will be wed for that mupoee
oaly.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.87)
INTELLIG
REOMIVD
MAY 2 1935
DEPARTMENT OF
UNICATIONS AND
LASN OF
opinions
blished by 
hibition of esmbnt
me spen a convietion mt cur saperier
() más me shte ditforenttel of ciahing
94.00
(e) That the esteém of the smlatie would bo most efzi-
eleasly re-estakllshed by the mmno meens whieh sufrised fas
ite erastion - fighting:
(a) That the history o? fersign firme in Japam In reeent
had been ono of ineremaing replmeenant of their for
personnel wish Japanese, and Fimally, terminatlem of
their bosinese, with the ageneies for imported artielem pe
ing imto the hande of the Japanege commoretel compamlem!
REPORTS/
te That the peme sradugl prooeee was foreeest in thimm;
nnd, in summatlon;
(7) That the white man would be gradwally foreed out of
the mmt or right to atay ing
(g) That the Japanese had betaged trueulently in hanghas
during the firine there, and were bronght to regard the righta
of other forciguers only by direet threat of eetion;
(h) That the giving up of the comeeeelonm at Hankow ame
wei lfel ol rae coneldered e sreet loss of  feee" to the Brit-
ian and was deplored ca a miatake withous compeneating ad-
vantages in the regard or esteem o the Chinese.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.90)
.1.00
ISSUED BY THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, OFFICE OF CHIEF OF
NAVAL OPERATIONS, NAVY DEPARTMENT
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT
Porwerd poven copies (original and six our bons); this num ber la necemery beoause of the liamited persoanel In O, N. L, and h
quiskdy dieesminating iaormation from attachés. Thess copies will be distributed by O. N. I. as per foocaote er al
Serial No.
File No.
Preas
Source of information
Subject Japam
(Nation reported on)
(Index title as per indax sheet)
(Subdsta)
Reference
this spacs. Mention leading geographical, personal, or political names, and the gist of the report.)
CONFIDENTIAL
74n of 
894.00
Division of
FAR LASTERM AFFAIRS
Department of State
REPORTS/28
Di stri bution;
FILED
A
Con 16

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
258
Report No. 
pan
eoember 14, 1938
CONFIDENTIAL
74th Session of the Imperial Diet
The 74th session of the Imperial Diet will be convened
on December 24th. The following extracts from an artiole in the
NichiNichi Shimbun of December l2th in connection therewith are
quoted as of interest:
"The entire people are paying unusual attention to the
coming Diet session inasmuch as it will be the first Diet session
in the period of creation featured by the efforts for the con-
struction of a new order in Eastern Asia following the achieve-
ment of the historic results of military operations in the form
of tne fall of the Wuhan area and Canton, which causes all sorts
 questions boing brought up to be clearly associated with the
current situction.
"As the first step toward the preparetions for the
:n ing Diet session, the Government reached an agreement within
is lf at a cabinet meeting some time ago that the bills to be
sented by the Government to the 74th session of the Diet should
Jc linited to those which are absolutely necessary. At the same
time, it was agreed that arrangements would be made at every
Cabinet meeting in regard to the various measures required for
strengthening the solidarity of the Cabinet with a view to going
safely through the coming Diet session.
"At the present time, no such important bills as the
General Mobilization Bill and the Electric Power Control Bill as
were submitted to the last session of the Diet are now under con-
sideretion for presentation to the coming Diet session. Accord-
ingly, the discussions at the coming Diet session mey not be so
heated as at the last Diet session so far as legislative bills
are concerned.
"However, criticisms are expected to be mede of the ques-
tion concerning the strengthened economic control through the op-
erution of the General Mobilization Law and the Fund Adjustment
Law and other economic legislations, the question concerning the
defect in regard to the distribution of materials end the problem
of unemployment relative to the question, the question concerning
change-over in occupations, the question concerning the defect in
the operation of economic policy and the various questions brought
up as a result of the mistaken control over the freedom of speech.
Interpellations are expected to be made of the que stions concerning
the proposed creation of & new people's organization or reorgani-
zation of the nation as well as the diplomatic policies centering
around the handling of the China Incident. With such questions
as have important bearings upon the future course of this nation
and the living of the people in general pending in large numbers,
considerably pointed interpellations are expected to be made
according to the attitude of the Government and there is no telling
whether the coming Diet session will not present from time to time
such scenes as will embarrass the Government.
"Furthermore, although the Government is enjoying the
sympathy of the people just now by putting up the abstract char-
acters of construction of a new order in Eastern Asia, etc., the
people are all desirous of heering from the Government about its
real intentions toward concrete questions on the occasion of the
coming Diet session.
"About the matter of the formation of a nationel poli-
tionl party involving the dissolution of existing political par-
ties there are not a few who harbour ill feeling toward the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
Roport No. 249-38
- 2 -
CONrIDENTIAL
Government for its attitude and their interpellations at the
coming Diet session in this direction may be very pointed.
"In other words, the situation centering eround the
coming Diet session is rather celm outwardly but when the ourtain
is up, there is no telling if there will be no repeated scenes
of tension being caused by pointed interpellations of the Govern-
ment. Partioularly, one point which cannot be overlooked at this
juncture is that although the support extended by the House of
Peers and the House of Representitives and other quarters to the
Government seems to heve suffered no change as far as formality
is concerned, there are signs of a considerable change occurring
in the nature of the support. Such being the situation, the
Government may become the terget of an unexpected counter-attack
if it attempts to fece the coming Diet session with a self-satis-
fied attitude relying vaguely upon the support of the masses."
CONEIDENT.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.94)
ISSUED BY THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, OFFICE C
NAVAL OPERATIONS, NAVY DEPART
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT
19
From
Date.
Serial No.
FrOES
Sourõe of information
Subject
(Nation reported on)
(Indem title as per index sheet)
Reference
Barxs.—(The review, indexing, and distribution of reporte by O. N. I. will be greatly espedited if a brief
this specs. Mention leading peographical, personal, or politioal names, and the gist of the report.)
CONFIDENTIAL
plet Interpallattone
894.00-0N1
RECEIVED
2
894.00 N.
DIVISION OF
Division of Zile
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
WAR 20 1939
1 oartment  S
REPORTS/29
FILED
Distribution:
ONI
dincar
Gom 16
NA/Peiping
M/A Tokyo
vile
F/F
Directer
B-12, B-13, B-14, B-15, B-16
B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-10, B-11,
A-B-C-D-E
Mbno
graph
Arch.
i7es
Budget
C. N. O.
Board
Gen'l
Coliege
W ar
M. I. D.
Nav.
Ord.
Y.&D.
C. & R.
Eng.
S. & A.
M. & S.
Aero.
M.C.
U. S.
H.O.
Tech.
Der.
C. in C.
U S.
Bat. For.
Cem.
Sco. For.
Com.
C. in C.
Asia
S. S.S.
Com.
Com.
Air
Attaché at
Cen. Div.
Operations
W. P. | Com.
Fl. Tr.
State
Com-
merce
Roturn te
Use forms for all opies.
Use only forms as supplied by (). N 1. Make all sketches, eto., uniform iu size with this form where practical.
Submit extra copies
of clippings, csrbons of sketches, ste, where pructical. If pract csble. submit sketches in sultabie styles for blueprinting or photostating.
US.GOVFRNMENT PRINYINO OPFICE
4-5292

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
Report No. 23
Japan
February 6, 1939
Diet Interpellations Concerning Asia Promotion Board
Reference: (a) NA/Tokyo Report No. 1l-39
CONFIDENTIAL
Concerning the jurisdictions of the Foreign Office and
the Asia Promotion Boara (China Afrairs Board), mentioned in
reference (a), considerable discussion is being carried on in the
Diet. During recent interpellations, the following transpired:
An interpeliator (member of the Minseito) attempted to
have the Foreign Minister differentiate between politios and dip-
lomacy as regards China and ten to pin him down on what were to
be the jurisdictions of the Foreign Cffice, Asia Promotion Board
and the Supreme Command.
Interpellator: "If the formation of a central regime in China
is not the work of the Foreign ffice or of the Asia Promotion
oard, then whose is it?"
Foreign Minister: "There are various things to be reokoned with
in this world. It is possible, I think, that some of them be-
long to the concern of the For ign Office and others to that of
the Asia Promotion Board, while still others may not belong to
either. I do not know who vill undertake the establishment of
the new regime in China. Grinted that it is established, it
may exist as a matter of fact but it cannot necessarily be said
which Government offi e of Jepan has competency over it."
Interpellator: "In tnat case 1 don't see the significance of
having established the Asia Iromotion Board...(omitted)... I
shall cite many instances. Flees classify them whether they
are diplomatic affairs or political affairs. I believe that
these touch on both sides. At any rate, unless the competencies
of the Asia Promotion Board and the Foreign Office are clearly
murked off from each other, the responsibility of each Minister
concerned will not be clear. If competencies are confused,
responsibilities will get confused....(omitted)..."
Foreign Minister: "As this is a time of military operetions,
there are many troops dispatched to China. Since the Army is
striving to overthrow the Chiang Kai-shek regime, it can resort
to various methods. These matters are neither within the compe-
toncies of the Asia Fromotion Board nor of the Foreign Office.
 think that they properly b-long to th. competencies of the
Army."
nterpellator: "Guidance over the development of Manchoukuo is
partly done by the Army. In this senset is the Army dealing
with affairs in China within the scope of the supreme command
p:crogative?"
Foreign Minister: "That is a quustion outside of my jurisdiction.
(omittca)...."
I.terpellator: "Please explain the distinction between politics
t. economic diplomacy."
 reign Minister: "There is at present no such a thing as
Cina diplomay in China."
ENTIA

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
Report No. 23-39
- 2 -
CONFIDENTTALL
Interpellator: "If so, what about the Legations and Consulates
in Cnina?"
Foreign Minister: "With these the Foreign Office sometimes has
negotiations to conduct. The aiplomatic ostablishments of Japan
in China just now, therefore, tre only for the purpose of negoti-
ating with third Fowers."
Interpellator: "Then, am I to underst: nd that in China diplomacy
exists for us only insofar as negotiations with third Powers are
concerned and that there is nc diplomecy es regards China itself?
All the rest is politics and is under th: jurisdiction of the
Asia Promotion Board and is r.. conc rn of the Foreign Offioe. Can
I interpret your meaning in this ay?"
Foreign Minister: "For the time buing that is so."
Interpellator: "If it is for the time being only, then, when
the China Incident is settlod and a sort of centrel regime is
established, which we recognize, the effairs in China will re-
turn to the Foreign Office. An I to und rstand it thus?"
Foreign Linister: "In that ev nt all the nogotietions between the
central r ime and Japan will o under tho jurisdiction of the
Foreign Ofi ice. But as to whether the activities of Japanese in
China will e under the jurisdiction or supervision of the Foreign
Minister as hitherto or vhether they will be under the Asia
Promotion oard is another question reserved for the future. But
it is cle1 t least that the negotictions with the new government
of China wi:l be within the competencies of the Foreign Office.
Interpellatce: "New regimes have omerged in China,and Japan
has made ver ous de facto arrangemonts with them. For instance,
such matters as navigation on the Yangtze, the Lung-yin iron
mine, the Tachishan iron mine, te. are being arranged with the
new regimes although th se regir s .cve not been recognized.
Those things are politics and nct diplomacy and therefore not
within the jurisdiction of the For ign Office but of the Asia
Promotion Board. Am I to understand it in this way?"
Foreign Minister: "Yes."
ntorpellator: "The conclusion to be draon from the statements
of the Foreign Minister concerning the definitions of diplomacy
ni politics is that there are matters which fall neither under
in: jurisdiction of the Foreign Office nor of the Asia Promotion
but rd and are uealt with as exigencies of the situation demand.
Also, that m& ters relating to third Powers are all handled by
.ne Foreign Office. If a new regime is formed, its recognition
Will be the task of the Foreign Office. The negotiations with
r existing new regimes, however, are under the jurisdiction of
he Asia Promotion Board until & centrel regime is recognized.
is regards the liaison department of the Bosrd, matters are clear
n the abstract but in fact there are various complex points in
ractice. Are these the conclusions to be drawn from the Foreign
'inister's statements?"
Foreign Minister: "Yes, on the whole. Only, as regards the liaison
uepartment, you say that there are confusing points but what I
meant was not that there are confusing points at present but only
that when it comes to practical matters some unforseen problems
ight arise."
CC ENT: It is believed the bove is but nother indicrtion of the
grov in concern as re rds the trend towrd usurp tion of the powers
of overnment by the Iilitry.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.92)
SSUED BY,THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISLON,
NAVAL OPERATIONS,NAVY
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT
From
Date 7, 19
Serial No.
Sourcs of information
Subject
(Nation reported on)
(Index title ae per inde sep
Reference
Banss.-(Tbe review, indexing, and dietribrtion of reports by O. N. I. will be greatly aspedited if a brlef
this spass. Mention leeding gengraphleal, pesenal, or politioal names, and the gist of the report.)
mination ef Jotnt cperetls
CONFIDENTIAL
894.00-0N1
18
Division of
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
OO N.
MAR 20 1939
Department of State
REPORTS/30
FILED
Distributions
ONI
CinCaF
(1)
Com 16
/reiping
F/FG
M/A Tolyo
rile
Roats ape below are fàr u in O. N.
Chook
Draw otrole around the desinatios of le copy tntended for the partieular desstaatioà
so enciraled.
Directéz
B-12, B-13, B-14, B-15, B-16
B-1, D 2, B-3, B-4, B-10, B-11,
A-B-C-D-S
Mono
graph
Arch-
ives
Budgel
C. N. O.
Board
Gon'l
College
Was
M. I. D.
Nav.
Ord.
Y.&D.
C.&R.
Eeg.
S.&A.
M. & S.
Aara.
M.C.
U.8.
H.O.
Toch
Dev.
C. in C.
U. S.
Bat. For.
Com.
Sco. For.
Com.
C. in C.
Asia
S. S. S.
Cum.
Com.
Air
Attaché at
Can. Div.
Operations
W. P. | Com.
FL.Tr.
State
Com-
merce
Retarn to
Rosm No.
Submit extra copies
of clippings, carbons of sketches, ote., where practical. If practicabie, submit stetches in suitable utpies for blueprinting or photostating.
4-8292

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
Report No. 29
Japan
CUNFIDENTIAL
February 13, 1939
"Examinction of Joint Operations by England and America" by
Captain Yusuke Yoshimi (no record of any officer by this neme)
With public opinion being daily impressed with the need
for national solidarity for the "Construction of & New Order in
Asia" end werned of the "necessity for the Nevy's command of the
Sea end Air in the Western Pacific", the following article in the
14 February Asahigraph is consicered timely and exemplary of the
type of propegtnda that is accepted as fact by the masses. This
feeling of invinoibility likewise bolsters Japan's present agressive
political and naval diplomacy in rapidly incroasing increments in
proportion to the apparent ease with which the Japanese are riding
roughshod over the Powers in Asic.
Introduction:
"The tiue of construction race which hes been floouing
ince the arrival of the non-tretty era appoars to heve reached
its highest mark with the crrival of l1939. Americe is devoted
o naval construction to in abnornal degree, fer in excess of her
ceds. England is continuing her steedy aavance towards araments
xpension at a rate thet cefies imaginction; the completion of
one vessel & week? These two democratic states, their suspicion
cgainst the daily-strengthened unti-comintern axis creating a bug-
bear and their nerves on e ge from w tchin: the cevelopment of the
Chinese Incicent, re attempting to increase the pressure to bear
upon the B st sic uner the pretext of the protection of their
vested interests. We shoulc scrutinize their moves fully in case
they should attempt to invade the Fr Ecst especislly s to what
fcrm of joint operations they shoul: coniuct; what course their
fluets shoulc follow, and what is the concition of their advance
bases.
Co parison of fichting strengths:
"The familiar ratio of 5-5-3 is still stan ing in the
comp rctive tonnages of capital ships. However, superiority in
this conn ction cunnot be uecided by figures one, since our moin
force has :t its commani superior gun power an. technique, end
unrivaled spiritual strength. In addition to this, as has been
pointec out by German anu Itclicn critics, while our cepital
ships have been modernized to a perfect transformation, similar
mc ernization by Englend tn America has been lone in an extremely
inferior fashion. As an example of this, Englund is equipping
hor cupital ships with cttapults now for th: first time.
"Since the arrival of the non-tretty era England has laid
own two 35,000-ton 14-inch gun battleships, subsequently sterted
citional three sister ships, m in 1938 two more bettleships of
the some type were laid down. merica lai town two battleships
rlior anc. two aduitional ones re also uncer construction, all
of which are 35,o00-ton displacenent equippec with 16-inch guns.
"A well balanced Main Force is the strongest; it must
be born in minu, however, that various vessels (including 10,J00
ton cruisers and planes) must be blended together into one body
olong with the capital ships. When it comes to cruisers the
jority of British cruisers, upon which England depends for the
ritection of her colonies, ure inferior craft hastily built fol-
Lowing the Washington Conference. As for Americen cruisers, these
oring leaks cfter the concussion created by gunnery practices end
tlcir condition hinders speeedy maneuvers by their fleet. As
cruisers they are incomperable with our cruisers, the superior
fi hting strength of which is attested by the fact that the

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
Report No. 29-39
CONFID
MOG:NI class ships isplccing 8,500 tons cnü equipped with 6-inch
guns cre more then & metch for British or mericen 10,ooo tonners
equippeu with 8-inoh guns.
"As for aircraft carriers each country has cpproximately
the seme number anc tonnage. However, for Japan which would con-
front enemy fleets in εdjtcent seas, numerous islends could be
useu as unsinkeble &iroraft carriors. Shoul& these islands be
utilized as cuxiliary aviation bases, the effect would be the same
cs possessing so meny cccitionel ccrriers. Thus, in organizing
the naval εir force, the retention of meny carriers of the 10,000
ton class is most suiteble to Jpanese Navy's defensive tectics
based upon topography.
"Both England and america possess naval air forces of
consicerable sizes. In their Ftr Eastern operations, however,
they woul& experience ifficulties in transporting replenishments
as they do not have εircraft f&ctories of large scale in this
region.
"As for British and American destroyers and submarines,
they bear no conparison with ours. It is unthinkable for the
superannuated, small-sized crafts, hastily constructed during the
World War, to participate in the overseas operations. Figures
showing the strengths of these crafts, therefore,should be taken
at & discount. On the other hand, priseworthy perseverance of
our officers and men woulc be a great asset in employing these
crafts in tcctics original with us.
"On account of the scarcity of crews, even american st nd-
ing fleet has only about 8o% of its regular complement.
America's line of attack:
"Two lines of attack are conceivable in America's invasion
of the Far East. One is to leave Dutch Harbor of the Aleutians
and advance along and occupy the Kurile Islands as an advanced
base. The other is the southern route to recover the Island of
Guam. Should the American fleet choose the former route, it would
not meet much opposition. However, it is a very difficuit course,
as in summer it would encou ter dense fogs and in winter continuous
storns. The region is scaroely inhabited; and provisions are not
available. All that the invading fleet can do would be to make air
raids on the Japanese mainland. There would be no chance of com-
merce destruction or a ecisive battle between main forces. Should
the merican fleet choose the Southern Route, its position would
at once be discovered by us since their fleet would have to advance
through the midst of our island possessions. The invasion by this
co rse also would be extremely difficult, since the. fleet would be
ma the target of the constant attacks by our submarines and air-
cr Tu. Even if the American Fleet should succeed in turning Guam
inio an advanced base, it would be extremely doubtful whether or
not its supply ships coulā break through our line of blackade in
safety.
American naval bases in the Orient:
"Hostilities once started, Japan can deal first a mortal
blow by attacking Philippines, Guam, U.S.Asiatic Fleet and Anerican
Marines in China. At present approximately 1l,O00 Army men are
stationed at the Philippines and their capital Manila is guarded
by a perfectly equipped island fortress. However, should Japanese
troops effect their favorite tactics of landing 'in the face of the
enemy' at several places on the islands, they could defeat the gar-
risons before the arrival of reenforcements from America and seize
the fortress. Cn the other hand, 150 marines are stationed at
Guam, but they would be attacked from the rear by Japanese fleet
 ich should have the freedom of choosing the attacking time, and
:1l the means of communications would be seized without a chance of.
resistance by the garrison. It is plain that the U.S.Asiatic Fleet
NTIA

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
Report No. 29-39
- 3
一
and Marines in China should be annihilated without a semblance of
resistance. Thus, shortly after the opening of hostilities, the
U.S.main fleet based on Hawaii would lose its bases on the Western
Pacific.
British Advanced Bases:
CDENIAL
"The two most important British advanced bases on the
Pacific are two naval stations at Hongkong and Singapore. On
account of our troops' occupation of Canton, the value of the
former has been reduced to a mere isolated island's from the points
of view of strategy and commerce. (Article in question was written
and published before the occupation of Hainan Island). The latter
has modern equipments established at the cost of  100,000,000
defrayed over a period of 10 years. Should British Fleet entrench
itself at the base and be able to hold it until the arrival of re-
enforcements, since the base is 1,6o0 nautical miles from Formosa,
it should be troublesome for our fleet to make an attack and our
South Seas trade might be molested by British cruisers based on
the station. The base should be disposed of, therefore, before
the arrival of British reenforcements.
Highest Commander of the Joint Operations:
"From which camp should the commander-in-chief of the
joint operations be chosen, would prove to be a difficult question.
Since both nationals are headstrong, they would not graciously
submit to other's command. The question of command of joint forces
has always fostered trouble. It would be necessary, therefore, to
divide the areas of operations between British and American forces.
Under such circumstances (note the experience of the British force
which could not advance at Tsingtao without Japanese troops' sup-
port) would be repeated. Both British and American fleets conduct
extensive maneuvers on the Asistic waters. Particularly the U.S.
fleet holds maneuvers every year on an extensive sea area between
the American continent and the 'est Pacific. So far, they have
not conducted joint maneuvers.
Key to Oriental Peace.
"It is easier to fight against joint forces which lack
coordination than to fight England and America individually. Even
if present international conditions allowed their entire fleets to
invade the Far East, as has been pointed out, their fleets are too
defective for the organization of expeditionary forces. Unbalanced
fleets such as those should not be able to cope with a well balanced
and efficient fleet. Since the anticipated stage of the sea-battle
is around Bonin Islands and South Sea Islands, Japanese fleet should
be far closer to its base of operations than British and American
fleets to theirs. This would give a tremendous advantage to the
former in the use of &ir forces, submarines and smaller crafts,
enabling Japan to choose most convenient time for a decisive battle.
"The position of British and American fleets should be
quite contrary to that held during the World Var in this that they
vould be obliged to continue constant efforts in long-distence
blockade, precaution against torpedo and bombing attacks, and
maintenance of extensive lines of communication and supply until an
opening might present itself.
"Japan will never lay herself open to attack as long as
her Navy remains as a stabilizing power in the Orient. However,
the two countries are conducting large-scale naval construction
whic'h will be completed in l942. Should Japan neglect to arm
lierself, being contented with the present state, they would not
fail in taking agressive steps in turning their strengthened fleets
to account. The key to the world's peace is for Japan to maintain
well balanced and well equipped Navy such as caused American Secre-
tary of State Stimpson to retreat at the time of the Shanghai In-
cident."

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.91)
ISSUED BY THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, OFFICE O
NAVAL OPERATIONS, NAVY DEPARTMENT
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT
Theseboples will be distributed by. O. N. I. se per foo
.26190
Serial No.
File No.
Source of information
each Jan
Subject
(Natla repbrted on)
(Indes title as per inde sheet)
(Sabékle)
Reference
thie spaos. Mention leadins geographioal, persqnal, or politioal names, and the ga of the report.)
diGove
Uphola
894.00-0N1
894
Division of
ziu
FAN EASTERN AFFAIRS
B
201939
Department of State
REPORTS/3
FILED
Distribution:
ONI
CinCAF
Com 16
1
NA/reiping
1
1
F/FG
File
Cheek
leer in st one of the varioua eopies on all oopies.
destinat ion so aneis aled.
Director
B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-16,B-11,
B-12, B-13, B 14, B 15, B.16
A-B-C-D-E
Mono
graph
Arch-
ives
Budget
C. N. O.
Bourd
Gan'l
Collega
War
M.I. D.
Nav.
Ord.
Y.&D.
C. & R.
Eng.
S.&A.
M.&S.
Aura.
M.C.
U.S.
H.G.
Tech.
Dev.
C. in C
U. S.
Bat. For
Com.
Sro. For.
Com.
C in C
Asa
S. S. S.
Com.
Com.
Air
Atrachó at
Can. Div.
Oparations
W.P.
Cam.
FL.Tr.
State
merco
Com-
Ratara to
Rosas No.
Use forims for all copies. Use oniy forms as supplied by O. N. I. Make all sketches, etc., untform in size with this form where prsotical.
Submit extra copies
of clippings, carbons of skeicles. ete, wtiere practtcal. If prscticable, submit sketches in suitable styles for blueprinting or photosteting.
U.S. GOVERNWENY PAINTING OFFICS
4—8308

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
Report No. 39
Japan
February 14, 1939
Speech in Diet Demanding Government Uphold Constituttonal Politics
The following is quoted from the Hochi Shimbun of
February l4th as showing that all may not be smooth sailing for the
Army in its determination to take over the direction of all external
and internal affairs of the country:
"During the Lower House's debate yesterday on the 1939-40
general budget, Mr. Shogo Suzuki, Kokumin Domei, urged, in a fiery
speech, the upholding of constitutional politics and urged the
Hiranuma Government to carry out all netional affairs on the basis
of constitutional politics. Mr. Suzuki's speech is considered
highly significant es frankly expressing what the mejority of the
nation has in mind as regards politics. The upshot of his speech
follows:
"The War Minister recognizes and has announced that at
the present time when East Asia is in process of long-term con-
struction, there is the need to carry out renovations in the various
comestic systems. The question at issue is to the extent to which
such renovations should be carried out.
"The ar 'inister has announced that he has no intention
whatsoever of effecting any radical and sudden reforms. Cn the
other hand, the Hovy Minister has declered that there is room for
& reform of the existing economic structure of the country, but
that any reforms which should be underteken must of necessity be
'evolutionary' and not 'revolutionary'.
"But whether such ruforms are radicel or revolutionary or
evolutionary is a matter being viowed from different angles by
people according to th ir appraisal of the situation and their
personal circumstances. Naturally, all people will measure dif-
ferently the extent where such reforms become revolutionary or
evolutionary.
"The only political instrumont fordotermining that extent
is the conduct of all State affairs through the medium of the Diet.
Unaer the system of constitutional politics, all reforms which are
to be carried out with the approval of the Diet, no matter how radi-
Cul tley may appear outwardly, are not revolutionary in reality.
"Speaking from the spirit of constitutional politics,
dolatic acts on the part of bureaucrats, I have no doubt, consti-
tut cevolutionary acts. Here lius the cause for scathing public
criticisms now being levelled against bureaucrats as being dogmatic
in action. There prev: ils among some circles the opinion that the
aims of national reforms can be attained by the general invocation
of the National General Mobilizction Law.
"But it should be urged that all legislative bills pro-
viding for any national reforms and renov&tions should elweys be
presented to the Diet and enforced only after its epproval is ob-
tined, though some State affa irs of an inappropriete nature for
presentation to the Diet may be held exceptions.
3e
"For this purpose, I believe, the Government can convoke
emerg ncy Diet sessions however frequently. To carry out national
reforms through the general invocation of the National General
Mobilizttion Lew is an eesy thing to do, but the enforcement of
such irorms with the sanction of the Diet may be somewhat ticklish
But I think that Premier Baron Hiranuma, who has long been a stout
champion of constitutional politics wili not choose the first

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
Report No. 39-39
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL
procedure and will submit to the Diet all programs aiming at the
reforms which mey be considered imperctive for the fullest mani-
festation of nctionel powers, thereby meking endeεvors to realize
the principle of the entire nation assisting the Throne in the con-
duct of State affairs.
"And yet our people, whose minds are impregneted with ideas
of mcteri:lism, may not easily renew its convictions only from far-
reaching nd spiritual speeches by the Premier. It behooves the
Premier, therefore, to carry out all policies by upholding the
spirit of constitutional politics.
"Some persons often sey that the major groups in the Diet
are in favor of the maintenance of the st. tus quo and mey not give
their upproval to uny fundamentel economic and industrial reforms.
But it should be rec&lled that the Diet in reelity has alreedy
passed the Electric Power Control Li w and the National General
Mobilizetion Lew, thus evidencing the possibility thet the pressure
of the situation and the pctriotism of the nction have combined to
induce the nation to approve, through the Diet, the importent plans
for reforms which may be considered imperative for the execution
of national policies.
"Further, I wish to point out that the politicul parties
which are regerded as supporting the maintenance of the stetus
quo have come to advance a rather surprising opinion favoring non-
holding of &ny specie reserves. Thus, the political parties as
well as the times have greatly changed. I wish to take this occa-
sion to express my carnest hope that Premier Baron Hiranume, not
minding outward sysmptons of the Diet may courageously forge chead
for the reslization of what he hos in view as regards politics in
en ffort to ssist the Throne.
"A movement for nationcl spiritual general mobilization
cannot achieve unything by mere delivering of lectures or distri-
buting of pamphlets. Since Prumier Hircnume is the centrel figure
in the movement, what is most ssentinl is not to toach the public
but, to my way of thinking, to assure strict official discipline
on the part of the Govornment. And I say this, not because of
this or thet case of disciplinary viol:tion or negligence, but
bectuse I believe to rectify official discipline will be clearly
to muke munifest the pivot of th: nation.
"In the politicl structure we heve in this country todey,
Premier Hiranuma must constently remind himself that apart from
metters related to the Supreme Commend Prerogetives of the Emperor
he is the center of cll nationel &dministration εnd that through
him only can the poople assist the Emperor in the conduct of State
affa rs...that his is a position of greet authority.
"It often huppens, however, that this position of cuthority
is seen by the people to be conccaled behind some other force. It
is seen to be that the Premier or Cabinet is not the center of
national administretion but is being moved cbout by other forces
outside the Cabinet. I do not doubt that it should w part of the
great duty of assisting the Emperor in the conduct of Stete effairs
for a Premier to resign, should he be placed in a position where
he must be moved or dragged about by some force externel to the
Cabinet, and to hand over the Ccbinet to the force that has attemp-
ted to drag the Cabinet εbout.
"I think that the political practice of our country, the
shape of our country, in the time of the Sino-Japanese War was
pretty nearly ideal. What demands the most effort on the part of
2

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIA
Report No. 39-39
- 3 -
Japen today, that is, what is the most importent duty of Premier
Hiranume, is to set up the true shepe of the national life, the
centrel task of politics, for the people to see. In this respect,
I see a grett deal of meening in the stctement of Navy Minister
Yonei made in the subaommittee of the budget committee the other
day:
"'The Navy hcs a view of its own from its angle of
netional defense in the restricted sense. But when it comes to
& question of ruling the whole netion it is not pert of the
province of the rmy or Nevy independently to sey this should
be so or that. The Government should, es a whole, take into con-
sidoration the various circumstcnces it home end international
rulations. It is ftr from the intuntion of the Navy to cleim in
i. loud voice this or thut view is its own.'
"This clearly sttted the principle that every official,
whether civil or military, shall &ttend to none but to his own du-
ties. The Government is emphcsizing the nctional spirit but nation-
al spirit can be intensified among the people only through those
higner up keeping each to his line of duty tnd not transgressing
bounds. Especielly is this true in view of the fact that it is
the charecteristic of our country not for those below to meke
demands to the higher-ups but for those above to set examples to
those below. Moreover, instruction is not to be given in mere
words but exempl's must be set in person. Unless t is is done, no
spiritual movement suited to our national life cen be set going.
"For instince, it would be much better that Fremier
Hiranume. should cr ll together the big 1eders of our financial
world and in c iu.rt-to-hecrt conversetion with them esk for
sacrifices in the service of the ntion tnd that these l-aders
should, in turn, set to work on industries regrdless of profits,
joyously for the sake of their country, than that a million lec-
ture meetings should tu held. At lest, the Government should
undert ke the netion: l generel spirituai mobilizrtion movement in
that spirit."

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.92)
ISSUED BY THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, OFFICE OF CHII
NAVAL OPERATIONS, NAVY DEPARTMENT
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT
From./Tl
Date
CFSerdal No.
File No.
t. BODIVLD
Souroe of information
DEPAR
1939
Subject ..
(Nation reported on)
Reference
Banmr.-(The review, indexing, and distribution of reports by O. N. I. will be greatiy espedited if a belef summney of the sontents ts emtesed la
General Iutelligenee Sumary - Polltieel
Brier survey of the dousstie politieal sitwation as
affested by the Chine Affair. The Cabinet, faeed with mny
difrieatties, is adopting a "wait and see" poliey.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
88
E131939
Departrment of State
894.02N1
00
REPORTS/32
Distri bution:
ONI
(7)
CinCAr
(2)
F/FG
Com 16
(1)
NA/Paiping
(1)
M/A Tokyo
(2)
ANA/Shangha1
(2)
File
(1)
H. H. Sith-imtton,
Lt-Ccmr.,U.S.Navy,
Naval Attacho
Director
B-12, B-13, B-14, B-15, B-16
B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B 10, B-11,
A.B-C-D-E
Mone-
paph
chires
Ar-
Budgo!
CNO.
Borrd
Gen'l
College
Wa:
M LD
Nav.
Ord.
Y.&D
C. & R
Eng.
S. & A.
M. & S.
here.
M. C.
U.S.
H.O.
Tech.
Dev.
C. in C.
U. S.
Bat. Far.
Cam
Sro. For.
Com
C in C.
Asia
S. S.S
Com.
Air
Ataché 
Cen. J)W. P. (atn. Fl. Tr.
(O)perotions
State
merce
Return to
Room No.
Use forms for all copies
i s onl; torms as supph 1 hy N
Make kd stretetres, ete. pniforn in size with this forn where practiol.
Subm
of clippings, carbons of sketches, ete. wnore practical
It pract eabie. ube t sket. he in suitable styies for blueprinttag r photostating

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Report No. 249
Japan
l00 - Political Forces.
November 7, 1939
General Intelligence Summary - Political.
In the short space of two months which have passed since
the Abe Cabinet was formed it has had to meet and attempt to solve
a number of difficult problems. These attempts have been only
partially successful, and the Cabinet has already suffered consider-
ably in prestige. As a result of a number of mistakes on the part
of the Cabinet there have been the usual rumors that it would re-
sign, but there is no reason to believe that this will happen in
the near future, and at the same time there is no reason to be-
lieve that any other Cabinet which might be formed would be any
more successful than the present Abe government.
Japan's present position, domestically and internationally,
is & difficult one. The difficulties which face this government
are largely those inherited from the Konoe and Hiranuma governments,
intensified and magnified by the strain of more than two years of
hostilities with China, the outbreak of the European war and the
possibility that the United States will take economic action against
Japan in the very near future. Whether the Abe Cabinet - or any
other Cabinet - can solve these various problems remains to be
seen, but it is becoming obvious that General Abe and his colleagues
have no clear cut or positive plan to handle any of them. The
general policy seems to be to "wait and see" what will happen, and
then to try to find a solution.
Japan's basic domestic problems are centered in attempts
to  ring the China uffair to a successful conclusion before the
European war nds. According to the Japanese, the "affeir" has
now passed out of the military stege and has entered the political
stafe - ulthough further militury op rations will be necessary be-
fore peace is rrally brought about. Japanese strategy aims at:
(a) Cutting off militery supplies to the Chungking
covernment.
(b) Continuance of military operations to clear up the
occupied areas.
(c) The destruction of the Central Armies and Army
buses by uir attacks.
(d) The formation of a nev Contral Government which will
be Japanese controlled and dorinated,
The policy of the Abe Cabinet in regard to foreign
afr irs was announced on 4 September wnen tne Premier stated that
Japan would not become involved in the European war but would con-
centrate her efforts on the settlement of the China affair. In a
subsequent statement (13 September) it was announced that Japan
would hold fast to her independent position, would endeavor to
develop the national economy and bring about "solidarity" between
Japan and Manchoukuo and new relations between Japan and Chine.
The "immutable" policy for the settlement of the Chinu affair was
reaffirmed, as was the intention to render active and positive
support to the New Central regime which was about to be set up in
China. This immutable policy is thct announced by Prince Konoe
in December 1938, (which has received Imperial sanction), setting
forth Japan's peace terms to China. These are:
(&) Adjustment of relations between China and Manchoukuo.
(b) Conclusion of ar agrcement of common defonse &gainst
communism (including the stationing of troops at special points
in China and the designation of Inner Mongolia as a special de-
fense εrea).
(c) Sino-Japanese economic collaboration based on the
principle of equality.
Report No. 249-39

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Report No. 249-39
- 2 -
In connection with these terms the Japanese Government
has affirmed that Japan desires no territory or indemnity from
China, and that Japan is ready to respect China's sovreignity.
How-ver. it is believed that these teims will be found as acceptable
now by the Chinese us they were in December 1938 when they were
first announced. The Japanese feel also that this is the case.
In order to assist in the formation of the New China
regine and in order to try to settle the differences among the
Army leaders as to the extent und the powers of the government,
the major Army comaanders in China were replaced during September
and the Army command w:s unified under General T. Nishio with
Lt-General S. Itagaki (former Minister of War) as Chief of Staff.
inile no doubt much is being done in the way of preperation for
tho Iuw Regime, little is known in Japan as to what is actually
being ccomplished. However, it is noted that even the most
optimistic Japanese do not feel tnat peace will be made after Mr.
Wang Ching wei forms his new government, nor do they feel that the
Chungking government will ccpitul te in the near future.
In order to meet the demands of the China ineident the
Cabinet is being forced to take additional steps for National
Mobilization. Up to tne present time Japan's economic structure
has tecn on u "part wartime" busis, with only those materials
ussentiul for wartime industries being controlled. This was
poss  le because there was a large reserve of ordinary commodities.
Now these accumulated resources and reserves are approaching ex-
haustion, and it is necessary to put the country on & full time
war basis, to start an intensive cumpaign to cut down general
donestic consumption (even in locally produced foodstuffs) and to
concentrote all national resources on the munitions and export
industries. Under present conditions, Japun must try to solve the
following problems successfully:
(a) Provide a smooth supply of vwar materials.
(h) Increse the production of munitions.
(c) Increase the production of export commodities.
(d) Improve trade relations with countries outside the
yen bloc.
(e) Reduce imports to a minimum consistent with (a),
(b) und (c) above.
The above must be nccernlished without exhausting Japan's
stocks of gold or foreign credits, end without increasing taxes to
the point where the Japanese people will begin to break under
their economic turdens. It must be attempted in the face of num-
erous lost markets and rising comnodity prices. As has been
pointed out these are difficult problems but the government is
going ahead with plans to cope with all of them. Warnings have
been issued to th people that they must endure greater hardships
in the future, cnd that greater sacrifices than have elready been
made, will be necessary. There cun be no doubt about the patriotism
of the Japanese people or their willingness to endure hardships for
the s: ke of the Empire. It is probeble therefore that the Cabinet's
policy, or rather the Army's policy, will be carried out to the
limit of the nation's ability.
The foregoing should probably be discussed under inter-
national relations and economic forces, but it is considered that
Japan's internal political situation is so bound up with her China
policy and her economic problems that they might properly be dis-
cussed in the political section of this summary. Other recent de-
velopments in the international situation and in regard to Japan's
economic and financial problems are discussed in another section
of this summary.
Report No. 249-39

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Report No. 249-39
- 3 -
Reference has been made to the fact that the prestige
of the Cabinet is already at a low point even though it has been
in power only two months. This is due to a series of mistakes
wl.ich have been made over what should have been relatively minor
administrative details which should have been arranged without
difficulty. The first mistake involved the Cabinet with the Privy
Council over the question of the extension of the Prime Minister's
powers; the second involved the Cabinet with the agricultural or-
ganizations over the uppointment of a Minister for Agriculture and
Forestry and the third involved the Cabinet with the Foreign Minis-
try in a dispute over the formation of a Trade Ministry. In the
second and taird instance the Cabinet has had to revise its orginal
program and,by being forced to do so, has lost a considereble
measure of public confidence. The Minister of War, General S. Hata
lost no time in bringing to the attention of his colleagues the
Army's displeasure over the manner in which these details had been
handled and expressed the Army's intention to do something "firm"
if the Cebinet did not fet a better grasp on the major problems
confronting the country "instead of engaging in minor disputes
which tended to weaken the Cahinet's prestige as well as the
people's determination.
Preparations for the coming session of the Diet are
being made, and the governmental budget estimates are being prepared
in the final form. According to the estimates which have been pub-
lished the general budget will be approximately ¥4,800,000,000
with approximately ¥5,000,000,000 for the Armed services and the
China affair. No opposition from the Diet or from the people is
expected but in order to strengthen the Cabinet's position with
the political partius the uppointment of two additional Cabinet
mombers is being considered. The Cabinet has already been streng-
thened by the appointment of Admiral K. Nomura (Ret) as Foreign
Minister and Count T. Sakai as Minister of Agriculture and Forestry.
Adm:ral Nomura's appointment has met with almost universal approval
in Japan where it is believed that he will be able to "adjust"
relations with the United States at this critical time in Japanese
history.
Report No. 249-39
