894.5151 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Monetary System. Coinage. Currency. Mint. Bullion., Japan, Exchange., June 22, 1949 (File 1734)
ID: 894.5151-1734   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5151-financial-conditions-budget-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
JUN 22 1949

In reply refer to
FN

Dear Joe:

I have just received your "Comments on the Inflation Problem" which I have read with great interest and substantial agreement. I was sorry that we did not have more time together during your recent trip to Washington but I believe that your comments were most helpful to Mr. Butterworth and the others concerned with the Japanese program in the State Department. The most difficult question in respect to moving forward with the Japanese program at the present time is, of course, how it will be possible in view of the personalities involved and our international commitments to really streamline the occupation organization so as to give more responsibility to the Japanese and at the same time see that our essential objectives are carried out. I believe that the present SCAP organization with certain strengthening probably could bring about some sort of stabilization and recovery in Japan but the loss of goodwill both on the part of the Japanese and other countries might be excessive. Something along the lines of the German High Commission may be the best answer and I see no real reason why that should not be done without waiting for a peace treaty. One stumbling block to trade expansion, however, is the extreme reluctance of even such countries as the members of the British Commonwealth to permit Japan to reestablish normal commercial relations abroad in the absence of a peace treaty. We will probably have to lead the way in the United States and hope that the enlightened self-interest of other countries will induce them to follow.

I note with interest your observations on the counterpart program and agree that this is certainly one of the keys to the stabilization program. The National Advisory Council here is anxious to review the counterpart program but we have not yet received proposals from SCAP. If the credit shortage in Japan is as serious as we are

Mr. Joseph M. Dodge, President,
The Detroit Bank,
Griswold at State,
Detroit 31, Michigan.

894.5151/6-2249
894.5151/6-2249 CS/C

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

we are lead to believe I should think they would want to proceed on the counterpart program as rapidly as possible. In respect to one technical point in your memorandum (No. 18) I do not think that investment from the counterpart fund is necessarily quite as inflationary as you imply if the fund is fed from the income stream of the economy either through the sale of imported aid goods or from taxation. In that event the release of counterpart funds held for investment or debt retirement should not augment the total supply of money. It is, of course, true that if the investment program has the effect of converting resources from consumption goods to capital formation the supply of consumers goods will decrease relatively to the quantity of money in circulation and some inflationary effect would follow. I agree entirely that since we cannot be sure that inflation-generating forces will be held in check from now on that a conservative counterpart program is necessary.

Since I returned from Japan preparations for, and backstopping of the CFM in Paris has been our principal concern. I expected at one stage that I would go over to work on the currency problem in Germany but as you have probably noted nothing important was accomplished along that line at the CFM and apparently little time was spent on the problem. You will be gratified with the optimistic reports concerning the Austrian treaty although we have gone considerably higher on the lump sum settlement than was previously contemplated.

I am taking the liberty of enclosing a copy of a recent issue of the Far Eastern Survey which contains a little sketch I did on the Japanese exchange rate problem.

I want to thank you very sincerely for the letter you wrote the Department regarding my participation in the mission. I am sure that it will make as valuable a contribution to my personal folder as if I really deserved your kind words.

Very sincerely yours,

Orville J. McDiarmid
Associate Chief
Division of Financial Affairs

Enclosure:
As stated above.

OFD:FN:OJMcDiarmid:erm
6/22/49

CR
JUN 22 1949 P.M.
